The Deputy Superintendent of Police, Karnataka Lokayukta,

 Tumakuru had filed the charge sheet against the accused Sri Suresh

 Gowda for the offences punishable under Sec.7 , 13(1)(d) r/w 13(2)

 and 15 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 ('P.C.Act' for

 short). 2. It is the case of the prosecution that in the year 2008

 during the General Elections for Karnataka Legislative Assembly, the

 Bharatiya Janata Party ('BJP Party' for short) had secured 110 seats

 and had fallen short of majority by 3 to 4 seats to form the
 3 Spl.CC 1342/2021

Government and subsequently with the support of 5 independent

MLAs they were able to form the Government. It is the contention of

the prosecution that at that point of time, the accused B.Suresh

Gowda who was the MLA from Tumakuru Rural Constituency had

tried to allure CW7 Sri S.R.Srinivas, who was the sitting MLA from

Gubbi Vidhanasabha constituency, the candidate of Janata Dal (S)

Party ('JD (S) Party' for short) and in furtherance of the same he had

visited the office of S.R.Srinivas and had promised to pay a sum of

Rs.18 Crores and promised to secure him Chairmanship/President of

some Board or Corporation and the said incident was videographed

and recorded by PW-4 S.R.Srinivas with the help of his wife PW-7

Smt.Bharati Devi. Said videographs were brought to the notice of the

then President of JD(S) party Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy by PW-4

S.R.Srinivas and later on it was revealed by Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy

in a Press Meet which was telecasted in various News Channel. On

the basis of the same, a complaint came to be filed by PW1 Sri

G.Ramesh Gowda before the Hon'ble Lokayukta, Karnataka

Lokayukta, Bengaluru to initiate necessary action in this regard.

Based on the same, necessary directions came to be issued by the

Hon'ble Karnataka Lokayukta and subsequently, the file was
 4 Spl.CC 1342/2021

transferred to the Superintendent of Police, Karnataka Lokayukta,

Tumakuru to do the needful. As such the Investigating officer had

commenced the preliminary inquiry to ascertain the veracity of the

complaint. Thereafter, the Superintendent of Police, Karnataka

Lokayukta, had secured the presence of independent witnesses, who

were the Government officials and in their presence, he had

recovered the CD in which the alleged conversation of offering

financial help and offering of post was recorded by the accused

person. The I.O. had also summoned the accused Suresh Gowda

before the Lokayukta authorities and they had obtained his voice

samples. All the said three CDs were sent to Truth Labs, Bangalore

in order to ascertain the veracity of the same. That apart, the I.O. has

also visited the house of PW7 Bharathi Devi to draw mahazar where

the alleged incident had taken place and accordingly had drawn the

mahzar at the place shown by her. After completion of the same, on

the receipt of the report from the Truth Lab, Bengaluru, the FIR came

to be registered on the basis of the preliminary investigation taken

place. Thereafter, statement of the witnesses came to be recorded and

on completion of the same, it was noticed that the allegations which

were leveled against the accused were made out and accordingly,
 5 Spl.CC 1342/2021

necessary permission was sought from the learned ADGP to accord

permission to prosecute the accused person. On obtaining such

permission, the charge sheet came to be presented before the Court. 3. The court on perusal of the materials on record, had

taken cognizance for the aforesaid offences and the accused was

secured before the court. The accused filed necessary discharge

application under Sec.239 of Cr.P.C., seeking for his discharge. After

hearing the accused, my predecessor in office found that there were

necessary materials to proceed against the accused for the offence

punishable under Sec.12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988

and accordingly necessary charge came to be framed and read over to

the accused for which he had pleaded not guilty and claimed to be

tried. 4. The prosecution in order to prove their case had

examined in all 14 witnesses as PW1 to PW14 and got marked

documents Ex.P.1 to P.80 on behalf of the prosecution. On

completion of the prosecution side evidence, necessary statement of

the accused came to be recorded as contemplated under Sec.313 of

Cr.P.C., wherein the accused had denied all the incriminating
 6 Spl.CC 1342/2021

materials appearing against him. The accused had not preferred to

lead any defence evidence and accordingly case was posted for

arguments. The learned Senior Counsel Smt.Nalina, on behalf of the

Accused has taken this court in length with respect to the materials

secured by the prosecution and also the contentions urged by them. 5. Learned Senior Counsel had vehemently argued that the

entire case of the prosecution does not indicate the exact date of

alleged incident and even the Investigating Agency are unable to

ascertain the same during preliminary inquiry and also during the

course of investigation. It has been contended by her that the

prosecution, in order to seek an order for conviction, has to

specifically mention the date on which the alleged incident had taken

place. Apart from that, it is her contention that the CD which came to

be produced before the court is not supported by the mandatory

certificate to be issued under Sec.65(B) of the Indian Evidence Act

and when the entire case of the prosecution rests on the videograph

which was allegedly a sting operation, the mandatory provision of

complying Sec.65(B) has to be made by the Investigating Agency.

Further, she has submitted that the complaint at Ex.P.1 does not

disclose the incriminating material against accused persons and the
 7 Spl.CC 1342/2021

Form-I annexed along with the complaint at Ex.P.2 presented before

the Karnataka Lokayukta indicated that the complainant noticed on

telecasting of news in Suvarna News Channel. However, the CD

which was recovered as per Ex.P.39 was entirely different. She has

also pointed out that the alleged CD which was produced before the

concerned police was damaged during the course of trial and after

obtaining the permission of the Court vide order dated 14.6.2023, a

copy of the same was produced which was allegedly stored in the

hard disc of the concerned police. It is her submission that the

concerned officer who had transferred the same, should have been

made a necessary witness and the said officer should have furnished

the certificate under Sec.65(B) of the Indian Evidence Act, since the

officer was the one who had stored the contents of the original CD in

their computer which was later on transferred into a new CD. But no

such effort was made by the prosecution. That apart, she has also

submitted that the alleged incident had taken place in the year 2010

and it was ordered to conduct the preliminary inquiry by the

concerned Lokayukta police, which had been lasted for about five

years and later on the charge sheet was filed without obtaining

necessary certificate under Sec.65(B) of the Indian Evidence Act. It
 8 Spl.CC 1342/2021

is also been pointed out that the CD produced at Ex.P.13 was

produced by PW4 S.R.Srinivas. However, no certificate was again

obtained from him under Sec.65(B) of the Indian Evidence Act for

producing the same. The Learned Senior Counsel has raised a

technical question of law that whether the materials obtained by the

Investigating Agency during the course of preliminary inquiry be

construed as the materials which were collected during the course of

final investigation. She has also raised another technical question that

the preliminary inquiry was conducted for about five years by the

investigating agency and if the prosecution contends to collect the

materials prior to registering of FIR, the same violates the dictum of

the Hon'ble Apex Court laid down in the case of Lalitha Kumari Vs.

Government of Uttar Pradesh and others reported in (2014) 2 SCC 1.

She has also submitted that initially in the FIR the name of PW4

S.R.Srinivas was arraigned as accused; however, he was left out by

the Investigating Agency with a stray sentence that he was cited as

witness. Though the Investigating Agency are at liberty to charge

sheet only the persons against whom the offences are made out, it

would also cast a duty on the Investigating Officer to mention that

why the person who is arraigned as accused in the FIR was dropped
 9 Spl.CC 1342/2021

and cited as witness. No such serious exercise is being made in the

above case and hence it has been submitted that the charge sheet

which has been filed is on flimsy grounds. She has also pointed out

that as per the case of the prosecution, a video graphic transcription

was recorded allegedly by S.R.Srinivas in his office when accused

Suresh Gowda had made an attempt to offer him money amounting

to Rs.18 Crore and also post of Chairman or President of a Board or

Corporation. It is her submission that if, for the sake of arguments,

that is to be accepted as true and correct, then how the CD which was

allegedly handed over by him to the Investigating Agency at Ex.P.39

consisted of 14 different files when there is no whisper of evidence

that the continuous recording of the alleged video transcription was

broken into 14 folders by him. Unless necessary clarification is given

by the Investigating Agency and also the mode of transferring the

materials in to the CD, the materials which have been produced

cannot be accepted. Further, it is her submission that as per the

complainant himself, the video recording was for a period of 01 hour.

However, the 14 different files which is forthcoming in the CD,

which is produced before the Court includes of short videos divided

in to 14 equal parts and as such the same cannot be relied upon. 10 Spl.CC 1342/2021 6. Learned Senior Counsel has also pointed out that as per

the case of prosecution some of the conversation of alleged offer of

allurement was made through the mobile phone of Accused Suresh

Gowda and if the same is to be accepted for the sake of arguments,

then the prosecution are duty bound to produce the CDR report and

also the details of the SIM card and mobile phone through which the

alleged conversation had taken place. Further it is pointed out that

during the course of evidence of PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi, stray

deposition is found wherein she had deposed of recording the audio

conversation between PW4 S.R.Srinivas and accused Suresh Gowda.

Hence in the absence of any such materials being collected by the

Investigating Agency, the audio recording found in the CD produced

by the defacto complainant Sri S.R.Srinivas cannot be looked into. 7. The learned Senior counsel has also referred to the

report of the scientific examiner who was examined as PW11

Smt.S.Neeru and has submitted that without explaining her

educational qualification and other credentials to examine the

scientific material and to tender her evidence in this regard, she could

not be construed as an expert. That apart, she has also pointed that

the report at Ex.P.69 particularly at page No.229 and 231 wherein
 11 Spl.CC 1342/2021

reference has been made by the Scientific Expert that the video

consisted of "lossy mode' and also no explanation has been given by

the prosecution as to why there was a sudden shift in the recording as

mentioned at page No.230 of the report. Further, the acoustic

analysis at page No.233 would indicate of utterances being made by

a third male person. If, for the sake of arguments, the conversation

was allegedly recorded by PW7 Bharathi Devi, which had allegedly

taken place between the PW4 S.R.Srinivas and accused Suresh

Gowda, then how the voice of a third person could be noticed in the

said audio recording. Further, it has been submitted that the report of

the Scientific Officer does not indicate the third party software which

was being used by the Truth Labs for ascertaining the veracity of the

audio video recordings. 8. Further, the learned Senior Counsel has also pointed out

that even otherwise, if the conversations and ocular evidence of the

witness is examined, there are references to various other persons

and their names are repeatedly poped up during the course of alleged

conversation between PW4 S.R.Srinivas and Accused Suresh

Gowda. In that event, summoning of said persons who are referred to

in the alleged conversation i.e., Sri Zameer Ahmed Khan, Sri
 12 Spl.CC 1342/2021

H.D.Kumaraswamy, Sri R.Ashok, was required and in the absence of

the same, it is fatal to the case of the prosecution. She has pointed out

to the court that as per the memo Ex.P.2 and in particularly Sl.No.14

and 15, it indicates that it is a copy obtained from Suvarna News

Channel. The investigating agency had not summoned the news

agency personal, nor secured the original transcription of the CD

which was telecasted in their news channel which would have been

considered as best evidence under the eyes of law. 9. It has also been submitted by the learned Senior Counsel

that as per the case of the prosecution, the complainant had noticed

telecasting of the said news item at Suvarna News Channel, but the

CD which allegedly contained the said transcription, was not

pertaining to Suvarna News Channel. It is also been submitted that

during the course of cross-examination of the complainant, he has

deposed that after watching news in Suvarna News channel, he came

to know about the sting operation being carried out wherein the

accused had given offer to flip flop from the Party. However, the CD

which was produced before the court was pertaining to the news item

telecasted in TV9 English channel and not in Suvarna News Channel.

That apart, it has also been contended that the software which was
 13 Spl.CC 1342/2021

used as per the contention of the prosecution with respect to the

recording of the incident was not properly stated and on careful

appreciation of the same it would indicate that the said software was

released by Intel only in the year 2019, whereas the alleged incident

had taken place much prior to that and it has been submitted how the

prosecution could lay their hands on the recording of the incident

with a device which was yet to be released. 10. Learned Senior Counsel has also argued that the

statement was recorded in the month of January 2016 whereas the

initial preliminary inquiry was ordered in the year 2010 i.e., after

lapse of more than 6 years the statement of the witness came to be

recorded which is nothing but a travesty of justice, which would

indicate that fabricating of false complaint was being foisted against

the accused person. The submission of learned Senior Counsel also

indicates that as per the contention of the complainant he had given

only one CD as per Ex.P.13, wherein voice sample belonging to

accused was not compared with that of the original CD. It is also

been submitted that interestingly the voice sample came to be

recorded in the year 2014 and whereas the mahzar was pertaining to

recovery of CD was made in the year 2011. It is her submission, how
 14 Spl.CC 1342/2021

the mahazar came to be drawn in the year 2014 with respect to

collecting of voice sample, when the CD was recovered in the year

2011. It is also been pointed out that at the time of seizure it is

noticed that the CD consisted of 7 video files and 7 audio files. If, for

the sake of argument, the contention of prosecution is accepted then

they have to explain from where they had obtained 7 audio files,

since it is the definite case of the prosecution that the contents of the

sting operation which were in existence in the CD produced by the

complainant was sent to Forensic Lab for scientific examination. It is

also argued at length that non-seizure of mobile phone through which

alleged conversation had taken place between PW4 S.R.Srinivas,

PW7 Smt.Bharathidevi and accused Sri Suresh Gowda would cast a

serious doubt over the case of the prosecution. It is also been argued

that as per the findings in the report given by the Scientific Expert, a

third male voice is also forthcoming. However, nowhere the

prosecution has explained to whom said voice belonged to. Lastly, on

technical count, it has been argued at length, whether the mahazar

can be drawn in the year 2014 with respect to the recovery of CD

made in the year 2011 and also it is argued that whether the

preliminary inquiry conducted for a long period of time i.e., for about
 15 Spl.CC 1342/2021

6 years prior to filing of FIR can be considered as evidence in the

instant case and whether the act of IO in allegedly not filing FIR

immediately on the receipt of complaint would cast a serious dent to

the case of the prosecution, which in a way is against the settled

principles of law laid down to by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Lalitha

Kumari Vs. Government of Uttar Pradesh and others reported in

(2014) 2 SCC 1. 11. Learned Senior Counsel also vehemently argued that as

per Ex.P.22 only one portion was recorded due to technical problem

in the video camera. However, the evidence on record indicated

otherwise which is oxymoron to their case, since it was deposed by

the I.O. as well as mahazar witnesses who were present on the date

of copying of the transcripts, that due to technical glitch the contents

of the CD could not be transferred to the laptop. That apart, it was

also been submitted that as per mahazar Ex.P.22, the accused was not

at all present when the alleged transcription mahazar was being

drawn which was totally against to the settled law. 12. It is also been argued that as per the complainant's case,

he had furnished video consisting continuous recording, whereas
 16 Spl.CC 1342/2021

clippings which were produced before the court and also the video

clippings which were sent for scientific examination to Truth Labs,

Bengaluru, were only snippets and if the same is to be accepted as

correct, then the prosecution has to explain where exactly the entire

recording for more than 1 hour had taken place and why the same

was not produced before the Investigating Agency and also before

the Court. The learned Senior Counsel has also pointed out to the

report which had been furnished by the Truth Labs at Ex.P.69. Said

report was sent by the Truth Lab to the Investigating Agency after

allegedly completing examination of the CDs on 24.4.2014. It is her

submission that in the forwarding letter Ex.P.68 itself at the enclosure

column, the Chairman of the Truth Lab had specifically stated that

along with forwarding the report, they had sent copy of the I.O.

request letter, complainant's affidavit, invoice of samples, Form-152,

FIR, Sample seal, etc., which were in 16 sheets. It is her specific

contention that, the FIR as per the prosecution case came to be

registered in the year 2015 only and precisely as per Ex.P.65 the FIR

was registered on 25.4.2015. By pointing out the same, it has been

argued that the case of the prosecution itself was doubtful and also

on perusal of the CDs and carefully examining it, it would indicate
 17 Spl.CC 1342/2021

that a voice of a third person was also forthcoming in the CD.

However, no explanation was given by the prosecution as to the third

person's voice in the CD. It is also been submitted that as per Ex.P.69

mahazar i.e., item No.1 CD was recovered with a label mentioning as

'Operation Karnataka'. However, pancha witnesses who had deposed

before the court had unequivocally stated that the CD was labeled as

'Operation Kamala'. The learned Senior Counsel argued that there is

lot of difference between labeling the CD as it is the bounden duty of

the prosecution to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt and

further they were required to establish without any iota of doubt with

respect to recovery of CD and since the witnesses deposed only in

general parlance and the same would not support the case of the

prosecution. 13. It has also been submitted that allegedly the CD

consisted of 28 files and all the 28 files had the same header and

which was lastly modified on 20.01.2014. If the modification had

taken place on 20.01.2014, once again the prosecution has to offer an

explanation as to who and in what circumstances the CD was

modified and without raising any hash tag value, submission of the

Investigating Agency cannot be accepted. The learned Senior
 18 Spl.CC 1342/2021

Counsel has also argued that the transcript pertaining to the accused

Suresh Gowda was transferred in his absence, which is once again

against to the settled principles of law. Lastly, it has been argued that

not much investigation has taken place after filing of the FIR and in

fact the prosecuting agency are totally relying upon the materials

which were collected allegedly during the course of preliminary

inquiry. It has been argued that the collection of materials prior to

registering of FIR and after registering of FIR does not stand on the

same footing and in fact the prosecution should have collected the

materials to point out the overt act of the accused after registration of

the FIR. It has been argued that the preliminary inquiry could only be

made to ascertain whether there exist any prima facie case and the

scope of preliminary inquiry cannot be extended to be any part with

the charge sheet. It has also been submitted that the earlier

investigation was done by Sri Shivakumar, who was reported to be

dead during the course of trial. Hence, as per the case of prosecution

the one who had conducted major investigation and the signatures of

earlier I.O. Shivakumar was identified through his successor in office

PW14 Ravish. However, during the course of his cross-examination,

he has specifically deposed that he never worked with CW19
 19 Spl.CC 1342/2021

Shivakumar. In that event, the entire findings which have been

tendered by PW14 Ravish would create serious question mark over

the case of the prosecution. 14. The learned Senior Counsel also relied upon the

following authorities:- 4) Lalitha Kumari Vs. Government of Uttar Pradesh and

others reported in (2014) 2 SCC 1 - the ratio is already discussed

supra. 5) Rajat Prasad Vs. CBI reported in (2014) 6 SCC 495 - In the above case Hon'ble Apex Court held that sting operation was

not a recognized method for crime detection and proof of criminal

act in India, unlike in United States and Hon'ble Apex Court had

explained the extent of the same which could be appreciated. 6) Somasundaram alias Somu Vs. State represented by

the Deputy Commissioner of Police reported in (2020) 7 SCC

772 - wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court has explained the combined

result of Sec.133 r/w Sec.114 of Indian Evidence Act wherein it is

held that the Court as a rule of prudence should appreciate that still

it would be unsafe to convict an accused solely based on the

uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice. 7) Arjun Panditrao Khotkar Vs. Kailash Kushanrao

Gorantyal and others reported in (2020) 7 SCC 1 - wherein the
 21 Spl.CC 1342/2021

 mandatory provision of Sec.65(B) of Indian Evidence Act was

 discussed. 8) Crl.A.2760/2012 ( Umesh Vs. State of Karnataka by

 Lokayukta Police, Belgaum ) wherein once again the relevancy of Sec.65(B) of the Indian Evidence Act is appreciated. 15. By pointing out the said infirmities the learned Senior

counsel appearing on behalf of the advocate appearing for the

accused has summarized her arguments that the prosecution has

utterly failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt and also the

Investigating Agency is not clear that whether the materials collected

prior to registering of FIR is to be relied upon or the materials which

were recovered after registration of FIR. By pointing out the said

aspects, she had sought for acquitting the accused person. 16. The learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sri S.S.Nagarale

has submitted his reply to the contentions raised by the learned senior

counsel. During the course of his reply he has relied upon the

judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2019) 11 SCC 575

( State (NCT of Delhi) Vs. Pankaj Chaudhary ), wherein it has been

held by the Hon'ble Apex Court that the sole testimony of the

prosecutrix is sufficient to convict a accused if it inspires confidence. 22 Spl.CC 1342/2021

Learned Spl. PP relied upon another authority of Hon'ble Apex Court

reported in (2023) 4 SCC 731 ( Neeraj Dutta Vs. State

(Government of NCT of Delhi ) wherein presumption to fact with

regard to demand and acceptance of illegal gratification may be

made by a court of law by way of interference only when the

foundational facts have been proved by the relevant oral and

documentary evidence and not in the absence thereof. By relying

upon the above said authorities he has argued that the evidence of

PW4 and PW7 lays down foundation to the case of the prosecution

that when the same is once again looked into with the materials

collected during the course of investigation, it would clearly indicate

that the prosecution has proved their case beyond all reasonable

doubt and accordingly, he has sought for convicting the accused

person. 17. Heard the arguments of both the parties and perused

materials. The points that would arise for my consideration are as

follows:- visited the office of CW7 S.R.Srinivas, MLA of
 Gubbi Constituency, Tumakuru District and
 tried to induce him to resign from his position of
 MLA by receiving illegal gratification of Rs.18
 Crores and also offered chairmanship of any
 statutory Board or corporation in the State of
 Karnataka, which was videographed and certain
 snippets of the conversation was also captured
 through sting operation and as such the accused
 had abetted offence punishable under Sec.7 and 11 of the Act and thereby committed an offence
 punishable under Sec.12 of the Prevention of
 Corruption Act, 1988? 2) What order? 18. My answer to the above points are as follows:- 19. Point No.1:- Before adumbrating to the facts of the

case, once again the entire evidence which has been recorded before

the court is to be recapitulated. PW1 Rameshgowda is the
 24 Spl.CC 1342/2021

complainant who has deposed that on 25.10.2010 he had lodged

written information as per Ex.P.1 before Hon'ble Karnataka

Lokayukta along with Form No.1 as per Ex.P.2 and P3 and he had

identified his signature. It is his contention that on 21.10.2010 the

accused had offered Rs.25 Crore and also post of any statutory Board

or Corporation to Sri S.R.Srinivas who was also the MLA of Gubbi

Constituency, in order to join BJP Party, which was telecasted in a

news and as such he had lodged a complaint since it was against the

principles of democracy. It is his evidence that he had visited the

office of Lokayukta and had given necessary information which was

reduced in to writing as per Ex.P.6. Once again he was called to the

office of Lokayukta on 21.6.2016 wherein he had given another

statement that the accused was being guided by the then Home

Minister and also Transport Minister Sri R.Ashok which was

forthcoming in the CD. During the course of cross examination he

had deposed that he was an philanthropist and was into social

services from his college days and also he was the President of

Karnataka Nava Nirmana Vedike and had filed more than 100

complaints in respect to corruption cases. Apart from that nothing

much was elicited with respect to his background. However, it is his
 25 Spl.CC 1342/2021

evidence that along with Ex.P.5 document he had furnished only one

CD. Further he has deposed that the news telecasted was recorded

into CD when he was in his office at Shivamogga and he had

obtained the CD from some known person. Further, he has deposed

that he got the complaint drafted at Shivamogga itself. Apart from

that nothing much has been elicited. 20. Subsequently, he was recalled by the prosecution and he

has deposed that the video was recorded at one Sharma Video Center

and he has collected the same and handed over to Lokayukta Office.

However, the CD which was furnished to the Court was broken and

accordingly, he was called upon to the concerned police station once

again wherein a woman constable by name Smt.Baby Rani, who had

on an earlier occasion had transferred the contents of the CD to the

computer, had once again copied to another CD and it was identified

and marked as Ex.P.39 along with the certificate under Sec.65(B) of

Indian Evidence Act as per Ex.P.40. However the marking of the CD

was seriously objected by the learned counsel for accused on the

ground that the same had not complied the mandatory provision of Section 65(B) of the Indian Evidence Act. 26 Spl.CC 1342/2021 21. During the course of cross-examination he has deposed

that the contents of the CD at Ex.P.39 which he had produced was

consisting of 15 minutes video which was with respect to the

telecasting of news item at TV9 channel and has specifically deposed

that the contents of the CD at Ex.P.39 was copied and written by

Smt.Baby Rani who was Police Constable. He has also deposed that

the contents of the original CD was in consonance with the CD

written in the police station and since it was tallying with each other,

he had got a certificate issued as per Ex.P.40. Apart from that nothing

much was elicited from the mouth of this witness. 22. PW2 S.Parashivamurthy is the mahazar witness who has

deposed that in the month of November 2010 as per the direction of

the District Social Welfare Officer, he had visited the office of

Lokayukta on 15.11.2010 wherein he had met CW3 N.R.Mohan

Murthy and complainant Ramesh Gowda who had answered the 20

questionnaires with respect to a sting operation named as Operation

Kamala telecasted in Suvarna News and the said transcription came

to be recorded and lastly a mahazar was drawn as per Ex.P.6 for

which he had affixed his signature. He has deposed that there were
 27 Spl.CC 1342/2021

14 audio and video files in which file No.1 to 6 were audio files and

file No.7 to 14 were video files and the audio conversations were not

clearly audible. It is his evidence that another mahazar which was

drawn between 2 to 4 p.m. as per Ex.P.7 and later on the contents of

the CD was sealed and during the course of evidence the same was

opened and marked as Ex.P.13. He has also deposed that on

19.3.2011 once again he had went to Lokayukta office where PW5

S.R.Srinivas, sitting MLA of Gubbi Constituency was present and his

voice sample was collected and had drawn mahazar as per Ex.P.15

and EX P.16 for which he and one N.R.Murthy had affixed their

signature. During the course of cross-examination he has deposed

that on 19.3.2021 he was present in the Lokayukta office, however,

he has feigned his ignorance about the files which were prevailing in

Ex.P.17 and 18 CDs. Further, it is his contention that the videos in

the CD were transferred to the laptop, it consisted of 14 files.

However, he has feigned his ignorance with respect to the format of

the contents of CD and the name of the file mentioned prior to it

being burnt on a CD. Further, he has feigned his ignorance about the

mode in which the CD was copied. It is his evidence that at the time

of recording the sample voice of S.R.Srinivas, he was present. 28 Spl.CC 1342/2021

However, he has feigned his ignorance that he was not present in the

room where allegedly the voice recording was being conducted.

However, he has also feigned his ignorance of the white paper where

he allegedly affixed his signature. He has categorically admitted that

he had not seen the CD properly and the file No.7 to 14 was not

clearly visible. He has specifically deposed that when the contents of

the CD was displayed apart from Sri Suresh Gowda and Sri

S.R.Srinivas, another person was present, who could not be

identified. 23. PW3 Manjunath.N is another mahazar witness who was

summoned to Lokayukta office at the time of recording the

transcription. He has deposed that on 20.1.2014 he had visited the

office of Lokayukta and at that time, accused Sri Suresh Gowda

present and he was enquired and his video and audio was recorded in

the Laptop which was written on the said CD and DVD for which he

had affixed his signature. The witness has deposed that the

videograph was for 9 minutes and 28 seconds and the same was kept

in a properly sealed cover. He has deposed that on 13.1.2016 he

along with Nagendra Kumar was called by the concerned police and
 29 Spl.CC 1342/2021

there a mahazar was drawn at the place which was shown by the wife

of Srinivas i.e., Smt.Bharathi Devi from where she had recorded the

incident in her mobile phone and accordingly the mahazar as per

Ex.P.21 was drawn. During the course of cross-examination, he has

deposed that initially when the audio and voice records were being

made no glitch had taken has taken place and it was specifically

suggested that at the time of recording the same there were some

technical glitch. 24. PW4 S.R.Srinivas has deposed that the concerned police

had issued him a notice to visit the police station and accordingly, on

01.12.2010 he had visited the Lokayukta office at Tumakuru and had

furnished a letter as per Ex.P.36. He has also identified the contents

of the DVD at Ex.P.13 which consisted of the conversation that had

taken place between him and the accused Sri.B.Suresh Gowda. He

has deposed that he was being requested by the members of BJP

Party to flipflop from JD(S) Party in the year 2008 when he was

MLA of Gubbi Constituency. At that point of time, accused Suresh

Gowda had repeatedly contacted him and requested him to change

over from JD(S) party to BJP Party and on one particular day he had
 30 Spl.CC 1342/2021

visited his house at Vidyanagar along with one Mr.Masala Jayaram

and he had requested Rs.25 crores for flip-flopping the party. Later

on after making discussion it was agreed that he would be paid with

Rs.15 Crores and at that point of time the accused telephonically

contacted the then Home Minister Sri R.Ashok who had also assured

him to provide him with a post of Chairman of a Board or

Corporation. Further he has deposed that he had demanded to make

the payment immediately, for which he had requested for some time

and went outside and immediately, he had contacted their party

President Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy, and immediately, Sri

E.Krishnappa, Sri Zamir Ahmed Khan and Sri Puttanna along with

their supporters had come near his house, which came to the

knowledge of accused Suresh Gowda who had refused to make

payment and went away. It is his specific assertion that the entire

incident was for about 45 minutes which was recorded by his wife in

her mobile and handy camera which was written on a DVD by her

and later on it was furnished to concerned police. During the course

of cross-examination, he has explained his ignorance about the

instrument which was used by his wife to record the incident, or the

make and the company name. He has also feigned his about the
 31 Spl.CC 1342/2021

length of the video recording and also on how many occasions the

accused had visited his house. It is contention that at the time of

recording his voice sample one more person was present who was

recording the same. Further, he has admitted of not lodging any

complaint after the incident before the concerned police. It was

suggested to him that he was suspended from JD(S) party which was

admitted by him and he has denied the suggestion of being involved

in anti-party activities. Apart from that nothing much was elicited

from him. 25. PW5 A.S.Jayaram @ Masala Jayaram who was the eye

witness to the incident had turned hostile and not supported the case

of prosecution and during the course of cross examination by the

learned SPP nothing much was elicited from him. 26. PW6 E.Krishnappa has also not supported the case of

prosecution and he was considered hostile witness and he was cross-

examined by the learned SPP. However, nothing much was elicited

from him apart from his denials. 27. PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi, the wife of PW4 S.R.Srinivas,

who had allegedly recorded the incident. It is her contention in the
 32 Spl.CC 1342/2021

month of October 2010, she had discussed with her husband to put an

end for flip-flopping of MLAs by receiving ill-gotten money for

changing the political party and hence, they had decided to record the

conversation on their phone. It is her contention that on the same day

between 9 pm to 10 pm Masala Jayaram, accused Suresh Gowda had

come to their house and were conversing with her husband

S.R.Srinivas in their office room which was situated next to her

house and they were offering some amount to her husband to flip

flop the party. At that point of time, Sri Krishnppa, Zamir Ahmed

Khan and Puttanna had also come to their house and on noticing

them, accused Sri Suresh Gowda went away. It is her specific

contention that the accused had tried to allure him by offering a bribe

of Rs.15 crore to flip flop the party and to join BJP party. During the

course of cross-examination, she has feigned her ignorance, that

whether they possessed a computer or laptop in their house in the

year 2010. She had also feigned her ignorance, whether the data in

the cassette was transferred directly to the computer or by her

children or by her staff members work in their house. She has

feigned her ignorance that whether they had any DVD writing

software in their house. She has deposed of giving an interview
 33 Spl.CC 1342/2021

before the media persons with respect to 'Operation Kamala'. She

also deposed that the conversation between her husband and Suresh

Gowda was leaked to media by her husband and Sri

H.D.Kumaraswamy. However, they had not lodged any police

complaint in this regard. Subsequently, she was recalled and

produced a certificate under Section 65(B) of Indian Evidence Act

which was marked subjected to objections. Apart from denial nothing

much was elicited from her. 28. PW8 S.N.Pasha was the one who had carried the CDs to

the Truth Lab at Bengaluru for the purpose of scientific examination. 29. PW9 S.M.Jagadish Prasad has deposed that on

09.11.2010, the learned ADGP of Karnataka Lokayukta had sent him

written information along with complaint of M.Ramesh Gowda as

per Ex.P.1 and on the basis of the same he was directed to conduct a

preliminary enquiry. Further, it has been deposed that he had

addressed a letter to Competent Officers to depute their officials for

drawing a mahazar and on 15.11.2010 the complainant Ramesh

Gowda was present in his office in the presence of witnesses PW2

Parashivamurthy and CW3 N.R. Mohan Murthy, wherein they had
 34 Spl.CC 1342/2021

prepared a questionnaire and had recorded the answers of the

complainant which was reduced in to writing by way of typing and at

such time they had also drawn mahazar as per Ex.P.6. He has also

deposed that the complainant had answered to his questionnaire that

he had copied the video files through an employee of Sharma Video

at Shivamogga and in order to ascertain the authenticity of the same

he had addressed a letter to PW4 S.R.Srinivas and later on he had

also addressed a letter to Smt.Bharathi Srinivas. Further, he has

deposed of collecting of CDs along with letter as per Ex.P.36 from

PW4 S.R.Srinivas. It is his evidence that he had issued a reminder on

01.03.2011 to Sri.S.R.Srinivas to appear before him and

subsequently, he had appeared and he had secured two independent

witnesses as mahazar witness and had displayed the video CD which

was handed over to him by S.R.Srinivas. The said CD consisted of

totally 14 files, which were running for a period of about 1 minute

each and out of that file No.1 to 6 were audible and whereas file

No.7 to 14 are not clearly audible. They had recorded the verbatim

conversation and had drawn the mahazar as per Ex.P.7. It is his

evidence that on 19.3.2011 S.R.Srinivas was summoned to his office

and was appraised of collecting his voice sample for which he had
 35 Spl.CC 1342/2021

agreed and accordingly, the same came to be recorded and later on it

was transferred to his laptop under mahazar Ex.P.14. Since voice

sample of Sri.Suresh Gowda was required for the purpose of enquiry,

he was summoned to his office wherein the accused had appeared on

08.06.2011. During the course of cross-examination he had admitted

that he did not had any impediment to collect voice sample of

Ramesh Gowda and he had not done so, since he was directed to

collect only the voice sample of Sri S.R.Srinivas and Accused Suresh

Gowda. He has also admitted that he did not had any impediment to

seize the original footage of Suvarna News Channel, however he has

volunteered that since he was barred from doing the same prior to

registration of FIR. Apart from that nothing much was elicited from

him. 30. PW10 M.R.Goutham was the Police Inspector,

Karnataka Lokayukta and deposed of receiving directions from the

then Superintendent of Police, Karnataka Lokayukta to register

complaint against the accused person. In pursuance of the same he

had registered FIR in Cr.No.4/2015 as per Ex.P.65. He has also

deposed that at the time of registering the complaint he had also
 36 Spl.CC 1342/2021

recovered CD which was enclosed by the complainant which he had

subjected to PF No.11/2015 marked as Ex.P.66. Apart from that

nothing much was elicited from him. 31. PW11 S.Neeru is the Scientific Expert deposed that she

had completed graduation in B.Sc., (Mathematics) and had

completed Master Degree in Information Technology. She has

deposed of tendering evidence before the various courts and also it is

her evidence that she had analyzed nearly 400 cases including the

speaker identification case. Further, she has deposed that she had

joined Truth Labs as Scientific Officer in the year 2010 and on

23.1.2014 the Lab had received five sealed parcels along with a

requisition letter dated 22.01.2014 from the Superintendent of Police,

Karnataka Lokayuktha, Tumakuru Division requesting to examine

the voices contained in the CD's in the sealed parcel covers. It is her

contention that on opening the parcel No.1 she had found that it

contained 1 DVD of Sony make labeled as Operation Karnataka and

the said DVD contained one folder named as "BJP MLA sting". The

second folder "CD format" also contained 14 audio video files and

she had marked them as Q15 to Q28. Whereas the earlier ones
 37 Spl.CC 1342/2021

numbered as Q.1 to Q.14. She has further deposed that the Second

parcel contained of one CD of HP Invent make labeled as "sample

voice of Sri. S.R. Srinivas MLA recorded on 19-03-2011" and the

duration of the CD was 1 hour 26 minutes and 34 seconds which she

had marked it as S1. Further, the 3rd parcel contained one DVD of

Sony make labeled as "Video Disc containing sample voice of Sri.

S.R. Srinivas M.L.A. recorded on 19-03-2011" and on opening of the

said DVD she found that it consisted of 4 audio video files which she

had marked as S2 to S5 respectively. The 4th parcel had contained

one DVD of Sony make labeled as "sample voice of Sri. B. Suresh

Gowda, M.L.A. recorded on 18-01-2014" and it had consisted one

audio video file which she had marked as S6. The 5th parcel

contained one DVD of Sony make labeled as "Video Disc containing

sample voice of Sri. B. Suresh Gowda, M.L.A. recorded on 18-01-

2014" for which she had numbered as S7. 32. It is the evidence of PW11 that item No.1 to 5 were in

working condition and they were free from physical damages and she

had subjected the same to acoustic analysis and spectrographic

analysis and based on the examination she was of the opinion that the
 38 Spl.CC 1342/2021

voice characteristics of the speaker in the recordings matched with

the characteristics of the speakers in the recordings at S1 to S5. She

has also deposed that the voice characteristics of the speaker in Q1/2

to Q28/2 in the recordings Q1 to Q28 were matching with

characteristics of the speakers in the recordings S6 and S7.

Accordingly, she has deposed of furnishing a detailed report on

24.04.2014 which was forwarded by her Director on the same day as

per Ex.P.68. During the Course of cross-examination she has deposed

that she was Manager at Wipro Technologies for the last 2 1/2 years

and she did not had any impediment to furnish certificates with

respect to her credentials. She has also feigned her ignorance with

respect to the duration of length of each speaker which were sent for

analysis and also she has deposed that there is no minimum

requirement of length of audibility to conduct the audio speaker

analysis test and it is her evidence that the quality of the levels of the

audibility would be significant factor to be determined. Further,

during the course of cross-examination she has admitted that she did

not had any impediment to furnish the output generated by the third

party software which were used for conducting the analysis of the

voice samples. Further, she has also admitted that in order to conduct
 39 Spl.CC 1342/2021

voice sample analysis it was required to collect the sample voice in

the same language in which the questioned voices were recorded.

Apart from that nothing much was elicited from her. 33. PW12 B.Lokesh was working as Superintendent of

Police, Karnataka Lokayukta and has deposed that on 24.04.2015 he

was called upon by the ADGP office, Karnataka Lokayukta and was

directed to take further actions on the basis of the recommendations

made by the Hon'ble Lokayukta and along with that he was handed

over with 3 documents which were Memo dated 24.4.2015 at Ex.P.71

and on the basis of the same he had directed PW10 M.R.Goutham to

register a case and proceed with in accordance with law. 34. PW13 Ramesh Chandra is the other I.O, deposed of

recording the sample voice of accused Suresh Gowda on 18.01.2014

in the presence of mahazar witnesses by name N.Manjunath and

K.V.Nagendrakumar and the entire proceedings were video graphed

and the recording was reduced into writing. He has deposed that at

the time of video recording the entire process, they had faced some

technical glitch and as such they were unable to video record the

entire proceedings. However, the proceedings were recorded by
 40 Spl.CC 1342/2021

using the laptop of their office which they had converted and reduced

the voice recording and got it written on a CD. He has deposed that

the mahazar at Ex.P.21 reflects the true and correct factor. That apart

he has deposed that on 20.01.2014 another mahazar was drawn in the

presence of N.Manjunath and K.V.Nagendrakumar, who had visited

his office and they got transcribed entire contents of the voice

recording which was made on the previous date. It is his evidence

that on 22.1.2014 he had requested the Director of Truth Lab,

Bengaluru to verify, compare and give an opinion with respect to the

veracity of the materials sent by his predecessor in office. During the

course of cross-examination he has deposed that he had not enquired

the officials of Suvarna News Channel or the anchor who had spoken

with PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi, since his predecessor had already

enquired them. Further, he had also deposed that he did not have any

impediment to recover original CD which was mentioned at Sl.No.17

of Ex.P.6 from the Suvarna News Channel. For the sake of clarity

Ex.P.6 is the questionnaire prepared by the Lokayukta officials at the

time of investigation. Apart from that nothing much was elicited

from him. 41 Spl.CC 1342/2021 35. PW14 C.R.Ravish is the Deputy Superintendent of

Police, Karnataka Lokayukta, Tumakuru, deposed that he had

received files from CW19 S.M.Shivakumar, who died about 1 1/2

years back. He has deposed that said S.M.Shivakumar had conducted

majority of investigation and he had recorded statement of the

witnesses and later on the investigation was completed and he had

requested the ADGP, Karnataka Lokayukta to accord permission to

file charge sheet before the jurisdictional Court. During the course of

cross-examination, it is his evidence that Sri S.M.Shivakumar had

already prepared list with respect to the materials collected by him

during the course of his investigation. Apart from seeking for

permission to file the charge sheet, he had not done any major

investigation. Subsequently the witness was once again recalled and

he had deposed that he had not verified that whether the Video files

furnished by the PW7 Bharathi Devi was for a period of 45 minutes

at the time of filing the charge sheet. He has also deposed that the

duration of the video file on an average it was for about 45 minutes.

It is his evidence that there were no specific directions to send the

recovered CD for scientific examination to the Truth Lab only

instead of State Forensic Science Laboratory at Bengaluru. He has
 42 Spl.CC 1342/2021

also expressed that there was no impediment for him to enquire PW4

S.R.Srinivas and accused Suresh Gowda with respect to the phone

numbers used by them at the time of alleged incident. Apart from that

nothing much has been elicited from his mouth. ANALYSIS AND APPRECIATION OF THE EVIDENCE:- 43 Spl.CC 1342/2021

general public and also it was playing fraud upon the voters of the

constituency. Accordingly, he had sought for taking necessary action

against the accused Suresh Gowda by lodging complaint before the

Hon'ble Lokayukta. Along with the said complaint, the complainant

had also filled up Form-1 as per Ex.P.2 wherein he had specifically

stated at column No.4 that the conduct and act of the accused was

only of de-meaning the office of the elected representatives and also

cheated and defrauded the votes under the Representation of Peoples

Act . In particularly at column No.5 he has stated that he was basing

his allegations on the basis of the CD which was released to the

media on 21.10.2010. That apart in column No.8 he has specifically

stated that the CD was with Sri S.R.Srinivas, MLA of Gubbi

Constituency which was telecasted in Suvarna News TV. In the

accompanying Form No.2 at Ex.P.3 he has verified the contents. It is

pertinent to note that on the basis of the same, necessary directions

came to be issued by the Hon'ble Lokayukta to the competent

authorities to look in to the matter and to conduct preliminary

investigation. At this juncture, it is relevant to note and refer to the

directions which were issued by the Karnataka Lokayukta which was

marked by way of confrontation at Ex.D.1. Ex.D.1 is the order sheet
 44 Spl.CC 1342/2021

wherein it has been specifically directed by the learned ADGP,

Karnataka Lokayukta that the questioned CD with the voice sample

would be sent to Central Forensic Science Laboratory ('CFSL' for

short). Apart from that the relevant portion which is extracted as "I

have spoken to Director, CFSL, in this regard'. Based on the said

directions issued by the ADGP, the CD which was furnished by the

complainant was initially marked as Ex.P.4 along with the voice

sample collected during the course of investigation by the I.O.,

Karnataka Lokayukta, Tumakuru, were sent for scientific

examination to the Truth Lab, Bengaluru. It is relevant to note that

the I.O. on various dates had secured the presence of PW4

S.R.Srinivas to their office and there the voice samples were

collected. The voice sample which were collected were also recorded

initially through the devise which was available in their office and

transferred to the Laptop and later on it was burnt upon a DVD. It

was also relevant to note that the entire transcription that had taken

place were videographed and reduced into writing in the presence of

two independent witnesses by drawing necessary mahazar.

Subsequently, the accused Suresh Gowda was also secured before the

Investigating Agency and his voice sample came to be recorded. At
 45 Spl.CC 1342/2021

this juncture, the learned Senior counsel Smt.Nalina.M appearing on

behalf of the learned counsel for accused, had argued at length that

the collection of voice sample itself is in violation of settled

principles of law. It is her submission that in order to collect voice

sample, the procedural safeguards is required to be met by the

investigating agency. That apart she also pointed out that the

collection of voice sample would amount to the self-incrimination as

defined under Article 20 of the Constitution of India and as such

necessary permission should have been obtained in writing by the

accused persons. I have bestowed my anxious reading on the said

submission urged by learned Senior Counsel in this regard. In the

instant case the Investigating Agency have not collected any such

written consent from the accused B.Suresh Gowda. However, during

the course of evidence by the I.O. i.e., PW13 Ramesh Chandra

deposed of obtaining consent of the accused orally, which is totally

against to the settled principles of law. 37. Be that as it may, I have also bestowed my anxious

reading to the alleged transcription on the basis of which the criminal

law was set into motion. The entire case of the prosecution rests on
 46 Spl.CC 1342/2021

the telecasting of the news item in news channel i.e., Suvarna News

24X7 initially on 21.10.2011. It is pertinent to note that the said news

item was telecasted and it was viewed by various viewers throughout

the State of Karnataka. The Complainant Rameshgowda who had

lodged written information as per Ex.P.1 has contended that on

watching the said news item, he came to know about the illegal act

committed by the accused persons wherein he had tried to induce the

complainant S.R.Srinivas to flip-flop from his political party to BJP

Party by receiving a sum of Rs.25 crores and also he was assured

post of Chairman or President of any Board or Corporation. At this

juncture, the original transcription which was telecasted in the news

channel is required to be appreciated. Admittedly, as per the

complainant's case, the said news item was telecasted on 21.10.2011

in Suvarna News 24X7 channel. Initially the CD which was

produced by the complainant Rameshgowda was recovered by the

Investigating Agency and marked before the court as Ex.P.4.

However, during the course of evidence it was noticed that the CD

was not in working condition and also a crack had appeared on the

CD. At that point of time, Investigating Agency had filed necessary

application to produce secondary evidence by filing copy of the CD
 47 Spl.CC 1342/2021

which was stored in the computer of the I.O. The application came to

be allowed vide orders passed by my predecessor in office on

14.06.2023. On the basis of the impugned orders, once again the

Investigating Agency had furnished the copy of the contents of the

CD Ex.P.4 which was burnt in to CD and produced before the court

which was marked as Ex.P.39 and the contents of the CD Ex.P.39

was displayed before the court indicating telecasting of news item of

TV9 English news channel. Learned Senior Counsel has pointed out

that the secondary evidence which is permitted to be led before the

court should be copy of the original contents which was produced

earlier. However, in the instant case as per the complainant as could

be noticed from the written information at Ex.P.1 and also as per

Form No.1 and 2, which was furnished to the Investigating Agency

i.e., Karnataka Lokayukta, the complainant Ramesh Gowda had

specifically stated that he came to know about the incident of alleged

allurement given by the accused Suresh Gowda on the basis of the

news item telecasted in Suvarna News 24X7 which was Kannada

news channel. However, the contents of the CD at Ex.P.39 which is

alleged to be copy of the contents which were stored in the devise of

the I.O. indicating that a news item being published and telecasted in
 48 Spl.CC 1342/2021

TV9 English Channel. As such it is her submission that the

production of document at Ex.P.4 and Ex.P.39 itself is entirely

different and the same is not tallying with each other. That apart,

much argument has been addressed with respect to the veracity and

genuineness of the CD which has been produced and also the voice

sample produced at Ex.P.12, Ex.P.14, Ex.P.15 and Ex.P.16 which

were sent to scientific examination along with voice sample of

accused Suresh Gowda and Ex.P.31 and Ex.P.33 to the Truth Lab,

Bengaluru. With respect to the said allegation, same will be dealt by

me in the later part of the judgment. 38. At this juncture, learned Special Public Prosecutor Sri

S.S.Nagarale has vehemently argued that the case of the prosecution

is not entirely resting on the contents of the CD. It is his submission

that the case rests on the direct ocular evidence of PW4 S.R.Srinivas

and PW7 Bharathi Devi who are the eye witnesses to the incident

where allurement was given by the accused B.Sri Suresh Gowda. It is

his submission that the CD transcripts at Ex.P.4 and Ex.P.39 and

voice samples of CD can only be used as additional document to

fortify their contention. In order to butters his submission, learned
 49 Spl.CC 1342/2021

SPP has relied upon the authority of Hon'ble Apex Court reported in

(2019) 11 SCC 575 ( State (NCT of Delhi) Vs. Pankaj Choudhary )

wherein it has been held by the Hon'ble Apex Court that the Court

may rely upon the sole testimony of the witness if it inspires the

confidence of the Court in order to award conviction to the accused.

That the said principle was laid down in a case pertaining to sexual

offence against women. The learned SPP has brought to the notice of

this court that the ratio laid down in that case by the Hon'ble Apex

Court that the court may rely upon the sole testimony of the witness

has to be appreciated. In the instant case it is his submission that

there are no materials to reject the evidence of the witnesses who

were examined before the court and in particularly the evidence of

PW4 S.R.Srinivas and PW7 Smt.Bharathidevi. It is his submission

that when there is direct ocular evidence the same requires to be

given precedence over the other form of materials which has been

produced. That apart, he has also relied upon another authority of the

Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2023) 4 SCC 731 ( Neeraj Dutta

Vs. State ). In the said judgment , Hon'ble Apex Court held that the

presumption of fact with regard to the demand and acceptance or

obtainment of illegal gratification may be made by a court of law by
 50 Spl.CC 1342/2021

way of an inference only when the foundational facts have been

proved by relevant oral and documentary evidence and not in the

absence thereof. By pointing out the said findings the learned Spl.

Public Prosecutor has argued that in the instant case as per the case

of the prosecution accused Suresh Gowda who was sitting MLA of

Tumakuru Constituency had tried to allure the defacto complainant

Sri S.R.Srinivas by making an offer of Rs.25 Crore and also post of

Chairman of any Board or Corporation. It is his contention that the

said offence is fortified by the evidence of PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi.

Apart from that he has submitted that there are no materials to

indicate that any sort of ill-will existed between the parties and in the

absence of the same, the Court cannot rely upon the sole testimony of

PW4 and also that of PW7, who had recorded the video of the entire

incident which had taken place between the accused and Sri

S.R.Srinivas. The materials at Ex.P.39 which was copy of the CD at

Ex.P.4 and also voice samples of Sri.B.Sri Suresh Gowda Ex.P.31

and Ex.P.33 CDs, when compared with the voice sample of

S.R.Srinivas which were sent to Truth Lab would only indicate that

the report at Ex.P.68 furnished by the Truth Lab would only fortify

the case of the prosecution. 51 Spl.CC 1342/2021 39. In order to appreciate the said aspect that whether the

evidence of PW4 S.R.Srinivas and PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi has

sterling witness in the instant case, it required to recapitulate entire

evidence which is lead before the Court. Once again at the cost of

repetition, the evidence collected by the Investigating Agency is

required to be appreciated with the evidence which came to be

recorded before the Court. As already discussed, it is noticed that a

preliminary enquiry was ordered by the learned ADGP, Karnataka

Lokayukta to enquire that whether the contents of CD was tallying

with the voice sample of accused Sri Suresh Gowda and that of PW4

S.R.Srinivas. In this regard, initially before registering of the FIR

itself, in the year 2011, Sri S.R.Srinivas was summoned to the office

of Lokayukta and where his voice sample was collected. At the same

time, the voice sample of the accused Suresh Gowda was also

collected by the Investigating Agency (though it is objected by the

learned Senior Counsel that it was not done in accordance with law),

the court has considered the same and the manner in which entire

proceedings had been conducted. 52 Spl.CC 1342/2021 40. As per the evidence of PW4 S.R.Srinivas, he was

approached by the accused Suresh Gowda who had tried to allure

him by offering sum of Rs.25 Crore and also Chairmanship or

Presidentship of Board or Corporation. It is his contention that the

said incident had taken place in the year 2008 at about 8.30 p.m.

when Suresh Gowda had visited his office at Vidyanagara along with

PW5 Masala Jayaram. It is his contention that initially he had

demanded Rs.25 Crore, however, he was offered only Rs.5 crore and

later on it was settled for Rs.15 Crore by accused Suresh Gowda. He

has also deposed that he had brought it to the notice of party

President Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy. Immediately, at that time the party

leaders of JD(S) Party, PW6 E.Krishnappa, Sri Zamir Ahmed Khan

and Sri.Puttanna along with their supporters came near his house. At

this juncture, it is noticed that as per the evidence of PW4

S.R.Srinivas, which was given before the Lokayukta authorities at

the initial point of time i.e., during preliminary enquiry also indicates

that the some of the party workers had visited his house when a offer

of allurement was being made by accused Suresh Gowda. If that is

the case, the prosecution has to explain why they had not summoned

Sri Zamir Ahmed Khan, Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy, whose name would
 53 Spl.CC 1342/2021

repeatedly forthcoming in the entire incident as the one to whom the

original CD was sent and the person who was also having clear first

hand information or knowledge about the alleged incident. It is also

noticed from the record as per the case of the prosecution,

Sri E.Krishnappa, Sri.Zamir Ahmed Khan and Sri.Puttanna along

with their supporters had come near the residence of PW4 Sri

S.R.Srinivas. Unfortunately, for the case of the prosecution, PW5

Masala Jayaram who allegedly accompanied accused Suresh Gowda

to the house of PW4 S.R.Srinivas, had turned hostile and nothing

much elicited from him during cross-examination. 41. It is relevant to note another person by name Sri

E.Krishnappa was examined as PW6 and he too had turned hostile

and nothing much elicited from him during cross-examination. 42. That apart, Sri Zamir Ahmed Khan, Sri Puttanna and

Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy were not at all summoned nor inquired by

the Investigating Officer which would put a serious question mark on

the case of prosecution. 43. I have also bestowed my anxious reading to the further

part of the cross-examination. PW4 S.R.Srinivas wherein he has
 54 Spl.CC 1342/2021

deposed that they had conversed for about 45 minutes in their office.

It is relevant to note at this juncture, repeatedly witness PW4

S.R.Srinivas and PW7 Bharathi Devi stating that the conversation

had taken place for a period of 45 minutes, whereas the voice sample

collected and sent for scientific examination before the Truth Lab,

Bengaluru, did not contain of a continuous conversation being

recorded. It is relevant to note that as per the case of prosecution

there were totally 14 audio video files available in the CD which was

allegedly furnished by the defacto complainant S.R.Srinivas and the

same consisted of video of 1 minute each. This raises a question how

the said conversation for about 45 minutes were broken into

conversation of 1 minute each by the witness or who had tinkered

with the video conversation that had taken place. Be that as it may, it

has been deposed by the witness that the video portion was reduced

in to DVD by PW7 Bharathi Devi. Further, it is interesting to note

that the original DVD was handed over as per the case of the defacto

complainant Sri S.R.Srinivas to Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy. If that

contention is to be accepted then once again the prosecution has to

explain why enquiry was not made with Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy, who

allegedly possessed original DVD which was furnished by PW4
 55 Spl.CC 1342/2021

S.R.Srinivas at the inception stage itself. In the further part of his

cross-examination, the witness has deposed that he was displayed

with the DVD in the police station on 18.6.2016. Later on his voice

sample collected by the Investigating Agency. During the course of

cross-examination he has feigned his ignorance with respect to the

materials used by his wife to record the entire conversation and also

the manufacturer of the Video recorder or the handy camera used for

recording the conversation. It is his evidence that the accused Sri

Suresh Gowda had stayed back in their house for about 30 to 45

minutes and he does not know for how long the conversation had

taken place. He has also deposed that at the time of calling Press

Meet, they had distributed CDs to the Press persons and also to the

Investigating Agency and also to Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy. He has

specifically deposed that his son and his wife had helped him to play

DVD and he has feigned his ignorance about editing of DVD by his

son. The aforesaid evidence is required to be appreciated with the

evidence of PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi in order to ascertain whether the

quality of evidence tendered before the court can be termed as

sterling evidence. Smt.Bharathi Devi once again reiterated the

contention of the accused Sri Suresh Gowda had intended to allure
 56 Spl.CC 1342/2021

her husband PW4 S.R.Srinivas by offering money and also some

Post of Chairman or President of some Board or Corporation. She

has also admitted that at that point of time, accused was accompanied

by PW5 Masala Jayaram and later on near their house Sri

E.Krishnappa, Sri Zamir Ahmed Khan and Sri Puttanna had come.

Also the same was notified to the Party President Sri

H.D.Kumaraswamy. If the said aspects were to be accepted as true

and correct once again a serious question mark would be raised on

the manner in which investigation is being conducted by the

Investigating Agency, as to why they had not preferred to record

statement of Sri Zamir Ahmed Khan, Sri Puttanna and Sri

H.D.Kumaraswamy, who was the recipient of the original DVD

which was supplied to him by PW4 S.R.Srinivas. 44. Further, PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi had also stated that she

had recorded the audio conversation that had taken place between

accused Sri Suresh Gowda and her husband. Further, the said aspect

was also videographed by her by standing near the passage of her

house. It is relevant to note that the concerned police had drawn a

mahazar as per Ex.P.29 where the PW7 Smt.Bharathidevi had stated
 57 Spl.CC 1342/2021

to have video recorded the conversation. At this juncture, the

boundaries which is mentioned in the mahazar require to be

appreciated, which is as follows:- 58 Spl.CC 1342/2021

testimony of the witness can be considered as that of sterling quality.

What amount to sterling witness has been reported in the judgment of

Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2012) 8 SCC 21 ( Rai Sandeep v.

State (NCT of Delhi ) wherein it is held as: 59 Spl.CC 1342/2021

sequence of it. Such a version should have co-relation
with each and every one of other supporting material
such as the recoveries made, the weapons used, the
manner of offence committed, the scientific evidence and
the expert opinion. The said version should consistently
match with the version of every other witness. It can
even be stated that it should be akin to the test applied
in the case of circumstantial evidence where there
should not be any missing link in the chain of
circumstances to hold the accused guilty of the offence
alleged against him. Only if the version of such a
witness qualifies the above test as well as all other such
similar tests to be applied, can it be held that such a
witness can be called as a "sterling witness" whose
version can be accepted by the court without any
corroboration and based on which the guilty can be
punished. To be more precise, the version of the said
witness on the core spectrum of the crime should remain
intact while all other attendant materials, namely, oral,
documentary and material objects should match the said
version in material particulars in order to enable the
court trying the offence to rely on the core version to
sieve the other supporting materials for holding the
offender guilty of the charge alleged. 60 Spl.CC 1342/2021 47. When the said principles are appreciated with the facts

of the case, it does not indicate that the evidence of PW4 and PW7

can be construed as that of sterling quality so as to support the

prosecution case solely upon their testimony. As such it would drive

the court to look in to the other materials collected by the

Investigating Agency i.e., voice sample and also original

transcription of the CD which were furnished by PW4 S.R.Srinivas.

PW4 S.R.Srinivas had furnished CD which was marked as Ex.P.13

during the course of his investigation by the Karnataka Lokayukta

and in the said CD it was described the manner in which the

conversation had taken place. As per the video contents the accused

had allured the defacto complainant S.R.Srinivas with money and

post to flip flop from his party and join BJP party. Be that as it may,

the transcription was sent to the Truth Lab for conducting scientific

examination. 48. The learned Senior Counsel has vehemently argued that

at the first instance the report furnished at Ex.P.68 and Ex.P.69 by

PW11 Neeru.S cannot be considered as valid evidence in the eye of

law. In order to better appreciate the said aspect she has relied upon
 61 Spl.CC 1342/2021

the authority of Hon'ble Apex Court in respect of competency and

role of experts to furnish said report in the instant case. In the said

judgment rendered by Hon'ble Apex Court with respect to the role of

experts, the court has relied upon the judgment reported in (2009) 9

SCC 709 ( Ramesh Chandra Agrawal vs Regency Hospital Ltd. &

Ors. )

 "11) EXPERT OPINION: 62 Spl.CC 1342/2021 iii) that the expert must be qualified in that
discipline. [See Errors, Medicine and the Law, Alan
Merry and Alexander McCall Smith, 2001 ed., Cambridge
University Press, p.178] 12) Section 45 of the Indian Evidence Act speaks of
expert evidence. It reads as under: The opinions of experts upon the question whether
the symptoms exhibited by A commonly show unsoundness
of mind, and whether such unsoundness of mind usually
renders persons incapable of knowing the nature of the
 63 Spl.CC 1342/2021

 acts which they do, or knowing that what they do is either
 wrong or contrary to law, are relevant. (c) The question is, whether a certain document
 was written by A. Another document is produced which is
 proved or admitted to have been written by A. The opinion
 of experts on the question whether the two documents
 were written by the same person or by different persons
 are relevant." 13) The importance of the provision has been
 explained in the case of State of H.P. v. Jai Lal and Ors. ,
 [(1999) 7 SCC 280]. It is held, that, Section 45 of the
 Evidence Act which makes opinion of experts admissible
 lays down, that, when the court has to form an opinion
 upon a point of foreign law, or of science, or art, or as to
 identity of handwriting or finger impressions, the opinions
 upon that point of persons specially skilled in such foreign
 law, science or art, or in questions as to identity of
 handwriting, or finger impressions are relevant facts.
 Therefore, in order to bring the evidence of a witness as
 that of an expert it has to be shown that he has made a
 special study of the subject or acquired a special
 experience therein or in other words that he is skilled and
 has adequate knowledge of the subject." 49. In the said authority, Hon'ble Apex Court had an

occasion to consider the evidence of expert and it has been held that
 64 Spl.CC 1342/2021

the expert must be within recognized field of expertise and evidence

must be based on the reliable principles and the expert must be

qualified in that discipline. In this regard, the court has once again

appreciated the evidence of PW11 Neeru.S wherein she has deposed

that she had studied and obtained graduation in B.Sc. (Mathematics)

and completed her Master Degree in Information Technology and

had completed Digital Forensic Course, which was accepted

worldwide and had held several certificates in order to justify the

same. It is not forthcoming in the evidence with respect to the

qualification of the expert on digital forensic science and also that

whether the course completed by her was having recognition. As per Sec.45 of the Indian Evidence Act, expert evidence can be termed as

one, on the basis of the same the court has to form an opinion with

respect to a foreign law or science or Art. However, at the same time,

a serious duty is casted upon the court to ascertain whether the

person who appears before the court is really expert who has got

expertise in tendering such evidence. In the instant case, no material

is forthcoming with respect to the said aspect. Apart from that the

court has already considered the materials which have been collected

by the Investigating Agency in the instant case. 65 Spl.CC 1342/2021 50. In this regard reliance is being placed on the authority

rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of Ohio reported in the case

of State of Ohio V Hartman ( 754 N.E.2d 1150) (October 3, 2001)

wherein it was succinctly discussed and held as: We find that the first prong of the rule was
 satisfied, since expert testimony was necessary to make
 fingerprint comparisons. We find that the second prong
 of the test also satisfied, since defendant never
 challenged or objected to Warrick's expert qualifications
 at trial. However, defense counsel did point out to the
 judge that Warrick's testimony was "blazing new
 ground" and that the scientific reliability of the digital
 enhancement method had not been established. The trial
 66 Spl.CC 1342/2021

 court accepted the reliability of digitally enhanced
 fingerprint evidence, finding that "the use of the
 computer in this instance is no different than * * *
 would be the use of an overhead projector, microscope,
 a magnifying glass or anything else like that that would
 enhance an expert's ability to make his determination
 and therefore I find that there's nothing -- no new trails
 being blazed here and I'm overruling the objection for
 that reason." We have designated four factors to be considered
 in evaluating reliability of scientific evidence: "(1)
 whether the theory or technique has been tested, (2)
 whether it has been subjected to peer review, (3)
 whether there is a known or potential rate of error, and
 (4) whether the methodology has gained general
 acceptance."State v. Nemeth (1998), 82 Ohio St.3d 202,
 211, 694 N.E.2d 1332, 1338-1339, citing Miller v. Bike
 Athletic Co. (1998), 80 Ohio St.3d 607, 611, 687 N.E.2d
 735, 740. However, it is important "to emphasize that
 none of these factors is a determinative prerequisite to
 admissibility." Nemeth at 211, 694 N.E.2d at 1339,
 citing Miller at 612-613, 687 N.E.2d at 741. See, also,
 Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (1993),
 509 U.S. 579, 113 S.Ct. 2786, 125 L.Ed.2d 469. 51. When the said dictum is carefully appreciated it

indicates that the testimony must relate to the matters beyond
 67 Spl.CC 1342/2021

knowledge or experience of lay persons. On appreciating the dictum

it indicates that the following factors are required to be considered

which are as follows: 52. The aforesaid aspect assumes importance, since a

serious question mark is raised with respect to the credibility of the

witness and also the mode of conducting the scientific examination.

On appreciating the report at Ex.P.69, it doesn't indicate that the

theory or technique which was adopted was tested and whether the

same was subjected to peer review and whether there were any

potential rate of error and also nothing is forthcoming in the evidence

that the theory or the methodology adopted has got general

acceptance throughout. In the absence of the same, it cannot be

accepted as valid report furnished in accordance with necessary

standards. Further there are no materials to indicate the manner in
 68 Spl.CC 1342/2021

which the scientific examination was carried out by her, what were

the instruments used for carrying out the scientific examination.

Though she has deposed that the voice sample and the alleged CD at

Ex.P.13 were subjected to audibility test and spectrographic test, the

instrument which was used was not explained in detail nor the

methodology explained by her for arriving at conclusion as noticed

in Ex.P.68 and EX.69. It is just to notice that the reliability of

electronic evidence and admissibility of the video by computer or

others is based on the procedure which is required to be undertaken

by the Investigating Agency. 53. Apart from that reliance is also placed upon the

judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of Arkansas in the

case of Nooner V State of Arkansas, 907 S.W.2d 677 (October 9,

1995) wherein it is held as: We first emphasize that there is nothing before us
that indicates that the still photographs of the suspect
ultimately introduced into evidence were changed to
include a face, features, or physique of someone not
present in the original videotape. Indeed, the jury and the
circuit court watched a slowed version of the original
videotape and then saw the "enhanced" still photographs.
Thus, the viewers of the tape had the opportunity to
identify any distortion in the photographs of the depicted
suspect. In a pre-trial hearing regarding whether the
photographs should be suppressed, state witnesses,
including representatives of private firms, meticulously
described their role in the enhancement process. Rupert
Robertson, a video specialist for Arkansas Power & Light
Company, testified that he slowed the original videotape
down by making an exact duplicate of it in the Betacam
format and then freezing each frame for several seconds.
Tom Burney of Jones Productions testified that he took a
still frame from the duplicate videotape, transferred it to
his computer, and softened the pixels on the suspect's face
to remove the graininess. He did not add or subtract
features from the original, except to "mosaic out" the
victim. Carl Tillery of Color Masters testified that he took
the computer disk prepared by Tom Burney and made still
 70 Spl.CC 1342/2021

 photographs. He multiplied the pixels per square inch to
 improve the contrast and adjusted the brightness in one of
 the still photographs. He also testified that he in no way
 altered the features in the photographs. Jeff Bishop from
 Camera Mart testified that he made still photographs
 from the original videotape. He only adjusted the
 brightness in the photographs. Reliability must be the watchword in determining
 the admissibility of enhanced videotape and photographs,
 whether by computer or otherwise. We turn to the treatise
 cited by the Arkansas Court of Appeals in Fisher v. State ,
 supra: 71 Spl.CC 1342/2021

before the court. In the case on hand admittedly, it is stated that at

one point of time there is sudden shift in the video and hence it

requires to be explained that why there was sudden shift and also the

report doesn't indicate that whether there were any changes in the

pixels of the video which was recorded. When the said aspect applied

to the case on hand, it indicates originally a conversation was

reduced in to video by PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi by using handy

camera and it was transferred in to a DVD by her, which was sent to

the party President Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy and later on it was

telecasted in various news channels. At the same time, it is

appropriate to note that Ex.P.4 CD which was furnished by the

complainant-PW1 Ramesh Gowda consisted of snippets of the

Videographic transcription that had taken place and telecasted in

Suvarna News Channel. However, the said original CD was not at all

recovered nor it was found by the Investigating Agency. Further as

per the case of the prosecution, the CD furnished by the complainant

was indeed stored in the computers of the Investigating Agency and

subsequently when secondary evidence was led before the court by

obtaining the copy of the same, it turned out to be entirely different

from the one which was produced on earlier instance. In the
 72 Spl.CC 1342/2021

backdrop of said aspect the authority which has been laid down in the case mentioned above is to be considered which should have

been compiled by the Investigating Agency. It is also relevant to note

that as per the report of the expert, the video clipping indicated of

sudden shift in its footage. In order to better appreciate said aspect, I

have also carefully appreciated the report at Ex.P.69. At page No.134

of the report at Ex.P.69, the audio video scientific analysis has been

discussed and in the said columns it has been specifically mentioned

of noticing of a sudden shift in the scene and it is noted that the shift

is seen between 44 Sec. 80 Milli Sec and 44 minutes 120 Milli secs.,

of the recording 'Q9'. Further it is stated that the sudden shift was

shown in the figures mentioned below in the report (figures have

been extracted in the report Annexure No.3). Further it is also

observed that a sudden shift in the scene is seen between 35 Sec and

320 milli seconds and 35 minutes 360 milli seconds of the recording

Q12, the sudden shift is shown in the figures in the report (Figures

are extracted in the report). If there was sudden shift in the scene as

noticed by the expert is to be accepted, once again the Investigating

Agency are required to offer an explanation that how and why the

sudden shift had taken place and whether it was morphed, modified
 73 Spl.CC 1342/2021

or altered by any persons. In the instant case said effort has not been

made by the Investigating agency in order to justify their contention. 55. That apart, it is relevant to note at this juncture that the

investigating officer had displayed the contents of the video and its

transcription was reduced into writing and the said proceedings were

conducted in the presence of PW2 Parashiva Murthy and CW3 N.R

Mohan Murthy in the office of the Karnataka Lokayukta at Tumkuru.

In that report it is specifically stated that it comprised of seven video

files which were numbered as No.7 to 14 and it consisted of

conversation of one minute each and further it is also mentioned that

a third person is noticed in the said video files. If for the sake of

arguments, the same is accepted, then again the prosecution has to

offer an explanation, who was that person and also the reason for

non-examining him, since it is repeatedly described in the report that

the third person had taken active role in the alleged conversation that

had taken place between the defacto complainant PW4 S.R. Srinivas

and accused Sri B.Suresh Gowda. There is total silence on the part of

the prosecution in this regard. At the cost of repetition when once

again the report of the expert Ex.P69 is revisited, a mention is found
 74 Spl.CC 1342/2021

that during the audio conversation a voice of the third person also

noticed. The prosecution is unable to explain how the voice of the

said third person came into existence. If for the sake of arguments, it

is to be accepted that PW.5 A.S.Jayaram @ Masala Jayaram was also

present at the time of the incident, and then the records indicate that

he had turned hostile and did not supported the case of the

prosecution. Apart from that during the course of cross-examination

nothing much was elucidated. 56. The fact that the sample voice of the accused collected is

also been seriously questioned by the learned Senior Counsel

appearing on behalf of the accused counsel. It is her contention that

at the time of collecting the voice samples, a written consent should

have been obtained and the same should have been collected in

accordance with the procedures laid down by law. However, in the

instant case, no such attempt has been made by the Investigating

Agency. Hence, the contention of the learned Senior Counsel is

justifiable. I have also carefully appreciated the acoustic analysis

which has been submitted at Ex.P.69. In the report at Ex.P.69 it has

been specifically stated that the recordings which were more fully
 75 Spl.CC 1342/2021

described as S1 to S7 predominantly contained the voice of two male

speakers conversing in Kannada, however, some utterances by a third

male person was also detected for brief instance. The recordings at

S6 and S7 contained some utterances in English by one of the

speakers in addition to Kannada conversation. Admittedly in the

instant case, the voice samples which were collected were from PW4

S.R.Srinivas and accused B.Suresh Gowda, which were sent for

analysis to the Truth Lab. If for the sake of argument, the report of

the acoustic analysis is to be accepted, then it would lead to an

inference that in the background of the recordings a conversation

could have taken place over telephone also. If the conversation had

taken place over telephone, then once again a duty is casted upon the

Investigating officer to ascertain the manner and mode in which the

telephonic conversation had taken place. As rightly pointed by the

learned Senior Counsel no mobile phones, nor the SIM, nor any CDR

report were collected by the Investigating Agency to point out that at

relevant point of time a conversation had indeed taken place between

accused Sri Suresh Gowda and PW4 S.R.Srinivas. That apart, the

detection of third male voice in the acoustic analysis would once

again casts a doubt about the veracity of the report of the Truth Lab
 76 Spl.CC 1342/2021

in confirming that the sample voices were found to be proper and

correct with that of the CD furnished at Ex.P.13. All these aspects

raise a question mark over the credibility in which the report has

been furnished. 57. I have also bestowed my anxious reading to the pitch

and intensity, contour which has been addressed by the expert with

respect to utterance of the word 'amount' 'yestu' 'Bangalore',

'rajaname' and ' Tumakuru'. The contour and the intensity of the

pitch which has been furnished and compared by preparing the chart

does not indicate that the questioned recording and standard

recording consisting of the intensity contour and the pitch contour

are entirely different. That apart the graphic scenes that had been

depicted in the report also raise a severe question mark over the

manner in which the investigation has been conducted. For instance,

at internal page No.135 of the report at Ex.P.69 certain graphical

snippets have been extracted, which are four in numbers. In the last

graphical snippet it has been noticed that it was for 1 minute 30 sec

480 milli second, wherein pictures of two persons have been

furnished. If this snippet is carefully appreciated, the picture does not
 77 Spl.CC 1342/2021

belong either to accused B.Sri Suresh Gowda or to PW4

S.R.Srinivas. Apart from that it is also noticed that in the background

a banner is noticed depicting 'Tumakuru'. Admittedly as per the case

of prosecution, the incident had taken place inside the house of PW4

S.R.Srinivas and if the same is to be accepted then how the banner

and also snippet of a function is forthcoming in the CD. The above

exercise is made only to ascertain whether the evidence rendered by

PW4 S.R.Srinivas and that of PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi is of such

sterling quality which could solely be relied upon to award

conviction to accused person. When the said incidents are

appreciated a serious question mark would be casted upon the case of

the prosecution. 58. In the above case , I have also carefully appreciated the

evidence lead by PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi. In her evidence she has

initially deposed that the incident was video graphed by her and also

she had recorded the audio conversation in her mobile phone. As

already discussed above, the mobile phone was not at all recovered

nor any effort was being made by the Investigating Agency to

recover the SIM or the CDR report in order to ascertain whether the
 78 Spl.CC 1342/2021

accused as well as PW4 S.R.Srinivas had conversed with each other

at relevant point of time. Even otherwise the manner in which

incident is allegedly transferred in to a CD from Handy camera is

also a debatable point. As per the evidence of Smt.Bharathi Devi

PW7, she had video graphed the incident in her handy camera and

she had transferred it to a CD with the help of the staff working in

their house. She has not at all deposed that how the contents of the

handy camera was transferred in to a CD and further she has also

deposed that she had obtained the help of her son. Subsequently,

when her evidence was collected, once again application was filed

under Sec.311 of Cr.P.C., by the prosecution seeking to recall the

PW7 Bharathidevi for the purpose of further chief examination and

at that point of time Ex.P.80 the certificate issued under Sec.65-B of

Indian Evidence Act came to be marked through her. No doubt the

said certificate is marked subject to its admissibility, since objections

were raised with respect to its admissibility by the defence counsel.

When the contents of the certificate is carefully appreciated and that

to in the last paragraph, it is noticed that she had visited one

computer center and handed over the videograph portion stored in

her Sony handy camera to be transferred in to a CD and accordingly
 79 Spl.CC 1342/2021

she got it transferred. It is her further contention that the contents

which videographed through the said handy camera was carried by

her son to abroad and there he had lost the same. At the inception

itself, objections had been raised that the contents of Ex.P.80 which

is allegedly a certificate issued under Sec.65-B of the Indian

Evidence Act, is not proper, the court for the sake of considering the

contentions urged by the prosecution, has looked in to for a limited

purpose. The manner in which the certificate is required to be issued

under Sec.65-B of the Indian Evidence Act has been laid down by the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the judgment reported in (2020) 7 SCC 1

( Arjun Panditrao Khotkar Vs. Kailash Kushanrao Gorantyal

and others )

 "It may also be seen that the person who gives this
 certificate can be anyone out of several persons who occupy a
 "responsible official position" in relation to the operation of
 the relevant device, as also the person who may otherwise be
 in the "management of relevant activities" spoken of in sub-
 section (4) of Section 65-B. Considering that such certificate
 may also be given long after the electronic record has actually
 been produced by the computer, Section 65-B(4) makes it
 clear that it is sufficient that such person gives the requisite
 certificate to the "best of his knowledge and belief". 80 Spl.CC 1342/2021

 [Obviously, the word "and" between knowledge and belief in
 Section 65-B(4) must be read as "or", as a person cannot
 testify to the best of his knowledge and belief at the same
 time.]" 81 Spl.CC 1342/2021

Hon'ble Apex Court in the aforesaid judgment which is more fully

described as follows:- 82 Spl.CC 1342/2021

the original document itself is produced. This can be done by
the owner of a laptop computer, computer tablet or even a
mobile phone, by stepping into the witness box and proving
that the device concerned, on which the original information
is first stored, is owned and/or operated by him. In cases
where the "computer" happens to be a part of a "computer
system" or "computer network" and it becomes impossible to
physically bring such system or network to the court, then the
only means of providing information contained in such
electronic record can be in accordance with Section 65-B(1),
together with the requisite certificate under Section 65-B(4).
The last sentence in para 24 in Anvar P.V.2 which reads as...
if an electronic record as such is used as primary evidence
under Section 62 of the Evidence Act..." is thus clarified; it is
to be read without the words "under Section 62 of the
Evidence Act,...". With this clarification, the law stated in
para 24 of Anvar P.V. does not need to be revisited. 1. Reasons for the acrimony behind Section 65-B. 76. Documentary evidence, in contrast to oral
evidence, is required to pass through certain checkposts, such
as (i) admissibility, (11) relevancy and (iii) proof, before it is
allowed entry into the sanctum. Many times, it is difficult to
identify which of these checkposts is required to be passed
first, which to be passed next and which to be passed later.
Sometimes, at least in practice, the sequence in which
evidence has to go through these three checkposts, changes.
Generally and theoretically, admissibility depends on
 83 Spl.CC 1342/2021

relevancy. Under Section 136 of the Evidence Act, relevancy
must be established before admissibility can be dealt with.
Therefore if we go by Section 136 , a party should first show
relevancy, making it the first checkpost and admissibility the
second one. But some documents, such as those Indicated in Section 68 of the Evidence Act, which pass the first checkpost
of relevancy and the second checkpost of admissibility may be
of no value unless the attesting witness is examined. Proof of
execution of such documents, in a manner established by law,
thus constitutes the third checkpost. Here again, proof of
execution stands on different footing than proof of contents. 77. It must also be noted that whatever is relevant may
not always be admissible, if the law imposes certain
conditions. For instance, a document, whose contents are
relevant, may not be admissible, if it is a document requiring
stamping and registration, but had not been duly stamped
and registered. In other words, if admissibility is the cart,
relevancy is the horse, under Section 136 . But certain
provisions of law place the cart before the horse and Section
65-B appears to be one of them. 78. Section 136 which confers a discretion upon the
Judge to decide as to the admissibility of evidence reads as
follows: 79. There are three parts to Section 136 . The first part
deals with the discretion of the Judge to admit the evidence, if
he thinks that the fact sought to be proved is relevant. The
second part of Section 136 states that if the fact proposed to
be proved is one, of which evidence is admissible only upon
proof of some other fact, such last mentioned fact must be
proved before evidence is given of the fact first mentioned.
But this rule is subject to a small concession, namely, that if
the party undertakes to produce proof of the last mentioned
fact later and the court is satisfied about such undertaking,
the court may proceed to admit evidence of the first
mentioned fact. The third part of Section 136 deals with the
relevancy of one alleged fact, which depends upon another
 85 Spl.CC 1342/2021

alleged fact being first proved. The third part of Section 136 has no relevance for our present purpose. 80. Illustration (b) under Section 136 provides an easy
example of the second part of Section 136 . Illustration (b)
reads as follows: The fact that the original is lost must be proved by the
person proposing to produce the copy, before the copy is
produced." 81. What is laid down in Section 65-B as a
precondition for the admission of an electronic record,
resembles what is provided in the second part of Section 136 .
For example, if a fact is sought to be proved through the
contents of an electronic record (or information contained in
an electronic record), the Judge is first required to see if it is
relevant, if the first part of Section 136 is taken to be
applicable. 82. But Section 65-B makes the admissibility of the
information contained in the electronic record subject to
certain conditions, including certification. The certification is
for the purpose of proving that the information which
constitutes the computer output was produced by a computer
which was used regularly to store or process information and
that the information so derived was regularly fed into the
computer in the ordinary course of the said activities. 86 Spl.CC 1342/2021 83. In other words, if we go by the requirements of Section 136 , the computer output becomes admissible if the
 fact sought to be proved is relevant. But such a fact is
 admissible only upon proof of some other fact, namely, that it
 was extracted from a computer used regularly, etc. In simple
 terms, what is contained in the computer output can be
 equated to the first mentioned fact and the requirement of a
 certification can be equated to the last mentioned fact,
 referred to in the second part of Section 136 read with
 Illustration (b) thereunder. 84. But Section 65-B(1) starts with a non obstante
 clause excluding the application of the other provisions and it
 makes the certification, a precondition for admissibility.
 While doing so, it does not talk about relevancy. In a way,
 Sections 65-A and 65-B, if read together, mix up both proof
 and admissibility, but not talk about relevancy. Section 65-A
 refers to the procedure prescribed in Section 65-B, for the
 purpose of proving the contents of electronic records, but
 Section 65-B speaks entirely about the preconditions for
 admissibility. As a result, Section 65-B places admissibility as
 the first or the outermost checkpost, capable of turning away
 even at the border, any electronic evidence, without any
 enquiry, if the conditions stipulated therein are not fulfilled." 61. When the aforesaid aspects are carefully looked into the

certificate which is attached and got marked through PW7 as Ex.P.80
 87 Spl.CC 1342/2021

is not in accordance with the provision of law laid down under Sec.65-B of Indian Evidence Act. 62. The Hon'ble Apex court has clearly laid down the

dictum that how the discrepancy in the evidence is required to be

appreciated and whether each and every omission can be considered

as fatal which would go to the roots of the case. In this regard the

judgment rendered in (2023)2 SCC 353 ( Manoj Vs State of M.P )

throws light on the said facts which is extracted herewith: 181. In Appabhai v. State of Gujarat [Appabhai v.
State of Gujarat, 1988 Supp SCC 241 : 1988 SCC (Cri)
559] , it was ruled that : (SCC p. 246, para 13)

 "13. ... The court while appreciating the evidence
must not attach undue importance to minor discrepancies.
The discrepancies which do not shake the basic version of
the prosecution case may be discarded." 182. In a similar vein, it was observed, in Vinod
Kumar v. State of Haryana [Vinod Kumar v. State of
Haryana, (2015) 3 SCC 138 : (2015) 2 SCC (Cri) 31]
that : (SCC p. 149, para 24) 24. ... Only when discrepancies in the evidence of a
witness are so incompatible with the credibility of his
version that it would be justified in jettisoning his
evidence." 183. The omission of some of the prosecution
witnesses to mention a particular fact, or corroborate
something, which is deposed to by other witnesses,
therefore, does not ipso facto favour an accused. What is
important, however, is whether the omission to depose
about a fact is so fundamental that the prosecution version
becomes shaky and incredulous. In the present case, the
omission to depose about certain facts, by PW 4, or PW
19, or any other witness cannot inure to the accused's
 89 Spl.CC 1342/2021

 benefit. Each of the facts they omitted, was supported by
 one or more witnesses. 63. I have also bestowed my anxious reading to the cross-

examination portion of PW7. In the said cross-examination she has

deposed that in the year 2010 she was having smart mobile phone

which was not at all recovered by the concerned police. Further, she

had feigned her ignorance about possessing of DVD writing software

in the year 2010 and it is her specific contention that she herself had

copied the data in to a CD and handed over to her husband. However,

the certificate which is issued at Ex.P.80 is totally contrary to her

evidence. Prior to that she has deposed that her son and some of her

workers in her house had transferred the data in to the computer from

the handy camera which was used and she had taken the assistance of

her son and workers to transfer it in to a CD. The evidence which is

tendered before the Court is totally contrary to the contents of the

certificate which is issued at Ex.P.80. It is noticed that there is some

sort of improvisation being made in the statement of the witness at

every stage and for the sake of clarity it is to be mentioned that

initially at the time of tendering her statement under section 161 of

Cr.P.C., she had stated that the video graphed incident was
 90 Spl.CC 1342/2021

transferred to the DVD by her and also she had given the evidence

before the court that the contents of the video camera was transferred

into a DVD with the help of her son and servants in their family.

However the certificate issued under 65(B) of Indian Evidence Act is

totally contrary to the same. When the ratio of the aforesaid

judgment is applied to the case on hand, it indicates that each and

every omission to depose any fact will no inure benefit to the

accused, however at the same time, the Hon'ble Apex court has held

that if such and omission is going to the root of the case, the same

will have to be viewed seriously. In the instant case, the witness have

been changing their stand with respect to recording of the alleged

incident and also transferring the data to the CD and hence the

evidence would clearly indicate that the same inures benefit to the

accused as the omissions and improvements are going to the root of

the case. Under the circumstances, the contention of the prosecution

that the CD produced before the Court at Ex.P.13 along with the

certificate issued under Sec.65(B) of the Evidence Act, does not

comply with the required standard of proof and hence, the same

cannot be looked into. No doubt that the prosecution had contended

that the contents of the CD could only be considered as subsidiary
 91 Spl.CC 1342/2021

material to support their contention and the ocular evidence of PW4

and PW7 Smt.Bharathidevi would be suffice to hold that the incident

had taken place, the court had already in detail discussed about the

manner in which the evidence has been tendered. As noticed from the

case, the independent witnesses i.e., PW5 - Masala Jayaram and

PW6 - Eranna have already turned hostile. Further the evidence of

both the witnesses is contrary to each other. It is also been

vehemently argued that the Investigating Agency had not made any

effort to collect the original video graphed incident which was

telecasted in TV. For the sake of convenience and at the cost of

repetition, if the case the prosecution is revisited it indicates that the

complainant PW1 Rameshgowda had come to know about the

incident on the basis of some telecast being made at Suvarna 24X7

Kannada news channel. Subsequently, the said CD was copied by

one Sharma Video at Shivamogga and it was produced before the

Lokayukta authorities. If for the sake of arguments said aspect is to

be accepted, then once again the Investigating Agency have to

answer why they had not made any effort to collect the original CD

which was allegedly given by Sri S.R.Srinivas to Sri

H.D.Kumaraswamy or the material which was telecasted in Suvarna
 92 Spl.CC 1342/2021

News Channel 24X7 on 21.10.2010. In this regard, I have relied on

the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2009)5 SCC

417 ( All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Vs.

L.K.Tripathi and others ) wherein it has been held as follows;- Where the maker is unable to identify the voice, strict proof
 will be required to determine whether or not it was the
 voice of the alleged speaker. 2. The accuracy of the tape-recorded statement must
 be proved by the maker of the record by satisfactory
 evidence: direct or circumstantial. 3. Possibility of tampering with, or erasure of any
 part of, the tape-recorded statement must be totally
 excluded. 4. The tape-recorded statement must be relevant. 93 Spl.CC 1342/2021 5. The recorded cassette must be sealed and must be
 kept in safe or official custody. 6. The voice of the particular speaker must be
 clearly audible and must not be lost or distorted by other
 sounds or disturbances. 64. In the said judgment the Hon'ble Apex Court has held

that the Xerox copies of the news papers in which the contents of the

speech made was published was required to be collected by the

Investigating Agency by collecting the original tape containing the

telecast of the speech made by the respondent/ respondents therein.

Even in the instant case, if the incident was telecasted in a news

channel, the Investigating Agencies should have made an effort to

collect the original CD or the tape which was telecasted. Further in

the said authority itself the Hon'ble Apex Court was pleased to hold

that the Investigating Agencies should follow the tests as laid down

by Hon'ble Apex Court for determining the admissibility of the tape

recorded version. In the said judgment Hon'ble Apex Court has held

that the voice of the speaker must be identified by the maker of the

record or other persons who recognize his voice. In the instant case,

no such effort has been made by the I.O. though it is held that a

sample was collected in their office and also it is noticed from the
 94 Spl.CC 1342/2021

records, as rightly pointed out by learned Senior Counsel, that the

requisition letter which were sent to the Truth Lab, would indicate

that they had collected the voice sample of Sri S.R.Srinivas, Sri.B.Sri

Suresh Gowda and also they had mentioned in which of the CDs the

same was prevailing and also they had requested to compare the

same. In my humble opinion, said requisition letter itself is not

proper, since it should have been handed over by the investigating

Agency only by requesting the concerned authority to ascertain that

whether the sample voices found in the CD were tallying with that of

the voices in the CD at Ex.P.13. The I.O. at the time of recording the

sample voice itself should have displayed the original CD and the

voice of accused Sri Suresh Gowda should have been identified by

the maker of the record. In order to do so the Investigating officer

should have summoned up PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi who was the

maker of the record, i.e., the person who had video graphed the

incident and had recorded the audio transcription, conversation that

had taken place between the parties. That apart, the accuracy of the

tape recorded statement was to be proved by the maker of the record,

by leading satisfactory evidence either direct or circumstantial. In the

instant case, the direct evidences which were relied upon by the
 95 Spl.CC 1342/2021

prosecution i.e., PW5 A.N.Jayaram @ Masala Jayaram had already

turned hostile and PW6 Eranna who was circumstantial witness to

indicate that a alleged conversation had taken place between accused

Sri Suresh Gowda and PW4 S.R.Srinivas, had also turned hostile.

The Hon'ble Apex Court has also laid down the dictum that the tape

recorded statement must be relevant one. By closely considering the

facts mentioned in the above case , it is apparent that the prosecution

has utterly failed to prove aforesaid aspects with respect to the

authenticity and proof of the contents of Ex.P.13 CD. 65. I have also appreciated the arguments made at Bar with

respect to the registration of the case by the Investigating Agency. An

interesting question is raised that whether investigation could be

commenced prior to registration of FIR or whether the materials

collected during the course of preliminary enquiry could be

construed as the materials collected during the course of

investigation. In order to better appreciate the same, reliance is

required to be placed on the authority of the Hon'ble Apex Court

reported in (2014) 2 SCC 1 ( Lalitha Kumari Vs. Government of

U.P. and others ) wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court had laid down the
 96 Spl.CC 1342/2021

criteria for considering the same which is extracted for the sake of

convenience and reads as follows:- 97 Spl.CC 1342/2021

 category of cases in which preliminary inquiry may
 be made are as under: The aforesaid are only illustrations and not
 exhaustive of all conditions which may warrant
 preliminary inquiry. vii) While ensuring and protecting the rights
 of the accused and the complainant, a preliminary
 inquiry should be made time bound and in any case
 it should not exceed 7 days. The fact of such delay
 and the causes of it must be reflected in the
 General Diary entry. viii) Since the General Diary/Station
 Diary/Daily Diary is the record of all information
 received in a police station, we direct that all
 information relating to cognizable offences,
 whether resulting in registration of FIR or leading
 to an inquiry, must be mandatorily and
 meticulously reflected in the said Diary and the
 decision to conduct a preliminary inquiry must also
 be reflected, as mentioned above." 66. Admittedly, whenever a cognizable offence is noticed by

the Investigating Agency, immediately a FIR required to be
 98 Spl.CC 1342/2021

registered. In the instant case, a direction was issued by the learned

ADGP, Karnataka Lokayukta, Tumakuru to conduct a preliminary

enquiry as contemplated under the provisions of law in the aforesaid

judgment to ascertain that whether the voices found in the CD

furnished by the complainant Rameshgowda was in consonance with

the sample voice of accused B.Sri Suresh Gowda and defacto

complainant PW4 S.R.Srinivas. As noticed, the directions was issued

in the year 2010 and whereas the FIR came to be registered in the

year 2015. At the same time, the conducting of preliminary enquiry

in any other manner for which it is necessitated is also required to be

appreciated. In this regard reliance is placed on the judgment of the

Hon'ble Apex court in the judgment rendered in the case of (2022)13

SCC 675 (State of Jammu and Kashmir V Dr Saleem Ur

Rehman) wherein it is held as: 99 Spl.CC 1342/2021

 substance. While holding a preliminary enquiry under
 Rule 3.16, whatever is conducted will be in the form of
 enquiry into the allegations to consider whether any
 prima facie case is made out or not which requires
 further investigation after registering the FIR or not.
 While considering the prima facie case for the purpose
 of registering the FIR, some enquiry/investigation is
 bound to be there, however, the same shall be only for
 the purpose of finding out a prima facie case for the
 purpose of registration of the FIR only. Whatever
 enquiry is conducted at the stage of preliminary
 enquiry, by no stretch of imagination, will be
 considered as investigation under the Code of Criminal
 Procedure which can only be after registration of the
 FIR. 67. In the aforesaid authority, which is required to be read

conjointly with the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex court in Lalitha

Kumari 's case would indicate that the main purpose of conducting

preliminary enquiry is to ascertain whether there are materials to take

cognizance for cognizable offence, but under the guise of preliminary

enquiry the investigating agency cannot proceed to verify the

veracity of the complainant. In the instant case it is required to be

noted at the cost of repetition that the preliminary enquiry was being
 100 Spl.CC 1342/2021

conducted for a very long period of nearly five years and that too as

per the directions of higher officials of Hon'ble Lokayuktha

institution, the CD in which the alleged incident was video graphed

was sent to The Truth Labs to ascertain its veracity. It is also relevant

to note that the covering letter addressed by the Investigating Agency

itself indicated that to whom the voice samples belonged to, which

would in a way a method adopted to appreciate the veracity of the

complainant. If only for the purpose of ascertaining about existence

of materials to take cognizance was being made by the investigating

agency, the same would have satisfied the dictum laid down by the

Hon'ble Apex Court discussed supra, but in the instant case it was to

ascertain the veracity of the complainant, which is highly illegal and

contrary to the settled principles of law. 68. It is also relevant to note that the materials which were

collected during the course of preliminary enquiry were heavily

relied upon by the prosecution since not much investigation was

conducted after registering of the FIR. In other words, the FIR at

Ex.P.65 was registered on 25.4.2015, whereas the report was

forwarded by the Truth Labs at Ex.P.68 and 69 was on 24.4.2014. It
 101 Spl.CC 1342/2021

is relevant to note that the forwarding letter consists of the details of

the enclosures which were sent back by the scientific examination

lab and in particularly at enclosure No.2 it has been stated as 'copy

of I.O. request letter, complainant's affidavit, invoice of sample,

Form 152, FIR, sample seals, etc.'. The second enclosure would

indicate that along with the report, the Copy of FIR was also sent

back to the Investigating Agency. It would be appropriate by the

Investigating agency to clarify how they had issued the copy of the

FIR prior to registration of the same to Truth Lab for scientific

examination. To be precise, the forwarding letter was written on

24.4.2014 and as per the records the FIR was registered on 25.4.2015

i.e., after lapse of about 8 months from the receipt of the report from

Truth Lab, Bengaluru. In that event, it would indicate that either the

report which is furnished by the Truth Lab is not proper or the

Investigating Agency have registered the FIR prior to 2015 as

mentioned in the forwarding letter. In both the instances, the same

would cause a serious dent over the manner in which the

investigation was conducted. The registration of FIR is pre-mandate

one to conduct the investigation. In the instant case though the

Investigating Agency was empowered to conduct a preliminary
 102 Spl.CC 1342/2021

enquiry, the sole aspect which requires to be answered is, whether

such a preliminary enquiry can be continued for a period of six years

that too with an attempt to continue the same to ascertain the veracity

of the complaint and later on, whether an FIR could be registered. No

doubt, if proper explanation is given, there is no time limit to

complete the investigation. At the same time, if there is an enormous

delay or unreasonable delay, a duty is casted upon the Investigating

Agency to explain why such a huge delay had taken place that too

running for more than six years. It is also noticed that after

registration of FIR, some minor mahazars were drawn and after that

not much investigation had taken place nor any further statement

came to be recorded and only on the basis of the report of the

Scientific Expert, it seems that the charge sheet has been filed. 69. Interestingly, the mahazar at Ex.P.29 at the place of

alleged incident was drawn on 13.1.2016 after registration of the

FIR, there the statement of the witnesses were recorded and prior to

that samples were collected and also a mahazar was drawn to collect

the samples and Ex.P.7 consist of the video transcription of the

incident already described. All these aspects are not matching with
 103 Spl.CC 1342/2021

each other and the same was creating serious doubt over the case of

prosecution. 70. The learned Senior Counsel Smt.Nalina.M has rightly

argued that the conducting of the investigation prior to registration of

FIR itself is barred under the provisions of law. In the aforesaid

judgment, Hon'ble Apex Court has clearly held that any amount of

investigation which is made prior to registration of FIR will not stand

the rigors of the procedures established under the eyes of law. That

apart it is also noticed that after registration of the FIR, no serious

attempts were made to secure either the original CD or summoning

of the witness i.e., Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy, to whom allegedly, as

contended by PW4 S.R.Srinivas had handed over the original video

CD at the first instance. It is also relevant to note that the

Investigating Agency had not summoned either the media personnel

who had telecasted the news item at Suvarna 24X7 news channel or

the persons from Sharma Video, who allegedly copied the contents of

the news item in to a CD and handed over the same to PW1

Rameshgowda. The evidence of the person who had copied the

contents of news item at Sharma Video, Kote, Shivamogga and the
 104 Spl.CC 1342/2021

news channel which had telecasted the news item, would be a very

important material in the proof of their case. 71. The court had also considered the aspect that whether

the sting operation as allegedly conducted by PW4 S.R.Srinivas

could be termed as valid one under the eyes of law. It has been

argued at length by the learned Senior counsel that at the time of

filing of the complaint before the Lokayukta Authorities by PW1

Rameshgowda in Form No.1 and 2, he had specifically disclosed that

B.Suresh Gowda and also S.R.Srinivas are required to be prosecuted

for committing the offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act and also the Representation of the People Act, 1950 . She had also

brought to the notice of this Court about the FIR which was

registered. As per Ex.P.65 FIR was registered in Cr.No.4/2015. In

column No.4 of the FIR the name of the accused persons reflected of

instituting the case against Sri Suresh Gowda as well as S.R.Srinivas.

However, interestingly, at the time of filing the charge sheet the name

of the second accused shown in the FIR was dropped and he was

arraigned as witness. The manner in which arraying of accused No.2

mentioned in the FIR, as a witness in the charge sheet is also requires
 105 Spl.CC 1342/2021

to be considered. In this regard the learned Senior Counsel has relied

upon the judgment reported in (2014) 6 SCC 495 ( Rajat Prasad Vs.

CBI ). In the said judgment it has been held as follows:- 106 Spl.CC 1342/2021

be understood to be without any criminal intent and only to
facilitate the commission of the other offence by the "main
culprit" and its exposure before the public? These are some
of the ancillary questions that arise for our answer in the
present appeals and that too at the threshold of the
prosecution i.e. before the commencement of the trial 19. The answer to the above, in our considered view
would depend, as in any criminal case, on the facts and
circumstances thereof. A crime does not stand obliterated
or extinguished merely because its commission is claimed to
be in public interest. Any such principle would be abhorrent
to our criminal jurisprudence. At the same time the criminal
intent behind the commission of the act which is alleged to
have occasioned the crime will have to be established
before the liability of the person charged with the
commission of crime can be adjudged. The doctrine of mens
rea, though a salient feature of the Indian criminal justice
system, finds expression in different statutory provisions
requiring proof of either intention or knowledge on the part
of the accused. Such proof is to be gathered from the
surrounding facts established by the evidence and materials
before the Court and not by a process of probe of the mental
state of the accused which the law does not contemplate.
The offence of abetment defined by Section 107 of the IPC
or the offence of criminal conspiracy under Section 120A of
IPC would, thus, require criminal intent on the part of the
offender like any other offence. Both the offences would
require existence of a culpable mental state which is a
 107 Spl.CC 1342/2021

matter of proof from the surrounding facts established by
the materials on record. Therefore, whether the commission
of offence under Section 12 of the PC Act read with Section
120B IPC had been occasioned by the acts attributed to the
accused appellants or not, ideally, is a matter that can be
determined only after the evidence in the case is recorded. 20. What the accused appellants assert is that in
view of the fact that the sting operation was a journalistic
exercise, no criminal intent can be imputed to the
participants therein. Whether the operation was really such
an exercise and the giving of bribe to A-1 was a mere sham
or pretence or whether the giving of the bribe was with
expectation of favours in connection with mining projects,
are questions that can only be answered by the evidence of
the parties which is yet to come. Such facts cannot be a
matter of an assumption. Why in the present case there was
a long gap (nearly 12 days) between the operation and the
circulation thereof to the public is another relevant facet of
the case that would require examination. The inherent
possibilities of abuse of the operation as videographed,
namely, retention and use thereof to ensure delivery of the
favours assured by the receiver of the bribe has to be
excluded before liability can be attributed or excluded. This
can happen only after the evidence of witnesses is recorded.
Also, merely because in the charge-sheet it is stated that the
accused had undertaken the operation to gain political
mileage cannot undermine the importance of proof of the
aforesaid facts to draw permissible conclusions on basis
 108 Spl.CC 1342/2021

thereof as regards the criminal intent of the accused in the
present case. 21. An issue has been raised on behalf of the
appellants that any finding with regard to the culpability of
the accused, even prima-facie, would be detrimental to the
public interest inasmuch as any such opinion of the Court
would act as an inhibition for enterprising and conscious
journalists and citizens from carrying out sting operations
to expose corruption and other illegal acts in high places.
The matter can be viewed differently. A journalist or any
other citizen who has no connection, even remotely, with the
favour that is allegedly sought in exchange for the bribe
offered, cannot be imputed with the necessary intent to
commit the offence of abetment under Section 12 or that of
conspiracy under Section 120B IPC. Non applicability of
the aforesaid provisions of law in such situations, therefore,
may be ex-facie apparent. The cause of journalism and its
role and responsibility in spreading information and
awareness will stand subserved. It is only in cases where
the question reasonably arises whether the sting operator
had a stake in the favours that were allegedly sought in
return for the bribe that the issue will require determination
in the course of a full- fledged trial. The above is certainly
not exhaustive of the situations where such further
questions may arise requiring a deeper probe. As such
situations are myriad, if not infinite, any attempt at
illustration must be avoided." 109 Spl.CC 1342/2021 72. The Hon'ble Apex Court had an occasion to consider

whether sting operations can be considered as valid under the eyes of

law. In the said judgment , Hon'ble Apex Court had held that the

complainant need not be aggrieved person only and even a journalist

or any other citizen, who has no connection, even remotely, with the

favour that is allegedly sought in exchange for bribe offered can be

imputed with necessary intent to commit the offence of abetment

under Sec.12 of P.C.Act or that of conspiracy under Sec.120-B of

IPC. Non-applicability of the aforesaid provision of law in such

situation, therefore, may be an ex-facie apparent. However, the

Hon'ble Apex Court had observed that the question reasonably arises

is whether the sting operator had any say in the favours allegedly

sought in term for the bribe and the said aspect is required to be

considered at the time of full dressed trial. If the said aspect is

applied to the case on hand, it is noticed that as per the case of the

prosecution, accused B.Suresh Gowda had offered a post of

Chairman or President to PW4 S.R.Srinivas in any Board or

Corporation and along with that he offered an handsome amount of

money to flip flop from his political party to join BJP party. Further

for the sake of arguments, it is noticed that there are several
 110 Spl.CC 1342/2021

conversations in the CD produced by him which would indicate of

bargaining of higher amount from the accused. If the said aspect is to

be accepted, then once again the beneficiary of the said aspect would

be PW4 S.R.Srinivas, and as such rightly, the I.O. at the time of

filing the FIR had arraigned him as accused. However, there is no

explanation even by the Investigating Agency to indicate why he was

dropped from the status of an accused and why he was arraigned as

witness in the above case . If for a moment, the judgment of Hon'ble

Apex Court is made applicable to the case on hand, it would indicate

that certain bargain were also being made by PW4 S.R.Srinivas and

finally it was settled between the parties that a sum of Rs.15 Crores

were to be paid. No doubt, it has been stated by PW7 Smt.Bharathi

Devi that the sting operation was carried out only to cleanse the

society at large; the same requires to be corroborated with the

evidence of PW4 S.R.Srinivas. In the instant case, no such fact is

found in the evidence of PW4 S.R.Srinivas. It is made clear that the

court is not accepting the contention of the prosecution that an

allurement was given by Sri B.Suresh Gowda to PW4 Sri.

S.R.Srinivas. It is only to point out that how the matter has transpired

and the mode of conducting the investigation by the Investigating
 111 Spl.CC 1342/2021

Agency. By looking in to the aforesaid facts, the undisputed fact

which would emerge in the above case is that the prosecution has

utterly failed to prove the allegations leveled against the accused

person. 73. I have also bestowed by anxious reading to the charges

which has been framed and also the materials in the charge sheet.

Initially the charge sheet was filed under Sec.7 , 12 , 13(1) , 13(2) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Subsequently, an

application seeking discharge of the accused, came to be filed and

this court had noticed that the accused had not committed any

offence under Sec.7 or under Sec.13 of the P.C.Act, whereas there

were materials to frame charges under Sec.12 of the P.C.Act. If for

the sake of arguments, the charges are framed under Sec.12 of the

P.C.Act, then the prosecution has to establish that on which day he

had made an inducement or allurement to PW4 S.R.Srinivas to flip-

flop from his party and to join the BJP party and receive a sum of

Rs.15 Crores as negotiated between them. However, in the instant

case the exact date of incident is not forthcoming and all that it has

been mentioned is that in the Assembly Elections held in the year
 112 Spl.CC 1342/2021

2008, the incumbent Government was falling short of 3-4 seats to

prove their majority and hence, they had planned for a sting

operation to get the MLAs flip-flop from other party to BJP party.

Apart from that the allegations leveled against the accused is also not

indicating that how and in what manner and on which day such

inducement was given by the accused person. It is the well settled

principles of law that when a charge leveled against the accused, it

should be a specific one and should point out the manner in which he

had committed. The entire charge sheet does not discloses the date on

which such an alleged allurement was given nor the manner in which

it was being made. The entire evidence which is placed before the

court and also on appreciating the opinion of the expert, which the

court had not accepted would only lead to a unequivocal inference

that the prosecution had utterly failed to prove their case beyond

reasonable doubt. SUMMATION:- 113 Spl.CC 1342/2021

S.R.Srinivas to resign from JD(S) MLA position and to join BJP by

receiving a sum of Rs.18 Crore and also Chairmanship or President

of any other Board or corporation. However, the incident which was

allegedly recorded by PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi is not inspiring

confidence and the incident was initially brought to the notice of

Hon'ble Karnataka Lokayukta by PW1 Rameshgowda is also not

corroborated with materials produced, since as per his own

contention the alleged incident was telecasted in a news channel i.e.,

Suvarna 24X7 at Ex.P.4 CD and since it was damaged during the

course of investigation, a copy of the same, which was allegedly

retained in the computer of the Investigating Agency, was produced

before the court. However, to the surprise of the court, the contents

of the CD which came to be marked as Ex.P.39 before the court

indicated that the news item which was being relied upon was in

English language in TV9 News Channel and not Suvarna 24X7

News Channel. That apart there is no iota of materials to indicate the

manner in which the video graphed by PW7 Smt.Bharathidevi, nor

the equipment used for allegedly recording the incident was

recovered or the description of the same was collected by the

Investigating Agency. It is also relevant to note that the certificate
 114 Spl.CC 1342/2021

under Sec.65(B) of Indian Evidence Act furnished at Ex.P.80 through

PW7 Smt.Bharathi Devi indicates that the entire conversation which

was allegedly video graphed was transferred in to a laptop by her

with the help at a computer center and later on the data was

transferred in to a CD. However, her evidence indicates that she

herself had copied it to the computer with the help of her son and

workers in her house and handed over to her husband, who in turn

had given it to Sri H.D.Kumaraswamy. In the instant case, the

Investigating Agency, had not made any efforts to either request the

news agency i.e., Suvarna 24X7 News Channel to part with the

original CD through which the news item was telecasted, nor they

had summoned Sri H.D.Kumarswamy to ascertain whether he was

handed over with the original CD as contended by PW4 S.R.Srinivas.

That apart the certificate which is along with the CD is not in

accordance with law as contemplated and indicated in the judgment

rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the cases of 'Arjun

Panditrao Khotkar Vs.Kailash Kushanrao Goranthyal and

others'. And as such the evidentiary value of the video graphed

contents at Ex.P.13 is diminished. The alleged collection of voice

samples is also not in accordance with law and it is also relevant to
 115 Spl.CC 1342/2021

note that on 18.1.2015, the voice sample of accused Sri Suresh

Gowda has been recorded and due to some technical glitch the same

could not be completed and on the very next day i.e., on 20.01.2015

again the same came to be transferred into a CD. However, at the

time of transferring the data in to a CD, accused was not present,

which would indicate that the corresponding mahazar, which was

drawn was not in accordance with the provision of law. All the said

aspects would only lead to an inference that the prosecution has

utterly failed to prove the allegations leveled against the accused. 75. Before parting, it would be appropriate to consider the

manner in which the investigation has been carried out by the

Investigating Agency. The duty of Investigation Officer does not

terminate merely by recording the statement of some persons and

collecting certain documents and placing it before the court. Rather a

sacrosanct duty has been imposed upon the Investigation Officer to

go into the root of the case and to examine the manner in which the

alleged offences are committed. A trial encompasses investigation,

inquiry, trial, appeal and retrial. It assures the guarantee under Article

21 of the Indian Constitution and also embarrasses the life and liberty
 116 Spl.CC 1342/2021

of the accused as well as the interest of the victim, his near and dear

ones as well as community at large. Therefore, the investigation

process cannot be taken so lightly or alienated from each other with

levity. Any criminal offence is one against the society at large casting

an onerous responsibility on the State which is the guardian and

purveyor of human rights and also protector of law to discharge its

sacrosanct role, responsibility and committedly, always accountable

to the law abiding citizenry. The role of police is to be one of

protection of life, liberty and property of citizens with investigation

of offence being one of its foremost duties. That the aim of

investigation is ultimately to search for truth and to bring the

offender to book. 76. In this regard the court has relied upon wordings of

celebrated Lord Denning in his book "The Due Process of Law",

First Indian reprint, 1993, Page 102 wherein it has been stated that " 77. One of the responsibilities of the police is protection of

life, liberty and property of citizens. The investigation of offences is

one of the important duties the police which they have to perform.

The aim of investigation is ultimately to search for truth and bring

the offender to book. Further, the court has to appreciate the avowed

purpose of a criminal investigation and its efficacious prospects with

the advent of scientific and technical advancements which have been

candidly synopsized in the prefatory chapter on "Criminal

Investigation -- Basic Perspectives by Paul B. Weston and

Renneth M. Wells" which reads as dealing with the history of

criminal investigation in the treatise on Criminal Investigation. 119 Spl.CC 1342/2021 78. The investigation entirely rests upon Scientific evidence

and at the time of collecting scientific evidences and materials, the

investigating agencies should be careful to consider the relevant

provisions of law and they shall obtain and seek the assistance of

expert in that field, which is not forthcoming in the entire materials

that what had transpired the Investigating Agency to send the audio

and video samples along the CD at Ex.P.13 to Truth Lab, Bengaluru

when it was specifically directed by the learned ADGP, Karnataka

Lokayukta to send the CD to the Central Forensic Science Lab

(CFSL), Bengaluru. The Investigating Officer is unable to answer all

these aspects and the above aspects would only indicate the callous

manner in which the investigation was conducted. As per their own

case, the alleged incident had taken place somewhere in the year

2008 and 2010 and initially a complaint was lodged in the year 2010

and preliminary investigation was conducted for a long period of

more than five years and subsequently, the reports are obtained on

24.4.2014 from the Truth Labs, indicating that the voice samples

were tallying with that of the CD in Ex.P.13 and FIR was registered

after lapse of 8 months thereafter i.e., 25.4.2015 as per Ex.P.65,

which only cast a serious question mark over the manner in which
 120 Spl.CC 1342/2021

the investigation was conducted. The accused is made to run from

pillar to post all these years and is made to suffer ignonimity due to

the pendency of the case, which was not at all proved by the

prosecution. The Investigating Agency cannot wash off their hands

by mere filing of a charge sheet by collecting some stray materials

stating that it was collected during preliminary enquiry. The law is

well settled that the purpose of preliminary enquiry as indicated by

the Hon'ble Apex Court is to ascertain whether sufficient materials

are available to proceed against the accused person to take

cognizance. However, at the same time, the preliminary enquiry

should not be utilized as an instrument to target any person and to

make him suffer ignonimity for a long period and to ascertain the

veracity of the complaint. All the said aspects would clearly indicate

that the prosecution has utterly failed in unraveling of the truth.

Ultimately the aim of investigation is to unravel the truth from

falsehood and in that journey the Investigating Agency had totally

failed to do justice to their contention. Hence, there is no other

alternative for this court rather than to accept the contentions urged

by the accused person and accordingly, the prosecution had utterly
 121 Spl.CC 1342/2021

failed to prove their case. Sequentionally, I answer point No.1 in the

Negative. 79. Point No.2: In view of my findings on point No.1 supra,

I proceed to pass the following order: