% 22.07.2025 1. The present petition has been filed praying for quashing of respondent
 banks' decision to classify the petitioner's account as 'Fraud'. 2. Mr. Nalin Kohli, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of
 petitioner submits that the decision has been taken by the respondent banks
 to classify the petitioner's account as 'Fraud' without affording any personal
 hearing. 3. He places reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State Bank of India vs. Rajesh Agarwal & Ors. , (2023) 6 SCC 1, as well as,
 a decision of Division Bench of this Court in IDBI Bank Ltd. v. Gaurav
 Goel & Ors. , 2025 SCC OnLine Del 935, to contend that in compliance of
 principles of natural justice, a personal hearing ought to have been afforded
 to the petitioner. 4. He further contends that besides non-compliance of principles of
 natural justice, the impugned order classifying petitioner's account as
 'Fraud' cannot be sustained also for the reason that the petitioner has re-paid
 the outstanding dues of all the respondent banks, and the banks have issued
 'No Due Certificate' in respect of the same. 5. To buttress his contention, Mr. Kohli brings attention of the Court to
 No Dues Certificates issued by the respondent banks which have been

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:17:35
 placed at Annexure P-20 (colly.) with the present petition. 6. He also draws Court's attention to the order dated 18.12.2023 passed
 in W.P.(C) 15835/2023 which is annexed as Annexure P-23 to the petition,
 to submit that the present is a case of joint lending by various banks, and
 insofar as SBI's decision to classify the petitioner's account as 'Fraud' is
 concerned, a separate writ petition was filed by the petitioner herein being
 W.P.(C) 15835/2023 titled as Religare Finvest Limited vs. State Bank of
 India whereby a coordinate bench of this Court had quashed the impugned
 decision of the State Bank of India declaring the account as 'fraud'. 7. On a query posed by the Court to learned counsels appearing on
 behalf of the respondent banks as to whether personal hearing was afforded
 to the petitioner before taking the decision to classify the petitioner's
 account as 'Fraud', the counsels for the respondent banks states that the
 decision to classify the petitioner's account as 'Fraud' was taken at a time
 when the decision in Rajesh Agarwal (supra) had not rendered by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court. 8. At this stage it is apposite to refer to the decision of Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in Rajesh Agarwal (supra) wherein Hon'ble Supreme Court has in no
 certain terms has provided that granting of hearing before classifying an
 account as 'Fraud' is mandatory. The relevant part of the decision reads
 thus: (emphasis supplied) 9. The Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court in Bank Ltd vs. Gaurav
 Goel & Ors. , 2025 SCC OnLine Del 935, has also clarified that the
 expression 'hearing' used by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rajesh Agarwal

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:17:35
 (supra) includes personal hearing. The relevant excerpts reads thus: (emphasis supplied) 10. Indubitably, no personal hearing has been afforded by the
 respondents/Banks to the petitioner before classifying their account as
 'fraud'. After the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rajesh Agarwal (supra) as clarified by the Division Bench of this Court in Gaurav Goel (supra), there is no doubt that the respondent-Banks were required to afford
 to an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner before classifying its account
 as fraud. Needless to say, that the law declared in Rajesh Agarwal (supra)
 shall apply from 01.07.2016 i.e. the date of Master Directions on Frauds
 Classification and Reporting by Commercial Banks and Select FIs issued by
 the Reserve Bank of India, which was a subject matter of interpretation in the said decision . 11. Therefore, this Court is of considered view that since there is a non-
 compliance of principles of natural justice, the impugned decision to classify
 the account of the petitioner as 'fraud' is not sustainable. Accordingly, the
 respondents' decision of declaring the petitioner's account as 'Fraud' is
 hereby quashed and set aside. 12. Consequently, the respondents are directed to take steps to remove the
 name of the petitioner from the category of 'Fraud' in the Central Fraud
 Registry within a period of two weeks from today. 13. The respondents are, however, at liberty to take appropriate action
 against the petitioner in accordance with law, if so advised. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:17:35 14. The petition stands disposed of in the above terms. VIKAS MAHAJAN, J
 JULY 22, 2025
 N.S.ASWAL

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:17:35