The petitioner is before this Court seeking to quash the

proceedings in FIR No.88/2017 registered on 6-04-2017 for

offences punishable under Sections 465 , 468 , 469 , 471 , 420 120-B read with Section 34 of the IPC. 2. Brief facts leading to the filing of the present petition

are as follows: 3. It is the claim of the petitioner that the 2nd

respondent - Deputy Director, Unique Identification Authority

of India (hereinafter referred to as the 'UIDAI' for short) in the

Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had

addressed a permission letter for on boarding Utility as

enrolment agency for UIDAI, particularly for the purpose of

carrying out enrolments for Aadhaar in Karnataka. In terms

of the agreement entered into between Utility and the

petitioner, it is the claim of the petitioner that he was 4 providing manpower resources to Utility such as enrolment

operators and supervisors. Certain guidelines are laid down

by the Circulars issued as to how UIDAI and the persons who

have entered into the contract with UIDAI should function. 4. Things standing thus, on 6-04-2017 an FIR came to

be registered on information dated 6-04-2016 for the various

offences mentioned (supra). Accused No.1 is the petitioner.

Accused No.2 is the one who entered into agreement with

UIDAI and accused No.3 is the representative of Utility. The

moment FIR is registered, the petitioner is before this Court

calling in question the registration of FIR. 5. Heard Sri Murthy.D.Naik, learned counsel appearing

for petitioner, Smt.Namitha Mahesh B.G, learned High Court

Government Pleader appearing for respondent No.1 and

Sri H.Shanthi Bhushan, learned Assistant Solicitor General of

India appearing for respondent No.2. 6. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner

contends that the petitioner functions strictly in terms of

what was agreed between the Utility and himself. He would 5 contend that there is no substance in the allegations made

particularly for the offence punishable under Section 420 of

IPC and would further contend that the kits which have been

alleged to have been supplied for free were never supplied for

free and would submit that the entire proceedings initiated

against the petitioner is opposed to process of law. 7. On the other hand, Sri.H.Shanthi Bhushan, learned

Assistant Solicitor General would vehemently refute the

submissions of the learned counsel for the petitioner and

submit that there is no substance in the contention. The

allegation against the petitioner is not only of cheating under Section 420 of IPC but also under Sections 465 , 468 , 469 , 471 and 120B of IPC. In terms of the scheme for

empanelment of enrolment of agency what was permitted to

the enrolment agency was to enter into an agreement with the

petitioner and the like, only for securing manpower and not to

sublet the job of issuance of Aadhaar card. 8. The action of enrolment agency in entering into a

sub-contract with the petitioner has led to grave threat to

national security as Aadhaar cards are recklessly issued to 6 many who are also from neighboring countries. Such instance

have emerged by the acts of the agencies like the petitioner.

Therefore, the learned counsel would contend that it is for the

petitioner to come out clean in the trial as the investigation

itself is not yet commenced in the case on hand. 9. Learned High Court Government Pleader Smt.

Namitha Mahesh B.G., appearing for the State, would also

refute the submissions with equal vehemence and brings to

light the illegal activities of the petitioner and contends that it

is a matter of trial, as investigation is yet to commence in the

case. 10. I have given my anxious consideration to the

submission made by the respective learned counsel for the

parties and perused the material on record. 11. Before embarking upon the journey of consideration

of the issue in the lis, I deem it appropriate to notice certain

statutory provisions under the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of

Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act,

2016 . Section 2(e) defines Authority to mean the Unique

Identification Authority of India. Section 2(g) defines biometric

information to be a photograph, a fingerprint, iris scan or

such other biological attributes of an individual. Section 2(k) defines demographic information to be the date of birth,

address and other relevant material of an individual.

Enrolling Agency is defined under Section 2(l) to be the

authority or a Registrar as the case would be, for collecting

what is obtaining in Sub-section (g) and (k) of Section 2 ,

biometric and demographic information. Enrolment is

defined under Section 2(m) to be a process for collection of

what is obtaining in Sections 2(g) and 2(k) for the purpose of

issuance of Aadhaar numbers to individuals. Section 2(q) deals with prescription and would be as prescribed under the

Rules made by the Central Government. 39. Penalty for tampering with data in
Central Identities Data Repository. - Whoever,
not being authorised by the Authority, uses or
tampers with the data in the Central Identities Data
Repository or in any removable storage medium
with the intent of modifying information relating to
Aadhaar number holder or discovering any
information thereof, shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten
years and shall also be liable to a fine which may
extend to ten thousand rupees. 40. Penalty for unauthorized use by
requesting entity or offline verification
seeking entity. - Whoever,- Section 23 of the Act deals with powers and functions of

the Authority and the Authority is empowered to

develop the policy, procedure and systems for issuing

Aadhaar numbers. Sub- Section (3) of Section 23 of the

Act, permits the Authority to enter into memorandum of

understanding or agreement in furtherance of functions

of delivery of Aadhaar numbers. 12. The Government has notified regulations

namely, Aadhaar (Enrolment and Update) Regulations,

2016. Chapter V deals with appointment of Registrars,

Enrolling agencies and other service providers. Regulation 21 deals with appointment of Registrars.

21(7) mandates that the Registrars shall not permit 12 subcontracting of enrolment functions by enrolling

agencies to third parties. The Registrars are only

permitted field level man power to be hired through

third parties, provided the Enrolling agencies would

furnish all details. Section 21(7) , (8) and (9) read as

follows: In furtherance of the aforesaid Act and the Regulations,

the Government of India introduced a Scheme for

empanelment of enrolment agencies and in furtherance of

undertaking demographic and biometric data collection for 14 UID enrolment. The scheme was notified by the Unique

Identification Authority (UIDAI). Applications were called from

eligible and interested candidates for empanelment. For this

purpose, one Utility Forms Private Limited was empanelled as

an enrolment agency in terms of the Scheme. The enrolment

agency for the purpose for which it is empanelled was entitled

to procure field level manpower. The scheme for empanelment

of enrolment agencies reads as follows: (Emphasis added)

In terms of what was permitted under the Scheme was the

manpower such as enrolment operator and supervisor could

be hired by the third parties by the enrolment agency. What

enrolment agency did was to the contrary, sub-contract was

entered into with the petitioner for functions beyond what was

statutorily permitted and the scheme contemplated. 16 13. Utility Forms Private Limited was the one that was

empanelled as the enrolment agency. Utility Forms enters

into an agreement with the petitioner. The petitioner after

entering into an agreement opens up 'Namma Kendra' for the

purpose of enrolment of Aadhaar and issues a notice of option

titled as 'Namma Kendra' options. The options notified on

01.10.2016, by the petitioner reads as follows: In the light of the afore-extracted options given by the

petitioner, what becomes unmistakably clear is that, the

petitioner indulged in trade of free kits, which undoubtedly

would become an offence punishable under Section 420 of

IPC, as if it is seen that these options were given, it would be

only with an intention to cheat. Therefore, it is a matter of

trial that the petitioner should come out clean on justification

of the afore- extracted notice that was issued and the

collection of money that he has made under 5 options of

selling the Aadhaar kit to be sold ranging from 40,000

onwards to 1,85,000 and every Aadhaar card that was being

issued by Namma Kendra, a particular fee ranging from

Rs.100/- to Rs.200/- was collected. 14. It is when the official of UIDAI went as a civilian and

sought an aadhaar card from Namma Kendra, he gets to 21 know the nefarious activities of the petitioner in connivance

with the enrolment agency in selling aadhaar kits and

aadhaar cards. It is thereafter, a complaint was registered

against the enrolment agency and the petitioner on 6-04-2017

the complaint reads as follows: was not a UIDAI empanelled agency and that they
were functioning with a tie-up with M/s Utility
Forms Private Limited an enrolment agency under
Registrar CSC e-Governance Limited. When UIDAI team asked for the copies of the
agreement between M/s Edurays and M/s Utility
Forms, the same was supplied through e-mails
dated 15th and 16th March 2017. Form the
documents supplied it could be ascertained that the
contract entered is only for Man Power and
resource supply, however M/s Edurays in
connivance with M/s Utility Forms Private Limited
were involved in selling the kits and in the process
sublettinig which is not allowed as per UIDAI
norms. It is seen that Sri V.A.Sadiq Ahamed, along
with his CEO Shri Naresh Kumar in connivance
with M/s Utility forms private limited are involved
in the above act. (Mr. Ajay Chaturvedi, Head UIDAI
Services) Mumbai. It is also found from their website that they
 have been working on project for issuing Aadhaaar
 Card for all districts of South India, UP, HP, Punjab,
 Rajasthan, Uttarkand and Bihar. The above facts clearly show that M/s
 Edurays India are misleading the public that they
 are authorized to sublet the enrolment process to
 individuals for a cost and collect money from the
 public, thereby causing immense harm to the public
 image of UIDAI and to the public at large. We bring
 it to your kind knowledge that such deliberate
 misdeeds of the Accused impedes the progress of
 Government of India schemes meant for the benefit
 of individuals. This act has not only violated
 various penal provisions of the IPC but has also
 belittled the mandate of the Aadhaar scheme,
 thereby maligning the Aadhaar scheme. Hence, we request you to kindly register a
 criminal case based on the above facts and take
 necessary action invoking the provisions of Section
 34 , 120B , 420 , 465 , 466 , 469 , 47 of Indian Penal
 Code amended from time to time or any other
 sections as may be deemed fit upon further
 investigation." This becomes an FIR against the petitioner for offences

punishable under Section 465 of IPC which is for of forgery, 24 Section 468 of IPC for forgery for the purpose of cheating, Section 469 of IPC for forgery for the purpose of harming

reputation, Section 471 using as genuine, a forged document, Section 420 of IPC for cheating and Section 120B of IPC for

criminal conspiracy read with Section 34 of the IPC. 15. The act of collection of amount by the petitioner is

defended on the ground that there is no evidence to show that

the Aadhaar kits were delivered free to either enrolment

agency or to the petitioner. It is the justification that the

petitioner cannot work in vacuum. Therefore, it is a matter

where the trial has to be conducted for the petitioner or his

enrolment agency to come out clean in the issue. 16. The fact that the Project Director of UDI for the

Karnataka Region had indicated the name of the petitioner to

be the contact person or the State, in turn, will not lend any

support to the petitioner, as the name of the agency indicated

in the said document is Utility Forms Private Limited and not

Edurays which belongs to the petitioner. Mere mentioning the

name of the petitioner would not clothe him with the right to

do as he has done. 17. It is also germane to notice that by Office

Memorandum, Government of India, drawing attention

towards comprehensive guidelines issued by UIDAI,

communicated that it has come to its notice that surprise

visits of permanent enrolment centres have revealed that

many operators are charging money for Aadhaar enrolment

which is free of cost and some such violators had been

blacklisted under UIDAI are also indicated that in the wake of

rising cases of charging money for Aadhaar enrolment, zero

tolerance should be taken by the Government. The

communications read as follows : • All the EAs/Registrars should ensure
 that the details of all the PECs
 running under them should be 28 uploaded on QAMIS portal
 (http://qamis.uidai.gov.in/es/login.a
 spx) without any further delay. After a grace period of seven days of
 issue of this OM, if any PEC is found
 operating in Delhi / MP / Rajasthan
 /Uttarakhan without uploading such
 details on QAMIS portal, the approval
 by UIDAI RO shall be reviewed. Above instructions may be adhered to by
 all the EAs and Registrars. Sd/- Deputy Director." It is in terms of these complaints received by the Government

a surprise check was made upon the petitioner's office M/s

Edurays Private Limited at J.P.Nagar, where employees were

engaged to do the business of Aadhaar enrolment against

cash payment. 18. Therefore, with the facts being so glaring and the

offence alleged against the petitioner having such

ramification, as issuance of Aadhaar card by such agencies

who are not empowered can also lead to distribution of such

cards against the interest of national security. It is prudent

for the Government of India or the State Government to have

a vigil on such instances of rising cases of frauds in Aadhaar 29 enrolment. Any further observation on the merit of the matter

would be prejudicial to the interest of the petitioner in his

defence before the trial Court. The petitioner, in my

considered view has to face trial. 19. It is germane to notice the judgment of the Apex

Court in the case of KAPTAN SINGH v. STATE OF UTTAR

PRADESH1 wherein the Apex Court holds as follows: (emphasis supplied)

In a judgment, a little earlier to the one that is rendered

supra, the Apex Court in the case of STATE OF MADHYA

PRADESH v. KUNWAR SINGH2 has held as follows: (emphasis supplied) 33 Therefore, in the light of the facts obtaining in the case at

hand and the judgments of the Apex Court, I do not find any

merit to entertain the Criminal Petition, as in my considered

view, it is a matter for trial. 20. Insofar as the judgments relied on by the learned

counsel appearing for the petitioner in the case of STATE OF

ORISSA VS. DEBENDRA NATH PADHI reported in (2005)1

SCC 568 , the said judgment would be in inapplicable to the

facts of the case at hand in view of the manifold

circumstances narrated hereinabove. The Apex Court

delineated the width of the powers of this Court under Section

482 of Cr.P.C. and under Article 226 of the Constitution of

India and held it to be unlimited where the Court would step

in to prevent abuse of the process or secure the ends of

justice within the parameters laid down in the case of

BAJANLAL. The case also lays down that this Court would

quash the proceedings only when the accused would file an

unimpeachable evidence of sterling quality and seek it to be

the basis of quashing. In my considered view, no such

document is placed, much less, an unimpeachable one, on 34 the other hand, there are plethora of circumstances for which

the petitioner will have to undergo trial. The same reason of

inapplicability goes with the judgment in the case of LALITA

KUMARI vs. GOVERNMENT OF UTTAR PRADESH reported in

(2014) 2 SCC 1 as that is not the issue in the case at hand.

Therefore, the judgments relied on by the learned counsel

appearing for the Union of India would be applicable to the

facts of the case at hand and not the ones relied on by the

learned counsel appearing for the petitioner. 21. The Criminal Petition, accordingly, stands

dismissed. It is made clear that any observations made

during the course of the order are to be treated to be confined

to the proceedings under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. only and the

trial Court to decide the case in accordance with law, on its

own merit, on the basis of evidence to be lead and without

being influenced by any of the observations made in this

order. In view of dismissal of the petition, I.A.No.1/2021 does

not survive for consideration. Accordingly, stands dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE

bkp