th
 {05 November, 2014}

Per A.M. Khanwilkar, Chief Justice: 2. We have been informed across the Bar by the counsel

appearing for the respective parties in these new set of petitions

filed as Public Interest Litigation that the said decision has not

been assailed by anyone before the Supreme Court. In that sense,

it may not be possible for us to examine the same issues or

factual aspects, which were subject matter of earlier

proceedings; as the findings of this Court on those matters have

attained finality. Rather, the findings recorded in the previous

judgment will bind this Court and it may not be open for us to

disregard the same in absence of any request for review of the

said decision or for reconsideration of the legal principles stated

therein merely because these fresh set of writ petitions have been

filed. Thus understood, the scope for examining the self same

relief for transfer of investigation to another independent

Investigating Agency, namely, CBI, can be considered only if the

petitioners are in a position to substantiate inertia or acts of

commission and omission of the STF during the investigation of 6 the stated cases subsequent to the earlier decision. 3. Realizing this position, counsel appearing for the

petitioners, essentially, adverted to the matters, which unfolded

after April 16, 2014, to impress upon us that now the time has

come to transfer the investigation to independent Investigating

Agency, namely, CBI. 4. Notably, the petitioner in the first petition (Writ

Petition No. 11695/2014) had first addressed a communication

dated 1st July, 2014, to the Chief Justice of this Court. That was

listed before the Court on 7th July, 2014, as a Letter Petition. It

was disposed of with liberty to the petitioner to file a formal

petition, if so advised. Accordingly, he has elected to file this

petition on 30/7/2014, which is within three months after the

earlier judgment was rendered on April 16, 2014. Indeed, the last

amongst the writ petitions filed by the private persons was filed

on 4/9/2014. Further, these petitions have been filed by persons,

who are in public life and are actively associated with one or the

other political party, opposed to the ideology of the political

party in power in the State. But, as these petitions have been

filed in public interest; and, more particularly because the Court

itself has decided to monitor the investigation by STF in public

interest, without giving much significance to the status and the 7 intention of the petitioners before us, in larger public interest, we

would not mind examining the issues raised by them to ascertain - whether the credibility of the STF has shaken or has become

doubtful because of the subsequent acts of commission and

omission of its officials in any manner, as mentioned by these

petitioners. 5. We may now advert to the submissions made by the

counsel for the respective petitioners. The arguments were

opened by Shri K.T.S. Tulsi, learned Senior Advocate.

Incidentally, he had argued the leading writ petition even in the

first round of Public Interest Litigations disposed of by common

judgment dated 16th April, 2014. He was, therefore, conscious of

the fact that it was not open for him to reagitate the same issues

in the present set of petitions filed as Public Interest Litigation,

merely because the petitioners are different. He first relied on the

order passed by VYAPAM dated 6th May, 2014 (Annexure P/34,

in Writ Petition No.11695/2014 at page 358) and contended that

VYAPAM did not take action against two candidates and

excluded roll numbers of those two candidates. This was done

because the candidates were none other than the children of

Member of Legislative Assembly of Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP).

He invited our attention to the schedule appended to the said 8 order to buttress his submission. 6. Learned counsel then relied on the news item dated

29th June, 2014 (Annexure P/14) in W.P. No.11695/2014 at page 232), published in newspaper 'Nation'. The headline of the said

news item reads - "Cops, RSS offer different reasons to give

'clean chit' to Sudarshan, Soni". This news item refers to the

statement given by the Police of Madhya Pradesh. According to

him, when the Court was monitoring the investigation, STF

ought to have eschewed from giving any such information or

opinion, which inevitably undermines the authority of the Court.

In any case, until filing of final charge-sheet and completion of

the investigation, it was not open to STF to give clean chit to

anyone involved in the offence. Further, it is intriguing that even

though the DGP was not part of the STF team, yet he could give

the reported statement. That pre-supposes that the officials of

STF were reporting to their superiors in the Home

Department/Police Department. Thus, the investigation of

subject cases by STF was not fully insulated. Besides, there was

possibility of pressure being exerted on STF officials from their

higher-ups outside STF. Further, it is possible that the

investigation done by STF was controlled by the superiors in the

Home Department/Police Department of the State. 9 7. It was contended that considering the fact that the

crime was a serious one and the possibility of involvement of

someone from the office of the Chief Minister and the Governor,

the present and former Minister of the State or the Minister at the

Centre cannot be ruled out at this stage. Hence, it may not be in

public interest to allow the STF to continue with the

investigation of such matters. He then invited our attention to the

memorandum of statement dated 27th November, 2013

(Annexure P/14 at page 231, in Writ Petition No.11695/2014), of

one Mihir Kumar Choudhary named as an accused in Crime

No.15/2013 recorded under Section 27 of the Evidence Act.

According to the learned counsel, the aforesaid statement

indicates complicity of Shri Sudarshan in the commission of the

alleged offence. Inspite of that, the STF and the DGP have gone

on record to give a clean chit to that person, even before the

conclusion of investigation of that crime. 8. It was then urged that the recent incident of death of

one Dr. D.K. Sakalle, Dean of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose

Medical College, Jabalpur in suspicious circumstances was a

part of the larger conspiracy in commission of crime concerning

VYAPAM examination scam cases investigated by the STF.

Nevertheless, the State Government thought it appropriate to 10 accord consent for investigation only into that episode by CBI.

That fact has been published in newspaper "M.P. Online News" 9. Shri Tulsi, learned Senior Advocate then relied on the

communication sent by CBI dated 10th September, 2014

(Annexure P/14 at page 111, of the return). It mentions that the

CBI examined the matter and found that no criminal case has

been registered in respect of death of Late Dr. D.K. Sakalle, 11 Dean, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College, Jabalpur.

The said communication further notes that only proceeding

under Section 174 of Cr.P.C. has been resorted to by the local

police. Relying on these observations, Shri Tulsi, learned Senior

Advocate argued that inspite of the seriousness of the case,

neither the local police nor the STF or for that matter the State

Government was keen to take initiative to register FIR. Instead,

the Authorities were content by resorting to inquest proceeding

enquiry under Section 174 of Cr.P.C. This reinforces the

apprehension about the lack of sincerity and commitment of the

respondents and STF, in particular, in the investigation of the

subject crimes. 10. Shri Tulsi, learned Senior Advocate then relying on

the averments made in paragraph 48 of the Return contended

that STF not only played trick on the public and resorted to

sharp practice, but, also misled this Court and Paragraph 48 of

the Return explains why the FIR was not registered in

connection with the incident of death of Dr. Sakalle. 11. Relying on paragraph 49 of the Return and the

observation in the previous judgment dated 16th April, 2014, Shri

Tulsi, learned Senior Advocate submitted that on the earlier

occasion the Court was assured that investigation of all the cases 12 concerning examinations conducted by VYAPAM would stand

transferred to STF, but, without permission of the Court, merely

supervision of investigation of those cases has been entrusted to

STF. To that extent, respondents have overreached the Court and

have failed to fulfil their commitment given to the Court. 12. Shri Tulsi, learned Senior Advocate then relied on

Press Release issued through the Public Relation Officer (PRO)

of the Police Headquarter, Madhya Pradesh Jan Sampark Kaksha

(at page 112, 113 and 114 of the Return, Annexure R/5, R/6 and

R/7). This document read with the concerned news item would,

according to Shri Tulsi, reveal that there was gross interference

with the investigation by the STF from the superiors in Police

Headquarter. Moreover, when the investigation by STF was

underway, the Police Headquarter could not have given a clean

chit to Chief Minister's office; and if the statement as released

was on the basis of information given by the STF, then it would

necessarily follow that STF was sharing vital information

relating to investigation of the subject crimes, that too without

taking prior permission of the Court. That was a serious matter

and would certainly undermine the fairness and impartiality of

such investigation. 13. Shri Tulsi learned Senior Advocate relying on the 13 averments in paragraphs 25 (d), 50 and 52 of the Return would

contend that it is more than clear that STF was part and parcel of

the State and was accountable to superiors in Police Headquarter

and the Home Department. Thus, it was not an independent

Investigating Agency. He further submits that situation has been

made worst by filing a common Return to oppose these writ

petitions, by different wings of the State having conflict of

interest. It is further damaged by one common counsel

representing them. There was intrinsic conflict of interest

between the stand of the State Government and the STF, at least,

in relation to the question of impartial investigation of the

subject crimes by STF. According to him, therefore, it was

eminently a fit case to transfer the investigation to independent

Investigating Agency, namely, CBI so as to instil confidence in

the public mind about the fairness and credibility of the

investigation of the crimes in question. 14. He then submits that the principle of insulation of the

investigation to make it independent, has been compromised. He

submits that the DGP whose statement has been mentioned in

the Press Release be directed to file affidavit to state whether the

STF gave him access to the record of investigation of the

subject crimes or that he has not seen the same. Depending on 14 the nature of affidavit, the Court may have to initiate contempt

action against the officials of STF as well as others who have

interfered with the administration of justice. 15. He further submits that the excel-sheet filed along

with the charge-sheet in the concerned crimes refers to 73

candidates. But, the Investigating Agency has resorted to pick

and choose attitude by naming only 20 candidates as accused, 23

as witnesses and leaving out 30 others without giving any

explanation whatsoever. This is nothing short of perversity on

the part of Investigating Agency, reflecting on their credibility. 16. To buttress the above submissions, he placed reliance

on the decisions in the case of Narmada Bai vs State of

Gujarat 1, Shahid Balwa vs. Union of India and others2, Vineet Narain vs. Union of India and another3 and Asharam

Bapu vs. Union of India and others4. 17. Ms Indira Jaisingh, learned Senior Advocate

addressed us in Writ Petition No.12386/2014 for the petitioner.

She did not pursue the extreme stand taken by Shri Tulsi.

However, according to her, the reference made to CBI to

investigate the case of death of Dr. D.K. Sakalle in suspicious

circumstances, was only a farce. It was necessary for the State 1 (2011) 5 SCC 79 (paras 58 to 64) 2 (2014) 2 SCC 687 (paras 29 and 30) 3 (1998) 1 SCC 226 (paras 1, 3, 8, 49 and 50) 4 (2013) 10 SCC 37 15 Government to issue Notification under Section 6 of the Delhi

Police Act before making such reference. She then picked up the

thread of the last argument made by Shri Tulsi about the intrinsic

conflict of interest of the different wings of the State

Government and yet having filed a common affidavit and that

they were illadvised to be represented by one Law Officer -

Shri P.K. Kaurav, Additional Advocate General. By this, she

submits, it was not only a case of collapsing of personalities of

different entities who had hostile stand against each other but

also giving opportunity to share the vital information including

about the contents of the investigation through common

Advocate. In a matter of this nature, it would certainly

undermine the fairness and independence of the Investigating

Agency (STF). According to her, the Investigating Agency

should have engaged its own Advocate to completely insulate

itself from the other wings of the State. She invited our attention

to the reply-affidavit filed by VYAPAM in the previous set of

writ petitions, being Writ Petition No.15186/2013, to

substantiate that even in those proceedings common Law Officer

appeared for the respondents. In that, the affidavit filed on behalf

of VYAPAM was drawn and filed by Advocate P.K. Kaurav. He

also appeared for the State and the STF. She submits that as has 16 been done by the Supreme Court in cases of national importance,

in public interest, even this Court ought to appoint an

independent Public Prosecutor/Advocate to represent STF

(Investigating Agency), since the Court is already monitoring the

investigation of the crimes in question. 18. She, however, in all fairness stated that she was not

opposed to monitoring of the investigation by the Court in

camera, if it was necessary to do so while analyzing the contents

of the investigation. But, as a rule, the hearing of the suo-motu

petition must be in open Court, as is the practice followed even

by the Supreme Court in such matters. 19. She submits that by filing of common affidavit for

the different wings of the State - Home Department, Police

Headquarter; STF and VYAPAM - the personalities of these

entities have collapsed even though their interests are hostile to

each other. Further, from the tenor of the common reply filed by

the respondents, it would appear that different wings of the State

were wearing the same hat and taking the same position. 20. It was pointed out that in the reply-affidavit filed in

Writ Petition No.15404/2013, VYAPAM had taken a stand on

merits regarding the scam and the matters which were engaging

the attention of the Court concerning those crimes. The officials 17 of VYAPAM were under scanner and their activities were under

investigation by STF. It was also evident that the superiors in

Police Headquarter and Home Department were instructing STF.

Thus, all of them took a common stand to defend their separate

actions. In law, on the face of it, there was conflict of interest

between these entities. She further submits that filing of such

common affidavit inspite of hostile interest of the different

wings of the State was nothing short of interference with the

administration of justice; and, more so, when this Court was

monitoring the investigation. It was also urged that the

Investigating Agency must be responsible only to the Court and

none else and the Home Department of the State could not have

issued any instructions to the Investigating Agency. 21. She submits that since the Court was monitoring the

investigation, the STF should neither have interacted with any

other wing of the Government nor shared the information

concerning the investigation to anyone, much less without the

permission of the Court. 22. She further submits that although the decision in the

previous round of Public Interest Litigation has neither been

challenged nor review thereof has been sought, even so, it was

open to her to contend that the Court should not have disposed 18 of those matters. Indeed, if those matters were kept alive, the

petitioners in those matters could have rendered meaningful

assistance to the Court, to point out the infirmities in the

investigation and/or infirmities bordering on doubting the

credibility of the Investigating Agency. The registration of suo-

motu proceeding pursuant to the same judgment was not enough.

For, there was no party appearing before the Court except the

respondents who had conflict of interest and yet were

represented by a common Advocate. Moreover, the position

became still difficult as the Court was hearing those proceedings

in camera. For that reason, the Court ought to, at least, appoint

an amicus curiae to assist the Court and also to hear suo motu

proceedings in open Court. 23. She further contended that since the issue regarding

the credibility of STF was in public domain, the Court should

not have gagged the media from publishing the proceedings. 24. In her concluding submission, however, she contends

that the best option in the present fact situation is to transfer the

investigation of all the criminal cases under monitoring of this

Court to CBI; and that the Investigating Agency should be

ordered to be represented by an independent Advocate of

eminence, to be appointed by the Court or, at best, by the 19 Investigating Agency itself and not the Law Officer of the State.

She submits that the Court may direct appointment of a Special

Public Prosecutor; and, lastly, to appoint an amicus curiae to

assist the Court in monitoring the investigation. She submits that

even if the investigation was not transferred to CBI, she would

be content with investigation done by STF (existing

Investigating Agency), but, under monitoring of the Court and

by appointing an amicus curiae to assist the Court during such

monitoring. She has reiterated that she is not opposed to in

camera hearing of the proceedings when the Court wants to

analyze the contents of the investigation record or to seek

clarification in that behalf from the Investigating Agency. She,

however, prays that the petitions may not be finally disposed of

on this occasion, but, should be kept pending for the just

outcome of the case. 25. To buttress the above submissions, she has relied on

the decisions in the case of Subrata Chattoraj Vs. Union of

India and others5 and Sahara India Real Estate Corporation

Limited and others Vs. Securities and Exchange Board of

India and another6. 26. Shri Vivek K. Tankha, learned Senior Advocate 5 2014 (6) SCALE 593 = (2014) 8 SCC 768 (para 31) 6 (2012) 10 SCC 603 20 appearing for the petitioner in Writ Petition No.12392/2014,

submitted three written notes to point out the fatal discrepancies

in the investigation of the concerned cases already done by the

STF. These notes have been prepared on the basis of the material

culled out from the charge-sheets already filed by the STF in the

concerned crime against the named accused. The material,

amongst others, would indicate that the name of the Minister

was not mentioned in the excel-sheet, however, no investigation

has been done to ascertain who the Minister was. He further

points out that although the name of Ms Uma Bharti (who is

presently Cabinet Minister at the Centre) appears in the material

already available with the Investigating Agency, however, she

has not been named as an accused in any of these cases.

Moreover, the Investigating Agency is adopting the policy of

pick and choose, as it mentions some of the candidates as

accused and some as witness. Those who spoke against the

heavy weights have been made accused and those who have not

spoken about them have been made witnesses. At least, this

approach of the STF is noticeably consistent and is a clear scar

on the credibility of the Investigating Agency. He further points

out that the record indicates that VYAPAM furnished

information to the Investigating Agency within two days. The 21 material placed on record along with the charge-sheet filed,

makes no reference as to how VYAPAM could furnish such

voluminous information within two days from the date of

requisition. While adopting the arguments of the previous

counsel, Shri Tankha, learned Senior Advocate submits that the

credibility of the Investigating Agency is under scanner and,

therefore, in the larger public interest, it would be proper to

transfer the investigation to an independent Investigating Agency

like CBI. Further, the investigation to be done by the newly

appointed Investigating Agency should be monitored by the

Court. He has joined in the submission of the previous counsel

that Special Public Prosecutor to represent the Investigating

Agency must be appointed by the Court, who is not a Law

Officer of the State; and, further, the Court must appoint

someone as amicus curiae to assist the Court during the

monitoring. He has placed reliance on the decision of the

Supreme Court in the case of Vineet Narain (supra). 27. Shri Rajendra Tiwari, learned Senior Advocate

appearing for the petitioner in Writ Petition No.11695/2014 has

adopted the arguments of earlier counsel and has additionally

pointed out paragraph 49 and the affirmation clause of the return

to contend that the facts stated in the return are not properly 22 affirmed and cannot be looked at and from the common affidavit

filed, it is amply clear that the State, STF and VYAPAM were

acting hand in glove. It is submitted that there is no mention in

the affidavit that it was being filed in consultation with all the

wings of the State. Notably, this return affidavit has been sworn

by Ashish Khare, AIG, STF, Bhopal and Officer-in-Charge, who

is part of the STF team. This argument, in our opinion, would

have been of some significance if the affidavit was sworn by

official from the other wing of the State and if he had stated that

he was filing the affidavit on the basis of information derived

from the record, which would mean that he has seen the record

in the office of the Investigating Agency. That is not the case on

hand. Moreover, the defect in the affirmation clause of the

return, is a curable defect. 28. As regards other matters on merits, Shri Tiwari,

learned Senior Advocate invited our attention to the

memorandum statement of Mihir Choudhary, which was pointed

out by Shri Tulsi, learned Senior Advocate as well. He further

invited our attention to the contents of the FIR in Crime

No.20/2013, which refers to the involvement of Ms Uma Bharti,

but, she has neither been named as an accused nor any

investigation has progressed qua her so far. The STF was going 23 slow on that investigation for reasons best known to it.

According to him, since such high dignitary was involved, to

instil public faith in the investigation and to uphold the majesty

of law, it was essential to transfer the investigation to an

independent Investigating Agency such as CBI. That was also

necessary because the subject criminal cases have inter State

ramifications, inasmuch as, it is matter of record that the

students who appeared in the examination were not only from

the State of Madhya Pradesh, but, also from the neighbouring

States like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and including Himachal

Pradesh etc. That being the case, investigation by CBI would be

most appropriate and desirable. He also invited our attention to

Annexure P/5 (in Writ Petition No.12431/2014, at page 24), to

point out that the stand taken by the respondents that Shri

Sudarshan had died on 12th September, 2012 and had no concern

with the examination, is belied from the contents of Annexure

P/5. It is noticed that the application forms were required to be

submitted before 26th June, 2012 and the examination was

actually conducted on 7th October, 2012. The death of Shri

Sudarshan on 12th September, 2012, therefore, would not rule

out his involvement in the commission of the crime. This aspect

has been completely glossed over by the Investigating Agency 24 before giving a clean chit to Shri Sudarshan. He further pointed

out that the material already available with the Investigating

Agency would indicate that the telephone calls were made from

Chief Minister's official residence. Even this aspect has not been

investigated by the STF. 29. Shri Manish Verma, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner in Writ Petition No.12196/2014, relied on the

proceeding in Writ Petition No.9781/2014 and Writ Petition No.

9783/2014 before the Single Bench, to contend that the

possibility of manipulation of cut off higher marks for the open

category cannot be totally ruled out, but, no investigation in that

behalf has been done. 30. Shri Siddharth Seth, learned counsel appearing for

the petitioner in Writ Petition No.13475/2014, who, incidentally,

appeared in the first round of litigation reiterated his argument

of the doctrine of State obligation to discharge the role of

parens patriae. He submits that he has personal knowledge

about the public outcry due to the scam and disillusionment of

common man because of the lackadaisical approach of the

Investigating Agency. He adopted the arguments of the previous

counsel. Similarly, Shri Adwait Fouzdar, Advocate for the

petitioner appearing in Writ Petition No.13868/2014 adopted the 25 arguments of the previous counsel. 31. Per contra, Shri Nageshwar Rao, Additional Solicitor

General of India appearing for the respondents-State and STF

handed in a brief note in sealed cover for the perusal of the

Court, with reference to the three written notes submitted by Shri

Tankha, Senior Advocate on factual matters, explaining the

same. After perusing the said note, we asked Shri Rao to clarify

as to on what date the STF wrote to M.P. Online for furnishing

the information concerning certain candidates - whose data was

not available with VYAPAM; and further whether M.P. Online

has responded in that behalf. We also asked him to find out

whether STF has done any investigation in respect of the stand

taken by VYAPAM about non-availability of data of the

concerned candidates and what follow up action has been taken

in that behalf. After taking instructions, in response to our

queries, it was clarified by him that M.P. Online has since

submitted the information and follow up action on that basis is

being taken by STF. He further informed the Court that as

regards non-availability of data with VYAPAM, even that matter

was inquired into by STF and it has been found that data of large

number of candidates was not available. The non-availability of

data was not specific to the candidates mentioned by the 26 petitioners in the written note, submitted by Shri Tankha.

However, now, in view of the information received from M.P.

Online the investigation is proceeding independently against all

concerned. In other words, non-availability of VYAPAM data

was no impediment in the progress of investigation, on the basis

of that information. 32. He then submitted that the petitioners have

essentially raised grounds in the context of the death of Dr.

Sakalle in suspicious circumstances and the Press notes released

by the Public Relation Officer of M.P. Police, mentioning about

STF giving a clean chit to named persons and lastly about the

appearance of Shri Kaurav, Additional Advocate General to

espouse the cause of the four wings of the State, namely, State of

Madhya Pradesh, Home Department, Police Headquarters and

the STF. On that basis, the credibility of STF is being

questioned. He first took us through the facts noted in the earlier

judgment, which mention about how the STF came into the

picture and the steps taken by STF thereafter till the decision

was rendered by this Court on 16th April, 2014. It is the same

STF, which, essentially, started with the investigation of ten

cases assigned to it and during the course of that investigation,

registered new cases on the basis of material gathered by it - not 27 only against the beneficiaries (candidates) but also against the

middleman and the racketeers and including against persons in

high position in Government and public life. After the judgment

was rendered and until now, the STF has done investigation of in

all 55 cases. Out of that, 10 cases pertain to VYAPAM officials,

Government Officials and persons in public life. The other 45

cases, ostensibly are individual offences of impersonation of the

original candidate. During the investigation of these 45

impersonation cases, it has been noticed that those offences were

committed in an organized manner at specific examination

centres and not across the State. 33. As regards 10 cases which are of recent period,

involving VYAPAM and Government Officials, it is submitted

that the investigation has reached at an advanced stage. As a

matter of fact, charge-sheets have been filed in those 10 cases

and in two cases the STF is committed to file final charge-sheet

before end of March, 2015, because of complexity of the

investigation and involvement of large number of accused. In 45

cases concerning impersonation which were pending for quite

some time and investigated by the local police stations, after

taking over supervision thereof, further investigation has been

advised and which is in progress. Further, final charge-sheets 28 even in those 45 cases will be filed before end of March, 2015.

He highlighted the achievements of the STF after the judgment

in the earlier round of litigation since April, 2014. He submits

that the STF, because of monitoring by the Court, has been

successful in identifying and arresting more than 1000 persons

and 1427 in all. This arrest includes arrest of high officials and

persons in public life. 34. He submits that although the respondents have raised

preliminary objections about the locus of the petitioners and that

the petitions filed by them being politically motivated - as each

of these petitioners belong to political party, which is in

opposition in the State and also at the Centre; and further that the

writ petitioners in W.P. No.12386 and 12392 of 2014 have not

disclosed the material fact that those petitioners are facing

prosecution for having committed serious criminal offences;

even so, the respondents are duty bound to satisfy this Court

about the quantitative and qualitative progress made in the

investigation by STF. On the basis of the averments in the return

filed by the respondents, he submits that it is amply clear that

STF has investigated the concerned crimes with utmost dispatch

and has left no stone unturned. The sincerity and commitment of

the officials of the STF should neither be undermined nor 29 doubted in any manner. According to him, these petitions are

based on misplaced assumptions without there being any

substance in any of the issue raised therein. 35. Regarding the question of death of Dr. Sakalle on

04.07.2014, he pointed out that Dr. Sakalle was due to retire on

30th September, 2014 as Dean of Medical College, Jabalpur. He

was expected to submit his report about the incident of

impersonation during the concerned examinations, which were

conducted when Dr. Guha was the Officer-in-charge. Dr. Sakalle

had submitted the report in the year 2011 on the basis of which

two criminal cases were eventually registered by Dr. Guha.

Notably, Dr. Sakalle was neither an accused nor a witness in any

of the cases assigned to STF. He submits that the State

Government in its wisdom took a political decision to request

CBI to inquire into the incident of the death of Dr. Sakalle in

suspicious circumstances, even though merely an enquiry under Section 174 Cr.P.C. was registered. He submits that without the

report of medical experts about the cause of death, the question

of registering FIR by the local police did not arise. It is in that

context, the CBI has mentioned that the inquiry initiated is yet to

be registered as FIR. That, however, does not reflect upon the

bonafides of the local police or for that matter, independence of 30 STF. In absence of clear information about the cause of death,

the local police could not have taken the matter forward. Further,

the State Government under compelling circumstances, because

of the call given by the Indian Medical Council to go on strike,

which would have affected the working of all the hospitals

across the State causing untold misery and problem to the

patients undergoing treatment in the hospitals, took a political

decision to request CBI to take over the inquiry, as insisted by

the Indian Medical Council. That decision has no bearing on the

fairness or independence of the on-going investigation of PMT

VYAPAM examination scam cases by STF. 36. He further submits that from the communication sent

by CBI dated 15.09.2014, if the same is read as a whole, in its

proper perspective, it would be amply clear that CBI has also

mentioned that the death of Dr. Sakalle has nothing to do with

inter-State repercussion and that the local police is capable of

investigating the same. For that reason, CBI did not act upon the

request of the State Government. The first sentence appearing in

the said communication, therefore, cannot be read in isolation,

lest to give a distorted meaning. He submits that the first

circumstance pressed into service by the petitioners, therefore, is

completely devoid of merits and further it has no bearing on the 31 outcome of the ongoing investigation of PMT VYAPAM

examination scam cases by STF. That investigation is proceeding

in right direction and in most effective manner, which is being

monitored by the Court periodically. 37. He then submits that the argument advanced on

behalf of the petitioners that the State Government should not

have sent request in absence of any Notification issued under the

provisions of the Delhi Police Act is founded on

misunderstanding of the facts as well as the settled legal

position. He relies on Supreme Court decision in the case of Balkrishna Reddy Vs. Director Bureau of Investigation, New

Delhi7 . In para-71 of this decision the argument under

consideration, according to him, has been dealt with and

rejected. He submits that the fact that the State Government

acceded to the request of Indian Medical Council to refer the

inquiry concerning the death of Dr. Sakalle in suspicious

circumstances, is, in no way, concerned with the crimes arising

from PMT VYAPAM Examination Scam cases under

investigation by STF. For the same reason, the incident of death

of Dr. Sakalle cannot be treated as part of the larger conspiracy

theory in the said crimes, as is contended on behalf of the

petitioners and that the said argument is fallacious and ill- 7 (2008) 4 SCC 409 32 advised. 38. With reference to the Press notes released by the

Public Relation Officer (PRO) of Public Relation Department,

Government of Madhya Pradesh, it is submitted that if the same

is examined in its correct perspective, was only in response to

the misleading Press news published in the local media to create

confusion in the minds of the common man. In any case, the

Press release neither refers to any matter of substance of the

investigation nor even remotely suggests that the same has been

shared by STF with higher Authorities in the Police

Headquarters or the Home Department of the State. The

information which has been divulged is limited to the status of

the records - whether the same have gone missing, as mentioned

in the Press news or otherwise. Thus, the Press Release as

issued, is without disclosing or sharing the details of the

investigation. He submits that limited information was provided

by STF in good faith and in larger public interest to assuage the

misgiving and misinformation generated by the news

publication. That should not be the basis to doubt the credibility

and fairness of the investigation done by STF. He fairly submits

that STF could have avoided such criticism, but, then it does not

mean that the integrity of officials of STF, who are senior 33 officials and by far known to be independent police officers,

having vast experience, can be doubted. He submits that the

officials of STF have already established their impartiality and

independence, by not only registering fresh crimes involving

high officials and also by arresting large number of middlemen

and racketeers including high Government officials and persons

in public life in connection with criminal cases under

monitoring. 39. He further submits that the Press Release mentioning

of having given a clean chit to the named persons also cannot be

the basis to doubt the credibility of STF or the investigations

under monitoring. He submits that the crimes concerning

Samvida Shala Shikshak are not the subject matter of monitoring

by this Court. The subject matter of monitoring is only about the

offences commonly known as PMT VYAPAM Examination

Scam cases for admission to Undergraduate and Postgraduate

Courses in Medical Colleges. The named persons are in no way

involved in any of those cases. He then submits that the stated

Press Release concerns the criminal cases registered pertaining

to Transport Department, which are entirely different set of

criminal cases and not subjected to monitoring by this Court. He

further submits that the investigation of those cases is 34 proceeding as per law and will be taken to its logical end. At the

same time, he fairly contends that if the matter is pending

investigation, the Investigating Agency should eschew from

issuing any statement on factual matters until filing of the

charge-sheet in the concerned Court in those cases. 40. With reference to the argument of the petitioners that

the Investigating Agency has not made any attempt to collect the

call records of Nitin Mohindra and Pankaj Trivedi etc., he

submits that the same is devoid of merits, as the call records of

the concerned persons are already part of the charge-sheet filed

in the PMT VYAPAM examination scam cases. He submits that

the points urged by the petitioners are essentially based on

miscommunication and misreading of the material facts. Further,

the petitioners have failed to substantiate any circumstance that

would lead to doubting the credibility of STF much less giving

rise to even a reasonable apprehension about the fairness of the

investigation of PMT VYAPAM examination scam cases by

STF. 41. As regards the argument that Shri Kaurav, Additional

Advocate General should not represent all the wings of the State,

he submits that that was not impermissible. As a matter of fact,

there was no conflict of interest between different wings of the 35 State on the matters in issue. In that, the stand of the State, as is

noticed in the earlier judgment, also even now, is that, the

investigation of all these matters has been assigned to special

investigation team (i.e. STF), which is proceeding with the

investigation of those cases independently and was not required

to take instructions from any superior Authority, outside the

structure of STF. 42. As regards the stand of the Home Department, even

though STF may be part of the Home Department, that does not

mean that the Investigating Officers of the STF were not

independent. The Police Headquarter has also taken the same

stand. The fact that he also represented VYAPAM, would make

no difference inasmuch as VYAPAM was taking the same stand

against its erring officials and was the complainant, which had

led to the registration of crimes even against the erring officials

of VYAPAM. It is not a case where the same Advocate was

appearing for the complainant as well as the accused. He submits

that in any case there was no conflict of interest between the

different wings of the State on the matters in issue, who were

represented by the Additional Advocate General in his capacity

of a Law Officer. There is no bar in law, for the Law Officer, to

appear for the investigating agency and other Agencies and 36 Departments who were working in tandem to proceed against the

high officials. The matter of propriety or desirability cannot be

raised to the level of conflict of interest. He further submits that

Shri Kaurav, Advocate has been appearing in this Court not only

in the public interest litigation filed for transferring of the

investigation to CBI but also in other cases to defend the actions

of VYAPAM against the candidates, who may be incidentally

named as accused in the offence registered and investigated by

STF. It would have been a different matter if the Court were to

notice any or slightest of unworthy conduct of the Advocate in

any of the appearances made before the Court. So long as the

Court has confidence on the conduct of the Advocate, the

question of Law Officer withdrawing from the case or not to

appear for all the wings of the State, in absence of conflict of

interest on the matters in issue, does not arise. He has placed

reliance on the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Deepak Agarwal vs. Keshav Kaushik and others8, in

particular, paragraph 100 to buttress the above submission. 43. At the end, however, he submits on instructions of

Shri Kaurav, that Shri Kaurav was willing to withdraw from the

proceedings, if the Court opines that there is conflict of interest

between the different wings of the State in the matter of 8 (2013) 5 SCC 277 (para 100) 37 investigation of the subject crimes by STF. He submits that

whether the Court should appoint an amicus curiae to assist it or

not, is the prerogative of the Court. There is no hard and fast rule

that in every public interest litigation; and even if commenced

suo motu by the Court, it was imperative to nominate an amicus

curiae from the Bar. 44. It was urged that the issue pertaining to hearing of the

proceedings whether in open Court or in camera is also a matter

of judicial discretion. However, when it is concerning the on-

going investigation, it is but appropriate that the hearing should

be in camera, lest it would be fraught with the danger of

divulging material information to the accused, who in turn may

take undue advantage to scuttle the investigation or deviate the

focus of the Investigating Agency. He submits that the

respondents would abide by all the directions that may be given

by the Court to do substantial justice and in public interest. 45. At the outset, we may recapitulate the decision of the

Division Bench of this Court in the earlier round of litigation on

the same subject. The Court after analysing many precedents,

some of which are relied even now, restated the well established

legal position about the plenitude of the power under Article

226 , which requires great caution in its exercise and must be 38 used sparingly, cautiously and in exceptional situations where it

becomes necessary to provide credibility and instil confidence in

investigations or where such an order may be necessary for

doing complete justice and for enforcing the fundamental rights.

The Court thoroughly examined the diverse arguments of the

said petitioners, who attempted to persuade the Court that prima

facie case was made out calling for investigation by an

independent agency. That relief was negatived by a speaking

judgment. We need not burden this judgment by adverting to the

findings on the factual matters considered in that judgment to

negative the same relief claimed. The Court relying on the

decision of the Apex Court held that merely because the crime

has generated immense amount of public interest, or in other

words, a public outcry and that in a manner a public demand has

been made towards transference of the investigation to

independent agency, alone cannot be the legal basis to exercise

powers under Article 226. The Court is obliged to record a clear

finding that it has become "necessary" to provide credibility and

to instil confidence in the investigation assigned to STF or that

the transfer of investigation to some other agency is essential for

doing complete justice in enforcing the fundamental rights. 39 46. In paragraph 19 of the said decision , the Court

adverted to the background in which STF was constituted and

was assigned the investigation of the criminal cases concerning

PMT VYAPAM examination scam. The Court held that STF is a

"separate unit" in the Home Department, headed by the ADGP

(Additional Director General of Police) and consists of

experienced and independent IPS officers with unblemished

record. The Court unambiguously rejected the grievance of the

said petitioners that the STF was incapable of handling the

investigation of the offences in question or had shown any

inertia in the investigation after it came on the scene. Instead, the

Court found that STF swung into action without wasting any

time. The Court also found that none of the petitioner(s) had

attributed any motives to any official(s) of STF. On the contrary,

there was enough material to indicate that the officials of STF

were acting fairly and independently and were not taking

instructions from their higher-ups in the State administration.

For, during investigation of the assigned crimes, they proceeded

to register fresh cases, mentioning about the possible

involvement of high Government officials and political leaders

including of the ruling party. That reinforced their resolve to

proceed against one and all involved in the commission of stated 40 offences impartially and independently. The Court held that

taking any other view would result in demoralizing the officials

of STF and questioning their sincerity and integrity in absence of

any tangible material in that behalf merely on the basis of

misplaced and unsubstantiated apprehensions of the said

petitioners. 47. In paragraph 44 of the judgment, while rejecting the

arguments of the petitioner(s), the Court pointedly held that even

though STF is one of the wing of the State Government, that

does not mean that it will not investigate the matters

independently and impartially or will act on the instructions

from higher Authorities outside STF. Even the premier

Investigating Agency, CBI, was, as of now, one of the wing of

the Union of India and not an independent or autonomous

Agency. Notably, it has been found that the structure of STF

nowhere indicates that STF is required to report to any other

Authority outside STF about the investigation carried out by it.

Further, there was nothing to suggest that information regarding

the stage of investigation or the contents of the material were

being divulged or reported to the Minister Incharge by the STF.

On the contrary, like any other investigation, the investigating

officers of STF, of the concerned crimes, were in complete 41 control of the investigation and that the superior officer(s) in the

STF (IPS Officer(s) including the rank of A.D.G.P., who is the

head of the STF), were only supervising the investigation to

ensure that it was progressing in the right direction and properly.

The Court also found that it was nobody's case that superior

officers in the Home Department were directly or indirectly

associated with the investigation done by STF or that the

officials of STF were in contact with other high officials outside

STF or political leaders and had ever divulged any matter of

substance regarding the investigation of the stated cases. Even

after having said this, the Court decided to monitor the

investigation of the stated cases itself, in larger public interest;

and to instil confidence in the investigation by STF. 48. As per the operative order passed by the Division

Bench of this Court, for the purpose of monitoring, the Registry

was directed to register suo motu proceedings, which was

registered as Writ Petition No.6385/2014. The said writ petition

was listed for hearing on different dates, inter alia, as under:- 49. Initially, for first four hearings, the suo motu matter

was heard in open Court, but, having realized that for making

deeper enquiry about the nature and quality of progress limited

to monitoring of the investigation, it was necessary to seek

explanation from the Investigating Officer(s) about the contents

of the material collected during the investigation on case to case

basis and to obviate disclosure of the contents of the

investigation in open Court which would have given clue to 43 persons watching the proceedings, who may be incidentally

interested in the accused named in those crimes, it was deemed

appropriate to hear the matter in camera. As a result, the Court

on the subsequent dates was monitoring the progress of the

investigation in Chamber (in camera), where the officials

supervising the investigation of the concerned crime along with

the Head of the STF remained present and participated in that

process. The order-sheets in the suo motu petition of the

respective dates, mention about the amount of time spent (on an

average around two hours each hearing) by the Division Bench

for monitoring of PMT VYAPAM examination scam cases

investigated by STF. However, after institution of second set of

writ petitions, which are the subject matter of this common

judgment; and, in particular, because of the vehement

submission made by the counsel for the petitioners on 4th

September, 2014, that the Court is obliged to monitor the

investigation in open Court and also about the objection to the

appearance of Shri P.K. Kaurav, Additional Advocate General,

the said suo motu petition was listed in open Court along with

the present writ petitions for considering the said objection. We

have already adverted to the arguments of the petitioners in this

behalf in the earlier part of this judgment. 50. This Bench (A.M. Khanwilkar, Chief Justice & Alok

Aradhe,J) has been monitoring the investigation from

30/06/2014. As during the earlier hearing in Chamber, even after

30/06/2014, the compilations furnished by the officials of STF

disclosing the progress of investigation, on case to case basis,

was considered and then ordered to be kept in sealed cover. We

have no hesitation in going on record that the performance of the

officials of STF and, in particular, of the Investigating Officers

and the progress of investigation was never found wanting.

Rather, they were open to correction and to improvise the quality

of investigation. As has been rightly noted in the return filed by

the respondents that after the Court started monitoring, the

working strength of STF was not only strengthened, but, its

independence has also been ensured. Moreover, the number of

arrests caused to be made by the Investigating Team including of

high Government officials and former Minister speaks volumes

about the achievements of STF. The STF has succeeded in not

only making significant arrests concerning the crimes

investigated by them, but, also in taking the investigation to its

logical end by filing charge-sheets in most of the cases under

monitoring. Suffice it to observe that we did not notice any

inertia of STF in the progress of investigation, both on the scale 45 of quantity and quality thereof. On each of these hearing, we

were prima facie convinced that the investigation of the

concerned cases was proceeding in right direction and in a

proper manner. However, as the present set of writ petitions

came to be filed and new facts unfolded after the judgment dated

16th April, 2014, were brought to our notice, it became necessary

for us to examine the same in public interest notwithstanding the

fact that each of these petitions have been filed by the persons,

who are actively associated with political parties in opposition,

both in the State as well as at the Centre. 51. We may now deal with the new points, which have

been urged before us in support of the relief for transfer of

investigation to CBI. We must do that also because the Court has

taken the responsibility to monitor the investigation of stated

cases, in public interest; and to re-assure that the truth does not

become casualty. 52. Let us now turn to the circumstances pressed into

service by the petitioners. Shri Tulsi, learned senior counsel had

relied on the order passed by VYAPAM dated 6th May, 2014,

Annexure P/34 and schedule thereto (in Writ Petition

No.11695/2014) and had contended that VYAPAM did not take

action against two candidates referred to therein, as they were 46 sons of Member of Legislative Assembly of Bhartiya Janata

Party. In this connection, suffice it to mention that the said

decision of VYAPAM was because of the fact that the roll

number(s) data of the concerned candidates - (not limited to the

two named candidates) - were found to be unaltered and no

change was noticed. In other words, VYAPAM did not proceed

against all the candidates, whose roll numbers were found to be

unaltered and no change was noticed. It was not limited to two

candidates (sons of Member of Legislative Assembly belonging

to Bhartiya Janata Party), as is alleged. Notably, in the present

proceedings, we are not concerned with the correctness of that

decision taken by VYAPAM. That, however, in no way can

reflect on the performance or impartiality of STF. Further, we

find that STF has not based its investigation of the subject

crimes purely on the material supplied by VYAPAM, but is

exploring all possible angles to unravel the crime. Besides this

nothing more is required to be said, as that may prejudice the

pending trial of those cases. 53. Shri Tulsi then invited our attention to Annexure

P/31, which is a news item published in newspaper Nation,

titled, "Cops, RSS offer different reasons to give 'clean chit' to

Sudarshan, Soni". The argument proceeds that when the Court 47 was monitoring the investigation, STF should not have given

such Press Release. We may now turn to the contents of the said

Press news. It mentions that RSS in Nagpur and the Police

Headquarter in Bhopal tried to give a clean chit to RSS Chief -

Late Shri K. Sudarshan and Joint General Secretary - Shri

Suresh Soni, concerning the examination and recruitment scam

in Madhya Pradesh. It further mentions that the reasons given

were strikingly pernicious. What has been found objectionable,

is that, the M.P. Police denied the very existence of the

controversial document. The news item also mentions about the

police statement that the hard-disk recovered from Madhya

Pradesh Professional Examination Board (MPPEB) provides no

clue or information about the two RSS leaders of having made

any recommendation. Further, the Police had said that Shri

Sudarshan was unwell for a long time and died in Raipur on

September, 15, 2012, while the examination (cleared by Shri

Sudarshan's aide Mihir Kumar Choudhary) was held on October

7, 2012, and the result was declared on October, 18, 2012. The

M.P. Police also refuted the allegations calling them untrue. The

M.P. Police PRO's office also denied that any phone calls have

been made from the Chief Minister's House to the accused. 54. Indisputably, this news item refers to the VYAPAM 48 examination scam concerning Junior Food Civil Supply Officer.

The investigation of that case is not the subject matter of

monitoring by this Court. For, monitoring is only in respect of

PMT - VYAPAM examination scam cases. Thus understood,

this news item cannot be made the basis to question the

investigation of PMT - VYAPAM examination scam cases by

STF, which is being monitored by this Court. Moreover, the

news item does not mention that the statement given by M.P.

Police or the Police PRO's office was given on the basis of

information furnished by any official of STF, much less, the

Investigating Officer investigating the said crime. Notably, the

said Mihir Kumar Choudhary, who has named the two RSS

leaders, has been arrested by STF. That belies the apprehension

that STF will not proceed against him or any other person

involved in the commission of that offence. The fact that the

news item was given on the basis of release from the PRO's

office of M.P. Police, by itself, does not mean that STF was

reporting about the substance of the investigation to superiors in

Home Department or Police Department, much less, about the

investigation concerning PMT - VYAPAM examination scam

cases. Suffice it to note that the submission founded on this news

item that the investigation of PMT - VYAPAM examination 49 scam cases monitored by this Court, is directly or indirectly

controlled by the superiors in Home/Police Department of the

State, is misplaced and untenable. For the same reason, even the

apprehension of the petitioner that the Investigating Agency may

go slow on the investigation of PMT scam cases because of the

possible involvement of someone from the Office of the Chief

Minister or the Governor of the State in connection with other

crimes, is misplaced. In other words, the involvement of

someone from the Office of the Head of the State in connection

with criminal cases other than PMT - VYAPAM examination

scam cases, will be of no avail. Suffice it to note that in these

proceedings, we are not called upon to consider the justness of

investigation of those cases (other than PMT VYAPAM

examination scam cases). 55. Shri Tulsi has then invited our attention to the

memorandum of statement of the said accused - Mihir Kumar

Choudhary in Crime No.15/2013, to contend that the said

document discloses complicity of Shri Sudarshan in the

commission of the alleged offence, but, no action has been taken

in that behalf; and, instead, a clean chit has been given to him

even before conclusion of the investigation of that case. For the

reasons already noted while dealing with the earlier submission, 50 we are not impressed by the contention under consideration.

Notably, this statement has not been recorded after the decision

of the Division Bench of this Court dated 16th April, 2014, but,

anterior thereto i.e. on 22nd November, 2013. Moreover, the

statement of accused recorded under Section 27 of the Evidence

Act has been made part of the charge-sheet in the concerned

crime. That has no causal connection with PMT VYAPAM

examination scam cases under monitoring of this Court. It is not

as if the said statement has been omitted from the charge-sheet.

It is also noticed that the former Minister - Laxmikant Sharma

has already been arrested by STF in connection with the stated

crime. This reassures the credibility and impartiality in the

investigation by STF. 56. That takes us to the next point urged by Shri Tulsi in

connection with the incident of suicide by Dr. D.K. Sakalle,

Dean of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College,

Jabalpur. The argument proceeds that the suicide was the cause

of a larger conspiracy concerning PMT - VYAPAM examination

scam cases investigated by STF. Further, being part of the larger

conspiracy which was likely to be investigated by CBI on the

basis of consent given by the State, investigation of all the PMT - VYAPAM examination scam cases must be entrusted to CBI. 51 This argument is founded on two assumptions. Firstly, that the

death of Dr. D.K. Sakalle was the cause of a larger conspiracy

concerning PMT - VYAPAM examination scam cases. This

argument is misplaced and unsubstantiated. The fact, however, is

that, Dr. Sakalle was in no way concerned with the PMT -

VYAPAM examination scam cases either directly or indirectly.

He was neither a witness in those cases nor named as an

accused. Whether the death of Dr. Sakalle was on account of

suicide or otherwise was being enquired into and further action

would depend on the opinion to be given by the medical experts.

The second assumption, is that, the enquiry about the death of

Dr. Sakalle has already been entrusted to CBI. No doubt, the

State Government expressed its intent to handover the

investigation of that incident to CBI, but, the CBI, in turn, has

opined that it was not a case for it to take over that enquiry, as it

had no national or international ramification and that the State

Police was capable of handling the same. The decision of the

State Government to give consent it has been stated, was under 57. Shri Tulsi relying on the communication sent by CBI

dated 10th September, 2014, (Annexure R/4, at page 111 of the

return), argued that it was a clear case of inertia of the State

Police in not registering FIR, inspite of the information about the

unnatural death of Dr. Sakalle and only be content with the

registration of inquest proceeding under Section 174 of Cr.P.C.

This argument, plainly, overlooks the procedure that is usually

followed by any Police in the country, when such incident is

reported. In absence of specific information about the overt acts

resulting in death of a person, the Police would commence the

enquiry first by registering inquest proceeding under Section 174

of the Code; and dependent on the opinion of the medical

experts about the cause of death, proceed further by recording

FIR, if it is a case of homicidal or suicidal death, as the case may

be. If it is a case of suicidal death and on account of abetment

by someone, the offence can be registered as FIR. We are not

impressed by the argument that immediately after receiving

information about the death of Dr. Sakalle, the local Police was

obliged to register FIR under Section 154 of Cr.P.C. and not 53 resort to inquest proceeding under Section 174 of Cr.P.C. 58. The next argument of Shri Tulsi, with reference to

averments in paragraph 48 of the return, is another shade of the

same argument already dealt with hitherto. According to the

petitioners, non-registration of FIR in connection with the

incident of death of Dr. Sakalle was a trick played by the STF

not only on the public, but, also resorting to sharp practice by

misleading this Court. In our opinion, there is no force in this

criticism. As aforesaid, FIR in relation to the said incident can be

registered only after opinion of the medical experts is made

available. There is nothing wrong with the registration of Inquest

enquiry at the initial stage by the local Police. Similarly, the fact

that the State Government decided to give consent to CBI to

enquire into that incident, also does not take the matter any

further considering the fact that Dr. Sakalle was neither a witness

nor an accused in connection with any of the PMT VYAPAM

examination scam cases under monitoring by this Court. 59. Shri Tulsi then contended that on the earlier occasion

this Court was assured that investigation of all criminal cases

pertaining to PMT examinations conducted by VYAPAM

registered since the year 2000 would stand transferred to STF.

However, only supervision of investigation of those cases is 54 taken over by STF. No doubt, this Court has noted that STF will

take over the investigation of all those cases. The fact that the

STF has decided to merely supervise investigation of those cases

instead of taking over actual investigation, does not mean that

those cases are not being properly investigated. It is a different

matter that STF should have taken clarification from the Court

for mere supervision of investigation by local police of those

cases, instead of taking over the investigation of the concerned

offences. At the same time, it is significant to mention that, it is

only after STF took over the responsibility of supervision of

investigation of those 45 cases, the investigation in those cases

has made perceptible headway by arrests of most of the

absconding accused and also by filing of further charge-

sheet/police report under Section 173 (8) of the Code. The

supervision by STF also made it possible to unravel the pattern

or the modus operandi in all those cases and to collate

information, which has helped them in investigating PMT

VYAPAM examination scam cases entrusted to it by the State

Government and monitored by this Court. This Court is already

monitoring the further investigation of even those cases

supervised by STF. 60. Shri Tulsi had then relied on the Press Release issued 55 through PRO of Police Headquarter. According to him, the

contents of this news item go to show that there has been gross

interference by the superiors in Police Headquarter in the

investigation by STF. The first Press Release, Annexure R/5 to

the return, issued under the signature of one Arun/Pradeep

Bhatia, PRO Police Headquarter, pertains to the selection

process of Transport Inspectors. There is nothing in this Press

Release, which even remotely refers to the investigation of PMT - VYAPAM examination scam cases, which is the subject matter

of monitoring by this Court. The news item is founded on this

Press Release and for which reason it can have no bearing on the

matter under consideration. As regards the Press Release,

Annexure R/6-2 to the return, even this Press Release concerns

the selection process of Samvida Shala Shikshak and has nothing

to do with the PMT - VYAPAM examination scam cases, even

though, Controller - Dr. Pankaj Trivedi and Principal System

Analyst - Nitin Mohindra may be common in all these criminal

cases. Viewed thus, even this Press Release will be of no avail to

question the fairness, independence and impartiality of STF in

investigation of PMT - VYAPAM examination scam, which are

being monitored by this Court. 61. It was argued that assuming that the fact referred to in 56 this Press Release is ascribable to some other criminal case

(other than PMT VYAPAM examination scam cases), but, the

Press Release reinforces the apprehension of the petitioner(s)

that STF was sharing details of the investigation, to its superiors

outside STF. Else, there was no occasion to give the Press

Release mentioning about the facts emerging from the

documents available with the STF, to assert that the earlier news

item published was false and misleading. The argument though

attractive at the first blush, on deeper scrutiny, does not indicate

that the documents collated by STF during the investigation of

PMT - VYAPAM examination scam cases or for that matter

selection examination of Samvida Shala Shikshak - were made

available to the superiors in Police Headquarter or to the PRO of

Police, who issued the Press Release. So long as the information

shared was limited to the description or availability of the

document and not substance of the investigation, the efficacy

and impartiality of investigation of those cases cannot be

doubted. Similarly, the Press Release, Annexure R/5 to the

Return, is in response to the news item in the Print as well as

Electronic Media about the recommendation made by RSS Chief - Shri K. Sudarshan and Shri Suresh Soni. This news item and

the Press Release was concerning the selection process of Food 57 Inspectors - 2012, registered as Crime No.15/2013. The charge-

sheet in the said case has already been submitted on 20th March,

2014. As a result, even this Press release cannot be made the

basis to question the fairness, independence and impartiality of

investigation by STF in relation to PMT - VYAPAM

examination scam cases, which are being monitored by this

Court. As and when the investigation done by STF in those cases

is questioned, that will have to be dealt with appropriately.

Suffice it to observe that this document or the circumstances

emanating from this document, by no stretch of imagination, can

be the basis to assume or for that matter entertain a reasonable

apprehension that the investigation by STF of PMT - VYAPAM

examination scam cases is tainted, impartial or not independent.

It is also not possible to persuade ourselves to accept the

apprehension of the petitioner(s) that STF was sharing vital

information concerning the investigation of PMT - VYAPAM

examination scam cases to superiors in Police

Headquarter/Home Department, so as to protect high

Government officials or Heads of the State. 62. Shri Tulsi then invited our attention to paragraph

25(d) of the return to contend that STF was under the Wings of

the State and was accountable to superiors in Police Headquarter 58 and Home Department. Similar argument has been considered

by the earlier Division Bench and negatived in paragraph 19

onwards and, in particular, paragraph 44 of the decision dated

16th April, 2014. The Court opined that the fact that STF is one

of the wing of the State Government, does not mean that it will

not investigate the cases independently and impartially or will

act on the instructions from higher-ups outside STF. Further,

even CBI was under control of the Union of India and not an

independent or autonomous Agency as such. So long as no

allegation is made about the inertia of any STF official, or of

having acted under political influence and taking instructions

from higher Authorities, it is too much to argue that STF will not

do its job well, as per law, especially when it is manned by high

ranking experienced IPS Officers and by far known to be

independent. Shri Tulsi had placed reliance on the dictum of the

Supreme Court in paragraph 29 and 30 in Shahid Balwa 's case

(supra). Those observations have been made in the fact situation

of that case. Moreover, the doubts raised in the previous Public

Interest Litigations about the impartiality and integrity of the

STF has been considered threadbare and came to be negatived.

The petitioners in the present set of petitions have not been able

to point out any acts of commission and omission of the officers 59 of STF, that would raise doubt about their impartiality in

investigation of PMT VYAPAM examination scam cases. For

the same reason, reliance placed on the dictum of the Apex

Court in the case of Vineet Narain (supra) will be of no avail. 63. Relying on the averments in paragraph 50 of the

Return, it was contended that it does not lie in the mouth of the

STF to disown its acts of commission and omission of having

shared the details of investigation to higher-ups and, in

particular, to PRO of Police Headquarter, inasmuch as, the

common return filed by the respondents asserts that the Press

Release was necessitated due to unwanted hype created by

Print/Electronic media regarding the involvement of Shri

Sudarshan and Shri Soni. We have already dealt with this aspect

in the earlier part of this judgment and hence do not deem it

necessary to dilate any further. For, the said news item and the

Press Release pertain to cases other than PMT -VYAPAM

examination scam cases and also because none of these Press

Releases disclose the details or substance of the investigation or

give slightest of impression about sharing of the contents of

investigation by the STF to other Authorities outside STF. It is

one thing to mention about the material fact unravelled during

the investigation, but, mere disclosure about the possession of 60 the document as denial of the press news - (referred to as

missing from STF investigation record in the Press news), by

itself, does not mean that the line of investigation or that the

contents of the material evidence gathered by STF have been

shared. Nor does it follow that the STF has completely ruled out

the naming of persons mentioned in the document, until filing of

final charge sheet in those cases in the concerned court. If the

Press Releases were to give any further justification or details of

the investigation, that would have been objectionable. Moreover,

that would be relevant to the investigation of those cases and not

to PMT - VYAPAM examination scam cases. 64. Relying on paragraph 52 of the common return, it

was argued that appearance of one Additional Advocate General

for all the wings of the State, namely, State Government, Home

Department, STF and VYAPAM was impermissible, inasmuch

as, there was intrinsic conflict of interest between their stand

and, at least, in relation to the factum of independence of

investigation of those cases by STF. 65. Before dealing with the submission with regard to

conflict of interest, we deem it apposite to refer to the expression

'conflict of interest' as understood in common parlance. The

term 'conflict of interest' is used in connection with public 61 officials and fiduciaries and their relationship to matters of

private interest or gain to them. A conflict of interest arises

when a government employee's personal or financial interest

conflicts or appears to conflict with his official responsibility.

[See Black's Law Dictionary - Sixth Edition; and Advanced

Law Lexicon by P. Ramanatha Aiyar - 3rd Edition Reprint

2007]. 66. On closer scrutiny of the stand of the respondents,

we find merit in the argument of Shri L. Nageshwar Rao,

Additional Solicitor General that appearance of common

Advocate for all the wings of the State in no way affects the

merits of the investigation done by STF or its impartiality and

independence. It would have been a different matter if the same

Advocate were to appear for the accused as well as the

complainant. In all the PMT cases, the complainant is either

STF or VYAPAM itself. There is no conflict of interest between

them. As a matter of fact, both VYAPAM as well as the

concerned Departments of the State are taking appropriate action

against the officials of the concerned wing of the State involved

in the commission of the alleged crime. The erring officials - be

they howsoever high - are being prosecuted by STF as well as

are being proceeded by the concerned Departments of the State 62 by way of departmental enquiry and action of dismissal. There is

nothing to even remotely suggest that officials of STF had

passed on any benefit to any official of VYAPAM or any other

Department of the State. On the contrary, the material shows that

STF has proceeded against one and all - be he the high

Government official or person in public life. Accordingly, we

find no merit in the submission that STF is not properly

insulated, which, in turn, is affecting its independence in any

manner. Shri Tulsi, no doubt, concluded with the submission that

the DGP whose statement has been mentioned in the Press

Release be called upon to file affidavit to state whether STF

gave him access to the record of investigation of the subject

crimes or that he has not seen the same. However, as noted

earlier, the statement of the DGP in the Press Release is

concerning offences other than PMT - VYAPAM examination

scam cases, which are not the subject matter of monitoring by

this Court. As a result, we have no intention to expand the scope

of enquiry about those matters in the present petitions, being a

non-issue. 67. That takes us to the argument of Ms. Indira Jaisingh.

According to her, consent for enquiry by CBI in connection with

the death of Dr. D.K. Sakalle given by the State was only a 63 farce. Such consent could not have been given without issuance

of a Notification under Section 6 of the Delhi Police Act. This

argument has been rightly refuted by the learned counsel for the

Respondents relying on the exposition in the case of Balkrishna

Reddy (supra). Section 6 of the Delhi Police Act, 1946, which

speaks of consent of the State Government neither refers to

Notification nor order. Therefore, Notification under Section 6 of

the Act is not required to be issued for grant of consent by the

State Government under the Act. We have already dealt with the

circumstances in which that consent was given. Ms Jaisingh had

invited our attention to the other part of the same judgment,

which, however, does not take the matter any further for

deciding the argument under consideration. In that, issuance of a

Notification under Section 6 of the Act is not envisaged for

entrusting the investigation to CBI on the basis of consent given

by the State Government. Accordingly, the point under

consideration deserves to be answered against the petitioner. 68. So far as submission of Ms. Indira Jaisingh about

intrinsic conflict of interest of different wings of the State, the

same deserves to be stated to be rejected as we have accepted the

argument of the respondents that there is no conflict of interest

amongst the four wings of the State with regard to the subject 64 matter of these petitions. 69. The enquiry that needs to be confined in these

petitions is : whether STF was impartially and independently

investigating the stated PMT - VYAPAM examination scam

cases and not likely to be influenced from any quarter. In the

earlier round of Public Interest Litigation, this contention has

already been negatived and answered in favour of STF with the

finding that it is an independent unit created for investigation of

specified cases of serious nature having wide ramifications for

the State and that the officials of STF are not expected to report

to their superiors in the Home Department or the Police

Headquarter concerning the contents or details of the

investigation done by them. The head of the STF unit is none

else, but, a high IPS official of the rank of A.D.G.P. having vast

experience and is known for his impartiality and fairness in the

investigation. Since there is no conflict of interest qua the

subject matter in issue, there is nothing wrong if one Law

Officer of the State appears for all the wings of the State. Suffice

it to observe that we are not impressed by the submission of

merger of personalities of different wings of the State and having

propensity to affect the fairness and independence of the

Investigating Agency because of filing of common Return or for 65 that matter to be represented by one Law Officer. The fact that

one Law Officer has appeared for the different wings of the

State, does not necessarily lead to a presumption, in fact or in

law, that he would share the vital information pertaining to

investigation of the stated cases to persons from other

Department. This apprehension is founded on a figment of

imagination of the petitioner(s), without any tangible basis

therefor. If the petitioners are able to substantiate commission of

such misconduct by the Advocate concerned, must approach the

proper forum. Inasmuch as, the factum of professional

misconduct by any Advocate can be made subject matter of an

enquiry before the Bar Council, which has the exclusive

prerogative in that behalf. 70. In our opinion, there is nothing in law that can

prevent the Law Officer from appearing for different parties in

the same proceedings, which according to his wisdom, has no

conflict of interest. Reliance has been justly placed on paragraph

100 in the case of Deepak Agarwal (supra), which reads thus : 71. Speaking about Shri P.K. Kaurav, we have observed

his performance whilst he was defending the STF for

opposing grant or non-grant of anticipatory bail or regular bail to

the concerned accused named in the criminal cases -

investigation whereof is being monitored by this Court. Not only

that, he has been appearing for VYAPAM as well as the State in

all the cases where VYAPAM had taken action against the

candidates, who are incidentally named as accused by the STF.

The assistance given by him in all those cases has been of high

order. Not even once, it appeared to us that he had mixed up the

causes of different wings of the State. It is very easy for the

petitioners to raise a bogey - merely on the basis of their

apprehension, but, accepting such unsubstantiated and flimsy 67 plea would, inevitably, entail in recording a finding of that

Advocate having committed professional misconduct, which is

not within our domain and which we must eschew. 72. Since, we have had the occasion to observe the

performance of Shri Kaurav on regular basis in series of

petitions/applications arising from PMT - VYAPAM

examination scam cases, almost on daily basis, since the matters

have reached this Court, appearing jointly or separately for one

wing or the other, we do not find any merit in the argument

under consideration. For the same reason, the argument of Ms.

Indira Jaisingh that, in public interest, this Court ought to

appoint an independent Public Prosecutor to represent STF in

this proceedings for monitoring the investigation of STF in the

stated cases, does not commend to us. The prayer is not to

appoint Public Prosecutor to represent STF during the trial. Even

that prayer cannot be examined behind the back of already

appointed Public Prosecutor(s) in the respective 55 cases. The

scope of monitoring of investigation cannot be enlarged in this

behalf, unless we were to record a finding that the trials are not

being properly handled by the existing Public Prosecutor(s) in

the respective criminal cases. 73. We, however, appreciate the fair stand taken by Ms. 68 Indira Jaisingh that she is not opposed to in camera monitoring

of the investigation by the Court, if the situation so warrants. If

the monitoring involves scrutiny of the substance of the

investigation, it must necessarily be in camera. But otherwise, it

must be in open Court. We have no difficulty in accepting this

submission. But, as aforesaid, for the last few dates noted earlier,

this Bench has been analyzing the quality of investigation

already done by the STF, which, most of the times, involved

discussion about the substance of the investigation. To avoid

disclosure of those matters in open Court, the hearing was

conducted in camera, in Chamber. Henceforth, if the enquiry in

the process of monitoring is of a general nature, we can always

take up the matter in open Court. Notably, even though in

camera monitoring of investigation was resorted to in the past,

the order-sheets of the concerned date, mentions about the

presence of the officers of STF and the documents produced by

them. That fact is already in public domain and placed on the

official website of the High Court. It is evident from the said

order-sheets that the monitoring in Chamber was done for

sufficiently long time on case to case basis, spread over for

almost over or about two hours on the given dates. As aforesaid,

we have no difficulty in following the same method and as 69 suggested by Ms. Indira Jaisingh. 74. Ms. Indira Jaisingh then relying on the common

affidavit filed by the different wings of the State, contended that

their entities have merged even though they have conflict of

interest. We have already dealt with this contention, which was

also raised by Shri Tulsi and negatived the same. It was also

argued that from the reply-affidavit filed by VYAPAM in Writ

Petition No.15404/2013, it is noticed that VYAPAM had taken a

stand on merits regarding the scam and about the matters which

were engaging the attention of the Court concerning those

crimes notwithstanding the fact that officials of VYAPAM were

under scanner and their activities were being investigated by

STF. This argument would have been relevant in the earlier

round of writ petitions, which were disposed of by common

judgment dated 16th April, 2014. Secondly, it is in ignorance of

the fact that the said affidavit of VYAPAM was not filed by any

of the officials of VYAPAM, who are under investigation. On the

other hand, the stand of VYAPAM, plainly, was that as the

unholy activities have been unearthed indicating involvement of

its officials, it would proceed against those officials, in

accordance with law. It is, therefore, wrong to contend that

VYAPAM had hostile interest or had defended STF on any 70 question of investigation done by STF. To put it differently, there

was no conflict of interest between VYAPAM and STF on

matters concerning investigation of the offences under

monitoring. For the same reason, we reject the argument that

filing of such common affidavit by different wings of the State

entailed in interference with administration of justice. We also

reject the argument that the Investigation Agency (STF) had

disclosed any vital information about the contents or substance

of the investigation to any other Authority outside STF or was

taking instructions from them in connection with the

investigation of the stated cases. 75. The next argument of Ms. Indira Jaisingh, is that, the

Court on the earlier occasion should not have disposed of the

Public Interest Litigations filed by the private persons. In our

opinion, if this argument is entertained it would inevitably result

in undertaking review of the said decision , which is not the

scope of the present proceedings. Except this, nothing more is

required to be observed. In any case, disposal of those petitions

has not come in the way of the present petitioners to file fresh

petitions and, more so, when the same have been entertained to

the limited extent of considering the subsequent developments

and actions of STF. 76. The argument that no other party was appearing in

the suo motu proceeding except the official respondents and that

those respondents have common interests also, does not

commend to us. For, in the suo motu proceedings, the limited

issue is about monitoring of the investigation by STF of the

stated PMT - VYAPAM examination scam criminal cases. In

that context, only the State of Madhya Pradesh and STF would

be relevant parties. Indeed, STF is one of the wing of the State,

but, as observed earlier, is a separate unit in the Home

Department of the State and, more particularly, the investigation

of the stated cases have been completely insulated and

progressing in right direction. Going by the criminal

jurisprudence, ordinarily, after registration of offences until

filing of the charge-sheet/police report (under Section 173 of the

Code), the Investigating Officer is in complete control and it is

his wisdom, which guides him to investigate the matter. Along

with the charge-sheet, the Investigating Officer has to place on

record complete material collated by him during the

investigation. The Court after perusal of the charge-sheet and the

accompanying record, can call upon the Investigating Officer to

explore further investigation on certain matters, which it may

deem appropriate. Further, during the trial, the Court has ample 72 power to issue direction to examine someone as court witness as

also to proceed against any person, who is found to be involved

in the commission of the crime tried by it, if the evidence

brought on record discloses that fact. 77. Suffice it to observe that the scope of monitoring of

investigation by Court is very limited to surveillance. It is to

ensure that the Investigating Agency conducts the investigation

in a free, fair and time bound manner without any external

interference. Thus understood, non-presence of any other party,

much less public spirited person in such proceeding would make

no difference nor can it be said to be inappropriate. The third

party such as the petitioners before this Court, no doubt, can

always bring certain vital facts to the notice of the Court to

throw light on the laxity or inertia in the investigation or for that

matter facts revealing investigation being controlled by external

forces. Indubitably, there is no legal provision, at least brought to

our notice, which mandates appointment of an amicus curiae to

assist the Court for monitoring of the investigation. The

monitoring of investigation by the Court, in itself, is an

exceptional situation. If the Court takes the responsibility of

monitoring and finds it difficult in discharging that role,

certainly it is open to the Court to appoint an Advocate of 73 eminence as amicus curiae to assist the Court at any stage. That

will be a matter of prudence. 78. The next argument canvassed by Ms. Indira Jaisingh

that suo motu proceedings should be heard in open Court, has

already been answered in the earlier part of this judgment.

Inasmuch as, the suo motu proceedings were initially heard in

open Court, but, when the Court found that without proper

analysis of the material already gathered by the Investigating

Agency, the monitoring of the investigation may be futile and

that the analysis of the evidence in open Court would have,

inevitably, entailed in discussion of the nature and the substance

of the material so collected, it was deemed appropriate to opt for

in camera hearing. Even Ms. Indira Jaisingh, in her usual

fairness, concedes that if it is a matter involving discussion of

the substance of the material collected by the Investigating

Agency, it may not be appropriate to discuss it in open Court

hearing; and to avoid revelation of such material, which may

give advantage to the accused sooner or later, in camera hearing

may be most suited. 79. Ms Indira Jaisingh had also relied on the decision of

the Supreme Court in the case of Subrata Chattoraj (supra), in

particular, para 31 therein. The observations in the said reported
 decision are in the backdrop of the fact situation of that case

inter alia involving inter State ramifications. Hence, this

decision will be of no avail. For, in these cases, we have already

negatived the apprehensions of the petitioners about the

possibility of laxity or impartiality in the investigation by STF,

for the reasons already noted hitherto. 80. Ms. Indira Jaisingh then contended that the Court

should not have gagged the media from publishing the

proceedings. As the PIL's filed by the private parties are now

being finally disposed of, it is a non-issue. We, therefore, refrain

from examining the same except to observe that the order passed

was to desist from publication "of the deliberations in the Court

Room" on the given dates and nothing more. Therefore, it is not

necessary for us to dilate any further on the exposition in the

cases of Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited (supra)

and Asharam Bapu (supra). 81. A priori, we reject the submissions of Ms. Indira

Jaisingh to transfer the investigation of the stated PMT -

VYAPAM examination scam cases to CBI, and to appoint

Special Public Prosecutor to represent STF or to direct the STF

to appoint another Advocate to espouse its cause instead of the

Law Officer of the State. We may, however, accede to her

submission that the Court should continue to monitor the
 investigation of those cases. For the reasons already recorded, as

of now, we do not deem it necessary to appoint amicus curiae to

assist the Court during such monitoring. Similarly, her

submission that the hearing of suo motu proceedings should be

in open court as held earlier, would depend on the matters to be

considered in the process of monitoring of the investigation by

the Court and not necessarily in open Court. We also do not

accept her submission that the present PIL's filed by the private

parties should be kept pending. In our opinion, there is no reason

to multiply the proceedings for the same cause. Moreover,

keeping these set of petitions pending, will be inviting further

distraction to the process of monitoring of investigation by the

Court. That would be antithesis to public interest and would

impair the objective of monitoring. Inasmuch as, due to the

objections taken by these petitioners, that suo motu proceedings

should not be heard in Chamber and to injunct Mr. Kaurav from

appearing for STF, the monitoring of the cases has virtually been

in suspended animation from 12/09/2014. In the later part of the

judgment, however, we would provide for a mechanism, which

can assuage the apprehensions of these petitioners and persons

similarly situated. 82. That takes us to the argument of Shri Tankha, Senior 76 Advocate, who had relied on three notes prepared by him with

the assistance of his colleagues on the basis of information

culled out from the charge-sheets filed in the concerned criminal

cases by STF. He pointed out that there were discrepancies in the

investigation. According to him, the material reveals that the

name of the Minister was not mentioned in the excel-sheet, but,

the STF did not investigate that aspect and, more particularly,

made no attempt to ascertain the name of the Minister. He then

pointed out that although the name of Ms. Uma Bharti appears in

the material filed along with the charge-sheet, however, she has

not been named as an accused in any criminal case investigated

by STF. Further, the Investigating Agency was adopting a policy

of pick and choose by naming some of the candidates as accused

and some as witnesses. Those who spoke about the facts

convenient to STF, were made witnesses and those who named

heavyweights as being party to the conspiracy, have been named

as an accused. 83. To re-assure ourselves, we called for explanation

from STF on those facts in sealed cover. Suffice it to observe

that the explanation offered by STF in sealed cover for the

perusal of the Court not only refutes the above noted points

raised by the petitioners, but, also gives sufficient reason to 77 justify the charge-sheet as filed by the Investigating Agency. We

do not deem it appropriate to disclose the said explanation in this

judgment, which has been handed over in a sealed cover to us by

the STF. For, any observation in that behalf may affect the fair

trial of those cases. As is noted earlier, the legal position is well

established that the Investigating Agency is obliged to place the

entire material - be it for or against the prosecution - as has been

collected during the investigation of the case along with the

police report/charge sheet. Further, it is then open to the Trial

Court to summon any person as court witness or to be named as

an accused on the basis of the evidence that comes on record

during the trial. Besides this, we do not deem it appropriate to

make any further observation at this stage. We, however, restate

the opinion already recorded that, as of now, we do not find any

inertia or inaction on the part of the Investigating Agency in

investigation of the stated PMT - VYAPAM examination scam

criminal cases. Rather, we find that the investigation of these

cases, assigned to STF, are proceeding in right direction and in a

fair, impartial and independent manner. Therefore, reliance

placed on the dictum of Vineet Narain (supra) is of no

assistance to the petitioners, in the fact situation of these cases. 84. Shri Tankha referring to the fact that VYAPAM had 78 furnished information to STF in only two days' time after

receiving the requisition from STF, notwithstanding the fact that

the material to be analyzed by VYAPAM was humongous task.

We are not impressed even by this argument. In the first place,

that argument was available in the first round of Public Interest

Litigation and, in fact, has been dealt with in the said judgment .

Secondly, the information furnished by VYAPAM was based on

computer generated data analyzed by the technical experts of

VYAPAM, which could be generated by few computer

commands. Thirdly, the investigation by STF is in respect of all

the relevant matters and not limited to the information furnished

by VYAPAM, though the same was found to be relevant

information. In any case, the credibility of the Investigating

Agency (STF) is not shaken in any manner because of receiving

such information from VYAPAM. 85. The next argument advanced by Shri Tankha, that the

Court should continue to monitor the investigation has already

been dealt with. Similarly, his argument that the Court should

appoint Special Public Prosecutor and Advocate of eminence as

amicus curiae to assist the Court during the monitoring, has also

been answered by us in the negative while dealing with the

submission of Ms. Indira Jaisingh. 86. Reverting to the argument of Shri Rajendra Tiwari,

Senior Counsel, who had additionally referred to paragraph 49

of the common return to contend that the affirmation clause of

the return is not proper. We have already observed that the same

is a curable defect and the affiant can be asked to swear a proper

affirmation clause. We have also rejected the argument that the

common return filed discloses that the different wings of the

State are hand-in-glove or that it could not have filed such

common return in view of the conflict of interest. His argument

that there is no mention in the affidavit that the same was being

filed in consultation with all the wings of the State, in our

opinion, contradicts the argument that a common return could

not have been filed on behalf of different wings of the State. As

noted earlier, the return has been sworn by Ashish Khare, AIG,

ATF, Bhopal and OIC in his capacity as official of STF. That

return, cannot be discarded whilst examining the question as to

whether the investigation of STF is free, fair, impartial and

without pressure from Authorities outside STF. It would have

been a different matter, if the common return was filed by

official(s) from other Department. That could have given rise to

an inference that vital details collected during the investigation

have been divulged or shared with the said official(s). 80 87. As regards, FIR in Crime No.20/2013, which refers

to the involvement of Ms Uma Bharti without naming her as an

accused, we have already noted that the said offence pertains to

Samvida Shala Shikshak and has nothing to do with the PMT -

VYAPAM examination scam cases, which are being investigated

by STF and are subject matter of monitoring by the Court.

Needless to observe that the Investigation Agency is obliged to

proceed against all persons found to be involved in the

commission of the said offence. Further, the Court dealing with

the said criminal cases will be in a position to analyze the

material submitted by the Investigating Officer along with the

police report and proceed against all concerned found to be

involved in the commission of the said offence. Besides this,

nothing more is required to be observed. 88. The argument of Shri Tiwari that PMT -VYAPAM

examination scam cases have inter State ramifications, also does

not commend to us. The fact that some of the

scorers/impersonators were brought from other States, does not

make it a case of inter State ramifications. The offence has been

planned and executed within the State of Madhya Pradesh. The

main accused are officials of VYAPAM. The manipulation of

official record was done by the officials of VYAPAM. The 81 racketeers and even middlemen, who arranged for the

scorers/impersonators were, essentially, from Madhya Pradesh.

The question is : whether STF is capable of investigating the

crime in which scorers and impersonators from other States have

also participated. We have no hesitation in taking the view that

STF is in a position to investigate even that aspect of the crime

and, in fact, have succeeded in arresting large number of

scorers/impersonators and for that matter middlemen from other

States also. Understood thus, the question of entrusting the

investigation to CBI on this argument does not arise; and, more

so, on the finding that the investigation done so far by STF of

the stated offences has been free, fair and impartial. It would

have been a different matter if STF was not in a position to

proceed at all against the scorers/impersonators coming from

other States. Hence, there is no substance even in this

submission. 89. The next argument of Shri Tiwari founded on

Annexure P/5 (in Writ Petition No.12431/2014) that a clean chit

has been given to Shri Sudarshan reflects on the impartiality of

STF, clearly overlooks that Shri Sudarshan has not been named

either as an accused or a witness in any of the criminal case

arising out of PMT VYAPAM examination scam, but, it pertains 82 to some other offence, which is not the subject matter of

monitoring by this Court. Similarly, the argument about the

involvement of someone from the Chief Minister's official

residence will be of no avail to criminal cases arising out of

PMT VYAPAM examination scam. We have already dealt with

these aspects quite elaborately in the earlier part of this

judgment. Suffice it to observe that the apprehensions expressed

by the petitioner(s) represented by Shri Tiwari, Senior Counsel,

are based on miscommunication and misunderstanding of the

issues relevant to ascertain whether the investigation done by

STF in relation to PMT - VYAPAM examination scam matters

is free, fair and impartial. 90. That takes us to the argument of Shri Siddhartha

Seth, who reiterated his argument as was canvassed by him in

the earlier round of Public Interest Litigation, about the parens

patriae obligation of the State and about public outcry due to the

scam and the disillusionment of the common man. That

argument has already been considered and rejected in the earlier

judgment. The petitioner for whom he is appearing has not

pointed out any specific subsequent development, which can mar

the credibility of the STF. Hence, no further elaboration is

necessary. 91. As regards the argument of Shri Manish Verma that

there was possibility of cut off higher marks for the open

category having been manipulated and that has not been

investigated, also does not commend to us. For, if any such clue

is revealed during the investigation, the STF will be obliged to

investigate even that aspect thoroughly. Suffice it to observe that

until filing of the final charge sheet in all the PMT VYAPAM

examination scam cases, entertaining such grievance is

premature. 92. Having dealt with each of the arguments raised by the

counsel for the respective petitioner(s), we may now examine

the scope of enquiry in the present set of writ petitions. As

aforesaid, the question regarding the integrity and credibility of

the investigation by STF will have to be tested on the basis of

subsequent developments after the judgment in the first round of

Public Interest Litigations. We have already dealt with each of

those points raised by the concerned petitioner(s) and found it to

be flimsy, baseless, untenable and replete with misinformation, if

not disinformation. As a result, there is no reason to depart from

the view already expressed by the earlier Division Bench of this

Court about the independence of STF and also about the quality

of investigation of the stated offences concerning PMT - 84 VYAPAM examination scam by the said Agency. We find that

even after the judgment dated 16th April, 2014, investigation by

the STF in all the criminal cases and fresh registered cases

concerning PMT - VYAPAM examination scam is proceeding in

the right direction and is being done in a proper manner. This

Court has closely monitored the investigation since the

commencement of suo motu proceedings, and did not find any

infirmity, much less of the order to doubt the credibility of the

investigation. For the aforementioned reasons, the decision

rendered in the case of Narmadabai (supra) has no application

to the facts of these cases. 93. We have no hesitation in placing on record that on

each date of hearing for monitoring of investigation, the Court

had to spend substantial time, almost about or over two hours on

every occasion, to understand the progress made on case to case

basis. The status reports submitted on every occasion by the

concerned officials of STF have already been kept in sealed

cover, which testify the amount of labour put in by the

Investigation Agency. It has come on record that the

Investigation Agency has succeded in arresting more than 1000

accused since monitoring by Court and the process of arrest of

absconding accused is also being pursued in right earnest on 85 case to case basis. Besides the number of arrests, including of all

the high Government officials and persons in public life, who

were found to be involved in the commission of the said

offences, each of them have been proceeded against by STF.

The principal accused or the brain behind the conspiracy and

most of the racketeers and middlemen have been arrested and

put in jail. The bail applications filed by them have been

effectively opposed at the level of the Trial Court as well as High

Court. We have no hesitation in observing that there is no legal

basis to transfer the investigation to another Investigation

Agency, and moreso because of the fact that the investigation in

each of these 55 criminal cases by STF has reached at an

advanced stage. In most of the criminal cases, charge-sheet has

since been filed against the concerned accused without

committing any default; and in remaining cases further

investigation is in progress. The STF has assured this Court that

it would ensure that final charge-sheets will be filed almost in all

the cases very shortly, except in two cases by March, 2015

because of the complexity of the investigation and involvement

of large number of accused in those cases. Notably, the STF after

taking over the supervision of 45 cases concerning

impersonation registered from year 2000, was able to crack the 86 whip against concerned accused, which cases were not

effectively pursued by the local police. 94. In our opinion, as we find that the investigation of

criminal cases, arising out of PMT - VYAPAM examination

scam, done by STF so far is proceeding in right direction and is

being done properly, therefore, at this advanced stage of

investigation, it would be against the public interest to transfer

the same. However, if some deficiency in the investigation is

noticed during the monitoring of the investigation, it is always

possible for the STF to take corrective steps and also for the

Court to ensure that such issues are addressed by STF in right

earnest. That option would be meaningful and in public interest,

than the knee jerk reaction of transferring the investigation of all

the 55 cases to new Investigation Agency. The latter may give

rise to uncertainty, confusion and most importantly delay in

bringing the offenders to book and to put them on trial at the

earliest. 95. Indubitably, on the basis of some flimsy

apprehensions, which are, essentially, founded on

misinformation, miscommunication and misunderstanding of the

real facts and, if we may say so, presented only to confuse and

obfuscate the real issues, cannot be the basis to lightly 87 undermine the sincerity, commitment and, more importantly,

integrity and credibility of an institution especially created by

the State to investigate such serious offences. It would have been

a different matter, if the petitioners were able to demonstrate that

the officials investigating the stated offences were biased or

incompetent. If that case was to be made out, the Court could

have passed appropriate order including to keep those officials at

bay from STF and with the investigation of these cases.

However, it is neither fair nor permissible or in public interest to

question the integrity and credibility of the entire organization of

STF on unsubstantiated apprehensions, if not unstatable. That

approach would be counter productive and inevitably weaken

the democratic values. It would entail in creating an environment

of mistrust qua this premier organisation/institution of the State.

It is cardinal to uphold and respect the integrity of the institution

such as STF by one and all and more so by public spirited

persons, as it is inextricably linked to democratic values and

independent functioning of such institutions. Any attempt to

undermine the integrity of the institution must be eschewed. As

observed by the Apex Court, public outcry alone cannot be the

basis to transfer the investigation of the criminal cases to another

Investigation Agency. But, something more and palpable should 88 be brought to the notice of the Court to issue such a drastic

direction. 96. It is noteworthy that Section 39 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure, 1973, mandates that every person aware of

the commission of or of intention of any other person to commit

any offence punishable under the Sections of the Indian Penal

Code mentioned therein, shall in absence of any reasonable

excuse, forthwith give information to the nearest Magistrate or

Police Officer of such commission or intention. Further, non-

furnishing of such information without any reasonable excuse is

in itself an offence punishable under Section 176 of the Indian

Penal Code. A fortiori, it is the duty of the petitioners and

similarly placed public spirited persons to report about any

infirmity or illegality noticed by them and which is capable of

being corrected by the Head of the Institution/Organization such

as STF. We have no manner of doubt that if the petitioners had

approached the Head of the STF, he would have been able to

deal with the points raised by them in an objective manner and,

in turn, could have instructed the concerned officials to deal with

the matter appropriately. The petitioners, therefore, ought to first

share the information available with them concerning any case

under the monitoring of this Court or any other case investigated 89 by the STF, to the Head of the STF, if they so desire. We refrain

ourselves from observing anything further. 97. Be that as it may, although, we have neither found

any infirmity in the investigation nor could discern any laxity or

inertia in the investigation by STF in the stated criminal cases,

but, keeping in mind the issues raised by the petitioners in the

present set of petitions that the Court must appoint Public

Prosecutor to espouse the cause of STF and in addition the Court

must nominate an amicus curiae to assist the Court in hearing of

the suo motu proceedings and further the hearing of suo motu

proceedings should be conducted in open Court coupled with the

fact that the matter has aroused public interest, we deem it

appropriate to provide a dispensation, by creating one more

effective level for filtering of information concerning the

quantitative and qualitative progress of investigation by STF

before the same is brought to the notice of the Court. That would

further the cause of free, fair, independent and impartial

investigation by STF. For that, we intend to appoint a broad

based Special Investigation Team (SIT), consisting of

experienced judicial mind, IPS officer having indepth knowledge

of the nuances of the investigation and an experienced I.T.

professional - (as the evidence that will be presented in the 90 concerned criminal cases will also be electronic evidence). This

team would not only act as a watch dog Committee of the

Court, but, would also be in a position to filter the information

and inputs that would come to its knowledge through different

sources and found to be relevant for ensuring free, fair and

impartial investigation by STF. This team will also be entrusted

with the task of overall supervision of the investigation of

criminal cases concerning PMT - VYAPAM examination scam

assigned to STF, on case to case basis. It may be open to this

Team to give instructions to the Head of the STF concerning the

investigation of the stated offences and to ensure that those

instructions are carried out in right earnest. All future

representations or information concerning the investigation of

the stated offences, by any interested person, hereafter, will have

to be first addressed to the Chairman of the Special Investigation

Team. The Team after processing the said information, within a

reasonable time after its receipt, may issue instructions to the

Head of the STF and call upon him to submit compliance report

within specified time. On failure to comply with such

instructions, SIT may forward a report of the Chairman, bringing

it to the notice of the Court, forthwith. Under this arrangement

the petitioners or any other interested person, hereafter, will be 91 free to submit their representations /information to the Chairman

of the SIT and on receipt thereof, the SIT may compile such

information and submit the same to the Court with its remarks

and action taken thereon. 98. For assisting the SIT to present its case before the

Court, it would be open to it to appoint an Advocate of its

choice. The State Government shall be obliged to provide for the

logistical support to the SIT appointed in terms of this order and

shall also be responsible for the emoluments and expenses

(including the expenses and professional fees of the Advocate to

be appointed by SIT), to be paid to the members of SIT. We are

of the considered opinion that such arrangement would not only

create one more level for monitoring the investigation of stated

cases by STF, but, it would also assuage the apprehensions or, if

we may say so, the mis-apprehensions of the petitioners and

similarly placed persons about the impartiality of the

investigation by STF. If this dispensation is put in place, the

argument of the petitioners that the Court must appoint amicus

curiae to assist the Court or for that matter issue direction to the

STF to engage its own Public Prosecutor to espouse the cause of

STF or the objection to the appearance of one Law Officer for all

the wings of the State, will stand redressed. 99. Accordingly, we proceed to pass the following

common order in these petitions: 12386/2014 (PIL);12392/2014 (PIL);12431/2014 (PIL);

 13475/2014 (PIL); and 13868/2014 (PIL) are disposed of

 with the above observations with no order as to costs. 2. Suo motu proceedings shall continue. However, the same

 be now listed on 7th November, 2014, in Open Court for

 nominating the members of SIT and for determining their

 emoluments. 3. We hereby appoint a broad based Special Investigation

 Team (SIT) consisting of (a) former High Court Judge as

 Chairman of SIT; (b) former IPS Officer not below the

 rank of Additional Director General of Police having

 indepth experience of investigation; and (c) former

 experienced I.T. professional. 4. The Special Investigation Team is appointed to supervise

 the investigation of all criminal cases concerning PMT -

 VYAPAM examination scam entrusted to STF, on case to

 case basis. Further, the SIT can issue instructions to the

 Head of the Special Task Force concerning the

 investigation of those cases, if any, with further 93 instructions to file compliance report within the time frame

 specified by it. For any reason, STF fails to comply with

 those instructions within the given time frame, that fact

 may be brought to the notice of the Court by the Chairman

 of the SIT through his report submitted in a sealed cover. 5. Any information or representation regarding the

 investigation of the stated criminal cases entrusted to STF,

 by any interested person, hereafter, shall be submitted to

 the Chairman of the SIT, who, after due scrutiny thereof,

 may take necessary follow up action and including issue

 instructions to the Head of the STF in that behalf. The

 representation/information received between the two dates

 of hearing of the suo motu proceedings before this Court,

 be compiled and presented by the Chairman of the SIT

 with his remarks and follow-up action, if any, in a sealed

 cover. In other words, no further communication,

 representation, Public Interest Litigation, application or

 writ petition can be filed or will be entertained by the

 Court concerning the investigation of PMT VYAPAM

 examination scam criminal cases assigned to STF (save

 and except involving issues of violation and infringement

 of fundamental rights of any person), unless routed 94 through SIT. 6. The State Government is directed to, forthwith, provide

 complete logistical support to SIT and shall also be liable

 to pay all the expenses and including professional fees of

 the Advocate of SIT and emoluments of the Members of

 the SIT as and when due and payable, to be determined on

 the next date of hearing of suo motu petition. The Chief

 Secretary and the Secretary, Home Department,

 Government of Madhya Pradesh shall be personally

 responsible to ensure compliance of these directions in its

 letter and spirit. 7. The State Government is directed to ensure that none of the

 officials of STF, who are investigating the stated criminal

 cases, which are being monitored by this Court, should be

 transferred from STF Unit to any other

 Department/Organization or shall be entrusted with any

 other additional work other than investigation of the

 criminal cases entrusted to STF, without prior permission

 of this Court. 8. We further direct that no official of STF shall take

 instructions from any other Authority outside the STF nor

 shall divulge any information directly or indirectly or share 95 the material collected during the investigation of the stated

 crimes to any third party or other Government official or

 higher ups outside the STF, without prior permission of

 this Court. 9. The STF officials investigating the concerned offences

 under monitoring of this Court, shall ensure that entire

 material collected during the investigation - be it in favour

 of or against the prosecution - be made part of the charge

 sheet/police report to be filed before the concerned court

 unless the confidentiality and privilege is claimed in

 respect of any confidential document. If such

 confidentiality and privilege is claimed in respect of any

 official document and for which reason the same has not

 been made part of the charge-sheet, that fact should be

 contemporaneously brought to the notice of this Court in

 sealed cover whilst filing the charge-sheet in the concerned

 court. 10. The State Government is further directed to ensure that if

 STF unit requires any expansion because of the increase in

 workload, timely decision on such proposal/request, after

 receiving it from STF, should be taken, in any case not

 later than two weeks from its receipt. In case it is not 96 possible to do so, the Chief Secretary of the State must

 move a formal application giving justification for the delay

 or refusal to accede to the request so made within one

 week thereafter. The Chief Secretary shall be personally

 responsible to ensure strict compliance of this direction.

 For ensuring timely compliance, STF must mark one copy

 of the requisition to the Chief Secretary in addition, for

 information and necessary action, contemporaneously

 whilst sending it to the concerned Department. 11. We further direct STF to record the statements of each of

 the writ petitioner(s), who are interested in getting their

 statement recorded with regard to the stated cases, which

 are being investigated by the STF and whose writ petitions

 have been disposed of by this common judgment; or any

 other person interested in recording his statement

 concerning the investigation of the stated PMT

 examination scam criminal cases and such statement

 should be made part of the charge-sheet/police report to be

 filed before the concerned court. Further, any relevant

 information disclosed in such statement must be

 thoroughly investigated and that should be made part of the

 charge-sheet/police report. 12. We further direct the Head of the STF to cause to keep

 close watch on print and electronic media reports, in

 particular, mentioning about the deficiencies in the

 investigation of the stated criminal cases and to take

 immediate steps in that regard including by recording

 statement of the persons responsible for dissemination of

 such news item. If the information divulged is found to be

 relevant, the Head of the STF must issue necessary

 instructions to the Investigating Officer to investigate the

 same and to be made as part of the charge-sheet. 13. The explanatory note handed over by Mr. Nageshwar Rao,

 Additional Solicitor General is ordered to be kept in a

 sealed cover bearing the date of this order, in suo motu

 proceedings. 14. The abovesaid directions have been issued in suo motu

 proceedings, bearing Writ Petition No.6385/2014, which is

 kept pending and will be heard separately on 7th

 November, 2014. 15. In case of any urgency or difficulty in complying with any

 direction given in terms of this order or any further

 direction to be given in pending suo motu proceedings, the

 Chairman of SIT or the Head of STF is free to approach 98 this Court for appropriate direction.