This is the first application filed by the applicant under Section 482 of
 BNSS, 2023 for grant of anticipatory bail relating to Crime No.102/2025
 registered at Police Station - Economic Offences Wing, Bhopal District
 Bhopal (M.P.) for commission of offences under Sections 409, 419, 420,
 467, 468, 471 read with Section 120-B of the IPC and Section 66-D of the IT
 Act. Applicant is apprehending his arrest in the aforesaid offence has filed
 this application for grant of anticipatory bail. 2. According to the story of prosecution as enunciated in the FIR dated
 21.06.2025, the genesis of the case is a complaint submitted by one Pratap
 Singh Lodhi, an agriculturist and resident of Village Dhaneta, Tehsil Patan,
 District Jabalpur. The complainant alleged that he was in need of a loan and
 approached co-accused N.K. Kharealias Vinod Kumar Sahay, who induced
 him by stating that only a small loan could be availed on agricultural land, Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 2 MCRC-49890-2025
 but a larger loan could be secured if he formed a proprietorship firm and
 obtained GST registration in the name of the said firm. Acting on this
 inducement and false assurance, the complainant registered a firm in the
 name of Maa Narmada Traders for which documents such as Aadhaar, PAN,
 bank statements, land records and loan books were handed over to the co-
 accused. It is further alleged that without the complainant's consent, the co-
 accused got registered an email ID [email protected] in the GST
 records and also registered the complainant's son's mobile number for
 GSTOTP verifications. That subsequently, GST Registration
 No.23ALLPL1056B1ZM was issued in the name of Maa Narmada Traders.
 However, the complainant never carried out any business through the said
 registration. Later, when GST authorities visited the complainant, he was

 informed that tax dues to the tune of Rs 72,66,408/- were outstanding against
 the said firm. This came as a shock to the complainant, as bogus transactions
 of crores of rupees had been shown in the name of Maa Narmada Traders
 without his knowledge or involvement. It is further stated that, co-accused
 N.K. Khare and Satyam Soni had fraudulently filed GST returns in respect of
 Maa Narmada Traders by misusing OTPs and documents of the complainant.
 Further probe disclosed that apart from Maa Narmada Traders, several other
 bogus firms were floated, namely Namami Traders, Maa Rewa Traders, and
 Abhijeet Traders, all allegedly used to generate fake GST returns and
 fraudulent transactions. It is further stated that, through these bogus firms,
 the accused persons, including the present applicant, carried out fictitious
 transactions in collusion with various entities, such as K.D. Sales Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 3 MCRC-49890-2025
 Corporation, Dilip Traders, Ankita Steel & Maa Jagdamba Coal Carriers,
 Mahak Enterprises, Koraj Technic, Mahamaya Traders, Ambar Coal Depot,
 and Anam Traders. Forged documents were used to support these fraudulent
 GST returns, causing a wrongful loss of approximately Rs 33.80 Crores to
 the State exchequer. 3. Learned counsel appearing for the applicant submits that various
 High Courts have considered the matter pertaining to Section 132 of the GST
 Act and have held that if the amount involved is more than Rs.5 Crores then
 maximum punishment prescribed is five years and there is no embargo under
 the GST Act for consideration of application for grant of anticipatory bail. It
 is contended that considering the chain of events and considering the fact that
 GST authority have also resorted for offences punishable under the IPC , such
 practice adopted by the GST authorities is not approved by various High
 Courts and even some of the complaints have been quashed. 4. It is put forth that in the case of Akram Pasha v. Senior
 Intelligence Officer (Crl. Pet. No.15066/2025, High Court of Karnataka at
 Bengaluru), the facts of that case are almost identical to the facts of the
 present case and considering the nature of allegation that the petitioner has
 taken wrong benefit of Input Tax Credit, the case of the applicant is required
 to be considered. 5. In support of his submissions, counsel for the applicant has
 placed reliance on the decisions in the cases of Sharat Babu Digumarti v.
 Government of NCT of Delhi , (2017) 2 SCC 18; Deepak Singhal v. Union of
 India, WP No.21641/2024 ; Sushil Kumar Singla v. State of UT Chandigarh, Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 4 MCRC-49890-2025
 CRM - M 28701/2023 (O & M); Shalini Singhal v. State of MP , (M.Cr.C.
 No.5759/2024 decided on 09.02.2024). By referring to these decisions, it is
 contended that the applicant should be granted anticipatory bail as no
 custodial interrogation is required as GST is itself a self contained Code and
 necessary procedure shall be followed as per that Code itself. 6. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has
 opposed the contentions raised by the counsel for the applicant and by
 referring to Section 131 of the GST Act submits that offences are serious in
 nature and custodial interrogation is required as further interrogation may
 reveal many more scam and fraud which might have been committed by the
 present applicant and other co-accused persons. It is further contended that
 figure of such fraudulent amount may increase with further interrogation. It
 is vehemently urged that provisions of GST Act generates asset for the
 nation and these activities carried out by the persons like the present
 applicant jeopardize the national interest on that count also the Court should
 take a serious view in such matters and should not exercise discretion in
 favour of the applicant especially looking to the fact that prima facie case is
 made out against the applicant. 7. I have considered the rival submissions made by learned
 counsel for the parties at the Bar. 8. It is relevant to note that various High Courts as well as the
 Apex Court have considered similar types of matters in favour of the
 applicants therein. In this context it is appropriate to refer to certain relevant
 decisions in the field: 9. Indore Bench of this Court in the case of Deepak Singhal (supra) has held in paragraphs 9 and 10 as follows: 10. In view of the above, this court has no hesitation in
 holding that GST Authorities cannot bypass procedure prescribed
 under GST Act for launching prosecution by simply invoking
 penal provisions under IPC without invoking penal provisions
 under GST Act especially when the allegations so revealed as a
 result of search and seizure conducted by GST Authorities
 constituted offence covered under the penal provisions of GST
 Act as that would amount to bypassing procedural safeguards as
 provided under Section 132(6) of GST Act which requires
 sanction of the commissioner prior to initiation of prosecution,
 which is to the prejudice of the petitioner herein. Letting GST
 Authorities to adopt such course of action would amount to abuse
 of process of law which cannot be permitted by this court." 10. In this context it is apposite to refer to the judgment of High
 Court of Karntataka in the case Akram Pasha (supra) on which heavy
 reliance is placed by counsel for the applicant. In paragraphs 18 to 20 of the
 said judgment, High Court of Karnataka has held thus: 70. Power to summon persons to give evidence and produce
 documents.-(1) The proper officer under this Act shall have power
 to summon any person whose attendance he considers necessary
 either to give evidence or to produce a document or any other
 thing in any inquiry in the same manner, as provided in the case of
 a civil court under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure ,
 1908." 19. Chapter XIV of the CGST Act deals with inspection,
 search, seizure and arrest. It consists of sections 67 to 72 . Section
 70 deals with power to summon persons to give evidence and
 produce documents. As per sub-section (1), the proper officer
 under the CGST Act has the power to summon any person whose
 attendance he considers necessary either to give evidence or to
 produce a document or any other thing in any enquiry in the same
 manner as provided in the case of a civil court under the
 provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908. Thus, section 70 (1) confers the power on the proper officer to summon any person
 whose attendance he considers necessary to either tender evidence
 or to produce documents, etc., in any enquiry. Exercise of such a
 power is similar to the powers exercised by a civil court under the
 Civil Procedure Code, 1908. Sub-section (2) further clarifies that
 every inquiry in which summons are issued for tendering evidence
 or for production of documents is to be deemed to be a judicial Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 11 MCRC-49890-2025
 proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of the
 Penal Code, 1860. 20. There is no embargo under the CGST Act restraining
 the petitioner from seeking pre-arrest bail. Economic offences
 such as tax evasion, money laundering, etc., affect the economy of
 the country and thus are considered grave in nature. To deter
 persons from indulging in such economic offences, criminal
 sanctions are required to be imposed. One of the most prominent
 criminal sanctions imposed with regard to economic offences is
 that of arrest. It is widely acknowledged that arrests result in
 deprivation of liberty of a person. Thus, while it is imperative to
 maintain law and order in society, the power to arrest must also
 always be subject to necessary safeguards. Against this backdrop,
 analysing the arrest provisions under the goods and services tax
 law, with a view to study the adequacy of the safeguards and
 authorisation built into the text of the statute, the interplay
 between these provisions and the standards of arrest has to be
 established through judicial precedents, as well as other sources
 such as the Constitution of India and general statutes such as the Code of Criminal Procedure ." 11. In Sushil Kumar Singla (supra) in paragraphs 18 to 21 it has
 been held as under: 12 MCRC-49890-2025

 contained in Section 21 , 22 and other sections of Mines and
 Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act 1957 (MMDR Act )
 operate as bar against prosecution of a person who has been
 charged with allegation under Section 379 of IPC? The Apex
 court after reading the act in a minute manner has held that if an
 offence which is mentioned in MMDR Act is executed by the
 accused, then such offence can be tried only under such act by the
 procedure laid under the said act. However, if an act or offence
 which constitutes an offence under IPC , then the provisions of MMDR Act shall not stand in a way to stop the applicability of IPC and such offence can be prosecuted under IPC without
 waiting or following the procedure under the MMDR Act . 19. In the case of Institute of Chartered Accountants of
 India vs. Vimal Kumar Surana and another , (2011) 1 SCC 534, the
 Apex Court has elaborately dealt with the provision under the
 Chartered Accountants Act,949. In that case, the respondent, who
 passed the Chartered Accountant examination but was not a
 member of the appellant's Institute of Chartered Accounts,

 allegedly represented before the Income Tax Department and the
 authorities constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Trade Tax Act
 on the basis of power of attorney or as legal representative and
 submitted documents such as audit reports and certificates
 required to be issued by the Chartered Accountants by preparing
 forged seals and thereby impersonated himself as Chartered Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 13 MCRC-49890-2025
 Accountant. He was accordingly prosecuted and charge was
 framed against him under Sections 419 , 468 , 471 and 472 , IPC.
 The respondent challenged the order by filing revision under Section 397 CrPC The Additional Sessions Judge set aside the
 order of the Magistrate and remanded the case to the trial court
 with a direction to decide whether there are sufficient grounds for
 framing charges under Sections 419 , 468 , 471 and 473 , IPC read
 with Sections 24 and 26 of the C.A. Act. After remand, the trial
 court passed an order holding that there was no basis for framing
 any charge against respondent under the IPC . The Magistrate
 further held that cognizance of offences under Sections 24 and 26
 of the C.A. Act cannot be taken because no complaint had been
 filed by or under the order of the Council before the Magistrate.
 The High Court while referring to Sections 2 , 4 , 5 and Section
 195(1) , Cr.P.C. held that in the absence of a complaint the
 Magistrate was not competent to frame charges against the
 respondent and in view of the special mechanism contained in the
 C.A. Act for prosecution of a person violating Sections 24 , 24A and 26 of the Act, he cannot be prosecuted under the IPC . When
 the matter finally came to the Supreme Court, wherein after
 considering a catena of judgments, it was held as under:- 14 MCRC-49890-2025
 o statute, then the one which leads to anomaly or absurdity and
 makes the statute vulnerable to the attack of unconstitutionality
 should be avoided in preference to the other which makes it
 rational and immune from the charge of unconstitutionality. That
 apart, the court cannot interpret the provisions of the Act in a
 manner which will deprive the victim of the offences defined in
 Sections 416, 463, 464, 468 and 471 of his right to prosecute the
 wrongdoer by filing the first information report or complaint under
 the relevant provisions of CrPC ."xxxxxxxxxx 42. The submission of Shri Gupta that the respondent cannot
 be prosecuted for the offences defined under IPC because no
 complaint had been filed against him by the court concerned or
 authority as per the requirement of Section 195(1)(b)(ii) CrPC
 sounds attractive but lacks merit. The prohibition contained in Section 195 CrPC against taking of cognizance by the court except
 on a complaint in writing made by the court concerned before
 which the document is produced or given in a proceeding is not
 attracted in the case like the present one because the officers of the
 Income Tax Department and the authorities constituted under the
 Madhya Pradesh Trade Tax Act, 1995 before whom the
 respondent is alleged to have acted on the basis of power of
 attorney or as legal representative or produced audit report do not
 fall within the ambit of the term "court" as defined in Section
 195(3) CrPC. Such officer/authorities were neither discharging the Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 15 MCRC-49890-2025
 functions of a civil, revenue or criminal court nor could they be
 treated as tribunal constituted by or under the Central or State Act,
 which is declared to be a court for the purpose of Section 195 ." In case of Sharat Babu Digumarti vs. Govt. Of NCT of
 Delhi AIR 2017 SC 150 the facts were different. It is the case in
 which the Magistrate had taken cognizance against the Director of
 a company for offences punishable under Sections 292 and 294 of
 IPC and Section 67 of IT Act It was in such background, the
 Supreme Court was of the view that Section 67 read with Section
 67A and 678 of the IT Act were a complete code and for the sune
 set of allegations, the provisions of Section 292 of IPC cannot be
 invoked. (21) A close reading of the above cited case laws would
 lead to only the conclusion that the offence alleged against the
 petitioner is one punishable under the UTGST Ac/ CGST Act ,
 which are the special statutes and are a complete code in itself and
 in view of the special mechanism contained in Chapter XIX of the
 CGST Act which clearly provides for offences and penalties, for
 prosecution of a person violating 122 & 132 of the Act, the
 petitioner cannot be prosecuted under the general provisions of IPC especially in view of the facts that in the FIR itself it has been
 stated that the resort has already been taken for recovery of the tax
 by assessing tax and imposing interest and penalty thereon. Since
 as per the mechanism under the GST legislations has been pressed Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 16 MCRC-49890-2025
 into aid, continuation of the proceedings under the general penal
 provisions of IPC and subject the petitioner to face trial thereunder
 would amount to double jeopardy under Article 20(2) of the
 Constitution of India. Furthermore, there is non-compliance of
 mandatory provision of Section 132(6) of the CGST Act as no
 previous sanction of the Commissioner has been taken." 12. Indore Bench of this High Court in the case of Shalini Singhal
 (supra) after considering the following submissions of the parties in
 paragraphs 4 and 5, in paragraph 6 held that custodial interrogation is not
 required. The aforesaid paragraphs reads as follows: 13. In the case at hand, there is no doubt that the offence is
 essentially punishable under Section 132 of the GST Act but there are
 provisions of CGST Act, 2017 which can be considered as complete Code
 itself. Section 132 of the Act reads as under: (i) receives or is in any way concerned with the supply of,
 or in any other manner deals with any supply of services which he
 knows or has reasons to believe are in contravention of any
 provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder; *
 * (l) attempts to commit, or abets the commission of any of
 the offences mentioned in [clauses (a) to (f) and clauses (h) and (i)] of this section, shall be punishable-- (i) in cases where the amount of tax evaded or the amount
 of input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of
 refund wrongly taken exceeds five hundred lakh rupees, with
 imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and with
 fine; (ii) in cases where the amount of tax evaded or the amount
 of input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of
 refund wrongly taken exceeds two hundred lakh rupees but does
 not exceed five hundred lakh rupees, with imprisonment for a term
 which may extend to three years and with fine; (iii) in the case of [an offence specified in clause (b), where
 the amount of tax evaded or the amount of input tax credit Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 20 MCRC-49890-2025
 wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of refund wrongly taken
 exceeds one hundred lakh rupees but does not exceed two hundred
 lakh rupees, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
 one year and with fine; (iv) in cases where he commits or abets the commission of
 an offence specified in clause (f) ***, he shall be punishable with
 imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with
 fine or with both. (2) Where any person convicted of an offence under this
 section is again convicted of an offence under this section, then,
 he shall be punishable for the second and for every subsequent
 offence with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five
 years and with fine. (3) The imprisonment referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii)
 of sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) shall, in the absence of
 special and adequate reasons to the contrary to be recorded in the
 judgment of the Court, be for a term not less than six months. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of
 Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), all offences under this Act,
 except the offences referred to in sub-section (5) shall be non-
 cognizable and bailable. (5) The offences specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or
 clause (c) or clause (d) of sub-section (1) and punishable under
 clause (i) of that sub-section shall be cognizable and non-bailable. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 21 MCRC-49890-2025
 (6) A person shall not be prosecuted for any offence under
 this section except with the previous sanction of the
 Commissioner. Explanation -- For the purposes of this section, the term
 "tax" shall include the amount of tax evaded or the amount of
 input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or refund wrongly
 taken under the provisions of this Act, the State Goods and
 Services Tax Act, the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act or
 the Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act and cess levied
 under the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act ." 14. At this juncture, it is apt to refer to the decision of the Apex
 Court in the case of Sushila Aggarwal and Others v. State (NCT of Delhi)
 and Another , (2020) 5 SCC 1 wherein factors have been enumerated which
 shall be taken into consideration while granting anticipatory bail and that
 aspect has been discussed by the Apex Court in paragraphs 92.3 and 92.4
 which read as follows: 15. Considering and applying the same principles in the present
 case, the applicant is an accused of wrongful utilisation of input tax credit.
 Considering the allegation in the FIR that a total sum of about Rs.10 Crores Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 23 MCRC-49890-2025
 is involved and if the alleged amount is more than Rs.5 Crores, then
 maximum sentence which can be awarded, is five years. There is also
 provision under Section 138 of the Act which provides for compounding of
 offences before or after prosecution. Therefore, possibility of compounding
 can also not be ruled out. Hence, custodial interrogation is not warranted and
 also detaining of the applicant will adversely affect the business of the
 applicant. Accordingly, this Court is inclined to allow this application under
 Section 482 of the BNSS, 2023 (438 of the Cr.P.C .) and grant anticipatory
 bail to the applicant. 16. It is directed that in that event of arrest applicant be released on
 bail on his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees
 Five Lacs Only) with two sureties in the like amount to the satisfaction of
 the Arresting Officer. At stage of filing of charge-sheet by police, applicant
 shall furnish fresh bail bond of same amount before trial Court. Applicant
 shall also comply with the following conditions: (ⅲ) He shall provide his mobile number and keep it operational at all
 times: NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 24 MCRC-49890-2025 (v) He shall commit no offence during the period he is on bail; (vi) He shall surrender his passport before the investigating
 officer/apprehending authority and under no circumstances leave India
 without prior permission of the investigating officer/apprehending authority,
 and, if he does not possess any passport, he shall file an affidavit to that
 effect before the investigating officer/apprehending authority. It is being made clear that in case of bail jump and in violation of any
 of conditions imposed herein above, this order shall become ineffective and
 Investigation Officer/Trial Court shall be at liberty to proceed against the
 applicant as per law. 17. Accordingly, the M.Cr.C. is allowed and disposed of. Certified copy as per rules. (SANDEEP N. BHATT)
 JUDGE

 ks Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52