(a) Serial Number of the case : 59/06 of 02­06­2011 (b) The date of the commission of : During 1987 to 1992
 the offence (c) The name of the complainant : CBI on source information. CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 2 (f) The plea of the accused : Pleaded not guilty (g) The final order : Both accused Acquitted. 1. This case No. RC 11(S) / 92 Delhi was registered by the CBI / 
 Spl. Crime Branch / Delhi on 20.08.1992 on the basis of the 
 source information with the allegation that during the period 1986 - 1990 Shri Jai Parkash, Srichand, Rajendar Singh, Dharamvir 
 Singh, and Sushil Kumar joined service in the DDA on 'work 
 charge' basis on the strength of bogus / forged transfer order(s). 
 Furthermore, in connivance with the DDA officials and unknown 
 persons the accused persons forged the documents such as the 
 appointment letters service book, transfer / posting orders 
 purportedly under the signature of various competent authorities 
 of the DDA and thus cheated to the tune to Rs.1.06, 417.10 by 
 way of salary etc. reviewed by them. It is further the case of the 
 prosecution that the proper procedure was not followed. 2. The CBI has explained the procedure in the charge­sheet as 
 under : 3. The CBI has further alleged that the accused Sh. Pramod Kumar 
 while working as 'work charge beldar' of DDA entered into a 
 criminal conspiracy with the accused Sh. Ved Ram for the purpose 
 of inducing him in the service of DDA as 'work charge employee' 
 without any appointment order and on the basis of forged 
 transfer / relieving order. The accused Sh. Ved Ram was never 
 appointed in any of the divisions of DDA and there was no transfer 
 order as mentioned in the service book. 4. The accused Pramod Kumar forged the service book and the 
 personal file of accused Ved Ram by obtaining the official seal of 
 Ex­Engineer of DDA (embossed with the signatures of the said 
 engineer) and made the accused Ved Ram join the Eastern 
 Division - 4 in the year 1985. The said ED­4 was thus was 
 induced to believe that Ved Ram was a 'work charge employee'. 
 The accused Ved Ram drew salary and other benefits till the year 
 1992 from the said department. The GEQD has confirmed the 
 handwriting of Sh. Pramod Kumar on the forges service book of 
 the bogus appointee. CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 4 5. On 13.02.1995 the charges u/s 120(B) r/w S.420 , 467 , 468 , & 
 471 IPC were framed against both the accused persons. The 
 accused Pramod Singh was also charged separately u/s 467 , 468 IPC while the accused Ved Ram was also separately charged 
 under S.420 & 471 IPC. 6. The CBI, in order to prove his case, examined the following 
 witnesses:­

 PW1 Sh. S. C. Chugh, Head Clerk, Electric Division No:4, DDA, 

during his examination deposed that all the correspondence used to be put 

up to him by dealing assistant and he used to put the same before 

Executive Engineer for approval. He deposed that either EC or 

Director(Work Charge) used to issue order for transfer of employees on 

work charge establishment from one division to another. He did not 

prepared any list of the work charge employee transferred from one 

division to another. He further deposed that the copies of the 

establishment orders transferring work charge employee from one division 

to another are sent to both the divisions from where the employee is 

transferred as well as to which the employee is transferred and one copy of 

the same is given to concerned employees. This witness further stated that 

it is the diarist who is responsible for sending the copies of the posting 

orders, to the dispatcher to the branched and concerned officials after 

making necessary entries in the peon book and dispatch register etc. On 

receipt of transfer orders the transferring division issues relieving orders 

on receipt of the copy of the orders. The relieving orders are issued by the 

Head Clerk and are signed by Executive Engg. and the proposal is 

initiated by the dealing assistant and the copies of the relieving orders are 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 5 also sent to the division where the employee is transferred and copy of the 

same is also given to the employee transferred. The said documents are 

sent after making entries in the peon book and acknowledgment is 

obtained from the transferee division. Witness deposed that if any 

employee claims to have been transferred to a division he can not be 

allowed to join without receipt of EO transferring him to that division an 

without receiving his relieving orders by the division from which he has 

been transferred. This witness was not cross examined by the accused persons despite 

opportunity. PW2 Brahm Singh, Head Clerk, LAB(Housing, in his chief 

examination deposed that he had worked with accused Pramod Kumar but 

he can not identify his handwriting and signature even if shown to him. 

This witness was cross examined by Ld. APP and during his cross 

examination he denied the suggestion that he had joined hands with the 

accused or that he is intentionally refusing to recognize his signatures and 

handwriting. This witness was also not cross examined by the accused persons 

despite opportunity. PW3 Sh. R.K. Jain , Dy. Govt. Examiner, of Questioned documents, 

Simla, deposed that documents marked Q 191 to Q 196, Q 387 to Q 402 in 

service book pertaining to Ved Ram Ex. PW3/A, Q 537 to Q...(page torn) in 

personal file of Ved Ram Ex.PW3/B were received as disputed documents 

in their office from SP CBI SCB New Delhi. The specimen signature of 

Parmod Kumar marked S­56 to S­67 and S­261 to S­333 in marked 

A( exhibited in file No:43/2) also recd for comparison and on comparison of 

these documents I came to the opinion that the persons who wrote 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 6 writings and signatures marked S­56 to S­67 and S­261 to S­333 also 

wrote writing and signatures marked Q 193 to Q 196, Q 395 to Q 401. His 

opinion is emboded in para 4 of his report Ex.PW3/C and original of the 

same is placed in file No:40/2, CBI Vs. Ramesh Kumar etc. His report is 

common in all the 16 cases. The report is signed by him as well as by Sh. 

Santokh Singh Govt.Examinder who has also examined the documents of 

this case independently and arrived at the same conclusion. The detailed 

reasons for his report is Ex.PW3/D. The negatives which are in 21 wallets 

pertaining to all the disputed and standard writings are Ex. PW5/D1 to 

D21. The photographs of all these relevant documents are in one envelope 

which is Ex. PW5/E1 to PE5/E­308. During his cross examination dated 14­5­99, by Sh. Atul Sharma 

Advocate for accused persons, witness stated that he does not have the 

specimen of Jai Ram, Ved Ram, Babu Ram, Leelu, Prem Singh, Suman 

Kumar and Munish Kumar. It is stated by PW that he has been trained 

being handwriting expert for three years in Govt. of India Laboratory and 

Hyderabad and woring for the last about 30 years in this field , however, 

he is not being awarded any such diploma but he worked as faculty 

member in that Institute during the first diploma course. He further 

stated that the opinion expressed by a competent and thorough expert are 

also correct and thee are no chance of error. He denied that the opinion 

expressed by a competent and thorough export is not correct and 

conclusive. PW admitted that in respect of CS Saini the opinion is 

expressed only in the word Parveen Kumar and at one point word 

Chowkidar also. He denied that his opinion is wrong and not conclusive 

being incomplete facts and being based on incomplete science. During his cross examination by Sh. Gurubachan Singh, counsel for 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 7 accused Parmod Kumar, PW stated that he has not given any opinion on 

the disputed signatures RN Dadlani in comparison with specimen writing 

of Parmod Kumar including the writing mark S­323 to S 328. He admitted 

that he has not given any opinion on the disputed signatures of Executive 

Engg.in comparision with the specimen writing of Parmod Kumar. He 

further stated that he has not given any opinion on Q 409 and Q 410. He 

denied that his opinion is impartially and without applying any mind. During his cross examination by Sh.K.K. Tyagi counsel for accused, 

PW stated that he has not received the specimen writing of the person 

called Dharamvir, Jai Parkash, Kishan Pal, Beepat Ram and Raj Pal. Inspector of Police/CBI/SCB, New Delhi. I worked in this branch from 

Sept. 1990 till Feb., 1993. The present case was assigned to me for 

investigation in the year 1992 (August). This case was regd. On the basis of 

source information recd. That in DDA during the period 1986 to 1990 

certain persons were fraudulently appointed on the strength of 

bogus/forged transfer orders. Since these persons were never employed by 

the DDA, the transfer orders vide which they joined DDA were forged. 

Today I have been shown the FIR dt. 20.8.1992 which is signed by Shri 

Ashok Kumar, the then SP, CBI, SCB, New Delhi. The same was assigned 

to me for detail investigation. During the investigation, I had contacted 

various DDA officers in Delhi and collected all the relevant documents 

including service books, transfer orders, relieving orders etc. During the 

investigation, searches were also conducted at various places in order to 

seize relevant documents and also to find out the various suspects involved 

in this case. I had also recorded the statements of various DDA officers 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 8 and other witnesses. Specimen handwritings and Signatures of various 

suspected persons/officials were also taken by me. The same were sent to 

GEQB for opinion. I have seen FIR No. RC 11/S/92­DLI Dt. 20.8.1992 u/s 

120 ­B r/w 420, 467,468 and 471 IPC lodged against the accused persons. It 

bears the signature of Sh. Ashok Kr. Supdt. Of Police, CBI, SCB, New 

Delhi at point­A. I identify his signature as I have seen him writing and 

signing. The FIR is Ex. PW­5/A1, upon the basis which investigation 

charge­sheet was filed agst. The accused persons by Sh. Akhil Kaushik, 

Inspector, CBI, SCB, New Delhi. I have also seen seizure memo dt. 28.9.92 

which bears my signature at point­A. This seizure memo was prepared 

after seizing 15 files from Estern Div. No. IV/DDA. The same is Ex. 

PW­5/A2. Similarly a seizure memo dt. 19.10.92 is Ex. PW­5/A3 it bears my 

signature at point - A. I have seen receipt memo dt. 11.1.93 vide which Sh. 

S.N. Gupta, Dy. Director, Vigilance, DDA had sent 5 files as listed in it to 

Supdt. Of Police, CBI. The same is Ex. PW/A4. I had received service book 

and personal file of Shri Krishan Pal Singh vide letter dt. 28.10.92 from 

Executive Engineer Ed­6/DDA. The same is Ex. PW5/A5. A seizure memo 

dt. 19.10.92 through which documents which are listed from Sr. No. 1 to 6 

were seized from Sh. R.P. Singh, Head Clerk, DDA by me, it bears my 

signature at point - A. The same is Ex. PW5/A6. Similarly, seizure memo 

dt. 23.9.92 through which two files were seized from Head Clerk, ED/VIII, 

DDA by me and it bears my signature at point - A. The same is Ex. PW 

4/A7. Another seizure DDA by me and it bears my signature at point - A. 

Seizure memo is Ex. PW 4/A8. Another seizure memo dt. 20.8.92 through 

which 10 files were seized from AVO, DDA by me and it bears my 

signature at point - A. The seizure memo is Ex. PW 4/A9. I have seen 

Establishment order (2 nos. pages) sent by Asstt. Director, Admn. II, CE 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 9 (EZ) office DDA vide which they had sent 34 EO numbers which have 

details of genuine number as well as forged Eos number received from CBI 

office by AD (Admn.) the same are Ex. PW 4/A10. Likewise another 

Establishment order sent by Asstt. Director, Admn. II CE (EZ) office, DDA 

vide which they had sent 34 EO numbers received from CBI office AD 

(Admn.) the same are Ex. PW 4/A11, consists of 3 pages and both of these 

establishment orders bears signatures of Asstt. Director Admn. at point - 

A. I have seen specimen signature/handwriting of Mahender Singh 

running into 29 sheets and same bears my signatures at point - A on each 

sheets which are Ex. PW 4/A­1 to A­29. Further I have seen 

specimen/handwriting of Sh. Mahender Singh running into 37 sheets and 

the same bears my signature on each sheets at point - A which are Ex. PW 

4/B ­1 to B­37. Likewise I have seen specimen handwriting of R.S. Nim 

running into 45 sheets and the same bears my signatures at point - A on 

each sheets which are Ex. PW 4/C­1 to C­46. I have seen specimen 

signature of R.S. Nim running into 38 sheets, it bears my signatures at 

point - A on each sheets which are Ex. PW 4/D­1 to D­38. I have seen 

specimen handwriting/signature or Pramod Kr. running into 12 sheets and 

the same bears my signature at point - A on each sheets which are Ex. PW 

5/E­1 to E­12. Likewise I have seen specimen handwriting of Pramod Kr. 

Running into 28 sheets and the same bears my signatures at point - A on 

each sheet which are Ex. PW 4/ F­1 to F­28. I have also seen specimen 

hadnwriting/signature of Pramod Kr. Running into 45 sheet it bears my 

signature at point - A on each sheets which are Ex. PW 4/ G­ 1 to G­45. I 

have also seen specimen signatures/handwriting of Ramesh Kr. Running 

into 18 sheets, it bears my signature at point­ A which are Ex. PW 4/H­1 to 

H­18. I have also seen specimen signatures/handwriting of Ramesh Kr. 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 10 Running into 38 sheets. The first sheet bears my signature at point - A 

which has already been marked as Ex. PW4/C. Rest of the 37 sheets bears 

my signatures at point­A which are Ex. PW 4/I­1 to I­37. I have also seen 

handwriting bears my signatures at point­A on each sheets which are Ex. 

PW 4/J­1 to J­15. Further I have also seen handwriting/signature of 

Subhash Dhame running into 28 sheets, it bears my signature at point­A 

on each sheet and which are Ex. PW 4/K­1 to K­28. I have also seen 

specimen handwriting/signature of C.S. Saini Running into 16 sheet, it 

bears my signature at point - A on each page and which are Ex. PW 4/ L­ 1 

to L­16. I have also seen specimen handwriting/signature of C.S. Saini 

running into 54 sheets, it bears my signature at point - A on each sheet 

which are Ex. PW 4/ M­ 1 to M­54. I have also seen specimen 

handwriting/signature of G.L. Khurana Running into 7 sheets, it bears my 

signature at point - A on each sheets which are Ex. PW 4/ N­ 1 to N­7. I 

have also seen specimen handwriting/signature of R.L. Padianl running 

into 6 sheets, it bears my signature at point - A on each sheets which are 

Ex. PW 4/ O­ 1 to O­6. I have also seen specimen handwriting/signature of 

R.L. Jain running into 3 sheets, it bears my signature at point - A on each 

sheets which are Ex. PW 4/ P­ 1 to P­3. I have also seen specimen 

handwriting/signature of K.D. Sharma running into 3 sheets, it bears my 

signature at point - A on each sheets which are Ex. PW 4/ Q­ 1 to Q­3. I 

have also seen specimen handwriting/signature of I.M. Mathur running 

into 6 sheets, it bears my signatures at point - A on each sheet which are 

already marked B­1 to B­6. I have also seen specimen 

handwriting/signature of Lal Chand Aggarwal, running into 6 sheets, it 

bears my signature at point - A on each sheet first and second sheet are 

Ex. PW 4/R­1 to R­2 and remaining four sheets are already marked A­1 to 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 11 A­4. During his cross examination by ld. Defence counsel PW4 Ajay 

Rawat deposed that in the year 1992, I was working as SI of police, CBI, 

SCB, New Delhi. I worked in this branch from Sept. 1990 till Feb. 1993. 

The present case was assigned to me for the investigation in the year 1992, 

August. This case was registered on the basis of source information, 

received, that in DDA during the period 1986 to 1990 certain persons were 

fradulantly appointed on the strength of bogus/forged transfer orders. 

Since, these persons were never employed by DDA, the transfer orders vide 

which they joined DDA, were forged. Today, I have been shown a photocopy 

of FIR dated 20.8.92 which is signed by Sh. Ashok Kr., the then SP, CBI, 

SCB, New Delhi. The same was assigned to me for detailed investigation. I 

have been shown original FIR which lies in C.S. No. 4/2 and the same has 

been compared by me with the photocopy. During the investigation I had 

contacted various DDA officers in Delhi and collected all the relevant 

documents including service books, transfer orders, relieving orders etc. 

During the investigations, searches were conducted at various places in 

order to seize relevant documents and also to find out the various suspects 

involved in this case. I had also recorded the statements of various DDA 

officials, another witnesses. Specimen handwriting and signatures of 

Pramod Kumar, G.L. Khurana, R.N. Dadlani, R.C. Jain, K.D. Sharma, 

I.M. Mathur and Lal Chand were also taken by me and the same were sent 

to GEQD for opinion. I have seen photocopy of FIR No. RC 11(S)/92, DLI 

dated 20.8.92, u/s 120B, r/w 420, 467, 468 and 471 IPC lodged against the 

accused persons and it bears the signatures of Ashok Kr. SP, CBI, New 

Delhi at point A. I identify his signatures as I have seen him and signing 

in day to day official working. The FIR is Ex. PW 4/A1. On the basis of 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 12 which investigation was conducted. After the completion of investigation, 

chargesheet was filed against the accused persons by Sh. Akhil Kaushik, 

Inspector, CBI, SCB, New Delhi. I have also seen photocopy of seizure 

memo dated 19.10.92. Original of the same is lying in charge­sheet no. 

56/2. I have compared the photocopy with original one. It bears my 

signature at point A. Vide the seizure memo 8 documents were seized 

including three personal file and service book of Mr. Lilu Sharma. And the 

same is Ex. PW 4/A2. I have seen service book of Lilu Sharma which bears 

Ex. PW 4/A (Already Ex.) I have also seen personal file of Lilu Sharma 

from page 1 to 5, 6 to 20 and 21 to 85 respectively contained in three files. 

The same was seized by me which is Ex. PW 4/A3, A4, and A5 respectively. 

I have been shown specimen handwriting/signatures of Pramod Kumar 

running into page 1 to 85 which bears my signatures at point A on each 

sheet which is Ex. PW 4/A6. I have been shown specimen 

initials/signatures of G.L. Khurana marked as S 530 to 536 and specimen 

signatures of Sh. R.N. Dadlani from S 165 to S 170 and specimen signature 

of R.C. Jain from S 172 to 174 and specimen signature of K.D. Sharma 

from S 181 to S 183, specimen signature of I.M. Mathur from S 184 to S 

189, specimen signature of Lal Chand Adwani from S 190 to S 195. All the 

specimen signatures bears my signature at point A which is Ex. PW 4/ A­7. 

I have been shown GEQD opinion dated 26.11.93 which pertains to this 

case. As I have already mentioned that I worked in this branch till Feb. 93 

this opinion was received later on after my transfer from this branch. During his cross examination by Sh. R. Menon counsel for the 

accused, PW4 Ajay Rawat deposed that there was no written complaint 

from DDA and this FIR was lodged on source information by me. My Sr. 

Officer recd. source information. There was not much of gap may be one 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 13 week in our receiving information and lodging the FIR. FIR is dated 1992. 

I do not remember the month. I had investigated the case till March 1993. 

I had to leave the investigation because I was transferred to ACU­VI. After 

I was transferred the charge of investigation and later charge­sheet was 

prepared and filed by Sh. Akhil Kaushik. As and when it was required I 

was called for assisting Mr. Akhil Kaushik who was then the IO. During the cross examination of PW4, defence counsel has stated 

that the cross examination done by Ms. Anjana Prabhakar Adv. Accused 

Ramesh Kr. May kindly be read in X­examination as part and parcel of all 

the cases. Heard and allowed. PW4 Ajay Rawat further stated that during my investigation, I 

might have examined officials lower level then Execute Engineer who 

know about the procedure of the transfer. Since, Head Clerk and others are 

generally dealing with transfer. I do not remember whether any clerk has 

given me statement regarding the procedure for transfer of an employee 

from one deptt. of another. It is wrong to suggest the investigation of this 

case was transfered from me as I was shielding Sr. Officers Voln. The case 

was handed over to Mr. Kaushik because I was transferred on promotion. I 

obtained the signatures of accused persons in my office, in the presence of 

independent witnesses. It is wrong to suggest that I am deposing falsely. In his cross examination y Ms. Anjana Barbhakar, adv. for accused 

Ramesh Kumar, PW4 deposed as under:­

 It is correct that EXPW3/A1 is carbon copy of FIR. It is correct that I 

can tell designation of a person who had signed EXPW3/A10 and A­11, 

same are not written in my presence. It is only after seeing documents I 

cannot tell person who had signed it. These documents were perhaps 

received by post. It is correct that EO number mentioned in EXW3/A10 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 14 and A­11 had not been collected by me. I have not recorded statements of 

persons who have signed EXPW3/A10 and A­11. It is wrong to suggest that 

specimen writing of accused was taken again and again at different point 

of time because hand writing expert was unable to express his opinion. It 

is incorrect to suggest that I have not conducted investigation in this case 

properly. It is incorrect to suggest that specimen writing of accused 

Ramesh Kumar was not taken by me. It is incorrect to suggest that I am 

deposing falsely. I have gone through the record. The Establishment Order 

(EOO are only relieving and transfer orders. In our second initial EO or 

appointment letters are bogus and after the joining subsequent EO are 

genuine. I have not compared the subsequent orders which are genuine. It 

is incorrect to suggest that accused Pramod Kumar was only filing up the 

forms and not signing the relieving and transfer orders. Transfer orders 

are either signed by AE or Executive Engineers. I have examined the 

concerned Executive Engineers and they have confirmed that relevant 

transfer orders/appointment letters were never issued from their office. It 

is not in my knowledge those Enginers Suptds have been examined on oath 

in this Hon'ble Court. It is wrong to suggest that accused Pramod Kumar 

have been falsely implicated in this case and the investigation as far as 

this accused is concerned is not proper or that I am deposing falsely to 

support the case of the prosecution. I do not remember whether the 

statement given by Head Clerk Braham Singh was in my handwriting or 

somebody else, but it is a fact that the statement was not written by PW 

Braham Singh or any other witness for that matter. The statement u/s 161 of the witnesses were written in their presence but their signatures were 

not obtained on those statements. I do not remember what statement u/s 

161 Head Clerk Braham Singh gave whether it was in favour of Pramod 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 15 Kumar or against. It is not in my knowledge Head Clerk Braham Singh 

had resigned from his previous statement u/s 161 or not. It is incorrect 

that original relieving and transfer orders are not on record. (During the cross examination of PW4 Ms. Anjana Prabhakar 

counsel for the accused Pramod Kumar stated that the cross examination 

of the witness in CBI V/s Ramesh Kumar C.C. No. 40/2 and 5/2 on 

12/7/2002) may kindly be considered as part and parcel of the cross 

examination of the witness for accused Pramod Kumar also. The cross 

examination only till the general nature and not specific to accused 

Ramesh Kumar)

 PW4 further during his cross examination stated that the 

employment of Leelu Sharma, Babu, Ram, Ved Ram Suman Kumar, Jai 

Ram and Prem Singh was not done in a regular basis but they were 

employed in the DDA through a scheme. And, they were employed in the 

DDA through a proper procedure followed for the appointment of any 

employee in DDA. It is correct that all the above mentioned employees 

were transferred alongwith the scheme from one division to another 

scheme. I cannot say whether they were transferred alongwith the scheme 

from one division to another scheme. I cannot say whether they were 

transferred from HD 14 to HD 19. It is in my knowledge that accused 

Pramod Kumar was working in one of the divisions but I cannot say that 

he was working in HD 19. I do not recall whether there was any head clerk 

in that division. It is correct that Dadalani was one of the Executive 

Enginers, I cannot say whether he was heading that division or not where 

Pramod Kumar was appointed. I do not know who was Superintendent 

Engineer (SE) of that circle­III. I cannot say that R.B. Dadlani was 

heading both the division i.e. Sh. R.L. Dadlani u/s 161 Cr.P.C. it is not in 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 16 my knowledge whether R.L. Dadlani had taken the specimen signatures of 

R.L. Dadlani and also his signatures on various documents including 

service book etc. for comparison and sent these signatures to GEQD. It is 

correct that GEQD has mentioned that his specimen signatures are not 

tallying with signatures appearing on the questioned documents. Pramod 

Kumar's specimen signatures were taken on different occassion as and 

when the files were recd. from various divisions where signatures were 

alleged to be forged by the accused persons. I had been shown the 

document listed as D_13 which indicates the list of forged Eos recd. from 

CBI office by Addl. Director to Chief Engineer and this tally also indicates 

about the list of genuine Eos on page 2 EO No. 363 dt. 8.10.87 of Leelu 

Sharma indicates the signatures are genuine of Sh. R.L. Madan but I 

cannot comment as Sh. Akhil Kaushik had dealt with this aspect after I 

was transferred in the year 199 I cannot ascertain at this point of time 

whether I had taken signatures of above mentioned four employees and 

compared them with those of Sh. Pramod Kumar. As far as D 14 which is 

the opinion of handwriting expert Sh. R.K. Jain is concerned it had also 

been recd. after my transfer and dealt with by Mr. Akhil Kaushik so I 

cannot comment on that also. The personal file contains the various 

documents including the alleged transfer order/relieving order. I have gone 

through the original and as per the personal file of Sh. Lilu Sharma he 

joined DDA vide Establishment order No. 18 dt. 25.2.87 and there is no 

transfer reliving order in case of Sh. Lilu Sharma.

PW5 is mentioned as Parmod Kumar, whose name has been 

wrongly mentioned in place of PW4 Ajay Rawat. PW6 
 PW
 Sh. Akhil Kaushik Inspector, CBI, Dehradun, during his 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 17 examination in chief dt 23­7­2003, deposed that in 1992 he was posted as 

Sub Inspector in CBI, Spl. Crime Branch, deposed that Sh.Ajay Rawat 

investigated and completed the investigation and further investigation of 

the case was handed over to him and in the present case he(Akhil 

Kaushik) recorded the statement of some witnesses and filed the charge 

sheet in the court. Chargesheet which bears his signature at point A and 

is Ex.PW6/Ex.1/A. Charge sheet also bears the signature of Ashok Kumar 

the then SP, CBI, SCB at point B. The list of witnesses and documents 

appeared with the charge sheet also contains his signature at point A, 

Ex.PW5/Ex­1/B.

 During his cross examination dated 19­11­2002, PW denied the 

suggestion that has not done any investigation in the present case or that 

charge sheet has not been prepared by him. He further stated that he does 

not remember that if he had conducted and written statement for few 

witnesses after Mr. Ajay Rawat(1st IO) had been transferred, however, he 

has only signed and presented the charge sheet. 7. Statements of the accused(s) recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Both 
 the accused have stated that they have been falsely implicated 
 in the case. Both the accused chose not to lead defense 
 evidence. 8. Sections 463 and 464 IPC are as under :­ S.463 . Forgery.­ Whoever makes any false document or part of 
 a document with intent to cause damage or injury, to the 
 public or to any person, or to support any claim or title, or to 
 cause any person to part with property, or to enter into any 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 18 express or implied contract, or with intent to commit fraud or 
 that fraud may be committed, commits forgery. S. 464 . Making a false document.­ [A person is said to make a 
 false document or false electronic record. First--Who 
 dishonestly or fraudulently-- (a) makes, signs, seals or executes a document or part of 
 a document; (b) makes or transmits any electronic record or part of 
 any electronic record; (c) affixes any digital signature on any electronic record; (d) makes any mark denoting the execution of a 
 document or the authenticity of the digital signature, 
 with the intention of causing it to be believed that such 
 document or part of document, electronic record or 
 digital signature was made, signed, sealed, executed, 
 transmitted or affixed by or by the authority of a person 
 by whom or by whose authority he knows that it was not 
 made, signed, sealed, executed or affixed; or

 Secondly--Who, without lawful authority, 
 dishonestly or fraudulently, by cancellation or otherwise, 
 alters a document or an electronic record in any 
 material part thereof, after it has been made, executed 
 or affixed with digital signature either by himself or by 
 any other person, whether such person be living or dead 
 at the time of such alteration; or

CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 19 Thirdly--Who dishonestly or fraudulently causes 
 any person to sign, seal, execute or alter a document or 
 an electronic record or to affix his digital signature on 
 any electronic record knowing that such person by 
 reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication cannot, 
 or that by reason of deception practised upon him, he 
 does not know the contents of the document or 
 electronic record or the nature of the alteration.] 9. Section 463 IPC deals with making a false document with the 
 intent to cause damage or injury to the public or to any person, 
 or to support any claim or title, or to cause any person to part 
 with property, or to enter into express or implied contract, or 
 with intent to commit fraud or with the intention that fraud 
 may be committed. Since Section 463 IPC deals with "making 
 false documents", obviously, one has to turn to Section 464 IPC 
 which defines under what circumstances, a document is said to 
 be made falsely. A bare perusal of Section 464 IPC clearly 
 reveals that a person is said to make a false document when it 
 is done with dishonest and fraudulent intention, when a part of 
 document is made with the intention of causing it to be 
 believed that such a document was made, signed, sealed, 
 executed, transmitted or affixed by or by the authority of a 
 person whom or by whose authority, the maker knows that it 
 was not made, signed, sealed, executed or affixed by the said 
 authority. Moreover, if the maker, without a lawful authority, 
 cancelled or otherwise altered the said document after the 
 document was made. Only under these circumstances is it said 
 a document is made falsely. CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 20 S. 468 IPC :: Forgery for purpose of cheating :­ Whoever 
 commits forgery, intending that the [document or Electronic 
 Record forged] shall be used for the purpose of cheating, shall 
 be punished with imprisonment of either description for a 
 term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable 
 to fine. 10.A bare perusal of the said section clearly reveals that first 
 ingredient of Section 468 IPC is the commission of forgery i.e., 
 as defined in Section 463 IPC. It is only after the forgery has 
 been committed that one would examine the purpose of 
 committing forgery i.e., whether it is done for the purpose of 
 cheating or not? However, in the present case, since the first 
 ingredient is conspicuously missing i.e., commission of forgery, 
 the charge for offence under Section 468 IPC could not be 
 framed. Section 471 IPC is as under:­ Using as genuine a forged [document or 
 electronic record] -- Whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as 
 genuine any [document or electronic record] which he knows or has 
 reason to believe to be a forged [document or electronic record], shall 
 be punished in the same manner as if he had forged such [document 
 or electronic record]. The Expert Evidence : 11. An expert really means a person who by reason of his 
 training or experience is qualified to express an opinion 
 whereas an ordinary witness is not competent to do so. His 
 evidence is only opinion evidence which is based on his special 

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 21 skill or experience. In view of the language of Section 45 of 
 Evidence Act it is necessary that before a person can be 
 characterized as an expert, there must be some material on the 
 record to show that he is one who is skilled in that particular 
 science and is possessed of peculiar knowledge concerning the 
 same. He must have made special study of the subject or 
 acquired special experience therein. Thus before the testimony 
 of a witness becomes admissible, his competency as an expert 
 must be shown may be by showing that he was possessed of 
 necessary qualification or that he has acquired special skill 
 therein by experience. Apart form the question that the report 
 of a handwriting expert may be read in evidence, what is 
 necessary is that the expert should be subjected to cross­
 examination because an expert like any other witness is fallible 
 and the value of his evidence consists in the rightful inferences 
 which he draws from what he merely surmises. The expert's 
 evidence is only a piece of evidence and the weight to be given 
 to it has to be judged along with other evidence as evidence of 
 this nature is ordinarily not conclusive. Such evidence, 
 therefore, cannot be taken as substantive piece of evidence but 
 is there in corroborate the other evidence. ( Balkrishna Das v. 
 Radha Devi AIR 1989 All 133) 12. The science of handwriting was not an exact science unlike 
 the science of finger­prints. Even experts tend to commit errors 
 in giving their opinions on the genuineness of the signatures 
 and handwriting. Sometimes it would be difficult for an expert 
 to examine even the genuineness of different writings, each 
 having its own individuality. It requires intelligent comparison 
 to differentiate the genuine signature from the forged one. 

CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 22 Great care and caution should be exercised especially when the 
 court was not assisted of the evidence of an expert in 
 determining the genuineness of a signature or handwriting. 
 Even while calling expert, that if one cannot get a competent 
 man, it was better not to adduce any expert evidence at all. 
 (Vandavasi Karthikeya alias Krishnamurthy v. S. Kamalamma 
 AIR 1994 AP 102 at 114) 13. The question concerning the evidentiary value of the 
 opinion of a hand writing expert in the context of Sections 45 and 47 of the Evidence Act, 1872 has been considered in a 
 number of decisions of the Supreme Court. In Fakhruddin v. 
 State of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 1967 SC 1326 it was observed as 
 under: 14. In the present case the witness PW P.L. Nagpal has stated 
 that he had worked with the accused Pramod Kumar, however, 
 he was unable to identify the handwriting and signatures of the 
 said accused. This turned hostile as he was not supporting his 
 earlier statement. Therefore the CBI has not been able to prove 
 the handwriting of the accused Pramod Kumar vis­à­vis S.47 of 
 the Indian Evidence Act. 15. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Murari Lal vs. State of M.P. (AIR 1980 SC 531) considered the approach to be adopted and 
 the caution to be observed while considering the opinion 
 evidence of handwriting expert under Section 45 of Indian 
 Evidence Act 1872. The Supreme Court observed that while 
 corroboration may not be insisted upon as an invariable rule, 
 the approach of a court while dealing with opinion of 
 handwriting expert should be to proceed cautiously, probe the 
 reasons of opinion, consider all other relevant evidence and 
 decide finally to accept or reject it. In paras 11 and 12 of the 
 said judgment it was observed: 16. Handwriting expert basing his conclusion about identity of 
 the accused who had written the questioned documents by 
 comparing the same with the sample writing (which in his 
 opinion appeared to be disguised) merely on the ground that 
 there was some similarity in some of the letters and figures 
 occurring in the sample handwritings here and there and 
 similar letters and figures appearing in questioned documents. 
 Such opinion of expert not corroborated by reliable evidence 
 and hence cannot be relied upon. In absence of corroboration 
 such evidence cannot be relied upon and prosecution case 
 failed to be proved beyond reasonable doubts regarding 
 identity of the accused. ( State of U.P., v. Charles Gurmukh 
 Sobhraj , 1996 Cri LJ 3844 : (1996) 9 SCC 472 : 1996 SCC 
 1065). 17. It is also to be remembered that comparison of handwriting 
 is an imperfect science and an expert would not be able to state 
 with 100% certainty that a particular signature is that of the 
 person who purportedly signed it. He can only state that there 
 is high probability and this he has done in his report. (M.K. 
 Usman Koya v. C.S. Santha, AIR 2003 Ker 191 at 193)

CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 25 18. Coming to the expert opinion of Sh. R.K. Jain, Dy. GEQD. 
 The said witness has admitted that he did not have the 
 specimen signatures of the accused. He further admitted that 
 he had not given any opinion on the disputed signatures of 
 R.N. Dadlani in comparison with the specimen writing of 
 Pramod Kumar including the writing Mark­ S­323 to S­328. 
 This PW also admitted that he had not given any opinion on 
 the disputed signature of Executive Eng. in comparison with 
 the specimen writing of Pramod Kumar. This PW also did not 
 give any opinion on Q­409 and S­410. 19. PW(I.O.) Ajay Rawat has admitted that the employment of 
 the accused­herein was not done in a 'Regular Basis' but he was 
 employed in the DDA through a scheme. He further admitted 
 that the accused­herein was transferred along­with the scheme 
 from one division to another scheme. The said witness PW­4 
 further admitted that the document listed as D­13 (which 
 indicates the list of forced EO records) also indicates the list of 
 genuine Eos on page 2 EO No. 363 dt. 08.10.1987 of accused 
 indicates that the signatures of Sh. R.L. Madan were genuine. transfer /relieving order in case of accused herein. 20. As far as the expression 'benefit of doubt' is concerned the 
 Third Edition of P.Ramanatha Aiyar's 'Law Lexicon' explains 
 'benefit of doubt' as "The advantage derived from doubt about 
 guilt, a possible error or the weight of the evidence". This 
 expression is not (and possibly cannot be) defined either in the 
 Code of Criminal procedure or in the Indian Evidence Act . This 
 expression cannot exist alone and it always follows as an 
 adjunct of the expression 'proof beyond reasonable doubt'.

CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 26 21. Sir James Fritzjames Stephen, the father of the Indian 
 Evidence Act , in his epic work ' The Indian Evidence Act : with 
 an Introduction on the Principles of Judicial 
 Evidence' (Macmillan Co., London, 1872 at page 36) has 
 stated: 22. The following passage of Lord Sankey, L.C. in Woolmington vs. 
 Director of Public Prosecutions (1935 ALL E.R.Page 1) is often 
 quoted: "Throughout the web of the English criminal law one 
 golden thread is always to be seen­­that is the duty of the 
 prosecution to prove the prisoner's guilt subject to what I have 
 already said as to the defence of insanity and subject also to any 
 statutory exception. If, at the end of and on the whole of the case, 
 there is a reasonable doubt, created by the evidence given by 
 either the prosecution or the prisoner, as to whether the prisoner 
 killed the deceased with a malicious intention, the prosecution 
 has not made out the case and the prisoner is entitled to an 
 acquittal. No matter what the charge or where the trial, the 
 principle that the prosecution must prove the guilt of the prisoner 
 is part of the common law of England and no attempt to whittle 
 it down can be entertained." 23. The concept of 'proof beyond reasonable doubt' and 'benefit of 
 doubt' have been imported into our Criminal Jurisprudence by 

CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 27 Superior Courts and they have come to stay now. In a criminal case, 
 it is the burden on the prosecution to prove various relevant facts 
 and it is enough if the quality of proof satisfies the definition of the 
 word 'Proved' in Sec.3 . At that juncture, the Court should not test the 
 evidence on the anvil of the concept of 'proof beyond reasonable 
 doubt', but should test it on the touchstone of the definition of the 
 word 'Proved' in Sec.3 . After all the relevant facts are proved, while 
 drawing inference from the proved facts, if the Judge has a 
 reasonable doubt about coming to the inference in respect of the fact 
 in issue, then only the benefit of that doubt should be extended to 
 the accused. This principle has been very clearly explained by the 
 Supreme Court in State of Haryana vs. Bhagirath & Others (1999 (5) 
 SCC 96) as follows: ".....But the principle of benefit of doubt 
 belongs exclusively to criminal jurisprudence. The pristine 
 doctrine of benefit of doubt can be invoked when there is 
 reasonable doubt regarding the guilt of the accused. It is the 
 reasonable doubt which a conscientious judicial mind entertains 
 on a conspectus of the entire evidence that the accused might not 
 have committed the offence, which affords the benefit to the 
 accused at the end of the criminal trial. Benefit of doubt is not a 
 legal dosage to be administered at every segment of the evidence, 
 but an advantage to be afforded to the accused at the final end 
 after consideration of the entire evidence, if the Judge 
 conscientiously and reasonably entertains doubt regarding the 
 guilt of the accused" 24. The testimony of PW­IO Ajay Rawat would indicate that the 
 accused­herein was employed under some scheme. That goes to say 
 that the case in hand would at the best be a matter of improper 
 transfer rather than criminal. The benefit of doubt goes to the 
 accused persons. Both the accused persons Parmod Kumar and Ved 
 Ram are acquitted in the present case. Accused Parmod Kumar is acquitted from the charges framed 
 upon him on 13­2­1995, u/s 467/468 IPC . Accused Parmod Kumar 
 is also acquitted from the charges framed upon him on 13­2­1995, 
 u/s 120­B, r/w Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC. Accused Ved Ram is acquitted from the charges framed upon him 

CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92 28 on 13­2­1995, u/s 420/471 IPC . Accused Ved Ram is also acquitted 
 from the charges framed upon him on 13­2­1995, u/s 120­B r/w Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC. Their bail bonds & surety bonds are discharged. Compliance of Section 437(A) Cr.P.C. be made accordingly. File be consigned to 
 record room. ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT 
TODAY ON 29­05­2015

 ( VEENA RANI ) 
 Chief Metropolitan Magistrate 
 South East District / Saket Courts
 New Delhi/29­05­2015

 CBI Vs. Parmod Kumar & Ved Ram, CC No:56/6/2011, RC No:11(S)/92