housewife, residing at 901, Rishabh Tower, Senapati Bapat
 Marg, Elphistone West, Mumbai -25 personally remain
 present and state in writing that my mobile No. 8169947073, I
 am residing at the abovementioned address with my
 deceased Anvay Madhukar Naik, daughter Adnya Naik
 together. My husband is having company owned under name
 and dstype as Concorde Design and we were having our
 livelihood by doing business of architecture interior designing
 and engineering consultancy,. My husband Anvay Madhukar 5 PART B

Naik is having his native place at Village Kavir, Tai. Alibaug
and at the said place my mother in law Kumud Madhukar
Naik is residing . therefore my husband used to visit in
between to my mother in law at Village Kavir Tai. Alibag . As
also my husband used to bring my mother in law Kumud Naik
in between with us at Mumbai. My husband for last two years
was having pressure as he did not received the money of
work carried out by him and he continuously used to inform
me and therefore I also called in the office of Amav Gosmani
and asked his accountant for payment of money of work done
by us. As also contacted to other businessman also and
informed that my husband is in great difficulty and as the
money is not received he is under great mental pressure.
Yesterday on 04.05.2018 at 3.45 pm in afternoon my
husband Anvay Madhukar Naik and my mother in law Kumud
Madhukar Naik left from our house at Mumbai and came at
Alibag Kavir. At evening 7.30 I called on the mobile No.
9763437648 of my mother in law and when enquired as to
whether they have reached at our farm house at Kavir Ali bag
or otherwise when my mother in law informed me that she
and my husband reached and as care taker aaji gone out she
will required to carry out all the work in the house. Today on
05.05.2018 at morning 9.30 am when I and my daughter
Adnya were at our house at Mumbai Shri Aruni Patil residing
at Dadar Hindu Colony, Mumbai called my daughter Adnya
on her mobile that my mother in law Kumud Naik expired.
Therefore I and my daughter Adnya sister Mrs. Manjusha
Durgesh Vaingankar, and her daughter Shreya Vaingankar
started coming to Alibag through our own vehicle. After we
reached at Wadkhal I called on mobile of friend of my
husband Shri Akshit Lakhani and enquired about my husband
when he informed that my husband Anvay Madhukar Naik
has also committed suicide . When we reached at our farm
house at Kavir at around 2.15 pm in afternoon there was
huge crowd of public and police were gathered. Therefore
when we went inside and saw that my mother in law Kumud
Naik was lying on bed near dining room. Thereafter from stair
case when we went on upper floor saw that my husband
Anvay Madhukar Naik was lying and one thread was hanged
on iron pipe of house. Thereafter police enquired with us and
informed us about the said incident. Thereafter only informed
that they were taking my husband Anvay Madhukar Naik and
mother in law Kumud Madhukar Naik to Civil Hospital Alibag.
When we were present in the said house police shown us
note written by my husband Anvay Madhukar Naik in his own
handwriting in English( suicide note). The handwriting in the
said note is his handwriting and the signature on it is also of
his only and l identify the same. In the said note he has
written in English as 3) Suicide Note, 4) we are committing
suicide due to following 5) our (Concorde designs Pvt Ltd) 6) 6 PART B

 We both directors I) Mr. Anvay M. Naik 2) Kumud M. Naik, 7)
 Money is stuck and following owners of respected companies
 are not paying our legitimate dues 8) Mr. Amab Goswami
 ARG Outlier of Republic TV, not paid 83 lacs for Bombay
 Dyeing Studio project, 9) Feroz Shaikh Icaswt X / Skimedia
 not paid our 400 lacs in Laxmi, 3rd and 4th floor idea Square
 project in Andheri 10) Mr. Niteish Sarda owner of smart works
 Magarpattaq and Baner Project ( 55 Lacs pending) 11) kindly
 collect money from them and held them responsible for our
 death and pay to creditors 12) I and my mother are directors
 in Concorde India company and following persons have till
 now not paid me money of work done by me. In which it is
 written as Arnab Goswami ARV Outlife Of Republic TV
 having Rs.83 Lac of work done, 2) Firoz Khan having 4 crores
 of work done, 3) Nitesh Sarda 55 lacs of work done should be
 deposited and should be held responsible for my death and
 getting the same deposited and pay the dues of public. With
 regard to the contents written in the said note my husband
 Anvay Madhukar Naik had continuously informed me for last
 one or two years. While he used to tell me he was under PART B (ii) The spouse of the informant had not received payment for the work which

 was carried out by him, as a result of which he was under mental pressure

 and that he committed suicide by hanging on 5 May 2018; (iii) There is a ‗suicide note‘ holding the above three individuals responsible; and (iv) The informant was informed on 5 May 2018, when she and her daughter

 were at their residence at Mumbai, that her mother-in-law Kumud Naik had

 died at their Alibaug residence. On the way to Alibaug, she was informed

 that her husband had committed suicide. On reaching the house at

 Alibaug, she found the body of her mother-in-law lying on a bed and that

 her spouse had committed suicide by hanging. 8 On 6 May 2018, officers from the Alibaug Police Station visited ARG‘s

office in Mumbai and served three notices under Section 91 of the CrPC. On 7

and 8 May 2018, two representatives of ARG visited Alibaug Police Station where

they claim to have handed over the information which was sought by the police in

their notices under Section 91 . On 22 May 2018, the appellant submitted a

representation to the notice under Section 91 following which on 30 May 2018

and 28 June 2018, the statements of the Chief Financial Officer and Company

Secretary of ARG were recorded. 9 On 16 April 2019, the SHO at Alibaug Police Station filed a report in the

Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate (―CJM‖) for an ‗A‘ summary. The CJM

passed an order accepting the report and granted an ‗A‘ summary. The meaning

and import of an ‗A‘ summary is reflected in Para 219 (3) of the Bombay Police

Manual, 1959. An ‗A‘ Summary indicates a case where an offence has been 8 PART B

committed but it is undetected, in that there is no clue about the culprits or the

property, or where the accused is known but there is no evidence to justify their

being sent up to the Magistrate for trial. Para 219 (3) of the Bombay Police

Manual reads thus: 10 Following the ‗A‘ summary, there was an exchange of correspondence

between ARG and the informant. ARG by their letter dated 11 June 2019,

addressed to CDPL, the informant and her daughter, indicated that several

meetings had been held in the past between them during the course of which

ARG had sought indemnities from CDPL against any future claims. In its letter,

ARG stated that it would be transferring a sum of Rs. 39.01 lacs into CDPL‘s last

known bank account against an indemnity for future claims by the creditors or

lenders of CDPL. In response, on 15 June 2019, the informant addressed a 9 PART C

communication to ARG stating that out of a total billed amount of Rs. 6.45 crores,

an amount of Rs. 5.75 crores had been received from ARG, and after adjustment

of an amount of Rs. 70.39 lacs towards deductions made from the bill, an amount

of Rs. 88.02 lacs was due and payable. On 6 November 2019, ARG addressed

another letter to the informant recording the closure of the police investigation

and reiterating its readiness to pay an amount of Rs.39.01 lacs subject to due

authorisation. The matter appears to have rested there until a flurry of

developments took place in the month of April 2020. to proceedings initiated against him previously by the State of Maharashtra, in

order to support his case that the arrest is vitiated by malice in fact.

12 On 16 April 2020, a broadcast took place on Republic TV, followed by a

broadcast on Republic Bharat on 21 April 2020 in relation to an incident which

took place in Gadchinchle village of Palghar district in Maharashtra. During the

course of this incident on 16 April 2020, three persons, including two Sadhus,

were brutally killed by a mob, allegedly in the presence of the police and forest

guard personnel. According to the appellant, on his news show titled ―Poochta hai

Bharat‖ on 21 April 2020, he had raised issues in relation to the allegedly tardy

investigation of the incident by the police. 13 As this Court noticed in a judgment dated 19 May 2020, the broadcasts led

to the lodging of multiple FIRs and criminal complaints against the appellant in 10 PART C

the States of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh,

Telangana and Jharkhand as well as in the Union Territories of Jammu and

Kashmir. The content of the FIRs was similar, almost identical. In the State of

Maharashtra, an FIR was lodged at Police Station Sadar, District Nagpur City,

details of which were as follows: Apart from the above FIR, fourteen other FIRs and complaints were lodged

against the appellant in relation to his broadcasts.

14 The appellant moved this Court in proceedings under Article 32 of the

Constitution5 challenging the registration of these FIRs. By an interim order dated

24 April 2020, the FIR which had been lodged at Police Station Sadar, District

Nagpur City was transferred to NM Joshi Marg Police Station, Mumbai and was

renumbered as FIR 164 of 2020. Another FIR, FIR 137 of 2020, was registered

against the appellant on 2 May 2020 at the Pydhonie Police Station, Mumbai. FIR

137 of 2020 was filed against the appellant due to a telecast which took place on

29 April 2020 on the appellant‘s new channels, in which the appellant referred to

a gathering of migrant workers at the Bandra Railway station during the Covid-19

pandemic, and attempted to connect a place of religious worship with this 5 Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 130 of 2020 11 PART C

gathering. The appellant filed another petition under Article 32 of the

Constitution6, challenging the registration of FIR 137 of 2020.

15 By its judgment dated 19 May 2020, this Court quashed all the FIRs,

except for the FIR which was transferred from Nagpur to Mumbai, on the ground

that successive FIRs/complaints in respect of the same cause could not be

maintained. The court granted liberty to the appellant to pursue such remedies as

were available in law before the competent forum for quashing FIR 164 of 2020.

16 By an order dated 30 June 2020, a Division Bench of the Bombay High

Court, while entertaining a petition under Articles 226/227 of the Constitution and Section 482 of the CrPC, suspended all further proceedings in FIR 164 of 2020

before the NM Joshi Marg Police Station and FIR 137 of 2020 before the

Pydhonie Police Station and confirmed its interim order dated 6 June 2020

restraining the State from taking coercive steps against the appellant in relation to

the two FIRs, pending the disposal of the petition. 17 Aside from this incident, the appellant has relied on certain other

developments which have taken place thereafter. These are: Writ Petition (Crl.) Diary No. 1189 of 2020 12 PART C (ii) The issuance of a letter by the ―Shiv Cable Sena‖ to cable operators

 across Maharashtra asking them to ban the telecast of the appellant‘s

 news channel; (iii) An order of the Bombay High Court dated 11 September 2020 in a Writ

 Petition under Article 226 holding that the letter of the Shiv Cable Sena did

 not have the force of law and the appellant would be at liberty to pursue

 the remedies available in law; (iv) On 16 September 2020, a notice to show cause was issued to the

 appellant for breach of privilege of the legislative assembly, which is the

 subject of proceedings instituted in this court; (v) A notice to show cause was issued under Section 108(1) of the CrPC to

 the appellant by the Special Executive Magistrate, in spite of the order of

 the Bombay High Court; (vi) The registration of FIR 843 of 2020 on 6 October 2020 at Kandivali Police

 Station (later transferred to the Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai) on a

 complaint by an employee of Hansa Research Group Private Limited in

 relation to the ‗TRP scam‘; (vii) A press conference by the Commissioner of Police Mumbai on 8 October

 2020 mentioning the name of the appellant as being allegedly involved in

 the ‗TRP scam‘; (viii) The appellant instituted a Writ Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution7

 before this Court seeking reliefs in respect of FIR 843 of 2020. By an order 7 Writ Petition (Crl.) 312 of 2020 13 PART D

 dated 15 October 2020, the Writ Petition was dismissed as withdrawn with

 liberty to the appellant to approach the Bombay High Court; and (ix) The appellant filed Writ Petition (Crl.) Stamp No. 3143 of 2020 before the

 Bombay High Court, in which on 19 October 2020 an order was passed

 calling upon the Investigating Officer to submit the investigation paper in a

 sealed envelope on 4 November 2020. The High Court noted that the

 appellant had as on date not been arrayed as an accused in the FIR and if

 the investigating officer proposed to make an enquiry, a summons shall be

 issued to him. The appellant agreed to cooperate in the enquiry.

D Re-opening of investigation and arrest of the appellant

18 On 26 May 2020, the Home Department of the State of Maharashtra

addressed a communication to Deputy Inspector General of Police stating that

the FIR registered as Crime No. 59 of 2020, at Alibaug Police Station under Sections 306 / 34 of the IPC, was being transferred to the crime investigation

department ―for the purpose of reinvestigation‖. The letter, insofar as is material,

reads thus: 19 On 15 October 2020, the Local Crime Investigation Branch, Raigad

addressed a communication to the CJM, Alibaug recording the commencement

of further investigation under Section 173(8) of the CrPC in respect of Crime No.

59 of 2018 under Section 306 read with Section 34 of the IPC.

20 On 4 November 2020, the appellant was arrested at about 7:45 am in

connection with FIR 59 of 2018 dated 5 May 2018. At 2:37 pm, the appellant filed

a Writ Petition before the Bombay High Court, invoking the provisions of Articles

226/227 of the Constitution and Section 482 of the CrPC.

21 After the appellant‘s arrest, a remand application was filed before the CJM,

Raigad. By an order dated 4 November 2020, the CJM declined to grant police

custody. Noting that there had been an ‗A‘ summary previously, the CJM while

rejecting the plea of police custody, remanded the appellant to judicial custody till

18 November 2020. The State has challenged the order of the CJM declining

police custody in a revision before the Additional Sessions Judge, Raigad.

22 The writ petition filed by the appellant before the Bombay High Court was

heard on 5, 6 and 7 November 2020. On 7 November 2020, the High Court

reserved orders and granted liberty to the appellant to file an application for

regular bail under Section 439 of the CrPC with a direction that it should be heard

expeditiously within four days of the date of filing. Following the above direction,

the appellant moved the Sessions Court, Raigad for bail under Section 439 of the

CrPC. By its impugned judgment and order dated 9 November 2020, the High

Court posted the hearing of the petition filed by the appellant in regard to the

prayer of quashing of the FIR on 10 December 2020. While doing so, the High 15 PART E

Court denied bail to the appellant on the ground that no case has been made out

for the exercise of the extra-ordinary jurisdiction and that the appellant had an

alternate and efficacious remedy under Section 439 of the CrPC. Harish N Salve, learned Senior Counsel, submitted that: Further, in the absence of the specific permission of the CJM, it was not

 open to the State to conduct a reinvestigation; and (iii) The allegations contained in the FIR, read as they stand, do not establish

 an offence under Section 306 read with Section 34 of the IPC. To

 constitute the offence of abetment there must exist: Similarly, the issue as to whether the FIR is liable to be quashed would be

 taken up at the final hearing on 10 December 2020 and hence the High

 Court has correctly refrained from expressing a prima facie view; (iii) Between 15 October 2020 and 4 November 2020, a further investigation

 has been carried out and statements have been recorded under Section

 164 of the CrPC; (iv) In accordance with this Court‘s judgment in the case of Praveen Pradhan

 vs State of Uttaranchal and Ors.8 (―Praveen Pradhan‖), instigation to

 commit suicide has to be gathered from the circumstances of a particular

 case. Hence, while there may not be direct evidence in regard to

 instigation which may have direct nexus to suicide, an inference has to be

 drawn from the circumstances to determine whether they were of a nature

 which created a situation in which a person felt totally frustrated and ended 8 (2012) 9 SCC 734 18 PART E

 up committing suicide. Further, while making a determination as to the

 quashing of proceedings, the Court has to form only a tentative opinion

 and not a firm view; (v) A hierarchy of courts is provided for to consider an application for bail

 under Section 439 of the CrPC. In the present case, there is no valid basis

 to by-pass that hierarchy in order to grant relief to the appellant; (vi) An application for bail was initially filed on behalf of the appellant which

 was withdrawn after the order for judicial custody was passed. An

 application for bail has been filed after the High Court while reserving

 judgment granted liberty to do so with a direction for its disposal within four

 days. Hence, it is appropriate that the appellant is relegated to pursue the

 remedies under Section 439 ; (vii) Prayer (a) in the Writ Petition for the grant of a writ of Habeas Corpus was

 not maintainable in view of the fact that the appellant had been arrested

 and committed to judicial custody, and the interim application for his

 release on bail was only in the context of the prayer for Habeas Corpus; (viii) During the course of the hearing of the proceedings before the Bombay

 High Court, the Division Bench indicated that if the appellant were to file an

 application under Section 439 , appropriate administrative directions of the

 Chief Justice could be obtained for listing it before the Division Bench

 since applications for bail are placed for hearing before a Single Judge

 (while the petition was before a Division Bench) and the appellant had only

 filed an interim application in the pending Writ Petition for being released

 on bail; 19 PART E (ix) Both the issue of whether the appellant has made out a case for quashing

 the FIR and whether a reinvestigation could have been ordered at the

 Home Department of the State would be considered by the High Court on

 10 December 2020; (x) The High Court has drawn a balance between the rights of the accused

 and the family of the deceased victim. A substantive Writ Petition has been

 filed by the informant, stating that it was only through a tweet on the social

 media that she had learned of the ‗A‘ summary and that she had not been

 heard before the order was passed by the Magistrate accepting the police

 report; (xi) Even when ‗A‘ Summary has been accepted in terms of Para 219(3) of the

 Bombay Police Manual, there is no restraint on a further investigation

 being carried out by the Investigating Officer under Section 173(8) of the

 CrPC. An ‗A‘ summary postulates that there was no completed

 investigation. Hence, requiring prior judicial sanction as a precondition for

 conducting further investigation after the filing of an ‗A‘ summary will

 impede the ability of investigating authorities to effectively perform their

 role. Such a course of action is also permissible in view of the decision of

 this Court in Vinubhai Haribhai Malaviya vs State of Gujarat9; and (xii) The High Court was justified in coming to the conclusion that there was

 nothing extraordinary in the facts of the present case to shock the

 conscience of the Court so as to take recourse to its extraordinary

 jurisdiction under Article 226 to direct the release of the appellant on 9 2019 SCC OnLine SC 1346 20 PART E

 interim bail. Any other view would lead to the jurisdiction of the High Court

 under Article 226 being extended to grant the remedy of an application for

 bail, which is already available under Section 439 of the CrPC.

26 In the same vein as the submissions which have been urged on behalf of

the second respondent by Mr Amit Desai, Mr Kapil Sibal, learned Senior Counsel

appearing on behalf of the first respondent, has submitted that the High Court

has been justified in coming to the conclusion that there was no warrant to

interfere in the course of the investigation in the present case. Mr Sibal also

argued that Mr Salve has wrongly focused on other cases implicating the

appellant in the course of his arguments. Learned Senior Counsel has urged that

the appellant must pursue his remedy in accordance with law under Section 439 of the CrPC for which the liberty has been granted by the High Court. Further, Mr

Sibal submitted that an ‗A‘ summary is in fact not a closure report and

investigation does not stand concluded. Hence, he submitted that the

Investigating Officer was within jurisdiction in carrying out further investigation.

Finally, Mr Sibal argued that while he is alive to the fact that the personal liberty

of the appellant is at stake in the present case, this Court does refuse to interfere

in many cases exhibiting similar features. Therefore, he argued that this Court

should stay its hand in the present case. 27 Mr CU Singh, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the fifth

respondent, the informant, has joined the submissions of the first and second

respondents in opposing these appeals. It was submitted that: 21 28 Together with the present Civil Appeal, this Court has also heard

submissions in two companion Civil Appeals. In the two companion appeals, 22 PART F

submissions have been made before this Court by Mr Gopal Sankaranarayanan

and Mr Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior Counsel. F Criminal Appeal No. 743 of 2020 (Arising out of SLP (Crl) No. 5599 of 2020)

29 Mr Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned Senior Counsel, submitted that the

appeal has been filed by the sister of Mr Feroz Shaikh who has been named as

an accused. 30 Mr Feroz Shaikh is a Director in iCastX Technologies Private Limited. In

2016, iCastX Technologies hired the services of M/s Atos India Private Limited

for the work of construction, renovation and refurbishing of their office premises

at Andheri East, Mumbai. Atos India Private Limited in turn sub-contracted the

work to CDPL. Hence, it has been submitted that there was privity of relationship

between iCastX Technologies and CDPL. Mr Sankaranarayanan submitted that

the three appellants represent the interest of three distinct individuals connected

with three different companies. 31 Mr Sankaranarayanan has supported the submissions on the essential

requirements of Section 107 of the IPC by relying on the decisions in Madan

Mohan Singh vs State of Gujarat10 , Sunil Bharti Mittal vs Central Bureau of

Investigation11 and Common Cause vs Union of India12 (―Common Cause‖).

Mr. Sankaranarayanan further argued that there was no reference about his

client in the FIR filed on 5 May 2018 at the behest of the informant. Finally, he

relied on this Court‘s judgment in Vineet Narain and Ors. vs Union of India and 10 (2010) 8 SCC 628 11 (2015) 4 SCC 609 12 (2018) 5 SCC 1 23 PART G

Ors.13 to urge that executive interference in the course of an investigation or

prosecution is impermissible. G Criminal Appeal No. 744 of 2020 (Arising out of SLP (Crl) No. 5600 of 2020)

32 Mr Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the

appellant, submitted that admittedly all the three accused named in the FIR are

unconnected. The appellant is a Director in a private limited company by the

name of SmartWork Business Centre Private Limited with less than one per cent

of the shareholding standing in his own name. 33 The company which has offices in New Delhi and Kolkata had engaged the

services of several vendors/contractors in order to furnish their business centre at

Pune, one of whom was CDPL and a purchase order of Rs 4.17 crores was

issued. Thereafter, there were substantial delays and discrepancies in the

execution of the work by CDPL which led to an exchange of mails. Furthermore,

an invoice of over Rs 5 crores was raised including an amount of Rs 83.02 lacs

towards GST. Pursuant to this, a payment of Rs 4.40 crores was made but there

was a genuine commercial dispute between the two companies in relation to the

remaining amount. 34 It has been submitted that on the face of it, there is no basis in the FIR to

even remotely implicate the appellant in the alleged offences under Section 306 read with Section 34 of the IPC. There is not even an indication of a personal 13 (1998) 1 SCC 226 24 PART G

interaction or connection between the appellant and the deceased. Furthermore,

a civil suit regarding the disputed debt between their companies is pending.

35 The invocation of the jurisdiction of the High Court under Articles 226/227

of the Constitution and Section 482 of the CrPC is in support of two distinct

reliefs. The first relief is for a writ of habeas corpus. This relief has been claimed

on the basis that the arrest and consequent detention of the appellant was due to

a reinvestigation which was commenced after placing reliance on the letter dated

26 May 2020 of the Home Department of the Government of Maharashtra to the

Director General of Police. The submission is that once the CJM accepted the

report submitted by the Investigating Officer and issued an ‗A‘ summary on 16

April 2019, it was not open to the Investigating Officer to commence a

reinvestigation without judicial sanction. 36 Joining issue with this submission is the argument of the State that the

power of the investigating officer to order a further investigation under Section

173(8) of the CrPC is independent of the jurisdiction of the Magistrate. In the view

of the State, Section 4 of the Bombay Police Act, 1951 entrusts the

superintendence of the police force to it and in the exercise of that power, it was

legitimately open to the Home Department to direct a further investigation (though

the letter uses the expression ‗re-investigation‘) to be conducted based on the

complaint of the victim that the offence had not been properly investigated.

Moreover, the State has relied on the provisions of Section 36 of the CrPC under

which police officers superior in rank to an officer in charge of a police station are

entitled to exercise the same powers throughout the local area to which they are

appointed. PART G

37 According to the appellant, when proceedings before the High Court came

to be instituted, an order of remand had not been passed and it was only

subsequently on the night of 4 November 2020 that an order granting judicial

custody was passed by the CJM. Be that as it may, the High Court has recorded

that prayer (a) for the issuance of a writ of Habeas Corpus was not pressed on

behalf of the appellant. Once the prayer for a writ of habeas corpus was not

pressed (as the High Court records), it was unnecessary for the High Court to

devote several pages in the impugned judgment on discussing the issue.

38 The remaining prayer before the High Court was for quashing the FIR. Mr

Rohatgi submitted that the order of arrest is illegal and the appellant is entitled to

have it so declared by invoking the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the

Constitution and Section 482 of the CrPC. It was urged that the power under

Section 173(8) is to cause a ―further investigation‖ and no power has been vested

to either reinvestigate or cause a fresh investigation to be made. The power to

reinvestigate or to cause fresh investigation, it was urged, is vested only in the

constitutional courts. Contrary to the provisions of Section 173(8), it was urged,

the Home Department in its letter to the deputy Inspector General has directed a

reinvestigation. In the present case, the communication of the Home Department

makes it abundantly clear that a reinvestigation was ordered under the authority

of the State Home Minister which, according to the submission, is ultra vires the

provisions of law. Mr Rohatgi has emphasised that the application for remand

makes it clear that what is ordered was a reinvestigation, since the application

has repeatedly used the expression ―comprehensive reinvestigation‖ and the fact

that ―reinvestigation has become necessary‖. 26 PART H

39 Finally, it was urged that the order of the Home Minister in the State was

issued on 26 May 2020 whereas the investigation commenced on 15 October

2020 and the arrest was made on 4 November 2020 in respect of an FIR lodged

in May 2018 on which an ‗A‘ summary had been accepted on 16 April 2019. In

sum and substance, it has been submitted that after the order of closure on 16

April 2019, a reinvestigation could not have been ordered in the case. The arrest

has been termed unlawful. H Jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 and Section 482 CrPC

40 While considering the rival submissions, it is essential for the purpose of

the present appeals to elucidate on the nature of the jurisdiction that is vested in

the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution and Section 482 of the CrPC.

This issue must be analysed from the perspective of the position that the

proceeding before the High Court, after the prayer for the grant of a writ of

Habeas Corpus was given up, is for quashing the FIR being CR No. 0059 of 2018

lodged on 5 May 2018. 41 The High Court has dwelt at length on the decision of this Court in Habib

Jeelani (supra). The High Court observed that the powers to quash ―are to be

exercised sparingly and that too, in rare and appropriate cases and in extreme

circumstances to prevent abuse of process of law‖. Applying this principle, the

High Court opined: 42 Now, it is in this background that it becomes necessary for this Court to

evaluate what, as a matter of principle, is the true import of the decision of this

Court in Habib Jeelani (supra). This was a case where, on the basis of a report

under Section 154 off the CrPC , an FIR was registered for offences punishable

under Sections 147 , 148 , 149 and 307 of the IPC. Challenging the initiation of the

criminal action, the inherent jurisdiction of the High Court to quash an FIR was

invoked. The High Court (as paragraph 2 of the judgment of this Court in Habib

Jeelani (supra) indicates) expressed its ―disinclination to interfere on the ground

that it was not appropriate to stay the investigation of the case‖. It was in this

background that the following issue was formulated in the first paragraph of the

judgment of this Court, speaking through Justice Dipak Misra (as he then was),

for consideration: 28 12. The illustrations given by the Court need to be
recapitulated: ( Bhajan Lal case [ State of Haryana v. Bhajan
Lal , 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 426 : AIR 1992
SC 604] , SCC pp. 378-79, para 102)
―(1) Where the allegations made in the first information report
or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and
accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any
offence or make out a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information report and
other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose
a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police
officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an
order of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of
the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or
complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same
do not disclose the commission of any offence and make out a
case against the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a
cognizable offence but constitute only a non-cognizable
offence, no investigation is permitted by a police officer without
an order of a Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so
absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no
prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is
sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused.
(6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the
provisions of the Code or the Act concerned (under which a
criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution and
continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is a
specific provision in the Code or the Act concerned, providing
efficacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party.
(7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with
mala fides and/or where the proceeding is maliciously
instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on
the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and
personal grudge.‖
It is worthy to note that the Court has clarified that the said
parameters or guidelines are not exhaustive but only
illustrative. Nevertheless, it throws light on the circumstances
and situations where the Court's inherent power can be
exercised. 30 PART H 13. There can be no dispute over the proposition that inherent
 power in a matter of quashment of FIR has to be exercised
 sparingly and with caution and when and only when such
 exercise is justified by the test specifically laid down in the
 provision itself. There is no denial of the fact that the power
 under Section 482 CrPC is very wide but it needs no special
 emphasis to state that conferment of wide power requires the
 Court to be more cautious. It casts an onerous and more
 diligent duty on the Court. 14. In this regard, it would be seemly to reproduce a passage
 from Kurukshetra University [Kurukshetra University v. State of
 Haryana , (1977) 4 SCC 451 : 1977 SCC (Cri) 613] wherein
 Chandrachud, J. (as his Lordship then was) opined thus: (SCC
 p. 451, para 2)
 ―2. It surprises us in the extreme that the High Court thought
 that in the exercise of its inherent powers under Section 482 of
 the Code of Criminal Procedure, it could quash a first
 information report. The police had not even commenced
 investigation into the complaint filed by the Warden of the
 University and no proceeding at all was pending in any court in
 pursuance of the FIR. It ought to be realised that inherent
 powers do not confer an arbitrary jurisdiction on the High Court
 to act according to whim or caprice. That statutory power has
 to be exercised sparingly, with circumspection and in the rarest
 of rare cases.‖ 15. We have referred to the said decisions only to stress upon
 the issue, how the exercise of jurisdiction by the High Court in
 a proceeding relating to quashment of FIR can be justified. We
 repeat even at the cost of repetition that the said power has to
 be exercised in a very sparing manner and is not to be used to
 choke or smother the prosecution that is legitimate. The
 surprise that was expressed almost four decades ago
 in Kurukshetra University case [ Kurukshetra University v. State
 of Haryana , (1977) 4 SCC 451 : 1977 SCC (Cri) 613] compels
 us to observe that we are also surprised by the impugned
 order.‖

43 Thereafter, this Court noted that ―the High Court has not referred to

allegations made in the FIR or what has come out in the investigation‖. While on

the one hand, the High Court declined in exercising its jurisdiction under Section

482 to quash the proceedings, it nonetheless directed the police not to arrest the

appellants during the pendency of the investigation. It was in this context that this 31 PART H

Court observed that the High Court had, while dismissing the applications under

Section 482, passed orders that if the accused surrenders before the trial

Magistrate, he shall be admitted to bail on such terms and conditions as it was

deemed fit and appropriate. After adverting to the earlier decision in Hema

Mishra vs State of UP14 , this Court observed: restraint imposed by law, has the jurisdiction to quash the investigation ―and may

pass appropriate interim orders as thought apposite in law‖. Clearly therefore, the

High Court in the present case has misdirected itself in declining to enquire prima

facie on a petition for quashing whether the parameters in the exercise of that

jurisdiction have been duly established and if so whether a case for the grant of

interim bail has been made out. The settled principles which have been

consistently reiterated since the judgment of this Court in State of Haryana vs

Bhajan Lal15 (―Bhajan Lal‖ ) include a situation where the allegations made in the

FIR or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in

their entirety, do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case

against the accused. This legal position was recently reiterated in a decision by a

two-judge Bench of this Court in Kamal Shivaji Pokarnekar vs State of

Maharashtra16 . I Prima Facie evaluation of the FIR and the grant of bail

45 The striking aspect of the impugned judgment of the High Court spanning

over fifty-six pages is the absence of any evaluation even prima facie of the most

basic issue. The High Court, in other words, failed to apply its mind to a 15 1992 Supp. 1 SCC 335 16 (2019) 14 SCC 350 33 PART I

fundamental issue which needed to be considered while dealing with a petition

for quashing under Article 226 of the Constitution or Section 482 of the CrPC.

The High Court, by its judgment dated 9 November 2020, has instead allowed the

petition for quashing to stand over for hearing a month later, and therefore

declined to allow the appellant‘s prayer for interim bail and relegated him to the

remedy under Section 439 of the CrPC. In the meantime, liberty has been the

casualty. The High Court having failed to evaluate prima facie whether the

allegations in the FIR, taken as they stand, bring the case within the fold of

Section 306 read with Section 34 of the IPC, this Court is now called upon to

perform the task. 46 Before we evaluate the contents of the FIR, a reference to Section 306 of

the IPC is necessary. Section 306 stipulates that if a person commits suicide

―whoever abets the commission of such suicide‖ shall be punished with

imprisonment extending up to 10 years17. Section 107 is comprised within

Chapter V of the IPC , which is titled ―Of Abetment‖. Section 107 provides: PART I

 cause or procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the
 doing of that thing. Illustration A, a public officer, is authorised by a warrant from
 a Court of Justice to apprehend Z, B, knowing that fact and
 also that C is not Z, willfully represents to A that C is Z, and
 thereby intentionally causes A to apprehend C. Here B abets
 by instigation the apprehension of C.

 Explanation 2.—Whoever, either prior to or at the time of the
 commission of an act, does anything in order to facilitate the
 commission of that act, and thereby facilitates the
 commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act.‖

47 The first segment of Section 107 defines abetment as the instigation of a

person to do a particular thing. The second segment defines it with reference to

engaging in a conspiracy with one or more other persons for the doing of a thing,

and an act or illegal omission in pursuance of the conspiracy. Under the third

segment, abetment is founded on intentionally aiding the doing of a thing either

by an act or omission. These provisions have been construed specifically in the

context of Section 306 to which a reference is necessary in order to furnish the

legal foundation for assessing the contents of the FIR. These provisions have

been construed in the earlier judgements of this Court in State of West Bengal

vs Orilal Jaiswal18 , Randhir Singh vs State of Punjab19 , Kishori Lal vs State

of MP20 (―Kishori Lal‖ ) and Kishangiri Mangalgiri Goswami vs State of

Gujarat21 . In Amalendu Pal vs State of West Bengal22, Justice Mukundakam

Sharma, speaking for a two judge Bench of this Court and having adverted to the

earlier decisions, observed: 18 Instigation, as this Court held in Kishori Lal (supra), ―literally means to provoke,

incite, urge on or bring about by persuasion to do anything‖. In S S Chheena vs

Vijay Kumar Mahajan23 , a two judge Bench of this Court, speaking through

Justice Dalveer Bhandari, observed: 48 Madan Mohan Singh vs State of Gujarat24 was specifically a case which

arose in the context of a petition under Section 482 of the CrPC where the High

Court had dismissed the petition for quashing an FIR registered for offences

under Sections 306 and 294(B) of the IPC. In that case, the FIR was registered

on a complaint of the spouse of the deceased who was working as a driver with 23 (2010) 12 SCC 190 24 (2010) 8 SCC 628 36 PART I

the accused. The driver had been rebuked by the employer and was later found

to be dead on having committed suicide. A suicide note was relied upon in the

FIR, the contents of which indicated that the driver had not been given a fixed

vehicle unlike other drivers besides which he had other complaints including the

deduction of 15 days‘ wages from his salary. The suicide note named the

accused–appellant. In the decision of a two judge Bench of this Court, delivered

by Justice V S Sirpurkar, the test laid down in Bhajan Lal (supra) was applied

and the Court held: 49 In a concurring judgment delivered by one of us (Dhananjaya Y

Chandrachud J) in the decision of the Constitution Bench in Common Cause

(supra), the provisions of Section 107 were explained with the following

observations: 50 More recently in M Arjunan vs State (represented by its Inspector of

Police)25, a two judge Bench of this Court, speaking through Justice R. 25 (2019) 3 SCC 315 38 PART I

Banumathi, elucidated the essential ingredients of the offence under Section 306 of the IPC in the following observations: 51 Similarly, in another recent judgment of this Court in Ude Singh and Ors.

vs State of Haryana26 , a two judge Bench of this Court, speaking through Justice

Dinesh Maheshwari, expounded on the ingredients of Section 306 of the IPC,

and the factors to be considered in determining whether a case falls within the

ken of the aforesaid provision, in the following terms: 52 In Vaijnath Kondiba Khandke vs State of Maharashtra and Ors.29 , a two

judge Bench of this Court, speaking through Justice U.U. Lalit, dealt with an

appeal against the rejection of an application under Section 482 of the CrPC, for

quashing an FIR registered under Sections 306 and 506 read with Section 34 of

the IPC. A person serving in the office of the Deputy Director of Education

Aurangabad had committed suicide on 8 August 2017. His wife made a complaint

to the police that her husband was suffering from mental torture as his superiors

were getting heavy work done from her husband. This resulted in him having to

work from 10 AM to 10 PM and even at odd hours and on holidays. The specific

allegation against the appellant was that he had stopped the deceased‘s salary

for one month and was threatening the deceased that his increment would be

stopped. This Court noted that there was no suicide note, and the only material

on record was in the form of assertions made by the deceased‘s wife in her report 28 Criminal Appeal No. 40 of 2011 decided on 1 October 2020 29 (2018) 7 SCC 781 41 PART I

to the police. The Court went on to hold that the facts on record were inadequate

and insufficient to bring home the charge of abetment of suicide under Section

306 of the IPC. The mere factum of work being assigned by the appellant to the

deceased, or the stoppage of salary for a month, was not enough to prove

criminal intent or guilty mind. Consequently, proceedings against the appellant

were quashed. 53 On the other hand, we must also notice the decision in Praveen Pradhan

(supra) where a two judge Bench of this Court, speaking through Justice B.S.

Chauhan, dismissed an appeal against the rejection of an application under Section 482 of the CrPC by the High Court for quashing a criminal proceeding,

implicating an offence under Section 306 of the IPC. The suicide note which was

left behind by the deceased showed, as this Court observed, that ―the appellant

perpetually humiliated, exploited and demoralised the deceased, who was

compelled to indulge in wrongful practices at the workplace, which hurt his self-

respect tremendously.‖ The Court noted that the appellant always scolded the

deceased and tried to always force the deceased to resign. Resultantly, the Court

observed: 54 In Narayan Malhari Thorat vs Vinayak Deorao Bhagat30 , this Court,

speaking through Justice U.U. Lalit, reversed the judgment of a Division Bench of

the High Court which had quashed criminal proceedings in exercise of the

jurisdiction under Section 482. This was a case where the FIR was registered

pursuant to the information received from the appellant. The FIR stated that the

son and daughter-in-law of the appellant were teachers in Zila Parishad School.

The respondent used to call the daughter-in-law of the appellant on the phone

and used to harass her. Moreover, despite the efforts of the son of the appellant,

the respondent did not desist from doing so. This Court noted: At this juncture when the investigation was yet to be
 completed and charge-sheet, if any, was yet to be filed, the
 High Court ought not to have gone into the aspect whether
 there was requisite mental element or intention on part of the
 respondent.‖

The above observations of the Court clearly indicated that there was a specific

allegation in the FIR bearing on the imputation that the respondent had actively

facilitated the commission of suicide by continuously harassing the spouse of the

victim and in failing to rectify his conduct despite the efforts of the victim.

55 Now in this backdrop, it becomes necessary to advert briefly to the

contents of the FIR in the present case. The FIR recites that the spouse of the

informant had a company carrying on the business of architecture, interior design

and engineering consultancy. According to the informant, her husband was over

the previous two years ―having pressure as he did not receive the money of work

carried out by him‖. The FIR recites that the deceased had called at the office of

the appellant and spoken to his accountant for the payment of money. Apart from

the above statements, it has been stated that the deceased left behind a suicide

note stating that his ―money is stuck and following owners of respective

companies are not paying our legitimate dues‖. Prima facie, on the application of

the test which has been laid down by this Court in a consistent line of authority

which has been noted above, it cannot be said that the appellant was guilty of

having abetted the suicide within the meaning of Section 306 of the IPC. These

observations, we must note, are prima facie at this stage since the High Court is 44 PART I

still to take up the petition for quashing. Clearly however, the High Court in failing

to notice the contents of the FIR and to make a prima facie evaluation abdicated

its role, functions and jurisdiction when seized of a petition under Section 482 of

the CrPC. The High Court recited the legal position that the jurisdiction to quash

under Section 482 has to be exercised sparingly. These words, however, are not

meaningless incantations, but have to be assessed with reference to the contents

of the particular FIR before the High Court. If the High Court were to carry out a

prima facie evaluation, it would have been impossible for it not to notice the

disconnect between the FIR and the provisions of Section 306 of the IPC. The

failure of the High Court to do so has led it to adopting a position where it left the

appellant to pursue his remedies for regular bail under Section 439. The High

Court was clearly in error in failing to perform a duty which is entrusted to it while

evaluating a petition under Section 482 albeit at the interim stage.

56 The petition before the High Court was instituted under Article 226 of the

Constitution and Section 482 of the CrPC. While dealing with the petition under

section 482 for quashing the FIR, the High Court has not considered whether

prima facie the ingredients of the offence have been made out in the FIR. If the

High Court were to have carried out this exercise, it would (as we have held in

this judgment) have been apparent that the ingredients of the offence have not

prima facie been established. As a consequence of its failure to perform its

function under Section 482, the High Court has disabled itself from exercising its

jurisdiction under Article 226 to consider the appellant‘s application for bail. In

considering such an application under Article 226 , the High Court must be

circumspect in exercising its powers on the basis of the facts of each case. 45 PART I

However, the High Court should not foreclose itself from the exercise of the

power when a citizen has been arbitrarily deprived of their personal liberty in an

excess of state power. 57 While considering an application for the grant of bail under Article 226 in a

suitable case, the High Court must consider the settled factors which emerge

from the precedents of this Court. These factors can be summarized as follows: 58 These principles have evolved over a period of time and emanate from the

following (among other) decisions: Prahlad Singh Bhati vs NCT, Delhi31 ; Ram

Govind Upadhyay vs Sudarshan Singh32 ; State of UP vs Amarmani 31 (2001) 4 SCC 280 32 (2002) 3 SCC 598 46 PART J

Tripathi33; Prasanta Kumar Sarkar vs Ashis Chatterjee34 ; Sanjay Chandra vs

CBI35 ; and P. Chidambaram vs Central Bureau of Investigation36 .

59 These principles are equally applicable to the exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution when the court is called upon to secure the liberty

of the accused. The High Court must exercise its power with caution and

circumspection, cognizant of the fact that this jurisdiction is not a ready substitute

for recourse to the remedy of bail under Section 439 of the CrPC. In the backdrop

of these principles, it has become necessary to scrutinize the contents of the FIR

in the case at hand. In this batch of cases, a prima facie evaluation of the FIR

does not establish the ingredients of the offence of abetment of suicide under Section 306 of the IPC. The appellants are residents of India and do not pose a

flight risk during the investigation or the trial. There is no apprehension of

tampering of evidence or witnesses. Taking these factors into consideration, the

order dated 11 November 2020 envisaged the release of the appellants on bail. subject to regulation by validly enacted legislation. As such, the citizen is subject

to the edicts of criminal law and procedure. Section 482 recognizes the inherent

power of the High Court to make such orders as are necessary to give effect to

the provisions of the CrPC ―or prevent abuse of the process of any Court or

otherwise to secure the ends of justice‖. Decisions of this court require the High 33 (2005) 8 SCC 21 34 (2010) 14 SCC 496 35 (2012) 1 SCC 40 36 Criminal Appeal No. 1605 of 2019 decided on 22 October 2019 47 PART J

Courts, in exercising the jurisdiction entrusted to them under Section 482, to act

with circumspection. In emphasising that the High Court must exercise this power

with a sense of restraint, the decisions of this Court are founded on the basic

principle that the due enforcement of criminal law should not be obstructed by the

accused taking recourse to artifices and strategies. The public interest in

ensuring the due investigation of crime is protected by ensuring that the inherent

power of the High Court is exercised with caution. That indeed is one – and a

significant - end of the spectrum. The other end of the spectrum is equally

important: the recognition by Section 482 of the power inhering in the High Court

to prevent the abuse of process or to secure the ends of justice is a valuable

safeguard for protecting liberty. The Code of Criminal Procedure of 1898 was

enacted by a legislature which was not subject to constitutional rights and

limitations; yet it recognized the inherent power in Section 561A. Post-

Independence, the recognition by Parliament37 of the inherent power of the High

Court must be construed as an aid to preserve the constitutional value of liberty.

The writ of liberty runs through the fabric of the Constitution. The need to ensure

the fair investigation of crime is undoubtedly important in itself, because it

protects at one level the rights of the victim and, at a more fundamental level, the

societal interest in ensuring that crime is investigated and dealt with in

accordance with law. On the other hand, the misuse of the criminal law is a

matter of which the High Court and the lower Courts in this country must be alive.

In the present case, the High Court could not but have been cognizant of the

specific ground which was raised before it by the appellant that he was being 37 Section 482 of the CrPC 1973 48 PART J

made a target as a part of a series of occurrences which have been taking place

since April 2020. The specific case of the appellant is that he has been targeted

because his opinions on his television channel are unpalatable to authority.

Whether the appellant has established a case for quashing the FIR is something

on which the High Court will take a final view when the proceedings are listed

before it but we are clearly of the view that in failing to make even a prima facie

evaluation of the FIR, the High Court abdicated its constitutional duty and

function as a protector of liberty. Courts must be alive to the need to safeguard

the public interest in ensuring that the due enforcement of criminal law is not

obstructed. The fair investigation of crime is an aid to it. Equally it is the duty of

courts across the spectrum – the district judiciary, the High Courts and the

Supreme Court – to ensure that the criminal law does not become a weapon for

the selective harassment of citizens. Courts should be alive to both ends of the

spectrum – the need to ensure the proper enforcement of criminal law on the one

hand and the need, on the other, of ensuring that the law does not become a

ruse for targeted harassment. Liberty across human eras is as tenuous as

tenuous can be. Liberty survives by the vigilance of her citizens, on the

cacophony of the media and in the dusty corridors of courts alive to the rule of

(and not by) law. Yet, much too often, liberty is a casualty when one of these

components is found wanting. 61 Mr Kapil Sibal, Mr Amit Desai and Mr Chander Uday Singh are

undoubtedly right in submitting that the procedural hierarchy of courts in matters

concerning the grant of bail needs to be respected. However, there was a failure

of the High Court to discharge its adjudicatory function at two levels – first in 49 PART J

declining to evaluate prima facie at the interim stage in a petition for quashing the

FIR as to whether an arguable case has been made out, and secondly, in

declining interim bail, as a consequence of its failure to render a prima facie

opinion on the first. The High Court did have the power to protect the citizen by

an interim order in a petition invoking Article 226. Where the High Court has

failed to do so, this Court would be abdicating its role and functions as a

constitutional court if it refuses to interfere, despite the parameters for such

interference being met. The doors of this Court cannot be closed to a citizen who

is able to establish prima facie that the instrumentality of the State is being

weaponized for using the force of criminal law. Our courts must ensure that they

continue to remain the first line of defense against the deprivation of the liberty of

citizens. Deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many. We

must always be mindful of the deeper systemic implications of our decisions.

62 It would be apposite to extract the observations made, albeit in a

dissenting opinion, by one of us (Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J.) in a decision of

a three judge bench in Romila Thapar vs Union of India38 : 63 More than four decades ago, in a celebrated judgment in State of

Rajasthan, Jaipur vs Balchand39, Justice Krishna Iyer pithily reminded us that

the basic rule of our criminal justice system is ‗bail, not jail‘40. The High Courts

and Courts in the district judiciary of India must enforce this principle in practice,

and not forego that duty, leaving this Court to intervene at all times. We must in

particular also emphasise the role of the district judiciary, which provides the first

point of interface to the citizen. Our district judiciary is wrongly referred to as the

‗subordinate judiciary‘. It may be subordinate in hierarchy but it is not subordinate

in terms of its importance in the lives of citizens or in terms of the duty to render

justice to them. High Courts get burdened when courts of first instance decline to

grant anticipatory bail or bail in deserving cases. This continues in the Supreme

Court as well, when High Courts do not grant bail or anticipatory bail in cases

falling within the parameters of the law. The consequence for those who suffer

incarceration are serious. Common citizens without the means or resources to

move the High Courts or this Court languish as undertrials. Courts must be alive

to the situation as it prevails on the ground – in the jails and police stations where

human dignity has no protector. As judges, we would do well to remind ourselves

that it is through the instrumentality of bail that our criminal justice system‘s

primordial interest in preserving the presumption of innocence finds its most 39 (1977) 4 SCC 308 40 These words of Justice Krishna Iyer are not isolated silos in our jurisprudence, but have been consistently
followed in judgments of this Court for decades. Some of these judgments are: State of U.P. vs Amarmani
Tripathi, ( 2005) 8 SCC 21 and Sanjay Chandra vs CBI , (2012) 1 SCC 40. 51 PART J

eloquent expression. The remedy of bail is the ―solemn expression of the

humaneness of the justice system‖41. Tasked as we are with the primary

responsibility of preserving the liberty of all citizens, we cannot countenance an

approach that has the consequence of applying this basic rule in an inverted

form. We have given expression to our anguish in a case where a citizen has

approached this court. We have done so in order to reiterate principles which

must govern countless other faces whose voices should not go unheard.

64 We would also like to take this opportunity to place on record data sourced

from the National Judicial Data Grid (―NJDG‖) on the number of bail applications

currently pending in High Courts and District Courts across India: 65 The data on the NJDG is available in the public realm. The NJDG is a

valuable resource for all High Courts to monitor the pendency and disposal of 41 Arghya Sengupta and Ritvika Sharma, ‗Saharashri and the Supremes‘, (The Wire, 23 June 2015) available at
<https://thewire.in/economy/saharashri-and-the-supremes> 42 For nine High Courts, no separate data is available in relation to pending bail applications, which are quantified
as pending applications simplicitor. Further, for two High Courts, the data is only available for their principal
bench and not their circuit benches. More granulated data can be accessed at the website of the NJDG, available
at <www.njdg.ecourts.gov.in>. 52 PART J

cases, including criminal cases. For Chief Justices of the High Courts, the

information which is available is capable of being utilized as a valuable

instrument to promote access to justice, particularly in matters concerning liberty.

The Chief Justices of every High Court should in their administrative capacities

utilize the ICT tools which are placed at their disposal in ensuring that access to

justice is democratized and equitably allocated. Liberty is not a gift for the few.

Administrative judges in charge of districts must also use the facility to engage

with the District judiciary and monitor pendency. As the data on the NJDG makes

clear, there is a pressing need for courts across the judicial hierarchy in India to

remedy the institutional problem of bail applications not being heard and

disposed of with expedition. Every court in our country would do well to

remember Lord Denning‘s powerful invocation in the first Hamlyn Lecture, titled

‗Freedom under the Law‘ 43: 66 Since the proceedings are pending before the High Court, we clarify that

the observations on the facts contained in the present judgment are confined to a

determination whether a case for grant of interim protection was made out.

Equally, the observations which are contained in the impugned order of the High

Court were also at the interim stage and will not affect the final resolution of the

issues which arise and have been raised before the High Court. had directed the release of all the three appellants on bail pending the disposal of

the proceedings before the High Court. The following operative directions were

issued on 11 November 2020: …….………….…………………...........................J.
 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

 …….…………………………...............................J.
 [Indira Banerjee]

New Delhi; November 27, 2020. 55