% 16.03.2026 1. This is a writ petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution
 of India seeking the following prayers: 2. The brief facts of the case are that a cyber complaint was filed
 by one Kaushiki Singh, alleging fraud by unidentified individuals. 3. Based on the said complaint, a blanket freeze was imposed on
 the account number No. 448302010461231 of the petitioners
 maintained with Union Bank of India, Paschim Vihar Branch, New
 Delhi. 4. The petitioners, who have a join account, were neither named
 nor implicated in the complaint nor there is any material which
 connects them with the acts of the alleged fraudulent chain of
 transactions. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/03/2026 at 21:12:07 5. Ms. Zaidi, learned counsel for the petitioners states that the
 petitioners have neither been given any personal hearing nor any show
 cause notice has been supplied. Despite the same the account has been
 freezed. 6. Hence the present petition. 7. Mr. Rout, learned counsel for the respondent No.2, has handed
 over a chart showing that the account of the petitioners has been
 frozen in pursuance of four complaints, two from Uttar Pradesh and
 two from Gujarat. The said details are reproduced as under: 8. After hearing the parties, I am of the view that only the four
 transactions are under investigation and the entire account of the
 petitioners cannot be freezed. Before freezing the account, the
 petitioners has not been given any shown cause notice by the
 respondent bank, seeking explanation from the petitioners.
 Additionally, no cogent reasons for freezing the account of the
 petitioner have been informed. 9. The freezing of an account is an action entailing serious
 consequences creating undue hardships for the petitioners in starting
 their professional lives. The respondent bank cannot be permitted to

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/03/2026 at 21:12:07
 take such harsh measures without complying with the principles of
 natural justice and without any application of mind. 10. Additionally, a coordinate bench of this Court has made
 categorical observations in paragraph No. 19 of its Order dated
 16.01.2026 titled as Malabar Gold and Diamond Limited & Ors. v.
 Union of India & Ors., W.P.(C) 4198/2025, that actions of blanket
 freeze in cases where the account holder is neither an accused nor a
 suspect, are manifestly arbitrary and in clear violation of Article
 19(1)(g) and Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 11. For the said reasons, I am of the view that the impugned action
 of account freezing in the present case is not only in clear violation of
 the principles of natural justice but also disproportionate and an
 arbitrary exercise of power thereby striking a blow at the fundamental
 rights of the petitioners. The impugned action is without due
 application of mind as an indiscriminate blanket freeze has been
 imposed on the joint account of the petitioners for an allegedly
 suspicious entry of some amount. Therefore, the action deserves to be
 set aside. Consequently, the petition is allowed and it is hereby
 directed the joint account of the petitioners shall be defreezed and
 activated except for the disputed amount of Rs. 1,25,238/- forthwith. 12. The SOP dated 02.01.2026 of the government with respect to
 freezing and defreezing of bank account is already in place. The clause
 No. 10.1 of the said SOP reads as under:- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/03/2026 at 21:12:07
 included in the videoconference or otherwise involved
 with the process of verifications. The account holder or
 the person raising the grievance on behalf of the account
 holder should not be called to appear in person before
 the IO or Police officer, unless deemed to be unavoidable
 during a course of the investigation, and an FIR or e- FIR
 is issued in the case. To the extent possible,
 videoconferencing should be opted. d) For verifications, the IO or Police Officer may also
 take the assistance of the concerned Police Station of the
 area where the account holder resides. For this, the CIAR
 module of the Samanvaya Platform can be used. If
 satisfied with the verifications and the explanations
 submitted, he will direct the concerned banks to remove
 the hold on the reported amount within 15 calendar days
 of the receipt of the grievance. The Bank or FI concerned
 shall remove the hold on the reported amount and shall
 update the same on the Grievance Redressal Module. e) If the IO or Police Officer is not satisfied with the
 explanation submitted by the aggrieved person, she shall
 submit her remarks on the Grievance Redressal Module
 within 15 calendar days of raising the grievance by the
 bank, duly recording the reasons and the same will be
 communicated to the account holder by SMS/email. f) If the IO or Police Officer or the authorised Police
 Officer doesn't address the grievance raised within a

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/03/2026 at 21:12:07
 period of 15 calendar days, then on the completion of 15
 calendar days, the grievance will be automatically
 notified to the District Grievance Officer. If the account
 holder is not satisfied with the orders of the IO or Police
 Officer, she may file a review request within 15 calendar
 days of receiving intimation by visiting the designated
 bank branch, which will then be reviewed by the District
 Grievance Officer. The reviewing officer will go through
 the details submitted, reasons offered by the IO or Police
 Officer, may seek additional information from banks,
 pass appropriate instructions to the IO or Police Officer
 and update her decision on the Grievance Redressal
 Module within 15 calendar days of being notified. As
 instructed by the District Grievance Officer, the IO or
 Police Officer shall take appropriate action and update
 the portal within 2 calendar days. Banks and FIs should
 furnish the requested information at the earliest and not
 later than 2 calendar days to enable expeditious disposal
 of the grievance. In case no lawful directions regarding
 continuation or discontinuation of the hold (where money
 is held in the bank account against any LEA request or
 court order) are received within 90 calendar days of the
 grievance being submitted by the bank, then within 15
 calendar days before the expiry of these 90 calendar
 days, the bank will intimate the concerned LEA for
 removal of the hold, in cases where the hold placed has

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/03/2026 at 21:12:07
 been contested upon through this grievance redressal
 mechanism. Further, an SMS will be sent to the
 concerned SHO or the authorised Police Officer through
 NCRP. If the amount is not required to be retained in
 any other case or if there is no petition filed in any court
 for the release of that amount, and there is no request
 from the concerned LEA for an extension of the hold
 period, the bank shall remove the hold, after EDD, on a
 request made by the account holder and as per
 instructions of the concerned LEA. Before carrying out
 the discontinuation of the hold, intimation will be sent to
 the SHO at least 15 calendar days before the date of
 expiry of the 90 calendar days from the date of raising
 the grievance. The status of the removal of the hold will
 be updated on CFCFRMS by the Bank. In case the IOs or
 designated Police Officers find it necessary during the
 course of investigation that it's necessary to continue the
 hold, they may ask for an extension for continuation for
 up to 90 additional calendar days." 13. The petitioners shall be entitled to avail the remedies and seek
 redressal of his grievances in terms of the SOP dated 02.01.2026 and
 the respondent no. 2 shall initiate actions in terms of the SOP. The
 needful shall be done expeditiously. 14. In case the petitioner is still aggrieved after the culmination of
 the process mentioned in the SOP is followed, the petitioner shall be at
 the liberty to file a fresh petition in accordance with law. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/03/2026 at 21:12:07 15. The petition is disposed of in aforesaid terms. JASMEET SINGH, J
 MARCH 16, 2026/NG

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/03/2026 at 21:12:07