YASHWANT VARMA, J. TABLE OF CONTENTS
 A. FACTUAL BACKGROUND ................................................................................. 3
 B. ARGUMENTS RENDERED BY THE PETITIONERS ................................... 18
 C. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS ....................................................... 43
 D. ASSESSMENT UNDER THE CUSTOMS AND FTDR ACT .......................... 47 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 2 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 E. RECOVERY OF DUTY UNDER SECTION 28 AND 28AAA ......................... 59
 F. SCOPE OF THE AUDIT POWER ..................................................................... 68
 G. THE POWERS OF THE DGFT .......................................................................... 71
 H. THE IMPUGNED AUDIT OBJECTION LETTER ......................................... 76
 I. THE PURVIEW OF SECTIONS 28(4) AND 28AAA ....................................... 80
 J. THE CUSTOMS AND THE DGFT CROSSROAD .......................................... 82
 K. PRE-REQUISITES UNDER SECTION 28AAA ............................................... 86
 L. DISPUTE OF CLASSIFICATION ..................................................................... 88
 M. DETERMINATION.............................................................................................. 90

 A. FACTUAL BACKGROUND 1. This batch of writ petitions assail the action initiated by the
 respondents seeking to deprive the benefits claimed and derived by the
 writ petitioners under the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme1.
 The dispute itself emanates from the export of what the petitioners
 contend to be handcrafted articles of stone during the period in question
 and entitled to benefits under the MEIS by virtue of being classifiable
 under Harmonised System of Nomenclature2 Code 681599. The
 dispute appears to have arisen in the backdrop of a letter issued by the
 Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs3 dated 31 May 2019
 alluding to a discrepancy in the HSN Code liable to be ascribed to stone
 and marble handicraft products. Based on a reading of that
 communication of the CBIC, the respondent No. 6, the Commissioner
 of Customs, appears to have issued a Public Notice No. 57/2019 in
 terms of which it was apprised to all that stone and marble handicraft
 products are liable to be classified under Custom Tariff Heading4
 6802, subject to compliance being affected with the other conditions
 comprised in the various Explanatory Notes attached to that heading. It 1 MEIS 2 HSN 3 CBIC 4 CTH Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 3 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 was on a purported reading of the aforesaid communications and the
 portend of the view taken by the CBIC that action appears to have been
 initiated against the petitioners. The principal allegation appears to be
 that the petitioners had illegally obtained benefits under the MEIS and
 were, therefore, liable to refund the amount of benefit claimed under
 that scheme. It is this action which also led to the issuance of various
 summons under Section 108 of the Customs Act, 19625 which are
 impugned before us. 2. In order to render a context to the issues that arise for our
 consideration we, for the sake of brevity, propose to take note of the
 facts as they obtain in W.P. (C) No. 17328 of 2022 and which was
 designated as the lead writ petition. 3. The petitioner, M/s Sharma International, claims to be a reputed
 exporter from Agra engaged in the export of handicraft articles made of
 marble and other material. It avers that it had been exporting those
 articles since 1991 treating them as classifiable under Indian Trade
 Classification (Harmonised System)6 68159990, including during the
 operation of the MEIS scheme, which held the field between 2015 upto
 2020. The products themselves are described to be handcrafted articles
 of stone popularly known as ‗Chakla Belan' (Rolling Board and
 Rolling Pin), mortar and pestle and other allied articles. According to
 the writ petitioner, those products are prepared by combining marble
 and stone with steel, wood, glass and the composite material being
 thereafter bound together with the use of adhesives. 4. According to the disclosures made in the writ petition, the
 shipping bills of the petitioner submitted for the period 2007 to 2009, 5 Customs Act 6 ITC (HS) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 4 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 and in terms of which the products were classified under ITC(HS)
 68159990, were duly accepted and cleared. Apart from the aforesaid
 exports, the petitioner had also exported those articles during the
 operation of the MEIS during the period 2015 and right up to 2020. It is
 asserted that various governmental organizations had, from time to
 time, duly certified the exported articles as being handicraft products
 and thus no question ever being raised with respect to their
 classification under CTH 6815. 5. Proceeding on that basis, shipping bills classifying the products
 under ITC(HS) 68159990 were duly submitted at the out ports and
 assessed by the customs authorities. Basis the above, the petitioners
 also claimed benefits under the MEIS and which were duly availed of.
 For the purposes of evaluating the controversy which arises, this would
 appear to be an appropriate juncture to briefly advert to the salient
 provisions of the MEIS. 6. Under the prevailing Foreign Trade Policy7 of 2015-20, the
 Union Government, in order to promote exports of Indian handicrafts,
 had introduced the MEIS. With the avowed objective of providing an
 impetus to such exports, the FTP provided incentives for the export of
 notified goods and products and the calculation of corresponding
 rewards being tagged to the realized Free On Board8 value of exports. 7. In terms of the MEIS, the exporters were also provided duty
 credit scrips which were transferable. Those duty credit scrips could be
 used for payment of basic customs duty, additional customs duty,
 payment of central excise duties on domestic procurement of inputs or
 goods. 7 FTP
 8 FOB Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 5 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 8. The FTP made the following important provisions insofar as the
 MEIS is concerned: - (Amended vide Notification No. 8/2015-20 dated 4th
 June 2015). (ii) Payment of excise duties on domestic procurement of
 input or goods, including capital goods as per DoR
 notification. (iii) Payment of service tax on procurement of services as
 per DoR notification. (iv) Payment of Customs Duty and fee as per paragraph
 3.18 of this Policy. Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS)
 3.03 Objective
 Objective of Merchandise Exports from India Scheme
 (MEIS) is to offset infrastructural inefficiencies and
 associated costs involved in export of goods/products, which
 are produced/manufactured in India, especially those having
 high export intensity, employment potential and thereby
 enhancing India's export competitiveness. 3.04 Entitlement under MEIS
 Exports of notified goods/products with ITC[HS] code, to
 notified markets as listed in Appendix 3B, shall be rewarded
 under MEIS. Appendix 3B also lists the rate(s) of rewards on
 various notified products [ITC (HS) code wise]. The basis of
 calculation of reward would be on realised FOB value of
 exports in free foreign exchange, or on FOB value of exports Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 6 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 as given in the Shipping Bills in free foreign exchange,
 whichever is less, unless otherwise specified. 3.05 Export of goods through courier or foreign post offices
 using e-Commerce (i) Exports of goods through courier or foreign post
 office using e-commerce, as notified in Appendix 3C,
 of FOB value upto Rs. 25000 per consignment shall
 be entitled for rewards under MEIS. (ii) If the value of exports using e-commerce platform is
 more than Rs 25000 per consignment then MEIS
 reward would be limited to FOB value of Rs.25000
 only (iii) Such goods can be exported in manual mode through
 Foreign Post Offices at New Delhi, Mumbai and
 Chennai. (iv) Export of such goods under Courier Regulations shall
 be allowed manually on pilot basis through Airports
 at Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai as per appropriate
 amendments in regulations to be made by Department
 of Revenue. Department of Revenue shall fast track
 the implementation of EDI mode at courier terminals. 3.06 Ineligible categories under MEIS
 The following exports categories/sectors shall be ineligible
 for Duty Credit Scrip entitlement under MEIS (i) EOUs/ EHTPs / BTPs/ STPs who are availing direct
 tax benefits / exemption. exports that are originating in third country but
 transshipped through India; 2 of Export Policy in ITC (HS), unless specifically
 notified in Appendix 3B. (viii) Service Export. in any form including plain and studded jewellery and
 other precious and semi-precious stones. (xii) Ores and concentrates of all types and in all
 formations. (xiii) Cereals of all types. (xiv) Sugar of all types and all forms, unless specifically
 notified in Appendix 3B. (xv) Crude / petroleum oil and crude / primary and base
 products of all types and all formulations. (xvi) Export of milk and milk products, unless specifically
 notified in Appendix 3B. (xvii) Export of Meat and Meat Products, unless
 specifically notified in Appendix 3B. (xviii) Products wherein precious metal/diamond are used or
 Articles which are studded with precious stones.
 (xix) Exports made by units in FTWZ. (xx) Items, which are prohibited for export under
 Schedule-2 of Export Policy in ITC (HS). (Para 3.06 amended vide Notification No 8/2015-20 dated
 4th June, 2015).‖ 9. For the purposes of implementation of the MEIS, a Public Notice
 No. 02/2015-2020 was issued by the Director General of Foreign
 Trade9 specifying the eligible countries to which exports could be
 made for availing benefits under the scheme as well as the ITC(HS)
 code wise list of products with reward rates. Appendix 3B which
 formed a part thereof, listed out the products which were recognized to
 be eligible under the MEIS and included products classifiable under
 CTH 6815. CTH 6815 was concerned with ―articles of stone or of other
 mineral substances (including carbon fibres, articles of carbon fibres
 and articles of peat), not elsewhere specified or included‖. 10. The petitioners were classifying the exported article specifically
 under ITC(HS) 68159990 and which constituted the residual clause and
 read as ―others‖. By virtue of the inclusion of articles falling within the
 ambit of ITC(HS) 68159990, those products became entitled to claim
 MEIS rewards @ 5%. The aforenoted Public Notice No. 02/2015 was
 thereafter amended from time to time including by way of Public

 9 DGFT Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 8 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 Notice No. 44/2015-2020 dated 05 December 2017 in terms of which
 the MEIS reward was increased from 5% to 7%. 11. The petitioners aver that on 26 July 2018 the Ministry of
 Finance, in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 of the
 Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 201710 issued Notification No.
 21/2018, which exempted the intra-state supply of handicraft goods
 from tax. Amongst the various goods which came to be included in that
 Notification were those which would be classifiable under CTH 6802
 and ITC(HS) 68159990. The said Notification carried the following
 Explanation which defined handicraft goods as under:- 12. On the basis of the aforesaid statutory regime which prevailed,
 the petitioners assert that they had continued to classify their products
 as falling under ITC(HS) 68159990 since 1991 and which practice
 continued right up to October 2018. However, in December 2018, the
 sixth respondent, the Commissioner of Customs, appears to have raised
 a question with respect to the classification of those goods. The said
 respondent took the position that the goods being exported by the
 petitioners were liable to be classified under CTH 6802. CTH 6802
 deals with articles of stone, plaster, cement, asbestos, mica or similar
 materials and carries the following heading: - 13. Aggrieved by the stand so taken, various representations appear
 to have been made by trade associations requesting the respondents to
 resolve the doubts which had come to be raised in respect of the
 classification of these handicraft articles. The matter is stated to have
 been escalated to various authorities up the policy chain including the
 Ministry of Textiles as well as the Office of the Development
 Commissioner (Handicrafts). 14. A detailed representation is also stated to have been made in this
 regard on 11 February 2019 by the Handicraft Exporter Association
 Agra to the Department of Commerce and Industry. In terms of the said
 representation, that Association asserted that if the stand of the
 respondents were to be accepted, it would become ineligible to claim
 the benefits of the MEIS and which had already been passed on to the
 buyers. This, according to the Association, would inevitably cause
 grave hardship and financial loss to its members-exporters. 15. The representation of the Association is stated to have been taken
 up for consideration in the third meeting of the Board of Trade which
 was chaired by the Minister of Commerce and Industries and was
 convened on 15 February 2019. Pursuant to the discussion which
 ensued in that meeting, the Joint Director of Foreign Trade issued an
 Office Memorandum dated 26 February 2019 requesting the
 Department of Revenue as well as other concerned stakeholders in the
 Union Government to furnish their comments and views. This is
 evident from a reading of the said Office Memorandum and which Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 10 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 enclosed with it a gist of the minutes of the discussion which had been
 held by the Board of Trade. The said Office Memorandum reads thus: - (Soumya Chattopadhyay)
 Joint Director General of Foreign Trade
 Tel: 011-23061562 Ext.391
 E-mail. [email protected] ‖ 16. Insofar as the export of the goods in question is concerned, the
 minutes of the aforenoted meeting dated 15 February 2019 which was
 appended to the aforenoted Office Memorandum carried the following
 pertinent observations: - He emphasised that Government is committed to end to end IT
 enablement and make all processes completely paperless. In this
 regard, Department of Commerce has approved a project for the
 revamp of entire IT system of DGFT. He slated that however, in the
 meanwhile, DGFT has taken many measures lo bring ease of doing
 business with DGFT like
  Same day issue of IEC (Importer Exporter Code) online.
  Auto approval or MEIS scripts within 24 hours
  Contact @ DGFT grievance redressal service for
 Exporters/Importers
  Redemption of Export Obligation of Exporters expedited
 through a drive.  Consequently over 13000 Advance Authorisation and 9500
 EPCG cases have been redeemed.  Revamp of DGFT's IT System initiated to make all DGFT
 processes paperless and provide end-to-end IT enablement for
 all services. DGFT highlighted that due to these initiatives of the Government,
 India has jumped to 30th place in 2018 from 1146th place in ―Trading
 across Borders Ranking‖ as released by the World Bank. The representatives of industry, while welcoming steps taken by the
 Government proposed many constructive measures to boost exports
 The issues/suggestions put forth by the members of Board of Trade
 are as under· 1. President, FIEO Shri G.K.Gupta :  Since they promote reverse buyer seller meet and as per the
 prevailing provisions of the MAI scheme cost of air tickets hotel
 accommodation are not reimbursed for the traditional markets
 such as EU, America, Japan and their request is that MAI
 benefits be granted for partIc1pants from these countries as well.
  Further, he pointed out that exporters exporting to Iran are
 facing problems and no EBRC is being released to the exporters
 in absence of which the exporter is unable to claim the MEIS
 and other benefits.  Due to introduction of GST the duty drawback rates on
 handicraft items have been reduced by 50 to 70% To
 compensate the loss the handicraft sector may be included in the
 ROSL scheme and 2 to 4% may be refunded.  He also pointed out that members from Agra are facing
 difficulties in obtaining MEIS benefits with reference to specific
 codes namely 6802 21 90 and 6815 99 90 as there are certain
 ambiguities. Customs is denying MEIS benefits of 7% on 6815
 99 90 and insisting on putting 6802 21 90 on the shipping bills.‖ 17. It is, however, the case of the writ petitioners that till date no
 concrete action has been taken despite the issuance of the aforenoted
 Office Memorandum dated 26 February 2019 and the opinion which
 was voiced by various parties as recorded in the minutes of the meeting
 held on 15 February 2019. This led to the Association addressing
 further communications to the CBIC as well as the Ministry of Finance
 to accord clarification. 18. On 31 May 2019, the CBIC acting through its Tariff Unit issued
 the following communication:- 19 Customs, dated 05.02.2019 wherein while referring to the discrepancy in
 the classification of Stone & Marble Handicrafts under CTH 6802 or 6815,
 it has been emphasized that MEIS @ 7% is available under HS Code 6845
 99 90 whereas the benefit is not available on HS Code 6802 21 90 2. Issue has been examined in detail in this office. It has been
 concluded that the said item is rightly classifiable u/h 6802 subject to
 compliance to other conditions given in the ENs to this heading, however,
 classification at 8-digit level will be decided by the concerned Customs
 formation in light of the factual specifications of individual items at hand.
 This clarification is formation in light of the factual specifications of
 individual items at hand. This clarification is germane as far as the
 classification choice was between CTH, i.e., 6802 and 6815 is concerned. 3. DGFT is also being requested in review the MEIS schedule with
 regard to above said items. Your's sincerely,

 Rachna Tanwar
 OSD, Tariff Unit‖ 19. The CBIC, while taking note of the conflicting stand taken by
 parties pertaining to the classification of stone and marble handicrafts
 under CTH 6802 or 6815 observed that those items would be
 classifiable under CTH 6802. However, and as is evident from a
 reading of that communication, the aforesaid conclusion was itself
 hedged by various caveats. The clarification was firstly qualified with Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 15 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 the CBIC observing that its view would be subject to compliance with
 the other conditions given in the Explanatory Notes accompanying that
 heading. It was further observed that classification would be decided by
 the concerned customs formations in light of the factual specifications
 of individual items. 20. It was pursuant to the said communication of the CBIC that
 Public Notice No. 57/2019 dated 19 June 2019 came to be issued and
 which is reproduced hereinbelow in its entirety: - -Sd- (Sunil Kumar Mall)
 Commissioner of Customs, NS-II,
 JNCH, Nhava Sheva‖ 21. On the basis of the aforesaid, the respondents proceeded to issue
 the audit objection letter dated 18 November 2019 which is impugned
 before us. It becomes relevant to extract the following passages from Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 16 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 that communication:- (a) the accuracy and completeness of the information given
 therein; (b) the authenticity and validity of any document supporting it,
 and (c) compliance with the restrictions or prohibition, if any, relating
 to the goods under this Act or under any other law for the time
 being in force. 5. However, in the instant case, you have not fulfilled your statutory
 obligation of correct and truthful declaration of the material facts of
 the export document i.e. shipping bills, and thereby mis-classified
 the gcods with an intention to claim higher export benefits in the
 form of the MEIS as explained above. 6. Therefore, in terms of the provisions of section 28(4) or 28AAA
 of the Customs Act, 1962, you are advised to pay the undue MEIS
 benefit amounting to INR 1,23,99,605/- (Rupees One Crore Twenty
 Three Lakh Ninety Nine Thousand Six Hundred and Five) as
 detailed in Annexure-A, which has been wrongly claimed by you
 along with applicable interest within 15 days of receipt of this letter. 7. Further, you are also advised not to apply to DGFT for issuance of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 17 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 MEIS Scrips (if not already issued) in respect of all such Shipping
 Bills, wherein exports have already been done by you in similar
 manner by wrongly classifying the goods to avail ineligible higher
 MEIS benefit.‖ 22. Close on the heels of that communication, the petitioner also
 received summons purporting to be under Section 108 of the Customs
 Act requiring it to appear and lead evidence. The petitioner is thereafter
 stated to have been served with yet another summons on 24 January
 2022 followed by another summons requiring the representative of the
 petitioner to appear before the respondents on 17 May 2022. The
 petitioner further alleges that during the course of those proceedings it
 was also forced to pay an amount of INR 5,00,000/- to the ninth
 respondent under duress and threat. This deposit is stated to have been
 made even though no Show Cause Notice11 or adjudicatory
 proceedings had been commenced. It is in the aforesaid backdrop that
 the petitioners had approached this Court for a declaration classifying
 handicraft articles made of stone and marble under ITC(HS) 68159990
 as well as to hold the petitioner to be a valid beneficiary under the
 MEIS. The petitioners also raise a challenge to the letter of the CBIC
 dated 31 May 2019 as well as the Public Notice No. 57/2019 dated 19
 June 2019 issued by respondent no. 6. A direction is also sought for
 quashing of the summons which have been issued and are dated
 15 November 2021, 24 January 2022, 17 May 2022, 06 June 22 and 30
 September 2022. B. ARGUMENTS RENDERED BY THE PETITIONERS 23. Appearing in support of the writ petitions, Mr. Gulati, learned
 senior counsel, addressed the following submissions. At the outset, it
 was submitted that admittedly the petitioners had right from 1991 been 11 SCN Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 18 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 placing the exported articles under ITC (HS) 68159990 without any
 protest or objection being raised by the respondents. It was Mr. Gulati's
 contention that the validity of the MEIS scrips which were issued had
 never been questioned by the respondents at any point of time. In fact,
 according to learned senior counsel, the record would bear out that the
 self-declarations as made by the petitioner had been duly accepted by
 the respondents consistently right from 1991. 24. Turning then to the issue of classification itself, Mr. Gulati
 submitted that the goods were liable to be legitimately placed under the
 broad generic heading of articles of stone and which formed the subject
 matter of CTH 6815. Mr. Gulati submitted that apart from the specific
 articles which are noticed in CTH 6815, handicraft articles made of
 stone were liable to be placed in the residuary entry represented by
 ITC(HS) 68159990. 25. According to Mr. Gulati, CTH 6802 principally relates to stone
 and articles thereof which are used or liable to be employed in
 monuments and buildings. This since according to learned senior
 counsel the entry uses the expression ―worked monumental or building
 stone‖. 26. Our attention was also drawn to the Chapter Notes which find
 place in Chapter 68 and specifically to Note 2 which reads as follows:- 27. The Explanatory Notes to CTH 6802 as it stood at the relevant
 time are extracted hereinbelow: - 6802.10 - Tiles, cubes and similar articles, whether or not
 rectangular (including square), the largest surface area of
 which is capable of being enclosed in a square the side of
 which is less than 7 cm; artificially coloured granules,
 chippings and powder - Other monumental or building stone and articles thereof,
 cut or sawn, with a flat or even surface: The heading therefore covers stone which has been further processed
 than mere shaping into blocks, sheets or slabs by splitting, roughly
 cutting or squaring, or squaring by sawing (square or rectangular
 faces). The heading thus covers stone in the forms produced by the stone-
 mason, sculptor, etc., viz.: 28. Mr. Gulati, while taking us through those Explanatory Notes laid Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 20 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 emphasis on that heading being intended to cover natural monumental
 or building stone which may have been worked upon beyond the stage
 of normal quarry products. Learned senior counsel also laid emphasis
 on the Explanatory Notes speaking of stone which may have been
 further processed therefrom by mere shaping into blocks, sheets or
 slabs. According to Mr. Gulati, all of the above when examined
 holistically would lead one to the irresistible conclusion of CTH 6802
 being confined to stone which is used for purposes of construction and
 erection of monuments and buildings. 29. Contrary to the above Mr. Gulati took us through the Explanatory
 Notes of CTH 6815 and as that article stood at the relevant time and is
 reproduced hereunder: - tubes and sheaths; worked bricks and tiles; moulds for the
 manufacture of small articles of delicate, design (e.g., coins, medals,
 lead soldiers for collections). (2) Carbon fibres and articles of carbon fibres. Carbon fibres are
 commonly, produced by carbonising organic polymers in filamentary
 forms. The products are used; for example, for reinforcement.
 (3) Articles made of peat (for example, sheets, cylinder shells, pots for
 raising plants). Textile articles of peat fibre are, however, excluded
 (Section XI). (4) Unfired bricks made of dolomite agglomerated with tar.
 (5) Bricks and other shapes (in particular magnesite or chrorne- magnesite products), chemically bonded but not yet fired. These
 articles are fired during the first heating of the furnace in which they
 are installed. Similar products presented after firing are excluded
 (heading 69.02 or 69.03),
 (6) Unfired silica or alumina vats (e.g., as used for melting glass).
 (7) Touchstones for testing precious metal; these may be of natural stone
 (e.g.; lyddite, a hard, fine-grained dark stone resistant to acids).
 (8) Paving blocks and slabs obtained by moulding fused slag without a
 binder, but excluding those having the character of heat-insulating
 goods of heading 68.06. (9) Filter tubes of finely crushed and agglomerated quartz or flint.
 (10) Blocks, slabs, sheets and other articles of fused basalt; these are
 used, because of their great resistance to wear, as linings for pipes,
 belt-conveyors, chutes for coke, coal, ores, gravel, stone, etc.‖ 30. It was submitted that the first Explanatory Note itself prescribes
 that the said heading would not cover articles of stone or of other
 mineral substances which may be covered by the earlier headings of
 that Chapter. According to learned senior counsel, this itself is
 indicative of articles of stone falling within the ambit of CTH 6815
 being those which are not used in monuments or buildings. Viewed in
 the aforesaid light, it was his submission that the stand as taken by the
 respondents is rendered wholly untenable, since handicraft articles
 sculpted out of stone and of the kind exported by the petitioner cannot
 possibly be countenanced as answering to the description of articles
 which are spoken of in CTH 6802. 31. Mr. Gulati then questioned the view that was expressed by the
 CBIC and which, according to learned senior counsel, made a broad
 and sweeping declaration that stone and marble handicrafts were
 classifiable under CTH 6802. This, according to Mr. Gulati, is an
 opinion expressed by the Board which is not supported by any Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 22 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 reasoning or detailed analysis of the two competing entries falling in
 Chapter 68. 32. Insofar as the Public Notice is concerned, Mr. Gulati submitted
 that respondent No. 6 has blindly followed and reproduced the contents
 of the communication of the Board dated 31 May 2019 while issuing
 Public Notice No. 57/2019. It was submitted that the aforesaid exercise
 of classification of handicrafted articles runs contrary to the consistent
 stand which had been taken by the respondents themselves right from
 1991 and had continued even during the currency of the MEIS. 33. Mr. Gulati submitted that the stand as taken is also contrary to
 Notification No. 21/2018 issued by the Department of Revenue and
 which had defined ‗handicraft goods' as those made predominantly by
 hand, although they may have been worked upon to some extent by
 tools or machinery. It was submitted that the aforesaid notification was
 a clear and categorical acceptance and affirmation of the stand of the
 writ petitioners that stone handicraft products exported by them would
 fall under ITC(HS) 68159990. It was submitted that the aforesaid
 Notification had come to be issued after the matter had been duly
 discussed by the Goods and Service Tax Council and was based upon
 its recommendations. According to Mr. Gulati, that explanation clearly
 dispels all doubts that may have been possibly harboured insofar as
 handcrafted products were concerned. 34. Proceeding then to the audit objection itself, it was Mr. Gulati's
 contention that the said communication proceeds on the basis that the
 petitioners had wrongly classified the exported articles under ITC(HS)
 68159990 with an intent to claim higher MEIS benefits. Mr. Gulati
 submitted that without affording even a rudimentary opportunity of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 23 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 hearing, the audit objections proceed to hold the petitioners liable to
 refund what is described to be the undue benefits which were claimed
 by them under the MEIS. It is in aforesaid light that it was submitted
 that the audit objection clearly deprives the petitioner of even
 contesting the position that has been taken and the view as expressed. 35. According to learned senior counsel, the impugned
 communication and which is described to be a ‗post clearance audit
 objection' is also contrary to the spirit of Section 99A of the Customs
 Act. It is in the aforesaid context that Mr. Gulati drew our attention to
 the decisions of the Supreme Court in Metal Forgings and Another v.
 Union of India and Others12 and Gorkha Security Services v.
 Government (NCT of Delhi) and Others13 and where the following
 pertinent observations came to be rendered with respect to the
 ingredients of a SCN. Drawing our attention firstly to the decision in
 Metal Forgings, Mr. Gulati placed reliance upon paras 12 and 20 of the
 report and which are reproduced hereinbelow:- 36. In Gorkha Security Services, the Supreme Court had made the
 following observations, albeit in the context of blacklisting: - 2013 was served upon the appellant. Relevant portion thereof has
 already been extracted above (see para 5). This show-cause notice
 is conspicuously silent about the blacklisting action. On the
 contrary, after stating in detail the nature of alleged defaults and
 breaches of the agreement committed by the appellant the notice
 specifically mentions that because of the said defaults the
 appellant was ―as such liable to be levied the cost accordingly‖. It
 further says ―why the action as mentioned above may not be taken
 against the firm, besides other action as deemed fit by the
 competent authority‖. It follows from the above that main action
 which the respondents wanted to take was to levy the cost. No
 doubt, the notice further mentions that the competent authority Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 25 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 could take other actions as deemed fit. However, that may not
 fulfil the requirement of putting the defaulter to the notice that
 action of blacklisting was also in the mind of the competent
 authority. Mere existence of Clause 27 in the agreement entered
 into between the parties, would not suffice the aforesaid
 mandatory requirement by vaguely mentioning other ―actions as
 deemed fit‖. As already pointed out above insofar as penalty of
 blacklisting and forfeiture of earnest money/security deposit is
 concerned it can be imposed only, ―if so warranted‖. Therefore,
 without any specific stipulation in this behalf, the respondent
 could not have imposed the penalty of blacklisting. 29. No doubt, rules of natural justice are not embodied rules nor
 can they be lifted to the position of fundamental rights. However,
 their aim is to secure justice and to prevent miscarriage of justice.
 It is now well-established proposition of law that unless a statutory
 provision either specifically or by necessary implication excludes
 the application of any rules of natural justice, in exercise of power
 prejudicially affecting another must be in conformity with the
 rules of natural justice.‖ 37. We then proceed to take note of the more fundamental challenge
 which was mounted by Mr. Gulati insofar as the impugned action of the
 respondents seeking to review the benefits which were claimed under
 the MEIS was concerned. Mr. Gulati firstly took us through the
 provisions contained in Section 28AAA of the Customs Act and which
 came to be introduced in the statute by virtue of Finance Act, 2012 w.e.f. 28 May 2012. That provision is extracted hereinbelow: - 38. Mr. Gulati would contend that an ‗instrument' as defined, would
 include the MEIS authorization or certificate that was issued to the writ
 petitioners under the MEIS and the provisions of the Foreign Trade
 (Development and Regulation) Act, 199214. According to Mr. Gulati,
 it is only in a case where the respondents had found that the MEIS scrip
 had been obtained by the petitioners by way of collusion, wilful
 misstatement or suppression of facts, that the proceedings impugned
 before us could have sustained. According to Mr. Gulati, there is no
 allegation laid against the writ petitioners which would evidence
 collusion, wilful misstatement or suppression of facts. In view of the
 aforesaid, learned senior counsel submitted that the entire action as
 initiated by the respondents is liable to be quashed on this ground alone. 39. Mr. Gulati then submitted that in the absence of any
 determination by a competent authority on the issue of whether the
 MEIS scrip could be said to have been obtained by way of collusion,
 wilful misstatement or suppression, the action as initiated by the
 respondents cannot be sustained. Learned senior counsel submitted that
 even the audit objection letter as issued would not be liable to be
 viewed as referable to Section 28AAA, since the same in any event
 would be traceable only to the power to conduct an audit and which
 stands embodied in Section 99A . An audit, according to Mr. Gulati,
 would inherently be guided by considerations which would be wholly
 independent and distinct from those which could form the subject

 14 FTDR Act Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 28 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 matter of an inquiry or determination under Section 28AAA. Tested on
 that score also the petitioners, according to Mr. Gulati, are entitled to
 succeed. 40. It was then submitted that the MEIS scheme and the benefits
 claimed by the writ petitioners thereunder is traceable to the provisions
 made by the Union under the provisions of the FTDR Act . Mr. Gulati
 firstly took us through the provisions embodied in Sections 3 and 5 of
 the FTDR Act and which are extracted hereinbelow: - [(4) Without prejudice to anything contained in any other
 law, rule, regulation, notification or order, no permit or licence shall
 be necessary for import or export of any goods, nor any goods shall
 be prohibited for import or export except, as may be required under
 this Act, or rules or orders made thereunder. [5. Foreign Trade Policy.--The Central Government may, from
 time to time, formulate and announce, by notification in the Official
 Gazette, the foreign trade policy and may also, in like manner,
 amend that policy: 41. It was contended by Mr. Gulati that a prohibition, restriction or
 regulation of import or export of goods would be primarily governed by
 the orders which the Union may promulgate under the FTDR Act .
 According to Mr. Gulati, as long as the export is shown to be compliant
 with the regulations as framed under the FTDR Act , there would exist
 no jurisdiction for the customs authorities to question the classification
 of goods or the claim of benefits under a particular scheme formulated
 in terms thereof. 42. Mr. Gulati submitted that as would be evident from a reading of Section 5 , the FTP which the Union Government frames is clearly
 imbued with statutory flavour and thus all provisions forming part
 thereof being liable to be viewed as prescriptions standing at par with
 those which may otherwise and ordinarily form part of any statutory
 enactment or subordinate legislation. 43. Taking us through the FTP 2015-2020 itself, Mr. Gulati invited
 our attention to Para 2.57 thereof and which reads as follows:- 44. According to learned senior counsel, Para 2.57 of the FTP 2015-
 2020 is a recognition and acknowledgement of the well-settled position
 of eminence which stands conferred upon the Director General of
 Foreign Trade15 and other officers and authorities enjoined with
 administering and regulating all aspects pertaining to the FTP as
 statutorily framed. The submission in essence was that in the absence of
 the DGFT having raised any doubt or having questioned the eligibility
 of the writ petitioners to claim benefits under the MEIS, it would be
 wholly impermissible for the customs authorities to undertake such an
 inquiry. In support of the aforesaid submission, Mr. Gulati relied upon
 various decisions which are noticed hereinafter. 45. Mr. Gulati firstly referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in Zuari Industries Limited vs Commissioner of Central Excise &
 Customs16 . Zuari Industries was a case where the Supreme Court was
 called upon to evaluate the stand of the customs authorities who had
 sought to question the essentiality certificate which had been granted to
 the importer in terms of the then existing Project Import Regulations,
 1986. The essentiality certificate was, in terms of those Regulations,
 required to be issued by the appropriate Ministry in the Union
 Government enabling a person to claim benefits of project import
 assessment and in the facts of that case claim a right to import goods
 required for establishment of a fertilizer plant at a ‗nil' rate of duty. The
 customs authorities in Zuari Industries had sought to doubt whether a
 power plant which had been imported by virtue of the recognition
 accorded to that import in terms of the essentiality certificate would be
 eligible for benefits. The customs authorities had sought to contend that 15 DGFT 16 (2007) 14 SCC 614 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 31 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 the import of a power plant would not constitute an integral part of a
 fertilizer project and thus not entitled to the benefits of project import
 assessment. 46. While negating that contention, the Supreme Court had
 pertinently observed as follows: - 47. Proceeding along this line, Mr. Gulati then invited our attention
 to the decision of the Supreme Court in Titan Medical Systems (P) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 32 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 Ltd. v. Collector of Customs, New Delhi17 . Titan Medical was a
 decision rendered in the context of an advance license for import which
 was held by the appellant assessee and its claim for the grant of
 protection in terms of an exemption notification. The authorities of
 customs appear to have doubted the eligibility of the appellant assessee
 to claim those exemptions and thus question the grant of the license
 itself. Negating that stand, the Supreme Court in Titan Medical Systems
 held thus: - 48. Proceeding then to the interplay between the FTDR Act and the
 Customs Act as also the extent of the jurisdiction which authorities
 independently empowered in terms of those statutes could exercise, Mr.
 Gulati had submitted that absent any adverse finding with respect to
 eligibility under the MEIS having been rendered by the competent
 authorities under the FTDR Act , it would be wholly impermissible for
 the customs authorities to draw the proceedings impugned before us. 49. In order to buttress the aforesaid submission, Mr. Gulati firstly 17 (2003) 9 SCC 133 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 33 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 relied upon a decision of the Gujarat High Court in Alstom India Ltd.
 v. Union of India and Another (No. 2)18 and where the said High
 Court had held as follows:- 50. A more elaborate consideration on the interplay between the two
 statutes with which we are concerned appears in a judgment rendered
 by a Division Bench of our Court in Simplex Infrastructure Ltd. v.
 Union of India and Others19 . Mr. Gulati drew our attention to the
 following passages of that decision and which had noticed the judgment
 of the Gujarat High Court in Alstom:- 51. The authority and jurisdiction of customs authorities to question
 a benefit claimed under the FTDR Act or to delve into issues of
 classification then appears to have fallen for consideration of the
 Allahabad High Court in PTC Industries Ltd. v. Union of India and
 Others20 . The said High Court, after noticing Para 2.3 of FTP 2004 -
 2009 which vested DGFT with the authority to rule on all questions or
 20 2009 SCC OnLine All 2138 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 38 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 allay doubts with respect to the interpretation of any provision in the
 FTP, had pertinently observed: - 2002 was confined to verification of the correctness of exporter's
 declaration regarding description, quantity, and FOB value of the
 export product. It is for the licensing authority to ensure that the
 credit is permitted at the correct rate as notified by the DGFT. The
 word "description" occurring in this circular, does not extend to
 adjudication on description or classification. If there is any doubt as
 to the description or classification at the time of verification, the
 matter has to be referred to the DGFT for declaration under section
 13 of the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992. If
 the DGFT decides after giving an opportunity to the owners of the
 goods that the goods do not meet the description and classification
 for DEPB, the owner of the goods may, in addition to the
 confiscation and penalty under the Foreign Trade (Development and
 Regulation) Act, 1992 , be punished with penalty under the Customs
 Act , and that he may also be liable for suspension or cancellation of
 the licence. The customs authority, however, are not entitled to
 adjudicate over description and classification of the goods for
 DEPB. 18. In Pradip Polyfils Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India (2004) 173 ELT 3
 (Bom) a somewhat similar question arose for consideration. The Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 39 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 petitioner had exported filter plates and accessories made with
 polypropylene under the DEPB Scheme through the Bombay coastal
 area at Bombay for which DEPB licences were issued by the DGFT
 Surat. The customs authorities rejected the claim for credit of duty
 on the grounds that the goods exported did not fall under Chapter 39
 of ITC (HS) classification of export import item, which is a
 precondition for claiming credit under SI. No. 14, of Public Notice
 No. 6, dated April 15, 1998. It was not in dispute that the DEPB
 licences were issued against export of polypropylene filter plates and
 accessories as contained in the shipping bills, which was required to
 be forwarded to the customs for verification of the particular set out
 in the shipping bills and necessary endorsements. The verification of
 the customs authorities under Circular No. 15 of 1997 dated June 3,
 1997 was restricted to the description, quantity, and FOB value of
 the export products set out in the shipping bills. The customs
 authorities did not allege that there was any discrepancy in the
 description, quantity and FOB value. Under the circumstances, the
 Bombay High Court held that when DEPB licence is issued, the
 petitioners are entitled to DEPB in respect of polypropylene filter
 plates and accessories. The customs authorities were not justified in
 rejecting the claim on the ground that the articles exported were not
 covered under Chapter 39 ITC (HS) classification. Whether an item
 falls under Chapter 39 of ITC classification or not is for the licensing
 authority to consider before issuing the licence. Even after issuance
 of the licence the licensing authority has powers to decide if the
 licenses were wrongly issued. The orders of the customs authorities
 were quashed and set aside. 19. In this case the customs authorities alleged on the basis of a
 report of CRCL that the goods produced for export were not
 manufactured through forging process, but were welded or clipped.
 The report of the CRCL was obtained ex parte without issuing notice
 or associating the petitioner in the inspections. The report verifies
 that the "sample" appears to be machine part made by different
 components by welding or clipping. The different components of the
 sample conform to the composition of stainless steel, 18/8, except
 one component (nut part) ; one component (nut part) composition is
 other than stainless steel. The carbon contained in sample is less than
 1.2% by weight, in each component of the sample. The description
 of the goods at the time of presenting them for export was not
 reported by CRCL to be non-conforming to the classification of the
 goods. The contents of the stainless steel was not in dispute. The
 customs authorities were concerned with the fact whether the goods
 meet the licence classification, namely, whether the DE-343-5, 19
 inches raised hatch (SS) Code No. 74 964, was required to be a
 forged machine part or a fabricated machine part in which different
 components could be welded or clipped. The goods would not
 become prescribed goods just because they did not meet the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 40 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 classification, which according to the customs authorities could only
 be obtained by forging and not by welding or clipping. The customs
 authorities have thus observed on their own satisfaction that the
 goods do not meet the classification for which the petitioner was
 given licence for DEBP credit. 20. It is not a case of misdescription or false declaration of goods. At
 best it is case in which it was to be found whether the welding or
 clipping could be included, or can be taken to be forging, when
 according to the DGFT the hatch was to be made predominantly of
 stainless steel of not less than 90 per cent. by weight. It is not the
 case of the customs authorities that the item produced for
 consideration before the DGFT and subjected to the DEPB
 Committee (inter-ministerial committee) which discussed the
 components was not the same, which was produced for export. The
 Committee of Experts in the office of DGFT included the
 representatives of Ministry of Steel; Joint DGFT Industrial Advisory,
 Joint Industrial Advisor and DGFT and three other DGFT. The
 representatives of Department of Steel explained the forging process
 in general and that the committee opined that the item produced was
 licensed item falling in the classification SI. No. 530B of the
 Schedule of DEPB. 21. On the aforesaid discussion, we find from the scheme of the Customs Act, 1962 and the Foreign Trade (Development and
 Regulation) Act, 1992 that whenever a dispute may arise as to the
 classification of the goods, other than its description, quantity and
 FOB value, the customs authorities have to refer the dispute for
 adjudication to DGFT under section 13 of the Act. It is only if the
 DGFT as the licensing and also adjudicating authority decides
 against the licensee, that the customs authorities will get jurisdiction
 to confiscate and levy penalty on such goods.‖ 52. The view which was expressed by the Allahabad High Court also
 finds resonance in a decision handed down by the Bombay High Court
 in Autolite (India) Ltd. v. Union of India21 . Mr. Gulati relied upon the
 following observations as appearing in that decision: - 53. In yet another decision of the Bombay High Court in
 Commissioner of Customs (E.P.) v. Jupiter Exports & Ors.22, the
 following pertinent observations came to be rendered in the context of a
 license issued by the DGFT and whether the same could be appraised
 or inquired into by the authorities of customs. Answering the aforesaid
 in the negative, the Bombay High Court had held as follows: - 54. Appearing for the respondents, learned counsels at the outset
 drew our attention to the procedure of self-assessment under the Customs Act , which finds place in Section 17 , whereby importers and
 exporters are required to self-assess the duty leviable on the goods so
 imported or exported. In the event of any verification, examination or
 testing of goods revealing that the self-assessment so done was
 incorrect, Section 17(4) vests the ‗proper officer' with the right to re-
 assess the duty so leviable on such goods. Section 17 requires importers
 and exporters to make a conscious effort to declare the correct
 classification, applicable rate of duty, value, benefit of exemption
 notification claimed, if any, in respect of imported or exported goods
 while presenting their respective Bills of Entry or shipping bills.
 However, according to the respondents, the petitioners have
 deliberately run afoul of the requirement under Section 17 to correctly
 self-assess their exported goods in order to obtain MEIS benefits that
 they were not entitled to. 55. According to learned counsel, MEIS was a scheme intended to
 incentivise exporters of certain kinds of goods and the benefits whereof
 would be accorded to products exported under a certain CTH and
 calculated based on the FOB value of goods exported. The benefits
 afforded to exporters under the MEIS was thus provided in the form of
 scrips of a certain value, constituting a certain percentage of the FOB
 value of the goods so exported. This scrip could thereafter be utilised
 for the payment of duty on goods imported by the exporters of a value
 equivalent to that of the scrip. In the alternative, the scrip could have
 also been sold by exporters to other importers who are entitled to use
 the same for payment of import duty. 56. The petitioners, according to learned counsel, had been exporting
 handicraft articles of stone and marble classifying the same under CTH
 6815 only with the intent of illegally obtaining benefits under the
 MEIS. Learned counsel based his submission upon the purported
 ―intelligence‖ received by the respondents that ―certain unscrupulous
 exporters‖ were deliberately misclassifying their export goods with the
 view to obtain benefits under the MEIS scheme. It was therefore the
 contention of learned counsel that the petitioner had, in contravention
 of Section 17 , deliberately misclassified their goods under ITC(HS)
 68159990 so as to obtain reward rates under the MEIS that they were
 not entitled to. 57. The factum of the stated misclassification being deliberate was
 further corroborated, as per learned counsel, by the factum of the
 petitioner classifying the exported goods ―correctly‖ at the Nhava
 Sheva Port under CTH 6802. It was on the basis of this ―intelligence‖
 that various summons had come to be issued to the writ petitioner. 58. Learned counsel submitted that the challenge made to the legality
 of the summons so issued should not be countenanced bearing in mind
 the undisputed fact that the summons had been issued by gazetted
 officers under Section 108. It was further contended that since the
 summons so issued were not established to have transgressed any
 statutory provision this Court would be justified in refusing to interfere
 with the same. 59. Learned counsel additionally drew our attention to Section 97 of
 the Finance Act, 2022 which had proposed changes in the Customs Act and which essentially stated that ―anything done or any duty performed
 or any action taken or purported to have been taken‖ under the Customs Act as it stood prior to its amendment shall be ―deemed to
 have been validly done‖ and that any notifications issued shall be
 ―deemed to have been validly issued for all purposes‖. The respondents
 further contended that notwithstanding any challenge made to the
 constitutional validity of the provisions of Finance Act, 2022 , this
 would not constitute a valid ground to prevent statutory authorities
 from exercising their powers of enquiry and investigation. 60. We may note in this regard that although the writ petitioners had
 questioned the authority of the respondents on grounds which are
 refuted by learned counsel for the respondents and noticed above, the
 same would no longer survive for consideration in light of the recent
 decision of the Supreme Court in Commissioner of Customs Vs.
 Canon India Pvt. Ltd23 . We, therefore, do not propose to deal with this
 aspect. 61. Learned counsel, in response to the arguments put forth by the 23 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3188 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 45 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 petitioner with regard to the audit objection letter dated 18 November
 2019 being ultra-vires Section 99A, contended that the legislative intent
 behind the introduction of Section 99A was to provide a statutory
 framework for the conduct of a post-clearance audit and that the
 Customs Audit Regulations, 201824 were introduced appointing
 customs officers of specified ranks for the purpose of carrying out
 audits under Section 99A. The said officers are statutorily empowered
 to send SCNs' based on the findings of an audit conducted by a proper
 officer. Learned counsel submitted that the proceedings initiated by
 way of the audit objection and the enquiries made on the basis of
 intelligence gathered by customs officials were distinct and
 independent and ought not be conflated with the other. Accordingly,
 learned counsel argued that the submissions addressed by the writ
 petitioners with regards to the untenability of the audit objection letter
 in the absence of any SCN is misconceived. 62. Turning then to the issue of the purported deliberate
 misclassification of goods by the petitioner, learned counsel placed
 reliance upon the CBIC communication dated 31 May 2019 and the
 Public Notice No. 57/2019 to buttress his submissions. Learned counsel
 submitted that since the exported goods of the petitioner were made of
 natural stone, which is covered by CTH 6802, the classification of those
 goods under CTH 6815 would be inevitably foreclosed, particularly
 when CTH 6815 covers those articles of stone or other mineral
 substances that are ―not covered by earlier headings and are not
 included elsewhere in the nomenclature‖. Therefore, if articles of
 natural stone as exported by the petitioner are in fact explicitly covered
 under CTH 6802, it would necessarily follow that CTH 6815, which 24 Audit Regulations 2018 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 46 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 encompasses substances that are not covered by any other
 nomenclature, would not be applicable. It is in the aforesaid backdrop
 that the respondents drew our attention to the powers vested in customs
 officers under sub-section (4) of Section 17 to re-assess the duties on
 the classified imported or exported goods in the event of the importer or
 exporter failing to declare the correct classification in their respective
 self-assessed shipping bills or bills of entry. 63. Learned counsel accordingly took the position that
 notwithstanding the right of the petitioner to self-assess the goods to be
 exported, the ultimate authority to adjudge the correct classification of
 goods exported under the Customs Tariff Act, 197525 vests with the
 customs officer and no other. 64. The role of Respondent No. 11, the Export Promotion Council
 for Handicrafts26, was explained as being limited to providing its
 members with guidance in respect of classification of goods imported
 or exported. However, this according to learned counsel would not
 detract from the authority of the customs officer to question the
 classification of goods. That according to learned counsel is a power
 which the statute places squarely within the domain of customs officers. D. ASSESSMENT UNDER THE CUSTOMS AND FTDR ACT 65. In order to evaluate the rival submissions noticed above, it would
 be appropriate to firstly deal with the scope of the assessment power
 that stands conferred upon the competent authorities under the FTDR
 Act and the Customs Act. While examining the ambit and reach of the
 two statutes in question, if we were to turn our gaze firstly upon the Customs Act , it would be important to firstly take note of how that 25 Tariff Act 26 EPCH Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 47 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 statute proceeds to define the word ‗assessment'. Section 2(2) as it
 stands presently reads as follows:- 66. The provision as it exists in its present avatar came to be
 introduced and inserted in the Customs Act by virtue of Finance Act,
 2018 . However and prior to those amendments being introduced, the
 word ‗assessment' was defined as follows: - 67. As is manifest from the above, a process of ‗self-assessment'
 was ordained to form part of an ‗assessment' as contemplated under the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 48 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 Customs Act . This change had essentially come to be introduced in
 2011 and pursuant to which self-assessment was acknowledged to be
 one of the modes of assessment as contemplated under the Customs
 Act . The procedure for assessment of duty is prescribed in Section 17 of that enactment. We deem it apposite to extract hereinbelow a table
 which would highlight the various amendments which have been made
 to that provision from time to time and as it has come to be modified
 from 2011 and onwards: - testing, the duty, if any, leviable on for verification shall primarily be on
 such goods shall, save as otherwise the basis of risk evaluation through
 provided in section 85, be assessed. appropriate selection criteria.]
 (3) For the purpose of assessing duty [(3) For [the purposes of
 under sub-section (2), the proper verification] under sub-section (2),
 officer may require the importer, the proper officer may require the
 exporter or any other person to importer, exporter or any other
 produce any contract, broker's note, person to produce any document or
 policy of insurance, catalogue or information, whereby the duty
 other document whereby the duty leviable on the imported goods or
 leviable on the imported goods or export goods, as the case may be,
 export goods, as the case may be, can be ascertained and thereupon,
 can be ascertained, and to furnish the importer, exporter or such other
 any information required for such person shall produce such document Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 49 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 ascertainment which it is in his or furnish such information.]
 power to produce or furnish, and (4) Where it is found on verification,
 thereupon the importer, exporter or examination or testing of the goods
 such other person shall produce such or otherwise that the self- contained in this section, imported may be taken under this Act, re-
 goods or export goods may, prior to assess the duty leviable on such
 the examination or testing thereof, goods. be permitted by the proper officer to (5) Where any re-assessment done
 be assessed to duty on the basis of under sub-section (4) is contrary to
 the statements made in the entry the self-assessment done by the
 relating thereto and the documents importer or exporter [***] and in
 produced and the information cases other than those where the
 furnished under sub-section (3); but importer or exporter, as the case may
 if it is found subsequently on be, confirms his acceptance of the
 examination or testing of the goods said re-assessment in writing, the
 or other wise that any statement in proper officer shall pass a speaking
 such entry or document or any order on the re-assessment, within
 information so furnished is not true fifteen days from the date of re-
 in respect of any matter relevant to assessment of the bill of entry or the
 the assessment, the goods may, shipping bill, as the case may be.
 without prejudice to any other action (6) [***]
 which may be taken under this Act, Explanation.--For the removal of
 be re-assessed to duty. doubts, it is hereby declared that in
 (5) Where any assessment done under cases where an importer has entered
 sub-section (2) is contrary to the any imported goods under section 46
 claim of the importer or exporter or an exporter has entered any export
 regarding valuation of goods, goods under section 50 before the
 classification, exemption or date on which the Finance Bill, 2011
 concessions of duty availed receives the assent of the President,
 consequent to any notification such imported goods or export goods
 therefor under this Act, and in cases shall continue to be governed by the
 other than those where the importer provisions of section 17 as it stood
 or the exporter, as the case may be, immediately before the date on
 confirms his acceptance of the said which such assent is received.]
 assessment in writing, the proper
 officer shall pass a speaking order
 within fifteen days from the date of
 assessment of the bill of entry or the
 shipping bill, as the case may be.‖ 68. For the purposes of the question which stands posited for our
 consideration, suffice it to note that post the introduction of a system of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 50 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 self-assessment being adopted and thus a bill of entry as submitted
 being liable to be accepted unless questioned in accordance with the
 procedure stipulated in Section 17 , the declaration as made by the
 importer or the exporter, as the case may be, attains finality unless
 refuted or reopened in accordance with the statutory provisions
 enshrined in the Customs Act . It was in extension of the said power that
 the proper officer stood empowered to require the importer or the
 exporter to produce all relevant material and which may have a bearing
 on the duty leviable for its consideration. Section 17 also confers a
 power on the proper officer to subject the goods to verification and
 testing and thus evaluate the correctness of the disclosures made in the
 course of self-assessment. In terms of Section 17(4) , if it were found on
 verification, examination or testing that the self-assessment had not
 been undertaken correctly, the proper officer stands empowered,
 without prejudice to any other action that it could have taken, to
 reassess the duty leviable on goods. 69. Prior to the amendments which came to be introduced in Section
 17 by virtue of Finance Act, 2018 , the Proviso to Section 17(2) while
 identifying the criteria relevant for selection of cases for purposes of
 verification, had recognised that power being guided by factors such as
 the valuation of goods, classification, exemption or concessional duties
 availed in terms of a notification issued under that Act. The Proviso had
 at the relevant time and prior to the passing of Finance Act, 2018 included the following phraseology ―regarding valuation of goods,
 classification, exemption or concessions of duty availed consequent to
 any notification issued therefore under this Act‖. 70. Section 17 also included a sub-section (6) in terms of which a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 51 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 proper officer was empowered to undertake an audit in respect of duty
 in case it had failed to undertake a reassessment or pass a speaking
 order in respect thereof. The aforesaid sub-section (6) as it existed in Section 17 came to be omitted by Finance Act, 2018 . Parallelly,
 Finance Act, 2018 inserted Section 99A and which is extracted
 hereinbelow: - 71. The Supreme Court, in a batch of appeals in ITC Ltd. v.
 Commissioner of Central Excise, Kolkata IV27 had an occasion to
 deal with the issue of whether refund applications against assessed duty
 could be entertained in the absence of any challenge made to an order
 of assessment. The lead appellant was a paper manufacturer that had
 been paying duty on the paper cleared from its factory and had filed a
 refund claim in respect of duty paid by it during the period of July 2001
 to March 2002 in light of the exemption Notification No. 67.95-CE,
 which it had not been aware of at the relevant time. However, the said
 refund application came to be rejected and which lead to the filing of an
 appeal before the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court, while
 deliberating whether self-assessment falls within the ambit of
 assessment as envisaged under Sections 2(2) and 17(1) of the Customs 27 (2019) 17 SCC 46 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 52 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 Act prior and post the amendment of 2011, rendered the following
 pertinent observations:- 72. ITC Limited, while observing that an order of self-assessment
 must follow in order for a claim of refund to be sustained, observed
 thus:- 73. Subsequent to ITC Limited, this Court in BT (India) Private
 Limited, v. Union of India and another28 had dealt with a challenge
 to the rejection of refund claims and the self-assessment done by the
 petitioners therein, albeit in the context of unutilised Central Value
 Added Tax29 credit. While dealing with the challenge raised therein,
 the Court upon noticing the decision in ITC Limited in extenso had
 ultimately come to render the following pertinent findings:- section (5) of section 17 speaks of reassessment and the obligation
 of the proper officer to pass a speaking order in support of the
 exercise of reassessment. 58. Section 27 enables a person to claim refund of duty or interest
 which may have been either paid or borne by it. Section 27(2) of the
 Customs Act, in terms identical to section 118(2) of the Excise Act,
 speaks of refunds being effected upon the proper officer being
 satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty paid is refundable.
 Section 27(2) is thus a provision which is pari materia with section
 118(2) of the Excise Act. 59. The Supreme Court in ITC Limited. notwithstanding section 27
 (2) employing the expression "satisfied" held that unless a self
 assessed return is revised or doubted in exercise of powers of
 reassessment, best judgment assessment or where it be alleged that
 duty had been short-levied, short- paid or erroneously refunded,
 those powers would not be available to be exercised at the stage of
 considering an application for refund. Having noticed the statutory
 position which prevails, we turn then to the decisions which would
 have a bearing on the question which stands posited. 60. Flock (India) was one of the earliest decisions which dealt with
 the aspect of a claim for refund emanating from a return which had
 been duly assessed. In Flock (India), the self-assessed returns had
 been duly assessed by the Assistant Collector and the issue of
 classification was answered against the assessee. The aforesaid order
 of the Assistant Collector came to be affirmed by the Collector
 (Appeals). It was thereafter and while seeking to prosecute a claim
 for refund that the assessee sought a review of the aforesaid
 decisions which had been rendered by the authorities. Negativing the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 56 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 said contention, the Supreme Court observed that once an
 assessment filed had been duly adjudicated in accordance with the
 procedure prescribed under the statute, it would be impermissible for the said decision being reviewed or revisited at the stage of
 consideration of a refund claim. 61. In Priya Blue Industries, the Supreme Court was faced with a
 situation where a bill of entry had been duly assessed and the duty
 payable in terms of that assessment deposited under protest. It was
 thereafter that an application for refund came to be preferred. As
 would be evident from the conclusions ultimately recorded in that
 decision, the Supreme Court categorically held that once an order of
 assessment came to be made, the duty was liable to be paid in
 accordance with that order alone. Their Lordships pertinently
 observed that unless such an order of assessment is reviewed or
 modified in appeal, the duty as determined to be payable would
 remain untouched and it would not be open for an assessee to seek a
 review of the assessment order, bearing in mind the fact that the
 claim for refund is not akin to proceedings in appeal. It was further
 held that the authority which is enjoined to consider a refund claim
 can neither sit in an appeal over an assessment made nor can it
 review an order of assessment. 62. Both these decisions and the views expressed therein came to be
 specifically noticed and reaffirmed by three learned Judges of the
 Supreme Court in ITC Limited. The decision of the Supreme Court
 in ITC Limited assumes added significance, in so far as the present
 case is concerned, in light of it having found that a self-assessment
 return, even in the absence of a formal order dealing with the same,
 would nonetheless amount to an assessment. We had in this regard
 and in the preceding parts of this decision noticed the definition of
 the expression "assessment" as contained in rule 2(b) of the 1994
 Rules which includes a self-assessment of service tax and thus being
 evidence of a position similar and akin to that which obtains under
 the Customs and Excise Acts. 63. Their Lordships in ITC Limited categorically held that
 notwithstanding a self-assessed bill of entry having been merely
 endorsed by the competent authority, the same would nonetheless
 amount to an "assessment". It was in that backdrop that it was held
 that once a self-assessed return had been duly accepted, the same
 could not be modified or varied by an authority while considering an
 application for refund. 64. It becomes pertinent to note that the appellant before the
 Supreme Court in that case , had sought to press the claim for refund
 asserting that it had due to inadvertence failed to submit a self
 assessment return taking into consideration an exemption
 notification. It was this claim which came to be ultimately negatived
 by the Supreme Court and which held that a claim for refund cannot Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 57 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 be entertained unless the order of assessment, and which would
 include a self-assessment return, is modified in accordance with the
 procedure prescribed in the statute. In our considered opinion, it is
 these principles enunciated in Flock (India), Priya Blue Industries
 and ITC Limited, which compel and convince us to observe that the
 impugned order is clearly rendered unsustainable. 65. Undisputedly, the petitioner had submitted self-assessment
 returns proceeding on the basis that the output services rendered by
 it would qualify as an "export of service" and thus it being not
 exigible to service tax. The aforesaid self-assessment returns
 remained untouched and had not been questioned by the respondents
 either in terms of section 72 or 73 of the Act. The application for
 refund of Cenvat credit was founded on the petitioner assessing that
 it was not liable to pay service tax on services so exported. The
 accumulation of Cenvat credit came about in light of the various
 input services received by the petitioner and it having availed credit
 of service tax paid thereon in terms of rule 3 of the CCR Rules. It
 was in respect of the accumulated Cenvat credit that the application
 for refund came to be made. 66. In our considered view, unless the self-assessed return, as
 submitted had been questioned, re-opened or re-assessed and the
 assertion of the petitioner of the services rendered by it qualifying as
 an "export of service" questioned or negatived in accordance with
 the procedure prescribed under the Act, its claim for refund could
 not have been negated. As was observed by the Supreme Court in
 ITC Limited, a self-assessed return also amounts to an "assessment"
 and unless it is varied or modified in accordance with the procedure
 prescribed under the relevant statute, the same cannot possibly be
 questioned in refund proceedings. As the Supreme Court had held in
 the decisions aforenoted, the authority while considering an
 application for grant of refund neither sits in appeal nor is it entitled
 to review an assessment deemed to have been made. In fact, the
 Supreme Court in ITC Limited had described refund proceedings to
 be akin to execution proceedings. 67. We thus come to the firm conclusion that in the absence of the
 self- assessed return having been questioned, reviewed or re-
 assessed, the claim for refund of Cenvat credit could not have been
 denied by the respondents. When confronted with the application for
 refund, all that the respondents could have possibly examined or
 evaluated was whether the provisions of rule 5 read along with the
 various prescriptions contained in the notification dated June 18,
 2012 had been complied with. The respondents, at this stage of the
 proceedings, could not have doubted, questioned or undertaken a
 merit review of the self-assessed return which had been submitted.‖ 74. The observations appearing in ITC Limited and BT India assume
 significance when viewed in light of the various Bills of Entry as Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 58 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 submitted by the writ petitioners on a self-assessment basis having been
 duly accepted and no questions in respect thereof having been raised.
 The Bills of Entry would thus be liable to be viewed as having been
 duly assessed and accepted. Undisputedly, it is decades after those
 exports had been affected and assessments completed that the
 respondents now seek to reopen those transactions and seek to question
 the benefits claimed by the writ petitioners. 75. Undisputedly, consequent to the self-assessed Bills of Entry
 having been accepted and thus liable to be viewed as assessed, the stage
 of enquiry contemplated in terms of Section 17 of the Customs Act has
 clearly passed. That then leaves us to identify and determine the
 avenues which would otherwise be available to the customs authorities
 to reopen or review an assessment duly made. E. RECOVERY OF DUTY UNDER SECTION 28 AND 28AAA 76. This leads us firstly to Section 28 of the Customs Act and which
 deals with recovery of duties either not levied or paid, short levied or
 short paid or erroneously refunded. Section 28 reads thus: - levied or short-paid] or erroneously refunded, or any interest payable
 has not been paid, part-paid or erroneously refunded, for any reason
 other than the reasons of collusion or any wilful mis-statement or
 suppression of facts, -- (a) the proper officer shall, within [two years] from the relevant
 date, serve notice on the person chargeable with the duty or
 interest which has not been so levied [or paid] or which has
 been short-levied or short-paid or to whom the refund has
 erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he
 should not pay the amount specified in the notice: section (1) or sub- section (4), shall, without prejudice to
 the provisions of sections 135, 135A and 140 be deemed
 to be conclusive as to the matters stated therein; or (ii) that the duty with interest and penalty that has been paid
 falls short of the amount actually payable, then, the
 proper officer shall proceed to issue the notice as
 provided for in clause (a) of sub-section (1) in respect of
 such amount which falls short of the amount actually
 payable in the manner specified under that sub-section
 and the period of [two years] shall be computed from the
 date of receipt of information under sub-section (5).
 (7) In computing the period of [two years] referred to in
 clause (a) of sub-section (1) or five years referred to in sub-section
 (4), the period during which there was any stay by an order of a
 court or tribunal in respect of payment of such duty or interest shall
 be excluded. [(7A) Save as otherwise provided in clause (a) of sub-section
 (1) or in sub-section (4), the proper officer may issue a
 supplementary notice under such circumstances and in such manner
 as may be prescribed, and the provisions of this section shall apply
 to such supplementary notice as if it was issued under the said sub- section (1) or sub-section (4).]
 (8) The proper officer shall, after allowing the concerned
 person an opportunity of being heard and after considering the
 representation, if any, made by such person, determine the amount of
 duty or interest due from such person not being in excess of the
 amount specified in the notice. (9) The proper officer shall determine the amount of duty or
 interest under sub-section (8),-- (a) within six months from the date of notice, [***] in
 respect of cases falling under clause (a) of sub- section
 (1); (b) within one year from the date of notice, [***] in respect
 of cases falling under sub-section (4): [(10A) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act,
 where an order for refund under sub-section (2) of section 27 is
 modified in any appeal and the amount of refund so determined is
 less than the amount refunded under said sub-section, the excess
 amount so refunded shall be recovered along with interest thereon at
 the rate fixed by the Central Government under section 28AA, from
 the date of refund up to the date of recovery, as a sum due to the
 Government. (10B) A notice issued under sub-section (4) shall be deemed
 to have been issued under sub-section (1), if such notice demanding
 duty is held not sustainable in any proceeding under this Act,
 including at any stage of appeal, for the reason that the charges of
 collusion or any wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts to
 evade duty has not been established against the person to whom such
 notice was issued and the amount of duty and the interest thereon
 shall be computed accordingly.]
 [(11) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
 any judgment, decree or order of any court of law, tribunal or other
 authority, all persons appointed as officers of Customs under sub-
 section (1) of section 4 before the 6th day of July, 2011 shall be
 deemed to have and always had the power of assessment under section 17 and shall be deemed to have been and always had been
 the proper officers for the purposes of this section.]
 Explanation 1: For the purposes of this section, ―relevant
 date‖ means, -- (a) in a case where duty is [not levied or not paid or short- levied or short-paid], or interest is not charged, the date
 on which the proper officer makes an order for the
 clearance of goods; (b) in a case where duty is provisionally assessed under section 18 , the date of adjustment of duty after the final
 assessment thereof or re-assessment, as the case may be; (c) in a case where duty or interest has been erroneously
 refunded, the date of refund; (d) in any other case, the date of payment of duty or interest.
 Explanation 2: For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
 declared that any non-levy, short-levy or erroneous refund before the
 date on which the Finance Bill, 2011 receives the assent of the
 President, shall continue to be governed by the provisions of section
 28 as it stood immediately before the date on which such assent is
 received.]
 [Explanation 3: For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
 declared that the proceedings in respect of any case of non-levy,
 short-levy, non-payment, short-payment or erroneous refund where
 show cause notice has been issued under sub-section (1) or sub-
 section (4), as the case may be, but an order determining duty under
 sub-section (8) has not been passed before the date on which the
 Finance Bill, 2015 receives the assent of the President, shall, without
 prejudice to the provisions of sections 135, 135A and 140, as may be
 applicable, be deemed to be concluded, if the payment of duty,
 interest and penalty under the proviso to sub-section (2) or under
 sub-section (5), as the case may be, is made in full within thirty days
 from the date on which such assent is received.]
 [Explanation 4: For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
 declared that in cases where notice has been issued for non-levy, not
 paid, short-levy or short-paid or erroneous refund after the 14th day
 of May, 2015, but before the date on which the Finance Bill, 2018
 receives the assent of the President, they shall continue to be
 governed by the provisions of section 28 as it stood immediately
 before the date on which such assent is received.] ‖ 77. As would be manifest from a reading of that provision, it creates
 two separate and independent streams of investigation and enquiry
 based upon whether, and in the opinion of the customs authorities, the
 transactions suffer from the vice of misdeclaration, misclassification or
 whether the declarations are tainted by suppression and wilful
 misrepresentation. 78. The authority of the respondents to demand a return of the
 amounts derived as benefits under the MEIS from the petitioners when
 tested on the anvil of Section 28(1) falters and disintegrates for two
 reasons. Firstly, Section 28(1) applies to cases where a reassessment or
 reopening is sought to be initiated for reasons other than collusion,
 wilful misstatement or suppression of facts and which is the suggestion Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 64 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 underlying the allegations levelled against the petitioners. Secondly, the
 action under Section 28(1) postulates action being initiated within two
 years from the ―relevant date‖ and which expression stands defined in
 the provision itself. Undisputedly, the impugned action would fail to
 meet this threshold requirement. 79. That then takes us to examine the case set up by the respondents
 on the anvil of sub-section (2) of Section 28. Sub-section (2) enables
 demand of duty notwithstanding an assessment having been made in
 cases of collusion, wilful misstatement and suppression of facts. Those
 allegations would sustain only if we were to find that the respondents
 assert that the MEIS scrips are tainted by the aforenoted factors.
 However, the respondents do not even suggest or lay that charge against
 the writ petitioners at least in explicit terms. The respondents stop short
 of laying this allegation since that would necessarily entail it being
 urged that the DGFT office had colluded with the petitioners. 80. The invocation of Section 28 in the context of an MEIS scrip
 would also not sustain in light of the ambivalent stand taken by the
 DGFT who despite being a party to these proceedings has refrained
 from filing any affidavit or striking a principled stand. We take note of
 the following instructions that were provided by the DGFT to its
 counsel dated 11 January 2023 and which was placed on the record of
 these proceedings for our consideration: - (Shri Ramesh KumarVerma)
 Deputy Director General of Foreign Trade
 Tel. No. 23068767*8767‖ 81. We are thus faced with a situation where the DGFT has chosen to
 desist from even expressing its stand with respect to the validity of the
 MEIS scrips that had been issued in favour of the petitioners. We are
 thus constrained to proceed on the basis that at least the DGFT does not
 doubt the validity of the scrips which were issued and as of now has
 failed to initiate any action seeking to question the imports that were
 affected or the benefits that were derived by the petitioners under the
 MEIS. 82. Of pivotal significance to the challenge which the writ petitioners
 raise are the provisions enshrined in Section 28AAA. As was contended
 by Mr. Gulati, Section 28AAA clearly brings within its ambit situations
 where the statutory authorities may harbour a doubt with respect to the
 benefit that an exporter or importer may have claimed by virtue of an
 instrument. Explanation 1 to Section 28AAAA, in clear and
 unambiguous terms, while defining that expression had explained it to
 mean any scrip, authorization, license, certificate or other document by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 66 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 whatever name called issued under the FTDR Act . Section 28AAA is
 thus clearly concerned with the validity of a scrip or certificate which
 may have been issued under the FTDR Act and on the basis of which a
 benefit may have been obtained. It thus now enables the respondents to
 cast aside the instrument issued under the FTDR Act and to initiate
 steps for recovery of duty benefits that may have been claimed by the
 person concerned while holding the instrument so issued. Section
 28AAA thus and in furtherance of the aforesaid legislative objective,
 introduces a legal fiction by employing the phrase ―shall be deemed
 never to have been exempted or debited......‖. 83. The provisions of Section 28AAA are attracted where it is found
 that an instrument issued to a person under the FTDR Act was obtained
 by means of collusion, wilful misstatement or suppression of facts.
 While Section 28AAA does undoubtedly statutorily empower the
 respondents to recover duty benefits illegitimately claimed by virtue of
 an instrument, the larger question which merits consideration is of
 identifying the authority which could be recognized in law to undertake
 a determination with respect to whether an instrument could be said to
 have been obtained by way of collusion, wilful misstatement or
 suppression of facts. 84. While we propose to return to this principal question a little later
 and in the subsequent parts of this decision, suffice it to note that
 Section 28AAA is a provision which stands at the crossroads of the
 Customs Act and the FTDR Act. It constitutes, in that sense, a junction
 or an intersection where the two statutes meet. Section 28AAA deals
 with situations of convergence and where a demand of duty is
 predicated upon a doubt being raised with respect to an instrument Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 67 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 issued under the FTDR Act . Of critical significance, therefore, would
 be the issue of which authority should be recognised to have the
 jurisdiction to undertake the adjudication contemplated under that
 provision. 85. That an adjudication is warranted for the purposes of invoking
 Section 28AAA cannot possibly be doubted. This since the provision
 itself contemplates the withdrawal and reversal of a benefit that may
 have been obtained by an entity by usage of an instrument issued under
 the FTDR Act . Any doubt that could have been possibly harboured in
 this respect stands dispelled by sub-section (3) and which stipulates that
 before a demand relating to duty recoverable is raised, the proper
 officer would have to place the concerned entity on notice and provide
 an opportunity of hearing before the amount of duty and interest or both
 is determined. The usage of the expression "proper officer", and which
 is defined in Section 2(34) of the Customs Act to mean an officer of
 customs, also cannot be accorded undue significance when one bears in
 mind Section 28AAA (1) speaking of an instrument issued to a person
 ".....for the purposes of this Act" or the FTDR Act . The former
 undoubtedly is a reference to the Customs Act . Thus, Section 28AAA is
 clearly intended to encompass all contingencies arising out of or
 relating to an instrument issued for the purposes of the Customs Act or
 the FTDR Act as the case may be. F. SCOPE OF THE AUDIT POWER 86. Let us then proceed to consider the scope of the audit power
 which came to be independently incorporated in the Customs Act .
 Section 99A, as noticed hereinabove, embodies the power conferred on
 the customs authorities to undertake an audit in respect of an Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 68 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 assessment of imported or exported goods. The power that stands
 enshrined in Section 99A stands further articulated in the Audit
 Regulations which have come to be framed. Those regulations define
 the word ‗audit' as follows:- 87. The procedure for the conduct of an audit is set out in some
 detail in Audit Regulation 5 and which reads thus: - PROVIDED that the jurisdictional Commissioner of Customs may
 extend the period of completion of audit from thirty days to sixty
 days, by an order in writing.‖ 88. The power to undertake an audit, as is evident from the language
 in which Section 99A stands couched, is in respect of an assessment of
 imported or exported goods. Pursuant to the exercise so undertaken, the
 proper officer is liable to apprise the auditee of the objections which
 according to it arise in respect of the assessment undertaken. By virtue
 of Audit Regulation 5(6) , if the auditee be in agreement with the audit
 findings, it could voluntarily make additional payments of duty, interest
 or other sums that are found due and payable. However, and before
 such a report is finally drawn or issued, the proper officer by virtue of
 Audit Regulation 5(3) is obliged to place the auditee on notice of its
 intent to conduct such an audit. This is followed by the proper officer
 requiring the auditee to furnish requisite information, documents or for
 that matter even samples of the goods imported or exported. It is only
 thereafter and in terms of Audit Regulation 5(5) that the proper officer
 would proceed to formalise the objections in respect of the assessment. 89. As we read Audit Regulation 5 , it becomes apparent that it is
 only after the disposal of any such objections that may have been
 invited that a final report containing the audit findings would come to
 be drawn. What however needs to be borne in mind is that the family of
 provisions pertaining to audit do not, at least in explicit terms, include a
 power to review, suspend or cancel an instrument issued either under
 the Customs or the FTDR Act . While hypothetically speaking an audit
 could contain findings or observations doubting a benefit or exemption
 claimed, we find ourselves unable to construe those provisions as Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 70 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 enabling the customs authorities to suspend or cancel an instrument
 itself, be it under the Customs or the FTDR Act . G. THE POWERS OF THE DGFT 90. This then takes us to the provisions contained in the FTDR Act and which we had an occasion to review while noticing the submissions
 which were addressed by Mr. Gulati. Undoubtedly, it is the DGFT who
 is liable to be recognized as the pivotal authority and one who is
 enjoined to administer the provisions of that statute. With a view to
 develop and regulate foreign trade, the Union stands conferred with the
 power to issue appropriate orders prohibiting, restricting or regulating
 the import or export of goods. An order referable to Section 3(2) of the
 FDTR Act and all goods to which that statutory instrument may extend
 leads to those goods being deemed to be goods the import or export of
 which is prohibited under Section 11 of the Customs Act. As was noted
 by us hereinbefore, the FTP itself is a statutory instrument and derives
 that status by virtue of Section 5 of the FTDR Act. The word ‗license'
 has been defined in the FTDR Act to mean a license to import or export
 as also to include within its ambit a customs clearance permit as well as
 any other permission issued or granted under that statute. The DGFT or
 an officer authorized by it further stands conferred with the jurisdiction
 to issue, suspend or cancel a license as defined. This becomes apparent
 from a reading of Section 9 of the FDTR Act and which reads thus: - section (2) may, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, for
 good and sufficient reasons, to be recorded in writing, suspend or
 cancel any [licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing
 financial or fiscal benefits] granted under this Act: 91. By virtue of amendments which came to be introduced by Act 25
 of 2010, sub-section (3) of Section 9 came to be amended with the
 Legislature extending the width of its applicability beyond a mere
 license and thus including within its ambit a certificate, script or any
 instrument "bestowing financial or fiscal benefits". Corresponding
 amendments are also found in Section 9(1) and which too added
 certificates, scrips and instruments bestowing fiscal benefits as falling
 within the ambit of that provision. 92. The power to suspend or cancel any of those instruments is then Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 72 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 spoken of in the Foreign Trade (Regulation) Rules, 199330. It would
 thus be pertinent to notice Rules 7, 9 and 10 thereof and which are
 reproduced hereinbelow: - [(f) the applicant is or was a partner in a partnership firm
 (including a limited liability partnership) or is or was a
 Director or a company or a proprietor of a proprietor ship
 firm having controlling interest against which any action is
 for the time being pending under the Act or rules and Orders
 made thereunder;] (g) the applicant fails to pay any penalty imposed on him under
 the Act; (h) the applicant has tampered with a [licence, certificate, scrip
 or any instrument bestowing financial or fiscal benefits]; (i) the applicant or any agent or employee of the applicant with
 his consent has been a party to any corrupt or fraudulent
 practice for the purposes of obtaining any other [licence,
 certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing financial or
 fiscal benefits]; FTDR Rules Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 73 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 (j) the applicant is not eligible for a [licence, certificate, scrip or
 any instrument bestowing financial or fiscal benefits] in
 accordance with any provision of the policy; (k) the applicant fails to produce any document called for by the
 Director-General or the licensing authority; (l) in the case of a [licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument
 bestowing financial or fiscal benefits] for import, no foreign
 exchange is available for the purpose; (m) the application has been signed by a person other than a
 person duly authorised by the applicant under the provisions
 of the policy; [(n) the applicant has attempted to obtain or has obtained or has
 erroneously claimed Terminal Excise Duty, duty drawback,
 cash assistance benefits admissible to Importer-exporter Code
 holder or any other similar benefits from the Central
 Government or any agency authorised by the Central
 Government in relation to exports made by him on the basis
 of any false, fraudulent or misleading statement or any
 document which is false or fabricated or tampered with.]
 (2) The refusal of a 52[licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument
 bestowing financial or fiscal benefits] under sub-rule (1) shall be
 without prejudice to any other action that may be taken against an
 applicant by the licensing authority under the Act.
 [(3) In case of any erroneous payment of Terminal Excise Duty, duty
 drawback, cash assistance benefits admissible to importer-exporter
 Code holder or any other similar benefits from the Central
 Government or any agency authorised by the Central Government in
 relation to exports made by him, the Director General or the
 licensing authority may, after giving to that person a notice in
 writing informing him of the details of erroneous payment for which
 recovery or adjustment of arrears or claims is to be made and after
 giving a reasonable opportunity of making a representation in
 writing within such time, as specified therein and, if that person so
 desires, of being heard, authorise: [(a) any person, if an order of detention or conviction has been
 made against such person under the provisions of the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of
 Smuggling Activities Act, 1974 (52 of 1974) or the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003) or Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999);]
 [(b) a partnership firm (including a limited liability partnership)
 or a company or a firm or any other entity, if the person
 referred to in clause (a) is a partner or a whole time director
 or managing director or a proprietor, as the case may be, of
 such firm or company:]
 Provided that the order of suspension shall cease to have
 effect in respect of the aforesaid person or, as the case may be, [a
 partnership firm (including a limited liability partnership) or
 company or a firm or any other entity], when the order of detention
 made against such person,-- (i) being an order of detention to which the provisions of section 9 of the Conservation of Foreign Exchange
 and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974 (52
 of 1974) do not apply, has been revoked on the report
 of Advisory Board under Section 8 of that Act or
 before receipt of the report of the Advisory Board or
 before making a reference to the Advisory Board; or (ii) being an order of detention to which the provisions of Section 9 of the Conservation of Foreign Exchange
 and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974 (52
 of 1974) apply, has been revoked on the report of the
 Advisory Board under Section 8 read with sub-section
 (2) of Section 9 of that Act or before receipt of such
 report; (iii) has been set aside by a court of competent
 jurisdiction. (2) The Director-General or the licensing authority may by
 an order in writing suspend the operation of any 62[licence,
 certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing financial or fiscal
 benefits] granted under these rules, where proceedings for
 cancellation of such [licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument
 bestowing financial or fiscal benefits] has been initiated under rule 10. 10. Cancellation of a [licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument
 bestowing financial or fiscal benefits].--The Director- General or
 the licensing authority may by an order in writing cancel any
 [licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing financial or
 fiscal benefits] granted under these rules, if-- (a) the [licence, certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 75 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 financial or fiscal benefits] has been obtained by fraud,
 suppression of facts or misrepresentation; or (b) the [licensee or transferee] has committed a breach of any of
 the conditions of the [licence, certificate, scrip or any
 instrument bestowing financial or fiscal benefits]; or (c) the [licensee or transferee] has tampered with the [licence,
 certificate, scrip or any instrument bestowing financial or
 fiscal benefits] in any manner; or (d) the [licensee or transferee] has contravened any law relating
 to customs or foreign exchange or the rules and regulations
 relating thereto.‖ 93. The FDTR Rules thus confer a power on the DGFT or the
 licensing authority to regulate the grant, renewal, suspension and
 cancellation of licenses, certificates, scrips or any other instrument
 ―bestowing financial or fiscal benefits‖. The MEIS certificate would
 undoubtedly be an instrument which bestows a fiscal benefit. What we
 seek to emphasize and highlight is Rules 7, 9 and 10, embody in clear
 and unequivocal terms, a conferral of jurisdiction and power to
 commence an adjudicatory process that the DGFT could undertake
 while evaluating whether a license, certificate, scrip or instrument was
 liable to be suspended or cancelled. H. THE IMPUGNED AUDIT OBJECTION LETTER 94. Having outlined the statutory regime which prevails, we then and
 at the outset firstly take up for consideration the audit objection letter
 which has come to be drawn by the respondents and which stands
 impugned before us. As is manifest from the relevant parts of the audit
 objection letter, we find that the respondent has come to a definitive
 conclusion that the exported articles were liable to be classified under
 CTH 6802 as opposed to ITC(HS) 68159990. This conclusion is
 prefaced by the Assistant Commissioner holding that the goods had
 been ―wrongly classified‖ and ―misclassified‖ by the petitioners, with Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 76 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 an intent to claim higher benefits. A reading of the audit objection letter
 constrains us to observe that it clearly does not read as being the
 embodiment of the intent of the Assistant Commissioner to apprise the
 writ petitioners of any tentative conclusion that it may have arrived at.
 On the contrary, the audit objection letter is replete with definitive
 conclusions and thus clearly deprives the writ petitioners of the right to
 represent or establish that the issue of classification or the view
 harboured is incorrect or untenable. The petitioners would thus be
 clearly justified in asserting that they are essentially faced with a
 determination already made and a conclusion reached. 95. The tone and tenor of the audit objection letter and the language
 in which it is framed could legitimately be construed by the noticee of
 the issue having been predetermined and no useful purpose being
 served by representing or responding to the same. This we observe
 notwithstanding the audit objection letter neither feigning nor posturing
 itself to be a notice to show cause. This is evident from the said
 communication advising the petitioners to pay the amount as
 determined and thus closing all avenues of contestation. 96. The Supreme Court in Oryx Fisheries Private Limited v. Union
 of India and Others31 while dealing with a challenge to the
 cancellation of the registration certificate of the appellant, had rendered
 the following illuminating observations with regard to the need for
 notices issued by any statutory authority to consist of reasoning as
 opposed to a simpliciter recordal of definitive conclusions and which
 would thus lead the noticee to arrive at the inevitable conclusion that a
 right of representation would be an empty formality. This becomes

 31 (2010) 13 SCC 427 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 77 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 evident from a reading of the following passages of that decision:- judicial proceeding also. If the functioning of a quasi-judicial
 authority has to inspire confidence in the minds of those subjected to
 its jurisdiction, such authority must act with utmost fairness. Its
 fairness is obviously to be manifested by the language in which
 charges are couched and conveyed to the person proceeded against. xxxx xxxx xxxx 31. It is of course true that the show-cause notice cannot be read
 hypertechnically and it is well settled that it is to be read reasonably.
 But one thing is clear that while reading a show-cause notice the
 person who is subject to it must get an impression that he will get an
 effective opportunity to rebut the allegations contained in the show-
 cause notice and prove his innocence. If on a reasonable reading of a
 show-cause notice a person of ordinary prudence gets the feeling Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 78 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 that his reply to the show-cause notice will be an empty ceremony
 and he will merely knock his head against the impenetrable wall of
 prejudged opinion, such a show-cause notice does not commence a
 fair procedure especially when it is issued in a quasi-judicial
 proceeding under a statutory regulation which promises to give the
 person proceeded against a reasonable opportunity of defence. 32. Therefore, while issuing a show-cause notice, the authorities
 must take care to manifestly keep an open mind as they are to act
 fairly in adjudging the guilt or otherwise of the person proceeded
 against and specially when he has the power to take a punitive step
 against the person after giving him a show-cause notice. xxxx xxxx xxxx 37. Therefore, the bias of the third respondent which was latent in
 the show-cause notice became patent in the order of cancellation of
 the registration certificate. The cancellation order quotes the show-
 cause notice and is a non-speaking one and is virtually no order in
 the eye of the law. Since the same order is an appealable one it is
 incumbent on the third respondent to give adequate reasons.‖

 Tested on the aforesaid precepts, it becomes apparent that the
 audit objection letter teems with definitive and predetermined
 conclusions and would not sustain when tested on the principles
 enunciated by the Supreme Court in Oryx Fisheries. 97. We then find ourselves unable to sustain the audit objection letter
 even when tested on the anvil of the Audit Regulations which may be
 said to have been applied or invoked. As is evident from a reading of Regulation 5 , the proper officer, after having apprised the exporter or
 the importer, as the case may be, of its intent to initiate an audit, is
 obliged to apprise the auditee of the objections before preparing the
 audit report. In case the auditee disagrees with the findings that appear
 in that report, a demand could be validly raised or created.
 Undisputedly, no such procedure appears to have been followed by the
 respondents in the facts of the present case. In fact, and contrary to the
 mandate of Regulation 5 , the Assistant Commissioner has required the
 petitioners to pay sums representing amounts which according to that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 79 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 authority had been wrongly claimed under the MEIS and having clearly
 failed to abide by the statutory procedure prescribed. I. THE PURVIEW OF SECTIONS 28(4) AND 28AAA 98. It becomes pertinent to note that while the said audit objection
 letter dated 18 November 2019 is described to be a ―post clearance
 audit objection‖, the Assistant Commissioner also alludes to the
 provisions of Sections 28(4) and 28AAA of the Act to sustain the
 direction for deposit as framed. Section 28(4) of the Act, as noted
 above, could have been invoked only if the Assistant Commissioner had
 come to the conclusion that the goods had escaped duty by reason of
 collusion, wilful misstatement or suppression of facts. It is only in those
 contingencies that Section 28(4) could have enabled the proper officer
 to reopen an assessment. However, all that is alleged in this respect is
 that the petitioners had failed to make a correct and truthful declaration
 and thereby mis-classified the goods with the avowed objective of
 claiming benefits under the MEIS. 99. We find ourselves unable to appreciate how the petitioners could
 have been charged of having failed to make a ―correct and truthful‖
 declaration when the imports were affected under the cover of MEIS
 certificates granted by the DGFT and which had never been questioned.
 In fact, the DGFT has not even and till date initiated any action against
 the writ petitioners alleging that the MEIS Certificate had been wrongly
 obtained. This too leads us to conclude that the impugned action is
 rendered wholly illegal, arbitrary and unsustainable. 100. Regard must also be had to the fact that the power under Section
 28(4) additionally could have been invoked only within a period of five
 years from the relevant date, an expression which stands duly defined Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 80 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 in that provision by virtue of the Explanations appended to that section.
 The aforesaid provisions assume significance when we view the power
 that is sought to be invoked with the assistance of sub-section (4) of
 Section 28 in juxtaposition with the period during which the exports
 were affected and which in the facts of these cases was between 1991 to
 2018. The earliest proceedings which appear to have been initiated by
 the respondents from the disclosures made in the writ petitions appears
 to be the issuance of the post clearance audit objection on 18 November
 2019. The impugned action is thus rendered untenable on this score
 also. 101. While on Section 28(4), it becomes relevant to note that the said
 provision could have been invoked only if the statutory preconditions
 embodied therein were satisfied. As is manifest from a reading of sub-
 section (4), the exercise of power is predicated upon the respondents
 finding that an assessment made under the Customs Act suffered from
 the vice of collusion, wilful misstatement, or suppression of facts.
 However, the audit objection employs the expressions ―misclassified
 and wrongly classified‖. Those are factors which could have been
 possibly countenanced to be relevant for the purposes of sub-section (1)
 of Section 28 alone. A misclassification or an incorrect classification
 would also not and ipso facto amount to collusion, wilful misstatement,
 or suppression of facts. The impugned proceedings are thus rendered
 untenable even when viewed in the aforesaid light. 102. We then proceed to consider whether the action of the
 respondents would sustain under Section 28AAA. We have already
 found that the respondents have failed to lay any foundation which may
 have established a charge of collusion, wilful misstatement, or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 81 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 suppression of facts. However, and since they do advert to Section
 28AAA, we propose to examine whether the view as expressed would
 sustain even if one were to proceed on the assumption that the
 preconditions which are envisaged by Section 28AAA existed. 103. Section 28AAA is principally concerned with the right vested in
 the respondents to initiate action for recovery of duty and interest where
 an instrument issued to a person is found to have been obtained by
 means of collusion, wilful misstatement, or suppression of facts. The
 word ―instrument‖ is defined by Explanation 1 to Section 28AAA to
 include any scrip, authorization, license, certificate, or any other
 document by whatever name called issued under the FTDR Act . We
 have already held that the MEIS certificate would clearly fall within the
 ambit of that expression in the preceding parts of this decision. J. THE CUSTOMS AND THE DGFT CROSSROAD 104. As we read the various provisions enshrined in the FTDR Act alongside the FTP as well as the FTDR Rules, we find ourselves unable
 to recognize a right that may be said to inhere in the customs authorities
 to doubt the issuance of an instrument. We, in the preceding parts of
 this decision, had an occasion to notice the relevant provisions
 contained in the FTDR Act and which anoint the DGFT as the central
 authority for the purposes of administering the provisions of that statute
 and regulating the subject of import and exports. The FTP 2015-20 in
 unequivocal terms provides in para 2.57 that it would be the decision of
 the DGFT on all matters pertaining to interpretation of policy,
 provisions in the Handbook of Procedures, Appendices, and more
 importantly, classification of any item for import/export in the ITC
 (HS) which would be final and binding. The FTP undoubtedly stands Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 82 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 imbued with statutory authority by virtue of Section 5 of the FTDR Act. 105. Of equal importance are the FTDR Rules and which too
 incorporate provisions conferring an authority on the Director General
 or the licensing authority to suspend or cancel a license, certificate,
 scrip or any instrument bestowing financial or fiscal benefits. Once it is
 held that the MEIS would clearly qualify as an instrument bestowing
 financial or fiscal benefits, the power to cancel or suspend would be
 liable to be recognized as being exercisable by the Director General on
 the licensing authority alone. It would thus be wholly impermissible
 for the customs authorities to either ignore the MEIS certificate or
 deprive a holder thereof of benefits that could be claimed under that
 scheme absent any adjudication or declaration of invalidity being
 rendered by the DGFT in exercise of powers conferred by either Rules
 8, 9 or 10 of the FTDR Rules. The customs authorities cannot be
 recognised to have the power or the authority to either question or go
 behind an instrument issued under the FTDR in law. 106. Taking any other view would result in us recognizing a parallel
 or a contemporaneous power inhering in two separate sets of authorities
 with respect to the same subject. That clearly is not the position which
 emerges from a reading of Section 28AAA. Quite apart from the
 deleterious effect which may ensue if such a position were
 countenanced, in our considered opinion, if the validity of an
 instrument issued under the FTDR Act were to be doubted on the basis
 of it having been obtained by collusion, wilful misstatement or
 concealment of facts, any action under Section 28AAA would have to
 be preceded by the competent authority under the FTDR Act having
 come to the conclusion that the instrument had come to be incorrectly Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 83 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 issued or illegally obtained. The procedure for recovery of duties and
 interest would have to be preceded by the competent authority under
 the FTDR Act having so found and the power to recover duty being
 liable to be exercised only thereafter. 107. Section 28AAA would thus have to be interpreted as
 contemplating a prior determination on the issue of collusion, wilful
 misstatement or suppression of facts tainting an instrument issued under
 the FTDR Act before action relating to recovery of duty could be
 possibly initiated. A harmonious interpretation of the two statutes,
 namely, the Customs and the FTDR Acts leads us to the inescapable
 conclusion that the law neither envisages nor sanctions a duality of
 authority inhering in a separate set of officers and agents
 simultaneously evaluating and adjudging the validity of an instrument
 which owes its origin to the FTDR Act alone. It is these factors, as well
 as the role assigned to the DGFT which perhaps weighed upon courts to
 acknowledge its position of primacy when it come to the interpretation
 of policy measures referable to the FTDR Act as well as issues of
 classification emanating therefrom. 108. This clearly flows from what our High Court held in Simplex
 Infrastructure when it approved the view expressed by the Gujarat High
 Court in Alstom India and which had held that export benefits claimed
 and enjoyed pursuant to approvals granted as per the provisions of the FTDR Act could not be reviewed or redetermined except in accordance
 with the procedure prescribed therein. A similar view came to be
 expressed by the Allahabad High Court in PTC Industries and where it
 was held that any doubt with respect to the description or classification
 of exported goods would have to be referred for the consideration of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 84 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 DGFT. The Allahabad High Court had thus concurred with the view
 expressed by the Bombay High Court and which too had observed that
 benefits which could be claimed under a Duty Entitlement Pass Book
 license could not be denied by the customs authorities on the basis of
 their own perception on the subject of appropriate classification. The
 Bombay High Court had held that as long as the licensing authority had
 desisted from either reviewing the grant or cancelling the license, it
 would be wholly impermissible for the customs authorities to deprive
 the importer or the exporter of benefits. The view expressed by the
 Gujarat, Allahabad and the Bombay High Courts stands reiterated in the
 two subsequent decisions of Autolite and Jupiter Exports. The
 principles culled out in the aforenoted decisions are in line with what
 the Supreme Court had succinctly observed in Titan Medical Systems
 (P) Ltd. Vs. Collector of Customs32 . We are thus of the firm opinion
 that it would be impermissible for the customs authorities to either
 doubt the validity of an instrument issued under the FTDR Act or go
 behind benefits availed pursuant thereto absent any adjudication having
 been undertaken by the DGFT. An action for recovery of benefits
 claimed and availed would have to necessarily be preceded by the
 competent authority under the FTDR Act having found that the
 certificate or scrip had been illegally obtained. We have already held
 that the reference to a proper officer in Section 28AAA is for the
 limited purpose of ensuring that a certificate wrongly obtained under
 the Customs Act could also be evaluated on parameters specified in that
 provision. However, the said stipulation cannot be construed as
 conferring authority on the proper officer to question the validity of a
 certificate or scrip referable to the FTDR Act . 32 (2003) 9 SCC 133 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 85 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 K. PRE-REQUISITES UNDER SECTION 28AAA 109. We then find ourselves unable to countenance the invocation of
 Section 28AAA on a more fundamental ground. As was noticed by us
 earlier, action under Section 28AAA is to be founded upon a
 determination of an instrument having been obtained by means of
 collusion, wilful misstatement or suppression of facts. However, and as
 is evident from the stand taken by the respondents not just in these
 proceedings but as evidenced from the commencement of the audit
 proceedings itself, the solitary charge that stood laid against the writ
 petitioners was with respect to the alleged incorrect classification of the
 exported items. The petitioners had consistently taken the position that
 the exported articles were classifiable under ITC (HS) 68159990 and
 not CTH 6802. 110. It is this controversy which appears to have been raised from
 time to time with the respondents being urged by the writ petitioners as
 well as industry associations to lend clarity and lay all doubts at rest.
 The record further bears out that taking cognizance of the issues which
 were arising at different customs outposts, the industry associations had
 also approached the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and which had
 in turn convened a meeting of all concerned stakeholders so as to elicit
 their views. That process of deliberation, however, has yet not
 translated into a stated or principled view being expressed by that
 Ministry. 111. It is only much later and on 31 May 2019 that the CBIC issued a
 communication attempting to resolve questions pertaining to the
 classification of stone and marble handicraft items which were being
 exported. While that communication did hold that stone and marble Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 86 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 handicrafts were liable to be classified under CTH 6802, it too left
 various aspects pertaining to classification subject to verification and
 examination of individual items. As we read this communication of the
 CBIC, we find ourselves unable to construe the same as conclusively
 determining all possible issues concerned with the classification of
 stone and marble handicraft products. This since the communication
 itself is caveated and leaves various issues open to examination in
 individual cases. It is this communication of the CBIC which appears to
 have led to respondent no. 6 issuing Public Notice No. 57/2019. 112. Without going into the merits or otherwise of the position
 expressed by the CBIC at this stage, it is pertinent to note that the
 classification of the exported articles under ITC(HS) 68159990 has
 nowhere been alleged to have been prompted by collusion, wilful
 misstatement or suppression of facts. Regard must also be had to the
 undisputed provision which emerges from the record namely of these
 articles having been consistently placed under ITC(HS) 68159990 right
 from 1991 without any demur or protest being raised by the
 respondents. 113. The controversy with respect to classification appears to have
 been raised for the first time in December of 2018 when the respondent
 no. 6 raised a doubt as to whether the stone and marble handicraft
 articles were liable to be placed under ITC(HS) 68159990. As was
 noted hereinabove, the sine qua non for Section 28AAA getting
 attracted is the triumvirate of collusion, suppression and wilful
 misstatement which are spoken of in sub-section (1) being attracted.
 Even if it were assumed for the sake of argument that the writ
 petitioners had wrongly classified or placed articles in question under Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 87 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 ITC(HS) 68159990, the same would clearly not amount to it being ipso
 facto assumed that the same amounted to an act of suppression or wilful
 misstatement. 114. The rendering of a finding in favour of the respondents on the
 issue of collusion would have far greater ramifications. A finding on
 that score, if returned against the writ petitioners, would essentially
 require us to hold that the MEIS certificates had been obtained by the
 writ petitioners in collusion with the officers working under the DGFT.
 That too is not the allegation which is levelled by the respondents
 against the writ petitioners. The controversy, therefore, as to whether
 the subject articles were liable to be classified under CTH 6802 or
 6815, would clearly not qualify the tests constructed by Section
 28AAA. L. DISPUTE OF CLASSIFICATION 115. Let us then proceed to briefly touch upon the issue of
 classification itself. Chapter 68 is principally concerned with articles of
 stone, plaster, cement, asbestos mica or similar materials. CTH 6802
 deals with ―Worked Monumental or Building Stone‖. CTH 6815, on the
 other hand, pertains to articles of stone or of other mineral substances
 ―not specified or included elsewhere‖. As CTH 6815 stands, it clearly
 does not appear to be associated with stone that may be used in a
 monument or a building. Of equal significance are the Explanatory
 Notes which stand appended to CTH 6802 and which explain the scope
 of that entry as being intended to cover all natural, monumental or
 building stone which may have been worked upon beyond the stage at
 which they would be found at the mouth of a quarry. The Explanatory
 Notes proceed further to explain the width of that entry as being not Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 88 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 only confined to construction stone but also to articles such as steps,
 cornices, pediments balustrades and others. 116. CTH 6815 is the residual entry falling in Chapter 68. Although it
 too relates to articles of stone or of other minerals substances, it is
 clearly distinct and separate from what could be said to possibly fall
 under CTH 6802. The various products, minerals and materials which
 are spoken often in CTH 6802 appear to be those which would be found
 in buildings and monuments or used in the course of construction. It is
 perhaps on this reasoning, and since the articles were handicraft
 products that the writ petitioners chose to classify the exported articles
 under CTH 6815. The petitioners also appear to have borne in
 consideration the contents of Public Notice No. 02/2015, as well as
 subsequent notices issued for implementation of the MEIS Scheme and
 which had continued to include articles falling under CTH 6815. 117. Though not necessarily binding, the petitioners had also relied
 upon Notification No. 21/2018 issued by the Ministry of Finance, and
 which had exempted handicraft goods from the scope of intra-state
 supplies insofar as tax under the CGST Act was concerned. All of the
 above appears to have persuaded the writ petitioners to be confident in
 their stand of handicraft articles being liable to be classified as falling
 under HSN 6815. 118. The issue of classification was indelibly connected with the right
 of the writ petitioners to avail benefits under the MEIS. The MEIS scrip
 was issued by the office of the DGFT. The issuance of the MEIS scrip
 was dependent upon the exported article falling in the detailed list of
 products which came to be published by the DGFT on 01 April 2015.
 Table 2 set out the code wise list of products, as well as corresponding Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 89 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 reward rates under the MEIS Scheme. There was undisputedly a
 reference to CTH 6815 as well as ITC(HS) 68159990 in that table. 119. Once the DGFT had proceeded to issue the MEIS scrip to the
 writ petitioners, they would have been justified in assuming that the
 issue of classification was neither questioned nor doubted. It is on the
 aforesaid basis that exports were affected between the period 1991 to
 2018. 120. In our considered opinion, in the absence of the DGFT having
 ruled upon the issue of classification or having expressed any doubt
 with respect to the eligibility of the writ petitioners to claim benefits
 under the MEIS, it would be wholly impermissible for the respondents
 to take punitive action against the writ petitioners. The subject of
 classification stands explicitly reserved for the consideration of the
 DGFT in terms of Para 2.57 of the FTP. This too convinces us to
 conclude that the action as initiated by the respondents is rendered
 arbitrary. M. DETERMINATION 121. Accordingly, and for all the aforesaid reasons, we allow the
 present writ petitions on the following terms. We hereby quash the audit
 objection letters dated 27 August 2019 [W.P.(C) 17314/2022] and 18
 November 2019 [W.P.(C) 17328/2022]. We consequently also quash the
 summons dated 07 October 2022 and 14 October 2022 [W.P.(C)
 14477/2022]; 15 November 2021, 13 January 2022, 24 January 2022,
 17 May 2022 and 30 September 2022 [W.P.(C) 17314/2022]; 15
 November 2021, 24 January 2022, 17 May 2022, 06 June 2022 and 30
 September 2022 [W.P.(C) 17328/2022]. 122. As a consequence of the above and absent an adjudication Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 90 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24 sustainable in law, we direct the respondents to refund the amounts
 collected from the writ petitioners being INR 5,47,000/- [W.P.(C)
 17314/2022] and INR 5,00,000/- [W.P.(C) 17328/2022] forthwith. 123. Since we have desisted from rendering any final opinion on the
 aspect of classification, the present decision shall be without prejudice
 to the right of the DGFT to initiate proceedings pertaining to the
 validity of the MEIS certificates issued to the writ petitioners if so
 chosen and advised and if otherwise permissible in law. YASHWANT VARMA, J. RAVINDER DUDEJA, J. NOVEMBER 22, 2024/neha/RW/DR Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 14477/2022 & Connected Matters Page 91 of 91 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2024 18:13:24