% 25.01.2024 1. This is a petition under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation
 Act, 1996 seeking restraint on the respondent No.1 and its agents, officers,
 employees, etc. from invoking/encashing the bank guarantees submitted by
 the petitioner. 2. The respondent No.1/HURL issued a Letter of Intent dated
 17.08.2018 awarding works contract service for Water Pre-Treatment
 (WPT), Demineralizaton (DM), and Condensate Polishing Unit (CPU),
 Plants for the respondent No. 1's Fertilizer Plant at Gorakhpur, Uttar
 Pradesh to the petitioner company. Following this Letter of Intent, a

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 31/01/2024 at 20:48:32
 Contract Agreement dated 14.11.2018 was entered between the petitioner
 and the respondent No.1. 3. In terms of the contract, the petitioner had issued five bank guarantees
 in favor of the respondent No. 1 as under: 4. The respondent No.1, vide letter dated 22.01.2024, has sought
 encashment of the bank guarantees. 5. Mr Tripathi, learned counsel appears on behalf of the respondent No.1
 on advance notice and states that the bank guarantees are unconditional bank
 guarantees, and only in cases of fraud and irretrievable loss and injury the
 bank guarantees need not be encashed. He further states that the dispute in
 underlying contract need not be looked into. It is also stated that in 2021, the
 respondent has partly terminated the contract with the petitioner. Mr Tripathi
 has also relied upon the following judgments: ... 34. It is well settled that in cases where invocation of the bank
 guarantee is not in terms of the bank guarantee, the courts would
 intervene and would interdict payment against such an invocation.
 This is not a case of special equities but constitutes a sperate ground.
 The concept of irretrievable injury or extraordinary special equities
 cannot be expanded to take into its fold disputes regarding the
 interpretation or performance of the underlying contract. A dispute
 between the parties relating to performance of obligations under the
 contract does not give rise to any special equities warranting
 interdiction of a bank guarantee. As noticed above, there must be
 special circumstances that places the party seeking such an injunction
 in a position where it would suffer irretrievable injury if the
 injunction as sought for is not granted." ( ii) Shapoorji Pallonji & Co. Pvt. Ltd. v. The Indure Private Limited &
 Anr. 2021:DHC:495-DB, wherein it is observed as under: CCL Products (India) Limited, 2019 SCC OnLine SC 985, the
 Supreme Court has held as under: -- 7. It has also been held in a catena of cases that the underlying
 contract is independent from the bank guarantee issued by the bank...
 ... 8. Keeping in view the aforesaid, this Court is of the view that at the
 behest of a contractor, i.e., the appellant, this Court cannot examine
 the terms of the underlying contract and decide disputes between the
 parties in an arbitration proceeding seeking stay of encashment of
 bank guarantee..." 6. In the aforesaid judgments relied upon by the learned counsel for the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 31/01/2024 at 20:48:33
 respondent No.1, the Hon'ble Courts laid down the principles where
 unconditional bank guarantees were sought to be encashed without assigning
 any reasons for encashment. 7. In the present case, the reason for invocation of the bank guarantee
 has been given in the letter dated 22.01.2024 of the respondent. It is not an
 unconditional encashment (as stated in the bank guarantees) and the bank
 guarantees are sought to be encashed due to "non-fulfilment of contractual
 obligations by the BGR". 8. On one hand the respondent No.1 in the letter of encashment states
 that the petitioner has not performed its contractual obligations, while on the
 other hand, in the earlier letter dated 18.07.2023, the respondent itself has
 granted time to the petitioner to complete balance activities and further
 stated that "the delay analysis shall be carried out at later stage." Hence, on
 the date of invocation, the respondent has yet not ascertained that the
 petitioner has not performed its contractual obligations. Encashment of bank
 guarantees in such a scenario will result in irretrievable harm and injustice.
 From the letter it seems that the respondent No.1 has yet to conclude that the
 petitioner has failed to fulfil its "contractual obligations". 9. For the said reasons, issue notice. 10. Mr Tripathi, learned counsel accepts notice on behalf of the
 respondent No.1. He seeks and is granted two weeks to file a response. 11. Ms Fatma, learned counsel appears for respondent No.2 and states
 that she also appears for respondent No.1 and has advanced her submissions
 as noted above. 12. Till the next date of hearing, subject to the petitioner keeping the bank
 guarantees alive, the respondents shall not encash the same. The bank

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 31/01/2024 at 20:48:33
 guarantees will be renewed for a period of at least six months. 13. Issue notice to the remaining respondents by all modes including
 electronic on the petitioner taking requisite steps within one week from
 today, returnable on 20.02.2024. JASMEET SINGH, J
 JANUARY 25, 2024
 sr

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 31/01/2024 at 20:48:33