1. Rule returnable forthwith. Learned APP waives service of
 notice of rule for respondent - State of Gujarat and learned
 advocate Mr. Yahs V. Gupta waives service of notice of rule for
 and on behalf of the original complainant. 2. By way of the present application under Section 482 of the
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short "BNSS"), the
 applicant has prayed for anticipatory bail in the event of arrest in
 connection with the FIR being I-C.R. No.11191042250198 of 2025
 registered with Satellite Police Station, Ahmedabad for the
 alleged offences as mentioned in the FIR. 3. Learned advocate Mr. Salman S. Khan appearing for the
 applicant submits that the allegations made in the FIR are of such
 a nature, for which, custodial interrogation of the applicant at
 this stage is not necessary. He further submits that the applicant
 will keep himself available during the course of investigation as
 well as the trial proceedings and will not flee from justice. He Page 1 of 17 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Thu Oct 16 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Oct 16 22:06:56 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 further submits that the FIR came to be lodged on 03.07.2025, for
 the incident alleged to have been taken place on 31.03.2025, and
 as such, there is a delay of more than three months registering
 the FIR. Learned advocate Mr. Khan also submits that looking to
 the background of the controversy, the same appears to be
 purely of a civil nature, and the Hon'ble Apex Court, time and
 gain, has expressed its disapproval for imparting criminal colour
 to a civil dispute, made merely to take advantage of a relatively
 quick relief granted in a criminal case in contrast to civil dispute,
 and the Hon'ble Supreme Court has, time and gain, warned of
 setting into motion a criminal law for recovery of money arising
 out of a civil disputes. Learned advocate Mr. Khan also submits
 that the present applicant is an accountant by profession, and
 has been working with the complainant's companies since 2008,
 having an unblemished career throughout. Learned advocate Mr.
 Khan further submits that the complainant is engaged in the
 business of consultancy and supply/purchase of several goods
 and services, and therefore, it often engages in cash
 transactions, Hawala exchanges or even uses the personal bank
 accounts of its employees, go gain some benefits in income tax.
 He submits that upon similar request made by the complainant
 and his parents, applicant was convinced to accept certain
 amount in his bank account, which later, upon instructions of the
 company, transferred back in the account of the Company, and
 as such, whatever amount relating to the complainant's company
 is found in the account of the applicant, was done with the
 consent and knowledge of the complainant and his parents. 4. Learned advocate Mr. Khan further submits that if the
 applicant had an intention to cheat the company, then he would
 have never returned back the said amount to the company, and Page 2 of 17 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Thu Oct 16 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Oct 16 22:06:56 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 as such, the allegations of siphoning of the money of the
 complainant is absolutely baseless. He submits that the bank
 entries clearly indicates that the amount was credited back in the
 account of the complainant's company, which is evident from the
 bank statement appended along with the memo of the
 application. Learned advocate Mr. Khan further submits that so
 far as the allegation of forging of signatures on the cheques is
 concerned, none of the cheques have ever returned with an
 endorsement that 'signature mis-match', which indicates that all
 the alleged transactions were done with the permission,
 knowledge and consent of the complainant and his parents. He
 further submits that the complainant has not shown the alleged
 money in his books of account, though the account of the
 Company being audited every year. It is also very hard to believe
 that the complainant has neither checked his bank account nor
 has shown the alleged loss in the balance sheet of the Company
 for continuous period of seven years. This aspect also signifies
 that all the alleged transactions were done with the consent and
 knowledge of the complainant, with a sole intention to gain tax
 benefits. Learned advocate Mr. Khan further submits that before
 registration of the FIR, the applicant was summoned atleast five
 times, and on every occasion, the applicant appeared and his
 statement came to be recorded, and at that time, the applicant
 also produced all these bank entries before the investigating
 officer, however, on account of some personal grudge and with a
 view to extract money from the applicant, by arm twisting, the
 present FIR has been registered. Learned advocate Mr. Khan also
 submits that so far as Sections 316(2) and 316(8) of BNS are
 concerned, which are akin of Sections 406 and 420 of IPC, as per
 the settled law, both these sections cannot be co-exist. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined 5. Learned advocate Mr. Khan further submits that so far as
 the allegation of using forged cheque books are concerned, since
 2018 to 2025, hundreds of cheques came to be issued, however,
 none of those cheques were returned back with an endorsement
 'forged cheque', and as such, the case of the complainant is
 prima facie beyond imagination. He submits that as of now, the
 not single statement of of any bank official has been recorded by
 the investigating officer to prove the forgery of cheque leaf or
 signature. He submits that the offence, as alleged, is triable by
 the Court of Magistrate. He submits that the entire case of the
 prosecution hinges upon documentary evidence, and all those
 documents are already in the custody of the investigating officer,
 and as such, the custodial interrogation of the applicant is not
 necessary. Moreover, the present applicant does not have any
 past criminal antecedents. 6. In such circumstances, referred to above, learned advocate
 Mr. Khan appearing for the applicant prays that there being merit
 in the present application, the same be allowed and the applicant
 be released on anticipatory bail. [ 7. Per contra, the present application has been vehemently
 opposed by learned advocate Mr. Yash V. Gupta appearing for the
 original complainant. Learned advocate Mr. Gupta submits that
 all the accused persons, in connivance with each other, hatched a
 criminal conspiracy, and accordingly, siphoned off huge amount
 from the complainant's Company. He further submits that the
 core of this organized crime lies in deliberate acts of forgery and
 impersonation and using the forged documents as genuine in
 breach of the complainant's trust being its employees. Learned
 advocate Mr. Gupta also submits that the entire fraud first came
 to light in March, 2025 when cheques of small amounts of Rs.2 Page 4 of 17 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Thu Oct 16 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Oct 16 22:06:56 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 Lakh and Rs.5 Lakh were dishonoured despite sufficient working
 capital being available through fixed deposits and cash credit
 facilities. Therefore, the accused persons were confronted, upon
 which, they confessed the irregularities committed by them and
 assured to return back the alleged amount, which was gradually
 repaid, however, they soon stopped responding. Learned
 advocate Mr. Gupta further submits that, thereafter, the
 complainant got the accounts of the firm audited, which revealed
 large scale fabrication and forgery. He also submits that the
 accused persons produced fabricated financial records whenever
 the same were sought for by the complainant, and thereby the
 accused persons created a false impression that the accounts
 were being maintained properly. Not only that, the accused have
 also prepared false and fabricated certificates like interest
 certificates, monthly or annual bank statements etc. Apart from
 that, even the registered mobile number linked with the bank
 account of the company was also fraudulently substituted with
 the mobile number of the present applicant behind the back of
 the complainant, in order to diver all SMS, OTPs and alerts as well
 as all other communications relating to the bank transactions. 8. Learned advocate Mr. Gupta further submits that the
 accused persons, out of the instructions of the complainant or
 even without his knowledge, also submitted an application in the
 Bank for issuance of new cheque book and to substitute the
 mobile number, and then by using the said cheque book,
 transferred funds into their personal bank accounts and they
 were using bearer cheques to withdraw the cash. Learned
 advocate Mr. Gupta also submits that the amount has been
 siphoned off by rotating it through different accounts of the
 relatives of the accused persons. For instance, accused Anjuben Page 5 of 17 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Thu Oct 16 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Oct 16 22:06:56 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 Nimje was regularly receiving an amount of Rs.29,000/- per
 month from one M/s. Manved Infracom, which is owned by the
 father-in-law of the present applicant's cousin sister, namely,
 Nidhi Krunal Gajjar. Then, from the said amount received by
 Anjuben Nimje, a substantial amount was then transferred to the
 account of the sister of the present applicant, namely, Nidhi
 Krunal Gajjar. The aforesaid clearly reveals that there is a
 deliberate money trail, whereby the present applicant has
 received the alleged amount through the different accounts of his
 relatives and friends. Learned advocate Mr. Gupta further
 submits that the present applicant is a kingpin of the entire
 episode. The present applicant got his own mobile number
 substituted in place of the mobile number of the complaint linked
 with the bank accounts. He submits that the co-accused Shailesh
 Thakore himself has given a detailed statement regarding on
 which date ho much amount was taken by him and from it, how
 much amount was parted by the other accused persons. He
 submits that the amount involved is huge, the modus operandi is
 systematic, and the fraud continued undetected for over four
 years. Learned advocate Mr.Gupta further submits that there
 exists a prima facie case of criminal breach of trust by the
 employees, misuse of valuable security like cheque and using it
 as genuine for the purpose of cheating with a common intention
 to defraud the company. Learned advocate Mr. Gupta also
 submits that the investigation is at a nascent stage, and the
 applicant is absconding since inception, and as such, the judicial
 custody of the present applicant is required to recover the forged
 documents, bank seals, payment slips, counter foils, cash money
 withdrawn by them, and also to interrogate him about
 commission of the offence, to determine the exact figure of the Page 6 of 17 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Thu Oct 16 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Oct 16 22:06:56 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 amount being siphoned off, as also to determine with whose
 assistance they have diverted those funds, as also to determine
 who else were involved in the conspiracy, as also whether
 involvement of any bank officer is there or not. The amount
 involved in the present case is 1.94 crore. Moreover, even the
 quashing petition preferred by the present applicant has also not
 been entertained by a Coordinate Bench of this Court. Learned
 advocate Mr. Gupta submits that there are sufficient
 documentary evidences collected by the investigating officer,
 clearly indicating the involvement of the present applicant in the
 commission of crime. 9. In such circumstances, referred to above, learned advocate
 Mr. Gupta appearing for the original complainant prays that there
 being no merit in the present application, the same be rejected. 10. On the other hand, the present application has also been
 vehemently opposed by the learned APP. Learned APP submits
 that the present applicant has been named in the FIR along with
 his specific role. He further submits that the active involvement
 of the present applicant in the commission of crime is clearly
 found out from the materials on record. Learned APP further
 submits that the present applicant is evading his arrest since
 beginning, and during the course of investigation, sufficient
 incriminating material has been found out against him. He further
 submits that the present applicant is an account by profession,
 and by using his such skill, as also taking advantage of the old
 age of the parents of the complainant, siphoned off huge amount
 of the company of the complainant. Even the statement of the
 applicant has been recorded by the police, wherein he has
 confessed of committing the crime. He submits that the other co- NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 accused persons are also absconding and the amount is yet to be
 recovered, and as such, the custodial interrogation of the
 applicant seems to be necessary. He submits that the applicant
 has failed to establish case for extraordinary relief. 11. In such circumstances, referred to above, learned APP prays
 that there being no merit in the present application, the same be
 rejected. 12. Heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and
 perused the record. 13. It is well settled that, among other circumstances, the
 factors to be borne in mind while considering an application for
 bail are (i) whether there is any prima facie or reasonable
 ground to believe that the accused had committed the offence; (ii) nature and gravity of the accusation; (iii) severity of the
 punishment in the event of conviction; (iv) danger of the
 accused absconding or fleeing, if released on bail; (v)
 character, behaviour, means, position and standing of the
 accused. Though at the stage of granting bail execution and
 appreciation of evidence is not permissible. Hence, custodial
 interrogation is required. 14. From the record, it transpires that there is a prima facie
 case against the present applicant-accused, and his direct
 involvement in the present offence cannot be ruled out. It
 appears from the record that there is a huge fraud of crores of
 rupees alleged to have been committed by the present
 applicant by misusing his position and by forging the
 signatures and valuable security like the cheque book of the
 company, and thereby the complainant has been duped with Page 8 of 17 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Thu Oct 16 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Oct 16 22:06:56 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 an amount of Rs.1.64 Crore. It also transpired from the record
 that the present applicant is an accountant in the Company,
 and has played a lead role in executing the entire scam. From
 the bank statements produced by the investigating officer, it
 appears that the present applicant has received unjustifiable
 amount from the co-accused Shailesh at regular intervals. The
 said entries, prima facie, seems to be suspicious one, which
 points a finger towards the involvement of the present
 applicant in the commission of crime. Moreover, the
 investigation is underway, and is at a crucial stage. The
 diversification of the amount to various account holders and
 getting their account details is a crucial subject of investigation
 for which the presence of the applicant seems to be very much
 necessary. Furthermore, the manner in which the entire
 offence was conspired and executed is an important aspect of
 investigation for which, in my view, the custodial interrogation
 of the applicant is required. It further appears from the record
 that the present applicant has received an amount of
 Rs.40,89,384/- in his personal account from the different bank
 accounts of the Company, as also an amount of Rs.50,22,794/-
 from the different bank accounts of co-accused Shaileshbhai
 through U.P.I. Not only that, the allegations of forging
 signatures on the cheque books have also been levelled, which
 seems to be quite grave in nature. The record further reveals
 that cheque books have also been obtained fraudulently, and
 even the mobile number linked with the bank account of the
 Company had also been replaced by the applicant with his
 mobile number. Furthermore, the other co-accused are also
 absconding and the documentary evidences are still to be Page 9 of 17 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Thu Oct 16 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Oct 16 22:06:56 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 recovered, and as such, if the applicant is released on bail,
 there are all possible chances of aiding the other co-accused to
 remain absconding, as also tampering with the evidences.
 Apart from that, the present applicant is also evading his arrest
 since beginning. Further, the offence with which the applicant
 is charged with is an economic offence and is against the
 interest of the society. 15. It goes without saying that the alleged offence of duping
 the complainant of crores of rupees is quite grave in nature.
 Hence, while it is extremely important to protect the personal
 liberty of a person, it is equally incumbent upon me to analyze
 the seriousness of the offence and determine if there is a need
 for custodial interrogation. 16. In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of
 Maharashtra , (2011) 1 SCC 694, the Supreme Court carefully
 considered the principles established by the Constitution
 Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v. State of Punjab , (1980) 2
 SCC 565. After a thorough deliberation, the Supreme Court
 arrived at the following conclusion: NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined (iv)The possibility of the accused's likelihood to repeat
 similar or other offences; (v) Where the accusations have been made only with the
 object of injuring or humiliating the applicant by arresting
 him or her; (vi)Impact of grant of anticipatory bail, particularly in
 cases of large magnitude affecting a very large number
 of people. xxx xxx xxx" 17. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi ), (2018) 7 SCC
 731, the Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court
 reaffirmed that when considering applications for anticipatory
 bail, courts should consider factors such as the nature and
 gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the applicant, and
 the specific facts of the case. 18. In Satpal Singh vs. State of Punjab , (2018) 13 SCC 813,
 the Supreme Court has held that the satisfaction of the court
 for granting protection under Section 438 Cr.P.C. is different
 from the one under Section 439 Cr.P.C. while considering
 regular bail. 19. In Pratibha Manchanda and another Vs. State of Haryana
 and another , (2023) 8 SCC 181, the Supreme Court has opined
 that "the relief of anticipatory bail is aimed at safeguarding
 individual rights. While it serves as a crucial tool to prevent the
 misuse of the power of arrest and protects innocent individuals
 from harassment, it also presents challenges in maintaining a
 delicate balance between individual rights and the interests of
 justice. The tight rope we must walk lies in striking a balance Page 11 of 17 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Thu Oct 16 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Oct 16 22:06:56 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 between safeguarding individual rights and protecting public
 interest. While the right to liberty and presumption of
 innocence are vital, the court must also consider the gravity of
 the offence, the impact on society, and the need for a fair and
 free investigation. The court's discretion in weighing these
 interests in the facts and circumstances of each individual case
 becomes crucial to ensure a just outcome." 20. This Court after considering number of decisions of the
 Apex Court as well as of this Court, has observed in case of MOHMED SALIM ABDUL RASID SHAIKH V. STATE OF GUJARAT reported in 2001 [2] GLR 1580 as under; 21. Similarly, the Apex Court has also considered the scope
 of Section 438 in case of DUKHISHYAM BENUPANI, ASSTT
 DIRECTOR, ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE [FERA] V. ARUN
 KUMAR BAJORIA reported in 1998 [1] SCC 52. The relevant
 observations made in para-7 are quoted as under :- NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined 22. Coming to the case on hand, from the allegations levelled
 in the FIR and the materials placed on record, it appears that
 the very serious allegations of misappropriation of crores of
 rupees have been made against the applicant. Moreover, the
 present case also falls within the category of economic
 offences and the amount involved in the present case is quite
 huge, and it is trite law that in economic offences, benefit of
 pre-arrest bail should not be extended in favour of the accused
 in a casual manner. The amount involved in the present case
 is also quite huge, and the offence as alleged is also
 punishable with life imprisonment. Thus, at this stage, in my
 view, custodial interrogation of the applicant is very much
 necessary. 23. Lastly, it may be noted that as held in catena of
 decisions, the economic offences constitute a class apart and
 need to be visited with a different approach in the matter of
 bail. The economic offences having deep-rooted conspiracies
 and involving huge loss of public funds need to be viewed
 seriously and considered as grave offences affecting the
 economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious
 threat to the financial health of the country. Undoubtedly,
 economic offences have serious repercussions on the
 development of the country as a whole. To cite a few
 judgments in this regard are Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy vs.
 Central Bureau of Investigation , reported in ( 2013) 7 SCC
 439, Nimmagadda Prasad vs. Central Bureau of
 Investigation , ( 2013) 7 SCC 466, Gautam Kundu vs.
 Directorate of Enforcement (Prevention of Money- NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 Laundering Act), Government of India Through Manoj
 Kumar, Assistant Director, Eastern Region, (2015) 16 SCC
 1, State of Bihar and Another vs. Amit Kumar alias
 Bachcha Rai, (2017) 13 SCC 751. The Supreme Court taking
 a serious note with regard to the economic offences had
 observed as back as in 1987 in case of State of Gujarat vs.
 Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal and Another , (1987) 2 SCC 364
 as under:- 24. Moreover, when the Court is satisfied that a prima facie
 case of custodial interrogation of the accused is made out by
 the prosecution for securing the incriminating materials from
 the information likely to be received from the accused, then
 the power under Section 482 should not be exercised in a
 routine manner. The presence of the applicant, in the peculiar
 facts and circumstances of the present case, seems to be
 needed to uncover the truth. Further, the discretion under Section 482 cannot be exercised with regard to offences
 punishable with death or imprisonment for life, unless the Page 15 of 17 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Thu Oct 16 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Oct 16 22:06:56 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 court at that very stage is satisfied that such a charge appears
 to be false or groundless. The larger interest of the public and
 State demand that in serious cases like economic offences
 involving cheating and misappropriation of huge volume of
 amount, the discretion under Section 482 of the BNSS should
 not be exercised. 25. Thus, what is discernible from the above is that while
 deciding anticipatory bail application, it is the first duty of the
 Court to see seriousness of the offence, prima facie case and
 interest of the society at a large. Therefore, when no special
 and compelling circumstances are made out and no case of
 false implication of present applicants in the alleged offence is
 made out before this Court, I am of the opinion that this Court
 should refrain itself from exercising its discretionary powers in
 favour of the present applicants at this stage. 26. Further, the present applicant is involved in white collar
 socio-economic offence which constitute a class apart and
 needs to be visited with a different approach. The economic
 offences adversely affect the economic and social fabric of the
 country. In such circumstances also, grant of anticipatory bail
 at this stage would frustrate the investigation. 27. In view of above discussion and considering the materials
 produced before this Court, I am of the opinion that there
 seems to be a prima facie involvement of the present applicant
 in the commission of the alleged offence. Thus, this Court is of
 the opinion that at the initial stage of the investigation of the
 offence, grant of anticipatory bail in favour of the applicant is
 likely to hamper the investigation and investigating agency is Page 16 of 17 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Thu Oct 16 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Oct 16 22:06:56 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18597/2025 ORDER DATED: 10/10/2025

 undefined

 likely to lose an opportunity to exploit all the fact situation,
 probabilities or opportunities which the Agency may get during
 the custodial interrogation of a person, and therefore, keeping
 in mind all the factors, no interference is required at this stage.
 The impugned order passed by the trial court, rejecting
 anticipatory bail application of the applicants is just and proper
 and does not require any interference at the end of this Court. 28. In the result, the application, being devoid of any merit, is
 hereby rejected. However, it is made clear that the
 observations made by this Court herein above at this stage
 while deciding the anticipatory bail application, would not
 come in the way of the applicant at the time as and when if
 ultimately the trial court is proceeded with the trial, and at the
 stage of consideration of regular bail application, if preferred
 by the applicant. Rule is discharged. (DIVYESH A. JOSHI,J)

 VAHID Page 17 of 17 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Thu Oct 16 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Oct 16 22:06:56 IST 2025