16:21 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document/order
 prepare fake ATM cards with swapping machines and then used to

 transfer money from the account of customers to their own accounts. As per the status report, the name of the petitioner surfaced

 in disclosure statement suffered by co-accused Mujahid. Petitioner could

 not be arrested and was declared Proclaimed Offenbder. He surrendered

 in the Court on 08.09.2022. Chalan in this case has already been filed. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that no amount

 was transferred in the account of the petitioner, rather he was not aware

 about the registration of the case against him and on coming to know, he

 surrendered in the Court. Further it is submitted that the case is triable by

 Judicial Magistrate and co-accused Mujahid, on whose statement,

 petitioner is nominated and Anshu Kumar Dass, have already been

 granted bail by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Faridabad vide

 order dated 21.12.2019 (Annexure P-4). Co-accused Irfan Ansari has

 already been granted bail by learned Additiional Sessions Judge,

 Faridabad vide order dated 17.12.2019 (Annexure P-3). It is also

 submitted that co-accused Gulam Sarwar has also been granted bail by a

 Co-ordinate Bench of this Court vide order dated 07.02.2023, passed in

 CRM-M-1154-2023. Learned State counsel has opposed the petition but has fairly

 conceded to say that petitioner is in custody since 08.09.2022 and co-

 accused have already been granted bail. Heard. The petitioner was involved in this case on the basis of

 disclosure statement made by co-accused while in custody. It would be MAMTA 2023.05.04 16:21 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document/order
 seen during the trial what importance can be given to the said statement.

 No recovery is effected from the petitioner and he is not the direct

 beneficiary. He is not involved in any other case except the case under

 Section 174 -A IPC , which is off shoot of this case. Co-accused have

 already been granted bail; case is triable by Magistrate and completion of

 trial will also take long wtime. Accordingly, without commenting upon the merits of the

 case, the present petition is allowed and the petitioner is directed to be

 released on regular bail, on his furnishing bail bonds/surety bonds, to the

 satisfaction of learned Trial Court/CJM/Duty Magistrate, concerned. MAMTA 2023.05.04 16:21 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document/order