By way of the present petition filed under Section 438 Cr.P.C

the petitioner is praying for anticipatory bail in the event of arrest in FIR

detailed as under (Annexure P-1):- 2. It is inter alia contended by learned counsel for the petitioner

that the petitioner was working as a Branch Manager in the Bank at the

relevant time and instant FIR has been lodged by one Surjit Singh wherein

Narinder Singh and Jagar Singh also happen to be alleged victims. He

contends that the petitioner has been falsely implicated in this case and in

 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 01-08-2024 20:55:50 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:095888 CRM-M-64879-2023 2 fact, the aforesaid complainant/victims had themselves withdrawn the

amount from their bank accounts and invested in 'Sahyog Credit Co- and

also utilized the proceeds thereof. There is no criminal intent of the

petitioner nor has he misappropriated any amount. He contends that the

mobile numbers of the aforesaid persons were changed in the bank account

on the basis of their request. The allegations levelled in the FIR are false and

frivolous. Hence, prayed for grant of anticipatory bail. 3. Per contra, learned State counsel referring to the replies

submitted by the State has contended that the petitioner working as Branch

Manager in the Bank at the relevant time, has misused his official position

by using the authority given to his post, changed the mobile numbers of the

complainant and the victim aforesaid in the bank accounts. The OTP's were

received on the changed mobile numbers without the complainant/victim

being aware of it and the over draft loan against the fixed deposit receipts

were taken and the amount was invested in the 'Sahyog Credit Co-' run by

one Gurinder Kaur, without the consent and knowledge of the customers i.e.

the complainant/victims. He contends that the aforesaid 'Sahyog Credit Co-" 4. After considering the rival contentions and perusing the record,

it transpires that the instant FIR (Annexure P-1) was registered by one Surjit

Singh, Narinder Singh and Jagar Singh against the petitioner who was

working as Branch Manager, State Bank of India, Nabha at the relevant

time, to the fact that they had deposited certain amounts in the shape of

Fixed Deposit Receipts in the Bank but the proceeds thereof, have not been

credited to their accounts ever after maturity. On inquiry, it was revealed

that in fact loan by way of over draft facility was availed against the amount

of FDR. Accordingly the FIR was registered. 5. It has further been observed that so far as the factum of

petitioner being working as Branch Manager of the Bank is concerned, it is

not disputed. It is also not disputed that the complainant and victim

aforesaid had their Bank accounts in the same Branch wherein they had

invested some amount in the shape of fixed deposit receipts. The maturity

proceeds there of, have not been deposited in their respective accounts and

aggrieved by the same the instant case had been registered. It has come out

during course of hearing that the petitioner in connivance with the co-

accused Gurinder Kaur, Manager of one 'Sahyog Credit Co-' Company had

transferred the amount from the accounts of the above said customers by

availing loan by way of overdraft facility and invested the same against the

FDR in 'Sahyog Credit Co-' company. As per the prosecution, this has been

done by the petitioner by misusing his authority as Branch Manager using

his ID to change the mobile numbers in the bank accounts of the aforesaid

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 01-08-2024 20:55:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:095888 CRM-M-64879-2023 4 persons to that of Gurinder Kaur so that the OTP of the transactions would

not be received by the customers. Although the petitioner has claimed the

change of the mobile numbers having been done on the request of customers

but nothing of that sort in the shape of any such request having been

received from any of such customers aforesaid has been placed on record.

Furthermore, said Gurinder Kaur has also been nominated as co-accused in

the case and it is alleged by the prosecution that Gurinder Kaur used her

mobile number for receiving OTP's for transactions of which the customers

i.e. the aforesaid complainant/victims were never aware. In this manner the

petitioner in connivance with the co-accused had misappropriated the

amount of the complainant victims lying in their Bank accounts/FDR's

without their knowledge. 6. In these circumstances, the plea taken by the petitioner that the

aforesaid customers had invested in 'Sahyog Credit Co-' on their own

cannot be accepted when the mobile number given by the customer in the

Bank account could only be changed with the intervention of the Branch

Manager by applying his authorized ID and that too on the requests of the

customers. So taking into consideration the facts and circumstances, coupled

with the gravity of offence, custodial interrogation of the petitioner is

required to unearth the scam. Accordingly, no case is made out in favour of

the petitioner for grant of anticipatory bail. Therefore, finding no merit in the

present petition, the same is hereby dismissed. 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 01-08-2024 20:55:51 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:095888 CRM-M-64879-2023 5 7. Any observation made above shall not be construed as opinion

of this Court on the merits of the case. Of

the case and is only me

 (SANJIV BERRY)
 JUDGE
25.07.2024
Gyan i) Whether speaking/reasoned? Yes/No ii) Whether reportable? Yes/No

 5 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 01-08-2024 20:55:51 :::