IN
			THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
		
	

 

 

 

FIRST APPEAL NO. 2747
of 2013
 

With 

 

CIVIL APPLICATION NO. 9919 of 2013
 

 In 

 

FIRST APPEAL NO. 2747 of 2013 FOR
APPROVAL AND SIGNATURE: TBEA Shenyang Transformers Group Co. Ltd. entered into a
contract for the supply of 7 numbers of Single Phase 24.65 MVA, 11
KV/132 GSU Transformers for their 2 x 55 MW Chuzachen Project
located at Sikkim, India awarded on 24.12.2007 for Design,
Engineering, Manufacture, Shop Testing and Type Testing, Inspection,
Supply, Packing and CIF Delivery at Haldia (India) Port along with
accessories, for which separate contract was executed between the
parties. As per appellant s case, as per condition under clause
11, Performance Security in the form of Bank Guarantee for an amount
equivalent to 10% of the Contract price was to be furnished by the
appellant to the respondent No.1 and therefore, the appellant
provided aforesaid Bank Guarantee at initial stage and the same has
been extended further upto 30.9.2013 at the request of the respondent
No.1. It is specific case of the appellant that the Bank Guarantee
is considered to be valid only up to warranty obligation period i.e.
42 months from the date of CIF delivery at Haldia port of last supply
or 36 months of operational acceptance, whichever is earlier. It is
the case of the appellant that the warranty period has already
expired in June, 2012 and the same has never been extended by the
appellant, but it is on the insistence of the respondent no. 1, the
period of Bank Guarantee was extended. It is the case of the
appellant that it has completed the works under the contract in
accordance with the contract and thus, discharged all the obligations
from time to time including the delivery of goods as per time
schedule agreed upon by and between the parties. However, after a
period of 2¿ years from the supply of goods, the respondent no. 1
informed the appellant about some defective tools (testing
instruments), which were supplied in the year 2010. It is the case
of the appellant that after long period, the respondent No.1
complained about some defects in such testing
instruments in 2010 and therefore, the appellant informed the
respondent No.1 to send the so-called defective instruments and also
informed specifically as to where such instruments are to be sent and
to whom it should be informed. However, the respondent did not
return the defective instruments and as per the contract, the
appellant has agreed to supply spares on request of the respondent
no. 1 on chargeable basis. In nutshell, the warranty has nothing to
do with the supply of such spares. However, the respondent No.1 was
unnecessarily insisting for extension of Bank Guarantee and warranty
period on these grounds. So, the appellant finally agreed for the
extension of Bank Guarantee period and the same was extended upto
30th September 2013. 3.	It
is appellant's case that while extending the Bank Guarantee period
upto 30th September 2013, the appellant has specifically
denied to extend the warranty period and accordingly, warranty period
was not extended and the same was confirmed by the respondent No.1. 
It is specific case of the appellant that the appellant has always
tried to solve the problems and extended full cooperation in spite
of certain part is not coming under the warranty and obligations on
the part of the appellant, but for the reasons best known to the
respondent No.1, it insisted for extension of Bank Guarantee, which
in good faith the appellant has extended. In nutshell, it is the
case of the appellant that extension of the Bank Guarantee has
nothing to do with the extension of warranty period or confirming any
liability by the appellant for any services to be provided within the
warranty period. The appellant came to know about mala fide
intention of the respondent No.1 only when the respondent no. 2, Bank
informed the appellant to make arrangement for the payment of money
under the Bank Guarantee. On these broad facts, the appellant has
asserted in the petition that the respondent No.1 having bad and mala
fide intention, made representations before the appellant so as to
make the appellant agreed for extension of Bank Guarantee. It is
further case of the appellant that the appellant has extended Bank
Guarantee on the basis of false promise and with the allurement to
continue with the business relations between the parties in future. 
Since the Bank Guarantee is not supported by the extension of
warranty period and as per the terms and conditions of the contract,
Bank Guarantee is only for and up to the period of warranty period
i.e. 42 months from the date of supply of the material at Haldia Port
and since, the said period has already expired, the appellant is not
under any obligation under the warranty. However, the respondent
No.1 having malice intention from the beginning intended to recover
the amount of Bank Guarantee without any legal and contractual
rights. Since the Bank Guarantee in question has been extended by
committing fraud on the basis of misrepresentation and therefore, it
vitiates the very foundation of the Bank Guarantee, and extension
thereof on the face of it is based on fraud committed by the
beneficiary i.e. respondent No.1 and therefore, it cannot be allowed
to take advantage and therefore, it is required to be restrained from
doing so. 4.	On
these broad facts, the appellant has prayed to restrain the
respondent No.1 from invoking the Bank Guarantee and further the
respondent No.2 Bank may be restrained from making any payment to
respondent No.1 under the Bank Guarantee. 5.	Per
contra, the respondent No.1 contended before the trial Court that
application under section 9 of the Act is not maintainable, inasmuch
as the injunction has been sought against the respondent No.2 
ICICI Bank even though no arbitration agreement subsists with the
said party. Further, the contract of Bank Guarantee is independent
of and separate from the principal contract between the parties and
there is no arbitration clause in the contract of Bank Guarantee,
which is the subject matter of this application. It is also
contended by the respondent No.1 before the Court that relief prayed
for have become infructuous, because the respondent No.1 had already
invoked the Bank Guarantee on 22.6.2013 i.e. before filing of the
petition under section 9 of the Act on 26.6.2013. It is contended
before the trial Court that contract of Bank Guarantee being
independent and separate from the principal contract between the
parties, the Court should not grant injunction restraining the
realization or invocation of the Bank Guarantee except in cases of
fraud in connection with the Bank Guarantee or where irretrievable
injustice would be caused to the party concerned. Otherwise, the
Bank is obligated under law to honour the contract by making payment
upon the demand if the invocation is in terms of the contract of the
Bank Guarantee. It is contended that existence of any dispute
between the parties to the principal contract is not legally
recognized as a valid ground from restraining the enforcement of the
Bank Guarantee. It is contended before the trial Court that under
the Bank Guarantee in question, the respondent No.2 has undertaken to
pay respondent No.1 on mere written demand without any demur,
reservation contest or protest and/or without any reference to the
appellant monies to the extent of Euro 190928.60. The respondent
No.1 further contended before the trial Court that in the contract of
Bank Guarantee, the invocation thereof is not linked to any dispute,
which may exist between the appellant and the respondent No.1. In
other words, the Bank Guarantee in question is unconditional Bank
Guarantee. 6.	The
respondent No.1 before the trial Court further contended that the
allegations of fraud have been made only by way of an attempt to
somehow artificially bring the facts within the parameters and legal
requirements for obtaining injunctive relief in the matters relating
to a Bank Guarantee. In fact, there is no fraud either in relation
to the Bank Guarantee or the principal contract. It is contended
before the trial Court that the appellant is estopped from raising
contention relating to the expiry of the warranty period, inasmuch as
the appellant has itself renewed the Bank Guarantee and extended its
validity upto 30.9.2013 and necessary payment of renewal has already
been made by the appellant itself. It is also contended before the
trial Court that no irretrievable injustice would cause to the
appellant if payments under the Bank Guarantee are realized, because
the respondent No.1 has an existing and valid claim in liquidated
damages against the appellants and more particularly, quoted in para
12 of the affidavit-in-reply filed by the respondent No.1 before the
trial Court. It is further contended by the respondent No.1 that the
conduct of the appellant disentitles for any relief of injunction and
equity, because in para No.5 of the petition, it has averred that
though the testing instruments were supplied by the appellant to the
respondent No.1 in the year 2010, it was only in 2013 for the first
time that the complaint was made by the respondent No.1 regarding
defects in the supply of the goods. According to the respondent
No.1, the said statement is false to the knowledge of the appellant,
because the testing instruments were found defective and the same was
informed immediately to the appellant's representative in 2010 and
the same was duly recorded at the relevant minutes of the meeting
dated 25.3.2010. Thereafter, from time to time, the respondent No.1
informed the appellant by email and requested to take necessary
action and corrective measures. No disclosure or reference to any of
the letters, email sent by the respondent No.1 has been referred to
in the petition. Secondly, it is contended by the respondent No.1
before the trial Court that the respondent No.1 invoked the Bank
Guarantee on 22.6.2013. On 25.6.2013, the appellant requested the
respondent No.1 to withdraw its claim of the Bank Guarantee so as to
enable a positive discussion on the issue. Based on such request,
the respondent No.1 on the very next day i.e. on 26.6.2013 wrote to
its bank requesting him to keep the demand notice dated 22.6.2013
under abeyance till 7.7.2013. However, while on one hand, the
appellant requested for an amicable solution of the dispute and on
the other hand, it secretly approached the Court and obtained order
of status quo qua Bank Guarantee on 26.6.2013 by not only suppressing
the material facts, but also without producing Bank Guarantee before
the trial Court. 7.	Before
submissions made by both the learned senior counsel Mr. Mehta and Mr.
Joshi are appreciated, relevant clauses of Letter
of Award, special condition of contract and general condition
of contract referred to and relied upon by the parties are as under: Failure to provide the Contract Performance Security shall constitute
a material breach of Supplier s obligations under the Contract. 11.2	The
proceeds of the Performance Security shall be payable to the
Purchaser as compensation for any loss resulting from the Supplier s
failure to complete its obligations under the Contract but shall not
be construed in any manner as a limitation of liability of the
Supplier. 11.3	In
the event, if any extension in the date of completion including
extension of the period of Warranty and Defect Liability Period
obligations, the Supplier shall at its own cost have the validity of
the Bank Guarantee extended up to 90 days after such extended date.
Failure to do so at least 30 days before the expiry of the validity
of the Performance Guarantee shall entitle the Purchaser to invoke
the Bank Guarantee and recover the amount thereunder. No
		payment to the supplier shall be released unless the said
		Performance Security has been submitted to the Purchaser. 18.0	WARRANTY
AND DEFECT LIABILITY PERIOD (General Condition). 18.1	The
supplier warrants that the Goods supplied under this Contract are
new, unused, of the most recent or current models and incorporate all
recent improvements in design and materials unless provided otherwise
in the contract. The Supplier further warrants that the Goods
supplied under this Contract shall have no defect arising from
design, materials or workmanship or from any act or omission of the
Supplier, that may develop under normal use of the supplied goods. 18.2	The
supplier understands and agrees as under: We
ICICI Bank Limited a body corporate registered/ constituted under the
Law of India, having its registered office at Lank mark, race course
circle, Alkapuri, Vadodara 390 007, India and one or its branch
at Landmark, race course circle, Alkapuri, Vadodara 390007
(hereinafter referred to as the Bank which expression shall unless
repugnant to the context or veaning thereof include its successor,
administrator, executor and assigns) do hereby guarantee and
undertake to pay APIL on its first written demand through through
swift or tested telex any all monies payable by the contractor to the
extent of Euro 190928.60 (Euro one hundred ninety thousand nine
hundred twenty eight and cents sixty only) as aforesaid any time upto
30th March, 2012 without any demur, reservation
contest or protest and/or without any reference to the contractor any
such demand made by APIL on the bank shall be conclusive and binding
notwithstanding any difference between the owner and the contractor
or any dispute pending before any Court, tribunal, arbitrator or any
other authority. The bank undertakes not to revoke this guarantee
during it occurrence without previous consent of APIL and further
agrees that the guarantee herein contained shall continue to be
inforceable till APIL discharge this guarantee. 9.	Learned
Senior Counsel appearing for both the parties made elaborate
submissions in light of their respective case before the trial Court
and I have considered rival submissions made during the course of
hearing of the appeal. 10.	Law
relating to invocation of Bank Guarantee is by now well settled by
catena of decisions of the Hon ble Supreme Court. The Bank
Guarantee which provides that they are payable by the guarantor on
demand is considered to be an unconditional Bank Guarantee. So, when
in the course of commercial transaction/dealings, an unconditional
Bank Guarantee is given or accepted, the beneficiary is entitled to
realize such a Bank Guarantee in terms thereof irrespective of any
pending disputes. 11. In
case of U.P. State Sagar Corporation Vs. Sumac International Ltd. reported in (1997) 1 SCC 568, the Hon ble Supreme Court in para
No.12 observed as under: This
Court set aside an injunction granted by the High Court to restrain
the realisation of the bank guarantee. 12.	It
is equally well settled in law that Bank Guarantee is an independent
contract between the bank and the beneficiary thereof. The bank is
always obliged to honour its guarantee as long as it is unconditional
and irrevocable one. The dispute between the beneficiary and the
party at whose instance, the bank has given guarantee is immaterial
and of no consequence. In case of BSES Limited Vs. Fenner India Ltd. reported in 2006 (2) SCC 726, the Hon ble Supreme Court in para 10,
observed as under: There are, however, two exceptions to this Rule. The first is when
there is a clear fraud of which the Bank has notice and a fraud of
the beneficiary from which it seeks to benefit. The fraud must be of
an egregious nature as to vitiate the entire underlying transaction.
The second exception to the general rule of non- intervention is when
there are special equities in favour of injunction, such as when
irretrievable injury or irretrievable injustice would occur if such
an injunction were not granted. The general rule and its exceptions
has been reiterated in so many judgments of this court, that in U.P.
State
Sugar Corpn. V. Sumac International Ltd . (1997) 1 SCC 568 (hereinafter U.P. State Sugar Corpn_) this Court,
correctly declare that the law was settled. 13. In Himadri Chemicals Industries Ltd. V. Coal Tar Refining Company reported in (2007) 8 SCC 110, the Hon'ble Supreme Court summarized
the principles for grant or refusal to grant of injunction to
restrain the enforcement of a bank guarantee or a letter of credit,
in para No.14, which reads as under: 14.	Undisputedly,
the Bank Guarantee in question on the face of it reading, it appears
that it is unconditional and irrevocable and therefore, the appellant
cannot be allowed to raise any dispute and prevent the respondent
No.1 from encashing the Bank Guarantee. 15.	The
next question that falls for consideration of the Court is as to
whether the present case falls
under any of or both the exceptions namely whether there is a clear
fraud of which the bank had notice and a fraud of the beneficiary
from which it seeks to benefit or there is any fraud
committed by the beneficiary while executing underlying contract,
which became so because of subsequent event or circumstances in light
of decision rendered in case of Hindustan Steel Works Construction
Limited Vs. Tarapore & Co. and another reported in (1996) 5 SCC
34 as it is vehemently relied upon by the appellant to get admission
of this first appeal. In para 18 of the judgment, the Hon ble
Supreme Court has observed as under: There is not even the proper allegation of any fraud as such and in
fact, the whole case of the appellant centres around the allegation
of any fraud with regard to the alleged breach of contract by the
respondent No.1. The plea of fraud in the appellant's words is to
the following effect. 4.
........In fact, the said Bank Guarantee
is considered to be valid only upto warranty obligation period and
the warranty period under the contract has been fixed for the period
of 42 months from the date of CIF delivery at Haldia Port of last
supply or 36 months of Operational acceptance, whichever is earlier. 
The said warranty period has already been expired in June, 2012 and
the same has never been extended by the applicant. However, on the
insistence of the opponent No.1, the period of Bank
Guarantee only has been extended and the applicant has
specifically denied the request of the opponent No.1 to extend the
warranty period. 5.........It
is submitted that after
the period of 2¿ years from the supply of goods, the opponent no. 1
informed the applicant about some defective tools (testing
instruments), which were supplied in the year 2010, however, in 2013,
i.e. after a long period, the opponent No.1 has complained about some
defect in such testing instruments. The applicant had informed the
opponent No.1 to send the so called defective instruments. It was
specifically informed to the opponent No.1 that where such
instruments to be sent and to whom it should be informed. It was
made clear that the resupply of so called defective instruments shall
be made on chargeable basis, based upon the request of opponent No.1
about technical parameters that were required for such equipments. 
It was specifically made clear that the revised offer will be sent to
the opponent No.1 as and when the same will be received from the
applicant supplier. In spite of these facts, the so called defective
instruments were never returned to the applicant. Moreover, as per
the contract, the applicant has agreed to supply spares on request of
the opponent No.1 on chargeable basis. Thus, the warranty has
nothing to do with such spares....... 17.	In
Court s considered opinion, such vague and indefinite allegations
made do not satisfy the requirement in law constituting any fraud
much less a fraud of a serious nature as to vitiate entire
transaction. In fact, the appellant s case as asserted in the
petition is such that it was agreed that warranty period would be 42
months from the date of CIF delivery at Haldia Port of last supply or
36 months of operational acceptance, whichever is earlier. In light
of clause 5 of Special Contract Condition, the respondent No.1
released the payment to the appellant after receipt of the goods and
therefore, release of payment by the respondent No.1 is nothing but
an admission as to receipt of goods in satisfactory condition. So,
according to the appellant, releasing payment upon acceptance of
goods shall ipso facto infer acceptance of goods as per order and in
good condition by the respondent No.1 and thus, resulting into
commencement of warranty period. It is argued by learned Senior
Counsel Mr. Mehta that respondent No.1 received accessories at
Haldia Port on 2.2.2009, whereas the transformers were received at
Haldia Port on 8.12.2008 and thus, warranty period commenced from
December 2008 and pursuant to the contractual condition, the same has
ended after 42 months i.e. June 2012, whereas for the accessories, it
has been completed in the month of August, 2012 as payment had
already been released. So, it seems that there is bona fide disputes
between the parties as to whether warranty period has commenced as
per the case of the appellant or the respondent No.1. In this
background of bona fide disputes cropped up between the appellant and
the respondent No.1 and pending resolution thereof, if the respondent
No.1 invokes Bank Guarantee within extended period, in Court s
considered opinion, it cannot be construed that there is any fraud
played by the respondent No.1. On the contrary, it is forthcoming on
record that party exchanged various correspondence and also held
meetings before expiry of warranty period and more particularly,
meeting dated 25.3.2010 held at Siligudi (West Bengal) and in the
said meeting, the party discussed various issues with regard to
problems cropped up in respect to the contract in question and in
para 9 and 10, the discussion was minutized as under: M/s Alstom has explained the problems of the testing equipment
supplied by M/s TBEA. M/s TBEA has asked to recheck the instruments
again and give clear feedback so as to take up with the original
manufacturer of the equipment. M/s TBEA will get back on these
issues soon and will do the needful at the earliest. 10.
M/s TBEA has agreed to extend all kinds of support in future for the
Transformers supplied. Further, M/s TBEA assured the
warranty/guarantee as per the Supply terms and conditions. 18.	Apart
from it, thereafter also, party exchanged various mails and since
issues raised during the warranty period could not be resolved, the
respondent No.1 invoked the Bank Guarantee. Not only that, it has
also come on record that at the request of the appellant through mail
dated 25.6.2013, the respondent No.1 kept his demand notice dated
22.6.2013 under abeyance till 7.7.2013. The whole purpose to keep
the demand in abeyance was to have a positive discussion between the
appellant and the respondent No.1 for the issues in question. 
Instead of commencing discussion, the appellant filed petition under section 9 of the Act on 26.6.2013 and obtained ex parte injunction
order against invocation of Bank Guarantee. Surprisingly, the
appellant succeeded in obtaining injunction order without producing
Bank Guarantee before the trial Court and it only came on record
through the respondent No.1 when it filed its reply before the trial
Court. 19.	The
contention raised by learned Senior Counsel Mr. Mehta for the
appellant to the effect that warranty came to an end as per clause 8
of Special Condition in the month of March 2012 is devoid of any
merit for the simple reason that the Bank
Guarantee, on the face of it, is linked with the performance of the
contract. However, the Bank Guarantee, though expired in the month
of March 2012, but extended six times from time to time mutually and
at the appellant's cost. However, bare perusal of condition No.10 of
Letter of Award stipulates that warranty shall be applicable as per
provisions, requirements as defined under clause 18 of the General
Condition of contract. So, on combined reading of various clauses of
Letter of Award, Special Condition and General Condition of the
contract, it cannot be inferred that the Bank Guarantee is
co-extensive with the warranty period as per clause 8 of the Special
Condition. So, extension of Bank Guarantee
after expiry period at the appellant's cost for about 18 months makes
it abundantly clear that the Bank Guarantee
is linked with the performance of the contract. The reason to find
that the Bank Guarantee is linked with
the performance of the contract is such that from the reading of
various communications and decisions taken by the parties to the
proceedings in the meeting and through exchange of mails shows that
special tools supplied by the appellant in the year 2009 were found
defective from the time of receipt in India, the appellant was to
supply spares upto period of five years on chargeable basis (vide
condition No.17), the appellant was required to provide services for
erection and commission. In light of various obligations, which the
appellant was required to discharge makes the Bank
Guarantee linked with the performance of the contract and
therefore, clause 8 of the Special Condition cannot be read in
isolation of other various conditions agreed by the parties. 
Therefore, the respondent No.1 is well within its rights when it
invoked the Bank Guarantee in addition
to it being separate and independent contract. 20.	Learned
Senior Counsel Mr. Mehta appearing for the appellant could not
satisfy the Court as to what is wrong if the respondent No.1
complained about some defects in the testing instruments in the year
2010, which was supplied in the year 2008. Whatever, complaints
raised at the end of the respondent Nos.1 were well within the
warranty period and under the contract, the appellant was required to
attend the complaints from time to time. It also appears that the
complaints raised at the end of the respondent No.1 were accepted by
the appellant, but in resolving such complaints/issues, the dispute
cropped up as to how and in what manner, the testing instruments
shall be transported. So, in nutshell, there is no dispute with
regard to genuineness of the complaints/issues raised by the
respondent No.1. It is because of these reasons, the appellant
extended the Bank Guarantee not once or
twice, but six times and during such period, issues raised, more
particularly, minutized in the meeting held on 25.3.2010 could not be
materialized which resulted into invocation of the Bank
Guarantee. In this connection, it is relevant to take note of
the observations made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in para 16 of the
decision of U.P. State Sugar Corporation (supra). Clearly,
therefore, the existence of any dispute between the parties to the
contract is not a ground for issuing an injunction to restrain the
enforcement of bank guarantees. There must be a fraud in connection
with the bank guarantee. In the present case we fail to see any such
fraud. The High Court seems to have come to the conclusion that the
termination of the contract by the appellant and his claim that the
time was of the essence of the contract, are not based on the terms
of the contract and, therefore, there is a fraud in the invocation of
the bank guarantee. This is an erroneous view. The disputes between
the parties relating to the termination of the contract cannot make
invocation of the bank guarantees fraudulent. The High Court has also
refereed to the conduct of the appellant in invoking the bank
guarantees on an earlier occasion on 12th of April, 1992 and
subsequently withdrawing such invocation. The court has used this
circumstance in aid of its view that the time was not of the essence
of the contract. We fail to see how an earlier invocation of the bank
guarantees and subsequent withdrawal of this invocation make the bank
guarantees or their invocation tainted with fraud in any manner.
Under the terms of the contract it is stipulated that the respondent
is required to give unconditional bank guarantees against advance
payments as also a similar bank guarantee for due delivery of the
contracted plant within the stipulated period. In the absence of any
fraud the appellant is entitled to realise the bank guarantees. 21.	Since
there is no evidence or even averments in the petition as to fraud
in connection with the Bank Guarantee or
contract in question, the respondent No.1 is well within its rights
to invoke the Bank Guarantee as it being
unconditional and independent to primary contract. From the bare
perusal of the Bank Guarantee, it is
crystal clear that it is an independent contract and it is not linked
with the primary contract. Even in para 9 of the petition, the
appellant has stated that the cause of action to file the present
petition arose as and when the respondent No.1 without any legal or
valid reason mala fide tried to invoke the Bank
Guarantee in question. In other words, there is no whisper
about existence of any element of fraud, which gave the the appellant
cause of action to file the petition under section 9 of the Act. It
is well settled that to maintain action qua encashment of the Bank
Guarantee, the appellant shall bring its case under any of or
both the exceptions, namely where there is a clear fraud and a fraud
of the
beneficiary from which it seeks to benefit and another exception
where there are any special equities in favour of granting
injunction. In fact, existence of these two exceptions gives cause
of action to any party to file a petition like the present one. So,
in Court's considered opinion, the averments made in para 4 and 5 of
the petition do not satisfy the requirement in law constituting any
fraud much less fraud of a serious nature as to vitiate the entire
transaction. The case therefore, does not fall within the first
exception. 22.	Coming
to the second exception, whether encashment of Bank
Guarantee
would cause any irretrievable
harm or injustice to the appellant. In order to find out case in
connection with second exception, I have minutely examined the
petition. There is no plea of any special equities by the appellant
in its favour. So, plea of irretrievable injustice is concerned, the
appellant in its petition must show injury of the kind which was the
subject matter of decision in the Itek Corporation v. The First
National Bank of Boston etc. In the said case, it is
observed as under: 23.	Under
the circumstances, the plea taken as regards irretrievable
injustice is again vague and not supported by any evidence. There
is no dispute that vide notice dated 18.7.2013, the appellant has
requested the respondent No.1 to refer the disputes of the subject
matter to the Arbitrator as per terms and conditions of the contract.
 Therefore, the appellant can always get the relief provided he makes
his case before the Arbitral Tribunal and there is no allegation that
it would be difficult to realize the amount from the respondent No.1
in case the appellant succeeds before the Arbitral Tribunal. It is
also fruitful to refer to the observations recorded by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in case of Hindustan Steel Works Construction Limited
Vs. Tarapore & Co. and another reported in (1996) 5 SCC 34 in
para No.8 to 12 and 14. 8.	With
respect to an irrevocable letter of credit this Court in
the case of Tarapore
& Co. vs. Tractors Export, Moscow 1969 (2) SCR 920 pointed out that such a contract between the banker and
the beneficiary is independent of and unqualified by the contract of
sale or other underlying transaction and quoted with approval the
following observations made by Jenkins L.J. in Hamzeh Malas and Sons
vs. British Imex Industries Ltd. 1958 (2) Q.B. 127: 9. In United Commercial Bank vs. Bank of India 1981 (3) SCR 300 this Court
again emphasised that obligation of a Bank in such a case is
absolute, as a letter of credit constitutes the sole contract with
the banker and the bank issuing the letter of credit has no concern
with any question that may arise between the seller and the purchaser
of the goods. Therein the following passage from the judgment of
Kerr. J. in R.D. Horbottle (Mercantile) Ltd. vs. National Westminster
Bank Ltd. 1977 (3) W.L.R. 752 was quoted as a correct statement of
law on the point: 10.	In
United commercial Bank's case (supra) the High Court had granted a
temporary injunction restraining the United Commercial Bank from
making a recall of the amount paid by it under reserve against the
relative bills of exchange drawn against the letter of credit issued
by it from the Bank of India an in terms of the letter of guarantee
or indemnity executed by that Bank. While allowing the appeal this
court observed that the courts usually refrain from granting
injunction to restrain the performance of the contractual obligations
arising out of letter of credit or bank gurantee between one bank and
another. 11. In Centax (India ) Ltd (supra) it has been held in clear terms that a
bank gurantee resembles and is analogous to a letter of credit and
the same considerations which apply to a letter of credit in the
matter of interference by the court should apply to a bank guarantee. 12. In U.P. Cooperative Federation Ltd. (supra) also Mukherji, J. n
paragraph 21 of his judgment has observed as under: The
	High Court also committed a grave error in restraining the appellant
	from invoking bank guarantees on the ground that on India only
	reasonable amount ca be awarded by way of damages even when the
	parties to the contract have provided for liquidated damages and
	that a term in a bank guarantees making the beneficiary the sole
	judge on the question of breach of contract and the extent of loss
	or damages would be invalid and that no amount can be said to be due
	till and adjudication in that behalf is made either
	by a court on an arbitrator, as the case may be. In taking
	that view the High Court has overlooked the correct position that a
	bank guarantees is a independent and distinct contract between the
	bank and the beneficiary and is not qualified by the underlying
	transaction and the primary contract between the person at whose
	instance the bank guarantee is given and the beneficiary. What the
	High Court has observed would applicable only to the parties to the
	underlying transaction or the primary contract but can have no
	relevance to the bank guarantee given by the bank, as the
	transaction between the bank and the beneficiary is independent and
	of a different nature. In case of an unconditional bank guarantee
	the nature of obligation of the bank is absolute and not dependent
	upon any dispute or proceeding between the party at whose instance
	the bank guarantee is given and the beneficiary. The High Court thus
	called to appreciate the real object and nature of a bank guarantee.
	The distinction which the High Court has drawn between a guarantee
	for due performance of a works contract and guarantee given towards
	security deposit for that contract is also unwarranted. The said
	distinction appears to be the result of the same fallacy committed
	by the High Court of not appreciating the distinction between the
	primary contract between contract between the parties and a bank
	guarantee and also the real object of a bank guarantee and the
	nature of bank's
	obligation thereunder. Whether the bank guarantee is towards
	security deposit or mobilisation advance or working funds or for due
	performance of the contract if the same is unconditional and if
	there is a stipulation in the bank guarantee that the bank should
	pay on demand without a demur and that the beneficiary shall be the
	sole judge not only on the question of breach of contract but also
	with respect to the amount of loss or damages, the obligation of the
	bank would remain the same and that obligation has to be discharged
	in the manner provided in the bank gurantee. In General Electric Technical Services Company Inc. vs. Punj Sons (p) Ltd. (1991 (4) SCC 230) while dealing with a case of bank
	guarantee given for securing mobilisation advance it has been held
	that the right of a contractor to recover certain amounts under
	running bills would have no relevance to the liability of the bank
	under the guarantee given by In that case also the stipulations in
	the bank guarantee were that the bank had to pay on demand without a
	demur and that the beneficiary was to be the sole judge as regards
	the loss or damage
	caused to it. This Court held that notwithstanding the dispute
	between the contractor and the party giving the contract, the bank
	was under an obligation to discharge its liability as per the terms
	of the bank guarantee. Larsen
	and Toubro Limited vs. Maharashtra State Electricity Board ( 6) SCC 68 and Hindustan Steel Workers Construction Ltd. Vs. G.S.
	Atwal & Co (Engineers) Pvt. Ltd. 1995 (6) SCC 76 were also cases
	of work contracts wherein bank gurantees were given either towards
	advances or release of security deposits or for due, performance of
	the contract. In both those cases this Court held that the bank
	gurantees being irrevocable and unconditional and as the beneficiary
	was made the sole judge on the question of breach of perforamance of
	the contract and the extent of loss or damages an injunction
	restraining the beneficiary from invoking the bank guarantees could
	not have been granted. The above referred three subsequent decisions
	of this Court also go to show that the view taken by the High Court
	is clearly wrong. 24.	It
was vehemently submitted by learned Senior Counsel Mr. Mehta that the
impugned judgment is unreasoned and the learned
trial Judge has not referred to the various communication
exchanged between the parties so as to correctly decide the various
contentions raised by the appellant with regard to allegation of
fraud. There is no dispute that the Court should give clear
reasoning and analyze the various documents placed on record in light
of the contentions raised in the petition and based on various legal
principles settled in the case law cited at bar. I have also gone
through the impugned judgment and I have found that the learned
trial Judge has dealt with the allegation of fraud in proper
perspective of the matter and more particularly, in light of the
averments made in the petition by the appellant itself. I do not
find that the impugned order is unreasoned or the learned
trial Judge missed any contention raised by the appellant and
therefore, there is no substance in the submission made by learned
Senior Counsel Mr. Mehta so as to say that the impugned judgment is
is either unreasoned or any contention is not dealt with by the
learned trial Judge in light of
documents on record. 25.	In
nutshell, whatever the disputes or issues raised in the petition
filed under section 9 of the Act before the trial Court is devoid of
any merit, inasmuch as the entire petition on the face of it does not
prove the existence of both the exceptions, namely fraud and
irretrievable injustice and therefore, the learned
trial Judge has rightly rejected the petition and no ground
has been made out to interfere with the findings recorded by the
learned trial Judge while dismissing the
petition and therefore, the present appeal deserves to be summarily
dismissed and accordingly, it stands dismissed in limine. 26.	In
view of dismissal of first appeal, civil application does not survive
and the same stands disposed of accordingly. (S.H.VORA, J.) 

 

 

 

 

 

FURTHER
ORDER
 

 

 

	After
pronouncement of the judgment, learned Senior Counsel Mr. Mehta for
the appellant prays to stay operation of this judgment for a period
of one week so as to approach the higher forum. Considering the
facts and circumstances, this judgment is stayed for a period of one
week from today to enable the appellant to approach the higher forum
and relief granted by the trial Court and further extended by this
Court shall remain in force for one week from today. (S.H.VORA, J.) 

 

shekhar
 

 

 

	 

	Page 27 of 27