1. Mr. Aditya Singh, learned counsel for the
 petitioner. 2. Mr. Tumul Nainwal, learned A.G.A. for the
 State. 3. Mr. Arvind Vashistha, learned Senior
 counsel assisted by Mr. Rachit Mullick, learned
 counsel for NIA. 4. The petitioner, in compliance to the
 previous order, is present in Court. On the
 previous date, the petitioner was directed to
 handover his mobile with SIM to the S.S.P.
 concerned, but he has not complied with the
 order and this is the reason he was asked to
 appear in person. 5. Mr. Aditya Singh, learned counsel for the
 petitioner submit that since 2004, the
 petitioner is provided regular security by the
 State at his own expenses but in last five
 months he has no security and still there is a
 threat. In para-19 of the writ petition, a
 specific averment has been made that there is
 a continuous threat to the life of the petitioner
 and his family members, as the petitioner has
 received messages from a Pakistani number
 starting from +92 money has sought to be
 extorted from the petitioner. The petitioner
 reported to the higher police officials but no
 attempt was made to provide security to the
 petitioner. Certain WhatsApp messages have
also been enclosed as Annexure No. -29 which
is in Gurumukhi language, the translation of
which is also enclosed at page no.99 which
reads as under:- 6. Mr. Aditya Singh, learned counsel for the
petitioner also submits that the petitioner has
some audio recording of the conversation
wherein the petitioner was abused and also
given threatening. 7. If the petitioner is receiving any regular
threat from Pakistani number, then it is
serious issue. However, at this juncture
merely submitting a complaint is not
sufficient. The petitioner at least should
handover his mobile to the Investigating
Agencies but no such effort has been made
and straightway the petitioner has filed this
petition on 25.07.2025. 8. Be that as it may, receiving threat from
Pakistani national to an Indian citizen is really
a very serious issue. Therefore, the petitioner
who is present in Court is directed to
handover his mobile set in which he has
received the threat from Pakistani national to
the S.S.P. concerned by tomorrow. After
receiving the mobile set of the petitioner, the
S.S.P. concerned shall immediately constitute
a team of three officials with the experts of
cyber crime and examine whether there is any
threat from Pakistani national or not. In
addition to this, the S.S.P. shall give the task
to the committee to enquire about day to day
activities of the petitioner and place the report
 before this Court after a month. 9. After receiving the mobile phone of the
petitioner, the S.S.P. concerned may clone the
device and return back the to the petitioner.
Apart from this, the S.S.P. concerned shall
also personally assess any threat perception
to the petitioner from Pakistani national and if
he finds that the petitioner has any threat
perception, then he may take appropriate
steps to secure the life and liberty of the
petitioner and his family members. 10. The matter is being kept pending.
taking into consideration that the issue is very
sensitive and is being clubbed with another
petition i.e. WPCRL No. 737 of 2025 in which
the State is also directed to review all the
matter in which the security has been
provided. 11. The S.S.P. shall place before this Court
the status report in a sealed envelope on the
next date fixed. 12. List along with WPCRL No. 737 of 2025. (Rakesh Thapliyal, J.)
 24.03.2026
Nahid