Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 )

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 . Cr.MP(M) No. 1381 of 2025

 Reserved on: 04.07.2025
 Decided on: 18.07.2025

 Sunil Kumar
 ....Petitioner
 Versus
 State of Himachal Pradesh

 ...Respondent

 Coram
 Hon'ble Mr. Justice Sushil Kukreja, Judge

 Whether approved for reporting?1

 For the petitioner: Mr. Rajinder Thakur and Mr. Ankit Chandel,
 Advocates. For the respondent: Mr. I.N.Mehta, Senior Additional Advocate

 General with Mr. Pawan Kumar Nadda,
 Additional Advocate General and Mr.Ankush
 Thakur, Deputy Advocate General. ____________________________________________________
 Sushil Kukreja, Judge

 The instant bail application has been filed by the

 petitioner under Section 482 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita

 (for short BNSS) for releasing him on bail in case FIR No.120 of 2023,

 dated 24.09.2023, under Sections 420 and 120B of Indian Penal

 Code (for short IPC ), read with Section 5 of the HP Protection of

 Interest of Depositors Act, 1999 and Sections 21 and 23 of the

 Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act, 2019, registered at

 Police Station Palampur, District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? 2 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 ) 2. Brief facts of the case, as per the prosecution story, are

 that on the basis of written complaint made by one Shri Arun Singh

 . Guleria (complainant) on 24.09.2023, a case was registered at Police

 Station Palampur, District Kangra, HP. It was alleged in the said

 complaint that on the advice of one Subhash Sharma, resident of

 Mandi, H.P., he alongwith others had invested in a website, i.e.,

 www.voscrow.io, which was owned by said Subhash Sharma

 alongwith one Milan Garg of Meerut, U.P. In lieu of their investments,

 virtual currency was provided through the website. Said Subhash

 Sharma alongwith promoters Sukh Dev Thakur and Abhishek

 Sharma, residents of Mandi and Una, respectively, allegedly cheated

 the general public through websites, like Voscrow and Hypenext. During the period between 2019-2020, the aforesaid persons

 promised the individuals to double their money and such promises

 continued till 2021 and during that period, some individuals received

 distributions of funds against their investments, which led to increase

 in the investments, resultantly many people invested. On 25.12.2021,

 the allocations were halted by Subhash Sharma and later on, he

 assured that the allocations would resume soon. Subsequently,

 Subhash Sharma tied-up with Hypenext, which was owned by Milan

 Garg and on being persuaded, the people invested/ reinvested in

 Hypenext again and they also received partial funds against their

 investments, which practice continued till 2022. Thereafter, due to ::: Downloaded on - 18/07/2025 21:31:43 :::CIS 3 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 )

 technical issues, the company requested five months' time for

 payment and qua which, through a video, both Subhash Sharma and

 . Milan Garg informed the entire community. In total, the amount

 involved was Rs.18 Crores and they acknowledged and promised to

 activate new IDs on 8th August, 2023 at Aglobal.io, however, neither

 his (complainant) community, nor he received any money. Hence, it

 is alleged that Subhash Sharma, Hemraj, Milan Garg, Sukhdev

 Thakur and Abhishek Sharma defrauded the people by creating fake

 website and it was a well-planned conspiracy. 3. As per the FIR, the accused persons were involved in

 fraudulent activities related to crypto-currency and they enticed the

 people to invest substantial amount(s), promising high returns, which

 resulted in a collective loss of Rs.18 crores to the complainant and his

 associates. On 26.09.2023 a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was

 constituted, which was headed by DIG of Northern Range,

 Dharamshala, for investigating various crypto-currency related fraud

 cases across the State. It was unearthed that the modus operandi of

 the alleged fraud involved alluring individuals with promise of high

 returns on crypto-currency investments, creating a network of

 investors, who recruited others, manipulating crypto-currency prices

 and ultimately causing financial loss to the victims. It was further

 unearthed that the accused persons used a combination of ::: Downloaded on - 18/07/2025 21:31:43 :::CIS 4 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 )

 misinformation, deception and threats to maintain control over their

 scheme and continued extracting money from unsuspecting investors. . 4. During the course of investigation, it has come on record

 that in the year 2018, accused Subhash Sharma and his associates

 had initiated a coordinated campaign of public inducement through

 seminars, wherein they introduced the concept of digital currencies,

 particularly Bitcoin and gradually diverted attention towards their own

 crypto-currency scheme under the name Korvio Community. Subsequent to the launch of Korvio platform, the accused persons,

 namely Subhash Sharma, Hemraj, Sukhdev Thakur and others,

 initiated a widespread network-driven promotion campaign by

 motivating individuals to invest and further recruit others under a

 binary referral scheme and new investors were registered through

 unique IDs requiring KRO Coins, which were either procured directly

 from the top-line promoters or converted from BTC. In the year 2021,

 amidst rising public complaints, the accused re-branded the platform

 from Korvio to Voscrow and thereafter to DGT Coin under a newly

 created domain dgtswap. com, citing a shift from a private to a public

 block-chain, due to regulatory pressure. After the fraudulent activities

 under the banner of Korvio and DGT Coin, accused Subhash Sharma

 organized a large community meeting in August, 2021 at Radisson

 Hotel, Zirakpur, attended by approximately 300 to 500 individuals,

 each of whom was charged Rs.2,000/- as an entry fee. In the said ::: Downloaded on - 18/07/2025 21:31:43 :::CIS 5 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 )

 event, accused Subhash Sharma and co-accused Milan Garg were

 the primary speakers and accused Milan Garg explained that DGT

 . Coin would now be swapped with BNB (Binance Coin), and that DGT

 would soon be listed on crypto-currency exchanges, thereby giving a

 false impression of legitimacy and luring the participants with

 promises of high returns. 5. The investigation further revealed that through the

 successive roll-out of these fraudulent platforms Korvio, DGT,

 Hypenext, Bitpaid Pro and Aglobal, the accused persons created and

 controlled a custom-built MLM software designed to manipulate token

 prices, fabricate digital coin values and systematically misled the

 public. The said software facilitated registration of over 2.48 lakh

 individuals and the accused persons collectively defrauded the public

 to the tune of Rs.2,300 Crores, through fake crypto-currencies and

 private MLM tokens, operating entirely outside any lawful regulatory

 framework. On 02.10.2023, search operations were conducted at the

 residential premises of accused persons Hem Raj and Sukhdev

 Thakur, pursuant to which, both these accused persons were arrested

 and on their disclosure statements, substantial recoveries were

 effected and multiple crypto-currency wallets belonging to these

 accused persons were identified, which contained various virtual coins

 suspected to be proceeds of crime. In order to secure these digital

 assets, the official correspondence was initiated with Binance ::: Downloaded on - 18/07/2025 21:31:43 :::CIS 6 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 )

 Exchange. Upon successful liaison, a secured custodial crypto wallet

 was created by the investigating team and thereafter, the seized

 . digital assets were transferred to the aforesaid secured wallet. Forensic examination of the mobile phones of accused persons

 further led to recovery of incriminating WhatsApp chats and

 communications, which directly pertained to the planning, coordination

 and execution of the fraudulent crypto currency-based scheme. The

 investigation also revealed that this case was the first and largest of

 its kind in the State of Himachal Pradesh, involving an unprecedented

 estimated investment of over Rs.2,000/- crores from more than

 80,000 victims and an assessed actual financial loss of Rs.500 crores. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the

 petitioner is innocent and a false case has been foisted against him. He further contended that during investigation of the case, when

 police raided the house of the petitioner, nothing concrete was

 recovered. He also contended that the name of the petitioner is not

 there in the FIR and it was only an afterthought of the investigating

 agency to seize the joint account, life insurance policies of the

 petitioner alongwith his wife and son. Further contention of the

 learned counsel for the petitioner is that infact the petitioner has

 nothing to do with the FIR and he has been falsely roped in the

 alleged offence. 7 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 ) 7. Conversely, the learned Senior Additional Advocate

 General contended that the substantial gains, which were acquired by

 . the petitioner and other accused persons i.e., Subhash Sharma

 Hemraj, Sukhdev, Abhishek Sharma and Milan Garg etc., through the

 fraudulent scheme of crypto-currency, were invested in acquiring the

 valuable assets, i.e., movable and immovable properties at different

 places. He further contended that the instant is a case of huge

 economic offence and the investigation reveals the involvement of the

 petitioner in the alleged offence. He also contended that in case the

 petitioner is enlarged on bail at this stage, he may flee from justice or

 even tamper with the prosecution evidence, therefore, the instant bail

 application, which is devoid of merits, may be dismissed. 8. I have given my considered thought to the rival

 contentions raised and also gone through the police file as well as the

 status report(s) filed by the prosecution. 9. No doubt at the stage of granting bail, detailed

 examination of evidence and elaborate discussions on merits of the

 case need not be taken but the order must reflect the reasons for

 arriving at a, prima facie, conclusion as to why bail is being granted or

 refused, particularly when the accused-petitioner is charged with the

 commission of economic offences. 10. In the case on hand, as per the material available on

 record, it was unearthed that the data extracted from the backend of ::: Downloaded on - 18/07/2025 21:31:43 :::CIS 8 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 )

 Korvio MLM platform contained a document titled "Top 100 Payout

 List" and the petitioner figured prominently at Sr. No.8, identified as

 . 9 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 )

 numbers, i.e. 9418000321 and 8219600243, to register and operate

 multiple user IDs on the Korvio platform, which were created to enroll

 . himself multiple times and to earn commissions under the binary

 multi-level marketing structure. 12. The law relating to bail in a case of economic offences is

 more or less settled in catena of decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court. It would be useful at this point to give a conspectus of the law

 and the principles for grant of bail in case of economic offences. Extracts from some of the most relevant and topical judgments on this

 point are set-out in the paragraphs that follow. 13. In the case of State of Gujrat vs. Mohan Lal Jitamalji

 Porwal, reported in AIR 1987 SC 1321, it is held as follows:- 14. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan

 Mohan Reddy vs. CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 439 in paras 34 and 35 in

 respect of granting bail in economic offences having deep rooted

 conspiracy and large public money involved, has held as under:- 15. In the case of Nimmagadda Prasad vs. CBI , (2013) 7

 SCC 466, the Supreme Court has observed that the alarming rise in

 white collar crimes has affected the fiber of country's economic

 structure. Economic offences have serious repercussions on the

 development of the country as a whole. Economic offences constitute

 a class apart and a different approach has to be adopted in the

 matter of bail. Para 23 to 25 of the aforesaid judgment are extracted

 here-in-below:- . 24. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the

 nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in
 support thereof, the severity of the punishment which
 conviction will entail, the character of the accused,
 circumstances which are peculiar to the accused,
 reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the

 accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the
 witnesses being tampered with, the larger interests of
 the public/State and other similar considerations. It has
 also to be kept in mind that for the purpose of granting
 bail, the legislature has used the words "reasonable
 grounds for believing" instead of "the evidence" which

 means the court dealing with the grant of bail can only
 satisfy itself as to whether there is a genuine case
 against the accused and that the prosecution will be
 able to produce prima facie evidence in support of the
 charge. It is not expected, at this stage, to have the

 evidence establishing the guilt of the accused beyond
 reasonable doubt. 25. Economic offences constitute a class apart and need to
 be visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. The economic offence having deep-rooted
 conspiracies and involving huge loss of public funds
 needs to be viewed seriously and considered as a

 grave offence affecting the economy of the country as
 a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the
 financial health of the country." 16. In a judgment rendered in the case of State of Bihar Vs.

 Amit Kumar , (2017) 13 SCC 751, it has been held that while

 considering the bail involving socio-economic offences stringent

 parameters should be applied. Paras 8-9 of the said judgment are

 extracted hereunder:- 17. In a recent decision in Tarun Kumar Vs. Assistant

 Director Directorate of Enforcement , reported in 2023 SCC

 OnLine SC 1486, it has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as

 under:- 18. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled as P.

 Chidambaram vs. Directorate of Enforcement , (2019) 9 SCC 24,

 while dealing with economic offences, has held that the power of

 granting anticipatory bail should be sparingly exercised in economic

 offences. The relevant extract of this judgment is reproduced as

 under:- "19. Parameters for grant of anticipatory bail in a
 serious offence are required to be satisfied and
 further while granting such relief, the court
 must record the reasons therefor. Anticipatory

 bail can be granted only in exceptional
 circumstances where the court is prima facie of
 the view that the applicant has falsely been
 enroped in the crime and would not misuse his
 liberty. 78. Power under Section 438 CrPC being an extraordinary
 remedy, has to be exercised sparingly; more so, in
 cases of economic offences. Economic offences stand
 as a different class as they affect the economic fabric
 of the society. In Directorate of Enforcement v. Ashok
 Kumar Jain ((1998) 2 SCC 105), it was held that in
 economic offences, the accused is not entitled to
 anticipatory bail. XXX XXX XXX 83. Grant of anticipatory bail at the stage of investigation
 may frustrate the investigating agency in interrogating
 the accused and in collecting the useful information ::: Downloaded on - 18/07/2025 21:31:43 :::CIS 14 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 )

 and also the materials which might have been
 concealed. Success in such interrogation would elude
 if the accused knows that he is protected by the order
 of the court. Grant of anticipatory bail, particularly in

 . economic offences would definitely hamper the

 effective investigation. Having regard to the materials
 said to have been collected by the respondent
 Enforcement Directorate and considering the stage of
 the investigation, we are of the view that it is not a fit
 case to grant anticipatory bail. 84. In a case of money-laundering where it involves many
 stages of "placement", "layering i.e. funds moved to
 other institutions to conceal origin" and "interrogation
 i.e. funds used to acquire various assets", it requires
 systematic and analysed investigation which would be

 of great advantage. As held in Anil Sharma, success in
 such interrogation would elude if the accused knows
 that he is protected by a pre-arrest bail order. Section
 438 CrPC is to be invoked only in exceptional cases
 where the case alleged is frivolous or groundless. In

 the case in hand, there are allegations of laundering
 the proceeds of the crime. The Enforcement

 Directorate claims to have certain specific inputs from
 various sources, including overseas banks. Letter
 rogatory is also said to have been issued and some
 response have been received by the Department.
 Having regard to the nature of allegations and the
 stage of the investigation, in our view, the investigating

 agency has to be given sufficient freedom in the
 process of investigation. Though we do not endorse
 the approach of the learned Single Judge in extracting
 the note produced by the Enforcement Directorate, we

 do not find any ground warranting interference with the
 impugned order. Considering the facts and
 circumstances of the case, in our view, grant of

 anticipatory bail to the appellant will hamper the
 investigation and this is not a fit case for exercise of
 discretion to grant anticipatory bail to the appellant." 19. The aforesaid view was reiterated by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in Serious Fraud Investigation Officer vs. Nittin

 Johari and another , (2019) 9 SCC 165, wherein, it set aside the

 order of High Court of Delhi granting bail to the accused therein and

 held that:- 20. In the instant case, the investigation, prima facie, reveals

 that the petitioner Sunil Kumar had been leading an active role in

 . running and expanding the illegal multi-level marketing network,

 causing financial harm to a large number of innocent investors and,

 thus shown to be involved in the economic offences of huge

 magnitude. The economic offences are considered grave offences as

 they affect the economy of the country as a whole and such offences

 having deep rooted conspiracy and involving huge loss of public fund

 are to be viewed seriously. The economic offence is committed with

 cool calculation and deliberate design solely with an eye on personal

 profit regardless of the consequence to the community. In such type

 of offences, while granting bail, the Court has to keep in mind, inter

 alia, the larger interest of public and the State. The nature and

 seriousness of an economic offence and its impact on the society are

 always important considerations in such a case and those aspects

 must squarely be dealt with by the Court while passing an order on

 bail applications. 21. Further, in connection with the same fraudulent activities,

 FIR No.253, dated 01.09.2023 was registered against the petitioner

 at Police Station Zirakpur, District SAS Nagar, Punjab, under Sections 406 , 420 , 120B of IPC, Sections 4 , 5 , 12 , 18 , 76 , 76(2) of

 the Chit Funds Act, 1982 and Sections 21 & 23 of the Banning of

 Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act, 2019, wherein he was arrested ::: Downloaded on - 18/07/2025 21:31:43 :::CIS 16 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 )

 on 01.09.2023 and was released on bail by the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court on 02.04.2025. The said case is also related to the same multi- . level marketing and crypto-based fraud and shows the involvement of

 the petitioner in similar offences across different States. The records

 retrieved from the Korvio platform and associated business data,

 during the course of investigation, revealed that the petitioner was

 heading a total team of 1,64,780 members under his network and the

 total business volume generated under his team was USD

 1,55,207,737 (equivalent to more than Rs.1,200 Crores

 approximately). These figures clearly indicate the massive scale of

 operations managed by him and the extent of public money involved

 in the fraudulent scheme. The petitioner was not a minor participant,

 but held a lead role in running and expanding the illegal multi-level

 marketing network, causing financial harm to a large number of

 innocent investors. During the course of investigation, a house search

 was conducted at the residence of the petitioner on 07.10.2023 and

 several incriminating materials were recovered, which clearly

 indicates his active and organized involvement in a fraudulent deposit

 collection scheme. 22. Therefore, in the opinion of this court, as the petitioner is,

 prima facie, alleged to be involved in the economic offences of huge

 magnitude, he cannot claim anticipatory bail as a matter of right. It is

 a settled law that the provisions for grant of anticipatory bail under ::: Downloaded on - 18/07/2025 21:31:43 :::CIS 17 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 )

 Section 482 of BNSS are not to be mechanically applied. Nature and

 gravity of the offence, the position and status of the accused with

 . reference to the victim and witnesses, likelihood of the accused

 fleeing from justice, possibility of the accused tampering with the

 evidence and larger public interest are some of the considerations

 which must weigh with the Court while deciding the application for

 grant of anticipatory bail. Liberty of a citizen is indeed of a paramount

 importance, but at the same time, fair and fearless investigation of

 case of a serious nature is of no less importance. The Court shall

 refrain from exercising its discretion in favour of the accused under

 Section 482 of BNSS if it adversely affects the investigation and

 larger public interest. In view of the serious nature of allegations

 against them, a wall cannot be created between the Investigating

 Agency and the petitioner. Having regard to the nature of allegations

 and the stage of the investigation, in my view, the investigating

 agency has to be given sufficient freedom in the process of

 investigation. Moreover, at this stage, in case the petitioner is

 enlarged on bail, he may flee from justice as the main accused

 Subhash Sharma has absconded and fled to Dubai. Since the

 petitioner is allegedly involved in the commission of a serious offence,

 in the opinion of this Court, his custodial interrogation is necessary for

 the proper investigation of the case. 18 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:23296 ) 23. Hence, in view of the facts and circumstances of the

 case as the investigation against the petitioner is still in progress,

 . grant of anticipatory bail to him is likely to hamper the progress of the

 investigation therefore, this Court does not find any exceptional

 ground to exercise its discretionary jurisdiction under Section 482 of

 BNSS to grant him anticipatory bail, as such, the present anticipatory

 bail application is dismissed being devoid of merits. 24. Before parting with this order, it is hereby clarified that

 the aforesaid observations made in this order, have been made only

 for the purpose of considering the present petition for anticipatory

 bail. Therefore, the same shall not come in the way of the trial court

 for considering the application that may be filed by the petitioner for

 regular bail or at the time of the trial and the trial Court concerned

 shall not be influenced by any of the observations made hereinabove.