Dr D Y CHANDRACHUD, J

 1 Leave granted. Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by CHETAN KUMAR Date: 2017.10.04 15:23:13 IST Reason: 2 2 By its judgment dated 25 November 2016, the High Court of Gujarat

dismissed an application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, 1973. The appellants sought the quashing of a First Information

Report registered against them on 18 June 2016 with the City ‘C’ Division

Police Station, District Jamnagar, Gujarat for offences punishable under Sections 384 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B and 506(2) of the Penal Code. The

second respondent is the complainant. 3 In his complaint dated 18 June 2016, the second respondent stated that

certain land admeasuring 17 vigha comprised in survey 1408 at Panakhan

Gokulnagar in Jamnagar city was his ancestral agricultural land. The land was

converted to non-agricultural use on 21 June 1995 and 5 January 2000

pursuant to orders of the District Collector. One hundred and three plots were

carved out of the land. Amongst them, plots 45 to 56 admeasuring 32,696

sq.ft. were in the joint names of six brothers and a sister (represented by the

complainant). According to the complainant, a broker by the name of

Bachhubhai Veljibhai Nanda approached him with Parbatbhai Ahir, the first

appellant stating that he desired to purchase the land. On the next day, the

first appellant approached the complainant with his partner Hasmukhbhai

Patel (the third appellant) to purchase the land. The complainant was

requested to provide a photocopy of the lay out plan of the plot, which he did.

On the following day the first appellant is alleged to have gone to the house of 3 the complainant with the second and the third appellants at which point in

time, parties agreed that the land would be sold at the rate of Rs 4,221 per

sq.ft. and a deal was struck for a consideration of Rs.1,13,58,711/- out of

which an amount of Rs 11 lakhs was given in cash to the complainant for plot

no.56. The complainant’s case is that while the discussion was on, he was

requested by the second and the third appellants that since the power of

attorney was old and unreadable all the plot holders should give their passport

size photographs. Accordingly, a document was reduced to writing by which it

was agreed that the sale transaction for plot no.56 would be completed within

two months against full payment. According to the complainant, when he

demanded the remaining payment for the plot from the second and third

appellants, the second appellant provided him seven cheques each in the

amount of Rs 6 lakhs in the name of the six brothers (one brother being given

two cheques). Thereafter when the complainant followed up for the payment

of the remaining amount with the purchasers, the balance was not paid and,

on the contrary, the complainant was threatened of a forcible transfer of the

land. According to the complainant, when he visited the office of the

Sub-registrar about three days before lodging the complaint, it came to his

knowledge that a sale deed has been registered not only in respect of the plot

in question (which was agreed to be sold) but also in respect of plot nos.45 to

55 on 27 January 2016. It was then that the complainant realised that the

purchaser in the sale deed was shown as the fourth appellant, Jayesh 4 Arvindbhai Patel, and the name of the seventh appellant, Jitudan Nankudan

Gadhavi, resident of Payalnagar society, Naroda, Ahmedabad was shown as

the holder of a power of attorney. The witnesses to the registered sale deed

were the fifth appellant, Rabari Hiteshbhai and the sixth appellant, Patel

Indravaden Dineshbhai. 4 The complaint came to be lodged on the complainant having realised

that the power of attorney in the name of his siblings had been forged. The

complainant stated that neither he nor any of his siblings had given a power of

attorney in favour of the seventh appellant. According to the complainant,

neither the non-judicial stamp dated 25 January 2016 in the amount of

Rs 10,30,000/- nor the judicial stamp dated 27 January 2016 has been

purchased by him. In fact, according to the complainant, it was the fourth

appellant who had purchased the judicial stamp dated 27 January 2016.

5 According to the complaint, plots no.45 to 55 admeasuring 30,005 sq.ft.

are valued at Rs 12.50 crores. It has been alleged that a conspiracy was

hatched by the appellants and by the other co-accused resulting into the

transfer of valuable land belonging to the complainant and his siblings, on the

basis of forged documents. 6 The High Court noted that the fourth appellant had moved Special

Criminal Application no.4538 of 2016 which had been rejected by the

coordinate bench of the High Court on 3 August 2016. While rejecting the

earlier application under Section 482 , the High Court had observed thus: 7 On behalf of the prosecution, the Public Prosecutor opposed the

application for quashing on two grounds. First - the appellants were 6 absconding and warrants had been issued against them under Section 70 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. Second, the appellants had criminal

antecedents, the details of which are contained in the following chart

submitted before the High Court: 8 On behalf of the appellants, reliance has been placed on the decisions

rendered by this Court in Gian Singh v State of Punjab1 and in Narinder

Singh v State of Punjab2 . Learned counsel submitted that the dispute

between the complainant and the appellants arose from a transaction for the

sale of land. It was urged that the dispute is essentially of a civil nature and

since parties have agreed to an amicable settlement, the proper course for

the High Court would have been to quash the FIR in exercise of the

jurisdiction conferred by Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.

1 (2012) 10 SCC 303
2 (2014) 6 SCC 466 8 9 On the other hand, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the state

has supported the judgment of the High Court. Learned counsel emphasised

the circumstances which weighed with the High Court, including (i) the

seriousness of the allegations; (ii) the conduct of the appellants who were

absconding; and (iii) the criminal antecedents of the appellants. Hence, it was

urged that the appellants were not entitled to the relief of quashing the FIR

merely because they had entered into a settlement with the complainant.

10 Section 482 is prefaced with an overriding provision. The statute saves

the inherent power of the High Court, as a superior court, to make such orders

as are necessary (i) to prevent an abuse of the process of any court; or (ii)

otherwise to secure the ends of justice. In Gian Singh (supra) a bench of

three learned Judges of this Court adverted to the body of precedent on the

subject and laid down guiding principles which the High Court should consider

in determining as to whether to quash an FIR or complaint in the exercise of

the inherent jurisdiction. The considerations which must weigh with the High

Court are: 11 In Narinder Singh (supra), Dr Justice A K Sikri, speaking for a bench of

two learned Judges of this Court observed that in respect of offences against

society, it is the duty of the state to punish the offender. In consequence,

deterrence provides a rationale for punishing the offender. Hence, even when

there is a settlement, the view of the offender and victim will not prevail since

it is in the interest of society that the offender should be punished to deter

others from committing a similar crime. On the other hand, there may be

offences falling in the category where the correctional objective of criminal law

would have to be given more weightage than the theory of deterrence. In such

a case, the court may be of the opinion that a settlement between the parties

would lead to better relations between them and would resolve a festering

private dispute. The court observed that the timing of a settlement is of

significance in determining whether the jurisdiction under Section 482 should

be exercised: 12 In State of Maharashtra v Vikram Anantrai Doshi3 , a bench of two

learned Judges of this Court explained the earlier decisions and the principles

3 (2014) 15 SCC 29 12 which must govern in deciding whether a criminal proceeding involving a

non-compoundable offence should be quashed. In that case, the respondents

were alleged to have obtained Letters of Credit from a bank in favour of

fictitious entities. The charge-sheet involved offences under Sections 406,

420, 467, 468, and 471 read with Section 120-B of the Penal Code. Bogus

beneficiary companies were alleged to have got them discounted by attaching

fabricated bills. Mr Justice Dipak Misra (as the learned Chief Justice then

was) emphasised that the case involved an allegation of forgery; hence the

court was not dealing with a simple case where “the accused had borrowed

money from a bank, to divert it elsewhere”. The court held that the manner in

which Letters of Credit were issued and funds were siphoned off had a

foundation in criminal law: 4 (2016) 1 SCC 389
5 (2016)1 SCC 376 14 woman “who was following the command of her husband” and had signed

certain documents without being aware of the nature of the fraud which was

being perpetrated on the bank. Rejecting the submission, this Court held that: They stand on a distinct footing in so far as the exercise of the inherent

 power to quash is concerned; (viii) Criminal cases involving offences which arise from commercial,

 financial, mercantile, partnership or similar transactions with an

 essentially civil flavour may in appropriate situations fall for quashing

 where parties have settled the dispute; (ix) In such a case, the High Court may quash the criminal proceeding if in

 view of the compromise between the disputants, the possibility of a 17 conviction is remote and the continuation of a criminal proceeding would

 cause oppression and prejudice; and (x) There is yet an exception to the principle set out in propositions (viii) and (ix) above. Economic offences involving the financial and economic

 well-being of the state have implications which lie beyond the domain of a

 mere dispute between private disputants. The High Court would be

 justified in declining to quash where the offender is involved in an activity

 akin to a financial or economic fraud or misdemeanour. The

 consequences of the act complained of upon the financial or economic

 system will weigh in the balance. 16 Bearing in mind the above principles which have been laid down in the

decisions of this Court, we are of the view that the High Court was justified in

declining to entertain the application for quashing the First Information Report

in the exercise of its inherent jurisdiction. The High Court has adverted to two

significant circumstances. Each of them has a bearing on whether the

exercise of the jurisdiction under Section 482 to quash the FIR would

subserve or secure the ends of justice or prevent an abuse of the process of

the court. The first is that the appellants were absconding and warrants had

been issued against them under Section 70 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, 1973. The second is that the appellants have criminal 18 antecedents, reflected in the chart which has been extracted in the earlier part

of this judgment. The High Court adverted to the modus operandi which had

been followed by the appellants in grabbing valuable parcels of land and

noted that in the past as well, they were alleged to have been connected with

such nefarious activities by opening bogus bank accounts. It was in this view

of the matter that the High Court observed that in a case involving extortion,

forgery and conspiracy where all the appellants were acting as a team, it was

not in the interest of society to quash the FIR on the ground that a settlement

had been arrived at with the complainant. We agree with the view of the High

Court. The present case, as the allegations in the FIR would demonstrate, is

not merely one involving a private dispute over a land transaction between

two contesting parties. The case involves allegations of extortion, forgery and

fabrication of documents, utilization of fabricated documents to effectuate

transfers of title before the registering authorities and the deprivation of the

complainant of his interest in land on the basis of a fabricated power of

attorney. If the allegations in the FIR are construed as they stand, it is evident

that they implicate serious offences having a bearing on a vital societal

interest in securing the probity of titles to or interest in land. Such offences

cannot be construed to be merely private or civil disputes but implicate the

societal interest in prosecuting serious crime. In these circumstances, the

High Court was eminently justified in declining to quash the FIR which had 19 been registered under Sections 384, 467, 468, 471, 120-B and 506(2) of the

Penal Code. 17 We do not, for the above reasons, find any merit in the appeal. The

Criminal Appeal shall accordingly stand dismissed. ...........................................CJI
 [DIPAK MISRA]

 .............................................J
 [A M KHANWILKAR]

 ...........................................J
 [Dr D Y CHANDRACHUD]
New Delhi; October 04, 2017