Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 . Cr.MP(M) No. 2926 of 2024

 Reserved on: 18.07.2025
 Decided on: 01.08.2025

 Milan Garg
 ....Petitioner
 Versus
 State of Himachal Pradesh
 ...Respondent

 Coram
 Hon'ble Mr. Justice Sushil Kukreja, Judge

 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes

 For the petitioner: Mr. Raviraj Paramane (through video
 conferencing) & Mr. Vinod Chauhan,
 Advocates. For the respondent: Mr. I.N.Mehta, Senior Additional Advocate
 General with Mr. Pawan Kumar Nadda,
 Additional Advocate General and Mr.Ankush
 Thakur, Deputy Advocate General. ____________________________________________________
 Sushil Kukreja, Judge

 The instant bail application has been filed by the petitioner

 under Section 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita (for short

 BNSS) for grant of regular bail in case FIR No.120 of 2023, dated

 24.09.2023, under Sections 420 and 120B of Indian Penal Code (for

 short IPC ), read with Section 5 of the HP Protection of Interest of

 Depositors Act, 1999 and Sections 21 and 23 of the Banning of 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? 2 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 ) Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act, 2019 , registered at Police Station

 Palampur, District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh. . 2. Brief facts of the case, as per the prosecution story, are

 that on the basis of written complaint made by one Shri Arun Singh

 Guleria (complainant) on 24.09.2023, a case was registered at Police

 Station Palampur, District Kangra, HP. It was alleged in the said

 complaint that a group of individuals, including Subhash Sharma, Hem

 Raj, Sukhdev (residents of Mandi), Abhishek Sharma (resident of Una)

 and Milan Garg,petitioner herein (resident of Meerut, UP), engaged in

 fraudulent activities related to crypto-currency H.P. On the advice of

 accused Subhash Sharma, the complainant alongwith others had

 invested in a website, i.e., www.voscrow.io, which was owned by

 accused Subhash Sharma alongwith petitioner Milan Garg and in lieu

 of their investments, virtual currency was provided through the website. Accused Subhash Sharma alongwith promoters Sukh Dev Thakur and

 Abhishek Sharma, allegedly cheated the general public through

 websites, like Voscrow and Hypenext. During the period between 2019-

 2020, the aforesaid persons promised the individuals to double their

 money and such promises continued till 2021 and during that period,

 some individuals received distributions of funds against their

 investments, which led to increase in the investments, resultantly many

 people invested. On 25.12.2021, the allocations were halted by ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 3 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 Subhash Sharma and later on, he assured that the allocations would

 resume soon. Subsequently, Subhash Sharma tied-up with Hypenext,

 . which was owned by the petitioner and on being persuaded, the people

 invested/ reinvested in Hypenext again and they also received partial

 funds against their investments, which practice continued till 2022. Thereafter, due to technical issues, the company requested five

 months' time for payment and qua which, through a video, both

 Subhash Sharma as well as the petitioner informed the entire

 community. In total, the amount involved was Rs.18 Crores and they

 acknowledged and promised to activate new IDs on 8 th August, 2023 at

 Aglobal.io, however, neither his (complainant) community, nor he

 received any money. Hence, it is alleged that petitioner Milan Garg,

 Subhash Sharma, Hemraj, Sukhdev Thakur and Abhishek Sharma

 defrauded the people by creating fake website and it was a well- planned conspiracy. 3. As per the FIR, the accused persons were involved in

 fraudulent activities related to crypto-currency and they enticed the

 people to invest substantial amount(s), promising high returns, which

 resulted in a collective loss of Rs.18 crores to the complainant and his

 associates. On 26.09.2023 a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was

 constituted, which was headed by DIG of Northern Range,

 Dharamshala, for investigating various crypto-currency related fraud ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 4 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 cases across the State. It was unearthed that the modus operandi of

 the alleged fraud involved alluring individuals with promise of high

 . returns on crypto-currency investments, creating a network of

 investors, who recruited others, manipulating crypto-currency prices

 and ultimately causing financial loss to the victims. It was further

 unearthed that the accused persons used a combination of

 misinformation, deception and threats to maintain control over their

 scheme and continued extracting money from unsuspecting investors. The petitioner was arrested in this case on 13.07.2024 at NSCBI

 Airport Kolkata. 4. During the course of investigation, it has come on record

 that in the year 2018, accused Subhash Sharma and his associates

 had initiated a coordinated campaign of public inducement through

 seminars, wherein they introduced the concept of digital currencies,

 particularly Bitcoin and gradually diverted attention towards their own

 crypto-currency scheme under the name Korvio Community. Subsequent to the launch of Korvio platform, the accused persons,

 namely Subhash Sharma, Hemraj, Sukhdev Thakur and others,

 initiated a widespread network-driven promotion campaign by

 motivating individuals to invest and further recruit others under a binary

 referral scheme and new investors were registered through unique IDs

 requiring KRO Coins, which were either procured directly from the top- 5 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 line promoters or converted from BTC. In the year 2021, amidst rising

 public complaints, the accused re-branded the platform from Korvio to

 . Voscrow and thereafter to DGT Coin under a newly created domain

 dgtswap. com, citing a shift from a private to a public block-chain, due

 to regulatory pressure. After the fraudulent activities under the banner

 of Korvio and DGT Coin, accused Subhash Sharma organized a large

 community meeting in August, 2021 at Radisson Hotel, Zirakpur,

 attended by approximately 300 to 500 individuals, each of whom was

 charged Rs.2,000/- as an entry fee. In the said event, accused persons

 Subhash Sharma and Milan Garg (petitioner) were the primary

 speakers and the petitioner explained that DGT Coin would now be

 swapped with BNB (Binance Coin) and that DGT would soon be listed

 on crypto-currency exchanges, thereby giving a false impression of

 legitimacy and luring the participants with promises of high returns. 5. The investigation further revealed that through the

 successive roll-out of these fraudulent platforms Korvio, DGT,

 Hypenext, Bitpaid Pro and Aglobal, the accused persons created and

 controlled a custom-built MLM software designed to manipulate token

 prices, fabricate digital coin values and systematically misled the

 public. The said software facilitated registration of over 2.48 lakh

 individuals and the accused persons collectively defrauded the public

 to the tune of Rs.2,000 Crores, through fake crypto-currencies and ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 6 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 private MLM tokens, operating entirely outside any lawful regulatory

 framework. On 02.10.2023, search operations were conducted at the

 . residential premises of accused persons Hem Raj and Sukhdev

 Thakur, pursuant to which, both these accused persons were arrested

 and on their disclosure statements, substantial recoveries were

 effected and multiple crypto-currency wallets belonging to these

 accused persons were identified, which contained various virtual coins

 suspected to be proceeds of crime. In order to secure these digital

 assets, the official correspondence was initiated with Binance

 Exchange. Upon successful liaison, a secured custodial crypto wallet

 was created by the investigating team and thereafter, the seized digital

 assets were transferred to the aforesaid secured wallet. Forensic

 examination of the mobile phones of accused persons further led to

 recovery of incriminating WhatsApp chats and communications, which

 directly pertained to the planning, coordination and execution of the

 fraudulent crypto currency-based scheme. The investigation also

 revealed that this case was the first and largest of its kind in the State

 of Himachal Pradesh, involving an unprecedented estimated

 investment of over Rs.2,000/- crores from more than 80,000 victims

 and an assessed actual financial loss of Rs.500 crores. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the

 petitioner has no role in the instant case and a false case has been ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 7 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 foisted against him. He further contended that the petitioner was

 neither Director, Promoter, investor nor associated with Karvio, DGT

 . coin, Hypenext, BTP. He also contended that perusal of the charge- sheet reveals that there was no complaint against the petitioner qua his

 instigation for investment and there was no financial transaction of the

 petitioner, which could link him with the alleged offence. Further

 contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner is that during house

 search of the petitioner as well as tracking of his bank accounts,

 seizure of his mobile phones and other devices, nothing incriminating

 was found against him. Learned counsel for the petitioner next

 contended that the grounds of arrest were not communicated to the

 petitioner at the time of his arrest, which violated his right under Article

 22(1) of the Constitution of India and, therefore, on this ground alone,

 he is entitled to be released on bail. He also contended that some of

 the identically placed co-accused persons have been granted bail by

 this Court and on the ground of parity, the petitioner may also be

 released on bail. He lastly contended that since the investigation in the

 case is complete and nothing is to be recovered from the petitioner,

 therefore, he may be released on bail. 7. Conversely, the learned Senior Additional Advocate

 General contended that the substantial gains, which were acquired by

 the petitioner and other accused persons i.e., Subhash Sharma ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 8 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 Hemraj, Sukhdev, Abhishek Sharma, Sunil Kumar, etc., through the

 fraudulent scheme of crypto-currency, were invested in acquiring the

 . valuable assets, i.e., movable and immovable properties at different

 places. He further contended that the instant is a case of huge

 economic offence and the investigation reveals the active involvement

 of the petitioner in the alleged offence. He further submitted that the

 grounds of arrest were duly communicated to the petitioner. He also

 submitted that case of the petitioner is not identically placed with co- accused persons as is being claimed by learned counsel for the

 petitioner. Hence, he prayed that the present bail application, being

 devoid of merits, deserves to be dismissed. 8. I have given my considered thought to the rival contentions

 raised and also gone through the police file as well as the status

 report(s) filed by the prosecution. 9. The economic offences are considered grave offences as

 they affect the economy of the country as a whole and such offences

 having deep rooted conspiracy and involving huge loss of public fund

 are to be viewed seriously. The economic offence is committed with

 cool calculation and deliberate design solely with an eye on personal

 profit regardless of the consequence to the community. In such type of

 offences, while granting bail, the Court has to keep in mind, inter alia,

 the larger interest of public and the State. The nature and seriousness ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 9 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 of an economic offence and its impact on the society are always

 important considerations in such a case and those aspects must

 . squarely be dealt with by the Court while passing an order on bail

 applications. No doubt at the stage of granting bail, detailed

 examination of evidence and elaborate discussions on merits of the

 case need not be taken but the order must reflect the reasons for

 arriving at a, prima facie, conclusion as to why bail is being granted or

 refused, particularly when the accused-petitioner is charged with the

 commission of economic offences. 10. In the case on hand, as per the material available on

 record, thousands of investors have fallen victims to this fraudulent

 scheme, as more than 80,000/- investors have contributed over the

 past four years with a total investment of around Rs. 2,000/- crores and

 there is an estimated loss of Rs. 500/- crores to the investors. The

 investigation, prima facie, revealed that the petitioner was the close

 associate of the main accused Subhash Sharma and was one of the

 the top liners in the chain. The main accused Subhash Sharma had

 absconded and moved out of India. The petitioner was holding a

 unique position and he had exclusive access to the Pancake Swap

 platform, which was essential for transferring and liquidating the Bitpaid

 (BTP) in the wallets. Perusal of the record revealed that the group

 action of the petitioner was crucial for recovering funds as he had ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 10 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 unique ability to perform these actions which underscores his central

 role not only in the fraudulent scheme, but also in the recovery process. . The recoverable assets from these wallets were directly tied to the

 petitioner's exclusive control and technical capabilities and his

 involvement was pivotal for both the ongoing investigation and the

 potential recovery of these assets. The investigation further revealed

 that a substantial amount of Rs.450 crores is pending recovery from

 the petitioner's fraudulent schemes, which included losses from both

 the Hypenext and Aglobal platforms and the total value of the Bitpaid in

 INR is approximately Rs.18,640,790.56, which amount is recoverable

 as the petitioner was the sole individual capable of transferring or

 liquidating the crypto-currency through Pancake swap. 11. The law relating to bail in a case of economic offences is

 more or less settled in catena of decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court. In the case of State of Gujrat vs. Mohan Lal Jitamalji Porwal,

 reported in AIR 1987 SC 1321, it is held as follows:- 11 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 ) 12. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan

 Mohan Reddy vs. CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 439 in paras 34 and 35 in

 . respect of granting bail in economic offences having deep rooted

 conspiracy and large public money involved, has held as under:- 13. In the case of Nimmagadda Prasad vs. CBI , (2013) 7

 SCC 466, the Supreme Court has observed that the alarming rise in

 white collar crimes has affected the fiber of country's economic

 structure. Economic offences have serious repercussions on the

 development of the country as a whole. Economic offences constitute

 a class apart and a different approach has to be adopted in the matter

 of bail. Paras 23 to 25 of the aforesaid judgment are extracted here-in- below:- 24. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the
 nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in support

 thereof, the severity of the punishment which conviction
 will entail, the character of the accused, circumstances

 which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility
 of securing the presence of the accused at the trial,
 reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being
 tampered with, the larger interests of the public/State and
 other similar considerations. It has also to be kept in mind

 that for the purpose of granting bail, the legislature has
 used the words "reasonable grounds for believing" 25. Economic offences constitute a class apart and need to

 be visited with a different approach in the matter of bail.
 The economic offence having deep-rooted conspiracies
 and involving huge loss of public funds needs to be
 viewed seriously and considered as a grave offence
 affecting the economy of the country as a whole and
 thereby posing serious threat to the financial health of the
 country." 14. In a judgment rendered in the case of State of Bihar Vs.

 Amit Kumar , (2017) 13 SCC 751, it has been held that while

 considering the bail involving socio-economic offences stringent ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 13 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 parameters should be applied. Paras 8 & 9 of the said judgment are

 extracted hereunder:- 15. In a recent decision in Tarun Kumar Vs. Assistant

 Director Directorate of Enforcement , reported in 2023 SCC OnLine

 SC 1486, it has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as under:- 16. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled as P.

 Chidambaram vs. Directorate of Enforcement , (2019) 9 SCC 24,

 while dealing with economic offences, has held that the power of

 granting anticipatory bail should be sparingly exercised in economic

 offences. The relevant extract of this judgment is reproduced as

 under:- be granted only in exceptional circumstances

 where the court is prima facie of the view that the
 applicant has falsely been enroped in the crime
 and would not misuse his liberty. 78. Power under Section 438 CrPC being an extraordinary
 remedy, has to be exercised sparingly; more so, in cases
 of economic offences. Economic offences stand as a
 different class as they affect the economic fabric of the
 society. In Directorate of Enforcement v. Ashok Kumar
 Jain ((1998) 2 SCC 105), it was held that in economic

 offences, the accused is not entitled to anticipatory bail. XXX XXX XXX 83. Grant of anticipatory bail at the stage of investigation may

 frustrate the investigating agency in interrogating the

 accused and in collecting the useful information and also
 the materials which might have been concealed. Success
 in such interrogation would elude if the accused knows
 that he is protected by the order of the court. Grant of
 anticipatory bail, particularly in economic offences would

 definitely hamper the effective investigation. Having
 regard to the materials said to have been collected by the
 respondent Enforcement Directorate and considering the
 stage of the investigation, we are of the view that it is not
 a fit case to grant anticipatory bail. 84. In a case of money-laundering where it involves many

 stages of "placement", "layering i.e. funds moved to other
 institutions to conceal origin" and "interrogation i.e. funds
 used to acquire various assets", it requires systematic and
 analysed investigation which would be of great

 advantage. As held in Anil Sharma, success in such
 interrogation would elude if the accused knows that he is
 protected by a pre-arrest bail order. Section 438 CrPC is
 to be invoked only in exceptional cases where the case
 alleged is frivolous or groundless. In the case in hand,
 there are allegations of laundering the proceeds of the
 crime. The Enforcement Directorate claims to have certain
 specific inputs from various sources, including overseas
 banks. Letter rogatory is also said to have been issued
 and some response have been received by the
 Department. Having regard to the nature of allegations
 and the stage of the investigation, in our view, the
 investigating agency has to be given sufficient freedom in
 the process of investigation. Though we do not endorse
 the approach of the learned Single Judge in extracting the
 note produced by the Enforcement Directorate, we do not ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 16 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 find any ground warranting interference with the impugned
 order. Considering the facts and circumstances of the
 case, in our view, grant of anticipatory bail to the appellant
 will hamper the investigation and this is not a fit case for

 . exercise of discretion to grant anticipatory bail to the

 appellant." 17. The aforesaid view was reiterated by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in Serious Fraud Investigation Officer vs. Nittin

 Johari and another , (2019) 9 SCC 165, wherein, it set aside the order

 of High Court of Delhi granting bail to the accused therein and held

 that:- r 24."...it is necessary to advert to the principles governing the
 grant of bail under Section 439 of the Cr.P.C. Specifically, heed

 must be paid to the stringent view taken by this Court towards
 grant of bail with respect of economic offences....." 18. Hence, in view of the above stated authoritative

 pronouncement of law laid down by the Apex Court as the petitioner is,

 prima facie, alleged to be involved in the economic offences of huge

 magnitude, he is not entitled to be released on bail. 19. Learned counsel for the petitioner next contended that the

 grounds of arrest were not communicated to the petitioner at the time

 of his arrest, which violated his right under Article 22(1) of the

 Constitution of India and, therefore, on this ground alone, he is entitled

 to be released on bail. To buttress his submission, learned counsel for

 the petitioner has also placed reliance upon the decisions of Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in Pankaj Bansal Vs. Union of India , (2024) 7 SCC ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 17 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025: HHC:25672 )

 576, Prabir Purkayastha Vs. State (NCT of Delhi ), (2024) 8 SCC

 254 and Vihaan Kumar Vs. State of Haryana, (2025)5 SCC 799. . 20. In Pankaj Bansal 's case, the Hon'ble Apex Court held

 that no person who is arrested shall be detained in custody without

 being informed of the grounds for such arrest. Relevant portion of the

 said judgment is reproduced as under:- 21. In Prabir Purkayastha 's case, the Hon'ble Apex Court

 observed that the right to be informed about the grounds of arrest

 flows from Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India and any

 infringement of this fundamental right would vitiate the process of

 arrest and remand. Para-22 of the judgment reads as under:- "22. The right to be informed about the grounds of arrest flows

 from Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India and any
 infringement of this fundamental right would vitiate the process
 of arrest and remand. Mere fact that a charge sheet has been
 filed in the matter, would not validate the illegality and the
 unconstitutionality committed at the time of arresting the
 accused and the grant of initial police custody remand to the
 accused." 22. In Vihaan Kumar's case, the Hon'ble Apex Court held

 that the requirement of informing a person arrested of grounds of arrest

 is a mandatory requirement of Article 22(1). Relevant portion of the

 aforesaid judgment is extracted hereunder:- to the arrested person in such a manner that sufficient knowledge

 of the basic facts constituting the grounds is imparted and
 communicated to the arrested person effectively in the language
 which he understands. The mode and method of communication
 must be such that the object of the constitutional safeguard is

 achieved." 23. Thus, in view of the aforesaid authoritative

 pronouncements of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, it is clear that the right

 to be informed about the grounds of arrest is a fundamental right under Articles 22(1) of the Constitution of India and any violation thereof

 would vitiate the process of arrest and remand. In the case on hand,

 perusal of the record reveals that grounds of arrest were duly

 communicated to the petitioner at the time of his arrest and in this

 respect, arrest memo has also been prepared. On the arrest memo,

 the petitioner had also written in his own handwriting that he wanted to

 inform his Advocate Jaideep about his arrest and his Advocate

 Jaideep was also informed on telephone. During the pendency of the

 instant bail application, Inspector Kamlesh Kumar, Cyber Crime, Police

 Station, Northern Range, Dharamshala, District Kangra, HP filed his

 affidavit before this court wherein he specifically stated that on

 16.07.2024, when an application seeking transit custody of the

 petitioner was moved before the learned Additional Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Barrackpore, West Bengal, the learned counsel appearing

 on behalf of the petitioner had personally approached him and he had ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 19 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 duly provided him with a copy of the said transit remand application,

 which fact was clearly recorded in the case diary dated 16.07.2024

 . and after receiving the said copy, the learned counsel for the petitioner

 filed a bail application opposing the prayer for transit remand. He

 further submitted that grounds of arrest were duly conveyed to the

 petitioner through transit remand application dated 16.07.2024,

 wherein the specific role of the petitioner was clearly mentioned and

 the transit remand application itself contained the grounds of arrest of

 the petitioner, which were clearly stated and conveyed. The petitioner

 was produced before the Court of learned Additional Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Barrackpore, North 24 Parganas, West Bangal and an

 application was moved for his five days' transit remand. The aforesaid

 Court of learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Barrackpore also

 observed in its order that "the Police Officer of HP Police has complied

 with the mandate of the Hon'ble Apex Court in substance. Substance

 of accusation is well found in police papers and the accused person is

 made acquainted with the same." The bail application of the petitioner

 before the said Court was rejected and transit remand was allowed

 with respect to petitioner/accused Milan Garg for five days. Therefore,

 in view of the material available on record, it cannot be said that the

 grounds of arrest were not communicated to the petitioner at the time

 of his arrest. Hence, the authorities cited by the learned counsel for ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 20 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 the petitioner are not applicable to the facts and circumstances of the

 present case. . 24. Learned counsel for the petitioners next contended that

 some of the identically placed co-accused persons have been granted

 bail by this Court and on the ground of parity, the petitioner may also

 be released on bail. 25. It is a settled law that parity cannot be the sole ground for

 grant of bail. It is one of the grounds for consideration of the question

 of bail. There is no absolute hidebound rule that bail must necessarily

 be granted to the co-accused, where another co- accused has been

 granted bail. Before considering the submission of learned counsel

 for the petitioner, a brief recapitulation of the law on the aspect of

 parity may be apposite. In Ramesh Bhavan Rathod Vs. Vishanbhai

 Hirabhai Makwana , (2021) 6 SCC 230, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 has held that the Court cannot exercise it powers in a capricious

 manner and before granting bail on the ground of parity, the Court

 must focus upon the role of the accused and his position in relation to

 the incident and victims is also of utmost importance. The relevant

 paragraphs of the judgment read as under:- 26. Another aspect of the case which needs emphasis is the
 manner in which the High Court has applied the principle of parity.
 By its two orders both dated 21-12-2020 [ Pravinbhai Hirabhai Koli
 v. State of Gujarat , 2020 SCC OnLine Guj 2986] , [Khetabhai

 Parbatbhai Makwana v. State of Gujarat, 2020 SCC OnLine Guj
 2988] , the High Court granted bail to Pravin Koli (A-10) and Kheta
 Parbat Koli (A-15). Parity was sought with Sidhdhrajsinh
 Bhagubha Vaghela (A-13) to whom bail was granted on 22-10-

 2020 [ Siddhrajsinh Bhagubha Vaghela v. State of Gujarat , 2020
 SCC OnLine Guj 2985] on the ground (as the High Court
 recorded) that he was "assigned similar role of armed with stick

 (sic)". Again, bail was granted to Vanraj Koli (A-16) on the ground
 that he was armed with a wooden stick and on the ground that
 Pravin (A-10), Kheta (A-15) and Sidhdhrajsinh (A-13) who were
 armed with sticks had been granted bail. The High Court has

 evidently misunderstood the central aspect of what is meant by
 parity. Parity while granting bail must focus upon the role of the
 accused. Merely observing that another accused who was granted
 bail was armed with a similar weapon is not sufficient to determine
 whether a case for the grant of bail on the basis of parity has been
 established. In deciding the aspect of parity, the role attached to
 the accused, their position in relation to the incident and to the
 victims is of utmost importance. The High Court has proceeded on
 the basis of parity on a simplistic assessment as noted above,
 which again cannot pass muster under the law. " 19. It is axiomatic that the principle of parity is based on the
 guarantee of positive equality before law enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution. However, if any illegality or irregularity has
 been committed in favour of any individual or a group of
 individuals, or a wrong order has been passed by a judicial forum,

 others cannot invoke the jurisdiction of the higher or superior
 court for repeating or multiplying the same irregularity or illegality
 or for passing similar wrong order. Article 14 is not meant to
 perpetuate the illegality or irregularity. If there has been a benefit

 or advantage conferred on one or a set of people by any authority
 or by the court, without legal basis or justification, other persons

 could not claim as a matter of right the benefit on the basis of
 such wrong decision." 27. Tested on the touch stone of above principles, the

 petitioners' submission premised on the ground of parity, is found to be

 devoid of merit. The perusal of record, prima facie, reveals that the

 petitioner was one of the kingpins of the scheme, whereas the co- accused persons who have been enlarged on bail, are merely

 investors. After going through the allegations as leveled against the co- accused persons who have been released on bail vis-à-vis allegations ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS 23 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 )

 against the petitioners, this court finds that the case of the petitioner

 stands on a different footing and therefore the principle of parity for

 . grant of bail would not be applicable to him. Thus, the petitioner cannot

 claim parity with the co-accused persons for grant of bail. 28. Learned counsel for the petitioner lastly contended that

 since the investigation in the case is complete and nothing is to be

 recovered from the petitioner, therefore, he may be released on bail. However, this contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner

 cannot be accepted keeping in view the nature of economic offence

 having deep-rooted conspiracy involving huge loss of public funds. In

 my opinion, it would not be appropriate to enlarge the petitioner on bail

 at this stage as in such type of offences, while granting bail, the Court

 has to keep in mind, inter alia, the larger interest of public and the

 State. 29. After giving my thoughtful consideration to the rival

 contentions raised, the nature of accusations, the punishment

 prescribed for the offences under which charge sheet has been

 submitted, prima facie, the role played by the petitioner in the entire

 episode, the impact of such economic offences on the society,

 particularly on the common man who had been allured to make

 investments, this Court is not inclined to release the petitioner on bail,

 at this stage, in the larger interest of public and State. 24 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:25672 ) 30. Hence, for the reasons mentioned above, the bail

 application filed by the petitioner is dismissed. . 31. Before parting with this order, it is hereby clarified that the

 aforesaid observations made in this order have been made only for the

 purpose of considering the present bail application. Therefore, the

 same shall not come in the way of the trial court at the time of the trial

 and the trial Court concerned shall not be influenced by the

 observations made hereinabove. ( Sushil Kukreja )

 Judge
 August 01, 2025
 (VH) ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2025 21:28:39 :::CIS