1. The petitioner apprehending arrest in the FIR captioned above, has come up
before this Court under Section 438 CrPC seeking anticipatory bail. 2. In paragraph 8 of the bail petition, the accused declares the following criminal
antecedents: 3. Prosecution's case is being taken from preliminary submissions of reply dated
05.02.2024, which reads as follows: - "6. That a brief gist of the allegations leveled against the
 petitioner are relevant in order to decide the present bail
 application. During investigation, co-accused Sandeep Kumar
 disclosed that fake software link was provided tohim by Satpal
 Chaudhary (petitioner). Thereafter, it was found that the petitoner
 is running a Khokha on rent for issuing tax receipts outside the
 petrol pump at Village Dhantori Shahbad, District Kurukshetra, 1 1 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 23-03-2024 10:50:05 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:042137 2 CRM-M-4184-2024 2024:PHHC:042137

 Haryana. Regarding Rent of this 'khokha' the photo copy of petrol
 pump ledger book produced by the petrol pump manager sunil
 pandit is annexed herewith as ANNEXURE R-1 for kind persusal of
 this Hon'ble Court. 7. The co-accused of the petitioner were posted at the tax
 collection centre, and have been instrumental in the preparation
 and issuance of forged and fabricated receipts of the tax
 pertaining to the vehicles entering the state of Punjab from the
 other states. The tax amount that was supposedly to be deposited
 with the state treasury, was being credited by the co-accused in
 their favors, who in return would issue tax receipts, similar to the
 original receipts and would retain the cash with themselves. The
 co-accused have been doing so for a long time and have been thus
 causing wrongful gain to themselves and wrongful loss to the
 state exchequer. 8. That the modus operandi adopted by the accused persons in the
 commission of the offense is that, the accused had illegally
 procured fake software and fake link under the name and style
 ofPbvahan.000webhostapp.comwith the user name as "admin"
 and password as "babu". It is apposite to mention here that whenever any
 person/driver/conductor of any vehicle would approach the
 accused for the payment of tax, the accused would use the
 aforementioned fake link, instead of the original/genuine and
 issue a receipt from the same. The said receipt was similar looking
 to the original." 4. I have heard counsel for the parties and gone through the record. 5. Petitioner's counsel seeks bail on the ground that the FIR was registered on
08.06.2022, the investigation was completed qua co-accused, and the challan was
presented way back on 02.09.2022. After that, the investigator wants to arrest the
petitioner without any explanation to justify the delay. 6. Counsel for the State submits that the challan was filed against the co-accused; on
this ground, the petitioner is not entitled to bail, and it was clarified while filing the
challan against the co-accused that the investigation is going on. He further submits that
investigation in these cybercrime matters takes longer given the challenges involved,
and as such, on this ground, the petitioner is not entitled to bail. 7. An analysis of these submissions leads to the outcome that simply because the
petitioner was initially not arrested and not named in the FIR does not mean that the
crime which he committed, also eclipsed. It needs no saying that cyber law is an
emerging field and even the investigators are neither well skilled nor possess the
requisite educational qualifications required to tackle cyber crimes;thus, if they take 2 2 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 23-03-2024 10:50:06 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:042137 3 CRM-M-4184-2024 2024:PHHC:042137

more than usual time to complete the investigation, it cannot be taken against the
investigator as a deliberate attempt to delay the investigation. Therefore, the petitioner
is not entitled to bail for the delay in investigation. 8. The next argument of the petitioner's counsel is that the petitioner has been
prosecuted as an accused on the disclosure statement of Harpal Singh and Salinder
Singh, who were found with fake software. He further submits that the FIR mentioned
that employees at the check post had prepared fake software, and the petitioner was
not an employee posted at the check post. Further, Sandeep Kumar's disclosure
statement that he got the link from the petitioner is inadmissible because it did not lead
to any discovery. Later, the State improved its case and stated that the petitioner was
the leading software supplier for issuing fake tax collection receipts. The petitioner's
next contention is that the petitioner is illiterate and does not know how to use
software. 9. The State's counsel submitted that analyzing the above disclosures led the
investigator to collect sufficient evidence to connect the petitioner with the software
supplied to the other accused. In addition, there is evidence that the investigator has
collected further evidence, which shows that petitioner Satpal Chaudhary is a member
of the mafia who used to issue fake tax deposit receipts using the software. 10. An analysis of these submissions do not entitle petitioner for bail for the reasons
that the investigator has collected other evidence pointing towards the petitioner's
involvement. 11. The petitioner's next ground is that he is illiterate and does not know how to use
software. State counsel submits that during the investigation, they gathered information
that the petitioner knows how to use computers and mobile phones. Further, he was
found issuing tax receipts to people, which also shows that he has knowledge of
computers and can also write and read. The investigator ascertained such facts during
the investigation, and as such, they contradict the above-said arguments made by the
petitioner. 12. State counsel opposes the petition and argues that the petitioner is the supplier of
the fake software link and supplied it to Sandeep Kumar, which was later on used by
him in committing the offense of forgery and cheating, in connivance with the other co-
accused. During the investigation, co-accused Sandeep Kumar disclosed that Satpal
Chaudhary (petitioner) provided him with a fake software link. After that, it was found
that the petitioner was running a Khokha on rent to issue tax receipts outside the petrol
pump at Village Dhantori Shahbad, District Kurukshetra, Haryana. Regarding the Rent of 3 3 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 23-03-2024 10:50:06 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:042137 4 CRM-M-4184-2024 2024:PHHC:042137

this 'khokha,' the photocopy of the petrol pump ledger book has been produced by the
petrol pump manager, Sunil Pandit. After that, State counsel submitted that the co-
accused of the petitioner were posted at the tax collection center and had been
instrumental in preparing and issuing forged and fabricated tax receipts about the
vehicles entering the state of Punjab from other states. The tax amount supposed to be
deposited with the state treasury was credited by the co-accused in their favor, who in
return would issue tax receipts similar to the original receipts and would retain the cash
with themselves. The co-accused have been doing so for a long time and have been thus
causing wrongful gain to themselves and wrongful loss to the state exchequer. It was
further argued that the modus operandi adopted by the accused persons in the
commission of the offense is that the petitioner accused had illegally procured fake
software and a fake link under the name and style of Pbvahan.000webhostapp.com with
the user name "admin" and password as "babu." It is apposite to mention here that
whenever any person/driver/conductor of any vehicle would approach the accused for
the payment of tax, the accused would use the aforementioned fake link instead of the
original/genuine and issue a receipt from the same and the said receipt was similar
looking to the original. State further submits that petitioner/accused Satpal Chaudhary
is part of an interstate racket that spread throughout the state of Punjab and Haryana
and is indulging in illegal activities by forging the tax receipts on behalf of the
Government and thus instrumental in causing financial loss to the tune of lakhs of
rupees to the state exchequer and thus are indulging into corruption and have rendered
themselves liable for the offenses committed by them in the present FIR. After the
arrest of the co-accused, a chargesheet U/s 173 Cr.P.C . was filed before the competent
court of law on 02.09.2022, and accused Satpal Chaudhary joined the investigation on
30.01.2024 and 11.03.2024 but he has not cooperated in the investigation, and he is not
ready to disclose about the leading supplier of this software link. The petitioner's
custody is required to unearth the actual supplier and source of preparation of the fake
software. State counsel seeks custodial interrogation to get information about the
phone numbers that the petitioner was using so that they also know how many people
throughout India have used this fake software and caused a massive amount of loss to
the exchequer throughout India. 13. While considering each bail petition of the accused with a criminal history, it
throws an onerous responsibility upon the Courts to act judiciously with reasonableness
because arbitrariness is the antithesis of law. The criminal history must be of cases
where the accused was convicted, including the suspended sentences and all pending
First Information Reports, wherein the bail petitioner stands arraigned as an accused. In
reckoning the number of cases as criminal history, the prosecutions resulting in acquittal 4 4 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 23-03-2024 10:50:06 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:042137 5 CRM-M-4184-2024 2024:PHHC:042137

or discharge, or when Courts quashed the FIR; the prosecution stands withdrawn, or
prosecution filed a closure report; cannot be included. Although crime is to be despised
and not the criminal, yet for a recidivist, the contours of a playing field are marshy, and
graver the criminal history, slushier the puddles. 14. This Court did not refer to the inadmissible statements of Harpal Singh, Salinder
Singh, and Sandeep Kumar made under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act. In
addition, there is other evidence pointing towards the petitioner's involvement. The
petitioner's previous criminal history for similar offenses corroborates the petitioner's
involvement. The evidence collected so far points towards his involvement in supplying
fake software to the other accused, Harpal Singh and Sandeep Kumar. Therefore, the
petitioner is not entitled to anticipatory bail. 15. Given the nature of allegations, custodial interrogation is required. An analysis of
the allegations and evidence collected does not warrant the grant of bail to the
petitioner. 16. In Sumitha Pradeep v Arun Kumar CK , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1529, Supreme Court
holds,
 [16]. ... We have noticed one common argument being canvassed
 that no custodial interrogation is required and, therefore,
 anticipatory bail may be granted. There appears to be a serious
 misconception of law that if no case for custodial interrogation is
 made out by the prosecution, then that alone would be a good
 ground to grant anticipatory bail. Custodial interrogation can be
 one of the relevant aspects to be considered along with other
 grounds while deciding an application seeking anticipatory bail.
 There may be many cases in which the custodial interrogation of
 the accused may not be required, but that does not mean that the
 prima facie case against the accused should be anticipatory bail.
 The first and foremost thing that the court hearing an anticipatory
 bail application should consider is the prima facie case put up
 against the accused. Thereafter, the nature of the offence should
 be looked into along with the severity of the punishment.
 Custodial interrogation can be one of the grounds to decline
 anticipatory bail. However, even if custodial interrogation is not
 required or necessitated, by itself, cannot be a ground to grant
 anticipatory bail. 17. In State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal (1987) 2 SCC 364, Supreme Court
holds,
 [5]. ....The entire community is aggrieved if the economic
 offenders who ruin the economy of the State are not brought to
 book. A murder may be committed in the heat of moment upon
 passions being aroused. An economic offence is committed with
 cool calculation and deliberate design with an eye on personal
 profit regardless of the consequence to the community. A
 disregard for the interest of the community can be manifested
 only at the cost of forfeiting the trust and faith of the community 5 5 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 23-03-2024 10:50:06 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:042137 6 CRM-M-4184-2024 2024:PHHC:042137

 in the system to administer justice in an even-handed manner
 without fear of criticism from the quarters which view white collar
 crimes with a permissive eye unmindful of the damage done to the
 national economy and national interest....." 18. In State rep. by CBI v. Anil Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187, Supreme Court holds,
 [6]. We find force in the submission of the CBI that custodial
 interrogation is qualitatively more elicitation oriented than
 questioning a suspect who is well ensconded with a favourable
 order under Section 438 of the code. In a case like this effective
 interrogation of suspected person is of tremendous advantage in
 disinterring many useful informations and also materials which
 would have been concealed. Succession such interrogation would
 elude if the suspected person knows that he is well protected and
 insulted by a pre-arrest bail during the time he interrogated. Very
 often interrogation in such a condition would reduce to a mere
 ritual. The argument that the custodial interrogation is fraught with
 the danger of the person being subjected to third degree methods
 need not be countenanced, for, such an argument can be advanced
 by all accused in all criminal cases. The court has to presume that
 responsible Police Officers would conduct themselves in task of
 disinterring offences would not conduct themselves as offenders. 19. In Jai Prakash Singh v. State of Bihar and another (2012) 4 SCC 379, Supreme Court
holds,
 [19]. Parameters for grant of anticipatory bail in a serious offence
 are required to be satisfied and further while granting such relief,
 the court must record the reasons therefor. Anticipatory bail can be
 granted only in exceptional circumstances where the court is prima
 facie of the view that the applicant has falsely been enroped in the
 crime and would not misuse his liberty. [See D.K. Ganesh Babu v.
 P.T. Manokaran ( 2007) 4 SCC 434, State of Maharashtra v. Mohd.
 Sajid Husain Mohd. S. Husain ( 2008) 1 SCC 213 and Union of India
 v. Padam Narain Aggarwal (2008) 13 SCC 305]. 20. In Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v. CBI (2013) 7 SCC 439, Supreme Court holds,
 [34]. Economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be
 visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. The
 economic offences having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving
 huge loss of public funds need to be viewed seriously and
 considered as grave offences affecting the economy of the country
 as a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the financial
 health of the country. [35]. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the nature
 of accusations, the nature of evidence in support thereof, the
 severity of the punishment which conviction will entail, the
 character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the
 accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the
 accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the witnesses
 being tampered with, the larger interests of the public/State and
 other similar considerations. 21. In P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2019 9 SCC 24, Supreme Court
holds, 6 6 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 23-03-2024 10:50:06 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:042137 7 CRM-M-4184-2024 2024:PHHC:042137

 [70]. We are conscious of the fact that the legislative intent behind
 the introduction of Section 438 Cr.P.C., 1973 is to safeguard the
 individual's personal liberty and to protect him from the possibility
 of being humiliated and from being subjected to unnecessary
 police custody. However, the court must also keep in view that a
 criminal offence is not just an offence against an individual, rather
 the larger societal interest is at stake. Therefore, a delicate balance
 is required to be established between the two rights - safeguarding
 the personal liberty of an individual and the societal interest. It
 cannot be said that refusal to grant anticipatory bail would amount
 to denial of the rights conferred upon the appellant under Article
 21 of the Constitution of India. 22. In Central Bureau of Investigation v. Santosh Karnani, Cr.A 1148 of 2023, dated
17-04- 2023, Supreme Court, in an FIR registered under sections under Sections 7 , 13(1) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, holds,

 [24]. The time−tested principles are that no straitjacket formula
 can be applied for grant or refusal of anticipatory bail. The judicial
 discretion of the Court shall be guided by various relevant factors
 and largely it will depend upon the facts and circumstances of
 each case. The Court must draw a delicate balance between
 liberty of an individual as guaranteed under Article 21 of the
 Constitution and the need for a fair and free investigation, which
 must be taken to its logical conclusion. Arrest has devastating and
 irreversible social stigma, humiliation, insult, mental pain and
 other fearful consequences. Regardless thereto, when the Court,
 on consideration of material information gathered by the
 Investigating Agency, is prima facie satisfied that there is
 something more than a mere needle of suspicion against the
 accused, it cannot jeopardise the investigation, more so when the
 allegations are grave in nature. [31]. The nature and gravity of the alleged offence should have
 been kept in mind by the High Court. Corruption poses a serious
 threat to our society and must be dealt with iron hands. It not
 only leads to abysmal loss to the public exchequer but also
 tramples good governance. The common man stands deprived of
 the benefits percolating under social welfare schemes and is the
 worst hit. It is aptly said, "Corruption is a tree whose branches are
 of an unmeasurable length; they spread everywhere; and the dew
 that drops from thence, Hath infected some chairs and stools of
 authority." Hence, the need to be extra conscious. 23. In the background of the allegations and the light of the judicial precedents
mentioned above in the facts and circumstances peculiar to this case, the petitioner fails
to make a case for anticipatory bail. 24. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
case's merits, neither the court taking up regular bail nor the trial Court shall advert to
these comments. Petition dismissed. Interim orders stand vacated. All pending applications, if any, also
stand disposed.