28.05.2024

 Heard Mr. YS Mannan, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the
petitioner and Mr. K Das, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent
Nos.6, 7, 8 and 9. Also heard Mr. D Das, the learned senior counsel appearing
 Page No.# 4/20

on behalf of respondent Nos.10 and 11, Ms. U Das, the learned Additional
Senior Government Advocate, Assam appearing on behalf of the State
respondents as well as Mr. CKS Baruah, the learned CGC appearing on behalf of
the respondent No.12. In Addition to that, this Court has also heard Mr. GK
Singh, the Chief Manager of State Bank of India, Rangia Branch. The
Investigating Officer of Rangia Police Station Case No.944/2020 is also present
before the Court. 2. The petitioner herein is a senior citizen, who would be presently 66 years
old. He retired as an Assistant Teacher in the year 2018 and on 17.04.2019 his
pensionery benefits amounting to Rs.10,67,600/- was deposited to his Bank
Account bearing No.10958225308 maintained in the State Bank of India, (for
short, the SBI) Rangia Branch. Admittedly, the petitioner herein gave the Mobile
Number to the SBI which belonged to his daughter one Tulika Deka. On
09.10.2020, when the petitioner went to withdraw an amount of Rs.5000/- from
his bank account, he was surprised to learn that the said bank account had only
Rs.69.61.P/-. Immediately, thereupon, on 09.10.2020 itself, an FIR was lodged
before the Rangia Police Station which was registered as Rangia Police Station
Case No.944/2020 under Sections 420 / 379 of the Indian Penal Code and
subsequently Sections 120(B) / 419 / 468 / 471 IPC read with Section 66(C) / 66(D) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 were added. 3. On the same date, i.e. on 09.10.2020, the Chief Manager of the SBI Rangia
Branch was informed that an amount of Rs.8,95,024/- had been fraudulently
withdrawn from the petitioner's account which aspect of the matter was duly
acknowledged by the Chief Manager vide the communications dated 12.10.2020
 Page No.# 5/20

stating, inter alia that processing is being carried out as per the SOP. 4. It is further seen that on the basis of the investigation so carried out by the
Investigating Officer of Rangia Police Station, various persons were arrested on
the ground that during investigation it revealed that the persons arrested were
involved in the illegal and fraudulent transactions. 5. It is the case of the petitioner that the petitioner having duly informed the
SBI on 09.10.2020 i.e. within a period of seven working days and the SBI
having not reimbursed the said amount in terms with the Circular issued by the
Reserve Bank of India dated 06.07.2017 and the approach to the Ombudsman
did not result in favour of the petitioner, the instant writ petition was filed
seeking a direction upon the respondents to recover the amount of
Rs.8,95,040/- which was fraudulently transferred from the petitioner's bank
account and to pay the said amount to the petitioner or direct the SBI to
immediately compensate the petitioner by making payment of the said amount
of Rs.8,95,040/- along with adequate interest; direct the service provider i.e.
the respondent Nos.10 and 11 to adequately compensate the petitioner for
commitment of fraudulent/disputed transactions online through their service; as
well as also for a direction that the investigation should be carried out either by
the State CID or by the CBI. 6. This Court finds it relevant to take note of Annexure-10 to the writ petition
which is the statement of account of the petitioner in respect to the petitioner's
bank account. The petitioner duly admitted that on 02.10.2020, the petitioner
 Page No.# 6/20

had withdrawn Rs.9500/- from the ATM. However, the remaining transactions
thereafter from 02.10.2020 to 04.10.2020 were not carried out by the petitioner,
except the amount of Rs.17,966/- which was transferred to the SBI Life
Insurance on the basis of auto-debit system. It is the categorical stand of the
petitioner that the petitioner neither at any point of time applied for internet
banking nor had carried out any UPI transactions. 7. Pursuant to the filing of the instant writ petition, the Superintendent of
Police i.e., the respondent No.3 had filed an affidavit-in-opposition stating, inter
alia, as to how the investigation was carried out and it was mentioned that the
money which was transacted from the petitioner's account were transferred to
two numbers of accounts being 20366807543 and 113101021957, which
belonged to one Soid Ahmed Laskar and one Rashid Ahmed Barbhuyan. It was
further stated that the Police Authorities had taken prompt action and sent
requisition to the concerned authority for freezing the Accounts to which the
money was fraudulently transacted. Before further proceeding on the narration
of the facts, it would be apposite to mention that on 22.01.2024, this Court
enquired as to how much amount was lying in the freezed accounts held in
Canara Bank. It was informed on 16.02.2024 that the amount lying in the
accounts were a paltry sum of Rs.19,107.62p. 8. The SBI filed an affidavit-in-opposition on 22.04.2021 stating inter alia that
the internet banking facility in the SBI can be activated through user self driven
procedure by using ATM card details without submitting any physical application
at the Branch. It was mentioned that the registration process is available in the
SBI internet banking site. It was further mentioned that there was no deficiency
 Page No.# 7/20

or laxity on the part of the officials of the SBI. It was stated that on 03.10.2020
to 04.10.2020 various transactions were done in the petitioner's account
through internet banking and UPI resulting to the decrease of the petitioner's
balance to Rs.69.19p. It was further stated that 9(nine) numbers of internet
banking transactions were carried out with the help of a secured OTP which was
successfully delivered to the petitioner's registered mobile number being
9954464365. In paragraph 7, the SBI authorities duly acknowledged that the
petitioner's internet banking credentials were compromised as a result of the 9
numbers of fraudulent transactions which had taken place. It was further
mentioned that all the frauds were merchant based transactions where the
funds were remitted to a merchant "QUICK SILVER SOLUTIONS", a third party
transaction and there were three unauthorized UPI transactions, amounting to
Rs.5000/-, Rs.50,000/- and Rs.50,000/- on and between 02.10.2020 and
03.10.2020. It was mentioned that the petitioner had compromised his secret
UPI PIN to the fraudsters. Further to that, OTP is not required in the UPI
transactions, but only the secret PIN is required to log in to the UPI application.
To the said affidavit, the statement of accounts of the petitioner was enclosed
for the period from 02.10.2020 to 05.10.2020, which seems to tally with
Annexure-10 to the writ petition as referred above. In addition to that, the SMS
DLR report from 02.10.2020 to 04.10.2020 was enclosed as Annexure-B. This
document is essential, taking into account the stand which was taken by the
respondent SBI during the course of the hearing, inasmuch as, Mr. K Das, the
learned counsel appearing on behalf of the SBI submitted that the OTP for
payment of the SBI life was issued and without the OTP, the SBI Life could not
have auto-debited the said amount and on the basis of that had tried to justify
that the petitioner was negligent. However, a perusal of the SMS DLR report,
 Page No.# 8/20

and more particularly at Sl.No.5, shows the delivery status of the OTP. It is seen
that the delivery status of the SMS was failed. In addition to that another very
interesting aspect of the matter which was submitted during the course of the
hearing is that there was an ATM transaction being carried out for an amount of
Rs.20,000/- on 03.10.2020 and, therefore, submitted that the said amount of
Rs.20,000/- could not have been withdrawn by way of ATM withdrawal without
the debit card. The said stand seems to be misconceived, inasmuch as, it is
seen from the very SMS DLR report that the said amount had been withdrawn
from the ATM as YONO Cash. The reason being that during the course of the
hearing, this Court enquired with the Chief Manager, SBI Rangia Branch as to
how the YONO Cash is generated and for that purpose whether the ATM card is
at all required. It is submitted that the YONO Cash is generated on the basis of
a YONO application and in the said YONO application after incorporating the
necessary details, a particular OTP is given and on the basis of that OTP, the
said amount can be withdrawn from any of the SBI ATMs without the need of an
ATM Debit Card. 9. This Court further finds it relevant to take note of a preliminary affidavit
filed by the respondent Nos.10 and 11 raising the maintainability of the writ
petition on the ground that the writ petition was not maintainable against the
respondent Nos.10 and 11 as they are neither a State nor other Authorities. This
Court taking into account that the respondent Nos.10 and 11, while providing
the service to the public, exercises public functions is of the opinion that the
present writ would definitely be maintainable against them. In addition to that
the maintainability of the writ petition was questioned on the ground of disputed
facts being involved. The said stand is misconceived inasmuch as, the facts
 Page No.# 9/20

delineated supra as well as infra would show otherwise. 10. The SBI further filed an additional affidavit pursuant to an order being
passed by this Court on 16.11.2023. In the said additional affidavit which was
filed on 20.11.2023, it was explained as to how facility of internet banking can
be activated without Branch visit, as per the Circular of the SBI dated
28.04.2015. In addition to that, the respondent SBI had also produced the
internet banking activation details of the petitioner as Annexure-D. From a
perusal of the said document, it reveals that the user name so assigned to the
petitioner's Bank Account was tulikadeka22, and the entire transactions were

carried out on 3rd and 4th October, 2020, leaving aside an amount of Rs.5000/-
which was done on 02.10.2020. 11. The records further reveals that on 21.11.2023, the respondent Nos.10
and 11 filed an affidavit-in-opposition. The said affidavit-in-opposition brings on
record various documents which are very pertinent to the instant dispute. The
said documents have been collectively enclosed as Annexure-A series. The first
document is an enrollment form of the daughter of the petitioner wherein the
address was duly mentioned as village Murara, PO Rangia and the date of birth
was mentioned as 11.04.1990. Along with the said application form, the identity
card issued by the Rangia Higher Secondary School and an electricity bill issued
by the APDCL authority was enclosed. It is also seen that another person
impersonating the daughter of the petitioner submitted an application on
01.10.2020 at 15.41 Hrs. for SIM Swap. The date of birth of the imposter was
mentioned as 01.01.1985 and from a perusal of the said application, it is seen
 Page No.# 10/20

that the said application was submitted at Guwahati though the SIM Card
belonged to a person residing at Rangia. Along with the said application, an
Election Commission of India Photo ID Card was submitted, wherein the address
mentioned as village Hiragota PS Rangia. There is another application which
was submitted by the actual subscriber to the SIM Card i.e. the petitioner's
daughter on 04.10.2020 at 10.52 Hrs. at Rangia. The document further shows
that the application was duly received by the Point of Sale Agent of the
respondent No.10 along with an Electoral Photo Identity Card, which belonged
to the daughter of the petitioner, wherein the address was mentioned as village
Murara, PS Rangia, Sub-Division Kamrup. 12. Pursuant to the affidavit so filed by the respondent Nos.6 to 9 and
respondent Nos.10 and 11, the petitioner filed two affidavits-in-reply. In reply to
the affidavit filed by the respondent Nos.6 to 9, the petitioner enclosed the
Circular issued by the RBI dated 06.07.2017, wherein Clauses 6, 7 and 8 had
been referred to. Taking into account, its relevance for the purpose of the
present order to be passed, the Clauses 6, 7 and 8 are reproduced hereinunder: Table 1
 Maximum Liability of a Customer under paragraph 7 (ii)

Type of Account Maximum
 liability (₹)

· BSBD Accounts 5,000

· All other SB accounts 10,000
· Pre-paid Payment Instruments and Gift Cards
· Current / Cash credit/ Overdraft Accounts of
MSMEs
· Current Accounts/ Cash Credit/ Overdraft Accounts
of individuals with annual average balance (during 365 days
preceding the incidence of fraud)/ limit up to Rs. 25 lakh
· Credit cards with limit up to Rs. 5 lakh
· All other Current/ Cash Credit/ Overdraft Accounts 25,000
· Credit Cards with limit above Rs. 5 lakh

 Further, if the delay in reporting is beyond Seven working days, the customer
liability shall be determined as per the bank's Board approved policy. Banks shall provide
the details of their policy in regard to customers' liability formulated in pursuance of
these directions at the time of opening the accounts. Banks shall also display their
approved policy in public domain for wider dissemination. The existing customers must
also be individually informed about the bank's policy. 8. Overall liability of the customer in third party breaches, as detailed in paragraph 6 (ii) and paragraph 7 (ii) above, where the deficiency lies neither with the bank nor with
the customer but lies elsewhere in the system, is summarized in the Table2: 15. Taking into account the specific stipulations contained in the Circular of
the Department of Telecommunication, Government of India, this Court vide
detailed order dated 12.03.2024, impleaded the Union of India as respondent
No.12 to the instant proceedings and directed the respondent No.12 to apprise
this Court on the basis of the materials on record as to whether there has been
any violation by the respondent Nos. 10 and 11 to its instructions dated
01.08.2016 in respect to the present case by filing an affidavit. 16. An affidavit-in- opposition was filed by the Assistant Director General
(Compliance), Assam LSA, Department of Telecommunication, Ministry of
Communications, whereby a detailed report was submitted. In paragraph No.3
of the said affidavit, it was stated that as regards Clause (iii) of the Circular of
the year 2016, there was non-compliance to the said clause. In addition to that,
in the said affidavit-in-opposition, a Circular is also enclosed as regards alternate
digital KYC process for issuing new mobile connections to the subscribers. 17. Taking into account the above, this Court had heard the matter on
22.05.2024 and in view of the various contentions raised, pertaining to the
investigation so carried out by the Investigating Officer of the Rangia Police
 Page No.# 14/20

Station Case No.944/2020 and also to understand the intricate details pertaining
to internet banking and mobile banking, this Court sought the presence of the
investigating officer of the Rangia Police Station. Today, the Investigating Officer
of the Rangia Police Station is present. He apprised this Court that the charge-
sheet had already been submitted, however, leave has been taken from the
Court for submitting a supplementary charge-sheet. 18. During the course of the hearing, this Court enquired from the
Investigating Officer as to how the investigation was carried out and what
transpired therefrom. The Investigating Officer submitted that during
investigation it came to light that the arrested accused persons taking the
benefit that the petitioner is a senior citizen somehow managed to get the ATM
Debit Card details as well as the ATM PIN. Thereupon, the arrested accused
persons went to a CSP (Customer Service Point) of a Bank and obtained the
mobile number in connection with the bank account of the petitioner. It also
came to light during investigation that these accused persons called up the
petitioner and informing him that certain amount is to be deposited in his
account sought for the name of the person whose mobile number the petitioner
had put in his bank account. Upon being able to get that information from the
petitioner, the accused persons, obtained the fake electoral Identity Card of the
same name of the petitioner's daughter and thereupon managed to get a fresh
SIM by way of SIM Swap. It also came to light during investigation, that the said
amounts were withdrawn in the name of "Quick Silver Solution", a gift card
solution provider through Dark Net Facility and, thereupon, 20% of the said
amount was retained by another accused person, who is yet to be apprehended
and the remaining amount had been transferred to the arrested accused
 Page No.# 15/20

persons, who had in the meantime, already transferred the said amount to
some other accounts, which could not be traced. He further submitted that upon
investigation, the charge-sheet has been submitted. But as the person who took
the 20% was yet to be apprehended, a request had been made for further
investigation. 19. Today, during the course of the hearing, the Chief Manager of SBI Rangia
Branch was also present, wherein he explained as to how the internet banking
facility could be availed without a branch visit. He further submitted that there
was no fault on the part of the bank, which resulted in the fraudulent
transactions and in fact, it was the fault on the part of the Airtel authorities for
permitting the sim swapping without proper verification. The learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the SBI also joining the Chief Manager, submitted that
the petitioner had also compromised certain details, else the Debit card details,
as well as the PIN Number could not have been obtained by the accused. It is
under such circumstances, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the SBI
submitted that there is no fault on the part of the SBI and as the petitioner had
compromised the details, it is on account of that, the petitioner has to be also
blamed for the loss suffered by him. 20. I have also heard Mr. D Das, the learned senior counsel appearing on
behalf of the respondent Nos.10 and 11, who placed reliance on an additional
affidavit which was filed on 27.05.2024, wherein it has been stated as to how
pursuant to a notice under Section 91 of the Cr.P.C., the officials of the
respondent No.10 had duly replied. However, there is no mention in the said
additional affidavit that there is any prescribed written protocol or set of
 Page No.# 16/20

instructions by which it is mandatory on the part of the Airtel authority to issue
a message to a subscriber when an application is filed for SIM Swapping. There
is no mention in the said additional affidavit as to what is the protocol followed
in the circumstance the message is not delivered or the delivery status fails. 21. The above issues which had cropped up in the instant proceedings would
require further deliberation, inasmuch as, it is a very pertinent issue in the day
to day life of the citizens of this Country who have bank accounts and also
provide their mobile details. What safeguards the DOT authorities would be
taking against the infraction to the guidelines and whether the Bank would be
solely responsible if there is also a contributory fault on the part of the mobile
licensee which led to the illegal and fraudulent transactions happen. This Court
has also perused the charge-sheet and the said charge-sheet in the opinion of
this Court is far from being satisfactory, taking obviously into account that these
cyber crime activities require the assistance of technical personnel who knows
as to how these cyber crimes are being committed. Therefore, in the opinion of
this Court, prima facie, the Rangia Police Station Case No.944/2020 has to be
further investigated upon, more so, taking into account what was stated by the
Investigating Officer during the course of hearing. Accordingly, this Court directs
the Special Superintendent of Police, CID, Cyber Crime to take up the further
investigation in respect of Rangia Police Station Case No.944/2020 and to
submit a report before this Court on 18.07.2024. A copy of the instant order be
furnished to Ms. U Das, the learned Additional Senior Government Advocate,
Assam to take appropriate steps in that regard by the Registry. 22. This Court in the previous segments of the instant order had taken note of
 Page No.# 17/20

the Circular dated 06.07.2017 of the Reserve Bank of India and more
particularly, to Clauses 6, 7, 8 and 12. The counsel appearing on behalf of the
petitioner submits that this is case falling within the ambit of Clause 7(ii)
whereas, the counsel appearing on behalf of the SBI submits that this is a case
falling under Clause 7(i). A perusal of both the clauses i.e. clauses 7(i) and 7(ii),
show that in the case where loss is due to negligence of the customers, such as,
where he shared the payment credentials, the customer will bear the entire loss,
until he reports the unauthorized transaction to the bank and any loss occurring
after the reporting of the unauthorized transaction shall be borne by the Bank.
However, in the circumstances falling under Clause 7(ii) where the responsibility
for the unauthorized electronic banking transaction lies neither with the Bank
nor with the customer, but lies elsewhere in the system and when there is a
delay of four to seven working days after receiving the communication from the
Bank on the part of the customer in notifying the Bank of such transaction, the
per transaction liability of the customer shall be limited to the transaction value
or the amount mentioned in Table-1 whichever is lower. In the instant case,
taking into account that it is a savings bank account as per the Table-1, the
liability of the customer would be Rs.10,000/- or the transaction and value,
whichever is lower, provided Clause 7(ii) applies. 23. This Court also takes note of Clause 8 which stipulates the overall liability
of the customer in third party breaches, as detailed in paragraph 6(ii) and
paragraph 7(ii) above, where the deficiency lies neither with the Bank nor with
the customer, but lies elsewhere in the system, it would be in terms with Table- 2. In terms with Table-2, if the reporting is done within four to seven working
days, it shall be either the transactional value or the amount mentioned in
 Page No.# 18/20

Table-1, whichever is lower. 24. In the instant case, a perusal of the materials on record and after hearing
the learned counsels appearing on behalf of the parties, it transpires that the
petitioner herein had duly informed the respondent SBI on 09.10.2020 and this
aspect of the matter is apparent from a perusal of Annexure-9 to the writ
petition, which is a due acknowledgement by the Chief Manager, SBI Rangia
Branch. Under such circumstances, the reporting was done within a period of
four to seven working days. There is no material which would show that the
petitioner had shared the payment credentials as would be apparent from the
investigation, which has been carried out. From the investigation, it appears that
the fraudsters had somehow managed to obtain the debit card details as well as
the PIN number. Clause 12 of the Circular dated 06.07.2017 imposes the burden
upon the SBI to prove that there was a negligence on the part of the petitioner.
Merely stating that the petitioner may have compromised the details would not
be sufficient. In addition to that this is not a case where OTP details were
shared by the petitioner. The present is a case, where the fraudsters have not
only obtained the ATM Debit Card details, ATM PIN Number, but also
fraudulently applied for SIM Swap which the respondent Nos.10 & 11 allowed in
conflict with Clause (iii) of the Circular of DOT. Thereafter, these fraudsters had
opened the internet banking facility as well as the Yono application and thereby
siphoned off the money. As regards the UPI payments, the same as could be
gathered during the hearing could have been activated with the SIM Card being
available. 25. Under such circumstances, in the opinion of this Court as the transactions
 Page No.# 19/20

in question had happened on account of a third party breaches, Clause 7(ii)
would be applicable for which the petitioner is entitled to the amount which was
fraudulently transacted through internet banking as well as by UPI transactions,
including the ATM withdrawal made through YONO Cash, after deducting the
amount in terms with Table-1. 26. This Court, therefore, directs the respondent Nos.6 to 9 to credit the
amount after making necessary deductions in terms with Table-1 to the account
of the petitioner within 10(ten) days from the date of a certified copy of this
order is served upon the Chief Manager of the SBI Rangia Branch. 27. This Court directs the said payment to be made in order to resolve the
miseries the petitioner had undergone on account of the fraudulent
transactions, that too, a senior citizen, whose entire pensionery benefits have
been swindled away by such illegal, means. 28. This Court, however, keeps the matter pending in order to adjudicate as
to what further course of action can be taken so that the SBI who is also not at
fault can be recompensed taking into account that there appears to be prima
facie fault on the part of the respondent Nos.10 and 11. This aspect of the
matter would require a further detailed adjudication. 29. This Court also directs the respondent No.12 to apprise this Court on the
next date as to what steps are taken against those mobile licensees by the
Department of Telecommunication, who violates the instructions contained in
 Page No.# 20/20

the Circular dated 01.08.2016. 30. List again on 18.07.2024. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant