The above captioned three separate appeals by the assessee are

preferred against the order of the ld. CIT(A) - XI, New Delhi dated

05.03.2013 for A.Y 2003-04, CIT(A)-XXIX order dated 26.05.2014 for

A.Ys 2004-05 and 2005-06 and DRP - 1 order dated 21.03.2014

pertaining to Assessment Year 2006-07 respectively. The Revenue has

filed cross appeal against the order of the CIT(A)-XXIX dated

26.05.2014 pertaining to A.Y 2005-06. 2. Since the underlying facts are common in the appeals of the

assessee and cross appeal of the Revenue and pertain to same

assessee, they were heard together and are disposed of by this

common order for the sake of convenience and brevity. 3 3. Representatives of both the sides were heard at length. Case

records carefully perused. Relevant documentary evidence brought on

record duly considered in light of Rule 18(6) of the ITAT Rules.

Relevant judicial decisions considered wherever necessary. 4. Facts of the case are that the assessee is a company incorporated

under the laws of Delaware, USA and its primary business is to develop

and deploy business process outsourcing solutions including transaction

processing services and Internet/ voice-based customer care services

for its clients. The assessee is stated to be providing such services to

customers located in the United States of America and the United

Kingdom. The parent company of the group as on 31.03.2002 was

Conseco Inc., which held 100% of the paid-up capital of Exl, USA on

31.03.2002. Exl. Inc performs sales and marketing function, contract

negotiations and conclusion of contracts and customer relationship

management. 5. Exl India has entered into a service agreement with Exl Inc under

which, Exl India provides internet and voice-based customer care

services and backroom operation services to the customers of Exl Inc

and in consideration of these services, Exl India invoices Exl Inc at pre- 4 determined hourly rates and Exl Inc, in turn, raises invoices on the

end customers. 6. The appellant performed the following activities and following

list is only indicative of list of activities: 7. From the above, it can be seen that a significant part of the

activities was provided by the assessee from the US during the FY

2002-03 and Exl's primary function was delivery of the agreed

outsourced services from India. For undertaking the aforementioned

activities, the assessee has established marketing offices in various

cities in the United States, namely New York and Oakland and network

centre in Sunnyvale, CA. The network hub based in Sunnyvale CA has

dedicated international private line circuits to act as primary

networking hub for interface with US clients. 8. The assessee is also responsible for employing key management

personnel, like the CEO, CMO, CTO, COO etc in order to provide

strategic direction to the group, solicit business for the group,

negotiate and conclude contracts with end customers, raise invoices,

manage client relationships, take contractual risk. 9. The bone of contention is the assessment order dated 30.03.2006

framed u/s 143(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 [the Act, for short]

wherein the Assessing Officer held that the assessee had established a

Permanent Establishment [PE] in India under Article 5 of the DTAA

between India and the United States of America u/s 9(1)(ii) of the Act, 6 respectively holding that its income was taxable in India for the years

under consideration. 10. We have given thoughtful consideration to the impugned

assessment order. In our understanding, the Assessing Officer has

based his finding on the following points, which have also been

highlighted by the ld. DR during the course of his submissions: 11. On the above facts, we are of the considered view that since the

assessee is a company resident in USA, it is entitled to treaty benefits

under India - US Tax Treaty. Article 7 of the India US Tax Treaty

dealing with taxation of "business profits" is as under: 12. A perusal of the above shows that the business profits arising to a

US enterprise shall be taxable in India, only if the US enterprise has a

PE in India, meaning thereby, that if there is no PE in India, no part of

the business profit arising to the US enterprise is taxable in India. 13. Article 5 of the treaty defines PE as under: 4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a

person--other than an agent of an independent status to whom

paragraph 5 applies - is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an

enterprise of the other Contracting State, that enterprise shall be

deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned

State, if : mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from which he

regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise,

and some additional activities conducted in the State on behalf of the

enterprise have contributed to the sale of the goods or merchandise ;

or (c) he habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly

or almost wholly for the enterprise. 5. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a

permanent establishment in the other Contracting State merely

because it carries on business in that other State through a broker,

general commission agent, or any other agent of an independent

status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course

of their business. However, when the activities of such an agent are

devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise and the

transactions between the agent and the enterprise are not made

under arm's length conditions, he shall not be considered an agent of

independent status within the meaning of this paragraph. 6. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State

controls or is controlled by a company which is a resident of the other

Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State

(whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not

of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the

other." 14. To constitute a fixed place PE, we have to look into the OECD

Commentary on Article 5 of the OECD Model Convention, which states

the following conditions should exist in order to constitute "fixed place

of business: 15. In our understanding, nature of fixed place of business is very

much that of a physical location, i.e., one must be able to point to a

physical location at the disposal of the enterprise through which the

business is carried on. Understandably, the fixed place of business

need not be owned or leased by the foreign enterprise, provided it is

at the disposal of the enterprise in the sense of having some right to 15 use the premises for the purposes of its business and not solely for the

purposes of the project undertaken on behalf of the owner of the

premises. 16. This means that a "fixed place of business" should satisfy,

amongst others, the "power of disposition" test to qualify as PE under Article 5(1). The 'core business' of the foreign enterprise should be

conducted through the place of business which means that there

should be a nexus between the place of business and carrying on of

business. 17. The Supreme Court in the case of Formula One World

Championship Ltd 394 ITR 80 after referring to the OECD Model Tax

Convention, Commentaries by Professor Philip Baker and Professor

Klaus Vogel, international tax jurisprudence observed that in terms of Article 5(1) of the India-UK Tax Treaty, a fixed place PE is constituted

in India, if the following twin conditions are satisfied viz, (i) Existence

of a fixed place of business at the disposal of the foreign enterprise in

India; (ii) through which the business of the foreign enterprise is wholly

or partly carried on. 18. On the issue of "fixed place of business", we find that the facts

 considered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of eFunds IT

 Solution and Ors 399 ITR 34 are pari materia same as that of the

 assessee. Therefore, it would be pertinent to refer to the decision of

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court {supra]. The relevant findings read as

 under: "19. Before the Supreme Court it was argued by the Revenue that

 a PE of the US entities is constituted in India due to the following

 reasons: Services provided by eFunds US: eFunds US provided the

processing for over 11,000 of the ATM machines in its network. Most

of the ATMs were owned by the Appellant and its associate

companies. All these ATMs were installed outside India and mainly in

United States. Services provided by eFunds India: The only involvement of eFunds

India was responding to queries raised by the customers, if they

faced any difficulty in operation of their transaction which was part

of activity (d ) referred above . (b) Electronic Payment Management

eFunds US's Electronic Payment Management segment provides

products and services in two broad categories: Payment Processing

Software and Electronic Payment Processing Services. The business

involves processing transactions for regional automated teller machine

or ATM networks in the United States and also transaction

processing for retail point-of-sale terminals that accept payments

from debit cards and paper cheques that have been converted into

electronic transactions. Processing Services: eFunds US processes transactions for regional

ATM networks in the United States. They also provide transaction

processing for retail point of sale ("POS") terminals that accept

payments from debit cards and paper cheques that have been

converted into electronic transactions. Transaction processing

involves electronically transferring money from a person's checking or

savings account according to his or her instructions. To carry out the

tasks required, each ATM or POS device is typically connected to

several computer networks. None of these networks is installed in

India. These networks include private networks that connect the

devices of a single owner, shared networks that serve several device

owners in a region, and national shared networks that provide access

to devices across regions. Each shared network has numerous financial

institution members. eFunds US provides its Customers with access

across multiple networks. eFunds US's Government services EBT (Electronic Benefits Transfer)

business was started in response to federal mandates that require

state and local Governmental agencies to convert to electronic 22 payment methods for the distribution of benefits under entitlement

programs, primarily food stamps and Transitional Aid to Needy

Families. The EBT processing system manages, supports, and controls

the electronic payment and distribution of cash benefits to program

participants through ATMs and POS networks. As mentioned earlier,

these are mostly located in USA. In any case, none was located in

India. Software Products: eFunds US develops and sells electronic funds

transfer software, Connex and Architect, used in electronic payment

services to in-house processors and regional networks in 23 foreign

countries and in the United States. None of the software products of

eFunds US was licensed or installed in India. This software runs on

IBM and Tandem computing platforms. eFunds US also provides

software maintenance and support services as part of its Global

Outsourcing business. eFunds US has developed various other

software/solutions. Services provided by eFunds US: eFunds US was responsible for

Customer Interface and customization of products and services as

per the dictates of the Customer. Agreement/contracts with the

Customer were entered into by eFunds US. All risks and

responsibilities for performance of the Contract at all times were of

eFunds US only. All Software's/solutions are developed by eFunds

US. Software writing and conceptualization of ideas were done by

eFunds US. All Networks and Infrastructure for this category of

services is owned by eFunds US only. Connex was developed by a

company acquired by eFunds US. eFunds US's associate company in

United Kingdom has developed and owns the Architect software which 23 is middleware used primarily by financial institutions in Europe (there

is one customer in Chicago). This software runs on IBM and Tandem

computing platforms. All of them were located outside India.

In accordance with the terms of the contract with Government

Agencies, eFunds US is responsible for management, support and

control of the electronic payment band distribution of cash benefits

to program participants through its ATM and point of sale network.

Services provided by eFunds India: eFunds India provided testing,

bug fixing and other related software development support services

to eFunds US for various software/software based solutions

developed by eFunds US. Such services are required by eFunds US in

the course of development of software/software based solutions and

their use in providing services to customers. The process of

development of software/solutions involves testing the same with

sample data to determine the workability of the software. Further,

certain errors or bugs may be found in the software/solutions at such

eFunds US avails the services of eFunds India for bug fixing.

The work performed by eFunds India for eFunds Government

Services Business (EBT Processing) was limited to responding to the

inbound calls made to its call centre for enquiry on non-acceptance of

cheques and opening of accounts. (c) Decision Support & Risk Management

eFunds' US Decision Support & Risk Management ("Risk Management")

segment provides risk management-based data and other products to

financial institutions, retailers and other businesses that assist in

detecting fraud and assessing the risk of opening a new account or 24 accepting a cheque. This segment offers products and services that

help determine the likelihood of account fraud and identity

manipulation and assess the overall risks involved in opening new

accounts or accepting payment transactions. SCAN: SCAN or Shared Cheque Authorization Network, helps

retailers reduce the risk of write-offs for dishonouredcheques due to

insufficient funds and other forms of account fraud or identity

manipulation. When a cheque is presented as payment at the point-of-

sale, SCAN members run the cheque through a scanner. The

information on the cheque is then compared to the SCAN database to

determine whether there have been payment problems with the

cheque writer or his or her account. SCAN then reports any issues to

the retailer and the merchant decides whether or not to accept the

cheque. ChexSystems: The ChexSystems business is a provider of new

account applicant verification services for financial institutions.

ChexSystems provides access to more than 17 million closed-for-

cause account histories and has recorded 124 million new account

enquiries. An account is considered closed-for-cause when, for

example, a consumer refuses to pay the account fee and the bank

closes the account. ChexSystems helps financial institutions

immediately assess the risks involved in opening an account for a new

customer by supporting real-time enquiries to its database of

consumer debit account performance. ChexSystems' database

includes account history data provided by or purchased from financial

institutions and other data purchased from third parties including

driver's license data, deceased person's records and suspect address 25 lists. All such data base relates to the persons located in the US and

the customers of this data base were banks and retailers located in

the US. Services provided by eFunds US: eFunds US was responsible for

Customer interface and agreement/contracts with the customers

were entered into by eFunds US. All risks and responsibilities for

performance of contracts at all times were of eFunds US only. All

eFunds risk management services are based on, or enhanced by

eFunds' proprietary DebitBureau database, which is located in data

centres of the group situated in USA. DebitBureau contains over

three billion records and includes data form eFunds ChexSystemsSM

and SCANSM databases and other sources. The data in DebitBureau

is used to screen for potentially incorrect, inconsistent, or fraudulent

social security numbers, home addresses, telephone numbers, driver

license information, and other indicators of possible identity

manipulation. Using this data, eFunds US can perform various tests to

validate a consumer's identity and assess and rank the risk of fraud

associated with opening an account for or accepting a payment from

that consumer. eFunds US software development centers in the

United States, as well as in the U.S. data centers and remotely at the

customers' sites develop and maintain software for these service

offerings. Services provided by eFunds India: The work performed by eFunds

India involved responding to the inbound calls made by the customers

located outside India to customer support center of eFunds US.

These calls were routed to eFunds India for enquiry on non-

acceptance of cheques and opening of accounts. eFunds India also provided software support services for SCAN and

Chex process. eFunds India was only involved in bug fixing and

software maintenance. (d) Global Outsourcing Services & Professional Services

eFunds US provide its clients with information technology and

business process outsourcing services to complement and support its

electronic payments business. Its business process management and

outsourcing services focus on both back-office and customer support

business processes, such as accounting operations, help desk, account

management, transaction processing and call center operations. It

consists of providing information technology services including

maintenance of hardware and networks, installation of eFunds US

electronic payment products and the integration of these products

within the customer's existing information technology infrastructure.

All of these hardwares, networks and information technology

infrastructure were located outside India. Professional services

include customizing standard eFunds US products and developing new

applications for clients who want additional features and functionality

and help clients test and refine eFunds US products in their

information technology environments. In addition, it also covers

providing on-site user training on eFunds US products and solutions

for the information technology, operations and management staff of

clients. Services provided by eFunds US: eFunds US was responsible for

Customer Interface and customization of products and services as

per the dictates of the Customer. Agreement/ contracts with the

customers were entered into by eFunds US. All risks and 27 responsibilities for performance of the contracts at all times were of

eFunds US only. Services provided by eFunds India: eFunds US subcontracted part

of its responsibilities under professional services contract with some

of its customers to eFunds India which involve the following: This being the case, it is clear that the very first ingredient

contained in Article 5(2)(l) is not satisfied................ 21. Shri Ganesh has argued before us that the "agency PE" aspect of

the case need not be gone into as it was given up before the ITAT. He

is right in this submission as no argument on this score is found

before the ITAT. However, for the sake of completeness, it is only

necessary to agree with the High Court, that it has never been the

case of Revenue that e-Funds India was authorized to or exercised

any authority to conclude contracts on behalf of the US company, nor

was any factual foundation laid to attract any of the said clauses

contained in Article 5(4) of the DTAA. This aspect of the case,

therefore, need not detain us any further. Shri Ganesh is correct in stating that as the arm's length principle

has been satisfied in the present case, no further profits would be

attributable even if there exists a PE in India. This was specifically

held in Morgan Stanley (supra) as follows: This is the key question which arises for determination in these civil

appeals. 35. The object behind enactment of transfer pricing regulations is to

prevent shifting of profits outside India. Under Article 7(2) not all

profits of MSCo would be taxable in India but only those which have

economic nexus with PE in India. A foreign enterprise is liable to be

taxed in India on so much of its business profit as is attributable to

the PE in India. The quantum of taxable income is to be determined in

accordance with the provisions of the IT Act . All provisions of the IT

Act are applicable, including provisions relating to depreciation,

investment losses, deductible expenses, carry forward and set-off

losses, etc. However, deviations are made by DTAA in cases of 30 royalty, interest, etc. Such deviations are also made under the IT Act (for example Sections 44-BB , 44-BBA , etc.). 36. Under the impugned ruling delivered by AAR, remuneration to

MSAS was justified by a transfer pricing analysis and, therefore, no

further income could be attributed to the PE (MSAS). In other

words, the said ruling equates an arm's length analysis (ALA) with

attribution of profits. It holds that once a transfer pricing analysis is

undertaken, there is no further need to attribute profits to a PE. The

impugned ruling is correct in principle insofar as an associated

enterprise, that also constitutes a PE, has been remunerated on an

arm's length basis taking into account all the risk-taking functions of

the enterprise. In such cases nothing further would be left to be

attributed to PE. The situation would be different if transfer pricing

analysis does not adequately reflect the functions performed and the

risks assumed by the enterprise. In such a situation, there would be a

need to attribute profits to PE for those functions/risks that have

not been considered. Therefore, in each case the data placed by the

taxpayer has to be examined as to whether the transfer pricing

analysis placed by the taxpayer is exhaustive of attribution of profits

and that would depend on the functional and factual analysis to be

undertaken in each case. Lastly, it may be added that taxing

corporates on the basis of the concept of economic nexus is an

important feature of attributable profits (profits attributable to

PE)." 20. A comparative chart of the facts of the case in hand and those

considered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of eFunds IT

Solutions and Ors [supra] is as under" and the Indian entity gives complete control to the
 American entity in regard to personnel employed by the
 Indian entity
 It is only through the proprietary database and software Yes Yes
 of Foreign entity (eFunds Corp), that Indian Entity
 (eFunds India) carries out its functions for Foreign entity
 (eFunds Corp
 Indian Entity (eFunds India) provides management Yes No. The
 support and marketing support services to Foreign entity Indian entity
 (eFunds Corp) group companies outside India. only provide
 back office 32 and BPO
 related
 services. Place of business of the Indian entity is not at the disposal Yes Yes
 of the US company
 Indian entity is not negotiating and concluding contracts Yes Yes
 on behalf of the foreign parent company
 All the clients to whom services are rendered are located Yes Yes
 outside India
 The Indian entity has been remunerated on an arm's Yes Yes
 length basis which has also been accepted by the TPO.
 Accordingly, no further attribution to be made to India 21. On understanding the facts mentioned hereinabove, we are of

the considered view that it is not the case of the Revenue that the

employees of foreign enterprises furnished services in India Nothing

has been brought on record by the Revenue to show that there was

secondment of employees by Exl US to Exl India. 22. A perusal of the Service Agreement shows that foreign enterprise

i.e. Exl US is doing marketing work only and its contracts with clients

are assigned or sub-contracted to Indian entity i.e. Exl India. 33 23. The expenses of the firm/enterprise Exl US can be understood

from the following chart: 24. The ld. DR vehemently stated that Shri Rohit Kapoor as Chief

Financial Officer has signed agreement both for Exl Serviuces.com

[India] Private Limited and Exl Services India Private Limited to which

the ld. counsel for the assessee vehemently stated that agreement

which is referred to by the ld. DR is between Conseco Inc and Exl 34 Service.com India Private Limited and made a categorical finding that

Shri Rohit Kapoor is not employed with the Indian company but is

under employment of Exl US and pointed out that the addresses for

service of notices are different for Conesco Inc and Exl Delaware or Exl

India. 25. Coming to the next allegation PE being Agency PE, in our

understanding, an Agency PE is constituted where a person, other than

an agent of an independent status, is acting on behalf of a US

enterprise in India and such person has authority to conclude contracts

on behalf of the US enterprise and such authority habitually secures

orders in India wholly or almost wholly for the foreign enterprise. 26. On the facts of the case in hand, such conditions are absent, as

Exl India has no authority to conclude any contract on behalf the US

enter5pirse and all customers are based out of US and none of it is

present in India. Reference is made to the decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the case of Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc: 292 ITR 416

wherein it has been held as under: The Court further held that MSAS does not constitute an agency PE

since MSAS does not have any authority to enter into or conclude the

contracts on behalf of MSC in India. However, since MSC is rendering

services through its employees to MSAS, therefore, service PE of

MSC is constituted in India. 27. There is no dispute that no part of the business premises of Exl

India has been made available to the assessee for its use. Even the

Assessing Officer has not placed any material on record to show that

the assessee had a right to use any part of the business premises of Exl

India to carry on its own business activities. Moreover, Exl India is

merely a work contract to it by the assessee and core activities such as

key management functions, such as, development of strategy,

identifying new business areas, guidance to the group, sales and

marketing, contract negotiation and conclusion, and customer

relationship management are managed by the assessee from outside

India. 28. Merely because the assessee owns 100% of share capital of EXl

India does not have effect or consequence of EXL India becoming the

PE of the assessee in India. The assessee being the major shareholder

of EXL India, it has the legal right to nominate a director on the Board

of EXL India and merely because the assessee has nominated a director

on the Board of EXL India would not mean that the assessee has a

"Place of Management" in India. 29. Considering the facts in totality in light of the decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of eFunds IT Solution and Ors

[supra] and Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc [supra], we are of the considered

view that the assessee does not have a fixed place PE in India, Service

PE in India and dependent Agent PE in India. Therefore, no profit is

attributable as no business connection has been established under Article 5 of the DTAA between India and the US. 30. For the sake of completeness, in respect of attribution of income

to the PE, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Morgan Stanley &

Co. Inc [supra] has held that if the transactions between the PE and

the foreign Associated Enterprise are found to have taken place at

arms' length prices, then there is no question of attributing any

income to the PE. The relevant part of the order reads as under: 31. In light of the aforementioned discussion, Ground Nos. C, D and

E, are allowed and Ground Nos. F to P become otiose. 39 32. Ground No. Q was not disposed of by the ld. CIT(A). We,

therefore, direct the ld. CIT(A) to decide this grievance raised by the

assessee before him. Accordingly, this ground is allowed for statistical

purposes. 33. Ground No. R relates to the levy of interest u/s 234A , 234B and 234c of the Act. 34. Levy of interest is consequential and the Assessing Officer is

directed to charge interest as per provisions of law. 35. In so far as interest u/s 234B is concerned, u/s 195 of the Act,

tax is deductible at source from payments made to non-residents. The

assessee being a non-resident, tax is deductible at source u/s 195 of

the Act from the payments made to the assessee. Therefore, no

advance tax was payable as per the provisions of section 208 r.w.s. 209

of the Act. Therefore, the assessee had no liability for payment of

advance tax. Provisions of section 234B are not applicable. 36. For this proposition, we draw support from the decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mitsubishi Corporation 438 ITR

174 wherein the Court held as under: 37. Though the Finance Act, 2012 has amended the relevant

provisions, but the said amendment is w.e.f. 01.04.2012 and not

applicable for the years under consideration. 38. As a result, the appeals of the assessee are allowed in part for

statistical purposes. 39. Before closing, wherever the TPO has made adjustments while

determining the ALP, the said TP adjustment has been deleted by this

Tribunal in the case of Exl Service India Pvt ltd. Copies of the decision

of the co-ordinate bench are placed at pages 357 to 480 of the Paper

Book. Since the TP adjustments have been deleted in the hands of the

Exl India, the same are adjudicated automatically wherever relevant in

the captioned appeals. 40. In the result, the appeals of the assessee in ITA Nos. ITA No.

4183/DEL/2014, ITA No. 5627/DEL/2014, ITA No. 5628/DEL/2014 and ITA No. 3408/DEL/2014 are partly allowed for statistical purposes and that of the Revenue in ITA No. 4989/DEL/2014 is dismissed. The order is pronounced in the open court on 20.12.2023 in the

presence of both the rival representatives. Assistant Registrar for signature on the order
Date of dispatch of the Order