(Per Hon'ble Sri Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili)

 This Writ Petition is filed aggrieved by the judgment, dated

30.07.2024, rendered in First Appeal No.684 of 2022, by the

National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission at New Delhi

(for short, 'National Commission') and also the order, dated

04.08.2022, passed in C.C.No.102 of 2019 by the Telangana State

Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Hyderabad (for short,

'State Commission'). 2. Heard Sri M. Narender Reddy, learned Senior Counsel

representing Sri V.U.S.S.R. Anjaneyulu, learned counsel appearing

for the petitioner-Bank and Sri D.V. Sitaram Murthy, learned Senior

Counsel representing Sri K. Kiran Kumar, learned counsel

appearing for the respondents. 3. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner-Bank

had contended that the respondents were wife and husband. They 2 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 have opened joint Savings Bank Account with the petitioner-Bank

bearing A/c. No.10123103876 at Balkampet Branch, Hyderabad.

The respondents have opened three fixed deposits for

Rs.10,00,000/-, Rs.15,00,000/- and Rs.15,00,000/-, totaling

Rs.40,00,000/-, on 09.08.2017 for a period of one year with a

mandate of auto renewal. Accordingly, the petitioner-Bank has

issued Fixed Deposit Receipts to the respondents. 4. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner-Bank

had further contended that with the technological advancement

and as per the RBI guidelines, internet banking facility was

promoted by all the Banks to enable all the depositors/customers

of the Banks to voluntarily register themselves with internet

banking facility and transact their accounts by withdrawing the

amounts, transferring the amounts or create or break fixed deposits

through the App itself and also through internet banking facility.

As per the RBI Master Circular, dated 01.07.2011, all the Banks

were mandated to ensure that all the banking facilities such as

cheque book facility including third party cheques, ATM facility, 3 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 net banking facility, locker facility, retail loans, credit card etc., are

invariably offered to the visually challenged persons also, without

any discrimination. 5. Learned Senior Counsel had also drawn our attention to the

Terms of Service (Terms & Conditions) of petitioner-Bank and

Clause No.4 of the said terms clearly states that a user would be

allotted with a User-ID and Password (to be used at the time of

login) by the Bank in the first instance and the user has to

mandatorily change the User-ID and Password assigned by the

Bank on accessing the internet banking services for the first time.

Learned Senior Counsel further contended that only when the

User-ID and Password are typed, the customer can use the internet

banking services and the transaction will be completed, when OTP

is entered. 6. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner-Bank

had further contended that the respondents have admittedly

approached the petitioner-Bank for internet banking facility. 4 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 Initially, they opted for 'view only' facility. However, later the

respondents have enabled transaction rights by logging into

petitioner-Bank's website on 05.08.2018 at 11:20 AM and carried out

certain transactions. 7. Learned Senior Counsel had further contended that the

petitioner-Bank, in order to safeguard the interest of the customers

and to ensure that the customers accounts are not being hacked or

fake transactions are being taken place without their knowledge,

send SMS messages and OTPs to the registered mobile number of

the customers. Only when the OTP sent to the customers is

entered, the transaction will be done. In the instant case, SMS

messages and OTPs were sent as a precaution to the registered

mobile number of the respondents i.e. 9440531348 and only when

the respondents have entered the said OTP number, the online

transactions have been carried out. 8. Learned Senior Counsel had further contended that on

05.08.2018, at the request of the respondents, their account was 5 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 upgraded to that of full-fledged internet banking and a KIT was

also handed over to them, whereby they can change their password

for internet banking facility and only when SMS message is sent

and OTP is entered, the transactions will be carried out. 9. Learned Senior Counsel had further contended that the

respondents have lodged a complaint with the police on 09.04.2019,

which was registered as F.I.R.No.240 of 2019 of Cyber Crime Police

Station, Hyderabad, complaining that without their knowledge

certain transactions have taken place in their account and money to

a large extent was withdrawn and misappropriated and that they

are aged and visually impaired persons and they were not aware

about the transactions, which were carried out in their account

through online. Learned Senior Counsel further contended that it

was alleged by the respondents that whenever they want to update

their passbook, the petitioner-Bank was not updating their

passbook on the ground that the printer was not working; that

during November, 2018, to March, 2019, several online transactions

took place in their account without their knowledge; and that they 6 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 have taken 'view only' facility through internet banking, but

without any request being made by the respondents, their account

was upgraded to that of full-fledged online account and

consequently, the amounts from the account of the respondents

were withdrawn fraudulently. 10. Learned Senior Counsel had further contended that alleging

that an amount of Rs.63,00,000/- was fraudulently withdrawn from

the respondents account because of the negligence and deficiency

of service by the petitioner-Bank and holding the petitioner-Bank as

responsible for upgrading their account from 'view only' facility to

that of full-fledged internet banking service through online,

without there being any requisition by the respondents, the

respondents filed a complaint i.e. C.C.No.102 of 2019 before the

State Commission against the petitioner-Bank. The State

Commission has erroneously came to a conclusion that it is the

petitioner-Bank, which is responsible for fraudulent transactions in

the account of the respondents and vide order, dated 04.08.2022,

partly allowed the complaint preferred by the respondents and 7 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 directed the petitioners to jointly and severally reimburse an

amount of Rs.63,74,527/- along with interest at the rate of 9% per

annum from the date of the complaint i.e. 11.06.2019 till realization

thereafter. The State Commission has also awarded a sum of

Rs.3,00,000/- towards compensation along with Rs.20,000/-

towards costs. 11. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner-Bank

had further contended that the police have investigated the

complaint filed by the respondents and filed Charge Sheet on

06.11.2023 on the file of learned I Additional Metropolitan Sessions

Judge, at Hyderabad, and the same was numbered as C.C.No.6467

of 2024. As per the Charge Sheet filed by the police, the amounts

from the respondents' account were transferred to M/s. Nearby

Technologies, M/s. Avenues India Private Limited, M/s. Riya

Travels, Interactive Fina and M/s. Flight Raja Travels and all the

transactions took place between 09.08.2018 to 25.03.2019. It is also

clear that much amounts were transferred to M/s. Nearby

Technologies and M/s. Avenues India Private Limited and the 8 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 police had also identified the accused, who are none other than the

helpers of the respondents, which would mean that the

respondents internet account information was known to their

maids and they were responsible for the fraudulent transactions,

which took place in the bank account of the respondents and

therefore, the petitioner-Bank is no way responsible for the alleged

fraudulent transactions. 12. Learned Senior Counsel had further contended that the

internet banking User-ID, Password and OTPs, which are received

from the Bank, shall not be shared by the customer to anyone and it

is their responsibility but not the responsibility of the Bank. This

fact was not properly appreciated by the State Commission and the

State Commission has mechanically allowed the complaint in

favour of the respondents and erroneously directed the petitioners

to reimburse an amount of Rs.63,74,527/- jointly and severally to

the respondents along with interest at the rate of 9% per annum

from the date of complaint i.e. 11.06.2019 till realization thereafter 9 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 and the State Commission has also awarded a sum of Rs.3,00,000/-

towards compensation along with Rs.20,000/- towards costs. 13. Learned Senior Counsel had further contended that when the

fault does not lie with the petitioner-Bank, the question of allowing

the complaint filed by the respondents would not arise. Therefore,

aggrieved by the order passed by the State Commission, the

petitioner-Bank has carried the matter in appeal to the National

Commission by filing the subject First Appeal No.684 of 2022 and

the National Commission was pleased to dismiss the appeal

preferred by the petitioner-Bank, without appreciating any of the

contentions raised by the petitioner-Bank and confirmed the order

passed by the State Commission. 14. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners had

contended that the issue raised in the present Writ Petition is

squarely covered by the judgment rendered by the Honourable

Supreme Court in Chairman and Managing Director, City Union 10 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 Bank Limited and another v. R. Chandramohan1 , wherein, the

Honourable Supreme Court has held that the proceedings before

the State Commission and National Commission are essentially

summary in nature. The issues which involve disputed factual

questions should not be adjudicated by the Commission and the

issues in respect of fraudulent transactions, tortious acts,

criminality like fraud and cheating could not be decided by the

Commission under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (for short,

'the Act') and the 'deficiency of service', as well settled, has to be

distinguished from the criminal acts or tortious acts. There could

not be any presumption with regard to the wilful fault,

imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in the quality, nature and

manner of performance in service, as contemplated under Section

2(1)(g) of the Act. In the instant case, when there is an element of

fraudulent transaction committed at the end of the respondents

through their maid and her husband, the State Commission could

not have adjudicated the dispute and allowed the complaint in

favour of the respondents. 1 (2023) 7 SCC 775 11 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 15. Moreover, the charge sheet filed in the criminal case also

discloses that the real culprits, who had carried out fraudulent

transactions through the internet banking facility of the

respondents, were the maid of the respondents and her husband

and therefore, it is the respondents alone are to be blamed for

allowing the access of their User-ID and Password of internet

banking facility to their maid and her husband and that the

petitioner-Bank is not responsible. Therefore, the State

Commission was not justified in directing the petitioners to make

good an amount of Rs.63,74,527/-, that too, along with interest at

the rate of 9% per annum from the date of complaint till the date of

realization. The petitioner-Bank has never done any fraudulent

transactions. It is the staff of the respondents alone who have

indulged in fraudulent transactions and the question of vicarious

liability on the part of the petitioner-Bank would not arise. The

concept of vicarious liability is not applicable in a criminal

jurisprudence. AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 16. Learned Senior Counsel had further contended that in the

instant case, the State Commission has allowed the complaint

preferred by the respondents on the ground that because of the

lapses of the petitioner-Bank i.e. they have upgraded the

respondents internet banking on their own from 'view only' facility

to that of full-fledged internet banking facility, the fraudulent

transactions have taken place. Learned Senior Counsel had

further contended that online transactions were made available to

the customers only on their request and admittedly, the request for

upgrading the internet banking of the respondents from 'view

only' facility to that of full-fledged internet banking facility has

only been made through the registered mobile number of the

respondents and User-ID and Password were directly sent to the

respondents' registered mobile number and there is no doubt with

regard to the registered mobile number of the respondents is

concerned i.e. 9440531348. When the respondents have not

disputed about the registered mobile number, they cannot deny

that a request had not come from their registered mobile number. 13 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 When once a request was made for upgrading the bank account

from 'view only' facility to that of full-fledged internet banking

facility, the petitioner-Bank has bona fidely upgraded the internet

banking account of the respondents to full-fledged banking account

and for every transaction, precaution was taken by the petitioner-

Bank by sending SMS messages and OTPs to the registered mobile

number of the respondents. Only when OTP is entered, the

transaction will be completed. It is the responsibility of the

respondents to ensure that their internet banking privacy and

safety is protected by themselves. If the workers of the

respondents have played fraud, then the petitioner-Bank cannot be

made to pay the loss caused to the respondents. This fact was not

properly appreciated either by the State Commission or by the

National Commission. Therefore, appropriate orders be passed in

the Writ Petition by setting aside the order, dated 04.08.2022,

passed in C.C.No.102 of 2019 by the State Commission and the

judgment, dated 30.07.2024, rendered in First Appeal No.684 of

2022 by the National Commission and allow the Writ Petition. 14 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 17. On the other hand, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

respondents had contended that the respondents are aged persons

and senior citizens. Respondent No.1 is a retired IAS Officer, who

served as a Secretary to the Government of Andhra Pradesh,

Secretary to Government of India and also as Secretary General,

Afro Asian Rural Reconstruction Organization. Respondent No.1

is partially blind and respondent No.2 is totally blind. They are

aged above 90 years. They have opened an account i.e. joint

savings bank account bearing A/c. No.10123103876, with the

petitioner-Bank at Balkampet Branch. They have also opened three

fixed deposits on 09.08.2017 to a tune of Rs.10,00,000/-,

Rs.15,00,000/- and Rs.15,00,000/-, for a period of one year with

mandate for auto renewal, for which the petitioner-Bank has issued

Fixed Deposit Receipts. 18. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents had

further contended that the respondents have not surrendered the

Fixed Deposit Receipts and even without submitting the Fixed

Deposit Receipts, the petitioner-Bank has liquidated the fixed 15 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 deposits, even before its maturity, without informing the

respondents. Further, the respondents have sought 'view only'

facility on internet banking, but they never sought full-fledged

transactions on internet banking and on 05.08.2018, without the

knowledge of the respondents, the petitioner-Bank has upgraded

the internet banking of the respondents from 'view-only' facility to

that of full-fledged internet banking facility. In spite of there being

no request, the petitioner-Bank has upgraded the account of the

respondents and that led to taking place of fraudulent transactions

from the respondents account and consequently, the respondents

amount to a tune of Rs.63,74,527/- was fraudulently withdrawn.

Learned Senior Counsel had further contended that for the

deficiency of service of the petitioner-Bank, the State Commission

has rightly allowed the complaint in favour of the respondents. 19. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents had

further contended that Section 2(g) of the Act states that

"deficiency" means any fault, imperfection, shortcoming or

inadequacy in the quality, nature and manner of performance 16 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 which is required to be maintained by or under any law for the

time being in force or has been undertaken to be performed by a

person in pursuance of a contract or otherwise in relation to any

service. Further, Section 2(o) of the Act states that "service" means

service of any description which is made available to potential

users and includes, but not limited to, the provision of facilities in

connection with banking, financing insurance, transport,

processing, supply of electrical or other energy, board or lodging or

both, housing construction, entertainment, amusement or the

purveying of news or other information, but does not include the

rendering of any service free of charge or under a contract of

personal service. As per Section 2(o) of the Act, 'service' includes

banking service also. Since there was deficiency in service on the

part of the petitioner-Bank, the State Commission was justified in

allowing the complaint in favour of the respondents and the

National Commission was also justified in dismissing the appeal

preferred by the petitioners. AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 20. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents had

relied upon series of judgments and contended that in a Writ of

Certiorari, the scope of this Court is limited. Until and unless there

is error of jurisdiction or error apparent on the face of record, the

Court cannot interfere. Admittedly, in the instant case, no error

was committed either by the State Commission or the National

Commission. 21. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents had

also relied upon the judgment of the High Court of Gauhati in State Bank of India v. Pallabh Bhowmick and others2, wherein,

some online transactions have taken place from Pallabh

Bhowmick's account and the learned Single Judge of Gauhati High

Court has directed the State Bank of India to deposit an amount of

Rs.94,204.80 ps. in his account, holding that when no negligence

can be attributed on a customer for fraudulent transaction which

took place without his knowledge, the Bank alone is liable for such

online transaction, and when the same was challenged before a 2 2024 SCC OnLine Gau 1519 18 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 Division Bench, the Division Bench of the Gauhati High Court has

dismissed the Writ Appeal confirming the order passed by the

learned Single Judge. 22. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents had

further relied upon a judgment of the Honourable Supreme Court

in Dav Public School v. Senior Manager, Indian Bank, Midnapur

Branch and others3, wherein, certain fraudulent transactions have

taken place in the School account and the Honourable Supreme

Court has directed the Bank to pay an amount of Rs.25,00,000/-. 23. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents had

further relied upon a judgment of the Honourable Supreme Court

in Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences and

another v. Bikartan Das and others4 and contended that the scope

of Certiorari is only to confine the inferior Tribunals within their

jurisdiction, so as to avoid the irregular exercise, or the non-

exercise or the illegal assumption of it and not to correct errors of 3 (2019) 20 SCC 31 4 Civil Appeal No.3339 of 2023, dated 16.08.2023. 19 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 finding of fact or interpretation of law committed by them in

exercise of powers vested in them under the Statute. When there is

any error apparent on the face of the record, then only the High

Courts can interfere under the jurisdiction of the Certiorari. In the

instant case, the facts and the transactions were dealt with by the

State Commission and the National Commission and they

categorically gave a finding that there was deficiency of service on

the part of the petitioner-Bank. The State Commission was justified

in allowing the complaint preferred by the respondents. This Court

cannot relook into the facts. Therefore, there are no merits in the

Writ Petition and the same is liable to be dismissed. 24. This Court, having considered the rival submissions made by

the learned counsel for the parties, is of the considered view that

the petitioner-Bank has initially extended 'view only' facility on the

internet banking to the respondents. However, on a specific

request, which has come from the registered mobile number of the

respondents on 05.08.2018, the petitioner-Bank has upgraded the

internet banking of the respondents account from 'view only' 20 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 facility to that of full-fledged internet banking facility. To that

extent, the petitioner-Bank has produced a copy of the proceedings,

wherein, a request has come from the respondents through their

registered mobile number i.e. 9440531348, for upgrading their

internet banking. The online transactions took place at the end of

the respondents, may not be by the respondents, but from the

workers of the respondents, and in all the transactions, there was a

request made from the registered mobile number of the

respondents and the petitioner-Bank has sent SMS messages and

also OTPs to the respondents to their registered mobile number.

Only when the OTP is entered, the transaction would be

completed, which would mean that the fraudulent transactions

took place at the side of the respondents, for which the petitioner-

Bank may not be held responsible. 25. Further, the Charge Sheet filed by the police also makes it

clear that one of the accused, who carried out the fraudulent

transactions, is none other than the worker of the respondents and

the responsibility of maintaining confidentiality of the bank 21 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 account details lies with the respondents. Admittedly, the internet

banking transactions took place at the end of the respondents, may

not be by the respondents, but by the workers of the respondents,

and therefore, the State Commission was not justified in directing

the petitioner-Bank to reimburse the respondents an amount of

Rs.63,74,527/- along with interest at the rate of 9% per annum from

the date of complaint till the date of realization, for the fraud which

was not committed by the petitioner-Bank, but was committed by

the workers of the respondents and the same is contrary to law,

more so, when the police investigation reveals that the amounts

were transferred to various other accounts by the workers of the

respondents. The amounts to be recovered by the police in the

criminal case can be directed to be reimbursed to the respondents,

but the State Commission was not justified in directing the

petitioner-Bank to reimburse the loss caused to the respondents.

This fact was also not properly appreciated by the State

Commission and the National Commission. The National 22 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 Commission ought to have allowed the appeal preferred by the

petitioner-Bank. 26. As far as the judgment relied upon by the respondents in Bikartan Das 's case (supra 4) is concerned, the ratio laid down

therein is that in Certiorari jurisdiction Courts cannot go into

factual position. As far as the finding recorded by the State

Commission that the petitioner-Bank must reimburse the amount

to the respondents is concerned, the State Commission could not

have come to such a conclusion that the petitioner-Bank has

committed any fraud or it has involved in any fraudulent

transaction. When the petitioner-Bank was not involved in any

fraudulent transaction or any irregularity, the question of directing

the petitioner-Bank to reimburse the amounts would not arise.

Moreover, the material placed before this Court i.e. Charge Sheet

filed in the criminal case, also discloses that the amounts from the

account of the respondents were transferred to several other

accounts, that too, at the instance of the workers of the

respondents. Therefore, the State Commission was not justified in 23 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 directing the petitioners to reimburse the amounts to the

respondents. This fact was also not properly appreciated by the

National Commission. 27. Insofar as the judgment relied upon by the respondents in Dav Public School 's case (supra 3) is concerned, admittedly , in that

case , the complaint was lodged with the Bank on 09.09.2014 i.e. the

next day of detecting the siphoning off the amount from the school

account and in those set of circumstances, the Honourable Supreme

Court has rightly directed the Bank to compensate the school to a

tune of Rs.25,00,000/-. But, in the instant case, even before a

complaint could be lodged, several fraudulent transactions have

taken place, that too, at the end of the respondents, may not be by

the respondents, but by their workers. The workers have gained

access to the registered mobile number of the respondents and they

have misappropriated the amounts and indulged in fraudulent

transactions, for which the petitioner-Bank cannot be held to be

responsible. AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 28. Further, the Online RBI Guidelines also state that Passwords

and OTPs should not be shared to anybody and that for a

fraudulent transaction, the Bank is not responsible. Admittedly, in

the instant case, the petitioner-Bank has taken precautions by

sending SMS messages and OTPs to the registered mobile number

of the respondents and when misuse has occurred at the end of the

respondents' domestic help, the petitioner-Bank cannot be held to

be responsible. 29. The Honourable Supreme Court in R. Chandramohan 's case

(supra 1) has rightly held that the proceedings before a State

Commission are summary in nature and it should not adjudicate

the matters where there is an element of fraudulent transactions,

such as tortious acts, criminal fraud and cheating. The State

Commission should not adjudicate complex matters. Admittedly,

in the instant case, fraudulent transactions have occurred with the

respondents' bank account, that too, by the domestic help of the

respondents. Therefore, the State Commission could not have

adjudicated the case when fraudulent transactions have taken place 25 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 at the end of the respondents by their workers. Therefore, the State

Commission was not justified in allowing the complaint filed by

the respondents against the petitioner-Bank. 30. Further, the issue with regard to upgrading the internet

banking from 'view only' facility to that of full-fledged internet

banking facility, without there being any request from the

respondents, is concerned, admittedly, the request was made

through registered mobile number of the respondents for

upgrading the account of the respondents to that of full-fledged

internet banking facility and the petitioner-Bank, in its true faith,

has upgraded the account of the respondents and also furnished

User-ID and Password. The petitioner-Bank has taken every

precautionary step to ensure protection of the respondents' money

by sending SMS messages and OTPs to the respondents' registered

mobile number. Only when the OTPs, which were received by the

respondents, were entered, the transactions have been made.

Therefore, the petitioner-Bank under no stretch of imagination can 26 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 be held responsible for the fraudulent transactions, which have

taken place in the respondents' account. 31. As far as the contention of the respondents that the

petitioner-Bank could not have redeemed the Fixed Deposits even

before the date of their maturity, that too, when the original Fixed

Deposit Receipts are with the respondents, is concerned, the

learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner-Bank has

produced the Terms of Service of petitioner-Bank, wherein, Rules 4

and 5 make it clear that the Fixed Deposits were also permitted to

be redeemed through internet banking service. Admittedly, the

request for redemption of fixed deposits was made through the

registered mobile number of the respondents and the petitioner-

Bank in a bona fide manner has redeemed the fixed deposits of the

respondents. Therefore, the petitioner-Bank could not have been

found fault for redemption of fixed deposits of the respondents. 32. Further, a perusal of the Fixed Deposit Receipts of the

respondents also makes it clear that the fixed deposits can be 27 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 redeemed through internet banking service. Therefore, while

handling the account of the respondents, the petitioner-bank has

taken all precautions in the form of sending SMS text and also OTP

numbers to the registered mobile number of the respondents before

the transactions were completed. Therefore, under no stretch of

imagination the petitioner-Bank is found fault. If at all any

mischief has taken place, it has taken place at the end of the

respondents, may not be by the respondents, but by their domestic

help, for which, the petitioner-Bank is not responsible. Therefore,

the order, dated 04.08.2022, passed by the State Commission and

the judgment, dated 30.07.2024, rendered by the National

Commission are liable to be set aside. 33. Accordingly, the Writ Petition is allowed and the order, dated

04.08.2022, passed in C.C.No.102 of 2019 by the Telangana State

Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Hyderabad, and the

judgment, dated 30.07.2024, rendered in First Appeal No.684 of

2022, by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission at

New Delhi, are set aside. There shall be no order as to costs. 28 AKS,J& ETD,J W.P.No.31150 of 2024 Miscellaneous Applications, if any, pending in this Writ

Petition shall stand closed. ________________________________
 ABHINAND KUMAR SHAVILI, J

 __________________________
 TIRUMALA DEVI EADA, J
Date: 11.04.2025. MD