% 18.05.2023 1. The Petitioner before this Court has filed the present petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India challenging the constitutional
 validity of the RBI's Master Circular on 'Frauds - Classification and
 Reporting' by Commercial Banks and Selected Financial Institutions dated
 01.07.2016. The contention of the Petitioner is that without following the
 principles of natural justice & fair play, the account of Petitioners, has been
 declared as 'Fraud'. The Petitioner has prayed for the following reliefs: CFMC. BC. No. 1/ 23.04.001/ 2016-17 dated 01.07.2016,

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/09/2023 at 12:45:52
 updated as on 03.07.2017 issued by the Respondent No.2
 inasmuch as it is vague, does not follow the basic principles of
 natural justice and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of
 India; B. Issue a writ of Mandamus, or any other appropriate writ,
 order or direction declaring the Impugned Action of
 Respondent No.1 Bank of declaring the account of the
 Petitioners No.1 as Fraud (pursuant to the RBI Circular dated
 01.07.2016) as illegal, invalid and null and void;
 C. Issue a Writ of Mandamus or any other appropriate writ,
 order or direction quashing any steps/ action taken pursuant to
 the Impugned Action of declaring the Petitioners' account as
 "fraud"; D. Issue a writ of Mandamus, or any other appropriate writ,
 order or direction staying further actions or steps pursuant to
 the Impugned Action of declaring the Petitioners' account as
 fraud; E. Pass any other order(s) as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit
 and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case.‖ 2. While the matter was being argued, learned Counsel, at the outset, has
 drawn the attention of this Court towards the judgment delivered by the
 Apex Court in the case of State Bank of India & Others Vs. Rajesh
 Agarwal & Others , Civil Appeal No.7300/2022, and other connected
 matters. The Civil Appeals decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court arose
 out of a judgment passed by the High Court of Telangana, wherein the
 Petitioners therein challenged the vires of the Reserve Bank of India (Frauds
 Classification and Reporting by Commercial Banks and Select Financial
 Institutions) Directions 2016, issued by the Reserve Bank of India. The
 High Court of Telangana has held in the impugned judgment that the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/09/2023 at 12:45:52
 principles of natural justice must be read into the provisions of the Master
 Directions on Frauds. 3. The decision of the High Court of Telangana was assailed by the RBI
 and lender Banks before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. It was held by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court that the principles of natural justice, particularly the
 rule of audi alteram partem, has to be necessarily read into the Master
 Directions on Frauds to save it from the vice of arbitrariness. It was so held
 that as the classification of an account as fraud entails serious civil
 consequences for the borrower, the directions must be construed reasonably
 by reading into them the requirement of observing the principles of natural
 justice. It was held that the administrative proceedings which entail
 significant civil consequences must be read consistent with the principles of
 natural justice to meet the requirement of Article 14. Where possible, the
 rule of audi alteram partem ought to be read into a statutory rule to render it
 compliant with the principles of equality and non-arbitrariness envisaged
 under Article 14. The Master Directions on Frauds did not expressly
 provide the borrowers an opportunity of being heard before classifying the
 borrower's account as fraud. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, therefore, held
 that the principle of audi alteram partem must then be read into the
 provisions of the Master Directions on Frauds. 4. Thus, to summarise, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its judgment has
 held as under: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/09/2023 at 12:45:53 (ii) Classification of an account as fraud not only results in
 reporting the crime to investigating agencies, but also has other
 penal and civil consequences against the borrowers; (iii) Debarring the borrowers from accessing institutional finance
 under Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions on Frauds results
 in serious civil consequences for the borrower; (iv) Such a debarment under Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions
 on Frauds is akin to blacklisting the borrowers for being
 untrustworthy and unworthy of credit by banks. This Court has
 consistently held that an opportunity of hearing ought to be
 provided before a person is blacklisted; (v) The application of audi alteram partem cannot be impliedly
 excluded under the Master Directions on Frauds. In view of the
 time frame contemplated under the Master Directions on Frauds
 as well as the nature of the procedure adopted, it is reasonably
 practical for the lender banks to provide an opportunity of a
 hearing to the borrowers before classifying their account as
 fraud; (vi) The principles of natural justice demand that the borrowers
 must be served a notice, given an opportunity to explain the
 conclusions of the forensic audit report, and be allowed to make
 representations before the banks/ JLF before their account is
 classified as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds. In

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/09/2023 at 12:45:53
 addition, the decision classifying the borrower's account as
 fraudulent must be made by a reasoned order; and (vii) Since the Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly provide
 an opportunity of hearing to the borrowers before classifying
 their account as fraud, audi alteram partem has to be read into
 the provisions of the directions to save them from the vice of
 arbitrariness. 5. Paragraphs 81 to 83 of the order passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court read as under: 6. In light of the aforesaid judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court, as argued by the learned Counsel for the Petitioner, no opportunity of
 hearing was granted to the Petitioner and the aforesaid fact has not been
 controverted by learned Counsel for the Respondent No.1 Bank. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/09/2023 at 12:45:53 7. Accordingly, the order declaring the account of the Petitioner herein
 as 'Fraud' is hereby set aside. However, liberty is granted to the Respondent
 No.1 Bank to proceed ahead in accordance with law in light of the judgment
 delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 8. The petition stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms along with the
 pending applications. SATISH CHANDRA SHARMA, CJ

 SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J
 MAY 18, 2023
 N.Khanna

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/09/2023 at 12:45:53