% 04.11.2024 1. This petition has been preferred impugning the order dated 09
 July 2024 in terms of which the registration of the writ petitioner
 under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 20171 has come to
 be cancelled with retrospective effect from 08 October 2022. 2. As we read the impugned Show Cause Notice2 which had
 preceded the final order of cancellation, we find the same had alleged
 a violation of Section 29 (2)(e) of the CGST Act with it being asserted
 that the registration under the CGST Act had been obtained by means
 of fraud, wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts. The other
 reasons which were assigned in that SCN merely read as "others". 3. From the final order which has been passed by the respondents, 1 CGST Act 2 SCN W.P.(C) 14809/2024 Page 1 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/11/2024 at 22:46:41
 we note that they appear to rest their decision on a physical
 verification which was undertaken and on the basis of which they
 came to conclude that the petitioner was "bogus/non-existent". On
 being queried, we were informed that the respondents had in the
 course of physical verification found that the petitioner was not
 carrying on any activity from the declared and principal place of
 business. 4. While this is sought to be disputed by the petitioner, in our
 considered opinion, we need not go into the said issues since the writ
 petitioner is entitled to succeed on a more fundamental ground. We
 note that the original allegation was that the registration itself had
 been obtained by fraud, wilful mis-statement and suppression of facts.
 This would necessarily require the respondents having found a false
 statement or wilful misstatement having been made by the writ
 petitioner at the time of obtaining registration itself and thus attracting Section 29 (2)(e) of the Act. The mere fact of it being subsequently
 found that the petitioner was not operating from the declared place of
 business during the course of a subsequent physical verification,
 would clearly not sustain the allegation that was levelled or place the
 case within the ambit of Section 29(2)(e) . 5. We note that in terms of Section 29 , the respondents stand
 empowered to cancel a registration in various contingencies. This is
 apparent from a reading of sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 29 and
 which are extracted hereinbelow:- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/11/2024 at 22:46:41 (a) the business has been discontinued, transferred fully for
 any reason including death of the proprietor, amalgamated
 with other legal entity, demerged or otherwise disposed of;
 or (b) there is any change in the constitution of the business; or (c) the taxable person, other than the person registered
 under sub-section (3) of section 25 , is no longer liable to be
 registered under section 22 or section 24 . [Provided that during pendency of the proceedings relating
 to cancellation of registration filed by the registered person, the
 registration may be suspended for such period and in such manner
 as may be prescribed.]
 (2) The proper officer may cancel the registration of a person from
 such date, including any retrospective date, as he may deem fit,
 where,-- (a) a registered person has contravened such provisions of
 the Act or the rules made thereunder as may be prescribed;
 or (b) a person paying tax under section 10 has not furnished
 returns for three consecutive tax periods; or (c) any registered person, other than a person specified in
 clause (b), has not furnished returns for a continuous period
 of six months; or (d) any person who has taken voluntary registration under
 sub-section (3) of section 25 has not commenced business
 within six months from the date of registration; or (e) registration has been obtained by means of fraud, wilful
 misstatement or suppression of facts: Provided that the
 proper officer shall not cancel the registration without
 giving the person an opportunity of being heard: 6. On an overall conspectus of the aforesaid and in the absence of
 any material having been relied upon which may have even remotely
 tended to indicate that the registration had been obtained by fraud,
 wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts, we find ourselves unable
 to sustain the order impugned. 7. Insofar as retrospective cancellation of registration is
 concerned, we bear in mind the following principles which had come
 to be laid down by us while dealing with identical questions in Riddhi W.P.(C) 14809/2024 Page 3 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/11/2024 at 22:46:41
 Siddhi Enterprises vs. Commissioner of Goods and Services Tax
 (CGST), South Delhi & Anr. [WP(C) 8061/2024 dated 22
 September 2024], and which read as under: 3. Petitioner was in the business of services involving repair,
 alterations, additions, replacements, renovation, maintenance
 or remodelling of the building covered above, General
 construction services of harbours, waterways, dams, water
 mains and lines, irrigation and other waterworks, General W.P.(C) 14809/2024 Page 4 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/11/2024 at 22:46:42
 construction services of long-distance underground/ overland/
 submarine pipelines, communication and electric power lines
 (cables); pumping stations and related works; transformer
 stations and related works, General construction services of
 local water & sewage pipelines, electricity and communication
 cables & related works, Installation, assembly and erection
 services of other prefabricated structures and constructions and
 possessed a GST registration. 4. A show cause notice was issued to the petitioner on
 07.04.2022 Though the notice does not specify any cogent
 reason, there is an observation in the notice stating failure to
 furnish returns for a continuous period of six months. The
 show cause notice requires the petitioner to appear before the
 undersigned i.e. authority issuing the notice. Notice does not
 give the name of the officer or place or time where the
 petitioner has to appear. 5. Further the order dated 13.07.2022 passed on the show
 cause notice does not give any reasons for cancellation of the
 registration. It, however, states that the registration is liable to
 be cancelled for the following reason "whereas no reply to
 notice to show cause has been submitted''. However, the said
 order in itself is contradictory, the order states "reference to
 your reply dated 16.04.2022 in response to the notice to show
 cause dated 07.04.2022" and the reason stated for cancellation
 is "whereas no reply to notice to show cause has been
 submitted''. The order further states that effective date of
 cancellation of registration is 01.07.2017 i.e. retrospective
 date. 6. Neither the show cause notice, nor the order spell out the
 reasons for retrospective cancellation. In fact, in our view,
 order dated 13.07.2022 does not qualify as an order of
 cancellation of registration. 7. As per the petitioner, the said order reflected that the GST of
 the Petitioner stands cancelled from 01.07.2017 even though
 returns thereafter have been filed by the Petitioner. 8. We notice that the show cause notice as well as the
 impugned order of cancellation, are themselves vitiated on
 account of lack of reason and clarity. The appeal has been
 dismissed solely on the ground of limitation. Since the very
 foundation of entire proceedings i.e. show cause notice and the
 order of cancellation are vitiated, we are of the view that no
 purpose would be served in relegating the petitioner to the
 stage of an appeal. 9. In terms of Section 29(2) of the Central Goods and Services
 Tax Act, 2017, the proper officer may cancel the GST
 registration of a person from such date including any
 retrospective date, as he may deem fit if the circumstances set
 out in the said sub-section are satisfied. The registration cannot W.P.(C) 14809/2024 Page 5 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/11/2024 at 22:46:42
 be cancelled with retrospective effect mechanically. It can be
 cancelled only if the proper officer deems it fit to do so. Such
 satisfaction cannot be subjective but must be based on some
 objective criteria. Merely, because a taxpayer has not filed the
 returns for some period does not mean that the taxpayer's
 registration is required to be cancelled with retrospective date
 also covering the period when the returns were filed and the
 taxpayer was compliant. 10. It is important to note that,
 according to the respondent, one of the consequences for
 cancelling a tax payer's registration with retrospective effect is
 that the taxpayer's customers are denied the input tax credit
 availed in respect of the supplies made by the tax payer during
 such period. Although, we do not consider it apposite to
 examine this aspect but assuming that the respondent's
 contention in this regard is correct, it would follow that the
 proper officer is also required to consider this aspect while
 passing any order for cancellation of GST registration with
 retrospective effect. Thus, a taxpayer's registration can be
 cancelled with retrospective effect only where such
 consequences are intended and are warranted. 11. The show cause notice does not even state that the
 registration is liable to be cancelled from a retrospective date. 12. The petition is allowed. The impugned show cause notice
 dated 07.04.2022, order of cancellation dated 13.07.2022 and
 the order in appeal dated 29.12.2023 are accordingly set aside.
 GST registration of the petitioner is restored, subject to
 petitioner filing requisite returns upto date. 13. It is clarified that since the petitioner could not have filed
 the return after the GST registration was suspended, there shall
 be no liability to pay any penalty or fine for delayed filing.
 However, this would only apply in case petitioner files an
 affidavit of undertaking that petitioner has not carried out any
 business or raised invoices or taken any Input Tax Credit after
 the registration was suspended with effect from 07.04.2022
 i.e., the date of suspension of the registration. 14. Respondent would be at liberty to initiate appropriate
 proceedings in accordance with law after giving a proper show
 cause notice containing complete details, if so advised. Further
 this order would not preclude the respondent from initiating
 any steps in accordance with law, if it is found that the
 petitioner had violated any provisions of the Act. 15. Petition is disposed of in the above terms." 7. We further take note of the judgment in Delhi Polymers vs
 Commissioner, Trade and Taxes & Anr.5 wherein the following was
 observed:- 3. Petitioner was engaged in the business of Sanitary ware
 Products & Accessories i.e., Baths, Shower, Washbasins, Seats
 and Cover etc. and possessed GST registration. 4. Show Cause Notice dated 04.09.2021 was issued to the
 Petitioner seeking to cancel its registration. However, the
 Show Cause Notice also does not put the petitioner to notice
 that the registration is liable to be cancelled retrospectively.
 Accordingly, the petitioner had no opportunity to even object
 to the retrospective cancellation of the registration. 5. Further, the impugned order dated 15.12.2021 passed on the
 Show Cause Notice dated 04.09.2021 does not give any
 reasons for cancellation. It, however, states that the registration
 is liable to be cancelled for the following reason "whereas no
 reply to the show cause notice has been submitted". However,
 the said order in itself is contradictory. The order states
 "reference to your reply dated 15.12.2021 in response to the
 notice to show cause dated 04.09.2021" and the reason stated
 for the cancellation is "whereas no reply to notice show cause
 has been submitted". The order further states that effective date
 of cancellation of registration is 01.07.2017 i.e., a retrospective
 date. 6. Neither the show cause notice, nor the order spell out the
 reasons for retrospective cancellation. In fact, in our view,
 order dated 15.12.2021 does not qualify as an order of
 cancellation of registration. On one hand, it states that the
 registration is liable to be cancelled and on the other, in the
 column at the bottom there are no dues stated to be due against
 the petitioner and the table shows nil demand. 7. Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits that the said
 order reflected that the GST registration of petitioner stands
 cancelled from 01.07.2017 even though returns thereafter have
 been filed by the Petitioner. 8. He further submits that the petitioner is no longer interested
 in continuing the business and the business has been
 discontinued. 9. In terms of Section 29(2) of the Act, the proper officer may
 cancel the GST registration of a person from such date
 including any retrospective date, as he may deem fit if the W.P.(C) 14809/2024 Page 7 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/11/2024 at 22:46:42
 circumstances set out in the said sub-section are satisfied.
 Registration cannot be cancelled with retrospective effect
 mechanically. It can be cancelled only if the proper officer
 deems it fit to do so. Such satisfaction cannot be subjective but
 must be based on some objective criteria. Merely, because a
 taxpayer has not filed the returns for some period does not
 mean that the taxpayer's registration is required to be cancelled
 with retrospective date also covering the period when the
 returns were filed and the taxpayer was compliant. 10. It is important to note that, according to the respondent,
 one of the consequences for cancelling a tax payer's
 registration with retrospective effect is that the taxpayer's
 customers are denied the input tax credit availed in respect of
 the supplies made by the tax payer during such period.
 Although, we do not consider it apposite to examine this aspect
 but assuming that the respondent's contention in required to
 consider this aspect while passing any order for cancellation of
 GST registration with retrospective effect. Thus, a taxpayer's
 registration can be cancelled with retrospective effect only
 where such consequences are intended and are warranted. 11. It may be further noted that both the Petitioners and the
 department want cancellation of the GST registration of the
 Petitioner, though for a different reason. 12. In view of the fact that Petitioner does not seek to carry on
 business or continue the registration, the impugned order dated
 15.12.2021 is modified to the limited extent that registration
 shall now be treated as cancelled with effect from 04.09.2021
 i.e., the date when the Show Cause Notice was issued. 13. It is clarified that Respondents are also not precluded from
 taking any steps for recovery of any tax, penalty or interest that
 may be due in respect of the subject firm in accordance with
 law. 14. Petition is accordingly disposed of in the above terms." 8. In view of the aforesaid and in light of an abject failure on the part of
 the authority to assign even rudimentary reasons for a retroactive
 cancellation, we find ourselves unable to sustain the order impugned." 8. Accordingly, and for all the aforesaid reasons, we are of the
 considered view that the impugned order would not sustain. 9. Accordingly, and for the reasons aforenoted, we allow the
 instant writ petition and quash the impugned order dated 09 July 2024
 as well as the impugned Show Cause Notice dated 20 June 2024. 10. This order however shall be without prejudice to the right of the W.P.(C) 14809/2024 Page 8 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/11/2024 at 22:46:42
 respondents to initiate proceedings afresh and in accordance with law. YASHWANT VARMA, J. RAVINDER DUDEJA, J. NOVEMBER 4, 2024/ib W.P.(C) 14809/2024 Page 9 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/11/2024 at 22:46:42