(PER CHIEF JUSTICE)

 
 This appeal is directed against the judgment and order dated
 9th August 2010 of the learned Single Judge dismissing Notice of Motion
 No.1809 of 2010 of the appellant-plaintiff in Suit No.1828 of 2010. By

 
 the said Notice of Motion, the appellant-MSM Satellite (Singapore) Pte
 
 Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the "plaintiff" or "Sony") had applied for
 an injunction to restrain the defendant-World Sport Group (Mauritius)
 
 Limited (hereinafter referred to as the "defendant" or "Mauritius
 company") from referring the dispute between the parties to the suit to
 arbitration upon invoking an arbitration clause in the agreement between
 

 the parties dated 25th March 2009 and from continuing with the
 

 arbitration proceedings filed by the defendant in the International
 Chamber of Commerce (ICC). 2.The suit came to be filed by the appellant-plaintiff on 30th June 2010
 upon the defendant-Mauritius company issuing notice dated 28th June
 2010 to the plaintiff-Sony for invoking arbitration under the arbitration

 clause in the agreement between the parties dated 25th March 2009 titled
 as "the Deed for the Provision of Facilitation Services" (hereinafter
 referred to as "Facilitation Deed" for short). Under the Facilitation
 Deed, plaintiff-Sony was to pay the sum of Rs.425 crores to the
 defendant-Mauritius company, out of which Rs.125 crores was already
 paid by Sony to the Mauritius company in three installments. (IPL) Board for Cricket Control of India ("BCCI" for short) had floated

 
 tenders and the World Sports Group had won the tender to global media
 rights. On January 21, 2008, BCCI entered into Media Rights License

 
 Agreement (MRLA) with WSG (India) for IPL till 2017 for a sum of Rs.
 2568 crores (US $ 642 million). On the same day i.e. on January 21,
 2008, BCCI and plaintiff-Sony entered into MRLA for the Indian

 
 Subcontinent media rights till 2017 for Rs.2203.2 crores (US $ 550.8
 million). On 14th March 2009, BCCI under Mr. Lalit Modi terminated
 
 3.2
 the MRLA dated 21st January 2008 with plaintiff-Sony. Hence, plaintiff-
 Sony filed Section 9 petition under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
 

 1996 (hereinafter referred to as " Arbitration Act ") before this Court and
 obtained injunction till 16th March 2009. However, to defeat the
 

 plaintiff-Sony's rights under the agreement dated 21st January 2008 and
 to get over the said injunction, BCCI under Mr. Lalit Modi entered into a

 new MRLA with defendant-Mauritius company at 3.00 a.m on 15th
 March 2009. The BCCI under Mr. Lalit Modi and defendant-Mauritius
 company impressed upon the plaintiff-Sony that all the Indian sub- continental rights were given to the defendant-Mauritius company and
 that since the Mauritius company had no broadcasting channel of its
 own, it was given seventy two hours to find a sub-licensee from 15th
 March 2009 when BCCI under Mr.Lalit Modi entered into the agreement
 with the Mauritius company. BCCI under Mr.Lalit Modi extended the
 deadline of seventy two hours to find a sub-licensee by the Mauritius
 company by another seventy two hours which deadline was thus to ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:29 ::: UPA 4 appeal-534-10.final

 expire by 3.00 p.m. on 24th March 2009. On 23rd March 2009, this
 Court declined interim injunction in favour of plaintiff-Sony on the

 
 ground that the BCCI had already entered into an agreement with the
 Mauritius company on 15th March 2009. 3.3 Since this Court vacated the ad-interim stay and declined

 
 injunction, Mr.Lalit Modi issued e-mails stating that BCCI had entered
 into a new agreement with Mauritius company and anyone interested in
 broadcasting rights should contact Mauritius company. In this

 
 background, negotiations took place between plaintiff-Sony and the
 Mauritius company through their representatives Mr.Andrew Georgiou
 
 and Mr.Venu Nair who were the common Directors of the Mauritius
 
 company and the Indian company called Worlds Sport Group in India.
 The said representatives of the Mauritius company reiterated that the
 Mauritius company had unfettered rights for the Indian sub-continent. They also represented to Plaintiff-Sony that by virtue of the MRLA
 between BCCI and the Mauritius company, the Mauritius company had
 

 the requisite media rights which it could relinquish to facilitate the
 acquisition of media rights directly from BCCI and that the rights arising

 out of the agreement between BCCI and defendant Mauritius company
 could be terminated and that thereafter plaintiff-Sony can directly enter
 agreement with BCCI to acquire Indian sub-continental media rights to

 the IPL. 3.4 On the basis of the above representation made by BCCI
 Commissioner Mr.Lalit Modi and the common Directors of the
 Mauritius company and the Indian company (World Sport Group India
 (Pvt.) Ltd.), the following new agreements dated 25th March 2010 were
 entered into : Sony in terminating the Option Deed of 21st January 2008; (ii) BCCI through Mr.Lalit modi and plaintiff-Sony for new
 MRLA for Indian rights; (iii) Defendant Mauritius company and plaintiff-Sony entered
 into a Facilitation Deed under which the plaintiff-Sony was

 
 required to pay Rs.425 crores to the Mauritius company for
 the Mauritius company having facilitated the plaintiff-Sony
 
 in getting back the Indian Subcontinent Media rights which
 
 the plaintiff-Sony already had from BCCI under the
 agreement dated 21st January 2008 which agreement was
 purportedly rescinded by BCCI through Mr.Lalit Modi on
 

 14th March 2009 and therefore the plaintiff-Sony had no
 other alternative but to enter into agreement to get those
 

 rights back through the Mauritius company. For this
 plaintiff-Sony had to agree to pay BCCI Rs.2203.2 crores

 (US $ 550.8 million) for acquiring the Indian Subcontinent
 Media Rights upto the year 2017. (iv)BCCI through Mr.Lalit Modi entered into another agreement
 with WSG (India) for World Wide Media Rights (excluding
 Indian Subcontinent) for Rs.2568 crores (US $ 642 million).
 Open agreement also had a cross-development act (27.5)
 which contemplated issue of termination notice if the
 plaintiff-Sony failed to comply with the payment/bank
 guarantee requirement under the Facilitation Deed. Mr. Lalit K. Modi sent an e-mail congratulating new deal between
 plaintiff-Sony and the World Sport Group. 4. The gist of the plaintiff's case, as argued at the hearing of

 
 the appeal is to be found in paragraphs 19 to 22 of the plaint. It is,
 therefore, necessary to set out the same verbatim. Paragraphs 19 to 22 of
 the Plaint read as under :- Ltd., was totally unknown entity and no documents
 are available on record to show that this entity
 

 qualified the criteria under Clause 2.4 of the ITT. (b) The entire exercise of having WSG (Mauritius)
 Pvt. Ltd., as a Licensee of media Rights with an
 obligation to sub license within 72 hours appears to

 be ruse to bait SONY to match a practically non
 existing and bogus bid. Instead of going for a fresh
 tender process on termination of the WSG Contract,
 you have taken upon yourself to negotiate with select
 parties without even knowing the value of the

 property belonging to BCCI only to enable the
 payment of "Facilitation Fee" by Sony." The Plaintiff is now given to understand by the BCCI that
 Mr. Modi in his response to the allegations made by
 BCCI has not referred to the Purported MRLA." 5. The plaintiff thereafter referred to the correspondence
 between the BCCI and the representatives of the plaintiff-Sony with the

 
 President of the BCCI on 25th April, 2010, 30th May 2010, 14th June
 2010, etc. In view of the above developments, on 25th June 2010,

 
 plaintiff-Sony filed a Suit (Suit (Lodging) No.1092 of 2010) against the
 defendant-Mauritius company i.e. (1) World Sport Group (Mauritius)

 
 Ltd., (2) World Sport Group (India) Pvt. Ltd. And (3) Board of Control
 for Cricket in India (BCCI) praying for a declaration that the Facilitation
 Deed dated 25th March 2009 between plaintiff-Sony and defendant No.1-

 
 Mauritius company was illegal, null and void, not binding upon and not
 enforceable against Sony and that no amounts were due and payable
 
 under the said Deed by plaintiff-Sony to the Mauritius company. The
 
 plaintiff also prayed for permanent injunction to restrain BCCI from
 issuing any termination notice against plaintiff-Sony on the basis of the
 Media Rights License Agreement between BCCI and WSG (India). The
 

 plaintiff also prayed for a decree against the Mauritius company for a
 sum of Rs.147 crores along with further interest at the rate of 16% on the
 

 principal amount of Rs.125 crores. The plaintiff also prayed for interim
 relief to restrain BCCI from issuing any termination notice against the

 plaintiff on the basis of any agreement along with BCCI and Mauritius
 company or on the basis of any agreement dated 25th March 2009
 between BCCI and WSG (India). The above Suit came to be filed by the

 plaintiff-Sony against the above three defendants on 25th June 2010 and
 notice thereof was served upon the defendants on 26th June 2010. When
 the Notice of Motion in the said Suit came up for hearing before the
 learned Single Judge on 28th June 2010, the learned counsel for BCCI
 stated that BCCI would not terminate the MRLA agreement dated 25th
 March 2009 between BCCI and the plaintiff during pendency of the
 Notice of Motion and the matter was adjourned to 16th August 2010. UPA 9 appeal-534-10.final 6. However, after filing of the above referred Suit, the plaintiff

 
 was served with a copy of the Mauritius company's letter dated 28 th June
 2010 addressed to the International Chamber of Commerce enclosing the

 
 request of the Mauritius company for arbitration as contemplated under
 the Facilitation Deed. The Mauritius company indicated that it was

 
 seeking an award in the following terms : Considering the nature of allegations which the plaintiff has raised ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:29 ::: UPA 11 appeal-534-10.final

 against the defendant, which is bound to necessitate detailed evidence
 and cross examination of parties, it is apparent that even assuming,

 
 without admitting that the arbitration clause in the deed survived the
 rescission on the ground of fraud, it is only the Courts which would have

 
 jurisdiction to decide the dispute and having regard to the fact that this
 Court is the Court of inherent and natural jurisdiction, the dispute would

 
 be decided solely and exclusively by this Court in the Indian proceedings
 which are prior in point of time to the Singapore proceedings. 8. The above Notice of Motion in the second suit came to be
 
 opposed by the affidavit in reply filed by the constituted attorney of
 
 defendant-Mauritius company. The defendant has objected to the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court to entertain the suit and has also
 contended that whatever disputes the plaintiff has raised can be raised in
 

 the arbitration proceedings. The defendant has submitted as under :- I say that the suit is dishonest. I submit that the
 present suit is a vexatious proceeding and is an abuse of
 
 process of law. The chosen forum is Singapore, which
 is the Plaintiff's country of residence. Both parties are
 not resident in India. Singapore is the Plaintiff's own
 country and choice. I say that the suit ought to be
 dismissed in limine on the following grounds each of
 

 which is in the alternative and without prejudice to the
 other. 6. I submit that this Hon'ble Court has no
 jurisdiction to entertain or try this suit and/or the suit
 does not lie inasmuch as

 a. the Plaintiff has not taken any leave under Clause
 XII of the Letters Patent. The Plaintiff and Defendant
 are both resident outside the jurisdiction of this Hon'ble
 Court. The Plaintiff executed the agreement outside
 India (in Los Angeles). Negotiations in relation to the
 deed for provision of facilitation services being Exhibit
 "I" to the plaint (Facilitation Deed"), were partly held
 outside India, more particularly with the Plaintiff's
 lawyers who were in England and the representatives of
 the parties hereto not being within the jurisdiction of this ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:29 ::: UPA 13 appeal-534-10.final

 Hon'ble Court at all material times. On the Plaintiff's
 own showing, the whole of the cause of action has not
 arisen in Mumbai. The payment made till date under the

 
 Facilitation Deed was also made by the Plaintiff outside
 India and received by the Defendant outside India, i.e.

 
 outside the jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court. The
 whole of the cause of action has not arisen within the
 jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court. Since no leave has
 been taken under Clause XII, I submit that this suit is

 
 liable to be dismissed. 9. At the hearing of this appeal, the defendant-Mauritius
 company has also sought to give its defence on merits and further
 submitted in paragraph 37(g) as under :- 10. As already indicated earlier, the learned Single Judge
 dismissed the Notice of Motion by holding that even if the agreement ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:29 ::: UPA 14 appeal-534-10.final

 dated 25th March 2009 between the plaintiff and the defendant has been
 rescinded by the plaintiff, the arbitration clause survives and that all the

 
 contentions sought to be raised in the suit can be raised before the
 arbitral tribunal. 11. At the hearing of this appeal, Mr.Dave, learned senior
 counsel for the plaintiff-Sony, has submitted that the plaintiff was
 already given all the media rights for IPL under the agreement dated 21st

 
 January 2008 and on 14th March 2009 Mr. Lalit Modi, the IPL
 Commissioner acting for BCCI had terminated the agreement dated 21st
 
 January 2008 and purported to confer those rights on the defendant
 
 Mauritius company in order to see that the plaintiff is required to
 approach the Mauritius company and only after agreeing to pay the
 facilitation fee to the Mauritius company to the tune of Rs.425 crores,
 

 the plaintiff is able to get back its rights under the agreement dated 21st
 January 2008. It is submitted that BCCI has already indicated in its
 

 letter dated 30th May 2010 to plaintiff-Sony that defendant Mauritius
 company was a totally unknown entity and was not meant to be a

 conduit for receipt of facilitation fee. Mr. Dave has also invited our
 attention to letter dated 30th May 2010 of BCCI to plaintiff-Sony i.e.
 MSM Satellite (Singapore) as under :- 12. After referring to the above documents at the hearing,
 Mr.Dave has vehemently submitted that the dispute which has been

 referred by defendant-Mauritius company purports to be a dispute about
 non-implementation of the Facilitation Deed dated 25th March 2009, that
 it is not an independent or isolated dispute between the plaintiff and the
 defendant but it is dependent and inseparably connected with other
 material issues which involve other parties also, such as, BCCI and
 WSG (India) Pvt. Ltd. and all these disputes are already subject matter ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:29 ::: UPA 16 appeal-534-10.final

 of the first suit which was filed before this Court on 25th June 2010. It
 was only after the notice of the said first suit was first served upon the

 
 defendant on 26th June 2010 that as a counter blast, the defendant
 approached ICC invoking the arbitration clause in the agreement dated

 
 25th March 2009 which had already been rescinded by the plaintiff. It is submitted that when the specific plea of the plaintiff-
 Sony is about the fraud and the non-availability with the defendant-
 Mauritius company of any rights allegedly obtained by the defendant- Mauritius company from BCCI then acting through Mr.Lalit K. Modi,
 the arbitrators cannot go into that dispute when BCCI is not a party to
 
 the arbitration proceedings which the defendant has referred to ICC. Strong reliance is placed on the following decisions : 13. In reply, Dr. Abhishek Singhvi has submitted that Section 5 of the Arbitration Act specifically provides that notwithstanding

 anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, no
 judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this Part. Section 16 also provides that the arbitral tribunal may rule on its own

 jurisdiction, including ruling on any objections with respect to the
 existence or validity of the arbitration agreement and that an arbitration
 clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement
 independent of the other terms of the contract and that even a decision
 by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void, shall not entail
 ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause. It is submitted that
 whatever objections the plaintiff has about maintainability of the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:29 ::: UPA 17 appeal-534-10.final

 arbitration proceedings or about the jurisdiction of the arbitrators, can be
 raised before the arbitral tribunal and the very scheme of the Act that

 
 rejection of such objections can only be challenged by making an
 application for setting aside an arbitral award under Section 34 of the

 
 Act shows the clear restrictive intent against the judicial intervention. 14. It is further submitted by Dr. Singhvi that the so-called fraud
 is nothing but a false allegation made by the plaintiff. The reference to
 the agreement dated 23rd March 2009 in the agreement dated 25th March

 
 2009 between the plaintiff and the defendant was only a typographical
 mistake and even in the press statement issued by the plaintiff at Exhibit
 
 "K", there is no reference to the agreement dated 23rd March 2009. It is
 submitted that such a typographical mistake in the agreement dated 25th
 
 March 2009 by referring to the said agreement as merely dated 23rd
 March 2009 instead of agreement dated 15th March 2009 between BCCI
 

 and the defendant can never amount to fraud. 15. It is further submitted by Dr. Singhvi that as per the settled
 legal position, even in a case where allegations of fraud are made, the

 accuser cannot prevent the accused from going for arbitration and that it
 is only the privilege of the accused to plead that he would like to have
 the allegations of fraud against him tried in a Court of law instead of

 being tried before the arbitral tribunal. In support of this contention,
 reference is made to the observations made by the Apex Court in N.
 Radhakrishnan v Maestro Engineers and others , (2010) 1 SCC 72,
 wherein the Apex court quoted the following observations in Abdul
 Kadir Shamsuddin Bubere v Madhav Prabhakar Oak , AIR 1962 SC
 406 : UPA 18 appeal-534-10.final

 "17. There is no doubt that where serious
 allegations of fraud are made against a party who
 is charged with fraud desires that the matter

 
 should be tried in open court, that would be a
 sufficient cause for the court not to order an

 
 arbitration agreement to be filed and not to make
 the reference." Reference is also made to the observations made by the
 Apex Court in paragraph 26 in N. Radhakrishnan (supra) which reads as
 under : 16. Dr. Singhvi has also placed reliance upon the orders in India Household and Healthcare Ltd. v L.G Household and Healthcare
 Ltd. , (2007) 5 SCC 510 and Meguin GMBH & Co. v Nandan Petrochem
 Ltd., 2007 (5) R.A.J. 239 (SC), in support of the contention that even

 where fraud has been alleged, the question as to whether the entire
 contract is vitiated by reason of alleged commission of any fraud on the
 part of either of the parties thereto, the matter can be gone into by the
 arbitrator. Even the question as to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator can be
 gone into by the arbitral tribunal itself. UPA 19 appeal-534-10.final 17. Dr. Singhvi for the defendant Mauritius Company has also
 relied on the following decisions in support of the contention that the

 
 Courts are not to interfere with the arbitral proceedings and that such a
 suit for restraining the defendant from going before arbitral tribunal is

 
 not maintainable. 17.1 Reliance is placed on a decision of the Apex Court in CDC
 Financial Services (Mauritius) Ltd. v BPL Communications Ltd. and
 others , (2003) 12 SCC 140, on the following observations :- 17.2 Reliance is also placed on the decision of the Apex Court in Secur Industries Ltd. v Godrej & Boyce Mfg. Co. Ltd. and another ,
 (2004) 3 SCC 447, particularly paragraphs 11 and 12 thereof which read
 as under :- 12. The arguments which have been raised

 
 before us by the learned counsel on behalf of the
 respondent to a large extent related to the merits of
 the appellant's claim before the Council. Having
 regard to the scope of the authority of the arbitral
 tribunal under Section 16 , this is not a matter

 
 which the court can adjudicate upon. Indeed it is
 incumbent on the court to refer the parties to
 
 arbitration under Section 8(1) of the 1996 Act if a
 suit is filed in a matter which is the subject-matter
 
 of an arbitration agreement. Furthermore, even
 while this question is pending decision before a
 court, the arbitral tribunal may proceed with the
 arbitration under Section 8(3) and make its award.
 The High Court could not, therefore, have stayed
 

 the proceedings, before the Council." (emphasis supplied)
 

 17.3 Dr.Singhvi has also relied upon the decision of the Delhi
 High Court in Bhushan Steel Ltd. v Singapore International Arbitration
 Centre and another , decided on 4th June 2010 in IA No.11355/2009 and
 CS (OS) No. 1392/2009, (MANU/DE/1270/2010) particularly on the

 principles laid down in paragraphs 25 and 31 thereof, which read as
 under :- 18. Dr. Singhvi also relied on Article 6 of the Rules of
 Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce providing for
 effect of the arbitration agreement and particularly clause (4) thereof
 

 which reads as under :- 19. In rejoinder, Mr. Dave has referred to Section 45 of the
 Arbitration Act which reads as under :- UPA 22 appeal-534-10.final

 "45. Power of judicial authority to refer parties
 to arbitration.- Notwithstanding anything
 contained in Part 1 or in the Code of Civil

 
 Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908), a judicial authority,
 when seized of an action in a matter in respect of

 
 which the parties have made an agreement referred
 to in section 44 , shall, at the request of one of the
 parties or any person claiming through or under
 him, refer the parties to arbitration, unless it finds

 
 that the said agreement is null and void, inoperative
 or incapable of being performed." (emphasis supplied)

 
 It is submitted that the said section incorporates the salutary principle in
 
 the New York Convention which also provides that a Court should not
 refer the parties to arbitration, when it finds that the agreement is null
 
 and void, inoperative and incapable of being performed. It is further
 submitted that even while hearing an application under Section 11 of the
 Arbitration Act, the Chief Justice or his nominee has a power to go into
 

 such questions and to decline to appoint an arbitrator where it finds that
 

 the agreement incorporated in the arbitration clause is null and void,
 inoperative or incapable of being performed or is vitiated by fraud. 20. Mr. Dave has also placed heavy reliance on the following
 extracts from Russel on Arbitration (Twenty-Third Edition,2007) : (emphasis supplied) 21. Finally, Mr. Dave has stated at the bar that the appellant- plaintiff has no intention of evading, avoiding or delaying the liability to
 pay the amount, if any, to the BCCI but payment of any amount to
 respondent-defendant (Mauritius company) under the facilitation
 agreement by virtue of any award of the arbitrators for which the
 Mauritius company has moved the International Chamber of Commerce
 may not exonerate the plaintiff from its liability towards BCCI. By letter
 dated 30th May, 2010, BCCI has made it clear that any amount payable ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:29 ::: UPA 24 appeal-534-10.final

 by the plaintiff Sony to the Mauritius company under the facilitation
 agreement dated 25th April, 2010 shall be paid to BCCI. Any award by

 
 the arbitrators in the proceedings which the respondent-defendant
 (Mauritius company) has proposed to institute before the International

 
 Chamber of Commerce and where the arbitrators are sought to be
 appointed will not bind BCCI which will be a stranger to such an

 
 arbitration award. It is submitted that the plaintiff has no objection to
 pay the entire amount of Rs. 425 crores as payable by the plaintiff under
 the facilitation agreement out of which Rs.125 crores has already been

 
 paid to the defendant-Mauritius company and for recovering which the
 plaintiff has already filed the first suit before this court on 25th June,
 
 2010. It is stated by Mr. Dave that the plaintiff is ready and willing to
 
 pay the balance amount of Rs. 300 crores to BCCI and after recovering
 Rs.125 crores and the interest thereon from defendant- Mauritius
 company to pay the said amount to BCCI. In other words, Mr. Dave has
 

 stated in unmistakable terms that the plaintiff is ready to pay BCCI Rs.
 300 crores out of the amount of Rs.425 crores payable by the plaintiff
 

 under the facilitation agreement dated 25th March, 2010 and the balance
 amount of Rs.125 crores after getting back the same from defendant- Mauritius company. 22. Mr. Dave submitted that the appellant-plaintiff (Sony) also

 invokes the provisions of section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872
 and submits that the very agreement dated 25th March, 2009 under which
 the respondent- Mauritius company was to be paid Rs.425 crores for the
 so called "facilitation services" was against public policy. The entire
 agreement was franchised by Mr. Lalit Modi purporting to act for BCCI
 and respondent- Mauritius company and that if the respondent-defendant
 is allowed to initiate and continue with the arbitration proceedings for ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:29 ::: UPA 25 appeal-534-10.final

 the purpose of getting an arbitration award against the appellant-plaintiff
 for a sum of Rs.300 crores, the same will deprive BCCI (a body

 
 discharging public functions and amenable to writ jurisdiction of this
 Court) which will be stranger to the arbitration award sought by the

 
 defendant- Mauritius company. Mr. Dave states that they are ready to
 pay Rs.300 crores to BCCI, if they are not required to pay any amount to

 
 the defendant-Mauritius company. 23. After having heard the learned counsel for the parties, we

 
 have given anxious consideration to the rival submissions. 24. It is true that with the adoption of the UNCITRAL Model
 Law while enacting the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 , the
 Indian Parliament has adopted judicial non-intervention as a general rule
 

 and, therefore, the courts would ordinarily not interfere with arbitration
 proceedings. Section 5 therefore, provides that in matters governed by Part-I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which has been held to be applicable
 to international arbitration also, no judicial authority shall intervene

 except where provided in this part and sub-section (3) of section 8 also
 provides that notwithstanding pendency of an application under sub-
 section (1) of section 8 made by a party for referring the parties to

 arbitration and that the issue is pending before the judicial authority, an
 arbitration may be commenced or continued and an arbitral award made. Section 16 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 also provides that the arbitral
 tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including ruling on any
 objections with respect to any existence or validity of the arbitration
 agreement and for that purpose, a decision by the arbitral tribunal that
 the contract is null and void, shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 26 appeal-534-10.final

 the arbitration clause. Sub-section (5) of section 16 also provides that
 the arbitral tribunal shall decide on a plea that it does not have the

 
 jurisdiction or that an arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its
 authority and that if the arbitral tribunal negating such plea, the arbitral

 
 tribunal shall continue with the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral
 award and the party aggrieved by the rejection of the preliminary pleas

 
 has to wait till the arbitral award is made and, thereafter only it can make
 an application for setting aside such arbitral award in accordance with section 34 . This is the general scheme of the Arbitration and Conciliation

 
 Act, 1996 as contained in Part 1 thereof and ordinarily, the plaintiff
 would not have been entitled to make any claim for an injunction to
 
 prevent the respondent-defendant from going ahead with the arbitral
 
 proceedings before the International Chamber of Commerce. The question whether in the facts of the present case, the
 

 plaintiff- Sony has made out a case for claiming such an injunction. 25. The learned counsel for the respondent would even submit
 that it is not open to any judicial authority to grant an injunction against

 any arbitral proceedings till the arbitral tribunal makes an award and that
 the only stage at which even the minimal interference is permitted, is
 after the arbitral award is made. The aggrieved party can make an

 application for setting aside such arbitral award under section 34 of the
 Arbitration Act, 1996 and that at that stage also, the judicial interference
 is permissible on very limited grounds. It is strenuously urged that the
 courts must resist the temptation to do substantial justice in the facts of
 each case and that any such approach will have the tendency to distort
 the entire arbitration law. It is submitted that the very object of
 introducing the provisions of sections 5 and 16 of the Act would be ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 27 appeal-534-10.final

 defeated, if the courts entertain any proceedings for granting injunction
 against the arbitral proceedings. 26. We have considered the above submission with utmost
 anxiety. What, however, cannot be overlooked is that the facilitation

 
 agreement between the plaintiff-Sony and the defendant-Mauritius
 company was not an independent or isolated agreement or transaction
 between the sole plaintiff and the sole defendant in the second suit,

 
 giving rise to the present appeal. As the narration of facts at the
 commencement of this judgment would indicate, the facilitation
 
 agreement dated 25th March, 2009 was a part of several agreements
 entered into amongst different parties commencing from 14th January,
 
 2008. Even on 25th March, 2009, as many as four agreements were
 entered into which were as under: MRLA DATED 25TH march, 2009 that upon receipt of
 

 the Defendant No.1's notice in accordance with the
 Deed, the BCCI may immediately terminate the
 

 MSMS-MRLA dated 25th March, 2009 subject to
 certain conditions mentioned therein." 28. It is, therefore, clear that the facilitation deed agreement
 dated 25th March, 2009 was not a stand apart agreement between the sole

 plaintiff and the sole defendant in the second suit. It was a part of the
 agreement entered into amongst four parties who are all parties to the
 first suit filed by the plaintiff on 25th June, 2010 where World Sport
 Group (India), the defendant-Mauritius company and BCCI are
 defendants. BCCI has specifically informed the plaintiff-Sony by letter
 dated 30th May, 2010 that the defendant-Mauritius company is not ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 29 appeal-534-10.final

 entitled to any facilitation fees. Even at the cost of repetition, we
 reproduce the letter dated 30th May, 2010, which reads as under :- 29. The above letter dated 30th May 2010 was written by BCCI
 to the plaintiff after BCCI initiated action against its IPL Commissioner

 
 Mr. Lalit Modi to whom it has already issued show cause notice and in
 
 one of those show cause notice, there are specific allegations to the
 following effect (as quoted in paragraph 22 of the plaint) : Since in any case this contract was by mutual decision
 

 never to be implemented and WSG (Mauritius) Pvt. Ltd., was meant to be a conduit for receipt of
 "Facilitation Fee". WSG (Mauritius) Pvt. Ltd., was a
 totally unknown entity and no documents are available

 on record to show that this entity qualified the criteria
 under Clause 2.4. of the ITT. (b) The entire exercise of having WSG (Mauritius)
 Pvt. Ltd., as a Licensee of media Rights with an

 obligation to sub license within 72 hours appears to be
 ruse to bait SONY to match a practically non existing
 and bogus bid. Instead of going for a fresh tender
 process on termination of the WSG Contract, you have
 taken upon yourself to negotiate with select parties
 without even knowing the value of the property
 belonging to BCCI only to enable the payment of
 "Facilitation Fee" by Sony." UPA 31 appeal-534-10.final 30. The appellant-plaintiff's reply dated 2nd June, 2010 to BCCI
 reads as under :- We look forward to an early meeting. Yours sincerely,
 for MSM Satellite (Singapore) Pte Ltd. Sd/- Name : Andrew Kaplan
 Title : Director." UPA 33 appeal-534-10.final 31. In the above factual background, the submission made by

 
 the learned counsel for the appellant-plaintiff (Sony) that the facilitation
 agreement is contrary to public policy of India assumes utmost

 
 importance. Admittedly, BCCI is not a party to the arbitration
 proceedings initiated by the respondent- Mauritius company. BCCI will

 
 not have any say in the said arbitration proceedings on the footing that in
 view of the clauses of the facilitation deed taken by itself and as there is
 an independent contract between the sole plaintiff and the sole defendant

 
 in the second suit, giving rise to the present appeal, the arbitral tribunal
 will make an award requiring the plaintiff to pay the defendant the
 
 amount of Rs.300 crores over and above Rs.125 crores already paid by
 
 the plaintiff. The question is whether such an award will stand the
 scrutiny on the touchstone of public policy of India. While considering
 the said question, it would be relevant, therefore, to refer to the aforesaid
 

 factual background. 32. The contention of the learned counsel for respondent- Mauritius company that the ground of fraud is available only to the
 accused and not to the accuser for avoiding arbitration proceedings and
 that the defendant-Mauritius company is the accused and the plaintiff is

 the accuser and, therefore, the arbitral proceedings cannot be injuncted
 at the instance of the plaintiff overlooks the fact that the accusation of
 fraud is not merely made by the plaintiff-Sony but that plaintiff-Sony is
 relying on the factum of accusation having been made by BCCI against
 the then IPL Commissioner Mr. Lalit Modi and the respondent-
 Mauritius company. BCCI has been held to be a body discharging
 public functions (vide M/s.Zee Tele Films Ltd. and another vs Union of ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 34 appeal-534-10.final

 India and others, AIR 2005 SC 2677). If the accusations of fraud made
 by BCCI against Mr. Lalit Modi and the respondent- Mauritius company

 
 are found to be true, it would be obvious that an arbitral award directing
 the plaintiff-Sony to pay the respondent- Mauritius company any sum

 
 under the facilitation agreement would be contrary to public policy. 33. It is obvious that arbitral tribunal having only two parties
 before it - the appellant herein and the respondent-Mauritius company,
 will not have any power to adjudicate upon the accusations of fraud

 
 made by BCCI against Mr. Lalit Modi and the respondent- Mauritius
 company. It, therefore, appears to us that this is one of those rare cases,
 
 where there are exceptional circumstances where an injunction to
 
 restrain an arbitration may be granted. This is a clear case where there is
 a risk that the arbitrator might proceed to consider the same
 jurisdictional issue which is pending the decision of this court in Suit
 

 (Lodging) No.1901 of 2010 filed by the appellant on 25th June, 2010
 against WSG (India) Pvt. Ltd,, respondent- Mauritius company and the
 

 BCCI. 34. In this context, it will be relevant to refer to the provision of
 para 2 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 which provides for
 enforcement of certain foreign awards. Section 45 of the Act reads as

 under: Provisions of section 45 quoted hereinabove are also in
 consonance with the New York convention on the recognition and

 
 enforcement of foreign arbitral awards and particularly clause 3 of
 Article II thereof. 35. It is also observed by Russell on Arbitration (Twenty-Third
 Edition-2007) as under:ig
 
 "7-058 Injunctions to restrain arbitral proceedings. Injunctions to restrain arbitrations are, at least in
 England, few and far between and becoming
 fewer still over time. This is principally because
 of the acceptance of the principle that the
 

 arbitrator should usually determine his own
 jurisdiction and so to restrain an arbitration by
 

 way of injunction would be inconsistent with the
 scheme of the Arbitration Act 1996. However,
 there are exceptional circumstances where an

 injunction to restrain an arbitration may be
 obtained. Such an injunction is different in
 nature from an injunction granted in support of
 arbitral proceedings, but it is convenient to
 mention this type of injunction at this stage. Subject to the extreme limitations on the exercise
 of the court's discretion set out below, the
 possibility of obtaining an injunction to restrain
 the continuation of arbitral proceedings can arise
 in the following cases: 36. We have considered the principle laid down by the Apex
 Court in Secur Industries Ltd. V. Godrej & Boyce Mfg. Co. Ltd. And
 

 another , (2004)3 SCC 447. The Apex Court did hold in the said case
 

 that with the applicability of part-I of the 1996 Act to the extent of
 judicial intervention in arbitration is limited by the non-obstante
 provision of section 5 and that the validity of the proceedings before the

 arbitral tribunal is an issue which the arbitratgor and not the Court could
 decide under section 16 of the Act. The Court, however, further
 observed as under: 37. In so far as the arbitration and sanctity of such agreements
 is concerned, reliance is placed upon Section 5 of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996 and also Sections 8 and 16 of the Act. Reliance

 
 on the other hand is placed on Section 45 of the Act on the words
 
 notwithstanding contained in Part I of the Act or in Code of Civil
 Procedure , 1908, the judicial authority shall at the request of one of the
 
 parties or any person claiming through or under him refer the parties to
 arbitration unless he finds that the arbitration application is null and
 void, inoperative and incapable of being performed. In a decision
 

 reported in Eastern Mineral & Trading Agency vs Steel Authority of
 

 India , 2000 (3) RAJ 115, it has been held that Section 45 appears in Part
 II and therefore it over-rides Part I which includes Section 5 . Therefore,

 a judicial authority shall not intervene except where so provided in this
 Part. Section 5 therefore does not come in the way of applicability of Section 45 . Our attention has also been invited to the words "shall"
 appearing in this proviso and it is urged that the term in its ordinary

 significance is mandatory and therefore there is a mandate, provided the
 conditions therein are fulfilled and the agreement is found to be null and
 void, inoperative and incapable of being performed otherwise, there is
 no obligation to refer the parties to arbitration. Therefore, we have no
 hesitation in proceeding on the basis that the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996 does not rule out intervention by the Court ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 38 appeal-534-10.final

 although Section 45 confers powers on judicial authority to refer parties
 to arbitration that is a power which will have to be exercised only after

 
 the Court finds that the agreement is not null and void, inoperative and
 incapable of being performed. To this extent, the power to examine the

 
 arbitration agreement between the parties is available. 38. Such provisions in the Arbitration Act have been looked
 upon as vastly reducing the extent to which the judiciary can interfere

 
 with the arbitration process. Such a provision has been subjected to
 some controversy and dissent. In Hudson's Building and Engineering
 
 Contracts, Eleventh Edition, page 1579, the provision has been
 
 criticised in the following terms :- Cautioning that, "It may perhaps be added that not only uncorrected
 errors of law, but elements of over-confidence, unfairness and

 inquisitorial and domineering attitudes can be expected to increase with
 the withdrawal of appellate powers and sheltered by the lack of
 publicity provided by arbitration". 39. It is said that the Courts in England have not favoured the
 curtailment of powers of the Court. It has been observed that regarding ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 39 appeal-534-10.final

 the correct balance of the relationship between international arbitration
 and national Courts, it is impossible to doubt that at least in some

 
 instances the intervention of the Court may be not only permissible but
 highly beneficial. (See Coppee Lavalin SA/NV vs Ken-Re Chemicals

 
 and Fertilisers Ltd., (1994) 2 All ER 449. (emphasis supplied) 40. Even in the decisions that have been brought to our notice
 by Dr.Singhvi, it has been held that in case of allegations of fraud and

 
 serious malpractices on the part of the parties, such a situation can only
 be settled in Court through furtherance of judicial evidence by either
 
 party and such a situation cannot be properly gone into by the Arbitrator. The reason for this appears to be obvious. 41. Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 reads thus : 42. Every agreement by which any party thereto is restricted
 absolutely from enforcing his rights under or in respect of any contract, ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 40 appeal-534-10.final

 by the usual legal proceedings in the ordinary tribunals, or which limits
 the time within which he may enforce his rights, is void to that extent. Further, Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act,1872 would also throw
 some light on this aspect. In old English decisions Thomson vs

 
 Charnock, 8 T.R. 139 (England) and other cases referred in Sanjiv
 Row's Contract Act and law relating to tenders etc., 9th Edition, (page

 
 1493), it has been held that the law does not allow parties to make
 contracts whereby they bargain away in advance the right to resort to the
 Courts for the protection of their rights and the determination of their

 
 liabilities. Therefore, such agreements which take away rights of parties
 to approach civil Court even when the issues involved pertain to fraud
 
 would not only be hit by the aforementioned provisions but would be
 
 contrary to public policy as well. 43. In Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. vs SAW Pipes
 Ltd. , AIR 2003 SC 2629, the Supreme Court had an occasion to
 

 consider the ambit and scope of Section 34 of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996 and particularly Section 34(2)(b)(ii) . The

 Supreme Court held that the expression "public policy" does not admit
 of a precise definition and may vary from generation to generation and
 from time to time. The Supreme Court relied upon its earlier ruling in

 the case of Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Limited and
 another vs Brojo Nath Ganguli and another , (1986) 3 SCC 156, and
 further decision in the case of Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. vs General
 Electric Co. , 1994 Supp (1) SCC 644. The Supreme Court therefore
 observed that this expression is not static. In construing this expression,
 the Judges must look beyond the narrow fields of past precedents.
 Therefore, the object in inserting Section 23 and Section 28 in the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 41 appeal-534-10.final Indian Contract Act, 1872 from which assistance could be drawn,
 appears to be that a stipulation that no action should be brought in a

 
 Court of law for enforcing the rights under a contract would be void.
 Similarly, an agreement to refer arbitration, differences that may arise

 
 under a contract, does not oust the jurisdiction of the Court and is no bar
 to action, but may be a ground for staying action under the Arbitration

 
 Act . In England, it has been held that it would be against the policy to
 give effect to an agreement that a right should not be enforced through
 the medium of the ordinary tribunals. (See Chelmsford L.C. In Scott vs

 
 Liverpool (Corporation), 1958 L.J.C. 235 & Zarnikow vs Roth, (1922)
 2 Kings Bench 478). 44. Applying these tests to the facts of the present case would
 show that the appellant-plaintiff instituted a Suit in this Court against the
 defendant on the basis that it is organized under the laws of Singapore. It owns and operates cable and satellite television channels including the
 popular SET MAX channel. The defendant is a company incorporated
 

 in Mauritius carrying on business as a sports marketing agency. 45. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (for short
 "BCCI") owns and controls the commercial rights to each of the Indian

 Premier League (for short "IPL"), matches and player auctions related
 to IPL. After setting out the format of the IPL it is urged that global
 media rights and Indian sub-continent internet and mobile rights
 pertaining to IPL were granted by BCCI to World Sport Group India
 (Pvt.) Ltd., referred to as 'WSGI" vide an Indian Premier League Media
 Rights License Agreement (referred to in the plaint as WSGI-MRLA" 51. A bare perusal of this clause would indicate that it speaks
 of, firstly, the Governing Law. Secondly, all actions or proceedings ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 49 appeal-534-10.final

 arising in connection with, touching upon or relating to the deed, the
 breach thereof and/or the scope of this Section shall be submitted to the

 
 International Chamber of Commerce for final and binding arbitration.
 Thirdly, the arbitration would be subject to its rules and will be held in

 
 Singapore in the English language before a single arbitrator who shall be
 a retired Judge with at least ten years of commercial experience. Fourthly, the mode of selection of the arbitrator is set out. Importantly,
 the arbitration shall be a confidential proceeding, closed to the general
 public. The arbitrator shall issue a written opinion stating the essential

 
 findings and conclusions upon which the arbitrator's award is based. He
 will have powers to issue temporary restraining orders and injunctions
 
 and preliminary and permanent injunctions. Lastly, no party shall be
 
 entitled or permitted to commence or maintain any action in a Court of
 law with respect to any matter in dispute until such matter shall have to
 be submitted to arbitration as herein provided and then only for the
 

 enforcement of the arbitrator's award, provided, however that prior to
 the appointment of the arbitrator or for remedies beyond the jurisdiction
 

 of an arbitrator, at any time, any party may seek equitable relief in a
 Court of competent jurisdiction in Singapore or such other Court that

 may have jurisdiction over the parties but without waiving their right to
 arbitration of the dispute. The right to trial by jury has been waived by
 parties. (emphasis supplied). 52. To our mind, such a clause fore-closes an open trial in a
 Court of law except to the extent permitted therein. The parties have to
 necessarily submit themselves to a confidential proceeding which is
 closed to the general public. Further, there is no assurance that the
 arbitrator will give detailed reasons for the findings and conclusions in ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 50 appeal-534-10.final

 accord with fairness and justice. If the clause is understood to mean a
 waiver of right to public trial in respect of all claims and issues arising

 
 under, in connection with, touching upon or relating to this deed, its
 breach or the scope of its provision whether in contract or tort, including

 
 any claim for fraudulent inducement thereof are out of purview of an
 open trial in a Court of law and approach to a Court of law is only prior

 
 to the appointment of the arbitrator or for remedies beyond the
 jurisdiction of an arbitrator, then, it is apparent to us that the aspects and
 issues raised by the appellant-plaintiff before the learned Single Judge

 
 and before us would be out of the purview of the jurisdiction of
 competent court in India. ig The Deed for Provision of Facilitation
 services is between a company based in Mauritius and another in
 
 Singapore, although they are entering into an arrangement in connection
 with acquisition of media rights to cricket including with respect to IPL.
 In other words, they have worked together in connection with these
 

 media rights earlier and the recitals are that defendant-World Sports
 Group (Mauritius) Limited, its affiliates is associated with the appellant
 

 in finalising the agreement with BCCI styled as BCCI-MSM agreement
 and in relation to bids for media rights in connection with IPL and in

 return for performing the facilitation services, the appellant-plaintiff-
 Sony has agreed to pay to WSG a facilitation fee and provide bank
 guarantees for which the deed is executed. The term "BCCI" is defined

 in the agreement in the interpretation clause. There is a reference to
 BCCI-MSM agreement and that means the IPL media rights licensed
 agreement entered into on the same date as this deed between the BCCI
 and the appellant. Then, there is a definition of "BCCI termination
 notice". Thereafter, facilitation fee is defined to mean a sum of 425
 crores (in Indian rupees) payable in accordance with clause 3 and the
 WSG agreement means the IPL agreement dated 23rd March 2009 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 51 appeal-534-10.final

 between BCCI and respondent. If clauses 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 are
 perused together with the Governing Law, it is apparent to us that they

 
 pertain to media rights in cricket and particularly with respect to Indian
 Premier League. The learned Senior Counsel appearing for both sides

 
 do not dispute that all rights including media rights are controlled by
 BCCI. They do not dispute that Indian Premier League is a tournament

 
 organized by BCCI. 53. In a decision reported in AIR 2005 SC 2677 (M/s.Zee Tele

 
 Films Ltd. and another vs Union of India and others), the Supreme
 Court has held that BCCI may not be "State or other authority" within
 
 the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India but it is
 
 discharging public duties which are in the nature of State functions such
 as selecting team to represent India in international matches, to make
 rules governing activities for cricket players, umpires and other persons
 

 involved in game of cricket. The Supreme Court has further held that
 the Board enjoys monopoly in cricket. It exercises enormous power
 

 which is neither in doubt nor in dispute. The Board is not financially,
 functionally or administratively dominated by the Government nor it is

 under control in the sense that it is not all pervasive but limited. The
 limited control is purely regulatory. While holding that some of the
 functions of the Board partake nature of public duties or State actions, as

 far as cricket in India is concerned, this is what is held in this decision :- Before we embark on this enqiry, it would be
 necessary to keep in mind as to what cricket means to
 the citizens of this country. UPA 52 appeal-534-10.final 198. Cricket in India is the most popular game. When India plays in international fora, it attracts the

 
 attention of millions of people. The win or loss of the
 game brings `joy' or `sorrow' to them. To some lovers

 
 of the fame, it is a passion, to a lot more it is an
 obsession, nay a craze. For a large number of viewers,
 it is not enthusiasm alone but involvement." 54. Therefore, we are called upon to decide the issue as to when

 
 such is the status of the Board and cricket in India in all the agreements
 that the Board executes or enters into or permits or authorises to do, in
 
 cases of disputes arising therefrom or thereunder, whether they be kept
 
 out of the scrutiny of Indian Courts. In other words, if the Board
 authorises some of the parties to deal with the media rights pertaining to
 cricket and such parties or entities may not be India based, then, serious
 

 allegations of fraud and mal practices made by such parties against each
 other, should be subject matter of action only before a forum chosen by
 

 them and no Court of law in India will be able to touch upon or reach
 them even if they affect and concern the BCCI. Ultimately, the

 finances, funds and rights of BCCI are in issue. If parties who claim
 through or derive such rights from BCCI, enter into an agreement
 whereunder adjudication of dispute touching the contracts will be done

 excluding BCCI and in an arbitral tribunal based on a foreign soil, that is
 something which cannot be held to be in public interest or in furtherance
 of public policy of India. 55. The allegations in the plaint and particularly the statement
 that the appellant-plaintiff was induced to execute the agreement and
 pay the fees on the basis that they are paying the same to BCCI, cannot ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 53 appeal-534-10.final

 be lightly brushed aside. The respondent-Mauritius company has
 objected to the relief claimed by the appellant by urging that the

 
 facilitation deed is governed by and construed in accordance with the
 laws in England and Wales without regard to the choice of law principle. Both parties to the suit are companies incorporated outside India and the
 arbitration agreement/ clause is widely worded. However, at the same

 
 time the respondent is aware that what is alleged is mis-representation
 by a third party but it is urged that it is not made to the plaintiff-
 appellant but to its holding company. Further, it is alleged by the

 
 appellant-plaintiff that but for the mis-representation, appellant would
 have negotiated with BCCI directly. It alleges that it had negotiated
 
 only with BCCI and the respondent had no role. Throughout in the
 
 affidavit in reply filed to oppose the notice of motion and while tracing
 the events leading to the execution of the contracts, at more than one
 place, the respondent-Mauritius company makes a reference to BCCI. In paragraph 23 of their reply that is filed before the learned Single
 Judge on 12th July 2010, the respondent asserts that WSGI, BCCI and
 

 the respondent entered into a deed of mutually agreed termination of the
 earlier rights. The parties agreed to a mutual termination in

 consideration of new contracts negotiated and to be executed. Those
 were Indian sub-continent rights to the respondent-Mauritius company
 and for other world rights to WSGI. Accordingly, the respondent makes

 reference to the contract with the BCCI relating to the television rights
 for Indian sub-continent 2009-2017 dated 15th March 2009 under which
 it claimed authority from BCCI to sub-license. Yet, in paragraph 35, the
 respondent states that it never represented or held out that it had a
 contract dated 23rd March 2009 or any contract with BCCI for the Indian
 sub-continent rights other than the 15th March 2009 agreement. There
 are certain statements in paragraph 37 and in sub-clause (c) the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 54 appeal-534-10.final

 respondent asserts that its only representation was contained in the
 facilitation deed and that was about its existing rights being terminated

 
 or extinguished at the time of executing the facilitation deed. Further,
 when the respondent says that there is no question of representation

 
 because of what is stated in paragraph 37(b)(i) to (iv) it asserts in
 paragraph 37(3) that it facilitated the process of the appellant contracting

 
 directly with BCCI. It was also urged before the learned Single Judge
 that there was no relinquishment in the appellant-plaintiff's favour. The
 respondent's rights had to end before the respondent could give any

 
 rights in faovur of the appellant. In paragraph 38 the deponent of the
 affidavit Mr. Harish Krishnamachar (constituted attorney of the
 
 defendant) states that he has checked with all persons involved
 
 negotiations on behalf of the defendant and no one has ever made any
 representation that the defendant had a contract dated 23rd March 2009.
 Without being technical, it is clear that it is the Constituted Attorney
 

 who is deposing about some facts which are in the personal knowledge
 of those involved in the negotiations. Therefore, his assertion must be
 

 understood accordingly. All that has been stated in this affidavit is that
 once the appellant-plaintiff enters into a facilitation deed with the

 stipulation of arbitration knowing fully well the effect and implications
 thereof, then, the appellant-plaintiff cannot urge that the forum chosen is
 inconvenient to parties because it alleges mis-representation and fraud. 56. We are of the view that the statements made in the affidavit
 over-look the allegations in the plaint and essentially of fraud. The
 allegations are indeed serious. It is not as if we are commenting upon
 the correctness or otherwise of the rival version. Suffice it to state that
 when such allegations are made in the plaint and the record indicates ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 55 appeal-534-10.final

 that BCCI not being a party to the arbitration, the arbitral venue being at
 Singapore, the governing laws being as decided by parties, all this

 
 adversely affects the interest of BCCI and the general public. When in
 the proceedings between parties the role of BCCI is bound to be

 
 highlighted, then, absence of BCCI is a vital factor. As observed by
 Sabyasachi Mukherji, J. for the Calcutta High Court in General

 
 Enterprises and others vs Jardine Handerson Ltd. , AIR 1978 CAL. 407,
 (para 15) "..... as the saying goes that to stage Hamlet without the Prince
 of Denmark would be improper....." 57.
 
 By brushing aside such a vital party and taking the matter
 
 out of the purview of the Indian Courts would have serious
 consequences. The funds involved are in relation to the rights of BCCI
 because it is the BCCI which organizes the tournament. If the answers
 

 to the issues raised in the affidavits are to be given that should only be at
 an open trial where the public has an access. Ultimately, how television
 

 rights are dealt with by BCCI and who are the beneficiaries of the deals
 of BCCI and whether the officers of BCCI had any involvement therein

 are matters which must be known to the cricketing public. They will be
 known only if there is no confidentiality in the trial. Such important
 matters involving serious allegations of fraud and wrongful inducement

 cannot be said to be confidential. More so, when the position of BCCI
 is appreciated. The trial Court should have, therefore, adverted to these
 contentions raised by parties and should not have rested its conclusions
 only by perusing the arbitration clause. We are of the opinion that the
 learned Judge has proceeded on an erroneous basis, to hold that the
 jurisdiction of the arbitrator is sought to be excluded only upon alleging
 fraud. The trial Court considered the matter only as a dispute under the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 56 appeal-534-10.final

 facilitation deed and that the claim of the appellant is that it is not bound
 and liable to make payment under the contract or the further payments

 
 because the agreement was vitiated by fraud. 58. With greatest respect to the learned Single Judge, the
 conclusion that these are defences of the appellant-plaintiff and they can

 
 be gone into by the arbitral tribunal considering the wording of the
 arbitration agreement, is incorrect. The learned Judge was in error in
 concluding that the cause of action of the plaintiff-appellant in the suit is

 
 their defence in the arbitration. All these conclusions are based upon a
 narrow view of the matter, the transactions and the dealings. The learned
 
 Judge over-looked a significant aspect arising out of the role of BCCI. It is BCCI which is distributing and handing over the rights and it is
 through BCCI that the appellant-plaintiff and the respondent-defendant
 derived them. Therefore, to take a view that the case of fraud can be
 

 gone into by the arbitrator, with respect, would not be valid and proper.
 The same is also vitiated because the learned Judge proceeded on the
 

 basis that by virtue of Section 5 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
 1996, the Court cannot intervene and interfere with the arbitration

 agreement. Even that conclusion runs counter to the decisions which are
 relied on by the respondent-defendant. These decisions clearly indicate
 that when vital issues of fraud and public policy are raised and when

 interests of third parties are involved and affected, then, the choice is not
 left to parties. It is for the Court to determine as to whether it will allow
 the matters to be gone into by a domestic tribunal in confidentiality or
 whether they are fit to be decided by a Court of law in an open trial.
 Once we reach the conclusion that when the issues arising out of fraud
 as raised in the present proceedings have a bearing on the position of
 BCCI in the game of cricket, the involvement of the general public in ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 57 appeal-534-10.final

 the game and the television rights which are conferred for viewing the
 games by them, so also presence of BCCI being necessary, then, the

 
 matter is fit for an open public trial by a Court of law. That cannot be
 left to be decided by a tribunal chosen by parties. The repercussions of

 
 allowing such matters to be decided by a domestic tribunal chosen by
 parties would be serious and in the longer run affect the judicial process

 
 itself. If such a course is permitted, that might run counter to the object
 and purpose of inserting Sections 23 and 28 in the Indian Contract Act,
 1872 . In other words, the impact of all this on Indian laws would be

 
 tremendous. We would be failing in our duty if we do not notice the
 same and take appropriate corrective steps. 59. Additionally, in this case, one suit instituted by the
 appellant, to which BCCI is party, is pending in this Court since 25th
 June 2010. The respondent would term it a collusive action but once
 

 some proceeding relating to the same contract is pending in a Court of
 law, then, all the more the matter must be dealt with by that Court of
 

 law. Ultimately, all contracts refer to BCCI. Whether prior or
 subsequent, all of them arise out of the same right, namely, television

 and media rights of IPL. They are inter-connected and inter-related,
 prima facie. Therefore, to see the clause relating to Governing Law in
 isolation would be improper and erroneous. In any event, the clause is

 entitled as "Governing Law". It deals with applicability of laws in
 relation to the subject contract. The forum for redressal of disputes is
 but one facet of the same. Therefore and when there is inter-connection
 and close proximity in the obligations of parties under the subject deed
 with their earlier dealings, then, to allow a domestic tribunal to deal with
 disputes only under the facilitation deed would mean segregating and
 separating the claims. It would amount to allowing splitting up of ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 58 appeal-534-10.final

 matters and disputes pending in India and abroad. Thus, there is a
 possibility of conflicting verdicts and that would have an impact on

 
 applicability of Indian laws, which may ultimately be held to be
 applicable, at least in proceedings pending in India. It is in this sense

 
 that we feel that the implications of all this on Indian judicial process is
 an aspect which cannot be kept aside. In AIR 1991 SC 2234 ( Byram

 
 Pestonji Gariwala vs Union Bank of India and others ), the Supreme
 Court held that Indian legal system is the product of history. It is rooted
 in our soil; nurtured and nourished by our culture; languages and

 
 traditions; fostered and sharpened by our genius and quest for social
 justice; it is not a mere copy of English Common law; though inspired
 
 and guided by it. Therefore, with respect, we cannot sustain the
 
 restricted view of the learned Single Judge. 60. The question is whether in the facts of the present case, it
 

 was incumbent upon the Court hearing Suit (Lodging) No. 1901 of 2010
 to refer all the parties to the said suit (including BCCI) to arbitration. As
 already discussed elaborately earlier, since the dispute between the

 appellant and the respondent herein is exclusively linked with the
 dispute between BCCI on the one hand and Mr. Lalit Modi and
 respondent-Mauritius company on the other hand and the larger dispute

 is pending decision in Suit (Lodging) No.1901 of 2010, the dispute
 between the appellant-Sony and the respondent-Mauritius company
 cannot be referred to arbitration. 61. The decision of the Apex Court in CDC Financial Services
 (Mauritius) Ltd. V. BPL Communications Ltd. and another , (2003) 12 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 ::: UPA 59 appeal-534-10.final

 SCC 140 was rendered in view of the concession made on behalf of the
 respondents therein that the orders passed by the High Court interfering

 
 with the arbitration were in violation of mandate contained in section 5 has already been discussed hereinabove. The said case did not deal with

 
 the fact situation where the rights of the third party/authority were
 involved. 62. In view of the above discussion, we are inclined to grant an

 
 injunction to restrain the respondent-Mauritius company
 ig from
 proceeding with the arbitral proceedings initiated by the respondent
 before the International Chamber of Commerce on 28th June, 2010 after
 
 the plaintiff filed Suit (Lodging) No.1901 of 2010 against World Sport
 Group (India), the respondent- Mauritius company and BCCI. Even so,
 having regard to the fact that injunction is an equitable remedy and that
 

 the legislative scheme of minimal judicial intervention is in order to
 

 ensure that the party not agreeable to go for arbitration does not succeed
 in avoiding or delaying discharge of its liability by taking recourse to
 judicial proceedings for restraining arbitral proceedings, we consider it

 appropriate to impose a condition that the appellant-plaintiff MSM
 Satellite (Singapore) Private Limited shall, without prejudice to the
 rights and contentions of the parties, deposit a sum of Rs.300 crores

 before the Registrar (O.S.)/ Prothonotary & Senior Master of this court
 in Suit (Lodging) No.1901 of 2010 within six weeks from today. The
 deposit shall abide by the outcome of the said suit and the amount shall
 not be permitted to be withdrawn by any one without prior permission of
 the court taking up Suit (Lodging) No.1901 of 2010. UPA 60 appeal-534-10.final 63. In the result, the appeal is allowed. The order dated 9th

 
 August 2010 of the learned Single Judge is set aside. Notice of Motion
 No. 1809 of 2010 in Suit No.1828 of 2010 is allowed. During pendency

 
 of Suit No.1828 of 2010 and Suit No.1869 of 2010 (Suit (Lodging) No.
 1901 of 2010), respondent-defendant World Sport Group (Mauritius)

 
 Limited is restrained from continuing with the arbitral proceedings on
 the basis of the facilitation deed dated 25th March, 2009 between the
 appellant-plaintiff MSM Satellite (Singapore) Private Limited and

 
 respondent-defendant World Sport Group (Mauritius) Limited, subject to
 the condition that the appellant-plaintiff deposits a sum of Rs.300 crores
 
 before the Registrar (O.S.)/ Prothonotary & Senior Master of this court
 
 in Suit No.1869 of 2010 (Suit (Lodging) No.1901 of 2010) within six
 weeks from today. To enable the plaintiff to comply with the said
 condition, for a period of six weeks from today, the respondent- defendant World Sports Group (Mauritius) Limited is restrained from
 continuing with the above arbitral proceedings. 64. Upon deposit, the amount shall be invested with a
 Nationalised Bank for a period of one year, under the cumulative interest
 scheme, with instructions to the Bank to continue to renew the deposit

 until further orders of this Court in Suit No.1869 of 2010 (Suit
 (Lodging) No.1901 of 2010). 63. If the condition of depositing the amount is not complied
 with within the above time limit, the injunction shall stand vacated upon
 expiry of the said time limit. UPA 61 appeal-534-10.final 64. Since the appeal is disposed of, notice of motion filed in the
 appeal does not survive and stands disposed of. CHIEF JUSTICE

 
 S.C. DHARMADHIKARI, J. uday/judgments2010/app-l-534-10..final ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 16:26:30 :::