17.12.2025 1. It is submitted by the learned counsel for the respondent that he has filed

the objections in the matter on today. However, the same are not placed on the

physical or digital file of the case. 2. Registry is directed to place the same on the record of the case, if filed. 3. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner in respect of his prayer for

grant of interim pre-arrest bail. Also heard the learned counsel for the

respondent/UT in rebuttal. Considered the rival submissions. 4. The case diary file concerned being produced by the Investigating Officer

of the case has also been perused. 5. It is alleged by the petitioner in this petition that he has been falsely and

frivolously implicated in the case FIR, when he has not committed the alleged

offences. That he is respectable citizen having deep rooted in the society and as

such, he shall be highly disreputed in the event of his arrest in the case. That he

shall fully cooperate with the Investigating Officer and shall abide any terms and

conditions that may be imposed by this Court. 6. The perusal of the copies of the documents enclosed with the petition

especially, the FIR and the order dated 16.10.2025 passed by the learned

Sessions Judge, Poonch while rejecting the earlier pre-arrest bail application of

the petitioner, reveals that the petitioner is involved in the commission of

offences under Sections 319(2), 318(4), 336(3), 340(2), 3(5) of BNS 66C/66D

I.T. Act arising out of case FIR bearing No.71/2025 of Police Station, Surankote

Poonch. 7. The facts of the prosecution case are that an information came to be

received from reliable sources in the Police Station, Surankote to the effect that

in some areas of the jurisdiction of the police Station i.e. Draba, Mastandhara,

Bufliaz and Fazlabad etc., some persons namely, i) Haroon Bhat, ii) Sameer

Bhat, iii) Mohsin Khan, iv) Rehan Khan, v) Tehmoor Malik, vi) Umar Malik, vii) Sajid Khan, viii) Saqib Khan, ix) Umar Ali Khan and x) Amar Khan all R/o

Doragian, Tehsil Surankote and other few persons have created fake channels

upon their respective mobile phones through telegram mobile application by

promoting the channel through Mata App. That they by posing them as experts

in making the best team upon Dream 11, they created the fake teams upon their

respective mobile phones thereby cheated the public in general and in particular

of Jammu and Kashmir and of District Poonch. That they by cheating the rustic

public made them to deposit the money in their respective bank accounts and the

other bank accounts through UPI. That they are illegally receiving the money in

lakhs by cheating the public. That after grabbing the money they blacklist/block

the mobile numbers of the aggrieved persons. That from the illegal gotten

money they have amazed huge property in the shape of vehicles and houses. 8. The investigation of the case is reported to be going on. 3 Bail App No.300/2025 9. The learned counsel for the petitioner during his arguments submitted that

the FIR in question came to be registered on 14.05.2025 and since then police

concerned has not arrested the alleged accused persons. He submitted that in the

facts and circumstances of the case, there is no need for custodial interrogation

of the petitioner as the accused including the petitioner are alleged to have

received the money from the public through online and other bank transactions.

He submitted that the documents, if any, to be detained by the investigating

officer constitute the matter of record in the banks. He submitted that the

investigating officer of the case has already communicated with various banks

and has got the details of the accounts of the accused including that of the

petitioner. He submitted that the investigating officer has illegally freezed/seized

bank accounts/house hold property of the petitioner/accused. He submitted that

petitioner is ready to cooperate during investigation and to abide any conditions

that may be imposed. Admittedly, the investigating officer of the case has not

been able to arrest any accused in the case since the registration of the FIR

on 14.05.2025. 10. The learned counsel for the respondent/UT, however, in rebuttal

submitted that on 14.05.2025, reliable information was received at Police

Station Surankote that accused persons namely Sajid Khan and others, through

Telegram application and Dream-11 platform, in a planned and coordinated

manner created fake channels, impersonated themselves as expert fantasy cricket

team predictors and cheated innocent public across India including UT of J&K.

That accused prepared fake winning team lists and circulated them through

Telegram/Meta networks, thereby inducing people to transfer money via

UPI/Bank accounts/QR scanners. That after receiving money, victims were 4 Bail App No.300/2025 blocked and again deceived by sending manipulated winning results and

demanding further payments in the name of tax/processing charges. That on the

basis of the above information, FIR No.71/2025 under Sections 319(2), 318(4),

336(3), 340(2), 3(5) of BNS 66C/66D I.T. Act was registered at Police Station

Surankote and investigation was taken up. That statements of the witnesses were

recorded under Section 180 BNSS, and letters were issued to different banks for

freezing and providing details of suspected accounts. That investigation was

initially conducted by then SHO Inspector Sachinder Pal Singh, and later

entrusted to the Inspector Aejaz Ahmad (SHO Surankote). That notice under

Section 35(3) BNSS was served to the accused, but he did not appear and

continues to remain absconding. That a search was conducted at his residential

premises in presence of EMIC Bufliaz, Village Chowkidar and house owner,

during which the same items were recovered/seized as suspected proceeds of

crime viz' Maruti Suzuki Brezza Car Registration No.JK02CQ2851, Multiple

mobile phones including iphone XS, Tablet devices, ear-pods, 09 mobile

chargers, Car readers, memory cards & SIM cards and ATM cards & branded

watches. The above articles indicate acquisition through proceeds generated

from cyber-fraud activities. That during investigation, bank statements of

accused-one linked account was obtained and analysed, wherein it surfaced that

in the last six years, suspicious credit transactions amounting to Rs.91,52,975/-

(Ninety One Lakh Fifty Two Thousand Nine Hundred Seventy-Five) were

received from unknown persons across various states of India. That accused

belongs to a BPL family and has no legitimate or declared source of income, yet

is found in possession of costly gadgets, vehicle and a pucca house worth

approx. Rs.50 lakhs, grossly disproportionate to his income prima facie 5 Bail App No.300/2025 establishing the said assets as proceeds of crime. That after approval from SSP

Poonch, attachment proceedings under Section 107 BNSS were initiated and the

vehicle of petitioner/accused has been formally attached by order of Hon'ble

Court of Sub Judge Surankote. That investigation is actively going on. The

financial trail, digital forensics, UPI/bank routing, account layering and

beneficiary linkage are under detailed scrutiny. There is credible apprehension

that the accused has operated multiple bank accounts/e-wallets across numerous

banking institutions and online platforms, details of which are to be ascertained

through custodial interrogation for tracing complete modus operandi and

recovery of cheated money. Multiple victims from different states are being

traced, contacted and examined, and fresh leads are emerging. Custodial arrest

of the accused is vital for the recovery of electronic evidence and deleted data

tracing money trial & link accounts identifying co-accused/beneficiaries

preventing continuation of cyber fraud network. Grant of bail at this critical

stage may result in destruction of electronic evidence, influencing of witnesses,

and may lead to alienation of proceeds of crime, thereby frustrating of

investigation. 11. A ground appears to be made in the opinion of the Court for grant of

interim pre-arrest bail, subject to further development in the investigation of the

case. The association of the petitioner with the investigating officer is likely to

facilitate the progress in the investigation of the case. 12. The Hon'ble Apex Court in its Judgments cited as Siddharam Satlingappa

Mhetre Vs State of Maharashtra decided on 02/12/2010, AIR 2011 SC 312 and

Sushila Aggarwal and others vs. State (NCT of Delhi) and Another decided on

January 29, 2020 by a larger Bench 2020 SC online 98 has interpreted law on 6 Bail App No.300/2025 the subject of anticipatory bail with a very wide outlook and while interpreting

the concept of liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of our

country in a flexible and broader sense. The Hon'ble Apex Court has admittedly,

in the Judgment cited as Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre Vs State of

Maharashtra , held the earlier law on the subject laid down in Chain Lal Vs.

State of Madhya Pradesh (1976) 4 SCC 572; Salau-uddin Abdul Samad Heikh

vs State of Maharastra AIR 1996 SC 1042; K.L, Verma vs state and another

1996 (7) SCALE 20; Sunita Devi vs State of Bihar and another AIR 2005 SC

498; 2005 AIR (Criminal) 112; Adri Dharan Das vs State of West Bengal AIR

2005 SC 1057 and Naresh Kumar Yadoo vs Ravinder Kumar and others 2008

AIR (SC 218) decided on 23rd October 2007, as per incuriam. 13. It was held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the said Judgments that purpose

of anticipatory bail is to uphold cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that

an accused person is presumed to be innocent till he/she is proved to be guilty

and that Section 438 of Code (corresponding to Section 482 of BNSS) need not

be invoked only in exceptional or rare cases. Discretion must be exercised on the

basis of available material and facts of particular case. It has also been held in

the said case that anticipatory bail cannot be granted for a limited period.

Accused released on anticipatory bail cannot be compelled to surrender before

trial Court and again apply for regular bail. It is contrary to the spirit of section

438 and also amounts to deprivation of personal liberty. Ordinarily, benefit of

grant of anticipatory bail should continue till end of trial of that case unless bail

is cancelled on fresh circumstances. That grant or refusal of bail should

necessarily depend on facts and circumstances of the each case. 7 Bail App No.300/2025 14. The following factors and parameters have been laid down for

consideration while dealing with anticipatory bail. (a) The nature and gravity of the accusation and the exact role of

 the accused must be properly comprehended before arrest is made; (b)The antecedents of the applicant including the fact as to whether

 the accused has previously undergone imprisonment on conviction

 by a court in respect of any cognizable offence; (c) The possibility of the applicant to flee from justice; (d)The possibility of the accused's likelihood to repeat similar or

 the other offences. (e) Whether the accusations have been made only with the object of

 injuring or humiliating the applicant by arresting him or her; (f) Impact of grant of anticipatory bail particularly in cases of large

 magnitude affecting a very large number of people; (g)The courts must evaluate the entire available material against

 the accused very carefully. The court must also clearly comprehend

 the exact role of the accused in the case. The cases in which

 accused is implicated with the help of section 34 and 149 of the

 Indian Penal Code, the court should consider with even greater

 care and caution because over implication in the cases is a matter

 of common knowledge and concern; (h)While considering the prayer for grant of anticipatory bail, a

 balance has to be struck between two factors namely, no prejudice

 should be caused to the free, fair and full investigation and there 8 Bail App No.300/2025 should be prevention of harassment, humiliation and unjustified

 detention of the accused; (i) The court to consider reasonable apprehension of tampering of

 the witness or apprehension of threat to the complainant; (j) Frivolity in prosecution should always be considered and it is

 only the element of genuineness that shall have to be considered in

 the matter of grant of bail and in the event of there being some

 doubt as to the genuineness of the prosecution in the normal course

 of events, the accused is entitled to an order of bail. It is profitable to reproduce a relevant complex extract from the said

judgment as under:- 15. In another judgment of Sushila Aggarwal and others vs. State (NCT of

Delhi) and another decided on 29th, January 2020 a larger bench of

Hon'ble Apex Court was pleased to inter-alia lay down the following guiding

principles for consideration of the pre-arrest bail applications by the Courts: Such special or other restrictive conditions may be imposed if 10 Bail App No.300/2025 the case or cases warrant, but should not be imposed in a

 routine manner, in all cases. Likewise, conditions which limit

 the grant of anticipatory bail may be granted, if they are

 required in the facts of any case or cases; however, such

 limiting conditions may not be invariably imposed. (iii) Courts ought to be generally guided by considerations such as

 the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the

 applicant, and the facts of the case, while considering whether

 to grant anticipatory bail, or refuse it. Whether to grant or

 note is a matter of discretion; equally whether and if so, what

 kind of special conditions are to be imposed (or not imposed)

 are dependent on facts of the case, and subject to the

 discretion of the court. (iv) Anticipatory bail granted can, depending on the conduct and

 behaviour of the accused, continue after filing of the charge

 sheet till end of trial. An order of anticipatory bail should not

 be blanket in the sense that it should not enable the accused to

 commit further offences and claim relief of indefinite

 protection from arrest. It should be confined to the offence or

 incident, for which apprehension of arrest is sought, in

 relation to a specific incident. It cannot operate in respect of a

 future incident that involves commission of an offence. (v) An order of anticipatory bail does not in any manner limit or

 restrict the rights or duties of the police or investigating 11 Bail App No.300/2025 agency, to investigate into the charges against the person who

 seeks and is granted pre-arrest bail. 16. List on 29.12.2025. 17. In the meantime, subject to any vacation/modification upon the

consideration of objections/arguments and till next date of hearing before the

Bench, the respondent/SHO Police Station, Surankote, Poonch is directed that

he shall in the event of arrest of the applicant/petitioner namely, Sajid Khan S/o

Mohd. Sadiq R/o Dogrian Bafliaz Poonch in connection with the investigation in

the case FIR bearing No.0071/2025 of his Police Station, release him from

custody, subject to his furnishing of surety and personal bonds to the tune of

₹2.00 lacs. each (the surety bond of ₹.2.00 lacs. shall be furnishing by two

persons from amongst the near relatives of the petitioner each one of whom shall

be liable in the amount of ₹.1.00 lacs.) to his satisfaction for assuring the

compliance of the following conditions:- 18. In case of any recovery from or at the instance of the petitioner/accused

he shall be deemed to be in custody for the purposes of Section 23(2) of

Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam. 19. CD file is directed to be returned back. (Mohd. Yousuf Wani)
 Judge
Jammu
17.12.2025
Shammi