JUDGMENT
WITH

CRIMINAL APPEAL Nos. 376-378 OF 2004
STATE (N.C.T. OF DELHI)					 APPELLANT

VERSUS

SYED ABDUL REHMAN GILANI				 RESPONDENT

CRIMINAL APPEAL Nos. 379-380 OF 2004
SHAUKAT HUSSAIN GURU					 APPELLANT

VERSUS

STATE (N.C.T. OF DELHI)					 RESPONDENT

CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 381 OF 2004
MOHD. AFZAL							 APPELLANT

VERSUS

STATE (N.C.T. OF DELHI)

P. VENKATARAMA REDDI, J. 1.		The genesis of this case lies in a macabre incident that took place 
close to the noon time on 13th December, 2001 in which five heavily armed 
persons practically stormed the Parliament House complex and inflicted heavy 
casualties on the security men on duty. This unprecedented event bewildered 
the entire nation and sent shock waves across the globe. In the gun battle that 
lasted for 30 minutes or so, these five terrorists who tried to gain entry into 
the Parliament when it was in session, were killed. Nine persons including eight 
security personnel and one gardener succumbed to the bullets of the terrorists 
and 16 persons including 13 security men received injuries. The five terrorists 
were ultimately killed and their abortive attempt to lay a seize of the 
Parliament House thus came to an end, triggering off extensive and effective 
investigations spread over a short span of 17 days which revealed the possible 
involvement of the four accused persons who are either appellants or 
respondents herein and some other proclaimed offenders said to be the leaders 
of the banned militant organization known as "Jaish-E-Mohammed". After the 
conclusion of investigation, the investigating agency filed the report under Section 173 Cr.P.C. against the four accused persons on 14.5.2002. Charges 
were framed under various sections of Indian Penal Code (for short ' IPC '), the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as 'POTA') and the 
Explosive Substances Act by the designated Court. The designated Special 
Court presided over by Shri S.N. Dhingra tried the accused on the charges and 
the trial concluded within a record period of about six months. 80 witnesses 
were examined for the prosecution and 10 witnesses were examined on behalf 
of the accused S.A.R. Gilani. Plethora of documents (about 330 in number) 
were exhibited. The three accused, namely, Mohd. Afzal, Shaukat Hussain 
Guru and S.A.R. Gilani were convicted for the offences under Sections 121, 
121A, 122, Section 120B read with Sections 302 & 307 read with Section 120-
B IPC, sub-Sections (2), (3) & (5) of Section 3 and Section 4(b) of POTA and Sections 3 & 4 of Explosive Substances Act. The accused 1 & 2 were also 
convicted under Section 3(4) of POTA. Accused No.4 namely Navjot Sandhu @ 
Afsan Guru was acquitted of all the charges except the one under Section 123 IPC for which she was convicted and sentenced to undergo R.I. for five years 
and to pay fine. Death sentences were imposed on the other three accused for 
the offence under Section 302 read with Section 120-B IPC (it would be more 
appropriate to say Section 120-B read with Section 302 IPC) and Section 
3(2) of POTA. They were also sentenced to life imprisonment on as many as 
eight counts under the provisions of IPC, POTA and Explosive Substances Act in 
addition to varying amounts of fine. The amount of Rs.10 lakhs, which was 
recovered from the possession of two of the accused, namely, Mohd. Afzal and 
Shaukat Hussain, was forfeited to the State under Section 6 of the POTA. 2.		In conformity with the provisions of Cr.P.C . the designated Judge 
submitted the record of the case to the High Court of Delhi for confirmation of 
death sentence imposed on the three accused. Each of the four accused filed 
appeals against the verdict of the learned designated Judge. The State also 
filed an appeal against the judgment of the designated Judge of the Special 
Court seeking enhancement of life sentence to the sentence of death in relation 
to their convictions under Sections 121 , 121A and 302 IPC. In addition, the 
State filed an appeal against the acquittal of the 4th accused on all the charges 
other than the one under Section 123 IPC. The Division Bench of High Court, 
speaking through Pradeep Nandrajog, J. by a well considered judgment 
pronounced on 29.10.2003 dismissed the appeals of Mohd. Afzal and Shaukat 
Hussain Guru and confirmed the death sentence imposed on them. The High 
Court allowed the appeal of the State in regard to sentence under Section 121 IPC and awarded them death sentence under that Section also. The High Court 
allowed the appeals of S.A.R. Gilani and Navjot Sandhu @ Afsan Guru and 
acquitted them of all charges. This judgment of the High Court has given rise 
to these seven appealstwo appeals preferred by Shaukat Hussain Guru and 
one appeal preferred by Mohd. Afzal and four appeals preferred by the 
State/Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi against the acquittal of 
S.A.R. Gilani and Navjot Sandhu. It may be mentioned that the accused Mohd. Afzal and Shaukat Hussain 
Guru are related, being cousins. The 4th accused Navjot Sandhu @ Afsan Guru 
is the wife of Shaukat Hussain. The third accused S.A.R. Gilani is a teacher in 
Arabic in Delhi University. It is he who officiated the marriage ceremony of 
Shaukat Hussain Guru and Navjot Sandhu who at the time of marriage 
converted herself to Islam. 3.(i)		Now, let us make a brief survey of the incident and the 
investigation that followed, which led to the filing of the charge-sheet, as 
apparent from the material on record. (ii)		There is practically no dispute in regard to the details of actual 
incident, the identification of the deceased terrorists and the recoveries and 
other investigations made at the spot. (iii)		Five heavily armed persons entered the Parliament House complex 
in a white Ambassador Car. The said five persons (hereinafter referred to as 
the 'slain' or 'deceased terrorists') were heavily armed with automatic assault 
rifles, pistols, hand and rifle grenades, electronic detonators, spare 
ammunition, explosives in the form of improvised explosive devices viz., tiffin 
bombs and a sophisticated bomb in a container in the boot of the car made 
with enormous quantity of ammonium nitrate. The High Court observed: "The 
fire power was awesomeenough to engage a battalionand had the attack 
succeeded, the entire building with all inside would have perished." (iv)		It was a fortuitous circumstance that the Vice President's carcade, 
which was awaiting departure from Gate No.11 was blocking the circular road 
outside the Parliament building, with the result the deceased terrorists were 
unable to get free and easy access to the Parliament House building. The 
attack was foiled due to the immediate reaction of the security personnel 
present at the spot and complex. There was a fierce gun-battle lasting for 
nearly 30 minutes. As mentioned earlier, nine persons including eight security 
personnel and one gardener lost their lives in the attack and 16 persons 
including 13 security personnel, received injuries. The five assailants were 
killed. (v)		From the evidence of PW5 who was the ASI in-charge of Escort-I 
vehicle of the Vice-President, we get the details of the origin of the incident. He 
stated that at about 11.30 a.m. one white Ambassador car having red light 
entered the Parliament complex and came to the point where the carcade of 
the Vice-President was waiting near Gate No.11. Since the escort vehicle was 
blocking the way, the car turned towards left. He got suspicious and ordered 
the vehicle to stop. Then, the driver of the Ambassador car reversed the 
vehicle and while doing so struck the rear side of the car of the Vice-President. 
When the car was about to move away, he and the driver of the Vice-
President's car ran towards the car and caught hold of the collar of the driver. 
As he was trying to drive away, PW5 took out his revolver. At that juncture, 
the five persons in the car got out of it and quickly started laying wires and 
detonators. Then PW5 fired a shot, which struck on the leg of one of the 
terrorists. The terrorist also returned the fire as a result of which he received a 
bullet injury on his right thigh. There was further exchange of fire. The 
evidence of other witnesses reveal that there was hectic movement of the 
terrorists from gate to gate within the complex firing at the security men on 
duty and the latter returning the fire. (vi)		The Station House Officer of Parliament Street Police Station, Shri 
G.L. Mehta (PW1) along with his team of police personnel reached the spot 
after receiving a wireless message. By that time, the firing spree was over. 
PW1 cordoned off the area. He found one deceased terrorist lying opposite 
Gate No.1 of the Parliament building, one deceased terrorist at the porch of 
Gate No.5 and three deceased terrorists lying in the porch of Gate No.9. The 
Bomb Disposal Squad of NSG, a photographer and a crime team were 
summoned to the spot. PW1 then deputed three Sub-Inspectors (PWs2 to 4) to 
conduct investigation at the three gates. PW1 then examined the spot of 
occurrence, prepared a rough sketch of the scene of occurrence and seized 
various articles including arms and ammunition, live and empty cartridges and 
the car and the documents found therein. Blood samples were also lifted from 
various spots. The photographs of the five slain terrorists were caused to be 
taken. Then, he sent the dead bodies to the mortuary in the hospital for 
postmortem. (vii)		After the Bomb Disposal Squad had rendered the area safe and his 
preliminary observations were over, PW1 recorded the statement of S.I. Sham 
Singh (PW55) who was in the security team of Vice-President. On the basis of 
this statement, 'Rukka' (Ext.PW1/1) was prepared and PW1 despatched the 
same to the police station at about 5 p.m. This formed the basis for 
registration of First Information Report. The FIR was registered for offences 
under Sections 121 , 121A , 122 , 124 , 120-B , 186 , 332 , 353 , 302 , 307 IPC, Sections 3 , 4 & 5 of the Explosive Substances Act and Sections 25 & 27 of the 
Arms Act by the Head Constable (PW14) of the Parliament Street Police 
Station. The copy of FIR was sent to the Court on the same day, as seen from 
the endorsement on the document (PW 14/1). The further investigation was, 
taken up by the special cell of Delhi Police. (viii)	Investigations conducted by PW1 and his team of officers led to the 
recovery and seizure of the following articles inter alia: 4.(i)		So far, about the incident and the preliminary investigations at the 
scene of occurrence regarding which there is practically no dispute. We shall 
now narrate briefly the further factual details as unfolded by the prosecution: Analysis of the call records indicated that the number 9811489429 which was 
found on the I.D. cards, (subsequently discovered to be that of the accused 
Afzal) appeared to be integrally connected with the deceased terrorists and this 
number had been in frequent contact with the cell phone No. 9810693456 
(recovered from the deceased terrorist Mohammad at Gate No.1) continuously 
from 28.11.2001 till the date of the attack. It was further revealed that this 
number of Afzal, namely, 9811489429 was in contact with the above cell 
phone of Mohammad, just before the incident i.e. at 10.40 a.m., 11.04 a.m. 
and 11.22 a.m. It was also ascertained that the said number of Afzal was 
activated only on 6.11.2001 close to the attack. Further analysis of the cell phone call records showed that another cell 
phone number i.e. 9811573506 (subsequently discovered to be that of 
Shaukat and recovered from the 4th accused Afsan Guru) appeared to be in 
close contact with Afzal's number namely 9811489429 and these numbers 
were in contact with each other a few minutes before the attack on the 
Parliament commenced. It was also found that the said number of Shaukat was 
activated only on 7.12.2001 just a week prior to the attack. An analysis of the 
call records relating to Shaukat's mobile phone further revealed that soon after 
the attack i.e at 12.12 hours, there was a call from Shaukat's number to the 
cell phone number 9810081228 (subsequently discovered to be that of SAR 
Gilani) and there was a call from Gilani's number to Shaukat's number 10 
minutes later. Moreover, it was ascertained that Gilani's number was in 
constant touch with the other two accused namely Shaukat and Afzal. It 
transpired that Afzal's cell phone bearing number 9811489429 was reactivated 
on 7.12.2001 and the first call was from Gilani's number.
With the recoveries of the cell phones and SIM cards and on an analysis 
of the details of phone numbers noted on the slips of papers in the light of the 
call records, the investigation narrowed down to three numbers, namely, 
9811489429, 9811573506 and 9810081228 which belonged to Afzal, Shaukat 
and Gilani respectively. It was also found that the first two numbers were cash 
cards and hence the details regarding their ownership were not available. 
However, as regards 9810081228, the information was received from the 
service provider (AIRTEL) that SAR Gilani with the residential address 535, Dr. 
Mukherjee Nagar, Delhi was the regular subscriber. PW66 then took steps on December 13th for obtaining permission from 
the Joint Director, I.B. as per the requirements of Indian Telegraph Act for 
keeping surveillance and tapping of the mobile phone Nos.9811489429, 
9811573506 and 9810081228. On 14th December, at 12.52 hours, an incoming 
call to Gilani's No. 9810081228 was intercepted by S.I. Harender Singh 
(PW70). The call was in Kashmiri language. A Kashmiri knowing person 
(PW71) was requested to interpret the call recorded on the tape. He translated 
the call in Hindi which was recorded in Ext. PW66/4. That was a call from the 
brother of Gilani which was made from Srinagar. On the same day, at 8.12 
P.M. a call was intercepted on the number 9811573506 which disclosed that 
one woman was talking in a state of panic to a male person whom she 
addressed as Shaukat. This conversation was transcribed by PW70 as per PW 
66/3. The subsequent forensic analysis revealed that the male voice in the 
conversation was of the accused Shaukat Hussain and that the female voice 
was that of his wifeaccused No.4 who was the recipient of the call. The call 
came from Srinagar. Both the intercepted conversations were analysed and 
considered by PW 66 (Inspector M.C. Sharma) at about 10 P.M. on 14th 
December. PW 66 resultantly drew an inference that the persons who were 
conversing on the two mobile phones were having knowledge about the attack 
on Parliament and that two persons namely, Shaukat and Chotu who were 
connected with the case were in Srinagar. The calling No. 0194 492160 was 
sent to the Central Agency of Srinagar Police for surveillance. (iv)		The next move was to arrest Gilani, which according to the 
prosecution was at about 10 A.M. on December 15th when he was entering his 
house at Mukherjee Nagar. Shri Gilani is alleged to have made disclosures to 
the investigating agency, the contents of which were recorded subsequently as 
Ex. PW 66/13. The disclosure statement implicated himself and the other 
accused in the conspiracy to attack the Parliament. According to the 
prosecution, he disclosed the facts on the basis of which further investigation 
was carried out, certain recoveries were effected and discovery of facts took 
place. The identity of the deceased terrorist Mohammad and others, the part 
played by Shaukat and Afzal and other details are said to have been given by 
him. According to the prosecution, Shri Gilani then led the Investigating 
Officer to the house of Shaukat which was also located at Mukherjee Nagar. 
The 4th accused Afsan Guruthe wife of Shaukat was found there with cell 
phone No. 9811573506. The search of the premises resulted in the recovery 
of another cell phone 9810446375 which was in operation from 2nd November 
to 6th December. Accused Navjot, on interrogation, disclosed that Mohammad 
(deceased terrorist) gave Rs. 10 lac and laptop computer to Shaukat and 
asked him to go to Sri Nagar in the truck along with Afzal. The truck was 
registered in her name. The disclosure statement of Navjot is Ex.PW66/14. 
According to the prosecution, she was arrested at about 10.45 a.m. on 15th 
December. The truck number given by her was flashed to Srinagar. Srinagar 
police was successful in apprehending the two accused Afzal and Shaukat while 
they were in the truck belonging to Navjot. On their pointing out, the laptop 
computer and an amount of Rs. 10 lac were recovered from the truck by the 
SDPO, Srinagar (PW61). A mobile handset without any SIM card was also 
found. It transpired that this hand set was used in the operation i.e. No. 
9811489429 which established contacts with deceased terrorists minutes 
before the attack. Mohd. Afzal and Shaukat Hussain, who were arrested by the 
Srinagar Police at about 11.45 A.M., were brought to Delhi in a special aircraft 
and were formally arrested in Delhi. The investigation was handed over the 
PW76 (Inspector Gill of Special Cell) on 16th December. (v)		It is the case of the prosecution that on interrogation, they made 
disclosure statements (Ex.PW 64/1 and PW 64/2) in relation to their role in the 
conspiracy. On December 16th, Afzal and Shaukat led the investigating team 
to the various hideouts, viz., Indira Vihar and Gandhi Vihar where the terrorists 
stayed. On the search of these places, the police recovered chemicals, 
prepared explosives, detonators, gloves, mixer grinder, motor cyclesone 
belonging to Shaukat and the other purchased by the deceased terrorist 
Mohammad from PW29 which was allegedly used for reconnaissance (reccee). 
On December 17th , the investigating officer took Mohd. Afzal to the mortuary 
at the L.H. Medical College Hospital where Afzal identified the bodies of the 
five deceased terrorists as Mohammad (dead body found at Gate No.1), Raja, 
Rana, Hamza (dead bodies found at Gate No.9) and Haider (dead body found 
at Gate No.5). From December 17th to December 19th, Afzal led the police to 
various shops from where the chemicals and other materials required for 
preparing explosives were purchased and also the shops from where red light 
found on the seized car, motor cycle, dry fruits, mobile phones etc. were 
purchased. From December 17th onwards, the laptop was analysed by the IO 
with the assistance of an expertPW72. PW72 submitted a report narrating 
the results of his examination. The laptop was also sent to BPR&D Office in 
Hyderabad and another report from PW73 was obtained. The forensic analysis 
revealed that the documents found at the spot with the deceased terrorists 
including various identity cards and sticker of the Home Ministry, were found 
stored in that laptop. (vi)		On 19th December, the important development was that the 
provisions of Prevention of Terrorism Ordinance were invoked and the offences 
under the said Ordinance were also included in the relevant columns of crime 
documents. According to the prosecution, this was done after due 
consideration of the material collected by then and upon getting definite 
information about the involvement of a banned terrorist organizationJaishe-
Mohammad. The investigation was then taken over by the Assistant 
Commissioner of Police Shri Rajbir Singh (PW80). He recorded a 
supplementary disclosure statement being Ext. PW64/3. (vii)		On the same day i.e. 19th December, there was another crucial 
development. According to the prosecution, the three accusedAfzal, Shaukat 
and Gilani expressed their desire to make confessional statements before the 
authorized officer. On 20th December, PW80 made an application before the DCP (Special 
Cell) (PW60) for recording the confessional statements of these three accused. 
PW60 gave directions to PW18 to produce the three accused at the Officers 
Mess, Alipur Road, Delhi. On the next day i.e. 21st December, the accused 
Gilani was first produced before PW60 at the Mess building. However, Shri 
Gilani refused to make a statement before PW60 and the same was recorded 
by him. Thereafter, Shaukat Hussain was produced before PW60 at 3.30 P.M. 
Shaukat Hussain expressed his desire to make the confessional statement and 
the same was recorded by PW60 in his own handwriting which according to 
him was to the dictation of Shaukat. The confessional statement recorded 
purportedly in compliance with Section 32 is marked as Ex. PW60/6. The other 
accused Afzal was also produced before PW60 at 7.10 P.M. on 21st December. 
After he expressed the desire to make the confession, his statement was 
recorded by PW60 in his own handwriting allegedly as per the dictation of the 
said accused. This is Ex.PW60/9. PW80 obtained copies of the confessional 
statements in sealed envelopes. In substance, both Afzal and Shaukat 
confessed having been parties to the conspiracy to launch an attack on the 
Parliament House. The details of the confessions will be adverted to later.
	On 22nd December PW80 produced the accused persons before the Addl. 
Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (PW63) in compliance with Section 32 of POTA. 
The learned Magistrate conducted the proceedings in respect of each of the 
accused persons in order to satisfy himself that the statements recorded by 
PW60 were not the result of any inducements or threats. No complaint of any 
such threat or inducement was made to PW63. Shaukat Hussain and SAR 
Gilani were remanded to judicial custody on 22nd December itself. However, 
the police custody of Mohd.Afzal was allowed for the purpose of conducting 
certain investigations in the light of the supplementary disclosure statement 
made by him to PW80. (viii)		On 4.5.2002 sanction was accorded by the Lt. Governor of Delhi in 
view of the requirements of Section 50 POTA and Section 196 Cr.P.C. 
Sanction was also accorded by the Commissioner of Police on 12th April for 
prosecution under Explosives Substances Act . On conclusion of the 
investigations, the Investigating Agency filed the report under Section 173 Cr.P.C. against the four accused. By the time the charge sheet was filed and 
the charges were framed, the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002 was enacted 
and brought into force with effect from 28th March, 2002. By the same Act, the 
Prevention of Terrorism (2nd) Ordinance, 2001 was repealed subject to a 
saving provision. The charges were framed on 4th June, 2002 and the trial 
before the designated Judge commenced on 4th July. An Advocate was 
nominated by the court at State's expense for providing legal assistance to the 
accused Afzal as he did not engage any counsel on his own. Subsequently, the 
counsel was changed. Before the trial started, an order was passed by the 
learned designated Judge that certain documents viz. post-mortem reports 
and documents relating to recoveries of arms, explosives etc. from the scene 
of occurrence shall be treated as undisputed evidence in view of the consent 
given by the accused persons and there was no need for formal proof of those 
documents. After the trial commenced, an application was moved on behalf of 
Gilani, Shaukat and Navjot challenging the admissibility of the intercepted 
conversations in evidence. The learned Judge of the designated Court rejected 
their contention by his order dated 11.7.2002. Assailing this order, the 
accused moved the High Court. The High Court set-aside the order of the 
designated court and allowed the applications of the accused. The SLP filed 
against that order was disposed of by this Court on 9.5.2003 during the 
pendency of the appeals in the High Court holding inter alia that the order 
passed by designated Judge was in the nature of an interlocutory order against 
which appeal or revision was barred under Section 34 POTA. Without 
expressing any opinion on the merits, the parties were permitted to urge the 
point at issue before the Division Bench of the High Court. The decision is 
reported in (2003) 6 SCC 641. The verdict of the trial court was given on 
16th and 18th December, 2002. The details of conviction and sentences have 
already been referred to. As noticed earlier, the High Court allowed the 
appeals of A3 and A4 and dismissed the appeals of A1 and A2 and their death 
sentences were confirmed. 5.	Preliminary submissions: (iii)		It is first contended by the learned senior counsel Mr. Ram 
Jethmalani, that the sanctions were not given, nor signed by the competent 
authority. It is submitted that in relation to the Union Territory, only Central 
Government is competent. Delhi being a Union Territory known as the National 
Capital Territory of Delhi with effect from the date of commencement of the 
Constitution (69th Amendment Act), the Central Government alone is the 
competent authority to accord sanction. In the present case, both under POTA 
and Cr.P.C . sanctions have been accorded 'by order and in the name of the Lt. 
Governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi'. The Lt. Governor did not 
act on behalf of the Central Government nor did he act as Administrator of U.T. 
He acted as the Constitutional head of the Government of NCT of Delhi and 
played the role assigned to him under Section 41 of NCT of Delhi Act, as the 
authentication in the order shows. Therefore, it is submitted that the sanction 
purportedly granted under Section 50 of POTA is a nullity. (iv)		We find no substance in these contentions. Section 2(h) of POTA 
read with Articles 239 & 239AA of the Constitution of India furnish complete 
answers to these arguments and that is what the learned senior counsel for the 
State has highlighted. 'State Government' is defined in Section 2(h) of POTA and it says that "in 
relation to a Union Territory, 'State Government' means the Administrator 
thereof". The expression 'Administrator' finds place in Article 239 of the 
Constitution of India. Article 239(1) reads"Save as otherwise provided by 
Parliament by law, every Union Territory shall be administered by the President 
acting to such an extent as he thinks fit through an Administrator to be 
appointed by him with such designation as he may specify". Article 239AA inserted by the Constitution (69th Amendment Act, 1991 ) effective from 
1.2.1992 lays down that from that date, the Union Territory of Delhi shall be 
called the NCT of Delhi and "the Administrator thereof appointed under Article 
239 shall be designated as the Lt. Governor." By such designation as the Lt. 
Governor, the constitutional functionary contemplated by Article 239 , namely, 
the Administrator has not lost his status as Administrator. The designation of 
Administrator gets merged into the new designation of Lt. Governor in keeping 
with the upgraded status of this particular Union Territory. Thus, the Lt. 
Governor who continues to be the Administrator also derives his or her 
authority to grant sanction under Section 50 of POTA by virtue of the 
legislative fiction created by Clause (h) of Section 2 read with Article 239. The 
Administrator is deemed to be the State Government for the purpose of 
Section 50 of POTA. In effect and in substance, there is a clear delegation of 
power statutorily conferred in favour of the Administrator (designated as Lt. 
Governor) in respect of granting sanction under POTA. The fact that the 
sanction order carries the designation of the Lt.Governor is of no consequence 
and does not in any way impinge on the operation of Section 2(h) read with Article 239. POTA is a Parliamentary enactment. Sub-Clause (b) of Clause 3 of Article 239AA makes it explicit that notwithstanding the law making power 
conferred on the Legislative Assembly of NCT, the Parliament retains its power 
under the Constitution to make laws with respect to any matter for a Union 
Territory or any part thereof. The reliance sought to be placed on Goa 
Sampling Employees' Association Vs. G.S. Co. of India Pvt. Ltd. [(1985) 
1 SCC 206] is rather misconceived. That case turned on the interpretation of 
the expression 'appropriate Government' occurring in Section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The industrial dispute pertained to the workmen 
employed at Mormogao Port which is located in the then union territory of Goa, 
Daman and Diu. It was contended by the employer that the Central 
Government was not competent to refer the dispute to the Tribunal for 
adjudication. This contention found favour with the High Court of Bombay 
which held that the Administrator appointed under Article 239 of the 
Constitution is the State Government for the Union Territory of Goa and is the 
appropriate Government within the meaning of Section 2(a) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. The judgment of the High Court was reversed by this Court after 
referring to Articles 239 and 239 A and the provisions of the Govt. of Union 
Territories Act, 1963 and the definitions of General Clauses Act and observed 
thus: Governor to grant sanction. The said notification which finds place in the 
Annexures to the written submissions made on behalf of Gilani shows that it 
was issued under Article 239(1) of the Constitution enabling the Administrator 
of the Union Territory to discharge powers and functions of the State 
Government under the Cr.P.C . We accept the submission of the learned senior 
counsel for the State that the delegation of power contained in the said 
notification will continue to operate unless the Parliament by law provides 
otherwise. The Government of NCT of Delhi Act, 1991 does not in any way 
affect the validity of delegation contained in the Presidential Notification issued 
under Article 239. We therefore hold that the sanctions under Section 50 of POTA and Section 196 of Cr.P.C. were accorded by a competent authority. (vi)		Touching on the validity of sanction, the next point urged by Mr. 
Ram Jethmalani was that there was no proper application of mind by the 
authority granting the sanction. There was no sanction for the offences under 
POTA whereas sanction was given for inapplicable offences under the Indian 
Penal Code . The facts constituting the offence have not been stated in the 
sanction order and no evidence has been adduced to show that the competent 
authority addressed himself to the relevant facts and material. 
The careless and inept drafting of the sanction order has given scope for 
some of these comments. Surprisingly, in the first para of the order containing 
recital as to the prima facie satisfaction of the Lt.Governor the POTA offences 
are not specifically mentioned. They are however embraced within the 
residuary terminology "along with other offences". Instead of mentioning the 
POTA offences specifically and conspicuously in the order passed under Section 
50 of the POTA, the drafter reversed that process by mentioning the POTA 
offences under the residuary expression "apart from other offences". However, 
in our view, this careless drafting cannot deal a fatal blow to the sanction 
order. Looking at the substance and reading the entirety of the order, we come 
to the irresistible conclusion that the sanction was duly given for the 
prosecution of the accused for the offences under POTA after the competent 
authority (Lt.Governor) had reached the satisfaction prima facie in regard to 
the commission of the POTA offences as well. A specific reference to the POTA 
offences mentioned in FIR is contained in the opening part of the order. The 
order then contains the recital that the Lt.Governor was satisfied that the four 
accused persons "have prima facie committed offences punishable under Sections 121 , 121A , 122 , 124 and 120B of the IPC being involved in criminal 
conspiracy to commit the said offences with intention of waging war against 
the Government of India along with other offences." In the context in which 
the expression 'along with other offences' occurs, it must be reasonably 
construed so as to be referable to POTA offences mentioned in the opening 
clause. The operative part of the order is more explicit inasmuch as the 
Lt.Governor granted sanction for the prosecution of the four accused in a 
competent Court "for committing the said offences punishable under Sections 
3 , 4 , 5 , 20 & 21 of the POTA". It is pertinent to notice that in the sanction 
order under Section 196 Cr.P.C. the POTA offences do not find specific mention 
at all. Thus, a distinction was maintained between the sanction under POTA 
and the sanction under Cr.P.C. The other submission that the addition of the offence under Section 120B 
which does not require sanction, reveals total non-application of mind, does 
not appeal to us. Though the conspiracy to commit the offences punishable by 
Section 121 is covered by Section 121A, probably Section 120B was also 
referred to by way of abundant caution though the prosecution for the said 
offence does not require sanction. At any rate, the insertion of a seemingly 
overlapping provision does not and cannot affect the validity of the sanction 
order. Nor can it be said that the addition of Section 124 which has really no 
application to the present case by itself vitiates the sanction order. From the 
insertion of one inapplicable provision, a reasonable inference cannot be drawn 
that there was no application of mind by the competent authority. A meticulous 
and legalistic examination as to the offences applicable and not applicable is 
not what is expected at the stage of granting sanction. It was observed by the 
Privy Council in Gokulchand Dwarkadas Vs. The King [AIR 1948 Privy 
Council 82] that, "the charge need not follow the exact terms of the sanction, 
though it must not relate to an offence essentially different from that to which 
the sanction relates". In any case we do not think that the mention of an 
inapplicable Section goes to the root of the matter or otherwise makes it 
vulnerable to attack. On the validity of sanction, we have to consider yet another contention 
of the learned senior counsel Mr. R. Jethmalani that in the absence of recital of 
facts to sustain prosecution or proof of consideration of such facts, the sanction 
order must be held to have been vitiated on the ground of non-application of 
mind. Relying on the dicta of the Privy Council in Gokulchand 's case, it has 
been pointed out that no facts constituting the relevant offences were set out 
in the order nor any extraneous evidence was let in to show that the 
sanctioning authority was seized of the facts alleged to constitute the relevant 
offence. In Gokulchand 's case (supra), the sanction order of the Government 
was a bald order stating that the Government was "pleased to accord sanction 
under Clause 23 of Cotton Cloth and Yarn (Control) Order to the prosecution of 
Mr. Gokulchand Dwarkadas for breach of the provisions of Clause 18(2) of the 
said order". The Privy Council held that the sanction read with the evidence 
adduced at the trial was not in compliance with the provisions of Clause 23 of 
the said Control Order. The following observations in that judgment may be 
noted: The ruling of the Privy Council was cited with approval by this Court in Jaswant Singh Vs. State of Punjab [AIR 1958 SC 124] and certain other 
cases. Ultimately, the test to be applied is whether relevant material that 
formed the basis of allegations constituting the offence was placed before the 
sanctioning authority and the same was perused before granting sanction. 
We are of the view that this test has been amply satisfied in the instant case. 
The sanction orders on their face indicate that all relevant material viz., FIR, 
disclosure statements, recovery memos, draft charge sheet and other material 
on record was placed before the sanctioning authority. The fact that the 
sanctioning authority perused all this material is also discernible from the 
recital in the sanction orders. The sanction orders make it clear that the 
sanctioning authority had reached the satisfaction that prima facie the accused 
committed or conspired to commit the offences mentioned therein. The 
elaborate narration of facts culled out from the record placed before the 
sanctioning authority and the discussion as to the applicability of each and 
every Section of the penal provision quoted therein is not an imperative 
requirement. A pedantic repetition from what is stated in the FIR or the draft 
charge-sheet or other documents is not what is called for in order to judge 
whether there was due application of mind. It must be noted that the grant of 
sanction is an executive act and the validity thereof cannot be tested in the 
light of principles applied to the quasi-judicial orders vide the decisions in State of Bihar Vs. P.P. Sharma [(1992) supp.1 SCC 222] and 
Superintendent of Police Vs. Deepak Chowdary [(1995) 6 SCC 225]. 
Apart from this, the oral evidence of PW11Deputy Secretary, Home who 
dealt with the file also reveals that the notes prepared by himself and the 
Principal Secretary, Home had drawn the attention of the Lt. Governor to the 
role of individual accused and the Principal Secretary's note was approved by 
the Lt. Governor. Various documents placed before the sanctioning authority 
were also mentioned by PW11. PW11 brought the original sanction file and it is 
seen from the judgment of the trial Court that the learned trial Judge had gone 
through the file apart from making it available to the defence counsel. The oral 
evidence let in by the prosecution by examining PW11 dispels any doubt as to 
the consideration of the matter by the sanctioning authority before according 
the sanction. The decision of this Court in Rambhai Nathabhai Gadhvi & 
Ors. Vs. State of Gujarat [(1997) 7 SCC 744] which invalidated the 
sanction granted by the competent authority under the Terrorist and 
Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act does not come to the aid of the accused 
in the present case. The Bench consisting of A.S. Anand and K.T. Thomas, JJ., 
after referring to the infirmities in the sanction order, observed thus: The above observations do not mean that different standards should be 
applied for judging the validity of a sanction made under the provisions of 
TADA or POTA and the sanctions under ordinary laws. That is not the ratio of 
the decision. The learned Judges were only pointing out that enough 
seriousness was not bestowed in the process of granting sanction for 
prosecution under a stringent law. The observations contained in para 10 
turned on the facts of that case which are telling. It was noticed that the only 
document sent to the sanctioning authority, namely, the Director General of 
Police, was the FIR and the letter of the Superintendent of Police giving only 
skeletal facts. It was further noticed that the Director-General did not even 
grant sanction for the prosecution but what he did was to give permission to 
add certain Sections of TADA. Thus, it was a case of utter non-compliance with 
the elementary requirements governing sanction. The facts of the present case 
are vastly different. No separate argument was addressed in relation to the sanction given 
under the Explosive Substances Act . Suffice it to say that we find no legal 
infirmity in the said order passed by the Commissioner of Police which is Ext. 
PW11/3. Addition of POTO/POTA offences 
(6) (i)	The next question is whether the addition of offences under Sections 3 , 4 & 5 of POTO? was justified and whether POTO should have been 
invoked by the Investigating Officer on the very first day when the FIR was 
registered. This question will have a bearing on the admissibility of intercepted 
telephonic conversations which took place prior to 19th December and the 
compliance with the provisions of Section 52 of POTA which lays down certain 
safeguards from the point of view of the accused. Chapter V contains 
provisions relating to interception of communications. Section 45 which starts 
with a non-obstante clause lays down that the evidence collected through the 
interception of wire, electronic or oral communication under Chapter V shall be 
admissible as evidence against the accused during the trial of the case. There 
are two provisos to the Section and the 1st proviso reads as follows. It is common ground that the embargo placed by the first proviso comes 
into operation in the instant case inasmuch as no orders were obtained for 
interception from a competent authority in compliance with the various 
provisions of Chapter V. The embargo under proviso to Section 45 is equally 
applicable when the special Court tries along with the POTA offences, the 
offences under other enactments viz., IPC, Explosives Act and Arms Act. That 
is one aspect. Secondly, there are certain procedural safeguards that are laid 
down in Section 52 when a person is arrested for the offences under POTA. 
These safeguards were apparently introduced in keeping with the guidelines 
laid down in D.K. Basu's case. They are discussed in detail later on. The 
question arises whether there was deliberate failure on the part of the 
investigating agency to invoke POTA initially in order to circumvent the 
requirements of Sections 45 & 52. (ii)		Incidentally, another question raised is whether there was 
manipulation of FIR by not showing the POTA offences though in fact POTA 
was resorted to by that date. In regard to the latter aspect, the learned 
counsel for the accused has drawn our attention to the letter of AIRTEL (Cell 
phone service provider) addressed to the I.O.M.C. Sharma (PW66). In that 
letter (Ext.PW35/1), while giving the reference to the FIR dated 13.12.2001, 
the offences under various Sections of POTO were mentioned in addition to 
other offences. From this, an inference is sought to be drawn that the FIR was 
tampered with by deleting reference to POTO Sections so as to make it appear 
that on the 13th & 14th December when the interceptions took place, the 
investigation was not extended to POTO offences. We find it difficult to accept 
this contention. We find no basis for the comment that the FIR would have 
been manipulated by deleting the POTO offences. No such suggestion was ever 
put to the police officials concerned, namely, PWs 1, 9 & 14 connected with the 
registration of FIR and they were not even cross-examined. The original FIR 
register was produced by PW14. The trial Court perused the same while 
recording the depositions and returned it. In fact, this contention about the 
manipulation of FIR was not even raised in the trial Court. The High Court 
rightly found no substance in this contention. As regards the letter of AIRTEL, 
no question was put to PW35the Security Manager of AIRTEL as to the basis 
on which the reference was given to the FIR mentioning various POTO 
offences. When the question was raised for the first time before the High 
Court, the High Court perused the case diaries and found that the addressee of 
the letter (Inspector M.C. Sharma) had sent up a written request on 
25.12.2001 to furnish the requisite information to him. By that time, the POTO 
provisions were invoked. According to the High Court, there was every 
possibility that in that letter of 25.12.2001, the POTO provisions were 
mentioned and based on that, the same would have been noted in the 
AIRTEL's letter. The High Court also observed that the possibility of the date 
17th being a mistake cannot be ruled out. Irrespective of the question whether 
the High Court was justified in observing that the date 17th noted in (Ext. 
PW35/1) could be a mistake, we do not consider it necessary to delve further 
into this aspect, in view of the fact that none of the witnesses pertaining to FIR 
were cross examined. By reason of the purported description of FIR given in 
the letter of AIRTEL (Ext.PW35/1) alone, we cannot reach the conclusion that 
POTO offences entered initially in the FIR were deleted for extraneous reasons. 
It is pertinent to note that the letters addressed by the Essar Cell phone 
provider (vide Exts.36/6 and 36/7, dated 13th and 18th December) do not 
contain any reference to POTO. (iii)		It was next contended by the learned counsel appearing for 
Shaukat and Gilani that from the beginning it was crystal clear that the 
persons who attempted to take control of the Parliament House were terrorists 
and there was no apparent reason why the offences under POTO were not 
entered in the FIR. Attention is drawn to the fact that the language used in the 
narration given by PW1 in the 'rukka', viz. "the terrorist organizations in order 
to disintegrate the unity and integrity of India and to carry out destructive 
activities in a planned manner." is a clear pointer that the investigating 
authority was conscious of applicability of POTO from the beginning, it is 
contended. Though we feel that POTO provisions could have been invoked on 
the very first day having regard to the nature and manifestations of this grave 
crime, we find no justification to characterize the action of the concerned 
police officers as malafide or motivated. It cannot be disputed that POTA 
contains drastic and stringent provisionsboth substantive and procedural, for 
dealing with special categories of offences which have bearing on the security 
and integrity of the country. In view of this special feature of the law, it is 
necessary to bestow sufficient care and thought before prosecuting an offender 
under this special law instead of proceeding under the ordinary law. This 
aspect has been emphasized in more than one decision of this Court dealing 
with TADA provisions. In Niranjan Singh Karam Singh Punjabi Vs. 
Jitendra Bhimraj Bijiaya [(1990) 4 SCC 76] this Court after noticing the 
views expressed in Usmanbhai Dawoodbhai Memon Vs. State of Gujarat [(1988) 2 SCC 271] observed thus: In Usmanbhai 's case it was said; Having regard to these observations, we cannot find fault with the 
Investigating Officers in going slow in bringing POTA into picture. At any rate, 
it may be a case of bona fide error or overcautious approach. Once the action 
of the police authorities in deferring the invocation of POTA is held to be not 
mala fide, it is not possible to countenance the contention that the provisions 
of POTA especially those contained in Chapter V and Section 52 ought to have 
been complied with even before 19th December. It is a different matter that 
D.K. Basu's guidelines were already there. The learned counsel Mr. Gopal Subramanium has referred to the 
judgment of this Court in State of West Bengal Vs. Mohammed Khaleed [(1995) 1 SCC 684] to buttress his contention that the non- invocation of 
POTA on the first day cannot be faulted. The learned counsel also argued that 
POTA was invoked on 19th when further evidence came to light revealing a 
planned terrorist act at the behest of certain terrorist organizations. Be that as 
it may, we find nothing on record to hold that the investigating officials 
deliberately and without semblance of justification decided to bypass the 
provisions of POTO. Charges whether defective? 7 (i)		We now turn to the next contention of the charges being defective. 
According to Shri Ram Jethmalani, the first charge which is a charge under Section 120B IPC is utterly confusing. It is pointed out that a conspiracy to 
wage war and to commit a terrorist act is punishable under Section 121A IPC 
and Section 3(3) of the POTA respectively. Therefore, according to the learned 
counsel, the charge under Section 120B is misplaced. It is also contended that 
the charge does not set out in clear terms, the exact period during which the 
conspiracy was allegedly hatched. The learned counsel further submits that the 
alleged confessional statements on which the prosecution relied would clearly 
show that the conspiracy started only in the first week of December, 2001, yet 
the period of offence was stated to be "on or before 13.12.2001". (ii)		It is settled law that a 'fundamental defect' should be found in the 
charges if the Court has to quash it. Whether the accused was misled and 
whether there was reasonable possibility of prejudice being caused to the 
accused on account of defective charges are relevant considerations in judging 
the effect of wrong or deficient charges. Section 215 of Cr.P.C. makes it clear 
that no error or omission in stating either the offence or the particulars 
required to be stated shall be regarded as material unless the accused was in 
fact misled by such error or omission and it has occasioned a failure of justice. 
The test of prejudice or reasonable possibility of prejudice was applied by this 
Court in William Slaney's case [AIR 1956 SC 116] in testing the argument 
based on the omission, error or irregularity in framing the charges. The same 
test was also applied in State of A.P. Vs. C. Ganeswar Rao [(1964) 3 SCR 
297]. It has not been demonstrated in the instant case as to how the accused 
or any of them were misled or any prejudice was caused to them on account of 
the alleged defects in framing of charges. No such objection was even taken 
before the trial Court. As pointed out in William Slaney's case (para 45 of 
AIR), it will always be material to consider whether the objection to the 
nature of charge was taken at an early stage. To the same effect are the 
observations in Ganeswar Rao 's case (supra). It is difficult to spell out with 
exactitude the details relating to the starting point of conspiracy. As pointed 
out in Esher Singh Vs. State of A.P. [(2004) (1 SCC page 585, 607], it is 
not always possible "to give affirmative evidence about the date of formation 
of the criminal conspiracy". We do not think that if instead of mentioning 'the 
first week of December, 2001' the wording 'before December, 2001' is 
employed, the prosecution should fail merely for that reason. The accused 
cannot be said to have been misled or prejudiced on that account. On the 
other hand, it is more than clear that the accused did understand the case 
they were called upon to meet. The question whether Section 120B applies to 
POTA offences or Section 3(3) alone applies is not a matter on which a definite 
conclusion should be reached ahead of the trial. It is not uncommon that the 
offence alleged might seemingly fall under more than one provision and 
sometimes it may not be easy to form a definite opinion as to the Section in 
which the offence appropriately falls. Hence, charges are often framed by way 
of abundant caution. Assuming that an inapplicable provision has been 
mentioned, it is no ground to set aside the charges and invalidate the trial.
Other legal issues
We shall, now, deal with certain legal issues, which have been debated 
before us in extenso. These issues have a bearing on the 
admissibility/relevancy of evidence and the evidentiary value or weight to be 
attached to the permissible evidence. 8. Law regarding confessions
	We start with the confessions. Under the general law of the land as 
reflected in the Indian Evidence Act , no confession made to a police officer can 
be proved against an accused. 'Confessions'-which is a terminology used in 
criminal law is a species of 'admissions' as defined in Section 17 of the Indian 
Evidence Act. An admission is a statement-oral or documentary which 
enables the court to draw an inference as to any fact in issue or relevant fact. 
It is trite to say that every confession must necessarily be an admission, but, 
every admission does not necessarily amount to a confession. While Section 17 
to 23 deals with admissions, the law as to confessions is embodied in Sections 
24 to 30 of the Evidence Act. Section 25 bars proof of a confession made to a 
police officer. Section 26 goes a step further and prohibits proof of confession 
made by any person while he is in the custody of a police officer, unless it be 
made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate. Section 24 lays down the 
obvious rule that a confession made under any inducement, threat or promise 
becomes irrelevant in a criminal proceeding. Such inducement, threat or 
promise need not be proved to the hilt. If it appears to the court that the 
making of the confession was caused by any inducement, threat or promise 
proceeding from a person in authority, the confession is liable to be excluded 
from evidence. The expression 'appears' connotes that the Court need not go 
to the extent of holding that the threat etc. has in fact been proved. If the 
facts and circumstances emerging from the evidence adduced make it 
reasonably probable that the confession could be the result of threat, 
inducement or pressure, the court will refrain from acting on such confession, 
even if it be a confession made to a Magistrate or a person other than police 
officer. Confessions leading to discovery of fact which is dealt with under 
Section 27 is an exception to the rule of exclusion of confession made by an 
accused in the custody of a police officer. Consideration of a proved confession 
affecting the person making it as well as the co-accused is provided for by 
Section 30. Briefly and broadly, this is the scheme of the law of evidence vis-
a-vis confessions. The allied provision which needs to be noticed at this 
juncture is Section 162 of the Cr.P.C. It prohibits the use of any statement 
made by any person to a police officer in the course of investigation for any 
purpose at any enquiry or trial in respect of any offence under investigation. 
However, it can be used to a limited extent to contradict a witness as provided 
for by Section 145 of the Evidence Act. Sub-section (2) of Section 162 makes it 
explicit that the embargo laid down in the Section shall not be deemed to apply 
to any statement falling within clause (1) of Section 32 or to affect the 
provisions of Section 27 of the Evidence Act. In the Privy Council decision of P. Narayana Swami vs. Emperor [AIR 1939 PC 47] Lord Atkin elucidated the meaning and purport of the 
expression 'confession' in the following words: Confessions are considered highly reliable because no rational person 
would make admission against his interest unless prompted by his conscience 
to tell the truth. "Deliberate and voluntary confessions of guilt, if clearly 
proved are among the most effectual proofs in law". (vide Taylor's Treatise on 
the Law of Evidence Vol. I). However, before acting upon a confession the 
court must be satisfied that it was freely and voluntarily made. A confession 
by hope or promise of advantage, reward or immunity or by force or by fear 
induced by violence or threats of violence cannot constitute evidence against 
the maker of confession. The confession should have been made with full 
knowledge of the nature and consequences of the confession. If any 
reasonable doubt is entertained by the court that these ingredients are not 
satisfied, the court should eschew the confession from consideration. So also 
the authority recording the confession  be it a Magistrate or some other 
statutory functionary at the pre-trial stage, must address himself to the issue 
whether the accused has come forward to make the confession in an 
atmosphere free from fear, duress or hope of some advantage or reward 
induced by the persons in authority. Recognizing the stark reality of the 
accused being enveloped in a state of fear and panic, anxiety and despair while 
in police custody, the Indian Evidence Act has excluded the admissibility of a 
confession made to the police officer. Section 164 of Cr.P.C. is a salutary provision which lays down certain 
precautionary rules to be followed by the Magistrate recording a confession so 
as to ensure the voluntariness of the confession and the accused being placed 
in a situation free from threat or influence of the police.
	Before we turn our attention to the more specific aspects of confessions 
under POTA, we should have a conspectus of the law on the evidentiary value 
of confessions which are retracted - which is a general feature in our country 
and elsewhere. As to what should be the legal approach of the Court called upon to 
convict a person primarily in the light of the confession or a retracted 
confession has been succinctly summarized in Bharat vs. State of U.P. 
[1971 (3) SCC 950]. Hidayatullah, C.J., speaking for a three-Judge Bench 
observed thus: The same learned Judge observed in Haroom Hazi Abdulla v. State of 
Maharashtra [1968 (2) SCR 641] that a "retracted confession must be 
looked upon with greater concern unless the reasons given for having made it 
in the first instance are on the face of them false." There was a further 
observation in the same paragraph that retracted confession is a weak link 
against the maker and more so against a co-accused. With great respect to 
the eminent Judge, the comment that the retracted confession is a "weak link 
against the maker" goes counter to a series of decisions. The observation 
must be viewed in the context of the fact that the Court was concentrating on 
the confession of the co-accused rather than the evidentiary value of the 
retracted confession against the maker. Dealing with retracted confession, a four-Judge Bench of this Court 
speaking through Subba Rao, J, in Pyare Lal v. State of Assam (AIR 1957 
SC 216), clarified the legal position thus: As to the extent of corroboration required, it was observed in Subramania Gounden 's case (1958 SCR 428) that each and every 
circumstance mentioned in the retracted confession regarding the complicity of 
the maker need not be separately and independently corroborated. The 
learned Judges observed : Then we have the case of Shankaria v. State of Rajasthan [1978 (3) 
SCC 435] decided by a three-Judge Bench. Sarkaria, J, noted the twin tests 
to be applied to evaluate a confession: (1) whether the confession was 
perfectly voluntary and (2) if so, whether it is true and trustworthy. The 
learned Judge pointed out that if the first test is not satisfied the question of 
applying the second test does not arise. Then the Court indicated one broad 
method by which a confession can be evaluated. It was said: In Parmanand Pegu v. State of Assam [2004 (7) SCC 779] this 
Court while adverting to the expression "corroboration of material particulars" The analysis of the legal position in paragraphs 18 & 19 is also worth 
noting: The use of retracted confession against the co-accused however stands 
on a different footing from the use of such confession against the maker. 
To come to the grips of the law on the subject, we do no more than 
quoting the apt observations of Vivian Bose, J, speaking for a three-Judge 
Bench, in Kashmira Singh v. State of Madhya Pradesh (AIR 1952 SC 159). Before clarifying the law, the learned Judge noted with approval the 
observations of Sir Lawrence Jenkins that a confession can only be used to 
"lend assurance to other evidence against a co-accused." The legal position 
was then stated thus: The crucial expression used in Section 30 is "the Court may take into 
consideration such confession". These words imply that the confession of a co-
accused cannot be elevated to the status of substantive evidence which can 
form the basis of conviction of the co-accused. The import of this expression 
was succinctly explained by the Privy Council in Bhuboni Sahu vs. King (AIR 
1947 PC 257) in the following words: (emphasis supplied)

After referring to these decisions, a Constitution Bench of this Court in 
Haricharan Kurmi v. State of Bihar [1964 (6) SCR 623] further clarified 
the legal position thus: (emphasis supplied)

What is the legal position relating to CONFESSIONS UNDER THE POTA is 
the next important aspect. Following the path shown by its predecessor, namely TADA Act , POTA 
marks a notable departure from the general law of evidence in that it makes 
the confession to a high ranking police officer admissible in evidence in the trial 
of such person for the offence under POTA. As regards the confession to the 
police officer, the TADA regime is continued subject to certain refinements. 
	Now, let us take stock of the provisions contained in Section 32 of POTA. 
Sub-Section of (1) of this Section starts with a non obstante provision with the 
words "Notwithstanding anything in the Code of Criminal Procedure or in the Indian Evidence Act .." Then it says: "a confession made by a person before a 
police officer not lower in rank than a Superintendent of Police and recorded by 
such police officer either in writing or on any mechanical or electronic device. 
shall be admissible in the trial of such person for an offence under the Act or 
the rules, subject to other provisions of the section". By this provision, the ban 
against the reception of confessional statements made to the police is lifted. 
That is why the non-obstante clause. This sub-section is almost identical to Section 15(1) of TADA excepting that the words "or co-accused, abettor or 
conspirator occurring after the expression "in the trial of such person" were 
omitted. The other four sub-sections (2) to (5) of Section 32 are meant to 
provide certain safeguards to the accused in order to ensure that the 
confession is not extracted by threat or inducement. Sub-section (2) says that 
the police officer, before recording a confession should explain in writing to the 
person concerned that he is not bound to make a confession and that the 
confession if made by him can be used against him. The right of the person to 
remain silent before the police officer called upon to record the confession is 
recognized by the proviso to sub-section (2). Sub-section (3) enjoins that the 
confession shall be recorded in a threat-free atmosphere. Moreover, it should 
be recorded in the same language as that used by the maker of the confession. 
The most important safeguard provided in sub-sections (4) & (5) is that the 
person from whom the confession was recorded is required to be produced 
before a Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or Chief Judicial Magistrate, within 48 
hours, together with the original statement of confession in whatever manner it 
was recorded. The CMM or the CJM shall then record the statement made by 
the person so produced. If there is any complaint of torture, the police shall be 
directed to produce the person for medical examination and thereafter he shall 
be sent to the judicial custody. 9. Section 15 of TADA
It is necessary to advert to the exposition of law on the probative quality 
of the confession recorded by the empowered police officer under Section 15 of 
TADA Act. We may recall that under Section 15, the confession is admissible in 
the trial of the person who made the confession or the co- accused/abettor/conspirator. In State vs. Nalini (supra), Thomas, J took the 
view that the confession coming within the purview of Section 15 is a 
substantive evidence as against the maker thereof but it is not so as against 
the co-accused/abettor or conspirator in relation to whom it can be used only 
as a corroborative piece of evidence. Wadhwa, J, held that the confession of 
an accused serves as a substantive evidence against himself as well as against 
the co-accused, abettor or conspirator. S.S.M. Quadri, J, broadly agreed with 
the view taken by Wadhwa, J. The following observations made by the learned 
Judge reflect his view-point: The learned Judge further observed that in view of the non obstante provision 
of Section 15(1) , the application of Section 30 of the Evidence Act should be 
excluded and therefore the considerations germane to Section 30 cannot be 
imported in construing Section 15(1) . Quadri, J, therefore dissented from the 
view taken by Thomas, J. At the same time the learned Judge was of the 
view that in so far as the use of confession against the co-accused is 
concerned, rule of prudence requires that it should not be relied upon "unless 
corroborated generally by other evidence on record". In paragraph 705, the 
learned Judge made the following observations: Thomas, J. was of the view that the non-obstante words in Section 15(1) of 
TADA were not intended to make it substantive evidence against the non-
maker, and it can be used only as a piece of corroborative material to support 
other substantive evidence. Reference is to be made to a recent decision of this Court in Jameel 
Ahmed & anr. V. State of Rajasthan [2003 (9) SCC 673]  a case arising 
under TADA. After a survey of the earlier cases on the subject, this Court 
observed: "If the confessional statement is properly recorded satisfying the 
mandatory provisions of Section 15 of TADA Act and the rules made 
thereunder and if the same is found by the Court as having been made 
voluntarily and truthfully then the said confession is sufficient to base 
conviction of the maker of the confession." This proposition is 
unexceptionable. The next proposition, however, presents some difficulty. The 
learned Judges added: "Whether such confession requires corroboration or not, 
is a matter for the Court considering such confession on facts of each case." 
This Court observed that once the confessional statement becomes admissible 
in evidence then, like any other evidence, "it is for the Court to consider 
whether such statement can be relied upon solely or with necessary 
corroboration." The ratio behind the view taken by the learned Judges is 
perhaps discernible from the following passage: The Court then observed that the confession duly recorded under Section 
15 of TADA Act becomes admissible in evidence by virtue of statutory mandate 
and if it is proved to be voluntary and truthful in nature there is no reason why 
such a statement should be treated as a weak piece of evidence requiring 
corroboration merely because the same is recorded by a police officer. We 
have to add a caveat here, while wholeheartedly accepting the view that the 
confession recorded by a police officer under Section 15(1) of TADA Act 
(corresponding to Section 32(1) of POTA) stand on the same footing as the 
confession recorded by a Magistrate and the Court can act upon it in spite of its 
retraction if it inspires confidence in the mind of the Judge, we feel that the 
rule of corroboration evolved by this Court as a matter of prudence in relation 
to a retracted confession recorded by a Magistrate under Cr.P.C . need not be 
dispensed with. Viewing the confession in the light of other evidence on record 
and seeking corroborative support therefrom is only a process of ascertaining 
the truth of the confession and is not extraneous to the first proposition laid 
down by their Lordships in paragraph 35. Viewed from another angle, we 
wonder whether a confession recorded by a police officer under the special 
enactment should have more sanctity and higher degree of acceptability so as 
to dispense with the normal rule of corroboration and leave it to the discretion 
of the court whether to insist on corroboration or not, even if it is retracted. 
The better view would be to follow the same rule of prudence as is being 
followed in the case of confessions under general law. The confessional 
statement recorded by the police officer can be the basis of conviction of the 
maker, but it is desirable to look to corroboration in a broad sense, when it is 
retracted. The non obstante provision adverted to by the learned Judges 
should not, in our considered view, affect the operation of the general rule of 
corroboration broadly. As regards the confession being used against a co-accused, this Court in 
Jameel Ahmed's case (supra), laid down the following propositions: accused, it has to be held that as a matter of caution, a general 
corroboration should be sought for but in cases where the court is 
satisfied that the probative value of such confession is such that it 
does not require corroboration then it may base a conviction on 
the basis of such confession of the co-accused without 
corroboration. But this is an exception to the general rule of 
requiring corroboration when such confession is to be used against 
a co-accused. (iv) The nature of corroboration required both in regard to the use 
of confession against the maker as also in regard to the use of the 
same against a co-accused is of a general nature, unless the court 
comes to the conclusion that such corroboration should be on 
material facts also because of the facts of a particular case. The 
degree of corroboration so required is that which is necessary for 
a prudent man to believe in the existence of facts mentioned in 
the confessional statement." While we agree with the proposition that the nature of corroboration 
required both in regard to the use of confession against the maker and the co-
accused is general in nature, our remarks made earlier in relation to the 
confession against the maker would equally apply to proposition No.(iii) in so 
far as it permits the Court in an appropriate case to base the conviction on the 
confession of the co-accused without even general corroboration. We would 
only add that we do not visualize any such appropriate case for the simple 
reason that the assurance of the truth of confession is inextricably mixed up 
with the process of seeking corroboration from the rest of the prosecution 
evidence. We have expressed our dissent to this limited extent. In the normal 
course, a reference to the larger Bench on this issue would be proper. But 
there is no need in this case to apply or not to apply the legal position clarified 
in proposition No.(iii) for the simple reason that the trial court as well as the 
High Court did look for corroboration from the circumstantial evidence relating 
to various facts narrated in the confessional statement. Perhaps, the view 
expressed by us would only pave the way for a fresh look by a larger Bench, 
should the occasion arise in future. The learned senior counsel Mr. Ram Jethmalani severely criticised the 
view taken in Nalini, Jameel Ahmed and other cases decided after Nalini. He 
pointed out that the confession of a co-accused is held to be admissible in view 
of the expression "shall be admissible in the trial of such person or co-
accused". But, the legislature did not intend that in deviation of the general 
law, the confession of a co-accused could become the sole basis of conviction 
irrespective of whether it is corroborated in relation to material particulars or 
not. The counsel commends the acceptance of the ratio laid down by Privy 
Council in Bhuboni Sahu in the context of a confession covered by Section 30 of Evidence Act. The counsel reminds us that admissibility is one thing, and the 
weight to be attached to the evidence is another. The learned counsel Mr. Ram 
Jethmalani repeatedly pointed that the crucial observations of the Constitution 
Bench in Kartar Singh 's case (supra) were not noticed by this Court in Nalini 's case and this error, according to the learned senior counsel, 
perpetuated. The learned counsel has drawn our attention to the categorical 
observation of this Court in paragraph 255 of the majority judgment to the 
effect that "the present position is in conformity with Section 30 of the 
Evidence Act." He has also drawn our attention to the submission of the 
learned Additional Solicitor General in Kartar Singh 's case that the probative 
value of the confession recorded under Section 15 should be left to the Court 
to be determined in each case on its own facts and circumstances. According to 
the learned counsel, the confession of co-accused should not have been 
elevated to the status of confession operating against the maker. The 
contention advanced by the learned senior counsel is not without force. 
However, we need not dilate further on this aspect as the terminology in POTA 
is different and the view which we hold is that Section 32 of POTA does not 
enable the Court to take into account the confession of the co-accused. We 
shall now advert to this aspect, on a comparative reference of the provisions of TADA Act and POTA. 10. Use of confession under POTA against co-accused
Now, let us examine the question whether Section 32(1) of POTA takes 
within its sweep the confession of a co-accused. Section 32(1) of POTA which 
makes the confession made to a high ranking police officer admissible in the 
trial does not say anything explicitly about the use of confession made by co-
accused. The words in the concluding portion of Section 32(1) are: "shall be 
admissible in the trial of such person for an offence under this Act or rules 
made thereunder." It is, however, the contention of the learned Senior 
Counsel Shri Gopal Subramanium that Section 32(1) can be so construed as to 
include the admissibility of confessions of co-accused as well. The omission of 
the words in POTA "or co-accused, abettor or conspirator" following the 
expression "in the trial of such person" which are the words contained in Section 15(1) of TADA does not make material difference, according to him. It 
is his submission that the words 'co-accused' etc. were included by the 1993 
amendment of TADA by way of abundant caution and not because the 
unamended Section of TADA did not cover the confession of co-accused. 
According to the learned senior counsel, the phrase "shall be admissible in the 
trial of such person" does not restrict the admissibility only against the maker 
of the confession. It extends to all those who are being tried jointly along with 
the maker of the confession provided they are also affected by the confession. 
The learned senior counsel highlights the crucial words-"in the trial of such 
person" and argues that the confession would not merely be admissible 
against the maker but would be admissible in the trial of the maker which may 
be a trial jointly with the other accused persons. Our attention has been 
drawn to the provisions of Cr.P.C . and POTA providing for a joint trial in which 
the accused could be tried not only for the offences under POTA but also for 
the offences under IPC . We find no difficulty in accepting the proposition that 
there could be a joint trial and the expression "the trial of such person" may 
encompass a trial in which the accused who made the confession is tried 
jointly with the other accused. From that, does it follow that the confession 
made by one accused is equally admissible against others, in the absence of 
specific words? The answer, in our view, should be in the negative. On a plain 
reading of Section 32(1) , the confession made by an accused before a police 
officer shall be admissible against the maker of the confession in the course of 
his trial. It may be a joint trial along with some other accused; but, we cannot 
stretch the language of the section so as to bring the confession of the co-
accused within the fold of admissibility. Such stretching of the language of 
law is not at all warranted especially in the case of a law which visits a 
person with serious penal consequences (vide the observations of Ahmadi, J 
(as he then was) in Niranjan Singh vs. Jitendra [(1990) 4 SCC 76] at 
page 86, which were cited with approval in Kartar Singh 's case). We would 
expect a more explicit and transparent wording to be employed in the section 
to rope in the confession of the co-accused within the net of admissibility on 
par with the confession of the maker. An evidentiary rule of such importance 
and grave consequence to the accused could not have been conveyed in a 
deficient language. It seems to us that a conscious departure was made by 
the framers of POTA on a consideration of the pros and cons, by dropping the 
words "co-accused" etc.. These specific words consciously added to Section 
15(1) by 1993 amendment of TADA so as to cover the confessions of co-
accused would not have escaped the notice of Parliament when POTA was 
enacted. Apparently, the Parliament in its wisdom would have thought that 
the law relating to confession of co-accused under the ordinary law of 
evidence, should be allowed to have its sway, taking clue from the 
observations in Kartar Singh 's case at paragraph 255. The confession 
recorded by the police officer was, therefore, allowed to be used against the 
maker of the confession without going further and transposing the legal 
position that obtained under TADA. We cannot countenance the contention 
that the words 'co-accused' etc. were added in Section 15(1) of TADA, ex 
majore cautela. We are, therefore, of the view that having regard to all these weighty 
considerations, the confession of a co-accused ought not be brought within the 
sweep of Section 32(1) . As a corollary, it follows that the confessions of the 1st 
and 2nd accused in this case recorded by the police officer under Section 32(1) , 
are of no avail against the co-accused or against each other. We also agree 
with the High Court that such confessions cannot be taken into consideration by 
the Court under Section 30 of the Indian Evidence Act. The reason is that the 
confession made to a police officer or the confession made while a person is in 
police custody, cannot be proved against such person, not to speak of the co-
accused, in view of the mandate of Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act. If 
there is a confession which qualifies for proof in accordance with the provisions 
of Evidence Act , then of course, the said confession could be considered against 
the co-accused facing trial under POTA. But, that is not the case here.
For these reasons, the contention of the learned senior counsel for the 
State that even if the confession of co-accused is not covered by Section 32(1) , 
it can still be taken into account by the Court under Section 30 for the limited 
purpose of corroborating or lending assurance to the other evidence on record 
cannot be accepted. Learned senior counsel appearing for the State submits that there is no 
conflict between Section 32 of POTA and Section 30 of the Evidence Act and 
therefore the confession recorded under Section 32(1) of POTA can be taken 
into consideration against the co-accused, at least to corroborate the other 
evidence on record or to lend assurance thereto. There is no difficulty in 
accepting the contention that Section 30 of the Evidence Act can also play its 
part in a case of trial under POTA, especially when the other offences under the IPC are also the subject matter of trial. But a confession to the police officer by 
a person in police custody is not within the realm of Section 30 of the Evidence 
Act and therefore such a confession cannot be used against the co-accused even 
under Section 30 of the Evidence Act. While on the subject of confession made to a police officer under sub-
section (1) of Section 32 of POTA, it would be apposite to refer in brief to the 
decision of this Court in Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab [1994 (3) SCC 
569]. The constitutional validity of the provisions of TADA Act came up for 
consideration before the Constitution Bench. Section 15(1) of TADA Act was the 
main target of attack. The majority of Judges, with Ratnavel Pandian, J, leading 
them, upheld the provisions of the Act including Section 15(1) . There was a 
weighty dissent by two learned Judges (K. Ramaswamy, J. and R.M. Sahai, J.) 
as regards the validity of Section 15(1) . The constitutional issue of the vires of 
the impugned provisions of TADA, including Section 15(1) , was examined from 
the perspective of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution, that is to say, from the 
standpoint of classification of offenders and justness and fairness of the 
procedural provisions. The three learned Judges did not find Section 15(1) obnoxious to Article 14 or Article 21 , though they took judicial notice of the 
inhuman treatment often meted out by overzealous police officers and the 
archaic, third degree methods adopted by them during the investigation of the 
cases. In upholding the validity, the Court took into account the legal 
competence of the legislature to make a law prescribing a different mode of 
proof, the meaningful purpose and object of the legislation, the gravity and 
consequences of terrorism and the reluctance of the public in coming forward to 
give evidence. How far these considerations are relevant in providing for the 
reception in evidence of the confessional statement recorded by a police officer 
has not been elaborated. Apparent hesitation of the learned Judges in 
upholding the most criticized provision, namely Section 15(1) of TADA, is 
reflected in the set of guidelines set out by their Lordships at paragraph 263 to 
ensure as far as possible that the confession obtained by the police officer is not 
tainted with any vice and to impart a process of fairness into the exercise of 
recording the confession. The Central Government was bidden to take note of 
the guidelines and incorporate necessary amendments to the Act. These 
guidelines, by and large, have become part of Section 32 of POTA to which we 
have already referred. There was also an exhortation at paragraph 254 to the 
high-ranking police officers empowered to record the confession that there 
should be no breach of the accepted norms of recording the confession which 
should reflect only a true and voluntary statement and there should be no room 
for hyper criticism that the authority has obtained an invented confession. 
Another interesting part of the discussion is the manner in which the Court gave 
its response to the critical comments made by the counsel as to the 
reprehensible methods adopted to extract the confession. The learned Judges 
said with reference to this comment: "if it is shown to the Court that a 
confession was extorted by illegal means such as inducement, threat or 
promise, the confession thus obtained would be irrelevant and cannot be used in 
a criminal proceeding against the maker." The Court thus merely emphasized 
the obvious and added a remark that the Court on several occasions awarded 
exemplary compensation to the victim at the hands of the police officials. The 
Court took the precaution of clarifying that the police officer investigating the 
case under TADA Act can get the confession or statement of the accused 
recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. by a Magistrate. The Constitution Bench Judgement is binding on us. In fact, the ratio of 
that Judgment applies with greater force to the POTA, as the guidelines set out 
by the Constitution Bench are substantially incorporated into Section 32 . It is 
perhaps too late in the day to seek reconsideration of the view taken by the 
majority of the Judges in the Constitution Bench. But as we see Section 32 , a 
formidable doubt lingers in our minds despite the pronouncement in Kartar 
Singh 's case (supra). That pertains to the rationale and reason behind the 
drastic provision, making the confession to police officer admissible in evidence 
in a trial for POTA offences. Many questions do arise and we are unable to find 
satisfactory or even plausible answers to them. If a person volunteers to make a 
confession, why should he be not produced before the Judicial Magistrate at the 
earliest and have the confession recorded by a Magistrate? The Magistrate 
could be reached within the same time within which the empowered police 
officer could be approached. The doubt becomes more puzzling when we notice 
that in practical terms, a greater degree of credibility is attached to a confession 
made before the judicial officer. Then, why should not the Investigating Officer 
adopt the straightforward course of having resort to the ordinary and age-old 
law? If there is any specific advantage of conferring power on a police officer 
to record the confession receivable in evidence, if the intendment and 
desideratum of the provision indisputably remains to be to ensure an 
atmosphere free from threats and psychological pressures? Why the circuitous 
provision of having confession recorded by the police officer of the rank of S.P. 
(even if he be the immediate superior of the I.O. who oversees the 
investigation) and then requiring the production of the accused before the Chief 
Metropolitan or Judicial Magistrate within 48 hours? We can understand if the 
accused is in a remote area with no easy means of communications and the 
Magistrate is not easily accessible. Otherwise, is there real expediency or good 
reason for allowing an option to the I.O. to have the confession recorded either 
by the superior police officer or a Judicial Magistrate? We do not think that the 
comparative ease with which the confession could be extracted from the 
accused could be pleaded as justification. If it is so, should the end justify the 
means? Should the police officer be better trusted than a Magistrate? Does the 
magnitude and severity of the offence justify the entrustment of the job of 
recording confession to a police officer? Does it imply that it is easier to make 
an accused confess the guilt before a police officer so that it could pave the way 
for conviction in a serious offence? We find no direct answer to these questions 
either in Kartar Singh 's case (supra) or the latest case of People's Union for Civil Liberties vs. Union of India [2004 (9) SCC 580]. The quality of a nation's civilization can be largely measured by the 
methods it uses in the enforcement of its criminal law, as said by the eminent 
American jurist Schaefer. We may recall as well the apt remarks of Krishna Iyer, 
J. in Nandini Satpathy Vs. P.L. Dani [(1978) 2 SCC 424]: In People's Union for Civil Liberties case, a two Judge Bench of this 
Court upheld the constitutional validity of Section 32 following the 
pronouncement in Kartar Singh 's case. The learned Judges particularly noted 
the 'additional safeguards' envisaged by sub-Sections (4) and (5) of Section 32 . 
The court referred to the contention that there was really no need to empower 
the police officer to record the confession since the accused has to be in any 
case produced before the Magistrate and in that case the Magistrate himself 
could record the confession. This argument was not dealt with by their 
Lordships. However, we refrain from saying anything contrary to the legal 
position settled by Kartar Singh and People's Union for Civil Liberties. We 
do no more than expressing certain doubts and let the matter rest there.
It has been pointed out to us that even in advanced countries like U.K. 
and U.S.A., where individual liberty is given primacy, there is no legal taboo 
against the reception of confessional statement made to police in evidence. 
We do not think that it is apt to compare the position obtaining in those 
countries to that in India. The ground realities cannot be ignored. It is an 
undeniable fact that the police in our country still resort to crude methods of 
investigation, especially in mofussil and rural areas and they suffer many 
handicaps, such as lack of adequate personnel, training, equipment and 
professional independence. These features, by and large, are not so rampant 
in those advanced countries. Considered from the standpoint of scientific 
investigation, intensity of training and measure of objectivity, the standards 
and approaches of police personnel are much different in those countries. The 
evils which the framers of the Indian Evidence Act had in mind to exclude 
confessions to the police, are still prevalent though not in the same degree. 
After independence, no doubt, some positive steps have been taken to 
improve the working pattern, utility and image of the police force, but, much 
desires to be achieved in this direction. Complaints of violation of human rights 
by resorting to dubious methods of investigation, politicization of the police 
establishment and victimization of the straightforward and honest officers are 
some of the criticisms that are being heard day in and day out. Even many 
amongst the public tacitly endorse the use of violence by police against the 
criminals. In this scenario, we have serious doubts whether it would be safe to 
concede the power of recording confessions to the police officers to be used in 
evidence against the accused making the confession and the co-accused.
The Law Commission of India in its 185th Report on review of the Indian 
Evidence Act has expressed strong views disfavouring the admission of 
confessions made to Police Officers. The Commission commented that the 
basis for introducing Sections 25 and 26 in the Evidence Act in 1872 holds 
good even today. The Commission observed"we are compelled to say that 
confessions made easy, cannot replace the need for scientific and professional 
investigation". In England, even though the confessions to the police can be received in 
evidence the voluntariness of the confessions are tested by adopting stringent 
standards. Section 76 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act, 1984, deals 
with confession in England. Sub-section (2) of Section 76 is important: Thus the prosecution has to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the 
confession was made voluntarily and was reliable. The Court of Appeal decision in Regina vs. Middleton (1975 All E.R. 191) shows that whenever the admissibility of a confession is challenged "a 
trial within a trial" is conducted to test the voluntariness of such confession at 
the earliest. In England, in the light of the Human Rights Act of 1988, a fresh 
look is being taken into the existing provisions of the Police and Criminal 
Evidence Act and other allied laws including the Law of Confessions.
	In United States, according to the decisions of the Supreme Court viz., 
Miranda Vs. Arizona [384 US 436]; Escobedo Vs. Linnaeus [378 US 
478], the prosecution cannot make use of the statements stemming from 
custodial interrogation unless it demonstrates the use of procedural safeguards 
to secure the right against self-incrimination and these safeguards include a 
right to counsel during such interrogation and warnings to the suspect/accused 
of his right to counsel and to remain silent. In Miranda case (decided in 
1966), it was held that the right to have counsel present at the interrogation 
was indispensable to the protection of the V Amendment privilege against self-
incrimination and to ensure that the right to choose between silence and 
speech remains unfettered throughout the interrogation process. However, this 
rule is subject to the conscious waiver of right after the individual was warned 
of his right. As the law now stands, the confession recorded by the police officer 
under Section 32(1) of POTA is admissible in evidence. The voluntariness and 
reliability of confession can of course be tested by the court. The admission of 
such confession would also be subject to the observance of the other 
provisions of Section 32 of POTA which are in the nature of procedural 
safeguards aimed at ensuring that the confessions are made by the accused in 
an atmosphere free from threat and inducement. There is one argument of Mr. Sushil Kumar appearing for the accused 
Afzal which needs to be adverted to. His contention is that the word 'evidence' 
is not used either under Section 32(1) or Section 32(2) of POTA unlike Section 
15(2) of TADA which requires the Police Officer to warn the person making the 
confession that it may be used as 'evidence' against him. He therefore argues 
that the only route through which the confession can be treated as evidence 
against the accused is by having recourse to Section 164 Cr.P.C. The 
contention, in our view, is devoid of merit. The mere fact that the expression 
'admissible only' is used without being followed by the words 'in evidence', 
does not, by any canon of construction, deprive the confession recorded under Section 32 of POTA its evidentiary value; otherwise Section 32(1) , more 
especially the expression 'admissible' contained therein will become ineffectual 
and senseless. We cannot, therefore, accept this extreme contention. 11. Section 10 of Evidence Act
The next question is whether the confession of the accused which cannot 
be proved against a co-accused either under Section 32(1) of POTA or under Section 30 of the Evidence Act, would be relevant evidence against the co-
accused involved in the conspiracy by reason of Section 10 of the Evidence 
Act. The section reads thus: In Kehar Singh & ors. vs. State (Delhi Administration) [1988 (3) 
SCC 609], Jagannatha Shetty, J., has analysed the section as follows: Section 10 of Evidence act is based on the principle of agency operating 
between the parties to the conspiracy inter se and it is an exception to the rule 
against hearsay testimony. If the conditions laid down therein are satisfied, 
the act done or statement made by one is admissible against the co-
conspirators (vide AIR 1965 SC 682). The learned senior counsel Mr. Gopal Subramanium submits that Section 
10 , which is an exception to Section 30 of the Evidence Act, can be availed of 
by the prosecution to rely on the facts stated in the confessional statement of 
the accused to prove the existence of conspiracy and the co-conspirator being 
party to it. He contends that there is more than prima facie evidence in this 
case that there was a conspiracy to launch an attack on the Parliament 
building and therefore, the first ingredient of the reasonable ground of belief is 
satisfied. The next and more controversial part of the submission is that the 
statement of one of the conspirators who has made the confession throwing 
light on the common intention of all the accused can be used in evidence 
against the co-conspirators or the co-accused irrespective of the fact that such 
statements were made after the conclusion of the conspiracy and after the 
accused were arrested. As the law laid down by the Privy Council in Mirza 
Akbar vs. King Emperor (AIR 1940 PC 176) on the interpretation of Section 10 does not support the contention of the counsel for the State, the 
learned counsel was critical of the dictum laid down in that case and equally 
critical of the long line of authorities which accepted the ruling of the Privy 
Council. This is what Lord Wright said in Mirza Akbar 's case: In Sardul Singh Caveeshar vs. State of Bombay (1958 SCR 161), a 
three-Judge Bench of this Court approvingly referred to the decision of the 
Privy Council. However, the following observation made therein does not go 
counter to the submission of Mr. Subramanium: But, the ultimate conclusion is not strictly in conformity with that remark. After 
referring to this and the other decisions, Thomas, J. observed in State of 
Gujarat vs. Mohammed Atik and ors. [1998 (4) SCC 351] thus: Referring to the decision in Mohammed Atik 's case (supra) and Sardul 
Singh Caveeshar (supra), Arijit Pasayat, J., speaking for a three-Judge Bench 
in Mohd. Khalid vs. State of West Bengal [2002 (7) SCC 334], stated the 
legal position thus: Ultimately, the test applied was whether any particular accused continued to 
be the member of the conspiracy after his arrest. Though the learned Judge 
stated that "similar view was expressed by this Court in State vs. Nalini ", we 
find no such statement of law in Nalini 's case. However, this accidental slip 
does not make any difference. The law is thus well settled that the statements 
made by the conspirators after they are arrested cannot be brought within the 
ambit of Section 10 of the Evidence Act, because by that time the conspiracy 
would have ended. If so, the statement forming part of the confessional 
statement made to the police officer under Section 32(1) of POTA cannot be 
pressed into service by the prosecution against the other co-accused. Thus, 
the endeavour to bring the confessional statement of co-accused into the 
gamut of evidence through the route of Section 10 is frustrated by a series of 
decisions, starting from Mirza Akbar 's case (1940). Learned senior counsel Mr. Gopal Subramanium argued that the view 
taken by the Privy Council runs counter to the language of Section 10 , and 
moreover, if that interpretation is to be adopted, there would hardly be any 
evidence which could be admitted under section 10 , the reason being that the 
statements would necessarily be made by the witnesses after the termination 
of conspiracy. The correct interpretation, according to the learned senior 
counsel is, whether the statements made by the conspirators testifying to the 
common plan, whether confessional or not, relate to the period of conspiracy 
or to the period post-termination. The relevance of such statements under Section 10 cannot be whittled down with reference to the point of time when 
the statement was made. The leaned senior counsel, therefore, submits that 
the exclusion of post-arrest statements of the conspirators, is not warranted 
by the language employed in the section and it makes Section 10 nugatory. 
Though, in our view, the Section can still play its role, we find some force in 
this contention. But, it is not open to us to upset the view reiterated in a long 
line of decisions. The learned counsel Mr. Gopal Subramanium has also endeavoured to 
invoke precedential support for his argument. He referred to Bhagwan 
Swarup vs. State of Maharashtra (AIR 1965 SC 682) (known as the 2nd Caveeshar case) in which Subba Rao, J., speaking for a three-Judge Bench 
analysed the ingredients of Section 10 as follows:- The limitation inferred by the Privy Council that the acts or statements of 
the conspirator should have been made when the conspiracy was afoot was 
not imported in to the interpretation of the section. On the other hand, the 
proposition No.4 might indicate that even the statement made and acts done 
after a person left the conspiracy, could be proved against others. The Privy 
Council decision in Mirza Akbar 's case was not referred to. The issue as 
raised now was not discussed. However, the 1st Caveeshar case (AIR 1957 
SC 747) in which the Privy Council's decision was cited, was adverted to. In 
the 1st Caveeshar 's case also decided by a three Judge Bench (supra), the 
ratio of the Privy Council decision in Mirza Akabar 's case was approved and 
applied. The learned counsel then referred to the case of Ammini & ors. vs. 
State of Kerala [1998 (2) SCC 301], wherein this Court referred to Section 
10 of the Evidence Act and observed thus: There was no reference to the earlier cases which were binding on the 
Court. The view of the High Court was merely endorsed. The learned senior 
counsel Mr. Gopal Subramanium then submitted that in Nalini 's case this 
Court admitted the confessional statement made by one of the accused after 
his arrest under section 10 of the Evidence Act. But we do not find anything in 
that judgment to support this statement. Wadhwa, J on whose judgment 
reliance is placed did not say anything contrary to what was laid down in Mirza Akbar 's case. After referring to Mirza Akbar 's case, Wadhwa, J. 
adverted to the contention that Section 10 becomes inapplicable once the 
conspirator is nabbed. The comment of the learned Judge was; (emphasis supplied)
 
	We do not find any such deeming provision in Section 10 . No doubt, Section 10 rests on the principle of agency. But, it does not in terms treat 
the statements made and acts done by one conspirator as the statements or 
acts of all. Section 10 only lays down a rule of relevancy. It says that 
anything done or said by one of the conspirators in reference to the common 
intention is a relevant fact as against each of the conspirators to prove two 
things: (i) existence of the conspiracy and (ii) that they were parties to the 
conspiracy. As pointed out by the Privy Council in Mirza Akbar 's case, the 
thing done, written or spoken in the course of carrying out the conspiracy 
"was receivable as a step in the proof of the conspiracy". This dictum was 
approvingly referred to in the 1st Caveeshar case (AIR 1957 SC 747). The learned senior counsel then referred to the decision of this Court in Tribhuwan vs. State of Maharashtra [1972 (3) SCC 511], in which the 
accused examined himself as a witness and his evidence was admitted under Section 10 of the Evidence Act, mainly on the ground that his deposition could 
be subjected to cross-examination. So also in the case of K. Hashim vs. 
State of Tamil Nadu , the evidence of co-accused who subsequently became 
approver, was admitted under Section 10 . These two cases rest on a different 
principle and cannot be said to have differed with the view taken in Mirza 
Akbar 's case. However, there are two decisions of this Court rendered by two Judge 
Benches, which have taken the view that the facts stated in the confessional 
statement of one of the accused can be used against the other accused. The 
first one is Bhagwandas Keshwani & anr. vs. State of Rajasthan [1974 
(4) SCC 611] decided by a two-Judge Bench (M.H. Beg and Y.V. 
Chandrachud, JJ), in which Beg, J. observed thus: None of the previous decisions were referred to by their Lordships. The 
other case is that of State of Maharashtra vs. Damu [2000 (6) SCC 269] 
which was also decided by a two Judge Bench. The learned Judges after 
analyzing the ingredients of Section 10 , held thus: Thus, the confessional statement (Ext.88) made by one of the parties to 
the conspiracy was made use of against the other parties/accused. It is 
interesting to note that the decision in State of Gujarat vs. Mohammed Atik (supra) rendered by one of the learned Judges, was noticed but the crucial 
part of the observation therein ruling out the applicability of Section 10 was 
not adverted to. The 2nd Caveeshar case (AIR 1965 SC 682) was also 
noticed. However much we are convinced of the arguments advanced by the 
learned senior counsel for the State, we are unable to give effect to the law laid down in these two cases which runs counter to the larger Bench decisions 
noticed supra, especially when the previous decisions bearing on the point 
were not discussed. No doubt the judgment in 2nd Caveeshar case was of 
three learned Judges but the 4th proposition laid down therein is not so 
categorical as to convey the idea that even the confessional statement 
recorded after the arrest, could be used against the co-conspirators. The case of Queen Vs. Blake decided in 1844 [115 ER 49] is 
illustrative of the parameters of the common law rule similar to Section 10 of 
the Indian Evidence Act. The Privy Council in the case of R Vs. Blake [AIR 
1940 PC 176] referred to that case and observed thus: In the light of the foregoing discussion, we have no option but to reject 
the contention of Mr. Gopal Subramanium on the interpretation of Section 10 , 
though not without hesitation. However, in view of the fact that confessional 
statement is not being relied on, the question of applicability of Section 10 fades into insignificance. 12. Conspiracy

	As conspiracy is the primary charge against the accused, we shall now 
advert to the law of conspiracy  its definition, essential features and proof. Section 120-A of IPC defines criminal conspiracy. It says: "when two or more 
persons agree to do or cause to be done (i) an illegal act or (ii) an act which 
is not illegal by illegal means, such an agreement is designated a criminal 
conspiracy. Section 120-B prescribes the punishment to be imposed on a 
party to a criminal conspiracy. As pointed out by Subba Rao, J in Major E.G. 
Barsay Vs. State of Bombay (AIR 1961 SC 1762): Under section 43 of the IPC, an act would be illegal if it is an offence or if it is 
prohibited by law. Section 120-A and 120-B were brought on the statute book 
by way of amendment to IPC in 1913. The Statement of Objects and Reasons 
to the amending Act reveals that the underlying purpose was to make a mere 
agreement to do an illegal act or an act which is not illegal by illegal means 
punishable under law. This definition is almost similar to the definition of 
conspiracy, which we find in Halsbury's Laws of England. The definition given 
therein is: In America, the concept of criminal conspiracy is no different. In 
American Jurisprudence, 2nd Edn., Vol.16, Page 129, the following definition of 
conspiracy is given: Earlier to the introduction of Section 120-A and B, conspiracy per se 
was not an offence under the Indian Penal Code except in respect of the 
offence mentioned in Section 121-A. However, abetment by conspiracy was 
and still remains to be an ingredient of abetment under clause secondly of Section 107 of IPC. The punishment therefor is provided under various 
sections viz. Section 108 to 117 . Whereas under Section 120A, the essence of 
the offence of criminal conspiracy is a bare agreement to commit the offence, 
the abetment under Section 107 requires the commission of some act or illegal 
omission pursuant to the conspiracy. A charge under Section 107 / 109 should 
therefore be in combination with a substantive offence, whereas the charge 
under Section 120-A/120-B could be an independent charge.
In the Objects and Reasons to the Amendment Bill, it was explicitly 
stated that the new provisions (120-A & B) were "designed to assimilate the 
provisions of the Indian Penal Code to those of the English Law ." 
Thus, Sections 120-A & B made conspiracy a substantive offence and rendered 
the mere agreement to commit an offence punishable. Even if an overt act 
does not take place pursuant to the illegal agreement, the offence of 
conspiracy would still be attracted. The passages from Russell on Crimes, the 
House of Lords decision in Quinn vs. Leathem (1901 AC 495), and the 
address of Willes, J to the Jury in Mulcahy Vs. Queen (1868 3 HL 306) are 
often quoted in the decisions of this Court. The passage in Russell on Crimes 
referred to by Jagannatha Shetty, J in Kehar Singh 's case [1988 (3) SCC at 
page 731] is quite apposite: This passage brings out the legal position succinctly. In Nalini 's case, S.S.M. Quadri, J, pointed out that the meeting of 
minds of two or more persons for doing an illegal act or an act by illegal 
means is a sine qua non of the criminal conspiracy. Judge L. Hand, in Van 
Riper vs. United States (13 F 2d. 961) said of conspiracy: "When men 
enter into an agreement for an unlawful end, they become ad hoc agents for 
one another and have made a partnership in crime." In Yashpal Mittal vs. State of Punjab [1977 (4) SCC 540], 
Goswami, J, speaking for a three-Judge Bench analysed the legal position 
relating to criminal conspiracy. At pages 610-611, the learned Judge observed 
that "the very agreement, the concert or league is the ingredient of the 
offence." and that "it is not necessary that all the conspirators must know each 
and every detail of the conspiracy". It was then observed that "there must be 
unity of object or purpose but there may be plurality of means, sometimes 
even unknown to one another, amongst the conspirators." 
Dr. Sri Hari Singh Gour in his well known 'Commentary on Penal Law of 
India', (Vol.2, 11th Edn. page 1138) summed up the legal position in the 
following words: In State of H.P. Vs. Krishan Lal Pradhan [1987 (2) SCC page 17], 
it was reiterated that every one of the conspirators need not take active part in 
the commission of each and every one of the conspiratorial acts. In the case of State Vs. Nalini [1999 (5) SCC 253], S.S.M. Quadri, J, 
after a survey of case law made the following pertinent observations: (at 
paragraph 662)
"In reaching the stage of meeting of minds, two or more persons 
share information about doing an illegal act or a legal act by illegal 
means. This is the first stage where each is said to have knowledge 
of a plan for committing an illegal act or a legal act by illegal 
means. Among those sharing the information some or all may form 
an intention to do an illegal act or a legal act by illegal means. 
Those who do form the requisite intention would be parties to the 
agreement and would be conspirators but those who drop out 
cannot be roped in as collaborators on the basis of mere knowledge 
unless they commit acts or omissions from which a guilty common 
intention can be inferred. It is not necessary that all the 
conspirators should participate from the inception to the end of the 
conspiracy; some may join the conspiracy after the time when such 
intention was first entertained by any one of them and some others 
may quit from the conspiracy. All of them cannot but be treated as 
conspirators. Where in pursuance of the agreement the 
conspirators commit offences individually or adopt illegal means to 
do a legal act which has a nexus to the object of conspiracy, all of 
them will be liable for such offences even if some of them have not 
actively participated in the commission of those offences. There is exhaustive reference to various cases by Arijit Pasayat, J, in Mohd. Khalid Vs. State of W.B. [2002 (7) SCC 334]. In Mohammed 
Usman Vs. State of Maharashatra [1981 (2) SCC 443] it was observed 
that the agreement amongst the conspirators can be inferred by necessary 
implication. There is one particular observation made by Jagannadha Shetty in Kehar Singh 's (supra) case which needs to be explained. The learned Judge 
observed: The expression 'physical manifestation' seems to be the phraseology 
used in the Article referred to by the learned Judge. However, the said 
expression shall not be equated to 'overt act' which is a different concept. As 
rightly stated by the learned senior counsel, Mr. Gopal Subramanium, the 
phrase has reference to the manifestation of the agreement itself, such as by 
way of meetings and communications. Mostly, the conspiracies are proved by the circumstantial evidence, as 
the conspiracy is seldom an open affair. Usually both the existence of the 
conspiracy and its objects have to be inferred from the circumstances and the 
conduct of the accused. (Per Wadhwa, J. in Nalini 's case (supra) at page 516). The well known rule governing circumstantial evidence is that each and 
every incriminating circumstance must be clearly established by reliable 
evidence and "the circumstances proved must form a chain of events from 
which the only irresistible conclusion about the guilt of the accused can be 
safely drawn and no other hypothesis against the guilt is possible." G.N. Ray, 
J. in Tanibeert Pankaj Kumar [1997 (7) SCC 156], observed that this 
Court should not allow the suspicion to take the place of legal proof.	
	As pointed out by Fazal Ali, J, in V.C. Shukla vs. State [1980 (2) SCC 
665], " in most cases it will be difficult to get direct evidence of the 
agreement, but a conspiracy can be inferred even from circumstances giving 
rise to a conclusive or irresistible inference of an agreement between two or 
more persons to commit an offence." In this context, the observations in the 
case Noor Mohammad Yusuf Momin vs. State of Maharashtra (AIR 
1971 SC 885) are worth nothing: A few bits here and a few bits there on which the prosecution relies cannot be 
held to be adequate for connecting the accused in the offence of criminal 
conspiracy. The circumstances before, during and after the occurrence can be 
proved to decide about the complicity of the accused. [vide Esher Singh vs. 
State of A.P. , 2004 (11) SCC 585]. Lord Bridge in R. vs. Anderson [1985 (2) All E.R. 961] aptly said that 
the evidence from which a jury may infer a criminal conspiracy is almost 
invariably to be found in the conduct of the parties. In (AIR 1945 PC 140), 
the Privy Council warned that in a joint trial care must be taken to separate 
the admissible evidence against each accused and the judicial mind should not 
be allowed to be influenced by evidence admissible only against others. "A co-
defendant in a conspiracy trial", observed Jackson, J, "occupies an uneasy 
seat" and "it is difficult for the individual to make his own case stand on its 
own merits in the minds of jurors who are ready to believe that birds of a 
feather are flocked together." [vide Alvin Krumlewitch vs. United States 
of America, (93 L.Ed. 790). In Nalini 's case, Wadhwa, J pointed out, at 
page 517 of the SCC, the need to guard against prejudice being caused to the 
accused on account of the joint trial with other conspirators. The learned Judge 
observed that "there is always difficulty in tracing the precise contribution of 
each member of the conspiracy but then there has to be cogent and 
convincing evidence against each one of the accused charged with the offence 
of conspiracy". The pertinent observation of Judge Hand in U.S. vs. Falcone 
(109 F. 2d,579) was referred to: "This distinction is important today when 
many prosecutors seek to sweep within the dragnet of conspiracy all those 
who have been associated in any degree whatever with the main offenders." 
At paragraph 518, Wadhwa, J, pointed out that the criminal responsibility for a 
conspiracy requires more than a merely passive attitude towards an existing 
conspiracy. The learned Judge then set out the legal position regarding the 
criminal liability of the persons accused of the conspiracy as follows: One more principle which deserves notice is that cumulative effect of the 
proved circumstances should be taken into account in determining the guilt of 
the accused rather than adopting an isolated approach to each of the 
circumstances. Of course, each one of the circumstances should be proved 
beyond reasonable doubt. Lastly, in regard to the appreciation of evidence 
relating to conspiracy, the Court must take care to see that the acts or 
conduct of the parties must be conscious and clear enough to infer their 
concurrence as to the common design and its execution. K.J. Shetty, J, 
pointed out in Kehar Singh 's case that "the innocuous, innocent or 
inadvertent events and incidents should not enter the judicial verdict." Before we close the discussion on the topic of conspiracy in general, we 
must note the argument of the learned senior counsel for the State Mr. Gopal 
Subramanium who in his endeavour to invoke the theory of agency in all its 
dimensions so as to make each of the conspirators constructively liable for the 
offences actually committed by others pursuant to the conspiracy, relied on 
the dictum of Coleridge, J. in Regina vs. Murphy (173 ER 502), which will 
be referred to later on. The learned senior counsel submits that where overt 
acts have been committed, all conspirators will have to be punished equally 
for the substantive offence irrespective of non-participation of some of them in 
such overt acts. The observations made by Wadhwa, J in Nalini at paragraph 
583 and by Mohapatra, J, in Firozuddin Basheeruddin vs. State of Kerala [2001 (7) SCC 596], are pressed into service to buttress his argument that 
all the conspirators would be liable for all the offences committed pursuant to 
the conspiracy on the basis of the principle of agency where the conspiracy 
results in overt acts constituting distinct offences. We do not think that the theory of agency can be extended thus far, that 
is to say, to find all the conspirators guilty of the actual offences committed in 
execution of the common design even if such offences were ultimately 
committed by some of them, without the participation of others. We are of 
the view that those who committed the offences pursuant to the conspiracy by 
indulging in various overt acts will be individually liable for those offences in 
addition to being liable for criminal conspiracy; but, the non-participant 
conspirators cannot be found guilty of the offence or offences committed by 
the other conspirators. There is hardly any scope for the application of the 
principle of agency in order to find the conspirators guilty of a substantive 
offence not committed by them. Criminal offences and punishments therefor 
are governed by statute. The offender will be liable only if he comes within 
the plain terms of the penal statute. Criminal liability for an offence cannot be 
fastened by way of analogy or by extension of a common law principle.
We have to explain the decision in Ferojuddin's case at length in view 
of heavy reliance placed on it. The Court observed thus at para 25: In para 26, the discussion was on the point of admissibility of evidence i.e. 
whether declaration by one conspirator made in furtherance of a conspiracy 
and during its subsistence is admissible against each co-conspirator. In other 
words, the question of applicability of the rule analogous to Section 10 of the 
Evidence Act was the subject matter of discussion. The following passage from 
Van Riper Vs. United States [13 F 2d 961 at page 967] was quoted. Then, in the immediately following paragraph, this Court observed as follows: The conclusion at paragraph 27 that the conspirators are liable for the overt 
acts and crimes committed by their associates on the theory of agency is not 
in conformity with the discussion "Regarding admissibility of evidence"which 
is the opening phraseology of paragraph 26. It was made clear in the second 
sentence of para 26 that contrary to the usual rule, any declaration by one 
conspirator made in furtherance of a conspiracy and during its pendency is 
admissible against each co-conspirator. Thus, the gist of Section 10 of the 
Evidence Act is implicit in that observation. Nothing is stated in paragraph 26 
to indicate that their Lordships were discussing the larger question of 
culpability of all the conspirators for the criminal acts done by some of them 
pursuant to the conspiracy. However, the view expressed in paragraph 27 that 
on the theory of agency, the conspirators are liable for the statements and 
overt acts of the co-conspirators is at variance with the tenor of discussion in 
the earlier para. The apparent reason which influenced their Lordships seem to 
be the observations of Judge Hand in the case of Van Riper Vs. United 
States (supra). Those observations were in the context of the discussion on 
the liability of the 'defendants' for conspiracy to defraud. The ratio of the 
decision is evident from the concluding observation: "For this reason, all that 
was done before he entered may be used against him, but obviously not 
what was done after he left." The joint liability for the overt acts involved in 
the actual crime did not come up for consideration. That apart, the statement 
of law that "such declarations are admitted upon no doctrine of the law of 
evidence, but of the substantive law of crime" does not hold good under 
Indian law. The reason is that the declarations contemplated by Judge Hand 
are made admissible under Section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act but not 
under the substantive law of crimes. Thus, the conclusion reached at 
paragraph 27 overlooked the difference in legal position between what was 
obtaining in USA in the year 1926 and the statutory rule of evidence contained 
in the Indian Evidence Act . The proposition in the earlier para i.e. paragraph 
25 (quoted supra) was too widely stated, probably influenced by the 
observations in Van Riper's case. In fact, in Ferojuddin's case, some 
members of the group who conspired were convicted only under Section 120B 
whereas the other members who accomplished the objective of conspiracy by 
committing the planned offence were convicted for the substantive offence as 
well as for the conspiracy. Thus, the observations made therein are no more 
than obiter dicta. The very decision of Maj. E.G. Barsay referred to by their 
Lordships make it clear that "for individual offences, all the conspirators may 
not be liable though they are all guilty for the offence of conspiracy." In Ajay Aggarwal vs. Union of India [1993 (3) SCC 609], while 
discussing the question whether the conspiracy is a continuing offence, the 
following pertinent observations were made by K. Ramaswamy, J, speaking for 
the Bench at para 11: Thus, a distinction was maintained between the conspiracy and the 
offences committed pursuant to the conspiracy. It is only in order to prove 
the existence of conspiracy and the parties to the conspiracy, a rule of 
evidence is enacted in Section 10 based on the principle of 
agency. We may recall that Section 10 of the Evidence Act provides that 
anything said, done or written by one of the conspirators in reference to the 
common intention of all of them can be proved as a relevant fact as against 
each of the conspirators, subject to the condition prescribed in the opening 
part of the section. Thus, the evidence which is in the nature of hearsay is 
made admissible on the principle that there is mutual agency amongst the 
conspirators. It is in the context of Section 10 that the relevant observations 
were made in the first Caveeshar case ( AIR 1957 SC 747) and Nalini 's 
case at page 517. In the former case, Jagannadhadas, J, after referring to the 
passage in Roscoe's Criminal Evidence (16th Edn.) that "an overt act 
committed by any one of the conspirators is sufficient, on the general 
principles of agency, to make it the act of all", observed that "the principle 
underlying the reception of evidence under Section 10 of the Evidence Act of 
the statements, acts and writings of one co-conspirator as against the other is 
on the theory of agency". It was not held in those cases that the same 
principle of agency should be stretched further to make all the conspirators 
liable for the offensive acts done pursuant to the conspiracy, irrespective of 
their role and participation in the ultimate offensive acts. Whether or not the 
conspirators will be liable for substantive offences other than the conspiracy 
and, if so, to what extent and what punishment has to be given for the 
conspiracy and the other offences committed pursuant thereto, depend on the 
specific scheme and provisions of the penal law. The offence cannot be spelt 
out by applying the principle of agency if the statute does not say so. For 
instance, in the case of Section 34 IPC, the constructive liability for the crime 
is specifically fastened on each of those who participate in the crime in 
furtherance of the common intention. But Section 120B does not convey that 
idea. Learned senior counsel Mr. Gopal Subramanium placed reliance on the 
summary of legal position as to proof of conspiracy by Coleridge, J in Regina 
vs. Murphy [(1837) 173 E.R. 502] which is as under: We do not find anything in Murphy's case which supports the argument that 
all the conspirators are equally liable for the offence committed by some of 
them in execution of the common design. The Court was only considering 
whether the offence of conspiracy was made out and whether the acts or 
declarations of co-conspirators can be relied on against others. The crucial 
question formulated is: "Had they this common design and did they pursue it 
by these common means  the design being unlawful? The learned Judge was 
only explaining the ingredients of conspiracy and as to the principle on which 
anything said or done by either of the conspirators in pursuit of common 
design can be put against the other. In other words, the principle analogous 
to Section 10 was being highlighted. The other decision relied upon by the learned counsel for the State is Babu Lal vs. Emperor (AIR 1938 PC 130) at page 133. What was held in 
that case was that if several persons conspire to commit the offences and 
commit overt acts pursuant to the conspiracy, such acts must be held to have 
been committed in the course of the same transaction, which embraces the 
conspiracy and the acts done under it. The Privy Council was concerned with 
the interpretation of the expression "in the course of the same transaction" The learned counsel submits that in order to sustain a charge of 
conspiracy under Section 120A, the same test could be usefully applied. That 
means, there must be evidence to the effect that the accused who entered into 
the agreement in the nature of conspiracy had intended to play and played 
some part in the agreed course of conduct involving the commission of an 
offence. But, if there is no evidence attributing any role to the accused in the 
course of conduct involving the commission of offence, he or she cannot be 
held guilty under Section 120A. However, as rightly pointed out by the learned 
counsel for the State Mr. Gopal Subramanium, the provision dealt with by the 
House of Lords, namely, Section 1(1) of the Criminal Law Act, 1977 is different 
from the wording of Section 120A. It reads as follows: It may be noted that by the 1977 Act, the offence of conspiracy at 
common law was abolished and a statutory definition of 'conspiracy to commit 
the offence' was enacted. The provision that was interpreted by the House of 
Lords is not in pari materia with the provision in the Indian Penal Code . 
However, one clarification is needed. If there is proof to the effect that the 
accused played a role, attended to certain things or took steps consistent with 
the common design underlying the conspiracy, that will go a long way in 
establishing the complicity of the accused, though it is not a legal requirement 
that the conspirator should do any particular act beyond the agreement to 
commit the offence. 13.	The interpretation of Section 27 of the Evidence Act has loomed large in 
the course of arguments. The controversy centered round two aspects:- These issues have arisen especially in the context of the disclosure statement 
(Ex. PW 66/13) of Gilani to the police. According to the prosecution, the 
information furnished by Gilani on certain aspects, for instance, that the 
particular cell phones belonged to the other accused  Afzal and Shaukat, that 
the Christian colony room was arranged by Shaukat in order to accommodate 
the slain terrorist Mohammad, that police uniforms and explosives 'were 
arranged' and that the names of the five deceased terrorists were so and so 
are relevant under Section 27 of the Evidence Act as they were confirmed to be 
true by subsequent investigation and they reveal the awareness and 
knowledge of Gilani in regard to all these facts, even though no material 
objects were recovered directly at his instance. The arguments of the learned counsel for the State run as follows:- accused. In that sense, Section 27 will apply whenever there is discovery (not 
in the narrower sense of recovery of a material object) as long as the discovery 
amounts to be confirmatory in character guaranteeing the truth of the 
information giventhe only limitation being that the police officer should not 
have had access to those facts earlier. The application of the Section is not contingent on the recovery of a 
physical object. Section 27 embodies the doctrine of Confirmation by 
subsequent events. The fact investigated and found by the police consequent 
to the information disclosed by the accused amounts to confirmation of that 
piece of information. Only that piece of information, which is distinctly 
supported by confirmation, is rendered relevant and admissible U/S 27.
	The physical object might have already been recovered, but the 
investigating agency may not have any clue as to the "state of things" that 
surrounded that physical object. In such an event, if upon the disclosure made 
such state of things or facts within his knowledge in relation to a physical 
object are discovered, then also, it can be said to be discovery of fact within 
the meaning of Section 27 . The other aspect is that the pointing out of a material object by the 
accused himself is not necessary in order to attribute the discovery to him. A 
person who makes a disclosure may himself lead the investigating officer to 
the place where the object is concealed. That is one clear instance of 
discovery of fact. But the scope of Section 27 is wider. Even if the accused 
does not point out the place where the material object is kept, the police, on 
the basis of information furnished by him, may launch an investigation which 
confirms the information given by accused. Even in such a case, the 
information furnished by the accused becomes admissible against him as per Section 27 provided the correctness of information is confirmed by a 
subsequent step in investigation. At the same time, facts discovered as a result 
of investigation should be such as are directly relatable to the information.
	Reliance is placed mainly on the decisions of this Court in Inayatullah 
Vs. State of Maharashtra [( 1976) 1 SCC 828] and State of Maharashtra 
Vs. Damu [(2000) 6 SCC 269]. Referring to the land-mark decision of Privy 
Council in Pulukuri Kotayya Vs. Emperor [AIR 1947 PC 67] the learned 
counsel Mr. Gopal Subramanium tried to distinguish it and explain its real ratio.
	The learned senior counsel appearing for the defence have contended 
that the scope of Section 27 should not be unduly stretched by having resort to 
the second part of the definition of 'fact' in Section 3 of the Evidence Act. 
According to Mr. Ram Jethmalani, it is too late in the day to contend that the 
'fact' discovered within the meaning of Section 27 could either be the physical 
object or the mental fact of which the accused giving the information is 
conscious. The learned counsel submits that on a true understanding of the 
ratio of the opinion of the Privy Council in Kotayya 's case, the word 'fact' shall 
be construed as being a combination of both the elements. The fact 
discovered, it was ruled by the Privy Council, was the physical fact of hidden 
spear and the mental fact was that the accused knew that he had so hidden it 
at a particular place. Great reliance was placed on the fact that in Kotayya 's 
case, the full Bench decision of the Lahore High Court in Sukhan Vs. Emperor 
[AIR 1929 Lahore 344] and the division Bench decision of the Bombay High 
Court in Ganuchandra Vs. Emperor [AIR 1932 Bombay 286] were 
specifically approved by the Privy Council. It is pointed out that Section 27 is 
virtually borrowed from Taylor's treatise on the Law of Evidence as pointed out 
by the full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in the vintage decision in Queen 
Empress Vs. Babu Lal [1884, Indian Decisions, 6 Allahabad 510]. The 
passage in Taylor's Evidence (which is found in paragraph 902 of Volume 1 of 
1931 Edition) is as follows: It is therefore contended that the fact discovered must basically be a 
concrete or material fact but not mental fact. The learned counsel Mr. Ram 
Jethmalani further submits that the word 'discovery' had two shades of 
meaning: one is 'find and detect' and the other is 'to uncover or reveal' vide 
'Dictionary of Modern Legal Usage' by Bryan A. Garner. Though the first of the 
meanings viz., 'to uncover or reveal' has become obsolete according to Garner, 
still, the expression 'discover' should be construed according to its original 
sense when the Indian Evidence Act was framed. It is therefore submitted that 
the discovery of a physical thing by the accused is a must. The doctrine of 
confirmation by subsequent events which is the expression used in some of the 
cases and text books only means that the discovery of the material object is 
subsequent to the information leading to discovery. The learned counsel 
reinforces his argument by stating that in the context and setting of Section 27 and in the company of the word 'discover', fact only means the object, its 
location and concealment. The entire definition of 'fact' should not be bodily 
lifted into Section 27 . The fact discovered is the concealment or disposal of the 
object which is brought to light by the accused, but not anything relating to the 
object in general. All the learned counsel for the defence then stressed on the 
expression 'thereby discovered' which means discovered pursuant to 
information which he himself supplied. Countering the argument of the learned 
senior counsel for the State, the learned counsel for the accused then contend 
that the information and the discovery of fact should be intimately and 
inextricably connected and the confirmation by means of subsequent 
investigation cannot be considered to be discovery of fact as a direct result of 
information furnished by the accused. Apart from Kotayya 's case, heavy 
reliance is placed on the judgment of Privy Council in Kotayya 's case.
We have noticed above that the confessions made to a police officer and 
a confession made by any person while he or she is in police custody cannot be 
proved against that person accused of an offence. Of course, a confession 
made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate can be proved against him. 
So also Section 162 Cr.P.C. bars the reception of any statements made to a 
police officer in the course of an investigation as evidence against the accused 
person at any enquiry or trial except to the extent that such statements can be 
made use of by the accused to contradict the witnesses. Such confessions are 
excluded for the reason that there is a grave risk of their statements being 
involuntary and false. Section 27 , which unusually starts with a proviso, lifts 
the ban against the admissibility of the confession/statement made to the 
police to a limited extent by allowing proof of information of specified nature 
furnished by the accused in police custody. In that sense Section 27 is 
considered to be an exception to the rules embodied in Sections 25 and 26 (vide AIR 1962 SC 1116). Section 27 reads as follows: The history of case law on the subject of confessions under Section 27 unfolds divergent views and approaches. The divergence was mainly on twin 
aspects: (i) Whether the facts contemplated by Section 27 are physical, 
material objects or the mental facts of which the accused giving the 
information could be said to be aware of. Some Judges have gone to the extent 
of holding that the discovery of concrete facts, that is to say material objects, 
which can be exhibited in the Court are alone covered by Section 27 . (ii) The 
other controversy was on the point regarding the extent of admissibility of a 
disclosure statement. In some cases a view was taken that any information, 
which served to connect the object with the offence charged, was admissible 
under Section 27 . The decision of the Privy Council in Kotayya 's case, which 
has been described as a locus classicus, had set at rest much of the 
controversy that centered round the interpretation of Section 27 . To a great 
extent the legal position has got crystallized with the rendering of this decision. 
The authority of Privy Council's decision has not been questioned in any of the 
decisions of the highest Court either in the pre or post independence era. 
Right from 1950s, till the advent of the new century and till date, the passages 
in this famous decision are being approvingly quoted and reiterated by the 
Judges of this apex Court. Yet, there remain certain grey areas as 
demonstrated by the arguments advanced on behalf of the State.
	The first requisite condition for utilizing Section 27 in support of the 
prosecution case is that the investigating police officer should depose that he 
discovered a fact in consequence of the information received from an accused 
person in police custody. Thus, there must be a discovery of fact not within the 
knowledge of police officer as a consequence of information received. Of 
course, it is axiomatic that the information or disclosure should be free from 
any element of compulsion. The next component of Section 27 relates to the 
nature and extent of information that can be proved. It is only so much of the 
information as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered that can be 
proved and nothing more. It is explicitly clarified in the Section that there is no 
taboo against receiving such information in evidence merely because it 
amounts to a confession. At the same time, the last clause makes it clear that 
it is not the confessional part that is admissible but it is only such information 
or part of it, which relates distinctly to the fact discovered by means of the 
information furnished. Thus, the information conveyed in the statement to 
police ought to be dissected if necessary so as to admit only the information of 
the nature mentioned in the Section. The rationale behind this provision is 
that, if a fact is actually discovered in consequence of the information supplied, 
it affords some guarantee that the information is true and can therefore be 
safely allowed to be admitted in evidence as an incriminating factor against the 
accused. As pointed out by the Privy Council in Kotayya 's case, "clearly the 
extent of the information admissible must depend on the exact nature of the 
fact discovered and the information must distinctly relate to that fact". 
Elucidating the scope of this Section, the Privy Council speaking through Sir 
John Beaumont said "normally, the Section is brought into operation when a 
person in police custody produces from some place of concealment, some 
object, such as a dead body, a weapon or ornaments, said to be connected 
with the crime of which the informant is the accused". We have emphasized 
the word 'normally' because the illustrations given by the learned Judge are 
not exhaustive. The next point to be noted is that the Privy Council rejected 
the argument of the counsel appearing for the Crown that the fact discovered 
is the physical object produced and that any and every information which 
relates distinctly to that object can be proved. Upon this view, the information 
given by a person that the weapon produced is the one used by him in the 
commission of the murder will be admissible in its entirety. Such contention of 
the Crown's counsel was emphatically rejected with the following words: Then, their Lordships proceeded to give a lucid exposition of the expression 
'fact discovered' in the following passage, which is quoted time and again by 
this Court: The Privy Council held that "the whole of that statement except the passage 'I 
hid it' (a spear) and my stick in the rick of Venkatanarasu in the village. I will 
show if you come" is inadmissible. There is another important observation at 
paragraph 11 which needs to be noticed. The Privy Council explained the 
probative force of the information made admissible under Section 27 in the 
following words: In paragraph 11, their Lordships observed that they were in agreement with 
the view taken by the High Courts of Lahore and Bombay in Sukhan Vs. 
Emperor [AIR 1929 Lahore 344] and Ganuchandra Vs. Emperor [AIR 
1932 Bombay 286]. The contrary view taken by the Madras High Court in 
Attappa Goundan Vs. Emperor [ILR 1937 Madras 695] was not accepted 
by the Privy Council. In Attappa Goundan's case, the High Court held that 
even that part of the confessional statement, which revealed the connection 
between the objects produced and the commission of murder was held to be 
admissible under Section 27 in its entirety. This approach was criticized by the 
Privy Council. To complete the sequence, we may refer to another decision of 
the Madras High Court in Emperor Vs., Ramanuja Ayyangar [AIR 1935 
Madras 528]. In that case, the majority of learned Judges had disagreed with 
the view taken in Sukhan's case that the expression 'fact' in Section 27 should 
be restricted to material objects or something which can be exhibited as 
material object. It was held that the facts need not be self-probatory and the 
word 'fact' as contemplated by Section 27 is not limited to "actual physical 
material object". Emphasis was laid on the wording 'any fact'. In this respect, 
the view taken in Sukhan's case (supra) was dissented from. The minority 
view was that the discovery of a witness to the crime or the act of the accused 
in purchasing the incriminating material cannot be proved by invoking Section 27. We have referred to this decision in Ramanuja Ayyangar 's case for the 
reason that the expression 'fact' was given a wider meaning in this case
which is the meaning now sought to be given by Mr. Gopal Subramnium. In 
Attappa Goundan's case, the connotation of the word 'fact' i.e. whether it 
can be restricted to a material object was not specifically dealt with. The 
reason for referring to these two decisions of Madras High Court rendered 
before Kotayya 's case becomes evident when we advert to the decision of this 
Court in Omprakash [(1972) 1 SCC 249] a little later. We retrace our discussion to Kotayya 's case for a while. Sir John 
Beaumont who gave the opinion of the Privy Council in that case , was the 
Judge who spoke for the Division Bench in Ganuchandra's case [AIR 1932 
Bombay 286]. In that case, the learned Judge observed"the fact discovered 
within the meaning of that Section must I think be some concrete fact to which 
the information directly relates, and in this case, such fact is the production of 
certain property which had been concealed". This is also the view taken by 
Shadi Lal, CJ who expressed the opinion of the majority in Sukhan's case 
wherein the learned Judge held that the phrase 'fact discovered' refers to a 
material and not to a mental fact. It was further elucidated by saying that "the 
fact discovered may be the stolen property, the instrument of the crime, a 
corpus of a person murdered or any other material thing; or it may be a 
material thing in relation to the place or locality where it is found". On the facts 
of the case, it was pointed out that "the fact discovered is not the 'karas' 
simplicitor but the 'karas' being found in the possession of Alladin. The 
information to be admitted must relate distinctly to the latter. Thus, both in 
Sukhan's case and Ganuchandra's case which were approved by the Privy 
Council, two questions arose for consideration (a) whether Section 27 was 
confined to physical objects and (b) as to the extent of information that was 
admissible under Section 27 . Mr. Gopal Subramanium is right in his submission 
that the only point of controversy in Kotayya 's case related to the extent of 
information that becomes admissible under Section 27 and it was with 
reference to that aspect the view taken in Sukhan and Ganuchandra were 
approved, though it was not said so in specific words. The other question as 
regards the exact meaning and import of the expression 'discovery of fact' was 
not considered. Where a physical object was discovered in consequence of the 
information furnished, which part of that information/statement becomes 
relevant was the line of inquiry before the Privy Council. No doubt, the 
illustrations given coupled with the fact that the same learned Judge took a 
particular view on this aspect in Ganuchandra's case may lead to an 
impression that the learned Judges of the Privy Council understood the 
expression 'fact' primarily in the sense of material object but, as observed 
already, the illustrations given are not exhaustive. We are of the view that Kotayya 's case is an authority for the 
proposition that 'discovery of fact' cannot be equated to the object produced or 
found. It is more than that. The discovery of fact arises by reason of the fact 
that the information given by the accused exhibited the knowledge or the 
mental awareness of the informant as to its existence at a particular place. We now turn our attention to the precedents of this Court which followed 
the track of Kotayya 's case. The ratio of the decision in Kotayya 's case 
reflected in the underlined passage extracted supra was highlighted in several 
decisions of this Court. The crux of the ratio in Kotayya 's case was explained by this Court in State of Maharashtra vs. Damu . Thomas J. observed that "the decision of 
the Privy Council in Pulukuri Kotayya vs. Emperor is the most quoted 
authority for supporting the interpretation that the "fact discovered" envisaged 
in the section embraces the place from which the object was produced, the 
knowledge of the accused as to it, but the information given must relate 
distinctly to that effect". In Mohmed Inayatullah vs. The State of 
Maharashtra [(1976) 1 SCC 828], Sarkaria J. while clarifying that the 
expression "fact discovered" in Section 27 is not restricted to a physical or 
material fact which can be perceived by the senses, and that it does include a 
mental fact, explained the meaning by giving the gist of what was laid down in Pulukuri Kotayya 's case. The learned Judge, speaking for the Bench 
observed thus: includes not only the physical object produced, but also the 
place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the 
accused as to this (see Pulukuri Kotayya v. Emperor ; Udai Bhan 
v. State of Uttar Pradesh )" The above statement of law does not run counter to the contention of Mr. 
Ram Jethmalani, that the factum of discovery combines both the physical 
object as well as the mental consciousness of the informant-accused in relation 
thereto. However, what would be the position if the physical object was not 
recovered at the instance of the accused was not discussed in any of these 
cases. There is almost a direct decision of this Court in which the connotation of 
the expression "fact" occurring in Section 27 was explored and a view similar 
to Sukhan's case was taken on the supposition that the said view was 
approved by the Privy Council in Kotayya 's case. That decision isHimachal Pradesh Administration vs. Om Prakash [(1972) 1 SCC 249]. In that 
case, on the basis of information furnished by the accused to the Police Officer 
that he had purchased the weapon from a witness (PW11) and that he would 
take the Police to him, the Police went to the Thari of PW11 where the accused 
pointed out PW11 to the Police. It was contended on behalf of the accused 
that the information that he purchased the dagger from PW11 followed by his 
leading the Police to the Thari and pointing him out was inadmissible under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. This argument was accepted. Jaganmohan 
Reddy, J. speaking for the Court observed thus: The learned Judge then referred to the decision of Madras High Court in Emperor vs. Ramanuja Ayyangar [AIR 1935 Mad 528] which held that 
the information relating to the purchase from the pointed shop and its carriage 
by a witness pointed out was admissible. Reference was then made to the law laid down in Athappa Goundan's case [AIR 1937 Mad 618] and observed 
that "this view was overruled by the Privy Council in Pulukuri Kotayya 's 
case" (supra). The passage in Sukhan's case was then approvingly referred to and the 
law was enunciated as follows: The following observations are also crucial. Then follows the statement of law: In an earlier paragraph, the Court stressed the need to exercise 
necessary caution and care so as to be assured of the credibility of the 
information furnished and the fact discovered. Confronted with this decision which affirms the law laid down in Sukhan's case (supra), and which militates against the contention advanced 
by the prosecution, the learned senior counsel Mr. Gopal Subramanium has 
questioned the correctness and the binding authority of this judgment. Firstly, 
according to him, the judgment was based on certain wrong assumptions and, 
secondly, it is pointed out that in the light of the later decisions, the 
enunciation of law in Om Prakash case does not hold good. In regard to the first point of criticism, the learned counsel Mr. Gopal 
Subramanium contended as follows: We find considerable force in this criticism. However, this criticism does 
not justify a departure from the view taken by a coordinate Bench of this 
Court, unless we categorize it as a decision rendered per incuriam. It is not 
possible to hold so. In fact, as pointed out by Mr. Ram Jethmalani, the said 
interpretation of expression 'fact' placed in Om Prakash (supra) and in some 
other decisions of the pre-independence days, is in conformity with the opinion 
of TAYLOR (quoted supra) which had apparently inspired the drafters of the Indian Evidence Act . But that is not to say that the legal position canvassed by 
Mr. Gopal Subramanium is not a reasonably possible one. However, we are 
handicapped in approaching the issue independently, unfettered by the 
decision in OM PRAKASH case. We may add that in the case of Eerabhadrappa Vs. State of 
Karnataka [(1983) 2 SCC 330] A.P. Sen, J. speaking for the Bench observed 
that the word 'fact' in Section 27 "means some concrete or material fact to 
which the information directly relates". Then his Lordship quoted the famous 
passage in Kotayya 's case. However, there was no elaboration.
The next endeavour of Mr. Gopal Subramanium was to convince us that 
the precedential force of the judgment in OM PRAKASH has been considerably 
eroded by the subsequent pronouncements. Two decisions have been cited to 
substantiate his contention. They are: Mohd. Inayatullah vs. State of 
Maharashtra ( supra) and State of Maharashtra vs. Damu (supra). We do 
not think that in any of these decisions 'discovery of fact' was held to 
comprehend a pure and simple mental fact or state of mind relating to a 
physical object dissociated from the recovery of the physical object. Let us revert back to the decision in Mohd. Inayatullah 's case. The first 
sentence in paragraph 13 of the following passage which has already been 
referred to is relied on by the learned senior counsel for the State. The first sentence read with the second sentence in the above passage would 
support the contention of Mr. Ram Jethmalani that the word 'fact' embraces 
within its fold both the physical object as well as the mental element in relation 
thereto. This ruling in Inayatullah does not support the argument of the 
State's counsel that Section 27 admits of a discovery of a plain mental fact 
irrespective of the discovery of physical fact. The conclusion reached in Inayatullah 's case is revealing. The three fold fact discovered therein was: a) 
the chemical drums, (b) the place i.e. the musafir khana wherein they lay in 
deposit and (c) the knowledge of the accused of such deposit. The accused 
took the police to the place of deposit and pointed out the drums. That portion 
of the information was found admissible under Section 27 . The rest of the 
statement namely "which I took out from the Hazibundar of first accused" was 
eschewed for the reason that it related to the past history of the drums or their 
theft by the accused. Let us see how far Damu 's case supports the contention of Mr. Gopal 
Subramanium. At the outset, we may point out that Damu 's case did not lay 
down any legal proposition beyond what was said in Kotayya 's case. The 
statement of law in Kotayya that the fact discovered "embraces the place 
from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to it 
and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact" was reiterated 
without any gloss or qualification. In that case, A3 disclosed to the 
investigating officer that "Deepak's dead body was carried by me and Guruji 
(A2) on his motor cycle and thrown in the canal". The said statement of A3 
was not found admissible in evidence by the High Court as the dead body was 
not recovered pursuant to the disclosure made. This Court however took a 
different view and held that the said statement was admissible under Section 27. It was held so in the light of the facts mentioned in paragraphs 34 & 37. 
These are the facts: when an offer was made by A3 that he would point out the 
spot, he was taken to the spot and there the I.O. found a broken piece of glass 
lying on the ground which was picked up by him. A motor cycle was recovered 
from the house of A2 and its tail lamp was found broken. The broken glass 
piece recovered from the spot matched with and fitted into the broken tail 
lamp. With these facts presented to the Court, the learned Judges after 
referring to Kotayya 's case, reached the following conclusion in paragraph 37. We need not delve further into this aspect as we are of the view that 
another ingredient of the Section, namely, that the information provable 
should relate distinctly to the fact thereby discovered is not satisfied, as we see 
later. When we refer to the circumstances against some of the accused.
There is one more point which we would like to discuss i.e. whether 
pointing out a material object by the accused furnishing the information is a 
necessary concomitant of Section 27 . We think that the answer should be in 
the negative. Though in most of the cases the person who makes the 
disclosure himself leads the Police Officer to the place where an object is 
concealed and points out the same to him, however, it is not essential that 
there should be such pointing out in order to make the information admissible 
under Section 27 . It could very well be that on the basis of information 
furnished by the accused, the Investigating Officer may go to the spot in the 
company of other witnesses and recover the material object. By doing so, the 
Investigating Officer will be discovering a fact viz., the concealment of an 
incriminating article and the knowledge of the accused furnishing the 
information about it. In other words, where the information furnished by the 
person in custody is verified by the Police Officer by going to the spot 
mentioned by the informant and finds it to be correct, that amounts to 
discovery of fact within the meaning of Section 27 . Of course, it is subject to 
the rider that the information so furnished was the immediate and proximate 
cause of discovery. If the Police Officer chooses not to take the informant-
accused to the spot, it will have no bearing on the point of admissibility under Section 27 , though it may be one of the aspects that goes into evaluation of 
that particular piece of evidence. How the clause"as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered" has 
to be understood is the next point that deserves consideration. The 
interpretation of this clause is not in doubt. Apart from Kotayya 's case, 
various decisions of this Court have elucidated and clarified the scope and 
meaning of the said portion of Section 27 . The law has been succinctly stated 
in Inayatullah 's case (supra). Sarkaria, J. analyzed the ingredients of the 
Section and explained the ambit and nuances of this particular clause in the 
following words: In the light of the legal position thus clarified, this Court excluded a part of the 
disclosure statement to which we have already adverted.
	In Bodhraj Vs. State of J & K [(2002) 8 SCC 45] this Court after 
referring to the decisions on the subject observed thus: 14. Joint disclosures
	Before parting with the discussion on the subject of confessions under Section 27 , we may briefly refer to the legal position as regards joint 
disclosures. This point assumes relevance in the context of such disclosures 
made by the first two accused viz. Afzal and Shaukat. The admissibility of 
information said to have been furnished by both of them leading to the 
discovery of the hideouts of the deceased terrorists and the recovery of a 
laptop computer, a mobile phone and cash of Rs. 10 lacs from the truck in 
which they were found at Srinagar is in issue. Learned senior counsel Mr. 
Shanti Bhushan and Mr. Sushil Kumar appearing for the accused contend, as 
was contended before the High Court, that the disclosure and pointing out 
attributed to both cannot fall within the Ken of Section 27 , whereas it is the 
contention of Mr. Gopal Subramanium that there is no taboo against the 
admission of such information as incriminating evidence against both the 
informants/accused. Some of the High Courts have taken the view that the 
wording "a person" excludes the applicability of the Section to more than one 
person. But, that is too narrow a view to be taken. Joint disclosuresto be 
more accurate, simultaneous disclosures, per se, are not inadmissible under Section 27 . 'A person accused' need not necessarily be a single person, but it 
could be plurality of accused. It seems to us that the real reason for not acting 
upon the joint disclosures by taking resort to Section 27 is the inherent 
difficulty in placing reliance on such information supposed to have emerged 
from the mouths of two or more accused at a time. In fact, joint or 
simultaneous disclosure is a myth, because two or more accused persons 
would not have uttered informatory words in a chorus. At best, one person 
would have made the statement orally and the other person would have stated 
so substantially in similar terms a few seconds or minutes later, or the second 
person would have given unequivocal nod to what has been said by the first 
person. Or, two persons in custody may be interrogated separately and 
simultaneously and both of them may furnish similar information leading to the 
discovery of fact. Or, in rare cases, both the accused may reduce the 
information into writing and hand over the written notes to the police officer at 
the same time. We do not think that such disclosures by two or more persons 
in police custody go out of the purview of Section 27 altogether. If information 
is given one after the other without any breakalmost simultaneously, and if 
such information is followed up by pointing out the material thing by both of 
them, we find no good reason to eschew such evidence from the regime of Section 27 . However, there may be practical difficulties in placing reliance on 
such evidence. It may be difficult for the witness (generally the police officer), 
to depose which accused spoke what words and in what sequence. In other 
words, the deposition in regard to the information given by the two accused 
may be exposed to criticism from the stand point of credibility and its nexus 
with discovery. Admissibility and credibility are two distinct aspects, as 
pointed out by Mr. Gopal Subramanium. Whether and to what extent such a 
simultaneous disclosure could be relied upon by the Court is really a matter of 
evaluation of evidence. With these prefaratory remarks, we have to refer to 
two decisions of this Court which are relied upon by the learned defence 
counsel. In Mohd. Abdul Hafeez vs. State of Andhra Pradesh [AIR 1983 SC 
367], the prosecution sought to rely on the evidence that the appellant along 
with the other two accused gave information to the IO that the ring (MO 1) 
was sold to the jewellerPW3 in whose possession the ring was. PW3 deposed 
that four accused persons whom he identified in the Court came to his shop 
and they sold the ring for Rs.325/- and some days later, the Police Inspector 
accompanied by accused 1, 2 and 3 came to his shop and the said accused 
asked PW3 to produce the ring which they had sold. Then, he took out the 
ring from the showcase and it was seized by the Police Inspector. The 
difficulty in accepting such evidence was projected in the following words by 
D.A. Desai, J. speaking for the Court: There is nothing in this judgment which suggests that simultaneous 
disclosures by more than one accused do not at all enter into the arena of Section 27 , as a proposition of law. Another case which needs to be noticed is the case of Ramkishan vs. 
Bombay State [AIR 1955 SC 104]. The admissibility or otherwise of joint 
disclosures did not directly come up for consideration in that case . However, 
while distinguishing the case of Gokuldas Dwarkadas decided by Bombay 
High Court, a passing observation was made that in the said case the High 
Court "had rightly held that a joint statement by more than one accused was 
not contemplated by Section 27 ". We cannot understand this observation as 
laying down the law that information almost simultaneously furnished by two 
accused in regard to a fact discovered cannot be received in evidence under Section 27 . It may be relevant to mention that in the case of Lachhman 
Singh vs. The State [1952 SCR 839] this Court expressed certain 
reservations on the correctness of the view taken by some of the High Courts 
discountenancing the joint disclosures. 15. CALL RECORDSPROOF AND AUTHENTICITY
	It is contended by Mr. Shanti Bhushan, appearing for the accused 
Shaukat that the call records relating to the cellular phone No. 919811573506 
said to have been used by Shaukat have not been proved as per the 
requirements of law and their genuineness is in doubt. The call records relating 
to the other mobile numbers related to Gilani and Afzal are also subjected to 
the same criticism. It is the contention of the learned counsel that in the 
absence of a certificate issued under sub-Section (2) of Section 65B of the 
Evidence Act with the particulars enumerated in clauses (a) to (e), the 
information contained in the electronic record cannot be adduced in evidence 
and in any case in the absence of examination of a competent witness 
acquainted with the functioning of the computers during the relevant time and 
the manner in which the printouts were taken, even secondary evidence under Section 63 is not admissible. Two witnesses were examined to prove the printouts of the computerized 
record furnished by the cellular service providers namely AIRTEL (Bharti 
Cellular Limited) and ESSAR Cellphone. The call details of the mobile No. 
9811573506 (which was seized from Shaukat's house) are contained in 
Exhibits 36/1 to 36/2. The covering letters signed by the Nodal Officer of 
Sterling Cellular Limited are Ext.P36/6 and P36/7 bearing the dates 13th & 18th 
December respectively. The call details of mobile No. 9811489429 attributed to 
Afzal are contained in Ext.P36/3 and the covering letter addressed to the 
Inspector (Special Cell)PW66 signed by the Nodal Officer is Ext.36/5. The call 
details of 9810081228 belonging to the subscriber SAR Gilani are contained in 
Exts. 35/8. The above two phones were obtained on cash card basis. The 
covering letter pertaining thereto and certain other mobile numbers was signed 
by the Security Manager of Bharti Cellular Limited. The call details relating to 
another cellphone number 9810693456 pertaining to Mohammed is Ext.35/5. 
These documents i.e. Ext.35 series were filed by PW35 who is the person that 
signed the covering letter dated 17th December bearing Ext.35/1. PW35 
deposed that "all the call details are computerized sheets obtained from the 
computer". He clarified that "the switch which is maintained in the computer in 
respect of each telephone receives the signal of the telephone number, called 
or received and serves them to the Server and it is the Server which keeps the 
record of the calls made or received. In case where call is made and the 
receiver does not pick up the phone, the server which makes a loop of the 
route would not register it". As far as PW36 is concerned, he identified the 
signatures of the General Manager of his Company who signed Ext.P36 series. 
He testified to the fact that the call details of the particular telephone numbers 
were contained in the relevant exhibits produced by him. It is significant to 
note that no suggestion was put to these two witnesses touching the 
authenticity of the call records or the possible tampering with the entries, 
although the arguments have proceeded on the lines that there could have 
been fabrication. In support of such argument, the duplication of entries in 
Exts.36/2 and 36/3 and that there was some discrepancy relating to the Cell 
I.D. and IMEI number of the handset at certain places was pointed out. The 
factum of presence of duplicate entries was elicited by the counsel appearing 
for Afsan Guru from PW36 when PW36 was in the witness box. The evidence of 
DW10a technical expert, was only to the effect that it was possible to clone a 
SIM by means of a SIM Programmer which to his knowledge, was not available 
in Delhi or elsewhere. His evidence was only of a general nature envisaging a 
theoretical possibility and not with reference to specific instances. 
According to Section 63 , secondary evidence means and includes, among 
other things, "copies made from the original by mechanical processes which in 
themselves ensure the accuracy of the copy, and copies compared with such 
copies". Section 65 enables secondary evidence of the contents of a document 
to be adduced if the original is of such a nature as not to be easily movable. It 
is not in dispute that the information contained in the call records is stored in 
huge servers which cannot be easily moved and produced in the Court. That is 
what the High Court has also observed at para 276. Hence, printouts taken 
from the computers/servers by mechanical process and certified by a 
responsible official of the service providing Company can be led into evidence 
through a witness who can identify the signatures of the certifying officer or 
otherwise speak to the facts based on his personal knowledge. Irrespective of 
the compliance of the requirements of Section 65B which is a provision dealing 
with admissibility of electronic records, there is no bar to adducing secondary 
evidence under the other provisions of the Evidence Act , namely Sections 63 & 65. It may be that the certificate containing the details in sub-Section (4) of 
Section 65B is not filed in the instant case, but that does not mean that 
secondary evidence cannot be given even if the law permits such evidence to 
be given in the circumstances mentioned in the relevant provisions, namely Sections 63 & 65 . The learned senior counsel Mr. Shanti Bhushan then contended that the 
witnesses examined were not technical persons acquainted with the functioning 
of the computers, nor they do have personal knowledge of the details stored in 
the servers of the computers. We do not find substance in this argument. Both 
the witnesses were responsible officials of the concerned Companies who 
deposed to the fact that they were the printouts obtained from the computer 
records. In fact the evidence of PW35 shows that he is fairly familiar with the 
computer system and its output. If there was some questioning vis-`-vis 
specific details or specific suggestion of fabrication of printouts, it would have 
been obligatory on the part of the prosecution to call a technical expert directly 
in the know of things. The following observations of House of Lords in the case 
of R Vs. Shepard [1993 AC 380] are quite apposite: Such a view was expressed even in the face of a more stringent provision in Section 69 of the Police and Criminal Act, 1984 in U.K. casting a positive 
obligation on the part of the prosecution to lead evidence in respect of proof of 
the computer record. We agree with the submission of Mr. Gopal Subramanium 
that the burden of prosecution under the Indian Law cannot be said to be 
higher than what was laid down in R Vs. Shepard (supra). Although necessary suggestions were not put forward to the witnesses so 
as to discredit the correctness/genuineness of the call records produced, we 
would prefer to examine the points made out by the learned counsel for the 
accused independently. As already noted, one such contention was about the 
presence of duplicate entries in Ext.36/2 and 36/3. We feel that an innocuous 
error in the computer recording is being magnified to discredit the entire 
document containing the details without any warrant. As explained by the 
learned counsel for the State, the computer, at the first instance, instead of 
recording the IMEI number of the mobile instrument, had recorded the IMEI 
and cell ID (location) of the person calling/called by the subscriber. The 
computer rectified this obvious error immediately and modified the record to 
show the correct details viz., the IMEI and the cell I.D. of the subscriber only. 
The document is self-explanatory of the error. A perusal of both the call 
records with reference to the call at 11:19:14 hours exchanged between 
9811489429 (Shaukat's) and 9811573506 (Afzal's) shows that the said call 
was recorded twice in the call records. The fact that the same call has been 
recorded twice in the call records of the calling and called party simultaneously 
demonstrates beyond doubt that the correctness or genuineness of the call is 
beyond doubt. Further, on a comparative perusal of the two call records, the 
details of Cell I.D. and IMEI of the two numbers are also recorded. Thus, as 
rightly pointed out by the counsel for the State Mr. Gopal Subramanium, the 
same call has been recorded two times, first with the cell ID and IMEI number 
of the calling number (9811489429). The same explanation holds good for the 
call at 11:32:40 hours. Far from supporting the contention of the defence, the 
above facts, evident from the perusal of the call records, would clearly show 
that the system was working satisfactorily and it promptly checked and 
rectified the mistake that occurred. As already noticed, it was not suggested 
nor could it be suggested that there was any manipulation or material 
deficiency in the computer on account of these two errors. Above all, the 
printouts pertaining to the call details exhibited by the prosecution are of such 
regularity and continuity that it would be legitimate to draw a presumption that 
the system was functional and the output was produced by the computer in 
regular use, whether this fact was specifically deposed to by the witness or 
not. We are therefore of the view that the call records are admissible and 
reliable and rightly made use of by the prosecution. 16. Interception of Phone Calls
	The legality and admissibility of intercepted telephone calls arises in the 
context of telephone conversation between Shaukat and his wife Afsan Guru on 
14th December at 20:09 hrs and the conversation between Gilani and his 
brother Shah Faizal on the same day at 12:22 hrs. Interception of 
communication is provided for by the provisions contained in Chapter V of the 
POTO/POTA which contains Sections 36 to 48 . The proviso to Section 45 lays 
down the pre-requisite conditions for admitting the evidence collected against 
the accused through the interception of wire, electronic or oral communication. 
Chapter V governing the procedure for interception and admission of the 
intercepted communications pre-supposes that there is an investigation of a 
terrorists act under the POTA has been set in motion. It is not in dispute that 
the procedural requirements of Chapter V have not been complied with when 
such interceptions took place on 14th December, 2001. But, as already 
noticed, on the crucial date on which interception took place (i.e. 14th 
December), no offence under POTA was included  whether in the FIR or in any 
other contemporaneous documents. We have already held that the non-
inclusion of POTO offences even at the threshold of investigation cannot be 
legally faulted and that such non-inclusion was not deliberate. The 
admissibility or the evidentiary status of the two intercepted conversations 
should, therefore, be judged de hors the provisions of POTO/POTA. On the 
relevant day, the interception of messages was governed by Section 5(2) of 
the Indian Telegraph Act read with Rule 419-A of the Indian Telegraph Rules. 
The substantive power of interception by the Government or the authorized 
officer is conferred by Section 5 . The modalities and procedure for interception 
is governed by the said Rules. It is contended by the learned senior counsel 
appearing for the two accused  Shaukat and Gilani, that even the Rule  
419A, has not been complied with in the instant case, and, therefore, the tape-
recorded conversation obtained by such interception cannot be utilized by the 
prosecution to incriminate the said accused. It is the contention of learned 
counsel for the State, Mr. Gopal Subramanium, that there was substantial 
compliance with Rule 419A and, in any case, even if the interception did not 
take place in strict conformity with the Rule, that does not affect the 
admissibility of the communications so recorded. In other words, his 
submission is that the illegality or irregularity in interception does not affect its 
admissibility in evidence there being no specific embargo against the 
admissibility in the Telegraph Act or in the Rules. Irrespective of the merit in 
the first contention of Mr. Gopal Subramanium, we find force in the alternative 
contention advanced by him. In regard to the first aspect, two infirmities are pointed out in the 
relevant orders authorizing and confirming the interception of specified 
telephone numbers. It is not shown by the prosecution that the Joint Director, 
Intelligence Bureau who authorized the interception, holds the rank of Joint 
Secretary to the Government of India. Secondly, the confirmation orders 
passed by the Home Secretary (contained in volume 7 of lower Court record, 
Page 447 etc.,) would indicate that the confirmation was prospective. We are 
distressed to note that the confirmation orders should be passed by a senior 
officer of the Government of India in such a careless manner, that too, in an 
important case of this nature. However, these deficiencies or inadequacies do 
not, in our view, preclude the admission of intercepted telephonic 
communication in evidence. It is to be noted that unlike the proviso to Section 
45 of POTA, Section 5(2) of the Telegraph Act or Rule 419A does not deal with 
any rule of evidence. The non-compliance or inadequate compliance with the 
provisions of the Telegraph Act does not per se affect the admissibility. The 
legal position regarding the question of admissibility of the tape recorded 
conversation illegally collected or obtained is no longer res integra in view of 
the decision of this Court in R.M. Malkani Vs. State of Maharashtra [(1973) 1 SCC 471]. In that case, the Court clarified that a contemporaneous 
tape record of a relevant conversation is a relevant fact and is admissible as 
res gestae under Section 7 of the Evidence Act. Adverting to the argument that Section 25 of the Indian Telegraph Act was contravened the learned Judges 
held that there was no violation. At the same time, the question of 
admissibility of evidence illegally obtained was discussed. The law was laid 
down as follows: We may also refer to the decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in 
Pooranmal Vs. Director of Inspection [1974 2 SCR 704] in which the 
principle stated by the Privy Council in Kurma's case was approvingly referred 
to while testing the evidentiary status of illegally obtained evidence. Another 
decision in which the same approach was adopted is a recent judgment in State Vs. NMT Joy Immaculate [(2004) 5 SCC 729]. It may be mentioned 
that Pooranmal's case was distinguished by this Court in Ali Musfata vs. 
State of Kerala [(1994) 6 SCC 569] which is a case arising under NDPS Act on the ground that contraband material seized as a result of illegal search and 
seizure could by itself be treated as evidence of possession of the contraband 
which is the gist of the offence under the said Act. In the instant case, the tape 
recorded conversation which has been duly proved and conforms to the 
requirements laid down by this Court in Ramsingh Vs. Ramsingh [(1985) 
Suppl. SCC 611] can be pressed into service against the concerned accused 
in the joint trial for the offences under the Indian Penal Code as well as POTA. 
Such evidence cannot be shut out by applying the embargo contained in Section 45 when on the date of interception, the procedure under Chapter V of 
POTA was not required to be complied with. On the relevant date POTA was 
not in the picture and the investigation did not specifically relate to the 
offences under POTA. The question of applying the proviso to Section 45 of 
POTA does not, therefore, arise as the proviso applies only in the event of the 
communications being legally required to be intercepted under the provisions 
of POTA. The proviso to Section 45 cannot be so read as to exclude such 
material in relation to POTA offences if it is otherwise admissible under the 
general law of evidence. 17. Procedural safeguards in POTA and their impact on confessions
	
	As already noticed, POTA has absorbed into it the guidelines spelt out in Kartar Singh 's case and D.K.Basus 's case in order to impart an element of 
fairness and reasonableness into the stringent provisions of POTA in tune with 
the philosophy of Article 21 and allied constitutional provisions. These salutary 
safeguards are contained in Section 32 and Section 52 of POTA. The 
peremptory prescriptions embodied in Section 32 of POTA are: (a) The police officer shall warn the accused that he is not bound 
to make the confession and if he does so, it may be used against 
him (vide sub-section (2). (b) The confession shall be recorded in 
an atmosphere free from threat or inducement and shall be in the 
same language in which the person makes it (vide sub-section (3). (c) The person from whom a confession has been recorded under 
sub-section (1) shall be produced before the Chief Metropolitan 
Magistrate or Chief Judicial Magistrate along with the original 
statement of confession, within forty-eight hours (vide sub-section 
(4). (d) The CMM/CJM shall record the statement, if any, made by 
the person so produced and get his signature and if there is any 
complaint of torture, such person shall be directed to be produced 
for medical examination. After recording the statement and after 
medical examination, if necessary, he shall be sent to judicial 
custody (vide sub-section (5). The mandate of sub- sections 2 & 3 is not something new. Almost similar 
prescriptions were there under TADA also. In fact, the fulfillment of such 
mandate is inherent in the process of recording a confession by a statutory 
authority. What is necessarily implicit is, perhaps, made explicit. But the 
notable safeguards which were lacking in TADA are to be found in sub- sections 
4 & 5 . The lofty purpose behind the mandate that the maker of confession shall 
be sent to judicial custody by the CJM before whom he is produced is to 
provide an atmosphere in which he would feel free to make a complaint against 
the police, if he so wishes. The feeling that he will be free from the shackles of 
police custody after production in the Court will minimize, if not remove, the 
fear psychosis by which he may be gripped. The various safeguards enshrined 
in Section 32 are meant to be strictly observed as they relate to personal 
liberty of an individual. However, we add a caveat here. The strict enforcement 
of the provision as to judicial remand and the invalidation of confession merely 
on the ground of its non-compliance may present some practical difficulties at 
times. Situations may arise that even after the confession is made by a person 
in custody, police custody may still be required for the purpose of further 
investigation. Sending a person to judicial custody at that stage may retard the 
investigation. Sometimes, the further steps to be taken by the investigator 
with the help of the accused may brook no delay. An attempt shall however be 
made to harmonize this provision in Section 32(5) with the powers of 
investigation available to the police. At the same time, it needs to be 
emphasized that the obligation to send the confession maker to judicial 
custody cannot be lightly disregarded. The police custody cannot be given on 
mere asking by the police. It shall be remembered that sending a person who 
has made the confession to judicial custody after he is produced before the 
CJM is the normal rule and this procedural safeguard should be given its due 
primacy. The CJM should be satisfied that it is absolutely necessary that the 
confession maker shall be restored to police custody for any special reason. 
Such a course of sending him back to police custody could only be done in 
exceptional cases after due application of mind. Most often, sending such 
person to judicial custody in compliance with Section 32(5) soon after the 
proceedings are recorded by the CJM subject to the consideration of the 
application by the police after a few days may not make material difference for 
further investigation. The CJM has a duty to consider whether the application is 
only a ruse to get back the person concerned to police custody in case he 
disputes the confession or it is an application made bona fide in view of the 
need and urgency involved. We are therefore of the view that the non-
compliance with the judicial custody requirement does not per se vitiate the 
confession, though its non-compliance should be one of the important factors 
that must be borne in mind in testing the confession. These provisions of Section 32 , which are conceived in the interest of the 
accused, will go a long way to screen and exclude confessions, which appear to 
be involuntary. The requirements and safeguards laid down in sub- sections 2 to 5 are an integral part of the scheme providing for admissibility of confession 
made to the police officer. The breach of any one of these requirements would 
have a vital bearing on the admissibility and evidentiary value of the 
confession recorded under Section 32(1) and may even inflict a fatal blow on 
such confession. We have another set of procedural safeguards laid down in Section 52 of POTA which are modelled on the guidelines envisaged by D.K. 
Basu (supra). Section 52 runs as under: Sub- sections 2 & 4 as well as sub-Section (3) stem from the guarantees 
enshrined in Articles 21 and 22(1) of the Constitution. Article 22(1) enjoins 
that no person who is arrested shall be detained in custody without being 
informed, as soon as may be, of the grounds for such arrest nor shall he be 
denied the right to consult, and to be defended by, a legal practitioner of his 
choice. They are also meant to effectuate the commandment of Article 20(3) that no person accused of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness 
against himself. The breadth and depth of the principle against self-incrimination 
imbedded in Article 20(3) was unravelled by a three Judge Bench speaking 
through Krishna Iyer, J. in Nandini Satpathy Vs. P.L. Dani [(1978) 2 SCC 
424]. It was pointed out by the learned Judge that the area covered by Article 
20(3) and Section 161(2) of Cr.P.C. is substantially the same. " Section 161(2) of the Cr.P.C. is a parliamentary gloss on the constitutional clause"it was 
observed. This Court rejected the contention advanced on behalf of the State 
that the two provisions, namely, Article 20(3) and Section 161 , did not operate 
at the anterior stages before the case came to Court and the incriminating 
utterance of the accused, previously recorded, was attempted to be 
introduced. Noting that the landmark decision in Miranda Vs. Arizona [1966, 
384 US 436] did extend the embargo to police investigation also, the Court 
observed that there was no warrant to truncate the constitutional protection 
underlying Article 20(3). It was held that even the investigation at the police 
level is embraced by Article 20(3) and this is what precisely Section 161(2) means. The interpretation so placed on Article 20(3) and Section 161 , in the 
words of the learned Judge, "brings us nearer to the Miranda mantle of 
exclusion which extends the right against self-incrimination, to police 
examination and custodial interrogation and takes in suspects as much as 
regular accused persons". The observations in M.P. Sharma Vs. Satish 
Chandra [AIR 1954 SC 300] to the effect that "the protection afforded to an 
accused insofar as it is related to the phrase 'to be a witness' is not merely in 
respect of testimonial compulsion in the Court room but may well extend to 
compelled testimony previously obtained from him" were cited with approval.
	In the same Judgment, we find lucid exposition of the width and content 
of Article 22(1). Krishna Iyer, J. observed

"The spirit and sense of Article 22(1) is that it is fundamental to 
the rule of law that the services of a lawyer shall be available for 
consultation to any accused person under circumstances of near-
custodial interrogation. Moreover, the observance of the right 
against self-incrimination is best promoted by conceding to the 
accused the right to consult a legal practitioner of his choice." Article 22(1) was viewed to be complementary to Article 20(3). It was 
observed"we think that Article 20(3) and Article 22(1) may, in a way, be 
telescoped by making it prudent for the police to permit the advocate of the 
accused, if there be one to be present at the time he is examined". It was 
pointed out that lawyer's presence, in the context of Article 20(3) , "is an 
assurance of awareness and observance of the right to silence". It was then 
clarified"we do not lay down that the police must secure the services of a 
lawyerbut all that we mean is that if an accused person expresses the wish 
to have his lawyer by his side when his examination goes on, this facility shall 
not be denied", without being exposed to the charge of securing involuntary 
self-incrimination. It was also clarified that the police need not wait more than 
for a reasonable while for an advocate's arrival. But they must invariably 
warnand record that fact about the right to silence. It was aptly and 
graphically said" Article 20(3) is not a paper tiger but a provision to police the 
police and to silence coerced crimination". Based on the observations in Nadini Satpathy 's case, it is possible to agree that the constitutional 
guarantee under Article 22(1) only implies that the suspect in the police 
custody shall not be denied the right to meet and consult his lawyer even at 
the stage of interrogation. In other words, if he wishes to have the presence of 
the lawyer, he shall not be denied that opportunity. Perhaps, Nandini 
Satpathy does not go so far as Miranda in establishing access to lawyer at 
interrogation stage. But, Section 52(2) of POTA makes up this deficiency. It 
goes a step further and casts an imperative on the police officer to inform the 
person arrested of his right to consult a legal practitioner, soon after he is 
brought to the police station. Thus, the police officer is bound to apprise the 
arrested person of his right to consult the lawyer. To that extent, Section 
52(2) affords an additional safeguard to the person in custody. Section 52(2) is founded on the MIRANDA rule. A discussion on the raison d'etre and the desirability of the provision 
enacted in Section 52(1) read with Section 52(4) can best be understood by 
referring to the seminal case of Miranda Vs. Arizona which is an oft-quoted 
decision. The privilege against the self-incrimination was expressly protected 
by the V amendment of the U.S. Constitution. It provides, as Article 20(3) of 
Indian Constitution provides, that no person."shall be compelled in any 
criminal case to be a witness against himself". Such privilege lies at the heart 
of the concept of a fair procedure and such norm is now recognized to be an 
international standard. The V amendment also guarantees a right akin to Article 21 of our Constitution by enjoining that no person shall be deprived of 
life, liberty or property without due process of law. Another notable safeguard 
to the accused is to be found in the VI amendment which inter alia provides 
that in a criminal prosecution, the accused shall have the assistance of counsel 
for his defence. The safeguard is substantially similar to Article 22(1) of the 
Indian Constitution. It is in the context of exposition of these constitutional 
provisions that the U.S. Supreme Court handed down the significant ruling in 
Miranda. The core principles underscored in Miranda have withstood the 
judicial scrutiny in the subsequent rulings, though the straight jacketed 
warning procedures and the effect of technical non-compliance of Miranda 
procedures evoked critical comments and set a process of debate. Miranda is 
often referred to as "the marriage of the V&VI amendments" and it is seen as 
the natural outgrowth of V Amendment guarantees, spread over a century 
or more. Prior to Miranda ruling, confessions were only required to meet the 
'voluntariness' test. In the post Miranda era, police have to prove that they 
read specific Miranda warnings and obtained an 'intelligent waiver'. The 
purpose of Miranda it is said, is to neutralize the distinct psychological 
disadvantage that suspects are under when dealing with police. The 
proposition laid down in the majority opinion in Miranda case was that "the 
prosecution may not use statements, whether exculpatory or inculpatory, 
stemming from custodial interrogation of the defendant unless it demonstrates 
the use of procedural safeguards effective to secure the privilege against self-
incrimination". To ensure tht the exercise of the right will be scrupulously 
honoured, the Court laid down the following measures: On the content of the right to consult a counsel not merely at the stage 
of trial, but also at the interrogation stage, Chief Justice Warren observed 
thus: At the same time it was clarified

"This does not mean, as some have suggested, that each police 
station must have a "station house lawyer" present at all times to 
advise prisoners. It does mean, however, that if police propose to 
interrogate a person, they must make known to him that he is 
entitled to a lawyer and that if he cannot afford one, a lawyer will 
be provided for him prior to any interrogation." It was aptly pointed out that "the modern practice of 'in custody 
interrogation' is psychologically rather than physically oriented".
	Now the question remains as to what is the effect of non-compliance of 
the obligations cast on the police officer by sub-Sections (2) to (4) of Section 52. This question becomes relevant as we find the non observance of the 
requirements of sub-Section (2) read with sub-Section (4) as well as sub-
Section (3) or one of them in the instant cases. Does it have a bearing on the 
voluntariness and admissibility of the confession recorded under Section 
32(1) ? Should these safeguards envisaged in Section 52(1) be telescoped into Section 32 ? These are the questions which arise. In our considered view, the violation of procedural safeguards under Section 52 does not stand on the same footing as the violation of the 
requirements of sub-Sections (2) to (5) of Section 32 . As already observed, 
sub-Sections (2) to (5) of Section 32 have an integral and inseparable 
connection with the confession recorded under Section 32(1) . They are 
designed to be checks against involuntary confessions and to provide an 
immediate remedy to the person making the confession to air his grievance 
before a judicial authority. These safeguards are, so to say, woven into the 
fabric of Section 32 itself and their observance is so vital that the breach 
thereof will normally result in eschewing the confession from consideration, 
subject to what we have said about the judicial custody. The prescriptions 
under Section 52 , especially those affording an opportunity to have the 
presence of the legal practitioner, are no doubt supplemental safeguards as 
they will promote the guarantee against self-incrimination even at the stage of 
interrogation; but these requirements laid down in Section 52 cannot be 
projected into Section 32 so as to read all of them as constituting a code of 
safeguards of the same magnitude. To hold that the violation of each one of 
the safeguards envisaged by Section 52 would lead to automatic invalidation of 
confession would not be in consonance with the inherent nature and scheme of 
the respective provisions. However, we would like to make it clear that the 
denial of the safeguards under sub-Sections (2) to (4) of Section 52 will be 
one of the relevant factors that would weigh with the Court to act upon or 
discard the confession. To this extent they play a role vis-`-vis the confessions 
recorded under Section 32 , but they are not as clinching as the provisions 
contained in sub-Sections (2) to (5) of Section 32 . 18. CASE OF MOHD. AFZAL (A1) (i) 	Legal Assistance : Coming to the next phase of development, on 1.7.2002, Ms. Seema 
Gulati filed an application praying for her discharge from the case citing a 
curious reason that she had been engaged by another accused Gilani to appear 
on his behalf. An order was passed on 2.7.2002 releasing her from the case. 
Mr. Neeraj Bansal who filed Vakalat along with Ms. Seema Gulati was then 
nominated as amicus to defend Afzal and the brief was handed over to him. NO 
objection was raised by Afzal on that occasion. Inspection of record by the 
counsel was allowed on 3.7.2002 and on subsequent occasions. On 8.7.2002, 
the accused Afzal filed a petition stating therein that he was not satisfied with 
the counsel appointed by the Court and that he needed the services of a senior 
advocate. He named four advocates in the petition and requested the Court to 
appoint one of them. On 12th July, the trial Judge recorded that the counsel 
named by the accused were not willing to take up the case. Mr. Neeraj Bansal 
was therefore continued especially in view of the fact that he had experience of 
dealing with TADA cases. Afzal was also given the opportunity to cross-
examine the prosecution witnesses in addition to the amicus. In fact, he did 
avail of that opportunity now and then. On several occasions, there was 
common cross-examination on behalf of all the accused. No indicia of apparent 
prejudice, is discernible from the manner in which the case was defended. 
Though the objection that he was not satisfied with his counsel was reiterated 
on 12.7.02 after PW15 was cross examined, we do not think that the Court 
should dislodge the counsel and go on searching for some other counsel to the 
liking of the accused. The right to legal aid cannot be taken thus far. It is not 
demonstrated before us as to how the case was mishandled by the advocate 
appointed as amicus except pointing out stray instances pertaining to cross-
examination of one or two witnesses. The very decision relied upon by the 
learned counsel for the appellant, namely, Strickland Vs. Washington [466 
US 668] makes it clear that judicial scrutiny of a counsel's performance must 
be careful, deferential and circumspect as the ground of ineffective assistance 
could be easily raised after an adverse verdict at the trial. It was observed 
therein: The learned senior counsel for the State Mr. Gopal Subramnium has 
furnished a table indicating the cross examination of material prosecution 
witnesses by the counsel Mr. Neeraj Bansal as Annexure 16 to the written 
submissions. Taking an overall view of the assistance given by the Court and 
the performance of the counsel, it cannot be said that the accused was denied 
the facility of effective defence. (ii)	Evidence against Mohd. Afzal
Now let us analyze the evidence against Afzal that is sought to be relied 
upon by the prosecution. It consists of confessional statement recorded by the 
DCP, Special CellPW60 and the circumstantial evidence. (iii)	Confession
First, we shall advert to the confession. It is in the evidence of PW80
Rajbir Singh (ACP), Special Cell that he took over investigation on 19.12.2001 
on which date the offences under POTA were added. Then, he further 
interrogated the accused Afzal on 20.12.2001 and recorded his supplementary 
disclosure statementExt. PW64/3. According to him, the three accused
Afzal, Shaukat and Gilani, expressed their desire to make confessional 
statements before the Deputy Commissioner of Police. Accordingly, he apprised 
the DCP, Special Cell (PW60) of this fact. PW60 directed him to produce the 
accused persons at Gazetted Officers' Mess, Alipur Road, Delhi on the next 
day. First, PW80 produced Gilani before PW60 at 11.30 a.m. but he declined to 
give the confessional statement. Then he produced Mohd. Afzal before the 
DCP, Special Cell in the evening. The recording of the confession by PW60
DCP started at 7.10 pm on 21.12.2001 and ended at 10.45 pm. It is recorded 
in the preamble of the confession that he had asked ACP Rajbir Singh to leave 
the room and after that he warned and explained to the accused that he was 
not bound to make the confessional statement and that if he did so, it can be 
used against him as evidence. Thereupon, it was recorded that Afzal was not 
under any duress and he was ready to give the confessional statement. The 
signature of Afzal is found beneath that endorsement. There is a recital to the 
effect that PW60 was satisfied that the accused was not under duress or 
pressure. PW60 also deposed that the accused were 'comfortable' in English 
language and he kept on writing as they narrated their versions. He (PW60) 
denied the suggestion that Afzal was not produced before him and he did not 
express his willingness to make confession. The DCP(PW60) handed over a 
sealed envelope containing the confessional statements to PW80the I.O. who 
produced the accused Afzal and two others before the Addl. Chief Metropolitan 
Magistrate (ACMM), Delhi on 22.12.2001 together with an applicationExt. 
PW63/1. The ACMM was examined as PW63. The ACMM stated that he opened 
the sealed envelope containing Exts.PW60/9 & PW60/6 which are the 
confessional statements of Afzal and Shaukat, and Ext.PW60/3 which is the 
statement of Gilani and perused them. The ACMM then recorded the 
statements of the accused persons. The two accused Afzal and Shaukat 
confirmed having made the confessional statement without any threat or 
pressure. The proceedings drawn by him is Ext.PW63/2. The accused signed 
the statements confirming the confession made to the DCP. The statement of 
Mohd. Afzal and his signature are marked as Exts.PW63/5 & 63/6. PW63 stated 
that he made enquiries from the accused persons and none of them made any 
complaint of use of force or threat at the time of recording confession. He also 
deposed that he gave a warning that they were not bound to make the 
statement before him. A suggestion that Mohd. Afzal did not appear before him 
nor did he make the statement, was denied. The ACMM, after drawing up the 
proceedings, sent the accused Afzal to police custody for a week at the 
instance of I.O.PW80 for the reason that he was required to be taken to 
certain places in Kashmir for further investigation. We shall now give the gist of the confessional statement of Mohd. Afzal 
which is Ext.PW60/9 read with Ext.PW60/7. First, he mentions about joining 
JKLF, a militant outfit during the year 1989-90, receiving training in Pak 
Occupied Kashmir in insurgent activities and coming back to India with arms, 
his arrival in Delhi with his cousin Shaukat for studies, coming into contact with 
SAR GilaniA3 while studying in Delhi University, surrendering before BSF in 
1993 on the advice of his family members, returning back to his native place 
Sopore and doing commission agency business, coming into contact with one 
Tariq of Anantanag at that time, who motivated him to join 'Jihad' for liberation 
of Kashmir and assured him of financial assistance, Tariq introducing him to 
one Ghazibaba (proclaimed offender) in Kashmir who further exhorted him to 
join the movement and apprised him of the mission to carry out attacks on 
important institutions in India like Parliament and Embassies and asked him to 
find a safe hideout for the 'Fidayeens' in Delhi. During that meeting, he was introduced to Mohammed and Haider, Pak 
nationals and militants. In the month of October, 2001, he rang up to Shaukat 
and asked him to rent out accommodation for himself and Mohammed. In the 
first week of November, he and Mohammed came to Delhi. Mohammed 
brought with him a laptop and Rs.50,000. Shaukat took them to the pre-
arranged accommodation in Christian Colony Boys' Hostel. He revealed to 
Shaukat that Mohammed was a Pak militant of Jaish-E-Mohammed and came 
to Delhi to carry out a Fidayen attack. After a week, he arranged another safe 
hideout at A-97, Gandhi Vihar. Mohammed collected money through 'hawala' 
and gave Rs.5 lakhs to be handed over to Tariq in Srinagar. Accordingly, he 
went to Srinagar and gave the money to Tariq. At the instance of Tariq, he 
brought two other militants Raja and Hyder to Delhi and both were 
accommodated at the hideout in Gandhi Vihar. In order to complete the task 
assigned by Ghazibaba, he along with Mohammed went to the shops in old 
Delhi area and purchased 60 KGs of Ammonium Nitrate, 10 KGs of Aluminum 
powder, 5 KGs of Sulpher and other items in order to facilitate preparation of 
explosives by Mohammed. After a week or so, Mohammed gave another 5 
lakhs of rupees to be handed over to Tariq. Tariq asked him to take along with 
him two other militants, Rana and Hamza. They were carrying two holdalls 
which contained rifles with loaded magazines, grenade launcher, pistols, hand 
grenades and shells, electric detonators and other explosives. They also stayed 
in Gandhi Nagar hideout initially. After reaching Delhi, he arranged for another 
accommodation at 281, Indira Vihar. Mohammed purchased mobile phones and 
SIM cards from the markets and received directions from Ghazibaba from a 
satellite phone. He used to meet Shaukat and Gilani and motivate them for 
Jihad. Shaukat provided his motorcycle for conducting 'recce'. Meetings were 
also arranged in the house of Shaukat for deciding future course of action. In 
those meetings, Gilani and Shaukat's wife Afsan also used to be present. At the 
meetings, various targets such as Delhi Assembly, Parliament, UK & US 
Embassy and Airport were discussed. Then, after conducting survey of all the 
targets, Mohammed informed Ghazibaba that they should strike at the Indian 
Parliament. A final meeting was held in the house of Shaukat in which all were 
present and plans for attack on Parliament House were finalized. As per the 
plan, he along with Mohammed went to Karolbagh and bought a second hand 
Ambassador car on 11th December. They also purchased a magnetic VIP red 
light. Mohammed got prepared a sticker of MHA and identity cards through his 
laptop. Mohammed and other militants prepared IEDs with the use of 
chemicals. This IED was fitted in the car for causing explosion.
	On the night of 12.12.2001, he along with Shaukat and Gilani went to 
the hideout in Gandhi Vihar, where all the five Pak militants were present. 
Mohammed gave him the laptop and Rs.10 lakhs. He asked him to reach the 
laptop to Ghazibaba and also told him that Rs.10 lakhs was meant for him and 
his friends Shaukat and Gilani. Mohammed told him that they were going to 
conduct a Fidayeen attack on Parliament House on 13.12.2001. They were in 
touch with each other on mobile phones. On 13.12.2001, he received a call on 
his mobile No. 98114-89429 from Mohammed's phone No. 98106-93456. He 
was asked to watch the TV and inform him about the presence of various 
VVIPs in Parliament House. As there was no electricity, he could not watch TV 
and therefore he contacted Shaukat and asked him to watch TV and convey 
the information. Then Mohammed called him (Afzal) and told him that he was 
going ahead with the attack on the Parliament. He then called Shaukat and 
told him that the mission had started. Shaukat then came and met him at 
Azadpur mandi and both went to Gilani's house and gave him Rs.2 lakhs. Gilani 
in turn asked him to give the money at his house in Kashmir. Then he and 
Shaukat left for Srinagar in Shaukat's truck. They were apprehended by the 
Srinagar police on 15th. The police recovered from them laptop with the 
accessories and Rs.10 lakhs. They were then brought to Delhi and at Delhi he 
got recovered explosives and other materials from the hideouts.
	The crucial question that remains to be considered is whether the 
confessional statement of Mohd. Afzal recorded by the DCP (PW 80) could be 
safely acted upon. Certain common contentions applicable to the confessions 
of both Afzal and Shaukat were raised in an attempt to demonstrate that the 
confession would not have been true and voluntary. Firstly, it is pointed out 
that the alleged confession was substantially the same as the alleged 
disclosure statements (Exts. 64/1 & 64/2) which were recorded on the 16th 
December itself. Even their signatures were obtained on these disclosure 
statements. If so, when the accused were inclined to make a full-fledged 
confession on the 16th December and most of the investigation relating to 
hideouts and shops and the recovery of incriminating materials was over by 
the next day, there was no perceptible reason why the accused should not 
have been produced before a Judicial Magistrate for recording a confession 
under the provisions of Cr.P.C . The only reason, according to learned counsel 
for the appellants, is that they were really not prepared to make the confession 
in a Court and, therefore, the investigating authorities found the ingenuity of 
adding POTA offences at that stage so as to get the confession recorded by a 
Police officer according to the wishes of the investigators. It is also submitted 
that it is highly incredible that Afzal, who is a surrendered militant, and who is 
alleged to have maintained close contact with hard-core terrorists, could have, 
immediately after the arrest by police, developed a feeling of repentance and 
come forward voluntarily to make a confession implicating himself and others 
including a lady who had nothing to do with the terrorists. Another comment 
made is that the alleged meetings at Shaukat's place to discuss and finalize the 
plans to attack Parliament with persons whose advice or association had 
nothing or little to do with the execution of conspiracy is a highly improbable 
event. The terrorists who came to Delhi on a Fidyaeen mission with a set 
purpose could not have thought of going about here and there to evolve the 
strategies and plans with persons like Gilani and Navjot (Shaukat's wife), 
risking unnecessary publicity. It was not a natural, probable or reasonable 
conduct. It is also contended that the language and tenor of the confessional 
statement gives enough indication that it was not written to the dictation of 
appellants, but it was a tailor made statement of which they had no 
knowledge. Though these arguments are plausible and persuasive, it is not necessary 
to rest our conclusion on these probabilities. We may also refer to the contention advanced by Shri Ram Jethmalani, 
learned senior counsel appearing for SAR Gilani with reference to the 
confession of Afzal. Shri Jethmalani contended that Afzal in the course of his 
interview with the TV and other media representatives, a day prior to recording 
of a confession before the DCP, while confessing to the crime, absolved Gilani 
of his complicity in the conspiracy. A cassette (Ext.DW4/A) was produced as 
the evidence of his talk. DW-4, a reporter of Aaj Tak TV channel was 
examined. It shows that Afzal was pressurized to implicate Gilani in the 
confessional statement, according to the learned counsel. It is further 
contended by Shri Jethmalani that the statement of Afzal in the course of 
media interview is relevant and admissible under Section 11 of the Evidence 
Act. Learned counsel for Afzal, Shri Sushil Kumar did not sail with Shri 
Jethmalani on this point, realizing the implications of admission of the 
statements of Afzal before the TV and press on his culpability. However, at 
one stage he did argue that the implication of Gilani in the confessional 
statement conflicts with the statement made by him to the media and 
therefore the confession is not true. We are of the view that the talk which 
Afzal had with TV and press reporters admittedly in the immediate presence of 
the police and while he was in police custody, should not be relied upon 
irrespective of the fact whether the statement was made to a Police Officer 
within the meaning of Section 162 Cr.P.C. or not. We are not prepared to 
attach any weight or credibility to the statements made in the course of such 
interview pre-arranged by the police. The police officials in their over-
zealousness arranged for a media interview which has evoked serious 
comments from the counsel about the manner in which publicity was sought to 
be given thereby. Incidentally, we may mention that PW60the DCP, who was 
supervising the investigation, surprisingly expressed his ignorance about the 
media interview. We think that the wrong step taken by the police should not 
enure to the benefit or detriment of either the prosecution or the accused. (iv) 	Procedural SafeguardsCompliance: Firstly, it was contended that on a proper construction of the entirety of 
sub-Section (5) of Section 32 , the question of sending to judicial custody would 
arise only if there was any complaint of torture and the medical examination 
prima facie supporting such allegation. In other words, according to the 
learned counsel, the expression 'thereafter' shall be read only in conjunction 
with the latter part of sub-Section (5) beginning with 'and if there is any 
complaint' and not applicable to the earlier part. In our view, such a restrictive 
interpretation of sub-Section (5) is not at all warranted either on a plain or 
literal reading or by any other canon of construction including purposive 
construction. The other argument raised by the learned counsel is that the 
provision regarding judicial custody, cannot be read to be a mandatory 
requirement so as to apply to all situations. If the Magistrate is satisfied that 
the confession appears to have been made voluntarily and the person 
concerned was not subjected to any torture or intimidation, he need not direct 
judicial custody. Having regard to the circumstances of this case, there was 
nothing wrong in sending back Afzal to police custody. This contention cannot 
be sustained on deeper scrutiny. The clear words of the provision do not admit of an interpretation that 
the judicial custody should be ordered by the Chief Judicial Magistrate only 
when there is a complaint from the 'confession maker' and there appears to be 
unfair treatment of such person in custody. As already stated, the obligation to 
send the person whose alleged confession was recorded to judicial custody is a 
rule and the deviation could at best be in exceptional circumstances. In the 
present case, it does not appear that the ACMM (PW63) had in mind the 
requirement of Section 32(5) as to judicial custody. At any rate, the order 
passed by him on 22.12.2001 on the application filed by PW80 does not reflect 
his awareness of such requirement or application of mind to the propriety of 
police remand in the face of Section 32(5) of POTA. Compelling circumstances 
to bypass the requirement of judicial custody are not apparent from the record.
The more important violation of the procedural safeguards lies in the 
breach of sub-Section (2) read with sub-Section (4) of Section 52 . It is an 
undisputed fact that the appellants were not apprised of the right to consult a 
legal practitioner either at the time they were initially arrested or after the 
POTA was brought into picture. We may recall that the POTA offences were 
added on 19th December and as a consequence thereof, investigation was 
taken up by PW80an Asst. Commissioner of Police, who is competent to 
investigate the POTA offences. But, he failed to inform the persons under 
arrest of their right to consult a legal practitioner, nor did he afford any facility 
to them to contact the legal practitioner. The opportunity of meeting a legal 
practitioner during the course of interrogation within closed doors of police 
station will not arise unless a person in custody is informed of his right and a 
reasonable facility of establishing contact with a lawyer is offered to him. If the 
person in custody is not in a position to get the services of a legal practitioner 
by himself, such person is very well entitled to seek free legal aid either by 
applying to the Court through the police or the concerned Legal Services 
Authority, which is a statutory body. Not that the police should, in such an 
event, postpone investigation indefinitely till his request is processed, but what 
is expected of the police officer is to promptly take note of such request and 
initiate immediate steps to place it before the Magistrate or Legal Services 
Authority so that at least at some stage of interrogation, the person in custody 
would be able to establish contact with a legal practitioner. But, in the instant 
case, the idea of apprising the persons arrested of their rights under sub-
Section (2) and entertaining a lawyer into the precincts of the police station did 
not at all figure in the mind of the investigating officer. The reason for this 
refrain or crucial omission could well be perceived by the argument of the 
learned senior counsel for the State that the compliance with the requirements 
of Section 52(2) of POTA did not arise for the simple reason that at the time of 
arrest, POTA was not applied. But this argument ignores the fact that as soon 
as POTA was added and the investigation commenced thereunder, the police 
officer was under a legal obligation to go through all the procedural safeguards 
to the extent they could be observed or implemented at that stage. The non-
invocation of POTA in the first instance cannot become a lever to deny the 
safeguards envisaged by Section 52 when such safeguards could still be 
extended to the arrested person. The expression 'the person arrested' does not 
exclude person initially arrested for offences other than POTA and continued 
under arrest when POTA was invoked. The 'person arrested' includes the 
person whose arrest continues for the investigation of offences under POTA as 
well. It is not possible to give a truncated interpretation to the expression 
'person arrested' especially when such interpretation has the effect of denying 
an arrested person the wholesome safeguards laid down in Section 52 .
The importance of the provision to afford the assistance of counsel even 
at the stage of custodial interrogation need not be gainsaid. The requirement is 
in keeping with the Miranda ruling and the philosophy underlying Articles 21 , 
20(3) & 22(1). This right cannot be allowed to be circumvented by subtle 
ingenuities or innovative police strategies. The access to a lawyer at the stage 
of interrogation serves as a sort of counterweight to the intimidating 
atmosphere that surrounds the detenu and gives him certain amount of 
guidance as to his rights and the obligations of the police. The lawyer's 
presence could pave the way, to some extent, to ease himself of the mental 
tension and trauma. In the felicitous words of Finlay, CJ of Ireland in The 
People Vs. Healy [(1990) 2 IR 73]: The Parliament advisedly introduced a Miranda ordained safeguard 
which was substantially reiterated in Nandini Satpathy by expressly enacting 
in sub-Sections (2)&(4) of Section 52 the obligation to inform the arrestee of 
his right to consult a lawyer and to permit him to meet the lawyer. The 
avowed object of such prescription was to introduce an element of fair and 
humane approach to the prisoner in an otherwise stringent law with drastic 
consequences to the accused. These provisions are not to be treated as empty 
formalities. It cannot be said that the violation of these obligations under sub-
Sections (2) & (4) have no relation and impact on the confession. It is too 
much to expect that a person in custody in connection with POTA offences is 
supposed to know the fasciculus of the provisions of POTA regarding the 
confessions and the procedural safeguards available to him. The presumption 
should be otherwise. The lawyer's presence and advice, apart from providing 
psychological support to the arrestee, would help him understand the 
implications of making a confessional statement before the Police Officer and 
also enable him to become aware of other rights such as the right to remain 
in judicial custody after being produced before the Magistrate. The very fact 
that he will not be under the fetters of police custody after he is produced 
before the CJM pursuant to Section 32(4) would make him feel free to 
represent to the CJM about the police conduct or the treatment meted out to 
him. The haunting fear of again landing himself into police custody soon after 
appearance before the CJM, would be an inhibiting factor against speaking 
anything adverse to the police. That is the reason why the judicial custody 
provision has been introduced in sub-Section (5) of Section 32 . The same 
objective seems to be at the back of sub-Section (3) of Section 164 of Cr.P.C., 
though the situation contemplated therein is somewhat different.
	The breach of the obligation of another provision, namely, sub-Section 
(3) of Section 52 which is modelled on D.K.Basu's guidelines has 
compounded to the difficulty in acting on the confession, Section 52(3) enjoins 
that the information of arrest shall be immediately communicated by the Police 
Officer to a family member or in his absence, to a relative of such person by 
telegram, telephone or by any other means and this fact shall be recorded by 
the Police Officer under the signature of the person arrested. PW80the I.O. 
under POTA merely stated that "near relatives of the accused were informed 
about their arrest as I learnt from the record". He was not aware whether any 
record was prepared by the Police Officer arresting the accused as regards the 
information given to the relatives. It is the prosecution case that Afzal's 
relative by name Mohd. Ghulam Bohra of Baramulla was informed through 
phone. No witness had spoken to this effect. A perusal of the arrest memo 
indicates that the name of Ghulam Bohra and his phone number are noted as 
against the column 'relatives to be informed'. Afzal's arrest memo seems to 
have been attested by Gilani's brother who according to the prosecution, was 
present at the police cell. But, that does not amount to compliance with sub-
Section (3) because he is neither family member nor relation, nor even known 
to be a close friend. We are pointing out this lapse for the reason that if the 
relations had been informed, there was every possibility of those persons 
arranging a meeting with the lawyer or otherwise seeking legal advice.
	Another point which has a bearing on the voluntariness of confession is 
the fact that sufficient time was not given for reflection after the accused 
(Afzal/Shaukat) were produced before PW60 recording the confession. He 
stated in the evidence that he gave only 5 to 10 minutes time to the accused 
for thinking/reflection in reply to the question by the counsel for Shaukat 
Hussain. It is true as contended by the learned counsel Mr. Gopal 
Subramanium that there is no hard and fast rule regarding grant of time for 
reflection and the rules and guidelines applicable to a confession under Section 
164 Cr.P.C. do not govern but in the present case, the time of 5 or 10 minutes 
is, by all standards, utterly inadequate. Granting reasonable time for reflection 
before recording a confession is one way of ensuring that the person 
concerned gets the opportunity to deliberate and introspect once again when 
he is brought before the prescribed authority for recording the confession. 
That it is one of the relevant considerations in assessing the voluntariness of 
the confession is laid down in Sarwan Singh Vs. State of Punjab [1957 
SCR 953]. All these lapses and violations of procedural safeguards guaranteed in 
the statute itself impel us to hold that it is not safe to act on the alleged 
confessional statement of Afzal and place reliance on this item of evidence on 
which the prosecution places heavy reliance. The learned senior counsel for the State has laid considerable stress on 
the fact that the appellants did not lodge any protest or complaint; on the 
other hand, they reaffirmed the factum of making confession when they were 
produced before the ACMM on the next day. It is further pointed out that as 
far as Afzal is concerned, it took nearly seven months for him to refute and 
retract the confession. After giving anxious consideration, we are unable to 
uphold this contention. The omission to challenge the confessional statement 
at the earliest before the Magistrate shall be viewed in the light of violation of 
procedural safeguards which we have discussed in detail earlier.
	As regards the delay in retracting, the first fact to be taken note of is 
that the appellant Afzal was evidently not aware of the contents of the 
confessional statement on the day on which he was produced before the ACMM 
because the learned Magistrate did not make it available to him for perusal nor 
the gist of which was made known to him. We find nothing in the proceedings 
of the ACMM to that effect. It was only after the charge sheet was filed in the 
Court on 14th May and a copy thereof was served to him that he became 
aware of the details of the confessional statement. Then Afzal filed a petition 
before the trial Court on 2.7.2002 stating that "I have given a statement in 
front of police during custody and not before the DCP or ACP as mentioned in 
the charge sheet. I found that my statement has been grossly manipulated 
and twisted in a different form and formation by the police, especially my 
statements regarding Afsan Guru and SAR Gilani. Therefore, I am requesting 
to your honour to record my statement in the Court." This was followed by 
another petition filed on 15th July, the main purpose of which was to highlight 
that Mr. Gilani and the other accused had no direct or indirect connection. 
Thus, we cannot hold that there was abnormal delay in disowning the 
confession, the effect of which would be to impart credibility to the 
confessional statement. It is then pointed out that the grounds on which the confessional 
statement was refuted by Afzal, are not consistent. Whereas Afzal stated in 
the petition dated 2.7.2002 as above, in the course of his examination under 
Section 313, Afzal stated that he signed on blank papers. We do not think that 
this so-called discrepancy will give rise to an inference that the confessional 
statement was true and voluntary. We have to look to the substance of what 
the accused said while refuting the statement rather than building up a case 
on the basis of some inconsistencies in the defence plea. (v) 	Circumstances against Afzal
	We shall now consider the circumstantial evidence against Afzal 
independent of and irrespective of the confession. The first circumstance is that Afzal knew who the deceased terrorists 
were. He identified the dead bodies of the deceased terrorists. PW76 
(Inspector HS Gill) deposed that Afzal was taken to the mortuary of Lady 
Harding Medical College and he identified the five terrorists and gave their 
names. Accordingly, PW76 prepared an identification memoExt.PW76/1 
which was signed by Afzal. In the postmortem reports pertaining to each of the 
deceased terrorists, Afzal signed against the column 'identified by'. On this 
aspect, the evidence of PW76 remained un-shattered. In the course of his 
examination under Section 313, Afzal merely stated that he was forced to 
identify by the police. There was not even a suggestion put to PW76 touching 
on the genuineness of the documents relating to identification memo. It may 
be recalled that all the accused, through their counsel, agreed for admission of 
the postmortem reports without formal proof. Identification by a person in 
custody of another does not amount to making a statement falling within the 
embargo of Section 162 of Cr.P.C. It would be admissible under Section 8 of 
Evidence Act as a piece of evidence relating to conduct of the accused person 
in identifying the dead bodies of the terrorists. As pointed out by Chinnappa 
Reddy, J. in Prakash Chand Vs. State (Delhi Admn .) [AIR 1979 SC 400]; The next point to be noted is that the said phone instrument bearing 
IMEI No. 39010 was finally recovered from the deceased terrorist Raja as 
per the seizure memo (Ext.PW2/2). A perusal of the call record discloses that 
the said instrument was being used by the accused Afzal (with his number 
...89429) till the noon of 12.12.2001. It shows that such interchange of phones 
would not have been possible, but for the meeting of the Afzal with the slain 
terrorists on 12th December. There were calls to the mobile number 
9810693456 the SIM Card of which was recovered from the body of 
Mohammed vide Ext.PW4/8 and which was being operated from the instrument 
IMEI No. 449269405808650 (Ext.PW35/5). On 7th & 8th December, Afzal called 
Mohammed seven times from his phone No. 9811489429 to Mohammed's No. 
9810693456 and the said mobile of Mohammed was being used in IMEI No. 
808650 (Ext.PW35/5). Thus Mohammed used the same Motorola phone 
(Ext.P28) which was finally recovered from the deceased Raja vide seizure 
memo (Ext.PW2/2) on the SIM card (described as 'Magic Card') for the No. 
9810693456 and the said card was recovered from Mohammed vide 
Ext.PW4/8. As per the testimony of PW49, the said Ext.P28 was purchased by 
Afzal. It is pertinent to note that the said instrument was never used by Afzal 
though it was purchased by him but it was being used by Mohammed and it 
ultimately reached Raja. The deposition of PW44 discloses that Afzal, who was identified by him in 
the Court, came to his shop on 7th or 8th December and purchased a mobile 
phone of J70 model of Sony make which he identified as Ext.P-37 seized under 
Ext.PW4/14 from the body of Mohammed. Its IMEI number was 
35066834011747/2 and its cell-phone number was found to be 9810511085. 
This fact would only lead to the inference that contemporaneous to the crucial 
incident of 13th December, Afzal met Mohammed and supplied the handset of 
the mobile phone. That apart, we find the exchange of calls between them. 
From the call records in Parts VI & IX, it is evident that Afzal was in touch with 
Mohammed over phone on seven occasions on 7th and 8th December and they 
were using the two phones with the Cell numbers referred to supra, though, 
two or three calls of them were of very short duration. It may also be noticed 
that a satellite phone contacted Afzal for a short-while on his number 
9811489429 and the same satellite phone contacted Mohammed on his phone 
No. 9810693456 on 10th December for five minutes. On 12th December, 
Mohammed contacted Raja for 83 seconds and thereafter a satellite phone 
contacted Mohammed for 11 minutes and the same satellite phone contacted 
Raja twice for about 3= minutes. This is borne out by call records at volume 
VI. The phone number of Raja was 9810510816 as discovered from the phone 
instrument recovered from his body. Then we come to the crucial day i.e. 13.12.2001. Mohammed called 
Afzal thrice at 10.43, 11.08 and 11.25 a.m., i.e. just before the attack on the 
Parliament. This is borne out by the call records of 9810693456 and 
9811489429 (phones traceable to Mohammed and Afzal, respectively). At 
about the same time, there was exchange of calls between Afzal and Shaukat 
on their phone numbers ..89429 and .73506. The call records at Part IX, 
Page 20 pertaining to 9811489429the user of which can be traced to Afzal 
and the instruments recovered would reveal that the SIM Card pertaining to 
the said mobile number (89429) was activated on 6th November and was 
used on the handset bearing IMEI No. 449269219639010 recovered from the 
deceased terrorist Raja as per Ex. PW2/2. The call record would further show 
that its user was discontinued on 29th November till 7th December, when, 
again, it was put to use on 12th December. The last call was at 12 noon. 
Thereafter, the SIM Card pertaining to this number (i.e. .89429) was used in 
the handset No. 350102209452430, which is the instrument (Ext.P84) 
recovered from the truck at Srinagar, on being pointed out by Afzal. The 
picture that emerges is this: The fact that an instrument used by Afzal (with 
the phone number 9811489429) till 12.12.2001 was recovered from one of the 
deceased terrorists on the date of incident, reveals that Afzal would have 
necessarily met the deceased terrorist between the afternoon of 12th December 
and the morning of 13th December. One point urged by Shri Sushil Kumar is that although the sanction order 
authorized the interception of Phone No. ..06722, there is no evidence 
regarding the details of investigation of the calls made or received from that 
number. No question was put to the witnesses on this point. It is quite 
probable that the investigator would have entertained some suspicion in this 
regard and would have, by way of caution sought permission to intercept. That 
does not cast a cloud on the prosecution case built up on the basis of the call 
records pertaining to the phones used by the accused. We can draw no adverse 
inference from the fact that the details of aforementioned number was not 
given. (vi) 	Hideouts and recoveries
The other circumstances which prominently shed light on the 
involvement of the accused Afzal relate to the discovery of the abodes or 
hideouts of the deceased terrorists and the recovery of various incriminating 
articles therefrom as well as the identification of certain shops from where the 
appellant and one or the other deceased terrorist purchased various items used 
for preparation of explosives etc. These are spoken to by PW76Inspector Gill, 
the landlords of the concerned premises and the shopkeepers. The 
informations furnished to the Investigating Officers leading to the discovery of 
facts and the conduct of the accused in pointing out the places where the 
terrorists stayed are admissible either under Section 27 or Section 8 of the 
Evidence Act and they supplement the evidence furnished by the I.Os., the 
landlords and the shopkeepers. Before proceeding further, we may advert to Section 8 of the Evidence 
Act. Section 8 insofar as it is relevant for our purpose makes the conduct of an 
accused person relevant, if such conduct influences or is influenced by any fact 
in issue or relevant fact. It could be either previous or subsequent conduct. 
There are two Explanations to the Section, which explains the ambit of the 
word 'conduct'. They are: The facts that, after the commission of the alleged crime, he 
absconded, or was in possession of property or the proceeds of 
property acquired by the crime, or attempted to conceal things 
which were or might have been used in committing it, are relevant. We have already noticed the distinction highlighted in Prakash Chand 's 
case (supra) between the conduct of an accused which is admissible under Section 8 and the statement made to a police officer in the course of an 
investigation which is hit by Section 162 Cr.P.C. The evidence of the 
circumstance, simplicitor, that the accused pointed out to the police officer, the 
place where stolen articles or weapons used in the commission of the offence 
were hidden, would be admissible as 'conduct' under Section 8 irrespective of 
the fact whether the statement made by the accused contemporaneously with 
or antecedent to such conduct, falls within the purview of Section 27 , as 
pointed out in Prakash Chand 's case. In Om Prakash case (supra) [AIR 
1972 SC 975], this Court held that "even apart from the admissibility of the 
information under Section, the evidence of the Investigating Officer and the 
Panchas that the accused had taken them to PW11 (from whom he purchased 
the weapon) and pointed him out and as corroborated by PW11 himself would 
be admissible under Section 8 as 'conduct' of the accused".
Coming to the details of evidence relating to hideouts and recoveries, it 
is to be noted that the accused Afzal is alleged to have made a disclosure 
statement to PW66Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma on 16th December, 2001. 
It is marked as Ext.PW64/1. In the said disclosure statement, all the details of 
his involvement are given and it is almost similar to the confessional statement 
recorded by the DCP. The last paragraph of the statement reads thus: This statement has been signed by Mohd. Afzal. In fact it is not required 
to be signed by virtue of the embargo in Section 162(1) . The fact that the 
signature of the accused Afzal was obtained on the statement does not, 
however, detract from its admissibility to the extent it is relevant under Section 27 . We shall now consider the details of evidence on these aspects. PW76
I.O. deposed that the two accused persons, namely, Afzal / Shaukat led him to 
the following places: Now, we shall refer to the specific details of evidence in this regard. 
PW76I.O. deposed to the fact that Afzal and Shaukat pointed out the 2nd 
floor of A97, GANDHI VIHAR as the place where the deceased terrorists stayed. 
This is recorded by PW76 in the memo marked as Ext.PW34/1. PW76 deposed 
that on his request, the landlord of the housePW34 accompanied him to the 
2nd floor and the lock of the house was broken and the premises searched in 
the presence of PW34. The various articles recovered and seized consequent 
upon the search of the premises are recorded in Ext.PW34/1. They are: (a) 3 
electronic detonators (Ext.P60/1, 60/2 & 60/3). (b) two packets of silver 
powder bearing the address 'Tola Ram & Sons, 141, Tilak Bazar, Delhi' 
(Ext.P61). (c) A bucket (Ext.P62) of prepared explosive material. Sample of 
explosive material is Ext.P63. (d) two boxes containing Sulphur (Ext.P64 & 
P65). (e) two cardboard cartons (Ext.P66 & P67) containing 20 jars each of 
Ammonium Nitrate of 500 grams each (Ext.P68/1 to Ext.P68/38) (one jar was 
taken out from each carton as a sample). (f) Yamaha motorcycle bearing 
No.DL-1S-K-3122 (Ext.P76) found at the gate of the house and seized as per 
Ext.PW34/2. (g) Maps of Delhi city and Chanakyapuri area found in the room 
vide Ext.P34/3. (h) Police uniforms and police beret caps (P73 series). (i) 
Sujata Mixer Grinder with three jars (Ext.P72) seized as per Ext.PW34/4.
PW34 confirmed this fact in his deposition. In addition, PW34 identified 
Afzal and Shaukat in the Court and stated the following facts: Now we shall briefly refer to the evidence in regard to the purchase of 
chemicals used in explosives and the Mixture-Grinder utilized for preparing the 
explosive substance. PW-76 recorded in Ex. 40/1 dated 17.12.01 that Afzal 
furnished information that he had visited the shop of PW-40 along with 
deceased accomplice Hamza at Tilak Bazar and purchased 50kg of ammonium 
nitrate packed in = kg. boxes and that he would show the shop. Accordingly, 
Afzal led the Police to the shop of PW-40 and identified the proprietor which 
fact is relevant and admissible under Section 8 of the Evidence Act. PW-40 
identified the accused  Afzal, in the Court and stated that he came to his shop 
on 6.12.01 to purchase ammonium nitrate and that he placed an order for 
50kg, paid an advance of Rs. 800/- and came the next day to take delivery of 
the same. On 7.12.01, he came with one more person, paid the balance and 
took the delivery of 50kg ammonium nitrate which was packed in = kg plastic 
bags. In view of the short time gap and the order for a large quantity, there is 
no reason to doubt the identification of Mohd. Afzal  PW 40. We have already 
seen that ammonium nitrate was one of the chemicals recovered from the 
premises at Gandhi Vihar. PW-40 also identified the deceased Hamza by his 
photograph - Ext.40/2. According to PW-40, it is he who accompanied Afzal 
the next day. However, in the memo of pointing out which is Ext.40/1, it was 
recorded that Afzal disclosed that he visited the shop with Haider. This 
discrepancy or mistake in recording the name does not make a dent on the 
veracity of evidence of PW-40 on the point of identification of photograph in 
Ext. 40/2. The High Court accepted the evidence of PW-40. Then, about the 
purchase of silver powder, PW-76 recorded in Ex. 42/1 that Afzal disclosed 
having purchased the silver powder from the shop of PW-42. It may be stated 
that on the packets of silver powder (Ex.P/51), the name and address 'Tolaram 
& Sons, 141, Tilak Bazar' was written. Thus, the name and address of the 
shop was already known to the Police. Therefore, Section 27 cannot be pressed 
into service. However, the conduct of Afzal in pointing out the shop and its 
proprietor (PW42) would be relevant under Section 8 of the Evidence Act. PW-
42 in his deposition testified to the factum of purchase of 50 kgs of silver 
powder by Afzal on 11.12.01. The witness identified the seized samples as 
having been sold by him. He also identified Afzal. He specifically stated that 
the quantity purchased by him being large, Afzal's presence was very much 
there in his memory. It may be recalled that silver powder was recovered 
from the premises at Indira Vihar. The samples seized from Indira Vihar were 
identified by PW-42. It is to be noted that Aluminium powder was one of the 
ingredients used in the IEDs found in the possession of the deceased terrorists 
at the Parliament complex. Another item of purchase was dry fruits. Three polythene packets of dry 
fruits bearing the name of 'Sawan Dry Fruits' (Ex. P/10) and having the 
address 6507, Fatehpuri Chowk were recovered at the scene of offence near 
the bodies of the deceased. PW-76 stated that Afzal led them to the shop of 
Sawan Dry Fruits. PW41the salesman, gave evidence regarding the 
transaction of sale on 11.12.01. He identified the accused Afzal as the person 
who had purchased the dry fruits. The witness also identified the photograph 
of Rana even as that of the person who accompanied Afzal. PW41 also stated 
that Afzal was in the shop for nearly half an hour. The High Court, while 
observing that there was nothing to discredit the evidence of PW-41, it, 
however, ignored his testimony on a tenuous ground that the Police were 
already aware of the source of purchase of the dry fruits. Though there was no 
discovery within the meaning of Section 27 , there is no reason why the 
evidence of PW-41 should be eschewed on that account. However, in regard to 
the identification of the pfotograph of deceased terrorist, his evidence does not 
inspire confidence, in view of the time lag of 8 months and the manner in 
which the answer was sought to be elicited from him. Then, we have the 
evidence of purchase of Sujata Mixer-Grinder (Ext.P72) which was found in the 
hideout at Gandhi Vihar. PW-76 deposed that Afzal took the investigating 
team to an electrical shop at Fatehpuri from where the Mixer-Grinder was 
purchased. The memo of pointing out is Ex. 76/2. The pointing out of the 
shop and the identification of the owner of the shop wherefrom the purchase 
was made are relevant facts to show the conduct of the accused referred to in Section 8 of the Evidence Act. In any case, the evidence of PW-43 establishes 
the fact that Afzal bought the Mixer-Grinder of Sujata make on 7.12.01. The 
relevant cash memo was filed by him. The witness identified Afzal in the Court 
and also the Mixer-Grinder. The High Court has accepted the testimony of this 
witness. Thus, the nexus between the Mixer-Grinder which was recovered 
from the premises at Gandhi Vihar and the one purchased by Afzal from the 
shop of PW-43 stands established by the evidence on record. The evidence of 
the report of the experts, namely PWs 22 & 24 establish, as held by the High 
Court, that the composition of chemicals found sticking to the jar of the mixer 
grinder and the chemicals in the bucket were of the same composition as was 
the composition of the chemicals in the explosives seized from the deceased 
terrorists at Parliament House. Another item of purchase was a motorcycle of the Yamaha make bearing 
registration No.HR-51-E-5768. PW76 stated that on 18.12.2001 the accused 
Afzal took the investigating team to Gupta Auto Deals at Karol Bagh from 
where the said motorcycle was purchased and he pointed out the shop owner
PW29. The memo of pointing out is Ext.PW29/1. This conduct of Afzal is 
relevant under Section 8 of the Evidence Act. PW29 deposed that four persons 
including a lady came to his shop in the noon time to see the motorcycle. After 
taking trial run, they went away and in the evening two persons came and 
purchased the motorcycle for Rs.20,000/-. As already noticed, the said 
motorcycle was found at A-97, Gandhi Vihar and the same was seized by the 
I.O. The witness handed over the book containing the delivery receipt 
(Ext.29/2 & 29/3) to the police, which were filed in the Court as PW29/2 & 
PW29/3. The witness identified Afzal and Shaukat in the Court and the 
deceased terrorist Mohammed from the photograph (Ext.29/5). He was 
however unable to identify the lady in view of the fact that she was at a 
distance. The High Court rightly took the view that in view of what was 
narrated by the witness, the identification of the accused and the deceased 
terrorist was quite probable. It was not a case of 'fleeting glance'. This is a 
discrepancy between the seizure memo (PW29/4) dated 19.12.2001 and the 
statement of PW29 under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that he handed over the papers 
on 18.12.2001. This apparent contradiction was not pointed out to the witness 
and no question was asked about it. The next important circumstance against 
the accused Afzal is his association with Mohammed in purchasing the 
Ambassador car with registration No.DL-3CJ-1527 from PW20. The fact that 
the said car was used by the slain terrorists for entering the Parliament with 
arms and explosives, is not in dispute. PW20 after hearing the news that the 
car with the said number was used by the terrorists, he straight went to the 
Parliament Street Police Station along with the copies of documents. Having 
learned that his SHO was at the Parliament House, he went there and met the 
SHO at the gate and passed on information to him that the car was sold by him 
on 11.12.2001 to one Ashiq Hussain Khan. He identified the car, which was 
lying at gate No.11, then he handed over the documents pertaining to the car 
which were seized under the memoExt.PW1/7. The documents were later 
filed in the Court. PW20 correctly identified the accused Afzal as the person 
who had come with Ashiq Hussain Khan for the purchase of car. The delivery 
receipt of the car issued by Ashiq Hussain Khan is Ext.PW1/6. The delivery 
receipt was signed by Afzal as a witness. The signature of Afzal on the delivery 
receipt is proved by the analysis of his handwriting by the expertPW23. This 
is apart from the testimony of PW20. In the course of examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C., Afzal admitted that on 11.12.2001 he accompanied 
Mohammed to the shop of PW20 for purchasing a secondhand car but later he 
denied it. It is also worthy to note that Afzal did not let the amicus to put a 
suggestion that he had not visited the shop of PW20. PW20 deposed that he 
had taken photocopy of the I.Card and a coloured photo of Ashiq Hussain 
Khan, which are Exts.PW25/4 & PW20/3. PW20 further deposed that the dead 
body lying at Gate No.1 was of the same person who had introduced himself as 
Ashiq Hussain Khan while purchasing the car. When he was shown Ext.PW4/3 
which is the I.Card in the name of Ashiq Hussain Khan recovered from the 
deceased terrorist Mohammed, PW20 confirmed that it was the same I.Card 
that was shown to him. The High Court held that the evidence of PW20, who 
was an independent witness, was in no manner tainted and held that Afzal was 
involved in the purchase of the car used by the terrorists to enter the 
Parliament House. This conclusion was reached by the High Court even after 
excluding the evidence of PW23, Principal Scientific Officer who confirmed that 
the signatures on the delivery receiptExt.PW1/6 tallied with his specimen 
signatures. In this context, a contention was raised before the High Court that 
in view of Section 27 of POTA, specimen signature should not have been 
obtained without the permission of the Court. In reply to this contention urged 
before the High Court, Mr. Gopal Subramanium, the learned senior counsel for 
the State clarified that on the relevant date, when the specimen signatures of 
Afzal were obtained, the investigation was not done under the POTA provisions 
and de hors the provisions of POTA, there was no legal bar against obtaining 
the handwriting samples. The learned counsel relied upon by the 11 Judge 
Bench decision of this Court in State of Bombay Vs. Kattikalu Oghad [1962 (3) 
SCR 10] in support of his contention that Article 23 of the Constitution was not 
infringed by taking the specimen handwriting or signature or thumb 
impressions of a person in custody. Reference has also drawn to the decision of 
this Court in State of U.P. Vs. Boota Singh [(1979) 1 SCC 31]. We find 
considerable force in this contention advanced by Mr. Gopal Subramanium. In 
fact this aspect was not seriously debated before us. The purchase of mobile cellular phone instruments by Afzal in the shops 
of PW44 and PW49, accompanied by Shaukat, is another important 
circumstance that can be put against him. As already noticed, these mobile 
instruments found their way to one or the other deceased terrorists and they 
were being interchangeably used by Afzal, Mohammed and Rana. The evidence 
of PW76 coupled with Ext.PW44/1 (pointing out memo) reveals that the 
accused Afzal took the police party to shop No.26, Gaffar Market and pointed it 
out as the shop from which he purchased the mobile phone handset of Sony 
make. The conduct of the accused in pointing out the shop and identifying the 
shop owner is relevant under Section 8 of the Evidence Act.
PW44 - the shop owner identified Afzal and the mobile phone (Ext.P37) 
sold to him on 7/8.12.2001. The said instrument (Ext.P37) was recovered from 
the body of the deceased terrorist Mohammed vide Ext.PW4/14. He was 
confronted with some discrepancy as to the exact date of purchase, which does 
not appear to us to be very material. The fact that the transaction was 
unaccounted is also not a ground to eschew his evidence especially when the 
High Court found that his evidence was trustworthy. There is no warrant for 
the further observation of the High Court that independent corroboration of his 
testimony was lacking and therefore the evidence was liable to be ignored.
Regarding the purchase of Motorola mobile phone (Ext.P28), PW76 
deposed that on 19.12.2001, the accused Afzal led the investigating officials to 
the shop of PW49 at B-10, Model Town from where the said mobile phone was 
purchased. The memo of pointing out is Ext.PW49/1. The conduct of the 
accused in leading the I.O. to the shop of PW49 and identifying him as the 
shop owner becomes relevant under Section 8 of the Evidence Act. PW49, 
while identifying Afzal and Shaukat in the Court deposed about the sale of the 
phone and one SIM Card to the said persons. The said phone which was sold 
by PW49 to the accused was recovered from the deceased terrorist Rana vide 
Ext.PW2/2. This statement of the witness was assailed on the ground that the 
SIM Card pertaining to the No. 9811489429 was stated to have been sold on 
4.12.2001. However, the call records pertaining to this number show that the 
phone was active since 6.11.2001. The High Court refuted this criticism by 
observing thus: The earlier observation at paragraph 10 is also important: In the present case, the accused persons themselves led the witnesses 
to the concerned shops and the places and pointed out the witnesses. 
Therefore, the question of holding TIP thereafter does not arise. The evidence 
of the prosecution witnesses who could identify the two accused persons can 
be safely relied upon for more than one reason. Firstly, the time lag between 
the date of first and next meeting was not much, it was just a few days or at 
the most two weeks. Secondly, there was scope for sufficient interaction so 
that the identity of the accused could be retained in their memory. It was not 
a case of mere 'fleeting glimpse'. For the same reasons, they could identify 
Mohammed by photograph which was quite clear, though. If the step was 
taken by the I.O. to have the test identification of photographs of dead bodies, 
it would have given better assurance of the reliability of identification. 
However, the failure to do so cannot be a ground to eschew the testimony of 
the witnesses whose evidence was concurrently accepted by the trial and the 
appellate Court. It is not the case of the appellant or any of the accused that 
the identification by photographs is not permissible under law. (ix)	Laptop
	The recovery of 'laptop' from the truck in which Afzal and Shaukat 
travelled on being pointed out by them is a highly incriminating circumstance 
against them. It is established from the evidence that the said laptop was used 
for the preparation of I.Cards and the I.Cards found at the spot on the dead 
bodies and the MHA sticker found on the car were those produced from the 
same laptop. It admits of no doubt that the laptop, which must have been with 
the deceased terrorist Mohammed and others came into the custody of Afzal 
(and Shaukat) soon after the incident on 13th December and such possession 
has not been accounted for. Now let us delve into further details, excluding from consideration the 
confessional statements, according to which the laptop was given to Afzal and 
Shaukat by Mohammed to be handed over to Ghazibaba. PW61Dy. S.P., Srinagar speaks to the recovery of the laptop in a 
briefcase with attachments from the truck pursuant to the disclosure made by 
Afzal and Shaukat when the truck was intercepted at Srinagar. Ext.PW61/4 is 
the seizure memo. PW62the Head Constable, corroborates what PW61 
stated. PWs 64 & 65, who are the Sub-Inspectors of Special Cell, speak to the 
fact that the laptop along with the accessories was handed over to them as the 
property recovered by PW61. The laptop is Ext.P83. The laptop and other 
articles seized at Srinagar were deposited in the malkhana of the police station 
in sealed condition as per PW66. Then it was the job of PW80ACP, who took 
over investigation on 19th December, to have the laptop examined by experts. 
The experts, namely, PW72a computer engineer and PW73Assistant 
Government Examiner of Questioned Documents, Bureau of Police Research, 
Hyderabad submitted their reports which are Exts.PW72/1 and PW73/1. PW79, 
who was associated with PW73, was also examined by the prosecution. The 
laptop contained files relating to identity cards recovered from the deceased 
terrorists wherein the address was mentioned as Christian Colony or Gandhi 
Vihar. PW72 testified that he took printouts from the laptop which are 
Exts.PW59/1 to PW59/7 and PW72/2 to PW72/13 and these documents were 
compared to the original identity cards and the MHA sticker (Ext.PW1/8). The 
forensic expertPW59 submitted a report according to which the laptop 
(PW83) was in fact used for the creation of I.Cards and the MHA sticker found 
at the spot. The analysis and conclusions reached by PWs73 & 79 match with 
those of PW72. Thus, two different sets of experts have come to the same 
conclusion about the contents of the laptop. PW72 gave a detailed account of 
various softwares that were found installed in the laptop and he gave a 
chronological account. It was found that from November 2001 onwards, certain 
files were copied on to the system. The system was used for crating, editing 
and viewing .tmp files (most of which are identity cards) and viewing files 
stored in geo microchip. Editing of various identity cards took place close to the 
date of occurrence. Some records were edited as late as 12th December. The 
summary of important documents found on the laptop contains identity cards 
which were similar to those recovered from the deceased terrorists, ASF video 
files containing clippings of political leaders with Parliament in background shot 
from TV news channels and another file containing scanned images of front 
and rear view of I. Card and a .tmp file containing design of MHA sticker. The 
report also reveals that the game 'wolf pack' (sun) had registration details on 
the laptop which showed the user name as 'Ashiq'a name which was found in 
one of the identity cards shown to PW20 at the time of purchase of the car and 
to the landlord of the Christian Colony Hostel. The documents found in the 
laptop were the identity cards in the name of Ashiq Hussain Khan similar to 
Ext.4/3, the front side scanned image of Cybertech Computer Hardware 
Solution identity card in the name of Ashiq Hussain KhanSimilar to the one 
found at the spot of occurrence, the identity cards of Xansa Websity of Riyad 
Ahmad which contains the address of Gandhi Vihar and the phone number of 
Afzal, the identity card of Cybertech Computer Education of Ashif Mustafa, two 
identity cards of Xansa Websity of Neeraj Bakshi and Anil Kumar which were 
similar to the identity cards found at the spot, two identity cards of Xansa 
Websity with the name Sunil Verma and Raju Lal which were similar to the 
cards found at the spot, designed sticker of Ministry of Home Affairs found and 
the relative file containing the same text as was found on the sticker.
	All these documents were found created and last updated between 1st 
December and 12th December, one of them was on 21st November, 2001. The 
documents referred to above establish that various identity cards which were 
similar to those recovered at the scene of offence were found in the laptop. 
The I. Cards that were not used were also detected. Documents found at the 
spot ('Q' series) were sent for forensic examination in order to report the 
results of comparison of these documents with those found inside the laptop. 
Besides, the sample originals of the MHA sticker and the sample identity cards 
of Xansa Websity ('S' series) were sent for comparison and report. The analysis 
was done by PW59Senior Scientific Officer, CFSL. He reported that the MHA 
sticker image and the images of identity cards found in the laptop match with 
those found at the spot in general size, design and arrangement of characters. 
As regards 'S' series (genuine sample documents), the finding was that they 
differed with the identity cards etc., found at the spot. It may be stated that 
the franchisees of Xansa Websity were examined as PWs 25 and 50 and they 
produced the genuine samples and also testified to the fake names and 
addresses printed on the identity cards. We agree with the High Court that the 
testimony of PWs 59, 72, 73 & 79 establish beyond doubt that fake documents 
were created from the laptop which was evidently in the possession of the 
deceased terrorists and eventually recovered from Afzal/Shaukat in Srinagar. 
We find that the evidence of these witnesses could not in any way be shattered 
in the cross examination. There was no cross examination of the witness
PW59 by Afzal. The limited cross examination on behalf of Shaukat did not 
yield anything favourable to the accused. As regards PW72, most of the cross 
examination was in the nature of hypothetical questions. Though there was no 
suggestion of any tampering to this witness, the witness stated that there was 
no evidence of replacement of the hard disk upon a perusal of the reg file. 
There was no suggestion to PW72 that the documents (printouts) taken from 
the laptop were not the real ones. Two different experts recorded same 
conclusions without knowing the report of each other. One point of criticism levelled by the defence counsel is that in spite of 
the fact that the laptop was deposited in the malkhana on 16.1.2002, (after it 
was received back from PW72), the analysis by PW73 revealed that two of the 
files were last written on 21.1.2001 and one file was last accessed and last 
written on the same day. In this connection, it is to be noted that according to 
the case diary, the laptop was accessed by the independent agencies at the 
malkhana on 21.1.2002. It is clarified by the learned counsel for the State and 
as found by the High Court, the said files being self-generating and self-
written, they reflected the date of writing as 21.1.2002, as the laptop would 
have been switched on by the investigating agencies on that date. While cross 
examining PW73, a question was put as to how a file could be written without 
it being accessed. The witness answered that the file cannot be written without 
being accessed by copying it on a different storage media. The learned counsel 
for the State is justified in his comment that the said answer was not a 
response pertaining to system files, which are self-generating and self-written. 
There was no suggestion to any witness that the date or time setting has been 
modified in the instant case so as to facilitate tampering. A mountain out of 
mole hill is sought to be made out by reason of the observation of PW73 that 
some of the files were last written after the date of seizure and the answer 
given by PW73 with reference to a general, hypothetical question.
	The testimony of DW8computer engineer, who was examined on behalf 
of the accused Gilani, does not in any way substantiate the point of criticism 
about the possible tampering of laptop or nor does it make a dent on the 
findings of the experts examined by the prosecution. The testimony of this 
witness was not with reference to any of the files on which certain doubts were 
raised. His testimony is, by and large, on hypothetical aspects and does not 
relate to the authenticity of the contents of laptop as reported by the other 
experts. In the light of foregoing discussion, we hold that the laptop found in the 
custody of the appellants and the results of analysis thereof would amply 
demonstrate that the laptop was the one used by the deceased terrorists 
contemporaneous to the date of incident and it should have passed hands on 
the day of the incident or the previous day. The accused carrying the same 
with him soon after the incident furnishes cogent evidence pointing towards 
his involvement. The circumstances detailed above clearly establish that the appellant 
Afzal was associated with the deceased terrorists in almost every act done by 
them in order to achieve the objective of attacking the Parliament House. He 
established close contacts with the deceased terrorists, more especially, 
Mohammed. Short of participating in the actual attack, he did everything to set 
in motion the diabolic mission. As is the case with most of the conspiracies, 
there is and could be no direct evidence of the agreement amounting to 
criminal conspiracy. However, the circumstances cumulatively considered and 
weighed, would unerringly point to the collaboration of the accused Afzal with 
the slain 'Fidayeen' terrorists. The circumstances, if considered together, as it 
ought to be, establish beyond reasonable doubt that Afzal was a party to the 
conspiracy and had played an active part in various acts done in furtherance of 
the conspiracy. These circumstances cannot be viewed in isolation and by no 
standards of common sense, be regarded as innocuous acts. His conduct and 
actionsantecedent, contemporaneous and subsequentall point to his guilt 
and are only consistent with his involvement in the conspiracy. Viewed from 
another angle, the Court can draw a presumption under Section 114 of 
Evidence Act having regard to the natural course of events and human conduct 
that the appellant Afzal had nexus with the conspirators who were killed and 
all of them together hatched the conspiracy to attack the Parliament House 
and in that process to use explosives and other dangerous means. We are, 
therefore, of the view that there is sufficient and satisfactory circumstantial 
evidence to establish that Afzal was a partner in this conspired crime of 
enormous gravity. (x)	Punishment: As far as the first contention of Mr. Gopal Subramanium is concerned, 
we have already rejected his argument that on the principle of 'theory of 
agency', the conspirators will be liable for the substantive offences committed 
pursuant to the conspiracy. When once the application of the theory of agency 
is negatived, there is no scope to hold that the appellant, in spite of not having 
done any act or thing by using the weapons and substances set out in sub-
Section(1)(a), he, as a conspirator, can be brought within the sweep and 
ambit of sub-Sections (1) & (2). The wording of clause (a) of Section 3(1) is 
clear that it applies to those who do any acts or things by using explosive 
substances etc., with the intention referred to in clause (a), but not to the 
conspirators who remained in the background. We must now deal with the alternative contention of Mr. Gopal 
Subramanium that Section 120B of IPC can be combined with Sections 3(1) and 3(2) of POTA. The contention of Mr. Shanti Bhushan and Mr. Ram Jethmalani is straight 
and simple. POTA is a special law dealing with terrorist activities and providing 
for punishment therefor. Conspiring to commit a terrorist act, among other 
things, is specifically brought within the fold of sub-Section (3) and is clearly 
covered by that sub-Section. Therefore, the learned counsel submit that the 
punishment as prescribed by sub-Section (3) alone could be applied even if 
the appellant is held guilty of the offence of conspiring to do a terrorist act 
with others. The question whether the conspiracy resulted in the commission 
of offences in order to achieve the objective of the conspirators is immaterial 
according to the concerned counsel. As a corollary to this argument, it is 
contended that Section 120B IPC, which is contained in the general law of 
crimes, cannot be brought into the picture so as to attract higher punishment 
especially in view of Section 56 of POTA, which gives overriding effect to the 
provisions of POTA. The learned counsel therefore submits that the maximum 
punishment that can be imposed is life imprisonment as per Section 3(3) of 
POTA. The relevant part of Section 120B reads as follows: (vide clause fourthly). These clauses squarely apply to the case on hand. 
Illustration (d) to Section 300 is instructive. It reads thus: The conspiracy to commit the offence of murder in the course of execution of 
conspiracy is well within the scope of conspiracy to which the accused Afzal 
was a party. Therefore, he is liable to be punished under Section 120B read 
with Section 302 IPC. The punishment applicable is the one prescribed under Section 109 IPC in view of the phraseology of Section 120B"be punished in 
the same manner as if he had abetted such offence". Section 109 IPC lays 
down that "if the act abetted is committed in consequence of the abetment, 
and no express provision is made by this Code for the punishment of such 
abetment, a person abetting the offence shall be punished with the 
punishment provided for the offence." Thus the conspirator, even though he 
may not have indulged in the actual criminal operations to execute the 
conspiracy, becomes liable for the punishment prescribed under Section 302 IPC. Either death sentence or imprisonment for life is the punishment 
prescribed under Section 302 IPC. In the instant case, there can be no doubt that the most appropriate 
punishment is death sentence. That is what has been awarded by the trial 
Court and the High Court. The present case, which has no parallel in the 
history of Indian Republic, presents us in crystal clear terms, a spectacle of 
rarest of rare cases. The very idea of attacking and overpowering a sovereign 
democratic institution by using powerful arms and explosives and imperiling 
the safety of a multitude of peoples' representatives, constitutional 
functionaries and officials of Government of India and engaging into a combat 
with security forces is a terrorist act of gravest severity. It is a classic example 
of rarest of rare cases. The gravity of the crime conceived by the conspirators with the potential 
of causing enormous casualties and dislocating the functioning of the 
Government as well as disrupting normal life of the people of India is some 
thing which cannot be described in words. The incident, which resulted in 
heavy casualties, had shaken the entire nation and the collective conscience of 
the society will only be satisfied if the capital punishment is awarded to the 
offender. The challenge to the unity, integrity and sovereignty of India by 
these acts of terrorists and conspirators, can only be compensated by giving 
the maximum punishment to the person who is proved to be the conspirator in 
this treacherous act. The appellant, who is a surrendered militant and who was 
bent upon repeating the acts of treason against the nation, is a menace to the 
society and his life should become extinct. Accordingly, we uphold the death 
sentence. Before we go to the next provision under which the appellant is liable to 
be convicted, we shall deal with the contention of Mr. Shanti Bhushan, 
appearing for the appellant Shaukat, which becomes relevant in the case of 
Afzal. His arguments run as follows: independence days, though few they are, by and large cited with approval the 
18th and 19th century English authorities. The term 'wages war' was 
considered to be a substitute for 'levying war' in the English Statute of High 
Treason of 1351 i.e Statute 25, Edward III, c.2. In the famous book of Sir 
James F. Stephen  "A History of the Criminal Law of England" (1883 
publication), it was noted that the principal heads of treason as ascertained 
by that Statute were: (1) 'imagining'? the King's death" (2) levying war and 
(3) adhering to the King's enemies. The speech of Lord Mansfield, CJ addressed to the Jury in Lord George 
Gordon's case (1781) is often quoted to unfold the meaning of the expression 
'levying war against the King'. To quote the words of Mansfield, C.J.: The learned Chief Justice then referred to the observations of Lord 
Holt, C. J. in a case reported in Holt's reports (1688-1700) at 681-682: In 1820 Lord President Hope in his summing up speech to the jury 
in Rex Vs. Andrew Hardie, (1820, 1 State Trials N.S., 610) explained the 
distinction between levying a war and committing a riot in the following words: Then in 1839, Tindal, C. J. while summing up the Jury in the trial of John 
Frost in the year 1839 [All ER Reprint 1835-1842 P.106 at P.117] stated that 
it was "essential to the making out of the charge of high treason by levying 
war, there must be an insurrection, there must be force accompanying that 
insurrection; and it must be for the accomplishment of an object of a general 
nature". The following statement of law by Sir Michael Foster is instructive: We find copious reference to these English authorities in the Judgments 
of various High Courts which we will be referring to a little later and in the 
'Law of Crimes' authored by Ratanlal and Dhirajlal (25th Edition). In fact, 
they were referred to in extenso by this Court in Nazir Khan Vs. State of 
Delhi [(2003) 8 SCC page 461]. Whether this exposition of law on the subject of levying war continues to 
be relevant in the present day and in the context of great socio-political 
developments that have taken place is a moot point. Our comments may be 
found a little later. Coming to the Indian decisions, the earliest case in which the conviction 
under section 121 and 121A IPC was sustained is the decision of a Division 
Bench of Madras High Court in AIR 1922 Mad. 126. The accused was seen in a 
crowd of people which attacked the police and military forces with deadly 
weapons, when the forces under the supervision of the District Magistrate 
started searching for war-knives. The mob retreated after the police opened 
fire and the accused who was arrested told the mob to disperse. The accused 
earlier exhorted the people who attended a meeting to subvert the British Raj 
and establish the Khilafat Govt. and to destroy the Govt. properties. The High 
Court agreeing with the District Judge found him guilty under section 121 , IPC 
while observing thus : The next case which is an oft-quoted authority is the decision of a 
special Bench of Rangoon High Court in AIR 1931 Rang 235, Page CJ speaking 
for the special Bench prefaced his discussion with the statement that the 
words "waging war in Section 121 are synonymous with 'levying war' in the 
Statute 25, Edward 3, clause 2 which offence is declared to be treason. After 
referring to the observations of Mansfield, CJ, Lord President Hope, Tindal, CJ 
and the commentaries of Sir Michael Foster, the High Court concluded thus : It was then observed that : The incident was described as a battle which was the result of a rebellion. 
Those who were parties to it were held guilty of waging war within Section 121 IPC. In the case of Maganlal Radhakrishan [AIR 1946 Nagpur 173] 
there was an elaborate discussion on the scope of Section 121 with reference 
to the old English cases on the subject of 'levying-war' and high treason. 
Certain decisions of Indian Courts e.g., AIR 1931 Rangoon 235 were also 
referred to and the following principles were culled out : The accused in that case was found to have connections with Hindustan 
Red Army and to have designs for the elimination of the existing 
Government. Arms and explosives were found concealed in his house.	He 
was found involved in the destruction of Police Station and shooting of a 
police constable. The learned Judges felt that the raid on the Maudha Station 
House was part of the design 'to attain by force and violence an object of a 
general public nature"the test laid down by Mansfield, CJ. The Nagpur High 
Court concluded that all this was a pre-determined plan for the overthrow of 
Government at a time when it was involved in a world-wide conflict. The 
conviction of Maganlal under section 121 was thus upheld. The decision of a Division Bench of Patna High Court in AIR 1951 
Patna 60 ( Mir Hasan Khan vs. the State ) is illustrative of what acts do 
not constitute waging of war. That was a case in which there was a mutiny 
among certain sections of the Police forces on account of the indignation 
aroused by the punishment given to one of their colleagues. The conviction 
under section 121 , IPC was mainly based on the fact that the accused were 
among those who took possession of the armory and also took part in the 
resistance which was put up to the troops. The conviction was set aside and 
the following pertinent observations were made by Shearer, J. Support was drawn from the Digest of Criminal Law by Sir James 
Stephens. In the Digest, one of the meanings given to the expression to 
levy-war is : "attacking in the manner usual in war the King himself or his 
military forces, acting as such by his orders, in the execution of their duty." 
It was concluded "it is, I think, quite impossible to say that any of these 
appellants waged-war in the sense in which that expression, as it occurs in Section 121 , Penal Code, was used". "The appellants or some of them were 
in possession of the armory at Gaya for several days and it is perfectly clear 
that they never intended to use it as a base for further operations".
The next question is whether the dare devil and horrendous acts 
perpetrated by the slain terrorists pursuant to the conspiracy, amount to 
waging or attempting to wage war punishable under Section 121 IPC and 
whether the conspirators are liable to be punished under Section 121 or 121A 
or both. Section 121 and 121A occur in the Chapter 'Offences against the State'. 
The public peace is disturbed and the normal channels of Government are 
disrupted by such offences which are aimed at subverting the authority of the 
Government or paralyzing the constitutional machinery. The expression 'war' 
preceded by the verb 'wages' admits of many shades of meaning and defies a 
definition with exactitude though it appeared to be an unambiguous 
phraseology to the Indian Law Commissioners who examined the draft Penal 
Code in 1847. The Law Commissioners observed: The expression 'Government of India' was substituted for the expression 
'Queen' by the Adaptation of Laws Order of 1950. Section 121 now reads
"Whoever wages war against the Government of India or attempts to wage 
such war, or abets the waging of such war, shall be punished with death or 
imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine". The conspiracy to commit offences punishable under Section 121 attracts punishment under Section 121A and the maximum sentence could be 
imprisonment for life. The other limb of Section 121A is the conspiracy to 
overawe by means of criminal force or the show of criminal force, the Central 
Government or any State Government. The explanation to Section 121-A 
clarifies that it is not necessary that any act or illegal omission should take 
place pursuant to the conspiracy, in order to constitute the said offence.
War, terrorism and violent acts to overawe the established Government 
have many things in common. It is not too easy to distinguish them, but one 
thing is certain, the concept of war imbedded in Section 121 is not to be 
understood in international law sense of inter-country war involving military 
operations by and between two or more hostile countries. Section 121 is not 
meant to punish prisoners of war of a belligerent nation. Apart from the 
legislative history of the provision and the understanding of the expression by 
various High Courts during the pre-independence days, the Illustration to Section 121 itself makes it clear that 'war' contemplated by Section 121 is not 
conventional warfare between two nations. Organizing or joining an 
insurrection against the Government of India is also a form of war. 
'Insurrection' as defined in dictionaries and as commonly understood connotes 
a violent uprising by a group directed against the Government in power or the 
civil authorities. "Rebellion, revolution and civil war are progressive stages in 
the development of civil unrest the most rudimentary form of which is 
'insurrection'vide Pan American World Air Inc. Vs. Actna Cas & Sur Co. 
[505, F.R. 2d, 989 at P. 1017]. An act of insurgency is different from 
belligerency. It needs to be clarified that insurrection is only illustrative of the 
expression 'war' and it is seen from the old English authorities referred to 
supra that it would cover situations analogous to insurrection if they tend to 
undermine the authority of the Ruler or Government. It has been aptly said by Sir J.F. Stephen "unlawful assemblies, riots, 
insurrections, rebellions, levying of war are offences which run into each other 
and not capable of being marked off by perfectly definite boundaries. All of 
them have in common one feature, namely, that the normal tranquility of a 
civilized society is, in each of the cases mentioned, disturbed either by actual 
force or at least by the show and threat of it". To this list has to be added 'terrorist acts' which are so conspicuous now-
a-days. Though every terrorist act does not amount to waging war, certain 
terrorist acts can also constitute the offence of waging war and there is no 
dichotomy between the two. Terrorist acts can manifest themselves into acts 
of war. According to the learned Senior Counsel for the State, terrorist acts 
prompted by an intention to strike at the sovereign authority of the 
State/Government, tantamount to waging war irrespective of the number 
involved or the force employed. It is seen that the first limb of Section 3(1) of POTA "with intent to 
threaten the unity, integrity, security or sovereignty of India or to strike terror 
in the people or any section of the people does any act or thing by using 
bombs, dynamite or other explosive or inflammable substances or firearms or 
other lethal weapons or poisons or noxious gases or other chemicals or by any 
other substances (whether biological or otherwise) of a hazardous nature or by 
any other means whatsoever" and the act of waging war have overlapping 
features. However, the degree of animus or intent and the magnitude of the 
acts done or attempted to be done would assume some relevance in order to 
consider whether the terrorist acts give rise to a state of war. Yet, the 
demarcating line is by no means clear, much less transparent. It is often a 
difference in degree. The distinction gets thinner if a comparison is made of 
terrorist acts with the acts aimed at overawing the Government by means of 
criminal force. Conspiracy to commit the latter offence is covered by Section, 
121A. It needs to be noticed that even in international law sphere, there is no 
standard definition of war. Prof. L.Oppenheim in his well-known treatise on 
International Law has given a definition marked by brevity and choice of 
words. The learned author said: "war is a contention between two or more 
States through their armed forces, for the purpose of overpowering each other 
and imposing such conditions of peace as the victor pleases". Yoram 
Dinsteinan expert in international law field analyzed the said definition in the 
following words: The learned author commented that Oppenheim was entirely right in excluding 
civil wars from his definition. Mr. Dinstein attempted the definition of 'war' in 
the following terms: In international law, we have the allied concepts of undeclared war, 
limited war, war-like situationthe nuances of which it is not necessary to 
unravel. There is no doubt that the offence of waging war was inserted in the Indian Penal Code to accord with the concept of levying war in the English 
Statutes of treason, the first of which dates back to 1351 A.D. It has been 
said so in almost all the Indian High Courts' decisions of the pre-independence 
days starting with AIR 1931 Rangoon 235. In Nazir Khan 's case [2003 (8) 
SCC 461] this Court said so in specific terms in paragraph 35 and extensively 
quoted from the passages in old English cases. Sir Michael Foster's discourses 
on treason and the passages from the decisions of the High courts referred to 
therein are also found in Ratanlal's Law of Crimes. We should, therefore, 
understand the expression "wages war" occurring in Section 121 broadly in the 
same sense in which it was understood in England while dealing with the 
corresponding expression in the Treason Statute. However, we have to view 
the expression with the eyes of the people of free India and we must modulate 
and restrict the scope of observations too broadly made in the vintage 
decisions so as to be in keeping with the democratic spirit and the 
contemporary conditions associated with the working of our democracy. The 
oft-repeated phrase 'to attain the object of general public nature' coined by 
Mansfield, LCJ and reiterated in various English and Indian decisions should not 
be unduly elongated in the present day context. On the analysis of the various passages found in the cases and 
commentaries referred to above , what are the high-lights we come across? 
The most important is the intention or purpose behind the defiance or rising 
against the Government. As said by Foster, "The true criterion is quo animo 
did the parties assemble"? In other words the intention and purpose of the 
war-like operations directed against the Governmental machinery is an 
important criterion. If the object and purpose is to strike at the sovereign 
authority of the Ruler or the Government to achieve a public and general 
purpose in contra-distinction to a private and a particular purpose, that is an 
important indicia of waging war. Of course, the purpose must be intended to 
be achieved by use of force and arms and by defiance of Government troops or 
armed personnel deployed to maintain public tranquility. Though the modus 
operandi of preparing for the offensive against the Government may be quite 
akin to the preparation in a regular war, it is often said that the number of 
force, the manner in which they are arrayed, armed or equipped is immaterial. 
Even a limited number of persons who carry powerful explosives and missiles 
without regard to their own safety can cause more devastating damage than a 
large group of persons armed with ordinary weapons or fire arms. Then, the 
other settled proposition is that there need not be the pomp and pageantry 
usually associated with war such as the offenders forming themselves in 
battle-line and arraying in a war like manner. Even a stealthy operation to 
overwhelm the armed or other personnel deployed by the Government and to 
attain a commanding position by which terms could be dictated to the 
Government might very well be an act of waging war. While these are the acceptable criteria of waging war, we must dissociate 
ourselves from the old English and Indian authorities to the extent that they 
lay down a too general test of attainment of an object of general public nature 
or a political object. We have already expressed reservations in adopting this 
test in its literal sense and construing it in a manner out of tune with the 
present day. The Court must be cautious in adopting an approach which has 
the effect of bringing within the fold of Section 121 all acts of lawless and 
violent acts resulting in destruction of public properties etc., and all acts of 
violent resistance to the armed personnel to achieve certain political 
objectives. The moment it is found that the object sought to be attained is of 
general public nature or has a political hue, the offensive violent acts targeted 
against armed forces and public officials should not be branded as acts of 
waging war. The expression 'waging war' should not be stretched too far to 
hold that all the acts of disrupting public order and peace irrespective of their 
magnitude and repercussions could be reckoned as acts of waging war against 
the Government. A balanced and realistic approach is called for in construing 
the expression 'waging war' irrespective of how it was viewed in the long long 
past. An organized movement attended with violence and attacks against the 
public officials and armed forces while agitating for the repeal of an unpopular 
law or for preventing burdensome taxes were viewed as acts of treason in the 
form of levying war. We doubt whether such construction is in tune with the 
modern day perspectives and standards. Another aspect on which a 
clarification is called for is in regard to the observation made in the old 
decisions that "neither the number engaged nor the force employed, nor the 
species of weapons with which they may be armed" is really material to prove 
the offence of levying/waging war. This was said by Lord President Hope in R 
Vs. Hardie in 1820 and the same statement finds its echo in many other 
English cases and in the case of Maganlal Radha Krishan Vs. Emperor [AIR 
1946 Nagpur 173 at page 186]. But, in our view, these are not irrelevant 
factors. They will certainly help the Court in forming an idea whether the 
intention and design to wage war against the established Government exists or 
the offence falls short of it. For instance, the fire power or the devastating 
potential of the arms and explosives that may be carried by a group of 
personsmay be large or small, as in the present case, and the scale of 
violence that follows may at times become useful indicators of the nature and 
dimension of the action resorted to. These, coupled with the other factors, may 
give rise to an inference of waging war. The single most important factor which impels us to think that this is a 
case of waging or attempting to wage war against the Government of India is 
the target of attack chosen by the slain terrorists and conspirators and the 
immediate objective sought to be achieved thereby. The battle-front selected 
was the Parliament House Complex. The target chosen was the Parliamenta 
symbol of sovereignty of the Indian republic. Comprised of peoples' 
representatives, this supreme law-making body steers the destinies of vast 
multitude of Indian people. It is a constitutional repository of sovereign power 
that collectively belongs to the people of India. The executive Government 
through the Council of Ministers is accountable to Parliament. Parliamentary 
democracy is a basic and inalienable feature of the Constitution. Entering the 
Parliament House with sophisticated arms and powerful explosives with a view 
to lay a siege of that building at a time when members of Parliament, members 
of Council of Ministers, high officials and dignitaries of the Government of India 
gathered to transact Parliamentary business, with the obvious idea of 
imperilling their safety and destabilizing the functioning of Government and in 
that process, venturing to engage the security forces guarding the Parliament 
in armed combat, amounts by all reasonable perceptions of law and common 
sense, to waging war against the Government. The whole of this well planned 
operation is to strike directly at the sovereign authority and integrity of our 
Republic of which the Government of India is an integral component. The 
attempted attack on the Parliament is an undoubted invasion of the sovereign 
attribute of the State including the Government of India which is its alter ego. 
The attack of this nature cannot be viewed on the same footing as a 
terrorist attack on some public office building or an incident resulting in the 
breach of public tranquility. The deceased terrorists were roused and impelled 
to action by a strong anti-Indian feeling as the writings on the fake Home 
Ministry sticker found on the car (Ext. PW 1/8) reveals. The huge and powerful 
explosives, sophisticated arms and ammunition carried by the slain terrorists 
who were to indulge in 'Fidayeen' operations with a definite purpose in view, is 
a clear indicator of the grave danger in store for the inmates of the House. The 
planned operations if executed, would have spelt disaster to the whole nation. 
A war-like situation lingering for days or weeks would have prevailed. Such 
offensive acts of unimaginable description and devastation would have posed a 
challenge to the Government and the democratic institutions for the protection 
of which the Government of the day stands. To underestimate it as a mere 
desperate act of a small group of persons who were sure to meet death, is to 
ignore the obvious realities and to stultify the wider connotation of the 
expression of 'war' chosen by the drafters of IPC . The target, the obvious 
objective which has political and public dimensions and the modus operandi 
adopted by the hard-core 'Fidayeens' are all demonstrative of the intention of 
launching a war against the Government of India. We need not assess the 
chances of success of such an operation to judge the nature of criminality. We 
are not impressed by the argument that the five slain terrorists ought not to be 
'exalted' to the status of warriors participating in a war. Nor do we endorse 
the argument of the learned senior counsel Mr. Sushil Kumar that in order to 
give rise to the offence of waging war, the avowed purpose and design of the 
offence should be to substitute another authority for the Government of India. 
According to learned counsel, the deprivation of sovereignty should be the 
pervading aim of the accused in order to bring the offence under Section 121 and that is lacking in the present case. We find no force in this contention. The 
undoubted objective and determination of the deceased terrorists was to 
impinge on the sovereign authority of the nation and its Government. Even if 
the conspired purpose and objective falls short of installing some other 
authority or entity in the place of an established Government, it does not in our 
view detract from the offence of waging war. There is no warrant for such 
truncated interpretation. The learned senior counsel Mr. Ram Jethmalani also contended that 
terrorism and war are incompatible with each other. War is normative in the 
sense that rules of war governed by international conventions are observed 
whereas terrorism is lawless, according to the learned counsel. This contention 
presupposes that the terrorist attacks directed against the institutions and the 
machinery of the Government can never assume the character of war. The 
argument is also based on the assumption that the expression 'war' in Section 
121 does not mean anything other than war in the strict sense as known in 
international circles i.e. organized violence among sovereign States by means 
of military operations. We find no warrant for any of these assumptions and 
the argument built up on the basis of these assumptions cannot be upheld. In 
the preceding paras, we have already clarified that concept of war in Section 
121 which includes insurrection or a civilian uprising should not be understood 
in the sense of conventional war between two nations or sovereign entities. 
The normative phenomenon of war as understood in international sense does 
not fit into the ambit and reach of Section 121 . The learned senior counsel Mr. Ram Jethmalani argued that in a case of 
war, the primary and intended target must be combatants as distinguished 
from civilians, though the latter may be incidentally killed or injured and that 
feature is lacking in the present case. This contention, though plausible it is, 
does not merit acceptance. When an attack on the Parliament was planned, the 
executors of this plan should have envisaged that they will encounter 
resistance from the police and other armed security personnel deployed on 
duty fairly in large numbers at the Parliament complex. The slain terrorists and 
other conspirators should have necessarily aimed at overpowering or killing the 
armed personnel who would naturally come in their way. Inflicting casualties 
on the police and security personnel on duty as well as civilians if necessary 
would have been part of the design and planning of these hard-core terrorists 
and the criminal conspirators. It is not necessary that in order to constitute the 
offence of waging war, military or other forces should have been the direct 
target of attack. There is no such hard and fast rule and nothing was said to 
that effect in the long line of cases referred to supra. The act laying siege of 
Parliament House or such other act of grave consequences to the Government 
and the people is much more reflective of the intention to wage war rather 
than an attack launched against a battalion of armed men guarding the border 
or vital installations. Another point urged by Mr. Ram Jethmalani is that no violence or even 
military operations can become war unless it is formally declared to be such by 
the Central Government. So long as the Government does not formally declare 
an operation to be war, it is contended that a state of peace is supposed to 
exist however badly it may be disturbed. It is further contended that the 
participants in the war are to be treated as the prisoners of war and they are 
not amenable to the jurisdiction of domestic criminal Courts. It is pointed out 
that the Hague convention and other international covenants which are 
embodied in Schedule III of the Geneva Convention Act, 1960 lay down the 
rules as to who the prisoners of war are and how they should be treated. In 
substance, it is contended that Section 121 IPC cannot be invoked against the 
participants in an undeclared 'war'. These arguments proceed on the 
assumption that the expression 'war' occurring in the Penal Code is almost 
synonymous with war in international law sense. The question of formal 
declaration of war by the Government would only arise in a case of outbreak of 
armed conflict with another country or a political group having the support of 
another nation. It may be, in a case of civil war and a rebellion spreading 
through the length and breadth of the country, the Government will have to 
control it on war footing and it might even consider it expedient to declare that 
a state of war exists, but, this theoretical possibility cannot be a guiding factor 
in construing the expression 'waging war' in Section 121 especially when there 
is no legal provision mandating the Government to make such declaration.
It was next contended that foreign nationals who intrude into the 
territory of India and do not owe even temporary allegiance to the Government 
of India cannot be charged of the offence of waging war. In other words, the 
contention is that a person who is not a citizen nor a resident alien cannot be 
accused of high treason. The decisions of House of Lords in Joys vs. DPP 
[1946 All ER page 186] and of Privy Council in Lodewyk Johannes vs. AG 
of Natal [1907 AC 326] have been referred to. The dicta in Anthony 
Crammer Vs. USA [325 US pages 1-77] and in the case of United States 
vs. Villato [1797 CC Pennsylvania Page 419] have also been referred to 
in support of his proposition. The learned counsel has also placed reliance on Sec. 13 of the 2nd Report of the Law Commissioners on the Indian Penal Code , 
the excerpts of which are given in Nazir Khan 's case [(2003) 8 SCC 461 at 
486]. The Law Commissioners observed thus: We find it difficult to sustain the argument of learned Senior Counsel. The 
word 'whoever' is a word of broad import. Advisedly such language was used 
departing from the observations made in the context of Treason statute. We 
find no good reason why the foreign nationals stealthily entering into the 
Indian territory with a view to subverting the functioning of the Government 
and destabilizing the society should not be held guilty of waging war within the 
meaning of Section 121 . The section on its plain terms, need not be confined 
only to those who owe allegiance to the established Government. We do not 
have the full text of the Law Commissioners' Report and we are not in a 
position to know whether the Law Commissioners or the drafters of Indian 
Penal Code wanted to exclude from the ambit of Section 121 the unauthorized 
foreigners sneaking into Indian territory to undertake war like operations 
against the Government. Moreover, we have no material before us to hold that 
the views of Law Commissioners on this aspect, were accepted. Those views, 
assuming that they are clearly discernible from the extracted passage, need 
not be the sole guiding factor to construe the expression 'waging war'. 
Though the above observations were noticed in Nazir Khan 's case, the 
ultimate decision in the case shows that the guilt of the accused was not 
judged from that standpoint. On the other hand, the conviction of foreigners 
(Pakistani militants) was upheld in that case . Another contention advanced by the learned counsel is that war including 
civil war must have a representative character and the persons participating in 
the war should represent a political entity, which has the objective of 
overthrowing the Government and securing the sovereign status. This 
contention too has no force in view of what we have said above regarding the 
scope and ambit of the expression 'war'. Thus, the criminal acts done by the deceased terrorists in order to 
capture the Parliament House is an act that amounts to waging or attempting 
to wage war. The conspiracy to commit either the offence of waging war or 
attempting to wage war or abetting the waging of war is punishable under Section 121A IPC with the maximum sentence of imprisonment for life. In the 
circumstances of the case, the imposition of maximum sentence is called for 
and the High Court is justified in holding the appellant Afzal guilty under Section 121A IPC and sentencing him to life imprisonment. In addition, the 
High Court has also held the appellant guilty of the offence under Section 121 IPC itself on the premise that he abetted the waging of war. The sentence of 
life imprisonment imposed by the trial Court was enhanced to death sentence 
by the High Court. We feel that the conclusion reached by the High Court both 
in regard to the applicability of Section 121 IPC and the punishment, is correct 
and needs no interference. The High Court observed: "if not acts of waging 
war, what they did would certainly be acts of abetting the waging of war". In 
this connection, we may clarify that the expression 'abetment' shall not be 
construed to be an act of instigating the other conspirators (i.e. the deceased 
terrorists). There is another shade of meaning to 'abetment' given in Section 
107 IPC. It is clause secondly of Section 107 which is attracted in the case of 
Afzal. We quote the relevant portion of Section 107 IPC, which reads as 
follows: As criminal acts took place pursuant to the conspiracy, the appellant, as 
a party to the conspiracy, shall be deemed to have abetted the offence. In 
fact, he took active part in a series of steps taken to pursue the objective of 
conspiracy. The offence of abetting the waging of war, having regard to the 
extraordinary facts and circumstances of this case, justifies the imposition of 
capital punishment and therefore the judgment of the High Court in regard to 
the conviction and sentence of Afzal under Section 121 IPC shall stand.
The trial Court as well as the High Court also convicted the appellant 
Afzal under Section 3 of Explosive Substances Act (for short ' E.S. Act ') and 
sentenced him to life imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.25000/-. Under Section 4 of E.S. Act, he was sentenced to 20 years R.I. and to pay a fine of 
Rs.25000/-. We are of the view that Clause (a) of Section 4 of E.S.Act is attracted in 
the instant case and the appellant Afzal is liable to be punished under the first 
part of the punishment provision. The relevant part of Section 4 of E.S. Act is 
as follows: The expression 'explosive substance' according to Section 2(a) shall be 
deemed to include any materials for making any explosive substance; also any 
apparatus, machine, implement or material used, or intended to be used, or 
adapted for causing, or aiding in causing, any explosion in or with any 
explosive substance. The planned attack on the Parliament House, by the use of explosives 
and fire power, was evidently a part of the conspiracy to which Afzal was a 
party. The preparation of explosives meant to be used by terrorists (co-
conspirators) in the course of the planned attack of the Parliament House was 
well within the knowledge of Afzal. He, in fact, procured the materials i.e. 
chemicals etc., for facilitating the preparation of explosive substances at the 
hideouts. This is what the evidence on record clerly points out. He is, 
therefore, liable to punished under clause (a) read with (i) of Section 4 of 
POTA and accordingly he shall be sentenced to the maximum sentence of 
imprisonment for life and a fine of Rs.10000/-, in default of which, he shall 
undergo R.I. for six months. However, the conviction under Section 3 of the Explosive Substances Act 
is set aside as we are of the view that the ingredients of the said Section are 
not satisfied in order to find Afzal guilty under that Section.
Thus, Afzal will have life sentence on three counts. However, as he is 
sentenced to death, the sentence of life imprisonment will naturally get 
merged into the death sentence. The appeal of Afzal is accordingly dismissed, subject to the setting aside 
of convictions under Section 3(2) of POTA and Section 3 of Explosive 
Substances Act. 19. 	CASE OF SHAUKAT (A2)

	As in the case of Mohd. Afzal, the evidence against Shaukat Hussain 
consists of confessional statement made to the Deputy Commissioner of Police 
and the circumstantial evidence. (i) 	Confession
	The confessional statement said to have been recorded by PW60the 
DCP, Special Cell at 3.30 p.m. on 21.12.2001 is marked as PW60/6. As per 
Ext.PW60/11, the DCP administered the statutory warning and obtained an 
endorsement from Shaukat that he was not under any duress and he was 
ready to give the statement. We shall briefly refer to the contents of the 
confessional statement. Shaukat spoke about his graduation in 1992 in Delhi, his acquaintance 
with SAR Gilani of Baramulla who was doing his post-graduation in Arabic 
language, starting fruit business in 1997 and disbanding the same, his 
marriage with a Sikh girl named Navjot Sandhu @ Afsan Guru (A4) in the year 
2000, purchase of truck in her name in June, 2000 and starting transport 
business, his cousin Afzal of Sopore studying in Delhi University in 1990 and 
his friendship with Gilani at that time. Then he stated about Afzal motivating 
him to join the jihad in Kashmir and in October, 2001, Afzal calling him from 
Kashmir and asking him to arrange a rented house for himself and another 
militant, accordingly arranging rented accommodation in Boys' Hostel at 
Christian Colony and Afzal accompanied by the militant Mohammed coming to 
Delhi and meeting him at his house in Mukherji Nagar and Afzal disclosing to 
him that he was a Pak national of Jaish-e-Mohammad militant outfit and had 
come to Delhi for carrying out a 'fidayeen' attack. He then stated that during 
that period, he discussed about jihad with SAR Gilani who also offered help in 
carrying out the attack and Afzal thereafter going to Srinagar and bringing 
some other militants who were Pak nationals and who brought with them arms 
and explosives and they being accommodated at A-97, Gandhi Vihar and Afzal 
and Mohammed making preparations for the attacks. He then stated about the 
change of his mobile number as a precautionary measure and about his talks 
with Ghazibaba, Mohammed and Afzal from his previous number and lending 
his motorcycle. Then he stated that meetings were also held at his house for 
discussion and execution of the plans and his wife was also in the knowledge 
of their plans. Then he stated about the purchase of a second hand 
Ambassador car by Afzal and Mohammed, taking another rented 
accommodation in Indira Vihar. He then stated that on the night of 
12.12.2001, he along with Afzal and Gilani met Mohammed and other militants 
at their Gandhi Vihar hideout and Mohammed gave Laptop computer and 
Rs.10 lakhs to Afzal with a direction to handover the Laptop to Ghazibaba and 
the money to be distributed among Afzal, Gilani and himself. Mohammed told 
them that the next day i.e. 13.12.2001, they were going to carry out 'fidayeen' 
attack on the Parliament House. He then stated that Afzal called him from his 
mobile phone number .89429 and asked him to watch TV and report about 
the latest position of the movement of VIPs in Parliament. By the time he 
switched on the TV, he received another call from Afzal that the mission was 
on. Thereafter, he met Afzal at Azadpur Mandi and both of them went to 
Gilani's house to give him Rs.2 lakhs. However Gilani wanted them to hand it 
over at his house in Kashmir. Finally, he stated that he along with Afzal left for 
Srinagar in his truck on the same day and they were apprehended at Srinagar 
on 15th December, 2001 and the Laptop and cash recovered by the police and 
later they were brought to Delhi. Shaukat was produced before the ACMM by PW80 the next day along 
with the other accused and the ACMM recorded his statement. The ACMM had 
gone through the same procedure as in he case of Afzal and recorded the 
statement that there was no complaint against the police personnel and that 
Shaukat confirmed making the confessional statement before DCP any police 
pressure. The first date on which Shaukat retracted the confession was on 
19.1.2002 when he filed an application before the Designated Court expressing 
certain doubts about the 'verbal confession made before Special Cell'. He 
expressed that the Delhi Police would have twisted the confession 'in a 
different way and different formation'. He further stated that he was made to 
sign blank papers and was not allowed to read the confessional statement 
before he signed it. Therefore, he requested the Court to record his statement 
afresh. Another application was filed on 3rd June, 2002 i.e. after the charge-
sheet was filed disputing the proceedings recorded by the ACMM when he was 
produced before the Magistrate on 22nd December and also stating that he 
gave verbal confessional statement before a Special Cell Officer and not before 
DCP or ACP. He maintained that he was forced to sign some blank papers.
The difference between the case of Afzal and Shaukat in regard to 
confessional statement is that the retraction was done by Shaukat much earlier 
i.e. within a month after it was recorded by the DCP. The other point of 
difference is that Shaukat was sent to judicial custody unlike Afzal who was 
sent to police custody after they were produced before the ACMM. The same 
reasons which we have given in regard to the confessional statement of Afzal, 
hold good in the case of Shaukat as well except with respect to the breach of 
requirement as to judicial custody. The procedural safeguards incorporated in Sections 50(2) , 50(3) & 50(4) are violated in this case also. True, Shaukat was 
sent to judicial custody after his statement was recorded by the Magistrate. 
But in the absence of legal advice and the opportunity to interact with the 
lawyer, there is reason to think that he would not have been aware of the 
statutory mandate under Section 32(5) and therefore the lurking fear of going 
back to police custody could have been present in his mind.
The learned ACMM did not apprise him of the fact that he would no 
longer be in police custody. There is also nothing to show that the confessional 
statement was read over to him or at least a gist of it has been made known to 
him. On the point of truth of the confessional statement, we have, while 
discussing the case of Afzal, adverted to certain comments made by the 
learned counsel for the appellants in order to demonstrate that the alleged 
confession cannot be true judged from the standpoint of probabilities and 
natural course of human conduct. Of course, we have not rested our conclusion 
on these submissions, though we commented that they were 'plausible and 
persuasive'. However, in the case of Shaukat, there is one additional point 
which deserves serious notice. According to his version in the confession 
statement, his wife Afsan Guru (A4) was also having knowledge of their plans. 
Is it really believable that he would go to the extent of implicating his pregnant 
wife in the crime. It casts a serious doubt whether some embellishments were 
made in the confessional statement. We are not inclined to express a final 
opinion on this point as we are in any way excluding the confession from 
consideration on the ground of violation of procedural safeguards and the 
utterly inadequate time given by PW 60 for reflection. The other point which was harped upon by the learned counsel Mr. 
Shanti Bhushan was that Shaukat and Afzal were not produced before the DCP 
in the forenoon on 21st December, 2001 as directed by him. In the first 
instance, Gilani was produced and when he was not prepared to give the 
statement, the learned counsel suggests that Shaukat and Afzal were taken 
back to police cell and subjected to threats and it was only after ensuring that 
they would make the confession, they were produced before the DCP late in 
the evening. It is contended that the reason given for not producing them at 
the appointed time is not convincing. Though the possibility pointed by the 
learned counsel cannot be ruled out, yet, the argument is in the realm of 
surmise and we are not inclined to discredit the confession on this ground.
Excluding the confession from consideration for the reasons stated supra, 
we have to examine the circumstantial evidence against Shaukat and assess 
whether he joined in conspiracy with Afzal and the deceased terrorists to 
attack the Parliament House or whether he is guilty of any other offence. The 
circumstances analyzed by the High Court and put against the accused 
Shaukat Hussain in the concluding part of the judgment, apart from the 
confession, are the following: 41, Christian Colony on 7.11.2001 in which room the deceased 
terrorist Mohammed had stayed. 2.	Cell phone No. 9810446375 which was recovered from the 
house of Shaukat was for the first time made operational on 2nd 
November, 2001. This conincides with the period when Afzal 
acquired a mobile phone and the first hideout was procured. 
This number was in contact with the satellite phone No. 
8821651150059 and was also in communication with the 
mobile No. 9810693456 recovered from the deceased terrorist 
Mohammed, on which number Mohammed had received calls 
from the same satellite phone No. 8821651150059, and even 
Afzal had received phone calls from this number. This 
establishes that Shaukat was in touch with Afzal and 
Mohammed during the period November-December, 2001 and 
all the three were in contact with the same satellite phone No. 
8821651150059. 3.	Shaukat's motorcycle was recovered form the hideout and was 
used for recee by the terrorists. 4.	Shaukat along with Afzal had left the premises A-97, Gandhi 
Vihar along with 4/5 other boys in the morning of 13.12.2001 
at about 10 a.m. in an Ambassador Car. 5.	When the Parliament was under attack, Afzal was in touch with 
Mohammed. Shaukat was in touch with Afzal. He was thus in 
contact with the co-conspirators and the deceased terrorists at 
the time of attack. 6.	Shaukat had been visiting Afzal at A-97, Gandhi Vihar and 281, 
Indira Vihar. He had also accompanied him when the room at 
the Boys' Hostel at Christian Colony was taken on rent. It 
cannot be inferred that Shaukat was merely moving around 
with his cousin. Keeping in view the totality of the evidence, 
Shaukat was equally liable for what was happening at the 
hideouts. 7.	Shaukat was present in Delhi till the forenoon of 13.12.2001 
when Parliament was under attack and he absconded along with 
Afzal when both of them were arrested at Srinagar. His 
conduct, post attack, is incriminating. 8.	The laptop recovered from the truck belonging to wife of 
Shaukat was the one which was used by the terrorists to create 
the identity cards of Xansa Websity and the fake Home Ministry 
stickers. The High Court then commented at paragraph 402
"Shaukat's role in the conspiracy was clearly that of an active 
participant. Evidence on record does not show that he has been 
brought within the sweep of the dragnet of conspiracy by merely 
being seen associated with Afzal. There is more than mere 
knowledge, acquiescence, carelessness, indifference or lack of 
concern. There is clear and cogent evidence of informed and 
interested co-operation, simulation and instigation against accused 
Shaukat. Evidence qua Shaukat clearly establishes the steps from 
knowledge to intent and finally agreement". Taking into account the confessional statement which stands corroborated 
by various circumstances proved, the High Court reached the inevitable 
conclusion that Shaukat was a party to the agreement constituting 
conspiracy. Once the confessional statement is excluded, the evidence 
against Shaukat gets substantially weakened and it is not possible to 
conclude beyond reasonable doubt on the basis of the other circumstances 
enumerated by the High Court, that Shaukat had joined the conspiracy to 
attack the Parliament House and did his part to fulfill the mission of the 
conspirators. Apart from the confession, the High Court seems to have been 
influenced by the fact that Shaukat was in touch with his cousin as well as 
the deceased terrorist Mohammed through cell phone. But this finding, as 
far as telephonic contact with Mohammed is concerned, is not borne out by 
the cell phone records on which the prosecution relied. There was no 
occasion on which Shaukat contacted Mohammed or any other terrorist. To 
this extent, there seems to be an error in the High Court's finding in the last 
sentence of circumstance No.2. The inference drawn in relation to 
circumstance No.6 that Shaukat "was equally liable for what was happening 
at the hideouts", cannot also be accepted. He may have knowledge of what 
was going on but it could not be said that he was equally liable for the acts 
done by the deceased terrorists and Afzal, unless there is enough material 
apart from the confession, to conclude that he was a party to the 
conspiracy. With these comments on the findings of the High Court, let us see what 
could and could not be put against the appellant Shaukat. We undertake the 
exercise of referring in brief to the evidence touching on each of the 
circumstances adverted to by the High Court while noting the comments of Mr. 
Shanti Bhushan wherever necessary. (ii)	Circumstance No.1
Shaukat in the company of Afzal seeking the assistance of PW38 who 
was running STD booth in Christian Colony to get a room on rent and 
approaching the proprietor of Boys' Hostel (PW37) and taking a room in the 
hostel on rent is established by the evidence of PW37the propretor. Both 
PWs 37 & 38 identified Shaukat apart from Afzal. The more important piece of 
evidence is the fact revealed by PW37 that he saw one Ruhail Ali Shah staying 
in the room who showed his I.Card to him on enquiries. The identity card 
(Ext.PW4/4) which was shown to PW38 was identified when the two accused 
led the police to the hostel on 19.12.2001 itself. He also identified the accused 
Afzal and Shaukat, both before the police as well as in the Court. The fact that 
Shaukat and Afzal were coming to see Ruhail Ali Shah, who was no other than 
Mohammed, was also spoken to by him. The photographExt.PW29/5 of 
Ruhail Ali Shah, whose real name was Mohammed, was also identified by him. 
The contention of the learned counsel appearing for Shaukat that test 
identification parade ought to have been held, cannot be accepted having 
regard to the legal position clarified by us in the earlier part of the judgment. 
The fact that PW37 did not produce the register expected to be maintained by 
him, does not also discredit his testimony which has been believed by both the 
Courts. (iii)	Circumstance Nos.2 & 5 (phone contacts)
	The evidence of the investigating officerPW 66 and PW67 reveals that 
two mobile phone instruments were recovered on 15th December, 2001 from 
the house of Shaukat. One of them, namely, Ext.PW36/1 with the phone 
No.9811573506 was recovered from the hand of Afsan Guru. This was after 
the telephonic conversation over this number at 20.09 hours was intercepted 
on the night of 14th December. It transpired that the said conversation was 
between her and her husband Shaukat speaking from Srinagar. Another cell 
phone instrument with the number 9810446375 which was operated upto 7th 
December, 2001 was also found in the house and the same was seized. The 
call records indicate frequent contacts between Shaukat and Gilani and 
Shaukat and Afzal from the first week of November, 2001 upto 13th December, 
2001. On the crucial day i.e. 13th December, 2001 just before the Parliament 
attack, Mohammed spoke to Afzal at 10.43 and 11.08 hours and then Afzal 
spoke to Shaukat at 11.19 hours and thereafter Mohammed spoke to Afzal at 
11.25 hours and Afzal in turn called Shaukat at 11.32 hours. Mr. Shanti 
Bhushan has challenged the truth of recoveries of phones on the ground that 
no independent witnesses were required to witness the recovery. The learned 
counsel has relied on the decisions in Sahib Singh Vs. State of Punjab [(1996) 11 SCC 685, paras 5 & 6] and Kehar Singh Vs. State (Delhi 
Administration ) [(1988) 3 SCC 609 at page 654, para 54] to show that in 
the absence of independent witnesses being associated with search the seizure 
cannot be relied upon. We do not think that any such inflexible proposition was laid down in those cases. On the other hand we have the case of Sanjay v. 
NCT [(2001) 3 SCC 190], wherein it was observed at para. 30, that the fact 
that no independent witness was associated with recoveries is not a ground 
and that the Investigation Officers evidence need not always be disbelieved. Of 
course, closer scrutiny of evidence is what is required. Having regard to the 
fact situation in the present case, the police officers cannot be faulted for not 
going in search of the witnesses in the locality. There is no law that the 
evidence of police officials in regard to seizure ought to be discarded. They 
took the help of Gilani who by then was in police custody to locate the house of 
Shaukat and that Gilani was with the police, was mentioned by Afsan Guru in 
her Section 313 statement. The next point urged by the learned counsel for the appellant that the 
details regarding sales of mobile phones and SIM cards was not checked up 
from the distributors of AIRTEL or ESSAR does not also affect the credibility of 
recoveries. Such omissions in investigation cannot be magnified. The learned 
counsel Mr. Shanti Bhushan as well as Mr. Sushil Kumar contended that it was 
quite likely that all the deceased terrorists were having one mobile phone each, 
but only three were shown to have been recovered and the other two must 
have been foisted on the accused giving the colour of recovery from them. We 
find no justification for this comment. Another point urged is that the recovery 
of phones shown to be after 10.45 a.m. on 15th December cannot be true as 
Afsan Guru was arrested on the night of 14th December, as held by the trial 
Court on the basis of testimony of Srinagar police witnesses that the 
information about the truck given by Afsan Guru was received early in the 
morning of 15th December. It is therefore pointed out that the prosecution did 
not come forward with the correct version of the search and recovery of the 
articles in the house of Shaukat. In this context, it must be noted that Afsan 
Guru (A4) was not consistent in her stand about the time of arrest. Whereas in 
her statement under Section 313, she stated that she was arrested on 14th 
December between 6.00 & 7.00 p.m. In the course of cross examination of 
PW67, it was suggested that she was arrested at 6 or 6.30 a.m. on 15th 
December, 2001. Her version in the statement under Section 313 cannot be 
correct for the reason that the intercepted conversation was at 8.12 p.m. on 
14th December, 2001 and the police could have acted only thereafter. Though 
the time of arrest, as per the prosecution version, seems to be doubtful, from 
that, it cannot be inferred that the search and recovery was false. One does 
not lead to the other inference necessarily. The search and recovery of phones 
having been believed by both the Courts, we are not inclined to disturb that 
finding. In any case, the fact that the phone No. 73506 was in the possession 
of Afsan Guru stands proved from the intercepted conversation and the 
evidence regarding the identification of voice. Next, it was contended that the printouts/call records have not been 
proved in the manner laid down by Section 63 , 65A & 65B of the Evidence Act. 
This point has been dealt with while dealing with the case of Afzal and we have 
upheld the admissibility and reliability of the call records. The point concerning 
the duplicate entries has already been considered in the case of Afzal and for 
the same reasons we find no substance in this contention in regard to some of 
the duplicate entries in the call records. (iv) 	Circumstance No.3 (Recovery of motorcycle of Shaukat from 281, 
Indira Vihar)
	The fact that the Yamaha Escorts motorcycle with the registration 
No.DL1SA3122 belonged to Shaukat Hussain, is borne out by the registration 
records produced by PW53. In fact, in the course of Section 313 examination, 
he did not deny that fact. This motorcycle was found at 281, Indira Vihar as 
seen from the evidence of PW76 and PW32. Shaukat together with Afzal led 
the police to the said premises at Indira Vihar as seen from the 'pointing out 
and seizure memo' (Ext.PW32/1) coupled with the evidence of PW76. PW32/1 
was attested by PW32 also who was present at the time of search. As per the 
evidence of PW32, Mohd. Afzal whom he identified in the Court, had taken the 
2nd Floor on rent on 9.12.2001 through the property dealerPW31. PW32 
stated that five or six persons were found in the upstairs on 11th December, 
2001. When enquired as to why they were in the flat instead of his family, 
Afzal stated that they would be leaving soon. On 12th December, 2001 Afzal 
left the premises after putting the lock which was broken open by the police on 
16th December. We have already noticed that the chemicals used for 
preparation of the explosives which were purchased by Afzal were recovered 
from the premises in the presence of PW32. Six detonators in a plastic 
container were also found. Though PW32 claimed to have identified the 
photographs of the deceased terrorists as those who were found in the 
premises, this part of the evidence is not entitled to any weight as rightly 
contended by Mr. Shanti Bhushan. PW32 stated that the police showed him 
some photographs and told him that those were the photos of the slain 
terrorists who attacked the Parliament. Thus, the so called identification by 
PW32 on the revelation by the police cannot be relied upon. In fact, the High 
Court did not believe this witness on the point of identification of photos (vide 
paragraph 326 of judgment). However it is quite clear from the chemicals and 
explosive materials found there that this hideout was taken by Afzal to 
accommodate the deceased terrorists who stayed there to do preparatory acts. 
The fact that Shaukat's motorcycle was also found there, would give rise to a 
reasonable inference that Shaukat kept it for use by Afzal and his companions. 
It also reinforces the conclusion that Shaukat was aware of the Indira Vihar 
abode of these persons. (v)	Circumstance No.4 & 6 (Shaukat's visits to Gandhi Vihar hideout)

	The evidence of PW34 who let out the 2nd Floor of his house at A-97, 
Gandhi Vihar to the accused Afzal through PW33the property dealer, reveals 
that Shaukat used to come to meet Afzal who was staying there under a false 
name of Maqsood and that Shaukat used to meet Afzal at that place. PW34 
identified Afzal and Shaukat. From the house in Gandhi Vihar, sulphur packets 
(purchased by Afzal), Sujata Mixer grinder in which traces of explosive material 
were detected, were found. PW34 identified the photograph of the terrorist 
Mohammed (Ext.PW1/20) as the person who stayed with Afzal for a few days 
in the premises. He stated that he could only identify the photograph of 
Mohammed but not rest of them when the police showed him the photographs. 
His evidence on the point of identification of Mohammed's photograph inspires 
confidence as Mohammed stayed in the premises for a few days. The witness 
also deposed to the fact that on 13th December, 2001, Afzal, Shaukat and four 
more persons left the premises around 10 a.m. and all excepting Afzal got into 
an Ambassador car and Afzal came back to the premises. However, he did not 
mention that one of the accompanying persons was Mohammed. His evidence 
establishes that Shaukat was a frequent visitor to Gandhi Vihar hideout and he 
was with Afzal and some others even on the crucial day. That after the attack on 13th December, Afzal and Shaukat left for 
Srinagar in the truck owned by the wife of Shaukat and that the laptop, mobile 
phone and cash of Rs. 10 lacs was recovered, is established by unimpeachable 
evidence. In her examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C. Afsan admitted that 
her husband left Delhi in the truck to Srinagar on 13th December though she 
expressed her ignorance about Afzal going with him. There is the evidence of 
PW 61, DSP at Srinagar that they stopped the truck near the police station at 
Parampura and on the pointing out of Afzal and Shaukat they recovered the 
laptop, mobile phone and Rs. 10 lacs from the truck and the two accused 
were arrested at 11.45 a.m. on 15th December. Evidence of PW 61 was 
corroborated by PW 62, another police officer. There is a controversy on the 
question as to when the Srinagar police received the information, i.e., whether 
at 10.30 or so on 15th December or in the early morning hours of 15th 
December. But the fact cannot be denied that Srinagar police acted on the 
information received from Delhi about the truck number which was conveyed 
by Afsan (A4). PWs 64 and 65, the police officers of Delhi also testified that 
Afzal and Shaukat were handed over to them along with the seized articles on 
15th December at 1 P.M. as they reached Srinagar by a special aircraft. The 
stand taken by Shaukat was that he was arrested in Delhi from his house on 
14th December which is obviously false in view of the plethora of evidence 
referred to supra. As regards the truck, he stated in the course of Section 313 
examination that the truck loaded with bananas was sent to Srinagar on the 
night of 13th December. The falsity of Shaukat's version of arrest in Delhi on 
14th is established by the fact that on the night of 14th, Shaukat did call up 
from Srinagar and spoke to his wife Afsan, the receiving number being 
73506 which was later recovered from the house of Shaukat. The 
Conversation was taped and PW48the Senior Scientific Officer in CFSL, Delhi 
compared the voice samples of Shaukat and Afsan Guru sent to him with the 
voice on the cassette which recorded intercepted conversation. He made 
auditory and spectrographic analysis of voice samples. He submitted a report 
Ext. PW 48/1. PW 48 testified that on comparison the voice was found to be 
the same. The High Court doubted the authenticity of the intercepted 
conversation on the ground that duration noted by the expert in his report was 
two minutes and 16 seconds was at variance with the duration of 49 seconds 
noted in the call records. The High Court laboured under the mistaken 
impression that the duration was 2 minutes and 16 seconds which was the 
duration of conversation between Gilani and his brother. Even then there is 
some discrepancy (between 49 and 74 seconds which according to PW48 was 
approximate) but no question was put to PW 48 in this regard nor any 
suggestion was put to PW 48 that the voice was not the same. If any such 
challenge was made the trial Court would have heard the conversation from 
the tape and noted the duration. We are, therefore, of the view that the 
finding as regards interception of truck, recovery of laptop etc. from the truck 
and the arrest of Shaukat along with Afzal on 15th December at about 11.45 
A.M. at Srinagar cannot be doubted. As already discussed, the laptop 
computer stored highly incriminating material relating to the identity cards 
found with the deceased and the Home Ministry stickers pasted on the car 
used by them. In addition to the above circumstances, the prosecution has placed 
reliance on the evidence of PW45 who is the landlord of Shaukat to prove that 
not only Afzal but also the deceased terrorists used to come to Shaukat's 
residence on the first floor a few days before the incident. In addition, PW45 
stated that he had seen the persons, whose photographs he identified going to 
Shaukat's residence often two or three days prior to 13th December. The 
photographs were those of the deceased terrorists. He stated that he was 
running a printing press in the ground floor from where he could see the 
people going to the first floor. He also stated that he was called by police in the 
Special Cell at Lodi Road on 17th December and he was shown some 
photographs which he identified as those relating to the persons visiting 
Shaukat and Navjot. But, we find no evidence of his identification before he 
was examined in the Court. It is difficult to believe that he would be in a 
position to identify (in the Court) after a lapse of eight months the casual 
visitors going to the first floor of Shaukat by identifying their photographs. In 
fact, in some of the photographs, the face is found so much disfigured on 
account of injuries that it would be difficult to make out the identity on seeing 
such photographs. Yet, he claimed to have identified the photographs of all the 
five deceased terrorists as those visiting Shaukat's residence. He stated that 
he could not identify Gilani as the person who was visiting Shaukat's residence 
at that crucial time but after a leading question was put, he identified Gilani in 
the Court. The High Court did not attach any weight to his evidence regarding 
identification of the deceased terrorists. Though the trial Court referred to his 
evidence inextenso, no view was expressed by the trial Court on the point of 
reliability of his evidence regarding identification. Moreover, we find 
considerable force in the argument of the learned counsel for the appellant that 
it is hard to believe that the terrorists would take the risk of going to Shaukat's 
place for the so called meetings thereby exposing to the risk of being 
suspected, especially, at a place where two police sub-inspectors were staying 
as stated by PW 45. Even according to the prosecution case, by that time, the 
deceased terrorists had settled down at their respective hide-outs with the help 
of Afzal. In the normal course, the terrorists would not have ventured to go 
out frequently and if necessary they would call Shaukat for a meeting at their 
place of stay instead of the whole gang going to Shaukat's place frequently. 
For all these reasons we have to discard the evidence of PW 45 insofar as he 
testified that the deceased terrorists were the frequent visitors of Shaukat's 
residence before the incident. In addition to the above circumstances, the prosecution has placed 
reliance on the evidence of PW45 who is the landlord of Shaukat to prove that 
not only Afzal but also the deceased terrorists used to come to Shaukat's 
residence on the first floor a few days before the incident.
The prosecution also relied on another circumstance, namely, that 
Shaukat had accompanied Afzal to the shop of PW49 on 4th December, 2001 to 
purchase a Motorola make mobile phone which was ultimately recovered from 
the deceased terrorist Rana at the spot. No doubt PW49 stated that when Afzal 
came to purchase telephone from the shop, the accused Shaukat present in 
the Court was also with him. We are not inclined to place reliance on the 
testimony of PW41 regarding Shaukat's presence. It would be difficult for any 
one to remember the face of an accompanying person after a considerable 
lapse of time. The High Court did not place reliance on this circumstance.
 There are, however, two circumstances which can be put against the 
accused Shaukat. The secondhand motorcycle No. HR 51E-5768 was sold to 
Mohd. Afzal on 8th December. He identified Afzal and Shaukat in the Court as 
the persons who came to his shop on that day in the company of two others 
including a lady. He also identified them at the Special Cell on 19th December. 
He could not identify the lady as Afsan. However, he identified the photograph 
of the deceased terrorist Mohammed at the Special Cell on 19th December and 
also in the Court. This motorcycle of Afzal was recovered from the hideout at 
A-97, Gandhi Vihar which Shaukat used to visit frequently. His presence at the 
shop with Mohammed apart from Afzal would show that he had acquaintance 
with Mohammed also. The evidence of this witness has been criticized on the 
ground that test identification parade could have been held and that there was 
discrepancy in regard to the date of seizure memo of the bill book. These are 
not substantial grounds to discredit the testimony of an independent witness
PW29. The High Court was inclined to place reliance on this witness in regard 
to the identification of the deceased terrorist having regard to the fact that 
they would have been in the shop for taking trial etc., and that the witness 
would have had enough opportunity to observe the buyer's party for quite 
some time. Another circumstance that ought to be taken into account against 
Shaukat is the telephonic conversation between him and his wife Afsan on the 
night of 14th December. We have already held that the intercepted 
conversation recorded on the tape is reliable and the High Court should not 
have discounted it. The conversation shows that Shaukat was with another 
person at Srinagar, by name Chotu (the alias name of Afzal, according to the 
prosecution) and that panic and anxiety were writ large on the face of it.
In the light of the above discussion, can it be said that the circumstances 
established by satisfactory evidence are so clinching and unerring so as to lead 
to a conclusion, unaffected by reasonable doubt, that the appellant Shaukat 
was a party to the conspiracy along with his cousin Afzal? We find that there is 
no sufficient evidence to hold him guilty of criminal conspiracy to attack the 
Parliament. The gaps are many, once the confession is excluded. To 
recapitulate, the important circumstances against him are: These circumstances, without anything more, do not lead to the 
conclusion that Shaukat was also a party to the conspiracy in association with 
the deceased terrorists. The important missing link is that there was no 
occasion on which Shaukat ever contacted any of the deceased terrorists on 
phone. Shaukat was not shown to be moving with the deceased terrorists at 
any time excepting that he used to go with Afzal to the Boys' hostel where 
Mohammed was staying initially and he once accompanied Afzal and 
Mohammed to the mobile phone shop. He did not accompany Afzal at the time 
of purchases of chemicals etc. used for preparation of explosives and motor 
car used by terrorists to go to Parliament House. In the absence of any 
evidence as regards the identity of satellite phone numbers, the Court cannot 
presume that the calls were received from a militant leader who is said to be 
the kingpin behind the operations. The frequent calls and meetings between 
Shaukat and Afzal should be viewed in the context of the fact that they were 
cousins. Though his inclination and willingness to lend a helping hand to Afzal 
even to the extent of facilitating him to flee away from Delhi to a safer place 
soon after the incident is evident from his various acts and conduct, they are 
not sufficient to establish his complicity in the conspiracy as such. Certain false 
answers given by him in the course of examination under Section 313 are not 
adequate enough to make up the deficiency in the evidence relating to 
conspiracy as far as Shaukat is concerned. At the same time, the reasonable 
and irresistible inference that has to be drawn from the circumstances 
established is that the appellant Shaukat had the knowledge of conspiracy 
and the plans to attack the Parliament House. His close association with Afzal 
during the crucial period, his visits to the hideouts to meet Afzal, which implies 
awareness of the activities of Afzal, the last minute contacts between him 
and Afzal and their immediate departure to Srinagar in Shaukat's truck with 
the incriminating laptop and phone held by Afzal would certainly give rise to a 
high degree of probability of knowledge on the part of Shaukat that his cousin 
had conspired with others to attack the Parliament and to indulge in the 
terrorist acts. He was aware of what was going on and he used to extend 
help to Afzal whenever necessary. Having known about the plans of Afzal in 
collaborating with terrorists, he refrained from informing the police or 
Magistrate intending thereby or knowing it to be likely that such concealment 
on his part will facilitate the waging of war. In this context, it is relevant to 
refer to Section 39 Cr.P.C.: 								
shall, in the absence of any reasonable excuse, the burden of 
proving which excuse shall lie upon the person so aware, forthwith 
give information to the nearest Magistrate or police officer of such 
commission or intention; Thus, by his illegal omission to apprise the police or Magistrate of the 
design of Afzal and other conspirators to attack the Parliament which is an act 
of waging war, the appellant Shaukat has made himself liable for punishment 
for the lesser offence under Section 123 IPC. If he had given the timely 
information, the entire conspiracy would have been nipped in the bud. The 
fact that there was no charge against him under this particular Section, does 
not, in any way, result in prejudice to him because the charge of waging war 
and other allied offences are the subject matter of charges. We are of the view 
that the accused Shaukat is not in any way handicapped by the absence of 
charge under Section 123 IPC. The case which he had to meet under Section 
123 is no different from the case relating to the major charges which he was 
confronted with. In the face of the stand he had taken and his conduct even 
after the attack, he could not have pleaded reasonable excuse for not passing 
on the information. Viewed from any angle, the evidence on record justifies 
his conviction under Section 123 IPC. In the result, we find Shaukat Hussain Guru guilty under Section 123 IPC 
and sentence him to the maximum period of imprisonment of 10 years 
(rigorous) specified therein. He is also sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.25000/- 
failing which he shall suffer R.I. for a further period of one year. The 
convictions and sentences under all other provisions of law are set aside. His 
appeal is allowed to this extent. 20.	CASE OF S.A.R. GILANI
		The High Court set aside the conviction of S.A.R. Gilani and 
acquitted him of the various charges. There is no evidence to the effect that Gilani was maintaining 
personal or telephonic contacts with any of the deceased terrorists. There is 
no evidence of any participative acts in connection with or in pursuance of the 
conspiracy. He was not connected with the procurement of hideouts, 
chemicals and other incriminating articles used by the terrorists. Speaking 
from the point of view of probabilities and natural course of conduct there is no 
apparent reason why Gilani would have been asked to join conspiracy. It is 
not the case of the prosecution that he tendered any advice or gave important 
tips/information relevant to the proposed attack on Parliament. None of the 
circumstances would lead to an inference beyond reasonable doubt of Gilani's 
involvement in the conspiracy. There is only the evidence of PW 45, the 
landlord of Shaukat, that he had seen the deceased terrorists and Gilani 
visiting the house of Shaukat two or three days prior to 13th December. We 
have already discussed his evidence. His version of identification of visitors by 
means of the photographs of the deceased terrorists was held to be incredible. 
As regards Gilani, in the first instance, he frankly stated that he could not 
identify the person who was sitting in the Special Cell i.e. Gilani, but, on a 
leading question put by the Public Prosecutor, on the permission given by the 
Court, PW 45 pointed out towards Gilani as the person that was in the Special 
Cell. It is noted in the deposition that initially the witness stated that he had 
not said so to the police about Gilani. In this state of evidence, no reliance can 
be placed on the testimony of PW 45 in regard to the alleged visits of Gilani to 
the house of Shaukat a few days prior to 13th December. The High Court 
observed that in any case PW 45 did not state that he had seen Gilani visiting 
the house of Shaukat in the company of five terrorists. Therefore, the case of 
the prosecution that Gilani participated in the meetings at Shaukat's place 
where the conspiracy was hatched does not stand substantiated. The High Court after holding that the disclosure statement of Gilani 
was not admissible under Section 27 of the Evidence Act and that the 
confession of co-accused cannot also be put against him, observed thus: The High Court concluded that "the evidence on record does not bring out a 
high level of consciousness qua S.A.R. Gilani in the conspiracy."
	We are in agreement with the conclusion reached by the High Court. 
However, we would like to enter into a further discussion on the incriminatory 
circumstances which, according to the prosecution, would have bearing on the 
guilt of the accused Gilani. The fact that Gilani was in intimate terms with Shaukat and Afzal and was 
conversing with them through his mobile phone No. 9810081228 frequently 
between the first week of November and the date of the crucial incident is 
sought to be projected by the prosecution prominently as an incriminating 
circumstance against Gilani. Incidentally, it is also pointed out that there were 
contemporaneous calls between Gilani, Afzal and Shaukat and Afzal and 
Mohammed. It is particularly pointed out that after Shaukat acquired mobile 
phone 9810446375, the first call was to Gilani on 2.11.2001 for 22 seconds. 
Gilani in turn called him up and spoke for 13 seconds. Thereafter, there was 
exchange of calls between Shaukat and Gilani on seven occasions in the month 
of November. In the month of November, there was a call from Shaukat 
through his phone No. 9811573506 to Gilani on 7th December, 2001 and on 
the 9th December, 2001, Gilani spoke to Shaukat for 38 seconds. There was a 
call on the midnight of 13th December for 146 seconds from Gilani's number to 
Shaukat. There is a controversy about this call which we shall refer to in the 
next para. Then, soon after the attack on Parliament on 13th December, 2001, 
there was a call from Shaukat to Gilani and thereafter from Gilani to Shaukat. 
As regards the calls between Gilani and Afzal are concerned, the call records 
show that two calls were exchanged between them in the morning of 12th 
November, 2001. Then, Gilani called up Afzal on 17.11.2001 for 64 seconds 
and again on 7th December & 9th December, 2001. It is pointed out that on the 
reactivation of the telephone of Afzal i.e. 89429 on 7.12.2001, Gilani spoke 
to Afzal on the same day. The High Court observed that on the basis of these 
calls, it is not possible to connect Gilani to the conspiracy, especially having 
regard to the fact that Gilani was known to Shaukat and his cousin Afzal. 
Shaukat and Gilani lived in the same locality i.e. Mukherjee Nagar. It is not in 
dispute that Gilani played a part at the marriage ceremony of Shaukat (A2) 
and Afsan Guru (A4) in the year 2000. It is also not in dispute that they hail 
from the same District and were the students of Delhi University. The calls 
between them do not give a definite pointer of Gilani's involvement in the 
conspiracy to attack the Parliament. As far as the calls between Afzal and 
Gilani are concerned, there was no call too close to the date of incident. One 
call was on 7th December, 2001 and another was on 9th December, 2001. On 
the date of incident, there was exchange of calls between Shaukat and Gilani 
twice about half-an-hour after the incident. Not much of importance can be 
attached to this, as it is not unusual for friends talking about this extraordinary 
event. The phone calls between these three persons, if at all, would assume 
some importance if there is other reliable and relevant evidence pointing out 
the accusing finger against Gilani. That is lacking in the instant case. Gilani had 
invited problem for himself by disowning the friendship with Shaukat and the 
contacts with Afzal. In the course of examination under Section 313, he took 
the plea that Shaukat was a mere acquaintance and he had not visited him. 
When asked questions about the telephonic contacts giving the numbers 
thereof, Gilani feigned ignorance of the telephone numbers of Shaukat and 
Afzal by giving evasive answers - 'I do not remember'. Of course, a wrong 
question was also put with reference to the calls at 11.19 and 11.32 hours on 
13th which were between Afzal and Shaukat as if Gilani had called them up at 
that time. Still, the fact remains that he did give false answers probably in his 
over anxiety to wriggle out of the situation. That does not make an otherwise 
innocuous factor on incriminating circumstance. There was a debate on the question whether the call from Gilani's 
number to Shaukat's number at 00.41 hours on 12th December i.e. just on the 
eve of the Parliament attack was made by Gilani. The call lasted for 146 
seconds. The defence of Gilani was that Gilani's brother called Shaukat to wish 
him on that night which happened to be shab-e-qadr festival night and that it 
was not unusual for the friends to exchange the greetings on that night. It is 
pointed out by the learned counsel for the State that the testimony of DW5
Gilani's wife, exposes the falsity of this defence. She stated that no one in the 
family used cell phone that night. She stated that namaz was performed on the 
night of 12th December, by all the family members together from 9.30 p.m. 
onwards. It was closed at 7.00 a.m. on 13th December, 2001 and then they 
slept. She further stated that during namaz, her husband did not move out of 
the room nor talked to anybody. She also stated that the cell phone was 
switched off and kept aside. She denied that any call was made by her 
husband on the cell phone at 00.45 hours on the intervening night of 12th / 
13th December, 2001. It was contended before us that Gilani was not 
questioned on this point in his Section 313 examination. If a question was put, 
a clarification would have been given that in fact, the brother of Gilani had 
contacted Shaukat to convey good wishes. Comment was also made in regard 
to the role, assumed by the learned trial Judge, of putting questions to DW5. 
Though it appears that DW5's evidence is inconsistent with the defence 
version, as no specific question was put to Gilani on this aspect, we are not 
inclined to go so far as to hold that it is undoubtedly a false plea. Yet, it raises 
a grave suspicion that the accused was trying to hide something which might 
turn out to be adverse to him. Even if there was such a call on the 13th 
midnight between Shaukat and Gilani, undue importance ought not to be 
attached to this fact, having regard to the state of other circumstantial 
evidence on record. Then, the prosecution relied on the evidence of PW39 who is the landlord 
of Gilani. He merely stated in general terms that he had seen Shaukat and 
Afzal visiting the house of Gilani two or three times during the period Gilani 
stayed in his house i.e. during a period of more than two years. PW39 did not 
say anything about visits of Afzal or Shaukat a few days or weeks before the 
incident. Then, the prosecution relied on the disclosure statementExt.PW66/13 
to establish that Gilani was well aware of the names of the deceased terrorists, 
the change of hideouts by Afzal and the material such as police uniforms which 
were procured for the purpose of conspiracy. It is contended that the relevant 
portions in the disclosure statement amount to informations leading to the 
discovery of facts within the meaning of Section 27 of the Evidence Act. 
According to the learned counsel for the State Mr. Gopal Subramnium, the 
statement of Mr. Gilani disclosing the names of five deceased terrorists who 
had come from Pakistan, Shaukat taking a room on rent for Mohammed in 
Christian Colony and the terrorists securing explosives, mobile phones and 
police uniforms are all admissible inasmuch as these facts led the investigating 
agencies to further investigations which confirmed the information furnished by 
Gilani. In this connection, we may recapitulate the contention of the learned 
counsel that Section 27 rests on the principle of confirmation by subsequent 
events and that the facts discovered need not necessarily relate to material 
objects. We have already discussed the legal position in regard to the scope 
and parameters of Section 27 and we have not accepted the contention of the 
learned counsel for the State. We are of the view that none of the statements 
can be put against Gilani. It may be noted that Gilani was not taken to any 
places such as the hideouts where the incriminating articles were found. He 
only pointed out the house of Shaukat who was in the same locality on the 15th 
December, 2001 which is an innocuous circumstance. Though there is some 
dispute on this aspect, we are inclined to believe the evidence of the 
investigating officers because Afsan Guru, in her statement under Section 313, 
stated that Gilani was with the police when they came to her house. One more 
important aspect that deserves mention is that there is nothing to show that 
the information furnished by Gilani led to the discovery of facts such as 
identification of the deceased terrorists, recovery of chemicals, police uniforms 
etc., at the hideouts. That was all done on the basis of informations furnished 
by other accused. There is no inextricable link between the alleged 
informations furnished by Gilani and the facts discovered. None of the 
investigating officers deposed to the effect that on the basis of information 
furnished by Gilani, any incriminating articles were recovered or hideouts were 
discovered. On the other hand, the evidence discloses the supervening 
informations which led the I.Os. to discover the things.
	The disclosure memo has also been assailed (Ext.PW66/13) on the 
ground that the arrest of Gilani was manipulated and therefore no credence 
shall be given to the police records. Whereas according to Gilani, the time of 
arrest was at 1.30 p.m. on 14th December, 2001 while he was going in a bus, 
according to the I.O., the arrest was effected at about 10 a.m. on 15th 
December, when he was about to enter his house. Though the time of arrest at 
10 a.m. does not appear to be correct in view of the information which was 
already passed on to Srinagar regarding the truck of Shaukat there are certain 
doubtful features in the version of Gilani too that the arrest was effected on the 
afternoon of 14th December, 2001. It is not necessary to delve into this 
question further for the purpose of disposal of this appeal. The last circumstance which needs to be discussed is about the 
telephonic conversation between Gilani and his brother Shah Faizal on the 14th 
December 2001 at 12.22 hours. His brother Shah Faizal examined as D.W.  6, 
spoke from Baramullah/Srinagar, which was intercepted and recorded on tape, 
Ex. P.W. 66/1, which conversation was admitted. The dispute is only about the 
interpretation of certain words used in that phone conversation. The 
conversation was in Kashmiri language, which was translated into Hindi by 
P.W.  71, a young man whose educational qualification was only V standard. 
As it was an ordinary colloquial conversation, there is no difficulty in the 
speech being translated by a less educated person. As against this translation, 
the defense version of translation was given by D.Ws.  1 & 2. 
The relevant portion of the speech as translated by P.W.  71 is as 
follows: Indisputably, no positive or participatory role has been attributed to her and as 
rightly observed by the High Court, "she provided no logistics; she procured 
no hideouts; she procured no arms and ammunition; she was not even a 
motivator." She could have had some knowledge of the suspicious movements 
of her husband with Afzal who is his cousin and a surrendered militant. Of 
course, she was aware of the fact that Shaukat accompanied by Afzal left in 
her truck on the day of Parliament attack in post-haste; but, the involvement 
of Afzal, direct or indirect, and the attitude of her husband in relation to the 
Parliament attack could have come to her knowledge after the attack when 
they abruptly left for Srinagar in the truck. The prosecution sought to rely on her disclosure memo Ex. PW 66/14 but 
nothing was recovered as a direct result of the information given by her. Of 
course, as far as passing on the information regarding the truck by which 
Shaukat left for Srinagar, there is no dispute. But the recovery of laptop etc. 
from the truck is not distinctly relatable to the information contained in the 
alleged disclosure statement. The articles in the truck were recovered at the 
instance of Afzal and Shaukat when it was intercepted at Srinagar. We find no 
link between the disclosure and the recoveries as a cause and effect.
	The next piece of evidence relied against her is the telephonic 
conversation she had with her husband Shaukat on the night of 14th December 
which was taped. We have held that the High Court erred in doubting the 
authenticity of the said intercepted conversation recorded on the tape. The 
call was received by Afsan on the Phone No. 9811573506 and the caller was 
her husband. The voice of both has been identified by the expert, as already 
noted. The conversation reads thus: (Shaukat)
Receiver:		Shaukat where are you? (Afsan)
Caller:		I am in Srinagar. Receiver:		Reached there. Caller:		Yes. Receiver:		Some person had come just now. Caller:		From where? Receiver:		I don't know. Don't say anything. Caller:		O.K.
Receiver:		I don't know they are with the lady of ground
 floor. Some vehicle is still parked outside. Caller:		O.K.
Receiver:		I don't know. I did not speak anything. Caller:		O.K. Alright. Receiver:		Tell more, don't speak anything now and tell
 me. I am much afraid. Caller:		No, No nothing dear, O.K.
Receiver:		Are you fine? Caller:		Yes, Yes. Receiver:		Reached safely? Caller:		Yes, Yes. Receiver:		And Chotu? Caller:		Yes, Yes. Receiver:		Do you know? Caller:		Yes, Yes alright you may make a call. Receiver:		When? Caller:		In the night right now. I am calling from outside
Receiver:		Alright I will call up tomorrow (while weeping)
Caller:		O.K.
As rightly observed by the High Court it shows that "Shaukat and Afsan were 
talking between the lines. Afsan was scared." An inference can be drawn that 
she was concerned about the safety of Shaukat and that she was aware that 
Shaukat and Afzal did something that attracted police surveillance. But from 
this circumstance alone, no inference can be drawn with a reasonable degree 
of certainty that she was having knowledge of the plan to attack the 
Parliament before it happened. The scanty evidence on record does not justify 
her conviction either on the charges framed against her or under Section 123 IPC for which she was held guilty by the trial Court. The High Court's view is 
unexceptionable. 22.	IN THE RESULT, we dismiss the appeal filed by Mohd. Afzal and the 
death sentence imposed upon him is hereby confirmed. The appeal of Shaukat 
is allowed partly. He stands convicted under Section 123 IPC and sentenced to 
undergo RI for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 25,000/- and in default of 
payment of fine he shall suffer RI for a further period of one year. His 
conviction on other charges is hereby set aside. The appeals filed by the 
State against the acquittal of S.A.R. Gilani and Afsan Guru are hereby 
dismissed.