At the request of counsel for the State, we defer the
hearing of this application till tomorrow as he would like to
take clear instructions whether prima facie finding recorded
by the Trial Court in order dated 24.6.2014 regarding the
age of the respondent is acceptable to the prosecution or
otherwise. The respondent is not present in Court, though
assurance was given in that behalf yesterday. By way of indulgence, list tomorrow (10.4.2015)
along with companion cases. --2-- We are informed by the learned counsel for the
respondents that respondent No.1 is already in jail in
connection with another crime of the same type. As regards respondent No.2, he is presently busy with
Second Semester M.B.B.S. examination and for which
reason, he is not in a position to remain present in Court,
though assurance was given in that behalf yesterday. Since the respondent No.2 will be busy with written
examination till 17.4.2015, we defer the hearing of this
application till 20.4.2015. We place on record that instead of respondent No.2,
his father is present in Court to assist the Advocate. The respondent is not present in Court in spite of
assurance given in that behalf yesterday. Request to defer the matter till tomorrow, made on
behalf of respondent, is accepted. List tomorrow (10.4.2015) along with companion
cases. This application is filed by the prosecution for
cancellation of bail order dated 19.6.2014 passed by 19 th --3-- Additional Sessions Judge, Jabalpur. The four respondents who have been ordered to be
released on bail in terms of the impugned order dated
19.6.2014 have been named as accused in Crime
No.898/2013 registered with Police Station Garha through
Crime Branch, Jabalpur - commonly known as VYAPAM
Examination Scam cases - for the offence punishable under
Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471/34 of Indian Penal code
and Sections 3 and 4 of the M.P. Manyata Prapt Pariksha
Adhiniyam, 1937. The solitary ground on which this application has
been instituted by the prosecution is in the context of
observations made by this Court in Public Interest
Litigation bearing W.P. No.6385/2014 dated 13.1.2015, in
which proceedings investigation of all the criminal cases
under investigation of STF pertaining to VYAPAM
examination scam cases are being monitored by this Court.
During the hearing of that matter, it transpired that some of
the accused named in the alleged crime have been granted
bail by the Court other than the Court specially designated
to try those cases. In other words, the bail order has been
granted by the Court not authorized to entertain the bail
application in respect of offences pertaining to VYAPAM
examination scam crimes and for which reason the order --4-- passed in favour of those accused by the concerned Court
suffered from the vice of coram non judice and, therefore,
non-est in the eyes of law. Similar situation was considered
by this Court in M.Cr.C. No.396/2015 and M.Cr.C.
No.398/2015, as can be discerned from the order dated
9.1.2015. It is indisputable that the High Court had issued
directions to designate Judicial Officers by name to try the
offences concerning the VYAPAM examination scam cases
vide Notification dated 21/22.03.2014 Annexures A-1 and
A-2. Those notifications were in public domain and made
known to the concerned District Judges and other Judicial
Officers of the concerned districts. Nevertheless, the
District Judge, for inexplicable reasons assigned the bail
application filed by the respondents to the Judge other than
the designated Judge. Suffice it to observe that the order challenged in this
application has been passed by the Court which was not
authorized to entertain the bail application concerning the
VYAPAM examination scam crimes. Accordingly, the impugned order passed by the Trial
Court, granting bail to the respondents, dated 19.6.2014,
deserves to be set aside being coram non judice, in exercise
of powers under Section 439 (2) read with Section 482 of
Cr.P.C. --5-- The next question is whether the respondents who
have been released on bail pursuant to the order dated
19.6.2014 should be rearrested in connection with the
subject crime or should this Court entertain the request of
the said respondents to grant them bail in the concerned
crime on the principles expounded by the Apex Court in
Paragraph 20 in the case of Sundeep Kumar Bafna v. State
of Maharashtra and another , AIR 2014 SC 1745 ? Notably, the role ascribed to each of the respondents
by the prosecution is that of a beneficiary and having
committed unfair means during the examination by taking
assistance of an impersonator who appeared in the
examination in their place. Re : Respondent No.3 : stand taken by the Investigating Officer that investigation
against them is still incomplete and the next link with
whom the said respondents had interacted for commission
of the alleged offence has not been traced and that matter is
still being inquired into, the learned counsel for the said
respondents submits that they would prefer to apply for
regular bail before the concerned designated Court after
surrendering before that Court in terms of this order so that
all aspects can be examined by that Court and appropriate
order may be passed after hearing both sides. For that, we
give limited protection to the respondents No.2 and 4
namely Sunil Mandloi and Anil Kumar Mourya to approach
the designated Court taking up VYAPAM Examination
Scam crimes and in particular Crime No.898/2013 by way
of regular Bail Application on 13th April, 2015. The said
respondents will surrender before the concerned designated
Court on that date at 11:00 A.M. and apply for regular bail
which can be considered by the said Court on the same day.
The Investigating Officer through counsel has taken a fair
stand that he would make himself available before the
designated Court on that date or depute some responsible
Officer along with the relevant papers/record so that the
bail application filed by respondents No.2 and 4 can
proceed for hearing forthwith and decided preferably on
that day itself. Until the said respondents surrender before --9-- the designated Court on 13.04.2015 as mentioned above, no
coercive action be taken against them on condition that they
shall appear daily before the local Police Station Garha,
Jabalpur between 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon until 12th of
April, 2015. Re: Respondent No.1 : was passed much before the said notifications were issued
for assigning VYAPAM examination scam cases to DB-I.
 Taking overall view of the matter, therefore, the
impugned order passed in favour of respondent No.1 by the
trial Court be understood to mean that the respondent No.1
was called upon to comply with the formalities for
continuation of the interim protection during the pendency
of the trial after filing of the charge-sheet. We are informed
that charge-sheet is yet to be filed against the respondent
No.1. The fact remains that the order dated 11.02.2014 in
MCRC No.943/2014 has not been reversed or recalled so
far and until the same subsists, being a valid order, the
question of canceling the bail granted to the respondent
No.1 - Manoj Kumar Uike does not arise as that would
inevitably result in circumventing the order dated
11.02.2014. That cannot be countenanced. Hence, the
application qua respondent No.1 for cancellation of bail
will have to be rejected for the distinguishing circumstances
noted hitherto. This application is disposed of on the above terms. MCRC Nos.3681/2015, 3685/2015, 3686/2015 &
3687/2015

 In these applications bail order passed in favour of
respective respondents granted by the Additional Sessions --11-- Judge - other than the designated Judge - has been
challenged by the applicant/State on the ground that the
concerned Judge was not authorized to entertain bail
application in VYAPAM Examination Scam cases. This
aspect has already been considered in the companion cases
decided today together. Admittedly, the Judge who granted
bail to the respective respondents was not a designated
Judge. The concerned District Judge should not have
assigned the hearing of bail application to that Judge but
only to the designated Judge in terms of notification dated
22.03.2015. The order passed in favour of respective
respondents, therefore, is by a Judge not authorized to deal
with the bail applications in VYAPAM Examination Scam
cases and suffers from the vice of coram non judice as has
been observed in the decision dated 09.01.2015 in MCRC
No.396/2015 and MCRC No.398/2015. For the same reasons, these applications will have to
be allowed and the order impugned in the application is set
aside on that count. The next question is whether the respondents should
be re-arrested in connection with Crime No.898/2013. Even
these respondents through counsel have requested the Court
to consider their oral request for grant of bail keeping in
mind the exposition of the Supreme Court in Paragraph 20
of the decision in the case of Sundeep Kumar Bafna v. --12-- State of Maharashtra and another, AIR 2014 SC 1745 as
has been done in other cases disposed of today to do
substantial justice to the said respondents. In the light of this submission, we called upon the
learned counsel for the State to take instructions whether
there is any material to oppose the prayer for bail qua these
respondents. On instructions, it is fairly submitted by the
learned counsel for the State that the investigation qua each
of these respondents is complete. Their custodial
interrogation is no more necessary. The immediate link with
whom the concerned respondents had interacted has already
been arrested. In view of this submission, the concerned respondents
who are present in Court and have surrendered before Court
for consideration of their prayer for bail and given
undertaking that they will extend full cooperation to the
Investigating Officer for further investigation of the crime
including for collection of material evidence against them.
Further, they will give full cooperative for early disposal of
the criminal trial and abide by any other conditions that
may be imposed by the Court. In view of the stand taken by the Investigating Agency
and the undertaking given by the respondents in these
applications, in the interest of justice, we direct release of
the respondents on bail in Crime No.898/2013 on the --13-- following strict conditions:- (1) The respondents namely; Anand
 Kashniya, Arvind Kumar, Mulendra
 Saiyam and Ku. Sonali Saiyam in the
 respective applications shall furnish
 personal bond in the sum of Rs.1,00,000/-
 (Rupees One Lac) each with two solvent
 local sureties in the like amount to the
 satisfaction of the Registrar (Judicial) of
 this Court by 13th April, 2015 for their
 regular appearance during the trial in
 connection with Crime No.898/2013 in
 Police Station Garha through Crime
 Branch, Jabalpur; (2) The respective respondents shall also
 comply with the conditions enumerated
 under Section 437 (3) of Cr.P.C. meticulously; (3) Additionally, the respondents Anand
 Kashniya, Arvind Kumar, Mulendra
 Saiyam and Ku. Sonali Saiyam will
 report to their respective nearest Police
 Station Kothari (District Sehore); Police
 Station Ater (District Bhind); Police
 Station Waraseoni (District Balaghat), --14-- Police Station Pushprajgarh (District
 Anuppur) respectively, once a week on
 every Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to
 12:00 noon unless required to attend the
 office of the Investigating Officer at
 Jabalpur on that day; and
 (4) The respective respondents will deposit
 their passport, if available, with the
 Investigating Agency within one week
 from today, else file affidavit in this Court
 within that time declaring that they do not
 have any passport of any country. This
 compliance will be condition precedent
 for release on bail. Accordingly, the applications are disposed of on the
above terms. Since notice is yet to be issued to the respondents,
hearing of this application is deferred till 20th April, 2015. To be listed along with companion matters.
 Issue notice to the respondents in the meantime.
Dasti, in addition, permitted. Notices be handed over to the
counsel for the State by tomorrow. --15-- Re: Respondent No.1 : Re: Respondent No.2 : from today, else file affidavit in this Court
 within that time declaring that he does not
 have any passport of any country. This
 compliance will be condition precedent
 for release on bail. Application disposed of on the above terms. Re: Respondents Nos. 2 and 4 : Rajesh Kumar Armo, Sandhya Paraste
 and Jyotiraditya Bhalavi shall furnish
 personal bond in the sum of Rs.1,00,000/-
 (Rupees One Lac) each with two solvent --20-- local sureties in the like amount to the
 satisfaction of the Registrar (Judicial) of
 this Court by 13th April, 2015 for their
 regular appearance during the trial in
 connection with Crime No.898/2013 in
 Police Station Garha through Crime
 Branch, Jabalpur; (2) The respondent Nos.1, 3 & 5 shall also
 comply with the conditions enumerated
 under Section 437 (3) of Cr.P.C. meticulously; will report to the Police Station Mandla,
 Police Station Dindori and Police Station
 Dindori respectively once a week on
 every Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to
 12:00 noon unless required to attend the
 office of the Investigating Officer at
 Jabalpur on that day; and
(4) The respondent Nos.1, 3 & 5 will deposit
 their passport, if available, with the
 Investigating Agency within one week
 from today, else file affidavit in this Court
 within that time declaring that they do not
 have any passport of any country. This --21-- compliance will be condition precedent
 for release on bail. Application disposed of accordingly. The factual position in this application is identical to
the case of respondent No.1 - Manoj Kumar Uike in
M.Cr.C.No.3443/2015. Even in this application, bail order
passed by the learned Single Judge of this Court on
10.02.2014 in M.Cr.C.No.519/2014 was before issuance of
the notification to assign all cases pertaining to VYAPAM
examination scam before DB-I. Thus, it was a valid bail
order operating in favour of the respondent. For which
reason the impugned order passed in favour of this
respondent by the Trial Court will have to be understood to
mean that the respondent was called upon to comply with
the formalities for continuation of the interim protection
during the pendency of the trial after filing of the charge
sheet. For the same reasons as in Uike's case the application
for cancellation of bail qua this respondent will have to be
rejected. The application is disposed of. To be listed along with MCRC No.3896/2015 which
application pertains to respondent herein. --22-- The gist of material against each of the
 respondents in the respective applications handed over
 to us for our perusal is ordered to be kept in sealed
 cover in the safe custody of Registrar (Judicial) until
 further orders.