The petitioner is before this Court seeking the following

prayer: " PRAYER
 WHEREFORE, it is prayed that, this Hon'ble
 Court may kindly be pleased to: 2. Heard the learned counsel Sri.Sandesha A.S.,

appearing for the petitioner and the learned counsel

Sri.Vignesh Shetty, appearing for the respondent. 3. The petitioner claims to be a Social Media Creator

has invested in a mutual fund, which he does frequently -3- NC: 2023:KHC:41302 WP No. 24220 of 2023 through online trading and is a small investor for a savings

account. The petitioner in that light invested in a Mutual Fund

of Sai Venkateswara Poultries for the last six months for which

the petitioner gets a profit of Rs.5,700/- and towards the said

profit, Rs.3,186.45/- is credited to the petitioner's Canara

Bank, Savings account through NEFT. 4. It transpires that the cyber Police in the State of

Gujarat are tracing and tracking down certain transactions of

Mutual Fund operators. This leads to direction to all the Banks

to a debit freeze the account of all those persons, who had any

transaction with the Mutual Fund operators. A communication

sent to the Banks is placed for a perusal by the learned counsel

appearing for the Bank. The communication reads as follows: Sub: Mark debit freeze on account when we
 raised complain on MHA Portal

 Ref. our e-mail dated 27-08-2022 from h [email protected] -4- NC: 2023:KHC:41302 WP No. 24220 of 2023 I am Deputy Superintendent of Police, State
Cyber Crime Cell, CID Crime, Gandhinagar. For
giving immediate response to victims of
cybercrime fraud, MHA has launched 1930
helpline and NCCR portal which is doing good with
not only reporting financial cybercrimes but also
saving hard earned money of victims. Complaints
reported on this portal are dealt by police based
on the information available in the complains and
the counterpart, banks, on freezing accounts and
giving details of money which is transferred to
another bank. We find from our experienced that
it could be better if support and proactive action
taken from all financial institutions. Every request on MHA portal form our side
or any bank on the behalf of us is to be
considered as a notice under sections 91 & 102 of
Cr.P.C. 1973. I wanted to bring to your notice
that to stop use of fraudulent accounts again and
again, we have instructed your bank to debit
freeze bank accounts with 27-08-2022 dated
email, in which fraudulent money has been
transferred but we have come to notice that, after
3-4 stages of money trail, there are so many
accounts belonging to bonafide businessman or
common citizen, which have been freezed. To
solve the issue and protect bonafide people, we
have requested to MHA to mark every account
with the number of involvement layer in trail of a
particular case. Now, this service has been
started on the portal. I would like to request you
to mandatorily mark debit freeze on account
involved up to the 3rd layers after the account of
victim in the trail and fraudulent amount to be
lien marked in accounts involved in remaining
layers in particular case. Also provide beneficiary
details on MHA Portal, if amount transferred to
the another bank/e-wallet/merchant. If your customer approaches to your bank
for unfreezing his account, inform them to contact -5- NC: 2023:KHC:41302 WP No. 24220 of 2023 us on phone number 079-2325078 and email ID [email protected] with below mentioned list
of documents and details will be provided by
freezed account holder for his verification of
genuineness. • customer Full name and Address,
 • Business/Job details with documents,
 • Reason behind transaction and fraudulent
 money,
 • Bank Statement which shows fraudulent
 transaction,
 • Please send your Acknowledgment Number
 • Bank account details which is Freeze.
 • Aadhar Card, PAN Card,
 • If account belong to corporate/nodal
 account then provide company details like
 End Beneficiary Details, company MOA,
 AOF, GST, MCA, director details ETC. If your bank gets court order to unfreez the
account from any court, let us know details of
order and do as per order. If you receive mail to
unfreez the account from any Police Station,
other than us then suggest them to send unfreeze
request through State Cyber Cell, CID Crime,
Gandhinagar, please do not unfreeze the account
except you receive mail from our e-mail ID [email protected] . There are many users from single bank on
the Portal with their different email IDs so it is
very difficult to decide to whom we should contact
to unfreeze account, we request you to provide
specific email ID to unfreeze the account. Sd/- (B.M Tank)
 Deputy Superintendent of Police
 State Cyber Crime Cell
 CID Crime, Gandhinagar,
 Gujarat, State" 5. In the light of the direction not indicating money

trail towards the petitioner, who is admittedly a small time

investor and has received funds to the tune of Rs.3,186.45/- as

profit from the Mutual Fund that he has invested, the debit

freeze directed, is contrary to law apart from the fact that no

procedure as required under the Cr.P.C ., to direct debit

freezement is even followed by the Police, who are directed to

do so. 6. In the aforesaid light, the petitioner becomes

entitled to issuance of a writ in the nature of mandamus

directing defreezment of the account of the petitioner. 7. For the aforesaid reasons, the following: Sd/- JUDGE

KG List No.: 1 Sl No.: 28