With consent of the parties, hearing of this matter has been done

through video conferencing. They have no complaint about any audio

and visual quality. The letter received by the Chief Justice written by Hon'ble Justice

D.P. Singh, a retired Judge of this Court, dated 11th February, 2021 has

been placed on record. Averments of the letter reflect the anguish and anxiety of the

senior citizens who are facing net-banking e-fraud. Several suggestions

have also been given in that letter as to what should be done by the

authorities. It has also been stated in the letter on the basis of certain

newspaper reports that 5024 cases have been registered in the last

year of 2020 in Jharkhand State alone and the customers are in danger

of suffering fraud in absence of proper safety system mechanism in the

banks. It has also been complained that the system operating are

opaque and do not respond the issues raised by the affected -2- customers. The fraudsters usually start with phishing and sharing

personal data and then carry on navigating freely, unchecked by the

system which may not be possible if proper alerts and checks are

inbuilt in the system. It has also been brought in notice by the letter that

single OTP sharing by the customers is the sole explanation by the

banks for putting blame on the customers who have been subjected to

the fraud. The system does not stop fraudulent transactions in spite of

unfamiliar pattern of transactions, frantic in nature, etc. It is stated in

the letter that the Banks usually avoid such questions and take cover of

system which itself requires updating to meet the menace with a strict

safety norms. It has further been informed that the banks profiting by

promoting the internet and digital banking require to be more

responsive to help the fraud victims instead of refusing their claims.

The real threat of misuse of such money siphoned by the fraudsters

due to laches in the system by some antinational activities may also be

possible and it is a serious concern for the administration also. This Court takes cognizance of this letter in this pro bono publico

litigation and directs the writ petitioner to implead Reserve Bank of

India through its General Manager (OIC), 4th Floor, Pragati Sadan,

Kutchery Road, PO- GPO, PS- Kotwali, District - Ranchi (Jharkhand)

as respondent No.8. The newly added respondent should respond to

the letter of which cognizance has been taken by this Court today and

come out with suggestions after seeking instructions from the

competent authority of the Reserve Bank of India. Let a copy of I.A. No.1227 of 2021 be served by the writ

petitioner upon learned A.S.G.I. by tomorrow so that necessary

instructions could be obtained by him and a proper affidavit could be

filed. We make it clear that this is not an adversarial litigation rather

 considering menace of the fraud which is being committed and the

 citizens being subjected to suffer this widely accepted evil phenomenon

 in the today's society, we are of the view that we should evolve a

 proper mechanism not only to protect the general public from such type

 of fraud and punish the fraudsters but also keep track of the ill-gotten

 money being received by the fraudsters so that the same may not be

 misused in some other manner and come with proper mechanism to

 recover that fraudulent money. Put up this matter on 22.04.2021 so that proper affidavit be filed

 as per the directions contained in this order. Let a copy of the writ petition as well as the concerned letter

 along with this order and copy of I.A. No. 1227 of 2021 be served upon

 Mr. Pandey Neeraj Rai, learned counsel, who, as per the information,

 usually appears for the Reserve Bank of India, within a week. (Dr. Ravi Ranjan, C.J.)

 (Sujit Narayan Prasad, J.)
Manoj/Raman