Preventive Customs House, Amritsar,
 Punjab-143001

 APPEARANCE: 2 C/60555/2024 2. Brief facts of the case are that an investigation conducted by the

Assistant Commissioner of Customs, SIIB, ICD Tughlakabad,

revealed that an exporter, M/s Krystfab Enterprises, had

fraudulently availed excess Rebate of ₹11,38,921/-, along with

applicable interest; the shipping bills for the said exports were filed

by the appellant; the attempts to communicate with the exporter

failed and the letters were returned undelivered; neither the

exporter nor the Customs Broker Appellant responded to the

notices; meanwhile, the exporter withdrew all funds from their bank

account; it was thus established that the operators defrauded the

government. Accordingly, the Commissioner of Customs, Airport &

General, New Delhi, issued an Order-in-Original (OIO) dated

03.01.2024, prohibiting the Customs Broker Appellant from working

at all customs stations under Delhi jurisdiction under Regulation 15

of CBLR, 2018. Subsequently, the Commissioner of Customs

(Preventive), Amritsar, being the licensing authority, initiated

proceedings to suspend the License of the Customs Broker Appellant

under Regulation 16(1) of Customs Broker Appellant LR, 2018, vide

order dated 06.03.2024, and after due process, confirmed the

continuation of suspension, vide the impugned order. 3. Shri Navin Malhotra, Learned Counsel for the appellant, submits

that Commissioner of customs, Airport and General vide order

dated- 03.01.2024, prohibited the working of the Customs Broker

Appellant, License No. 11/CHA /ASR/2012, with immediate effect

under regulation 15 of CBLR, 2018; a copy of the same was

forwarded to the principal Commissioner Amritsar for taking action
 3 C/60555/2024

under Regulation 16/ Regulation 17 of the CBLR, 2018; accordingly,

the principal Commissioner of Customs, Amritsar, suspended the

License was on 06.03.2024 by and a personal hearing was accorded

on 14.03.2024; a reply was filed on 30.04.2024. 4. Learned Counsel submits that since 2018 the license of the

Customs Broker Appellant was under suspension; Two times the

license was revoked by the same authority, i.e. Commissioner of

Customs, Amritsar; firstly, vide order dated-05.09.2018, and the

revocation as set aside by this Hon'ble tribunal vide final order No.-

A/60713/2019 - CU-DZB dated- 21.05.2019; secondly vide order in

original received on 29.06.2020 which was also set aside by CESTAT

vide Final order No.- Final order No.- 60411/2024 dated

09.07.2024. He submits that the License was suspended on

29.07.2024. 5. Learned Counsel relies on the earlier orders passed by this Bench

in their own case and the decision in Kunal travels 2017 (354) ELT

447 (Delhi); Ashiana Cargo services- 2014 (302) ELT 161 (Del.) and

Naman Gupta - 2024 (388) E.L.T. 40 (Del.). He submits that the

obligation of the Customs Broker/CHA under CHALR 2004/ CBLR

cannot be stretched and the Customs Broker is not required to

undertake a background check of their client and Customs Broker

cannot be held liable after the issuance of let export order. He

submits that the license of the Appellant is under suspension or

under revocation since 2018. He submits that the Customs Broker

appellant is out of job for more than 7 years and they have been

deprived of livelihood for no fault of them. 4 C/60555/2024 6. Shri Anurag Kumar Learned Authorised Representative for the

Revenue, reiterates the findings of the impugned order and submits

that the present matter pertains to serious violations of the Customs

Broker Licensing Regulations, 2018 (CBLR,2018) by the Customs

Broker Appellant, compromising the integrity of the customs

clearance process and causing significant revenue loss to the public

exchequer. He submits that the Customs Broker Appellant has

repeatedly violated multiple obligations under Regulation 10 in as

much as they failed to Advise the exporter, M/s Krystfab

Enterprises, to comply with the provisions of the Customs Act and

other allied laws, particularly in relation to the lawful availment of

RoSL benefits, as follows. compliance to the notice of the customs authorities, as

 mandated; (ii). the Customs Broker Appellant did not exercise due

 diligence to ascertain the correctness of the information

 submitted for the clearance of cargo; the excess RoSL

 claim and the subsequent disappearance of the exporter

 demonstrate a complete failure in verifying the authenticity

 of the export transactions. (iii). Customs Broker Appellant failed to verify the

 identity, Importer Exporter Code (IEC), GSTIN, and

 functioning of the exporter at the declared address using

 reliable and authentic documents. 5 C/60555/2024 (iv). Customs Broker Appellant did not respond to

 repeated letters and summons issued by the customs

 authorities; lack of cooperation on their part hindered the

 investigation and established a deliberate attempt to avoid

 accountability. 7. Learned Authorised Representative rebuts the grounds of appeal

of the Customs Broker Appellant as follows (i). It is incorrect to say that the License was already

 under suspension since 2017, a fresh suspension in 2024 is

 infructuous; each violation is independent and the current

 proceedings are based on a new set of violations involving

 RoSL fraud, which warrant separate and immediate action; (ii). it is not correct to say that the necessary details

 such as shipping bill numbers, dates, or the prohibition

 order in violation of principles of natural justice; Customs

 Broker Appellant was given multiple opportunities for

 personal hearing and written submissions; the details of

 the case were sufficiently communicated through show-

 cause notices and the OIO dated 03.01.2024. (iii). The cases relied upon by the Customs Broker

 Appellant are distinguishable; violations are not limited to

 post-clearance acts; Customs Broker Appellant failed in

 its pre-clearance obligations--KYC, due diligence, and client

 verification--which directly enabled the fraud. (iv). The authorities followed due process of Law;

 suspension order dated 06.03.2024 was issued under
 6 C/60555/2024 Regulation 16(1) ; multiple opportunities for personal

 hearing were given on 14.03.2024, 28.03.2024,

 01.05.2024, and 16.07.2024; written and oral submissions

 of Customs Broker Appellant before confirming the

 suspension; the action is preventive and protective in

 nature, aimed at curbing further misuse of the License of

 the Customs Broker Appellant. 8. Learned Authorised Representative submits that in view of the

above violations, due legal action was taken on the appellant under

CBLR, 2018 issued in terms of Section 146 of the Customs Act,

1962. He relies on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of K.M. Ganatra & Co. 2016 (332) ELT 15 (SC) and submits

that Customs Brokers occupy a position of trust and are expected to

act with utmost responsibility; any contravention of their

obligations, even without intent, is sufficient to invite penal

consequences. 9. Heard both sides and perused the records of the case. We find

that the license of the customs broker was suspended because of his

alleged involvement in a case of alleged wrong claim of RoSL by

some exporters. It is the case of the Department that the

Department having come to know of the excess availment have sent

summons to the exporter and the Customs Broker; both

communications returned undelivered; the exporters were found to

be not existing in the declared addresses. Therefore, Revenue came

to the conclusion that the Customs Broker Appellant was responsible

for the alleged excess availment by the unscrupulous exporters as
 7 C/60555/2024

he failed to verify the antecedents and exact whereabouts of the

exporters and has not shown due diligence in the discharge of his

responsibilities as a Customs Broker. 10. We find that it has been held in a number of cases that the

Customs Broker need not visit the premises of the exporters and

would not have any capability to do a background check of the

exporters. What the Customs Broker could do in terms of the CHLR

2018 is to verify on the basis of the documents provided by the

exporter. It is not the case of the Department that the documents

submitted by the appellants are forged or fake. Under the

circumstances, it has to be presumed that the Customs Broker

Appellant has verified the whereabouts of the exporters by

reasonable means like the examination of the documents like IEC

and PAN Card etc. of the exporters. Therefore, Customs Broker

Appellant cannot be alleged to have established the bona fides of

the exporters which is clearly beyond his mandate. In the instant

case, we find that the exporters have filed the necessary shipping

bills through the Customs Broker Appellant and presented the goods

for the examination by the customs officers, who have given Let

Export Order. After satisfying about the exports, RoSL was released

in the system and credited to the Bank accounts of the exporters. It

is said that the exporters have withdrawn the said amounts. In such

circumstances, if at all, one has to question, the actions of all the

persons/ agencies involved like the customs officers, Banks etc.

become questionable. For this reason, the responsibility cannot be

fixed solely on the Customs Broker Appellant as there is no
 8 C/60555/2024

substantiation of the allegation that the Customs Broker Appellant

has not discharged his role as a Customs Broker diligently and has

violated the provisions of CHLR 2018 so that the suspension of his

license is necessitated. 11. Moreover, we find that the license of the Customs Broker

Appellant has been under suspension from 2018 onwards; it was

suspended/ revoked twice in the past and this Bench vide final

orders cited above has set aside the impugned order therein. We

find that as on the day of suspension, the license of the appellants

was already under suspension and therefore, a further suspension

would not only be redundant but also smacks of vengeance by the

Revenue. Moreover, we find that the appellants have been suffering

for 07 to 08 years due to continuous suspension of the license. It is

not in the interest of justice to subject the Customs Broker Appellant

for the un-evidenced and general allegations without specific

evidence. We find that Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of

Ashiana Cargo Services (supra) held that even though it is seen that

the Customs Broker has violated the trust operating between the

customs authorities and the CHA, it has to be borne in mind that the

CHA was unable to work with the license for 07 to 08 years; a

penalty must be imposed if certain provisions have been violated;

the penalty must, as in any ordered system, be proportional to the

violation just as the law abhors impunity for infractions, it cautions

against disproportionate penalty; neither extreme is to be

encouraged. Hon'ble High Court held that a penalty of revocation of

license unjustly restricts the appellant's ability to engage the
 9 C/60555/2024

business of CHA for a long time; importantly, it skews the

proportionality doctrine. We also find that, in the instant case, the

Customs Broker Appellant has been singled out without establishing

the role of other persons or agencies without evidencing any

collusion etc., without which violation of such proportion would not

have been possible. We also find that no mens rea has been

established. Therefore, looking into the relevant factors like

knowledge/ mens rea, gravity of the infraction, stringency of the

penalty/ suspension/ revocation and that the appellant has already

suffered for 07 to 08 years, a judicious mind will not but lean in

favour of the Customs Broker Appellant. Though, the Authorized

Representative submits that the appellant has been a habitual

offender, it has to be borne in mind that this Bench has set aside the

suspension of the Customs Broker Appellant on two occasions. In

the instant case also, in view of the absence of evidence of any

mens rea on the part of the appellant or collusion with others, we

are of the considered opinion that the impugned order cannot be

maintained and requires to be set aside without blinking an eye. 12. In view of the above, the appeal is allowed. (Order pronounced in the open court on 18/11/2025)

 (S. S. GARG)
 MEMBER (JUDICIAL)

 (P. ANJANI KUMAR)
 MEMBER (TECHNICAL)

PK