The appeal by the assessee is directed against the order

 passed by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-2,

 Chennai dated 31.05.2017 in ITA No.201/CIT(A)-2/2016-17 for the

 assessment year 2014-15 passed U/s.250(6) r.w.s. 143(3) of the

 Act. 2. The assessee has raised several grounds in his appeal,

 however the crux of the issue is that the Ld.CIT(A) has erred in 2 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 confirming the order of the Ld.AO who had rejected the claim of

exemption U/s.10(38) of the Act on the long term capital gains

earned by the assessee from the sale of shares. 3. The brief facts of the case are that the assessee is an

individual engaged in the business of property development and

investment, filed his return of income for the assessment year

2014-15 electronically on 08.10.2014 admitting total taxable

income of Rs.11,88,22,830/-. The return of income was selected

for scrutiny by issuance of notice U/s.143(2) of the Act on

28.08.2015. The reason for selecting the case of the assessee for

scrutiny was because there was substantial increase in the capital

of the assessee during the previous year relevant to the

assessment year 2014-15. In the course of scrutiny assessment

proceedings it was revealed that the substantial increase in the

capital of the assessee was due to the capital gain earned by the

assessee which was claimed as exempt U/s.10(38) of the Act.

During the relevant previous year the assessee had sold 7,72,000

shares of M/s. PFL Infotech for sale consideration of

Rs.34,68,10,572/- and derived long term capital gain of

Rs.32,90,96,125/- which was claimed as eligible for exemption

U/s.10(38) of the Act. Thereafter a survey was conducted in the 3 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 business premises of the assessee U/s.133 A of the Act on

19.07.2016 because of the peculiar nature of transactions,

quantum of exempt income, market information about the

manipulation of shares of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd, the timing of

purchase and sale and the corresponding timing of "pump and

dump" activity in the shares of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd. From the

information gathered from the survey, the Ld.AO made the

following findings: Thereafter the name of the company was changed to

 M/s.PFL Infotech Ltd thereby giving a colour of Software

 Company in order to take the benefit of booming software

 industry. (vi) The company for the past four years was disclosing

 meager income only under the head "income from other

 sources" and the reserves stood at negative figure of

 Rs.6,54,536/- as on 31.03.2013, though the share price of

 the company had jacked up substantially even when there

 was no development in the company worth mentioning. (vii) The profit disclosed by the assessee company for the four

 years under the head 'income from other source' was

 consistently around Rs.40 lakhs per annum. (viii) The assessee had no previous expertise or experience in

 trading in share. (ix) The assessee has been indulging in purchase of illiquid

 shares which were subsequently spiked artificially. 5 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 (x) The assessee had also invested in the shares of M/s. Kochar Group of Companies. (xi) The Ld.AO opined that the investment made by the

 assessee in M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd was peculiar because it

 was explained by the assessee that during a function he

 attended in Mumbai, he had collected an authentic

 information from one of the participant that shares of M/s.

 PFL Infotech Ltd is bound to fetch substantial profit in a

 short span of pre-determined time, which prompted him to

 acquire those shares. However the assessee has not

 disclosed the name of the person from whom he had

 received such tip. (xii) Shri Sohanraj Praveen Kumar, the brother of the assessee,

 by similar transactions booked bogus long term capital gain

 and claimed exemption U/s.10(38) of the Act amounting to

 Rs.38 crores during the assessment year 2014-15 by

 transfer of another illiquid stock of M/s. Risa International

 Ltd. (xiii) Shri Sohanraj Praveen Kumar had explained that he had

 received the information about the future increase in the

 value of share of M/s. Risa International Ltd from Shri

 Abhinandan Jain. (xiv) It was revealed that Shri Abhinandan Jain was Director in

 both M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd as well as M/s. Risa

 International Ltd. (xv) Since Shri Abhinandan Jain was Director in both M/s. PFL

 Infotech Ltd as well as M/s. Risa International Ltd and

 since the assessee has not disclosed the name of Shri

 Abhinandan Jain, the Ld.AO opined that there was

 collusion between the assessee, assessee's brother and

 Shri Abhinandan Jain. (xvi) Each and every features as to how penny stocks operates

 is prevalent in the case of the assessee. (xvii) The entire contract note provided by M/s. B. Lodha

 Securities Limited, Mumbai related only to the sale of

 shares of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd. (xviii) Though many of the notice U/s.131 of the Act sent to the

 buyers of the shares was returned as un-served, the

 assessee failed to co-operate with the department to

 produce the buyers of the shares or to prove that the

 shares of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd. are not spiked.

 (xix) One of the buyer Shri Aspi Bamanji Viarava in his letter

 dated 12.12.2016 had stated that he had not undertaken to

 purchase the share of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd. When 7 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 confronted with the assessee, he had replied stating that

 the sale transactions of the shares were made through

 BSE. However as per the office record of the Revenue the

 sale transaction was direct between the assessee and Shri

 Aspi Bamanji Viarava. (xx) Similarly the other purchaser of the shares Shri Pratik

 Pankaj Kumar Shah and his relatives Shri Pankaj Kumar,

 Ms. Deepti Pratik and Smt. Bharathi Pankaj vide their letter

 dated 12.12.2016 had stated that their Demat accounts

 were operated by Shri Bhupesh Rathod for a small

 commission. When confronted with the assessee, the

 assessee simply replied by stating that the purchase and

 sale of shares were made through BSE. (xxi) It was a well-known fact that the message propagated by

 "money life" states that the foreign institutions participation

 in such shares rigging operations. This aspect can be

 understood through their following links. (xxii) On examining the bank account of the buyers of the shares

 of M/s. PFL Ltd., it was found that the amount paid to the 8 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 assessee was not accumulated in those bank accounts.

 The funds from identical persons were transferred to the

 buyers' account which was entirely transferred to the

 assessee's account subsequently. It was also observed

 that the unexplained funds were routed through layering of

 accounts which was finally deposited in the assessee's

 bank account. It was also observed that the relationship

 managers in most of the banks in order to achieve their

 target of opening new accounts encourage such activities

 without following KYC norms. Thus the gross violation in

 banking practice had helped in large scale tax evasion.

(xxiii) Based on the above findings the Ld.AO opined as follows:- h) Drawing the same analogy the profits earned by the

 assessee on sale of shares amounting to

 Rs.34,68,10,572/- has to be treated as income under 10 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 the head "profits and gains of business" and not

 under the head "capital gains". i) For the above stated reasons the assessee is not

 eligible to claim the exemption U/s.10(38) of the Act

 with respect to the gain of Rs.32,90,96,125/- arising

 out of sale of shares. j) Since M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., lacks credentials,

 identity in the market and financially unworthy, it is

 apparent that the share price of M/s. PFL Infotech

 Ltd., was pumped and dumped during the period of

 the shareholding by the assessee company and

 clearly points out that the transactions are fabricated

 to suit the assessee. k) The deposition of the assessee that he has been

 tipped that the stock prices of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd.,

 is bound to escalate in a short span of time is itself

 an evidence to establish that the transactions are

 artificially spiked. l) The above facts have also leads to establish that the

 assessee had colluded with entry operators to

 artificially spike the shares. m) The statement made by Shri Aspi Bamanji Vairava,

 Shri Pratik Pankaj Kumar Shah, Shri Pankaj Kumar,

 Ms. Deepti Pratik and Smt. Bharathi Pankaj leads to

 the fact that the assessee had failed to discharge his

 duty and thereby adverse inference could be drawn

 that the transactions are artificially spiked. n) The stand of the assessee that shares are brought by

 institutions like Royal Bank of Scotland, etc., cannot

 justify the genuineness of the transactions made by

 the assessee. o) The bulk trading of shares in M/s.PFL Infotech Ltd.,

 for the period 07.12.2009 to 19.05.2016 shows that

 the transactions have been systematically jacked up

 and reduced thereafter to suit the needs of various

 participants. p) Neither the raise in the price of the shares nor its fall

 is supported by any sound reasoning. q) The companies from Mumbai, Kolkata and few other

 places who invested in purchase of shares of

 M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., at Rs.450/- per share did not

 possess the resources to invest. Further the price of

 the shares nose-dived to Rs.15/- per share within a 12 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 short span of time which establishes the fact that the

 transactions are not genuine and dubious. r) There is no scientific reasoning for the share price to

 increase substantially and thereafter shrink to a low

 value to the extent of Rs.15 per share. Therefore the

 decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case

 Durgaprasad & More reported in 82 ITR 540 applies

 to the case of the assessee on the theory of human

 probabilities. s) The assessee's relatives were also indulging in such

 kind of transactions which are bogus and dubious, in

 the shares of companies M/s. Gujarat Incatel, M/s.

 Pace Textile, M/.s Steel Exchange, M/s. Gujarat

 Capital, M/s. S V Electricals, M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd.,

 M/s. Ken Finance, M/s. Clarus Financial Securities

 Ltd, M/s. Shantanu Sheorey Aquakult Ltd & M/s. Risa

 International Ltd., wherein all the shares are illiquid

 and spiked within short span of time, which even a

 blue chip company cannot normally achieve. t) Though the assessee has made phenomenal gain

 from purchase and sale of shares of M/s. PFL

 Infotech Ltd., he has incurred loss only in few 13 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 companies such as Danush Technologies, Decolite,

 Surana Industries etc., which shows that in those

 transactions the assessee was ditched by operators. 4. From the above findings and the opinion arrived at by the

Ld.AO, he came to the conclusion that

  The company, whose shares are spiked has no fundamentals.
  The buyer of shares are not credit worthy
  The assessee is not able to provide a satisfactory reason to
 substantiate the genuineness
  The assessee only insists that the shares are sold through stock
 exchange after suffering STT. Beyond this aspect, he has no further
 evidence to adduce
  The spiking of shares and being bought at such unreasonable and
 excessive price defeating the theory of human probabilities,
  The transactions in illiquid shares has only brought maximum profits
 to the assessee and his family members and that too exempt profits,
 which is again against the principle of Human Probabilities" Thereafter the Ld.AO arrived at the final conclusion that the

unexplained money of the assessee has been channelized

through a layer of banking accounts and was finally deposited in

the assessee's bank account as the sale proceeds of shares of

M/s.PFL Infotech Ltd., and claimed exemption with respect to the

long term capital gain U/s.10(38) of the Act. Therefore the Ld.AO

treated the entire income of the assessee Rs.38,05,28,490/- sic.,

Rs.32,90,96,125/- (Corrigendum dated 17.01.2017) as the

unexplained credit in the hands of the assessee U/s.68 of the Act

and in the alternatively as the business profit of the assessee

U/s.28 of the Act. 5. On appeal the Ld.CIT(A) also gave concurrent finding as

that of the Ld.AO in his order and further observed as follows:- (viii) The assessee had failed to discharge his duty in proving the

 fact and substantiating the transactions adhered to natural

 course of event and human conduct. Reliance was placed in

 the decision of the Hon'ble Apex court in the case K.Ponnusamy vs. State of TN wherein the importance of

 proving a fact is elaborated. (ix) Heavily relying in the decision of the Mumbai Benches of the

 Tribunal in the case ITO vs. Shamim M. Bharwani cited

 supra it was opined that when all the adverse factors are

 viewed holistically, there cannot be an iota of doubt in

 classifying the transactions as manipulations. Therefore the

 Ld.CIT(A) came to a conclusion that it was well established,

 the capital gain earned by the assessee is actually his

 unexplained income reverted through various layering. 17 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 6. The Ld.AR submitted before us that the assessee had

purchased the shares from open market based on rational

reasons and thereafter off-loaded the same in the open market

when the time was ripe for making gains. He further submitted

that the entire transaction of purchase and sale of shares were

routed through banking channels. He further argued by stating

that the assumption of the Ld.Revenue Authorities that the

assessee (black money holder) approached operators to convert

his black money into white money is totally baseless because no

evidence was produced for establishing the same. Further,

allegation of the Department that the operator forms listed

companies in order to issue preferential allotment of shares to

black money holder (assessee) also does not have merit because

the assessee had acquired the shares from the stock exchange

after payment of STT. It was further submitted that the

presumption of the Ld.Revenue Authorities that the operator

identifies dummy buyers is also baseless because no evidence

has been produced by the Department in support of the same.

Further there was no evidence to show that the assessee had

paid black money in cash to the operators. The Ld.AR further

argued stating that the Revenue had not brought out any

materials to establish that the share prices of the company was 18 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 rigged. The Ld.AR thereafter argued vehemently stating that the

shares of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., was traded regularly in the stock

market till date and the appropriate government regulatory

authorities has not pointed out any irregularities in those shares.

Therefore the Ld.AR pleaded that the allegation made by the

Department is based on presumptions and assumptions and

therefore cannot be sustained in law. Hence it was requested that

the addition made by the Ld.Revenue Authorities may be deleted. 7. The Ld.DR on the other hand vehemently argued in

support of the orders of the Ld.Revenue Authorities reiterating

their findings, views, etc., stated in their respective orders. 8. We have heard the rival submissions and carefully perused

the materials produced before us. From the facts of the case the

allegation of the Ld.Revenue Authorities can be broadly

summarized as under:- 8.1 From the above, we find that the Ld.AO's finding with

respect to the turn-over, profit and the other limitations of M/s.

PFL Infotech Ltd., was only based upon the Balance Sheet and

profit & loss accounts of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd. The change in the

name of the company to M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd. was also noticed

by the Ld.AO from the Memorandum and Articles of Association of

M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd. The Ld.Revenue Authorities though have

made remarks with respect to spiking of the shares of M/s. PFL

Infotech Ltd., the modus-operandi and the manner in which the

prices are spiked has not been examined and brought out in their

respective Orders. Further the Ld.AO has relied in the statements

of few persons such as Shri Aspi Bamanji Vairava, Shri Pankaj

Kumar K Shah, Shri Dipti P Shah, in order to arrive at the

conclusion that the assessee was dealing with penny stock

company. However from the letter written by those persons to the

Revenue, it is evident that they have stated, neither they have met 21 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 the assessee nor they know him and reference was made to

another person Shri Bhupesh Rathod. However there is nothing

on record to show that Shri Bhupesh Rathod was examined by the

Revenue for gathering any adverse inference. The total extent of

shares issued by M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., and what is the nature of

the share transactions that are not dealt by the assessee and who

are those persons who dealt with those shares are not coming out

from the orders of the Ld.Revenue Authorities. The entire extent

of shares issued by M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd. is also not before us on

record. It is pertinent to mention that the other persons who dealt

with the shares of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd will also stand in the

same footing as that of the assessee and the details of those

cases are also not before us. It appears that well-known

institutions like Royal Bank of Scotland, etc., have also purchased

and sold the shares of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd. However the extent

of shares dealt by them is not on record before us to examine and

compare the scope of transactions with that of the assessee.

Further we find from the order of the Ld.AO in Annexure 'E', that

nearly 355 individuals had made bulk deals in shares of M/s. PFL

Infotech Ltd., through NSE and BSE. However neither the Ld.AO

has made detailed investigations with respect to all these

individuals in order to pin them also along with the assessee for 22 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 having dealt with the shares of the alleged penny stock company

M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd nor the facts pertaining to those persons are

brought to our knowledge. Further from the facts of the case, it is

evident that the entire transactions are transacted through

recognized stock exchange and all the financial transactions are

made through banking channels and the same is not in dispute.

The Ld.AR had also affirmed that though SEBI had debarred the

trading of shares of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., for a short-while due to

technical reasons, the bar was lifted subsequently and the shares

are being traded in the recognized stock exchange till date. This

fact is also not disputed by the Ld.DR either. The finding of the

Ld.AO that the company M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., did not have any

credentials worthy of mentioning only leads to a suspicion that the

transactions are bogus. But it should be kept in mind that in

commercial scenario various economic factors affect the price of

shares which may not be physically visible. Therefore one cannot

arrive at a conclusion only based on such suspicion. There are

occasions where blue chip companies also manipulate the price of

shares for various reasons which may be illegal but to initiate

penal action there should be concrete finding with evidence on

such illegal activities. Predominantly in the case of the assessee

though various aspects points out that there may be some 23 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 superfluous activities conducted by various persons in order to

influence the price of shares of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., no

concrete evidence is brought out to establish any illegality. On

query, the Ld.DR informed us that there is no criminal case,

investigations by enforcement directorate or by CBI pending as on

date with respect to the assessee or M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd.

Moreover no irregularities are brought out by SEBI or any

recognized stock exchange with respect to the trading in shares of

M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., as affirmed by the Ld.AR as well as the

Ld.DR before us. Further there is no finding by the Department as

to how the assessee might have possessed/acquired such huge

black money for conversion. The bank account trial with respect to

the source of amount invested by the so called dubious

purchasers of shares from the assessee through stock exchange

has not been thoroughly investigated by the Revenue to establish

that those buyers are not genuine and they did not have sufficient

source to invest in the shares of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd.,

purchased from the assessee. Only a passing remark is made by

the Revenue on that regard that the buyers of the shares from the

assessee were men of meager means but no evidence is brought

on record. In fact the need for such finding was dispensed with by

the Revenue by merely stating that the funds were routed through 24 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 layering of accounts and flouting of rules by the bankers not

following KYC norms. Though the Ld.AO has explained how the

penny stock works, he has not made any finding with

corroborative evidence to establish that the assessee's case falls

under dealing with penny stock. The Ld.AO had also observed in

his order that the assessee had failed to obtain financials and

bank accounts of the buyers of the shares from the assessee to

prove that they are credit worthy. We do not understand as to how

the assessee will be able to get such particulars from strangers

who had purchased shares from the assessee through recognized

stock exchange. In fact the Revenue had all the opportunity to

summon them and obtain the requisite particulars which they had

grossly fails to exercise. The Ld.AO has also relied on the

message propagated by "money life" but he has not made a

finding as to how it is applicable in the case of the assessee. The

Ld.AO has also pointed out about the bank accounts being

opened by various individuals without following KYC norms.

However the Ld.AO has not examined those individuals in order to

establish his adverse finding on the assessee. It is also pertinent

to mention that no detailed Paper Book is filed by the Revenue

before us with respect to M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., or the assessee

to establish that the assessee has indulged trading in penny stock 25 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 company for converting his unaccounted money. The reference

made by the Ld.AO with respect to asset classification by banking

institutions viz., "available for sale (AFS)" and the relevant CBDT

Circular No.17 dated 26.11.2008 is not applicable to the case of

the assessee because the assessee is not a banking institution.

The Ld.AO has also remarked that there is no scientific reasoning

for the share price of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., to rise as high as

Rs.760 per share and shrink to Rs.15 per share. The stand of the

Ld.AO that bulk trading of shares in M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd.

between the period 07.12.2009 to 19.05.2016 shows that the

transactions have been systematically jacked up and reduced

thereafter to suit the needs of various participants has not been

proved by thorough investigation with respect to all the

participants who traded in those shares and no such adverse

report on the spiking of the price of the shares artificially is

brought out on record by the Revenue. Moreover the Ld.AO has

not made any finding with respect to the modus operandi as to

how such manipulations were made possible. He has only made a

presumption that the transactions are dubious. It is pertinent to

mention that the assessee would not be able to explain the entire

activities of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., or gather internal

documents/information because M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., is a third 26 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 party as far as the assessee is concerned and he has no control

over the company. Further he himself confessed that he indulged

in such trading activity based on tips received from reliable

sources. Though it appears that such quantum of raise and fall in

the price of shares is not normally possible as in the case of M/s.

PFL Infotech Ltd., it is essential to bring out some evidence to

establish that there is some illegality in the transaction.

Conclusions cannot be made merely on the basis of conjectures

and surmises. The Ld.AO's grievance that the assessee had

failed to obtain financials and bank accounts of the buyers of

shares to prove they are credit-worthy is not appreciable, because

it is obvious that the assessee cannot get such documents from

unknown individuals who have purchased shares through

recognized stock exchange. The Ld.AO himself had admitted that

the assessee had also made investment in companies such as

Danush Technologies, Delolites, Surana Industries, etc., however

he has blindly stated in his order without evidence that the

operators had ditched the assessee for conducting similar

operations while dealing with those shares. It also establishes the

fact that the observations of the Ld.AO regarding previous

experience of the assessee in trading of shares does not seems

to be appropriate. The mere statement of the Ld.AO that the 27 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 assessee and his relatives were in the habit of dealing with illiquid

shares which are spiked artificially will not hold water unless all

those instances are proved with substantive evidence. The

observation of the Ld.AO that the assessee had purchased the

shares only to obtain profit from sale of those shares and had no

intention for earning dividend income also does not seem to be

appropriate because any investors is at liberty to exploit gain from

dealing with their investment in the best possible manner. In the

case of the assessee though there is a strong needle of suspicion

arising due to the unnatural fluctuation of the price of the shares of

M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., no clear cut evidence is brought forth by

the Revenue in order to nail the assessee for penal consequence.

In these circumstances we do not find any merit in the Order of

Ld.AO for making addition in the hands of the assessee U/s.68 of

the Act with respect to the Long Term Capital Gain earned by him

from the sale of shares of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., or treating the

Long Term Capital Gain earned by the assessee as income from

business or denying the benefit of Section 10(38) of the Act, and

as well as with the Order of the Ld.CIT(A) who had sustained the

addition made by the Ld.AO. 8.2 Further on examining the decisions relied by the Ld.

Revenue Authorities we do not find much strength in the same.

They are briefly discussed herein below for reference:- However the case of the assessee it is with respect to

 purchase and sale of shares through recognized and

 regulated stock exchange. Hence the ratio laid down in the

 case cannot apply to the case of the assessee. b) The Ld.AO has heavily relied in the decision of the Mumbai

 Benches of the Tribunal in the case ITO vs. Shamim

 Bharwani reported in 69 Taxman.com 65 and has extracted

 the entire order. However it is pertinent to mention that in

 that case the shares were purchased off the market which

 was not reported in the recognized stock exchange. The

 purchase was through back dated contract note and paid by

 cash. The shares belong to penny stock company and there

 were no real buyers. The operators were acting in benami 29 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 names or name lenders. The shares traded were of paper

 companies. The purchases were in physical form, and

 demated subsequently long after the purchase date, back

 dated close to the date of sale. From the above, it is evident

 that facts are not identical to case of the assessee. In the

 case of the assessee shares are traded through regulated

 stock exchanges, financial transactions were made through

 banking channels, there were prominent institutions

 involved in the purchase and sale of shares, identity of the

 persons who traded in shares were known etc. Therefore

 the case relied by the Revenue is not applicable to the case

 of the assessee. c) The decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court relied by the

 Revenue in the case CIT vs. Durga Prasad More reported

 in 82 ITR 540 neither deal with share market transactions or

 identical to the facts in the case of the assessee. d) Further the decision in the case CIT vs. Mohanakala by the

 Hon'ble Apex Court reported in 291 ITR 278 is not

 applicable to the case of the assessee because in that case the issue was with respect to addition made under the head

 cash credit U/s. 68 of the Act towards foreign gifts received

 from one common donor and the evidence indicated that 30 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 the donor was to receive suitable compensation from the

 assessee though the money came by way of bank cheques

 and was paid through the process of banking transactions

 which was by itself of no consequence. But in the case of

 the assessee before us the issue is with respect to

 purchase and sale of shares through regulated market such

 as stock exchange and the watch full eye of SEBI. e) In the case CIT vs. Krishnaveni Ammal reported in 158 ITR

 826, the Hon'ble Jurisdictional Madras High Court held that

 when there was information to effect that Multani Bankers

 had only indulging in hawala transactions by merely lending

 their names, the credit entries in the name of the various

 Multani Bankers appearing in the books of the assessee did

 not represent genuine transaction because though the

 assessee had stated that crossed checks are available they

 were not produced before the Revenue. In the case of the

 assessee the issue is totally different. f) In the case Somnath Maini vs. CIT reported in 306 ITR 414,

 the Hon'ble High Court of Punjab & Haryana had held that

 "The burden of proving that income is subject to tax is on the
 Revenue but on the facts, to show that the transaction is genuine,
 the burden is primarily on the assessee. The Assessing Officer is
 to apply the test of human probabilities for deciding the 31 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 genuineness or otherwise of a particular transaction. Mere
 leading of evidence that the transaction was genuine, cannot be
 conclusive. Such evidence is required to be assessed by the
 Assessing Officer in a reasonable way. The genuineness of the
 transaction can be rejected even if the assessee leads evidence
 which is not trustworthy, even if the Department does not lead
 any evidence on such an issue." However in the case of the assessee the genuineness of

 the company M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd. which is a third party

 and not under the control of the assessee and whose

 shares assessee had purchased and sold is the issue.

 Moreover the purchase and sales of shares were made

 through recognized stock exchange in the open market

 from unknown and unconnected persons. Therefore the

 ratio laid down by the Hon'ble High Court would not be

 strictly applicable in the case of the assessee.

8.3 The assessee has relied in the following decisions which

apparently support the case of the assessee:- In all the above mentioned cases, it has been uniformly held

that when the transactions are routed through banking channels

and the identity of the seller and the purchasers are established

and when the transactions are covered through contract notes,

demat accounts which shows transfer in and out of shares then

there is no necessity to doubt the genuineness of the transactions.

8.4 From the above it is apparent that the decisions relied by

the Ld. Revenue Authorities will not be strictly applicable to the

case of the assessee and the decisions cited by the assessee are

in support of the claim of the assessee. 8.5 We do understand the genuine anxiety of the Revenue to

tax the assessee due to the various unnatural happening of

events, but as a Judicial body our hands are tied due to the lack of

material evidence against the activities of the assessee and we

cannot step into the shoes of the Revenue by making further

investigations and enquiries to tie up the loose ends left out by the

Revenue. From the materials produced before us there is nothing

on record to establish that the transactions of purchase and sale

of shares made by the assessee are dubious other than the fact

that the share prices of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., rose substantially

without sound backing and the statements of few persons such as

Shri Aspi Bamanji Vairava, Shri Pankaj Kumar K Shah & Shri Dipti

P Shah. At the same time it should be kept in mind that stock

prices may raise due to certain hidden factors which may be not

known to the public at large even with respect to blue chip

companies. Hence conclusion cannot be bluntly made on the

basis of surmises and conjectures in the case of any assessee

when certain other material factors are in favour of the assessee.

8.6 The Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case CIT

vs. Anupam Kapoor reported in 299 ITR 179 in a somewhat 34 ITA No.1787/CHNY/2017 similar situation has categorically stated that no presumption

could be drawn by the Assessing Officer merely on surmises and

conjectures. The gist of the decision and case is extracted herein

below for reference:- 8.7 In the case Omar Salay Mohamed Sait vs. CIT reported in

37 ITR 151, the Hon'ble Apex Court categorically held that

 "on no account whatever should the Tribunal base its findings
 on suspicions, conjectures or surmises: nor should it act on no
 evidence at all or on improper rejection of material and
 relevant evidence or partly on evidence and partly on
 suspicions, conjectures or surmises and if it does anything of
 the sort, its findings even though on questions of fact will be
 liable to be set aside by the court." 8.8 In the case Umacharan Shaw & Brothers vs. CIT reported

in 37 ITR 271, the Hon'ble Apex Court held that where conclusion

arrived at was due to suspicion which could not take the place of

proof but based on many surmises and conjectures reliance

cannot be placed. 8.9 Similar ratio was laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in

the case Lalchand Bhagat Ambica Ram vs. CIT reported in 37 ITR 288.

8.10 In the case CIT vs. Carbo Industrial Holdings Ltd. , reported

in 224 ITR 422, the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court has held that

when purchase and sale of shares are effected through share

brokers, their particulars are furnished and the payment is made

by account payee cheque the transaction cannot be doubted just

because the brokers fail to appear before the Revenue even after

issue of summons. Similar view was upheld by the Hon'ble

Calcutta High Court in the case CIT vs. Emerald Commercial Ltd.

& another reported in 250 ITR 539. 8.11 In the case CIT vs. Prem Pal Gandhi , the Hon'ble Punjab &

Haryana High Court held vide its recent order dated 18.01.2018

has held that:- 8.12 Based on the above referred cases decided by the higher

 judiciary and discussions we hereby direct the Ld.AO to delete the

 addition made by invoking Section 68 of the Act and also to grant

 deduction U/s.10(38) of the Act by treating the gain arising out of

 the sale of shares as Long Term Capital Gain. 8.13 We also make it clear that we have arrived at this decision

 in the case of the assessee alone based on the materials and

 facts presented before us and therefore it does not have any

 binding precedent value in similar other cases. We also make it

 clear that we have not arrived at any conclusion with respect to

 the standing/activities etc., of M/s. PFL Infotech Ltd., because we

 do not have sufficient materials to comment on the same. 9. In the result the appeal of the assessee is allowed.

 Order pronounced on the 28th February, 2018 at Chennai.