The matter has been taken up through

video-conferencing on account of outbreak of pandemic COVID- 19.

 Petitioner Arshad who is in custody has come up

before this Court in this second regular bail application moved

under Section 439 Cr.P.C. in FIR No. 306 dated 28.09.2019

registered under Sections 419 , 420 and 120-B of IPC at

 1 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 04-10-2020 04:01:17 ::: CRM M-19572 of 2020 (O&M) -2-

Police Station Sector-17, Chandigarh, U.T.

 The present case was got registered on the

complaint of Sunil Rajta. The complainant claims that he is

holder of credit card issued by the State Bank of India. On the

day of occurrence, i.e. 28.09.2019 the complainant received a

telephonic call impersonating to be an official of the bank and on

the pretext of upgrading credit card sought its details including

OTP. The innocent complainant provided the same and,

thereafter, the complainant came to know that a fraud of Rs.4

lacs has been committed from his account. It is during the

investigations it transpired that the petitioner alongwith his

co-accused are running a pan-India gang of frauds cheating the

people and another case titled as Harshad Chaudhary @

Akash Chaudhary Vs. The State of Maharashtra at the

instance of B.D. Marg Police Station CR No. 94 of 2019 has

been registered against him at Mumbai. Mr. Jaideep Verma learned counsel for the petitioner

has laid much stress on the fact that since the complainant and

the petitioner had settled their dispute in support of which he

has claimed the duly sworn affidavit of the complainant on the

records. The counsel has further submitted that the petitioner is

behind the bars for almost 01 year and that the trial is not likely

to be completed in near future. Mr. Gagandeep Singh Wasu, Addl. P.P., for the

respondent-State assisted by Mr. Himanshu Chhabra, Advocate

 2 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 04-10-2020 04:01:17 ::: CRM M-19572 of 2020 (O&M) -3-

for the complainant has strongly opposed the prayer claiming

that the petitioner is already facing similar charges in case at

Mumbai and that the gang being run by the petitioner is likely to

cause similar offence with general public and thereby causing

irreparable harm to the society and that co-accused Bajaj is yet

to be arrested. Admittedly, petitioner is facing similar charges in a

case got registered against him and others at Mumbai. The

manner of this crime is suggestive of how these people are

eroding the very credibility of banking system and ordinary man

on the street is tending to lose faith in such mode of

transactions. Since the petitioner is having similar charges at

Mumbai and in view of pan-India gang at work looting people of

their hard earned money and the apprehension of the State they

will commit more crimes and even might abscond are not

unfounded. In view of the seriousness of the allegations and the

apprehension of the State this Court is not inclining to allow the

bail. The same as such stands dismissed.