Dipak Kumar @ Deepak Kumar, aged about 21 years, son of
 Tiroti Mandal, resident of Village-Lata Sare, P.O.-Morne, P.S.-
 Mohanpur, Dist.-Deoghar ... Petitioner
 Versus
 The State of Jharkhand ... Opposite Party ------ CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ANIL KUMAR CHOUDHARY ------ The petitioner has moved this Court for grant of bail in
 connection with Deoghar (Cyber) P.S. Case No.129 of 2025
 registered for the offences punishable under sections 319(2)/
 318(4)/338/336(3)/340(2)/61(2) of the B.N.S., 2023 and under Section 66B / 66C / 66D / 84(C) of I.T. Act. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the
 allegation against the petitioner is that the petitioner was involved
 in cybercrime by posing as phone-pe customer care officer and by
 giving false promises of lottery and also by deceiving gullible
 persons in the name of getting loan approved. It is further
 submitted that the mobile handsets along with sim cards recovered
 from the possession of the petitioner reveals that the same were
 involved in financial fraud and as per the CDR report, the seized
 mobile handset of the petitioner was used for creation of several e-
 wallets. It is further submitted that the allegations against the
 petitioner are all false. It is next submitted that the petitioner has
 no criminal antecedent as has been mentioned in paragraph no.13
 of the bail application. It is then submitted that the petitioner has
 been in custody since 14.09.2025, as has been mentioned in
 paragraph no. 01 of the bail application. It is next submitted that
 the petitioner undertakes to cooperate with the trial of the case.
 Hence, it is submitted that the petitioner be admitted to bail. The learned P.P. opposes the prayer for bail.
 Considering the submissions of the counsels and the fact as
 discussed above, I am inclined to enlarge the abovenamed
 petitioner on bail. Accordingly, the petitioner is directed to be
 released on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees
 Twenty Five Thousand) with two sureties of the like amount each
 to the satisfaction of learned A.S.J.-II-cum Cyber Crime, Special
 Court, Deoghar, in connection with Deoghar (Cyber) P.S. Case
 No.129 of 2025 with the condition that the petitioner will cooperate
 with the trial of the case and will furnish his mobile number and a
 copy of his Aadhar Card in the court below with the undertaking
 that he will not change his mobile number during the trial of the
 case. (Anil Kumar Choudhary, J.)
19.02.2026
Gunjan-