1. By this writ petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the

Constitution of India, petitioner impugns the award dated 1.6.2009

passed by the Presiding Officer, Central Government Industrial

Tribunal-cum-Labour Court-II (in short „CGITLC‟) holding that

respondent no.2 is a workman and that her services were illegally

retrenched by the petitioner. Petitioner was the employer and

respondent no.2 was the employee of the petitioner. Respondent no.2 W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 1 of 29 was working as Senior Confidential Secretary with the petitioner. Respondent no.2 during the course of her employment was posted with

Ms. Nancy Dickinson, Senior Manager at New Delhi. In around May

2005, respondent no.2 was informed by the petitioner that since the

services of Ms. Nancy Dickinson were dispensed with, hence the

respondent no.‟s 2 post of Senior Confidential Secretary had become

redundant. Ms. Nancy Dickinson had proceeded on a sabbatical leave

without it being a fixed period and which resulted in redundancy of the

post which the respondent no.2 occupied with the petitioner. The

impugned letter/order of termination dated 1.10.2005 by which

respondent no.2‟s services were terminated reads as under:- 2. The CGITLC, as per the impugned award, has held that

respondent no.2 was a workman within the meaning of the definition

of „workman‟ as per Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947

(in short „the Act‟). The CGITLC also held that respondent no.2 has

been retrenched as per the meaning of the expression „retrenchment‟ in Section 2(oo) of the Act. It was further held that since the retrenchment

of the respondent no.2 by the petitioner fell foul of Section 25F of the

Act hence the termination of services of respondent no.2 by the

petitioner was illegal. 3. Before this Court, on behalf of the petitioner two

arguments were urged. Before I refer to the two arguments, it is

necessary to state that the case both before the CGITLC as also before

this Court was heatedly contested as regards whether or not the

respondent no.2 was a workman. Petitioner had pleaded that

respondent no.2 is not a workman and a learned Single of this Court

vide his order dated 22.3.2013 had remanded the matter to the Tribunal W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 3 of 29 to give a fresh decision on the issue as to whether respondent no.2 was

or was not a workman. The remand order was passed because the case

of the petitioner was that the CGITLC decided the issue of whether or

not the respondent no.2 is a workman without referring to the

documents and evidence which was led by the petitioner to show that

respondent no.2 is not a workman. Pursuant to the remand order, the

CGITLC has now passed a fresh award on the aspect of workman

dated 15.7.2015 again holding that respondent no.2 was a workman

within the meaning of the definition of „workman‟ under the Act. Before this Court after arguments were addressed on behalf of the

petitioner with respect to whether respondent no.2 is or is not a

workman, learned senior counsels for the petitioner have submitted

that this Court for the purpose of the present judgment only can take

the respondent no.2 to be a workman, and that this concession is made

in the present case under Section 23 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872

i.e petitioner has stated that though respondent no.2 can be taken as a

workman in the present case, however, legally the issue be left open as

to whether in other cases such a person is or is not a workman. Accordingly, the issue with respect to respondent no.2 being or being

not a workman is held in favour of the respondent no.2 in the present W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 4 of 29 case, but subject to and limited by the aforesaid concession made on

behalf the petitioner. 4. On behalf of the petitioner, two arguments have been

urged for setting aside of the impugned awards dated 1.6.2009 and

15.7.2015. Firstly, it is argued that respondent no.2 has abandoned her

services with the petitioner, and therefore, since there is abandonment

of services, hence petitioner cannot claim that she has been illegally

terminated from the services. It is argued that respondent no.2 was

offered about four alternative jobs with the petitioner after Ms. Nancy

Dickinson left the services of the petitioner, and none of which four

jobs required any technical qualification, yet, the respondent no.2 out

of her own whims and fancies failed to accept any of the four posts. Reliance is placed on behalf of the petitioner upon Section 25B of the

Act which defines „continuous service‟ to be only such service which

is such service wherein a workman does not illegally abstain from

work. It is argued that since respondent no.2 deliberately/illegally

refused to take up work in any of the four posts offered to her, hence

respondent no.2 should be taken to have abandoned the services of the

petitioner. The second argument which is urged on behalf of the

petitioner is that assuming that the respondent no.2 has not abandoned

her services, the fact of the matter is that petitioner has validly W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 5 of 29 retrenched the services of the respondent no.2 by complying with the

requirements of Section 25F(a) and (b) of the Act by giving the

respondent no.2 appropriate monetary amounts, and which monetary

amounts include the one month‟s notice pay under sub-section (a) of Section 25F of the Act and additionally compensation equal to 15 days

of average pay for every completed year of continuous service as

required by sub-section(b) of Section 25F of the Act. It was argued

that sub-section (c) of Section 25F of the Act was directory and hence

need not have been complied with. 5. Let us take the first argument urged on behalf of the

petitioner as to whether or not respondent no.2 has abandoned her

services with the petitioner. For such purpose, reference will have to

be made to the admitted correspondence entered into between the

petitioner and the respondent no.2, and which will show that whether

respondent no.2 can or cannot said to have abandoned her services

with the petitioner. The correspondences between the parties are in the

form of e-mails. The various e-mails exchanged between the parties,

and which would be relevant for decision of the present matter, though

a bit prolix, are reproduced as under:- I understand that since NDH and NOI are the flagship branches, the above
 role does not mean for these branches. Hence, if given a chance for this role
 in the capacity of a Senior Officer Band 1 grade preferred branches would be
 South Delhi branches i.e STX/NDB/BLO. Trust you will appreciate and understand my position to enable me to
 sharpen my skills and safeguard the Bank once again during my tenure. As
 previously quoted in my mail, the fact is Bank does not penalize any
 employee in the past and as is evident from the history of the banking
 industry, their dedicated workers have always been treated with due regard
 and respect. Kind regards
 Manju

 Email dated 5.9.2005 from petitioner to respondent no.2(Ex.WW 1/M-9)
 Shishir AGARWAL/HRD
 INM/HBAP/HSBC To Manju SAXENA PLB NDH/HBAP/HSBC@HSBC
 HRD INM/HBAP cc
 05/09/2005 12:43 PM Subject as discussed
 Phone No.91 22 22681120 Our Ref
 Mail Size 32919 Your Ref
 Manju
 As discussed, pls find enclosed the job specs for the BSV Officer role. In my
 opinion this would be an ideal role because it involves reporting/ follow up/
 coordination-which you are very good at. As mentioned to you, there would
 be some other activities that possibly you will need to learn to perform well
 in this role, but I am sure you will be able to do so given the fact how you
 adapted yourself for your current role as well. Let us talk again at around 3 pm today once you have had an opportunity to
 look at the details of the new role. I am confident that with this we should be able to close this long pending
 issue. Best regards W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 8 of 29 Shishir

 Respondent no.2's letter dated 5.9.2005 (Ex.MW1/42)
 HSBC Memo
 05 Sep 2005 17:28
 From: Manju SAXENA/PLB NDH/HBAP/HSBC Tel: 91 11 51592105
 Mail Size: 10232
 To: Shishir AGARWA/HRD INM/HBAP/HSBC @ HSBC
 Cc: Thanks for your positive approach towards resolving the long pending issues
 amicably. As discussed, I have the following concerns and wish to clarify my doubts
 before stepping-in to a final conclusion: Ques3 What is the job profile? Ques 4 What is the reporting structure of this role?
 Ques 5 Which is the cluster-NDH/NOI? 2.NRI Officer in NDH for their IBC- As mentioned in your mail of 30 May05,
 QUOTE
 "Since I have explored the option on the NRI position and post discussions
 with the concerned Business manager, I understand that the same is still
 under discussion and the business case is likely to be put up for various
 approvals in 3-4 weeks time from today. Under the circumstances at this
 point of time, I can only confirm to you that should the business case get
 approved and the position becomes available in NI, we will consider you for
 that role." UNQUOTE
 The list of foreign nationals entering into India could be obtained from the
 Ministry of External/Home Affairs and tapped for business. I have already
 done a similar job. In the past while in Merchant/Investment Banking and
 the foreign visitors were quite happy with the services offered. Also, the
 Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) under the Ministry of
 Industry/Commerce would be able to assist in this regard by giving the list of
 foreign collaborators entering businesses into India. These could be a very
 good initial business for the bank since major diplomats/bureaucrats are
 based in Delhi. Ques 6 Pls confirm in case there is an opportunity to explore NRI business
 in metro cities, particularly NDH by the end of this year 05/early next year 06. The Bank will consider me for this role without any further W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 9 of 29 formalities/second opinion, although 18 months criteria shall not be met by
 me? Ques 7 My current MPIs was changed to a new role at the beginning of this
 year 2005-as discussed, I have updated my eTPM on the various job handled
 during the period May-till date as an self-starter, my mid-term appraisal will
 be done on the current MPIs is or the same shall be revised once again-if
 moved to a new role since 1Q is remaining for this year-end?
 Ques 8 The final year appraisal for the year 2005 will be done for the
 period Jan-Sep 05 or into two segments- as per the current MPIs/first review
 appraisal conducted by the Line Manager? Pls clarify. Would be grateful if
 you could send me your confirmation on the above. Regards
 Manju

 Email dated 13.9.2005 from respondent no.2 to the petitioner
 no.2(Ex.MW 1/48)
 Manju SAXENA/PLB To Shishir AGARWAL/HRD INM/HBAP/HSBC @ HSBC
 NDH/HBAP/HSBC cc
 13/9/2005 01:10 PM subject RE: Your queries
 Phone No.91 11 51592105 Our Ref
 Mail Size: 0255 Your Ref
 Shishir
 As discussed on Saturday, I had a 1:1 meeting with Suhas at Noida for
 almost 2 hours. The following queries were discussed based on the current
 job profile of BSV Officer and a very clear and fair picture was given. Pls
 see my detailed comments in blue: You will appreciate that the Bank has been trying to provide you with
 alternatives, and finally based on your mail written to the CEO, you were
 called to Mumbai for a discussion with the undersigned to close this issue.
 This is to record that the following were covered in the meeting on 23.09.05: You would appreciate that based on the New Terms offered to me in October
 04, I had planned my affairs in a manner which look into account the
 expected hike in my basic salary on account of payment in terms of Benefit
 Allowance over a period of next three years. For reasons best known to the organization, this has been made a point of
 issue with all fairness I had a legitimate expectation that I would receive my
 salary as per the New Terms over a period of three years which include the
 Benefit Allowance. It would be fair and reasonable that an organization for which I have given
 best of my two decades of my life, that in calculating my severance package
 it would do so in accordance with the New Terms offered to me in October 04.
 The facts of the case was discussed by way of a brief presentation by the
 undersigned and the proof of evidence documented was shown to you. You W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 13 of 29 have also agreed that this case has not been handled well by our sub-
 ordinates in the first instance locally especially due to non-existence of
 Regional Head/MPB in the area. Since you were representing the CEO, I requested you to update Mr. Booker
 with a fair minutes of the meeting on as-is-where-is basis but unfortunately
 the update seems to be opaque. . The meeting started with a brief presentation on the job profiles handled
 which was changed in the beginning of the year i.e on 31 Jan 05 by setting a
 new profile of MPIs in the eTPM by the Regional Head & MPB NI.
 . My current job became redundant in May05 and a severance package
 without calculating the benefit allowance was offered. Since the package
 was not reasonable, various job opportunities in PFS was suggested by me to
 HR team viz-a-vis a) Area Coordinator, b) Customer Service Manager, c)NRI Officer for IBC, d) Event Management, e) Mystery Shopping of
 competitor Banks, f) Branch Visits, g) OBAs Surprise Visits.
 . You agreed that due to personal intention of some of your team members,
 this "power game" was played since this might reflect in their performance
 appraisal rating this year especially in absence of the Senior Manager
 Northern India and Senior Manager Human Resources. Hence, mental
 harassment and torture was provided during the period by putting
 tremendous pressure to accept the BSV Officer job which does not suit my
 profile. . You will reiterate the fact that the BSV Officer role was discussed and
 issues of concern were raised vide my mail of 13.09.05 with your team
 member after meeting Assistant Manager Operations in Noida for 2 hours.
 While discussing the detailed job profile, I was advised that the current BSV
 Officer asked for a transfer due to non substantial work to enable how to
 justify the MPIs during the .... I was also advised that since the MPIs are not
 substantial to justify the weightage in eTPMs .... Would also ad revalidation
 of vouchers for payments which again may not be substantial for next year
 since most of the current jobs shall be released to branches. Going towards
 with the truncation of clearing dues by end of this year and RPC Payments
 centralization due next year the two departments under AM OPS- clearing
 and payments will not exist. This will again come back to an uncertainity of
 job for me and I will be in the same situation as I am in today.
 . Since the restricting of SMNI& MPB‟s role in Northern India was
 announced on 19Nov 04, wherein it was advised that SMN/MPB was very
 much looking forward to working much more closely with us over the next 3
 years and to build on the extremely strong platform in NI that, together with
 the ex-MPB, we had all contributed to building over the last few years.
 . The journey was quite tough and not without its challenges, my MPIs were
 changed to a new role on 31 Jan 05 by SMNI & MPB NI which includes
 additional responsibilities of Monthly Branch Visits for Northern India
 including upcountry, Mystery shopping of competitor Banks, follow up and
 meeting deadlines on audit and compliance issues, regulatory requirements,
 OBA Visits in NCR region, coordination of major/minor/customer delight
 and CSR events, the same has been documented in the first interim by the
 Line Manager. Pls see my eTPM since you have been marked as one of the
 readers of HR team. . I expressed my concern after three months of discussions on various job
 opportunities in PFS which was ideal for my job profile and suits my
 candidature, you have come out with an option of BSV Officer/Clearing role
 which does not suit my profile and have no knowledge of banking operations
 which may lead the bank to operational loss. . You have also agreed that due to personal likes and dislike I am not been
 able to get a suitable role in PFS while the multi-skills were shown in
 management style resulting to be saving for the Bank in terms of resources.
 We also discussed the concern on hiring personnel for major expansion of
 PFS business on double packages being offered what they are currently
 getting in their organization. Eg. ABN case/Stan C leading HSBC to a
 reputation risk. . Since you insisted in giving examples of exceptions did by the bank in the
 past we shared confidential information and discussed the exception cases for
 secretarial cadre in NL. Poonam Garg, Secretary IBI was asked to leave
 since she made sexual harassment case internally, being an under-performer
 (i.e consistently does not meet the standard of the bank) the housing loan was
 write off. Another case of Gita Rajagopalan, HR Secy too being an under-
 performer able to get the housing loan waived off. . You have also threatened me that I may approach to the court of law and
 media for filing a case against the bank which was not appreciated by me and
 you further advised me that HSBC has 20 odd cases filed in the court at
 present and it may not affect the Bank in any case. The case might take
 another 20 years for justice by the time I may be assumed DEAD.
 . You have agreed that I am not doing any odd jobs in between particularly
 since May 05 but initiative taken on the basis of sharing of best practices Pan
 India by reducing the workload at Branch Managers to inspect the OBAs in
 NCR region through personal surprise visits-focussing and implementating
 the control weaknesses, RBI reporting on assessment of customer feedback
 at branches, and some routine reports to INM. The same was appreciated by
 you verbally. . You have agreed that based upon the proof of evidence documented and a
 "VG" track record, you will discuss the severance package with CEO for
 reconsideration a) you have noted the actual figures as shown in the salary
 slip and were convinced that the Benefit Allowance is a part of the wages
 termed as "salary", b) we discussed the pension and you have agreed that the
 amount of pension has been frozen as per the New Terms in October 04 and
 the same may be reconsidered. C) you have also asked me the outstanding
 loans, which was given and noted by you. d) You have mentioned that the
 package is as per the management discretion and a golden hands-shake has
 been given to "VG" performers in the past calculating the actual number of
 years left with the Banks. Finally, you advised me that since the CEO was travelling you will discuss
 the above a, b, c with him on Monday, 26 Sep 05 and revert back to me by
 Wednesday 28 Sep05. Since the CEO has also appreciated my concern to
 consider the severance package due to very limited job opportunities.
 I await your positive response in anticipation. Kind regards
 Manju W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 15 of 29 Email dated 29.09.2005 from the respondent no.2 to the petitioner
 (Ex.MW1/49)
 IN THE COURT OF GROUP CHAIRMAN (Manju SAXENA)
 Manju SAXENA/PLB To John BOND/CHM/HGO/HGHO/HSBC@ HSBC
 NDH/HBAP/HSBC cc
 PLB NDH/HBAP Subject APPEAL IN THE COURT OF GROUP CHAIRMAN
 29/09/2005 02: 08 PM
 Phone No. 911151592105 Our Ref
 Mail Size: 383412 Your Ref
 Dear Sir
 I thank you for the note sent on 15.08.05 by Mr. Connal Rankin, Group
 General Manager Human Resources on your behalf. At the outset I sincerely apologise for making this appeal once again to you
 as Group Chairman of the organization, whereas these issues, if handled well
 locally, would have been resolved successfully. I would be highly grateful if you could grant me just 5 minutes of your
 valuable time and lead my appended mail which transcribe the history of the
 case. It is not my intention to highlight the non-transparency at Chief Executive
 Officer, India Operations especially due to the absence of Regional Head in
 Northern India to justify my concern to him but at the same time I have a due
 respect for my dynamic leader Mr. Niali Booker. Unfortunately, the update
 given to him by his team members seems opaque with the result the actual
 facts of this case are not visible. Sir, it was my endeavour to change the culture of the Bank during my tenure
 by mainly focusing on various improvement in customer services at branches
 in Northern India through regular Branch Visits, Highlighting the control
 weaknesses and implementing them in management style, Mystery Shopping
 of Competitor Banks, OBA Surprise Visits so that our customers‟
 experienced similar services to what they are accustomed to in a Branch. I
 am sure you will agree that OBAs have great significance from a brand and
 business perspective. It was my aim to challenge the competitors with "Baat
 Citi in every City" in this competitive world. The same was very much
 appreciated till May 05 by the Regional Head, being the first initiative taken
 by a Secretary Pan-India, recognition was given through thanks award for
 improvement in customer services at NDH but unfortunately after the
 restructuring took place in May 05, the circumstances were different,
 tremendous pressure and mental harassment by HR team was provided
 during this difficult period of my life. I was extremely root-shocked at the
 time when I was looking to achieve my career ambitions and the entire
 circumstances has put me under mental agony and humiliation, which has
 been experienced first time during my career with the Bank since 1986.
 I once again request you to kindly appreciate my concern from core of my
 heart, should the Regional Head was present in the area, these circumstances
 would have been different, I regret to advise you that after putting great
 efforts, hard work and loyalty shown throughout my career since 1986-
 today-the Bank is not concern to give weightage to these qualities which very
 few employees have at present. The only proof of evidence for justification I
 have at present is the interim review appraisal documented by the Regional
 Head on my eTPM. I am shattered being treated like an "orphanage" in an organization for which
 I have given best of my two decades of my life. The only option is to cry but
 there is no human being to wipe-off the tears except "my trust in God",
 affecting my health day-by-day which might result in a serious issue since I
 already have a hormonal hemorrhage in July 05. It is said for the bank that the senior management officials of INM HR team
 are misleading with the options of filing a case against the bank in the court
 of law which may take 20 years ahead for justice. Albeit; I am at a very
 junior level as compared to them but still I am a loyal, well-cultured,
 dedicated senior employee of HSBC who has not only safeguard the Bank
 against reputational risk in the past but still found proud to be associated with
 HSBC. They should understand that this feeling of "loyalty" has been built
 up over the period since I have treated this Bank as my "family" for two
 decades of my life, now it is the family‟s responsibility to give due honour
 and care for me. I fully appreciate the fact that the Bank has not penalized
 any of its employees in the past (even if they were under performers) and as
 is evident from the history of HSBC their dedicated workers have always
 been treated with high regard. Since HSBC is a world‟s leading organization known for its renowned
 culture in the market industry, I would rather appeal once again and again to
 you as Group Chairman of the board of directors of HSBC who not only
 changed the culture of the bank for better business prospects but enhanced
 productivity by way of recognition and rewards by giving honour and due
 respect to its long term employees in the past. I made a request to the Bank to found an alternative job in Personal Financial
 Services where major business expansion are in the pipeline and suits my
 managing skills by suggesting various options to formalize the current job
 profile. But it is quite disappointed to note that even after three months, the
 HR team has come out with a job which does not suit my profile and may
 lead the bank to operational losses being a loyal employee whose always
 intention is to safeguard the Bank cannot afford to take the reputational risk.
 I have no option left but to accept the severance package in the interest of the
 Bank. As confirmed by Senior Manager Human Resources (SMHR) vide his mail
 dated 24May05 that due to the „specialist‟ nature of my job, there is no role
 of a similar standing of Senior Secretary and no vacancies of this cadre in the
 area, I have been compelled to take this route. The separation pacakage
 offered due to redundancy of my job in the area was not reasonable, hence,
 the HR team advised me that they shall find a suitable role in PFS in due
 course. The circumstances were differently placed after SMHR‟s and Senior
 Manager Northern India (SMNI) moved. The severance package does not include the Benefit Allowance whereas the
 salary earnings per month states as under:- As per the new terms, the Benefit Allowance will replace current benefit
 provision (eg. staff loans etc) and will provide choice to the individual on
 where and how they spend their reward. The Benefit Allowance will be
 transferred to salary over a three-year period (one-third at a time) on the first
 of October 2005, 2006, and 2007 respectively. The Benefit Allowance shall
 be transferred to base salary, which will significantly impact cash awards and
 bonus payments as well as increase in Provident Fund and Gratuity
 payments. You would appreciate that based on the New Terms offered to me in October
 04, I had planned my affairs in a manner which took into account the
 expected hike in my basic salary on account of payment in terms of Benefit
 Allowance over a period of next three years. For reasons best known to the
 organization, this has been made a point of issue with all fairness I had a
 legitimate expectation that I would receive my salary as per the New Terms
 over a period of three years which include the Benefit Allowance.
 Whilst you will note in my appended mail during my meeting with INM, HR
 the below three figures were noted by the CEO‟s representative (Ashish
 Srivastava) to discuss the same with Mr Niall Booker in re-calculating the
 severance package on actual figure as stated in my salary above as per the
 New Terms Oct04 on the following basis: I urge you to kindly intervene in the matter for a fair justice and respect to
 your dedicated Senior Lady employee whose name was given as "a diligent
 worker once can relied upon with great leadership skills-leading by example
 in the area, has been placed in these circumstances today. The actual facts
 documented in the New Terms are termed as "negotiation/exception" or a
 "higher package" in the severance package by HR team whereas the actual
 total package in figure per annum remains the same. I do understand that
 since I am working with the financial institution, there is no reason for
 negotiation, if the long term relationship which has been retained for two
 decades, particularly at the age when my social responsibilities are the
 maximum, unexpected restructuring resulting to the job being redundant.
 I once again request you to kindly grant me a fair justice and bid farewell
 with dignity and pride since I am extremely sentimental for my organization
 and shall have a mental satisfaction for being served the organization for two
 decades in the years ahead. 6. The aspect that respondent no.2 did not accept the

alternative posts offered to the respondent no.2 by the petitioner is also

clear from para 3.1 of statement of claim filed by the respondent no.2

before the CGITLC, and which reads as under:- 7. A reading of the aforesaid correspondence and para 3.1 of

the statement of claim shows that around four posts were offered to the

respondent no.2 by the petitioner and which posts were of Business

Development Officer, Customer Service Officer, Clearing Officer and

Banking Services Officer. All the alternative posts offered to the

respondent no.2 were not below the monetary pay package being

earned by the respondent no.2. Respondent no.2 however expressed

her unwillingness to accept any of the above four posts/job

opportunities. The issue is that whether by refusing to accept the W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 19 of 29 aforesaid job opportunities, can the respondent no.2 be said to have

abandoned the services, and once there is abandonment of services,

then it would have to be held that there is no illegal termination of

services of the respondent no.2. 8. The respondent no.2 would be justified in refusing to job

offers/posts as given to her by the petitioner firstly if the job in

question was at a lesser monetary emoluments package than the

monetary emoluments package being paid for the post of Senior

Confidential Secretary at which the respondent no.2 was working and

which post got redundant with Ms. Nancy Dikinson leaving her job,

but, this is however admittedly not so. The second reason for refusing

the four posts offered to the respondent no.2 by the petitioner could

have been if the four jobs were such as to cause serious prejudice to the

respondent no.2 i.e a serious legal prejudice. That is also not so

because change of job profile which does not in any manner prejudice

an employee cannot be said to cause a legal prejudice and hence an

employee cannot refuse employment in the alternative jobs offered

once the post to which an employee was working had become

redundant. An employee cannot refuse the alternative post because the

„job profile‟ does not suit the employee. The third reason for the

respondent no.2 to refuse to accept job offers given by the petitioner W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 20 of 29 would be if the new posts/jobs had required a special technical

qualification/ability. Though Section 25E(i) of the Act does not

specifically apply, inasmuch as the said provision pertains to lay-off

and not retrenchment, yet it is seen that the spirit of this provision will

apply because as per this provision an employee cannot refuse an

alternative employment if the alternative employment does not call for

any special skill or previous experience, and the new job can be done

by the workman, with the fact that the wages or monetary package

being paid to the employee are/is the same in the alternative

employment as were being earlier paid to the workman. None of the

four jobs offered to the respondent no.2 by the petitioner required any

technical qualification of a degree or diploma or any special skill or

previous mandatory experience, and therefore, once monetary

emoluments payable in the new job offered were same or more than

the existing monetary package of the petitioner, and the petitioner

would not suffer any grave legal prejudice with the aspect that there

was no technical qualification or skill required in the new jobs,

consequently, the respondent no.2 was completely unjustified in

refusing to accept the alternative employments given to her by the

petitioner. Once the respondent no.2 deliberately refuses to join W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 21 of 29 services with the petitioner, she is deemed to have abandoned her job

with the petitioner. 9. The Supreme Court in its judgment in the case of U.P.

State Bridge Corporation Ltd. and Others Vs. U.P. Rajya Setu Nigam

S. Karamchari Sangh (2004) 4 SCC 268 while dealing with the

expression „continuous service‟ under Section 25B of the Act held that

there is continuous service and uninterruptable service only if the

employee does not legally join the work i.e if the employee illegally

refuses to join the work, then, such illegal refusal to join the services

will mean that there is no continuous service. The relevant para of this

judgment is para 21, and which para 21 reads as under:- 10. The pre-condition for applicability of Section 25F which

provides the condition precedent to retrenchment of a workman is that

an employee/workman has been in continuous service, and as so

specifically stated in this Section. Therefore, once there is no

continuous service, inasmuch as, the workman/employee had

abandoned the services i.e illegally refused to perform the services by

not joining the alternative jobs/employments offered, therefore,

respondent no.2 having abandoned her services, and there being no

continuous service of the respondent no.2 with the petitioner, hence

there is no illegal termination of services of the respondent no.2 by the

petitioner. It is therefore held that the respondent no.2 had abandoned

her services with the petitioner and hence there does not arise an issue

of respondent no.2‟s services being illegally terminated by the

petitioner. 11. Now let us assume that the respondent no.2 did not

abandon her services with the petitioner, and in which case before a

valid retrenchment is effected, the provision of Section 25F will have

to be complied with so that retrenchment is a legal retrenchment. Section 25F of the Act reads as under:- 12. There are three sub-sections of Section 25F and the third

sub-section pertaining to giving of notice is not a mandatory

requirement and it is only a directory requirement as held by the

Supreme Court in the case of Pramod Jha and Others Vs. State of

Bihar and Others (2003) 4 SCC 619. The relevant para 11 of this

judgment reads as under:- 13. (i) We have to therefore see that whether the provision of

sub-sections (a) and (b) of Section 25F had been complied with by the

petitioner while terminating the services of the respondent no.2. (ii) The monetary package which has been given to the petitioner at

the time of termination of her services is that which is stated by the

petitioner in the termination letter/order dated 1.10.2005. Respondent

no.2‟s account was credited with a sum of Rs.8,17,071/-. This W.P.(C) No.11344/2009 Page 24 of 29 monetary emolument package is on the basis of six months notice

instead of one month notice under Section 25F(a) of the Act, and also

that for every year of service already performed the respondent no.2

was paid 15 days of her pay/monetary emoluments. In fact, I may note

that the requirement of Section 25F(b) is 15 days average pay for each

year of service performed by the respondent no.2 with the petitioner,

however the petitioner has liberally instead calculated 15 days pay not

at an average pay of the years of service of the respondent no.2 with

the petitioner, but the 15 days pay is of the last and the highest pay

drawn by the respondent no.2 from the petitioner. Yearly monetary

package payable to respondent no.2 w.e.f 1.10.2004 was as under:- (iii) Respondent no.2 could not dispute by any worthwhile argument

the fact that the monetary package given to her of Rs.8,17,071/- would

cover not only one month‟s notice pay but also 15 days pay for every

year of service of the respondent no.2 with the petitioner. In fact the

amount of Rs.8,17,071/- is much above the amount which the

respondent no.2 was entitled to under sub-sections(a) and (b) of Section 25F of the Act. It is therefore held that petitioner has rightly

and legally retrenched the respondent no.2, and which conclusion is by

proceeding on the basis that the respondent no.2 has not abandoned her

services with the petitioner whereas the fact of the matter is that the

respondent no.2 had abandoned her services with the petitioner, and as

discussed in detail while deciding first head of arguments stated above. 14. Respondent no.2 who argued her case in person basically

argued that she was a very sincere and hard working officer, that she

while performing her duties with the petitioner had gone out of the way

and performed her duties much beyond the call of her ordinary duties,

that she was regularly praised by the higher officers of the petitioner,

petitioner is acting maliciously and vindictively against her, that she

needs to vindicate her honour which has been tarnished on account of

her termination of services by the petitioner, that Ms. Nancy Dickinson

has after about 5/6 years again joined back the petitioner company and

hence the petitioner should re-employ the respondent no.2 etc etc,

however, all these arguments raised by the respondent no.2 have no

bearing and cannot dislodge the discussion and conclusions given on

the two aspects of abandonment of services by the respondent no.2 and

the fact that requirements of Section 25F have been validly complied

with by the petitioner. Therefore, once none of the arguments urged on

behalf of the respondent no.2 can in any manner set aside the

conclusions of the respondent no.2 having abandoned her services and

that petitioner had duly complied with the requirements of Section 25F ,

none of these arguments urged by the respondent no.2 are at all

relevant or would have any bearing, and are therefore rejected. 15. I may note that during the course of hearing, and after

hearing the submissions of the petitioner as regards the two aspects

which have been decided in favour of the petitioner, a suggestion was

floated for the respondent no.2 to receive the amounts already received

by her from the petitioner not only for the retrenchment but also

additional amounts given to respondent no.2 by the petitioner on

account of respondent no.2 succeeding before the CGITLC, yet

respondent no.2 was not interested in compromise by receiving the

amount already received by her in full and final satisfaction. It bears

note that it is not as if the respondent no.2 was being paid only an

amount around Rs.9 lacs, inasmuch as the respondent no.2 has till date

received a very very huge amount of Rs.1,07,73,736/- from the

petitioner, and which is around 13/14 times the legal entitlement of the

respondent no.2, yet for some reason the respondent no.2 refuses to

budge and accept this gargantuan amount in full and final settlement of

the compensation entitlement. The details with respect to amount of

Rs.1,07,73,736/- are as under:-