% 26.02.2026
 CRL.M.A. 6402/2026 (for exemption) 1. Exemption allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. The application stands disposed of. 1. The present petition has been filed under Section 528 of the
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (corresponding to Section 482 Code of Criminal Procedure [" CrPC "]), seeking quashing of FIR No.
 691/2019 dated 09.12.2019, registered at Police Station Punjabi Bagh,
 under Sections 279 / 337 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 [" IPC "],
 alongwith consequential proceedings emanating therefrom, on the ground
 of settlement. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/03/2026 at 20:31:08 2. Issue notice. Notice is accepted by Mr. Hitesh Vali, learned
 Additional Public Prosecutor, on behalf of the State. Mr. Pramod Kumar,
 learned counsel, accepts notice on behalf of respondent No. 2. 3. The petitioner is present in Court, and is identified by Mr. Nakul
 Nirwan, learned counsel, and the Investigating Officer ["IO"].
 Respondent No. 2 (injured/complainant) is present by video conference
 and has been identified by her learned counsel and the IO. 4. The FIR arises out of a road traffic accident dated 09.12.2019 in
 front of Capital Mall, Paschim Vihar, wherein the vehicle bearing
 registration No. DL-12-CB-5322 driven by the petitioner, allegedly ran
 over respondent No. 2's foot. 5. Investigation was conducted, and a chargesheet was filed. Section
 338 of IPC was added. 6. I am informed that compensation proceedings arising out of the
 same accident, before the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal ["MACT"],
 have already been concluded, and respondent No. 2 has received
 compensation of approximately Rs. 1,25,000/-. 7. The parties have now entered into a voluntary settlement. In
 addition to the MACT compensation, the petitioner has agreed to pay
 respondent No. 2 a total sum of Rs. 30,000/- towards full and final
 settlement, which has already been paid. 8. Respondent No. 2 has filed an affidavit stating that she has no
 objection to quashing of the FIR and the consequential proceedings.
 Respondent No. 2 states that she is satisfied with the settlement. 9. Learned counsel for the parties submit that the settlement has been
 entered into voluntarily, without force, fraud or coercion, and that CRL.M.C. 1585/2026 Page 2 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/03/2026 at 20:31:08
 continuation of the criminal proceedings would serve no useful purpose. 10. Although the injuries of respondent No. 2 have been classified in
 the MLC as "grievous", she states that this was due to a fracture in her
 foot. She clarifies that there were no lasting consequences of the injury,
 and she has since recovered. 11. In these circumstances, learned counsel for the parties seek
 quashing of the FIR and consequential criminal proceedings. 12. It is well settled that the High Court, in exercise of its inherent
 jurisdiction under Section 528 of the BNSS (corresponding to Section
 482 of the CrPC), is empowered to quash criminal proceedings even in
 respect of non-compoundable offences, where the parties have amicably
 settled their dispute and where the quashing of such proceedings does not
 impinge upon any overriding public interest. 13. The Supreme Court, in Gian Singh v. State of Punjab & Anr.1 has
 held as follows: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/03/2026 at 20:31:08
 servants while working in that capacity, the settlement between the
 offender and the victim can have no legal sanction at all. However,
 certain offences which overwhelmingly and predominantly bear civil
 flavour having arisen out of civil, mercantile, commercial, financial,
 partnership or such like transactions or the offences arising out of
 matrimony, particularly relating to dowry, etc. or the family dispute,
 where the wrong is basically to the victim and the offender and the
 victim have settled all disputes between them amicably, irrespective of
 the fact that such offences have not been made compoundable, the
 High Court may within the framework of its inherent power, quash the
 criminal proceeding or criminal complaint or FIR if it is satisfied that
 on the face of such settlement, there is hardly any likelihood of the
 offender being convicted and by not quashing the criminal
 proceedings, justice shall be casualty and ends of justice shall be
 defeated. The above list is illustrative and not exhaustive. Each case will
 depend on its own facts and no hard-and-fast category can be 2 prescribed." Further, in Narinder Singh & Ors. v. State of Punjab & Anr.3 , the
 Supreme Court has also laid down guidelines for High Courts while
 accepting settlement deeds between parties and quashing the proceedings.
 The relevant observations in the said decision read as under: (2014) 6 SCC 466. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/03/2026 at 20:31:08
 factor in such cases would be to secure: While exercising the power the High Court is to form an opinion on
 either of the aforesaid two objectives. 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in those prosecutions which
 involve heinous and serious offences of mental depravity or offences like
 murder, rape, dacoity, etc. Such offences are not private in nature and
 have a serious impact on society. Similarly, for the offences alleged to
 have been committed under special statute like the Prevention of
 Corruption Act or the offences committed by public servants while
 working in that capacity are not to be quashed merely on the basis of
 compromise between the victim and the offender. 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases having overwhelmingly
 and predominantly civil character, particularly those arising out of
 commercial transactions or arising out of matrimonial relationship or
 family disputes should be quashed when the parties have resolved their
 entire disputes among themselves. 29.5. While exercising its powers, the High Court is to examine as to
 whether the possibility of conviction is remote and bleak and
 continuation of criminal cases would put the accused to great oppression
 and prejudice and extreme injustice would be caused to him by not
 quashing the criminal cases."4 14. The present case arises out of a road traffic accident. There is no
 allegation of any deliberate or intentional act. While the injuries suffered
 by respondent No. 2 were grievous, it is not in dispute that she has
 recovered fully. She has also been compensated in the proceedings before
 the MACT. The parties have, thereafter, amicably resolved all their inter
 se disputes, and respondent No. 2 has categorically affirmed before this
 Court that the settlement has been entered into voluntarily. I do not
 discern any supervening public interest in taking these proceedings to
 their logical conclusion. In view of the nature of the allegations, the 4 Emphasis supplied. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/03/2026 at 20:31:08
 subsequent settlement between the parties, and the compensation already
 received by the injured-respondent No.2, the likelihood of conviction is
 remote. Continuation of the criminal proceedings in such circumstances
 would, therefore, be an exercise in futility, serving no useful purpose and
 resulting only in an unnecessary consumption of judicial time and public
 resources. 15. Having regard to the above discussion, the petition is allowed. FIR
 No. 691/2019 dated 09.12.2019, registered at Police Station Punjabi
 Bagh, under Sections 279 / 337 of the IPC, along with all consequential
 proceedings, is hereby quashed. 16. The parties shall remain bound by the terms of the settlement. 17. The petition, alongwith the pending applications, is accordingly
 disposed of. PRATEEK JALAN, J
 FEBRUARY 26, 2026
 'pv'/AD/ CRL.M.C. 1585/2026 Page 6 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 03/03/2026 at 20:31:08