The petitioner, a officer in State Bank of India, has

come up in this petition seeking relief of stalling the

process of interview for considering promotion of eligible

candidates from the post of MMGS-III (Middle

Management Grade Scale-III) to SMGS-IV (Senior

Management Grade Scale-IV). According to him, he has

entered the service of State Bank of Hyderabad on

01.09.1988 as Cashier Clerk at Bhalki Branch, Bidar

District. Subsequently, on merger of State Bank of

Hyderabad with State Bank of India on 01.04.2017, he

has become employee of the first respondent-State Bank

of India. His qualification is Executive-MBA (Finance)

from Kuvempu University; degree of Master in Human

Resource Management from Kuvempu University; 4 Certificate course in KYC and AML from IIBF, Mumbai;

Certificate course in Prevention of Cyber Crimes and

Fraud Management from IIBFF, Mumbai; and Certificate

course in Banking Codes and Standards (BCSBI) from

IIBF, Mumbai. He would claim that he has vast

experience; that he was initially promoted as Assistant

Manager in the month of December 2002; thereafter, as

Deputy Manager (MMGS-II) in the month of December

2006; subsequently as Manager (MMGS-III) in the

month of November 2012. According to him, he has

required qualification and merit to be considered for the

post of SMGS-IV. 2. The grievance of the petitioner is that

respondent Nos.1 to 6 are conducting interview for

promoting the officers from MMGS-III to SMGS-IV. In

that behalf, interview is scheduled to be held on

31.07.2017. According to him, though he is sufficiently

qualified and having vast experience in working as 5 Officer of MMGS-III for a period of five years from 2012

with additional certificate courses to his credit besides

qualification of MBA and other academic qualification,

he is not considered for interview to said post. Since he

is not included in the list of candidate selected for the

interview to the said post, he has approached this Court

seeking mandamus to State Bank of India i.e.,

respondent No.1-Chairman, State Bank of India, to stay

the process of interview which would start from

31.07.2017. In this writ petition, he has also sought for

interim prayer of similar nature and with additional

interim prayer to include his name in the list of

candidates selected for the interview. 3. When this matter had come up before this

Court on 28.07.2017, after hearing the petitioner as

party-in-person for some time, this Court felt his name

should be considered for interview to be conducted on

31.07.2017. However, the Court felt that the result of 6 the interview shall be subject to final outcome of this

writ petition. Accordingly, he was provided an

opportunity to appear in the interview which was

conducted on 31.07.2017. Thereafter, this writ petition

had come up before this Court for final disposal on

06.03.2018, on which date, this Court directed the

learned counsel for respondent Nos.2 to 6 to furnish the

particulars regarding number of post of SMGS-IV for

which interview is conducted and also the number of

candidates called for interview. He was also directed to

secure the list of seniority showing the place where the

petitioner is located in the said seniority list and to

produce the same before this Court. 4. Accordingly, this day, learned counsel for

respondent Nos.2 to 6 produced a sealed cover

containing the list of the officers under the zone for

consideration to SMGS-IV for the year 2017-18. The list

which is prepared by the State Bank of India, Human 7 Resource Department, Local Head Office, Bengaluru, is

furnished in the sealed cover which is opened in the

Court in the presence of petitioner, party-in-person and

the officer who produced the same before this Court

pursuant to the oral direction issued to the learned

counsel for respondent Nos.2 to 6. This Court received

the cover from Mr. Shani Swatantra, Deputy Manager,

HR Department, LHO, Bengaluru, who is deputed to

deliver this cover from Bengaluru, who is accompanied

by another two persons viz., Mr. Babu Rajendra Joshi,

Chief Manager (HR), Administrative Office-8, State Bank

of India, Super Market, Kalaburagi, and Mr. Prabhakar

B., Deputy Manager (LAW), State Bank of India, AO-8,

Kalaburagi. 5. The said cover is opened and the seniority list is

looked into, it contains 407 names in all, who are

Officers under the zone of consideration for promotion

from MMGS-III to SMGS-IV. In the said list, name of 8 the petitioner is at Sl.No.385 with his PF No.6293697

where the Performance Appraisal Format marks

provided to him shown at column No.9 is 58.50. When

the said list is looked into, including the petitioner 270

persons are called for interview i.e., at the rate of 1:2 for

selecting 135 officers for promotion to the post of

SMGS-IV. The Performance Appraisal Format marks of

the last of the officer at Sl.No.269 is 63.50. From

Sl.No.269 to Sl.No.385, there are several other persons

none of them are called for interview, thereby clearly

indicating that the candidature for interview is

considered on the basis of Performance Appraisal

Format marks provided to each of the officers who are

presently working in the cadre of MMGS-III who are

under the zone of consideration for promotion to SMGS-

IV. 6. When the same is looked into, there is nothing

which would indicate that the petitioner herein is over- 9 looked while calling the candidates to interview for the

post of SMGS-IV. The qualification and experience of

the petitioner as shown in the petition would not

automatically bring him to the zone of consideration

unless his performance is recognized by the bank in the

manner known to the procedure which is followed in the

said bank as could be seen from the list prepared with

reference to officers under the zone of consideration. 7. Therefore, this Court would find that the

present petition which is filed seeking inclusion of

petitioner's name for interview is without any merit and

there is nothing on record to show that he is over-

looked in any manner. However, if the petitioner is of

the opinion that the marks which is assigned to him

under the Performance Appraisal Format is inaccurate,

then, it is open for him to challenge the same before the

appropriate authority, where the authority may decide

after looking into the material placed by him to show 10 whether the marks which is provided to him under the

said test is adequate or otherwise. Until the same is

decided, the question of either taking him into the zone

of consideration or bringing in seniority from Sl.No.385

to zone of consideration does not arise in this petition. 8. Accordingly, this writ petition is dismissed

holding that no irregularity is found in calling the

candidates for the interview for promotion to the post of

SMGS-IV. 9. While dismissing this writ petition, respondent

No.1 is directed to complete the process of promotion of

eligible candidates in the consideration zone, in

accordance with seniority without considering the

candidature of the petitioner who was given an

opportunity to appear for the interview on 31.07.2017. Sd/- JUDGE
NB*
Ct: RRJ