By way of instant application filed under Order 7

 Rule 11 read with Section 151 of the Code of Civil

 Procedure, prayer has been made on behalf of applicants- defendants No.1 to 5 and 9 to 11( hereinafter referred 1 Whether the reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? to as the defendants"), praying therein for rejection of

 plaint having been filed by the non-applicant(hereinafter

 . referred to as the "plaintiff"), Master Abeer Singh,

 minor son of defendant No.7, who has filed the civil suit for

 declaration through his next friend/natural guardian Smt.

 Deepali Thakur(mother). 2. Defendants have averred in the application that

 since plaintif was not born at the time of death of Shri

 Khayali Ram, great grandfather and Smt. Damyanti great

 grandmother of the plaintif, he has no right, whatsoever to

 claim rights in the property of above named persons, which

 has been otherwise ordered to be distributed between all

 the applicants-defendants No.1 to 5 including defendants

 No.6 to 8 in terms of compromise arrived inter se parties

 before the Lok Adalat. Defendants have further averred in

 the application that Sh. Khayali Ram, great grandfather and

 Smt. Damyanti great grandmother of the plaintif had died

 on 9.12.1997 & 20.4.2007 respectively, and at that time

 plaintif was not born and as such, he is not entitled to

 claim any share and right in the property of above named

 persons, especially when he was not born on the date of

 opening of Succession of above named persons. Defendants have further averred that at present plaintif is

 living with defendants No.6 and 7, who have already

 . received amount in terms of compromise and decree

 passed by Lok Adalat and same is being used for the

 benefit of the plaintif. At the time of birth of the plaintif,

 which took place on 25.3.2010, Succession of Smt.

 Damyanti Thakur and Sh. Khayali Ram was over and as

 such, plaintif can claim only to the extent of share of his

 father i.e. defendant No.7 and not over and above of his

 share. Defendants have further averred that parties to the

 suit are litigating for the last more than 10 years and

 settlement has arrived at between the parties, pursuant to

 whereof partition proceedings are in process, in accordance

 with law and as such, present suit which has been filed

 solely with a view to defeat the award passed by the Lok

 Adalat, deserves to be dismissed. 3. As per Section 41-B of Specific Relief Act, no

 injunction can be granted to restrain any person from

 instituting or prosecuting any proceedings in any Court not

 subordinate to that from which the injunction is sought. Apart from above, defendants have averred that plea taken

 by the plaintif is not tenable in view of the amended ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 4 Hindu Succession Act,2005 whereby as per Section 6 ,

 daughters are also treated as coparcener in the

 . coparcenary property, which is not partitioned as per law. Lastly, defendants have averred that plaintif has not

 disclosed any cause of action against the present

 defendants and as such, suit without cause of action

 deserves to be dismissed. Moreover, suit is against the

 award of Lok Adalat, which cannot be laid challenge in any

 court of law and as such, same deserves to be rejected

 outrightly. Defendants have averred in the application that

 plaintif for the purpose of acquiring jurisdiction of this

 Court, has assessed the value of the suit at Rs.50 lacs, but

 there is no specific averment with regard to basis for

 calculating and maintaining the suit before this Court. 4. Plaintif by way of reply has opposed the prayer

 made by the defendants in the aforesaid application and

 has categorically stated that averments made in para 4 to 6

 of the plaint are very clear, comprehensible and explicit,

 which may be read as part and parcel of the reply. As per

 plaintif, he was not a party to the earlier suit and therefore

 any compromise made in that suit to his detriment is not

 binding upon him. He has further stated that the suit ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 5 property i.e. subject matter of the case is coming in the

 family from Sh. Ram Krishan son of Shri Bairagi Ram, who

 . was great great grandfather of the plaintif and as such,

 character, nature and attribute of the suit property is that

 of Joint Hindu Family Ancestral Property of the plaintif and

 defendants No. 6 to 8. As per plaintif, half share in the

 ancestral property of Shri Khayali Ram (presently

 measuring 82 bighas) was owned by Sh. Baldev Singh

 Thakur and the other half by Sh. Khayali Ram. After the

 death of Sh. Baldev Singh Thakur, he was replaced by his

 son under the rule of survivorship and the Joint Hindu

 Family Coparcenary consisted of Sh. Khayali Ram and his

 grandson Shri Sumit Thakur (defendant No.7), each having

 half share in the ancestral property measuring 82 bighas. 5. Plaintif has further averred in the reply that on

 the death of Sh. Khayali Ram i.e. on 9.12.1997, his half

 share in the suit property was devolved upon his legal heirs

 i.e. his wife, five daughters and on the wife, son and

 daughter of Sh. Baldev Singh i.e. predeceased son of Sh. Khayali Ram in equal shares, whereas defendant No.7

 continued to be owner of ½ share in the ancestral property,

 which he had acquired by birth and as such, plaintif on his ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 6 birth acquired 1/4th share in the same by operation of law

 again under the rule of survivorship. Therefore, share of the

 . plaintif in the suit property belonging to the Hindu

 Undivided Family ( for short "HUF") of Sh. Khyali Ram,

 measuring 82 bighas is 1/4th undivided share, which he

 inherited by birth being member of the "HUF" coparcenary. Plaintif has further averred in the reply that entries

 showing Sh. Khayali Ram, as sole owner of the land till his

 death are factually wrong, illegal, null and void and not

 binding on the plaintif. He has claimed that Sh. Khayali

 Ram was holding the property not as a sole owner, but as a

 Karta of the Joint Hindu Family Coparcenary as such,

 mutation on the death of Sh. Khayali Ram was wrongly and

 illegally attested in favour of his legal heirs, whereas in fact

 ½ share belonged to defendant No.7 by birth and rest ½

 share of Sh. Khayali Ram should have been attested in

 favour of his legal heirs. Plaintif further averred that the

 nature and character of the property measuring 82 bighas

 standing in the name of Sh. Khayali Ram and Smt.

 Damyanti Thakur was that of "HUF" ancestral property and

 not personal property of Sh. Khayali Ram. Plaintif has

 further averred that Interpretation being given by the ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 7 plaintif to Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, is

 totally incorrect, erroneous, fallacious and illegal. Sh. . Khayali Ram died in December, 1997 and under old

 unamended Section 6 read with section 8 of the Hindu

 Succession Act, 1956, the interest held by Sh. Khayali Ram

 devolved upon his legal heirs under the doctrine of fictional

 partition. Defendants No.1 to 5 were not members of the

 coparcenary when Sh. Khayali Ram died and they cannot

 claim to be coparceners with their nephew Sh. Sumit

 Thakur, who continued to be Karta of his coparcenary with

 his son Sh. Abeer Singh(plaintif). Plaintif has further

 averred that the averments made in the plaint and the

 supporting documents filed therewith, clearly disclose a

 strong and prima-facie cause of action in favour of the

 plaintif and as such, application filed on behalf of the

 defendants under Order 7 Rule 14 CPC , praying therein

 rejection of plaint deserves to be rejected. 6. I have heard learned counsel representing the

 parties and gone through the record carefully. 7. Before adverting to the factual matrix of the

 case, it would be profitable to reproduce provisions

 contained in Order VII Rule 11 CPC hereinbelow:- . (b) where the relief claimed is undervalued, and the
 plaintif, on being required by the Court to correct the
 valuation within a time to be fixed by the court,fails to do
 so; (c) where the relief claimed is properly valued but the
 plaint is written upon paper insufficiently stamped, and
 the plaintif,on being required by the Court to supply the
 requisite stamp-paper within a time to be fixed by the

 Court, fails to do so; (d) where the suit appears from the statement in the
 plaint to be barred by any law: Provided that the time fixed by the Court for the

 correction of the valuation or supplying of the requisite
 stamp-paper shall not be extended unless the Court, for
 reasons to be recorded is satisfied that the plaintif was

 prevented by any cause of an exceptional nature for

 correcting the valuation or supplying the requisite stamp-
 paper, as the case may be, within the time fixed by the
 Court and that refusal to extend such time would cause

 grave injustice to the plaintif. 8. Careful perusal of aforesaid provisions of law,

 clearly suggests that plaint can be rejected when it does

 not disclose a cause of action, "where relief claimed is

 undervalued and the plaintif, on being required by the

 Court to correct the valuation within a time to be fixed by ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 9 the Court, fails to do so, where the relief claimed is properly

 valued and plaint is returned upon paper insufficiently

 . stamped and the plaintif, on being required by the Court to

 supply the requisite stamp-paper within a time to be fixed

 by the Court, fails to do so. Where the suit appears from the

 statement in the plaint to be barred by any law, where it is

 not filed in duplicate, where the plaintif fails to comply with

 the provision of Rule 9. 9. Expression 'cause of action' has been very

 accurately decided by the Hon'ble Apex Court in case titled

 as The Church of Christ Charitable Trust & Education

 Charitable Society , represented by its Chairman vs.

 M/s Ponniamman Educational Trust represented by

 its Chairperson/Managing Trustee 2012(6)JT 149 :2012

 AIR SCW,4136 wherein Hon'ble Apex Court has laid down

 that the"cause of action is a bundle of facts which taken

 with the law applicable to them gives the plaintif the right

 to relief against the defendant. Every fact which is

 necessary for the plaintif to prove to enable him to get a

 decree should be set out in clear terms. It must include

 some act done by the defendant since in the absence of

 such act no cause of action can possibly accrue. Though, ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 10 there are number of judgments passed by the Hon'ble Apex

 Court laying therein parameters/ factors to be borne in

 . mind by courts while considering an application filed under Order VII Rule 11 CPC , but at this stage, this Court deems it

 fit to take note of latest judgment rendered by Hon'ble

 Apex Court in case titled Kuldeep Singh Pathania versus

 Bikram Singh Jaryal , 2017(5) Supreme Court Cases 345. Relevant para No.11 of the judgment is reproduced as

 under: (See:-AIR 2012 Supreme Court cases
 3023 also. 10.

 It is apparent from the aforesaid exposition of

 law that plaint cannot be rejected on the basis of the

 allegations made by the defendant in his written statement

 or in an application for rejection of plaint, rather court while

 considering the application filed under Order 7 Rule 14 CPC is required to read entire plaint as a whole to arrive at a

 conclusion whether it discloses a cause of action and if it

 does, then the plaint cannot be rejected by the Court

 exercising power under Order 7 Rule 11 of the Code. Similarly, whether the plaint discloses a cause of action, is a

 question of fact, which needs to be gathered on the basis of

 the averments made in the plaint in its entirety taking

 those averments to be correct. Hon'ble Apex Court in the

 judgment referred supra has categorically laid down that a

 cause of action is a bundle of facts, which are required to ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 12 be proved for obtaining relief and for the said purpose, the

 material facts are required to be stated but not the

 . evidence except in certain cases where the pleadings

 relied on are in regard to misrepresentation, fraud, willful

 default, undue influence or of the same nature. In case

 plaint discloses some cause of action, which certainly

 requires determination by the Court, the mere fact that in

 the opinion of the Judge the plaintif may not succeed

 cannot be a ground for rejection of plaint. 11. Now this Court shall proceed to examine and

 consider the prayer made in the application in the light of

 the provisions contained under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC as well

 as law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court (supra).Careful

 perusal of plaint having been filed by the non-application/

 plaintif, who is minor son of defendant No.7, clearly

 suggests that he has filed the suit through his next friend

 i.e mother, praying therein following reliefs:- revenue entries qua the suit property are

 factually and legally incorrect, null and void
 and not binding upon the plaintif and further

 in the partition proceedings pending before the
 A.C.1st Grade Solan qua the suit property the
 plaintif is entitled to ¼th share; (d) and lastly a decree for permanent perpetual
 injunction restraining the defendants from
 changing the nature of the suit property or

 from transferring or alienating the same;" 12. Close scrutiny of the averments contained in the

 plaint reveals that plaintif has claimed that late Sh. Khayali Ram, great grandfather of the plaintif, his

 grandfather Sh. Baldev Singh and his father Sh. Sumit

 Thakur(defendant No.7) constituted a Joint Hindu Family of

 which originally Sh. Khayali Ram was the Karta and after

 his death Sh. Sumit Thakur (defendant No.7) became Karta

 as Sh. Baldev Singh, who died on 4.7.1987, predeceased

 his father. It is not in dispute that Sh. Khayali Ram died on

 9th December, 1997. Plaintif has also alleged in the suit

 that very character and nature of the suit property is

 ancestral Joint Hindu Family coparcenary property, which ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 14 had come into the hands of Sh. Khayali Ram i.e great

 grandfather of the plaintif from Sh. Ram Krishan, who vide

 . family settlement gave the same to his sons on 9.4.1953

 including a share of Sh. Khayali Ram and mutation dated

 9.4.1953 in this regard was attested in the revenue record. As per plaintif, Ram Krishan was the father of Sh. Khayali

 Ram and he on 9.4.1953 in the family settlement , settled

 the ancestral property inherited by him from his father Sh. Bairagi Ram in favour of his six sons, namely Khayali Ram,

 Devi Singh, Chain Singh, Madho Ram, Chattar Singh and

 Maan Singh. As per plaintif, very origin of the suit property

 is ancestral because his great grand father Sh. Khayali Ram

 got the property from his father Sh. Ram Krishan in the

 family settlement in April, 1953, whereafter Khayali Ram,

 his son Sh. Baldev Singh and his son Sh. Sumit Thakur

 (defendant No.7), constituted a Joint Hindu Family. 13. In nutshell, the case as has been projected by

 the plaintif in the plaint is that suit land was ancestral

 property in the hands of late Sh. Khayali Ram and the same

 was owned by Sh. Khayali Ram and his son Sh. Baldev

 Singh Thakur to the extent of ½ share each i.e. 41.02 bigha

 approximately both being coparcener. Though, the entire ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 15 land was recorded in the name of late Sh. Khayali Ram, but

 the same was owned to the extent of ½ share only by him. . Late Sh. Khyali Ram and late Sh. Baldev Singh and

 defendant No.7 constituted a coparcenary and as such,

 plaintif also acquired right by birth in the ancestral

 property as coparcener. As per plaintif, after the death of

 late Sh. Baldev Singh Thakur, land measuring 41.02 bigha,

 out of the suit land i.e. land owned by Sh. Baldev Singh has

 been inherited by defendant No.7 to the extent of 20.08

 bighas and after the death of late Sh. Khayali Ram,

 Succession with regard to land measuring 41.02 bigha

 opened and plaintif also acquired right in the same by

 birth. 14. To the contrary, defendants No. 1 to 5 and 9 to

 11 in their written statement have denied the factum of

 existence of Joint Hindu Family. They have denied that late

 Sh. Khayali Ram was Karta of the Hindu Joint Family. They

 have also denied that after the death of Sh. Khayali Ram,

 Sumit Thakur (defendant No.7), who is son of Sh. Baldev

 Singh i.e. predeceased son of Sh. Khayali Ram, became

 Karta of the Joint Hindu Family by operation of law. In para-3

 of the written statement, defendants have asserted that ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 16 suit property is not ancestral Joint Hindu Family property,

 but they have also not disclosed the source from which

 . property travelled to Khayali Ram. There is no assertion in

 the written statement that Khayali Ram got this property by

 alleged gift from his father, but they have denied that

 Khayali Ram got property from his father, whereas case of

 the plaintif is that in the family settlement done by Sh. Ram Krishan, suit property came to the hands of Khayali

 Ram, which assertion/submission of plaintif is supported by

 the revenue record placed on record pertaining to the year

 1951-52 onwards. In 1951-52 Sh. Ram Krishan is shown to

 be owner of the suit property and in 1953 he transferred

 the property in the name of his sons including Khayali Ram

 i.e. great grand father of the plaintif by way of gift. 15. Mr. Sudhir Thakur, learned counsel representing

 the applicants/defendants, vehemently argued that bare

 perusal of the plaint having been filed by the plaintif,

 suggests that it does not discloses any cause of action. He

 further contended that suit is against the award of Lok

 Adalat and as such, same is not maintainable. But this

 Court having carefully perused the plaint in its entirety is

 not in agreement with the aforesaid submissions having ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 17 been made by learned counsel for the applicants/

 defendants because by way of present suit plaintif has

 . sought declaration to the efect that suit property is Joint

 Hindu ancestral property and he has got ¼ th share in the

 same. No doubt by way of suit at hand, plaintif has also

 sought declaration to the efect that compromise deed

 dated 11.3.2017, passed by Lok Adalat is wrong, illegal, null

 and void and without jurisdiction and not binding upon the

 plaintif, but that cannot be a ground to conclude at this

 stage that suit having been filed by the plaintif is not

 maintainable and it deserves to be rejected at this stage. 16. Careful perusal of plaint filed by the plaintif vis- a-vis written statement having been filed by the

 defendants,certainly compels this Court to agree with the

 contention of Mr. Ajay Kumar, learned Senior Advocate

 representing the plaintif that plaintif has cause of action in

 his favour to file suit at hand because factum with regard to

 plaintif being great grand son of Sh. Khayali Ram is not in

 dispute, rather claim as put forth by the plaintif in the

 plaint is sought to be opposed by the applicants/defendants

 on the ground that since plaintif was not born at the time

 of death of his great grandfather i.e. Sh. Khayali Ram and ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 18 great grandmother Damyanti, who died on 9.12.21997 and

 20.4.2007 respectively, he has no right to claim any right in

 . the property in question, which question definitely needs to

 be decided in the present suit. 17. As per Mr. Sudhir Thakur, learned counsel

 representing the applicants-defendants, succession of Sh. Khayali Ram and Smt. Damyanti Thakur was already over at

 the time of birth of plaintif and as such, plaintif at best can

 claim his share from his father i.e. defendant No.7 and not

 from the share already succeeded by the applicants/

 defendants from their parents Sh. Khayali Ram and Smt.

 Damyanti Thakur, but this Court is of the view that

 aforesaid plea taken by the applicants/ defendants may not

 be relevant/ crucial at this stage as far as decision on the

 application having been filed for rejection of plaint filed by

 the plaintif is concerned because at this stage, court while

 considering application under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC , is only

 required to see whether plaint discloses any cause of

 action, which being question of fact can only be answered

 by Court after having carefully gone through the averments

 made in the plaint in its entirety. Hon'ble Apex Court in the

 judgment (supra) has categorically held that cause of ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 19 action is bundle of facts, which are required to be proved

 for obtaining relief and for the said purpose the material

 . facts are required to be stated. In case Court after having

 carefully perused the averments contained in the plaint

 arrive at a conclusion that plaint discloses some cause of

 action, application under order 7 Rule 14 CPC , praying

 therein for rejection of plaint cannot be accepted. 18. Revenue record placed on record by the plaintif

 clearly reveals that Sh. Ram Krishan by way of gift settled

 the ancestral property inherited by him from his father Sh. Bairagi Ram in favour of his six sons Khayali Ram, Devi

 Singh, Chain Singh, Madho Ram, Chattar Singh and Maan

 Singh. Plaintif has specifically stated in the plaint that very

 character and nature of the property is ancestral and Sh. Khayali Ram great grandfather of him got it from his father

 Ram Krishan in family settlement in April, 1953. Though,

 factum with regard to property being ancestral has been

 totally denied by the applicants/defendants, but in written

 statement there is no specific averments qua the source

 from which Sh. Khayali Ram got the property in question. 19. At this stage, Mr. Sudhir Thakur, learned counsel

 representing the defendants/applicants while inviting ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 20 attention of this Court to the revenue record placed on

 record by the plaintif, contended that bare perusal of the

 . same suggest that suit property came to the hands of Sh. Khayali Ram by way of gift and as such, property ceased

 to be ancestral. He further contended that since property

 came to the hands of Sh. Khayali Ram by way of gift made

 in his favour by Sh. Ram Krishan, very character and origin

 of the property ceased to be ancestral and as such, plaintif

 has no right to claim share/right in the suit property and the

 suit having been filed by him deserves to be rejected out

 rightly. 20. In support of his aforesaid contention, he placed

 reliance upon upon the judgment rendered by this Court in

 Pohlo Ram and another versus Manohar Lal and

 others, 1992(1) Sim. L.C.41, wherein it has been held that

 in case property is acquired by gift, it ceases to be

 ancestral except when the gift is made of ancestral

 property by the donor. The relevant para No.6 and 7 of the

 judgment are reproduced hereinbelow:- 21. It is quite apparent from the aforesaid law laid

 down by this Court that ancestral property as regards sons,

 means property inherited from a direct male ancestor and

 as regards collaterals, means the property inherited from a

 common ancestor. The property ceases to be ancestral if it

 comes into the hands of the owner otherwise than by

 descent or by reason merely of his connection with the

 common ancestor. In the aforesaid judgment this Court has

 held that in case property is acquired by gift, it ceases to be

 ancestral except when the gift is made of ancestral

 property by the donor to the person/persons who would

 succeed it by inheritance on his death and the gift amounts ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 23 to acceleration of succession, that is, the donor completely

 efaces himself and makes a gift of his whole property to

 . the entire body of heirs, who would be entitled to inherit it

 in the event of his death. 22. In the case at hand, careful perusal of the

 revenue record reveals that by way of gift deed, Sh. Ram

 Krishan settled the ancestral property inherited by his

 father Sh. Bairagi Ram in favour of his sons namely Khayali

 Ram,Devi Singh, Chain Singh, Madho Ram, Chattar Singh

 and Maan Singh, meaning thereby he completely efaced

 himself and made gift of his whole property to the entire

 body of his heirs, who would have been otherwise entitled

 to inherit it in the event of his death. It is not in dispute that

 in 1953 daughters had no right to inherit the ancestral

 property and otherwise also there is nothing on record to

 suggest that Sh. Bairagi Ram had other legal heirs save and

 except six sons, named hereinabvoe, and in whose favour

 he made gift of his whole property. 23. Pleadings adduced on record by both the parties

 reveal that prior to filing of the instant suit by the plaintif,

 applicants/defendants No. 2 to 4 had filed Civil Suit

 No.107/1 of 10/07 (old No.92/1 of 2007) against non- applicants/defendants No. 1 to 6 and 8 in the Court of Civil

 Judge (Senior Division) Solan, titled as Saroj verma and

 . others versus Smt. Sudesh Thakur and others , for

 permanent prohibitory injunction and declaration. In the

 aforesaid suit defendants No. 6 to 8 in the present suit( who

 were defendants No.1 to 3 in that suit) filed written

 statement-cum- counter claim, which was registered as

 counter claim No.156/1 of 2007, claiming therein that suit

 land is ancestral property of counter claimants. Aforesaid

 defendants further claimed that Counter claimant No.2

 constituted coparcenary with his grandfather Sh. Khayali

 Ram. In para-4 of the plaint of the instant suit having been

 filed by the plaintif, he has reproduced para-2 of the

 written statement- cum- counter claim of defendants No.1

 to 3 of that suit( defendants No.6 to 8 in this case) which is

 being reproduced hereinabove:- 24. Careful perusal of the contents of aforesaid para

 of written statement filed by defendants No.6 to 8 in the

 civil suit having been filed by applicants/defendants No. 6

 to 8 suggests that defendants No. 6 to 8 despite having

 taken specific stand as reproduced hereinabove in detail,

 entered into the compromise with defendants No. 1 to

 5/applicants in the aforesaid civil suit on 11.3.2017. Plaintif, who had born by that time has specifically stated

 in the plaint, which is sought to be rejected by applicants/

 defendants that defendants No.6 to 8 entered into the

 illegal and wrong compromise with the applicant/defendant

 Nos. 1 to 5 surrendering his rights. He has further stated

 that said compromise jeopardized, sacrificed and wiped out

 his right in the suit land. Compromise arrived inter se

 parties is totally detrimental to his interest and therefore, ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 26 is not binding upon him. There appears to be considerable

 force in the arguments of Mr. Ajay Kumar, learned Senior

 . counsel representing the plaintif that defendants No.6 to 8

 in the present suit themselves raised the issue that suit

 property was Joint Hindu Coparcenary Property and even

 filed counter claim in the same on the basis of such plea

 and it is not understood that why they abandoned the said

 plea which is totally against the interest of the minor. This

 Court is in agreement with Mr. Ajay Kumar learned Senior

 counsel that the nature, character and origin of the suit

 property is to be decided, as also the rights, if any, of the

 plaintif in the suit property in the suit having been filed by

 him and as such, it cannot be said that there is no cause of

 action, if any, in favour of the plaintif. despite having known that plaintif has acquired right in the

 property by birth, entered into compromise, binding efect,

 if any, of the same qua the plaintif is yet to be determined

 in the present proceedings because undoubtedly plaintif

 was not party to those proceedings. Though, Section 21(2) of the Legal Services Authority Act, 1987, provides that

 every award made by the Lok Adalat shall be final and ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:55 :::HCHP 27 binding on all the parties to dispute and no appeal shall lie

 to any court against the award, but this Court cannot loose

 . the sight of the fact that plaintif herein was not party to

 the proceedings which led to passing of award by the Lok

 Adalat. In para-9 of the plaint plaintif has specifically

 averred that Lok Adalat was not competent to take up the

 matter which was pending in the regular Court and it had

 no jurisdiction to deal with the matter and order of

 compromise passed by it is also nonest and illegal and

 without jurisdiction. Plaintif has averred that Civil Court

 and Lok Adalat had not even pecuniary jurisdiction to deal

 with the subject matter of the earlier suit filed by

 defendants No. 1 to 5. Bar of Section 21(2) , as provided by

 Legal Services Authority, 1987, to my mind, would not

 apply to the plaintif as he was not party to the earlier suit,

 though, this question shall be decided in the main suit, but

 definitely plaint cannot be rejected solely on this ground. 26. Section 9 of the CPC, clearly provides that

 Courts shall have jurisdiction to try all the suits of civil

 nature except those suits, entertainment whereof is

 expressly or impliedly barred. In this regard, reliance is

 placed upon the judgment rendered by Hon'ble Apex Court ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:56 :::HCHP 28 in Ramesh Govindram(deceased by LRs.) vs. Sugra

 Humayun Mirza Wakf, AIR 2010 SC 2897, wherein it has

 . been held as under:- ( See:- AIR 1995 page 2001, titled Most. Rev.
 P.M.A. Metropolitan versus Moran Mar Marthoma &

 another & AIR 1975 SC 1126 titled Smt. Ganga Bai
 versus Vijay Kumar ). 27. It may be noticed that Mr. Sudhir Thakur,

 learned counsel representing the applicants/defendants in

 support of his contentions, which have been otherwise

 taken note hereinabove, also placed reliance upon the

 following judgments rendered by Hon'ble Apex Court in Bhanwar Singh versus Puran and others AIR 2008(2)

 SC 1490, Uttam versus Saubhag Singh 2016 (1) Apex ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:56 :::HCHP 29 Courts Judgments SC 619, Commissioner of Wealth

 tax Kanpur, etc., versus Chander Sen etc., AIR 1986

 . Supreme Court 1753, Shreya Vidyarthi versus Ashok

 Vidyarthi and others 2016(1) Apex Courts Judgments

 263 (S.C.), Mohinder Kaur versus Pargat Singh and

 others, 2010 (3) Civil Court Cases 072 (P & H) and

 Sher Singh and another versus Siri Kishan and

 others,2010 (4) Civil Court Cases 459 (P & H),

 however, this Court having carefully perused the contents

 of the same, is of the view that same are not applicable or

 relevant as far as adjudication of the present application is

 concerned, wherein admittedly this Court is only called

 upon to determine whether cause of action, if any, exist in

 favour of the plaintif, which would entitle him to file civil

 suit. Needless to say, cause of action is to be gathered on

 the basis of the averments made in the plaint in its entirety

 taking those averments to be correct. ( Kuldeep Singh case

 supra). Accordingly, judgments referred hereinabove by

 learned counsel for the applicants/defendants are not being

 referred at this stage. 28. Consequently, in view of the above, this Court

 has no hesitation to conclude that non-applicant-plaintif ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:56 :::HCHP 30 has cause of action, if any, to file the suit and as such,

 same is required to be heard and decided on merits. . 29. Any observations made hereinabove shall not be

 construed to be a reflection on the merits of the case and

 shall remain confined to the disposal of this petition alone. Accordingly, the present petition is dismissed

 being devoid of any merit. (Sandeep Sharma),
 Judge
 8th January, 2019
 (shankar) ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:56 :::HCHP 31 . r to ::: Downloaded on - 14/01/2019 23:00:56 :::HCHP