(on suit for recovery of Rs. 2,18,004.22/­ together with costs and 
 pendentelite and future interest @18% per annum against the 
 defendants from the date of filing of the suit till realisation) 1. This suit was filed by the plaintiffs for recovery of Rs. 
 2,18,004.22/­ together with costs and pendente lite and future 
 interest @18% per annum from the date of filing of the suit till 
 realisation against the defendants. 2. Briefly stated, case of the plaintiffs is that the plaintiff no.
 1 i.e. CPL Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd., is a company incorporated under 
 the Companies Act, 1956 . Plaintiff no.2 is a unit of CPL Trading Co. 
 Pvt. Ltd. and as such plaintiff no. 2 is owned and possessed by 
 plaintiff no.1. The defendants no.1 and 2 are a bank/financial 
 institution. That the present suit is being filed by the plaintiffs with 
 respect to two cheques bearing no.767629 and 767604 for Rs. 
 1,03,717.28 and Rs. 49,286.94 issued by one of the customer of 
 plaintiff no.1 i.e. M/s Imperial Hotel, Janpath, New Delhi in favour 
 of plaintiff and drawn on Scotia Bank­ The Bank of Nova Scotia, 
 Gopaldas Bhawan, 28, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi. That after 
 supplying the said goods, since the payment of the bills/invoices 
 were not received by plaintiff, they approached Imperial Hotel for 
 payment and at that point of time, the officials of the said Hotel 
 informed plaintiff that they had already made the payment by 
 means of aforesaid two cheques for Rs.1,03,717.28 and Rs. 
 49,286.94 and that the said cheques have already been cleared and 
 debited to their account. Plaintiffs in terms of their letter dated 
 29.07.2008 approached their banker i.e. Bank of India, Hauz Khas 
 Branch, New Delhi to find out as to whether the payment of the CS No. 548/14 Page 2 of 12 CPL Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Development Credit Bank Ltd. said cheques have been collected by the said bank on behalf of 
 plaintiff or not and it was informed that no such cheques have 
 been received by the bank. That the plaintiff in terms of its 
 letter/communication dated 29.07.2008 informed the same to the 
 concerned officer of Imperial Hotel, Janpath, New Delhi. That the 
 officials of Imperial Hotel, New Delhi further informed the 
 plaintiffs that the payment of the said two cheques has been drawn 
 from their bank through clearing by Development Credit Bank 
 through their Barakhamba Road Branch i.e. Defendant no.2 for the 
 credit in the account of M/s Poddar Enterprises. That on the 
 personal inquiries made by the officials of plaintiffs, it was revealed 
 that a forged and fabricated account was opened in the name of 
 plaintiff with defendant no.1 bank. The said account in the name 
 of M/s Poddar Enterprises was never opened by the plaintiffs and 
 the said two cheques were never deposited by plaintiffs and 
 moreover the payment thereof were never received/collected by 
 the plaintiffs. That by said act and conduct of the defendants no.1 
 and 2, not only the plaintiff has been cheated but at the same time 
 plaintiffs have also been deprived of its outstanding dues, the 
 payment whereof was made by the said M/s Imperial Hotel, New 
 Delhi in the name of plaintiff. That the plaintiffs in terms of legal 
 notice dated 01.04.2010, called upon the defendants no.1 and 2 to 
 pay to the plaintiffs the said outstanding payment of Rs. 
 1,03,717.28 and Rs.49,286.94 along with interest thereon but all in 
 vain. Hence, the present suit is filed by the plaintiffs seeking decree 
 for a sum of of Rs. 2,18,004.22/­ together with costs and pendente 
 lite and future interest @18% per annum against the defendants 3. Upon service of summons of the present suit, defendants CS No. 548/14 Page 3 of 12 CPL Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Development Credit Bank Ltd. appeared and filed their written statement (WS) denying the 
 allegations as contained in the plaint. That the present suit has not 
 been instituted by the proper parties and the plaintiffs have no 
 locus for filing the present suit. That the defendants have not 
 played any fraud upon the plaintiffs nor they have any concern 
 with the plaintiffs firm. That all the KYC norms have been followed 
 and complied by the defendants. That the suit is bad for non 
 joinder of necessary parties. That plaintiffs have no cause of 
 action. That plaintiffs have not approached the court with clean 
 hands and concealed the material facts from the court. Hence, 
 suit of the plaintiffs is liable to be dismissed. 4. Plaintiffs filed replication to the WS of the defendants 
 denying the preliminary objections and other averments as 
 contained in the WS. Averments as contained in the plaint were 
 once again reiterated by way of the replication. 5. On the basis of the pleadings of the parties, following 
 issues were framed vide order dated 02.04.2013 and 09.10.2013 
 respectively :­ 1. Whether the suit is bad for non­joinder of necessary 
 parties? OPD 2. Whether plaintiff is entitled to a decree of a sum of Rs. 
 2,18,004.22/­ against the defendant as prayed for? OPP 3. Whether plaintiff is entitled to any pendente lite and 
 future interest, if so, for what period and for what rate? 
 OPP 4. Whether the suit has been properly instituted by proper 
 parties? OPP CS No. 548/14 Page 4 of 12 CPL Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Development Credit Bank Ltd. 5. Relief if any. 6. In order to prove their case, plaintiffs examined its 
 Managing Director Sh. Inder Mohan Poddar as PW­1 who 
 tendered his evidence by way of an affidavit Ex.PW­1/A. He relied 
 upon the documents which are Ex.PW­1/1 (certificate of 
 incorporation), Ex.PW­1/2 (Board Resolution), Ex.PW­1/3 (copy of 
 letter dated 29.07.2008), Ex.PW­1/4 (copy of e­mail dated 
 29.07.2008 ), Ex.PW­1/5 (legal notice dated 01.04.2010), Ex.PW­1/6 
 (postal receipt dated 01.04.2010), Ex.PW­1/7 (postal receipt dated 
 01.04.2010), Ex.PW­1/8 (UPC tracking report dated 01.04.2010), 
 Ex.PW­1/9 (UPC tracking report dated 01.04.2010), Ex.PW­1/10 
 (original reply by the defendant to the legal notice dated 
 01.04.2010 by plaintiff) and Ex.PW­1/11 (FIR no. 373 dated 
 18.08.2008) and thereafter, plaintiffs closed their evidence. Defendants on the other hand, examined Sh. Ajay 
 Ahluwalia as DW­1 who tendered his evidence by way of an 
 affidavit Ex.DW­1/A. He relied upon documents Ex.DW­1/1 to 
 Ex.DW­1/8 and thereafter defendants closed their evidence. 7. I have heard the contentions of both the sides and also 
 gone through the record carefully. My issue­wise findings are as 
 under: 8. Both these issues are taken up together being inter­
 connected for the purpose of discussion and finding. The onus to 
 prove first issue was upon the defendants and the fourth issue was 
 upon the plaintiffs. Ld. Counsel for the defendants argued that the plaintiffs 
 have no locus standi for filing the present suit seeking recovery of 
 the amount. It is further argued that plaintiff no.2 failed to 
 establish its existence on record nor it could establish its relation 
 with plaintiff no.1. Ld. Counsel further argued that plaintiffs have 
 no concern whatsoever with the defendants. Ld. Counsel further 
 argued that plaintiffs have not made Navneet Kaur and Imperial 
 Hotel Ltd. as party to the suit who are proper and necessary parties 
 so the filing of the present suit is bad for non­joinder of necessary 
 parties and is liable to be dismissed. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for the plaintiffs argued 
 that plaintiff no.2 is the unit of plaintiff no.1 and thus, does not 
 require existence as a separate entity. It is further argued that the 
 documents pertaining to registration of plaintiff no.1 are already 
 on record not disputed by the defendants. Ld. Counsel further 
 argued that the defendants in collusion with deceased Navneet 
 Kaur has played fraud upon the plaintiffs and usurp the cheques 
 amount which was meant for plaintiff no.2 issued by Imperial 
 Hotel Ltd. i.e. the client of plaintiff no.2. It is further argued that 
 board of resolution is filed on record by the plaintiffs which shows 
 that authority, hence, the present suit has been filed by proper 
 parties. Ld. Counsel further argued that Navneet Kaur was made 
 party to the suit but as her legal representatives were not traceable 
 so she was dropped from the array of the parties. Ld. Counsel 
 further argued that Imperial Hotel is not the proper or necessary CS No. 548/14 Page 6 of 12 CPL Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Development Credit Bank Ltd. party for which it was not impleaded in the present suit and the 
 same has already discharged its liability towards the plaintiff so no 
 purpose would be served by impleading it as a party to the suit. 
 Hence, the contentions of defendants are without any force. 9. It is pertinent to mention here that plaintiff no.2 M/s 
 Poddar Enterprises admittedly has not placed on record a single 
 document in its evidence to show even its existence. Plaintiff no.2 
 is claimed to be a unit of plaintiff no.1 but no proof or evidence in 
 this regard has been produced on record by the plaintiff witness. 
 Ld. counsel while addressing the final arguments submitted that 
 plaintiff no.2 was created as a unit for plaintiff no.1 for the 
 purposes of taxation and accounting whereas it does not bear or 
 carries any separate registration number. This contention of the 
 plaintiffs falls flat as even no accounts or for that matter any 
 document pertaining to the functioning or existence of plaintiff no.
 2 has been brought on record by the plaintiffs. Even the transaction 
 between plaintiff no.1 being the parent company with M/s 
 Imperial Hotel could not be established by the plaintiffs. It is the admitted case of plaintiffs that there client M/s 
 Imperial Hotel has issued two cheques which are the subject 
 matter of the suit which were meant meant for plaintiff no.2 but 
 the same were encashed by one M/s Poddar Enterprises i.e. 
 proprietorship firm of Ms. Navneet Kaur through the defendant 
 banks. In that eventuality, it was M/s. Imperial Hotel who could 
 have instituted a suit against the defendants for recovering of the 
 amount in case any fraud has been played upon. The plaintiffs had 
 the right to initiate legal action against M/s Imperial Hotel for 
 receiving their due if any and has no right or cause of action CS No. 548/14 Page 7 of 12 CPL Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Development Credit Bank Ltd. against the defendants. I agree with the argument put forth by Ld. 
 Counsel for defendants that plaintiffs have no locus standi to file 
 the suit against the defendants. 10. It is relevant to mention that Ms. Navneet Kaur who was 
 impleaded as party to the suit after filing of suit but subsequently 
 dropped after her death was known to have taken place without 
 impleading her legal representatives and M/s Imperial Hotel were 
 proper and necessary parties. A proper and necessary party is a 
 party in whose absence the dispute cannot be effectually and 
 completely adjudicated upon. In view of the present facts and 
 circumstances, M/s Imperial Hotel was definitely a proper and 
 necessary party who should have been impleaded in the present 
 suit but despite framing of issue in this regard and raising of 
 objection at the very first instance by the defendants, plaintiffs 
 failed to implead the same. Hence, the suit is bad for non­joinder 
 of necessary parties. 11. In view of the observations given above, both these 
 issues stands decided in favour of the defendants and against the 
 plaintiff. ISSUE NO.2
 Whether plaintiff is entitled to a decree of a sum of Rs. 
 2,18,004.22/­ against the defendant as prayed for? OPP 12. The onus to prove this issue was upon the plaintiffs. Ld. 
 Counsel for plaintiffs argued that cheque amount i.e. subject 
 matter of the suit was issued in the name of plaintiff no.2 by M/s 
 Imperial Hotel but the same were encashed fraudulently by CS No. 548/14 Page 8 of 12 CPL Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Development Credit Bank Ltd. defendants in collusion with one Ms. Navneet Kaur. It is further 
 argued that plaintiffs had business transaction with M/s Imperial 
 Hotel against which the cheques were issued but they were not 
 credited in the account of the plaintiffs. Ld. Counsel relied upon 
 document Ex.PW­1/4 i.e. email written by plaintiffs to Imperial 
 Hotel which shows that the cheques were issued to them. Ld. 
 Counsel further argued that defendants have failed to lead any 
 cogent evidence to prove their plea of defence as there have been 
 numerous contradictions and infirmities in the testimony of DW­1. 
 Ld. Counsel further argued that the WS filed by the defendant 
 cannot be read as defence as no authority letter/board of 
 resolution has been executed in favour of its authorized person 
 which was mandatory in the case of company/bank. Hence, 
 evidence of DW­1 cannot be read. In support of his arguments Ld. 
 counsel relied upon judgments in cases titled Savina Sharan Vs. 
 Babu Haleem Handicrafts decided on 09.02.2015 and Anvar P. V. 
 Vs P. K. Basheer and others decided on 18.09.2014. It is further argued that the documents relied upon by 
 the defendants are neither original nor certified copies so they 
 could not be proved in accordance with law hence, cannot be read 
 into evidence. Ld. Counsel further argued that defendants have 
 not disputed the documents relied upon by the plaintiffs in their 
 evidence which also proves the case of the plaintiffs. 13. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for defendants argued 
 that plaintiffs have failed to prove their case by leading any cogent 
 evidence nor they have any right to file the suit against the 
 defendants. Ld. Counsel further argued that plaintiffs have failed 
 to establish business transaction with Imperial hotel nor they CS No. 548/14 Page 9 of 12 CPL Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Development Credit Bank Ltd. could prove that the cheques in question were meant or drawn in 
 the name of the plaintiff no.2. Ld. Counsel further referred to the 
 cross examination of PW­1 to show that plaintiff no.2 is not a legal 
 entity as admitted by PW­1 during his cross examination. It is 
 further argued that plaintiffs have no locus standi to seek recovery 
 from the defendants as defendants have no concern with the 
 plaintiffs in any manner. Hence, suit of the plaintiff is liable to be 
 dismissed. 14. The onus to prove this issue was upon the plaintiffs so it 
 has to be seen whether plaintiffs have been able to prove their case 
 by leading cogent evidence on record. No doubt the defendants 
 have not filed any authorization letter/board of resolution in 
 favour of Mr. Sudhir Sivas who filed the WS or in favour of Mr. Ajay 
 Ahluwalia who examined himself as DW­1 claiming himself to be 
 authorized representative so his testimony cannot be read as 
 evidence. Even the document relied upon by the defendants have 
 not been proved in accordance with law. However, the plaintiffs 
 have to stands on their own legs to show whether they are entitled 
 to recover the amount from the defendants as prayed herein. 15. It has already been observed and held in the previous 
 issues that plaintiffs have no locus standi to seek recovery from the 
 defendants. Apart from the above finding, it is further pertinent to 
 mention here that plaintiffs even on merits could not prove their 
 case by leading substantial evidence. PW­1 during his cross 
 examination admitted that no document on record has been 
 placed by the plaintiffs to show that there have been any business 
 transaction with M/s Imperial Hotel. A letter claimed to have been CS No. 548/14 Page 10 of 12 CPL Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Development Credit Bank Ltd. issued by M/s Imperial Hotel with respect to the cheques in 
 question to the plaintiffs has not been placed on record as 
 admitted by PW­1 in his cross examination which compels the 
 court to draw adverse inference against the plaintiffs. The 
 documents Ex.PW­1/3 and Ex.PW­1/4 relied upon by the plaintiffs 
 to show that the cheques in question were issued by M/s Imperial 
 Hotel in the name of plaintiff no.2 does not refer to any 
 acknowledgment or correspondence by M/s Imperial Hotel which 
 can show that actually the cheques were issued by M/s Imperial 
 Hotel to the plaintiff no.2. Merely writing a letter by the plaintiffs 
 to its own bank and sending an email to Imperial India without 
 having acknowledgment thereof does not by any stretch of 
 imagination draw any presumption that the cheques have been 
 issued by M/s Imperial Hotel. Infact nothing on record suggests 
 that plaintiffs had any kind of transaction with M/s Imperial Hotel 
 or that the cheques in question were meant for them. 16. Ld. Counsel for plaintiffs during the arguments stated 
 that defendants banks have not followed the KYC norms and due 
 to their fraud and negligence the cheques amount could not reach 
 the plaintiffs. This contention of plaintiffs have no substance for 
 two reasons. One that plaintiffs themselves failed to lead any 
 cogent evidence to show that cheques were meant for them as 
 observed above. Secondly, minor discrepancy in functioning of 
 Banks cannot be considered as negligence or fraud that would 
 have affected the interests of plaintiffs. Plaintiff did not call any 
 witness from M/s Imperial Hotel to prove their allegations. In 
 absence of substantial evidence, the onus to prove this issue could 
 not be discharged by plaintiff. CPL Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Development Credit Bank Ltd. 17. In view of the observations given above and the evidence 
 led on record, it can be safely concluded that plaintiffs are not 
 entitled to receiving of any amount from the defendants. 
 Accordingly, this issue stands decided in favour of defendants and 
 against the plaintiffs. ISSUE NO.3 

 Whether plaintiff is entitled to any pendente lite and 
 future interest, if so, for what period and for what rate? 
 OPP 18. The onus to prove this issue was upon the plaintiffs. As it 
 has already been held in previous issue that plaintiffs are not 
 entitled to recover any amount so question of interest does not 
 arise. Hence, this issue also stands decided in favour of defendants 
 and against the plaintiffs. Relief: 19. As a consequence to my findings on the above 
 mentioned issues, suit of the plaintiffs is hereby dismissed. Parties 
 to bear their own costs. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 20. File be consigned to the record room after due 
 compliance.