1. The plaintiff has filed a suit for recovery against the defendant with the 

averments that plaintiff is a body corporate duly incorporated under the CS 133/11 Page 1 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 prevailing laws in England and having interalia service branch at Bahadur 

Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi. The plaintiff is carrying its banking activities 

subject to the guidelines and regulations of Reserve Bank of India. The 

present suit is filed through Shri Amit Kurichh who is duly constituted attorney 

of the plaintiff and empowered to file the suit and to do all such acts and things 

necessary for the conduct of case. The defendant is a bank having its service 

branch at New Delhi. The plaintiff has paid the amount on the basis of 

electronic image of a truncated cheque sent by the defendant through cheque 

truncated system which was later on found forged and fabricated. 2. Under CTS system, the presenting bank first verify and satisfy itself as 

to the genuineness of the cheque and then takes its image and sends the 

image for collection through CTS clearing. The original cheque is truncated 

and remains in possession of presenting bank. The payee bank makes the 

payment on the basis of image. In September, 2009 the defendant has sent 

an image of cheque bearing no.433965 dated 14.09.2009 of Rs.415650/­ 

drawn by M/s. Gabrial India Ltd.(customer of the plaintiff) in favour of Ajay 

Sharma (customer of the defendant) for collection to the plaintiff through CTS 

clearing system and said amount was paid out of the account of M/s. Gabrial 

India Ltd. in the normal course of business. On 16.09.2009, the said amount 

was collected by defendant and credited to the account of Ajay Sharma who 

had withdrawn it immediately. It was discovered later on that the image was CS 133/11 Page 2 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 forged and fabricated when M/s. Gabrial India Ltd. contacted the plaintiff 

regarding the said payment. It was found that cheque with series no.433900 

was not issued to the customer so the truncated cheque no.433965 was 

forged and fabricated. Ajay Sharma has also presented three more forged 

instruments in three different banks and images no.433963 from Kotak 

Mahindra, image No.433964 from IDBI and image no.433966 from Yes Bank 

were received on 14, 15 and 16.09.2009 for collection through CTS system. 

All these images were purportedly drawn by M/s. Gabrial India Ltd. in favour of 

Ajay Sharma which were similarly forged and fabricated. The plaintiff cleared 

the said images in the normal course of banking activity under the mistaken 

belief that image is genuine. 3. Ajay Sharma must be a person of dubious background who has opened 

the account with the defendant and thereafter presented the forged and 

fabricated cheque which defendant has unfortunately failed to detect through 

physical verification as required under CTS clearing system. The plaintiff has 

made the payment under the mistaken belief that image of a genuine 

instrument is sent by the defendant. The defendant was requested vide letter 

dated 10.10.2009 to return a sum of Rs.4,15,650/­ with original instrument and 

details of Ajay Sharma. A reminder dated 10.11.2009 was also issued. The 

defendant has denied its liability vide reply dated 16.11.2009 and 01.12.2009. 

On or around 07.12.2009 the plaintiff has appeared before EOW, Gurgaon to CS 133/11 Page 3 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 answer some queries with connection to complaint lodged by M/s. Gabrial 

India Ltd. and original cheque was shown at that time. The cheque appeared 

forged at its first glance. The defendant has also failed to install adequate 

safeguard machanism to ensure that persons with proper credentials are 

allowed to open an account. The banks have been complying with KYC 

guidelines issued by RBI. The fraud could have been detected if KYC 

guidelines would have been seriously taken by the defendant. The defendant 

should have adhered to chapter III (3.1 preliminary verification) of New Delhi 

Banker's Clearing House Procedure Guidelines for cheque truncated system. 

A legal notice dated 26.12.2009 was sent to the defendant by registered post 

as well as speed post to return Rs.4,15,650/­ but in vain. On 06.01.2010, the 

plaintiff has credited a sum of Rs.22,54,797/­ to the account of M/s. Gabrial 

India Ltd. as the amount paid out of the account on the basis of different 

forged and fabricated cheques. The plaintiff has also credited a sum of Rs.

415640/­ to the account of M/s. Gabrial India Ltd. which was collected by 

defendant. Hence, this suit. 4. The defendant has resisted and contested the suit by filing the written 

statement wherein preliminary objections qua maintainability, non­joinder of 

necessary parties, concealment of material facts and suit is not filed by duly 

constituted attorney are raised. On merits it is averred that plaintiff is not a 

body corporate duly incorporated under the prevailing laws in England. Shri CS 133/11 Page 4 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 Amit Kurichh is not the duly constituted attorney of plaintiff who is not 

empowered to file the suit. The defendant has followed the procedure while 

sending the image of the cheque. There is no mistake or negligence on the 

part of the bank. The cheque was subjected through ultra violate lamp to 

detect any tampering. The defendant acted in good faith in routine course of 

business as a collecting bank as per guidelines. It is a matter of record that 

the presenting bank, under CTS, first verifies and satisfy itself as to the 

genuineness of the cheque and then takes its image and sent the same for 

collection through CTS clearing by retaining the original cheque. It is a matter 

of record that payee bank receives the image in clearing and makes a 

payment on its basis. RBI guidelines on cheque truncation (Chapter 7 on legal 

issues­7,3) says that an additional responsibility is casted on the collecting 

bank to verify the genuineness of cheque based upon visible features. The 

same has been assigned as per amended Negotiable Instruments Act . The 

drawee bank will continue to verify the signatures and availability of funds etc. Section 64 (2) read with Section 131 of Negotiable Instruments Act says that 

where an electronic image of a truncated cheque is presented for payment, the 

drawee bank is entitled to demand any further information regarding truncated 

cheque from the bank by holding the truncated cheque in case of reasonable 

suspicion about the genuineness of the tenor of instrument and if the suspicion 

is that of fraud, forgery, tampering or destruction, the bank is entitled to 

demand truncated cheque for verification. The cheque then will be retained by CS 133/11 Page 5 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 the drawee bank if payment is accordingly made. The plaintiff bank should 

ask for the original instrument for verification which was never done. The 

plaintiff has admitted that bank itself is negligent in making the payment so the 

plaintiff cannot shift the burden to the defendant. 5. The image was never forged or fabricated. The original cheque is still in 

the possession of the defendant and there was no occasion to send forged or 

fabricated image. The bank has no knowledge that cheque series no.433900 

was not issued to the customer and thus truncated image of cheque no.

433965 was forged and fabricated. It is denied that Ajay Sharma has also 

presented three more forged instruments purportedly issued by M/s. Gabrial 

India Ltd. in his favour in three different banks a the same time i.e. 14th ­16th 

September, 2009. It is denied that plaintiff has cleared the images under the 

mistaken belief that same are genuine. The plaintiff is responsible for making 

the payment of instrument and more particularly negligent when cheque book 

bearing series no.433900 was never issued to M/s. Gabrial India Ltd. The 

plaintiff bank has to suffer for the same and cannot shift the burden to 

defendant. The plaintiff has failed to observe minimum precaution in order to 

protect its own interest. It is denied that defendant was aware that Ajay 

Sharma is a person of dubious background who has opened an account and 

then presented forged and fabricated cheque which the defendant has failed to 

detect during physical verification. No tampering in the instrument was visible CS 133/11 Page 6 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 to make eye and even through UV Lamp. The defendant has followed KYC 

norms for opening an account and due precautions were taken while opening 

an account. The plaintiff bank is liable for negligence in terms of Section 64 

(2) read with Section 131 Negotiable Instruments Act. The defendant is not 

liable to return the amount to the plaintiff. 6. The plaintiff bank has filed replication wherein the averments of the 

written statement are denied and stand taken in the plaint is reiterated. 7. From the pleadings of the following issues are framed for trial on 

05.04.2010­ 1. Whether the defendant is liable to pay principal amount of Rs.
4,15,650/­ as claimed by the plaintiff? OPP. 2. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to any interest, if so at what rate and 
for what period? OPP. 3. Whether the suit is bad for non­joinder of Sh Ajay Sharma, as 
necessary party? OPD. 4. Whether the suit is not maintainable in its present form? OPD. 5. Whether the suit is not filed by the properly constituted attorney, if so, 
its effect? OPD. 6. Relief. CS 133/11 Page 7 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015 8. Both the parties have examined one witness each in support of their 

case and relied upon documents. I have perused the entire oral as well as 

documentary evidence and heard the submissions of the parties. My issue 

wise findings are as follows: 9. Both the issues are taken up for disposal together as they are 

interconnected. The onus to prove the issues is on the plaintiff. The plaintiff 

has examined one witness. PW­1 Amit Kurichh has filed his affidavit wherein 

he has repeated the contents of the plaint as set out in the beginning while 

briefing the facts. He has placed reliance upon documents. Ex.PW­1/1 is 

the copy of Power of Attorney dated 09.05.2009 which is authenticated by 

notary public (objected to as original power of attorney is not produced), 

Ex.PW­1/2 is the certified statement of account of M/s. Gabrial India Ltd. 

showing a payment of cheque no.433965 on 16.09.2009 and reimbursement 

made to M/s. Gabrial India Ltd.on 06.01.2010, Ex.PW­1/3 (collectively) is the 

letters dated 10.10.2009 and 10.11.2009 sent to the defendant to make the 

payment, Ex.PW­1/4 (collectively) is the reply of the defendant vide which 

liability is denied, Ex.PW­1/5 is the legal notice dated 26.12.2009 sent to the 

defendant to make the payment through post, Ex.PW­1/5 are the postal 

receipts and Mark A is the copy of electronic image of cheque No.433965. CS 133/11 Page 8 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015 10. During cross­examination, he stated that he has been working with the 

plaintiff since 2001. All the accounts including account of M/s. Gabrial India 

Ltd. are computerised. He has certified the statement of account Ex.PW­1/2 

and his certification is correct. Portion Mark B in the replication and Mark C in 

his affidavit are correct. He knows the guidelines for opening a bank account. 

The form should be filled with the customer's details and signature. The 

identity proof and address proof should be taken as per KYC norm. He does 

not have any guidelines in this regard. Pan Card, passport and driving licence 

are identity proof and these things (voluntary stated except Pan Card) can be 

taken for identity and address proof. They do not accept cheque of another 

bank as identity proof. He is not aware if cheque of another bank is a proof of 

identity. It is correct that whenever a cheque book is issued, the same is 

entered into cheque book ordering system. It is correct that cheque book, 

which is issued to the customer is having relation with his account maintained 

in bank. They can refer to C­Boss system to verify the cheque issued by the 

customer in case of any doubt. He verifies the signatures on the cheque while 

passing the same. It is correct that payment is made after verification of 

signature. It is correct that they have verified the signature on the cheque 

Mark A and thereafter payment was made. It is correct that the signatures on 

the cheque Mark A were tallying with the specimen signatures. They were not 

having any doubt at the time of the payment cheque Mark A and they came to 

know later on that cheque is fabricated. The original cheque is not placed on CS 133/11 Page 9 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 record. They have been told by M/s. Gabrial India Ltd. that subject cheque 

has been misused. There is no special magic by which they can tell that 

cheque is genuine or forged but they are taking precautions by following the 

procedure. There was no doubt at the time of clearance about the 

genuineness of the cheque. 11. The plaintiff has filed the affidavit of Shri Ansul Bhargav, Company 

Secretary of M/s. Gabrial India Ltd. but he was not called by the plaintiff to 

tender his affidavit and for cross­examination. 12. The defendant bank has filed the affidavit of Chetan Sondhi. DW­1 is 

Chetan Sondhi. He has filed his affidavit Ex.DW­1/A wherein he has reiterated 

the version of written statement as set out in the beginning while briefing the 

facts and placed reliance on certain documents. Ex.DW­1/1 is the copy of 

notice received from Economic Offences Wing, Palam Vihar, Gurgaon, 

Ex.DW­1/2is the copy of seizure memo vide which cheque in question was 

taken into possession by EOW Cell, Ex.DW­1/3 (collectively) is the Saving 

Account Opening Form, Ex.DW­1/3P1 is the Customer Information Form and 

Ex.DW­1/4 is the statement of statement of account of Ajay Sharma. 13. During cross­examination, he stated that original instrument no.433965 

has been seized by EOW, Gurgaon and Mark A is the image on the basis of CS 133/11 Page 10 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 which plaintiff bank has made the payment. The original cheque is still in the 

possession of EOW, Gurgaon. He is not aware if the said record can be 

summoned by the defendant. The customer is required to produce his identity 

and address proof for opening a saving bank account and no other information 

is mentioned in account opening form Ex.DW­1/3 and now specifically 

exhibited as Ex.DW­1/3/P1. The information from Point A to A in 

Ex.DW­1/3/P­1 is only for the purpose of declaration. The introducer is not 

required as per policy and practice of bank. The customer is required to have 

a saving account in some other bank from which initial payment is taken. A 

self check is a part of KYC norms. The defendant has not inquired from the 

customer as to why he has been withdrawing the amount from different ATMs 

or regarding withdrawal of Rs.2,60,000/­ through self cheque. 14. Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff submitted that defendant was negligent in 

opening the account of the customer i.e. Ajay Sharma as proper identification 

documents were not taken as per RBI guidelines. He further submitted that 

defendant bank i.e. collecting bank should have been vigilant at the time of 

sending the image of the instrument through CTS clearing whether the 

instrument is forged or not through tenor of the instrument. He further 

submitted that defendant was negligent as reasonable care and precaution 

was not taken that is why plaintiff has made the payment otherwise the fraud 

done by the customer of the defendant could have been avoided. CS 133/11 Page 11 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015 15. Ld. Counsel for the defendant submitted that the bank has followed the 

practice and guidelines while opening the account of its customer. He further 

submitted that the instrument was subjected to UV lamp and further there was 

nothing in the instrument to raise suspicion. He further submitted that the 

plaintiff bank should have been vigilant as the cheque with the same series 

was not issued by the bank and bank could have easily detected by seeking 

information from its concerned department. He further submitted that the 

plaintiff bank is negligent as payment was released without taking due care 

and precaution. He further submitted that there is protection to the defendant 

bank U/s. 131 of Negotiable Instrument Act . 16. I have heard ld. Counsel for the parties and perused the record of the 

case. 17. In Indian Overseas Bank Vs. Industrial Chain Concern , (1990) 1 SCC 

484, it was held by lordship in para 30 that "as a general rule a banker before 

accepting a customer must take reasonable care to satisfy himself that the 

person in question is of good reputation; and if he fails to do so he will run th 

risk of forfeiting the protection given by Section 131 of the Act but 'reasonable 

care' will depend on the facts and circumstances of the case. The courts have 

tended to accept the practices and procedures which bankers lay down for CS 133/11 Page 12 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 themselves, but that can by no means be decisive. The "type of necessary 

inquiry at the opening of an account seems to be less stingent at present than 

it was a generation ago, and it is difficult to spell out from the cases any hard 

and fast rules". This is so because, in the words of Lord Chorley, the use of 

banking facilities at the present day" has become so widespread and has 

penetrated so far into social strata where banking accounts were previously 

unknown, that precautions at one time considered necessary are now difficult 

in the press of business to apply, One of the obvious problems is that of the 

dishonest employee who may wish to open a bank account for the purpose of 

getting cheques collected for which he has stolen from his employer. If the 

banker is aware of his employment he will naturally watch that those cheques 

of which the employer is payee, or in which he is otherwise interested, do not 

pass through the account. But how far can he be expected to keep himself 

informed of the employment of all his customers? This is typical of the 

problems which have faced the judges, and on which their views have tended 

to vary from time to time, and indeed from judge to judge". In para 33, it is 

held by their lordship that "question of negligence or no negligence depends 

entirely on the facts of each individual case and thus makes it difficult to judge 

in advance how any particular litigation involving allegations of negligence will 

go". CS 133/11 Page 13 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015 18. In Bapu Lal Prem Chand Vs. Nath Bank Limited (1945) 48 BomLR 397 
it was held by lordship that: 19. Section 131 of the Act says that a banker who has in good faith and 

without negligence for a customer of a cheque crossed generally or especially 

to himself shall not, in case the title of the cheque proves defective, incurs any 

liability to the true owner of the cheque by reason only of having receipts such 

payment. The words crossed generally or specially to himself are important. 

To enable the bank to avail the immunity under Section 131 of the Act as a 

collecting banker, he has to bring himself under the conditions namely (a) that 

the banker should act in good faith and without negligence in receiving a 

payment i.e. in the process of collection; (b) that the banker should receive 

payment for a customer on behalf of the and thus acting as a mere agent in 

collection of the cheque and not as an account holder; (c) that the person for 

whom the banker act must be his customer; (d) that the cheque should be one 

crossed generally or especially to himself. The negligence of the bank can be 

deduced if the entire circumstances ought to have created doubt in the mind of 

the bank and forced to make inquiries. 20. The question whether the bank had acted with negligence in opening of 

account, will, however be relevant U/s. 131 of the Act. The negligence must CS 133/11 Page 14 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 relate to collection of the cheque and opening of an account and 

circumstances connected with it may shed light on the question of negligence. 21. In the instant case, the customer of the defendant bank has opened an 

account. The rules and instructions of the banks have to be followed while 

opening an account in the bank. The defendant bank has its own policy and 

practice for KYC norms and this has been brought to the notice of the Court 

during the course of arguments. This policy document of defendant bank 

shows that PAN card, telephone bill, post paid mobile bill not older than two 

months and latest telephone bill are treated as officially valid document for 

opening an account. This document was not placed during the course of trial. 22. The Ex.DW­1/3 is the account opening form. Ex.DW­1/3/P­1 is the 

customer information form which bears the details and photograph of Ajay 

Sharma i.e. customer of the defendant. Copy of PAN card, telephone bill 

dated 05.07.2009 issued by Tata Indicom and a cheque from account 

maintained in Kotak Mahindra Bank by the customer were taken by defendant 

bank at the time of opening an account. The signatures of customer are 

appearing on the account opening form as well as on customer information 

form. The account opening form carries all the details of the customer. The 

address on PAN card and telephone bill is the same i.e. house no.488, Block­

E, Anand Gram, Ghaziabad. The customer was having an account in Kotak CS 133/11 Page 15 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 Mahindra Bank. All these documents are duly signed by the customer. There 

was no introducer in opening the bank account. The fact whether defendant 

bank was negligent in opening the account is relevant U/s. 131 of the Act and 

to the extent that if opening of the account and deposit of cheque thereafter 

was a part of opening of account then negligence in the matter of opening the 

account must be treated as a negligence in the matter of realisation of the 

cheque. The customer has not opened the account with the same cheque 

which is allegedly forged. The customer has deposited a cheque no.000003 

dated 04.08.2009 of Rs.10,000/­ drawn on Kotak Mahindra Bank in favour of 

the defendant bank and said amount were received in the account of the 

customer on 10.08.2009 as apparent from Ex.DW­1/4. It shows that he was 

having a running account in the other bank. The cheque in question was 

deposited by the customer in the account on 16.09.2009. The cheque was not 

deposited immediately after opening the account. There is nothing suspicious 

about the manner in which the account was opened by the customer. The 

type of necessary inquiry at the time of opening the account appears to be 

less stringant at present as it was decades ago because of widespread use of 

banking facilities. Mere omission to hold inquiry or absence of introducer in 

opening the account alone is not sufficient to conclude that bank was negligent 

as bank has allegedly taken the documents as per the banking practice of the 

bank itself. CS 133/11 Page 16 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015 23. The customer of the defendant bank presented the cheque in question 

to the bank for collection. The cheque was drawn to himself. The cheque was 

allegedly issued by the customer of the plaintiff bank in favour of the customer 

of the defendant bank. The defendant bank is supposed to make inquiry in 

case of any suspicion. The testimony of DW­1 shows that there was no 

tampering in the instrument. The cheque was subjected through UV lamp but 

nothing suspicious was found. The truncated image of the cheque was sent to 

the payee bank i.e. plaintiff. The testimony of PW­1 shows that the plaintiff 

bank has made the payment under mistaken belief that cheque belongs to the 

customer of their bank. The series of this cheque was not issued by the 

plaintiff bank. The plaintiff bank should have checked from the record before 

passing the cheque whether the cheque with the same series number has 

been issued to the customer or not as this fact is specially within the 

knowledge of the plaintiff bank. Further, the signatures on the image of 

truncated cheque tallied with the specimen signatures of the customer of the 

plaintiff kept in the record. No suspicion arose in the mind of the plaintiff bank. 

There was no physical tampering in the cheque in question. There is no 

evidence that any suspicion ever arose on the customer while he operated his 

account with defendant bank. There is no evidence that any circumstances 

whether antecedents or present were so prominent to raise a doubt in the 

mind of the bank to go for any inquiry about the presentation of the cheque 

with such an amount. The action on the part of defendant bank in receiving CS 133/11 Page 17 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 the cheque in question from its customer was in accordance with the ordinary 

practice of banking. There cannot be microscopic examination while 

forwarding the cheque by the collecting bank to the payee bank. 24. The original cheque is not produced in the court in order to see the 

tenor of the cheque. The plaintiff bank could have summoned the cheque 

from EOW, Gurgaon but the cheque in question was never produced in the 

Court. The plaintiff bank has filed the affidavit of company secretary of M/s. 

Gabrial India Ltd. The plaintiff bank failed to produce him in the Court for his 

examination. His examination was essential to unfold the facts. His non­

examination calls for an adverse inference against the plaintiff. 25. Ex.DW­1/4 is the statement of account of the customer of the defendant 

bank. The sum of Rs.415650/­ was credited to the account on 16.09.2009. 

The amount by leaving a balance of Rs.19,431/­ was withdrawn from 

16.09.2009 till 22.09.2009 including withdrawal of Rs.2,60,000/­ by way of self 

cheque dated 22.09.2009. The plaintiff bank has informed the defendant bank 

for the refund of said amount only through letter dated 10.10.2009 Ex.PW­1/3. 

This fact was not immediately brought to the notice of the defendant bank by 

the plaintiff bank which did not raise any suspicion in the mind of defendant 

bank. There is nothing on the record that when the customer of the plaintiff 

bank came to know about the withdrawal of amount from his account. To my CS 133/11 Page 18 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 mind, the evidence on the record shows that defendant bank has acted in 

good faith and there is negligence on the part of the defendant bank in 

opening the account and collecting the payment on behalf of its customer. In 

view of my aforesaid discussion, the plaintiff bank is not entitled to claim the 

said amount alongwith interest from the defendant bank. Both the issues are 

decided against the plaintiff. Issue No.3:­ 26. The onus to prove this issue is on the defendant bank. Ajay Sharma is 

the customer of the defendant bank who has deposited the cheque in question 

for collection with the defendant bank. The defendant bank is a collecting 

bank. The plaintiff bank is a payee bank. The question whether there was 

negligence on the part of defendant bank while collecting the payment on 

behalf of its customer can be decided in the absence of Ajay Sharma. The 

presence of Ajay Sharma is not necessary to adjudicate the question of 

negligence of the defendant bank. To my mind, Ajay Sharma is not a 

necessary party. The issue is decided against the defendant.

Issue No.4:­ 27. The onus to prove this issue is on the defendant bank. There is no 

evidence on the record to show how the suit of the plaintiff bank is not 

maintainable. The objection is taken for the sake of objection otherwise it is 

devoid of any merit. The issue is decided against the defendant. CS 133/11 Page 19 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 Issue No.5:­ 28. The onus to prove this issue is on the defendant bank. The suit is filed 

by the plaintiff bank through PW­1 Amit Kurichh on the ground that he is the 

duly constituted attorney of the plaintiff bank who is duly empowered to file the 

suit and do all such things necessary for the conduct of the case. Shri Amit 

Kurichh while appearing as PW­1 has categorically stated that he is duly 

empowered to file the present suit being attorney holder of the plaintiff bank. 

The copy of power of attorney is Ex.PW­1/1. During cross­examination he 

stated that power of attorney Ex.PW­1/1 has been given to him by CEO in 

India of plaintiff bank. Shri Neeraj Swaroop is CEO of the bank. He is not 

having original power of attorney. He is not having any document except 

power of attorney Ex.PW­1/1 to show that he is authorised to file the suit. 29. Order 29 Rule 1 CPC says that in a suit by or against a corporation, the 

secretary or any Director or other Principal Office of the corporation who is 

able to depose the facts of the case might sign any verify on behalf of the 

company. In the instant case, the plaintiff bank has filed the suit on the basis 

of power of attorney Ex.PW­1/1 executed in favour of PW­1 by Shri Neeraj 

Swaroop, Regional Chief Executive of India and South Asia. It is correct that 

clause 2 of said power of attorney authorises PW­1 to file, institute, prosecute, 

conduct, defend, continue, appear and represent the bank in any suit, action, 

petition on behalf of the bank and also to sign any pleadings, attest plaint and CS 133/11 Page 20 of 21 Decided on 23.03.2015
 sign affidavit on behalf of the bank. PW­1 is duly empowered to institute the 

suit and sign the pleadings on behalf of the plaintiff bank. He has appeared as 

a witness and deposed about the facts of the case. He is acquinted with the 

facts of the case. The plaintiff bank has ratified the act of signing the 

pleadings of PW­1 if we read Order 29 Rule 1 CPC with Order 6 Rule 14 CPC . 

It is correct that original power of attorney is not produced in the Court. The 

original attorney has to be produced in other cases also. The defect pointed 

out by the defendant is a curable. The suit cannot be thrown away merely on 

the ground of technicality. Reliance is placed upon United Bank of India Vs. 

Naresh Kumar & Ors. , (1996) 6 Supreme Court cases 660. To my mind, the 

suit is instituted by duly authorised person. The issue is decided in favour of 

the plaintiff. Relief:­ 30. In view of my findings on issues no. 1 to 5 above, the suit of the plaintiff 

for recovery of Rs.436433/­ alongwith interest @ 12% per annum from the 

date of filing of the suit till its realisation is dismissed. There is no order as to 

the costs. Decree sheet be prepared. File be consigned to record room. Announced in open Court.