(1) By way of the present application under Section 482 of the
 Bhartiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, the applicant has prayed
 to release on anticipatory bail in the event of arrest in connection
 with the FIR being C.R. No.112100152240051 of 2024 registered
 with DCB Police Station, Surat City, for the offences punishable
 under Sections 420 of Indian Penal Code, 1860. (2) Case of the prosecution is that, the complainant had given
 Rs.29,14,090/- by way of banking transactions, Rs.16,78,210/- by
 way of credit card/s and Rs.30,00,000/- in cash to the applicant and
 thereby, total Rs.75,92,300/- given to the applicant for the purpose
 of investment in crypto currency etc. Thereafter, the applicant did
 not return the said amount to the complainant. In this regard, FIR
 came to be filed. (3) Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that, the
 applicant has nothing to do with the offence. Complaint is filed Page 1 of 11 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Mar 07 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 08 00:28:25 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15082/2024 ORDER DATED: 04/03/2025

 undefined

 belatedly. Earlier one application came to be filed before Police
 Commissioner, Surat and during investigation, police came to
 conclusion that no offence is made out. Thereafter, one after
 another more than 14 complaints have been filed. Subsequently,
 police has registered the offence and present applicant has been
 falsely involved in the offence. Nothing is required to be recovered
 from the applicant. He has also submitted that, the alleged
 amount has already been paid by the applicant. Even during
 pendency of the application, the applicant has joined investigation.
 Therefore, custodial interrogation at this stage is not necessary.
 Besides, the applicant is available during the course of
 investigation and will not flee from justice. In view of the above,
 the applicant may be granted anticipatory bail. (4) The Learned Additional Public Prosecutor, appearing on behalf of
 the respondent-State, and the learned counsel for the complainant
 have opposed the grant of anticipatory bail, considering the nature
 and gravity of the offence. They have submitted that the applicant
 is the mastermind and is deeply involved in the offence. The
 applicant has committed fraud and misappropriated the hard-
 earned money of the complainant. Moreover, the applicant has
 failed to cooperate with the investigation. Additionally, the
 applicant made a false statement before the Court, claiming to
 have already paid Rs. 26,58,910/- and Rs. 16,72,825/- to the
 complainant. In light of these facts, the coordinate Bench of this
 Court passed an interim relief order on 28.10.2024, which was later
 extended. However, when it was discovered that the amounts
 were not paid as claimed by the applicant, the Court vacated the
 interim relief by an order dated 06.02.2025. Therefore, custodial
 interrogation of the applicant is necessary. It is further submitted
 that the applicant used his influence to manage the police and Page 2 of 11 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Mar 07 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 08 00:28:25 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15082/2024 ORDER DATED: 04/03/2025

 undefined

 divert the investigation. In response to this, the applicant
 approached the Police Commissioner and highlighted his
 misconduct. Numerous reminders were sent by the complainant
 before the complaint was eventually registered. The applicant,
 taking undue advantage of his knowledge, defrauded the
 complainant and others of over Rs. 1.61 crore by receiving
 payments through credit cards and OTPs from the complainant
 and witnesses. The applicant also attempted to dictate how the
 police should conduct the investigation. In view of the above,
 custodial interrogation of the applicant is essential. Therefore, the
 application does not warrant any consideration. (5) This Court has considered the rival submissions made by learned
 counsel for both the sides and considered the material placed on
 record. (6) The criteria to grant anticipatory bail and regular bail has been laid
 down by the Apex Court in various decisions. While criminal
 administration of justice disturbed, arrest is a part of investigation.
 After the arrest of the accused when substantial part of the
 investigation including remand gets over, then the Court has to
 exercise jurisdiction considering the evidence collected during
 investigation. It is needless to say that Section 482 of the BNSS is
 pre-arrest bail as there is a part of investigation and importance of
 the arrest is time and again discussed by the Hon'ble Apex Court.
 When the involvement of the accused is prima facie revealed and if
 allegation is not levelled that to defame him or to tarnish his
 image, the Court has to exercise jurisdiction, but to seek
 anticipatory bail is not an extraordinary jurisdiction and absolute
 right of the accused. (7) While deciding bail application, the Court has to consider the Page 3 of 11 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Mar 07 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 08 00:28:25 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15082/2024 ORDER DATED: 04/03/2025

 undefined

 involvement of the accused in the alleged offence, the jurisdiction
 to grant bail has to be exercised on the basis of the well settled
 principles having regard to the facts and circumstances of each
 case and the following factors are to be taken into consideration
 while considering an applications for bail: (i) the nature of
 accusation and the severity of the punishment and the nature of
 the materials relied upon by the prosecution; (ii) reasonable
 apprehension of tampering with the witnesses and threat to the
 complainant or the witnesses; (iii) reasonable possibility of
 securing the presence of the accused at the time of trial or the
 likelihood of his abscondence; (iv) character behaviour and
 standing of the accused and the circumstances which are peculiar
 to the accused; (v) larger interest of the public or the State and
 similar other considerations are required to be considered. (8) Having heard learned counsel for the respective parties and
 perusal of the record, it appears that, the applicant is named in the
 FIR. Investigation is still going on. It is worth to mention that the
 applicant is facing charge under Section 420 of Indian Penal Code,
 1860, for which maximum punishment is upto 7 years. Prior to
 registration of FIR, notice under Section 41A of the Code has been
 served to the applicant, but the applicant had not joined
 investigation and considering the conduct of the applicant and
 prima facie involvement of the applicant, learned Sessions Judge
 has been pleased to dismiss the anticipatory bail application of the
 applicant. From the day one, stand of the applicant is that he has
 already paid the amount to the complainant and he is ready and
 willing to pay remaining amount. These are the main arguments of
 the applicant. But perusing the complaint, it appears that the
 applicant has received an amount of Rs.75,92,300/- by taking
 undue advantage of friendship of the complainant to invest the Page 4 of 11 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Mar 07 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 08 00:28:25 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15082/2024 ORDER DATED: 04/03/2025

 undefined

 said fund in stock market, real estate and in crypto currency. The
 said transaction is made through banking transaction, credit cards
 and in cash also. Thereby, in total the applicant has received
 Rs.75,92,300/- from the complainant. It is important to note that
 though time and again the police has served notice upon the
 applicant, he did not join investigation. Subsequently, he has
 created a show and produced chits before the police showing that
 he has already paid the amount. Actually, the applicant has not
 paid any amount to the complainant. During investigation of the
 application, it was found that the applicant has received money
 and various chits in his handwriting issued in favour of the
 complainant on 19.08.2022 and 15.09.2022 and also stated that he
 will pay the remaining amount to the complainant and shared
 profit of Rs.80 lacs to one Bhavik. To pay the said amount he has
 also issued cheque of Rs.8 lacs which was also dishonored.
 Considering the aforesaid facts, prima facie involvement of the
 applicant is revealed. (9) Considering the aforesaid fact and keeping in the mind and after
 going through the investigation papers, prima facie, it appears that
 the present applicant is actively involved in the offense. He has
 obtained money from the complainant and then did not return to
 the complainant. Therefore, if bail is granted, then it may adversely
 affect the case of prosecution as investigation is at preliminary
 stage. This Court has considered the interest of the prosecution
 and the applicant's personal liberty, it cannot override the larger
 public interest and accused facing charge of organized crime
 syndicate. Prior to give weightage to personal liberty, the Court
 has to strike balance between personal liberty and a larger interest
 of society. (10) Learned counsel for the applicant has claimed parity by saying that
 the co-accused Gopalkumar Kacha is enlarged on anticipatory bail
 by the learned Sessions Court. It is needless to say that, the role of
 that co-accused is very limited and he was only worked with the
 applicant and he called the complainant for getting OTP from his
 mobile, except this no role is attributed to the said co-accused. But
 the applicant being a kingpin in the said economic offence, is not
 entitled for any parity. Therefore, learned Sessions Court has rightly
 considered the said aspects and refused the anticipatory bail to the
 present applicant. Without proper investigation, it is impossible to
 unearth the large scale scam, the syndicate and to find out the
 modus operandi, if bail is granted at this primary stage, which would
 amount to premium to unethical and immoral personality. The
 public confidence in the system undermines, keeping in mind
 sensitivity of matter and if in cavalier fashion benefit of parity
 extended or bail granted, then not only wrong message will travel
 in the public but hamper the investigation and tampered with an
 evidence which is nothing but amounts to premium to wrongdoers. (11) Further, it is important to note that since the offence is punishable
 with a maximum sentence of up to 7 years, a notice was issued to
 the applicant. However, the applicant chose not to join the
 investigation. Instead, he communicated with the police authorities,
 directing how the investigation should be conducted and claiming
 that no amount had been deposited into his account. It is worth
 mentioning that custodial interrogation and arrest are crucial tools
 for investigating offences, especially in cases with such allegations,
 when the accused is very smart. Since the accused did not
 cooperate with the investigation, he is not entitled to any
 protection under Section 482 of the BNSS. Furthermore, by making
 misleading statements before this Court, the accused obtained Page 6 of 11 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Mar 07 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 08 00:28:25 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15082/2024 ORDER DATED: 04/03/2025

 undefined

 interim protection and benefited from it for a considerable time.
 However, when the complainant raised concerns and stated under
 oath that the applicant had been changing his stance repeatedly
 and had not paid a single rupee, it became clear that the applicant
 had made false statements before the Court. Subsequently,
 considering the applicant's additional affidavit, particularly
 paragraph 7, it became evident that incorrect facts were presented
 before the coordinate Bench solely to secure interim protection.
 Once the actual facts surfaced on the record, this Court vacated the
 interim relief granted to the accused. Since then, the matter has
 been prolonged for one reason or another. The applicant has not
 approached the Court with clean hands; instead, he made
 misleading statements and misled the police by directing them on
 how the investigation should proceed. (12) In aforesaid backdrop, custodial interrogation and detail inquiry is
 necessary. When serious offences are disclosed and involvement of
 an accused prima facie established then, the Court would be loath
 to lean in favour of grant of pre-arrest bail in absence of any other
 overriding considerations. The alleged offence is in nature of white
 collar and economic offence, this Court is also conscious about the
 safeguards provided under Section 482 of BNSS and concept of the
 personal liberty. Arrest is part of the process of investigation and
 intended to secure several purposes. In which the accused may
 provide information, during the the discovery of material facts and
 to relevant information. (13) At the time of deciding the bail application, the Court should
 refrain from appreciating the evidence. However, considering the
 submissions made by the learned advocates for the respective
 parties and specific stand taken by the applicant to extend the Page 7 of 11 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Mar 07 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 08 00:28:25 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15082/2024 ORDER DATED: 04/03/2025

 undefined

 benefit of parity as the co-accused is released on bail. Hence, this
 Court has considered the material collect during the course of
 investigation with a view to examine the applicability of parity. The
 reference is required to be made in a case of Ramesh Bhavan
 Rathod vs. Vishanbhai Hirabhai Makwana , reported in AIR 2021
 SC 221, wherein, the Hon'ble Apex Court held that when deciding
 a bail application and extending the benefit of parity, the Court
 has to examine the exact role attributed to the accused. If the
 accused played a similar role, then the Court should extend the
 benefit of parity. Merely some words or any observation made in
 the order are not enough, such approach is erroneous and
 inappropriate for considering the benefit of parity. As co-accused
 are released on regular bail, the applicant is not entitled to claim
 parity in anticipatory bail. (14) Further, in the case of Pratibha Manchanda vs The State of
 Haryana , reported in AIR 2023 SC 3307, wherein the Hon'ble Apex
 Court has held in Para 19 as under: The tight rope we must walk lies in striking a balance between
 safeguarding individual rights and protecting public interest. While
 the right to liberty and presumption of innocence are vital, the court
 must also consider the gravity of the offence, the impact on society,
 and the need for a fair and free investigation. The court's discretion in
 weighing these interests in the facts and circumstances of each
 individual case becomes crucial to ensure a just outcome." (15) In the case of Central Bureau of Investigation Vs. Vikas Mishra
 @ Vikash Mishra , reported in (2023)6 SCC 49, the right of
 custodial interrogation is very important right of the investigating
 agency to unearth the truth and which the accused has purposely Page 8 of 11 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Mar 07 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 08 00:28:25 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15082/2024 ORDER DATED: 04/03/2025

 undefined

 and successfully tried to frustrate. Hence, police custody for
 interrogation is necessary. Here in the case on hand, complainant
 has lost his hard earned money and to recover the said amount,
 custodial interrogation is necessary. It is also important to refer
 the decision of Manik Madhukar Sarve vs Vithal Damuji Meher,
 reported in 2024 INSC 636. In the case of economic offence, many
 time amount is diverted or siphoned off in different accounts and
 for that custodial interrogation is required which is an important
 tool to trace out the amount. It is apt to refer the decision of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court of India delivered in case of State of
 Gujarat Vs. Mohanlal Jitmalji Porwal & Anr., reported in 1987
 (2) SCC 634, wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court in para 5 held as
 under:- (16) Further, keeping in mind Law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre V/s State of
 Maharashtra and Others reported in (2011) 1 SCC 694. Herein, I
 have gone through the material available against the accused very
 carefully and it appears that herein, no complaint has been made
 with view to humiliating or tarnish the image of the present
 applicant. Even in Jai Prakash Singh V/s State of Bihar and
 another, reported in (2012) 4 SCC 379, Honourable Supreme
 Court pleased to hold: (17) In such circumstances, when investigation is in preliminary stage if,
 anticipatory bail is granted may hamper the investigation and to
 collect the material in the more information, and find out the
 involvements of another person custodial interrogation is also
 necessary, therefore, keeping in mind the law laid down by the
 Honourable Supreme Court in the case of (i) State Rep. by the CBI
 V/s Anil Sharma reported in 1997 (7) SCC 187, (ii) Adri Dharan Das V/
 s State of W.B. reported in 2005 (4) SCC 303 and (iii) P. Chidambaram
 V/s Directorate of Enforcement reported in AIR 2019 SC 4198,
 application does not deserve any consideration. (18) The object of anticipatory bail is that person should not be
 harassed or humiliated in order to satisfy the grudge or personal
 vendetta of the complainant. In present case, no any such sort of
 allegation or bias is found out it is needless to say that order under Section 482 of the BNSS is not a permission to the commission of
 trial nor a shield against any serious accusation, which adversely
 affects the society. Here in the instant case, the complainant has
 lost his hard earned money. (19) This Court is of the considered view that if the present accused is
 equipped with protective order, it would obviously adversely
 affect the case of the prosecution and the qualitative investigation
 as applicant is having trained legal mind and he will tamper with
 evidence and witnesses of prosecution and here two accused are
 still out of reach, who are directly connected with the present
 accused and other co-accused. observations on the legal aspect of the matter, this Court has
 absolutely no doubt that if applicant is equipped with such an
 order before he is interrogated by the Police, it would greatly
 harm the investigation and would impede the prospects of
 unearthing all the ramifications involved in the conspiracy. Having
 considered nature and seriousness of the charge, prima facie
 involvement of accused and possibility of tempering with
 evidences, it does not appear to be just and proper to exercise the
 discretion in favour of the applicant and accordingly, the
 application for anticipatory bail is dismissed. However, it is
 needless to say that, the observations made in this order are
 tentative in nature. (HASMUKH D. SUTHAR,J)

 SUCHIT Page 11 of 11 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Fri Mar 07 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 08 00:28:25 IST 2025