PER BENCH: 2. It is noted that, except for variation in figures, the observations and

findings rendered by the lower authorities are verbatim same across all

these years and therefore, with the consent of both the parties, these

appeals were heard together and are being disposed of by this common

order. 3. The factual matrix of the case is that, a search was conducted u/s

132 of the Act upon the assessee on 12.09.2016, pursuant to which,

notice(s) u/s 153 A of the Act were issued inter alias for AYs 2014-15 to

2017-18. In response, the assessee filed return(s) of income disclosing

the same income as originally returned u/s 139 of the Act. Thereafter, the

AO issued notice(s) u/s 142(1) of the Act dated 09.11.2018 calling for

several details and explanation wherein the assessee was inter alia

required to explain the contents of certain material which was seized in ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 3 :: Accordingly, on the basis of this seized material, the AO arrived at a

separate satisfaction in the same satisfaction note recorded u/s 153C of

the Act that, the assessee had also derived unaccounted commission of

Rs.41,55,00,000/- across AYs 2014-15 to 2017-18. 9. The Ld. AR further pointed out that, there was another search

conducted upon Shri PJR on 10.05.2016. He showed us that, the AO of

Shri PJR was of the view that, the loose sheets ID marked Annexure ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 9 :: 10. Overall therefore, on the basis of the material seized from the

premises of these three parties, from third party searches, and the

statement(s) given by various persons, the AO had formed his satisfaction

that, the assessee was in receipt of commission in relation to the coal

supplied by M/s Adani Global Pte Ltd [in short 'A Co'], M/s Knowledge

Infrastructure Strategy Systems Pte Ltd [in short 'K Co'] and M/s CEG

Group to Tamil Nadu Electricity Board [in short 'TNEB']. It was the AO's

case that, this commission was being received by the assessee through

the aid and assistance of Shri CPA, Shri Gobinath (in short Gobi), Shri Giri

and Shri PLA, whose notings was found in the account book(s) seized

from the premises of Shri CPA and that the same had not been offered to

tax by the assessee in his returns of income for AYs 2014-15 & 2017-18.

In so far as AY 2017-18 is concerned, the AO additionally observed that,

the material found from the premises of Shri PJR revealed unaccounted

cash expenses incurred by the assessee during that year election. With ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 10 :: 11. At the time of hearing, the Ld. AR appearing for the assessee has

assailed the action of the lower authorities on several fronts. Having

regard to the arguments made before us, we find that, amongst the

several legal challenge(s) and objection(s) to the merits of the

addition(s), the first legal challenge of the assessee in all the AYs is inter-

alia to the validity of usurpation of jurisdiction u/s. 153C of the Act,

without satisfying the mandatory condition precedent prescribed by Section 153C of the Act i.e. the AO has not recorded a valid satisfaction- ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 11 :: 12. Assailing the action of the lower authorities, the Ld. AR appearing

for the assessee, submitted that, the AO without satisfying the essential

condition-precedents had erroneously usurped the jurisdiction u/s 153C against the assessee, based on searches conducted on third party

premises are bad in law and hence the assumption of jurisdiction u/s

153C is ab-initio void. According to Ld AR, in order to validly usurp

jurisdiction u/s 153C of the Act, it was incumbent upon the AO to first

identify the relevant material, that was found and seized from the

premises of the searched person(s), which in his view, 'belonged to' or

'related to' or 'pertained to' the assessee and had a bearing on the

determination of his total income, (which is the jurisdictional-fact). The ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 12 :: ANN/SM/Valuable/S Shri CPA & Shri Sudarshan Shri Sudarshan and Shri CPA- Shri Giri

ANN/A/GC, Electronic devices seized from Email correspondence,
ANN/MKM/CG/ED/S Shri Giri agreements & invoices

ANN/SAA/KSI/LS/S-1 Loose sheets seized from the Loose notings of several
(Page No.48 & 49) premises of M/s CEG amounts against nomenclature
 'Power M'

ANN/RB/PJ/LS/S Loose sheets seized from Shri Workings related to the total
 PJR number of voters in
 constituencies along with
 calculations and estimations 13. The Ld. AR firstly took us through the 'satisfaction-note' recorded by

the AO of Shri CPA, and pointed out that, the AO was categorical in

observing that, the material seized from the premises of Shri CPA

'belonged to' the assessee. Narrating the legislative history of Section

153C and the amendment brought in by the Finance Act, 2015 with effect

from 01.06.2015, the Ld. AR submitted that the AO was conscious of the

judicial distinction between 'belongs to' and 'relates to' and that the scope ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 13 :: note suffered from fundamental infirmity, which vitiates the finding of

jurisdictional-fact itself necessary for successful assumption of power u/s ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 14 :: 14. The Ld. AR next took us through the electronic evidences seized

from the premises of Shri Giri, which again, as per the satisfaction-note

was stated to be 'belonging to' the assessee. He argued that, these email

communications, agreements and invoices belonged to different persons /

companies and clearly didn't belong to the assessee. He further claimed

that, even the information contained in these communications didn't

relate to the assessee in any manner. According to him therefore, the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 15 :: 15. The Ld. AR then invited our attention to the documents ID marked

ANN/SAA/KSI/LS/S-1, Page No.48 & 49 seized from the premises of M/s

CEG Group and argued that the notings contained on these pages on

stand-alone basis cannot be said to relate to the assessee in any manner.

He pointed out that, the satisfaction of the AO hinged on the bald-

statement of one employee of M/s CEG Group, Shri SSU who had averred

that this was paid to one person presumably on behalf of the assessee.

According to Ld. AR, the AO could not have merely acted on such hear-

say statement while recording his satisfaction. The Ld. AR also pointed

out that Shri SSU had since retracted his statement and thereafter

confirmed his retraction in the course of cross-examination by the AO as

well. The Ld. AR thus claimed that, the AO was unjustified in holding

these seized material to relate to the assessee having bearing on his total

income. R. Viswanathan
 :: 16 :: 16. The Ld. AR thereafter took us through the rough notings, scribblings

found in the loose sheets seized from the premises of Shri PJR and

submitted that not only were they dumb in nature but it could not be said

to relate to the assessee. He also took us through the statement of Shri

PJR and showed that, the searched person had at all times had

maintained that, these were rough notings and estimations and did not

reflect any actual transactions. The Ld. AR further submitted that, Shri

PJR at no time had implicated the assessee of any wrong-doing and

therefore the satisfaction-note drawn by the AO of the assessee was

unsustainable. 17. Summing up his arguments, the Ld. AR submitted that, the seized

material were dumb documents from which, no prudent person properly

instructed in law could have inferred that they related or pertained to the

assessee, leave alone that it belonged to third party assessee. He also

pointed out several defects and fallacies in the notings, which, in his view,

showed that the said jottings didn't relate to the assessee. He also took

us through the sworn statements of the several persons, which were

relied upon by the lower authorities and argued that, if one, closely

analyses the same, it would be discerned that these statements were per-

se hearsay, and either unreliable or misleading or suffered from

interestedness. The Ld. AR thus claimed that, when there were no seized

assets or books of accounts or documents found belonging or relating or ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 17 :: 18. The Ld. AR also emphasized on the fact that, neither the

Investigating Authorities nor the AOs of the searched persons nor the AO

of the assessee, had made any enquiries or investigation from A Co. or K

Co. who allegedly paid the impugned commission income to the assessee.

He claimed that, there was nothing brought on record to show that any of

these suppliers had ever admitted to have paid any commission to the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 18 :: 19. Considering the nature of the allegation(s) emanating from the

satisfaction note, this Bench had inquired from the Ld. AR as to whether

at all, the assessee was having a say in the award of contract or he was

holding any position or post in TNEB [now 'TANGEDCO'] and was he

involved in awarding contracts to the suppliers who had allegedly paid

commission to him. To this, the it was brought to our notice that, the

assessee neither held any post or position in TANGEDCO and he had

absolutely no role in the open tender process followed by TANGEDCO for

awarding coal contracts. The Ld AR in this regard also took us through the

reply furnished by TANGEDO to the enquiry made by the AO in the course

of assessment and showed that these contract(s) were awarded through

an open tender process, and the contemporaneous data showed that the

rates at which coal were supplied by A Co & K Co were commensurate or

lower to the rates at which other coal suppliers supplied coal to ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 19 :: 20. The Ld. AR further submitted that, even the search action

conducted upon the assessee and the post search enquiries didn't result

in unearthing of any valuable asset, or any material or information which

would correlate with the allegation involving receipt of such huge

magnitudes of cash by the assessee in his personal capacity. According to

him therefore, the impugned satisfaction note was based purely on

hypothesis and it was not backed by any tangible asset or document or

books of accounts found in the course of search, which related to or

pertained to the assessee. The Ld. AR thus urged us to quash the

impugned order(s) passed u/s 153C / 143(3) of the Act as the initiation of

proceedings u/s 153C of the Act itself stood vitiated in law. The Ld. AR

has furnished detailed written arguments in support of his contentions,

which, to avoid repetition, we shall be discussing in the ensuing

paragraphs. 21. Per contra, the Ld. CIT, DR appearing for the Revenue, Smt. Ms. E.

Pavuna Sundari, supported the order of the AO. She contended that, the

AO had undertaken an extensive exercise while drawing up the

satisfaction note and conducted a detailed analysis of the seized material

and sworn statements for arriving at his conclusion that, the contents ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 20 :: 22. We have heard both the parties and perused the relevant provisions

of the Act. Before we advert to the legal issue raised by the assessee, it

would first be necessary to take note of the legislation of Section 153C itself. We note that Section 153A / 153C of the Act was introduced by the Finance Act, 2003 w.e.f. 01.06.2003. It replaced the provisions relating to

block assessment contained in Chapter XIV-B and introduced an

altogether new procedure for making assessment u/s. 153 of the Act. The

Scheme of assessment u/s 153A / 153C is available to the department in ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 21 :: 23. It is judicially settled that the recording of the satisfaction note by

AO, as to existence of jurisdictional fact as enumerated u/s 153C is

mandatory, in the absence of which, no notice u/s 153C of the Act can be ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 23 :: 24. At this juncture, we gainfully refer to the following observations

made by the Hon'ble jurisdictional Madras High Court in the case of Agni

Vishnu Ventures Pvt. Ltd. vs DCIT (460 ITR 438) which are as

follows: R. Viswanathan
 :: 25 :: 78. In my considered view, there is a vital distinction between the
object, intention as well as the express language of Sections 153A and 153C . Section 153A addresses the searched entity and the procedure
set evidently a notch higher for this reason. There is no discretion or
condition precedent under Section 153A to the issuance of notice save
the conduct of a search under Section 132 or making of a requisition
under Section 132A . Upon the occurrence of one of the aforesaid events,
it is incumbent upon the office to issue notice under Section 153A to the
searched entity in line with the procedure stipulated. 79. Section 153C however requires the satisfaction of two conditions
prior to issuance of notice: 80. Notice under Section 153C would have to be issued only upon
satisfaction of both conditions as aforesaid. To this extent, there is, in
my considered opinion, a clear and marked distinction between the
provisions of Section 153A and 153C . The contention of the revenue that a mandate is cast upon the
Assessing Officer of the third party to issue notice under Section 153C for all the years comprising the block, mechanically and automatically, is
thus rejected. 81. To clarify, it is only where the satisfaction note recorded by the
receiving Assessing Officer, i.e., the Assessing Officer of the third party
reflects a clear finding that the incriminating material received has a
bearing on determination of total income of the third party for 6
assessment years immediately preceding the assessment year relevant
to the previous year in which search is conducted or requisition is made,
that such notice would have to be issued for all the years. 82. It thus flows from the provision that the receiving assessing officer
must apply his mind to the materials received and ascertain precisely
the specific year to which the incriminating material relates. It is only
when this determination/ascertainment is complete that the flood gates
of an assessment would open qua those particular years. The issuance ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 26 :: 83. The construction of Section 153A and 153C is consciously different
 and is seen to apply different yardsticks to an entity searched and a
 third party, such yardstick being more exacting in the case of the
 former. The process of assessment is demanding and an assessee, once
 in receipt of a notice, is bound by the stringent procedure under the Act,
 till finalization of the process. 84. In other words, a Damocles sword appears over the head of an
 assessee with the issuance of every notice which is laid to rest only
 upon conclusion of the proceedings. The sword cannot be invoked lightly
 and except if the statutory condition is satisfied. That is to state, an
 officer has to analyze and compartmentalize the incriminating material
 year wise, to arrive at a categoric determination as to the year to which
 the incriminating material relates and issue notices only for those years. 85. Needless to state these are some situations/issue when the spread
 of information and the nature of the issue itself might need more, and
 in-depth probing before such year-wise determination is possible. In
 such cases, the officer would be well within his right to state the nature
 of the issue and detail the difficulties that present themselves in precise
 bifurcation at that stage. This would reflect application of mind and, in
 my considered view, would serve as sufficient compliance with the
 statutory condition." 25. It is therefore noted that, in a case to which Section 153C of the Act

applies, first the AO of the searched person has to satisfy himself that the

material in his possession ( of the searched person) is likely to implicate

the third party, since the money/bullion/jewellery/other valuable article or

thing/books of account or documents (incriminating materials) seized

belongs to/pertain to or any information contained, relates to, a third

party; and then record his satisfaction that the material seized from the

searched person belongs/pertain/relate to third person/other-person, then

hand over the satisfaction-note along with such materials to the third

party's AO. [Existence of jurisdictional fact qua third-party is the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 27 :: R. Viswanathan
 :: 30 :: 26. And the aforesaid finding of Hon'ble High Court has been affirmed

by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as under:- 27. We also gainfully refer to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in the case of PCIT Vs Abhisar Buildwell (P) Ltd (454 ITR 212)

wherein it has been held in unequivocal terms that absent incriminating ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 31 :: 28. In this context, it has to be kept in mind that, when the challenge is

to the validity of the satisfaction note basis which the AO has usurped

jurisdiction u/s 153C of the Act, we have to examine the satisfaction

recorded by the AO as it stands and no new words can be imported or

read into his 'satisfaction note' nor can the Revenue now supplement or

improve upon the satisfaction note. For this, we draw strength from the

jurisprudence available in the context of examination of the reasons

recorded/satisfaction drawn by the AO for re-opening the assessment u/s.

147 of the Act. It is settled law that reasons as recorded for reopening the

reassessment are to be examined on a 'stand-alone' basis. Neither

anything can be added to the reasons so recorded nor anything be

deleted from the reasons so recorded. The Hon'ble Bombay High Court in

the case of Hindustan Lever Ltd. v. R.B. Wadkar [2004] 137

Taxman 479/268 ITR 332 inter alia, held "it is needless to mention

that the reasons are required to be read as they were recorded by the

AO. No substitution or deletion is permissible. No addition can be made to

those reasons. No inference can be allowed to be drawn on the basis of

reasons not recorded by him. He has to speak through the reasons." Their

Lordships added that "the reason recorded should be self explanatory and

should not keep the assessee guessing for reasons. Reasons provided the

link between the conclusion and the evidence.....". It is a settled law that

the reasons recorded cannot evolve or be allowed to grow with age and ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 33 :: 29. Having regard to the above laid down well settled legal principles,

we now revert back to the facts involved in the case before us. It is noted

that, the issuance of the notice(s) u/s 153C of the Act was preceded by

satisfaction note(s) drawn up by the AO for AYs 2014-15 to 2017-18 all

dated 03.12.2018. Since the satisfaction-notes would have a material

bearing on the legal challenge raised before us, it is relevant to first take

cognizance of the same. We observe that, the contents of satisfaction

note(s) for AYs 2014-15 to 2016-17 were identical. In so far as AY 2017-

18 is concerned, it is seen that, the first seven (7) paragraphs is identical

to earlier years and that the only additional satisfaction recorded in Paras

8 to 11 concerns the material seized from the premises of Shri PJR, which ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 34 :: 09.12.2013 to 21.04.2016. 6. Shri. Sivakumar Singaravelu, General Manager (Finance & Accounts),
M/s. Coastal Energy Pvt. Ltd. vide sworn statement recorded from him u/s 132(4) of the I.T. Act, 1961 on 07.01.2017 (photo copy furnished to
you on 05.03.2018), has admitted that the payment of Rs.41.55 Crores
is the cash payment made to political person, Power Minister viz., the
then Electricity Minister of Tamilnadu. It is pertinent to note that you
were the then Minister of Power, Tamilnadu. He has also admitted that
the cash will usually be given to your PA, Shri. Gobi (Gobinath), 7. These facts have been brought to your notice while recording sworn
statement from you on 15.06.2017 and you have denied having
received such payments. However, examination of sworn statements of
Sh. Sivakumar Singarvelu categorically confirms these entries as cash
paid to you through your PA, Shri. Gobi (Gobinath). 8. During the course of search conducted in the case of Shri. P. Janakar
at 51/3, Spencer Compound, Dindigul, on 10.05.2016, certain Loose
sheets were seized vide Annexure. ANN/RB/PJ/LS/S dated 10.05.2016,
which reveal that payments (cash distribution) have been made to ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 36 :: 9. The Loose sheets/pocket diary seized also have notings viz., 'RVN
 Varavu", "RECEIPTS RVN 35', 'RV' & 'Anbu". The code words 'RV', 'RVN'
 & 'Anbu' relate to "Natham R Viswanathan' & 'Anbunathan'. Shri. P.
 Janakar has also stated vide swarn statement recorded from him on
 17.07.2017 that you are his family friend and you contested in Athoor
 Constituency during the Tamilnadu Assembly Election, 2016. 10. In view of the above, the loose sheets/pocket diary seized from the
 premises of Shri. P. Janakar, who is your close friend, contain entries
 including details of polling booth, booth-wise details of voters, total
 payment made to voters, details of main places in Athoor Constituency
 viz., Dindigul, Nilakkottai, VDR (Vedachenthur), ODC (Ottanchathram),
 Palani, Natham etc., and number of voters available in the said places. 11. Accordingly, the total payment made as recorded in the material
 seized vide Annexure ANN/RB/PJ/LS/S dated 10.05.2016 is found to be
 the expenditure incurred towards distribution of cash to the voters of
 Athoor Constituency during the Tamil Nadu Assembly election in May
 2016. Since you had contested in Athoor Constituency election, you are
 found to be the real beneficiary for the amount of Rs.28,55,86,500/-
 spent. 12. In view of the above, the books of accounts, Loose sheets, electronic
 devices, etc., seized pertain to and the information contained therein
 relates to you, which has a bearing on the determination of your total
 income. Therefore, the case Squarely falls under the provisions of section 153C of the Income Tax Act, 1961. Hence, I am satisfied that
 the incriminating material as mentioned above found during the search
 in the case of Shri. C.P. Anbunathan, M/s.Coastal Energy Pvt. Ltd. &
 M/s. Coastal Energen Pvt. Ltd., and Shri. P. Janakar have a bearing on
 your total income for the A.Y.2017-18. Therefore a notice u/s 153C of
 the IT Act, 1961 is issued and enclosed along with this letter for your
 compliance." 30. Upon reading of the above satisfaction note, we find that it can be

sub-divided into three categories viz., (a) satisfaction drawn regarding ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 37 :: 31. We first take up the first satisfaction (a) recorded by the AO, which

is set out in Paras 2 to 4 of his satisfaction note. Reading of Para 2 of the

satisfaction note reveals that, according to AO, the account book(s) ID

marked ANN/FAY/CPA/B&D/S-1, which was seized from the premises of

third party ['Shri CPA'], contained notings titled - R.V. I, R.V.(W), R.V. I

(Per), R.V.II, Gobi R.V., Gobi (RV)I, Gobi. (RV)II, Gobi (Dubai), Lodha

(HL), Thathu, Lodha, Lodha (Loan) HL, R.V.RL, Gobi HL(Dubai). The AO

has observed that, when enquired about these notings, Shri CPA in his

sworn statement had indicated that, all these entries related to the

assessee and that these entries denoted the coal commission received by

Shri CPA on behalf of the assessee. The AO therefore arrived at his

satisfaction that, the cash amount(s) found noted in these account books

were handled and delivered by Shri CPA to the assessee, who was

mentioned by way of the several acronyms, as noted in the foregoing.

The AO thereafter has sought to corroborate his satisfaction drawn in Para

2, by relying upon the sworn statement(s) of Shri Giri & Shri PLA, in Para ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 38 :: 32. We find that, the foundational premise of the above satisfaction

drawn by the AO against the third-party assessee was the account books

ID marked ANN/FAY/CPA/B&D/S-1 which was seized from the premises of

searched-party ['Shri CPA'] in the course of search conducted upon him

on 22.04.2016. The AO has sought to unravel the coded notings found in

the account book(s) of Shri CPA, which otherwise is ex-facie

indecipherable, by relying upon the statement(s) given by Shri CPA, Shri

Giri & Shri PLA. Hence, it is imperative for us to examine the material

seized from the premises of Shri CPA in light of their sworn statement(s).

For doing that let us look at the satisfaction drawn by the AO. In this

context it is noted that though the AO has recorded two satisfaction- ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 39 :: ANN/A/PA dated 10.05.2016 from
 Room No. 2321, ITC Windsor Hotel,
 No. 25, Windsor Square, Golf
 Course Road, Bangalore -52. 7. Satisfaction of the assessing officer of the I am satisfied that the Books of
 person referred to in section 153A that the accounts/ documents/electronic
 seized material referred to in S. No. 5 devices seized as per annexures
 relates to the person referred to in S. No. above belong to Shri. Natham R.
 4 Viswanathan and have a bearing on
 the determination of Total Income
 of Shri. Natham R. Viswanathan for
 the AY. 2017-18. 8. Assessment Years involved 2017-18 33. From the above, it is seen that, the AO had concluded that the

account books ID marked ANN/FAY/CPA/B&D/S-1 seized from Shri CPA,

'belonged to' the assessee. Having perused the contents of the seized

material which was placed in Paper-book Volume - IV, the Ld. AR has

rightly pointed out to us that, there was nothing contained in this seized

material, basis which any prudent person could deduce that, they

'belonged to' the assessee. We find that there is no such indication in the

seized material. The Ld. AR has rightly submitted that, there is also no

mention of name of the assessee, or his signature or acknowledgment

therein, which would suggest that it 'related to' him, let alone 'belonged

to' him. It is imperative to remind ourselves at this stage that,

presumption set out in Section 132(4A) of the Act is that, the documents

found in the course of search shall be presumed to belong to the searched

person [CPA, in this case]. Further, the presumption as to any asset,

books of accounts, etc. found during the course of search u/s. 132 of the

Act is also governed by section 292C(1)(i) of the Act, which presumes ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 42 :: 34. The Ld. AR reminded us that, prior to the amendment made by the Finance Act, 2015 , in order to invoke Section 153C , the AO of the

'searched person' was required to demonstrate that the books of accounts

'belongs or belonged to' the 'other person'. He recapitulated the litigation

which ensued on the interpretation of 'belongs or belonged to' used in Section 153C of the Act and particularly pointed out the decision of the

Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Pepsico India Holdings (P.) Ltd. v. Asstt. CIT (370 ITR 295) wherein the High Court has observed

that the words "belongs or belong to" should not be confused with the

words 'relates to or refers to,' the former being much narrower than the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 43 :: 35. According to the Ld. AR, the AO [while acting in capacity as

assessing officer of Shri CPA] was fully aware of the legislative

amendment that broadened the scope of Section 153C to material even if

it did not 'belonged to' but 'related to' another person. However, the AO

of the Shri CPA ultimately recorded his satisfaction by applying the narrow

scope of 'belonged to' in relation to the account book(s) seized from the

premises of the searched person [Shri CPA]. This conscious use of the

terminology 'belonged to', in Ld. AR's opinion, demonstrates a deliberate

analytical decision, whereby the AO of Shri CPA though being aware of

the expanded textual remit of the provision had concluded that the factual

matrix of the case at hand did not fall within the broadened scope of ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 44 :: 36. The Ld. CIT, DR however has vehemently contended that, though

the AO in her capacity as Assessing Officer of Shri CPA may have used the

terms 'belonged to' but in the capacity as the AO of the assessee had

rightly drawn satisfaction that the impugned material 'related to' the

assessee and thus there was no infirmity in the satisfaction of the AO of

the assessee. For the sake of completeness, we consider it fit to also

examine as to whether the impugned seized material 'related to' the

assessee and therefore whether it had any bearing on his total income. In ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 45 :: 37. Coming back to the facts of the present case, we find that neither

was there any explicit mention of name of the assessee, or that he was

specifically identifiable from the notings made in the account books ID

marked ANN/FAY/CPA/B&D/S-1. Only certain 'letters' in abbreviated form

written. It is seen that, the assessee had also not signed nor

acknowledged any of these pages. Hence, prima facie there was no

indication that, the entries in the account book(s) 'related to' the

assessee. Further, the presumption set out in Section 132(4A) and 292C of the Act regarding the contents of the account books ID marked

ANN/FAY/CPA/B&D/S-1 is found to have been reinforced by the searched

person [Shri CPA, in this case] in his deposition recorded u/s 132(4) of

the Act dated 22.04.2016. We find that, when confronted with these

account books at the time of search, Shri CPA, is noted to have stated as

under:- 38. It is seen that, his answer was quite categorical that, the impugned

material viz., ANN/FAY/CPA/B&D/S-1 belonged to and related to him. He ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 47 :: 39. The Ld. AR further brought to our notice that, the Investigating

Officer also did not dispute the above statement of Shri CPA, at the time

when Shri CPA was again examined u/s 132(4) of the Act in his second

search action conducted along with Shri Giri on 10.05.2016. The Ld. AR

showed us that, no question whatsoever was put to him on this aspect in

this statement dated 10.05.2016. It is observed that, two statement(s)

u/s 132(4) was recorded from Shri CPA and in none of them did he state

that the noting(s) in the account book(s) pertained to the assessee.

Rather, he is found to have owned up to these notings in his own

proprietary capacity. It is to be kept in mind that, the statement(s)

recorded u/s 132(4) carries evidentiary value and therefore stands on a

higher pedestal to statement(s) recorded u/s 131 of the Act. 40. The Ld. AR thereafter pointed out that, another two statements u/s

131 of the Act dated 17.06.2016 & 02.07.2016, were also recorded in the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 48 :: Q.7. I am showing you Page no. 206 of Sl.No: Book -1,
 ANN/FAY/CPA/B&D/S-1, dtd.23.04.2016, wherein entry in the name of
 "Lodha" is found. Give your explanation. Ans: Lodha is introduced to me by Giridharan. Joining with him I did real
 estate and finance business. Between ourselves, fund transfers in cash
 as well as by cheque have taken place. In total, about Rs.100 crores of
 transactions was done. Q.8. Give Bank account details through which the above stated (i.e.
 about Rs.100 Crores) fund transfers had taken place.

 Ans: The amount of about Rs.100 crores received by me from Lodha
 was in RTGS. At present, I do not remember the account numbers of
 said bank accounts. These accounts belong to many finance firms. I am ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 49 :: Ans: The 30 bank accounts listed in Annexure - 5 belongs to the finance
 firms. I am the Financial Advisor of all this firms. But as stated by
 Giridharan, I have not received any coal commission. All the receipts are
 loans from Lodha. ..... Q.11. Based on your personal guarantee, the above said firms have
 received loans of 100 crores from Lodha for their finance business. Why
 the monies are not received directly by you or by concerns directly
 related to you and used for your finance business?

 Ans: I am already a partner in 38 Concerns. Hence, on my advice, the
 above said 30 finance firms, managed by my relatives, have received
 the monies as loans and doing business." 41. From the above, we find that, Shri CPA had explained that, the

entries found in the account book(s) related to his proprietary business

activities and he had also explained the business rationale for receiving

monies from Shri PLA in his finance firms. The important aspect to be

noted, according to us, is that, in none of his answers did he ever name

the assessee or suggest that he was involved in any business or

transactions with the assessee in any manner or that these account books

belonged to the assessee or that the entries therein pertained to the

assessee. Again, we find that there is no indication in these answers

which could be linked to the assessee. R. Viswanathan
 :: 50 :: 42. The Ld. AR next invited our attention to another statement of Shri

CPA which was again recorded u/s 131 of the Act on 28.12.2016 wherein

when enquired about the details of income & expenditure noted in these

account books, Shri CPA had explained that, they related to his finance

business for the past three years and that he shall work out the income

from his business and pay taxes thereon. The relevant portion of this

statement, is also reproduced hereunder:- 43. This statement again reinforces the original statement recorded u/s

132(4) of the Act dated 22.04.2016, which by itself is valuable piece of

testimony having evidentiary value and also his subsequent statement(s)

dated 10.05.2016, 17.06.2016 & 02.07.2016. We therefore find sufficient

force in the Ld. AR's submissions that, at no point of time, during the

course of search or in post search enquiries had the searched person

[Shri CPA] ever averred that, the account books seized from his

possession belonged to another person [assessee, in this case] or that the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 51 :: 44. At this stage, a query was put across by this Bench as to when the

assessee had never been named by Shri CPA in any of his answers, then

how did the assessee come to feature in this entire narrative. The Ld. AR

pointed out to us that, the name of the assessee first featured in a

leading question (Q no. 10) which was put forth by the Investigating

Officer to Shri CPA on the date of search itself i.e. 22.04.2016, in which

the Investigating Officer observed that, "...Does RV mean Natham R

Viswanathan. Is Gobi his brother-in-law?" In his answer, Shri CPA is

noted to have responded with a 'No' and stated that, they are not the

same persons. The relevant portion of the statement is noted as under:- 45. According to the Ld. AR, this particular line of questioning (Q No.10)

by the Investigating officer reeked of prejudiced mindset and pre- ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 52 :: 46. Rather, the Ld. AR invited our attention to certain other answers

given by Shri CPA in his statement dated 22.04.2016 [Q No.5],

10.04.2017 [Q No. 6] wherein Shri CPA had mentioned that, he was a

trustee in one 'RVS Trust' and even the Investigating Officer had found

large value deposits in the bank account of the said Trust and therefore

they had questioned him regarding the same. For ease and convenience,

the relevant excerpts from these statements are extracted herein-below:- ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others 47. According to him therefore, ordinarily, any prudent investigator

could have initially suspected that the acronym 'RV' used in the account

books may suggest the 'RVS Trust' with whom the searched person [Shri

CPA] had an inextricable connection and was also a large educational

conglomerate. The Ld. AR pointed out that, the account book(s) inter alia

contained several notings of banking transactions with the 'RVS Trust',

which Shri CPA had admitted to and accepted as well. He also showed us

from the statement of Shri CPA recorded on 22/23.04.2016 that, Shri CPA

was the Managing Trustee of 'RVS Trust' for a year. And it is in public

domain that RVS Trust operated two (2) schools and two (2) colleges.

According to him therefore, the needle of suspicion as to the nature of

code wordings 'RV' ought to first have been towards 'RVS Trust' with

whom Shri CPA was admittedly related to and had regular business ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 54 :: 48. To buttress his above contention, the Ld. AR painstakingly took us

through the individual entries of income and expenditure recorded in the

account book(s) seized from the premises of Shri CPA. The Ld. AR placed

before us a summary of receipts found in these books, to show that the

entries therein cannot by any stretch of imagination be said to relate or

pertain to the assessee. The tabulated details of sample notings of

receipts are as under:- 49. It is observed by us that, several of the above notings suggests

personal investments made by Shri CPA in school(s). As noted earlier,

Shri CPA was actively involved in RVS group which was an educational

conglomerate and also other educational institutions (Brilliant Educational

Trust) and therefore these notings appears to suggest that, it related to

Shri CPA's own proprietary business activities. Likewise, there is indication

of several receipts from Meenakshi Mission. It is observed from the sworn

statement(s) of Shri CPA and Shri Giri that, it was related to personal

business transactions of Shri CPA and not the assessee. Overall, the Ld.

AR has attempted to identify receipts to the tune of 267 crores [88% of

the notings] which prima facie appeared to relate to Shri CPA rather than

any third person. Therefore in our considered view, the Ld. AR has rightly

contended that the contents of these account book(s) cannot be said to

relate to any third person [assessee, in this case], but contained ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 57 :: 50. To summarize our above observations, admittedly, the impugned

seized material was found from the possession of Shri CPA and the same

was maintained by his own staff, Shri Mohan Raj. It is seen that, Shri CPA

in his statement u/s 132(4) of the Act had categorically admitted that, the

account books and entries therein related to his business and had also

explained its contents and offered to pay taxes thereon. Also, the nature

of entries, as observed by us above, denotes that it was a record of Shri

CPA's own business transactions. In light of the foregoing, the answer

which eludes us is how did then the AO of the assessee infer in his

satisfaction note that, these account book(s) were being maintained by

Shri CPA for and on behalf of the assessee. To this, it was pointed out by

the Ld. CIT, DR that, Shri CPA subsequently had given statements dated

03.04.2017 & 10.04.2017 [after almost a year from the date of search]

wherein he completely changed his original narrative and stated that, all

these entries made in the account book(s) and the monies received by his

finance firms were not for himself but, for and on behalf of the assessee.

The copy of these statements is found placed at Pages 52 to 85 of

Paper Book, Vol II. According to the Ld. CIT, DR, the sworn

statement(s) of Shri CPA mentioned in the satisfaction note recorded by

the AO relate to these two (2) statements. The Ld. AR however rebutted ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 58 :: He thus submitted that these retracted statements could not have been

relied upon by the AO to record valid satisfaction u/s 153C of the Act on

03.12.2018. 51. Though we find that the statement(s) dated 03.04.2017 &

10.04.2017 had been retracted and also subjected to cross-examination

prior to the recording of satisfaction note by the AO, we however consider

it prudent to once examine its contents as well. Having gone through

these statements, it is seen that, Shri CPA had completely changed his

stand from his original statements dated 22.04.2016, 10.05.2016,

02.07.2016 & 28.12.2016. Though, in all his earlier statements, Shri CPA

had consistently maintained that, the account book(s) belonged to him

and the entries related to his own business, but in his statement dated

03.04.2017, he is found to have, for the first time, stated that, the

notings titled 'RV' denoted the assessee. When further questioned ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 59 :: Firstly, we find that this statement of Shri CPA contradicts the version

narrated by Shri PLA, which we shall be dealing in the ensuing

paragraphs. Further, the Ld. AR brought to our notice that, that Shri CPA ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 64 :: Instead, the AO is found to have simply gulped down whatever was being

served by Shri CPA who kept changing his statements/affidavit filed by

him. Having considered the foregoing contradictions and fallacies, as

pointed out by the Ld. AR, we agree with him that, it was unsafe to rely

on these fleeting statement(s) dated 03.04.2017 & 10.04.2017 as it was

riddled with inconsistences, bald allegations and contradictions. Overall

therefore, having regard to the above intriguing aspects brought to our

notice by the Ld. AR, it can't be said that Shri CPA has discharged the

statutory presumption of fact u/s 132(4A) / 292C(1)(i) of the Act and

hence, the AO erred in recording in the satisfaction note that books seized

from the premises of Shri CPA belonged to assessee. The AO failed to

bring any material on record to disbelieve the original statement of Shri

CPA dated 22.04.2016 wherein he had admitted that the account book(s) ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 75 :: According to us therefore, such an apparent self-serving statement could

not be used against the assessee. Having considered the foregoing and

having due regard to the earlier admission(s) dated 22.04.2016,

10.05.2016, 02.07.2016 & 26.12.2016, we find force in the submissions

of the Ld. AR that the statements dated 03.04.2017 & 10.04.2017 given

by Shri CPA does not inspire confidence, and is found to be based on

incompetence and self-serving, which was tailor made to suit his own

purpose. Hence, these statements cannot be relied upon as it is not free

from blemish. R. Viswanathan
 :: 77 :: 61. During the cross-examination held on 06.06.2017, Shri CPA was

also asked to clarify whether he had any relations with TNEB and whether

he facilitated receipt of coal commission, to which he answered in the

negative. The relevant question and the answer given by Shri CPA is

noted as under:- 62. It is seen that, subsequent to the above retraction by Shri CPA and

the cross-examination held by the Revenue, even the partner(s) of all the

finance firms had voluntarily filed their respective sworn affidavit(s) all

dated 03.08.2017 wherein they affirmed the disclosure given by Shri CPA

and agreed to pay taxes on the monies received from the entities of Shri

PLA. It is seen that, later on, letters were also filed in September 2017

wherein the partner(s) of the finance firms reiterated their offer and also

stated that they were mobilizing funds to pay the taxes. It was brought to

our notice that, after this cross-examination held in June 2017 and the

filing of disclosure affidavits by the partners of the finance firms in

September 2017, no further enquiry or investigation was conducted by

the DDIT / AO of the searched person. The next crucial event which

occurred was on 03.12.2018, when the AO recorded his satisfaction that,

the seized material ID marked ANN/FAY/CPA/B&D/S-1 'belonged to' the

assessee and had a bearing on the total income of assessee, which

triggered the impugned action u/s 153C of the Act. 63. According to us, having regard to the contemporaneous facts

discussed above, it is seen that, Shri CPA had, at all times, maintained

that the account book(s) ID marked ANN/FAY/CPA/B&D/S-1 belonged to ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 84 :: 64. In view of the above, we are of the considered opinion that, the

action of the AO holding that the impugned seized material viz.,

ANN/FAY/CPA/B&D/S-1 belonged / related to the assessee was factually

perverse. Also, the averments made by the AO of the assessee in the

satisfaction note viz., Shri CPA had admitted that, the notings in the

seized material, particularly 'RV', pertained to the assessee, is erroneous

and contrary to the facts as discussed above. R. Viswanathan
 :: 85 :: 65. Before us, though the Ld. CIT, DR appearing for the Revenue was

unable to controvert the fact that Shri CPA had retracted his statement(s)

dated 03.04.2017 & 10.04.2017 and had affirmed his retraction in the

course of cross-examination held on 06.06.2017, but he vehemently

relied on a subsequent letter dated 28.12.2018 filed by Shri CPA before

the AO of the assessee in the course his assessment u/s 153C of the Act

[i.e. an event after the recording of satisfaction on 03.12.2018 to proceed

against assessee u/s 153C ] which submission of Revenue is noted for

being rejected for the reason given infra. It is seen that, Shri CPA had

again recanted from his retraction, changed his stand, and once more

stated that, the noting(s) in the account book(s) were being maintained

by him for and on behalf of the assessee and that all the notings

concerned the coal commission received by Shri CPA on behalf of the

assessee. The Ld. AR has rightly submitted that, this letter having been

filed by Shri CPA subsequent to the initiation of proceedings u/s 153C of

the Act has to be ignored by us, when examining the validity of the

satisfaction recorded prior to issuance of notice u/s 153C of the Act dated

03.12.2018. According to us, when this letter was not available either

before the AO of Shri CPA or the assessee at the material time(s) when

the satisfaction was recorded on 03.12.2018, the Revenue cannot now

supplement their satisfaction recorded u/s 153C before this Tribunal, by

relying on such subsequent letter of Shri CPA. For this, we rely on the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 86 :: ditch attempt, and at the fag-end of the assessment proceedings, he had

filed this letter disowning the content(s) of the seized account book(s)

found from his premises which contained noting(s) relating to his business

activities [already taken note of by us above]. Instead, he again baldly

incriminated the assessee by attempting to shift the ownership of these

account book(s) to the assessee without any evidence or proof. The Ld.

AR has rightly relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court

in the case of Pr.CIT Vs Roshan Lal Sancheti (150 taxmann.227)

wherein on similar facts, it was held that, the statement recorded u/s

132(4) and later on confirmed u/s 131 of the Act cannot be discarded ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 87 :: Refuting this assertion of the Revenue, the Ld. AR for assessee took us

through the entire contents of the statement(s) of Shri Giri. We first note

that, when enquired about his nature of business activities in which he

was involved, like Shri CPA, Shri Giri had also stated that he was also

involved in the business of real estate, conducted through his company

M/s Straived Ventures Pvt. Ltd. Shri Giri is found to have stated that, Shri

CPA is his friend who is also in the business of real estate and is running

educational institutions. The Ld. AR pointed out that, when the

Investigating Officer had enquired Shri Giri about his connection with Shri

CPA, he had not admitted that either he or Shri CPA was involved in any

facilitation of coal commission. It is also seen that, Shri Giri in his initial

answers did not name the assessee or suggest that Shri CPA was running

finance firms for and on behalf of the assessee. Rather we find that, when

enquired about the nature of finance firms of Shri CPA, Shri Giri is found

to have stated that, he was not even aware of their exact names. The Ld. ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 91 :: 70. Though, in his above reply, Shri Giri did not name the assessee or

suggest that he was involved in facilitating any alleged coal commission,

the Investigating Officer is noted to have enquired from him about the

'next level of your business with Mr. Anbunathan'. It is observed that, this

time, Shri Giri submitted that, Shri CPA had enquired from him whether

he was close to one, Shri PLA as he was to receive certain sums from the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 92 :: 71. The Ld. AR firstly made us carefully read the answer given by Shri

Giri to Q No. 19 and pointed out that, he had actually named the assessee

solely on hearsay as because it was Shri CPA who had purportedly

informed him that the monies to be routed were on the assessee's behalf,

and Shri Giri has gulped it as gospel truth and then he introduced Shri

CPA to Shri PLA. The Ld. AR has rightly shown that, such a statement of

Shri Giri is not reliable being hearsay because, he has not directly seen or

heard anything from the assessee, hence, it is unsafe to rely on such

hearsay statement of Shri Giri, unless there was any material or tangible ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 93 :: 72. The Ld. AR further argued that, the above version narrated by Shri

Giri was fanciful, far-fetched and improbable. He submitted that, if for a

moment, the Revenue's allegation against the assessee is taken at its

face value, then it is highly implausible that, the assessee who was a

minister would have given such a task to Shri CPA to go around and find

out if anyone knows the coal-suppliers and then use their connection for

collecting the purported commission. Thus according to Ld AR, the modus

operandi as narrated by Shri CPA and role played by Shri Giri along with

Shri PLA, defies logic. According to Ld AR, the modus-operandi narrated

by Shri CPA is not comprehensible. On one hand Shri CPA says that he

was asked by assessee to collect the coal-commission, in such an event,

according to Ld AR, Shri CPA should be expected to know the coal-

supplier which was a reputed group in their own right and instead he had

to scout for and approach Shri Giri a local person to enquire about them

to make a connection with them. Further, according to Ld. AR, it was also

incongruous that Shri CPA would have asked Shri Giri whether he knows

someone called Shri PLA as he is required to receive monies from a ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 94 :: 73. The Ld. AR thereafter emphasized on Shri Giri's assertion in the

same answer viz., he had only introduced Shri CPA to Shri PLA and that

he was not involved in their transactions and therefore did not derive any ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 95 :: 74. The Ld. AR further also pointed out several infirmities and

contradictions in the statement of Shri Giri, which according to him,

rendered it unsafe to be relied upon. He first reminded us that, Shri Giri

and Shri CPA were searched together in the same premises i.e. ITC Hotel,

Bangalore on 10.05.2016 and both their statements were recorded u/s

132(4) of the Act. He pointed out that, Shri CPA had categorically stated

that, he was only doing real estate transactions and other commission ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 96 :: 75. Rather, the Ld. AR showed us that, the seized material and the

sworn statement(s) of both these persons showed that, Shri Giri had

assisted Shri CPA in encashing demand draft of Rs.25 crores for

Meenakshi Medical Mission Hospital for using it in a land deal for which he

derived commission of 5% for facilitating this transaction. Shri Giri had

thereafter admitted to have provided regular assistance in routing of

funds to Shri CPA into his various finance firms, for which, he would

receive commission of 1%. According to the Ld.AR, these averments of

Shri Giri were also corroborated by the notings found in the account ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 97 :: 76. The Ld. AR further showed us that, according to Shri CPA's

statement, the assessee had directly dealt with the coal suppliers and that

he had only dealt with Shri Gobi; whereas according to Shri Giri, it was

Shri CPA who has actively taken steps to approach the top management

of the coal suppliers regarding payment of commission and that he was ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 98 :: 77. Our above observation is corroborated by the fact that, subsequent

to conclusion of search on 10.05.2016, the Investigating authorities had

scrutinized the electronic devices and found that the statement given by

Shri Giri suffered from falsity as he had stated that he was not involved in ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 99 :: 78. The Ld. AR explained to us that, Shri CPA was searched on

22.04.2016 and that the search action took place on Shri Giri only on

10.05.2016, when he was meeting with Shri CPA in Bangalore. According

to Ld. AR therefore, Shri Giri, being a business associate, must have been

aware of the material unearthed by the Investigating authorities in first

search action and would most likely have been alerted and might have

known that several notings in his names relating to the business ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 101 :: 11.05.2016], Shri CPA and Shri PLA had actually dealt in real estate which

involved delivery of 200 flats for a consideration of Rs.50 crores, but

according to Shri Giri, the deal didn't ultimately materialize. The Ld. AR

submitted that, possibly the payments by Shri PLA to the finance firms of

Shri CPA could pertain to this real estate deal and that these parties were

acting in connivance to shift the ownership of these unaccounted

transactions from themselves to the assessee. The Ld. AR further showed

us that, Shri CPA was actively involved in education and medical

institutions [including 'RVS' Trust, Meenakshi Medical Mission Hospital &

Brilliant Education Trust] and other real estate deals and therefore the

name of the assessee and a fabricated story was concocted to shield

someone else by falsely implicating the assessee. Having already held the

testimony of Shri Giri to be unreliable, though the aforesaid theories ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 103 :: firms to him. The conversation is found to center around informing one,

Mr. Satya who wants money in Chennai and Hyderabad. Apart from the

foregoing, the other texts are generic conversations. These messages

therefore reveal that Shri CPA and Shri Giri were talking to handover

money to one, Mr. Satya. There is no indication in these messages of any

coal commission, any cash payments to Shri Gobi or any reference to the

assessee. It is therefore observed that the statement(s) given by Shri Giri ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 106 :: The Ld. AR thus cast his skepticism on the conduct of these searched

persons and alleged that, these digital evidences without certificate of

authenticity are unsafe to even being considered as material in this case,

since it were fake, and fabricated to save some ones skin. The Ld. AR also

asserted that, even otherwise, these digital evidences neither,

belong/relate/pertain to assessee nor have any bearing on the total ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 108 :: When this aspect was pointed out, according to Revenue, these seized

materials were meant to aid the content(s) of the account book(s) seized

from the premises of Shri CPA. We find that, the provisions of Section

153C empowers the AO to assume jurisdiction over a third person

[assessee, in this case] if the material seized from the premises of the

searched person [Shri Giri, in this case] related to the third person

[assessee, in this case] and had a bearing on his total income. Hence, the

condition precedent to assume jurisdiction is two-fold viz., (a) the

material relates to the third person [assessee, in this case] and (b) the

contents or information in this material has a bearing on the total income

of the third person [assessee, in this case]. We agree with the Ld. AR that

the conditions were evidently not met, in the given facts before us. ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 109 :: R. Viswanathan
 :: 112 :: Therefore viewed from any angle, these electronic data did not suggest

any receipt of commission by the assessee and it did not have evidentiary

value, in the present case. 90. The Ld. AR also pointed out that, though Shri Giri had alleged that

these transactions related to coal commission facilitated for and on behalf

of the assessee, but there was no such admission originally made by Shri

CPA who was also subjected to search. As noted above, Shri Giri had

named the assessee only on hearsay, because Shri CPA had allegedly told

him that these transactions were on account of the assessee. According to

Ld. AR therefore, it could also be a case that, Shri CPA had misled Shri

Giri into believing that these transactions were for someone else, whereas

it actually related to him, to avoid giving him hefty commission. The Ld.

AR reminded us that, even in the subsequent statement(s) given by Shri

CPA dated 17.06.2016, 02.07.2016 & 28.12.2016, at no point of time, did ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 113 :: 91. Overall, according to us, neither the material seized from the

premises of Shri CPA & Shri Giri nor their sworn statement(s) were able

to establish any link with the assessee. It is also seen inter alia that, Shri

CPA in his statement dated 03.04.2017 [since retracted as on date of

satisfaction on 03.12.2025] had alleged that, he was having link only with

Shri Gobi, through whom, he was dealing on behalf of the assessee. We

however find that, Shri Gobi had clearly denied the same. The Ld. AR

brought to our notice that even Shri Gobi had been subjected to search

u/s 132 of the Act as early as on 10.05.2016, (along with Shri Giri & Shri

CPA) and no incriminating material or document was found from his

premises, which would even remotely suggest that he was acting as a link ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 114 :: 92. It is seen that, the Revenue has attempted to establish linkage with

the assessee essentially through two pieces of evidence found in the

electronic data, viz., (i) One e-mail which was forwarded to mail ID - [email protected] found from the electronic device of Shri CPA which

contained salutation 'Hi Gopi', and (ii) One letter addressed by the

assessee to a temple requesting arrangements for visit of certain persons

which inter alia included Shri CPA. Having perused the contents of these

seized material, we are unable to fathom as to how such communication ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 115 :: 93. Rebutting the first alleged link, the Ld. AR brought to our notice the

statement of Shri Gobinath recorded at the time of search, wherein he

had enlisted his three (3) email IDs. It is seen that, the email ID [email protected] does not feature therein. The Ld. CIT, DR was

unable to show that, this statement given by Shri Gobinath had been

disproved by the Revenue at any point of time. Hence, according to us,

the purported email sent with salutation 'Hi Gopi' to an email ID, cannot

be treated as a proof of linkage to justify such large scale monetary

transaction between Shri CPA and Shri Gobinath on behalf of the

assessee, without credible material. 94. In so far as the letter addressed by the assessee for a temple visit

is concerned, we agree with the Ld. AR that these types of requests are a

common occurrence in the daily routine of public functionaries and only

because the assessee had recommended arrangements for temple visit of

several persons which inter alia included Shri CPA is of no consequence to

allege any business link between them. The Ld. AR explained to us that,

admittedly, Shri CPA and Shri Gobinath were friends and that the latter ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 116 :: 95. Overall therefore, we are therefore in agreement with the Ld. AR

that, the assessee's name taken by Shri Giri in his answers was based on

tittle-tattle and smear-work sans any evidence. We find in particular that,

Shri Giri was unable to provide any material whatsoever giving any proof

of linkage with the assessee or the coal suppliers. As noted above, the

electronic data seized from him was dumb in nature and did not have any

relation with the assessee. There is also no evidence found in his

statement(s) which would suggest that the foreign companies in which

amount(s) were received abroad had any link to any of the coal suppliers.

Also, nothing cogent was brought on record in relation to the trail of ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 117 :: 96. We now turn our attention to the statement of Shri PLA which was

recorded across four days from 28.06.2016 to 01.07.2016. It is seen that,

Shri PLA was searched almost two (2) months after search took place on

Shri CPA and thereafter Shri Giri. The Revenue has not brought on record

any incriminating material found in relation to the impugned issue, in the

course of his search. The satisfaction recorded by the AO of the assessee

only refers to his sworn statement recorded at the time of search, copy of

which is found placed at Pages 48 to 86 of Paper Book Vol - VI. It is

noted that, on the first day of recording of his statement i.e. 28.06.2016,

thirty eight (38) questions were put to him wherein he had explained his

business interests, sources of income, activities in M/s Peerless

Consultancy in which he was a director, details of personal expenses at

his daughter's wedding etc. We find that, none of these questions and

answers given by Shri PLA had any relation or connection with the

assessee and he had not suggested that he was involved in facilitating

any commission for the assessee. R. Viswanathan
 :: 118 :: 97. The Ld. AR then showed us that, the recording of statement of Shri

PLA resumed only on 29.06.2016 at 8PM and this time Shri PLA was

asked about his connection with Shri CPA. In his answer, Shri PLA

explained that, he had met him 4-5 years ago and that Shri CPA had

introduced him to the assessee, with whom he discussed about some

solar projects in the State, which did not materialize. The Ld. AR pointed

out that, this averment was vague & bald and that Shri PLA had not

provided any proof evidencing that he actually met the assessee. In the

same answer, Shri PLA is found to have further stated that, subsequently,

Shri CPA had approached him and informed him that, he will through

Maheshwari Coal Company arrange to remit some monies abroad, which

Shri PLA is required to ensure that it is given to his CA, Shri Sarvanan in

Singapore and for these services, Shri PLA had charged 1% commission.

According to him, Shri CPA was presumably getting commission from this

company for coal supply contract to Government. However, when he was

asked to provide any details or documents or evidence to justify this

assertion, Shri PLA expressed his inability to provide anything. The Ld. AR

again pointed out to us that, such statement sans any evidence cannot be

entertained. He further brought to our notice that, this connection with

Shri CPA, as explained by Shri PLA, was contrary to all the versions

narrated by Shri Giri in his several statement(s). This according to the Ld.

AR showed that, all these witnesses, whose statements the AO was ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 119 :: 98. We further observe that, when Shri PLA was confronted with the

statement of Shri Giri, wherein Shri Giri had stated that, Shri PLA was

giving assistance to Shri CPA to obtain commission from A Co., Shri PLA

had outrightly denied the same, which casts further doubt on the

testimony of Shri Giri. Instead, Shri PLA is found to have submitted that,

he had only advanced loan(s) to Shri Giri and that he didn't have any

financial transaction with Shri CPA. We observe that, in none of these

answers had Shri PLA named the assessee at anytime or suggested that

he was arranging routing of coal commission for and on behalf of the

assessee. Instead, it appears that, though he had admitted to have

facilitated receipt of commission from some other entity [not A Co.] to

Shri CPA, but later on denied having any financial transaction with Shri

CPA. According to us, these answers are also found to be riddled with

infirmities and interestedness and hence cannot be taken at their face

value. 99. It is seen that, Shri PLA, had identified two companies viz., M/s

Spring Traders Ltd and M/s Petramex Chemical Pte Ltd, which according ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 120 :: 100. We also agree with the Ld. AR that, the statement of Shri PLA qua

assessee is hearsay, and without reliable material to establish it, adverse

view against assessee is untenable. Looking from any angle, such a

statement incriminating the assessee could have been said to be valid and

be used for the purposes of any regular assessment, only if it was ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 122 :: (ii) PCIT v. Best Infrastructure (India) Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No. 13 of

 2017) (Del HC) ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 123 :: ( iii) PCIT v. Anand Kumar Jain (HUF) (ITA No. 23 of 2021) (Del

 HC)

 "7. The preliminary question under consideration before us is whether a
 statement under Section 132(4) constitutes incriminating material for
 carrying out assessment under S. 153(A) of the Act. A reading of the
 impugned order reveals that the statement of Mr. Jindal recorded under Section 132(4) forms the foundation of the assessment carried out
 under Section 153A of the Act. That statement alone cannot justify the
 additions made by the AO. Even if we accept the argument of the
 Revenue that the failure to cross-examine the witness did not prejudice
 the assessee, yet, we discern from the record that apart from the
 statement of Mr. Jindal, Revenue has failed to produce any corroborative
 material to justify the additions. On the contrary we also note that
 during the course of the search, in the statement made by the assessee,
 he denied having known Mr. Jindal. Since there was insufficient material
 to support the additions, the ITAT deleted the same. This finding of fact,
 based on evidence calls for no interference, as we cannot re-appreciate
 evidence while exercising jurisdiction under section 260A of the Act." (iv) Saveetha Institute of Medical & Technical Sciences v. ACIT

 (25 taxmann.com 138) (ITAT Chennai)

 "8. The Assessing Officer has opined that the capitation fees so collected
 cannot tantamount to voluntary contribution or subscriptions to the
 corpus of the society but are in the nature of donations and capitation
 fees. However, this addition has been deleted by the learned
 Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals) by observing that no such ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 124 :: 9..... There being no incriminating evidence regarding receipt of
capitation fees, particularly when no document was put to Dr. B.
Muthukumaran regarding charging of capitation fees, such a statement
cannot be made a basis for making such a huge addition. His statement
was rather denied by the managing trustee/president. Shri T.A.
Varadarajan, finance manager also denied the statement of Dr. B.
Muthukumaran. In any other case, even one goes by this statement,
this would not make any meaningful sense. Dr. B. Muthukumaran has
stated that the money had been handed over to one Shri Saravanan,
accounts officer, but Shri Saravanan was never enquired by the
Department. The statement of Dr. N.M. Veeraiyan, who is the president/
management trustee of the trust, never accepted having receipt of
capitation fees or donation and he had rejected and denied the
statement of Dr. B. Muthukumaran. Statement of Dr. N.M. Veeraiyan
was recorded under section 131 on November 9, 2007, in which he has
stated that whatever was received from the students was reflected in
the books of account. This statement confirms the contention of the
assessee that some well wishers were giving donations which were duly
received and reflected in the books of account. In fact, the statement of
Dr. N.M. Veeraiyan was recorded under section 131 on November 9,
2007 which has also been made a basis for this addition. He was not
examined under section 132(4) of the Act. A statement made under section 131 cannot be equated with a statement recorded under section
132(4) of the Act. A statement recorded under section 132(4) is a valid
and relevant piece of evidence but a statement recorded under section
131 is not so relevant. Nevertheless, even a statement recorded under section 132(4) cannot be made a sole basis for any such addition unless
corroborated by seized material. If any admission is made in a
statement recorded under section 132(4) , this can be used with
reference to any piece of evidence found during the course of search. In
this case, as we have stated above, no such piece of evidence or to say
any incriminating evidence was either found or seized. What was found
was a note giving the break-up of number of students who were
admitted under different quotas in various courses. In our well
considered view, this addition could not have been made at all in the
hands of the assessee-trust on the basis of such evidence. Recording of
some questions after verification could be viewed as an involuntary
statement, extracted from the deponent. In any case, a possibility of
such inference is always there. With regard to such statement, the
Central Board of Direct Taxes has issued instructions vide Circular No. ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 125 :: Without credible evidence, the Department cannot make addition purely
 based on the confessions made during search/survey operation as
 envisaged by the CBDT vide instruction F.N. 286/2/2003 dated 10-3-
 2003 and reiterated by the Board vide its letter dated 18-12-2014." 101. Having regard to the ratio decidendi laid down in the above

decisions (supra), we find that the case of the assessee stands on a

better footing. The assessee is not the 'searched person' but is the 'other

person' in the facts before us. In the above judgments, it has been held

that the statement recorded u/s 132(4) of the Act cannot be solely relied

upon to justify an addition in the hands of the 'searched person', nor can

be treated as an incriminating material found in the course of search,

then as a corollary, such a statement of a 'searched person' cannot have

been used as an incriminating material qua 'other person', who is a third

party, unless corroborated by cogent, relevant materials. In the given

facts before us, the assessee has been able to establish that not only the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 126 :: 102. Overall therefore, we find that the satisfaction drawn by the AO in

Paras 2 to 4, was based only on suspicion alone, sans any relevant

material. The AO is found to have simply relied on bald and untrustworthy

testimonies of Shri CPA, and hear-say statements of Shri Giri & Shri PLA

to allege that, the notings found in the account book(s) of Shri CPA

belonged/pertained to the assessee, and contained information regarding

alleged coal commission collected by him, no link with coal-suppliers has

been established. As observed above, none of the material seized from

the premises of Shri CPA and Shri Giri contained any information which

could incriminate the assessee in manner. In fact there is nothing

contained in these materials which related to the assessee. We thus are

unable to countenance the satisfaction recorded by the AO as on

03.12.2018 u/s 153C of the Act, as it was a pure guess work and not

based on any cogent, tangible material. 103. The Ld. AR has argued that, it was a classic case where the search

action had laid bare the unaccounted hawala transactions of Shri CPA, ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 127 :: 104. On a holistic consideration of the array of facts and material placed

before us, according to us, the burden of proof was on the searched

person(s) to show that the transaction recorded in their account books

and the monies received by them related to another person. In the

present case, we find [other than the interested/hear-say evidence] that

there was no valid material/evidence adduced by any of the searched

persons [Shri CPA or Shri Giri or Shri PLA] which could be considered

believable enough to shift the burden, which burden initially rested on

them of establishing that the monies which came into their hands was

being received on behalf of the assessee. Rather, the seized material, as

discussed in the foregoing, are found to be either of no relevance or

relation, or contradictory, or fake and untrustworthy. Hence, the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 128 :: 105. On overall consideration of the factual matrix before us, the

question as to whether the AO of the assessee had in his possession any

material or document which related to the assessee and had a bearing on

his total income, is noted to be a question of fact, and for this, we have to

weigh the probabilities in light of the relevant indicia. In our considered

view, the following parameters would guide us to adjudicate the legal

challenge before us. (i) What was the source of monies which came to Shri CPA

 [searched person] (ii) What was the nature of transaction amongst Shri CPA, Shri

 Giri and Shri PLA and the motive for routing the monies? (iii) What is the position and relationship of the searched persons

 with the assessee ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 129 :: 106. According to us, the source wherefrom the money came is by

far the most important test for ascertaining the veracity of the

statement(s) given by the searched persons that the monies which came

into their hands, in reality was for the benefit of another person [assessee

in this case]. The burden of proof for showing that the monies received by

the entities of Shri CPA and the transactions having found recorded in his

books, actually belonged to another person [the assessee] lies on the

searched person who asserts that it is such a transaction. The statement

of searched party, as in this case implicating a third party (assessee in

this case) is an adverse information (which may be exclusively in the

knowledge of that person), may trigger 'reason to suspect'; then, the AO

to make reasonable enquiry and collect material to form a satisfaction

that books of accounts seized from Shri CPA pertains or the information

contained therein relates to assessee and that the books seized have a

bearing on the determination of total income of third party [i.e. assessee]

Existence of cogent and demonstrative material is germane to AO's

satisfaction in concluding (i) that material belongs/pertains/relates to

'other-person' (ii) and that such material have a bearing on the

determination of total income of 'other-person' for valid initiation of

action u/s 153C of the Act against 'other-person'/third party (assessee in ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 130 :: Therefore, Shri CPA is bound to prove the source wherefrom the money

came into his hands, and show by adducing some reliable material to

prove that in reality the money was for the benefit of another person

[assessee in this case], or else, the burden to prove remains on his

shoulder i.e, on Shri CPA, the searched-person [Refer Section 132 (4A) & 292C of the Act]. And in such an event, it (burden of proof) cannot be ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 131 :: 107. Having taken note of these legal guiding principles, we find that the

searched person has not been able to dislodge the statutory presumption

of fact against him and likewise, the AO has also failed to satisfy the

requirement of law for invoking the provisions of Section 153C of the Act

against the assessee. To put it simply, the case of the Revenue is that the

impugned notings found in the account books and the corresponding

monies found credited in the bank accounts of the firms advised and

controlled by Shri CPA, in reality, related to the monies received by the

assessee from the alleged suppliers. We however find that, precious little

has been done by the Revenue to justify such an assertion. As already

noted earlier, there is also no material at the stage of recording

satisfaction indicating that any monies were actually delivered to the

assessee or Shri Gobi by Shri CPA. In so far as the source of such monies

is concerned, it is observed that, neither the Investigating Authorities nor

the AO attempted to make any enquiries from the suppliers who allegedly

paid the impugned commission to the assessee. Neither any link

established to show any flow of money from the coal-suppliers to bank- ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 134 :: 108. On a conjoint reading of the seized material in light of the sworn

testimonies of the searched persons, it is seen that neither the searched

persons nor the AO could establish the true nature of the transactions and

the motive for routing these monies through Shri CPA, Shri PLA and Shri

Giri. From the discussions made above, it is palpable that Shri CPA was

an influential and resourceful person in his own right. He was engaged in

the business of real estate and financing and was also involved in running

of educational institutions. On analysis of some of the sample notings, it

has been gathered above that the notings in the account books inter alia

comprise of several proprietary business transactions of Shri CPA and the

unaccounted income derived by him is also found to be corroborated by

unaccounted investments unearthed in the course of search. Hence,

according to us, the notings in the seized account books should have been

properly explained by him, which he didn't, so without dislodging the

statutory-presumption against him, his allegation against assessee fails. ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 139 :: 109. On the other hand, the Ld. AR showed us that, the entire case

sought to be made out by the Revenue had no logic or rationale, because

the assessee had no role whatsoever in the coal contracts awarded by

TNEB to the coal suppliers. It is seen that, the approval / sanction is given

by the BLTC and board members of TANGEDCO alone which is a separate

legal entity. The details of the persons who held post of the Chairman of

TANGEDCO from 2011 to 2018 was also placed on record and we find

that, the assessee was neither the Chairman nor the member of BLTC or

the Board of TANGEDCO. It was also shown to us that the cabinet was

also not required to accord any approval or sanction to TANGEDCO. The

Ld. AR further narrated the entire tender and bidding process undertaken

by TANGEDCO for awarding coal supply contracts, which was available in ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 140 :: 110. To further disprove the notion harbored by the AO in his satisfaction

note, the Ld. AR also invited our attention to the enquiry made by the AO

of the assessee from the chairman of TANGEDCO who had provided the

complete details of the global open tender process followed by them along

with the details of the different quantities of coal purchased from several

suppliers. Having gone through the same, it is seen that, apart from K Co

& A Co, TANGEDCO had obtained supply of coal from two public sector

undertakings, viz. MMTC and MSTC and one private supplier, viz. M/s

Chettinad Logistics Pvt Ltd during the same period. It is seen that, the CIF

rate of coal supplies made by these other parties to TANGEDCO during

the same period was commensurate and, in some instances, higher than

the rates at which the A Co & K Co had supplied coal to TANGEDCO. This

contemporaneous data, according to us, negated the case of the Revenue ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 141 :: 111. It is further noted that, the searched persons were also unable to

offer any proof of linkage or relationship with the assessee and therefore,

any of their averments incriminating the assessee as set-up by Shri CPA

cannot be accepted. As already held above, the tenuous link sought to be

made between the assessee and Shri CPA through Shri Gobi who was a

friend of Shri CPA and a distant relative of the assessee, does not meet

the threshold standard of relevancy, because there is no material or

evidence brought on record from the searches conducted upon Shri CPA

and Shri Gobi to justify such a linkage. Therefore, in absence of any

evidence demonstrating any cogent relationship between the assessee

and the searched persons, it cannot be countenanced that, these

searched persons were conducting such high value transactions on behalf

of the assessee. Hence, after considering the matters before us, and

applying the prudent man's test by looking through his (the prudent

man's) eyes, considers the non-existence of such linkage probable and

inclined to act upon the supposition that it does not exist. ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 142 :: 112. Instead, we find that, the Ld. AR was able to demonstrate that, Shri

CPA was actively associated with one 'RVS Trust' with whom he had

several dealings both through bank and in cash and he also had

transacted with another person named Shri R Vaidialigam. These

contemporaneous facts coupled with our above observations makes it

further unsafe to assume that the notings code worded 'RV' could only

suggest the assessee and him alone, particularly when no linkage or

dealing with the assessee qua suppliers of coal was proved by Shri CPA. 113. We also observe that the Investigating Authorities as well as the

searched persons were unable to offer any evidence as to the payment of

purported monies to the assessee. As noted above, the assessee was also

subjected to search and nothing incriminating was found from his

premises. There is no allegation of unearthing of any unaccounted

expenses or unaccounted investments or discovery of any valuable assets

from the possession of the assessee. According to us therefore, without

providing any evidence as to the actual receipt of monies by the assessee,

the bald/hearsay testimonies of the searched person attempting to shift

the ownership of the impugned notings onto the assessee and imposing

addition of more than Rs 500 crores is held to be unjustified. 114. The Ld. AR has further brought to our notice that, the Revenue has

later on (more than a year after the assessee's assessment) protectively ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 143 :: R. Viswanathan
 :: 144 :: 115. Overall therefore, for the above reasons, we find that none of the

parameters as laid down above was met by the AO, which would suggest

that, he had in his possession any material or document found from the

premises of searched person(s) which related to the assessee [third

person] and had a bearing on his total income. We thus answer this

question of fact & law in the negative and allow the legal challenge raised

by the assessee, and hold that the AO's usurpation of jurisdiction u/s

153C of the Act was invalid, as neither was there any material found in

the course of search which related/pertained to the assessee nor was

there any incriminating material unearthed having a bearing on the total

income of the assessee. 116. Overall therefore, to sum it up, it is seen that the AO had sought to

usurp jurisdiction u/s 153C of the Act, against the assessee pursuant to

the search action conducted upon Shri CPA, Shri Giri and Shri PLA, by

relying on the following documents / material, which in his view,

related/pertained/belonged to the assessee and also had a bearing on his

total income. (i) The account book(s) ID marked ANN/FAY/CPA/B&D/S-1

 seized from the premises of Shri CPA; (ii) Email correspondences, phone chats, messages between

 Shri CPA, Shri Giri and Shri PLA; R. Viswanathan
 :: 145 :: R. Viswanathan
 :: 147 :: 117. We now turn our attention to Paras 5, 6 & 7 of the satisfaction note

which was recorded by the AO of the assessee on the basis of the

material seized from the premises of M/s CEG Group during the search

conducted upon them 04.01.2017. According to the AO, two loose sheets

ID marked ANN/SAA/KSI/LS/S-1, Pages 48 & 49 was found from the

premises of CEG Group whose title was 'Power M'. Though there are no

names or specifics or nature of transaction mentioned in these loose

sheets, it is observed that, the inference drawn by the AO in the

satisfaction note was entirely based on the testimony of one Shri SSU,

employee of CEG group, who had stated that the notings on these loose

sheets denoted cash which was paid to Shri Gobi, presumably on behalf of

the assessee. At the cost of repetition, the relevant portion of the

satisfaction, is again reproduced hereunder:- 118. The Ld. AR first invited our attention to the contents of these loose

sheets which were placed at Pages 46 & 47 of the Paper Book Volume IV.

It is seen that, these loose sheets were titled 'Power M'. The Ld. AR

showed us that, there were several notings across several dates of

purported 'cash paid', which was being alleged to pertain to the assessee.

We however observe that, these notings did not contain any name, details

of payer or payee or any other specifics, basis which a prudent person

could suggest that it related to the assessee. Also, there were no sign or

signature or acknowledgment by the assessee, or that, any abbreviation

etc. was mentioned which would suggest the notings to be remotely

relating to the assessee. There is absolutely no mention in the seized

material regarding the nature of the said transactions of cash payments,

the purpose of such payments and the precise identity of such

transaction. A narration made in a loose sheet by a third person with

scanty details cannot be used to fasten tax liability upon the person

whose name does not appear at all. In the absence of any corroborative

evidence to attribute the entries to such a person, such seized material is

liable to be treated as a dumb document, which does not have any

evidentiary value in respect of the entries found therein, unless ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 149 :: 119. It is by now a well-settled proposition of law that entries appearing

in private notings or sheets or diaries maintained by third parties, without

supporting evidence or linkage to the assessee, constitute "dumb

documents" and cannot be relied upon to fasten tax liability. Unless there

is independent, credible, and corroborative evidence linking such entries

to the assessee, the same are devoid of evidentiary value. Some of the

decisions to this effect are; MM Financiers (P) Ltd Vs. DCIT ( 2007) 107

TTJ (Chennai) 200, Regency Mahavir Properties Vs ACIT [2018] 169 ITD

35 (ITAT-Mumbai), Mumbai), ACIT Vs. Katrina Rosemary Turcotte [2017]

190 TTJ 681 (ITAT-Mumbai), Mumbai), DCIT Vs. Vipin Aggarwal [2017]

83 taxmann.com 6 ( ITAT Chandigarh), S.P Goyal Vs DCIT [2002] 82 ITD

85 (TM) IΠΑΤ, T.S Venkatesan Vs ACIT [2000] 74 ITD 298 (Cal) and

Monga Metals (P) Ltd Vs ACTT [2000] 67 TTJ 247 (All). No corroborative

evidence has been brought on record to demonstrate actual flow of

money. The assessment order also does not refer to any independent

material supporting the alleged payments. Hence, it was of critical

importance for the AO to bring some tangible evidence on record to

corroborate the entries indicating payments in the seized material found

with a third party with specific reference to the fact regarding actual

transfer of money from the said third party to the recipient named in the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 150 :: 120. We also find merit in the contention of the Ld. AR for the assessee

that, the impugned satisfaction was made out on the basis of 'loose

sheets', which does not come under the ambit and scope of 'books of ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 151 :: 17. From a plain reading of the Section it is manifest that to make an
 entry relevant thereunder it must be shown that it has been made in a
 book, that book is a book of account and that book of account has been
 regularly kept in the course of business. From the above Section it is
 also manifest that even if the above requirements are fulfilled and the
 entry becomes admissible as relevant evidence, still, the statement
 made therein shall not alone be sufficient evidence to charge any person
 with liability. It is thus seen that while the first part of the section
 speaks of the relevancy of the entry as evidence, the second part
 speaks, in a negative way, of its evidentiary value for for charging a
 person with a liability. It will, therefore, be necessary for us to first
 ascertain whether the entries in the documents, with which we are
 concerned, fulfil the requirements of the above section so as to be
 admissible in evidence and if this question is answered in the affirmative
 then only its probative value need be assessed. R. Viswanathan
 :: 152 :: 18. "Book" ordinarily means a collection of sheets of paper or other
 material, blank, written, or printed, fastened or bound together so as to
 form a material whole. Loose sheets or scraps of paper cannot be
 termed as 'book' for they can be easily detached and replaced. In
 dealing with the work 'book' appearing in Section 34 in Mukundram vs.
 Dayaram [AIR 1914 Nagpur 44], a decision on which both sides have
 placed reliance, the Court observed:- 121. The aforesaid observations are noted and applying the above tests,

it must be held that the loose sheets ID marked ANN/SAA/KSI/LS/S-1,

Pages 48 & 49 cannot be regarded as 'books of accounts' or 'documents'

seized in course of search. We also gainfully refer to the decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Common Cause (A Registered

Society) Vs Union of India (394 ITR 220)wherein at paragraphs 278

to 282 of the judgment, it has been observed as under: R. Viswanathan
 :: 153 :: It has been held that even then independent evidence is necessary as to
trustworthiness of those entries which is a requirement to fasten the
liability. 280. This court has further laid down in V.C. Shukla that meaning of
account book would be spiral note book/pad but not loose sheets. The
following extract being relevant is quoted herein below: (SCC pp.423-
pp.423 27, paras 14 and 20) "14. In setting aside the order of the trial
court, the High Court accepted the contention of the respondents that
the documents were not admissible in evidence under section 34 with
the following words: "70. ....an account presupposes the existence of
two persons such as a seller and a purchaser, creditor and debtor.
Admittedly, the alleged diaries in the present case are not records of the
entries arising out of a contract. They do not contain the debts and
credits. They can at the most be described as a memorandum kept by a
person for his own benefit which will enable him to look into the same
whenever the need arise to do for his future purpose. Admittedly the
said diaries were not being maintained on day-to day to day basis in he
course of business. There is no mention of the dates on which the
alleged payment were made. In fact the entries there in are on monthly
basis. Even the names of the persons whom the alleged payments were
made do not find a mention in full. they have been shown in abbreviated
form. Only certain 'letters' have been written against their names which
are within the knowledge of only the scribe of the said diaries as to what
they stand for and whom they refer to." 20. Mr. Sibal, the learned
counsel for the Jains, did not dispute that the spiral note books and the
small pads are 'books' within the meaning of Section 34 . He, however,
strongly disputed the admissibility of those books in evidence under the
aforesaid section on the ground that they were neither books of account
nor they were regularly kept in the course of business. he submitted
that at best it could be said that those books were memoranda kept by a
person for his own benefit. According to Mr. Sibal, in business parlance
'account' means a formal statement of money transactions between
parties arising out of contractual or fiduciary relationship. Since the
books in question did not reflect any such relationship and, on the
contrary, only contained entries of monies received from one set of
persons and payment thereof to another set of persons it could not be ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 154 :: 281. With respect to evidentiary value of regular account book, this
 Court has laid down in V.C. Shukla, thus: (SCC p.433, para 37) "37. In
 Beni v. Bisan Dayal [AIR 1925 Nagpur 445] it was observed that entries
 in books of accounts are not by themselves sufficient to charge any
 person with liability, the reason being that a man cannot be allowed to
 make evidence for himself by what he chooses to write in his own books
 behind the back of the parties. There must be independent evidence of
 the transaction to which the entries relate and in absence of such
 evidence no relief can be given to the party who relies upon such entries
 to support his claim against another. In Hira Lal v. Ram Rakha [ A. I. R. 1953 Pepsu 113] the High Court, while negativing a contention that it
 having been proved that the books of account were regularly kept in the
 ordinary course of business and that, therefore, all entries therein
 should be considered to be relevant and to have been prove, said that
 the rule as laid down in Section 34 of the Act that entries in the books of
 account regularly kept in the course of business re relevant whenever
 they refer to a matter in which the court has to enquire was subject to
 the salient proviso that such entries shall not alone be sufficient
 evidence to charge any person with liability. It is not, therefore, enough
 merely to prove that the books have been regularly kept in the course of
 business and the entries therein are correct. It is further incumbent
 upon the person relying upon those entries to prove that the were in
 accordance with facts. 282. It is apparent from the aforesaid discussion that loose sheets of
 papers are wholly irrelevant as evidence being not admissible under section 34 so as to constitute evidence with respect to the transactions
 mentioned therein being of no evidentiary value. The entire prosecution
 based upon such entries which led to the investigation was quashed by
 this Court." 122. At this juncture, we rely on the guiding principles laid down by the

Hon'ble Karnataka High Court in the case of DCIT vs. Sunil Kumar ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 155 :: 123. From the above, it is established in law by the Hon'ble Apex Court

that a sheet of paper containing jottings of amount(s) across several

dates, not shown to form part of the books of accounts regularly

maintained by the searched assessee or his business entities, cannot be

said to constitute material evidence. Following the law declared by the

Hon'ble Court (supra), we are of the considered view that the action

taken by the AO against the assessee based on the material contained in

the impugned 'loose sheets' ID marked ANN/SAA/KSI/LS/S-1, Pages 48 &

49 are contrary to the law declared by the Hon'ble Apex Court (supra). In

that view of the matter, the impugned satisfaction note/notice issued

u/s.153C of the Act, based on the loose-sheets are per-se contrary to law,

which action of the AO can't be countenanced and hold that the "loose-

sheets" [Page No.48-49 supra] can't be regarded as 'books of accounts'

or any other 'document' to empower the AO of the assessee to usurp

jurisdiction u/s 153C of the Act. 124. In so far as the testimony of Shri SSU is concerned, though Shri

SSU had initially implicated the assessee as the recipient of alleged 'cash

paid' found on these loose sheets, but we find that no proof or evidence

was given by him. It is not in dispute that, the impugned 'loose sheets' ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 157 :: 125. It was further brought to our notice that, the assessee had been

confronted with this statement of Shri SSU and he had denied having

received any payments. Accordingly, the Revenue is found to have

afforded the assessee an opportunity to cross-examine Shri SSU and the

result of the cross-examination, is noted to be as under:- Ans. I am not aware about these transactions as they are not related to
 M/s. Coastal Energy (P) Ltd. where I used to work. These questions
 have to be asked to Mr. Ahmed Buhari only. I am not aware about these
 transactions, neither did I handle this cash, so I took clarification on the
 same from Mr. Ahmed Buhari and Mr Syed Ameer Ali and have
 reprodured what has been conveyed by them to me. I am not able to
 recollect what Isthikar means." 126. From the above, we find that, Shri SSU in his cross examination had

denied having handled any cash transactions. When enquired as to

whether he had handed over any cash to Gobi, as averred in his original

testimony dated 07.01.2017, he is found to have recanted and denied

having paid any cash to such person. Subsequent to this successful cross-

examination by the assessee, we find that, the Revenue had cross-

examined Shri SSU against his original statement dated 07.01.2017.

Having perused the same, it is seen that, Shri SSU had withstood the

cross-examination and affirmed his retraction to the original statement.

The relevant portion of this cross examination is also set out below:- Ans. As mentioned earlier in my statement, I have never been
responsible for maintaining books of accounts outside of the regular
books of accounts. These loose sheets seem to have been maintained on
instructions from Mr. Ahmed Bhari as all transactions pertaining to the
sam, are not the regular genuine book transactions of the company. As I
understand, these seem to be personal transactions of Mr. Ahmed
Buhan. I was under lot of mental strain and stress and was pressurized into
accepting the facts put before me. The transactions which I explained
were based on the explanations given by Mr. Ahmed Buhari to me.

Q.No.15. As it is seen that you are contradicting the statement given
by you earlier on 07.01.2017, please clarify, how did you clearly depose
in that cash was usually given to the Electricity Minister's PA Shri. Gobi
and a answer to Q.No.35 of statement recorded from you on Oath on
07.01.2017 sum of Rs. 50,00,000/- paid on 21.04.2016) was given in
Delhi through money transfer channel using Isthikar. Please also explain
as to what basis or proof are in possession of with regard to the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 160 :: It is seen that, the AO had found two loose sheets where it was scribbled

'RVN Varavu', 'RECEIPTS RVN 35'. Also, an unsigned affidavit to be

furnished by an election candidate to the returning officer in the name of

the assessee was found. The AO therefore linked the assessee to the

rough jottings of several numbers and calculations made by Shri PJR in

his pocket diaries and suspected that the notings must pertain to the

assessee, who would have possibly paid cash through Shri PJR to the

voters during elections. The satisfaction recorded by the AO of Shri PJR

shows that, only because the assessee had contested elections during the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 164 :: Having perused these diaries, which is found placed at Pages 48 to 97 of

Paper Book Vol IV, we find that these were rough jottings & scribblings of

several numbers, calculations, estimations etc. For instance, some of the

pages contained the names of polling booths, booth wise number of

voters etc., and there were separate columns for in charge/signature etc.

Evidently no monetary or financial transaction was discernible from these

pages. The Ld. AR has rightly pointed out that, these details were a

matter of fact which was easily accessible in public domain. According to

Ld. AR, it is common for older persons to know who are interested in the

election process, to keenly gather details of various kinds for the purpose

of monitoring elections. He thus submitted that, these data was

apparently general in nature and there was nothing incriminating

contained therein. Moreover, we observe that, several of these pages only ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 165 :: Accordingly the legal ground raised in these appeals are allowed and the

assessment order(s) are held to be vitiated in law due to invalid

usurpation of jurisdiction by the AO u/s 153C of the Act. 141. As we have already held the usurpation of jurisdiction u/s 153C of

the Act to be invalid for failure to satisfy the condition precedent laid

down therein and quashed the notice issued u/s 153C of the Act against

the assessee, the assessment orders are held to be non-est in the eyes of

law, the grounds agitated by both sides against the merits of the ITA No.1321/Chny/2025 & Others R. Viswanathan
 :: 173 :: 142. In the result, all appeals filed by the assessee are allowed and the

appeals of the Revenue are dismissed. Order pronounced on the 22nd day of January, 2026, in Chennai.