Page No.# 2/3

 BEFORE
 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE MANASH RANJAN PATHAK

29/01/2025

 Heard Mr. A Roshid, learned counsel for the petitioner and Mr. K K Parashar, learned Additional
Public Prosecutor, Assam for the State. 2. The petitioner, namely, Dildar Ali, son of Md. Tafikul Ali, resident of Village-Mairachara, P.S.
Boko, District-Kamrup has filed this application under Section 482 BNSS, seeking pre-arrest bail
apprehending his arrest in Cyber P.S. Case No. 26/2024 registered under Sections
61/318(4)/316(2)/336(3) BNS 2023 corresponding to G.R. No. 6699/2024. 3. As per the FIR of the case, the matter relates to involvement in cyber crime, hacking, fraud
schemes employing different modus operandi using OTP, password of innocent victims, targeting
primarily the innocent individuals, siphoning huge amount of money from such individuals across the
country vide various online modes including gaming platforms. 4. It is seen from the case diary placed before the Court today by Mr. Parashar, learned
Additional Public Prosecutor, Assam that a group of cyber fraudsters from the districts of Barpeta,
Goalpara and others camping in a lodge at Boragaon near Apollo Excel Care Hospital, within the
jurisdiction of Garchuk Police Station were apprehended on 11.11.2024, who were involved in
siphoning huge amount of money from the current bank accounts of different individuals, which those
fraudsters through their agents have collected and they intended to misuse by transferring money
from those bank accounts fraudulently from different individual agents. Those agents were to be
present in the said meeting that was to be held on 11.11.2024 in a concerned lodge under the said
hospital at Boragaon under Garchuk Police Station. 5. Case diary reveals that the arrested accused persons of the case, the cyber fraudsters
indicated the petitioner to be one of such collecting agents, who used to collect bank accounts of
different individuals, whose bank accounts were to be used for illegal activities. 6. From the case diary, it is seen that the petitioner is evading police and thereby, evading the
investigation of the case. 7. Considering such materials in the case diary against the petitioner with regard to his
 Page No.# 3/3

involvement in the alleged crime, the Court is of the view that it is not a fit case to grant pre-arrest
bail to the petitioner, Dildar Ali in said Cyber P.S. Case No. 26/2024. 8. Accordingly, this pre-arrest bail application of the petitioner, named above, in said Cyber P.S.
Case No. 26/2024 stands rejected. 9. Return the case diary. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant