The case was heard through video conferencing. None of the
parties found any flaws with audibility/visibility during the course of
hearing the matter. Learned defence counsel appearing for the petitioner undertakes to
remove he defects, as pointed out by the stamp reporter, in due course of
time. Accordingly, he is directed to remove the defects in due course of
time. The petitioner is an accused in connection with Deoghar Cyber P.S.
Case No. 93 of 2021, registered under sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120
(B) , 212 of IPC and 66(b), 66(c), 66(d), 84 (c) of IT Act , pending in the
Court of learned Additional Sessions Judge-II cum Special Judge Cyber
Crime, Deoghar. Learned defense counsel appearing for the petitioner has submitted
that the allegations against the petitioner is that he is alleged to have
involved along with other miscreants in the commission of cybercrime by
cheating the innocent people by impersonating themselves as bank
officials and E-wallet Customer Care representatives are involved in
committing fraud and cheating by withdrawing money by forged and
fabricated documents through online transactions. Further it has been
submitted that not a single victim has come forward to support the case
of the prosecution in order to identify as to who has been cheated and
victim of cybercrime alleged to have been committed by the petitioner. It
has also been submitted that no incriminating articles have been
recovered from the possession of the petitioner, except one mobile and
sim card. Further, it has been submitted that the petitioner is in jail since
08.10.2021 and the petitioner has no criminal antecedent. It has been
pointed out that the charge sheet has been submitted in this case and
possibility of tampering the evidence in future is very remote. On the other hand, learned A.P.P. appearing for the State is
opposed the prayer for bail of the petitioner. Having taken into consideration the submissions of the parties
under the facts and circumstances of the case, on furnishing bail bonds of
Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand) by the petitioner(s) with two sureties
of like amount each to the satisfaction of learned Additional Sessions
Judge-II cum Special Judge Cyber Crime, Deoghar in connection with
Deoghar Cyber P.S. Case No. 93 of 2021, the petitioner, above named, is
directed to be released on bail, subject to the conditions that an
undertaking supported by affidavit shall be furnished to the concerned
court on behalf of the petitioner consisting of the declarations that he will
cooperate in the trial and he will appear before the court as and when
required, further a copy of his Aadhar Card, residential address and
mobile number shall also be submitted to the concerned court and he will
not change the same without informing the court and further he will not
tamper the evidences in this case, inter alia, either by inducement,
promise or any threatening to the witnesses and he will not commit such
offence during the pendency of this case along with other conditions as
laid down under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. (Navneet Kumar, J.)
MM