The record is placed today for passing necessary orders in respect of an application filed by the Ops thereby challenging the maintainability of the complaint case on the grounds stated therein. The main contention of the Applicants, in brief, is that the complainant has instituted the Consumer Complaint thereby alleging unfair trade practice, fraud and deficiency in service at the instance of the Ops.  According to the complainant, the complainant is entitled to Rs. 80,00,000/- by way of compensation under different heads as per prayer of the petition of complaint.  The main allegation of the complainant so far as it relates to the OP, Bharti Airtel Ltd., is to the effect that the OP disconnected the mobile connection of the complainant on the pretext of SIM card being lost and issued the duplicate SIM card to the miscreants for the purpose of committing Internet banking fraud, namely, siphoning off several lacs of rupees from the account of the Complainant, which, according to the complainant, tantamounted to unfair trade practice and deficiency in service, and hence, the petition of complaint.  According to the Ops, the Consumer Complaint is not maintainable since the provisions of Section 7-B of the Indian Telegraph Act is very much applicable to the instant case and the dispute should be resolved through arbitration in terms of the provisions of Section 7-B of the Indian Telegraph Act.  The Consumer Complaint is also not maintainable as the complainant has already initiated a criminal proceeding against the Ops and that question of fraud is not to be adjudicated through a summary trial of the present nature and hence, the application challenging the maintainability of the Consumer Complaint. The complainant is contesting the application on the point of maintainability by filing a written objection contending, inter alia,  that the provisions of Section 7-B of the Indian Telegraph Act are not at all applicable to the instant case.  The provisions of Section-3 of the Consumer Protection Act override all other Acts and should prevail under the given circumstances.  The application on the point of maintainability having been filed on all false and fictitious grounds the same is liable to be dismissed. At the time of hearing it has been submitted by the complainant that the plea taken by the Ops to the effect that provisions of Section 7-B of the Indian Telegraph Act are applicable to the instant case, is not at all acceptable.  Besides that, the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court relied upon by the OP in this regard is also not applicable to the instant case.  The application thereby challenging the maintainability of the Consumer Complaint having been filed on all false and fictitious grounds the same should be dismissed. We have duly considered the submissions so put forward by the Ld. Advocates for the parties including the application filed by the Ops thereby challenging the maintainability of the Consumer Complaint and also the objection thereto filed by the complainant and find that from the petition of complaint it has become evident that the complainant has filed the complaint before the Banking Ombudsman in respect of the present matter, wherefrom he has obtained reliefs.  The complainant did not stop there and has also instituted a criminal litigation, which is still pending.  From the materials on record we are satisfied that the allegations levelled against M/s. Bharti Airtel Ltd./Airtel are basically involved with the telecom operation.  In this regard, we find much substance in the submission so put forward by the Ld. Advocate for the Ops, according to whom, the observation of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No. 7687 of 2004 is very much relevant, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held, "In our opinion when there is a special remedy provided in Section 7-B of the Indian Telegraph Act regarding disputes in respect of telephone bills, then the remedy under the Consumer Protection Act is by implication barred."  The Hon'ble Supreme Court has also observed that the special law overrides the general law and Section 7-B of the Indian Telegraph Act proves for resolution of Consumer disputes through arbitration.  Besides that, it is evident from the petition of complaint that the complainant has also instituted a criminal proceeding in connection with the present matter.  If that be the position, we do not think that the present petition of complaint is maintainable.  Having considered the present matter in the light of above discussions we find merit in the application filed by the OPs thereby challenging the maintainability of the Consumer Complaint and the same should be allowed.  In the result, the said application succeeds. Hence, it is ORDERED that the application filed by the Ops thereby challenging the maintainability of the Consumer Complaint stands allowed without any order as to costs.  Consequently, the petition of complaint stands dismissed. [HON'BLE MR. SHANKAR COARI] PRESIDING MEMBER 
   [HON'BLE MR. DEBASIS BHATTACHARYA] MEMBER