(a) fraud; or (b) collusion; or (c) any wilful misstatement; or (d) suppression of facts; or (e) contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of the rules

made thereunder with intent to evade payment of duty,

by any person chargeable with the duty, the Central Excise Officer

shall, within five years from the relevant date, serve notice on such

person requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the

amount specified in the notice along with interest payable thereon

under Section 11AA and a penalty equivalent to the duty specified

in the notice." 24. As noticed in the excerpted portions of the Supreme Court's

judgment, the material distinction between the provisos of Section

11A of the Excise Act and Section 28 of the Customs Act was

contemplated in Associated Cement Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of

Customs (supra) [2001 (128) E.L.T. 21 (S.C.)]. The only material

difference in the language of the two provisions is that the phrase

'with intent to evade payment of duty' is not used in Section 28 of

the Customs Act. The Court held that the words 'fraud' and

'collusion' inherently imply the requirement of an intent, which in

this case is the intent to evade payment of duty. With respect to

misrepresentation and suppression of facts the Court held that the

fact that these words are preceded by the word 'wilful' means that

there should be an intention to evade payment of duty behind these

acts. And, therefore, in Uniworth (supra), the judgments of the

Supreme Court interpreting the proviso to Section 11A of the Excise

Act were applied in the interpretation of the proviso to Section 28 of

the Customs Act. 25. The meaning of the phrase pari materia has been explained in

an American case in the following words: "Statutes are in pari

materia which relate to the same person or thing, or to the same

class of persons or things. The word par must not be confounded

with the word simlis. It is used in opposition to it - intimating not

likeness merely but identity. It is a phrase applicable to public

statutes or general laws made at different times and in reference to

the same subject." [United Society v. Eagle Bank, (1829) 7

Connecticut 457, p. 470, as cited in CRAIES, Statute Law, p. 134

(7th Edition)]. The provisos to Sections 11A of the Excise Act, 28 of

the Customs Act and Section 73 of the Finance Act, refer to the

same class of persons, i.e., persons from whom tax has been not

been levied, or has been short-levied or erroneously refunded. The 34 subject matter of these provisos is issuance of a Show Cause Notice

in order to collect such tax. Further, there seems to be no

difference in language of the proviso to Section 11A of the

Excise Act and Section 73(1) of the Finance Act. Since, the

pith and substance of both these provisions is the same, the

various judgments of the Supreme Court discussing the

interpretation of proviso to Section 11A of the Excise Act can

be extended to interpret Section 73(1) of the Finance Act.

Further, since proviso to Section 28 of the Customs Act is

pari materia to proviso to Section 11A of the Excise Act (as

held in Uniworth), the interpretation of proviso to Section 28 may also be extended to interpret the proviso to Section 73 of the Finance Act. Uniworth (supra) is also authority on the

meaning of 'wilful misstatement' and 'suppression of facts';

the Court held that : 26. Again, the Supreme Court in Continental Foundation Joint

Venture Holding v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Chandigarh-I [(2007) 10 SCC 337 = 2007 (216) E.L.T. 177 (S.C.)], held that : 27. Therefore, it is evident that failure to pay tax is not a

justification for imposition of penalty. Also, the word

'suppression' in the proviso to Section 11A(1) of the Excise

Act has to be read in the context of other words in the

proviso, i.e. "fraud, collusion, wilful misstatement". As

explained in Uniworth (supra), "misstatement or

suppression of facts" does not mean any omission. It must

be deliberate. In other words, there must be deliberate 37 suppression of information for the purpose of evading of

payment of duty. It connotes a positive act of the assessee

to avoid paying excise duty. The terms 'misstatement' and

'suppression of facts' are preceded by the expression

'wilful'. The meaning which has to be ascribed is, deliberate

action (or omission) and the presence of an intention. Thus,

invocation of the extended limitation period under the

proviso to Section 73(1) does not refer to a scenario where

there is a mere omission or mere failure to pay duty or take

out a license without the presence of such intention. 28. In the present case, the Revenue argues that appellant

wilfully suppressed the value of taxable services and thus did not

discharge its liability of paying the Service Tax on same. The

contention of the appellant is that the appellant was under a bona

fide belief that the appellant was not liable for payment of Service

Tax for the Mandap Keeping and Management, Maintenance and

Repair Services. The appellant has supported the non-payment of

Service Tax for Mandap Keeper Services by Notification No.

12/2003-S.T. It also states that, during the enquiry itself, it paid

Service Tax on the sale of the above-mentioned items for the

periods 2004-05 and 2005-06 with interest and had also started

paying Service Tax on these items regularly from April, 2006. The

same has been also acknowledged by the DGCEI in the SCN. 29. As regards management, maintenance and repair services the

appellant claimed that it was unaware of the development under Section 65(105)(zzg) of the Finance Act and that when the same

came to the knowledge of the appellant, the appellant promptly got

itself registered for the said service and started discharging its

Service Tax liability with respect to the said service from financial

year 2006-07, and also paid Service Tax for the financial year 38 2005-06. The same has again been also acknowledged by the

DGCEI in the SCN. The absence of any material disclosing intent to

evade payment of Service Tax by the appellant is evident by the

fact that it promptly made all the payments pertaining to Service

Tax liability with respect to Mandap Keeper Service and

Management, Maintenance and Repair Service as soon as the

appellant became aware of the same (during the enquiry) and

continued to pay Service Tax thereafter. The authorities are

unanimous that to invoke the extended period under

cognate provisions (such as Section 11A of the Excise Act or Section 28A of the Customs Act) the burden is cast upon it to

prove suppression of fact. The Revenue has not been able to

prove an intention on the part of the appellant to evade tax

by suppression of material facts. In fact, it is clear that the

appellant did not have any such intention and was acting

under bona fide beliefs. For these reasons, it is held that the

Revenue cannot invoke the proviso to Section 73(1) of the

Finance Act to extend the limitation period for issuing of

SCN. The SCN was issued on 24-10-2008. The undischarged

liability for payment of Service Tax with respect to Mandap Keeper

Service and Management, Maintenance and repair services alleged

in the SCN is for the period 2004-06 and 2005-08 respectively. Since the proviso to Section 73(1) cannot be invoked the SCN had

to be served within one year from the relevant date. Therefore, the

SCN with respect to short payment of Service Tax for Mandap

Keeper Service for the years 2004-2006 is barred by limitation. The

SCN with respect to short payment of Service Tax for Management,

Maintenance and Repair Services for the years 2005-2007 is also

barred by limitation." (emphases supplied) 39 Without multiplying authorities suffice to say, similar views

 have been taken in the decisions in Principal Commissioner

 of CGST & C.Ex, Mumbai v. Securities and Exchange

 Board of India , 2023 (385) ELT 865 (Bom.) and Naresh

 Kumar & Co Pvt Ltd v. UOI , 2014 (36) STR 271 (Cal.). 40. We find that the contention of the appellant that the demand

 was wholly barred by limitation has been addressed by the

 appellate authority in para 12 of the impugned Order in

 Appeal, as under: Jurisprudence and Legal Essays", p.89" 41. We find that the appellate authority has conceded that the

 appellant has declared the income under export of service.

 Thus, the appellant's contention that it is regularly filing the 41 returns with such declaration of income under export of

 service remains uncontroverted and on the contrary, stands

 conceded. Further, the paragraph of the citation in the case of

 D. Cowasji relied on, has not been cited in full and has

 omitted the last sentence which states "There is no

 presumption in this country that every person knows the law,

 it would be contrary to common sense and reason if it were

 so" [see Maule, J. in Martindale v. Fulkner, (1846) 2 CB 706,

 719]." ; and thus conveys an intent contrary to the finding of

 the adjudicating authority. 42. That apart, the aforesaid findings of the appellate authority in

 para 12 of the impugned order in appeal not only militates

 against the decision of the Honourable Delhi High Court in Bharat Hotels Ltd v. Commissioner of C.Ex

 (Adjudication ), 2018 (12) GSTL 368 (Del.), reproduced

 above, but are also against the decisions rendered by this

 Tribunal as elucidated infra. 43. At this juncture, it would be apposite to notice the decision of

 a coordinate bench of the tribunal in Accurate Chemical

 Industries v CCE, Noida , reported in 2014(300) ELT 451

 (Tri-Del), wherein, the question of the effect of non-scrutiny

 of the returns filed by the assessee upon self-assessment was

 examined in detail. The relevant portions are as under: preliminary scrutiny and detailed scrutiny as per detailed check
list prescribed for this purpose. 7.2 From the above Circulars of the C.B.E. & C.
regarding scrutiny of ER-1 returns, it is clear that the
returns filed by an assessee are required to be subjected
to detailed scrutiny in course of which the concerned
officer can call for the documents from the assessee
wherever necessary for scrutiny. Therefore in this case,
if the concerned Range officer/Assistant/Deputy
Commissioner or concerned Additional Commissioner had
checked the returns, the short payment would have been
immediately detected as, as observed by the Commissioner
in para 4.5 of the impugned order, even the registration
certificate of the appellant mentioned them as a unit of
Accurate Transformers Ltd., and in all the documents of the
appellant, the transfer of goods from the appellant to Accurate
Transformer Ltd. had been reflected as inter unit transfer.
Neither there is any allegation nor evidence to prove that
there was some collusion between the appellant and the 43 Jurisdictional Central Excise officers. The short payment
 was detected when during visit by the audit team, the
 records maintained by the appellant and made available
 by them to the audit officers were examined by them, - something which should have been done by the
 Jurisdictional Range Officers and Divisional Assistant
 Commissioner/Deputy Commissioner much earlier. The
 assessee cannot be penalized by invoking extended
 period under proviso to Section 11A(1) for demand of
 duty and penal provisions of Section 11AC for indolence
 on the part of the jurisdictional Central Excise officers.
 Moreover Apex Court in a series of judgments - CCE v. Chemphar Drugs & Liniments reported in 1989 (40)
 E.L.T. 276 (S.C.); Padmini Products v. Collector reported in 1989 (43) E.L.T. 195
 (S.C.); Pushpam Pharmaceuticals v. CCE reported in 1995 (78) E.L.T.
 401 (S.C.); Anand Nishikawa Co. Ltd. v. CCE, Meerut reported in 2005
 (188) E.L.T. 149 (S.C.); Continental Foundation Jt. Venture v. CCE, Chandigarh reported
 in 2007 (216) E.L.T. 177 (S.C.)

 has held that something positive other than mere
 inaction or non-payment of duty is required for invoking
 extended period under proviso to Section 11A(1) and
 that suppression means failure to disclose full
 information with intent to evade the payment of duty and
 mere omission to give certain information is not
 suppression of fact unless it is deliberate with intention
 to evade the payment of duty. The above condition for
 invoking extended period prescribed in these judgments
 is not satisfied in this case." (emphasis supplied) 44. We are of the view that allowing the assessee to self-assess

 the tax is a mere facility extended to the assessee. That in no 44 way detracts or dilutes the statutory responsibility of the

jurisdictional central excise officers to ensure correctness of

the assessment, exemptions claimed and duty payments

made. In the instant case, on a perusal of the ST-3 returns

available as part of the Appeal records, we find that in the ST-

3 returns filed regularly, the Appellants have, under PART B,

titled "VALUE OF TAXABLE SERVICE AND SERVICE TAX

PAYABLE", against B1.8 titled the "amounts charged against

export of service provided or to be provided", duly indicated

the amounts in respect of each month in the appropriate place

provided for such declaration. The appellant has also indicated

in the respective rows thereafter, pursuant to the said

particulars indicated in the ST 3 returns, the total amount

claimed as deduction, the consequent net taxable value as

well as the service tax payable in the appropriate rows and

columns as was necessary. Therefore, we are of the

considered view that the aforesaid responsibility of the

jurisdictional departmental officers to scrutinize the returns

filed, reflecting the information of amounts charged against

export service provided, and declarations of deductions

claimed and service tax payable that has been so declared by

the appellant, and the abject failure to take up the

information for scrutiny, is not to be held to the detriment of

the appellant, by invoking of the extended period of

limitation. In view of the mandatory responsibilities cast on

the jurisdictional officers by various circulars, they cannot

abdicate responsibility, more so when there is complete

absence of any evidence that they have indeed embarked on 45 such a scrutiny and called for the necessary information and

 that the assessee has not responded to their letters seeking

 such information. In the show cause notice too, there is no

 whisper of any finding that the returns that the appellant has

 so regularly filed have been scrutinized and a subsequent

 allegation that the appellant had not furnished any

 information that has been sought for consequent to such

 scrutiny. The mandate of the statute, as laid down in Section

 14 of the Central Excise Act, 1944, made applicable under Section 83 of the Finance Act, 1994 in relation to service tax

 as they apply in relation to a duty of excise, empowers the

 jurisdictional range officers to issue summons requiring any

 person to give evidence or produce records etc., and can be

 resorted to by the said officers in the course of performance

 of their official duties as per extant Departmental instructions,

 if it so becomes necessary. 45. Likewise, we find that in a case where revenue had preferred

 the appeals on the ground that the respondents in their

 monthly ER returns filed for the relevant period, have simply

 shown the quantum of credit availed on inputs without

 specifying the service on which the said credit was availed,

 and that therefore this would amount to suppression from the

 department with intent to avail wrongful credit, a co-ordinate

 bench of this Tribunal in its decision in CCE, Indore v

 Medicaps Ltd , reported in 2011(24) STR 572 (Tri-Del)

 has held as under: Admittedly the credit availed by the assessee was reflected in the
 monthly returns. If there is no column in the monthly return to
 show the nature of service on which the credit was availed, the
 assessee cannot be blamed for not disclosing the said fact. For
 invoking the longer period of limitation, there has to be a
 suppression or mis-statement with an intent to evade payment of
 duty. When the respondents have reflected the amount of credit
 availed by them in their monthly returns, it cannot be said that
 there was any positive act of suppression on misstatement on their
 part. As such, we are of the view that Commissioner (Appeals) has
 rightly held a part of the demands as barred by limitation. 46. There is a catena of decisions in similar vein wherein, various

 High Courts as well as this Tribunal, have consistently held

 that when the assessee is registered and filing returns

 regularly, the range officer had a duty to scrutinize returns

 and detect any irregularity and to raise pertinent queries in

 this regard and that in the light of any negligence or failure to

 do so, the allegation of suppression by the assessee cannot be

 countenanced. To cite a few, apart from those cited above,

 the decisions in Jagadamba Power & Alloys Ltd v CCE,

 Jaipur , 2025(391) ELT 478 (Chhattisgarh) affirmed in CCE v Jagadamba Power & Alloys Ltd , 2025 ( 391) ELT

 465 (SC), Swastik Engineering v CCE, Bangalore , 2010

 (255) ELT 261 (Tri-Bang) upheld in CCE Bangalore II v

 Swastik Engineering,2014 (302) ELT 333 (Kar) and the

 latest decisions of the Principal Bench of the Tribunal at Delhi

 in Final Order No.50511/2025 dated 23-04-2025 in the

 case of M/s. Indian Railway Catering and Tourism

 Corporation Ltd v. The Commissioner of Service Tax,

 Delhi-I and in Final Order No.50515/2025 dated 23-04- 47 2025 in the case of M/s. Industrial Sales & Services v

 Commissioner of CGST &Service Tax, Jaipur, would

 suffice. 47. We are of the view that when the appellant has duly provided

 all the information sought in the mandatory returns

 prescribed, it would be all the more reason for a jurisdictional

 range officer entrusted with the duty to safe guard

 Government Revenue by verifying and scrutinizing the

 information being furnished in the returns by the assessee, to

 be diligent and inquire into the details of such amounts

 charged against export of service. The very fact that the

 appellant has claimed and stated that it has made export of

 service, is reason enough for any officer to then promptly

 embark on the requisite inquiry within the mandated period

 prescribed for such scrutiny as laid down in the Department

 circulars and instructions in order to ensure correctness of the

 assessment and ensure complete remittance of the requisite

 duty. In the instant case, the extended period sought to be

 invoked is from October 2014 to June 2017 and hence, even

 before the present SCN issued on 23-06-2020 pursuant to

 investigations commenced on 09-05-2019, there was ample

 opportunity for the jurisdictional range officers to carry out

 their mandated responsibility and detect any irregularities, if

 at all any. In the light of the ratio of the decisions stated

 supra, when the knowledge of the fact that the appellant has

 been claiming the said amounts received as towards export of

 service duly reflecting them in the returns, was already known 48 to the Department, we are of the view that the learned

 adjudicating authority has egregiously erred in finding that

 the invoking of the extended period of limitation was tenable. 48. We find that the Bonafide belief of the appellant that has

 manifested as the appellant's declaration of the amounts

 received as towards export of service provided in the ST-3

 returns filed with the Department, was also averred by the

 Chartered Accountant of the Company in his statement before

 the officers of the Department, wherein he has stated that

 the appellant has not paid Service Tax because the appellant

 considered the services as "Export of Services" since the

 service recipient, namely, M/s. ESM Pte Singapore is abroad

 and the appellant has received the money in foreign

 convertible currency. For reasons best known to the

 authorities, these returns have not been scrutinised as and

 when filed, or if scrutinized, has not excited them enough to

 embark on any inquiry within the normal period so as to raise

 a tenable demand, if any, on the appellant. When it is the

 responsibility of the jurisdictional departmental officers to

 scrutinize the returns filed reflecting the information of

 amounts towards export service provided and service tax

 payable indicated by the appellant, any failure on their part to

 take up the information for scrutiny can neither be condoned

 to the detriment of the appellant, nor would it then justify

 invoking of the extended period of limitation by the

 Department. It is also pertinent to note that the Honourable 49 Apex Court in Uniworth Textiles Ltd v CCE, Raipur , 2013

 (288) ELT 161 (SC), has held as under: 49. We also find that when the appellant held a bonafide belief

 that its services were not liable to tax being export of services

 and had in fact declared the amounts received as towards

 export of service provided, there cannot be a finding of wilful

 misstatement or suppression of facts with intent to evade

 payment of duty attributable to the Appellant. Honourable

 Supreme Court has often rendered decisions on these lines

 and apart from those cited in line in the decisions referred

 supra, the following citations also lay down the aforesaid

 proposition, namely, Commissioner of C.Ex & Customs v.

 Reliance Industries Ltd , 2023 ( 385) ELT 481 (SC) and

 Jayant Juneja v CCE, Jaipur , 2015 (326) ELT 634 (SC). 50 50. We notice that while the appellate authority has conceded

 that the transactions of the appellant is of a nature that gives

 scope to more than one view, yet he has chosen to uphold the

 invocation of extended period on the ground that the

 appellant ought to have approached the Department seeking

 resolution. What the appellate authority has failed to

 appreciate is that evidently the appellant never harboured any

 doubt that its service was not an export of service, and it is

 apparently for that reason, that the appellant has declared the

 amounts received as towards export of service provided in its

 returns. Be that as it may, this Tribunal has in its decision in

 Smart Finance Vs. Commissioner of Central Excise,

 Jaipur [2014-TIOL-1555-CESTAT-DEL], 2015(37)STR

 313 (Tri-Del) held as under: 53. On a perusal of the ST-3 returns available as part of the

 Appeal records, we have found that in the ST-3 returns filed

 regularly, the Appellants have duly indicated therein, the

 amounts charged against export of service provided in the

 appropriate place provided for such declaration. The appellant

 has also indicated the consequent net taxable value as well as 53 the service tax payable, pursuant to the said particulars

indicated in the ST 3 returns. The present matter covers the

dispute period from October 2014 to June 2017 whereas the

SCN was issued only on 23.06.2020. The appellant had filed

Service Tax returns for this period on 18.07.2015,

21.10.2015, 22.04.2016, 24.10.2016, 24.04.2017 and

14.08.2017 respectively as is evidenced by the ST-3 returns.

As per Section 73(6)(i) (a) , where a periodical return,

showing particulars of service tax paid during the period to

which the said return relates, is to be filed by an assessee,

the date on which such return is so filed, is the relevant date.

Therefore, given that the returns for the relevant period under

dispute is from October 2014 to June 2017, when the date of

filing of the last return for the said period is 14.08.2017, the

normal period of thirty months would come to an end by

February 2020. In the aforesaid circumstances when the

invoking of extended period of limitation was not available to

the Department considering the fact that the appellant had

declared the amounts received as towards export of service in

the ST 3 returns and the said fact was in the knowledge of the

department, therefore, the SCN issued on 23-06-2020 is

beyond the normal period of limitation and the entire demand

is barred by limitation. The normal period of thirty months

when calculated in the reverse from the date of issuance of

the SCN which is on 23-06-2020, which could at best have

been covered, is only if there was a demand for the period

from January 2018 onwards alone. In the present case the

service tax returns were all filed well before January 2018 and 54 the period under dispute is also only upto June 2017. Thus,

 for the reasons we have elucidated supra, the confirmation of

 the demand of service tax in the instant case, which was for

 the period from 01.10.2014 to 30.06.2017, was entirely

 barred by limitation and is therefore wholly unsustainable and

 is liable to be set aside. 54. Given our findings above that the extended period of

 limitation was not invokable and that the demand was wholly

 barred by limitation, we are disinclined to now go into the

 merits of the dispute for more reasons than one. Firstly, a

 finding on merits is rendered inconsequential, as the demands

 are even otherwise unsustainable being wholly barred by

 limitation. Secondly, there is no question of such a demand

 under Chapter V of the Finance Act, 1994 , recurring in respect

 of the appellant. Thirdly, with the advent of the GST regime,

 the Finance Act 1994 has been amended and by virtue of Section 173 of the CGST Act, 2017, Chapter V of the Finance

 Act, 1994 has been omitted, of course subject to the repeal

 and savings as provided under Section 174 of the GST Act

 ibid, and for the proceedings initiated in respect of the

 appellant for the subsequent period under the prevailing GST

 Tax regime, it is seen that the Departmental Adjudicating

 Authority itself has dropped the proceedings rendering a

 finding in favour of the appellant on merits as evidenced by

 the Order in Original No.21/2025-DGGI (ADC) dated

 17.01.2025 of the Additional Commissioner of GST & Central

 Excise, Chennai and nothing has been brought to our notice to 55 show that the order has not attained finality, Last, but not the

 least, having found in favour of the appellant on limitation, we

 are now forbidden from rendering a finding on merits as per

 the binding judicial precedents cited as under. 55. We find that the Honourable High Court of Allahabad, in Commr of Cus, C.Ex & S.Tax v. Monsanto Manufacturer

 Pvt Ltd , 2014 (35) STR 177 (All), has held as under: 21. The appeal is admitted on the following question of law and is

 by consent taken up for final hearing. 22. The Tribunal came to the conclusion that the demand by

 the Revenue was beyond the period of limitation of one year

 prescribed under Section 73(1) of the Finance Act, 1994 and

 that the period of five years could not have been invoked.

 That part of the judgment of the Tribunal has been confirmed in the

 companion appeal. Once that be the position and the Tribunal

 having come to the conclusion that the extended period of

 limitation could not have been validly applied, the Tribunal,

 in our view, acted outside its jurisdiction in entering upon 56 the merits of the dispute on whether the demand for duty

 should be confirmed. Once it is held that the demand is time

 barred, there would be no occasion for the Tribunal to

 enquire into the merits of the issues raised by the Revenue. 23. In State Bank of India v. B.S. Agricultural Industries (I )-

 (2009) 5 SCC 121, the Supreme Court dealt with a situation

 where the consumer forum had held that the complaint was barred

 by limitation but had nonetheless proceeded to decide the issue on

 merits. Holding that this would amount to an illegality, the Supreme

 Court observed : 24. Consequently, since the Tribunal was justified, as we

 have held, in coming to the conclusion that the demand was

 time barred, there was no occasion for the Tribunal to enter

 upon the merits of the dispute. We, accordingly, answer the

 question of law as framed by the assessee in the affirmative and in

 favour of the assessee. 25. The appeal by the assessee shall stand disposed of in the

 aforesaid terms." (Emphasis supplied) 56. We find that the Honourable Supreme Court in Commissioner of Customs, Mumbai v B.V. Jewels , 2004 57 (172) ELT 3 (SC), has observed that " If, in reality, the

CEGAT found that the action taken by the departmental

authorities was beyond the period of limitation, it could

have disposed of the appeals before it only on that

ground without examining the merits". This decision of

the Apex Court in B.V. Jewels ibid has been followed in

Commr of Service Tax, Mumbai IV v. Rochem

Separations (I) P Ltd, 2019 (366) ELT 103 (Bom). It is

also seen that the jurisdictional High Court in E.T.A General

Pvt Ltd v Additional Commissioner of C.Ex, Chennai,

2016 (44) STR 409 (Mad) has held as under: 12. While addressing the above said substantial question of law,

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State Bank of India v.

 B.S. Agricultural Industries reported in (2009) 5 SCC 121, has

 been pressed into service, wherein, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 had an occasion to deal with a situation, where the consumer

 forum held that the complaint was barred by limitation, but

 nonetheless had proceeded to decide the issue on merits. Dealing

 with the issue, which is similar to the case on hand, at Paragraph 58 12, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State Bank of India 's case (cited

supra), held as follows :- Applying the ratio of the Supreme Court in State Bank of India v.

B.S. Agricultural Industries reported in (2009) 5 SCC 121, the

Allahabad High Court in Commissioner of Customs, Central Excise

& Service Tax v. M/s. Monsanto Manufacturer Pvt. Ltd., reported in

2014-TIOL-550-HC-ALL-ST, answered the question of law in

favour of the assessee. 13. Judgment of the Supreme in State Bank of India 's case

(cited supra), followed in Commissioner of Customs 's case

(cited supra), squarely applies to the facts on hand,

wherein, CESTAT, Madras, while dismissing the appeal as

time-barred, has entered into the merits of the case and

dismissed the same, on merits. In the words of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, that would be an illegality. 14. Though Mr. A.P. Srinivas, learned counsel appearing for the

Revenue submitted that the correctness of the order impugned

before us, can be decided in an appeal before the CESTAT and

prayed to sustain the order, dated 15-2-2016 in W.P. No. 5501 of 59 2016, in the light of the above discussion and the decision in State

 Bank of India 's case (cited supra), we are not inclined to

 accept the said contention. When the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court has described the manner of disposal of an appeal, as

 illegality, the same can be corrected by this Court, in

 exercise of the powers under Article 226 of the Constitution

 of India and no useful purpose would be served in

 relegating the appellants to approach the alternative

 remedy. Courts have held that a writ petition is

 maintainable, when the act committed is per se illegal, and

 contrary to the statute. 15. In the light of the above discussion and decisions, we

 are inclined to interfere with the order of the Writ Court as

 well as the Order-in-Appeal No. 349/2015 (STA-II), dated

 30-11-2015, passed by the Commissioner of Service Tax

 (Appeals-II) and the same are set aside." 57. Given our findings that the demand is wholly barred by

 limitation for the reasons stated above, adhering to judicial

 discipline and respectfully following the binding judicial

 precedents of the Honourable Apex Court and High Courts

 cited supra, we refrain from delving into the merits of the

 matter and rendering a finding on merits. In asmuch as we

 have found the demand unsustainable and liable to be set

 aside, the consequential demand of interest and penalty

 imposed is also found to be untenable and liable to be set

 aside. 58. In the light of our discussions and findings above, we hold

 that the impugned Order-in- Appeal No. 80/2022 dated

 23.12.2022, to the extent it had upheld the demand along

 with applicable interest and equivalent penalty as confirmed in

 the disputed Order in Original of the adjudicating authority, is

 unsustainable and is hereby set aside. The appeal is allowed with consequential relief in law, if any. (Order pronounced in open court on 30.05.2025)

 (AJAYAN T.V.) (VASA SESHAGIRI RAO)
 Member (Judicial) Member (Technical)
 vl