Navaniti Prasad Singh, C.J. An unsuspecting consumer, who had reposed faith in the

reliability of the service provided by her mobile service provider

becomes the victim of fraud. A fraudulent claim is made at

Hyderabad by certain felons that his SIM (Subscriber Identity

Module) Card is lost. The subscriber is at Ernakulam. A duplicate

SIM is issued to the fraudsters at Hyderabad without properly

checking their credentials. The subscriber is unaware of this.

Using the duplicate SIM, obviously with the same number, the

entire system is hacked and then using mobile banking, a sum of

Rs.11 lakhs is pilfered from his Bank account. The unsuspecting

subscriber who had relied upon the dependability and security of

the service provider-Vodafone lost his life-savings. 2. The subscriber moved the State Commission claiming

compensation. The State Commission allowed his claim. The

service provider then approached this Court with a prayer to set WA No. 1718 of 2017 -:2:- aside the order, raising a technical plea of lack of jurisdiction,

virtually intending to leave the subscriber high and dry. The

learned single Judge rightly refused to exercise the discretion in

the facts aforesaid and left it to the service provider to move the

National Commission. In the peculiar facts noted above, we see

no error committed by the learned single Judge. We affirm the

order and dismiss the appeal leaving it to the service provider to

take recourse to such proceedings as they may be advised,

including their remedy to approach the National Commission. We

make it clear that the order of the State Commission is operative

and has not been stayed either by the learned single Judge or by

this Court. Needless to say that, if an appeal is filed before the National

Commission, they would entertain the same in accordance with

law, subject to the appeal being filed within one month from

today. Sd/- Navaniti Prasad Singh,
 Chief Justice

 Sd/- Raja Vijayaraghavan V.,
 Judge
ttb/17/08