M.V.SILVIA GLORY (IMO 9622942)
 Versus
 BULK MARINE PVT. LTD. ==========================================================
Appearance: 2.1 The defendant Vessel is a foreign, sea going vessel, flying
the flag of Hong Kong, identified by its IMO 9622942 and its registered
Head Owner is the Applicant/Defendant i.e. Best Excellence
Corporation Limited. 3. The Plaintiff has sought judgment and decree against the Page 1 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

Defendant Vessel and her arrest, sequestration, condemnation and sale
for securing and/or satisfying the Plaintiff's claim as per particulars of
claim. The Plaintiff has filed the said Suit within the territorial jurisdiction
of this Court, narration of the relevant facts and documents by way of
averments in the plaint, are as under: Owners/ Master of the Vessel, thus, according to the Plaintiff, had the
actual knowledge of the rights and liability of the plaintiff arising from the
Charter Party dated 12.09.2018 entered into with Excelzior Logistics,
U.K.

3.4 The Plaintiff issued a Freight Invoice on 23.10.2018, as per
freight mentioned in the Voyage Charter Party Agreement dated
12.09.2018 with Excelzior Logistics Limited, U.K. The plaintiff's claim
arises from the Charter Party Agreement read with the Bills of lading
forming an agreement in relation with carriage of Goods and use and/or
hire of the Vessel. The said invoice payment was to be made within five
banking days after completion of loading and releasing of signed
stamped B\L and receipt of Invoice from plaintiff. The Original Bills of
Lading were to be kept in the custody of the Agent and to be released to
the Shippers upon irrevocable receipt of full freight into Owners'
nominated account. instructed its Agent to part with the Original Bill of lading as per the
Agreement. However, the Plaintiff was informed that there has been
certain dispute between Seller and Buyer of the Cargo with respect to
opening of the Clean Letter of Credit. The plaintiff was informed by the
Shipper not to forward the Original Bills of Lading to the Buyer (Torq
Commodities Private Limited). The plaintiff was also repeatedly advised
by the Shipper to withhold the Original Bills of Lading and not part with
the possession of the same. The plaintiff was, therefore, left with no
other alternative but to retain the Original Bills of Lading, comprising its
right to demand the Freight. In the meanwhile, the Vessel arrived at
Kandla at outer anchorage on 07.11.2018. Due to the delay that had
occurred at the load port, the plaintiff was entitled to recover an amount
of USD 325,961.46 towards load port demurrage. The plaintiff had also
become entitled to recover demurrage due to the delay that had
occurred in discharge of the Cargo at Kandla and anticipating that
discharge would not take place before 30.11.2018, it estimated the
demurrage at discharge port to the sum of USD 253,272.50. Thus, the
plaintiff raised a demurrage Invoice dated 19.11.2018 for the sum of
USD 579,233.96. 3.6 As soon as the owner Lianyl Shipping Limited came to
know about the dispute between the Shipper (Nava Investment Private
Limited) and the old Buyer (Torq Commodities LLC),it requested the
plaintiff's agent on 21.11.2018 to send the original Bills of Lading to it.
The owner also sought confirmation from plaintiff's agent, if, they were
still holding the original Bills of Lading or not. Plaintiff's agent, in turn,
replied on the very same day and confirmed the possession of the
original Bills of Lading and stated that they would release the same only
after written communication from their principal, i.e. plaintiff, and Head
Owners i.e. Best Excellence Corporation Limited. It was further clarified Page 4 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

that they would part with the cancelled Bills of Lading to the head
owners only or any other (entity), if routed through their principal i.e.
plaintiff. 3.7 On 20.11.2018, the plaintiff's agent sent an e-mail to the
Head Owners' Agent (Forerunner Shipping Company Limited) and the
Master of the Vessel, informing them that old contract between Shipper
and Torq Commodities LLC stood cancelled and therefore, earlier load
port Bills of Lading would remain cancelled. They were also informed
that the details of revised Mates' Receipts and Bills of Lading would be
forwarded to them for their approval. 3.8 By way of e-mail dated 22.11.2018, the Head Owner
through its Agent (Forerunner Shipping Company Limited) advised
plaintiff's Agent to stamp the original Bills of Lading null & void and
courier them along with Mates' Receipts to the head owners on the
address provided. It is further its case that the Head owner and the
Master of vessel maintained a stoic silence regarding the approval of
the revised Mate's Receipt and Bill of Lading. While acting in good faith,
the Plaintiff cancelled the Bills of Lading and Mates' receipts and sent
the same to the Head Owner of the Vessel to re-issue the Mates'
Receipts. The plaintiff, subsequently, also sent the revised draft of the
Bills of Lading and Mates' Receipts to the Master of the Vessel and the
Head Owners for their confirmation. The plaintiff also requested the
Master of the Vessel to sign and send the Mate's Receipt, so that
plaintiff's Agent could issue the switched Bill of Lading. As stipulated in
the Charter Party, the Bill of Lading had to be issued in conformity with
the Mate's Receipt only. Therefore, even though the plaintiff's Agent
had the Letter of Authority to issue the switched Bill of Lading, the same
could not be done in absence of the Mate's Receipt. The plaintiff also Page 5 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

sent various reminders, but, the same was of no consequence. In fact,
at one point even the Shipper expressed its displeasure over the delay
in signing of the Mate's Receipt by the Master of the Vessel. The Owner
and the Master of the Defendant Vessel continued to maintain their
silence over the issuance of the switched bill of lading and Mate's
Receipt. Meanwhile, the plaintiff learnt from the market through reliable
sources that Nava Investment Private Limited acting through PT Energi
Lintas Samudra as the Seller/Shipper of the Cargo on account of its
disputes with the original buyer had terminated the earlier Sale
Purchase Contract with Torq Commodities LLC and had entered into a
Re-Sale Contract with Vimal Coal Private Limited. 3.9 It is the say of the plaintiff that to its utter surprise, the
Master of the Vessel, acting under the instructions of the Head Owners
of the Vessel, on 28.11.2018 cancelled the Letter of Authority dated
23.10.2018, issued in favour of the plaintiff and/or its agent, authorizing
them to legally sign and issue the Bills of Lading. The Master further
stated that he was awaiting for further instructions from the Head
Owners to re-issue the Bills of Lading and Mate's Receipt. The plaintiff
upon the receipt of information of the alleged illegal termination of the
Letter of Authority, by the Master of the Vessel at behest of the head
owners, addressed an email dated 29.11.2018 to the Master as well as
to the Head Owner, lodging its protest against such illegal termination of
the Letter of Authority. The plaintiff vide such e-mail also questioned the
intention of the Master and the Head Owners in canceling the Letter of
Authority and warned them of the consequences and reserved its rights
to prosecute them for the future losses/claims. 3.10 According to the plaintiff, the cancellation of the Letter of
Authority not only resulted in breach of the terms and conditions of the Page 6 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

Charter Party dated 12.09.2018 entered into with Excelzior Logistics
Limited, UK, but, it also infringed upon the rights of the plaintiff to
recover freight, dead-freight, demurrage and other charges from the
Shipper. Such fraudulent termination of Letter of Authority, thus, entitled
the plaintiff to proceed against the head owners for the claim set out in
this Suit. 3.11 The Master of the Vessel and the Head owners, on receipt
of the plaintiff's communication dated 29.11.2018, realized that they
may be put to serious consequences by the cancellation of the Letter of
Authority during the subsistence of the Charter Party dated 12.09.2018
entered into with Admiral Shipping LLC. Therefore, the head owners of
the vessel in collusion with the owners terminated and/or ensured the
termination of the back-to-back Charter Parties, including the Charter
Party dated 12.09.2018. It is urged that the Admiral Shipping LLC could
not have terminated the Charter Party dated 12.09.2018, as the Admiral
had already received part payment, towards hire charges, from the
plaintiff, and therefore a lien, charge, claim was already created over
the vessel in favour of the plaintiff. According to the plaintiff, a total sum
of USD 969,806.80/- was already paid to Admiral Shipping and only a
meager sum of about USD 110.543.07/- was left to be paid. 3.12 It is alleged by the plaintiff that perusal of termination
Notice would, itself, indicate the collusion of the Head owner (Best
Excellence Corporation Limited) with the owners (Lianyl Shipping
Limited and Admiral Shipping LDC). Admiral Shipping LLC vide
Termination notice dated 02.12.2018 sought to terminate the Charter
Party with effect from 30.11.2018. Such dating back of the Termination
was done with an attempt to cover up the alleged fraudulent
cancellation of the Letter of Authority. The plaintiff has thus, claimed Page 7 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

entitlement to arrest the defendant vessel in order to exercise its claim.
The head owners terminated all the back to back charter parties,
according to the Plaintiff, to escape its liability to pay plaintiff's claims.
The plaintiff has also communicated its opposition to the alleged illegal
termination by Admiral Shipping LLC. The Plaintiff also sent e-mail
dated 12.12.2018 through its Advocate to the seller of the Cargo, Nava
Investments Private Limited and to the proposed Buyer, Vimal Coal
Private Limited and intimated that the Plaintiff would exercise lien over
the cargo for the reasons mentioned, therein. Since, they denied the
right of the Plaintiff to exercise the lien, the Plaintiff through its Advocate
sent further reply via e-mail dated 14.12.2018 and clarified that it has all
the rights to exercise lien and it would proceed to exercise the same. 3.13 According to the plaintiff, it has a recognized maritime claim
against the defendant vessel under the provisions of Admiralty
(Jurisdiction and Settlement of Maritime Claims) Act, 2017 , and the
international conventions. According to the plaintiff, claim is constituted
on a valid maritime claim, as is held by the Apex Court in the case of 'M.V. ELISABETH AND ORS. Vs. HARWAN INVESTMENT AND
TRADING PVT. LTD., HANOEKARHOUSE, SWAT ', AIR 1993 SC
1014, and as laid down by way of ratio binding to all Courts. The plaintiff
has further averred that it is entitled to proceed in rem and this Court
has jurisdiction to entertain and try this Suit under the provisions of the
Admiralty Act, 2017. 4. It is worthwhile to mention at this juncture that this Court granted
interim relief, on 26.02.2019, by passing the following order: 7. The present application came to be filed on 05.03.2019 by the
defendant-applicant for setting aside the arrest of the vessel and for
return of the amount of security deposit tendered by the defendant and
also for directing the plaintiff to furnish the counter guarantee. C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER 8. The applicant-defendant by moving present application has
sought the following prayers: 9.1 The defendant has denied each and every averment made
in the plaint and it is contended that the plaintiff has no prima facie case
and there is no privity of contract with the plaintiff. This application has
been preferred for the purpose of vacating the order of arrest and for
return of amount of security. 9.2 It is, further, urged that the plaintiff has suppressed the
important documents and material and has mis-stated the facts with a
mala fide intention. It is also urged that the order of arrest was also not
obtained with the clean hands. 9.3 According to the defendant, it is normal in the shipping
trade that the owner of a vessel to charter or hire out a vessel to Party -
A and party A , in turn, to sub-charter the vessel to Party-B and so on
and so forth and the same has been done in the instant case. The
contractual chain evolved in the context of this vessel is narrated as
follows: 9.6 According to the defendant, cargo was loaded on board of
the vessel on 21.10.2018 for carriage from Muara Berau, Indonesia to
Kandla, India. 9.7 Since, the Defendant did not have any agent at load port,
to save time and for ease of logistical purposes, the Defendant issued a
Letter of Authority dated 23.10.2018 to the Plaintiff for the limited
purpose of authorizing the plaintiff to sign Bills of Lading, strictly in
accordance with Mate's Receipt for and on behalf of the defendant and Page 16 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

under no circumstances, was there any other agreement or
arrangement between the Plaintiff and the defendant. The Plaintiff's
right to obtain such Letter of Authority from the Master originates from
Clause-58 of the Charter Party between Admiral Shipping LLC and the
defendant. The said clause 58 reads provides that "...Master and
Owners to authorize Charterers and/ or their agents to sign Bill of
Lading for and on behalf of the Master, if so, required by Charterers, as
long as Charterer's fulfill their obligations, stipulated in this Charter
Party...". 9.8 From a bare perusal of the said clause, according to the
Defendant, it becomes clear that the Letter of Authority would remain
operative so long as the Plaintiff fulfills obligations under the Charter
Party. According to the Defendant, the Plaintiff failed to fulfill its
obligations under the Charter Party, as a result of which, the Letter of
Authority was revoked. The Letter of Authority permitted the Plaintiff's
agent, Wallem Sentosa Shipping Services to issue Bills of Lading on the
Defendant's behalf. However, the Plaintiff did not acquire any rights
under the Bills of Lading, which remained a contract between the
defendant and the cargo owners. All that was agreed was that, for
logistical purposes, Wallem could be the party to physically issue the
Bills of Lading. Bills of lading for the Cargo on board were issued on
02.11.2019 by Wallem on the defendant's behalf. As there was a
subsequent change in the buyers of the Cargo, the defendant was
asked to issue "Switched Bills of Lading". Initially, it was the Plaintiff,
who, on 20.11.2018, at 15:41 hrs., had asked the Defendant to issue
the Switched Bills of Lading. There are several subsequent and prior
communications on this aspect. The Plaintiff, therefore, according to the
defendant ought to have disclosed the communications to which it was
a party. However, the Plaintiff has deliberately suppressed some of Page 17 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

those. 9.9 On 19.11.2018, the defendant received an email from
Bromar Shipping Ltd.. By the said email, Bromar informed the
Defendant that Lianyl had received instructions from its sub-charterer
that the Original Bills of Lading were null and void and that the bills of
lading were to be reissued. This has been suppressed by the Plaintiff.
On 20.11.2018, the Defendant responded to the plaintiff that it will
check with its charterers and revert back and this clearly shows that the
Defendant was acting for and on behalf of Lianyl. On 20.11.2018, the
defendant received another response from Bromar, whereby, Bromar
informed that Lianyl had passed along the Plaintiff's message as to the
reason for re-issuance of Bills of Lading, which has been suppressed by
the Plaintiff. Further, on 23.11.2018, the Plaintiff sent an email to the
Master with the draft Bills of Lading it wanted the Master to authorize it
to issue. According to the Defendant, this ought not to have been done,
since, the Plaintiff had no direct contractual relationship with the
Defendant. It is, thus, the say of the Defendant that the draft Bills of
Lading sent by the Plaintiff clearly show that the place of issue is to be
shown as Indonesia. It was the Plaintiff's draft that showed the place of
issue as Indonesia, despite the Vessel being in India by that time.
Moreover, the said draft erroneously back dated the Bills of Lading to
21.10.2018, which pre-dated the Letter of Authority, which was issued
on 23.10.2018. This also has been suppressed by the Plaintiff. 9.10 According to the Defendant, it was bound to follow its
charterer's, namely Lianyl's instructions, if the same was in terms of the
Charter Party between the Defendant and Lianyl. However, no
instruction had been forthcoming from Lianyl on issuance of fresh Bills
of Lading in the form required by the Plaintiff. In view of this, taken Page 18 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

along with the fact that it had no direct contractual relationship with the
Plaintiff, the defendant did not respond to the Plaintiff's email. The
Plaintiff, then, sent another email on 23.10.2018, in which it raised
according to the Defendant several unpalatable contentions. Since,
certain vague allegations had been made against it, the Defendant was
constrained to respond to the Plaintiff directly vide email dated
24.11.2018, whereby, it highlighted the lack of privity of contract
between the Plaintiff and the Defendant and proceeded to respond to
each of the Plaintiff's incoherent allegations. This email also has been
deliberately suppressed by the Plaintiff. Thereafter, on 28.11.2018, the
Defendant was informed that Lianyl was going to terminate its Charter
Party with Admiral for non-payment of hire. Admiral's non-payment to
Lianyl was no doubt triggered by the Plaintiff's admitted default in
payment of hire to Admiral. Thereafter, the Defendant revoked the
Letter of Authority given by the Master to Wallem. i.e. the Plaintiff's
agent, in accordance with Clause-58 of the Charter Party between
Admiral and the Plaintiff. The Defendant, on 28.11.2018, revoked the
Letter of Authority dated 23.10.2018 given to Wallem, only because the
Plaintiff failed to fulfill its obligations to pay hire to Admiral, who in turn
failed to pay Lianyl, thus, breaching the conditions of the Charter Party,
led to chain of consequence. On 30.11.2018, Lianyl sent another email
to Admiral terminating the Charter Party between it and Admiral, where,
the Defendant was also marked in, and so was the Plaintiff's agent. 9.11 Thereafter, Admiral, on 02.12.2018, effectively passed on
the same message to the Plaintiff that because of the Plaintiff's failure
to pay hire to it, Admiral could not, in turn, pay hire to Lianyl and as a
result of which, Lianyl terminated its contract with Admiral and Admiral
in turn terminated its contract with the Plaintiff. paying hire to its contractual counterpart, owner, as a result of which the
Charter Patty chain was broken. The chain having been broken, the
Plaintiff's entitlement to any Letter of Authority also came to an end. In
any case, the Plaintiff's entitlement was dependent on it fulfilling its
obligations under its Charter Party with Admiral. Having, thus, failed to
fulfill its obligation of payment of hire, it was, but, logical that, inter alia,
the Letter of Authority would be revoked. 9.13 Therefore, according to the defendant, on Lianyl's
instructions, it authorized the issuance of Switched Bills of Lading on
14.12.2018 by one Cos Marine Co. Ltd, who was its newly appointed
load port agent in Indonesia. The Plaintiff sought to place reliance on
email dated 29.11.2018, which was sent by it, after the Letter of
Authority was revoked by pointing out that this had remained
unanswered. However, according to the defendant, this is factually
incorrect, since, the said email was immediately responded by the
defendant's Lawyer at Hong Kong on 30.11.2018, itself, which has been
suppressed by the Plaintiff. 9.14 It is the case of the Defendant that the plaint dated
28.02.2019 for arrest of the vessel was filed by the Plaintiff on the
misconceived ground that it has a legitimate maritime claim/lien against
the vessel. The Plaintiff also, according to the defendant, has vaguely
and mischievously held the defendant liable for amounts due to it from
third parties, who are wholly unrelated to the Defendant. The Plaintiff
has vaguely categorized its claim as a 'Maritime Claim' under the Admiralty (Jurisdiction and Settlement) of Maritime Claims Act, 2017 ,
without specifically pointing out to this Court, the nature of its claim. The
Plaintiff's case seems to be centered around (i) Alleged fraudulent Page 20 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

cancellation by the Defendant, on 28.11.2018, the Letter of Authority
dated 23.11.2018 given in favour of Wallem i.e. the Plaintiff's agent (ii)
the Defendant colluded with Admiral and Lianyl and terminated all the
Charter Party agreements, (iii) the Defendant concocted the Switched
Bills of Lading dated 14.12.2018 and colluded with the shipper on the
ground that the place of issuance is shown as Indonesia, while the
Vessel was in India and (iv) the Defendant is liable to reimburse the hire
paid by the Plaintiff to Admiral or, alternatively, the freight or demurrage
or dead freight due to the Plaintiff from its charterer, Excelzior Logistics
Ltd., UK. 9.15 According to the Defendant, none of these furnishes a
cause of action to the Plaintiff against the Defendant and they are all,
not only patently false, but as such, have no basis in law or in fact. The
Plaintiff, according to the Defendant, has failed to show any in
personam liability of the Defendant for the purported maritime claim set
out in its Plaint. It is urged that the Admiralty Act, 2017, specifically,
provides that in personam liability of the owner of the vessel is
mandatory for maintaining an action in rem against the vessel. Thus,
the Plaintiff's case, in fact, is against Admiral for alleged wrongful
termination of its Charter Party and / or against Excelzior Logistics Ltd.,
UK, for nonpayment of freight or dead freight or demurrage and / or
against the cargo interests for an alleged lien on the cargo. 9.16 It is, further, the say of the Defendant that it does not stand
to gain anything by defrauding the Plaintiff, as is wrongly alleged by the
Plaintiff. The Switched Bills of Lading issued by the Defendant are
genuine and it is not concerned with or responsible for the cancellation
of any of the Charter Parties. There is a complete absence of element
of fraud involved as alleged in cancellation of Letter of Authority and Page 21 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

therefore, the Defendant shall not be liable for advance hire, if any, paid
by the Plaintiff to Admiral Shipping LLC. It shall also not be liable for the
non-receipt of freight or dead freight or demurrage due to the plaintiff
from Excelzior Logistics Ltd., UK, and there is no Maritime Claim
against it. The Plaintiff, according to the Defendant, has raised
purported claims on several parties, including the shipper, its charterer,
namely Excelzior Logistics Ltd., UK, and Admiral Shipping LLC, the
consignee and the owner, the defendant. According to the Defendant,
this is nothing, but, a fishing expedition by the Plaintiff to try and harass
the defendant into settling its alleged claim, which arose due to the
default of its counterpart, namely Excelzior Logistics Ltd., UK. 9.17 The stand taken by the Defendant, thus, can be
summarized that the Defendant issued the Letter of Authority for the
limited purpose of authorizing the Plaintiff for signing the Bills of Lading
for and on behalf of the defendant only because the Defendant did not
have any agent at the load port. The Plaintiff failed to fulfill its
obligations under the Charter Party with Admiral Shipping LLC, as a
result of which, the entire chain is broken. The Defendant also never
had any contractual relationship with the Plaintiff and it has no
obligation towards the Plaintiff. The alleged loss occurred to the plaintiff
was prior to the Defendant's, alleged, wrongful revocation of the Letter
of Authority dated 23.10.2018. It is also the case of the Defendant that
the Plaintiff's debtor is its Charterer, Excelzior Logistics Ltd., UK. The
Plaintiff, however, has sought to hold several parties liable for the said
claim. The Plaintiff has already secured its claim by way of alleged lien
to be exercised over the cargo, therefore, the present Suit is nothing,
but, the gross abuse of the process or law. It is also urged that the
entire action is illegal, untenable and deserves dismissal of the suit with
costs. C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER 10. This has been replied to by the other side by way of its
power-of-attorney, where, all the details, which have been provided in
the plaint, by and large, have been reproduced. However, all allegations
with regard to the suppression of material facts etc. have been denied in
toto. It is the stand of the plaintiff that serious disputes have arisen
between the parties, which would require adjudication, by permitting the
parties to lead evidence and such complex factual disputes can only be
decided during the course of trial. It is, therefore, urged that the Plaintiff
has made out a strong, prima facie, case, which warrants dismissal of
the present application. 11. Affidavit-in-rejoinder also has been filed by the Defendant
through its power-of-attorney, namely Shri. Ganesh Marwadi, who has
denied all the contents of the affidavit filed by the Plaintiff. According to
him, there are no triable issues involved in the Suit and the Plaintiff has
not made out, even, prima facie case, as to why the arrest should be
upheld. Apart from the bald averments, no material has been produced.
On the contrary, the relevant material, according to the Defendant, has
been deliberately suppressed by the Plaintiff, which would also make
the Suit liable to be dismissed at the threshold. 12. This Court has heard the learned Senior Advocate Mr.
Bharucha with learned Advocates, Mr. Dhaval Barot and Mr.
Khoobchandani for the applicant-defendant and learned Sr. Advocate,
Mr. Mihir Thakor, with learned Advocate, Mr. Manav Mehta, for the
respondent-plaintiff. also have filed their written-submissions in support of their respective
pleadings. 12.2 They also relied on various authorities for substantiating
their pleadings and oral submissions, which, as and when necessary
,shall find place in this order. 13. For the Best Excellence Corporation Ltd.-the applicant/ original
defendant, which is the head Owner of the defendant vessel, namely
Silvia Glory, Learned senior Advocate Mr. Bharucha seeking vacation of
the order of arrest dated 26.02.2019 and the return of security and
security for costs has essentially and predominantly, fervently submitted
that the time charterer of the defendant-vessel, namely Lianyl Shipping
Ltd., came into picture on account of Charter Party Agreement between
the applicant-Best Excellence Corporation Ltd. and Lianyl dated
07.02.2018. There is already an Email to conclude the contract between
the parties, which incorporates terms of an earlier charter party dated
25.05.2017. The Charterer was to use the defendant-vessel and pay the
hire and for bunkers. 13.1 The Lianyl gave a sub-contract to the time Charter Admiral
Shipping LLC vide agreement dated 31.08.2018. In turn, it gave the
sub-sub-time Charter of the vessel to one Bulk Marine Pvt. Ltd., i.e. the
original plaintiff and the opponent in this application, on 12.09.2018. The
Bulk Marine is the party, at whose behest, the arrest of the defendant
vessel has been ordered in Admiralty Suit No. 1 of 2018. It was the Bulk
Marine, which had ordered fuel through G.P. Global APAC Pvt. Ltd. and
defaulted in making the payment. It is the Bulk Marine, which has
defaulted in making payment of hire to Admiralty Shipping. The Bulk Page 24 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

Marine has given sub-sub-sub Voyage Charter of the vessel to
Excelzior Logistics Ltd. by virtue of the Charter Party agreement dated
12.09.2018 entered into by and between the Bulk Marine and the
Excelzior Logistics Ltd.. 13.2 It is the say of the Learned Counsel that according to the
Bulk Marine, Excelzior Logistics Ltd. is an insolvent and it defaulted in
making payment of freight, dead freight and demurrage to Bulk Marine
from 30.10.2018. Hence, for the outstanding dues, the Bulk Marine has
initiated arbitration proceedings in London, where, the Excelzior is not
appearing, allegedly. 13.3 It is, further submitted that it is not unusual in the shipping
industry, for the head owner to lease or hire a vessel to a charterer and
the charterer, then, sub-leases or hires the vessel to a sub-charterer
and so on. 13.4 The contractual arrangements were such that Excelzior
would pay freight to Bulk Marine and Bulk Marine would arrange for
carriage of goods from Indonesia to India, under the voyage charter
party dated 12.09.2018, entered into between Bulk Marine and
Excelzior. 13.5 Bulk Marine was required to pay, on regular basis, hire to
Admiral and Admiral was to make available the vessel M.V. Silvia Glory
for its use as directed under the time charter party dated 12.09.2018,
entered into between Admiral and Bulk Marine. The Admiral was also
required to pay regular hire to Lianyl and Lianyl was to make available
the vessel, M.V. Silvia Glory for its use, as directed under the Time Page 25 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

Charter Party dated 31.08.2018 between Lianyl and Admiral. 13.6 Lianyl was also required to pay regular hire to Best
Excellence and Best Excellence was to make available the vessel, M.V.
Silvia Glory, for its use, as directed under the Charter Party dated
07.02.2018 between Best Excellence and Lianyl. 13.7 According to the Counsel, these are the four separate
Charter Party agreements or contracts, which create separate rights
and obligations between the parties to the contract. 13.8 It is also the submissions on the behalf of the applicant that
in a contract for the sale of goods, once the shipper / seller loads its
goods onto the vessel, the ship owner or its nominee, at load port,
issues Bill of Lading to the shipper, representing the goods being
carried. The shipper or seller, then, endorses and gives the Bill of
Lading to the consignee or buyer and receives payment in exchange for
the same. This would be either done directly or through bank. Then, the
consignee or the buyer, at the discharge port, present the Bill of Lading
to the ship owner and take delivery of the goods. The Bill of Lading duly
endorsed in favour of a party is evidence of the entitlement to the goods
of that party. 13.9 According to the senior Advocate, the party, which would
have rights under the Bill of Lading, is the ship owner, the shipper and
the consignee or any other party to whom the Bill of Lading has been
endorsed. However, mere physical possession of the Bill of Lading
does not confer any rights under the Bill of Lading, unless it has been
endorsed to the lawful holder of the bills of lading. In this regard, the Page 26 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

reliance is placed on the decision of the Apex Court in 'BRITISH INDIA
STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD. VS. SHANMUGAVILAS CASHEW
INDUSTRIES AND OTHERS ', 1990 SCC (3) 481. 13.10 It is, thus, the say of the Counsel that transaction between
the shipper and torq is irrelevant to the present Suit, except, to the
extent that Bulk Marine has made reference to a dispute between the
shipper and the Torq as the background against which, the claim for
freight, dead-freight and demurrage has arisen. It is emphatically urged
before this Court that the only parties, which shall have right under the
Bill of Lading are the shipper-Nava Investments Pvt. Ltd., carrier or ship
owner - Best Excellence and the consignee, i.e. Vimal Coal Pvt. Ltd. 13.11 It is the say of the applicant that the Bulk Marine never had
any rights under the Bills of Lading, as it was merely a charterer in a
chain of charterers, whose only limited logistical role was to physically
give the Bills of Lading through its agent, namely Wallem Shipping, to
the shipper, i.e. Nava Investments Pvt. Ltd., at load port. Wallem
Shipping was appointed for the limited purpose of issuing bills to the
shipper, as it did not have a local agent at the load port, i.e. Indonesia. 13.12 It is emphasized before this Court that the entire Suit is an
experiment and an abuse of process of law, since, the plaintiff is a
dishonest litigant, who has admittedly defaulted in making payment of
hire to Admiral and it also has not made payment for the bunkers
ordered by it from PG Global, which has resulted into wrongful arrest of
the defendant-vessel in Admiralty Suit No. 1 of 2018. it is also urged
that the Plaintiff also has, mischievously, filed ambiguous caveat
against release from arrest and despite repeated requests to provide Page 27 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

the details of cause of action so also the quantum of claim against the
Head Owners, it has not provided the same, and thereby, has
suppressed the material documents, at the time of obtaining the order of
arrest of the defendant-vessel. 13.13 According to Ld. Counsel for the Defendant, the claim for
freight, dead-freight and demurrage, was due to the plaintiff from its
Voyage Charterer, namely Excelzior, on 30.10.2018. There is ex facie
no causation or link between the plaintiffs alleged claim for freight, dead
freight or demurrage and any of the applicant's alleged wrongs. It is
urged that the plaintiff has commenced arbitration proceedings against
Excelzior in London, where, the case pleaded in the arbitration
proceedings, before the Court at London in respect of the very claim, is
entirely contrary and wholly inconsistent with the averments made in the
Plaint so also the arguments made before this Court. It is, therefore,
urged that the plaintiff has ascribed completely different and opposite
reasons before the Court at London and before this Court. It is, further,
urged that despite Excelzior's failure to participate in the proceedings
before the Court at London, the plaintiff has taken no action to obtain
and execute an award against Excelzior and instead, it is wrongly
seeking to recover its outstanding dues, since, Excelzior is an insolvent,
from the defendant-vessel, though, there is no privity of contract with
'the applicant. 13.14 It is also, further, urged that the plaintiff ex facie has no
maritime claim against either the defendant-vessel nor is there any
material on record to give the Court a 'Reason to Believe' that the
applicant is liable to pay the unpaid freight, dead freight and demurrage
to the plaintiff. Again, the averments made in the plaint are unsupported
by the correspondence. It is also urged that the averments made in the Page 28 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

plaint are completely false and unsupported by the documents
produced by the plaintiff, itself. 13.15 According to the Defendant, the vexatious and oppressive
nature of the plaintiff's action is further established by the oral
arguments, which travel beyond the scope of pleading, since, it is a
completely new case of the tort of deceit, where, the privity of contract is
sought to be advanced in oral arguments by the plaintiff. It is also
emphasized that the order of arrest is wrongly obtained by the plaintiff,
on the basis of completely false and unsubstantiated assertions and by
suppression of relevant and material facts and correspondences. 13.16 It is urged by the Counsel that, while assessing the merits
of the case of the Bulk Marine, the standard of the review should be as
provided by the Apex Court in case of 'VSNL VS. KAPITAN KUD, 1996
SCC (7) 127 and the English Law in case of 'SCHWARZ & CO.
(GRAIN) LTD. VS. ST. ELEFTERIO'. The standard of review to be
applied by a Court in an admiralty suit is the same as in any other
interim order, i.e. the prima facie case. This stands to reason, since, the
admiralty law is a sub-set of general commercial law and the same
principles apply. 13.17 According to the applicant, if, the version of the plaintiff is
accepted, then, there will never be a case of an arrest being vacated,
since, no case is beyond all reasonable doubt and that would be also
contrary to the general principles of commercial law. The standards of
review in an admiralty cause have been codified by Section 5(1) of the
Admiralty Act, 2017, which provides that the Court must have a reason
to believe to uphold the arrest. is vastly different. Section 5(1) of the Admiralty Act, 2017, states that
the Courts must have a reason to believe that the ship owner is liable,
and therefore, there is no requirement, under the Indian Law, to
postpone or defer the determination of the ship owner's liability to trial.
The review is not, whether, the ship owner 'would be liable', but, it is the
one, whether, the ship owner 'is liable'. A comparative chart of the
Administration of Justice Act, 1956, and the Admiralty Act, 2017, also
has been produced. 13.19 It is, therefore, urged that the decision in 'VSNL' (Supra)
follows the decision in case of 'SCHWARZ & CO. (GRAIN) LTD.'
(Supra), which is no longer a good law, in view of the clear wordings of
Admiralty Act, 2017. It is, further, urged that 'VSNL' (Supra) has been
interpreted by both by the Bombay and the Gujarat High Courts to mean
that the party seeking an arrest, needs to make out a prima facie case.
The legislative intent underlying Section 5(1) of the Act of 2017 is
apparent. The expression, 'Reason to Believe' employed in Section 5(1) of the Act of 2017, indicates that the legislature was conscious of the
fact that the arrest of a ship is a drastic remedy, which disrupts
international trade and prejudices innocent third parties. Therefore, the
legislature intended the Courts to exercise the arrest jurisdiction
cautiously and carefully, after it is satisfied that the owner of the ship is
liable. Thus, this new statutory provision imposes a duty on the Courts
to probe and evaluate the case of both parties and not just that of the
claimant or the plaintiff. 13.20 In short, what has been emphasized on the part of the
applicant-Defendant is that the Bulk Marine presently considers Best Page 30 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

Excellence liable for the freight, which the Excelzior failed to pay to the
Bulk Marine under the Voyage Charter Party dated 12.09.2018, entered
into between the Bulk Marine and Excelzior. It also considers the Head
Owner liable for the total hire the Bulk Marine has paid to Admiral under
the Time Charter Party dated 12.09.2018, entered into by and between
the Admiral and Bulk Marine, and thus, from the Head Owner, Best
Excellence, it seeks to recover the amount paid under its contract with
Excelzior and Admiral, which ought to be recovered from its contractual
counterpart. Thus, according to the applicant/Defendant, this is in
violation of the basic principles of Admiralty Law. The owner can never
be liable for debt, dead-freight or hire or demurrage. According to the
applicant, it is noting, but, the abuse of process of law on the part of the
Bulk Marine to contend that the amount, which is due to it, be paid by
the Head Owner. It, in fact, has urged that the amount due cannot be
recovered from the ship owners. It is also the grievance on the part of
the applicant-respondent that in the plaint, the case pleaded against the
Head Owner is in no manner substantiated by any document. The
arguments were orally advanced at the time of applying for the arrest of
the defendant-vessel and thereby, a wholly new case was orally made
by the plaintiff in response to the submissions for vacating the order of
arrest of vessel. 13.21 Another ground, which has been raised is of suppression
by Bulk Marine, which according to the applicant-respondent, is a
dishonest litigant. It failed to pay G.P. Global, on account of which the
vessel came to be arrested by GP Global of Best Excellence . It also
failed to pay hire to its contractual counterpart, Admiral Shipping and
then, Bulk Marine obtained an ex parte order of arrest of vessel, by
suppressing all vital documents, the details of which have already been
provided. Therefore, it is urged that the plaintiff-since does not have any
privity of the contract with the owner-Defendant, it would be guided by Page 31 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

the instructions of its contractual counterpart, i.e. Lianyl. It is lamented
that no case is made out of any kind of tort, let alone the tort from
deceit, being committed by the Excelziors. No fruitful gain is to be
obtained by the defendant by disqualifying the plaintiff. It has also raised
the very claim against Excelziors, i.e. shipper, for exercise of lien on
goods. It also has taken a stand in support of its case, it has claimed.
Although, it has already secured its claim on account of Lianyl. It is,
therefore, urged that the contemporaneous documents in the
correspondence would not give the Court any reason to believe that the
Defendant is responsible for alleged claim of the plaintiff. It, on the
contrary, demonstrates that applicant/ Defendant can never be held
liable for plaintiff's claim, which arises on 24.09.2018. Since, there is
suppression of the material fact by which the order of arrest of the
vessel was obtained, the same deserves to be vacated without waiting
for the recordance of the evidence. The applicant-respondent also shall
be entitled to claim legal costs, since, the plaintiff is a foreign company,
having its place of business in Singapore and it does not possess any
property in India. It also has urged that the respondent, since, is
required to secure legal costs to the tune of USD1706450, it should not
happen that one party is fully covered and the other party is left high
and dry as that would be contrary to the principles of equity. The
exigency is made for interim condition, which is just and reasonable, as Section 11(1) of the Admiralty Law also provides such discretion to this
Court. When the arrest is not justifiable, the plaintiff should be put to the
strictest terms and conditions and it should be asked to deposit the
costs and other expenses, which are likely to occur. 14. The plaintiff's stand as canvassed by its Senior Advocate
Mr.Mihir Thakore is that it is incorrect on the part of the applicant-
Defendant to plead that the plaintiff has taken a contrary stand against
the Excelziors in arbitration proceedings. Even otherwise, according to Page 32 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

the plaintiff, present Suit and the arbitration proceedings are based on
two separate and distinct cause of actions. 14.1 The law sought to be relied on, as laid down by the various
Courts in India is not being disputed. The reliance is also placed on the
text of International Convention on the Arrest of Ship dt. 2.03.1999,
which also is not being disputed. However, the interpretation of the text
done by the respondent-applicant is not admitted. For the authorities,
which are sought to be relied on by the defendant, it is urged that the
ratio laid down therein are not disputed. However, it is urged that there
will be no applicability of the said ratio to the case of the applicant-
respondent. It is also urged that the admiralty jurisdiction being a
special jurisdiction, the scope of the inquiry would also demand that the
fraud is to be looked into and the same has to be established, before it
is believed. 14.2 The Learned Counsel of the plaintiff, in its submissions
before this Court has urged that the plaintiff has a maritime claim under Section 419 and 414 of the Act, which relates to a crime relating to the
carriage of goods and damage on the board. The vessels, whether
contained any charter party or otherwise. Section 414 relates to a crime
relating to use of voyage of the vessel, whether it was contained under
the charter party or otherwise. It is urged that it should not be argued on
the part of the applicant-Defendant that the plaintiff does not have any
privity of contract with the applicant in respect of the Charter Party
dated 12.09.2018. Therefore, Sections 419 and 414 of the Act would not
be attracted. The defendant is the registered owner of the vessel,
namely M.V. Sylvia Glory, when the same was arrested. The maritime
claim arose when the applicant refused to approve the second bill of
lading and the defendant revoked the Letter of authority and when the
new bills of lading had been issued by the defendant, by revocation of Page 33 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

Letter of Authority, the defendant made itself liable for the claim. It is
only at the time of conclusion of suit that it can be ascertained as to
what extent the defendant shall be liable. The interpretation of Section
51A, particularly, the words "Is Liable" is to be read in context of the
preceding text, i.e. "the person, who owned the vessel at the time, when
maritime claim arose". It is, therefore, the case of the plaintiff that it is
only required to prima facie show that the defendant is liable for
maritime claim, when it arises, so also the vessel owner. 14.3 It is, further, the say of the Learned Senior Advocate that
the Charter Party dated 31.08.2018, entered into between Lianyl and
Admiral Shipping is not with regard to defendant's claim that it has
produced and the Charter Party dated 12.09.2018, entered into
between Admiral and defendant also permits sub-letting of the vessel.
The rider clause of the said Charter Party, particularly, Clause-58
permitted switching of the bill of lading, subject to the owners' approval
and the same shall not be delayed or withheld unreasonably. Moreover,
every time, the plaintiff was required to switch the bill of lading, it was
required to approach the head owner for its prior approval. Clause-58
obliged the head owner or the defendants to permit the switching of bill
of lading without any delay or without withholding the same,
unreasonably. 14.4 In the instant case, such approval had been withheld by the
defendant and therefore also, the plaintiff is legally entitled to prosecute
its claim against the defendants. The bills of lading were issued under
the authority of the master, who is employed by the Head Owner, all
throughout. It is, further, the say of the plaintiff that back-to-back charter
parties, including the one entered into between the plaintiff and Admiral
Shipping provided for switching of bills. In view thereof, when the
shipper communicated to the plaintiff that there was a change in Page 34 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

assignee, the plaintiff sought approval of the Head Owner for the
switching of bills of lading on 20.11.2018. Further, the plaintiff's agent
was never informed by the agent of the Defendant/applicant that the
shipper had returned the original bill of lading to the plaintiff's agent.
Even, Lianyl also attempted to seek original bill of lading, which was
denied by the Plaintiff's agent and yet it insisted for original bills of
lading to be tendered to the Head Owner. Thereafter, on 22.11.2018, the
Defendant 's agent asked the plaintiff's' agent to forward the first original
and non-original bills of lading to the head owner at the address
provided, therein. Thus, there was a duty cast upon the Head Owner
under Clause-58 of the Charter party, which clearly reflects that the
plaintiff and its agent, in good faith, had parted with the original bill of
lading, knowing fully well that on confirmation of switching of bills of
lading shall be received shortly from the defendants. Thus, it was from
the plaintiff that it received part possession of the original bill of lading.
After the Bulk Marine sent the bills through courier to the Defendant and
started pressing for approval of the same that this chain of events
resulted, pre planned and designed. 14.5 So far as the argument of the applicant-defendant of the
plaintiff having suppressed various material, while obtaining the order of
arrest from the Court, is concerned, the plaintiff has relied on the
decision of the Apex Court in case of 'SJS BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
PVT. LTD. VS. STATE OF BIHAR & ORS.', (2004) 7 SCC 166, which
lays down that as a general rule, suppression of material facts would
disqualify a litigant from obtaining any relief. However, such suppression
must be relevant and should have a bearing on the merits of the case. 14.6 According to the Counsel of the plaintiff, this is not a case,
where, there is suppression of any material fact, which would have a
bearing on the merits of the established case. C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER 15. On having thus heard learned Counsels on both the sides
and on careful consideration of the material, which has been placed
before this Court and before adjudicating the issues raised before it, it
shall need to regard the law on the subject, pressed into service by both
the sides. 15.1 The Plaintiff has contended severely by insisting that various
disputed questions of facts have arisen in this case which shall need to
be adjudicated on conclusions of trial. This court needs to examine is
whether the claim of the Plaintiff is vexatious or not. Once the Plaintiff
makes out a reasonably arguable case, the matter should go for the
trial. 15.2 It will be a matter of examination, by this Court, whether, there
exists reason for exercising the jurisdiction under the Admiralty Law.
What is vital at this stage to decide is whether there is a material
suppression on the part of the plaintiff in obtaining interim relief and
whether is it feasible for the court to decide serious objections on the
part of the Defendant/applicant of continuation of interim relief subject to
the security furnished by plaintiff, till the matter goes for the full fledged
trial. 15.3 Plaintiff has endeavoured also to shift entire burden on the
Defendant by denying clearly that there is any suppression on the part
of the Plaintiff warranting dismissal of the suit. According to it, most of
the emails allegedly suppressed were not marked to the Plaintiff. On
privity of contract, it insists that the Charter Party dt.07.02.2018
between the Respondent and Lianyl permits Lianyl to sublet the vessel
and Clause 58 obligates the head owner Respondent to approve Page 36 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

switching of bills of lading , without any delay, or without withholding the
same unreasonably, thereby constituting a privity between the applicant
and the Plaintiff. Defendant since had withheld approval without giving
any reasons, much less cogent reasons, that has resulted into the
present claim. Again, it is the say of the Plaintiff that all the bills of lading
were issued under the authority of Master who is under the employment
of the head owners all throughout. 16. The first and foremost requirement would be to consider
whether the claim would fall under the Maritime claim or Maritime lien
under the Admiralty act 2017. 16.1 The Admiralty jurisdiction is defined under section 2(A) under the definition clause which is to be exercised by the High Court
under section 3 , in respect of maritime claims specified under this act. 16.2 Section 2(1)(C) speaks of "arrest" which means 'the
detention or restriction for removal of a vessel by order of the High
Court to secure a maritime claim including seizure of a vessel in
execution or satisfaction of judgment or order.'

16.3 Section 2(1)(e) defines the High Court in relation to the
Admiralty proceedings which includes also the High Court of Gujarat. 16.4 The plaintiff has put forth its claims as Maritime Claims
arising under section 4(1)(g) and 4(1) ( h) of the act. (g) agreement relating to the carriage of goods or passengers on board
a vessel, whether contained in a charter party or otherwise; " This provision relates to an agreement relating to the use or hire of the
vessel, whether contained in the Charter Party or otherwise. 16.7 'Maritime claim' would mean claim referred to in section 4 ,
which provides thus: costs of reasonable measures for the restoration of the environment
actually undertaken or to be undertaken; loss incurred or likely to be
incurred by third parties in connection with such damage; or any other
damage, costs, or loss of a similar nature to those identified in this
clause; (v) costs or expenses relating to raising, removal, recovery, destruction
or the rendering harmless of a vessel which is sunk, wrecked, stranded
or abandoned, including anything that is or has been on board such
vessel, and costs or expenses relating to the preservation of an
abandoned vessel and maintenance of its crew; and
(w) maritime lien." 16.8 Section 2(g) defines 'Maritime lien' which means Maritime
claim against the owner, demise Charters, manager or operator of the
vessel referred to in clauses (a) to (e) of subsection (1) of section 9 which will continue to exist under subsection (2) of that section. 16.9 It would be apt to reproduce the entire provision at this
stage: section (1), when the claim arises, and shall run continuously without
any suspension or interruption: The term 'Territorial water" shall have the same meaning as assigned to
it in the territorial waters, continental shelf, exclusive economic zone
and other Maritime zones act 1976 , as defined under section 2 (k) of the
Act. 16.10 Section 3 provides for Admiralty jurisdiction and maritime
claims. 16.11 It is apparent from section 3 that jurisdiction in respect of
all maritime claims under this act, subject to section 4 and 5 of the said
act, vests in the respective High courts and be exercisable over the
waters up to and including the territorial waters of their respective
jurisdictions in accordance with the provisions contained in this act. The
central government of course, has power by notification to extend the
jurisdiction of the High Court up to the limit as defined in section 2 of the
territorial waters, Continental shelf, Exclusive Economic zone and other
Maritime zones act, 1976. 16.12 Under section 4 , the High Court is given the discretion to
exercise jurisdiction to hear and determine any questions on a maritime
claim against any vessel. It defines maritime claims from clauses (a) to
(w). Section 4(1)(w) under the Maritime claim provides maritime lien,
which are of five kinds and defined under Section 9 of the Act. 16.13 Section 5 permits the High Court to order arrest of any
vessel in rem which is within its jurisdiction for the purpose of providing
security against a maritime claim which is the subject of Admiralty
proceeding where the court has reason to believe that the person who
owned the vessel at the time when the maritime claim arose is liable for
the maritime claim and is the owner of the vessel when the arrest is
effected. hereinafter , 'reason to believe' is opined to be stronger than satisfaction
and there should be reasons to believe and such reasons must be on
the basis of information which is in the possession of the concerned
officer and there has to be a live link between the information and the
formation of belief. It is emphasized that there has to be a genuine
satisfaction arrived at upon a honest and reasonable evaluation of
information coming to authority. The reasons for the formation of the
belief must have a rational connection with or relevant bearing on the
formation of the belief and rational connection postulates that there
must be a direct link or close nexus which should be there between the
material before the officer and the belief which is formed. Thus, the
belief must not be arbitrary and irrational and the belief must not be
based on mere suspicion, but, should be based on information. If the
information is non-existent or irrelevant or the belief is dishonest, then,
such action is liable to be struck down by the court. 16.15 Of course, it is necessary to emphasize at this stage that
the discretion under section 5 of the Admiralty is with the High Court
which has to satisfy itself and it has a reason to believe that the person
who owned the vessel at the time of arrest of Vessel was liable for
Maritime claim when it arose ,on the basis of the live link of information
and on arriving at genuine satisfaction, it surely under the law can
exercise its discretion. The question that would arises as to whether the
information which have been provided are genuine, on the strength of
which the court can formulate its belief and in fact has based its genuine
satisfaction that the Respondent herein as the owner of the vessel was
responsible for the in personam liability that existed of the owner of the
vessel which is mandatory for maintaining an action in rem against the Page 44 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

vessel. It is trite that for Maritime claim set out in the plaint, the plaintiff
is required to show in personam liability of the defendant. In other
words, for the maritime claims set out by the party claiming arrest, the Admiralty Act provides for establishing in personam liability of the owner
of the vessel which is mandatory for maintaining any action in rem
against the vessel. 16.16. A vessel can be arrested by way of discretion of the High
Court in accordance with section 4 and 5 of the Admiralty Act . A party,
seeking arrest of a vessel must have a maritime claim against a ship
and also needs to satisfy the court that such person as the owner of the
vessel is liable in personam for the maritime claim. Thus, where a party
which seeks arrest of the vessel needs to plead specifically claiming
against the vessel and also is required to satisfy the court that the
person against whom the claim is maintained, as the owner of the
vessel is liable in personam for such claim. Alternatively, The party
seeking arrest of the vessel must have Maritime lien on the vessel in
which case, the requirement of personal liability of the owner is not
insisted by the Act. 16.17 Maritime lien is defined under the Act and Section 9 provides the details of the same. Admittedly, the plaintiff herein does not
plead Maritime lien, but, Maritime claim against the Defendant. For the
plaintiff to succeed, it needs to demonstrate that the Defendant is
personally liable for its claim. Plaintiff namely Bulk Marine if has a
maritime claim, the court needs to on the basis of information's
provided by the plaintiff shall have to have reason to believe that the
defendant , Best excellence is liable in personam for the maritime claim
pleaded by the plaintiff for the court to grant arrest of the vessel. This is
what the statute provides. For the plaintiff to establish the liability of Page 45 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

Defendant, it has contended 1) the privity of contract with Best
excellence by way of clause 58 of charter party between plaintiff Bulk
Marine and Admiral and it has also contended that 2) Best Excellence is
guilty of tort of deceit and therefore, is liable for plaintiff's Maritime
claim. According to the Defendant, neither of these cases has been
pleaded in the plaint by the plaintiff and it has been subsequently
pleaded in the oral submissions. 16.18 According to the Plaintiff, it has already pleaded in its plaint,
with regard to the Maritime claim against the defendant under section
4(1)(g) and 4(1)(h) of the Act and it is not required to plead legal
provisions in the pleadings and it has, in fact, pleaded that its Maritime
Claims arise from Charter Party Agreement read with the Bill of lading,
in relation to the carriage of goods and hire of vessel and it has also
claimed that so far as the question of privity of contract is concerned,
there is no necessity that the claim in question be directly connected
with some agreement made between the two parties. It has also
maintained that it has not suppressed anything or any document which
can have any bearing upon the final outcome. Again, According to the
plaintiff, it has to show prima facie only that the Respondent was the
owner of the vessel at the time when liability arose in connection with
the Maritime claim, at the time of arrest which it has already
established. 17. At this stage the decisions relied on by the parties deserve
to be regarded. 17.1 The High Court of Sikkim in its decision in 'SIKKIM SUBBA
ASSOCIATES VS. UNION OF INDIA (UOI) AND OTHERS ', in Civil
Writ Petition No. 10 of 2004, Dated: 31.05.2005, has explained the term Page 46 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

"reason to believe", which according to it, means a genuine satisfaction
arrived at upon a honest and reasonable evaluation of information
coming to authority. Again, there must be a reasonable nexus between
the satisfaction and the situation contemplated in any of the Clauses, as
the Court was considering the matter under the Income Tax Act, 1961 . 17.2 The "reason to believe" is opined to be stronger than
satisfaction and such reasons to believe must be on the basis of the
"information", which is "in the possession of" the concerned officer. It
also emphasized that there must be a live link between the information
and the formation of belief. 17.3 The relevant findings and observations of the Sikkim High Court
 read thus: 30. It is further well-settled that the Courts can interfere if
 information is nonexistent or irrelevant or the belief is
 dishonest. In ITO v. Seth Bios, (supra), it was held that if
 the action is maliciously taken or power under the section
 is exercised for a collateral purpose, it is liable to be
 struck down by the Court. In Vindhya Metal Corporation
 and Ors. v. CIT (supra) at p. 239 approved by apex Court
 in (1997) 224 ITR 614 (SC) (supra), it was held that the
 existence or otherwise of condition precedent to exercise
 of power under these provisions is open to judicial
 scrutiny and the absence of the condition precedent
 would naturally have the effect of vitiating the
 authorization made by the CIT and the proceedings
 consequent thereto. It was further held that the existence
 of information and its relevance to the formation of the
 belief can undoubtedly be gone into by the Court. Further, in Ganga Prasad Maheshwari and Ors. v. CIT (supra) at pp. 1053-4 it was held that if action has been
 taken by the public authorities without there being actual
 reasons to believe about the existence of relevant facts,
 such action is without jurisdiction and it is open to the
 person impugning the action to question the very
 existence of the belief and to contend that the authority
 actually did not entertain any such belief.1 31. It is thus well-settled that under Article 226 of the
 Constitution, the High Court while exercising its Page 48 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

 jurisdiction examines the existence of the information on
 which belief is said to be formed and as to whether the
 information was of such a nature that there was a live link
 or a rational connection between the "information" and
 the formation of the belief. In this jurisdiction, the Court
 examines the satisfaction of the concerned authority on
 the information in his possession and does not substitute
 its own satisfaction by evaluating the information and/or
 material before it. " (See also Income Tax Officer Vs. Lakshmani Mewal Das [(1976) 103 ITR 437]. In Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax v. Rajesh
 Jhaveri Stock Brokers Pvt. Ltd. [2007 (8) SCALE 396],
 interpreting the term `reason to believe' as used under Section 247 (a) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, it was
 opined : 17.7 It is a matter of examination by this Court as to whether
there exists sufficient materials on record providing live link and as to
whether, there exists reason for exercising the jurisdiction under the
Admiralty Law. 18. From the detailed examination of the material on record, it is Page 51 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

apparent prima facie that there is no direct contractual connection
between the plaintiff and the respondent- applicant. The plaintiff has
direct contract with the Admiral and not with the Best Excellence, which
is the head owner. The plaintiff chartered the vessel from Admiral, when
it entered into charter party dated 12.09.2018, on a one time charter, via
Indonesia to west coast India. The plaintiff, then, entered into a voyage
party agreement with the Excelzior for the carriage of 55000 MT of
Indonesian Coal from Moaraberau East Kalimanthan to Kandla Port,
India or to any other port on the west coast of India. The said bill of
lading was issued from the load port, pursuant to the said voyage
charter party agreement to 53575 MT Indonesian coal was loaded on
the vessel on 21.10.2018. Accordingly, the bills of lading, Dated: 18.1 The plaintiff also issued freight invoice on 23.10.2018, as
per the voyage charter party agreement dated 12.09.2018 with
Excelzior. According to the plaintiff, the invoice payment was to be
made within five banking days from the date of lading and releasing of
the signed and stamped bills of lading and receipt of the bank. The
original bills of lading were to be kept in the custody of the agent and
were to be released to the shipper upon receipt of full freight in the Page 52 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

nominated account. The plaintiff, since, was waiting for the freight
payment, it did not part with the original bills of lading, as per the
condition, because there had been certain disputes between the seller
and the buyer of the cargo with respect to the opening of clean letter of
credit. The shipper requested the Plaintiff not to forward the original bills
of lading to the buyer, i.e. the Torque Commodities Pvt. Ltd. and it was
also repeatedly advised by the shipper to withhold the original bills of
lading, and therefore, the same had been retained. 18.2 The vessel arrived at Kandla, outer anchorage, on
07.11.2018. The delay that had occurred at the load port, the plaintiff
was to recover USD325961.46 towards the load port demurrage. Due to
discharge of the cargo at Kandla, the plaintiff also averred entitlement to
recover demurrage due to such delay and it estimated the demurrage at
the discharge port to the sum of USD253272.50. Thus, the plaintiff
raised demurrage invoice dated 19.11.2018 for the sum of
USD579,233.96. 18.3 Lianyl Shipping, when came to know about the dispute
between the shipper-Nava Pvt. Ltd. and the old buyer-Torque
Commodities Pvt. Ltd., it requested the plaintiff's agent on 22.11.2018 to
send original bills of lading to Lianyl. It was confirmed from the plaintiff's
agent that it was still holding the original bills of lading. The agent had
also insisted that only on written communication from the principal, i.e.
the Plaintiff and the head owner-Best Excellence, the same shall be
released. It was also clarified that the cancelled bills of lading should be
parted with and accordingly, on 20.11.2018, the plaintiff's agent sent an
email to the head owner's agent, i.e. Forerunner Shipping Company
Ltd., and the master of the vessel, informing that the old contract
between the shipper-Torque Commodities stood cancelled, and
therefore, the earlier load port bills of lading would remain cancelled. It Page 53 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

was also informed that the details of revised mate's receipts and the
bills of lading shall be forwarded to them for their approval. The Head
Owner through its agent advised the agent of the plaintiff to stamp the
original bills of lading as the null and void and courier the same along
with mate's receipt to the head owner, at the address provided by the
head owner. According to the plaintiff, acting in the good faith, the
plaintiff cancelled the bills of lading and the mate's receipt and sent the
same to the head owner with a hope to get the mate's receipt reissued.
It also sent revised bills of lading and the mate's receipt to the master of
the vessel and the head owner for its confirmation. A request was made
to the master of the vessel to sign and send Mate's receipt so that the
plaintiff's agent can issue new switched bills of lading. The charter party
agreement stipulated that the bills of lading are to be issued in
conformity with the mate's receipt. Therefore, in absence of mate's
receipt, the switched bills of lading could not be issued, even if, the
plaintiff's agent was having the letter of authority to issue such switched
bills of lading. Nothing was done at the end of the head owner or the
master of the vessel and they both continued to maintain silence over
the issuance of the switched bills and the mate's receipt. It the
meantime, it was realized that the Nava Investments Pvt. Ltd. acting
through P.T. Energy Lintas Samudra, as the shipper, on account of the
dispute with the original buyer had terminated the earlier sale purchase
contract with Torque and had entered into a resale contract with the
Vimal Coal Pvt. Ltd.. In the meantime, the letter of authority, issued on
23.10.2018, in favour of the P.T. Energy Lintas Samudra Shipping
Service had been cancelled by the head owners of the vessel on
20.11.2018. 18.4 A protest was lodged through email against such
termination of the letter of authority. The plaintiff also questioned the
intention of the master of the vessel and the head owner in cancelling Page 54 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

such letter of authority. Allegations are also to the effect that with the
head owners of the vessel in collusion with the respondent, the owners
had terminated back-to-back charter parties, including the charter party
dated 12.09.2018 between the plaintiff and the Admiral Shipping. The
fraud is alleged against the defendant-applicant. 18.5 On a bare perusal of the material on record shows that the
charter party was terminated by the Admiral Shipping for non-payment
of total sum of hire by the Plaintiff. Clause-5 of the charter party
between the Admiral Shipping and the plaintiff, entitled the Admiral
Shipping to withdraw the vessel from the charter in the event of non-
payment of hire. Admittedly, the plaintiff has not paid total amount of
hire, but, paid substantial sum which can technically entitle Admiral
Shipping to terminate charter party. Lianyl terminated its charter party
with the Admiral, as the Admiral failed to make payment of hire to Lianyl.
The applicant/Defendant is directly concerned with the charter party
with Lianyl and has no apparent connection with any other of charter
parties, subsequently entered into by Lianyl, Admiral Shipping as well
as the Bulk Marine. Although, the defendant is prima facie right that the
contractual disputes between the plaintiff and the Admiral cannot
involve the applicant, as the plaintiff shall have its contractual remedies
against the Admiral Shipping, had that been a neat contract having no
whisper of role of the Defendant, except being the head owner of the
vessel. It is also a matter of record that the plaintiff has already initiated
arbitration proceedings against the Excelzior in London, with whom it
had entered into the contract as permissible in shipping line and which
failed to pay to the Plaintiff. The plaintiff also would have remedy to
commence arbitration against Admiral Shipping for the alleged wrongful
termination of the charter party. It also emerges that the letter of
authority, which was issued to Valem by the applicant was for logistical
purpose, since, the defendant did not have its agent at the load port, i.e. Page 55 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

Indonesia. It had issued letter of authority to the plaintiff for the purpose
of authorizing the plaintiff to sign the bills of lading. Certain facts
emerging from record are vital to be referred here. On behalf of the
head owner, It is the say of the defendant that the letter of authority was
revoked on the ground of the plaintiff having failed to fulfill its obligation
of payment of hire to Admiral Shipping. Initially, of course, the say of the
defendant remains attractive that the plaintiff shall have no right under
the bills of lading by virtue of such signing by its agent. Since, the bill of
lading is a contract between the head owner and the cargo addressee
and ordinarily, the cancellation of the letter would have no bearing on
the plaintiff's claims. It has been emphasized that there is no causal link
between the plaintiff's claims and cancellation of the letter of authority.
The Plaintiff raised invoice for demurrage, dead freight and unpaid
freight on its contractual counterpart Excelzior with the due date of
payment of 30.10.2018, which it failed to pay. It is also a matter of
record that the plaintiff's contractual counterpart is Admiral and there is
two degrees of separation between the plaintiff and the head owner.
There are two kinds of claims made by the plaintiff, i.e. (1) against the
Admiral for advance refund of hire paid to it. According to the plaintiff, it
could not make payment of hire to Admiral to the tune of USD
110,543.07, but otherwise, a huge 80% amount has already been paid
in advance. And 2) as mentioned earlier, so far as the claimed amount
of freight invoice, demurrage etc., is concerned, it is the Excelzior
Limited-the charterer, which is being sued by the plaintiff. The arbitral
proceedings have already commenced. It is permissible for the parties
to pursue remedies against two different parties, as has been noticed
from the material, which has been placed by the respondent. The very
basis of the claim against the Excelzior and the material placed before
this court does have different premise prima facie and hence, it is
noticeable that it is attempting its remedies from different parties. C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

18.6 In this entire chain, Clause 58 between the plaintiff and the
Admiral in the Charter Party entered on 12.09.2018 is Prima facie found
vital to be referred to. This provides for approval of the head owner for
allowing the split bills and the switched bills of lading and such approval
is not to be delayed or withheld, unreasonably. Even if, the plaintiff's
claims are independent, it will not be possible to hold at this stage that
the cancellation of the Letter of Authority on the part of the head owner
has absolutely no causal link between the plaintiff's claim and the
cancellation of such letter of authority. The averred claim of the less
paid hire existed, of course, before the cancellation of the letter of
authority. But, there is a specific allegation on the part of the plaintiff that
it had made a request to the head owner after, after once the Lianyl
intervened and made a request for original bills of lading. The plaintiff's
agent had stamped the original bills of lading as null and void and had
couriered the same along with mate's receipt to the head owner, at the
address, it had given. Thereafter, repeated requests were made on the
part of the plaintiff to the head owner and the master of the vessel for
the revised mate's receipt and bills of lading which had met with the
stoic silence. This had happened on account of the shipper having
dispute with the old buyer Torque Commodities and thereafter, the new
buyer Vimal Coal had been found by the shipper. The request and the
repeated requests made to the master of vessel to supply the mate's
receipt was for the switched bills of lading, keeping the issue open. The
same was not responded to and eventually the letter of authority had
been recalled. Therefore, to say that this has absolutely no connection
with the chain of events that took place of cancellation of the charter
party, as Lianyl was not paid by the Admiral Shipping and the Admiral
Shipping has not been paid by the plaintiff, which had not been paid by
Excelzior may not be looked at in isolation. from Excelzior, as it failed to pay the Bulk Marine, under the Voyage
Charter Party dated 12.09.2019, entered into between the Bulk Marine
and the Excelzior. It has also claimed from the Best Excellence, the
respondent, herein, the total hire that the Bulk Marine has paid to the
Admiral under the Voyage Charter party dated 12.09.2019 between the
Admiral and the Bulk Marine. The attempt on the part of the plaintiff is to
seek recovery from the respondent-Best Excellence under its contract
with Excelzior and the Admiral, which ordinarily requires to be recovered
from the contractual counterparts. 18.8 The Bulk Marine's claim arose, firstly, on 24.10.2018
against the Excelzior. Subsequently, on 19.11.2018, against the shipper
and on 10.12.2018, against the new consignee. The Bulk Marine has
exercised a lien on the cargo for securing its claim and on 11.01.2019, it
chose then to claim against the Best Excellence. This, of course, is
prima facie very clearly noticeable that the plaintiff has continued to
attempt to get its claim from different parties and one such attempt is
also in the present suit claiming maritime claim against the defendant. It
is not required to plead law, of course, in its pleadings, but it had laid its
claim basing on the Admiralty act,2017 where both maritime claim due
to private of contract and fraud are pleaded. It would not be out of place
to refer to the details, which have been given herein above that the first
time charterer is Lianyl Shipping Limited. It is a matter on record that
there is a charter party agreement between the respondent and the
Lianyl dated 07.02.2018. There is an email concluding the contract and
incorporating the terms Charter Party dated 25.05.2017. The charterer
is permitted to use the vessel and to pay the hire and for bunkers also.
The Second Time Charter Party is with Admiral Shipping. There is an
agreement between Lianyl and Admiral dated 31.08.2018. The third in
the line is the time charter party of the Vessel with the Bulk Marine-the
plaintiff, herein. By way of the agreement dated 12.09.2019 between Page 58 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

Admiral and the Bulk Marine, the Bulk Marine is also a party, which has
sought the arrest of the vessel in another Admiralty Suit being Admiralty
Suit No. 1 of 2018. The plaintiff has defaulted in making the payment of
hire to Admiral. It also had ordered fuel from G.P.Global and defaulted in
making the payment. The Excelzior is the fourth voyage charterer of the
vessel and the voyage charter party agreement is dated 12.09.2018
between the plaintiff and the Excelzior. The Excelzior has failed in
paying to the Bulk Marine dead freight and demurrage due to it from
30.10.2018. There is already arbitration in London, commenced by the
plaintiff against the Excelzior for recovery of the outstanding dues. Thus,
as per the contractual agreements, the Excelzior was to pay freight to
the Bulk Marine and it would arrange for carriage of goods from
Indonesia to India under the Voyage Charter party dated 12.09.2018
entered between the plaintiff and the Excelzior. The plaintiff was also
required to pay regular hire to Admiral and Admiral was to make
arrangement of the vessel, M.V. Sylvia Glory, for its use under the time
charter party dated 12.09.2018 between the Admiral and the plaintiff.
Admiral Shipping would be required to pay hire to Lianyl and Lianyl
would make the vessel available, as provided and directed under the
time charter party dated 31.08.2018 between Lianyl and the Admiral
and Lianyl would be required to pay regular hire to the Defendant-Best
Excellence and the Best Excellence would need to make available
vessel for its use, as provided under the time charter party dated
12.09.2018 between the Best Excellence and Lianyl. It is not in dispute
that all the four charter party agreements are separate contracts,
creating independent rights and obligations between the parties. It is an
admitted fact that in a contract for sale of goods, once the seller loads
its goods on to the vessel, the ship owner or its nominee issues, at the
load-port, the bill of lading to the shipper, representing the goods being
carried. The shipper, then, would give the bill of lading to the consignee
buyer and would receive payment in exchange of the same. This would Page 59 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

happen either directly or through a bank. The buyer, at the discharge
port, would present the bill of lading and would take the delivery of the
goods. Thus, the bill of lading duly endorsed in favour of a particular
party is a proof of entitlement of that party of the goods. Thus, the
parties to the bill of lading could be the ship owner, shipper and the
consignee or any other party to whom the Bill of lading has been
endorsed. The dispute, according to the plaintiff, is that there was a
dispute between the shipper and the Torque, which is the background
against which an alleged claim of freight, demurrage and the dead
freight arose, whereas, according to the Defendant, the only parties,
which have rights under the bill of lading are the shippers, i.e. Nava
Investments Pvt. Ltd., the Defendant-Best Excellence, the ship owner
and the consignee, i.e. Vimal Coal Pvt. Ltd.. 18.9 It is an emphatic contention on the part of Defendant that the Bulk
Marine never had any rights under the bills of lading, since, it was
merely a charterer in the chain of charterers, whose limited logistical
role was to physically give the bill of lading to its agent Valem Shipping
to the shipper, i.e. Nava Investments, at the load port. Valem Shipping
was appointed by the Defendant on 23.10.2018 for the purpose of
issuance of bills to the shipper, since, the Defendant did not have any
local agent at the load port, Indonesia. For this, it has heavily relied on
Clause-58 , which is a clause incorporated in the Charter party dated
07.02.2018 between the Defendant and the Lianyl, which permits Lianyl
to sub-let the vessel. Clause-58 permits, split bills and also switched
bills, subject, of course, to the Head Owner's approval. There is no
privity of contract directly between the plaintiff and the Head
Owner/Defendant. It is through this clause that there is an insistence on
the part of the plaintiff, since, Clause 58 permits switching of bills of
lading, subject to the Head Owners' approval, the Head Owner would
not delay or withhold unreasonably, switching of the bills of lading. It is Page 60 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

also apparent from the record that, as and when, the plaintiff was
required to collect the bill of lading, which was issued; it was required to
approach the head owner for its prior approval. If, there was no reason
for the head owner to delay, it was to immediately on verification
needed to approve . This prima facie brings the role of the defendant
where claim on the part of the plaintiff is that it constitutes the privity of
contract between the plaintiff and the Defendant. Even if there is no
direct contract, this clause does bring into picture an important role of
the defendant at a crucial juncture. The plaintiff had approached the
head owner, seeking its approval, which was withheld without assigning
any reason, which resulted into the present claim, and hence, it is urged
that it can prosecute its claim against the applicant-the original
defendant. It is not in dispute that the bills of lading were issued under
the authority of master, who was under the employment of the head
owner, all throughout. The plaintiff, of course, has pleaded that there
had been fraudulent termination of the Letter of Authority, which entitled
the plaintiff to proceed against the head owner. It also in its plaint
claimed that for recovery of freight invoice dated 23.10.2018 and
demurrage invoice dated 19.11.2018 along with other charges, the
plaintiff can claim from master and the head owner. Since, it was aware
that the plaintiff could suffer, as a result of such fraud on its part. 18.10 Even while accepting that the defendant issued the letter of
authority in favour of the agent of Plaintiff because it did not have any
agent at load port (Indonesia), to save time and for ease of logistical
purpose, and, it had authorized the plaintiff to sign the bills of lading on
behalf of the defendant, pleading of total absence of any legal
connection with the Plaintiff is difficult to endorse without the trial. Even
if it is believed prima facie that it in no manner creates any independent
contract between plaintiff and defendant and even if it is assumed and
accepted that the defendant had legitimate right to cancel the letter of Page 61 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

authority at the instance of Lianyl, the fact remains that according to the
defendant, non fulfillment of conditions of charter party by the plaintiff is
the reason for the defendant to cancel the letter of authority. It is
contended that the Plaintiff failed to fulfill conditions of the charter party
by illegally suspending payment of freight to the Admiral even though
there was no off hire event. Had there been no connection at all
between the plaintiff and the defendant , there was no reason for the
defendant, depending on nonpayment of hire to the admiral, to cancel
the letter of authority even at the instance of Lianyl. There appears to be
a chain and as mentioned herein above, Clause 58 does require the
original owner to approve the bills of lading without loss of time and
therefore, to say that there is absolutely no connection between the
parties for the plaintiff to bring the actions against the defendant
applicant is not prima facie found acceptable. It is again a matter of
record that original bill of lading after cancelling the same had been sent
to the Head owner and what would transpire between the Lianyl and the
head owner was not the concern of the plaintiff. It could not thereafter
had any bill of lading issued till cancellation of chain of contract of
charter parties as the defendant did not direct the master to issue the
same and without the bill of lading, it could not have proceeded further.
It can be prima facie believed that the defendant would not stand to gain
by defrauding any of the parties in the chain however , the dispute
between the shipper and Torque principally gave rise to cancellation of
original bill of lading and surely that was the matter of concern for
everyone in the chain and more particularly that precipitated the chain
of cancellation eventually. 19. This Court is conscious of the fact that a contractual lien over the
vessel can only be created by the actual owner of the Vessel and not by
any of the respondent owners. The clause of charter party also has
provided that the charterer's Lien cannot prevail over the rights of an Page 62 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

owner of the ship and it is specifically pleaded by the original owner that
no contractual lien has been created in the present case. The court is
also aware of the fact that the plaintiff is legally required to show
maritime lien as provided in the statute to maintain action in rem against
the vessel or in personam liability of the owner of the vessel for it to
claim maritime claim, otherwise, the plaintiff would not be entitled to
proceed against the vessel in rem nor to get order of arrest of the vessel
for securing any Maritime claim if there exists no such claim or lien.
Plaintiff has claimed under Section 4(1) (g) and (h) against the
defendant and it is surely an arguable matter necessitating trial before
such claim in limine could be terminated. 19.1 This court has, prima facie reason to believe as can be noticed
from the factual details discussed that there existed causal link for it to
grant interim relief, even if no direct contract creating in personam
liability as otherwise required for maritime claim against the head owner
exists. Even in absence of direct contract with the defendant and in
absence of any suppression going to the root and because of alleged
fraud pleaded which vitiates everything, there does exist material
providing prima facie satisfaction for the maintainability of suit and for
the same to go for trial, continuing the interim relief. Although, the
defendant has alleged of malicious and vexatious prosecution by the
plaintiff, noticing the serious disputed questions of law and facts raised
by the Plaintiff and defendant both, striking a balance, without further
dilating the facts which may ultimately cause prejudice on either side in
the suit, while holding that the issues raised need to be decided at the
end of trial and interim protection needs to continue under the
circumstances, the request on the part of the defendant to direct
security to the plaintiff deserves to be acceded to since the plaintiff is
not a company based in India nor having any assets in this country and
in the event of defendant's version being upheld, serious prejudice may
arise which requires to be regarded specifically at this juncture. This Page 63 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

Court also cannot be obvious of the fact that multiple channels have
been opened by the plaintiff for redressing its claims and even if this
action is not termed as a 'fishing expedition' now, in wake of limited but
essential role of the head owner as discussed above, nor even if is
precluded from taking recourse from more than one forums at this
stage, the plaintiff is surely required to be thrust upon certain conditions
so that even if it chooses to simply withdraw this suit once its claim
elsewhere gets satiated or if fails to prove eventually its case, it thereby
may not seriously jeopardize the right of the other side. This court is
conscious of pending litigations at the hands of the plaintiff against other
parties as also the direction of this court for the defendant to deposit
cash security while permitting the vessel to sail. In the event of issuance
of direction of cost in any of such eventualities, there may not be
availability of any source of fund. 20. The plaintiff as noted earlier has been granted the order of arrest
and since the Vessel was arrested, at the request of the defendant ,
cash security to the tune of USD 1471000/- comprising of Principal
amount, interest and cost has been permitted to be furnished and fixed
deposited by an order dt.27/2/2019 . According to the defendant, for the
legal cost which the defendant is likely to incur is quantified to USD
1,75,000 and accordingly, it is urged by the defendant that the plaintiff
be directed to furnish such sum if trial is contemplated by the court for
which detailed calculation is given. 21. Order xxv of Civil Procedure Code contemplates directing furnishing
of security to the Plaintiff which deserves reproduction at this juncture. Order xxv of CPC provides as under: 1) In the event of such security not being furnished within the time fixed, the
Court shall make an order dismissing the suit unless the plaintiff or plaintiffs are
permitted to withdraw there from. (2) Where a suit is dismissed under this rule, the plaintiff may apply for an order
to set the dismissal aside and, if it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that
he was prevented by any sufficient cause from furnishing the security within the.
time allowed, the Court shall set aside the dismissal upon such terms as to
security, costs or otherwise as it thinks fit, and shall appoint a day for proceeding
with the suit. (3) The dismissal shall not be set aside unless notice of such application has
been served on the defendant." 21.1 This Provision is quite clear that the court may on its own motion
can order the plaintiff or on an application by the defendant can direct
the plaintiff for payment of costs incurred by the defendant or likely to be
incurred by the defendant . Proviso to this provides that if the plaintiff
resides out of India and does not possess any sufficient immovable
property, the court shall make such an order. While so directing the
court shall need to furnish the reasons for the same. In the event of
Plaintiff failing to furnish security, the court shall order dismissal and in
the event of such dismissal , plaintiff can be permitted to plead sufficient
cause and the court can consider the same to permit setting aside of Page 65 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021 C/AS/11/2019 IA ORDER

such dismissal order, to direct proceeding with the suit. In the instant
case also, the plaintiff admittedly resides outside India and does not
have any property much less immovable property in India. Therefore, for
the reasons stated here in above, particularly at para19.1,there is a
requirement for this court to direct the plaintiff to furnish the security to
the tune of US dollars 1,75,000.( one lakh seventy five thousands
dollars). 22. Resultantly, the following order: 22.4 Once the amount of security is deposited, the same shall be fixed
deposited for the period of 12 (TWELVE) months and the same shall be
renewed on a regular basis, till the Admiralty suit is finally decided.
None of the findings or observations shall come in the way of either side
nor shall they prejudice anyone being of prima facie nature and which
are made only with a view to decide this application. 22.5 Parties are at liberty to request for early hearing of the Admiralty
Suit 11 of 2019. (SONIA GOKANI, J)
DHARMENDRA KUMAR/UMESH Page 66 of 66 Downloaded on : Mon Feb 22 07:18:45 IST 2021