1. Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned counsel for the informant and learned AGA for the State and perused the material placed on record. 2. The instant bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant Padmesh Aggarwal with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No.524 of 2024, under Sections 420 , 419 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 511 and 120-B IPC, Police Station Bisrakh, District Gautam Budh Nagar, during pendency of trial. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that the applicant has not committed any offence as alleged in the F.I.R. F.I.R. has been registered against father of the applicant. After investigation, final report has been submitted in this case. Thereafter protest petition was filed. In the meantime, concerned police authority was directed to conduct further investigation of this case. Name of the applicant was surfaced during 'further investigation'. He further submitted that role of the applicant was said to only attempt to commit fraud in KYC. So called aadhar card of the informant was fraudulently recovered during course of investigation. The applicant has not created any document or used. He has drawn attention of the Court towards the recovery memo and stated that aadhar card of the informant was found on the ground not from the conscious possession of accused-applicant. Thus, possession of the so called recovered aadhar of the informant is not reliable. The role of accused is said to be conspiratory only. The Hon'ble Court passed no coercive order against named accused Subhash Garg in Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No.19700 of 2024. The applicant and the informant are relatives and partners of the business transaction. Learned counsel for the applicant further submitted that in other criminal case being case crime no.66 of 2024, under Sections 420 , 406 and 34 I.P.C., which has been registered at P.S. Greator Kalash, New Delhi, the applicant has been granted bail. He is languishing in jail since 05.09.2025. In case, the applicant is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail. 4. Per contra, learned A.G.A. and learned counsel for the informant vehemently opposed the submission of learned counsel for the applicant and submitted that accused applicant has committed serious offence in connivance with co-accused Subhash Garg, who is father of accused-applicant, named in the F.I.R.. They further contended that the innocence of the applicant cannot be adjudged at pre trial stage, therefore, he does not deserve any indulgence. In case the applicant is released on bail he will again indulge in similar activities and will misuse the liberty of bail. 5. Having considered the submissions of the parties noted above, finding force in the submissions made by the learned counsel for the applicant; period of detention in jail, keeping in view uncertainty regarding conclusion of trial; larger mandate of the Article 21 of the Constitution of India, bail application is allowed. 6. Considering the dictum of Apex Court in the case of Manish Sisodia Vs. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LawSuit (SC) 677, considering 5-6 times overcrowding in jails over and above their capacity by under trials and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, let the applicant involved in the aforesaid crime be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions that :- 7. In case, of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. 8. Identity and residence proof of the applicant and sureties be verified by the court concerned before the bonds are accepted. (Santosh Rai,J.) 
 
October 30, 2025 
 
Asha