G. S. Singhvi, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. Whether a complaint can be filed by a citizen for prosecuting 

a public servant for an offence under the Prevention of Corruption 

Act, 1988 (for short, `the 1988 Act') and whether the authority 

competent to sanction prosecution of a public servant for offences 

under the 1988 Act is required to take an appropriate decision 

within the time specified in clause I(15) of the directions contained 

in paragraph 58 of the judgment of this Court in Vineet Narain v. Union of India (1998) 1 SCC 226 and the guidelines issued by the 2 Central Government, Department of Personnel and Training and 

the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) are the question which 

require consideration in this appeal. 3. For the last more than three years, the appellant has been 

vigorously pursuing, in public interest, the cases allegedly 

involving loss of thousands of crores of rupees to the Public 

Exchequer due to arbitrary and illegal grant of licences at the 

behest of Mr. A. Raja (respondent No. 2) who was appointed as 

Minister for Communication and Information Technology on 

16.5.2007 by the President on the advice of Dr. Manmohan Singh 

(respondent No. 1). After collecting information about the grant of 

licences, the appellant made detailed representation dated 

29.11.2008 to respondent No. 1 to accord sanction for 

prosecution of respondent No. 2 for offences under the 1988 Act. In his representation, the appellant pointed out that respondent 

No. 2 had allotted new licences in 2G mobile services on `first 

come, first served' basis to novice telecom companies, viz., Swan 

Telecom and Unitech, which was in clear violation of Clause 8 of 

the Guidelines for United Access Services Licence issued by the 

Ministry of Communication and Information Technology vide 

letter No.10-21/2005-BS.I(Vol.II)/49 dated 14.12.2005 and, 3 thereby, caused loss of over Rs. 50,000 crores to the Government. The appellant gave details of the violation of Clause 8 and pointed 

out that the two officers, viz., R.J.S. Kushwaha and D. Jha of the 

Department of Telecom, who had opposed the showing of undue 

favour to Swan Telecom, were transferred just before the grant of 

licences and Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) which had 

never entered into a roaming agreement with any operator, was 

forced to enter into such an agreement with Swan Telecom. The 

appellant further pointed out that immediately after acquiring 2G 

spectrum licences, Swan Telecom and Unitech sold their stakes to 

foreign companies, i.e., Etisalat, a telecom operator from UAE and 

Telenor of Norway respectively and, thereby, made huge profits at 

the expense of public revenue. He claimed that by 2G spectrum 

allocation under respondent No. 2, the Government received only 

one-sixth of what it would have received if it had opted for an 

auction. The appellant pointed out how respondent No. 2 ignored 

the recommendations of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India 

(TRAI) and gave totally unwarranted benefits to the two companies 

and thereby caused loss to the Public Exchequer. Some of the 

portions of the appellant's representation are extracted below: The request made in the representation, which was relied 

upon by the learned Attorney General for showing that the 6 appellant had himself asked for an investigation, is also extracted 

below: 4. Since the appellant did not receive any response from 

respondent No.1, he sent letters dated 30.5.2009, 23.10.2009, 

31.10.2009, 8.3.2010 and 13.3.2010 and reiterated his 

request/demand for grant of sanction to prosecute respondent 

No.2. In his letter dated 31.10.2009, the appellant referred to the 

fact that on being directed by the CVC, the Central Bureau of 

Investigation (CBI) had registered a first information report, and 

claimed that prima facie case is established against respondent 

No. 2 for his prosecution under Sections 11 and 13(1)(d) of the 

1988 Act. The appellant also claimed that according to various 

Supreme Court judgments it was not necessary to carry out a 

detailed inquiry, and he had produced sufficient evidence for 7 grant of sanction to initiate criminal prosecution against 

respondent No. 2 for the misuse of authority and pecuniary gains 

from corrupt practices. In his subsequent letters, the appellant 

again asserted that the nation had suffered loss of nearly 

Rs.65,000 crores due to arbitrary, unreasonable and mala fide 

action of respondent No.2. In letter dated 13.3.2010, the 

appellant referred to the proceedings of the case in which this 

Court refused to interfere with the order of the Delhi High Court 

declaring that the decision of respondent No.2 to change the cut 

off date fixed for consideration of applications made for grant of 

licences was arbitrary and mala fide. 5. After 1 year and 4-1/2 months of the first letter written by 

him, Secretary, Department of Personnel and Training, Ministry of 

Personnel sent letter dated 19.3.2010 to the appellant mentioning 

therein that the CBI had registered a case on 21.10.2009 against 

unknown officers of the Department of Telecommunications (DoT), 

unknown private persons/companies and others and that the 

issue of grant of sanction for prosecution would arise only after 

perusal of the evidence collected by the investigating agency and 

other material provided to the Competent Authority and that it 8 would be premature to consider sanction for prosecution at that 

stage. 6. On receipt of the aforesaid communication, the appellant 

filed Civil Writ Petition No. 2442/2010 in the Delhi High Court 

and prayed for issue of a mandamus to respondent No.1 to pass 

an order for grant of sanction for prosecution of respondent No. 2. The Division Bench of the Delhi High Court referred to the 

submission of the learned Solicitor General that when respondent 

No. 1 has directed investigation by the CBI and the investigation 

is in progress, it is not permissible to take a decision on the 

application of the appellant either to grant or refuse the sanction 

because that may affect the investigation, and dismissed the writ 

petition by recording the following observations: 7. The special leave petition filed by the appellant, out of which 

this appeal arises, was initially taken up for consideration along 

with SLP(C) No. 24873/2010 filed by the Center for Public Interest 

Litigation against order dated 25.5.2010 passed by the Division 

Bench of the High Court in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 3522/2010 to 

which reference had been made in the impugned order. During 

the course of hearing of the special leave petition filed by the 

appellant, the learned Solicitor General, who had appeared on 

behalf of respondent No. 1, made a statement that he has got the 

record and is prepared to place the same before the Court. However, keeping in view the fact that the record sought to be 

produced by the learned Solicitor General may not be readily 

available to the appellant, the Court passed order dated 

18.11.2010 requiring the filing of an affidavit on behalf of 

respondent No. 1. Thereafter, Shri V. Vidyavati, Director in the 

PMO filed affidavit dated 20.11.2010, which reveals the following 

facts: The Department of Telecommunication sent reply dated 

13.02.2009 incorporating his comments. (iii) In the meanwhile, letters dated 10.11.2008 and 

22.11.2008 were received from Shri Gurudas Gupta 

and Shri Suravaran Sudhakar Reddy respectively 

(copies of these letters have not been produced before 

the Court). The same were forwarded to the Department 

of Telecommunication on 25.03.2009 for sending an 

appropriate reply to the appellant. (iv) On 01.06.2009, letter dated 30.05.2009 received 

from the appellant was placed before respondent No.1, 

who recorded the following endorsement "please 

examine and discuss". (v) On 19.06.2009, the Director of the concerned Sector 

in the PMO recorded that the Minister of 

Telecommunications and Information Technology has 

sent D.O. letter dated 18.06.2009 to the appellant. When letter dated 23.10.2009 of the appellant was 

placed before respondent No.1, he recorded an 

endorsement on 27.10.2009 "please discuss". (vi) In response to letter dated 31.10.2009 of the 

appellant, respondent No.1 made an endorsement 

"please examine". (vii) On 18.11.2009, respondent No.1 stated that 

Ministry of Law and Justice should examine and 

advice. The advice of Ministry of Law and Justice was 

received on 8.2.2010. Para 7 thereof was as follows: (viii) On 05.03.2010, the deponent prepared a note that 

 an appropriate reply be sent to the appellant in the 

 light of the advice given by the Law Department and 

 final reply was sent to the appellant after respondent 

 No.1 had approved note dated 17.03.2010." 8. The appellant filed rejoinder affidavit on 22.11.2010 along 

with a copy of letter dated 18.6.2009 written to him by respondent 

No. 2 in the context of representation dated 29.11.2008 submitted 

by him to respondent No.1. 9. Although, respondent No.2 resigned from the Council of 

Ministers on 14.11.2010, the appellant submitted that the issues 

relating to his right to file a complaint for prosecution of 

respondent No.2 and grant of sanction within the time specified in 

the judgment in Vineet Narain's case should be decided. 10. During the course of hearing, the learned Attorney General 

filed written submissions. After the hearing concluded, the 

learned Attorney General filed supplementary written submissions 

along with a compilation of 126 cases in which the sanction for 

prosecution is awaited for periods ranging from more than one 

year to few months 11. Final order in this case was deferred because it was felt that 

the directions given by this Court in Vineet Narain's case may 

require further elaboration in the light of the order passed in Civil 

Appeal No. 10660/2010 (arising out of SLP(C) No. 24873/2010) 

and the fact that decision on the question of grant of sanction 

under the 1988 Act and other statutes is pending for a sufficiently 

long time in 126 cases. However, as the investigation with regard 

to some of the facets of what has come to be termed as 2G case is 

yet to be completed, we have considered it appropriate to pass 

final order in the matter. 12. Appellant Dr. Subramanian Swamy argued that the embargo 

contained in Section 19(1) of the 1988 Act operates only against 

the taking of cognizance by the Court in respect of offences 

punishable under Sections 7 , 10 , 11 , 13 and 15 committed by a 

public servant, but there is no bar to the filing of a private 13 complaint for prosecution of the concerned public servant and 

grant of sanction by the Competent Authority, and that 

respondent No. 1 was duty bound to take appropriate decision on 

his representation within the time specified in clause I(15) of the 

directions contained in paragraph 58 of Vineet Narain's case, 

more so because he had placed sufficient evidence to show that 

respondent No.2 had committed offences under the 1988 Act. 13. The learned Attorney General argued that the question of 

grant of sanction for prosecution of a public servant charged with 

any of the offences enumerated in Section 19(1) arises only at the 

stage when the Court decides to take cognizance and any request 

made prior to that is premature. He submitted that the embargo 

contained in Section 19(1) of the Act is applicable to the Court 

which is competent to take cognizance of an offence punishable 

under Sections 7 , 10 , 11 , 13 and 15 alleged to have been 

committed by a public servant and there is no provision for grant 

of sanction at a stage before the competent Court applies its mind 

to the issue of taking cognizance. Learned Attorney General relied 

upon the judgment of the Calcutta High Court in Superintendent 

and Remembrancer of Legal Affairs v. Abani Kumar Banerjee AIR 

1950 Cal. 437 as also the judgments of this Court in R.R. Chari v. State of Uttar Pradesh 1951 SCR 312, Devarapalli 

Lakshminarayana Reddy v. V. Narayana Reddy (1976) 3 SCC 252, 

Ram Kumar v. State of Haryana (1987) 1 SCC 476, Krishna Pillai 

v. T.A. Rajendran, 1990 (Supp) SCC 121, State of West Bengal v. Mohd. Khalid (1995) 1 SCC 684, State through C.B.I. v. Raj 

Kumar Jain (1998) 6 SCC 551, K. Kalimuthu v. State (2005) 4 

SCC 512, Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India ( 2005) 8 SCC 202 and State of Karnataka v. Pastor P. Raju (2006) 

6 SCC 728 and argued that letter dated 29.11.2008 sent by the 

appellant for grant of sanction to prosecute respondent No.2 for 

the alleged offences under the 1988 Act was wholly misconceived 

and respondent No.1 did not commit any illegality or 

constitutional impropriety by not entertaining his prayer, more so 

because the appellant had himself asked for an investigation into 

the alleged illegal grant of licences at the behest of respondent 

No.2. Learned Attorney General further argued that the appellant 

does not have the locus standi to file a complaint for prosecuting 

respondent No.2 because the CBI is already investigating the 

allegations of irregularity committed in the grant of licences for 2G 

spectrum and the loss, if any, suffered by the Public Exchequer. 14. We have considered the respective submissions. Section 19 of the 1988 Act reads as under: section (1), unless in the opinion of that court, a 

 failure of justice has in fact been occasioned 

 thereby; (b) no court shall stay the proceedings under this 

 Act on the ground of any error, omission or 

 irregularity in the sanction granted by the 

 authority, unless it is satisfied that such error, 

 omission or irregularity has resulted in a failure of 

 justice; (c) no court shall stay the proceedings under 

 this Act on any other ground and no court shall 

 exercise the powers of revision in relation to any 

 interlocutory order passed in any inquiry, trial, 

 appeal or other proceedings. (4) In determining under sub-section (3) whether the 

 absence of, or any error, omission or irregularity in, 

 such sanction has occasioned or resulted in a failure of 

 justice the court shall have regard to the fact whether 

 the objection could and should have been raised at any 

 earlier stage in the proceedings. Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, (a) error includes competency of the authority to 

 grant sanction; (b) a sanction required for prosecution includes 

 reference to any requirement that the prosecution 

 shall be at the instance of a specified authority or 

 with the sanction of a specified person or any 

 requirement of a similar nature." 15. The question whether sanction for prosecution of respondent 

No.2 for the offences allegedly committed by him under the 1988 

Act is required even after he resigned from the Council of 

Ministers, though he continues to be a Member of Parliament, 17 need not detain us because the same has already been answered 

by the Constitution Bench in R. S. Nayak v. A. R. Antulay (1984) 2 

SCC 183 the relevant portions of which are extracted below: 16. The same view has been taken in Habibullsa Khan v. State of 

Orissa (1995) 2 SCC 437 (para 12), State of H.P. v. M. P. Gupta 

(2004) 2 SCC 349 (paras 17 and 19), Parkash Singh Badal v. State of Punjab (2007) 1 SCC 1 and Balakrishnan Ravi Menon v. Union of India (2007) 1 SCC 45. In Balakrishnan Ravi Menon's 

case, it was argued that the observations made in para 25 of the 

judgment in Antulay 's case are obiter. While negating this 

submission, the Court observed : C
 lauses ( a
 ) 
 and ( b
 ) 
 of sub-section (1) specifically provide 

that in case of a person who is employed and is not 

removable from his office by the Central Government or 

th
 e State Government, as the case may be, sa
 nction to 

prosecute is required to be obtained either from the 

Central Government or the State Government. The 

emphasis is on the words "who is employed" in 

connection with the affairs of the Union or the State 

Government. If he is not employed then Section 19 nowhere provides for obtaining such sanction. Further, 

under sub-section (2), the question of obtaining 

sanction is relatable to the time of holding the office 

when the offence was alleged to have been committed. In case where the person is not holding the said office 

as he might have retired, superannuated, be discharged 

or dismissed then the question of removing would not 

arise. Admittedly, when the alleged offence was 

committed, the petitioner was appointed by the Central 

Government. He demitted his office after completion of 21 five years' tenure. Therefore, at the relevant time when 

 the charge-sheet was filed, the petitioner was not 

 holding the office of the Chairman of Goa Shipyard Ltd. Hence, there is no question of obtaining any previous 

 sanction of the Central Government." (emphasis supplied) 17. The same view was reiterated in Parkash Singh Badal's case 

and the argument that even though some of the accused persons 

had ceased to be Ministers, they continued to be the Members of 

the Legislative Assembly and one of them was a Member of 

Parliament and as such cognizance could not be taken against 

them without prior sanction, was rejected. 18. The next question which requires consideration is whether 

the appellant has the locus standi to file a complaint for 

prosecution of respondent No.2 for the offences allegedly 

committed by him under the 1988 Act. There is no provision 

either in the 1988 Act or the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 

( CrPC ) which bars a citizen from filing a complaint for prosecution 

of a public servant who is alleged to have committed an offence. Therefore, the argument of the learned Attorney General that the 

appellant cannot file a complaint for prosecuting respondent No.2 

merits rejection. A similar argument was negatived by the 

Constitution Bench in A.R. Antulay v. Ramdas Sriniwas Nayak 22 (1984) 2 SCC 500. The facts of that case show that on a private 

complaint filed by the respondent, the Special Judge took 

cognizance of the offences allegedly committed by the appellant. The latter objected to the jurisdiction of the Special Judge on two 

counts, including the one that the Court set up under Section 6 of 

the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1952 (for short, `the 1952 Act') 

was not competent to take cognizance of any of the offences 

enumerated in Section 6(1)(a) and (b) upon a private complaint. His objections were rejected by the Special Judge. The revision 

filed by the appellant was heard by the Division Bench of the High 

Court which ruled that a Special Judge is competent and is 

entitled to take cognizance of offences under Section 6(1)(a) and (b) on a private complaint of the facts constituting the offence. The High Court was of the opinion that a prior investigation under Section 5A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (for short, 

`the 1947 Act') by a police officer of the designated rank is not sine 

qua non for taking cognizance of an offence under Section 8(1) of 

the 1952 Act. Before the Supreme Court, the argument against 

the locus standi of the respondent was reiterated and it was 

submitted that Section 5A of the 1947 Act is mandatory and an 

investigation by the designated officer is a condition precedent to 23 the taking of cognizance by the Special Judge of an offence or 

offences committed by a public servant. While dealing with the 

issue relating to maintainability of a private complaint, the 

Constitution Bench observed: (emphasis supplied)

 The Constitution Bench then considered whether the Special 

Judge can take cognizance only on the basis of a police report and 

answered the same in negative in the following words: (emphasis supplied) 26 The Court then referred to Section 5A of the 1947 Act, the 

provisions of the 1952 Act, the judgments in H.N. Rishbud and 

Inder Singh v. State of Delhi (1955) 1 SCR 1150, State of M.P. v. Mubarak Ali 1959 Supp. (2) SCR 201, Union of India v. Mahesh 

Chandra AIR 1957 M.B. 43 and held: (emphasis supplied) 19. In view of the aforesaid judgment of the Constitution Bench, 

it must be held that the appellant has the right to file a complaint 

for prosecution of respondent No.2 in respect of the offences 

allegedly committed by him under the 1988 Act. 20. The argument of the learned Attorney General that the 

question of granting sanction for prosecution of a public servant 

charged with an offence under the 1988 Act arises only at the 

stage of taking cognizance and not before that is neither 

supported by the plain language of the section nor the judicial 

precedents relied upon by him. Though, the term `cognizance' has 

not been defined either in the 1988 Act or the CrPC , the same has 

acquired a definite meaning and connotation from various judicial 

precedents. In legal parlance cognizance is "taking judicial notice 

by the court of law, possessing jurisdiction, on a cause or matter 

presented before it so as to decide whether there is any basis for 

initiating proceedings and determination of the cause or matter 

judicially". In R. R. Chari v. State of U.P. (1951) SCR 312, the 29 three Judge Bench approved the following observations made by 

the Calcutta High Court in Superintendent and Remembrancer of 

Legal Affairs, West Bengal v. Abni Kumar Banerjee (supra): 21. In Mohd. Khalid's case, the Court referred to Section 190 of 

the CrPC and observed : 22. In Pastor P. Raju 's case, this Court referred to the provisions 

of Chapter XIV and Sections 190 and 196 (1-A) of the CrPC and 

observed : The Court then referred to some of the precedents including 

the judgment in Mohd. Khalid's case and observed : 23. In Kalimuthu's case, the only question considered by this 

Court was whether in the absence of requisite sanction under Section 197 CrPC, the Special Judge for CBI cases, Chennai did 

not have the jurisdiction to take cognizance of the alleged 

offences. The High Court had taken the view that Section 197 

was not applicable to the appellant's case. Affirming the view 

taken by the High Court, this Court observed : 24. In Raj Kumar Jain 's case, this Court considered the question 

whether the CBI was required to obtain sanction from the 

prosecuting authority before approaching the Court for accepting 

the report under Section 173(2) of the CrPC. This question was 

considered in the backdrop of the fact that the CBI, which had 

investigated the case registered against the respondent under Section 5(2) read with Section 5(1)(e) of the 1947 Act found that 

the allegation made against the respondent could not be 32 substantiated. The Special Judge declined to accept the report 

submitted under Section 173(2) CrPC by observing that the CBI 

was required to place materials collected during investigation 

before the sanctioning authority and it was for the concerned 

authority to grant or refuse sanction. The Special Judge opined 

that only after the decision of the sanctioning authority, the CBI 

could submit the report under Section 173(2). The High Court 

dismissed the petition filed by the CBI and confirmed the order of 

the Special Judge. This Court referred to Section 6(1) of the 1947 

Act and observed: 25. In our view, the decisions relied upon by the learned 

Attorney General do not have any bearing on the moot question 

whether respondent No.1, being the Competent Authority to 

sanction prosecution of respondent No.2, was required to take 

appropriate decision in the light of the direction contained in 

Vineet Narain's case. 26. Before proceeding further, we would like to add that at the 

time of taking cognizance of the offence, the Court is required to 

consider the averments made in the complaint or the charge sheet 

filed under Section 173. It is not open for the Court to analyse 

the evidence produced at that stage and come to the conclusion 

that no prima facie case is made out for proceeding further in the 

matter. However, before issuing the process, it that it is open to 

the Court to record the evidence and on consideration of the 

averments made in the complaint and the evidence thus adduced, 

find out whether an offence has been made out. On finding that 

such an offence has been made out the Court may direct the issue 

of process to the respondent and take further steps in the matter. If it is a charge-sheet filed under Section 173 CrPC, the facts 

stated by the prosecution in the charge-sheet, on the basis of the 

evidence collected during investigation, would disclose the offence 

for which cognizance would be taken by the Court. Thus, it is not 

the province of the Court at that stage to embark upon and sift 

the evidence to come to the conclusion whether or not an offence 

has been made out. 27. We may also observe that grant or refusal of sanction is not 

a quasi judicial function and the person for whose prosecution the 

sanction is sought is not required to be heard by the Competent 

Authority before it takes a decision in the matter. What is 

required to be seen by the Competent Authority is whether the 

facts placed before it which, in a given case, may include the 

material collected by the complainant or the investigating agency 

prima facie disclose commission of an offence by a public servant. If the Competent Authority is satisfied that the material placed 

before it is sufficient for prosecution of the public servant, then it 

is required to grant sanction. If the satisfaction of the Competent 

Authority is otherwise, then it can refuse sanction. In either case, 

the decision taken on the complaint made by a citizen is required 35 to be communicated to him and if he feels aggrieved by such 

decision, then he can avail appropriate legal remedy. 28. In Vineet Narain's case, the Court entertained the writ 

petitions filed in public interest for ensuring investigation into 

what came to be known as `Hawala case'. The writ petition 

remained pending for almost four years. During that period, 

several interim orders were passed which are reported as Vineet 

Narain v. Union of India 1996 (1) SCALE (SP) 42, Vineet Narain v. Union of India (1996) 2 SCC 199, Vineet Narain v. Union of India 

( 1997) 4 SCC 778 and Vineet Narain v. Union of India (1997) 5 

SCALE 254. The final order was passed in Vineet Narain v. Union 

of India (1998) 1 SCC 226. In (1996) 2 SCC 199, the Court 

referred to the allegations made in the writ petition that 

Government agencies like the CBI and the revenue authorities 

have failed to perform their duties and legal obligations inasmuch 

as they did not investigate into the matters arising out of seizure 

of the so-called "Jain Diaries" in certain raids conducted by the 

CBI. The Court took note of the allegation that the arrest of some 

terrorists led to the discovery of financial support to them by 

clandestine and illegal means and a nexus between several 

important politicians, bureaucrats and criminals, who were 36 recipients of money from unlawful sources, and proceeded to 

observe: 29. After examining various facets of the matter in detail, the 

three Judge Bench in its final order reported in (1998) 1 SCC 226 

observed : In paragraph 58 of the judgment, the Court gave several 

directions in relation to the CBI, the CVC and the Enforcement 

Directorate. In para 58 (I)(15), the Court gave the following 

direction: 30. The CVC, after taking note of the judgment of the Punjab 

and Haryana High Court in Jagjit Singh v. State of Punjab (1996) 

Crl. Law Journal 2962, State of Bihar v. P. P. Sharma 1991 Supp. 1 SCC 222, Superintendent of Police (CBI) v. Deepak Chowdhary , 38 (1995) 6 SC 225, framed guidelines which were circulated vide 

office order No.31/5/05 dated 12.5.2005. The relevant clauses of 

the guidelines are extracted below: 31. The aforementioned guidelines are in conformity with the law 

laid down by this Court that while considering the issue regarding 

grant or refusal of sanction, the only thing which the Competent 

Authority is required to see is whether the material placed by the 

complainant or the investigating agency prima facie discloses 

commission of an offence. The Competent Authority cannot 

undertake a detailed inquiry to decide whether or not the 

allegations made against the public servant are true. 32. In the light of the above discussion, we shall now consider 

whether the High Court was justified in refusing to entertain the 

writ petition filed by the appellant. In this context, it is apposite 

to observe that the High Court had proceeded under a wholly 

erroneous assumption that respondent No.1 had directed 

investigation by the CBI into the allegations of grave irregularities 

in the grant of licences. As a matter of fact, on receipt of 

representation dated 4.5.2009 that the grant of licences by 

respondent No.2 had resulted in huge loss to the Public 40 Exchequer, the CVC got conducted an inquiry under Section 8(d) of the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 and forwarded a 

copy of the report to the Director, CBI for making an investigation 

into the matter to establish the criminal conspiracy in the 

allocation of 2G spectrum under the UASL policy of the DoT and 

to bring to book all the wrongdoers. Thereupon, the CBI registered 

FIR No.RC-DI-2009-A-0045 dated 21.10.2009 against unknown 

officials of the DoT, unknown private persons/companies and 

others for offences under Section 120-B IPC read with Sections 

13(2) and 13(1)(d) of the 1988 Act. For the next about one year, 

the matter remained dormant and the CBI took steps for vigorous 

investigation only when this Court intervened in the matter. The 

material placed on record does not show that the CBI had 

registered a case or started investigation at the instance of 

respondent No.1. 33. On his part, the appellant had submitted representation to 

respondent No. 1 almost one year prior to the registration of the 

first information report by the CBI and highlighted the grave 

irregularities committed in the grant of licences resulting in the 

loss of thousands of crores of rupees to the Public Exchequer. He 

continuously pursued the matter by sending letters to respondent 41 No.1 at regular intervals. The affidavit filed by Shri V. Vidyawati, 

Director in the PMO shows that the matter was placed before 

respondent No.1 on 1.12.2008, who directed the concerned officer 

to examine and apprise him with the facts of the case. Surprisingly, instead of complying with the direction given by 

respondent No.1 the concerned officer sent the appellant's 

representation to the DoT which was headed by none other than 

respondent No.2 against whom the appellant had made serious 

allegations of irregularities in the grant of licences. It was natural 

for respondent No.2 to have seized this opportunity, and he 

promptly sent letter dated 18.6.2009 to the appellant justifying 

the grant of licences. The concerned officer in the PMO then 

referred the matter to the Ministry of Law and Justice for advice. It is not possible to appreciate that even though the appellant 

repeatedly wrote letters to respondent No.1 highlighting the 

seriousness of the allegations made in his first representation and 

the fact that he had already supplied the facts and documents 

which could be made basis for grant of sanction to prosecute 

respondent No.2 and also pointed out that as per the judgments 

of this Court, detailed inquiry was not required to be made into 

the allegations, the concerned officers in the PMO kept the matter 42 pending and then took the shelter of the fact that the CBI had 

registered the case and the investigation was pending. In our 

view, the officers in the PMO and the Ministry of Law and Justice, 

were duty bound to apprise respondent No.1 about seriousness of 

allegations made by the appellant and the judgments of this Court 

including the directions contained in paragraph 58(I) of the 

judgment in Vineet Narain's case as also the guidelines framed by 

the CVC so as to enable him to take appropriate decision in the 

matter. By the very nature of the office held by him, respondent 

No. 1 is not expected to personally look into the minute details of 

each and every case placed before him and has to depend on his 

advisers and other officers. Unfortunately, those who were 

expected to give proper advice to respondent No. 1 and place full 

facts and legal position before him failed to do so. We have no 

doubt that if respondent No.1 had been apprised of the true 

factual and legal position regarding the representation made by 

the appellant, he would have surely taken appropriate decision 

and would not have allowed the matter to linger for a period of 

more than one year. 34. In the result, the appeal is allowed. The impugned order is 

set aside. It is declared that the appellant had the right to file a 43 complaint for prosecuting respondent No.2. However, keeping in 

view the fact that the Court of Special Judge, CBI has already 

taken cognizance of the offences allegedly committed by 

respondent No.2 under the 1988 Act, we do not consider it 

necessary to give any other direction in the matter. At the same 

time, we deem it proper to observe that in future every Competent 

Authority shall take appropriate action on the representation 

made by a citizen for sanction of the prosecution of a public 

servant strictly in accordance with the direction contained in Vineet Narain v. Union of India (1998) 1 SCC 226 and the 

guidelines framed by the CVC. ..........................................J.

 [G.S. Singhvi]

 

 ...........................................J.

 [Asok Kumar Ganguly]

New Delhi,

January 31, 2012. REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

 CIVIL APPEAL NO.1193 OF 2012

 (Arising out of SLP (C) No.27535/2010)

Dr. Subramanian Swamy ....Appellant(s) - Versus - Dr. Manmohan Singh & another ....Respondent(s)

 J U D G M E N T

GANGULY, J. 1. After going through the judgment rendered by my 

 learned brother G.S. Singhvi, J., I am in 

 agreement with the various conclusions reached by 

 His Lordship. However, I have added my own views 

 on certain important facts of the questions raised 

 in this case. 2. Brother Singhvi, J., has come to a finding that 

 having regard to the very nature of the office 

 held by respondent No.1, it may not be expected of 

 respondent No.1 to personally look into the minute 4 details of each and every matter and the 

 respondent No.1, having regard to the burden of 

 his very onerous office, has to depend on the 

 officers advising him. At the same time it may be 

 noted that in the course of submission, the 

 appellant, who argued in person, did not ever 

 allege any malafide or lack of good faith against 

 the respondent No.1. The delay which had taken 

 place in the office of the respondent No.1 is 

 unfortunate but it has not even been alleged by 

 the appellant that there was any deliberate action 

 on the part of the respondent No.1 in causing the 

 delay. The position of respondent No.1 in our 

 democratic polity seems to have been summed up in 

 the words of Shakespeare "Uneasy lies the head 

 that wears a crown" (Henry, The Fourth, Part 2 Act 

 3, scene 1). 3. I also agree with the conclusions of bother 

 Singhvi, J., that the appellant has the locus to 

 file the complaint for prosecution of the 

 respondent No.2 in respect of the offences alleged 

 to have been committed by him under the 1988 Act. Therefore, I agree with the finding of brother 

Singhvi, J., that the argument of the learned 

Attorney General to the contrary cannot be 

accepted. Apart from that the learned Attorney 

General in the course of his submission proceeded 

on the basis that the question of sanction has to 

be considered with reference to Section 19 of the 

Prevention of Corruption Act (hereinafter "the P.C. Act ") or with reference to Section 197 of the 

Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter "the 

Code"), and the scheme of both the sections being 

similar (Vide paragraph 3 of the supplementary 

written submission filed by the learned Attorney 

General). In fact, the entire submission of the 

learned Attorney General is structured on the 

aforesaid assumption. I fail to appreciate the 

aforesaid argument as the same is contrary to the 

scheme of Section 19 of the P.C. Act and also 

Section 197 of the Code. In Kalicharan Mahapatra 

vs. State of Orissa reported in (1998) 6 SCC 411, 

this Court compared Section 19 of P.C. Act with 

Section 197 of the Code. After considering several 4 decisions on the point and also considering Section 6 of the old P.C. Act, 1947 which is 

 almost identical with Section 19 of the P.C. Act, 

 1988 and also noting Law Commission's Report, this 

 Court in paragraph 13 of Kalicharan (supra) came 

 to the following conclusions: 4. The above passage in Kalicharan (supra) has been 

 quoted with approval subsequently by this Court in Lalu Prasad vs. State of Bihar reported in 2007 

 (1) SCC 49 at paragraph 9, page 54. In paragraph 

 10, (page 54 of the report) this Court held in 4 Lalu Prasad (supra) that "Section 197 of the Code 

 and Section 19 of the Act operate in conceptually 

 different fields". 5. In view of such consistent view by this Court the 

 basic submission of the learned Attorney General 

 to the contrary is, with respect, untenable. 6. I also entirely agree with the conclusion of 

 learned brother Singhvi, J., that the argument of 

 the learned Attorney General that question for 

 granting sanction for prosecution of a public 

 servant charged with offences under the 1988 Act 

 arises only at the stage of cognizance is also not 

 acceptable. 7. In formulating this submission, the learned 

 Attorney General substantially advanced two 

 contentions. The first contention is that an order 

 granting sanction is not required to be filed 4 along with a complaint in connection with a 

 prosecution under Section 19 of the P.C. Act. The 

 aforesaid submission is contrary to the settled 

 law laid down by this Court in various judgments. Recently a unanimous three-judge Bench decision of 

 this Court in the case of State of Uttar Pradesh 

 vs. Paras Nath Singh , [(2009) 6 SCC 372], speaking 

 through Justice Pasayat and construing the 

 requirement of sanction, held that without 

 sanction: (Para 6, page 375 of the report) 8. The other contention of the learned Attorney 

 General is that in taking cognizance under the 4 P.C. Act the Court is guided by the provisions 

under Section 190 of the Code and in support of 

that contention the learned Attorney General 

relied on several judgments. However, the 

aforesaid submissions were made without noticing 

the judgment of this Court in the case of Dilawar 

Singh vs. Parvinder Singh alias Iqbal Singh and 

Another (2005) 12 SCC 709. Dealing with Section 19 of P.C. Act and Section 190 of the Code, this 

Court held in paragraph 8 at page 713 of the 

report as follows: 9. Therefore, concurring with brother Singhvi, J., I 

 am unable to uphold the submission of the learned 

 Attorney General. 10. As I am of the humble opinion that the questions 

 raised and argued in this case are of considerable 

 constitutional and legal importance, I wish to add 

 my own reasoning on the same. 11. Today, corruption in our country not only poses a 

 grave danger to the concept of constitutional 

 governance, it also threatens the very foundation 

 of Indian democracy and the Rule of Law. The 

 magnitude of corruption in our public life is 

 incompatible with the concept of a socialist, 

 secular democratic republic. It cannot be disputed 

 that where corruption begins all rights end. Corruption devalues human rights, chokes 5 development and undermines justice, liberty, 

 equality, fraternity which are the core values in 

 our preambular vision. Therefore, the duty of the 

 Court is that any anti-corruption law has to be 

 interpreted and worked out in such a fashion as to 

 strengthen the fight against corruption. That is 

 to say in a situation where two constructions are 

 eminently reasonable, the Court has to accept the 

 one that seeks to eradicate corruption to the one 

 which seeks to perpetuate it. 12. Time and again this Court has expressed its 

 dismay and shock at the ever growing tentacles of 

 corruption in our society but even then situations 

 have not improved much. [See Sanjiv Kumar v. State 

 of Haryana & ors., (2005) 5 SCC 517; State of A.P. 

 v. V. Vasudeva Rao, (2004) 9 SCC 319; Shobha 

 Suresh Jumani v. Appellate Tribunal Forfeited 

 Property & another, (2001) 5 SCC 755; State of 

 M.P. & ors. v. Ram Singh, (2000) 5 SCC 88; J. Jayalalitha v. Union of India & another , (1999) 5 5 SCC 138; Major S.K. Kale v. State of Maharashtra, 

 (1977) 2 SCC 394.] 13. Learned Attorney General in the course of his 

 submission fairly admitted before us that out of 

 total 319 requests for sanction, in respect of 126 

 of such requests, sanction is awaited. Therefore, 

 in more than 1/3rd cases of request for prosecution 

 in corruption cases against public servants, 

 sanctions have not been accorded. The aforesaid 

 scenario raises very important constitutional 

 issues as well as some questions relating to 

 interpretation of such sanctioning provision and 

 also the role that an independent judiciary has to 

 play in maintaining rule of law and common man's 

 faith in the justice delivering system. 14. Both rule of law and equality before law are 

 cardinal questions in our Constitutional Laws as 

 also in International law and in this context the 

 role of the judiciary is very vital. In his famous 5 treatise on Administrative Law, Professor Wade 

 while elaborating the concept of rule of law 

 referred to the opinion of Lord Griffith's which 

 runs as follows: [See R. v. Horseferry Road Magistrates' 

 Court ex p. Bennett {1994) 1 AC 42 at 62] 15. I am in respectful agreement with the aforesaid 

 principle. 16. In this connection we might remind ourselves that 

 courts while maintaining rule of law must 

 structure its jurisprudence on the famous 

 formulation of Lord Coke where the learned Law 

 Lord made a comparison between "the golden and 

 straight metwand of law" as opposed to "the 

 uncertain and crooked cord of discretion". 17. The right of private citizen to file a complaint 

 against a corrupt public servant must be equated 

 with his right to access the Court in order to set 

 the criminal law in motion against a corrupt 

 public official. This right of access, a 

 Constitutional right should not be burdened with 

 unreasonable fetters. When a private citizen 

 approaches a court of law against a corrupt public 

 servant who is highly placed, what is at stake is 

 not only a vindication of personal grievance of 

 that citizen but also the question of bringing 

 orderliness in society and maintaining equal 

 balance in the rule of law. It was pointed out by 

 the Constitution Bench of this Court in Sheonandan 

 Paswan vs. State of Bihar and Others , (1987) 1 SCC 

 288 at page 315: 18. Keeping those principles in mind, as we must, if 

 we look at Section 19 of the P.C. Act which bars a 

 Court from taking cognizance of cases of 

 corruption against a public servant under Sections 

 7 , 10 , 11 , 13 and 15 of the Act, unless the 

 Central or the State Government, as the case may 

 be, has accorded sanction, virtually imposes 

 fetters on private citizens and also on 

 prosecutors from approaching Court against corrupt 

 public servants. These protections are not 

 available to other citizens. Public servants are 

 treated as a special class of persons enjoying the 5 said protection so that they can perform their 

duties without fear and favour and without threats 

of malicious prosecution. However, the said 

protection against malicious prosecution which was 

extended in public interest cannot become a shield 

to protect corrupt officials. These provisions 

being exceptions to the equality provision of Article 14 are analogous to provisions of 

protective discrimination and these protections 

must be construed very narrowly. These procedural 

provisions relating to sanction must be construed 

in such a manner as to advance the causes of 

honesty and justice and good governance as opposed 

to escalation of corruption. Therefore, in every 

case where an application is made to an 

appropriate authority for grant of prosecution in 

connection with an offence under P.C. Act it is 

the bounden duty of such authority to apply its 

mind urgently to the situation and decide the 

issue without being influenced by any extraneous 

consideration. In doing so, the authority must 

make a conscious effort to ensure the rule of law 5 and cause of justice is advanced. In considering 

the question of granting or refusing such 

sanction, the authority is answerable to law and 

law alone. Therefore, the requirement to take the 

decision with a reasonable dispatch is of the 

essence in such a situation. Delay in granting 

sanction proposal thwarts a very valid social 

purpose, namely, the purpose of a speedy trial 

with the requirement to bring the culprit to book. Therefore, in this case the right of the 

sanctioning authority, while either sanctioning or 

refusing to grant sanction, is coupled with a 

duty. The sanctioning authority must bear in mind 

that what is at stake is the public confidence in 

the maintenance of rule of law which is 

fundamental in the administration of justice. Delay in granting such sanction has spoilt many 

valid prosecution and is adversely viewed in 

public mind that in the name of considering a 

prayer for sanction, a protection is given to a 

corrupt public official as a quid pro quo for 

services rendered by the public official in the 5 past or may be in the future and the sanctioning 

authority and the corrupt officials were or are 

partners in the same misdeeds. I may hasten to add 

that this may not be factual position in this but 

the general demoralizing effect of such a popular 

perception is profound and pernicious. By causing 

delay in considering the request for sanction, the 

sanctioning authority stultifies judicial scrutiny 

and determination of the allegations against 

corrupt official and thus the legitimacy of the 

judicial institutions is eroded. It, thus, 

deprives a citizen of his legitimate and 

fundamental right to get justice by setting the 

criminal law in motion and thereby frustrates his 

right to access judicial remedy which is a 

constitutionally protected right. In this 

connection, if we look at Section 19 of the P.C. 

Act, we find that no time limit is mentioned 

therein. This has virtually armed the sanctioning 

authority with unbridled power which has often 

resulted in protecting the guilty and perpetuating 

criminality and injustice in society. 19. There are instances where as a result of delayed 

 grant of sanction prosecutions under the P.C. Act against a public servant has been quashed. See Mahendra Lal Das vs. State of Bihar and Others , 

 (2002) 1 SCC 149, wherein this Court quashed the 

 prosecution as the sanctioning authority granted 

 sanction after 13 years. Similarly, in the case of Santosh De vs. Archna Guha and Others , (1994) 

 Supp.3 SCC 735, this Court quashed prosecution in 

 a case where grant of sanction was unduly delayed. There are several such cases. The aforesaid 

 instances show a blatant subversion of the rule of 

 law. Thus, in many cases public servants whose 

 sanction proposals are pending before authorities 

 for long periods of time are being allowed to 

 escape criminal prosecution. 20. Article 14 must be construed as a guarantee 

 against uncanalized and arbitrary power. Therefore, the absence of any time limit in 6 granting sanction in Section 19 of the P.C. Act is 

 not in consonance with the requirement of the due 

 process of law which has been read into our 

 Constitution by the Constitution Bench decision of 

 this Court in Maneka Gandhi vs. Union of India and 

 Another , (1978) 1 SCC 248. 21. I may not be understood to have expressed any 

 doubt about the constitutional validity of Section 

 19 of the P.C. Act, but in my judgment the power 

 under Section 19 of the P.C. Act must be 

 reasonably exercised. In my judgment the 

 Parliament and the appropriate authority must 

 consider restructuring Section 19 of the P.C. Act 

 in such a manner as to make it consonant with 

 reason, justice and fair play. 22. In my view, the Parliament should consider the 

 Constitutional imperative of Article 14 enshrining 

 the rule of law wherein `due process of law' has 

 been read into by introducing a time limit in 6 Section 19 of the P.C. Act 1988 for its working in 

a reasonable manner. The Parliament may, in my 

opinion, consider the following guidelines: 23. With these additional reasons, as indicated, I 

 agree with Brother Singhvi, J., and allow the 

 appeal and the judgment of the High Court is set 

 aside. No costs. .......................J.

 (ASOK KUMAR GANGULY)

New Delhi 6 January 31, 2012 6 *********