2. Naniunda Se-try v. State of Mm-ore. A.I.R. 1964 Mys. I24;
Med. 641. - . Kuppzrswami v. Arimmgam, A.l.R. l9-ST S.C. 1395, 13-97, paragraph 6. Board' ofkevemre v. Lakshmarzcm. A.l.R. 1970 Mad._3=l~8, 349, Para. 3 {F.B.).
. Verikaraehninparhf v. The Store, A.l.R. 1966 Mys. 313, 327, .r!l1Jra.
. Kttppuswami V. Arrrmugam, A.l.R.. 1967 S.C. 1395, 1397; (1967) l S.C.R. 275. Board' of Revenue v.Murugeso Mrmbifnr, is\.I.R. £955

J!l\l-'I-F-'-Lu

37'

Supreme Court refused to hold "that a deed styled a deed of release cannot in law, transfer
to one who before the transfer had no interest in the property". On the facts of the case, there-
fore, it was held that though the deed was called a release deed, the words used were sufficiently
clear to transfer title to one having no title before the transfer. There was no question of stamp
duty in the Supreme Court case. 4.38. The Madras easel of 1955 was a case of one of the co-owners releasing his right
in favour of the rest of the co-owners. The High Court held that the document relating to it
was a release, and not a conveyance. In expressing that view, Rajarnannar, C.J., who spoke for
the Court, observed -.-- The Madras case" of 1968 tool: .a. similar view. Both these cases related to release of a co-
owner's right in favour of the rest of the co--owners. $.39. So much as to release. Some difiiculty is created also by the words "and which is
not otherwise speciﬁcally provided for by Schedule I." Do these words qualify also the ﬁrst
category indicated by the words "conveyance on sale", or are they conﬁned to the second cate-
gory indicated by the words "every instrument by which property is transferred" etc.? In the Mysore case, the latter view was taken. As a matter of interpretation, it is possible
togtake a different view and to regard the Words "conveyance on sale" as unqualiﬁed by the
Wortls "and which is not otherwise speciﬁcally provided for". In fact, none of the other articles

which tax a transfer of property would, in ordinary parlance, he described as a "conveyance. on sale". So this question should be academic. But it is better to make it clear that only the
latter half of the clause is qualiﬁed by the words "and not otherwise speciﬁcally provided for
etc'.".'
4.40 History of the words does not throw much light on this point.
i In a Calcutta case'-', where the Maharajah of Darbhanga, by a deed of family arrange- -tnllt. conveyed a Pargana and a sum of two and a half lakhs of rupees to his younger borther
totrlooliltion that the latter should release certain family properties .on which 'he had claims, -tilt"!-ligh Court held that the deed was neither a conveyance nor a settlement nor an instru-
mere partition within the meaning of the Stamp Act of 1879. The deed, not having been
modaby way of sale, was in its nature a deed of arrangement, by which a sum of money was
paid absolutely and a maintenance grant made by the Maharajah of Darbhanga to his younger
brother, by way of discharge and satisfaction of all claims by way of maintenance or other-
 It was considered that such documents should not thus escape the duty altogether, and
hence the deﬁnition in the present Act has been 'altered so as to make it include all transfers
inn gatvos which were not speciﬁcally provided for in the Schedule*. The Select Committee
_onrih}.Etamp Bill, 1898, observed thus : - . Scope of the
words "and which
is not otherwise
apeelﬁcall
provided
Schedule I." 11011. was neither a 'conveyance nor a 'settlement', not an 'instrument of partition'
but an 'arrangement' for the transfer of property." - 3°°°m'"°"d"' . 4.41. It is desirable that the conﬂict of opinions between the Madras and Mysore I-Iiﬂi
Courts on the question of release, as also the obscurity as to the words "What is not otherwise
speciﬁcally provided for", should be clariﬁed. In particular. the fact situations of a co-owner transferring his share in the common pro-
perty for a consideration to another co-owner, needs speciﬁc consideration. Three classes oi transactions may be considered in connection with release--- {1} Sales wh."r:h do not involve a reIease.--For example, a sale between two persons
who had no prior common interest in a property sold, does not involve a
release, as a release pre-supposes the existence of common interest of the parties
to the transaction. (2) Sale irrvohuing relea.-re.----For example, if the seller and the purchaser have a
prior common interest in the property, there is, in a sense, a release by the
seller of his interest in the property. But the transaction is also a sale. .(3) Rerlease not-resulting in sale.---For example---- (a) a release relating to a settlement of a doubtful claim ; (b) a release of a right which is not capable of being transferred in law, iike
the right to maintenance, or the mere right to sue ; ' (c) a release of a debt by the creditor (here the debt is not transferred 
the creditor to the debtor). ' '

'{d) a double or multiple release accompanied by the acquisition of 
right by each co-owner in the portion of the property allotted .to Irina,
which may amount to a partition between the co-owners. As against this, where "release" is by a eo--ovrner of his share in the common property
which is legally capable of being transferred in favour of another co-owner, for a consideration
in the shape of a sum of money coming from outside the common property, the transaction
amounts to a sale of the undivided share. Amendment. 4.42. In our view, it would be useful to add an Explanation in the deﬁnition of: _"con-
veyance", to cover an instrument whereby a oo--owner transfers a share to another co-cannula
The intention is that this should apply whether or not the transfer is for consider:_rion,.._Man;y
of the replies to our Ouestionnairel have expressed agreement with such a view.-The charging
article on "Release" also lends "some support to such an approach". Some have raised 
objection that this amounts to levying a tax for the first time. but we -would point out tint
it is not so, as will be apparent from some of the reported cases referred to a_bove.. - r, .- Doﬁnltion of

5°°*i"n mo'-"' . . 4.43. While on the subject" of 'conveyance', we may also discuss_the
"DDI_I?'N=93D¢W»I1d arrangements. - . -- a .-1. ' ' (cl seat sings mranm Singh. a.r_=.n. 1931 'oust: "433. 434. 4. 'am: Krrmrzr ... Lola Ram Sankar, I.L.R. 59 Cal. s59. 5. See infra. As Cheshire and Fifoot observe' : _, _4-.44. Family arrangements are specially favoured by the substantive law, in certain res-
pects--e.g., no separate consideration is requiredi' : ﬁ1n't_imt there was an antecdent title of some kind in the parties, and the agreement acknowledges
and deﬁnes' what that title is"". Here, the narrower sense of the expression is intended. In Mr. Him: Bibi V. Mt. Soimn Bibi ", the Privy Cuneil, approving its earlier decision in
Kftuni Let V. Gobirtd Krishna Narnia", held that a compromise by way of family settlement is
in, no sense, an "alienation" by a limited owner of property. Here again, the narrower sense is
 It would appear that this is so because no new title is created, and the antecedent title
is clarified by such compromise. Hence, where a family arrangement is based upon an assump-
tion that there was an antecedent title of some kind", it is not a transfer. In other words, if a
family arrangement is for the settlement of disputes--existing or future1°,--it is not a "transfer". 4.46. In the wider sense, a family arrangement, as already stated, is a transaction between
members of the family which is for the beneﬁt of the family generally". So viewed, it goes beyond
a mere compromise. It follows that a family arrangement in the wider sense can amount to a conveyance. Thus,
where a document was executed in favour of a widow, whereby the exeeutant, in pursuance of

I. Chuhire and Fifoot, Law of Contract, 18th Ed. (1973) page 277. 2. Cheshire and Fifoot, Law of Contract, (8th Ed.) (1973) page 277. 3. {a} Muhammad Ham v. Abbas Bamii, (1932) 59 LA. 236, 246 (EC); (b) Ciiznruiirry Ahmad Azim V. Chandhry Suﬁ Jan. I.L.R. (192.6) 2 Lucia. 335. (c) Lniifiaixan v. Moiianzmad Nobi, (1932) 30 All. LJ. 9;
I {I1} {Shalom Mohammad v. Gfinlam Hussein, (1931) 59 LA. "T4, 3?, 88 (RC). 4. Williams V. 'Williams , (1867) LR. 2 Ch. 304. 5. Section l5(c), Speciﬁc Relief Act, 1963. 6. (lg Rem' M'ewa Kwrwn-r_v. Rani Hales Krmwar, (1874) 1 IA. 157, 1:66 .0).
fl: Khunni La! V. Gobind Krisiian, (I911 ) 33 LA. 87, 103;_I.L.R. 33 356 (l_'.C.). 7. HI. H1':-en Bibi V. Sohan Bibi, A.I.R. 1914 P.C. 44. V 8. KTIIEME La! v. GnbindKr'i's}1m1, (1911) I.L.R. 33 All. 356 (P.C.). 9. .ldmdu.r V. Debi Smile. A.l.R. 1966 S.C. 292, 295. 10. Ram Charon V. Gfrjn Na.-rdimﬁ AIR. i956 S.C. 323, 319. ii. on Medina Dos ~.-. Midcrmd Ra n, A.I.R. 1955 so. 431,1-490, 1491; 1955 2 s.-on. 22- .
an KS{ﬂp££3l1-'ﬂf.|'l.f\«'. Ammirgam, 3.1.11. 1961' Sc. 1395. l J '

Multitude of
arrangements »
cmﬂttﬁ-:-'. '

I---I'

Assurnptionof
antecedent mie- hanee no
transfer. Family amnio- ment In the
wider acme. a rafinama ﬁled in a suit for maintenance brought by the widow, transferred to the widow a
piece of land valued at a certain sum in satisfaction of her claim, it was held', to be a oouveyance".
Elfettﬁlélﬁﬁlliigl; 4.47. On the question whether a family arrangement does or does not amount to a "con-
wh¢t],,,"f,m;]y veyance" for the purposes of the Stamp Act , the answer must, therefore, be sought in the nature
:: ;mp_ of the instrument. What is called by the parties a family arrangement, may be a conveyance, or

ed," a partition, or a release-'*--'*, or some other category of instrument. If an instrument operates as

G°m'°3'"1°°- a conveyance, it does not matter whether it is described as a memorandum or a release. It is
in this context that one must distinguish between a family arrangement in the narrower sense
(a compromise), and a family arrangement in the wider sense.
*''m''''h'°"' 1"" 4.48. Broadl s eakin , if a famil arran ement merel rcnounces a claim or declares or con-
nwmary' Y P 8 3' 8 I Y
ﬁrms rights, it is not a conveyance. If it transfers rights, it is a conveyance'5.
We have discussed these as cts conoernin familv arran ements in order to brin out oer-i
P3 S . E S
tain important elements. We do not. however, consider any amendment on the subject to be
necessary. §5 ﬁ3'i°" 4.49. In the light of the above, we recommend the following re-draft of subsection (10): Cb} every instrument by which property whether movable or immovable, is trans-
ferred inter vivos and which is not otherwise speciﬁcally provided for by
Schedule I : CHAPTER 5
DEI-7INIT[€JNS IN SECTION 2(1l) to 2{l8) 5.'l. Section Ztl 1) deﬁnes the expression "duly stamped", as applied to an instrument. There gm,-,,,, gm]...
are three broad requirements under the deﬁnition. First, the instrument must bear a stamp ot "dI1|1'stampcd"~
not iess than the proper amount; secondly, the stamp must be an adhesive or impressed stamp; and, thirdly, such stamp must have been aiﬁited or used in accordance with "the law for the
time being in force in India." Though no change in this deﬁnition is needed, two observations are in order. First, the de-
ﬁnition, like any other deﬁnition, should be taken as subject to the context, and construed in
harmony with other provisions. For example, where duty has been remitted by notiﬁcation under section 9 or a speciﬁc exemption is provided for under the relevant article, stamp need not be
attired. This aspect becomes material for the purposes, for example, of section 30 , under which
I person receiving money exceeding twenty rupees in amount etc. is bound to give a "duly-stamped
receipt" for the same. Obviously. where an exemption has been granted by or under the Act
lot aparticular class of receipts, there can be no obligation to afﬁx a stamp on the receipt,. and
the giving of an unstarnped receipt should be regarded as suﬂicient compliance with section '30.
Secondly, the deﬁnition of 'duly stamped' speaks of adhesive or impressed stampsl only. This
is in conformity with sections 10 and 11 ; but it will be worthwhile considering the use of frank-
ing machines. This point will be considered at the appropriate place? 5.2. In England, it has been observed in one casei' that an instrument--in that case, a Position in
secu_rity------is duly stamped "either if it has actually home the correct amount of stamp duty that E"3'""d- it attracts or if it is exempt for stamp duty." The expression "duly stamped" would seem to mean not only bearing a stamp of the pro- per value'. but also stamped at the right time", in the proper manner", with the proper descrip-
tion of stamp? under the Stamp Rules, and duly cancelleds. Thus, in the deﬁnition of the expression "duly stamped", a number of ingredients are im-
plied, such as, provisions of the Act relating to description of the stamp, mode of afﬁxing stamp
and the like. A diiﬁculty may arise where the amount of the stamp satisﬁes the law, but, In
other respects, the instrument is not "duly stamped" as explained above. Under section 35 ,
proviso, a deﬁciency in the amount of the duty can be rectiﬁed. But the situation where there
is no deﬁciency in ditty is not speciﬁcally covered by the proviso, though it would appear that

' tho!-hngtiage of the proviso to section 35 is wide enough to cover such cases. Having regard to -the-lint that this is a recurring situation, it appears to be desirable to amend section 35 , proviso

(1), by a speciﬁc provision in this regard. This point will require consideration when section 35 ii ﬂied'. , 5.3 As regards the case of use of a stamp of improper description, it is covered separately" Section K1 3]- Section 2 (l3A}---- II l!- sccnpn acme
IIInaB!I'

I "I.'ndia"'. We are recommending the

T of-"'IJ1tlJ'a", 42 5.4. Section EH2) deﬁnes the expression "executed" and "execution" used with reference
to instruments, as meaning 'signed' and 'signature'. The meaning of 'sign' is explained in the
the General clauses Act'. Dr_"signec1" layer on behalf of the debtor. A discrepancy, thus arises between um 'deﬁnition
of "cxccution" (read with sectior1~3) on the one hand, and article 1 on -the other hand This
gvtll requirei consideration, when we consider article 1. 5.5. The deﬁnition of "impressed starup" in section 2 (]3) needs no comments

5.6. The expression "India" is deﬁned in section 2(l3A) as meaning "the territory of
India excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir". The object of the deﬁnition is to-"indicate

that the sections concerned refer only to the territories to which the Act extends. To carryout
this, it was suggested3 that it should be revised as under : - '

"(13A) "India" means the territory of India to which this Act extends". We, however, prefer an alternative course---deletion of the definition of "India". 
that would involve extensive consequential changes in nlumerous sections where the' expésion
"India" occurs," we are of the view that it is a preferable course. We shall presently -indicate

our reasons for this. 5.7. The word 'India' appears in the following sections :-- Let us now come to the consequential changes. In section
modiﬁed by. subatiII1tir¢."tcn'i- tion 2{l1)~"du1y starnped"----the expression "India" should be
tories to which this Act extends." In section 2 {16A), the expression "India'
"marketable security" sold in any stock market in the State o

___#i 

' may be retained. The effect will-. f Jammu- and;-V 1. Section 366), General Clauses Act, 1897 '- 2. For consideration under article 1. 3. Minutes of 20th December, 197-4. 4. Sections 2(6) , 201), 2(13A}, 2{15AJ, 3l'b): 5. Question 8 of the Questionnaire. 3(c), 19, 18, 17 , 20, 32:13} Proviso.33(3i. and 50 Proviso

the replies' .- received to our Questionnaire;'heV.é._'.ﬂ1$9.,l§'fP°d I" I

EVE!' 7 43 - With reference to section 3(b) and section 3(c) , which relate to certain negotiable in-
struments and certain other instruments" executed outside "India" and brought into "India", the-
deletion of the deﬁnition _in s. 2(13A) of "India" will mean that instruments executed outside
India" will not be required to be stamped, and "India" will, of course incllude the State of
Jammu &'Kashmir. This consequence is intended. Hence, "In:iia" occurring for the ﬁrst time
in section 3(b) and 3(c) should be retained. But the word "India", where it occurs for the
second time in sections 3(b) and Me), should be modiﬁed by substituting the expression
"territories to which this Act extends", since that portion refers to things to be done within
theterritories to which the Act extends. In section 17 , in the phrase "instruments executed in India", the expression "India"
may be modiﬁed by substituting "territories to which this Act extends". 'In section 13(1) (time of stamping), the word "India" may be retained where it occurs
f.nr;1;h_e.ﬁrst time. But it may be modiﬁed where it occursfor the second time. This section is
theconverse of section 1 ?. I

 section 1_9, (bills etc. made out 0-f India), the expression "India" may be modiﬁed
where it occurs for the ﬁrst time, third time and fourth time, and retained where it occurs for
the second time--"drawn or made out of India". ._.-In section 20 , the word "India" may be retained. The section relates to money expressed
in any currency other than that of India. _ In section 32(3) , proviso (21), the word "India" may be modiﬁed, since it refers to
instrurnents executed in the territories to which the Act extends. Documents executed in
 & Kashmir should fall outside section 32(3) , proviso (a). In section 32(3) , proviso, clahsc (b), where the word "India" where it occurs for the
sound time. it may be modiﬁed. Where it occurs for the ﬁrst time, it may be retained. _ In section 33(2) , the expression "India" may be modiﬁed. - _= In s. 50 , proviso (a), it may be modiﬁed at both the places. Section 2 (1-4) gives "a deﬁnition of "instrumen" as including every document by §=cﬁ0n1(1*ﬂ-
whiclygany right or liability is or purports to be created, transferred, limited, extended, e.x- Instrument'
tiiiguished or recorded. ' '

' Attention should be drawn to the last word. "recorded", which does not udunlly "1'=°0I'd¢d' '-
 in' provisions" relating to instruments in other enactments.' The words "records" is-obvi- ously needed, in the Stamp Act , as otherwise the duty on "acknowledgement" and the duty
'-_'=nx_:morandum of ag,reement"~----to take only two exan::ples--would not be a duty on an
.1-'.inItrument'.'. And, since it is well-known that "the thing which is made liable to duty is the -Il,¢1'uI':nt",3 this ampliﬁcation in the deﬁnition iswelcorne. On the other hand-, however, it is not to be overlooked that every doctmient "recording"
1"-Eaiisaetion isnot taxable. Apart from cases where an, express provision exists,--as in the
two examples of acknowledgement and memorandum of agreement referred to above ---a docu-
mm.' does not itself deal with the right in the partidular manner, but merely records
 :"deaIing with the right",,would not, merely -because it records such dealing, be regarded
 asfan instrument containing a transaction of that type-' This aspect becomes material in

 of a few instruments--e.g., an instrument of partition.'

5.11. "Instrument of partition" is deﬁned in section 2_(l5), as meaning any instrument, §.g;,m;(;5)... T
whereby co-owners of any property divide or agree to divide such property scveralty and as 
1, See,e.g:( section 17 , Registration Act. H' -V -- - I I 2. I.R.C. v. Angers, uses) 23 Q.B.D. 579, 589 (Lord Esher, M.R.). 3. Section 2 (15}--"Instrurnent of partition". including also a ﬁnal order for ettccting a partition passed by any revenue-authority or any
C_1\'Il Court, and an award by an arbitrator directing 'vi partition.
There are, thus, four types of instruments with which the deﬁnition concerns itseli-- {a} any instrument whereby co-owners of any property divide such property in
severalty; (b) any instrument whereby co--owners agree ro divide the property in severally; (c) a ﬁnal order for eﬂeczing a partition, passed by any revenue authority or any. civil court ; and (d) an award by an arbitrator directing a partition. g§li ﬂ*5 5.12. Instruments between ca-owners dividing property in severalty, present few problems---.
pertylnseveraity. NI¢]Il0I_'a._nd'I.l111, 5.121%. The familiar question whether a particular document mcmely records a 
°fF"'~""*'°"- already orally effected, or itself divides the property,---so often arising under the Registration

Act ,--has arisen under the Stamp Act also. The _question is one of construction of a parti-
cular document. The abstract rule is clear, namely, that a document recording a past parti-
tion is not chargeable with d"'uty.1 " There seems, however, some possibility of harshness reslulting from such a wide amend-
ment which might take in even incidental reference to past partitions. - 5.13. It should be noted that under the general law, to constitute a "partition", there
need not be an actual partition by metes and bounds. An agreement to divide in equal share
is sufficient to constitute partition.' In fact, even an intimation is enough, if unequivocal. Whe- ther the same principles apply for the Stamp Act , is not very clear. The words "agree to

divide" in the clause seem to refer to an agreement to divide on some future date which does

not operate to create any right in the property. Thus, it has been held' that a partition ﬁst,
which does not itself effect division but is merely an agreement for effecting a _ﬁ1ture pnrtltton
on terms agreed, is not an instrument of partition, and is liable to stamp duty only as an

agreement. '

(cl Finalorder 5.14. The third category of instruments of partition comprises orders eﬁecting a. 
§,',';,'ﬁ..';°,"",.,,,",, passed by a revenue authority or civil court. Some controversy seems to exist as to :'the cause-
quenees of non-stamping of a decree of a "vil court for partition. The matter, howewt_,"ptI'- to

byaruvenue ' _ _ __ _
::,'f_';.,°_""°'°""' tains more appropriately to section 35 , which deals with the consequences of failure tostunp. {,1} Awash, 5.15. Awards by arbitrators directing partition, constituted the fourth eat='»S°l'Y Raf "instru- ' 5.17. Section 2t' 16) provides that "lease" means a lease of immovable propertv and §°°*l°n3(15l--
includes also--- ' L""°"e'-" In the Transfer of Property Act ,-" a lease of immovable property is deﬁned as a transfer
of a right to enjoy such property, made for a certain time expressed or implied, or in perpe-
tuity-, in consideration of a price paid or promised or of money, a share of crops, service or
any other thing of value to be rendered periodically or on speciﬁed occasions to the transferor
by the transferee, who accepts the transfer on such tcrrm. The English Act does not contain any deﬁnition of a ''lease'', and it is to be assumed
"that itavhas -the same meaning as under the general law.' '

5.13. The deﬁnition in the Indian Stamp Act can be divided into two parts. First, it says "pm pm,_
that"'Ieasc" means aiease of immovable property. While conﬁning the scope of the expression

"to "immovable property", this part of the deﬁnition does not indicate what is intended by

"lease". Secondly, certain instruments are, by the second part of the deﬁnition which is inclu--
sive, brought within its scope. 5.19. As regards the ﬁrst part, it is pertinent to. point out that courts have, in-deciding
 cases,' referred to the deﬁnition of "lease" in the Transfer of Property Act . A ques-
tion to be considered is, hether we should now provide that "lease" means a lease as. deﬁned

 

_i11.thn Transfer of Property Act . While that Act does not apply to the whole of. India, and 
provisions as to leases do not, in their entirety, apply to agricultural leases, it seems__nsefill
to adopt the deﬁnition in that Act by reference, so as to have precision. We recommend that
it should be adopted. The replies to our Questionnaire' have also, in general, agreedwith this. - -5.20. Both under the Stamp Act , and 'under the Transfer of 'Property'Act, the-term,'-ilease" "1!11t1.1°'!Igr*,.,
is' restricted to lease of imrnovable property; but nowhere in either of these Acts islitlie, ex; 
preuion "immovable property" deﬁned. Section 3 of the " Transfer of Property Act sin1pI_y.'s_ay_s '
that "immovable property does not include standing timber, growing -crops, -or 
F H Act" is silent about the expression "immovable. prop_erty", the deﬁnition of that expression General Clauses Act can be used. That deﬁnition' includes "land, beneﬁts to arise" out of
hand lass things attached to the earth, or permanently fastened to anything attached',"toI_ the
1;-,-qrth"--"a deﬁnition large enough to include growing grass." ' ~ e - 1

l. Kaidns v. Tribhuwaruias, (190?) I.L.R. 31 Born. 68, 71. 1. Sci: also Emperor v. Burro Lai. T3 LC. 336 (Oudlﬂ. 3. Soetion 105, Transfer of Proprty Act. 1831. . ' . 7 4. See Jones v. LR_:§'..' Sweermear Amromartc Delivery Co. v.'I.R.C'.. (1ti95)'l-Q.B. 484, where an agtfeeinent licensing
in installation of automatic rnachincrs on railway platforms was held not to be a lease for stamp duty purpgsgs. - 5. 121., Ag. .secy., Board of nanway v. South India liailwny, a.t.'a. Isis 'Man. 434, 438 (FJ1). (Kﬂshniﬂia ta. 6. Qustion 9 of the Questionnaire. -. 7. Section M26), General Clauses Act . 1397. s. be re Hormusji front. pass) I.L.R. 13 Borni 37, sec. :4 M or Lawm--7

Second part of
the deﬁnition
considered. Tolls. The more restrictive provision in the Transfer of Property Act and the Registration Act .
should not, it has been observed, be imported into the Stamp Act .' We are of the View that
the deﬁnition of "immovable property" in the General Clauses Act should he adopted, by
repeating it in the Stamp Act . 3.21. The second part of the deﬁnition of "lease-" in the Stamp Act has four clauses.
These deal with particular classes of instruments. The main object of these is-'--(i)" to check
avoidance of duty by not executing a lease, and (ii) to extend the deﬁnition to the letting out
of "tolls", which are not "immovable property" in the stricter sense. 5.22. The sub-clauses do not' seem to have raised such controversy. But sub-clause (c),
which relates to a toll, could be explained in some detail. A toll is an imposition for the pri-
vilege of using a bridge, road, ferry, or market, or for catching ﬁsh, cutting and appropriating
trees for fuel etc.' A tax paid for some liberty, particularly for the privilege of passing over a
bridge or on highway, the tax paid for the use of a ferry} or the tax paid for selling in a market
or fair,' or the tax paid for the right of ﬁshing in a river, is a toll." . Sub-clause {c)- has, thus, extended the meaning of the term "lease"; 'for, the right -to
levy tolls, though concerning the user of land or water, is not regarded in law as an "interest
III immovable property. An ijardar of tolls .does not acquire any interest in the land or ,water
concerned." Toll is distinguished from octroi which is a duty levied on good entering acertuin

area, town or territory. There are several Central Acts relatingto tolls---- (a] The Indian Tolls Act, 1851 (an Act for enabling
on public roads and bridges) ; (b) The Indian Tolls Act, 1864 ; - .. (c) The Indian Tolls Act, 1333 ; and .. " be noted that the entry in the Schedule to the Stamp Act ' charges
shall deal with this at the appropriate place. 5.24. We may, at this stage, refer to the distinction between "lease" and "licence". "A
person may lawfully enter on land either in':,.exercise of right as owner of an intere_$t_in land,
or because the owner has given him permission. The owner might have granted hint a 
an inter-est_oonfe1_'1'ing the right of exchsive possession;--or he might merely have '-a
licence,' permitting him to enter the la'ndrir'use' it for speciﬁed purposes. _, __l";' H T;
was propounded by Vaughan, _C. I. in the
"a dispensation orlieenee properly pasuﬂi

but only makes an -'hwfd

Government to --levy" tolh

5.23. It should, lastly. duty on an agreement of lease also. We

5.25. The classic deﬁnition of a '-licence'
seventeenth century in Thomas v. Sorre-ll ." He said
no interest nor alters or transfers property in any thing,
which without it had been unlawful!' ' ' , . . _ 1. InreHarmu.:jI'tg-=au1,(1S86)I.L.R.l3Bgi;1.81;iig9._'.ﬁtI'NanaH1ait;I':1];rida5nE3i-frhcmﬂlﬂfitﬂsliiz ' f,

I1ov.vever,tha ta' usﬁon, w, I. . ¢C€.I'|1?35t'|-F _8I'°l!ﬂ - _ .
numberofslie bul§.3.iJ11:o::atl§'ge1(-atainmmeperhmd?::?notaleese,becauseposaesmonhodnc¢l=e=IIl!!'!9¢ . 2. (3) Goodrich V. Venkanna. (1373-81) I.L.R. 2 Mad. la; (b) Financial Commissioner of the Puziab's.Circnlar No. 35,
nual, Part I-13, Chap. 3. para. 2. (C) Ram Pritam V. Shoobufchwrder, (1338) I.L.R. 15 2.59. _
Deputy Collector. Rom' v. Daniel. (1833) Ram. P..l.§ 1!. Madras Stamp Manual, {I958} 101-15.
President ofthe Tniuk Board v. Lek , . (tips) 1.1.9. 31 Mad. 54. .
msupm Zamindirry Co. v. Trailok ,.A.I.R. mt tel. 562. '

St'audard Coal' Co. v. C'.C.R.A. Banal. {_19Ii3II.L.R.ﬂ Cal. 313. Article 35 , Stamp Act . For history of licences. see I-loldsworth H.E.C. 'Vol. '1'. page 327, 323. Thomas 1'. Sorrell. U573) Vaughan 351-

D

 
 

":99°."'P'*S-"'."*'4-'

dated 13th August, 1333; (1934:: runjaii 47 The expression "licence" is not deﬁned in the Stamp Act , or in the Transfer of Property
Act . The Easements Act , deﬁnes it as follows :1

"S2. Where one person grants to another, or to a deﬁnite number of other persons,

a right to do, or continue to do, in or upon the immovable property of the

grantor, something which would, in the absence of such right, 'be'u11lawfttl,
and such right does not amount to an easement or an interest in the property,
the right is called a licence." 5.26. In the law of property. lease and licence are distinguished by stating that I lean
transfers an interest in land, which a licence does not. Where exclusive occupation is mt
given, the right is only of licence.'~' A licence is merely a personal right, and does not amount - to an interest in property." 5.27. As Denning, L.J. (as he then was) observed,' the difference between a tenancy

and a licence is, therefore, that in a tenancy, an interest passes in the land, whereas, in a_

licence, it does not. He, however, added, "In distinguishing between them, a crucial test has
sornetimes been supposed to be whether the occupier has exclusive possession or not". "If he
was let into exclusive possession. he was said to be a tenant, albeit only a tenant at will,

Illleseas if he had not exclusive possession he was only a licencee. This test has, however, . oﬁur given rise to misgivings because it may not correspond to realities... .. The test of
cxciusive possession is by no means decisive." 1. 52, Indian Easements Act . 1332- 2. A-.I.R. 1959 S.C. 1262. 1269. 3. ALR. 1963 SJC. 175; {I963} ] 5.011. 23. 4. ﬁg-ﬁraan v. Errtitgton, (1952) 1 K.B. 290. 5, Baa;-dofkevenue v. South Indian Railway Co.. I.L.R. 43' Mad. 355'; _.u.n. 1925

_ Mad. 434. s. Barmafr fJt'!Ca., I.L.R. 55 All. s-:4; ALR. 1933 A1l.735 CF-.B.); ' . ' e - Section 2 {l6A}-- Markntablc
Security. Explanation.-4:1 this section, "immovable property" includes ttmd,. beneﬁts to arise
out of land and things attached to the earth, or permanently fastened to any-
thing attached to the earth." 5.30. Under section 2(16A) , "marketable security" means a security of such a descrip-
tion as to be capable of being sold in any stock marketin India or in the United Kingdom.
The deﬁnition was added in 1904, when this deﬁnition and section 23 :'; were added and arti-
cle 6 (agreement relating to deposit of title dcogl) etc. was amended. The object of the amend- But the charging provision" makes a distinction. The duty is different,
the shape of an agreement by way of deposit of title deeds.'

A deed which contains all the provisions which one would normally ﬁnd in a mortgage

deed, would, however, be chargeable as a legal mortgage. The mere fact that the document
also contains the bargain with regard to deposit of title deeds, will not make it an agree»

ment for the deposit of title deeds,' within the meaning of article 6. The above points do not indicate a need to change the deﬁnition. 5.33. In section 2(l8) , "paper" isudelined as including vellum, parchment or any other
material on which an instrument may be written. . . .. It needs no change. .' This is necessary in order to avoid any argumt that the deﬁnition in tho.-."Trausfer 'of PIOPEITY 4'80' b'-'- SIUIGM»
. Section 122.,.St:u:nr: Act, .1391 (Ens-J- _ _ _ i

in reply to the Questionnaire issued by us--Qucation 10. _ ' " ' " ' ' ' '. ' 
Miran Ba-ksh v. Emperor, A.l.R. 1945 Lab. I59, '72 (F.B.}- '
As to charges, see section 100 , Transfer of Property Act.
. Article 6 , as contrasted with article 40Cb]. . As to the position under the Registration Act . sec A.l.R. 1939 RC. I67.
. In re Indian Stamp Act , A.I.R. 1954 Born. 462, 463, para_grap|1_ 2 ('F.B.}. oo--I::z>.g.a_o-r_.-atu-- if the mortgage is in

CHAPTER 6
DEFINITIONS IN SECTION 2t"l9J AND 2(20j

.6.l. Section 21119) deﬁnes "policy of insurance" as including- _. "{a] any instrument by which one person, in consideration of a premium, engages
to indemnify another against loss, damage or liability arising from an unknown
or contingent event; (h) a life-policy and policy insuring any person against accident or sickness, and -;-:, ._ v any other personal insurance." a

.6.2. It may be pointed outthat clause (a) of the deﬁnition is not conﬁned to 'policies'.
andincludes any instrument by which oneperson engages to indemnify another. If there is
an'i1rdmnnity undertaken in the document. then it is a policy for this purposepeycn though, in
bt_1s_i.ﬁ_e7Is'woIld, the document may be distinguished from a "policy". " 6.4. The principal paragraph of article 47 levies duty on various policies. Considerable
confusion is created by the "general exemption" under the article, quoted below' :----- _ "General Exemption". This exemption is anomalous, because, as will be shown presently, there is considerable
rlﬂueuce between a letter of cover etc. and a policy. In fact, the very language of the exemp-
tion 'makes a distinction between an 'engagement' and a 'policy'. 6.5. The exemption tor letters of cover etc. would suggest that a letter' of cover etc. would
otherwise fall under the expression "policy of insurance". But, as stated by the Supreme Court
in Rm Rattle! and C05-, while a letter of cover contains a contract of insurance, it is not a "policy
Of insurance" in the common understanding of that word in the trade?'- _ E6.6..In the'Supren:te Court case (which relate'd"t_«_:5' ﬁre insurance);'the letter of coveriwas
not pumped, but_' the p_laintifl' was prepared to 'pay the penalty punderiseetion 35; and had
 ' _done.so. The "question to be,de_cide_d__was whether, _e_\_ven'*on payinent- of "penalty, the
 be ad_rnitt_ed in evide'u_oe__. This qugti}on_ arosebecause contention of the--tine
 " lccmpany was that sinoe'the_ex_en1ption unde_r_ §.1ft_iclKe':4-'1' uses the' irofds-"beari -the tramp
iﬁd b__3.-_.rhr'.r Art for such policy", the stamppshouldﬂhave been'afﬁi:ed'-ur"if:e- nine of the

 

at-"".. .. . . . _. . .. .'lti$__f":iT;dd _ihe'_ pr'o_vis_ion_ in" section 35 "for subsequ_ent_paynnrnt'aef_penaltyi'could"not be rnartvea

the special language of the e:ternpfti<_i1_1._'_'l'his"'iaiais}_ iiegatiired "by the "Supreme
' " ':;by_afn1ajorityjudge.m_ent*.. According toi_the'n1_ino1ity'ivicw-, honjveiger, in yievrof the_e;tpri:ss

 

its insurance]. 3. Emphasis supplied. ' I 4. Serial' and Shah JJ.,- Raghbar Dayal, J. dissented. 2...R...lg:ri!a1 8;.I.Za._:.:._.Nerfoncf,.Sr§£ri!.V.:'!~*3'¢{""-'FE'? Cv.-...7:.=~'i- 49-1.: !i.-3?§5'i§'-_C:_l,35F"- _'_??3.: ,PE'F"3"3P'1' 5""° Wat' 'ti. Section 2 (]9}-- 50.. section 35 . If the letter is intended by a person to be used for making a claim thereunder, and,
therefore, to be treated as a policy, then. according to the minority view, it is incttmbent on
the person so intending to have the letter properly stamped for that policy from the very
beginning. If it is not so stamped, it can only be used to compel the delivery of the policy, and
not as a basis of the claim. If subsequent stamping of the document to convert the letter into
a policy is allowed at the sweet-will of the party standing to gain, then, according to Raghbar
Dayal, J. (who was in the minority), the law would lead to anomalies. _

6.7. We are not so much concerned with the meaning of the expression ".be:.a1. slam ",
as with the question whether it is proper to equate a cover note with a policy. On this point,
the majority as well as the minority took the same view. The following is from the majority judgements': insured or covered by it against certain risks. '
' (7) "What then is a letter of cover ? How is it to be distinguished from o._oaIir:y of frustrated? The Act contains no deﬁnition of it or of an 'engagement to issue a policy of insurance', 
terms are well known in trade. The Act is dealing with businessmen and with mercantile docu-
ments well known to them. _ ' ' H
"It may be shortly stated that a letter of cover no doubt contains a contract oﬁ inﬁlrtllee;
but it is Hot n. policy of insurance in the common. understanding of the: worn! in the 3raIle..:It.is
well known that in order to obtain an insurance against the risk of ﬁre the assured has ﬁrlt to

send a proposal to the insurer and then the insurer takes a little time in making: , _' u

 

whether it would accept the proposal and undertake the obilgation of __ . issues a policy only after he is satisﬁed that it would be a prudent business. to' . Experience of trades people has, however, ishown that some kind of protecti_on_' _- 
period when the insurer is making the enqlnrjes is necessary. This protection is 'gt _ 
called a letter of cover. It is expratsiy a contract granting insurance for the __ '_ g - _ 
date and until a policy is prepared and dc'. .' Péd 3'0"? 53 '-"t"-"""'*'H3' 555"" 0" 'm'§'!'_I*~'3, .' ,'
date nienttoned in it, inst as a period elltliirty days is mentioned in the I_i;tte_i;in1.Pr ' " '

issued in his case; see Citizens Irtsurnnce Co. of Canada it William F!!!'-50"': 'It gives protection for a period of thirty days or the period upto the date of the mice of the
policy. An engagement to issue a policy means, it seems to us, more or less the same thing as it
letter of cover. A letter of cover, therefore, cannot be admitted in evidence under section 35 as a
policy of insurance." The above passage shows that the Supreme Court. made a clear distinction between the two
concepts (cover note and policy). Some confusion was, no doubt, created by the general exemption,
because the exemption itself is anomalous. We shall revert to this aspect later. The minority agreed with the view. Raghbar Dayal, 1., expressly stated in his dissenting judg-
ment that it was agreed that a cover more was not a policy. It may be mentioned that in the case before the Supreme Court, duty and penalty had_a.h_'ea_I1y
been paid in the court below, pending determination of the legal questions. The legal objection 
by the insurance company was that since the letter of cover did not "bear stamp", it could not be
subsequently validated. The Supreme Court observed on this point :-- '

"[8-) The next question is whether a letter of cover is itself an instrument chargeable with
duty under the Act. It is not disputed that if it is not so chargeable, it cannot be admitted in evidence

under section 35 by subsequent payment of duty and penalty. New, section 3 speciﬁes instruments

which are chargeable with duty under the Act. It says, "subject to the provisions of this Act and the
exemptions contained 11] Schedule I, the following instruments shall be chargeable with duty of the
amount indicated in that Schedule as the proper duty therefor 'respectively, that is to s:y,'_----(1)
every instrument mentioned in that Schedule which . . . . . .is executed in India on or after the 
day of July 1399." July 1, 1899 is the date on which the Act came into force. . On a proper interpretation this means that such letter ofcover is not chargeable with duty as
such under the Act but if it beats the stamp prescribed by the Act for a policy of insurance. then
it will shed its inability and will become a_ competent document __on which a claim for loss could
be made." They further observed, "as no stamp is ﬁxed for such a letter of cover being not a
document chargeable with duty, the statute uses the signiﬁcant words 'or hearing the stamp' and
indicates the rate by saying that the stamp must be the same for 'such a letter of cover which is
prescribed for a policy of insurance under the Act." ' '

"In this Court Mr. Chattetiee for the respondent also advanced the same argument. then it cannot be chargeable. But we do npt. think

Exemption clause is that the exemption is -to apply only if the letter of cover is used for corn-
pelling the delivery of the policy mentioned -in it'. If it is used for. any other purpose, then it
is not exempted. That is why a proviso has been employed in the provision and the eﬂect i
that is to take the letter of cover out of theexeinption in all other cases. If it is taken cm of tin
exemption, then, of course, the present argumenttfails. 'we are unable to see how a bitter of
cover can be said to have been exempted 'for all purposes, if certain things be 
under it for the sole reason that it does not bear a stamp. If it were exempted for all pmnun.
it would be fully enforceable even without a stamp. When
then nothing is claimable under it except the delivery of a policy. prescribed for the appropriate policy, 1 claim can be made under it. It seems to is tht if at 1. Emphasis supplied. _ that a letter_c_f cover is forall purposes ex- - erupted front duty by the General Exemptihn. We think the proper construction of" the Genenl - a- 7 instrument bears a stamp it has incurred the liability for-the stamp duty. lt has not then been
1 _. _ - - exempted. Therefore, it cannot be said that a leltereof cover -is exempted from duty in all cases. - a 'When It is not exempted. it is -an instrument--chargeable to duty." - - - 0'h°" l'°"°i°5' 6.8. This judgement is conﬁned to Fire insirrance. Before this judgement. generally on the -question whether a "slip" for marine insurance is a policy for the purposes of the Stamp Law
]udicial decisions' did not help in creating certainty. . The importance of the above point does not survive? as regards marine insurance policies,
because of specific statutory provisions governing therrﬁ. But, the point is of importance in re-
gard to other insurance policies. (b) The general exemption to article 4? , as at present worded, then becomes r
and can be omitted. to) A provision to the effect that if, at the time of its execution, a letter of c
engagement to issue a policy of insurance bears the stamp required by the Act
for such policy, then, it shall not be necessary to stamp the policy again, should
be inserted. The reasonableness of such a provision is obvious. (d) Under article 5 (agreement). anrexemption in respect of letter-of cover etc. should
be inserted. The intention is that such letters should be totally exempt from stamp
duty under any article of the Act. tel These amendments would lead to no loss of revenue in the present circumstances. We have, however. after carefully considering the suggestion, come to the conclusion that" .2. Soy.-. discussion as to section 2 &0}-'-"t'_5ca policies". trivia.
3_ Sections 24 , 21(2) and 23 ," Marino'Insufance set. ms.'
at. Para. 6.7.ru_prn. ' ' 5. Q. 11 ofnae Questionnaire. 6.19. "Polic_\' wt" f._'_i'l>'ltP insurancc.." is tlL'llI]L'tl in section lllll.-"H as meaning any instrument
covering not less than Filly or such smaller nuntber as the Central Ciovcrttmcnt may approx-e,
either generally or trilll rel'.;'I'enc-: to any ]'I'rl.I'lii.il.ll£l':' case by whiclt an insurer'. in c.ons.idct'.'1lion of
a premium paid by an employer or by an employer and his employee jointly, engages to cover.
with or without meelical examination and for the sole beneﬁt of persons other than the employer,
the lives of all the employees or of any class of them, determined by conditions pertaining to the
employment. for amounts of insurance based upon a plan which precludes individual selection. It needs no cluinge. 6.20. Under section 2t_2llfl. a policy of sea insurance. or sea policy» (a) means any insurance made upon any ship or vessel (whether for marine or inland
riat-igationl, or upon the machinery. tackle or furniture of any ship or vessel,
or upon any goods, merchandise or property of any description whatever on
board of any ship or vessel. or upon the freight of, or any other interest which
may be lawfully insured in, or relating to, any ship or ycsscl, and

lb) includes any insurance of goods, merchandise or property for any transit which
includes. not only a sea ri-sk within the meaning of clause (a), but also any other
risk incidental to the transit insured from the commencement of the transit to
the ultimate destination covered by the insurance :_

"Where any person, in consideration of any sum of money to be paid for additional freight
or otherwise, agrees to take upon himself any risk attending goods, merchandise, or property of
any description whatever while on board of any ship or vessel, or engages to indemnify the
owner of any such goods, merchandise or property from any risk, loss or damage, such agree-
ment or engagement shall be deemed in be a contract for sea--insurance. 6.21. The stamp duty on such policies is chargeable under article 4'3. Questions exclusively
concerning the rates of stamp duty will be dealt with under that articlcl. But, at this stage, it
should be noted that the subject of marine insurance has been dealt with by 1egisIation--Thc
Marine Insurance Act, 1963. Its important provisions will he noticed in due course. 6.2lA. In England, from 1605, legislative measures were passed from time to time relat-
ing to particular aspects of marine insurance. We need not mention all of them here, but it
shoud be noted that since H95, it has been obligatory in England to record the contract of
marine insurance in a policy which is duly stamped. The effect of non--compliance. with such a
provision has been dillerently expressed from time to time. but, in substance, the position--so
far as the statute law since 1795 is concei-ncd,--has always been -that if there is no written
policy duly stamped, the contract cannot be admitted in evidence, and until 1959, the contract

was not valid also. 6.22. It was maily due to the eiforts of aBirmingham County Court Judge. (Sir) M. D.

Chailrrlers, in collaboration with practising underwriter, (Sit) Douglas UWETL that in 1394, =1

Billientitled the "Marine Insurance Codiﬁcation Bill" was introduced by Lord Herschel] in the -In-louse of Lords. Judge Chalmers had for a considerable time given his attention to marine
cases in the Courts, and had interpreted the law, as it then was, in a careful and lucid manner.
He dlaﬂed the Bill. He took the View that no code could provide for every case that might
arise or always use absolutely accurate language. He accepted that the cases coming before
lawyers were those in which a code was defective. Eventually, the measure was placed on the
statute Book in 1906. The Act of 1906 does not set out to remodel the law relating to marine

insurance, but merely to codify previous decisions and customary practice. 6.23. The concept of protection against loss by maritime 'perils has been traced back to
215 '.B.C., when the Roman Government was required. by the suppliers of military stores, to
accept "all the risk of loss, arising from the attacks of enemies or from storms," to the supplies

_,,_'r ,..____.a ___.. 1. see article 47. infra. 2, Do}-er, A Handbook to Marine Insurance (1957), page 2.
24 M ut".I:awl'l7--3 _

Section E( I 9-A}- j'Poltcy of group
insurance" The principle of "general average" received further sanction in the Codex Justinian. The
ﬁrst relevant principle of this Codex is as follows: Em and 6.25. Marine insurance was well known to traders in Venice, Genoa and Florence, and the
190.5 A¢¢_ history of marine insurance in Lombardy has become familiar to all those who have to deal
with the subject in the West. The House of Lloyds in London, which, for about two centuries.
has been associated with marine insurance, has contributed greatly to the development of the
law on the subject. In England, the Marine Insurance Act, 1906, is the principal statute on the
subject, but the principles were laid down long before that Act was passed. Continental codiﬁca-
tions--oﬂﬁcial and others--are much earlier. of 6.26. The word 'policy' is, in modern times, used to indicate the formal instrument incorpo-
P°]'°' ' rating a contract of insurance. The word is derived" from Latin "pollicitatio", {as promie], through
Italian "polices" or French "police". Oddly enough, in an English policy of insurance, the promise
to pay in case of loss is implied. not expremed. Continental policies, however, contain an express
promise to pay, within so many days after notice of loss. 6.27. Marine insurance is, in its essence, a protection against the risks of marine adventure,
though the concept can be extended to certain non-marine adventures also. 6.28. The contract of marine insurance is a contract of ,indenmity;'and this lumps in the
doctrine of subrogation described as a doctrine in which lies the romance of marine j

Position before 6.29. Before 1963, Indian courts usually followed principles of the English law as laid down
1963' in judicial decisions on the subject. ' 3 st 24, 6.30. In 1963, the Marine Insurance Act was passed in India Section 3 of the Act' reads--- ._
"mm "3. A contract of marine insurance is an ageernent whereby the insurer ,1» - indemnify the assured, in the manner and to the extent thereby 
marine losses, that is to say, the losses incidental to marine adventure." . Section 24 of the Act' provides as follows : _ y -«A conga" of marine insurance shall not be admitted in evidenceunless itlis_e_:in_borlied
in a marine policy in accordance with this Act. This policy may be 
igsucd either at the time when the contract is concluded, or afterwarch." "' _ " 1953 'Aer------Form This is based on the Lloyd's policy. Section 4 of the "Act provides---- _- ' . I '
of "my. "[1] A contract of marine insurance may, by its express terms. or by image 
be extended so as to protect the assured against losses on inland waters '
land risk which may be incidental to any sea voyage. - _ ~ 1. C_F.T1\a11er'1'y',ReSc5.l'ches into the Origins of Marine Insurance, cited by Dover, A Handbook to trams 

(1957), page 3. . . . 2. Dover, A Handbook to Marine Insutlmce (1957). D393 4- . 3. Chalmers, Marine Insurance Act (1966). case 1- 4. Section 3 , Marine Insurance Act, 1963. 5. Section 24 , Marine Insurance Act, 1963. (2) Where a ship in course of building, or the launch of a ship, or any uciventure
analogous to a marine adventure is covered by a policy in the form of a marine
policy, the provisions of this Act, in so far as applicable, shall apply thereto, but,
except as by this section provided, nothing in this Act shall alter or aliect any
rule of iavv applicable to any contract of insurance other than a contract of marine
insurance as by this Act deﬁned. ExpIanation.----an adventure analogous to a marine adventure, includes an adventure
where any ship, goods or other movables are exposed to perils Incidental to local
or inland transit." I 6.32 Some of the other important provision of the Act are in sections 25-26.1 Section 25 enacts what a marine policy must specify. Section 26(1) provides that a marine policy must be signed by or on behalf of the insurer. 6.33. So much as regards the important provisions contained in tne body of the Marine
Insurance Act . The Schedule to the Act contains the form of the policy. Its use is permissible, not
mandatory. 6.34. It may be of interest to refer to history of the policy of marine insurance. The form
or policy usually employed in marine insurance is generally known as the S.G. Form? The words
"S.G." mean "ship-goods" indicating that the policy is adapted for the insurance of any interest
which is not itself a tangible physical object, as long as such interest 15 pecuniary." Sir Douglas Ovvan. an authority on marine insurance in the nineteenth century, said of the
Lloyd's policy--'aln1ost every clause is consecrated by centuries of usage'. Though the policy
is clumsily expressed, its meaning is clear, because it has 'generations of legal interpretation hanging
almost to every word. and almost certainly to every sentence'. r_\s the Marryat Committee of 1311
reported, the 'doubtful points have been so repeatedly discussed and decided upon in Courts of

_law mat their true legal import is ascertained.'

6.35. It may be stated that Lloyd's policy was settled in its present form in 1,779, and
some of the provisitns are even of much older date.' Though, in the beginning, the English Judges
tﬁlﬂibod it as strange instrument, the mercantile community has clung to it, and, in fact, all
Bnﬁﬂr insurance law has been developed through cases arising on the policy. This policy appears
as a "schedule to our Marine Insurance Act also, as already stated. '

6.36. Besides, the standard form of policy, certain clauses are added, where required by
the 'circumstances of the case, in a marine insurance policy. Even in such cases, standard forms
evolved by Institutes are in force, such as, the Institute of London Undervvriters Clauses, the
American Institute Cargo Clauses, and what have come to be known as the "York-Antwerp
Rules", which represent a code for voluntary adoption in contracts oftaffreightment to govern
gnerll-average loss and contribution. '

I 6.37. These clauses are also of great practical importance, and many of them have come
up an construction before English Courts during the last 150 years. Reference may be made," in
tilbteonncction, to a lecture to the Insurance Institute of London, delivered by Lord Chorlcy in

November, 1957.5 Lord Charley said,--- 1. Sections 2 .5-26, Marine Insurance Act, 1963 . 2. Ship and Goods Form. 3. Deva', Analysis of Marine Insurance Clauses (1961), page 4. 4. Raynes, History of British Insurance (1964), page 159. 5. Lord Chorley, Lecture on "The Construction of the Marine Policy". Sections 25-2-6, Marine Insurance
Act . U ual Policy- S.sG. Form.. . I..lo'yd's 

other standard
clauses. Various types oi'
policies--Tirne
'Voyage, Mixed
Floating Valued
and unvalued. Deﬁnition in the
Stamp Act, section 2(2) . Likely
consequences of
be' referred to
the arine
[nsuranoa Act»- Informal notes in
insurance business. Position as to
slip. ' 6.3.8. The classic exposition of this important matter is contained in a lecture delivered by
Sir Patrick DB\'liﬂ,1 ( when he a Judge of the High Court of Justice] to the Norwegian Mari- timc Law Association on 4th July, 1952. '

6.39 It may he stated that marine policies arc of many ki11(ls"»-- (1) for a voyage, ale. where the contract is to issue the subject--matter "at and from" (2) For time, :.c., where the contract is to insure the subject--matt.cr for :1 rleﬁiiite

period of fame. £3)
cular voyage and the loss must also occur within that time speciﬁed. A ﬂooring policy. This describes the insurance in general terms, but leaves the
name of the ship or ships and other particulars to be speciﬁed later. (5) A I-clued policy. This speciﬁes the agreed value of the 'subject-matter, and the
value so fixer} is, as between the insurer and thc assured, conclusive of the value

of the suhject--rnatter insured. I' 6) An. rmvnlucd or open policy. This does not specify the value of the subjccbmattcr,

but, subject to the limit of the sum assured, leaves it to be subsequently determined. 6.40 Reverting, now, to the Stamp Act , we may note that the deﬁnition o' "policy of
insurance" in the Act is based on section 92 , Stamp Act, 1891 (Eng.} as it then stood. It may,
however, be stated that since l959,3 there is, in England, no separate stamp duty on policies of
marine insurance and these policies share the ﬁxed duty of 6 pence in common with all policies
of insurance except life insurance. In fact section 92 of the English Act of I89] and succeeding provisions were repealed in
1959. 6.41. It was suggested to us, that, in View of the fact that marine insurance is now thc_

subject matter of Icgislation in India, it is appropriate that the deﬁnition in the Stamp Act should make a reference to that Act. 6.42. This suggestion raises the question whether, by referring to the substance. of the
deﬁnition in the Marine Insurance Act , any documents which are liable to stamp duty under
the present deﬁnition in the Stamp Act , will escape duty. The question can be discussed in
two aspects. 6.43. In the first place, there are informal documents. such as, slips, and cover notes,
usually handed over in marine insurance business pending the execution of a formal policy.
The informal note or memorandum which is drawn when the contract is entered into, is called

the slip or covering note.'

It would appear that while such a slip is clearly a "contract for marine insurance", it is
equally clearly not a 'policy' for the purposes of the mrrrine inszrrrmce law. If the policy is duly
stamped, then reference may be made to the cover note for certain evidentiary purposes." 6.44 It was pointed out that though on the question whether a slip is a policy for the
purposes of the Stamp Law, there is a controversy,' this controversy is not important-ia.the
context of marine insurance. Sections 24 to 26 of the Marine Insurance Act, 1963, now"Iay

 :'"Thc Principles oi' Constructions of Chai';r_-I'kartics. Elills of Landingiand Marine Policies". address

to the Norwegian Maritime Law Association (1952). Based on Smith. Mercantile Law, and Stevens, Mercantile Law. . Section 30 , Finance Act, 1959 (Eng). See Maignen 6'; Co. v. .'~'an'nna.i' Beneﬁt A.s5urnnce Co.. (1922) 38 Times Law Reports 257. fonides v. Pacific :'m.'m'ance C'n., (1871) Law Report 6 QB'! at page 535 (L011! Bl'ﬁCl'lbUT11l- Section 83 , Marine Insurance Act, 1963. . See discussion as to policy of insurance. ,_. 6.47. l\'lUt'C-O'r'Cl'; in India, after the natioltalisation of general insurance business, it is
unlikely that those who carry on general insurance business will dispense with the practice of
issuing policies in order to escape stamp duty. Thus, the fact that informal or temporary docu-
ments do not fall within "'policy" in the Marine Insurance Act should not matter. 6.48 The second question to he considered relates to insurance in respect of inland 1H1,-,_,1,1¢,-ans,-_.o.-g_
transport. The deﬁnition in the Stamp Act ----vide the words that appear in hrackets--speciﬁ-
cally cover transport by inland waters. In this connection, it is to he pointed out that under
the Marine Insurance Act " also, a contract of marine insurance "may be extended" to cover
transport on inland waters. 6.48A. On a comprison of the deﬁnition of "sea insurance" in the Stainp" Act and that of Inland risks. l:i53._i.' '_; an,

S8

valid unless the same is expressed in a "sea policy". The taxing entry in article 4-'? refers to section
7 , and since neither section '3 nor article 47 deﬁnes "sea insurance", as such recourse should be
had only to its ordinary meaning. Now, the expression "sea insurance", according to ordinary parlance, would not cover a
risk purely of river nevigation. Since there is no deﬁnition of "sea insurance", it can be taken in
its ordinary meaning. On that approach, it would not include purely inland navigatiorf The
result is that though the deﬁnition of "policy of sea insurance" in section 2(20) of the Stamp Act
is wide in regard to inland navigation (as explained above), the charging provision in article 47 does not appear to he so wide. 6.4812. Therefore, the fact that the deﬁnition in the Marine Insurance Act does not include
pure inland adventures, is ol no consequence. Of course, as a matter of commercial practice,
policies of insurance of vessels on inland navigation are sometimes executed in the form
normally used for marine policies. But even that fact would not attract section 7(1) of the
Stamp Act or Article 4?. Thus, the adoption of the deﬁnition in the Marine Insurance Act and the deletion of the present deﬁnition will make no radical change in the tax. 6.4-SD. Even it' the above exposition of the position is n.ot correct, the practical aspect should
not be over--looked. 6.49. Thus, there should he no seriousohjection if the Marine Insurance Act is referred
to in the deﬁntion in the Stamp Act . It may be emphasised that that Act is the principal enact-
ment of relevance to marine policies. 6.50. The following rough draft indicates the main lines on which the deﬁnition should
be revised,' if the above approach 'is accepted--- Section 3 .4-, Marine Insurance Act is in the second category. . The proviso to the General Exemption below article 47 , Stamp Act , also does- not
substantive right to sue for. a policy..- If.-such a right exists by the substantive. iavr,-then
the want of full stamp duty should not come in the way- That in all that the proviso

6.53. We have already referred to the relevant provisions of the Marine Insurance Act,

1963 .2 The insurance Act, 1938, which regulates the business of Insurance, provides tl:ifaI'.3 "Marine,

Insurance business"---rneans "the biisinnrr of eﬁecting contracts of Insurance u E 

any description, including cargoes, freights ,and_other interests which may be le y " of whatever description insured for any transit by land or water, or both, and whﬁher for " 1' E) Act of public enemies; ~ (g) Arrest of restraint of princes, rules or people, or seizure under legal process." The payment of "additional freight" (or other sum) referred to in section 2(2D) , Stamp
Act, last paragraph, constitutes the consideration for the ship owner undertaking this liability
speciﬁcally. 6.55. The present wording of the last para of section 2 {20), has lost its utility, because the
expression 'contract for sea insurance' has now lost its importance after repeal of section 7 . 6.56. On a consideration of the various points made above, we recommend that the deﬁni-
tion of policy of sea insurance should be revised as indicated above? APPENDIX 1 Section 2 {20) ----i'{ew'.red deﬁrrirron of "Policy of Sea Insurance" as already decided. _1:-The remaining clauses are not material. 2. Peru 6. 50. supra. A PPE.-W)!.5t' 2
EXTRAVFS FRONT THE E'I.-'N2-RNCE AC1'. I959 (ENG)
(7 and 3 Eliz. 2, o. 58]. ''3t}. Stamp duty on policies of insurance.-- (1) in the ﬁrs: Schedule to the Stamp Act, 1891 , before the head of charge "Policy of

Life Insurance" there shall be inserted the following--- and an instrument exempted by virtue of paragraph fa) of this sub-section shall not be taken
for the purposes of the Stamp Act, 1891 , to be a policy of insurance." APPENDIX 3

Sl.'EClMEN SLIP1 OF I'vIAR'lNE INSURANCE

Insurance Brokers, Ltd. Maria s.s. No.,
12 months
Noon, March 30, 19:-. Ship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . £40,000
Machinery . . . . . . . . . . . .--£1U,00O
Inst. Clauses. Inst. Warranties. Average payable on each valuation separately or on any tvro Valuations together on the
whole. £3,500 15. 305. per cent 7/12 (Subscription of LS. for £3,500 dated December 7, 19. . . .. The other subscriptions follow

and are written on the back of the slip}. Charley, Shipping Law, (1950) Page 355-

CHAPTER 7
DEFINITIONS IN SECTION .2(2l) TO 2(?.5)

7.1. Section 2 (21] deﬁnes the expression "power of attorney" as follows :-- The deﬁnition in section 304) of the Act of 1869 ran as follows :-- The material change in the deﬁnition in the present Act is the addition of the words as
to the speciﬁed person being employed to act in the name of the person executing the instru-
ment. In the remarks about this clause in the Statement of Objects and Reasons, it has been
said that the amendment has been made in order to make it clear that the deﬁnition "relates only
to powers--of-attorney and does not include all contracts creating the relationship of principal and
agent". 12. 'There is a Central Act entitled, " The Powers of Attorney Act "1, but that Act does
not-contain a deﬁnition of "power of attorney". In fact, that Act does not purport to deal
comprehensively with the subject of powers of attorney. hut deals with certain aspects thereof,
which are not material [or the present purpose." 7.3. Briefly speaking, a power of attorney: is the formal appointment of an agent by a
deed. It usually runs thus :---- 7.4. The authority created by the power of attorney may be general, or it may be special.
For this reason, a power of attorney is usually classiﬁed as general or special. This distinction
is reﬂected in article 48. It is also indirectly recognised in the Indian Contract Act , section
188, which reads'-- 1. The Powers of Attorney Act ,'l S82. 2. That Act wil1_be examined separately. 3. Section 138, Indian Contract Act, 1372. 24 M of Lawm--9. Section 2(2l) --- Powers of
Attorney Act,
1882 . Deﬁnition. General and
special power. Story quoted. Forlnalities when
required in
England. Fornnlities when
required in India. 15. Story, in his work on Agency, section 1 '7, says :-- In persons on Contracts, volume 1, page 39, a special agent is deﬁned as one authorised "to
do one or two particular things" and a general agent as one authorised "to transact all his
principa1's business or his business of a particular kind." tn Bouvier's Law Dictionary,' Volume 2, page 714, the statement is.----"a general power
authorises an agent to ac: generally in behalf of the principal: a special power is one limited
to a particular act". '

Wharton' deﬁnes a power of attorney as "a writing given and made by one person
authorising another, who, in such case, is called the attorney of the: person (or donee of the
power), appointing him to do any lawful act in the stand of that person, as to receive rents,
debts, to make appearance and application in court, before an ofﬁcer of registration and the like.
it may be either general or special, i.e., to do all acts or to do some particular Act." Stroud'
deﬁnes it as an authority whereby one is "set in turn, stead or place" of another to act for
him. ln an English case," Coltman J. observed as follows 2-- 7.6. The delinilion in -our Act also lays emphasis on the use of name. Thus, if a person
writes a letter to his brother, authorising ]I1l.l11 to sell their joint property, the letter is sufficient
authority for the sale, but is not a power of attorney for the purposes of the Stamp Act ." The
reason is that the use of the n»:;«rn.o of the sender of the letter is not expressly authorised in the
letter. 7.7. Apart from statute, an agency can be created orally, but statute may require writing,
and there may be special rules apart from statute. Thus. for example, in England, an appointment
under seal is necessary to enable an agent to execute a deed on behalf of his principle. One
person cannot authorise another to execute a deed for him except by deedﬂ

7.8. Under the Indian Contract Act ," an agent is a person employed to do any act for
another, or to represent another in dealings with third person? As a rule, an agent may be
appointed without any special formality. in India also. . '33. Indian statute, law, excepting for a few scattered provisionsﬁ" does not provide in
what cases a written power of attorney is required. 1. Story, cited in V. yer v. Nnrasiniha Rae. I.L.R. 38 Mad. 134, 136. 2. Bouvier, cited in 1". {war 1:. Narasimha Ran, I.L.R. 33 Mad. 134, I36. 3. 'Wharton, Law Lexicon (I953), page 784. 4. Stroud, Judicial Dictionary (1953), page 2257. 5. Walker v. Remmerr. (1896) 135 E.R. 118i. 'WI

. Kala Khan v. Narhu Khan, A.l.R. 1926 Lahore 229. . Berkeley v. Hardy, (1826) SB&C.355. . Section 182 , Indian Contract Act, 18':'2. . Section 182. 10. Order 3, rule 4, Code of Civil Procedure , 1908: sections 32 , 33 and 34 : Indian Registration Act . 1908. 7.10. Under the Evidence Acti, the Court shall presume that every document purporting to
be a power of attorney, and to have been executed, before, and authenticated by, a Notary
Public, or any Court, Judge, Magistrate, Indian Consul or Vice-Consul, or representative of the
Central Government, was so executed and authenticated. The Registration Act also requires
certain powers of attorney to be authenticated? Registration of a power of attorney may become
compulsory in certain cases? 7.11. So much as regards the concept of power of attorney and the formalities, if any,
requisite for such powers. Reverting to the deﬁnition in the Stamp Act , we may note that an
instrument chargeable with court-fees is outside the deﬁnitic-n--vide the words in brackets. Docu--
ments chargeable with court--fees have been excluded, for the reason that otherwise they would
be subject to double liability.' Since an advocate appearing or acting for his client does all
his work in the name of his client," the usual Valtalatnarna would, but for the excluding words,
be regarded as a power of attorney. 7.12. The principal enactment relating to court-fees is the Court Fees Act . Schedule II, Article 10 , of that Act is material for the present purpose. It relates to Mukhtearnama or
Vakalatnama for the conduct of a case. '

7.13. There is a difference of opinion on the question whether a inukhtcarnama or vakalat-
name executed in favour of a person who is not a certiﬁcated mtikhtear or pleader should be
stamped under the Stamp Act or under the Court Fees Act . According to the Allahabad High Court," the documents referred to in Schedule 11, Article
10 , of the Court Fees Act , are restricted to documents given to and presented by duly certiﬁed
Jnukhtears or pleaders under the Legal Practitioners Act , and therefore, a mulchtearnarna in favour
ti -3 person who is not a certiﬁcated mukhtear falls within the deﬁnition in the Stamp Act and
is chargeable with a stamp duty under this Act. A contrary view has, however, been taken
in a Full Bench decision of the Punjab High Court.'

7.14. Thus, there appears to be diﬁerence of judicial opinion on this point. In our view,
if a person who is not a legally qualiﬁed practitioner conducts a case on behalf of a party, the
power of attorney should he chargeable under the Stamp Act . We recommend that the Act should be amended for the purpose. We may note that
the suggested amendment has been generally favoured in the replies to the questionnaire issued

by us." 7.15. The next deﬁnition is of 'promissory note! deﬁned in section 2(22) as under :---- 8. Question 13, section 2 {21}----Court fees. - i

Question oi'
instrumentsliahle
to court fees. Recommendation. Section H22}- 7.18. The present deﬁnition in the Stamp Act consists of two parts. The earlier halt simply
refers to the deﬁnition in the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 . The latter half includes notes
promising the payment of any sum of money out of a particular fund which may or may not be
available, or upon 2 condition or contingency which may or may not be performed or happen.'

7.19. It may be noted that the deﬁnition in the English Stamp Act , section 33(1) , is rather
wide.-" It has been pointed out' that the Indian Stamp Act , unlike the English Stamp Act ,
does not ignore the deﬁnition in the Act relating to negotiable instruments. In the earlier
half, it adopts the deﬁnition of 'promissory note' in the Negotiable Instruments Act . 7.20. So far, there is no difficulty. But the second half of the deﬁnition in our Act, which
is similar to English sub--section (2), raises problems. It includes many documents not covered
by the Negotiable Instruments Act . Should the legislature go beyond the deﬁnition in the Negotiable Instruments Act , for the purposes of the Stamp Act ? Is there any compelling

consideration that would justify the extended part of the deﬁnition? This is the question that '

we have to consider. 7.21. A brief analysis based on comparison with the Negotiable Instruments Act ! will
be helpful- {i) According to the deﬁnition in the Negotiable Instruments Act , the note must be
signed by the maker. This requirement does not expressly appear in the latter
half ol the deﬁnition in the Stamp Act . However one can disregard this difference
as a very minor one. (ii) Secondly, according to the Negotiable Instruments Act , the note nitlst be in
favour of a certain person or bearer; this requirement does not expressly appear
in the latter half of the deﬁnition in the Stamp Act . (iii) Thirdly, both the Acts require a promise to pay in substance, though the Negotiable
Instruments Act uses the expression "undertalcing", while the extended part of
the deﬁnition in the Stamp Act uses the expression "promise". (iv) Fourthly, under the Negotiable Instruments Act , the sum of money must be
certain, while in the extended part of the deﬁnition in the Stamp Act , "any sum
of money" will do. _

(V) Fifthly, under the Negotiable Instruments Act , the undertaking to pay must be
unconditional," while, under the extended part of the deﬁnition in the Stamp Act ,
it need not be so, and it also provides that the particular fund out of which money
is to be paid may or may not be available. The fourth and ﬁfth points are of importance. 7.22. Thus, under the deﬁnition in the Stamp Act , latter half. it is not necessary that the
document must be a promissory note within the Negotiable Instruments Act . Even then, 
has been held that it is an essential characteristic of the definition in the Stamp Act that there
should be a promise to pay to some person or persons or to order or to the bearer of the
note. A promise to pay the amount in one event, with a provision in another event to deposit
it in court, does not make the document a promissory note.'

. Section 4 , Negotiable Instruments Act, 1831 (Illustration not quoted). , Compare the deﬁnition of 'bill of exchange on demand' in section 2(3) , supra. . Section 33 , Stamp Act, 1891 (English). Mohammad Akbar Khan v. Afar Sing }: (1936) I.L.R. 1'! Lab. 557, 556; A.l.R. 1936 RC. I71, 173.
Para 7.17., supra. . Smdcarrarr Namboodiripad v. Abraham. Al-R. 1973 K01'. 22-

. Kutta Marla Verzlrararnrtom V. Pail Cherry. A.I.R. I933 Madras 306, 303. -..:a~.5..n;e-mqu....: we are recommending an amendment of section 35 (the principal sanction), for mitigating the
hardship. 7.26. We now deal with another question--thc question of charging duty on attested
promissory» notes. Here, one has to determine whether the document is a bond or a promissory
note. ?.2'}'. As already stated", the deﬁnition of 'promissory note' consists of two parts, namely,
the portion referring to the Negotiable Instruments Act and the portion not so referring but
added by the Stamp Act . For the moment, we are concerned with a point arising out of the
earlier half of the deﬁnition of promissory note, which refers to the Negotiable Instruments Act .
A controversy has arisen as to attested documents. In order to appreciate the controversy,
it will be convenient ii the relevant part of the deﬁnition of "bond" in the Stamp Act is quoted. It reads thus :-- It is now proposed to add, in this part of the deﬁnition of bond," the words "expressed to be",
so that the revised deﬁnition of this part will read as follows :------ . u a u - . . . a . . . . . . . 1.28. This amendment, however, will not solve the following question, which arises out
0! the requirement of attestation. The question is this. If a document is not attested, but
 an obligation to pay money, is it chargeable as a promissory note or as a bond '? It is
assumed that the document contains an undertaking to pay money to a certain person etc. 1. Km-uriuuzpa Rowdies v. Bava Moideeri. (1913) I.L.R. 36 Madras 370, 3?2 {Sundara Ayyar and Phillips, .l.l.). 2. Sudlﬂ Chandra v. Voiiyuiia. A.I.R. 194] All. 155, 158, 160. 3. Section 4 , illustration (f), Negotiable Instruments Act . 4. Q1 See discussion relating to section 2- ---Bil1 of Exchange (Supra). 5. See reconimendation as to s. 35 , Proviso ta), Enﬁva. 6. Section 2(5) -"bond". 1. See recommendation relating to section 2 (5'J(b)--"bond". Whether

required. Two alternatives. Arrested

promissory notes. Question of
attestation. Requirement of
attestation. Controversy. and is, in all respects, a document which satisﬁes the req'u'iren:ients of -a promissory note as

deﬁned in section 4 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, which is as follows :- 7.29. This controversy arises because the deﬁnition of 'bond' is incite;-it-'e. In a Patna case}
it has been held that an unattcsterl document promising repayment of loan on demand after
a stipulated date is :1 bond only, and is chargeable as a bond under article 15. The document
in the Patna case was not attested. and was not expressed to be payable to order or bearer, and
stated that the two debtors who had aﬂixed their thumb impressions and signatures in the margin
had taken the money mentioned in the letter and written letter on demand. The Patna High Court
held, in the first place, that since the payment could not be enforced within a stipulated period,
and the expiry of the stipulated period had to be followed by a demand, the document was not a
promissory note. A demand was a condition precedent to payment, and therefore, there was
no "unconditiona1" undertaking. It was not a promissory note. On this point, it followed an
earlier Madras case." But it may be noted that that case has been overruled ._by the 

High Court in a recent judgment." _

Secondly, the Patna High Court pointed out that the deﬁnition of "bond" in the Stamp A
is not exhaustive, and does not exclude an unattested document if it is not covered by the two
clauses of article 49 { promissory note]. 7.30. In a Mysore case,' Malimath. J. observcd-- 7.3lA. The Court pointed out that, in the earlier cases", section 5 , second paragraph, of
the Negotiable lnstrurnents Act had not been discussed. ' ' ' '

T he fact that the payment postponed did not make any diﬁerencc, because of section 5. Hence, a tlocument in this case was held to be a promissory note under article 49(1) ) of-
the Stamp Act , and inadmissible, since it was not suﬁiciently stamped. The question of attestiatiorr

was not in issue. Dew' v. Dhrrnik Lat, A.I.R. 1971 Patna 378, 380, paragraph 6. 2. Mnrhn Gum-infer v. Perumayammai. A.I.R. 1961 Madras 347 (Ramachandra Iyer, 1.).
i 4 _. The.-muppa Cherfinr v. Andiappo Cirerrfnr, (1971) 1 M.L.J. 2l4'(D.B.). ' ' _
. Rngirrrnnrh V. Bﬂrarri La-I. A.I.R. 1972 Mys. 159-161, para 4, dissenting from Rom Nrrrnym v. Ram Citnrtd. Athll...
1962 Pat. 325. ' ' = . 5. Tftemrppa Cfierfinr v. Andr'_t-'appa Cfrcrtiar, (1971) I M.L-.J. 214.
ﬁ_ Marker Gclunder 1.'. Perrortayan-tirim', A.I.R. 1961 Mad. 347. £7

":'.__32. It was suggested to us that an amendment should be made in the deﬁnition of "'prornis-
sorgr note" to exclude attested documents from the scope of that deﬁnition, for the purposes of
the Stamp Act . This would clarify the position, and avoid needless controversies. We have,
after careful consideration, accepted the suggestion. We may note that. the suggestion had been
included in our Questionrmire,' and has received substantial support. 7.33. Accordingly, we recommend that attested documents should be excluded from the
deﬁnition of "promissory note" in the Stamp Act , so as to avoid controversy. The controversy
is illustrated by the case law cited above. Without such an amendment, the" citizen's dirliculty
would continue, since it is not easy to determine whether a particular document is a bond or
promote. ' ' 134. We shall new deal with one expression not deﬁned. in the Act---"public officer".
It would, in our 'view, be desirable to deﬁne the expression "public oﬁicer" as having the same
rrteaning as in the Code of Civil Procedure . The want of a deﬁnition of this expression in the Stamp Act renders section 73 of the Act incomplete. It also renders? seciioilh 35 incﬂnlplcte. 7.35. We, therefore, recommend that a new sub-section (22.-K) should be inserted in section
2 , on the following lines':-- We may note that the suggested amendment has been generally fax-'oured the rt:pli=:s to the
Questionnaire issued by us." 7.36. Section 2 {23} mil}-' now he considered. rr(23)
(Hi

It says- 'Receipt' includes any note. memorandum or writing :--~

whereby any money, or any bill of exchange, cheque or promis or}: note is
acknowledged to have been received, or

{b}

whereby any other movable property is acknowledged to have been received in
satisfaction of a debt. or

(C)

whereby any debt or demand, or any part of a debt or demand. is acknowledged
to have been satisﬁed or discharged, or

(cl) which signiﬁes or imports any such acknowledgement,
and whether the same is or is not signed with the name of any person." 7.37. The principal question to he considered relates to cash memos. It has been
held" that ordinary cash memo, issued by a shop-keeper to a purchaser of goods is not a
receipt unless it contains an aclmowledgement of receipt of the money. Such a memo does
not become chargeable by virtue of initials of the seller subscribed to a warranty written
at the foot of it. Even if the initials are taken as amounting to -"cxe-ctizion", the memo. would
not be a "receipt" within section M23). as it is not addressed to rI.'T}' pnrrictrlrir ne-won and
the name of the customer to whom it is given is not mentioned in it. 7.38. In an Australian case,' the court ruled against liability on a cash memo. where the
jnemo. contained no srmrvncnt that the purchase price had been pain', though the practice was
to give such a document only against payment. The same view prevails officially in Great Britain!' 1. Question l4(b'] of' the Questionnaire. V 2. Question l5--Publie Oiﬁcer. 3. FE.-raner'm" (' omm1'.r.w'orrer v. Innb Burma Watch Co., I.L.R. 12 Rang. 174: A.I.R. 1934 Rang. 49. . Commissioner of Stamp Duties {N.S. W31 v. Swan & Co. Pty.. (1960) S.R.N.S.W. 141 and 182 [sub. mm. Woods
v. Email it: Co. P.r_v.. (1960) Australian Law Reports 333] referred to in Monroe. Stamp Duties, (19611). pam 38,
in. 15. 5. See the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer (made in 1949), H. C. Debates, Vol. 466 (Written Answers]

cols. l36-137. Recommendation
to exclude attested
Instruments. Section 2 (22-A}- Deﬁnition of
"public oﬁioer" Recommendation. Section 203}- Receipt. Cash Memo. Nature of
Cash Memo. Recommendation. Section 2 (25}- Ilgddicrll'

Exemption under
article S3---- _
History of. In 1949, Mr. A. Evans asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether his regulations still
prescribed stamp duty on receipts of £ 2 and upwards and how far it is applicable to retail cash
sales. Sir S. Gripps replied: "The stamp duty of two pence upon receipts for sums of £2 or
more is still in force. The form of voucher commonly given by retail shops in cash transactions
where the whole of the goods purchased are taken away by the customer on payment of the
price, being primarily a document used for internal bool-:--keeping purposes, does not constitute
a receipt, and is not liable to stamp duty even though' it relates to a payment of .£ 2 or more,
provided that it contains no words stating or implying receipt or payment of money. The
customer is, however, entitled to demand a receipt, and the Stamp Act imposes a penalty for
issuing a receipt liable to duty but not duly stamped, or for refusing to give a duly stamped
receipt." 7.39. Generally speaking, buying and selling is not complete with the cash memo,,but
with the payment. Payment is usually subsequent to the cash memo ; but, even if it is antecedent,
what a "cash memo" indicates is that the goods had not been delivered on credit. 7.40. It may be useful to codify the position laid down judicially, by inserting a suitable
Explanation, say, on the following lines :--- '
"Explana:ion.--A cash memorandum, that is to say, ti memorandum which records
particulars of goods sold or services rendered is not a receipt, if it does not
acknowledge that any money or any bill of exchange, cheque or promissory note
has been receiverl, notwithstanding that it mentions the consideration for the sale
or for r'ertder'ing the seri=ice.r." We recommend the above amendment. We may note that the suggested amendment has been generally favoured in the replies
to the Questionnaire issued by us}

7.4!. The next clause deals with "settlement". We shall consider at length the deﬁnition of
"settlement" and the charging provision in article 64 relating to declaration of trust? 7.42. Section ?.(25) deﬁnes a ''soldier'' as including any person below the rank of non-
oomrnissioned oﬂiccr who is enrolled under the Indian Army Act, 1911. The deﬁnition was
inserted by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1928 (18 of 1928]. That Act , by amending article 53 , gave statutory ef'r'eet3 to exemptions from stamp duty which had previously been
granted by notiﬁcations, and also introduced this deﬁnition. As we shall see later', while the
scope of the deﬁnition of "soldier" has remained unchanged, the scope of the exemption in arti- cle 53 was widened. 7.43. There does not appear to be any section in the Act using the expression 'soldier'. But
it seems to have been employed in some notiﬁcations, granting remissi'on._--i'or example, in respect
of documents chargeable as a 'power of attorney'. It also occurs in one article", as already

stated. 7.44. Under article 53 , clauses {d}, (e) and (fl. certain documents executed by soldiers etc.
are exempt from the stamp duty on receipts. The reasons for granting this exemption from stamp
duty is not very easy to discover: but it can be presumed that the decision to exempt such receipts
was taken as a matter of public policy. It would be of interest to note in this connection that
concessions to soldiers in the matter of taxes have been known since the period of Roman law. For example, soldiers were exempt from inheritance taxes under Emperor Augustus. 1. Q. 16--Receipt--Cash Memo. 2. Article 64. 3. Article 53(rl) , (e) and (fl-{'Receipt.). 4. See i.I'tﬁ't-J. 5. Article 53rd), {e)(t"-1 (Receipt). Clause (cl) oi article 53 corresponds to, and is a modiﬁcation of, Notiﬁcation No. 1101
dated the 13th February, 1874-, and clauses (e) and (1') contain exemptions which were first
announced by the same Notiﬁcation of 13th February, 1374. It would appear that this Notiﬁcation
was extended, by Notiﬁcation No. 10 dated the 30th July, 1927, so as to cover persons who
are not technically "soldiers" but are, nevertheless, below the rank of non-commissioned oﬂicers
and are enrolled under the Indian Army Act, 1911. 7.45. It should be noted that the deﬁnition of "soldier" in the Stamp Act refers only to
man in the army,--and that too only to non-commissioned oﬂicers. When enactments relating to
navy. and air force were passed subsequent to the passing of the Stamp Act , the deﬁnition of
soldier was left untouched, but changes were made in Article 53{ d), (e) and (f) by adding
'soldiers' and 'airmen', so as to cover persons appointed under those enactments. Certain verbal
changes were also made by the Adaptation Order of 1950. 7.46. incidentally, it may be mentioned that the Indian Army Act, 1911, has been repealed
and re-enacted in the Army Act, 1950 . There were substantial additions when the Act was re-
enacted; but these additions are not material for the present purpose. It is obviously desirable that
the deﬁnition in the Stamp Act should now refer to the Act of 1950. '

7.4".-'. The deﬁnitions of "oﬂicer" in the Army, Air Force and Navy Acts are only inclusive,
 are not relevant for the present purpose. In the army, the jnnior--most oﬂicer among the non'-
ooiiiitrissioned ofﬁoers is a Lance Naik. Below Lance-Naik, there are persons who are called
'sepoys'. Thus, sepoys appear to be the only persons covered by the deﬁnition of the word
'soldier', as contained in section 2(2S) of the Stamp Act. The words 'sailor' and 'airman"are
words of common use. The technical terms, however, seem to be 'aircraft hand, and 'searnan'.
According to the Navy Act}, for example, a seaman is a 'person in the naval service other than
an ofﬁoer'. 7.48. So much as regards the present deﬁnition. In View of the passing of later enactments
relating to armed forces, it is, in our view, desirable to revise the deﬁnition of 'soldier' as
Bndér :-- We may note that the suggested amendment has been: generally favoured in the replies to the
 issued by us". 1. Section ﬂit; Navy Act, 1957 . 2. To be considered under article 53{ d). (el and (0- 3. Q. 1%-"Soldier". ;-,4 M of Lawm--1o

Anny Act. 1950. Recommendation. Roaounsninsiu section 3- Iauodnuticn. section 3- General
condilsoufor
charge of duty. Uﬂﬂiﬁlﬂa' '

CHAPTER 8
THE CHARGE OF TAX : SECTIONS 3 TO I'

8.1. We have concluded our consideration of the deﬁnitions, and now proceed to a consi~
deration of the charging section and connected provisions. The principal section levying the
charge is section 3 . As already stated'. in the scheme of the Act, the duty is levied on the
instrument, and not on the transaction. However, where the transaction is effected by more
than one instrument or where the instrument relates to several distinct matters or falls within
more than one category, the principle that duty is levied on the instrument must need 
reﬁnements. For these special situations, special provisions are needed. In the scheme of the
Act, the general proposition for the charge of tax is to be found in section 3 , while sections 4 , 5 and 6 are devoted to the special situations referred to above. Section 7 contains a provision
intended to ensure pavnrent of duty on certain policies. 8.2. Section 3 is the charging section. The section is a long one, and deals with various
matters. Its provisions are fundamental in the scheme of the Act. Before we proceed to consider
in detail the various parts of the section, it would be convenient to emphasise certain general
conditions for the charge of duty which are incorporated in the section. In general, theme is
no charge of Stamp duty under the section unless the following conditions are satisﬁed :-- . (i) There must be an instrmnent. (ii) The instrument must be one mentioned in the Schedule to the Act . (iii) The instrument must he "executcd"'. (iv) The instrument must be executed in India,-----clause [a)-----or must he received in
India in the manner speciﬁed in clause (hi or clause (c). 1 , (v) If the instrument is not executed in India and is not a bill of exchange or 
note, etc._. it must relate to anvproperty situated in India or to any matter of thing
done or to be done in India. This is provided in clause (cf! of section 3 . 8.3. Even where the general conditions of chargeability, as mentioned above, are satisﬁed,
the instrument may be exempt from duty. Such excrnption may arise by reason of--- . -- ' (a) the proviso to section 3, or (b) some other section of the Act, or _ In (c) A speciﬁc provision below the charging entry in the Schedule, under "E3|empﬁo_n",
01' (d) a notiﬁcation issued under section 9 of the Act, or (e) A special law-»-for example', section 115, Presidency Towns Insolvencgi 
1909, section 51, Land Acquisition Act, 1394, section 28 , Co-operative Societies
Act, 1912, or section 29, Rwerve Bank of India Act, 1934. The principal provision---i.c., the charge-----is to he found in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of the
section. The provisos grant exemption for two cases. 8.4. The first proviso to the section relates to instruments executed by the Governmcm, etc.
The scope of the exemption has been narrowed down by successive Stamp Acts. 1. Chapter 1. supra _ 2. The list is not cxhaustrve. 3. Ramaswcmy v. P. Appa Raddy, (mo) 1 Mad. l"Iish~CoI.II't RGIJGPIH. I90. Act of 1360, all instruments in which the Government was a party, were exempt'. U _ tlin-,Agg=:.,: Otherwise, there is no obligation to stamp the instrument, even if the instrument is received
in Ilﬁin, if it is not subsequently ''executed'' in India'. I (c) Instruments executed partly outside India and partly in India are governed by section '
3(1). and section 17 . They are chargeable under section tin). It is to be noted that they fall section 18 , because section 18 applies only where the instrument is executed totally
 indict. Such instruments must be stamped at the nine of their (ﬁrst) execution in India'. '

' - "there are, thus, three principal points of iinic..,--cicccu'iicn, bringing into India, or am
execuﬁbra in India----whicb may become relevant to the charge of duty and the time of stamp-
.l?iom this charge of duty. there is an exclusion, contained in the ﬁrst proviso to_ section 3 . '
 '3__i.6. Under the ﬁrst proviso, no duty shall be chargeable in respect of-- 3, an: 'A' question of practical importance arising out of: this proviso is this. What are the case: 'J. Bicliulﬂ. 8. Sodium 29. Sectipn 3. llcond
promo. Section 3-A

Emnption. quoted above show, does not state that the speciﬁed persons "shall pay the duty",----- though the
marginal note to the section resds---"Duti by whom pays hie". 8.7. The question then an-ises----Can section 29 be utilised for the purposes of the ﬁrst
proviso to section 3 , when the Government, as a party to an instrument, undertake; to hear
the expenses of the stamp dtrtﬁv, and is the case to be regarded as falling within the first proviso
to section 3 so as to have the effect provided therein, namely. that "no duty shall he charge-
able" on the document concerned ? The position in this respect cannot be said to be beyond doubt. One view on the subject'
is that the exemption under the ﬁrst proviso will not apply in such a case. Apparently, how-
ever, the contrary paractice seems to he followed in the Government of India. 8.8, It is desirable that the position on this point, which is of a frequently recurring
nature, should be indicated more clearly. _
We, therefore, recommend the insertion of the following words at the end of the first
proviso---- '
"or where the Government has undertaken to bear the expenses of the stamp duty".
Such an amendment will avoid controversies arising from the fact that the langltage of section 29 is not identical" with that of section 3 . The proviso speaks only of the ''Government'', but the view has been taken" that where I
local body acts as a Government agency for the transactioneof duties (levoloving upon Govern-
ment as part of its ordinary administration, such as making roads, erecting Government build-
ings, etc., then this proviso would apply. We do not consider it necessary to suggest any amend-
ment on this point. 8.9. Section 3 , second proviso, is as folloms :-- Of the three enactments, referred to in the proviso, the Merchant Shipping Act, 1394
[Eng.) has been replealcd by the Merchant Eiipping Act, 1958. The Coasting Vessel AH (19
of 1838) has been repealed, in so far as it applies to sea-going ships ﬁtted 
means of propulsion and to sailing vessels, by the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 . The Indian
Registration of Ships Act, 1841, has also been repealed by the san1e.A,ct. '

8.9.4.. It is now appropiiate if reference to the Merchant Shipping, Act, 1958 , is sub-
stitnted in place of the first and the third of 31% enactments referred to in the prov'n'o. A

_ 3.10. This disposes of section 3 . We would, at this stage, refer to a_ nevi: point Iluicltﬂfli
the effect of exemption. A doubt sometimes arises' as to whether the exemption given' 
article in the First Schedule is to be regarded as valid only for the purposes of that rutmbt H

thehtm

whether the exemption is to be treated as a general one. In most cases, the latter is
thin, and a speciﬁc provision to that eﬂect could be umfullst added. . 1. s (1933 M am Sta p Manual, page is thisnfaoarct Prcceclents) ass, Mia. sum train-uarr. lﬂlfuc 'II;
lv:eMis.. isthéaprn. 1354. cited in chtalar. Stamp Act (195.1). vast 223- _ _ 2. Para 3.6. supra. _ _ _ I 3. (1934), Punjab Stamp Manual, Part I-B. Ch. 3, paragraph 3, (Citing Financial Commissioner 5 
dated 13.9.1334), cited in Chitaley's comn1e11t;;yXo)|,1 thcmestarnp ilctf (13:25 pang t21_:8.ofan bﬁwﬁm'_.= .
| in t tion it in ccntex O_ a consis 8 D 1'3
4' :3a7i.:f0:m?avIiiin°'rereer§n5n£eui'$'ti1ieY att:1ei?n:'.IFnn under article 5. exemption {a}--Aa-eerncnt for sale at¢-.«'- . - (a) Ra;-kubwbayaf v. Eivnp.. A.LR. 1934 All. 201: - - = .
on A.I.R. 1936 All. 4153; ReJ"e'reJu:e--Calfecmr aim" "- I-shims! Chard.- (c) A.I.R. 1927 Nag. 72, 73; couecmr arm» 5'. mom came'.- {(1) mm Begum. A.I.R. 1935 uh. :22. .73

Where the exemption is intended to be applicable only in respect. of the chargeability of an
ilstrltment under the particular article, a speciﬁc provision to that effect could be inserted in that
exemption. . : e. - '

Such a provision would he in harmony with the opening words of section 3 also.
8.1!. We, therefore, recommend the insertion of a new section on the following lines :------ Rqcomtygqndgyign,
"SA. Where, by virtue of an exemption provided for under an article in Schedule 1, Md",
an instrument is exempted ﬁroni duty, the instrument shall, in the absence of an nu article in the
express provision to the contrary; be exempt from duty under every other article Fm" S°h°d"l'°'

8150-51
8.12. A document executed outside lndia ts, at present, liable to stamp duty, even if it is swam 33... already stamped with the duty chargeable under the law of the foreign country where it was :':"''"'''''''"I .l
executed, provided the document is received in India'. There are special provisions for bills of A

exchange payable otherwise than on demand, and for promissory notes, drawn or made out of
India, and accepted or paid or presented or endorsed, transferred or otherwise negotiated in India".
But, in general, the document has to be stamped within the prescribed time after being received
in India, it the other conditions of chargcahility are satisﬁed. ,

8.13. We are of the view that some provision is needed for relief in respect of documents 3.515;; mm;
which have already been stamped under the law of a foreign country where the document was d°'-'NE "H50!!-
execnted. 'With the growth of international commerce, such occasions are likely to increase, and,
while it may not be necessary to grant an exemption for all cases, a limited exemption as to
transactions with or between Indian citizens in respect of documents executed outside India and
properly stamped under the law of the foreign country, could be inserted. a 8.14. The Indian legal system has several laws provisions relating to relief against Preoadamj,
dvcublc mention. A precedent, for example, is furnished by the Income-tax Act ". In that Act, '
i there are two provisions dealing with double taxation,----c.uc he conﬁned to cases oi -Est?'-meat
with foreign countries, while the other is not so conﬁned. The former---eection 90-is-as
foHomi:---- - e- '$50. Agreement with foreign countries .-----Thc Central Government may enter into an
' {a) with the Government of any country outside India for the granting of relief in
respect of income on which have been paid both income-tax under this Actrand
income--taJt in that country, or (b) with the Government of any country outside India for the avoidance of double
taxation of income under this Act" and under the corresponding law in force 
and may, by notiﬁcation in the Oﬂicial Gazette, make such provisions as maybe
necessary for implementing the agreement". In the Estate Duty Act ' also, there is a provision for avoidance or relief of "double taxation.
Irlttespact to estate duty, as follows :----- ' '

"30. The Central Government may enter into an. agreement with the Government of
any reciprocating country for the avoidance or relief of double taxation with res-
pect to estate duty leviable under this Act Ind under the corresponding hiw in
force in the reciprocating country and may, by notiﬁcation in the Official Gazette,
make such provision as may be necessary for implementing theagteemcnh

: 1; 'him 3(c} (See stairs). 2. Section 3 {h). 3. Sections 90 and 91 , Income-tax Act. 1961. 4:. section 30 , Estate Duty Act, 1953. ' Need "tor "relief. CU". I. I3], Trade
Marks Act , i958. 50613034.." ii

 says' :--i

1'4

Explanation.---The expression "reciprocating country" for the purposes of this Act means
any country which the Central Government may, by notiﬁcation in the Oﬂicial Ga:iette,__dec1u_e
to be 11 reciprocating country. , _ _ _ ; There is another precedent in section 131 of the Trade Marks Actl. 8.15. In the light of these precedents. and also on principle, we have carefully considered
the suggestion, and we are in broad agreement with it. We do not, however, think that the pro-
posed provision shonlil be conﬁned to transactions with or between Indian citizens. It could.
extend to all docuinsnts. At the same time, we are of the view that the grant of such relief should
be an die basis of rtciprocity only, and in pursuance of an agreement,------as in the Trade Marks
Act '. - We, therefore, recommend the insertion of the following section in the Act :-- situation of several instruments used to effectuate a single transaction is dealt with in 
The section is, however, conﬁned to transactions of sale. mortgage or settlement. The braid rule

is chargeable with the duty prescribed in the First Schedule, and each of the '

is chargeable with a duty of one
First-Schedule. Under sub-section (2), the parties may determine for themselves which or iiie_ as
employed shall, for the purposes of sub-section (1), be deemed to the _ , 
there is a proviso to the eﬁeot that the dutynchargcable on the instrument so 
the highest duty which would be chargeable in respect of any of the said instruments so 

8.17. In England, the princip';le is the but is not conﬁned to conveyances. 
the situation where a single transaction is effected by more than one instrun':ient,.an Bglnh

Ii.-=

rupee, instead of the duty, if any, prescribed for it in the

 .! ' ' m
in these cases (which is sometimes stated expressly 

"The general rule _
and that ﬁxedﬁlty is 

that ad valorem -duty is more than once. paid more than once where
because it is R deetli'. _ 1. seciioniii. Trade Marks Act . 1953. ' 2. Section 131. Trade Marlrs Act. 1956- i

3_ Th. ° pgfﬁgn speaks of "sale". The latter portion speaks of "conveyauce", became-the 

duty . '.'s...iz' rt'.- 4. Monroe. Stamp Dutles.l1954). pane 31-

efaeh instrument taken by itself attraqs I stqirp. _ i _ discussion, seeﬁtppcndix. T T " " . r" - : = . - i . . . .:_ ,'-ﬂnwever, such difficulties cannot be solved byaan amendment of the law, and it is diiticult

.19 better and more precise formula. T . T ' T T

. .'='i_$,T2_I.'.'T:'l'his takes us to section 6 . In order to appreciate signiﬁcance of that section, Seating 5.
ii to examine the scheme of the Act. The sciiemc of the Act as regards documents
 diﬁerent heads is as follows :-- ' '
, '-'_1~ ._-' ' ' ,
_ ant-,: accepted orally or by conduct requires no stamp: Carbofic Snrokebaii Ca.. [1392] 1a.]!
T T ppeal (1393) 1 QB. 256. 'T , _ _
"ii. 1aeiiuTe.'stamp_Duﬁea.(1964)pase 31- ' ' T T 
4 _ cg: Hmﬁwg v. Perry, (1828) 2 Moo page 375. cited in Halsbury. 3rd Ed.,Vol. 33, page 295, para 513. f.n. F): _ - 5. Qadlon 22. ' r 6. s. No. 74 (Gujarat Bar Council) under Q. 22 of the Questionnaire issued-Vby the Dommiuiorl. _
1, see the opening words of section 6- -"Snbject to the provisions of theilast preceding section."
B. The late Mr. Tilsley, quoted by Donogh, Stamp Act, (1935), page 183. T '

Gist o { Section 6 . Provisions
analysed. Position
Blind

in 76 The First Schedule to the Act speciﬁes the duties which are chargeable upon certain
descriptions of instruments. There may be instruments falling within "more than ass category.
They have to be speciﬁcally dealt with, since the general rule in sections 4-S would not
yield a fully adequate test.- Section 6 provides that in such a case the higher or highest duty
is chargeable. 8.22. Section 6 ,--_to put the matter very b-road1y,----provides that an instrument so framed
as to come within two or more of the descriptions in Schedule I, shall, where the duties charge-
able thereunder are different, he chargeable only with the highest of such duties. This rule
is, however, subject to an important qualiﬁcation, which is expressed in the section by the
words "subject to the provisions of the last preceding section"--i.e., section 5 . Section 5 ,
it will be recalled, provides that an instrument comprising or relating to several "distinct matters" or another, according to the view adopted of its legal operation ( Section 6 ). rue Act has
distinct rules for Group A trom Group B. - The line of division between classes (2) and (3) may sometimes be diﬁcult to' draw.
But it is not possible to improve the position by any verbal amendments. '

8.23. It is well established in England that where a document comes within; each get
two categories chargeable with duty under the {English} Stamp Act, 1891 , the Crown is
entitled to only one of the duties, but it may choose the higher. A case that iii to the
House of Lords may be cited.' The United States of Mexico had issued 'geld iiclilﬁﬁ Ebﬁy
notes' with a promise to pay principal and interest to the bearer at ﬁxed dates 'eitbe_r_abtood
or, at the option of the holder, in London. There was evidence that the notes were. saleable
on the London and other Stock Exchanges. It was held; the notes being, in fact, "both go-
missory notes and marketable securities within the Stamp Act, 1891 , they were liable to he

higher duty imposed by that Act marketable securities. M.R., iii -the 

his judgment in the Court of Appeal, observed that the cases established tbiii E HI

not only the right to treat, but is bound to treat, an instrument as assessable under 

which involves the higher stamp duty. 1. Section 'J, Indian Stamp Act, 1879. 2. (I916) 37 Indian Cases 984 (Madras). 3. Analysis adapted from Donogh. Stamp Just, (135); Page 189. I Speyer Broriias v. C'om'r.r., (1908) A.C. 92 aﬁrming{19D7) 1_ K_.,l1. 146, 253.; Lord Lorebum, in the course of his judgment in the House of Lords, aﬂirming this

view, observed :--- These observations of Lord Loreburn lucidly explain the signiﬁcance and rationale under-
lying the statutory provision in section 6 . Brieﬂy, the gist is this :--- (i) Duty may be cltatged only once. (ii) But it must be the higher, and not the lower, of the two. 8.24. This, in fact, is the substance of section 6 . An instrument so framed as to come
within two or more of the descriptions in the First Schedule, is to be chargeable with the
highest of the duties. The proviso to the section deals with the special situation of a counter-
part or duplicate of any instrtrrnent chargeable with dutv, where duty has been paid in respect
of the (principal) instrument. There is not much sco e for int roventent in section 6 . What remains to be noted is
P P
only the special provision, contained not 1|] this Act, but elsewhere. 8.242%. We have in mind section 1 ? of the Negotiable Instruments Act ', which gives
a right to the holder of an "ambiguous document" to treat it as a promissory note, or as a
bill of exchange. By "ambiguous document" is meant a document which can fall under
either. According to judicial interpretation, this privilege cannot be taken away by anything
contained in the Stamp Act , and in this sense, section 1 '? of the Negotiable Instruments Act must be read as overriding the Stamp Act ." 8.25. In our view, it is desirable to codify this interpretation by adding a saving to section
6 , to the effect that nothing in this section shall affect the provisions of section 1 '? of the Nego-
liable Instruments Act, 188]. We recommend that an Explanation should be added accordingly.
Such an amendment has been generally {avourcd in the replies to the Questionnaire" issued
by ea. 8.26. We now come to section 7 ''. Before 1963, section 7 was as follows :-- the names of subscribers or iniderwriters. The Court held, that initialling was suliicient to
"specify" the names within the meaning of section 7(3) . A Calcutta case? has dealt with the scope of sub--section (1) of section 7 (now repealed],
and held that a cover does not amount to a valid policy of marine insurance. These cases
are no longer of importance for the Stamp Act , since sub-sections (1) to (3) have been

repealed. So far as stilt-section (4) is concerned, we are recommending its deletion, for reasons to
be given3 under Article 4?. APPENDIX I
Section. 4-----English lmv as to two instruments used to effectuate one transaction

The general rule in England is that ad valorem duty is not paid more than once. and
that fixed duty is paid more than once only where each instrument taken by itself attracts a

stamp, e.g., because it is a deed. This. in a case of a contract comprising an offer and accep- tance under hand one 6 ti. stamp is sufficient, which logically should be affixed to the acceptance. As regards conveyance, it is expressly provided by statute, that where there are several
instruments of c.-nr1t=e_t=nnce, the principle instrument only is to be liable to ad vaiorem duty,
and the others to such duty as they may be liable, not exceeding the ad valorem duty.' Section 58(3) , Stamp Act, 1891, is as fol1ows4:--_-- _
: f"5,$,.._(3)_-ilW.h'crep..tliere, a{re'_.s,evr;ra1','instrutitents oi. conveyatioe. for conigleting the
 "..'Pu.r¢.hss=r's-. this-«-ts--.pr.0Psttn»s0l9is '.hi-?;.-PT5n9iRa1,-i§1~3'4"tTF'§1l1.°f ¥>°"'~.'-i'¥ﬂ"¢¢ oniv

. _is tgybﬂ-QhatE¢d'=t'h'iﬂ1'ﬂd., Yiillﬂr-f;mt.,_duty', and=__t1ie other ,instrume.nts are to be
respectively charged with such other duty as _t_hey_.,_may.5be liable -to, but such
lastmentioned duty shall not exceed the ad valorem duty payable in respect

of the principal instrument?' Section 61 is as follows : -- Though a gift is usually unconditional, it can be conditional. It is to be noted that a
gift is a species of transfer, and is, therefore, subject to all the provisions of the law of transfer
of property relating to conditional transfers. Like other transfers, :1 gift, therefore, may be
subject to a condition precetlentﬁ If the condition is not invalid," the condition will be recog-
nised by law. A gift to two sisters on the condition that they should live apart is valid.'
If A gives Rs. 500 to B on condition that B shall marry C, the condition is valid. But, if
the condition is inntoral or illegal, then it is void? Similarly, a gift may be subject to a condition subsequent." In a Madras case,"-' a gift
was made by a person sentenced to transportation for life to :1 relation, on the condition that
the land gifted should be gl\'(:r1 back if the donor retttrned to his village. In fact, section 126 of the Transfer of Property Act even provides that the donor and
donee may agree that on the happening of any speciﬁed event not depending on the will of
the donor, a gift shall be .$ttt5';.1£'Ud£!'t.i or revoked. A condition can, therefore, even go to the
extent of providing {or revocation. Apart from the 'I'ranst'er of Property Act, conclitions are recognised in respect of gifts by
Muslim law also"-'2

Though the Transfer of Property Act, section 123. dealing with the acceptance of a gift,
does. not require the acceptance to be in writing, and though the acceptance can be inferred or
oral, there can be :1 written nr..-'.'.€pfrm('c by the donec, and, in case of conditional gifts, it is pru-
dent to have a written acceptance. A gift to which a condition is attached is not a "sale", because, as deﬁned in the Transfer
of Property Act,13, a "sale" must be only for a price. and "price" here means money only."
It has been speciﬁcally held" that a transaction which is in consideration of the transfesror's
regard for the transferee, nho agreed to maintain the transferor, is not a "sale". ,_ M,,,,_.,,,,,,. ,.,,g,.,,,.ce Ca, V. Cater', (I883) 20 Q.B.D. 735, 783. 2. Promissory notes are no longer liable to ca' valor:-in duty in England. 3. - Stamp Act, 1891 , Schedule 1. 4. Revenue Act, 1903, section 7 , limiting the duty on collateral securities to 105. 5. Section 21 , Transfer of Property Act. 6. Section 25 , Transfer of Property Act. See particularly illustration (b). 17,- Rodgmnry v. Woodimuse, (1844) T Beav. 437, 49 ER. 1134, cited in Mulla, Transfer of Property Act (1966),

page 732, footnote {Z}. 3. Ram Sn-amp v. Bela, {I884} I.L.R. 6 Allahabad 313. 9. Section 31 , Transfer of Property Act. 10_ y€,,k,,;,,,-a,»,,a,., 1,-_ AD.-35;,-gmy, A.1.R. 1933 Madras 67 43 Madras Law Journal 340.
1 1. Tvabji. Muslim Law (1968), page 305, page 366, illustration (1), and page 406, illustration (1) and cases there cited. 2. Also the leading case of Nnwab Umjad Ally Khan, 11 M.I.A. 517. 543. 547. as explained in A-I-R 1932 P-C- 331- 13. Section 54 , Transfer of Property Act. 14. 1 adﬂﬂ Piitaiv. Bfzarihakaii, A.i.R. 1922 Madras 311. _ 15. Run" Rant v. Mum Cftcrtd. A.l.R. 1959 Puniab 117. (Case relating to right of pre-emptton). Even if conditional gifts are not regarded as gifts, they are certainly not "saies". So they
do not, at present, get the beneﬁt of section 4 , Stamp Act, which is conﬁned to sales, mortgages
and settlements. (I3) Two documents Coltsliéuthtg :2 gift. If there are two documents relating to a transaction of gift, the case does not, at present
fall under section', unless the document is a "settlement". in an Allahabad case} T- in
consideration of love and aﬁection and the promise to be maintained by his brother M. executed
a deed of gift of all his property in favour of M, and M executed another deed whereby M
promised that during the life time of T he would pay T's expenses. The High Court held that
the second deed executed by M was one which came within section 4 , because the transaction
may fairly be said to come within "settlement". As to the unity of the transaction, the Court
observed that the two instrument were intended by the parties to be employed in completing
one transaction. la that case, the Court held the transaction to be one of settlement (no detailed
reasons are given discussing this aspect of the matter). if. however, the parties had not been
brothers, the document would not be regarded as a settlement, and the transaction would be
substantially one of gift,-- ---hut not covered by section 4 . The case is referred to here to Show
how section 4 could be usefully extended to gifts. In a Bombay case,' the document marked A was a document on a three rupees stamp
paper, and was one of conveyance of immovable property absolutely for Rs. 275. On the
same deed of sale, the individual nephew of the executant endorsed his consent to the sale.
It was held that the endorsement of consent and the conveyance were several instruments
employed to complete a transaction within section 6 of the Act of 1379 (present section 4 ),
and the consent ought to have been written on a separate stamp paper of the value of one
rnpee. This case is cited here to show how, in. reality, the situation could arise in relation to gifts
also, namely, where A executes a gift and B, who is his undivided nephew, indicates his
consent. At present, the case could be outside section 4 , but the transaction of gift is but one,
and it is fair that there should be only one duty. (c) Trusts. Then, there is the case of trusts, the machinery of trust can be employed to eﬁeet a
transfer for the beneﬁt of certain persons who are not related to the author of the trust.
The Trust Act does not require that there should be only one physical instrument of trust.
The case would be outside present section 4 , but ought to be covered by it, there being no
reason why double duty should be charged on two deeds of trust and not on two deeds. of
settlement. (d) Exchange. There is also the case of exchange. When two persons mutually transfer the ownership
of one thing for the ownership of another, neither thing or both things being money only, the
transaction is called an exchange." A transfer of property in completion of an exchange can be
made only in the manner provided for the transfer of such property by sale.' This is what the Transfer of Property Act provides. But this provision does not necessarily attract the beneﬁcial
provisions of section 4 of the Stamp Act. It merely deals with the rules as to registration etc. (e) Partnership. Then, there are also cases of partnership, where the stamp duty is higher than in case
of an ordinary agreement. 1. Stamp reference. (1915) I.L.R. 37 Allahabad 264 {Full Bench). 2. Hanumappa, (1888), I.L.R. 13 Bombay 281. 3, Section 118 , Transfer of Property Act. 4 Section IlS, Transfer of Property Act

CHAPTER 9
MODE OF PAYM.ENT----S-ECTIONS 8 TO 10A 9.] The mode of payment of duty is the subject matter of the next sections with which
we shall now be concerned. In general, of course, the stamp duty is indicated by "stamp",
as is obvious from the scheme of the Act and its very little. But certain special situations
require special provisions; and to meet those special situations, special provisions are enacted
in section 8 and the succeeding sections. 9.2. Section 8 is a special provision applicable to bonds, debentures or other securities
issued on loans under the Local Authorities Loans Act, 1879. The provision was originally
introduced, it seems, in 1897.1 to give facilities to local authorities for issuing debentures upon
payment of composition duty. Section 8 (English) , Finance Act, 1899, is in similar terms. The Local Authorities Act, 1879, referred to in the section, has since been replaced by
the Local Authorities Loans Act, 1914 ; and the section should, therefore, be amended to sub-
stitute a reference to the latter Act. We recommend accordingly. We may add that the replies
received to our Questionnaire? have favoured such an amendment. 9.3. Section 9 deals with the power of the Government to reduce, remit or compound stamp
duties. It is one of the most important sections of the Act, and certainly one of the most
frequently used sections. Whether duty should be remitted or reduced in a particular case,
depends on a variety of factors, which are too numerous and fluctuating to permit codiﬁ-
cation. That is the principal justification for the section. 9.4. While the conferment of such a power can hardly be objected to in modern times, it
becomes necessary to point out that the power is very Wide in its ambit. Under the section, the Government may, by an order published in the Oﬁicial Gazette,
grant reduction or remission. Such reduction or remission can be granted (1) prospectively,
or (ii) retrospectively. The reductions and remissions can apply in (i) the whole or (ii) any
part of the territories under the 'administration' of the Government. They can apply to the duties
with which (i) any instrument, or (ii) any particular class of instruments, or (iii) any of the
iustrtunents belonging to such class, or (iv) any instruments when executed by or in favour
of any particular class of persons, or by or in favour of any membrs of such class, are charge- able. Government can, by similar rule or order, also provide for the composition or consolida-
tion of duties in the case of issues by any incorporated company or other body corporate of
debentures, bonds or other marketable securities. The expression "the Government" in the section means,-- (a) in relation to stamp duty in respect of bills of exchange, cheques, promissory
notes, bills of lading, letters of credit, policies of insurance, transfer of shares.
debentures, proxies and receipts, and in relation to any other stamp duty charge-
able under this Act and falling within entry 96 in List I in the Seventh Sche-
dule to the Constitution, the Central Government ; (bl save as aforesaid, the State Government. 9.4.3.. As to this expression, it may be noted that before 1937, the Governor General-no
Council was the only authority empowered to remit or reduce or compound duty under the
section. The Adaptation Order of 1937 substituted the words "the collecting government" for 1. The Indian Stamp Act (1379), Amendment Act, 1897 (13 of 1897). 2. Question 24. S1

Introductory. SectionB-- _
Recommendation. Section 9 .--- Width of the
power. History

Delegation.~-- Vali- dity of. Recommendation
to add the

criterion of pub- lic Section 9A (1-New.)

interest. Recommenda- tion. Section 10 . the words "Governor General-in-Council"'--and also inserted a deﬁnition of "collecting Gov-
ernment". The Adaptation Order of 1950 substituted the words "the Government" in section
9 , and also added sub-section (2), deﬁning the expression "Government". It also removed
the deﬁnition oi""collecting Government". 9.413. Reverting to the present section, we are of the view that since the power dete-
gated by the :-'cation in very wide, some sateguards are needed. In one case decided by tile
Supreme Court,1 which is very relevant to the point of delegation, the Court, while declaring
sections 4- and 7 of the Travancore--Cochin Land Tax Act, 1955 (15 of 1955) to be uncon-
stitutional, ol'=servv..-d--- The Supreme Court. in this connection also referred to the Dalmia case", and quoted from
the judgement in that case. 9.5. While the validity of section 9 has not been contested so far, it appears to us desir-
able that in order to preserve its validity, some criterion regulating the exercise of the power
delegated thereby should he added. 'We, therefore, recommend the insertion of the criterion
of "public interest" in relation to the grant of a reduction or remission by notiﬁcation under section 9 . This could be achieved by adding the words "if satisfied that it is necessary in the

public interest" after the words "the Government", in section 9(1) . We recognise that this

is not a very precise test, but even then, it will give some indication of the legislative policy
and lessen the possibility of a successful attack on the validity of section 9(1) . We may mention that such an amendment has been supported by most of the replies [0
our Questionnaire.' '

Case law on the section reveals no conflict of views, obscurities or other difficulties in the
working of section 9 ; Hence no other change is necessary. '

9.6. At this stage, we would also like to deal with the question of consolidation of duties

in respect of receipts. In the State of Maharashtra,5 the following new section has been in-
serted, conferring power on the State Government to consolidate duties in respect of receipts. 9.6A. It would, in our opinion, be useful to have a similar provision in the Act Such
a change has been approved by most of the replies." to our Questionnaire. We recommend

accordingly. 9.7. Section 10 deals with the mode of payment of duty. Duty is ordinarily paid in
stamps; but in exceptional cases, it can be received in cash under certain special provisions

of the Act. We have received a suggestion to provide for payment in cash in certain' oiher cases. Its genesis is as follows : ments by the Ministry of Finance for their comments in the matter. The State Governments,
including the Union 'I'errilory Ariministrations, mostly expressed themselves in favour of the
suggestion. 9.9. It may also be stated in this connection that in Gujarat, the State Government, some
time ago, had prepared a Bill-'-' to amend section 10 . it was stated in the Statement of Objects and
Reasons that owing to inadequate supply of non--judicial stamps from the Controller of Stamps,
Nasik, acute shortage of stamps was felt frequently in different parts of the State. To meet
this situation, it had been found necessary to amend section 10 of the Act so as to enable the
State Government and the Collector to direct payment of stamp duties in cash in such con-
tingencies. (The Bill does not seem to have become law). 9.10. We have given careful consideration to the matter, and are of the View that as the

problem is of frequently recurring nature. it should be solved by adding the following new 10

sub-sections, to section 10 , which we recommend : and payment of duty cannot be indicated on instrurncnts, by means of stamps, the 'State Gov-
ernment, or, as the case may be, the Collector, may, by Notiﬁcation in the Official Gazette,
direct that, in such area, the duty may be paid in cash in any Government treasury or sub- T treasury, and certify by endorsement on the instrument in respect of which the st-amt) duty is

paid, that the duty has been paid, and state in the said endorsement the amourn of the duty
so paid
(4) An endorsement made on any instrument under sub-section (3) shall have the same

eﬂcct as if the duty of an amount equal to the amount stated in the endorsement had been
paid in respect of, and such payment had been indicated on such instrurncnt by means of -stamps, under sub-section 171)." 9.11. This disposes of section 10 . A1; this stage, we may discuss a new point concerning
the mode of payment. At present, the usual mode of payment of duty on documents is by affor-
ing stamps." In our view. an innovation worth considering is the use of franking machines. It
is Well-known that such machines are allowed for postal stamps}

It appears" that the laws in Malaya and Singapore provide for issuing licences, authoris-
ing persons to pay the required duty on cheques, bills of exchange {not including promissory
notes) and receipts, by postal franking machines. Apart from that, however, the utility of such
a provision is obvious. 9.12. Practical experience of a similar provision in the Post Otlicc Act shows that such
a provision would not lead to serious evasion. The provision in the Post Oﬁice Act. as to Postal
franking ( Section 17 , Post Office Act), is quoted below 2" Franking
rnachines. Pastas: Recommendation 84 "1?. (1) Postage Stamps provided under section 16 shall be deemed to be stamps issued
by Government for the purpose of revenue within the meaning of the Indian Penal Code , and,
subject to the other provisions of this Act, shall be used for the payment of postage or other
sums chargeable under this Act in respect of postal articles, except where the Central Govern~
ment directs that pre--pa}'ment shall be made in some other way. (2) Where the Central Government has directed that prepayment of postage or other
sums chargeable under this Act in respect of postal articles may be made by prepaying the
value denoted by the impressions of stamping machines issued under its authority, the impres-
sion of any such machine shall likewise be deemed to be a stamp issued by Government; for the
purpose of revenue, within the meaning of the Indian Penal Code ." 9.13. We recommend that some such provision should be inserted in the Stamp Act .
Some of the replies to our Questionnaire? favour it. Some have raised queries about the likeli-
hood of misuse. We have dealt with that aspect already. The new section could be numbered as

section 10A. 1. Questions 2?. I CHAPTER 10
STAMPS AND THE MODE OF USING THEM: 10.2. We begin with opening line of the section, which says----"the following instruments
may be stamped with adhesive stamps". It has been held' that the use of adhesive stamps under
this section is permissive and not obligatory, so that if an impressed stamp is available and
suitable, it can be used instead of an adhesive stamp. In our opinion, it is desirable that this
interpretation should be codiﬁed, so that the section is made selfcontained. This could be
achieved by inserting an Explanation to the above effect. 10.3. In clause (a), the amount ten naya paise should now be increased to twenty (see Article 53}. As to clause {b}, it has been hcld2 that the words "drawn or made out of India" 10.4. Section lltfc) provides that entry as an advocate vakil or attorney on the roll of a
High Court may be stamped with an adhesive stamp We are going to recommend deletion
of the charging article on such instrttment-sit We, therefore, recommend that section 110;)

should be deleted. The remaining clauses need no change. 1D.4A. In the" light of the above discussion, our recornmendaton is to revise section 11 as under : [(12) is omitted]
[d] notarial acts ; and (e) transfers by endorsements of shares in any incorporated company or other body
corporate." -1 to Katya» Sing}: 'I'. atﬁiiuar Sing}: I.L.R. tisséfts Ra.i- 231. (b) Sam Dun' v. Ahab! Rashfd. A.I.R. 1868 Raj 45. 2. Devon' P. Ramakrishrrfrrh, (1380) I.L.R. 2 Madras 173, 174 (case on section 10 (b) , 3. Article 30 , Infra. 1379 Act]. 24M or Law;'TJ'--11'. Section 11 . Section 11 and the use of
the we "may" SectionlI(a)and
31 (bl Section 11 {c)
to be deleted

Recommendation Section 12 . Principle. Section 12(3) . I

 of 
llsnnn. E.rpiam:m'on--To be added as recommended. 10.5. Section [2, deals with the important topic of cancellation of adhesive stamps. Under
sub-section (1), clause (a), whoever aﬁixes any adhesive stamp to_any instrument chargeable
with duty which has been executed by any person shall, when aiﬁxing such stamp, "cancel the
same so that i.t cannot be used again ;" 10.6. The principle underlying the section is fairly clear. As was observed in a Bombay
case1--- = - 10.11. Though cancellation is a question of fact, it appears to be desirable to make some
specific provision in the section about a particular mode of it--cancellation by drawing a line
across the stamp, so as to avoid such controversies as have been referred to above." Recommendation

We, therefore, recommend that in section 12(3) , before the words "or in any other effect-
ual manner", the words "or by drawing a line across the stamp or", should lmeadded, for this

We may state that the suggested amendment has been generally favoured by the replies
. received to our Questionnaire.'-'5

10.12. So far we were concerned with adhesive stamps. As to impressed stamps, section
13 provides that every instrument written upon paper stamped with an impressed stamp shall Instmnmts
be_written in such manner that the stamp may appear on the face of the instrument and can- stamped with

not be used for or applied to any other instrument. The principal object of the section is to how to be mi; protect the revenue, and to avoid the frauds which may be facilitated if the instrument is tten.
written in such manner that the stamp can be used for purposes of another instrument when
so desired. This general rule is sound enough. But, in applying what is enacted in the section,
' certain problems have arisen in paretice. . l. Vimbfzadra Din Adrr;rs.I'ra1Ja V. Blnmnjr' Bmlttjf Snraﬂ; (I 904} ._I.L.R. 28 30111. 432. 2.. See In re Tam Iran xi Steel Co. (1926) A.[.R. 1928 Born. El}; 30 Dom. L.R. 197. 216 (Crimp I.)
_3.- See also Pm-an Dion (1903) 108 P.R. 1903. 4. Mela Ram v. Brij Lnl, A.I.R. 1920 Ian. 374 (Broadway 1), following Molid Amir, (1912) 15 LG 202. 5. Krhhorf Ln! Bamrsi Dns v. Ram Ln! Tek Chnmf, A.I.R. 1921 Lab. 120 (D.B.)
"25." Haﬁz Allah Barn v. Dost Mohammad, A.I.R. 1935 Lall. 115; (Addison . and Sale JJJ.
'*1. ea. Haven v. Sultan Kfuzn , .-mat 1935 Oudh _=I76 (Srivastava and Nanavatty JJ.)
'8.---Babe Lal v._Durga Prn.-ran', A.I.R. 1940 Oudh 308 (Radhalcrishna J.). 9. ta} dd-']r.3-. Smtderrzmum v. I/enkntarn.-9, AIR, I963 Andh. Pm-desli 442, 44$, 445, Paras 13 and 19, (Ananuirayaa
Aver, . . - (bl Nnrayan v. Snrojini Dew', A.I.R. 1963 A.P. 373, 319, para 4 (Nhrasimham, JJ. 10. Section 8, Stamp Act, 1391 (Eng.}. 11. M. l'-fallen v. Ai'ﬁ'ed Hickninn Stenitm'-zl_n Ltd'. (1902) 17 LJ. Ch. 766, 767.
I2. Para 10.9, Snpm. 13. Question 28--5ection 12. Writing
reverse. Rule 7. Use
P393"- onthe

of Plain 88 10.13. The first question that has arisen relates to the point whether the reverse of the stamp
paper could be used. The section itself does not say that only one side may be written upon;
and the Bombay High Court' has held that the reverse of the stamp paper can also be used.
In the Bombay case, the document commenced on the reverse of the side on which the stamp
was impressed, and terminated on the side impressed with the stamp. It was observed that the
stamp was not, in any way, defaced, nor was the paper so written as to admit of the stamp
being used again. On these facts, the High Court held the document was properly stamped.'
A Government notiﬁcation prohibiting writing on the reverse of an impressed stamp paper was
noted, but it had been issued after the bond in question, and it was not, therefore, material. This prohibition (imposed by the notiﬁcation) referred to above, was withdrawn in 1881, but in
1882 a rule was made which provided that when a single sheet is found insuﬁicient to admit of the
entire instrument being written on the side of the paper which bears the stamp, so much plain
paper may be sub-joined as may be necessary for the complete writing of the instrument, pro-
vided that in every such case the side which bears the stamp must be covered by a substantial
part of this instrument before any part of the instrument can be written on the plain paper joined
to such sheet. With reference to this rule also, the Madras High Court held,3 that it was an enabl-
ing rule, authorising the use of plain paper; but, it did not prohibit writing an the reverse side. 10.14. One would think that since the controversy as to writing on the reverse of the
paper had arisen more than once, the rule on the subject would have been revised to make the
position more liberal. However, when the rules were revised in 1925, no such clariﬁcation
was made, and the rule now in force' is silent on the subject of writing on the reverse. Indirectly
rule 7(2) disallows it. We are of the view that it is desirable to make the section speciﬁc on
the subject, and to allow writing on the reverse by an express provision. 10.15. The following rule of the Stamp Rules, to which we have already made a reference,
raises a few other questions. 7. Provision where single sheet of paper is insuﬂicient.---(I) Where two or more sheets
of paper on which stamps are engraved or embossed are used to make up the amount of duty
chargeable in respect of any instrument, a portion of such instrument shall be written on each

sheet so used. (2) Where a single sheet of paper, not being paper bearing an impressed hundi--stan1p,
is insuiftcient to admit of the entire instrument being written on the side of the Paper which bear!
the' stamp, so much plain paper may be snbjoined thereto as may be necessary for the com- plete writing of such instrument. _

"Provided that in every such case a substantial part of the instrument Shall behwrit-
ten on the sheet which bears the stamp before any part is written on the plain

paper subjoined." 10.16. We have already referred to the question of writing on the reverse of the stamp
paper. Then, there is another matter which requires attention. Section .13 itself does not give
any guidance as to the use of plain paper, but the rule" provides that where the singlesheet
is insulﬁcient, a plain paper may be subjoined, but in every such case a substantial part of the
instrument shall be written on the sheet which bears the stamp before any part is on
the plain paper subjoined. It may be noted that -rule 5(e) of the Rules made under the Stamp

Act of 1879 contained a further proviso, namely, "that the part of the instrument written on- the plain paper must be attested by the signatures or marks of all persons executingtthc docu-
ment and witnesses to the same." This part of the rule was, however, held to be rtirrrrtvrrer, 1. Darwin! Ram v. Vitiao Radi:ojz',_ (1819) I.L.R. 5 Bum. 138.195. 197- 2. At that time, section 12 of the Stamp Act of 1379. W35 the relevant provision. 3. Reference regarding Stamp Act , (1880) I.L.R. 7 Mad. 116 (Full Bench). 4. Rule 7, Indian Stamp Rules, 1925 (infra) 5. Para l0.l5, Supra. 5a. Rule 7(2), Indian Stamp Rules 1925 (Supra). as going beyond the parent Act,' as it imposed a more stringent requirement than the Act, and.
ultimately, it was rescinded by notiﬁcation in 1891. Here again, it appears to be desirable to provide speciﬁcally that it is not necessary that
the plain paper should be signed by the parties. This will make the position explicit on the
subject. 10.17. We now come to the situation of use of more than one stamp papers. The scctiﬂn
is, again, silent as to this, but the matter is dealt with by the same rule, that is to say, rule
1' of the lndian Stamp Rules." 111 substance, the rule provides that a part of the instrument
must be written on each sheet so used, the idea being that the stamp paper should not he
used for writing any other instrument. An instrument offending against the rule would not be
duly stamped. Now, this may be a good rule in general, b-ut, in practice, some difﬁculties arise because
one single stamped sheet denoting the entire duty is often not available, so that, although the
text of the instrument is a short one, it has to be spread out over a number of stamp papers
in order to comply with the section, as read with the rule. The requirement that the instrument
must appear on each of the a-ttacheci sferrnp papers, if taken literally, is not convenient, in the
case to which we have referred above. 10.18. No doubt, the public has found a way out by adopting the practice of mating a
suitable endorsement on the attached paper, but the attached paper does not contain any
"substantial matter" relating to the transaction and, therefore, its validity is in doubt. In
general, in the case of instruments stamped with impressed stamps, the riumlbcr of .ttam_p_t' which
may be used can be regulated by rule.-'* But it appears to be desirable to provide that the
text need not appear on each stamped sheet, and that an endorsement stating that the stamped
paper is attached to another stamped paper containing the text, will do. 10.19. It would be convenient if the section is made self-contained, as far as possible, on
the points discussed above, so that the citizen may clearly know from the Act the position in
this respect. It is for this reason that we recommend an amendment of the section, to be
presently mentioned. We may state that principle of suggested scheme has been favoured by many of the replies
received to our Out-:stioni1aire.'*

10.20. Our recommendation in the light of what we have stated above is that section 13 should-be revised as follows :-- 1. Reference on the Stamp Act, (1884) I.L.R. 3 Mad. 532, 540. 2. Para 10.15 srrpm. 3. Section l0(2)l[b). 4. Q. 29- section 13 . More ttim one
stamp paper. Need for Change

Reccupnendaﬁon
to revise section 13.

Introductory Section 14 Section
{New}. Eﬁect of altera- tion in an instru- ment on stamp
duties. Position in
England. Consent f e
Parties imma- terial for pur- gases of stamp

in. 10.2.1. It is a general rule that only one instrunlent can be written on the same stamp

:3.' paper. Section 14 expresses the rule thus :-- The main paragraph of the section raises no difflculty. It does not apply unless both
the first and the second instrument are chargeable with duty. But the proviso to the section
appears to deal with only one situation, while there are also other situations that require
consideration. 10.22. In this connection, it may be pointed out that on the generalquestion whether
an alteration in an instrument already written affects the stamp, the section is silent. On a study of the decided cases, both Indian3 and English'*, it would appear that the
principle is that where, by reason of an alteration made in an instrument, the instrument
becomes :2 new one, a fresh stamp is required. The words "second instrument" have been so

construed. The reason is that the original stamp is spent.-3 The principle applicable is of a" simple
nature, though there may be difficulty in the application. '
10.23. In England," it is well established that no further stamp is required if the alteration
1S :-- - (a) immaterial", or (b)
(E)
(E1) (e) made by a stranger." But-, in the case of a bill of exchange" executed in the country, the party suing on the bill
must prove that the alteration does not vitiate the stamp." merely declaratory,' or
intended to render certain 21 point which was left open} or

made to correct a mistake," or

It has become necessary to discuss these points because the proviso to the section gives

no guidance in the matter. a material alteration may be described as one which

10.24. For the present purpose,
A material alteration made without the consent of

alters the legal effect of the instrument. I. See article 62 , as to endorsement. 2. See article 53 , as to acknowledging 1'50'-'viii 3. (a) Reference under Stamp Act , (1888) I.L.R. 11 Mad. 4-0-
tb) Cox &:Co. Tn'. Restonii, A.I.R. 1927 Bean. 1315. (c) Pestonji 8:: Co. 'V. Cox 3:. Co. A..I.R. 1923 EC. 231. 4. For English cases, see para 10.23. Wm- 5_ (a) Bowman 1;. Nieiiol, (1794) 5 Tenn Reports 537. (b) London and arrgm-on Railway co., v. Farmtaush. (1344) 2 M & C 574-
Hhrtley V. Manson. (1842) 4 Matt I51 5- 172-
Deo Waters v. Houghran (132?) 1 Man «I: Rt'. K3 205-
. Sadgrore V Bryden, 1907} 1 C11. 313. Cole v. Parking. (1810) 12 East 471- 10. Monﬁree V. Bromley, (1305) 6 Est. 309. 11. Kmﬁghr 1:. Ctements (1333) 3 A'-'1 55 EL 315- I
12_ Haisbmyi 3;.;] E41,, Vol, 3, Page 283, para 502 ; and Vol. 3, Page 233. 509°!'-'9'

vening section 13 . the parties may, of course. render the instrument void under the law of contract. The
princtplel is that "no man shall be permitted to take the chance of committing a fraud without
running any risk of losing by the event when the fraud is detected." The Negotiable Instru-
ments Act" has a speciﬁc provision on the subject. The law on the subject has been fully
discussed by the Supreme Court} Considerable discussion has also taken place as to the
effect of alteration by accident', in the general law. But we are not concerned with the effect

of alterations in general law. 10.25. Having regard to the obscurity on the subject, in the Stamp Act , 1t is desirable that
the position in this respect should be stated in the proviso. The matter is not of more academic
importance, because, in the case of a contract, the result of a rule requiring fresh stamp for
a new agreement is that the old agreement cannot be sued upon as it has been superseded," 10.21 Section 15 provides that every instrument written in contravention of section 13 orseétion 14 shall be deemed to be unstamped. It may be recalled that section 13 deals
with the manner in which the instrument stamped with an impressed stamp shall be written,
and section 14 provides that only one instrument should be written on the same stamp. eﬁeot of section 15 , as read with section 13 , was illustrated in a Lahore essay
where a security bond taken on an order for stay of execution, was written on plain paper
bearing _a. court-fee stamp of 7 annas, instead of on impressed stamped paper, thus contra-
The bond was held not to be properly stamped in view of section 15 . As to the cﬂect of section 15 , read with section 14 , a few reported cases will be referred
to in due course?" 8. Q. 30--scction 14. 9. G'urmd:'.'I'a Ma! v. Firm Gurandfrralnal Ram Chane', A.I.R. 1925 Lab. 552, 5S4(Ma.1rtinequ, J.) 10. See "Case of two instruments", infra. Practical diﬂ-i- cultv. Recommendation

to insert section

14A. Section

Verbal '_

meat

I 5. In one of the early Bombay cases,' it was held that the Collector ought to refuse to
make an endorsement in such cases. But this view was over--ruled in a later decision." A
Madras case agrees" with the later Bombay view. Rmmmendaﬁon 10.29. It is, in our opinion, desirable to avoid the recurrence of such controversies, and

to subsititute this could be achieved by sul;-stituting the words "not duly stamped" for the word "unstamped",

31$? ggﬂgcgﬁf in section 15 . T he expression "duly stamped" is deﬁned in the Act,' and is used at many
places in the Act. We recommend that the section should be amended as above. It is in
harmony, for example, with the language used in the section dealing with the Collector's power
to stamp instruments which are impounded.'-" This clariﬁcation can usefully cover section
14A (new) also. _Cas¢ of two 10.30 We shall new deal with another question arising out of section 15 . It is to be

'"St"u"°ms' noted that where two instruments are written on one paper, it is the second instrument which
is to be treated as "unstarnped" within the meaning of section 15 , and not the first one.
Thus, in a Madras case," a deed of release was endorsed on a deed of conveyance for Rs. 100.
The conveyance bore an impressed stamp for one rupee, but the endorsement of release was
'unstampcd. It was held that the conveyance was valid, and the release could be validated
on payment of the deficient stamp duty and the penalty under section 39 of the old Act I of
1879 ( section 40 of the present Act}. 10.31. A similar view (-regartling the admission of a document in evidence on payment
of deﬁcient stamp and penalty), was taken in another Bombay case," where an endorsement
of transfer written on a duly stamped simple money bond, was in issue. The question to
be considered was whether the case fell under that part of section 14 (old section 13 ) which
forbids a second instrument being written upon a paper on which an instrument has already
been written. it was held, that the endorsement was chargeable with duty, but could be
stamped under old section 3-Z-----present section 35 . Rocotnmendation 10.32. In our opinion, it is desirable to codify the proposition emerging from the above

t,§a',"akE,:t5e§:,°:§ cases, in so far as they hold that it is the second instrument which is to be deemed. to be
instrument is not duly stamped. The clariﬁcation will be conﬁned to instruments falling under existing secr- immded' tion 14 and will not extend to new section 14-91.
We may state that the suggested amendments have been generally favoured by the replies
received to our Questionnaires - Recommendation 10.33. Accordingly, we recommend that section 15 should be revised as under :- Explanation.---.Tn rhelcnse to which section 14 applies', 1': shall be the second r'mIm-
me.-it whirl: shall be deemed to be unsfnmped. swoon 15, 10.34. Section 16 is as follows :--- 5. Section 40 (1) (3) and (bl ' *
1, Cal}/ac s ,Madr .(1sss), LLR. 11 Med. 40; (Co liins, C.J., Kc:-nan. M at
6't£n:-jig °§ﬁf§$'"§7 gar-ker, fI(itt)oirCais£emti':dcided'i1Jnder old section 14 , corresponding to pr escnt-audio 11 15). _ - 7. Prahlad Laksmanrau Nikane v. Vithu, (1893) I.L.R. 17Born. 68? (Parsons, Telang and Candy, JJ.) 8. (a) Q.3l-- section 5 . '
(la) Q.32-- section 15 and second instrument. instrument, the payment of such last-mentioned duty shall, if application is
made in writing to the Collector for that purpose, and on production of both
the instruments, be denoted upon such ﬁrst-mentioned instrument, by endorse-
ment under the hand of the Collector or in such other manner (if any) 'as
the State Government may by rule prescri ." Sometimes, the duty payable on some instruments depends upon the duty paid on other
instruments that have already been executed and stamped. Examples of such instruments a1'e»----
subsidiary instruments, as opposed to the principal ones under section 4 , the counter-parts or
duplicates of instruments under Article 25 , leases under the proviso to Article 35 , instruments
of partition under proviso la) in (c) to Article 45 , and instruments of settlement under the
proviso to Article 58. Similarly, at times, the exemption from duty in favour of some
instrmnents, [for example, the entry of an advocate or attorney on the roll of a High Court
when he has previously been enrolled in a High Court] depends on the duty paid on another
instalment. 10.35. In order to render these instruments as either partially stamped or totally exempt
from stamp duty, because of the principal documents having been fully stamped, section
16 lays down that on production of both the instruments and on an application to the Collector,
an endorsement would be made by the Collector on the Subsidiary instruments, denoting the
payment of the duty actually paid in respect of the principal instrument.'

10.36. The necessary endorsement will he made by the Collector, only if an application
has been made in writing to him, for the purpose. If the party interested does not apply
for the necessary endorsement and, therefore, does not obtain it, then he has to produce,
when required, both the instruments, in order to render the partially stamped or exempted
instrtunent admissible in evidence. No change is needed in this section. 1. Compare section 1 ], Stamp Act . 1891 fling.)
EM of Law,l7'7--l3. 17.

(_'Jon!ict as to
urnaofltampiug. CHAPTER 11
TIME OF PAYMENT----SECTIC|NS 17--19

11.1. The time of payment of duty is dealt with in sections 17 to 19 of the Act. Brieﬂy
speaking, the time of stamping is linked up with the time of execution, but special situations,
such as an instrument executed out of India, may arise and have to be dealt with. The
general proposition is to he found in section 17 . All instruments chargeable with duty and
executed by any person in Imtira shall be stamped before or at the time of execution under
the section. The expression "shall be stamped" means that the instrument should be duly stamped, that
is to say, a stamp of the proper description and amount should have been used at the time
and in the manner prescribed by law.' "Executed", as deﬁned in the Act, means signed.' So,
stamping must precede or be simultaneous with signing. 11.2. There has been a conﬁict of views with respect to the phrase "at the time of
execution" in section 17 . In a Bombay casei', a promissory note was executed by A and B,
a stamp was aiﬁxed afterwards and cancelled by A, by again signing it. The High Court held
that the stamping must be held to have taken place subsequent to the exectiﬂon, and therefore,
it could not be said that the promissory note was stamped "before or at the time of execution",
within the meaning of section 17 . In that case, the evidence clearly showed that defendant I wrote out the promissory note
in suit, and defendants 1 and 2 put their signatures on it in the presence of the plaintiffs hus-
band. lt was then stomped. This, according to the Bombay High Court, was a clearly evidence
to establish that the stamping of the promissory note tool: place after the execution was already
complete. According to that High Court, section 17 requires that the stamping should be done
sometime before the document is executed, or that a stamped paper must be placed before the
executant who must execute it, or, he must ﬁrst stamp it and then execute the document. But,
if the executant has already ﬁnished the "execution" of the document {in the eye of the law)
then any subsequent stamping, however close in time, could not be said to be stamping at
the time of execution. The High Court criticised an earlier decision of the Madras High Court'*, holding to the
contrary. In the Madras case, there was only one executant, and the promissory note was
signed by him, and subsequently, it was stamped. The Madras High Court held, that the
uucontradicted evidence of the plaintiff showed that the acts were-"practically simultaneous",
and the stamping was, therefore, done "at the time of execution" within the meaning of section
16 of the Stamp Act, 1879, corresponding to section 17 of the present Act. The Madras
High Court, further, expressed the View that, even under the present Act, where execution
is deﬁned as meaning "signature"',5 it would not make any difference if the stamp was aﬂixed
and cancelled immediately after the signature on the document, the signing and stamping being
continuous acts in the some tremcction. The Bombay High Court, however, observed that,
it was diﬂicult to understand the signiﬁcance of the expression "practically simultaneous". Either
the stamping is after execution, or before or at the time of the execution. l. (3') Mon' La} V. Jogmohandas, (1904) 6 Bom. L.R. 699.
{bl Jerhtbai v. Rama Cfmadra. (1899) I.L.R. 13 Born. 434.' 2. Section 2 (I2}, Indian Stamp Act, 1899 . 3. Mrs. Rahfni Cimmfrakanr Fijaykar v. Al. Fer:-uznaies, A.I.R.
CJ. and Dixit, J.) 4. Surji Mu}! v. Hudson. (1900) I.L.R. 24 Mad. 259. 261 t"D.B.)
, 5. Section 202), Stamp Act, 1899 . 1956 Born. 421, -1-23, para 4 (D.B.) ($313, 94 95 11.3. In a Kerala case,' the Bombay view? was dissented from, and the Madras view
was followed.3 in that case, :1 promissory note was affixed with additional stamps after the
second attesting witness pointed out that the note was insufficiently stamped. The High Court
held that the execution of the promissory note was complete when additional stamps were aftixed
and defaced and delivery of the promissory note was effected. According to the Kerala High
Court, the expression, "shall be stamped at the time of execution" must be interpreted in a
reasonable manner, and it is sullicient if signing and aﬂiting of the stamp are "practically

simultaneous". 11.4. From the above discussion, it appears that the existing phrase, "before or at the
time of execution" in section 17 , lands the courts in diﬂiculty. It would, in our view, he better
if the words "at the time of execution or immediately thereafter" are substituted, in place
of that phrase, and we recommend accordingly. We may note that such an amendment has
been generally favoured in the replies to the Questionnaire issued by us.'

11.5. Instruments executed outside India are dealt with in sections 18 and 19 . Under section 18(1) , every instrument chargeable with duty executed only out of India and not being
a bill of exchange or promissory note, may be stamped within three months after it has
been ﬁrst received in India. Under section 18(2) , where any such instrument cannot,
with reference to the description of a stamp prescribed therefor, be duly stamped by a private
person, it may be taken within the said period of three months to the Collector, who shall
stamp the same in such manner as the State Government may, by rule, prescribe, with a
stamp of such value as the person so taking such instrument may require and pay for. Thus, the instruments which are executed out of India and chargeable with duty," (not
being bills of exchange or promissory notes] may be stamped within three months after they
have been first received in India. If stamps of the required description are not available, the
party should take the instrument to be stamped within the" said period of three months to the
Collector who will stamp tlze same with the stamp of proper description. It is, however,
necessary to make an application to the Collector in this regard." 11.6. Section 13 must be read with section 3(c) . Section 3(c) makes it clear, that
instruments executed out of India (7 other than bills of exchange or promissory notes) will not
be liable to stamp duty unless they relate to property situate or to any matter or thing done
or to be done in India and are received in India; Thus, a simple money bond executed out of -India will not be liable to duty even when received in.-India, because it does not relate to any
property s'it*uate, or to any matter or thing done or to be done, in India. If, however, the instru-
ment in question related to some property situate in India, it would be governed' by section 18 .
Deeds of partition, executed abroad, of property partly situate in India are also so governed as
would appear from the decision "in a Madras case." The same is the case with acknowledgements of debts." 11.7. If the instrument in question is not stamped within the prescribed period of three
months as under section 18 , but is stamped afterwards, it would be deemed to be unstamped,
and :would be governed by section 35 as regards the consequences of -_non-stamping. [For
example, instruments chargeable with the duty of one anna (now 10 paise) e.g.--an acknow-
ledgement of a dcbt,- --it not stamped within the period of three months of their receipt in
India, cannot be admitted in evidence even on the payment of duty and penalty, because section 35 does not provide for the admissibility on payment of duty and penalty." 1. Kauivila Markers v. Vnrkey Varkey, A.I.R. 1966 Ker. 315 (T. C. Raghwan). 1. Mr; Raixini Ciimzdrakama v. AJ. Fer.-render. A.l.R. 1956 Born. 421 (para 1], supra.) 3. Su.-fir Mail v. Hudson, (1930) l.L.R. 24 Mad. 259. (D.B.), para 11.2, supra. ..4.-. Q-.33» ; 5. Herbert Fmrtci: v. Mdyikbcr, A..1.R. 1928, Patna 134. 6. Section 31 . ment brought in India must be rejected as inadmissible, and cannot be placed on record, as
the law now stands, for the reason that it cannot be stamped and no penalty can be realised on
it under section 35 . Section 18 applies only to original documents which, although executed
out of India, attract duty in India and are brought in India} '

11.9. The above brief discussion would serve to illustrate the implications of the section.
There being no conﬁict of decisions or obscurity in language or other dilliculty in the working
of the section, we have no further comments on it. - 11.10. Under section 19 , the first holder in India of any bill of exchange, (payable other-
wise than on demand) or promissory Ilote drawn or made out of India shall, before he presents
the same for acceptance or payment, or endorses, transfers or otherwise negotiates the same
in India, aﬂix thereto the proper stamp and cancel the same. There are two provisos to the section, which read as follows :------ celled in manner prescribed by section 12 and such holder has no reason to
believe that such stamp was aﬁixed or cancelled otherwise than by the person
and at the time required by this Act, such stamp shall, so far as relates to such
holder, be deemed to have been duly aiﬁxccl and cancelled ; (b) nothing contained in the proviso shall relieve any person from any penalty in- curred by him for omitting to aﬂix or cancel a stamp." 11.11. A number of points arise on this section. We shall take them up one by one. '

The ﬁrst point relates to the proper time of cancellation. The section makes it' obligatory
on the lirst holder to ailix a stamp on the foreign bill or note and to cancel the name
before he does any of the acts set out in the section. It the stamp is not cancelled at the
proper time, it cannot be cancelled afterwards. Thus, where a stamp was alﬁxed to a ltundi

which was drawn at Indore before it was presented ior payment in British India, but was

not cancelled before presentation, it was, in a suit on the basis of the hundi, held that in
the face of the imperative words "of this section, it was impossible to accede to the suggestion
that the stamp could be cancelled in the court.' . 11.12. On this point, the English law" is, however, different. The (English) Stamp Act of 1891, section 35 , Proviso (b), enables a bona ﬁde holder to cancel the stamp itself, if it
was not cancelled when the foreign bill came into his hands; and upon' his so such
bill is deemed to be duly stamped and as valid and available as if the stamp had" been duly
cancelled by the person by whom it was aﬁxed. bill, in order to be admissible _ _ __
35355.4 Co,,5;,-ﬂing this proviso, Blackburn, I. expressed an oplmon that the J

may be made in open Court at any time before the Vﬁtdict-5

11.13. It would, in our view, he an improvement. if _. Eng1and 15 adopted, The primary object of the requirement of cancellation is to" that
the stamp is not used again. This object is achieved as much by the English protli:-non:u.by
the Indian section. The present = _ _
holder. We recommend that the section should be Sﬂltably "E33555-

. C __ Ltd" Amritsar v. LachmanS.ﬁ1ghB.hrzgm'. A.I.R. 1951 Pepsu 24.
i' giififfafsfiiiizwfirirrrn Brzlmzdcu.-uf, (1925):? cam. La. 1122. 1126» 3. Section 35 . Proviso (bl Stamp Act » 1391'-En!-3
4_ Mm. -4, Rovy, t1s14)31 1.1'. 372,374 :23 'W-R. (Ens1-)89- 5. was v. Michael, (1374:. so Law Times 463. 464. Under the English law, therefore, a . -'
in evidence, requires only that the proper stamp should; ha" 1

the position which h. holder should not be penalised for the faults of 

9'5'

11.14. The second point relates to the important opening words in section 19 , _viz., d
"ﬁrs: holder in India". The Act is not concerned with the possession of the bill or promissory
note before then. On this point no clariﬁcation is required. 11.15. The third point is important. According to the Madras High Court, the Legis-I 
lature does not appear to be interested in whether a promissory note has or has not been outside.
stamped outside India with the marl: that a note stampett outside Irrdia will have to be stamped
again before cndorsemertti Thus, when a bill of exchange not payable on demand drawn
out of India or a pronote made out of India has been duly stamped abroad with Indian stamps
of the proper amount and description, and the stamps have been cancelled, the question of its
being stamped in India arises, because section 19 compels the ﬁrst "holder" thereof to stamp
it before he does any of the acts mentioned therein. The same View was talccn in another c.a.~'.c3 of the Madras High Court_.--"It1 the interests
of judicial comity",----and quite apart from any consideration of the correctness of the decision
therein. The facts of the C350 appear, however, to have been reported meagerly. It is also
not clear whether the "ﬁrst holder of the prono-te in India" in this case was the promisee himself
or his transferee. The Punjab High Court has, however, taken a contrary view.' According to that High

' Court, if an Indian Stamp is already aﬂixed on the promissory note, then, a fresh stamp will

not be needed, because, to do so would be to charge double duty. 11.16. Whatever he the correct interpretation of the existing language of section 3(b) Rammmgndmim
read with section 19 , it appears to us that there is no reason why an instrument bearing an 1'01' Inimi-
Indian stamp should again be stamped with an Indian stamp when it is presented for acceptance mm'
or payment or endorsement etc. as contemplated by section 19 . Indian revenue law has
already been complied with, by althcing the Indian stamp. If this approach is correct, it would be desirable to add an Explanation to section 19 to
the eﬂect that where the promissory note already bears an Indian stamp, it shall not be
necessary to stamp it again. Such an amendment has been favoured by almost all the replies -to our Questionnaire also." 11.17. The last; proposition to which attention should be drawn while discussing section 5 ,," 1., 
19 is "that where a promissory note is executed outside India, it is admissible here if the suit is 111% 1iﬂNIitJ'-
brought to enforce the liability created by the promissory note. The requirement of stamp under section 19 arises only when a ﬁrst; holder in India does one of the speciﬁed acts, namely, pre- ' Scimtion for acceptance, presentation for payment, endorsement, transfer or otherwise negotiab- tion in India. In an early Madras.' It was clearly stated, that the provisions of section 19 ,
Indian Stamp Act, are applicable to a holder only where there is one of those acts set out in the
section and that an instrument need not be stamped in the manner provided when it was not
ﬁll htlth in any of the ways set out. Thus," even if a pronote exeduted out of India is not stamped, a. suit can be brought on
the promote as between the promise: and promises. No amendment is required on this point. 1. .5'i'va Subromania. v. Kolonkoroyon,A.I.R. 1941 Mad. ass. 2. .S':'Ita Subromdrtzh V. Ifoianii'-2r:7_t':rrt,, A.I.R. 1941 Mad. 868, 869', 87G (Mochett, J.) 3. LD. Labo v. Marnjal Dagger, A.I.R. 1953 Mad. 424. - 35:1,}? Btrooram v. L. Mmarortrant Nandlal, ALR. 1955 Part] 88, 90, para 5-6.
ti. Q-35. - - 1'. Lid. Rawfhan v. Md. Hussein Rourtfton, (1899) I.L.R. 22 Mad. 337. 3- Sim Ssbmmmh v- Kalankaraian. A.I.R.1941 Mad ass [case law reviewed). stamped
Indian
name, I.

Introductory. Section 20 . Section 21 . Section 2 .2. Eﬁcct of State- ment of rate of Section 23 CHAPTER 12
COMPU'I'ATION OF AD VALDREM DUTY--SEC'I'IONS 20 TO 26

12.1. Duty under the Act is of two 1tinds--ﬁxed and ad vaiorem. The computation of
duty where it is fixed presents no diﬂicult problems, once it is determined that the instrument
belongs to that particular category. But the computation of duty ad vnlorem sometimes presents
probicnls, either because the amount1 or consideration is contingent? or unascertained or is
expressed in 1tind,3 or because it is expressed in other currency,' or because of other special cir-
cu1nstances,---e.g., incumbrancesﬁ and periodical payments. 12.2. Under section 20 , where an instrument is chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect
of any money expressed in any currency other than that of India, such duty shall be calculated
on the value of such money in the currency of India according to the current rate of exchange

on the day of the date of the instrument. For this purpose, the Central Government may, from time to time, by notiﬁcation in the
Oiiécial Gazette, prescribe a rate of exchange for the conversion of British or any foreign currency
into the currency of India for the purposes of calculating stamp--duty. The section needs no

change. 12.3. Section 21 provides that where an instrument is chargeable with ad valorem duty
In respect of any stock or any marketable or other security. such duty shall be calculated on
the value of such stock or security according to the average price or the value thereof on the
day of the date of the instrument. It needs no change. 12.4. Under section 22 , where an instrument contains a statement of current rate of
exchange or average price, as the case may require, and is stamped in accordance with such
statement, it shall, so far as regards the subject--matter of such statement, be presumed, until
the contrary is proved, to be duly stamped. It needs no change. 12.5. Section 23 deals with interest expressly made payable by the terms of an instrument.
It provides that such instrument shall not be chargeable w1'th duty higher than that which it
would have been chargeable had no mention of interest been made therein. compound interest also. Therew. stamped

The section is not conﬁned to simple interest, it applies to
fore, a stipulation in an instrument to pay compound interest need not be separately

as a separate instrument." Under the English law also, stamp duty is calculated on
instrument, irrespective of any sum which may become due as interest under the

instrument.'

the principal sum secured by an
terms of the

. E.G. Royalty ( section 26 ). Interest ( section 23 .)
E.g. stock { section 21 and section 23A )- . Foreigncurrency ( section 20 and sectirm 22]. . Sections 24-25
. (a) Bairsal Rindan Sarniti v. Sital Chandra, A.I.R. I930 Ca'. 630, 631 (F..'B.) (b) Also, Gomez 1:. Young, (1359) 2 Beng. LR. (0.42. 155.) 7. En) Pntessirtgfv. Ing. , (1829) 106 E.R. 912. an Doc a serum 9. snetm. (I832) 131 E-F» 356. 359-
(cj pmdgm-ta! Mr.-ma! Assurance Imrestmem ti': Loan etc. Jlssaciarian V. Cm-zen, (1352) 155 13.11. 1275. GNU!-'5-':m3!\Jh-1 98 99 12.6. The judgment in Pruessing V. Ing.,'-' the leading English case, may be quoted :-- 12.7. Where, however, the consideration of the instrument is at lump sum made up of two
catrsﬁtuents, namely, the principal and the interest that might accumulate during a given period,
a question may arise whether the instrument will be chargeable for the principal, or whether the
instrument will he chargeable for the lump sum. In a Calcutta case," a bond for a loan of Rs. 100
stipulated that the obliger should "pay twice the amount, including Rs. 100 for interest, total
Rs. 200 in eight years from 1301 B.S. to 1308 B.S. according to 'lcists' (instalments) given in the
schedule." It was held, that the amount secured by the bond was Rs. '200 and the bond must
be stamped accordingly. The High Court added that an earlier Full Bench ruling' of the Allaha-
bad High Court cited in the reference had no bearing on the matter. 12.8. In a Bombay case.' the material portion of the Bond was as follows :- The question arose whether stamp duty was leviable on Rs. 10 or on Rs. I2-8-0. It was
held that the bond should be liable as to stamp as one for Rs. 10 only, and that the provision
about interest should be left out of consideration under section 23 . The Calcutta High Court's view' was dissented from by the Bombay High Court. The
iudgrneut does not indicate the reasons for dissent. According to the Bombay High Court, if the
interest is expressly made payable by" the terms of the instrument, then the mere mention of
the interest as a lump sum will not render the instrument liable to stamp duty for the total
sum of the principal and the interest payable. 12.9. One can distinguish between the Calcutta and the Bombay cases on the ground that
in the Calcutta case, the sum of Rs. 100, though described as (derived from) "iuteres ", was
merged with the principal, so as to bring into being a new principal amount of Rs. 200. In the
Bombay case, the amdunt of Rs. 2-3-D retained its character as interest. If this explanation is

correct, no clariﬁcation on the point is needed. It is also to be remembered, that, where a provision for interest changes the category of
the instrument itself, section 23 would have no application. Thus, an account written on a sheet
of paper signed by the debtor and addressed to the creditor and also containing a stipulation to -_ la. Prices-rm' v. Ing. (182.9) 106 13.11 912, 23 R.P. 253. 2. Shambhu Cfzandr-a Bepari 'V. Krishna Cliara.-r Bepari, (1899) I.L.R 26 Cal. 179 {F'.B.) 3. In the matter 0fGafra} Sfngh. U334), I.L.R. 9 All 585 (E33 4. Wﬂm I. Nathzi, (1901) 3 Born. LR. l33, I34. 5. _Slnnmb!zu Clzandra Bepari v. Krmlzna Charon J5'epnn','{l899) I.I_.R. 26 Cal. l'l9 (above). pay interest, is not a mere "aclmowledgemeut of a debt", within article 1 , but is an agreement,
under article 5(1) ) .1 Section 23A 12 .10. According to section 23A ,-- (1) Where an instrument (not being a promissory note or bill of exchange) ~--- (a) is given upon the occasion of the deposit of any marketable security by way of
security for money advanced or to be advanced by way of loan, or for an
existing or future debt, or (b) makes redeemable or qualiﬁes a duty stamped transfer, intended as a security, or
any marketable security, '

it shall be chargeable with dirty as if it were an agreement or memorandum of
an agreement chargeable with duty under Article No. 5{c) of Schedule 1. (2) A release or discharge of anysuch instrument shall not be chargeable with the
like duty. The section was introduced by Act 15 of 1904, and is a "reproduction of section 23 of the
(English) Stamp Act, 1891. The object of the innovation in sub--scction (1) appears to have
been to make provision for equitable mortagages, where the advance is made on the deposit of
marketable securities." The section prevents the levy of a higher duty otherwise chargeable
under article 6 (or in certain circumstances , of a still higher duty under Article 40 ). 12.11. A promissory note would be chargeable under Article 6(2) , and a Bill of
Exchange would be exempt under Article 40 , Exemption 2. That, apparently, is the reason why
those two documents are excluded from the scope of the section. 12.12. Sub-section (2) applies to instruments which seek to extinguish the rights created
by the instruments given under sub-section (1) and makes a release or discharge of any such
instruments given under subsection (1) also taxable as an agreement, i.e., with the like duty. There seems to be no reported case law on the present section.' The section needs no'

change. 14 12.13. We now proceed to section 24 . It will facilitate an understanding of the section.
Dr it before we go into details, the broad scheme of the section is dealt with. The section could
be divided into four parts, namely, the main paragraph, the proviso to the main paragraph, the
Explanation, and the proviso to the Explanation. 12.14. Under the main paragraph, stamp duty on the transfer of P1'0P€F*Y. where it '3
charged and va-lorem, is ordinarily calculated on the consideration, subject to certain special
provisions which are not material for the present purpose. In determining the amount of comi-
deration, the normal case where the consideration is paid at the time of the transfer in the form
or cash or cheque--that is, in the direct rna1:|ner----presents no diﬁiculty. But, wlrefe 
tion is paid indirectly, the question may arise how it is to be calculated. There are two 
situations which may require to he considered, namely, (i) the transfer may be in consideration.
of a debt, or no secondly, the transfer may be subject to the payment or trarriﬁer 'at our
money or stock. The main paragraph of section 24 , which focusses attention on thﬁlt '-319
situations, provides that in such cases, sud: debt, money or stock is to be deemed the rehab
or part of the consideration. Of course, this rule becomes of importance only where the trlﬁiiﬂf

is chargeable with ad valorem duty. t it
E 5

24- 12.15. The proviso to the main paragraph enacts that nothing in the section'. shil 
wwaph_ to any such certiﬁcate or sale as is mentioned in article 13 of the first Schedule. ﬂat uttldﬂ. 'ii

iii 1. Murcaandran v. Kass: Buffer Bistros, (19cm I.L.R 35 Cal. 1u.ranowins Luxmf Baiv-Gamk--1199'!-In I-
25 Born. 313. ' 2. The expression "marketable security" is deﬁned in section 2 (Il_iA) . _ _ 3. rm: decision in I.L.R 15 Mad . 134 was pronounced before the mtmductmn of the mica In 190*» 101 will be noted, relates to a certiﬁcate of sale granted to the purchaser of any property sold by
public auction by it civil or revenue Court of Collector or other revenue oﬂicer. A special case where property is sold subject to mortgage or other encumbrances, requires
be dealt with, and that is what the Explanation to section 24 seeks to do. We
shall discuss later certain points of interpretationrelating to some of the words used
in the Explanation. But, for the present it will suﬂice to say that the principal
object of the Explanation is to ensure that the consideration which passes indirectly by the
vendor being relieved of his obligation in respect of unpaid mortgage money or unpaid money
charged on encumbrances, should be taken into account. '

The proviso to the Explanation to section 24 makes a limited provision whereuuder, where
property subject to mortgage is transferred to the mortgagee, he shall be entitled to deduct, from
the duty payable on the transfer, the amount of duty to be paid in respect of the mortgage. This
is understandable, because what the mortgagee acquires afresh is merely the diﬁerence between
the value of the property and the value of the mortgage money. He is, therefore, now required
to pay stamp duty only on the difference--provided, of course, the duty has already been paid
in respect of the mortgage. We may new deal with each of these in detail. 12.16. The principle underlying the main paragraph of the section is fairly intelligible. The
debt in consideration whereof {or subject to payment whereof) the transfer takes place, is, by
fiction of law, to be added to the cash consideration. This fiction is 'understandable. because
the amount was indirectly paid to the vendor in the past, or will be paid in the future. The proviso to the main paragraph also creates no problems. 12.17;'. The"Eirplanation~ may sound curious at the first sight. The object. of the correspond-
ing English provision was thus described :1 '

..r-um - - ,7 u-.--..s..--=-at n.~. The Supreme Court? has quoted with approval the following observations in a Scottish
case' :-- 1. Molrtimore v. L.R.C. (1864) 2 H & C838 :38 L.J. Ex. 253, rcfared toin A.I.R. 1931 Cal. 193, 191'. 2. Beam' afﬁevemze v. Sidfznrrtlr. A.I.R. 1965 S.C. 1092, at-1094-1095, paragraph 7. 3. C§;'lmE§5'l'ar1'€r qffnfnna' Ret=ermt.> V. Lfqrn'r&1rar's of City of Glasgow 'Bank (1331) 3 CL Of Sessions cases 4th
s3_ . 24 M of Law,l'.'7----14. Principle ofmail
parIsrIph- Explanation 102 Ilgilisgtlllésaii prmdsmfinf 12.18. In Engand, the corresponding provision in the English Stamp Act of 1815 (55 Geo. Act of 131; Ill, Ch. 184} runs as follows: ED511511 act gf 12.20. In consequence of this decision, an amendment was made in 1853. The amended
1353- section ran as follows :---~

"Where any lands or other property shall be sold and conveyed subject to any mort- gage, wadsct or bond, or other debt, or to any gross or entire sum of money,

such sum of money or debt shall be deemed the purchase or consideration money
or part of the purchase or consideration money, as the case may be, in respect

whereof the said an' vulorem duty shall be paid, notwithstanding {lent the .:mrcMrer__
shall not be or become personally liable, or shall not rmdertake or agree to pay . the same, anything in any Act or otherwise to the contrary notwithstanding'. Later English

"Am - held that there was no intention to make a change." History of 12.22. The history of the section in our Act was discussed in a Calcutta ease." Under section
"°°ﬁ°" 24' 34th) 'of the Stamp Act, 1869 (18 of 1369), where any property was sold and conveyed sub-
ject to any mortgage or bond or other debt or to any gross or entire sum of money, such debt
or sum was deemed the consideration money or part of the consideration money as the case
may be, in respect whereof duty should be paid, nonvfthrlanding that the purchaser was not'
or did not become personally liable for such debt or sum, or did not agree to pay the some
or llt£l€I1"£i'il]l)' the seller against the same. In;the Stamp Act of 1879, in re--enacting this section,
the last portion (above referred to) was omitted; property subject to a mortgage or debt was

12.21. The words underlined above do not occur in later English Acts; but, it has been . This resulted in a conflict of _deeisions.;W_hm'. ' 5-: 6, Jwrzla Prasad v. aim Nnraln (1882) I.1..R. 15 All. 107. against the same. But the Bombay High Court held} that in all cases stamp duty was payable
on the total of the purchase money and the mortgage debt. We shall revert to this controversy

. later." 12.23. Another diﬂidulty arose from the language of section 23 . According to some Bombay
decisions, a transferee of a property subject to mortgage need not pay duty on the interest due
on the mortgage, through he would have to pay such interest before redeeming the property. But now the express language of the Explanation to section 24 , makes the mortgage debt
or money charged, together with the interest due upon it, as part of the consideration for sale. 12.24. As to sale subject to- encumbrances and sale not so subject, the question may be
raised whether this distinction, even if relevant for the purpose of the law of transfer of property," is subject to mortgage, though the sale is not. Should the Explanation apply 'E Should it be rea~
sonable to apply it '.7 '

The mortgage money is added (for stamp duty), because, indirectly, the seller is beneﬁtted
by the fact that discharge of the incumbrance is now at the cost of the purchaser. 12.26. In construing the proviso to the Explanation, Mclood C.J.'3 observed in the Bombay

case : T ' t _. 1. (a) Shah Nagindmzd J'a_vnr'frana' v. Naikara Nanlzwn Cizegala, (1881) I._L.R. 5 Born. 470.
_[b) Meer Kaiser Khan v. Ebrafrim Maw: (1391) I. L. R. 15 Born. 532. ' 2. See "Comment on the Explanation", z'n_ﬂ'a. 3. Section 55 (1) (g) , Transfer of Property Act. 4. Monfnwre V. I.R.C'. U864) 33 L.J. Ex. 253, 266; 133 R.R.
5'. Stamp Act, 1815 (Eng) _ 6. In re Frank Porroiocit (1925) 1.1..n. so Boni. 540, A.I.R. 1925 Born. 542 Mclood C.J. 7. In tliejndgment, by slip the word "mortgage" is used in place of "sale"'. 815 : 159 ER. 347. ' 3. Janardi'1rnzRao v. Secrerezr_v'o}'St-are, A.I.R. 1931 Cal. 193, I95. Possibility ' '
double char-5;,

sale. CW. Fnmtt J. faith

bl'

reliev- If the former is the correct meaning, then property which is, in fact, subject to a
mortgage will, if it is sold, attract the consequences set forth in the Explanation,
whether or not the property is sold on the terms that the vendor is to clear all'
the mortgage and give to the purchaser a clean title. In Women Martami V. Com-
missioner, Cerural Division,' this question was raised and it was held that the
clause "subject to a mortgage or other incumbrance" governs "sale of property" We shall refer to the view of Marten J. lmeer'

12.28. Opinions can vary as to the ratio decidendi of the above Bombay case. The deci- wkum. sion could be construed as resting solely on the ground that though the property was subject

toithe charge, the vendor undertook to clear off the incumbrance and to perfect the title of the
vendee treeefrom all encumbrances.' The opinion expressed by Marten 1.. however goes beyond
that.' Awarding to him, the Explanation must be conﬁned to cases where, as part of the consi-
deration which the vendor gets for the transfer, the Vendor is to be relieved, expressly or impliedly
from the burden of the mortgage as between himself and the purchaser. '12.28A. If the latter proposition is to be regarded as the basis. of the judgntentuin the

Bombay case, then it must be noted that it has not been accepted by the Calcutta High Court,' .
where Rankin CJ. observed, [with reference to the Bombay case)--"No such qualiﬁcation is'

to be found in the Explanation itself or in the illustration which is given by the legislature. to
throw light upon its meaning." Woman 1|-farrami v. Cammirrthner, Centre! Divirzhn, A'.I.R. 1924 Bonr. 524. Emphasis supplied. Woman Marmrrd Harlerne v. Comntissrbner, Central Dn.. A.l.R 1924 Born. 524, 516, 527 (Fawoett J).
. Para 12.33, infra. see shah Ag. C.J.s, Judgment. . Sec Para 12.33, tnﬁ-a. - U.K. Janardcm Roe v. Secretary of Srote,A.I.R 1931 Cal. I93-201 (Rankin C.J.]

;-.ra~y».h-_...:p.;o--. In the Calcutta case, the vendor had purchased the property '
in a court auction, and sold it to the vendor for Rs. 1,000. There was a mortgage 'on . property, on which a suit had been instituted by the mortgagee against the mortgagor. A sum
of Rs. 25,636 was outstanding on that mortgage. The fact of the mortgage suit having been
instituted was mentioned in the sale deed. The instrument was stamped as a conveyance for
Rs. 1,000 only. It was held, that as the property was sold subject to the encumbrance, the
conveyance was liable to stamp duty on Rs. 1,000 plus the er:t'tmvbrnr:ce. Examining the
meaning of the phrase "subject to a mortgage or other incumbrance", the court held that the
phrase governs the words "sale of property", and not the word "property". Where the sale
is not subject to a mortgage {though the property concerned may be so subject), the Explana-
tion has no application. 'Thus, if the property is subject to a mortgage, but the vendor, in
return for the purchase--money, is to give a clear title free front all encumbrances, then the
Explanation does not apply. The unpaid mortgage money in the case of a sale subject to a
mortgage, is to be deemed to be part of the consideration for the sale, not because it is part
of such consideration, but because the legislature is determined to tax it. Consequently, an
enquiry into the question whether the mortgage amount, in fact, proved part of the considera--
tion, is wholly irrelevant. '
12.29. in an Allahabad ease,' the High Court maintained that where an immovable

property, which is encumbered by a charge or a mortgage, is sold but not rubies: to the
inc-unibrance, then the amount of money constituting the charge or mortgage need not be -added to the consideration mentioned in the conveyance as the value of the property sold. The words of section 24 beginning with "subject either" and ending with "property or not",
apply to the word "trar1sfcrred", and not to the word "property". 12.30. The Supreme Court,'-' in an appeal from the Allahabad case, held the view that
the phrase "subject to a mortgage or other encumbrance" qualiﬁes the word "sale", and not
the Word "property". If the mortgaged property is sold subject to a mortgage, then and then
only the Explanation applies; the phrase does not mean that whenever mortgaged property is
sold, then Explanation is to apply. It is plain from the Explanation that it is only the unpaid
mortgage money that is deemed to be part of the consideration." 12.31. While the judgment of the Supreme Court settles, in general, the meaning of the
words "subject to", it does not concern itself with the major controversy, namely, is it necessary
that the vendor should have been relieved of his obligation ? 12.32. It appears that the difficulty on the above point seems to survive even now, and
the Explanation to section 24 should be made more speciﬁc than at present. The question
that remains unsettled is----Is the Explanation applicable only where the purchaser undertakes
to pay the nzurmbrance, or is it wide enough to cover other cases where the incurnbranceis
outstanding '? We do not think that the applicability of the Explanation should be limited to
cases where thepurchascr undertakes to redeem the ineumbrance expressly or byimplieation.
Once it is proved that the incurnbrance is outstanding, its value ought to be added to the
consideration paid, because the vendor has beneﬁted by the sale being subject to incurnbrance. 12.33. In the Bombay ease} Marten 1. observed :----- _

"This Explanation must be read along with the main portion of section 24 , which
refers, in my opinion, to the consideration payable to or moving towards 
vendor' and not to that payable by or moving from him .... ..I think, therefore,
that the Explanation on its true construction must be confined to cases where,

' as part of the consideration which the vendor gets for his transfer, he is-to -be.
relieved e.rprr=s.s-l_v or implicitly from the burden of a mortgage as between himself a

and the purchaser." _
The question to be considered is "whether this is the correct view. - _ -- I. Sldhrrnrli Mehr-arm v. Board oflieve.-rue, A.l.R. 1959 All 655, alﬁrmed in Boardof Revenue v. Stdimarh,
A.I.R. 1965 S.C. 1092. 2, The Board ofRe1'entte U.-l'. v. Sfdhrmtlz Mehrofm, A.l.R. 1965 S.C. 1092. 3. See also Collector Abuesrrurion v. Deepak Texriieplndurtries, AJR . 1966 Gujarat 227 (F.B.) 4. Woman .'t-farts-ncl v. C'orrirm'rsr'orzcr, Cenrmf Dftrisiart, A.I.R. 1924 Bom. 524, 526. 3. Emphasis supplied. Explanation 3139- 12.34. It is settled by Supreme Court,' that the Explanation would apply where the

licabie only , _ I
whm 53;: sub. sale of property is subject to a mortgage, i.e., where the vendor does not purport to give a

' t to ' - ' ' - . . . _ . . 1" "1'v'Um good title tree from the incunibnmce. But, on the question whether the test is to see wheth 1'

the purchaser IS or is' not saddled with the bu_rde.rt, the Supreme Court did not express a view.
eC;;i;1it'ication sug2- 12.35. Hence a ciarilication is needed, and it should be by way of widening the section. Lines on Wm-uh . 12.36. in our view, it would be convenient if the correct position discussed above is

amendment needed incorporated into the section. What is needed is--(iJ to indicate that it is the gala which
15 Subject to mortgage; (ii) to also indicate that there need not be an undertaking by the pur-
chaser to pay the amount, in order that the section may apply; and (iii) to revise illustration
2, in view of the criticism thereof in the Bombay case," by Fasvcett. '

We may add that such an amendment has been generally favoured by the replies to our
Qitestionnaire." Recommendation 12.37. We recommend the following re-draft of section 24 , in the light of the above
,'§,';""§4 t" 5"' discussion. - Revhed section 24 "24. Where any property is transferred to anyperson :----- (a) in consideration, wholly or in part, of any debt due to him, or

(to) subject either certainly or contingently to the payment or transfer to him or
any other person of any money or stock, whether the money constitutes a charge

or incutnhrance upon the property or "not,

such debt, money or stock is to be deemed the whole or part, as the case may be, of the
consideration in respect whereof the transfer is chargeable with ad vat'orem_duty : Rs. The property is suliiecr to a mortgage to C

(2) A sells a property to B for
Rs. 200. The sale is snbiect to the iiiorrgnge. Stamp

for Rs. 1,000 and unpaid interest for
duty is payable on Rs. 1,700. (3) A mortgages a house of
' buys the house from A. Stamp d

already paid for the mortgage. wine. ':'%?h; '

1, Boardqf Revemre V. Sidhririrh A.I.R. 1955 SC. 1093- 2. Woman M'nrtana' v. Com:-nisstcner, Certtr|:!Di'v:'.si'on,

ment). 7 3. Question 36

uty is" payable on Rs. 10,000 less the-amount of st_am.p duty

 

A.l.R. 1924 Born. 524 52B(See Fawcett..l.'s Judge- the value of Rs. 1o,oe0 to B for Rs. 5,000 B afterwards ', t

10'? 12.38. Section 25 deals with stipulations for payment of annuities or other periodical
payments. Such payments, since they are spread over a number of years, raise questions of
the basis for calculation of stamp duty. The section makes detailed provisions in that regard.
It deals with two situations :-~-- '

{i} where an instrument is. executed to secure the pu__wnem of an annuity or other
sum payable periodically, or (ii) where the consideration for a conveyance is an annuity or other sum payable
periodically. .The section provides that the amount secured by suehinstrument or the consideration

for such conveyance, as the case may he, shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed :-- Under another proviso, where proceedings have been taken in respect of an instrument
under section 31 or section 41 , the amount certiﬁed by the Collector. shall be deemed to he

the stamp actually used at the date of execution. 12.44. As has been observed? "unlike the evidence Act, the Stamp Act does not base

its rules on the theories of relevancy or public policy. _
certain documents shall pay :1 contribution. to the State according to the purpose for which
In regard to certain documents which create a right to money, it prclcribcs

they were executed. '7 _
he valuation of the claim, the document ihall be 1:1-

that unless the stamp is proportionate to t

admissible. in evidence, and where the intention of the parties is that the valuation; should be

unlimited, it enacts, by section 26 , that the" claimant will be entitled to realise 'a sum propor-
tionate to the stamp fee paid, subject to certain exceptions in the case of royalties. It follows

that wherever the claim exceeds the amount proportionate to the stamp, the document _is.not , '

duly stamped for the purpose for which it was executed within the meaning of sectisll 35,

and the provisions of this section have to apply thereto. A typical instance of instruments whereithe value is indeterminate is a lease of This

case is expressly mentioned in the section. 'In such leases, the amount which will -be realised I y

is altogether uncertain. In regard to other instruments, a few cases have arisen under the section. These maynow

be referred to. 12 44A. Article 15 relating to bonds provides that ad valorem duty should 'be paid on
' the bond. An instance of a bond for an indetenninate value

the amount _or value secured bl' _ --?i_I? n 1=ueT1}3.' 'i73;25', (1945) Page 53. ' ' __
1 Kmm, Bmjpmhqn Sing}: v. Lacizminarain Agarwal. A.I.R. 1920 Fat. 50. It is purely ﬁscal, and insists' that p 109 is to be round in an Allaliabad case} relating to a bond by a grower of sugarcane to deliver
some quantity of rah {unreﬁned sugar), at a price to be ﬁxed at the meeting of growers. 12.45. The Calcutta High Court has held that for bonds for delivery of grain, if proper
stamp duty is paid o11 the value ot: the grain secured as ﬁxed in the instrument, the document
is properly stamped under Article 1.5 , and section 26 would not operate to prevent the recovery
of a higher amount as the value of such grain on account of subsequcm rise in prices.'-'

12.46. in the case of rnortgagcdceds executed to secure future 5 advance on a running Dutrou rnortnap

account, or containing otherwise :1 stipulation of the maximum amount of liability under the '

document, stamp duty would be payable on the amount fixed as the maximum limit of liability,
though the amount might not have been actually advanced. If such stamp duty has been paid,
then an amount upto thet limit mentioned in the deed can be recovered in a court of law,
notwithstanding that more than that limit was privately realised by the mortgagee on different

occasions. In another Calcutta case," a mortgag-e--bond, intended to secure future advances upto the
sum of. Rs. 10,000 at n time, was executed on a stamp paper of Rs. 50, and, under it, altogether
more than Rs. 10,000 had been privately realised by the mortgagee on different occasions. It
was held that there was nothing in section 26 to prevent the mortgagee from suing to recover
the balance of the debt due on the mortgage. Even if the stamp is deficient, section 26 has
no application to the case, and the full amount due on it can be claimed on payment of deﬁcient

stamp duty and penalty under section 35 . 12.47. If such maximum is not mentioned, and if the document purports to secure an
amount without limit, then it appears that section 26 would operate to restrict the amount
cllimabk under it to the maximum amount covered by the stamp}

12.48. There are decisions pointing out," that section.26 applies only where the amount
or value of the snbject--matter of any instrument chargeable with ad valorem duty cannot be
ascertained at the date of its execution. Thus, if in an instrument, the value of the subject-
mutter is determinable on a reasonable basis, then, section 26 has no application." The circumstances governing the applicability of the section were examined in a Madras
case." in which a certain land was leased out for ten years, for being planted with a certain
rninilllilln number of casuarina trees, on the condition that at the end 'of the time, the trees
phntcd should be cut and sold, and the proﬁt of sale proceeds of the trees so reared divided
equally, deducting the expenses of cutting etc. It was held that clearly, the subject-matter
wt: in" ascertainable item at the date of contract, it being a certain number of casuarina trees
on their equivalent value. The contention, that the value of the trees at the end of 8 or 10
 not asccrtainable at the time of the contract was rejected. '_12.48A. We now proceed to consider the question whether section 26 is subject to, and
governed by, section 35 . Section 35 prohibits the admission in evidence of any unstampcd
document,' but, under the proviso to that section, an instrument not sulﬁciently stamped-can

be admitted on payment of penalty. , Under section 26 , "nothing shalt be claimable" under the instrument in question beyond
the amount or value for which the stamp is suﬁicient. The section is silent as to whether this
pmhibitirnn can be relaxed where the claimant is prepared to supply the deﬁciency in stamp. I. In the Matter nfGrrjra,l Singh (1337) I.L.R. 9 All.5B5 (F.B.). 2. Hncimb Cimruira Choir-ciﬁarf v. dink Jan (1886) LLR. 13 Chi. 268. 3.' Ha-audera Lat Ray Chowdimry v. Tartar' Charon Cfrnkrabarty, (1904) I.L.R. 31 Cal. 307- 4. A.L..M..-1..L. Cherry v. Marmg Atmg Ba. A.I.R. 1919 Lower Burma 3?. 5. In the matter ofﬁajraj Sfngh, (1B8'}')I.L.R. 9 All. 585 PB. _
6 Bllairrab Chandra Citowdlwrt v. Alak Jan (1336) 13 Cal. 268 ;a1:td also Soadamam Patter v. 11394) 4. M.L.J.201. 7. Random' Shesayya v. Venkar Subbayya A.I.R. I918 Mad. 1066. 1068. Sonia Sundara. 14..M of Lawf7?--l 5

Intel-rehtlcn be- tween -sueuon 36

and

section 35.

Case law. Need for

ﬁcation. clari- No justiﬂcation

for
penalty. levying 110 12.49. However, notwithstanding the stringent phraseology of the section, it has been held'
that there is nothing in section 35 which necessarily excludes its operation from cases covered
by section 26 . As a matter of fact, it would be a strange result if an instrument bearing no
stamp and, therefore, not admissible in evidence for want of stamp. could be validated by
payment of penalty under the proviso to that section { section 35 ), whereas a similar instrument
bearing a deﬁcient stamp and, therefore, admissible and enforceable to a limited extent, could.
in no case, be fully enforced even by paying the penalty. I1 is, therefore, reasonable to read section 26 as subject to section 35 . 12.50. Thus, where a mining lease bears a stamp3 of a certain value, the lessons right to
recover royalty under the lease is not conﬁned to the amount covered by the stamp. ll it is
found that he is entitled to a greater amount, he can be given a decree for the sum to which he
is entitled on compliance with the provisions of section 35 . This is the position even where
the second proviso to the section is not applicable. l

12.51. In our opinion, it is desirable to clarify the position as to the inter-relationship of
sections '26 and 35, particularly because in section 26 , the words "nothing shall be claimable" 7 1. {aft Kr:-mr Bra]? Mohair Singh v. LoxmlNarar'n Agoniral. A.I.R. 1920 Fat. 50, 55 (Dawason Miller C.J.und -I I

J.) aiﬁrnied in. . (bl L-achmi -Narian v. llajeshwar, A.I.R 1924 P.C.'221. _ _ ' _ 2. BrajMoha:: Singb v. Lack-r1iNaraf.-1. A.I.R. 1920 Patna S0, 55, aﬁrmed in Lacirmir Narnia V, ﬁg-5.". --A.[.R. 1924 RC. 22!. _ "' 3. Question 37. It is on this logic that we consider it proper to recommend that in relation to section 26 ,
While so much of section 35 as relates to payment of the deﬁcit may be adopted, it is not
necessary that the penalty should also be levied. For the purposes of. section 26 , therefore,
the penalty portion in section 35 should not be adopted. We may state that in so far as
the amount claimed under the instrument can be ascertained only when the claim is made,
the case is more analogous to com': fees, where the penalty is levied than to- the normal situa-
tion under section 35 . In the Court Fees Act, in suits for accounts, deﬁciency can be made up. 12.53. We, therefore, recommend that section 26 should be revised as follows: Provided also that, where proceedings have been taken in respect of an instrument
under section 31 or 41, the amount certiﬁed by the Collector shall be deemed to
be the stamp actually used at the date of execution- - when the lease has been granted by any other person, at twenty thousand rupees. Kecomrnendation. CHAPTER 13

FACTS TO BE STATED IN INSTRUMENTS---SECTIONS 2'?-23

gallon 27- 13.1. Section 27 provides that the consideration {if any) and all other facts and circums- In regard to section 27 , tlreretore, the discussion will be conﬁned to those amendments which

can be considered independently of the charging articles. org... Am,,,d_ 13.3. In some States, an amendment been made empowering the Registrar to hold
"'°°'"- i an inquiry. The Orissal amendment 'is an example. Section 47A [0r1ssa) reads--- section (2-A) may, within thirty days from the date of the order, prefer an appeal before the
District Judge and all such appeals shall be heard and disposed of in such manner as may be
prescribed by rules made under this Act." 13.4. In order to facilitate consideration of the question whether such an amendment
should be recommended, it is desirable to examine the scope of section 27 . The scope would
be better understood it the following propositions are borne inmind : valuation, the fear of prosecution would protect the Government against the attempted fraud.
There is no provision in the law-3 authorising the Collector to ascertain the value of the property
with a View to causing the instrument to be stamped with reference to the value thus ascer-
tained.' If a document--e.g., a rnortgage--deed,--is silent regarding the consideration, or
if it does not set-forth the circurnstances from which it could be gathered that how much stamp
duty E to be paid, then the Collector has no power to take any evidence to ﬁnd out the considera-9 -ticn. The only thing left for him is to prosecute the executant for not complying with the
provisions of section 2 ?." 13.5. In Himalaya House Co': care," the Supreme Court held :-- 1; (a) Board ofﬂeverwer. M'adra.r v. KR. Venkotarama Ayyar A;I.R. l§5{l Madras 738.
(la) In re Vcnknrslvotni, A.l.R. I953 Mad. 941. . Rama Cherry v. Mnimnrcd Choose and another, (1899) l.L.R. 16 Cal. 435. . Except for local amcndntenls--c.g. Orissa amendment. . In the nrnﬂerof .-'lfra'.v'n:.vmrreo' .-'l«fr.tzqﬁ'itr Alt'; A.I.R. 1922 Ali. 82 (2) (F.B.]

, Rrﬁran Halts}: ct; atlters V Comp; AIR. 1945 Lah. 69. . Hitnaiya House Co... V C.C'.R.A.., A.I.R. 19372 5.13. 899, 904, 905. ON?-A-F-Q31-J

Scope of present
section. Allahabad case. Madras view.' 114 After reviewing the High Court decisions, the Supreme Court observed :-- In this case, it was held that there was no basis for holding that the consideration for the
impounded assignment deed, vvliich had declared that there was no consideration, was the
total amount received by the assignor under the agreements entered into between him and the
persons to whom he had assigned certain rights in the ﬂats, oﬂices and shops in the building.
It was held that those persons had an independent right of their own, and that their rights
did not ﬂow from the impounded assignment deed. it was, therefore, held that the considera- - tion to be taken into account under article 23 (conveyance) was .nil, as the assignrnent deed

itself mentioned that there was no consideration, and there was no intention to incorporate
the other agreements into 1his deed which, therefore, could not be taken into account for the
purpose of calculating the duty on the impounded document'. 13.6. In one Allahabad case,' the Godavari Sugar Mills, being the owner of property
consisting of land, buildings and machinery, purported to sell these to the Somaiya Organics
for a certain consideration. The sale-deed recited that the land and buildings were conveyed
for a certain amount X, while the balance represented the price of machinery, vehicles, stores
and other goods which were treated as movable items and the transfer of which had been
completed by manual delivery. The Advocate General, on behalf of the State, argued that
the intention of the sale-deed was to transfer the entire properties of the Godavari Sugar Mills

and that the machinery, vehicles etc. were also transferred by the deed, and the value of these" Therefore, the addition of the balance amount representing the price of

the machinery,
vehicles etc. for purpose of caldulating the duty, was uncalled for. - 13.7. In earlier Madras decisions," it had been held th at"the value of an instrument creat-I - ing a settlement of propertiesvras the value set forth in the instrument, and not the market- value of the property. In a later _decision,3 the Madras High Court reviewed its earlier cases," 13.9. The question that arises is whether it is necessary to introduce any amendment in the Change not
lawto empower the registering officer to hold a formal inquiry on the lines on which some '°°°"""°"d°'l-
States have done} On the one hand, it can be argued that the scope for evasion of stamp duty
should be checked by giving such a power. On the other hand, it should he remembered that
such an inquiry will prolong the proceedings for registration, and, while, in some cases, there
may be fruitful result, there might be many cases where the inquiry may result in nothing useful. Having regard to the fact that there may be complications resulting from a provision for
elaborate inquiries on the lines of the Oﬁssa amendment, we are not inclined to suggest such
amendment of the Stamp Act . - 13.10. We may note that in our Questionnaire' a question was included on the subject. smion 2-,__ l '

The question was put in these terms--- Fat-'13 and cir-
cumstances 
"The question has been raised whether the law should be amended to empower the register- catﬁﬁy
ing oiﬁcer to hold an inquiry "on the question whether the consideration stated in the instru-- gzﬂgtlruﬁéﬁl in
men: was the true value? Have you any suggestion in this regard?" One State Government" was opposed to giving any power to the registering oﬂicer _to.hold
an inquiry. That Government would merely like section 27 to be amended to incorporate "in-
cluding, where rslevant. the market vaiue of the subjevctmatter-'~'.' '

'ﬁne Union Territory Administration" suggested that in section 27 , the words "as set forth
in the instrument" should be deleted. Duty should he made chargeable on the market value, and 1. See In- re- Vt-trftarsworni, A.l.R. 1953 Mad. at P. 942.
1 On this point see Mnhabroma', AIR. 1960 Pat. 470 and Sirnram, A.I.R. 1960 Fat. 210. 3. Porn 13.3., Supra. 4. Q38. 5. 5.1%. 88. I5. S.No. 108. 7. S.No. 90. 8. 5.140. 122. 9. 5.1%. 100. 28. 116 not on the value set forth in the instrument. For determining the value of the property, however,
it would prefer rules to he made. One Administrationl would limit the powers of the registering oflicer to hold an inquiry
regarding the consideration, but it suggested that the property should be subject to valuation
by persons to be authorised by Government. (c) Two District Judges?-3 were opposed to giving the Registrar the power. They were of
the view that if necessary the Registrar should report to the Collector if he feels that the true
valuation has not been stated. They expressed an apprehension that an inquiry by the Registrar
would give chance to unhealthy practices and would delay the transaction and Would, therefore,
be undesirable. Registration should be made immediately, an inquiry may follow in due course

where necessary. One State Government' was opposed to any inquiry by the Registrar.
' Two Bar Councils"-' were strongly opposed to the suggested change, and so also is one

Incorporated Law Society.' The Incorporated Law Society stated that a procedure of the nature
contemplated in the question would complicate, and thereby delay, the registration of the docu~

tncnt. One of the Bar Councils' pointed out that if under-valuation is discovered which alfects .. the amount of stamp, section 64 can always be invoked. However, it has suggested that a section
such as section 47A of the Andhra Pradesh Stamp Act could be incorporated. We may state that we ﬁnd considerable weight in some of the objections put forth" The Court held that the amendment had not shifted the chargeable event from an instru-
ment to market value and the duty after the amending Act was still on the instrument, and that
the amending Act was within the competence of the State Legislature. " 1-4.1A. Section 29 lays down that the onus of bearing the expenses of providing the proper Section 29-11:- fit-".3. One point concerning instruments of partition may be noted. Section 29t_'g) provides Instrrimenta of
that in "the absence of any agreement to the contrary. the expense of providing the proper stamp pmm°"'
is to be borne by the parties thereto. in proportion to their respective shares in the property com-
prieﬂgtlnrein, or, when the partition is made in execution -of an order passed by a Revenue autho-
rity, -drﬂivil Court or arbitrator, then in such proportion as:-such: authority cdllrt, or arbitrators
directs. In the old Act also, section 29 (e) declared that the expenses of providing proper stamp, (in
 of" _an instrument of partition] would be borne by the parties thereto in proportion to their res-
per:_i'.iye'_shares in the property comprised in the instrument or partition. By the expression "parties
thereto", used in the section, must be understood not merely the party or parties applying for parti-
tion, but the whole co-share:-s who must necessarity be parties in the partition proceedings and
eqilllyslxar the propel stamp duty; because the elfect of partition proceedings is that the-property
thejtbwloses its identity as "a previously undivided property, and there is nothing unreasonable in
any instrument of partition chargeable with stamp duty pertaining to the value of the

wholeueien though the division is limited. This was the decision in an Allahabad case". \ . . . .. . _ - I,1r4._4-I. In.the same case, Pearson I. observed.' that in his opinion, the entire property was .
 matter of partition, and the stamp duty should be calculatedpupon its value and not
 on the value of the portion assigned to the appligantifor partition: The portion assigned
to the npplieant could only be separated and allotted to him in severally by a process which
dealt with the entire pmperry and separated and 'allotted the remainder of it to another party. 1. Dobaan and Barlow Ltd. v. Berrga! Spinning and Weaving Ca., (189?) I.L.R. 21 Bom. 125. 135- 2. Jdinrain Ram Ltmdia V. Surajmuﬂ Sc-garmufl, A.I.R. 1949 RC. 211, 215, 216 - 3. Pmakala Run V. Permganda Numaraswarnf. A.I.R. 1937 Mad 7'63, 7'64. 4. Pannkala Ra v. Pemrgonda Kwmrrr wan-u', AIR. 1937 Mad. 763. 5. Reﬁerence by Board of Revenue (1880) I.I..R. 2 All. 654, 664, 6545 (per Sturart. C-1) 119 Agreement by

Government Section 30- -0b_li- utlon to give
racdpt in certain
cases. PIrIal- iliosrisions

Dbligation Con. ﬁned tomovablc -- PYOQH1? from

European'
duty--GIf0ct of. The opinion, he further said, appeared to be supported by the terms of clause (e) of section 29- uow section 29 {g)--which provided that the stamp duty shall be payable, in the case of an
instrument of partition, not by the applicant for partition but by the parties thereto, and the other
co-sharers in the entire undivided property must be parties to the partition of it equally with "the
applicant for pa1'tition,--in proportion to their respective shares in the property comprised therein,
and it cannot be denied that the partition comprises the entire undivided property.'-9

14.5. The position regarding cases where the Government agrees to pay the duty and the eﬁect
of that agreement on section 3 , has been already considered." The above resume does not show any need for change in section 29 . As regards instruments
not mentioned in section 29 , agreement usually governs the liability to bear expenses of stamps.
In the absence of material regarding commercial usage, we recommend no change in the
section. - - 14.6. A very special case of liability to pay duty is deait with in the next section----section' 30. Under that section, any person receiving any money exceeding twenty rupees in'am-aunt, or
any bill of exchange, cheque or promissory note for an amount exceeding twenty rupees. or
receiving in satisfaction or part satisfaction of a debt any movable property exceeding twenty
rupees in value, shall, on demand by the person paying or delivering such money, bill, cheque
note or porperty, give a duly stamped receipt for the same. Under the same section, any person receiving or taking credit for any premium or conside- ration for any renewal of any contract of ﬁre-insurance, shall, within one month after receiving or . taking credit for such premium or consideration, give a duly strnped receipt for the same. 14.7. The penal provisions relevant to section 30 may be noted. Under section 65 , if the
person concerned refuses or neglects to give the receipt when a demand has _ been made, as
provided by section 30 , he is punishable with ﬁne which may extend to one hundred rbpeesﬂ
But the obligation to give a receipt arises under section 30 only when a demand is made. Under section 62 , whether a demand has been made or not, if a receipt has been givengit

must be a duly stamped one". An unstamped receipt renders the giver punishable with a ﬁne
which may extend to ﬁve hundred rupees. The oﬁence under section 65 consists in not giving a properly stamped receipt The oﬁenee
under section 62(1) (b} consists ir1- passing a receipt unstamped, whether one is the
payer or not'. If a person required under section 30 to give a duly stamped receipt gives an 
receipt, (or a receipt not duly stamped), then he would be guilty of both the offences. i.e. under section 65 and under section 62 .7 '

14.8. It should be noted that under section 30 , it is only when a movable property exceeding'
Rs. 201- in value has been received in satisiaction of a debt (and a demand for receipt has lieu;
made), that the question of granting a duly stamped receipt arises. The section has not 
lwhere an immovable-property exceeding Rs. 20,i'- in value is madeiover a debtordeo a
creditor, in satisfaction of a pre-existing liability'. ' H p

14.9. Several kinds of receipts have, by the exemption in the Schedule or by' 
under section 9 , been exempted from the obligation. to stamp. A question which would mice is

whether, even in such cases, the obligation to give a receipt imposed by section 30iB|1ﬂ'iV¢8{}i\ '

_ Reﬁererrre by Board ofRevenue. r1ssmr.L.n.- 2 All 654,664, 557 (per Pearson J.)
_ Also see Reference under Stamp Act , Section 46 (I892) T.L.R. 15 Med. 164 (F.B.}.
See discussion as to section 3 . . Section 65(a) , Stamp Act. . Section I52(l),_Starnp Act. Girdkardas v. Emp., AIR. 1933 Born. 462. . (al Girdizardas v. Emperor A. I. R. (19-33L B0ﬂ1- 457-«

(la) Qr.re'e'n--Emp.I"'PS.t' v. Kiierrur Malian-, (1900). I.L.l1. 27 Cal. 324 8. Emperor v. Sukhdas, A.I.R. 1932 Nag. 172. '--l_d'\'~.rt-lb-t_.0Ntv--I 121 similar question can arise where a receipt has been given. but is unstainped because the situation
is one- where the exemption applies. In an Allahabad case', the document at issue was a receipt signed by the payee in duplicate,
on the Post Oﬁce form, for money remitted by money order. No stamp was put on it, as the
necessity for stamp was obviated by a notiﬁcation. The person who remitted the money thereafter
demanded from the payee a duly stamped receipt which should mention that the payment was re-
ceived on account of a certain speciﬁed debt. The payee refused to do so, and was presecuted and
convicted under section 65 . The High Court set aside the conviction. and held that since a proper
receipt had been given to the Post Ofﬁce which was an agent of the rcmitter, the remitter could not
demand a second receipt. Further, section 30 did not require the person receiving to specify the
particular purpose for which money was paid. -- - 14.10. To avoid the recurrence of such eontroversies,----'--_which could arise from the present
wide provision----it is desirable that the position should be clariﬁed. The object of the law of
stamps is to ensure that duty is paid where payable. The obligation requiring receipt is intended
merely for such cases. We, therefore, recommend the addition of the following exception to section 30 . a - ' 14.10A. We also recommend that the amount should be increased? to one hundred rupees,
for reasons which we shall indicate under Article 53." 14.11. At this stage, it becomes necessary to deal with one matter which is not adequately
dealt with in the Act. The question whether a person from -whose possession a document
comes before a public otIicer-- section 33- ---and who does not pay the duty and penalty-- section
35- -----can be compulsorily ordered to pay it by the Collector-- section 40(1)(b) and section
4B--has led to a difference of views as to the scope and ambit of sections 40 and 48 . We shall
revert to the matter when we consider section 48 , but a few important points may be referred
to. > Section 48 provides that "all duties, penalties and other sums reqluired to be paid under this
Chapter may be recovered by the Collector by distress and sale of the movable property of the
"person from whom the same are due", or by anyother process for the time being in force for
the recovery of the arrears of land-revenue. As to the "person from whom the duty is due" within the meaning of section 48 , the sec-
tion itself is silent, and the answer has to be sought from other provisions. Unfortunately, the other provisions are also sketchy. As a result, there is considerable
ohrscurity in this respect, and the obscurity arises prignarily from the fact that, excepting in _a
very limited number of cases? the Act does not give any 'specific and comprehensive guidance
as to the person who is to be regarded as the one liable to pay stamp duty. 14.12. The very limited number of cases speciﬁcally dealt with in this regard are contained
"in---[i) section 19 , which relates to bills and notes drawn out of India, (ii) section 29 , which,
in the case of certain instruments, provides as to who shall bear the burden of proper stamp,
and (iii) section 30 , dealing with receipts." ' 1. -.r. Bah-n..i:und, (1901) I.L.R. 34 /All. 192. 2. See discussion as to Article 53 , infra. 3. Sections 19 . 29 and 30. Reccmvnendation
to amend section 30.

Recommendation
to .1ncrea.se the

al1'IOl'|.'IIL

Section
(New) . 30A. Recommendation. Section 30 A.
(New) 122 Section 29 is a somewhat general provision--though not exhaustive. And even that section
does not very clearly indicate whether it is «to operate as between the parties, or whether it is to

operate also between the State on the one hand, and the private party on the other hand, so as

to be available for interpreting section 48 . In VlBW of the obscurity and uncertainty as to the inter-relationship of section 29 and similar
sections on -the one hand, and section 48 on the other hand, we are of the view that the matter
should be put beyond doubt, as it istneither in the interests of the State nor in the interests of
the citizen that liability to bear the tax should be left in doubt. 14.13. Our recommendation, in concrete terms} is that the provisions of section 48 should
be enforccab1e-- ta) against persons who are liable by virtue of section 19 , agreement or section 29 or section 30 , as the case may be; and

where none of the above-mentioned sections applies, then against the person
executing the document in question. (b)
It may be mentioned that most replies to our Questionﬂ have agreed with the need for an
amendment on the above lines. '
14.14. In the light of the above discussion, we recornntend the insertion of a new section
on the following lines :-- - .._?._~ ---- 1. See discussion relating to section 48 , infra. . 2. Q. 56. (concerning sections 4 !) and 48). CHAPTER 15

ADJUDICATION AS TO STAMPS--SECTIONS 31-32

15.1. The Act recognises that it is not always' easy for the citizen to determine the precise [mmdum.m.3,_
category in which a particular instrument falls. To enable the citizen to seek oﬂicial advice
in the matter, it has considered it proper to make suitable provisions. _15.2. The principal provision-~--sc-rction 31--enables a_ person to seek the determination of sgmjou 31,
the Collector as to the proper stamp with which an instrument is chargeable. We need notgo
into its details, since there is no serious controversy on the section. There was, for some time, some uncertainty as to whether the Collector can impound an
instnmtent under section 33 when it is produced before him under section 31 . The Supreme
Court1 has now held, that when an executed instrument is submitted to the Collector under section 31 for adjudication as to the proper duty payable on the instrument, the Collector be-
contles "fnnctus oﬁicio" as soon as he determines the duty payable on the instrument, and has
no authority to impound the instrument under section 33 if the duty so detennined is not
paid. . - After careful consideration, we recommend that it should be accepted. The scheme of
the section, including its provision for taking evidence, makes it desirable that the party present-
ing be heard. It is only fair that the party presenting be heard. so that the Collector may be
able to decide with a full knowledge of the facts. The principal object of the law ought to be
to encourage correct orders. Whether or not_there is a lie, this would appear" to be a wise

CGBISB. - , 15.3. In a Madras Case} it was held that the Collector's determination (under section 31 )
ps_,'to__ stamp duty payable on an instrument 'would be ﬁnal and conclusive only in cases where
Collector followed up his order under section 31 by It relative endorsement on the instru-
.1rieirt'itself under section 32 to the eliect that proper duty had been fully paid, or in cases where
he had expressed the opinion that no duty was payable and made an endorsement to that effect '

on the instrument itself. Where, however, the Collector: had not certiﬁed by endorsement on
"thelinttmnent either in terms of section 32(1) or in terms of section 32(2) , his adjudication as

to stamp duty on the instrument brought before him under section 31 could not be a bar to an
examination by the other Authorities competent under the Act of the question of proper stamp

duty. 515.4. Under section 32 , the Collector may make any endorsement of stamp duty on an

instrument brought before him under section 31 . The general view is that an endorsement made '

__p;t__nn instrument by the Collector under section 32 is ﬁpal, and cannot be questioned by a
 "oo1irt,----even if it "was erroneous or was made out of time}

15.5. We have received a suggestion5 that the Collector should specify the article of the S I.

 under which he calculates the duty, it havingbeen said that this will facilitate registr_a-- 
ﬁbhlof the document. We accept the suggestion. Though the Collector's decision will not be ."- i

iﬁdiifas 'to the nature of the instrument on the registering authority, it will be convenient 'if

:i litiﬂﬁtes "What the Collector decides. - I. ' '

'i_J_..,3G9iyernn1¢::rofU.P.V. rm. mm. A-.l.R. 1961 so. 737; (1962) 1 s,c.R_. 9?. 2. Sugestion of Incorporated Law Society, Calcutta, accepted. -- - . 3. Chief Canrrolting Revenue AurFrtm'ry_. Board of Reiremre Madras V. Dr. K. M-mjmurrha Rm ', (1916) 2 M.L.J.2T9. - 3.1;") Mar-gayya V. Bajgopal A.l.R. 1942 Mad. 381 ; _ ' .
{bl Firm Parasrum Hirji V. -Fr'rm Parorram. A.I.R. 1926 Sind 211-. (c) Thkarani V. S'orraj:', 10 1nd. Cases 702. 5. Suggestion of the Incorporated Law Society of Calcutta (in reply to our Questionnaire). CHAPTER 16
INSTRUMENTS NOT DULY -STAMPED--IMPOUNDING BY PUBLIC OFFICERS

SECTIONS 33-34

16.1. Section 33 requires persons in charge of public offices to impound unstamped docu-
ments produced before them, or coming before them in the performance of public Eunctions.
The object oi' the section is to prevent the parties from withdrawing instruments produced by
them, when 'n In iound that stamp duty and penalty have to he paid on the instruments. Section 33 . - The section reads-- Examination and "33. 1' 1) livery person haying by law or consent of parties authority to receive evi- Imppunrling dence, and every person in charge of a public office, except an oﬁicer of police,

°r """'"'"°"t5' before whom any instrument, chargeable, in his opinion, with duty, is pro'-.dl10Bd
or comes in the performance of his functions, shall, if it appears to him that such
instrument is not duly starnped, impound the same. (2) For that purpose every such person shall examine every instrument so charge-
able and so produced or coming before him, in order to ascertain whether it is
stamped with a stamp of the value and description required by the law hi
force in India when such instrument was executed or that executed : ﬁmﬁ: 16.2. Several questions have arisen on thp section. The first question is this : Isjt 
mm: slnuid be that the document of transfer which can he impounded under this section is valid in raw '_!_ 

"""' *" '"'' has been :1 diﬁerence of opinion between the Madras rngii coins and the Andhra _

Court,' in regard to the question whether the document should be valid in law. A 15:13, "of"
the Madras High Court' was dealing with 'an unattested and unregistered document "tilted

22-3-1948, one of the clauses ofuwhich was construed as creating a mortgage over the=borre}iwar's

ﬂoating assets etc. 1. Crampbarr Errgfneering Ca. v. c.c. Rev Authority. A.I_R. 1953 Med. 154. 766, para 21 c.r., '
Rajgopalan and Venkataraman Aiycr JJJ. ' 2. Hazr-amt' Chngaram V. Kam£r:bniA.L.R. I968 A.P. 113 [RE] (5 Judges), izsﬁ-a. 3. Crommu Engirteering Ca. V CC'. Rev. Atn'horiry.'A.I.R. 1953 Mad. 764,766, para 11 (F.'B.). 124' 125 In deciding the question whether this document was a mortgage deed, the full Bench held
that the transfer provided in section 2- ." Hi of the Stamp Act is a 'transfer' which is vahdgin law,
and there can he no transfer by way mortgage unless the requirements of section 59 of the
Transfer of Property Act are satisﬁed. Where the speciﬁed immovable property is worth Rs. 10!)
or upwards, a document purporting to be a mortgage deed of such property requires attestation
and registration. Where it is neither attested nor registered, it is not liable to stamp duty. The
Court pointed out that the document was neither attested nor registered. and the impounding
authority could not have enforced registration, and that, in any case, it could not cure the
failure to attest, which by itself was enough to invalidate the document as an instrument of
mortgage. It further held, that the document might be an "instrument", but it was not an
hstnnnent chargeable with duty as a "mortgagc--deed" as deﬁned in section EH7) of the Stamp
Act. The Very diﬂcrence hctwe'eI1 the deﬁnition of "iIJstrun1ent" in section 2 [ 14) and the
deﬁnition of "mortgage deed" in section 2 ( 17) showed that the transfer must be valid 'in law.
To nuke a document liable to stamp duty as a mortgage, iris not enough if the document
purports to eject a transfer. .It must "transfer". 16.3. The Andhra Pradesh High Court.' has, however, disagreed with the View of the Madras
High Court, and held that there is no warrant for the importation of the requirements of either
the Transfer of Property Act or the Registration Act , in construing documents or instruments
under the Stamp Act , as the Stamp Act itself speciﬁcally deﬁnes the terms used therein. Further,
to hold that an instrument must be ayalid one under law before it is liable to stamp duty, will
be wﬁore the requirements of the deﬁnition and to make .them otiose. In that case, the docu-
nmrt was an unregistered mortgage deed. The High Court held that it was chargeable to duty." If
the document was to require registration for its legal validity before it can be considered whether
it is liable to stamp duty or not, then the Registrar cannot impound it before registration though
in is #l:Ioriaed to impound it under section 33 read with section 35 of the Stamp Act. If an
Iltlﬂlmcut is not duly stamped, then it cannot be registered or "received in evidence. The
dlﬂtklns in the Act and the terms of every section of the Act indicate clearly that an instrument
nail not be valid in law or meet the requirements of law as a valid document, before it is
clilrylhle to stamp duty under the Act. 16.4. In our view, it is desirable to settle this conflict. The Andhra view is, in our
opinion,' more persuasive. and should be adopted. There is no reason why liability _to_ stamp
d1!ty'shuuld depend on the validity of a document. That is: an extraneous and irrelevant consi-
deration. A suitable Explanation incorporating the Andhra Pradesh view should be inserted,
and We recommend accordingly. We may mention that the suggested amendment has been favoured by most of the replies
to run' Questionnaire.'-* . Rscomrnondltion

.-_

o

1_6.5. There is another matter pertaining to section 33 , which has proved to he" cont_c9versial_. mi} pow'. I;
In a Full Bench decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court,' the majority were of the opinion rcaﬂleril 05": sardine oﬂicers
of police whe- 'thar to be

extended; ' (iv) Meaning of
"production". 16.6. This was the majority view. But Golwalker J. dissented from the majority opinion.
He observed' that the expression 'functus oiiicio' means having llulliiled the function, having
discharged the duty, having discharged the office, or acconiplished the purpose and, therefore,
of no further force or authority. The safe function of the r€giSi£'?f!l_£,' auiimrity is to receive an
instrument when duly presented as required by the Registration Act , and to proceed to register
the same in the manner provided therein. It" is true that after presentation of the instrument
before the registering authority, it can examine the same and see whether it is duly stamped
or not, and, if it is not dulystamped, defer its registration till it is impounded and either validated
in that respect or certiﬁed as duly stamped by the authority concerned. This examination of
the instrument, "however, would not have been a part of its sfaiumry fiincrions under the Regis-
tration Act. bars to registration provided in the Registration Act .
be validly registered under the Registration Act . affected by the inﬁrmity in the matter of stamp duty, or by any other inﬁrmity not ousting
the jurisdiction of the registering authority. matter of stamp duty on any instrument has no hearing one way or the other on the function
of the registering authority, it cannot be said that the registering authority, becomes -'fttncrus
oﬁﬁcio' as soon as it registers the instrument. It is true that under rule 4 of the Rules-framed
under section 69 of the Registration Act, the registering authority shall examine the instrument
with a view to seeing if it is-duly stamped o-r not, bu: the very fact that the Act itself lays
down no such provision, and does not debar the registering authority from registering the
instrument not duly stamped, rather supports the view that it is not by way of any function'-
or part of function which the registering authority as sue}: performs under the Registration Act .
Moreover, there was no question of any authority being 'functns oﬁcio'-. An instrument not 'duly stamped can

16.7; It is, with due respect to the minority view in the Madhya Pradesh case, suggested that
this view is wrong. If it is not part of the registering oﬁicers' legal duty to see that the document
is duly stamped, then it would not be proper for him to- impound the document in any case.
The minority view is not, therefore, logical. The point is that once the registering. oiﬁcer has
registered the instrument. his function {of registration) is over. and that is all that the majority
view emphasises. Practical considerations, also support the majority view. We think that the
section should be amended to clarify the position. '

We may mention that the suggested amendment has been favoured by most of the replies to
our Questionnaire.'

16.8. Another point concerns the exception in subsection (1) for officers of police. The

connected with the investigation' of oﬁences. Such extension appears to be desirable. because" (Refercnoes to
Chapters of
the Code of
Cr. P.C.)

{vi} Secﬁon 33(3)
Power to declare
Public oﬁocs. V. (b) the local government may determine who shall be deemed tolibelpcrsonsi in charge '__ 7 '

of public oﬁices." .'.'By the Adaptation Order of'1937_. in clause t'-a-)., the _.worlds "'the collecting_.gover_nment" 16.14 In view of what is stated above, we are of the view that the provision in clauses (a)
and (b) should be revised so as to substitute the expression "appropriate govenl_'ne'ﬂt" for
"State Government". The expression "appropriate government" could, for this purpose, be so
deﬁned that it means the Central Government in relation to oﬁices whose expenses ni-e'paid from
the Consolidated Fund of India, and the State Government in other cases. We may mention that the suggested amendment has been favoured by most of the replies
to our Questionnaire." '

16.15. There has been a suggestion to amend the section to confer powers' on Stamp
Auditors for impounding documents of local authorities. We have considered it carefully. but
are unable to accept it. ' Stamp Auditors of Corporations should exercise their functions before
execution. If the Stamp Autﬁtor is an oﬂicer of the Administration. and if the document is
"produced", the case iscovered by section 33 . After impotmding, he can then take action under section 38(2) . The Corporation (if an executant), can also be prosecuted, in case there is
found to be a deﬁciency and if the other conditions for penal liability are satisﬁed. On the other hand, if the Stamp Auditor is a Corporation Ofﬁcer, then the suggestion cannot
be accepted, since the Corporation is itself a party. It may also be stated that in -doubtful
cases, section 31 can be resorted to. 16.16. In the light of the above discussion, we recommend that section 33 should be revised
as follows :-- ' .. Apparently, in view ' 129 stamp of the value and description required by the law in force when such instrument was
executed or ﬁrst executed : {hi

(3) For the purposes of this section, in cases of doubt, the appropriate Government may
determine- {a) what oiﬁoes shall be deemed to be public ofﬁccs ; and
lb] who shall be deemed to be persons in charge of public oﬁices.
Explanarion.---In this secfion, "appropriate Government" means-»-- ('1) in relation to offices the expenses whereof are paid air?
Fund of India, the Central Government, and (ii) in refarion to other cufﬁces, the State Government." of the Consolidated

16.17. Section 34 contains a special provision as to tlnstamped receipts in the following
terms: Tins, receipts' chargeable with duty? are governed by this section.
_Tl§e section needs no change. There is hardly any cajse-law on the section. --1.-riitsiment of Objects and Reasons to the 18?') Bill. K

' _ 2. Sﬂtﬁﬂn 2(6) section 2 £23) and article 53. Section

Introductory. Section 35 . Proviso (at. Exception in re- gard to instru- ments clnrgeablc
with duty not
exuding to parse,

CHAPTER '1? ACTION UPON INSTRUMENTS NOT DULY ST AMPED---SECTIONS 35 T0 3? J'.-'.1. With reference to "Instruments not duly stamped" we have discussed one set of
provisions. With section 35 begins another important group of provisions also concerned with
such instruments. They regulate t}1e use of such instruments in evidence or "acting upon" 17.2. The princinpal provision is contained in section 35 , prohibiting the admission in
evidence of an unstamped document, as also "acting" on such document or its authentication
or registration, where" the document is required by law to be stamped and is not stamped or
is not sufficiently stamped. This rigid provision is subject to certain exceptions, contained in
the proviso to the section. l7.2A. The proviso has several clauses but the most important is clause (a), which

reads- *'ta) any such instrument not being an instrument chargeable with a duty not exceed-
ing ten naya paise only, or a bill of exchange or promissory note, shall, subject
to all just exceptions, be admitted in evidence on payment "of the duty with
which the same is chargeable, or, in the case of an instrument insufliciently

stamped, of the amount required to make up such duty, together with a penalty

of five rupees, or, when tentimes the amount of the proper duty or deﬁcient -portion thereof exceeds ﬁve rupees, of a sum equal to s-'ten times such duty
or portion." _ . - - 17.3. Thus, while the payment of penalty under the proviso relieves a document iron: the
prohibition imposed by the main paragraph, the relaxation under the proviso is not applicable

to certain instruments. The basic question to be considered is whether. in the case of those'

instruments, there is need to continue the present rigid provision. The instrumentsin question
are- not including a receipt) ;1
{iij bill of exchange or promissory note. 1.7.4. Taking up, first, the instruments" chargeable with duty not exceedinglﬂ paise, '

possible reason for the rigid attitude adopted by the legislature in respect of these instruments
could be that the duty is so negligible that; a.n infraction of the law is considc1'od'as deserving
of no sympathy. While there may be some force in this reasoning, we _must.a_ls_o note that
in practice the rigid provision leads to hardship. It excludesifroru_'__evidence docu1n_e'nts"ijelevam
to the case, or even nauerial to the case, merely on considerations 'of revenue. The exeeutant
of the document might have failed to aﬁix the stamp because of ignorance of law, t'nisocaii'trtic-
tion of the relevant provision of the Stamp Act , -diiﬁculty in purchasing stamp, and so on---
all factors which do not show an intent to evade the law. Moreover, it is one thing tolevy a

penalty, and another to exclude a document from evidence by a categorical provision admitting. of no relaxation. I

17.5. It should also be pointed out that the legislature has already recognised thehardship
in the case of receipts, and allowed them to be admitted in evidence,' in certain limited circums-
tances, even though they were chargeablei with a duty of ten paise. 1. As to "receipts, see section 35 , proviso (b). 2. Section 35 , Proviso (b). 3. Article 53 { before amendment of 19?6). (1) any instrument chargeable with a'duty not exceeding ten naya paise only (but _ 131 17.6. In our view, it is desirable that the exception in regard to documents chargeable
with "a duty not exceeding 10 -naya paise should be removed from section 35 , proviso, clause if a).
We had included a speciﬁc question on the subject, and we may add that most replies to our
Questionnaire favour such an amendment.'

lT.'T. In fact, long before we issued our Questionnaire, several suggestions were made for
reducing the stringency of section 35 . It was, for example, stated in one suggestion that the

"prohibition as regards instrurnents chargeable with a duty of one anna or half an anna only

or a bill of exchange or a promissory' note had resulted in great hardship to people in India,
who are totally unacquainted with the technicalities of the Law Merchant in England. It was
stated that the stamp duty payable on other documents, which are made admissible on payment
of penalty under this Act, is many times greater than the stamp duty on the promissory notes
and Other documents referred to in section 35 . Also, the number of documents of the former
class is on a par with, if not greater than, that of pronotes. Yet, when the former class of

"documents is made admissible on payment of penalty, the latter are totally prohibited from

admission in evidence even on payment of any amount as penalty. The argument that it is an
eﬁective check on evasion of stamp duty equally applies to the latter class ofdocuments as
well. -Thus, this distinction does not appear to be fair. Whatever might be the state of
cincumstances in the commercial world at the time of passing oi the Act, it can conﬁdently be
said -"that, with the advent of banking faci]lties,- pronotes, as 'marina -of iaegotiarion,
hare become otiose and scarce in the commercial circles while they have become
the common instrument of transaction amongst ignorant. villagers. It was, therefore, suggested
that proviso (a) to section 35 should be amended by deleting the words "not being an instru-
ment chargeable with a duty of one anna or half an arms only, or -a bill of exchange or
 note." '

It was stated in another suggestion-" that the proviso (a) to section 35 should be suitably
amended for admitting promissory notes in evidence on payment of the proper stamp duty
and penalty, eirice experience had shown that in/several genuine cases in which_ there" wasgnot
the least" intention to evade duty, the unstamped promissory notes had been "excluded. from

_ evidence much to the hardship of the party. -There was yet another suggestion to the elfect that the exception for bills and pronotcs
should be deleted". A similar suggestion-" was made by a judicial ofﬁcer thatsection 35, which
 negotiable instruments, should be amended in such a way that a suit on an unstamped
promissory note can also lie on payment of due penalty. 17.8. in view of what is stated above, we recommend that the exception regarding instru-
ments--chargeable upto 10 paise should be deleted from section 35 , proviso (a). '

_ 17.IlA'. We now discuss that part "I proviso (a) to section 35 which excludes promissory
notes and bills of exchange. (but not in the earlier laws relating to stamp duties). The provision seems to have been bor-
rowed from the English Act . In England,' a promissory'- note "or bill of exchange cannot be
sued-'upon, if unstamped. In 1961, the Stampeduty on these instruments was simpliﬁedin
England,' but the above position remains unaltered. - . - . - - - .- - 17.9. English text boolrs do not give any guidance as _to why promissory--n'otes and bills
of_,exchan_2_e have been selected for this harsh treatment. .One can think of a _possi_ble reason, 1. 0. 4-4. ' K. F. 3(4,],'5'l-L.C.l (regarding _Revision of Stamp -,.-Act),
of Jmadhra Pradesh). . . 3. File No. F. 3(4) J5?-L.C.l( Vol. I, S.No. 37, (Law Department, Government of Orissa). 4. sub-Registrar. P.O. Sil-zandra Road, Aligarh District {File No. F. 3{4)!57-L.C. 1, vol. I, Page 22). 5. Shri H.B._ Vaishnav, Asstt. Judge, Porbandar (File No. F. 3H) [57 LC. 1., Vol. I, Page 45). 6. Section 33 (I) , Stamp Act , 1891 (Er_Ig.), Which overrides, section 14(4) of the same Act. 7. See discussion relating to articles 13 and 49. Pages No. 13-79 (Law Departm-e.n_t..Gqvt. views

on Qustionnaire

Earlier
l10'll!. 51.13368 - Reoormnondnﬁpn

as
is}
mﬂrumantc
10 p. ,.n .. This had a counterpart in section 34 of the Stamp Act, 187.9 nrunmsoor

and bills
exchange. pmvnu
|'$l'd1|5U

clut- 11.1?' There is another Privy Ce-until caseé reie-van: it} the paint. In. a suit hand on a

rim: car an agreement of safe, the meaning of which was cshscum, the ciaim was éupported by

copies of two docusneqts, which were as foﬂcrws :----- The deﬁendants pieaded that thz documents were promissory notes, and, not being sfampid,

they were inadmissibia in evidence. Ii was held, fsallowing an earlier Privy Council case,'-'*- that these documents were "elem-ty never _:'n:e:zded to be negotiable a':2strz:ment.r",' and were
not promissory notes and were not, thetefone, inadmissible in evidence for want of a. stamp. 1117A. It appcars that the Privy Council, when referring to tha 'imcntiou' that the, docu-_
ments were not maant to 1:»: prcemissery mates, seams ta be (Suing as 'm carrier ta avhid the has: is subiect ta stamp at 3}}, the courfzs shbuid decide strictly against the Excbeqtlet and bﬁneﬁnimatiy _

Permrrm' Cizertzkzr V. Riamakxlri Amid. 1.L.R,.(1E'38) Mad 933, 945; AIR. 1958 Mad. 3'85 CF33.) . 'Taylgy an Exridg-nae, V03. I, "Pagr.-. 2'76 12%}! $31!.) " 17.19. In that case, it was held that, under the Stamp Act, 1399, a promissory note,
unless it is payable to order or bearer, is to be deemed to be a bond, if attested. 17.20. The present law, in our view, encourages dishonesty, and causes hardship. More-
over, the proposed amendment will help the Government revenue, -as has been pointed out
by one State Government.'

17.2]. Since the hardship to the lender caused undersection 35 of the Stamp Act has
been noted by several persons, it is high time that this section was amended so as to "advance
substantial justice", which under the present section the courts are unable to do,'-' however much
they may like. We, therefore, recommend that pronotes and bills also should be included within
proviso (a) to section 35 . If this recommendation is accepted, it will not be necessary to carry out our recommend-
ation to limit the bar relating to pronotes to pronotes as deﬁned in the Negotiable Instruments

Act ." 17.22. A point relating to "Letters of credit" has been discussed under an earlier section.'
The recommendation made there was as follows :-- The second amendment, which conoernsusection 35, may be carried out, if our recommenda-
tions to delete. hills of exchange from section 35 , Proviso (a) is not accepted. 17.23. Under section 35 , proviso, a deﬁciency in the amount of the duty can be rectified.
But the situationwhere there is no deﬁciency in the amount of the duty' is not specifically covered
by the proviso, though it would appear that the language of the proviso 'to' section 35 is wide
enough to cover such cases. a

17.24. In the deﬁnition of the expression -"duly stamp-ed", a number of ingredients are
implied, such as, provisions of the Act relating to description of the stamp, mode of affixing
stamp and the like. As we have pointed out while discussing the deﬁnition of that expression," 17.25. As regards the case of use of a stamp of improper descniption, -itiis covered separately
under section 37 , which allows the defect to be rectiﬁed by applying to the Collector. 17.26. Where the full duty has been paid but irregularly stamped, no penalty except
Re. 1, Where part duty is paid but irregularly-stamped, then also Re. 1. Though this concerns
rate, to avoid undue hardship, it is necessary. Mere irregularity should not be visited with a

severe penalty. . Government of Maharashtra's reply to the Law Qommission Quesﬁoﬂﬂtlife 15- ND- 8.33.
. See Peru-ma! v. Karrmkslrf Animal, I.L.R. (1938) Med. 933. 91-6 (F.B.) (Varad.acl1ar1'a.r,J.).' 2 3. See discussion as to section 2- "Promisso1'.'i' ﬂDt€"- - ' ~ ' - . 4. See discussion as to section 2(3) "bill of exchange payable on demand''- (supra). .
. See discussion as to section 2 {1l) "duly 5taI'|111Bd"- ' ~ - - 6, Q. 45. '-«I127. If the above line of reasoning is accepted, clause (a) of the proviso to section
35- should be revised on the followingelines :-- Expianaﬁ-on.--Whei'e an instrument bears stamp of a certain amount but is not other-
wise duty stamped, than for the purposes of this proviso, the instrument shall be
deemed to be duly stamped to the amount of the stamp which it bears if a penalty
of one rupee is paid into court." a

"1123. Section 35 , Stamp Act, read with section 91 of the Evidence Act, excludes both
 original instrument and secondary evidence of the contents of the instrument, if it is unstamped
or insuﬂiciently stamped} '

' 17:29. Lord Watson stated in Rain of Babbitt' v. Inugairti China Sitaramaswami Gary," that,
under the terms of section 34 of the Indian Stamp Act of 1879, as the copy could not be
stamped, the original having been lost, it could not be admitted in evidence. This decision was
followed by the Madras High Court3 in a case where the facts were these :--- Before the trial cornuieneed, the plaintiff produced an unstamped document purporting to
 his claim to certain lands. Later on, a mob invaded the Court, and set ﬁre to it in
wIiich'tl_1e record of the case was destroyed, among other things. When the trial commenced,
the' plaintiff sought to put in a copy of the document arid paid the penalty into Court; It was held that the copy of the document was not admissible in evidence, even on payment
o'£"the'penaity. The fact that the original document was destroyed by the action of the mob

"put the plaintiﬁ in no better position. 17.30; In another Madras case} it was held that where a deed of partition is inadmissible
in: evidence for want of registration, the partition cannot be proved apart irom the deed. The
Iowa} beairt had. held in this case that the partition could be proved by evidence apart from
 which was not registered. On appeal, the Madras High Court (following an earlier
'cg?;;,;i-=:_;i.;:id that where a deed of partition is '1nadinis'siblie' by reason of the fact that' it had
not'been registered, the court can only regard the propertfv as being still belonging to the joint

faJ:nil_*,r. '

i l'?.3l. These cases illustrate the hardship caused by the present position. The beneﬁt of
being allowed to prove the document onpenalty should be extended to copies also. ' 1. (ad rsqiiaeebi v. Ti'ramu.ia:'ppa I.L.R. so Mad. 386. (b) Lachmareahfl-I v. Sham Raw, (1966) 2 An. W.R, 251. (c) Damadar Jagarmarh v. Arnraram. I.L.R.. 12 Born. 443. (d) Ming? Po Hrcn v. Ma Ma Gye, A.I.R. 1927 Rang. 109. (3) [mike Ram 'of. Hart' Chand, A.I.R. 1938 Lab. 90, 92.
(D Chanda Sting}: v. Amritsar Bank Ca., A.I.R. 1922 Lah. 307. .
fg) Jkamia Sirrgh V. Harnam Sﬁrgh A.I.R. 1926 415, 416.
(It) Nalam Rama)-'ya v. Nnlam Achamma,_(l_942) 2. M.L.J. 164 ; I.L.R. (I945) Mad. 160 (F.B.}.
(1') Subbu Naidlt v. Varadarajmiu Nafdu, (194711 M.L.J. 90. 2. _li'.qIa of Babbitt v. Inuganri China Siraraezaswami Garu, (1899) I.L.R. 13 Mad'49 fP.C.). 3. Glidnmbaram v. .M'ay_vappan, A.I.R. 1946 Mad 293. 4. Ranznyya v. Acirarnnia. I.L.R. (1945) Mad. 160 (R8,) (case law 5. Veera Raghava Rao v. Gapalarao, (I9-4| ] 2 M.LJ. 707 (Patanjali Sajsu-1, J,),

Recommendation
to amend section 35.. proviso(a)

Secondary '

Recommendation

to_adrnit secondary

evidence. R.eOOl'I_1lJ!El1dE|.tiCIlJ
Omiaton of
the word "naya" Section _ 35-
Power _ to
require , security. Propositions laid
down incaselaw 136 17.32. The present position leads to the adoption of various tricks and devices bylitiﬁlnts. If the plaintiﬁ can establish his case without proof of a written contract, he succeeds. And, that'; is what he tries to do. 1133. The defendant on the other hand, exploits the legal prohibition by suppressing the
document and by stating that it was unstamped.'

17.34. Even an oral admission of the contents of the document by the defendant' is not
admissible,-' if the instrument is not stamped, unless' the admission is made for the purposes of
the proceedings." In our view, this lacuna should be rectified. 17.35. While on section 35 , we may state that the wor "naya" before the word "paisa"
should now be "omitted, having regard to current usage. . 1136. It has been suggested" with reference to section 35 that provision should be made
to require deposit. It will, however, increase work, and we are not inclined to accept it. 113?. Under section 36 , where an instrument has been admitted in evidence, such admis-
sion shall not, except as provided in section 61 , be called in question at any stage ofthe same
suit or proceeding on the ground that the instrument has not been duly stamped. '

17.38. With reference to this section, courts have laid down a few propositions, of which
the following are noteworthy :------ (1) When a court passes an orderwthat the document does not require any stamp' or is cl
stamped, the order should be treated as ﬁnal.' - (2) The section is mandatory. Once a document is admitted in evidence, rightly-or wrongty,
Whether with or without objection from any party, it is not permissible to the court, whether
it is a Court of appeal, revision or trial court, to reject it on the ground that it has not. been
duly stamped.'-1° Stamp matters are no concern of the parties, and if, notwithstanding an
objection, the trial Court admits the document, the matter stops there, and the Court cannot
subsequently order the deﬁciency to be made up and penalty paid or, on failure -to do In,
reject that document." '

(3) The section is not limited in its application to cases in which an instrument not duly
stamped has been admitted in evidence by the trial court. The admission in evidence -of an
instrument by an appellate court is equally a bar to- a subsequent objection to its admissibility." (4) The words "admitted in evidence" refer to the act of letting the document in 

of the evidence, either as a result of judicial determination of the question "whether it 
for want at stamp, or because no objection was taken to its admissibility."-1' ' " ' 1. See St.-b!a'.s!: Pillar' v. Murhaﬁm! Am', A.I.R. ms Mad. 457. 2. Section 22 , Evidence Act. . (a) I.L.R. 1938 Mad. 933, 954 (Varadachmiar, J.). (In) I.L.R. 14 Bomb. , 102, 111 ' (c) Theji Bi V. Tirurnalappa, I.l_..R. 30 Mad. 386. . I.L.R. 1933 Mad. 933, 954 (Varadachariar, D Section 58 , Evidence Act. . S.No. 119 (Chandigarh Administration). '

Hrmiaz v. Jagntalrandas, A.__r.R. 1951 M.P. 206. . Ma Pwa May v. S.R.H.M.A. Chiettiar Firm, A.l.R. 1929 RC. 279,28].
. l/.E.A. Amramafai Chetriar v. Veerappa Chefttar, A_.I.R. 1956 SC. 12. ' 10. Javer Cliand v. Puklrr-aj Surana, A.I.R. 1961 SC. 1565. 1656, para 4. 1]. La! Chand v. Dizaram Chadd. A.I.R.., 1655 M.P. 10 . I2. Rasanji Bhtrgwanji v. Ram Shankar. A.I.li. 1938 Al 619. 13. (a) Rate» La! v. Jamfas. A.I.R.l954_RaJ. 173; ( b) Lodf v. Zirt-ul-hag', A.l.R. 1939 All 538. _ 14. ,4..P. Sahib v. Sarnkaian Mamlhavan, A.I.R. 195?, Ker. 105. - L9

\OO5_--lO'\_Ln-I-"L

J1 137 Once the Court, rightly or wrongly, decides to admit a document in evidence, then, so
far as the parties are concerned, the matter is closed, and the admission cannot be called In
question at any stage of the suit or proceeding on the ground that the instrument had not
been duly stamped.'

(5) What section 36 prohibits is the calling in question at any stage of the admission of
a document on the ground of its not being duly stamped."-3

17.39. In a Rajasthan case,' there was a diﬁerence of opinion about the interpretation of controvegsy 5:5
the words "admitted in evidence". The majority were of the view that a document can be ;3id::g:1,§"°d "1
said to be admitted in evidence only when it is formally proved and rendered in evidence. A '
mere ﬁnding that the document is admissible does not bring section 36 into operation. The
High Court conﬁrmed the view expressed on this point in an earlier Rajasthan case)' 17..39A. The minority (Bhargava L}, however, took the view that once the duty is paid

I and document regarded as admissible section 36 should apply. 17.40. We are of the opinion that the majority view in the Rajasthan case is correct, and
that there is no need to amend the section. 17.41. Section 37 empowers the State Government to make rules providing that where section 37- an instrument bears a stamp of snﬂicient amount but of improper description, the instrument I"'°"i"°*°"'
may, on "payment of the duty with which the same is chargeable, be certiﬁed to be duly
smlpedz may instrument so certiﬁed shall then be deemed to have been duly stamped as
from the date of its execution. The object of the section is to enable instruments bearing stamp
of improper description to be validated without payment of penalty, the assumption being that
the party has not been guilty of an attempt to defraud government revenue. The validation is
done by the Collector under the Rules. The section does not mention the authority that can
validate the instrument, and leaves it to the mics. 17:42. -We are of the view that the concession should be mandatory, and that no duty Dut not to he
should be chargeable. We may mention that many replies" to" our questionnaire agree with "'54 l' "'1°°'1'
this view.' ' - $353?" '"°"" We may note that many replies to our Questionnaire favour such an amendment.'-'

17.46. The second point concerns the relationship of sect.ion 37 with section 35 . in
an Andhra Pradesh case," a promissory note on an impressed stamp, tholugh certiﬁed by the

_ Collector under section 37 , was nevertheless held to be outside the scope of section 37 . The
reason given was, that the exception to the proviso to section 35 was a bar to the admissibility
of the note, and that the certiﬁcate under section 37 could not prevail against the speciﬁc- With great respect, section 37 does not neowsitate such at

provisions of section 35 , proviso. If the certiﬁcate cures the defect in stamp, it should be

narrow view of the scope of the section. taken as curing it for all purposes. 17.47. We are of the view that having regard to the beneﬁcial object of section 37 , it
should be made clear that it will override the proviso to section 35 . Such a course has been
favoured' by most of the replies to our Questionnaire. I7.-48. We note that section 37 is conﬁned to instruments bearing suﬁtciem stamp. Should
it be extended to instruments bearing stamp of wrong description but of lesser amount' than

that chargeable '? We have considered this aspect, but are not inclined to recommend a change; 17.48A. in the" light of the above discussion we recommend the following re--dra'ft :'---- _

Revised section 37 37. (1) Where . . . . . . .. an instrument bears a stamp of sufficient amount but of im-
proper description, the tnszrumem shall,' without payment again of the duty with which the
same is chargeable 'be certiﬁed to be duly stamped, subject to such rules as -the State Genre-
ment may make as to the procedure for the grant of such certiﬁcates. '

(2) Any instrument so certiﬁed shall then be deemed to have been dulylstamped asfrom

is the date of its execution, notwithstanding: a-n;eth¢'ng to. the contrary contained inarection 35 or in

any other section. . . ExpIannt:'on.--For the prtrposes of tfusscctforli 9' -5'?_¢1mP' RS831 f0!' I'i°ld?W5'5ﬂ3' 5'59 
or postage paid is also a smmp of improper dewcﬁption. ' *

In making this recommendation, we' are conscious that the constitutional 1'-ﬁl-' 1119

distribution of the proceeds of traces is cnotl identical in regard to court-fees and eltiln-illdiﬁiiil

stamps and postage stamps. We presume that the Central Government will have no objection to the 

of instruments hearing court--fee stamps. 3. E'm.rma '|.«'. Maidappa. A.I.R. 1963 A.P. 451 distinguished in 4. Q48. 1, (1911;.1u1.c.7o2 (Nagpur), cited in 1IanjitSin3-Ilvlﬂaia-craft', are-. 1951 Madhyaiﬂharal-181} -13:; pan 5.
(Chaturv-edi,J.) ' - 2 2. Q.-47. V . Arman Chsand v. Narhmai. A.l.R. 1 , 114'. _ CHAPTER is
IMPOUNDIDIG AND CONNECTED PROVISIONS-- sncrron 38--47

T 18.1. An instrument not stiﬂlciently stamped is impounded under sections 33-35. Batter g.,.;mn- 38-

this is done, the question arises what further action should be taken. - Section 38 is one of
the principal sections providing for what is to be done with an impounded instrument. If the
deﬁcit duty and penalty are paid, the impounding oﬂicer is, under section 38(1) , required to send
to the Collector an authenticated copy of such instrument, together with a certiﬁcate in writing
setting out certain particulars. Further action in regard to the copy of the instrument is
then taken under section 39 . '

If a party does not pay the deﬁcit duty and penalty under section 35 . the court has to
impound the instrument under section 33 , and forward it to the Collector under :-ection 38(2).
It is-then for the Collector to give his decision under section 40 about the proper duty and
Nnﬁkﬁl (if any') to be charged. . .. " ' 1 s * "T i ; " caselaw. Section 33(1) Recommendation
for verbal change. Sect!'-on_ V' 
suggmtlon of
state Gowrument. Scheme of section 33(2) . ' can be admitted in evidence, and need not be sent to the Collector.'

Stﬁtion consi- s i ti. - . , 140 If the instrument so sent in original' is -lost, destroyed or damaged before the Collector
tubes action under section 40 , then it is not possible (under the Act as it now stands) to collect
the stamp duty and penalty due, with the result that there is a loss of revenue to the Govern-
ment. it has, therefore. been suggested that the person impounding the instrument should,
before sending it to the Collector under section 38(2) , keep an authenticated copy of the
instrument in his custody. if the original which has to be sent to the Collector, is lost, destroyed
or damaged, then the authenticated copy should, it is suggested, he treated as the original
instrument for the purposes of levying" the stamp duty and penalty due, and should be admitted
in evidence on payment of such duty and penalty. An amendment of section 38(2) , to achieve
these two objects, has been proposed by the State Government. 38.5. lefore expressing our view as to the point raised in the suggestion, we should
consider in detail the scope of section 38(2) . There are two cases in which impounding of
instruments not duly stamped is provided for by the Act namely, (i) where a person has authority
to receive evidence or (ii) where a person is in charge of a public oﬂice, provided {in both
cases}, the instrument chargeable with duty is produced before him or comes beﬁore him in
the performance of his functions. ln the first case, that. is to say, where a person impounding

has authority to receive evidence, it the party pays the penalty, then the instrument impounded
In that case the person

impounding sends only a copy cases a Certiﬁcate (that is) to the Collector"-' In "other cases",
he has to send the original to the Collector.' Those "other cases" would appear to be the
following.-- ti) Where the person impounding has no authority by law or consent of parties to
receive evidence ; if ii) Where he has such authority, but the party concerned does not pay the duty
(or the deﬁciency in duty) and the penalty etc. ; . (iii) Where, even if the party concerned is prepared to pay the duty or the penalty,
the instrument cannot, by virtue of the exceptions given in the proviso to th
relevant section" be admitted in evidence," under the present law. -- In these cases, the person impounding must send _the instrument in original. There is a
provision' for preparing a copy of the instrument, but even when a copy is prepared under that
section, what is sent to the Collector is the original. 18.6. Now, the suggestion is, that before sending the original, the_ person impoundingtishould
keep an authenticated copy. If the original is lost before action is taken under section 40 (l],
then {it is suggested) the copy should he treated as the original for the purpose of the levy
of the penalty etc. and also for the purposeof the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 . This suggestion of the State Government was circulated by the Government of India' to
other State Governments. It appears," that many State Governments were in favour of the
suggested change. One State Government was not, however, in favour of the change suggested,
on the ground, first, that the proposal would increase the work in the public oﬂicea concerned,
and secondly, that the change was not necessary, as cases of original documents being lost or

damaged were very few. Another State Government suggested that the copy of the document be made at the cost I

of the person producing it. . Section 33 (2) . Section 33 fl]

. Section 38 (1) . . Section 38 (2) . Section 35(1) . proviso la}. _

_ Compare (English) Stamp Act, l89|, (54 & SS Vic. C 39}. Section 14 ll)
. Section 46 . . Ministry of Finance {Revenue Division'). S. No. 3 File No. F' 3 {4)I5'?-L.C. Pt. I.

""'""='*o-uu-u- The continent of another State Government was, that the impounding oﬂicer should keep
the original with himself, and should send only a copy to the Collector for the levy of duty and
penalty. 18.7. We have considered the suggestion, and the points made in the comments expressed V31'i°"3

theerou. While the object of the suggestion is good, we are of the view that certain considera-
tions----such as increase in oiiice wor}<-- --cannot be brushed aside. Cases of loss of an instrnnient
in transit would be rare. '1'o meet "those rare cases, we do not think that a copy should be
prepared in every case. And, in our view, there is no case for a change in the present law. in response to our Questionnaire' also, while many replies have favoured such amendment
as is set out below, some do not think that,- to meet rare cases, a change should be made in
the section. a i

_ 18.8. However, if the Government does consider some change necessary, then, in our
view, the alternative suggested by another State Government, namely, that theoriginal should

be kept by the impounding officer and a copy should be sent to the Collector, is preferable to

other alternatives. If the original is sent to the Collector and lost in transit, and the question
of proof of signature or thumb impression arises, then a copy kept by the impounding oﬁicer
would not be of much utility, and there would be diﬁicultiea. 'Where the party interested or the
person producing is not prepared to pay the cost of preparing the copy, we do not think that
the person impounding the instrument should belrequired to prepare an authenticated copy. 3. such consequential changes as may be necessary in other section, may he carried out. :_ M10 remm of the instrument to the person impounding, see Section 4ar2i and cases cited in Mulls, Stamp Act,
(1963) page 146. Footnote (it). ' ' ' . . as M of Lowm_19 _

_ alter- natives. Recommendation. - uiuler clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 40 or under sub-section -('1) T

_ Section 40 . Section 33A- 18.10. At this stage, it is necessary to depart from the sequence of sections and to refer to

set] . . (fl-$3,: s:%?,:p°45)_ section 46 . That section reads :---- '

"'46. { 1) If any instrument sent to the Collector under section 38 , sub-section" (2),
is lost, destroyed or damaged during transmission, the person sending the same
shall not be liable for such loss, destruction or damage. i

(2) When any instrument is about to be so sent, the person from whose possession
it came into the hands of the person impounding the same, may require a copy
thereof to he made at the expense of such fu'st--n1ention-ed pers.on and authntir
cated by the person impounding such instrument." gW;a ﬁ°" 13.11. In our opinion, section 46 should be transposed after section 38 , since its subject
mm," 45 as matter is connected with section 38 . Accordingly, we recommend that new section 38A shotlltl. be
5'°°"°'1-°'3*'*- inserted, incorporating the substance of section 46 . - Certain verbal changes are needed in section 46 , if section 38(2) is revised on the lines
discussed above.' - (i) In section 46(1) , the words "or authenticated copy", should be added, if section
33(2) is revised. - (ii) Section 4612) becomes redundant-, if section 38(2) is revised. San-on 39' 18.12'. Section 39 deals with the power of the Collector to refund" the penalty in
respect of an instrument, a copyzwhetaof is sent to him under section 38(1) , that is to say,
an instrument impounded by retom oﬁ deﬁcimcy in stamp. It needs no change. 18.13. Section 413' deais with the Colic-etor's power' to stamp instruments impotmdeiunritr
the Act. Usually, the impounding of the instrument is by some other oiﬁs:e1'.,_ who with it" ha,-..o:_de1-.13, rule 9, of the Code of Civil Procedure, 19(}8.VReie1:ence thereto should be suhsl:itute'd. 18.19. We are also of the view that section 42 should' be placed before section 411, sinoeT . ' '" :15
the action taken under section 41 is independent of the preceding sections. The subject matter '
afuclion 42 is, in some way, conected with sections .3540. 1. To be considered under section 48 . --. For re-draft of section 41 . see discussion as to section 42 . Re-drafts. Endorsement of
instruments 0D
which duty has
' ' section
42(1) in part]. i

fﬁxisung' " " section
42(2) in part]. {Existing-sh section
4 !). [ Section 42(1) in
pan]. [Section -4242) in
part]- 18.20. Accordingly, we recommend that sections 41-42 should be revised as follows t-----3
. Revised nrcriorrs 41-42, renumbered and transposed ' 'H

4]. (1) when the duty and penalty (if any}. leviable in respect of any instrument-
have been paid under section 35 , or section 40 , the person admitting such instrument in evidence
or the Collector, as the case may be, shall certify by endorsement thereon that the proper duty
or, as the case may be, the proper duty and penalty (stating the amount of each) have been
levied in _respect thereof, and the name and residence of the person paying them. - [2] Every instrument so endorsed shall thereupon be admissible in evidence, and may

be registered and acted upon and authenticated as if it had been duly stamped, and shall be'

delivered, on an application in this behalf made by the person from whose possession it came
into the hands of the olﬁcer impounding it, to that person or according to his directions: 42. (l)(a] If any instrument chargeable with duty and not duly stamped is produced by
any person of his own motion before the Collector within one year from the date of its

execution or first execution, (b) such person brings to the notice of the Collector the fact that such instrument is
not duly stamped and the omirsiorr to duly stamp such insfrument was occasioned by accident,
mistake or urgent necessity. and offers to pay to the Collector the amount of the proper duty,
or the amount required to make up the same, and (c) the Collector is satisﬁed- that the omission to duly stamp such instrument has been
occasioned by accident, mistake or urgent necessity, the Collector may, instead of proceeding
under sections 33 and 40 , receive -such amount and proceed as next hereinafter prescribed. (2) [Wren rite duty icviablc in respect of any instruntent has been paid under strb-Section
(1), the Collector shall certify by endorsement thereon that the proper duty has been levied in
respect thereof, and the name and re.ir'dencc of rho person paying rherti. ' ' - , (3) Every instrument so endorsed_-sl1alI~thereupon.be admissible in e'v,idence,.an'din1ay
becregistered and acted upon and authenticated as if. it had been_ duly stamped. and shall be
delivered on his application in this behalf to the person who produced it or according to in': section 3 ?, section 40 or section 41 , by any person in respect of an instrurnernit, and, by

""3" agreement or under the provisions of section '29 or any other enactment in foroe'_ at idle 

such instrument was executed, sonic other person was bound to bear the expense
the proper stamp for such instrument, ihe-'-ﬁrst-mentioned person shall be entitledto

. from such other person the amount oi the duty or penalty so paid. Sub-section (2) provides that for thepurposes of such recovery, any certiﬁcate gtmtrﬁ
in respect of such instrument under this Act shall be conclusive evidence of the matters tj_-herein
certiﬁed. ' 145 According to sub-section (3), such amount may, if the Court thinks ﬁt, be included in
any order as to costs in any suit or proceeding to which such persons are parties and in which
such instrument has been tendered in evidence. If the Court does not include the amount in
such order, no further proceedings for the recovery of the amount shall be maintainable. 18.23. (a) In View of the proposed re-numbering of sections 41 and 42 , consequential Section _44
changes should be made' in section 44(1) ; Ch"'9°' "" We recommend that section 44 should be amended as above. 13.24. Section 45 reads------ Se=ﬁ0I145-- T
' Power to Re- 18.25. In section 45(2) , we recommend the substitution of "one year" for "three months". Rgwmmmdaﬁum
The period should be uniform under both the sub-sections. 13.26. We have already considered? section 46 . p . Sagan 4,5_

13.21'. Under section 47 , when any bill of exchange or promissory note chargeable with swim a___

a duty not exceeding ten naye paise is presented for payment unstamped, the person to whom Power of payer
it is an presented, may patﬁx thereto the necessary adhesive stamp, and, upon cancelling the and mum" '
sung. "in manner hereinbefrure prov.-'ded." may pay the stmz payable upon such bill or note, nous 1-waived by
and may charge the duty against the person who ought to have paid the same, or deduct it
from the sum payable as aforesaid, and such hill or note shall, so far as respects the duty,
beideemed good and valid. Under the proviso, the section shall not relieve any person from any penalty or proceeding
to which he may be liable in relation to such bill. We recommend that in section 47 , the Word "the" should be added before the word
dim"!!- 11:3; discussion as to sections 41 and 42 . lsuprct)
'.'-SQ reaction 33A Supra. Introduction. Section 43 Obscurity. oammry. Cass speciﬁcally
doll with sections

CHAPTER 19
RECOVERY FROM PERSON FROM WHOM DUTY IS DUE

19.1. A very important topic, which comes up again and again before the courts but
which, unfortunately, is not dealt with directly and speciﬁcally in the Act, now requires to
be considered. - 19.2. Section -48 provides that all duties, penalties and other sums required an be paid'

under this Chapter may be recovered by the Collector by distress and sale of the movable
property of the "person from -whom the same are due", or by any other process for the-time
being in force for the recovery of the arrears of land--revenue. As to the "person from whom the duty is due" within the meaning of this section, the
section is silent. 'While ti-iscussingl section 40 , we had said that the matter will be considered under section
48 , i.e. the question as to who is the person liable to pay the duty etc. for the purposes of
recovery under the Act, where the" duty etc. -is not paid by the party producing-' the document.
The difficulty is created by the words "under this Chapter". Do they include section 4D(1],(b) '? The order under section 40(1) (13) need not be addressed to any person.
mination that the instrument is--- (i) chargeable with a panticular-duty, and (ii) not duly stamped. '

It 3 'a deter; The order is an order in the abstract. It determines the payability, "but not the "person
liable to pay. The person producing theoocrrment pays, but the order 'under section :4-GU21 (he)-
does not say that he should pay. The order is an impersonal order. There 'n am 
of compulsion, inasmuch as, vrithout payment, the Collector would not -return t1n':'»dn¢«IaeI!
under section 40(3) . But there is no decision as to the person liable. 19.3. There is considerable obscurity in this respect, and the obscurity arises" . _ _ Conﬂiet of views. dim, cl-I1--be thus summarised. £1) Oneview on the subject is that such persons are not liable under section 48 , and
 the r-xecutant of the :'n5u'ument can be called upon to pay the duty under section 43 .1

 Another view is that only the persons liable under section 29 'or under any agreement

. ar§rj_E[j;,'persons from whom the duty can be recovered" in-ider section 43 . According to this
 _h -cases not covered by section 29 , the instr1u:ner1't"can merely be impounded, but no

'o'p: 'ii5"__liabi'e to be called upon to pay the duty and penalty until it is sought to use the

_ an Orissait case, there was a demand ior additional duty on the vendor. No ﬁnding _
that there was 'agreement to the contrary' was recorded. It was held titat the demand. was Section 290:}
illegal." The vendee (and not the vendor) was liable. Septiou 29(c) was relied' upon. .'.l?his '
case illustrates the view taking section 29 as the criterion. , , _&.]_0n the liability or the person producing, there is a conflict of decisions.' One view_
ran tlnjubject is that the duty can be recovered under section #8 from the person producing
the document also.5 But this view has been dissented. from."-' - - - 3 -5 '

' {:11}? A fourth view is that both the executant and the parties. liable under section 29 or
:hy.;.g1it:ment, can be called upon to pay the duty under section 48 .. This was the view of
Bliliiamn J., in an An-dhra case." ' '

_ ._j g In view of the obscurity and uncertainty of the position in regardetoflthe ﬁtter-
 of section 29 and similar sections on the onejhand, and section 48 on the other Iced forgh-ma.
 it;-,is desirable that the matter should be pitt beyond iloubt. It is neither in iaenuepasts mm .
of theistate nor in the interests of the citizen that liability tofhear the tax should be left in . ' '-'ll Cherrﬂzr v. Revenue Diwisianal Oﬁicer, A.I--.R. 1956 Mat.L'454.
: 2.3 ' mama. Secretary of.S'.ta2'e, (1939) Nag. L.J. 364, mrema to in' M. iramam-am: v. Stafeaf rmmcm.
_ , I951 Travancore-Cochin 251, 252, para 6. » ' -_
' ' Rag v. Additional District" l\!agr'.rri'¢zte', l'ornpr.ri", 1915 Orissa '
' '41" law reviewed in Mohamed H'rr.r.s-airr- v. Emperor, A.I.R.. 19-I0 I.ah.:3l5. See also A.I.R. l9'l'O'M.P._'l4.
.' Si Sﬂerctry qfstata v. Bararsruﬂab, (1903) LLR. 30 M1271. ' ' ' ' ' ' .
6: ' Hussein v. Emperor, A.I.R. 1940 Lah. 315. ' ' -- -- '.I. As lojoint and several liability, see A.I.R. 1962 Mad. 425 aI1d,'(1?ﬁ7) 2 M.L..J. 567 and A.I.R. ]9'l'0 MP. 74. _ 3. Board' of Revenue v. Appalo Narasimhairz, (I957) Andhra Weekly Repeater 288 (1-'.'B.)'{Bi:ii'rnasanltal'an 3.). Linns.nnvrl:ich
am " t 143 19.7'. As to the lines on which the section should be amended, we are in broad agree- shomuldmmd be mad, men: with What Iihide J. said in the Lahore High Court in Muhammad Hussein': case. In
view of Bhide 1- the Lahore case} Iihide J. observed : admitted in evidence, should be compelled to pay the duty or penalty thereon, when he is not
the person who was originally bound to bear. the expense of providing the duty. If he does
not choose to -pay the duty and penalty under section 35 or section 40 , he has to take the
consequence of not being able to use the document. But it would be obviously hard and
unfair to compel such aiperson to pay the duty on the document merely because heattempted
to produce it in evidence. The stamp duty may be heavy and he may not be even in is
position to pay it, or it may not be worth his while to do so, for the purposes of his case. The
Legislature therefore seems to have advisedly left the matter to his choice. It is true that
me Collector may not be able to trace easily the executaut or the person bound to pay the
duty on the document in such cases and there may be some inconvenience as a- result in
collecting the stamp duty or penalty. But this can scarcely justify penalizing a person who was
not responsible for paying the stamp duty at the time of theiexecution of the _document.'* 'I

We ﬁnd ourselves in broad agreement with this view. 19.8. The objection that ii the person producing the document is not made liable, then
there is no other method of recovery, was answered in the Lahore case.' It was am
there that the document can be impounded. '

19.9. There is also the basic question to be considered, namely, is it- logical to compel
the person producing the document to P31' fthe duty and penalty_whcn_-the printary obligation
was not his? After all, provisions by way of sanctions are Secondary. and are bandied .10
enforce an original liability that has been separately created. Since sections 40 and, 43 are

silent as to the person from whom the dill? i5 due» it WW" 531513' be 3PPf°P!'53"-'r W' 'P1113'. the sanction under section 48 against the person. producing the document merely he
happens to have produced the docu.u_1ent, when the original liability was not created apintt

him by any other provision. '

19,10, The point may be raised that section 40_is mentioned in section 44 , and this must
have some meaning. The answer is that part of section 44 } can come _iuto.§p1n3t;.:ghero
the person producing the document but not paying the duty etc. 111 court later 19 Pl?
the duty in his own interest. Exigeucies DE litigation force him to do so, and, m tltt auction. he must have a remedy against the person bﬁlmd '60 Pal' the '3'-W3!'-_ 5*'-'€503 44 5°55 

I, ﬁclltharmnad Hussein V. EWP£'?'&'P'- A~I-1:?» 1940 I-'95 315- _3"'
2 M'ahumed'Hu.vsai'n. V. Emperor, A.I.R. 1940 Lahore 315 ('S1lP'¢7-

I49

with the right of the State to levy the stamp duty and.penalty'under sections 40 and 48 :' . The
bB5iC Cluﬂstion to be examined is;-on whom is.thc duty imposed ?' Whatever may be lite" correct
answer to this question, it is certainly not to be answered from sections 40 and 44 , which are
themselves ambiguous. _ 19:11 Thus. apart from (i) the juristic itnproprietyof enforcing a'.-rtmcfion against 'a
person not primarily liable, and (ii) the fact'that' section 44 can be satisfactorily explained
otherwise. there is also the question of hardship, The person from whose possession the doc1J~
ment came cannot be used as an instrument for recovery of the penalty merely by saying
that he himself can recover it under section 44 . If A _is not liable to pay a tax, it would not
be equitable to force A"to do so and give him a rcinedy to"rec'over it from B who is the person
liable to pay the tax. 19.12. Making the person 'producing the instrument liable has the merit [that thefollector
can easily recover the duty from him. But such' a' Provision has several defects- ('a} it is not in furtheranceisof the scheme of the Act regarding liability to bear the
 ' There is no provision in the Act-making: acp-ersone. whoﬁmerely presents an insufficiently
stamped document for being admitted in evidence, liable for payntentoftthe requisite stamp
duty or penalty on the document. He cannot, therefore, be considered to be a "person from
Whom the stamp duty or penalty is due", and consequently the same cannot be recovered from

him under s.- 48. If the stamp duty or penalty has to be recovered compulsorily, it can be
legally recovered, under s. 48 , only from the person from whom the same is due. ('0) It is against the view of majority of the High Courts. Hence such :1 provision
means a radical change. It is juristically wrong, when the original liability is not of the person producing.
it is juristically incorrect to apply a sanction against him. to) (d)

It is unjust also to do so. He had no hand in the execution of the instrument
and, therefore, could not have avoided the default in duty. It is poor consolation that he can, recover it in his turn, from the person "bound
to bear the expenses". Imposition of an obligation without proper grounds is
not excused by providing a remedy for re-imbursement which may consume
expense and time. to) (f) Moreover, the person who is bound to bea; the expenses may not be traceable.
In that case, the person ordered will not be in a better position than the

Collector. (g) It'is even doubtful whether the remedy under section 44 will be available in
cases outside section 29 . (h) Thus, to make him liable is against the scheme of the Act, against generallegal
principles, against equity and against convenience. The alternative' is to make the executant liable. Section 17 says : Section 62 says that the £.'J"€L'liIﬂ.'Il' of such instrument shall, for every such oﬁence, be
 with ﬁne which may extend'-to--Rs. 506, p1'ovidI:d- thatwhen any__penalty_l_p_gs;:bgen
mid in respect of any instrument under Ss. 35, 40 or 61, the amount of 'such 1. Subrmmuia v. R.D.0.. A.I.R. 1956 Mad. 454, 458, para 13.
24 M of I..aw;'7'7---20

Various points
considered. Amendment- lines of. be allowed in reduction of the ﬁne, it any, subsequently imposed under this section in respect
of the same instrument upon the person who has paid such penalty. - Thus, these sections read together indicate, that the execurmrt of such d0CL1IJ'|Cl'lt.iS the
person against whom the Collector should proceed under S5. 40 and 48 for collecting the
stamp duty and penalty. It is signiﬁcant that the proviso to s. 62 makes mention also about
the penalty levied under s. 40 , and makes a provision for its deduction from the ﬁne. 19.13. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the provisions of section 43 should be
enforceable- (a) against persons who are liable by virtue of section 19 . agreement. or section 29
or 30, as the case may be, and (b) where none of the above mentioned sections apply, then againsththe person
executing the document in question.'-' g

19.14. We recommend that the Act should be amended on the above lines. We may
state that most replies to our Questionnaire have favoured such an amendment. The appro-
priate place for it appears to he in the Chapter containing sections 29-30. It is for these -reasons that we have recommended the insertion of a new section? 'I__'hat will solve questions

arising under section 43 also. 71.. Section62 ('b)-' T . T ' ' ' '-' 
'.2. Q. 55-58. ' ' 3. Section 30-19., supra. CHAPTER 20
REFUND---SECTIONS 49 T0 55 e ' g. 20.]. While, the last chapter was concerned with the recovery of stamp duties in regardui I""°d""°"'
instruments not duly stamped, occasions for refund may arise in regard to instruments duty
stamped. The Act deals with this topic under the curious title of "Allowances for stamps in . a
certain cases." The sections concerned deal with spoiled stamps, printed forms no logger
required by Corporations, misused stamps, stamps not required for use, stamps in denominations
ofannaa, and renewal of certain debentures, spread over sections 49 to 55 . ' . ' - 20.2. Section 49 is a long- section. The marginal note dcscribesits subject as "aIlor'vance fﬂfﬁon 49-

.for spoiled stamps", but, as a matter of fact, the section does not relate to stamps "spoiled? " themselves to be void without an order of the court, this proviso creates'no' problems?'

But, 'ﬂare a document is found by a court to be VOW, the document ,WC_0l.1Id have been s -in etiﬂce. and as the law now stands, the refund of the duty cannot be 'granted in such it

 of the condition. : The position-is not accidental, but is a result of n_.,deeision
than at the time when the present Act was passed. It was then thought, that,' in England,
ifjlsﬂlgment is fbtmd by a court to be void, refund is not allowed} ' 
_' V Engli_sh_ provision"----scct:ion 9(7), Stamp Duties iMana_gcmen_t._.Act_', _1_8_91,_,1-'ends-
' "9. Sub_iect'_ ti» such regulations as the 'may thiilk pmpe:-rts.:as_1ta+
and to the production ct. -such stInutory.dee1aracton.-'on;.uﬂ1crw;i§p,~,--
as the Commissioners may require, allowance is to be 
sinners for stamps spotted in the cases hereinafter mentioned; (that is to 's_a}g,)'t-1:}
"[7] The Stamp for any of the instruments; (a) An instrument csecuted by any party ﬂsémtu, 'but afterwards found to be-abso;
lately void {rum the beginning g". . _ E . , - 1. section 9 (7) . Stamp Duties Management Act, 139: (54 & 55 Vic. 933}. l 2&4. 'iwtatever be the English law, the restriction in s. 49 causes hardship, because

13,. "mm, a legal decision is, in most cases, necessary to determine that an instrument is void all initio.
In such cases, the document has to be. given i1.1.¢i-fidence, but the claim for relief" or the
defence is based not on the document but on extraneous circumstances. The restriction has been
criticised in England also. It stands to réasort that in' such-'cases, the Collector should be
empowered togrant refund, and we recommend that the proviso should not apply to such
noose, i.e., lo a case falling under s.eetion_49(d) (1). '

Points in regard 20.5. In support of the above discussion several points could he urged{ The ﬁrst-'point

"° "°" '"'"'"' to be noted is that the case where the' instrument is declared to be" void by the court is not
basically different from the case where it is foundtohc void by' thoparties themselves. Whether
it is the parties which find that the instrument is void, or the courtiwhich holds it-to-"i:re

 so, the consequence is the some, namely, the instrument does not operate by reason-_oi a
ﬂaw recognised in law as having that cﬁec.t.- e -- - -- e . . 'I-'he objection could be raised that ---whcrc.1l1e:pn;r1__ies approach the court, the time the
court is spent -on determining the vclidityof the instrument. But the answer tofthis objection
is that, for the tiine of the court so spent, the __fee is dealt with in the C.'ou1't--_fees Act. ' " meat did, or did not, fall within section _49_(_d) (3), '(_-'1] etc. 3' In theecase "of an iostr'1rii1ettt"wI'l8t
is void and so declared, however, tliejdonditlion causes peculiar hnrd.ship._ '4 A' 1-"-'5 i' V53 --- to-I--. ., 
.'. .t_..<. ,_. '_ 20.9. Fiithly, the" question ntafy bciraisiede-whji a party should» seek aoiudicialewﬂliﬂtiii
nul1it)'- A in I" "I"! i ""7 ii " Z " C It II * 3 it

"Provided that-- ii} in the case oi an executed instrument other than one failing tinder -sitb-clause
(IA) of clause (of), no legal proceeding has been commenced in which the
instrument could or would have been admitted or offered in evidence, and (ii) the instrument is iven n to be cancelled, or has been airecriy given at to
3 P P _
lite court to be cancelle ." We may mention that the suggested amendment has been favoured by most of the replies
tonal' Questionnaire.' '

20.12. Section 50 provides that the application for relief under section 49 (refund in
respect of spoiled stamps) shall he made within the period speciﬁed in section 50 . The periods
are two months and" 6 months respectively,-----two months if refundis claimed on the ground of
refusal of a party to act under an instrument or to advance money thereunder or to -accept
any oﬂice thereunder, and 6 months in other cases. There is 21 detailed provision in the
proviso for computing the starting point of the period of 6 months, in certain spcicale cases. 20.13. It should be pointed out that although the section prescribes the time limits men-
tioned above, in practice they were found to cause considerable hardship. In the beginning,
the Central Government, by executive orders, permitted the local governments to grant refund
within one year, but even this concession was not found to be adequate, and, in 1908, by
a Resolution, Local Governments" were authorised to allow, irrespective of any' time limit,
 or renewals of spoilt or useless non-judicial stamps, or the repurchase of non_-judicial
stamps no longer required in cases in which holders of such stamps had, without any fraudulent
m_ot't've,'been unavoidably prevented from making application within the period prescribed by
M. . 20.14. We are of the opinion that in view of what is stated above, thcftirne lin:tit'i__n
smtion 50" should be made more liberal. Section 49 already empowers the State Government
tifniilte rules 'as to the evidence to be requiredcr the enquiry to be made before ref_un_d can
 under that section. Dishonest clairnstfor refund are thus provided against.-_AVtig,
centers, think that section 50 should be made._n1ot'e _libc1'al. We may state at large-'nt_1._I_nbc,r
at the' -replies"to our Questionnaire" agree.3 we recommend that th_c period;-und_er-.sect:t;n
50 should be one year from the date of discovery of circumstances giving»-rise,-to thc..u_:l_a_i_§n

for refund. This will avoid hardship in many situations and is, in any case, a rational course: Introductory. Hardship caused
1'? "ii"?! 

 '_

Scenes 51. Section 52 . iii? to"? papers has been duly paid. This power can be delegated to the Collector by the Chief
Controlling Revenue Authority. No changes are required in the section. 20.16. Stamps are sometimes inadvertantly used in situations where, notwithstanding the
expenditure on the stamp, the stamp does not serve the purpose for which it is intended. This
situation arises, for example, where the stamp used is of a description other than that prescribed
for such instrument by the rules made under the Act, or where a stamp of greater value than
was necessary is used, or where the instrument is not chargeable with any duty, or where the
stamp has been rendered useless under section 15 by reason of the fact that the instrument
was written in contravention oi' the provisions of sections 13 and 14 , dealing' with the mode
in which an instrument should be written and prohibiting the use of a stamp paper for more
than one instrument. I-"or -stamps so misused, an allowance can be made under section 52 by
the Collector, on an application made within the prescribed period. As regards stamps of an improper description, :1 party has an alternative remedy, namely,
getting the instrument certiﬁed under section 37 . If he does so, then the. procedure under section 52 will not apply. We are recommending an amendment of section 3 ? whereby it
will not be necessary for the applicant to pay the duty again1 where he resorts to that section. The case under section 52 , however, stands on a different footing, because, under section 52 , . the applicant will get back the money value of his misused stamps of improper description? of S.R.0. Kaikalur was a sale deed for a consideration of Rs. 5,980 or an agree-
ment to sell 'E' and 2) Whether the subsequent document executed on 2-9-1963 is a sale deed for
Rupees 6,492 or a supplemental deed conﬁrming the earlier sale with an indemnity
for a sum of Rs. 2,700 ? . 2.0.20. The Board of Revenue, on a consideration of 'the facts aﬁd circumstances, held
that the first document which was styled as a sale deed, was only an agreement of sale, executed
 to record the receipt of a portion of the purchase. price in order to safeguard the

pa-chaser against fresh demand as the purchaser was put in possession of the land, and that '

the second document was a regular sale deed for a case consideration of Rs. 6,492 and, therefore,
the ailing: duty as a Sale deed was leviable on it.. Inthe result, the Board of Revenue upheld
the decision of the District Registrar and allowed the revision petition on March 9, 1965, observ-
ing-thit "since stamp duty leviahle on a sale deed was collected on the earlier document, the
pity is at liberty to seek refund of the excess duty paid under section 45 of the Stamp Act and
that the party may approach the District Collector, Krishna under section 45 with a "refund

'o9Pt!1!4=ﬁﬁ°ﬁ

'£10.21. The Inspector General of Registration and Stamps, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad
however pointed out to the Board of Revenue that stamp duty on the first document was paid
 It had not been paid either under section 35 or section 40 of the Act. Section 45 of the Act was conﬁned to the refund of stamp duty charged either under
scction=35 or section 4-D, and so the petitioner was not at all entitled to the refund. The Board
of Revenue, after examining the entire material on record, realised the mistake committed by it
on being apprised by the Inspector General, Registration and Stamps, and rectiﬁed its earlier
order dated 9-3-1965 in so far as the observation relating" to the refund of stamp duty on
document No. 20l4f62 of S.R.O. Kaikalur was concerned, aﬁer affording reasonable opportunity
gtoﬁae petitioner A. Writ Petition ﬁled by the petitioner to quash the aforesaidorders of the
 of Revenue was rejected by the High Court 'on 22,1963. ' A Division Bench
.al|bIiqd -the Writ Appeal preferred by the petitioner the order of dismissai of the-'writ
 directed the Board to make _a reference to the High under section 57 of

 as, in ILS opinion, a substantial question of law ﬁose. Hence this reference to 
Highfourt. ' ' 9 ' 

_ The High Court held by a majority that there was no provision in the Act empowering
the Board to direct refund of duty pald voluntarily or under mistake. _ 20,22. One need not examine the correctness sofithe conclusion reached by the High

Ccurtron the present law. But the resultant position is hardly satisfactory. - o 7
Where tan is not legally leviable and yet has _been paid, it. ought to be r'efunded,----snhject,

of course, to such safeguards of limitation and deduction for ctiice expenses as_ are To

Nee¢Iﬁ:'Irﬁ$. Position under the Income Tax Act - Reoounmendation '
twice

m . sectim 521:). -- .1 2. 1 for spoiled or misused stamps, the Collector may

V4. ' 6. G£i'l'& Ca. 1'. adhere to the old doctrine that money paid under mistake of law cannot be recove1'cd...ia

inequitable. There ought to be some provision empowering the Board to grant refund in such
cases. One could even construe the expression "inadvertantly" in section S2(a). as covering the

permit the citizen to do so, we

situation, but, since the judicial construction now does not
should be added after the word

recommend that the words "or by mistake of fact or law" revised as follows :-- Section 72 , Indian Contract Act, 1872. . Sir snag Pros-ad v. Mnharaha smr. Clmnci-a (1949) 15 LA. 244, 52 Born. La. 17, s.1.n. 19:9 I':-I3. ma
Pannanlal v. Pmducc.E:Itchang: Corporation (1945) 2 Cal. 41. A.I.R. 1946 Cal. 245. l' approving Iagadish Prasad , , _
Industries, (1965) 16 S.'!'.C. 689 (s.c.), referred to in the Yearly Bigeut fl96$}'K.L.R.

State of K.-zraia v. Aiumirrfum
52.3 5. Static ofildadhya Pradesh :2. Sheila! Biol'. A.I.R. 1964 S.C. 1000, 1010, para 14 to 1?.
Cam.-nerciol tax Oﬁicer. Civil Aippial No 1580-1595
1968 22 S.T.-C. 524'{S.C.l

regards the liability of the State in regard to sales

be applicable to a taxﬁwhich a citiren pays on

instrument by the rules made under this -A12, _ section 53 'contains a precise pmiiisisaoas a

crisis'), dated?-.2-1968 (1953) SC» line 80, . description to the same amount in value; or (c) at his discretion, the same value in money,
deducting 10 naye paise for each rupee or fraction of a. rupee. There are several points of rlctail which require discussion. _ (i) It is not very clear whether this section applies also where the allowance is made in
case of printed forms under section 5 l, and we think that that should be brought out, by providing
tliat. the section applies. (ii) Secondly, so far as clause {e} is concerned, the grant of refund in cash is discretionary
with the Collector, but we are of the view that it should be mandatory, because a party will have
no use for other stamps if given 'under clause fa). In fact, a party cannot, in general, sell stamps.'

tiii) Thirdly, when refund in cash is granted under clause (c), the present section requires
a deduction of 10 naye paise for each rupee or fraction of a rupee which, we think, is rather
on the high side. The amount was originally one anna per rupee and was, in 1958, on the intro-
duction of decimal coinage, relaced by H) nayc paise as a routine. There is, however, in our
view, scope for a more lenient provision in so far as refund under section S3(c) is concerned. (iv) Fourthly, there seems to be some obscurity? as to whether the deduction of ID paise
per rupee under section 53 is to be applied in respect of the totalled up value of the stamps
of the instruments, or whether it is to be applied in respect of each stamp. This obscurity should
be removed by adopting the first alternative. --('I') Fifthly, so far as refund in the situation dealt with in section 51 (printed forms no
longer required) is concerned, justice requires that there should be no deduction, because here

it is by reason or cirdumstances beyond the control of the party that the printed forms have - become useless. - (vi) Sixthly, in other situations, the deduction can be said to represent ofﬁce expense, in-
curred on applications for petty amounts which may be ﬁled with some frequency. But, here
ayin, iris fair that there should be a suitable maximum in respect of the deduction on each
transaction, say, 5 rupees. Oﬁice expense on a particular transaction is not, in the generality
of cases, likely to exceed ﬁve rupees. - ' '

:_(vii] Having regard to our viewi that the action under clause (c), i.e. refund in cash,
sllmﬂd be the rule rather than the exception, that clause should appear before the other clauses. . e (viii) Finally, as to clause (b) which deals with refund in the form of stamps of other
description, we are of the view that the Collector shouldjhave no discretion. If the applicant
 that form, it should be allowed. 20.27. In the light of the above discussion, we recommend that section 53 should be revised
as follows : '

Revised section 53 ' 53. if 1) In any case in which allowance is made for spoiled or misused stamps under section
4901- section 52 , or in respect of printed' forms no longerl required under section 51 , the Col-
ler_:_tor_ may give, in lieu thereof,--- (a) the same value in money, deducting, subject ro the provisions of sub-.5.'ection- (33: 14 M of Law}T.t--7S

Recommendation. (2) T he deduction under clause (it) of subsection (1)- (i) shat! be caicuiated on the total value of the stamps ,- {ii) shaft not exceed five rupees; and (iii) shall not be made where the aifowance is granted under Section 51 . We may mention that the suggested amendment has been favoured by most of the replies
to our Questionnaire.'

Secﬁcn 54- 20.28. Section 54 rcads-- Section_ sol. The section needs no change. swﬁ°n_55_ 20.30. According to section 55 , when any duly stamped debenture is renewed by the issue

month, rcpayto the person issuing such debenture, the value of the stamp on the original or
on the new debenture, whichever shall be less': '

The proviso requires that the original debenture should be produced before the Collector
and cancelled by him in such manner as the State Government may direct. of a new debenture in the same terms, the Collector shall, upon application made within one H

Under the Explanation, a debenture shall be deemed to be renewed in the same terms

within the meaning of this section notwithstanding the following changes :-- s (a) the issue of two or more debentures in place of one original debenture, the total I

amount secured being the same ; 1. Question 60 ( Section 53 ). 2. See recon-u-nendation as to section 53 . 3. Question 61 ( Section 54 ). '.........' ----ow DO---l_a\t.n.p.tp[gi--- (b) the issue of one debenture in place of two or more original debentures, the total _
amount secured being the same ; (c) the substitution of the name of the holder at the time of renewal for the name
of the original holder {and (d) the alternation of the rate of interest or the dates of payment thereof.
No changes are needed in this section. APPENDIX 'Ti
Some sample situations where an instrument would be void1 1. An agreement by a minor is void." In general, a transfer by him is also void.3 If the
parties knew that one of the parties is a minor, the need for applying section 49 (d] (1) would
hardly arise, because the agreement is not "found to be void". But cases can arise where one
of the parties does not know that the other party is a minor, and a suit is ﬁled to obtain a.
declaration that the instrument is void. . 2. An agreement which defeats the provisions of any law is void} A transfer defeating a
law is also void?' At the time of the formation of the agreement or execution of the instnnnent,
the parties may not know that the agreement violates some law. For example, it is agreed by a
charter party 'that a ship then in country X should go with a_cargo of bay to 
Before the date of charter party, an order is made and published under legislation relating to
Contagious Diseases of animals, prohibiting the landing of hay from country X to Y. The
parties did not know of this notiﬁcation, and the master learnt it for the ﬁrst time on arriving
in country Y. Nevertheless, the charter party wduld be void. Where a contract is to do a
thing which cannot be performed without a violation of the law, it is void, whether the parties
knew the law or not." 3. An agreement may be void by reason of a mistake of fact common to both the parties.
There is the familiar situation of an agreement relating to a subject matter contemplated by the
parties as existing, which, in fact, did not exist. There is the illustration given in the Contract
Act ," where A agrees to sell to B a speciﬁc cargo of goods supposed to be on way from England
to Bombay. It turns out that before the day of the bargain the ship carrying the goods had
been cost away and the goods lost. Neither party was aware of this fact. The agreement is void.'

The decision in such cases of mistake, as Lord Wright has said," turns on.-the_.gqge§§i9u
whether the mistake was "suﬁiciently basic". The case of Belt V. Lever _Brori_F1ers"' derhﬁaihﬂns
how it may not always be easy to- determine whether the agreement is void by reason of 
in such cases,--thereby illustrating why it is often advisable for a party to obtain a judicial
verdict as to nullity. . ' ' - 4. A minor himself may challenge an agreement as void,;hecause...it-'_-was entered 
by a person who was not his guardia_n,'1 or -by a guardian but without legal competence to enter
into the particular transaction."- - ' -- '

. These cases did not involve stamp duties, but relate to the validity of the transactions.
. Section 11 , Indian Contract Act. - . . .-- - - . Section 7 , Transfer of Property Act. - '
. Section 23 , Indian Contract Act. . Section 6 Ch}, Transfer of Property Act . _
See discussion in Waugh v. Morris; (1373) LR. .3 QB". 202.
. Section 20 , Contract Act. ' -- : ' - ' " . . Compare Couturier V. Hearts. (1856) 5 House of Lords cases GT3, and EB. Lawson (1236) 52 L.Q.B. 79, article "Error

in Subs:ann'a". .' . '- ' ' ' ' ' ' ' . -. F. t - . Lord Wright, Legal Es5ays,page 214. _ - - . Beii v_. Lever Brothers, (1932) All 161. ' ,
. Cf. (a) Imambartdi v. Haji Marsaddi, A.I.R. 1918 RC. 11, 13. ( b) Kammscmi v. Rabin :-H Amman', A.I.R. 1933 Mad. B06, B13.
. Jafar Ah' V. Standard Co., A.I.R. 1923 RC. 762. r--- h)

Introductory. Sectiouiﬁ. swlilsl SHI- CHART ER 21
REFERENCE AND REVISION

SECTIONS 56--61

21.1. From the sections which we have so far considered, it would have been evident
that the Collector is the most important public officer vested with primary responsibility for the
administration of the stamp laws. The manifold functions exercisable by him render it necessary
that there should be some authority which can control the exercise of his function not only to
correct errors of judgment blut also to secure improvement in the administration of the Act.
That authority, again. can conceivably commit mistakes on questions of law. It is desirable that
such questions should, so far as the particular State is concerned, be decided by the High Cdurt,
since, in the Indian legal system, the High Court is the chief judicial tribunal for questions of
law. The provisions which we proceed to considcr--sect.ions 56 ct seq--are important from
the point of View just now mentioned, even though they may not interest the ordinary citizens who
has had no occasion to litigate before public officers questions of stamp duties. 21.2. It is for this reason that section 56 makes detailed provisions whereunder the supervision
of the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority over the Collector is ensured in all important
cases. Under section 56(1) , the powers exercisable by a Collector under Chapter IV 'and
Chapter V and under clause (a) of the ﬁrst proviso to section 26 shall in all cases be subject to
the control of the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority. These provisions embrace several im-
portant functions. '

Further, section 56(2) provides that if any Collector, acting under section 31 , section 40 or section 41 , feels doubt as to the amount of duty with which any instrument is chargeable. he
may draw up a statement of the case, and refer it, with his own opinion thereon for the decision
of the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority. t

According to section 56(3) , such authority shall consider the caseanrl send a copy of
its decision to the Collector, who shall proceed to assess and charge the duty (if any) in con-
formity with such decisions. ' t

21.3. On sub-section (2), a Supreme Conrtl case may be referred to. It was held in that
case that the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority is a quasi-judicial tribunal when a reference
is made to it under section 56(2) . It was, therefore, necessary that the executant of the document
should be heard in such a reference. 'I'h.c--Sapreme Court pointed out, that the question to be
decided by the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority would be one of law, and may result in the

payment of large amounts by executants of a document. This judgment should be deemed to- have overruled an earlier decision of the Allahabad High Court? which was to eﬁect that there
is no provision in the Stamp Act forsending a notice of hearing to the executant. The clariﬁcation - by the Supreme Court is welcome. It may be stated that the position in this respect was, to say

the least, obscure before the judgment. For example, in :1 Madras casc,""it was held, that there was no right to any oral hearing
when the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority was seized of a matter under section 56(1) . It
was stated that it is enough if suﬂicient opportunity to state their case is given." The discussion in
another Madras case' seems to consider hearing necessary, under section_56(1). Be. the question

of oral .':earz'ng was not in issue. 1. Board of Revenue v. Vidyawatf, A.I.R. I962 S.C. 1217, 1220. para 5-6 fwanchoo, J.) 2. Karav Prarad v. Citiefconrrqlffng Revenue Authority, 'A.I.R. 1955 N.U.C. 3561 (ML. Chaturvedi, 1.). 3. In re Siliarimuglra .'l»t'url'-criliar. (1950) 2 M.L.J. 399 (Rajaroannair C..l. and Balakrishna Ayyar J.). 4. Aminmalat v. Dr'.sm'cr Registrar, A.I.R.. 1966 Mad. 36, '37, 39 {Paragraphs 3 and '9). _/
21.4. In our opinion, it would be useful, if in section 56(3) , after the words "such authority",

the words "after giving the parties a reasonable opportunity of being heard" are added, in
order to codify the position resulting from the judgment of the Supreme Court.'

We may mention that the sugested amendment has been favoured by most of the replies
to our Questionnaire." We, therefore, recommend that section 56(3) should be amended
as above. 21.5. Section 57 provides that the Chief Controlling Revenue-authority "may state any
case" referred to it under section 56 , suh~section (2), or otherwise coming so its notice, and
refer such case, with its own opinion thereon, to the High Court speciﬁed in that section. It

further provides that every such case shall be decided by not less than three Judges of the

High Court to which it is referred, and in case of diﬁerence the opinion of the majority shall
prevail. 21.6. Though the word used in section 5 ?, sub--section (1) is "may", it has been held
by the _St1prcine Court that" a reference is mandatory. The sub-section thtis imposes a ri'ui'_v
on the authority to state the case, if a substantial question of law is raised. 21.7. It has further been held4 by the Supreme Court that this duty to make a reference
is notaﬁected by the question whether the case is pending before the Authority or not. The
Supreme Court has observed that the Authority is in a similar position as the Income--tax
Appelktte Tribunal under the analogous provisions in the Income-tax Act . '

2'1-8. In our view, it is desirable to codifythe proposition judicially laid down"' about
the duty to make a reference. It is also proper to emphasise that the reference can only be
compelled on a substantial question of law. 21._£A. In cases where the reference under section 5 '! is heard by a High Court consisting
of_glicss'-than tlirec Jtitiges" or by the court of a Judicial Commissioner? having less than three
 Comnziissioriers, the present provision for hearing by a minimum number of three Judges
is imptssible of compliance. Such cases should therefore -be excluded from sub-section (2),
for obvious reasons. '

21.9. The question may be raised whether the presentprovision for. three Judges should

. be retained at all.' We are, however, of the view that the. importance, frequency and universality

of questions artsing under the Act renders desirable retention' of the present scheme. Moreover,
there hasbeen no practical diﬂiculty resulting from the present scheme. We, therefore. prefer

.to' "retain the present provision,----of course with certain changes to be presentlynoticed or

"already noticed.' _

21.10. Though the Act does not speciﬁcally state that the "Chief Controlling Revenue
Authority should formulate the question on which the opinion of the High Court is sought, -judicial decisions hold that the question should be formulated.' Since the High Court cannot
express its opinion on matters not referred to it, it is advisable that there should be a provision
in the.Act for the formulation of questions." We recommend an amendment of the section for

the present purpose. ,..-- 1 Para 21.3. Supra. ' Question 62 ( section 56 ). 3 Vanarnrhi Des v. Chief Controlling Revenue
Srqar Miflr case. ALR. 1950 S.C. 218. 3 Bar-iamsi Dar v. Clrfefconrrolling Revenue Authority, Delhi,

5 Pare 21.6, supra. Authority, Delhi', A.1.1_L 196$-s.c. 497,352, para 9 citing 'i'iiraiiai;isiiim'

A.l.R. I958 S.C. 4'97, 502, para 9. _ 6 For example, Sikkim. T As to Judicial Cornrnissi-oni:rs( see also discussion) infra.
' Para 21 .SA. SHPV-=1
' Whey Construction and Dei-elopnienr Conipany v. In

91, para 6. 1" Cf. Order 46, rule 1, Code of Civil Procedure , 1908. specter Genera! of Stamps, A.'l.R. 1967 Andhra Pradesh 90,

Recommendation
as to section

56(3) . Section 57 '- Introduction. Word "rnIy" in
sub-action (1). Section not
limited to
pending cases. Recommendation
as to duty to make
a reference. . Number of . Judges. Forrrlulaticn of
questions by the

Chief Controlling '

Ailhorit-y. Meaning of
"High Court". Present practice
of enumeration
not convenient. r_-klternativm for
improving the
position. Case of Union
Tcrritory. We may mention that the, suggested amendment has been favoured by most of the replies
to our Questionnaire." 21.11. We next come to the court to which a reference can be made under section 57 .
The section contains a long list enumerating the various High Courts. There was need for
such an enumeration at a time when British India comprised a few areas where there were

no High Courts but only Courts of Judicial Commissioners; and, apparently, the intention . was that in relation to areas where there were only Courts of Judicial Commissioners, the reference
should be made to the speciﬁed High Court. For example, in relation to Ajmer and Merwara,
it was provided that the reference under section 57 should be made to the High Court at
Allahabad. It may be of interest to know that after a long enumeration, there was a residuary
clause whereunder, in other cases, the reference was to be made to the High Court at Fort

William (Calcutta). 21.12 This general structure of the section has so far been maintained, though the textual
details have changed from time to time, and the legislative practice has been to substitute
the name of the appropriate High Court whenever constitutional changes necessitated such a
substitution. The result of this practice has been that every time when a new High Court is
created or the jurisdiction of a High Court is extended over a Union Territory or a new Union
Territory is created, an amendment of the section becomes necessary. In this process, the
enumeration sometimes becomes incomplete also. For example, the ofﬁcial text of the Act,
as modiﬁed upto 1st March, 1970, does not mention anything about Pondicherry, though it
appears that" as regards Pondichcrry the mention of the Madras High Court has been added
separately. The Union Territoryof Goa, Daman and Diu also does not ﬁnd a place in the
present enumeration. Thus, the present, practice is cumbersome, and if a simpler method could
be substituted, the change would be worth considering. a

21.13 For improving the position in this regard, two alternatives could be considered.
Either the enumeration of High Courts may be totally omitted, leaving the matter to be governed
by the general provision in the General Clauses Act '; which provides thtat "High Court", used
with reference to "civil proceedings", shall mean the highest civil court of appeal (not iuciucling
the Supreme Court) in the part of India in which the Act or Regulation containing the
expression operates. Another alternative would be to insert, for the purposes of section 57 ,
a suitable deﬁnition of the expression "High Court". Here a precedent is furnished by the Contempt of Courts Act *, which provides that "High Court" means the High Court for a

State or a Union Territory, and includes the Court of the Judicial Commissioner in any Union -- Territory. We prefer the latter alternative, since the ﬁrst alternat.ive~--namely, relyingon the General Clauses Act -----n1ay lead to a controversy whether proceedings by way of reference

are or are not "civil proceedings". There is no doubt that they are: but a controversy should

be avoided. 2l.l3A. The question may be raised whether the adoption of either of the two .aIternatives§
would not mean :1 change in substance as regards those Union Territories in regard to. which

they are Courts of Judicial Commissioners. 21.14. In reply to this objection, it may be stated that the present sectionpis silent as
to such Union Territories, so that even now it can be 3-T3116'-'1' that the C0011 05313 hldlcial
Commissioner is: by virtue of the General Clauses Act )" to be regarded as the High Court
However, even if this view is not correct, we do not see any

for the purposes of section 5 ?. _ _. strong reason why as reference under the Stamp Act Should will be matdﬁ '00 F115 C0'-11'.l. €55 the

Taucstion 63 ( Section 57 } - _ _ '_
= Pondichcrry (Extension of Laws} Act (25 o["1963l.S-chcdule. Part-2. msertms section 57 (set, as follows =--- 3 Section 385), General Clauses Act, 1897 . ExpIanation_----in this Chapter, "High Court" means the High Court having iurisdiction

over the State or Union Territory, and, in relation to a Union Territory, includes the court

ofa judicial cor-nnn'.9.vioner. (2) Every such case shall, where the High Court consists of three or more Judges, be
decided by not less than three Judges of the High Court to which it is referred, and in case
of difference, the opinion of the majority shall prevail? -- 21.17. Section 58 provides that, it the High Court is not satisﬁed that the statements
contained in a case forwarded under section 57 are sufficient to enable it to determine the
questions raised thereby, the Court may refer the case back to the Revenue Authority by which
it was stated, to make such additions thereto, or alternations therein, as the Court may direct

in that behalf. 21.18. Under the scheme proposed* by us in regard to section 57 , a reference can also
be made to the Judicial Contrnissionefs Court. However, the deﬁnition of " Igh Court" 21.20. It appears to us that in sub-section (2), the words "dispose of the case" are
inappropriate in regard to cases where the matter has been already disposed of by the lower
auﬂmrity. Having regard to the wide scope5 of section 57 , such a situation can conceivably

a

arise. _

1 Sec:ionHi(d), Cotempt of Courts Act, 1971, Para 21.13, .ru_ara.
' Cf. section 259 , Income Tax Act, 1961. '
3 Cf. section 96 (2) , Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. ' Sac recommendation as to section 57 . 5 Para 21 .7 supra. Recommendation

Re-draft as
recormnended. Section 53 . Section 59- -Sub-section (1) provides that the High Court, upon the hearing I1"1'°'3"'-'t°1'Y- Section SH2). Recommendation
to amend section
59(2) . Sect'toni50--- Introductory. Points for inter- pretatiou. lilkcfaeuce not
competent after
impo.mding _a (ii) 'Reﬁt:-en_ce
mutter section

5 '7' 3°' °'i'"P"""' section 60 . It can, however, proceed under sub-section (2) Of SB'-'--Ti013 51- i 2

at appell stage. 21:21. Although it can be stated that the reference to the High Court implies that" the
matter is at large, it is desirable to amplify section 59(2) to make the language appropriate
for a situation where the principal case has been already disposed of by the lower authority. The direction in sub--section (2) to the effect that the Revenue Authority should "dispose
of a case conformably to the judgment of the High Court", becomes inappropriate when
no case is pending before the Revenue Authority, and the case referred by the Board relates
to one already disposed of by a lower authority. The procedure for a reference to the
High Court by the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority applies equally when a case is not
pending, as where it is pending' Hence, it is desirable that section 59 , sub-section (2), should
be amended by using language more ﬁtted to the case. Unless the revenue authority has still
resting upon it the duty of disposing of a case, the present words are not appropriate. They
are more appropriate to an actual and concrete case pending before the revenue authority. We therefore recommend that these words should be replaced by the words "shall pass
such orders as are necessary for disposal of the case confonnably to the judgmen". In this connection, we may cite the precedent contained in the Income-tax Act ,"-' quoted
below. 21.22. This takes us to sectiofi 60. In the case of courts other than those mentioned
in section 57 , if the Court feels a doubt as to amount of duty to be paid in respect of any
instrument under proviso (a) to section 3 .5. the Judge is, by section 60 . empowered to draw
up a statement of the case and refer it, with his own opinion, for the decision of the High
Court to which, if he were the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority, he would refer the same
under section 57 . This is the main proposition enacted in sub--section (1) of section 60 , while
sub--scctions (2) and (3) deal with matters of detail. 21,223.. There seems to be a certain amount of obscurity as to the precise stage at which
such reference could be made. Some of the points in this connection have COEUC up for
decision before the High Courts and, on those points, the relevant judicial decisions furnish
some guidance. But it must he stated that the position on those points is not very apparent
from the language of the section ; and in order to make the section self--eontained, it is desirable
to insert necessary clariﬁcation on the various points, which are enumerated below. 21.23. In the first place, the Judge desiring to make the reference must entertain a_
doubt as to the amount of duty to" be paid before making the reference. It follows that 
cannot do so where he already considers the document not fully stamped and impounds it.
In such a case, he has to send the in_strument3 under section 38 to the Collector, and it IS
for the Collector' to certify that the document is duly stamped, if the Collector takes that V3CW- Therefore, it is not competent for the Judge who impounds a document I0 T930351 *0 93*. procedure for reference under section 60 . 'I'hisshould be made clear. - . 21.24. In the second place, the Appellate Court cannot resort to section 60 . The.AppeIlat
Court is bound by section 36 , and, therefore, cannot proceed to make a rctere§i1_cc5£,unde_,1': ' Section 40 . _

5 {3} Reference, (1388) l.L.R. 11 Mad, 33. (b) Somayya v, Anjaneyulu, A.I.R. 1935 Med. 332. 21.25. Thirdly, after the levy of penalty, a reference _will not be competent under this
.s_es':_tio'r,1 even at the instance of the trial Judge. _The case is.diiiercn_t_ where the Judge had
alrcadjtldctcrmined, to'm"al-re the reference before' thclevy' of'thc"penalty. though the actual
reference was framed after such levy} ' i - :2l'.26. In the result, the section should be amended on the three points mentioned
above? 21.27- We, therefore, 'recommend that the following sub-sections should be added in - section 60 . . . 2_1.28.y The provisions so far discussed related to references under the Act. Powers of
 "courts are dealt with in section 61(1) . It is concerned with two sit1.1ations--(a) where,
in the'enu'rt of ﬁrst instance, an order admitting an instrument in evidence is passed because
the instrument is regarded as duly stamped or as not requiring a stamp, and (b) where such
order ispassed because there has been payment of duty and penalty under section 35 . (a) as duly stamped or as not requiring a "stamp, or '
Tb)" upon payment of duty and a penalty under section 35 ,
'the Court to which appeals lie from, or references are H-niade by, such first-
mentioned Court" may, of its own motion. or' on the application of the Collector,
take such order into considercation for the purpose speciﬁed in_snb-section (2).''
'--{A ;similar amendment to be made in subsection (2) will be indicated at the appro-
priate plaoe). ' ' ' ' '
1 ,3_ Mojunidnr v. M. sarkai, s.1.n. 1922 Calcutta 452, 453. - Parl21.23to 21:25 supra. - I Question 64. ¢ Question 65. 24 M of I..aw,'77--2?. (iii) Reference
notﬁomplnlmt '. after penalty. Recommdation

Recommendation. Section 6 ]. Recommendation. . 61(2). Recommendation. f Section 61(3) . 21.31. The above scheme involves certain structural changes in section 61(2) also. Certain
other points may be considered, with reference to sub-section (2). It has been" suggested that
if a party wants to pay penalty, he should be allowed to do so, and not be driven to the
Collector, as at present. The present provision for mandatory impounding should, it was sug-
gested, be modiﬁed, to provide as above. As against this, it has been stated that such amendment
would create practical problem. In pursuance of the decision of the appellate Court, the Collector
should be allowed to realise the penalty, as at present. If the above change proposed purely
for convenience of the citizen, is carried out, the apprehension has been expressed that the
judicial function of the appellate Court and the proposed administrative work of realising the
amount-, may get jumbled up. It is the stamp revenue in issue, having nothing to do with the
appeal. We have, after careful consideration come to the conclusion that it may be worthwhile
to carry out the suggestion. '

Replies to our Qucstionnairel also mostly favour the change, We recommend it.
We also propose a slight restructuring of section 61 (2) , for the reasons already indicated.'-'

2.1.32. We, therefore, recommend that section 61(2) should be revised as follows :-- should not have been admitted in evidence without the payment of a higher

duty and penalty than those paid, ' - , .- if may record a declaration to that eﬁect, and determine the amount of duty with which such

instrument is chargeable, and may require any person inwhose possession or power such instru-
ment then is, to produce the same, and may impound the same when produced. _

Provided that rvlzere such person is prepared to pay the duty and penalty, the Court shall
Jacéept the some and shall not lrnpound the instrument." 21.32A. In section 61(3) , it would be necessary to deal with the situation when, lbesids
the declaration by the court, the penalty has also been recovered, in consequence of su_h-sectinjn
(2) as proposed to be amended. Accordingly, sub-section (3') should be revisetlr and -new. 
sections added, as follows :---- - r -; on mat the proper duty or the proper duty and penalty strztﬁrf 'rise amoﬂ
of each have lie'!!! levied in respect thereof, and the rtanie and

the person paying them. _ H 2 

1 Question 66. ' Para 21.29. supra. 3 Compare section 33 .111). resiknce 01

16? (313) Every instrument so endorsed shall thereupon be delivered on his application
in this behalf to the person from whose possession it come into the hands of
the Court, or as he may direct a person outohrised by him." 21.33. Section 61(4) , it would be noted, while empowering the Collector to prosecute any
person. in respect of whom an order has been passed by the appellate court by section 61(2) ,
enacts, in proviso [a], that "no such prosecution shall be instituted where the amount (including
duly and penalty which according to the determination of the court, court, was wyable in respect

of the instrument under section 35 , is paid to the Cotlecior, unless he thinks that the offence '

was committed with an intention of evading payment of the proper duty". r

This will require modiﬁcation in order to deal with cases where the duty and penalty have
beenalroady paid in court, under the new provision recommended by us to be inserted by
way-ot proviso to sub section (2). 21.3#. In section 61(4) , and in proviso (b). the reference to section 42 will require to

be changed into a reference to section 41 , having regard to our recommendation" to transpose

sections 41-42. APPENDIX

Provisions for hearing by Judges of £1 particular nmnber. occurring in selected enactments Indian Divorce Act . 1869, section 17
mi mlion 3_ (Conﬁrmation of di- valﬂ printed by district court]. c_.;ai.ur Criminal Procedure, 1913,
ﬂilhni 95(2)' and' section 211:)

[1 _ _ p to High Court to set. i Illsiaration of forefeiture of
. }- -2

Sacﬁon 369, Code of Criminal Pro- ouim. I973 (Conﬁrmation of death
sentence). (a) Three Judges where the number- of Judges is three or upwards
Majority to prevail. (b) Two judges where the number
of Judges is two--View of
Senior judge to prevail. Section 96(2) provides that every

such application shall, "whereithe
High Court oonsits of three or
more Judges, be heard and '

by a 5
Court composed of
and "whom the I-Fgh
sists of less than three
such special Bench shall
ppsedofall thcdtldatsofthat

igh Court." Conﬁrmation of death sentence, or
passing of any new sentence r
order of High Cottt "Shel,
such Court consists of two or
more Judges, be made,-' passed
and signed by
them." do- peehlBcachot'Il,igh. Act Provision for 'minirnurn'numbor of Deﬁnition of "High Court" In relation to a Union terntory
other than the territory of Delhi,
it means the highest Court of
Criminal Appeal of that terri- tory other than the Supreme
Courrof India. - See above,-'under Code of Criminal
Procedure , 1973, section 96(2). 1. t'f§£'."5_;:tion'3s{1). 1 Egg" I 

tion as to sections 41-42, supra. Section 61(4) Introdultory Section 62- - . Intnaductortr

Mealaing of. needed. tion

CHAPTER 22
OFFENCES: SECTIONS 62 TO 69

22.1. We now come to the provisions of the Act relating to oﬁences. The provisions relating to offencees may appear to be heterogeneous and are, in fact, .«so'._'

to some extenL There are provisions dealing with speciﬁc conduct, such as failure to-cancel an
adhesive starnp ( S. 63 ), refusal to give a receipt (s. 65), failure to make out :1 policy is. 66},
drawing post-dated'l*-ills or marine policies (s. 67), and breach of" rules relating to "sale of
stamps" (s. 69). The ﬁrst is section 62 , which imposes a penalty for executing an- instrument not duly stamped?
and -for certain other action taken in relation to an instrument not adequately stamped. A
more serious oifence is constituted by section 64 , which punishes certain act$_'.I:loI1'¢.ﬁvilh.
intent to defraud the Government. Those acts may consist in failure to set out the facts" and
circumstances in an instrument or--vide clause (c)------"any other act calculated to deprive" Then there is section I33, under which not only the post--dating of a hill is punisl1ed_--
this is a speciﬁc act-----but any person 'who, with intent to defraud the Government. of duty

"practises or is concerned in any act, contrivanoe or device not specially provided for by this,

Act or any other law for the time being in force" is also punished. _This statrds midway
between sections 62 and 64- It is obvious that the same act may fall under severalsections
with varying penalties,+a situation which is by no means satisfactory. While it is not our intention to suggest: -a radical re--arrangem'ent of the sections, we do
consider it necessary that the overlapping between some of the provisions should be removed.
22.2. To begin with, section 62(1) punishes any person--- (a) drawing, making, issuing, endorsing or transferring, or" signing otherwise. than'
as a witness, or presenting for acceptance or payment, or accepting,'_pojIng or
receiving payment -of, or in any manner n_egotiating,'an'y bill of exchang'e,'-jsay-
able otherwise than ondemand or promissory note without the same being duly
stamped; or - H (b) executing or signing otherwise than asia_w'itn,i.-ss any other instrument chargeable
with duty without the some being duly stamped ; or _

' I (c) voting or attemptingto votelunder. any .proity not dulystarnpedz' 7 "T ' '
The punishment is line which": may extend to 'ﬁve--hundced rupees for every such oﬁence. tinder theproviso, when any penalty has been paid -in respect of any instrument under section 35 , section 40 or sectionﬁi, the amount of such' penalty shall 'be al1owed;'iti_,1;e_t1:_|ctitnr: , 2_ Queen Enrpremr v. .»'Wulr.:r.I' Clzrnrd, (I398) I_L.R. All. 440. Three sections in this Chapter, however, are of a_ more general chajracter-.' 169 22.4. The above point deals with questions concerning promissory notes and bills of'ex- Whether DEISDB
change in the context of section 62 . A controversy in a more genera] form has also arisen mumpgdm
under this section, namely, whether receiving an unstarnpcd instrument amounts to abetment i!'3-t1'|1l'4""-'-T" _ This hypothetical illustration shows the distinction between active instigation (on the one
hand) and passive inaction (on the other hand}. 21,7. So much on the question of abetrnent. Clause (b) of section 52 uses both the Sm,-0n_53,[b)_
egtpressions "executed"' and "sign"- The expression ''executed'', with referenc to instruments,
is deﬁned'-'_ in the Act, as meaning "signed". The word "excuting", in section 62 , clause (1) (b),
must mean very much the same as 'signing", and it must: be held to mea.n."signing" so as to
complete the document so that it may have full legal effect" This point does not necessitate an amendment. E T '2'2.9.l But there is another matter which needs amendment. The Act speciﬁcally provides" P535 9f
in section 43 , proviso, that a prosecution cannot be started -in the absence of pi-"r-of of a. dishonest inmﬂ 1. ( R) v. Janki , -(1333) I.L.R. 7 Born. 32,-33. in the course of his employment gives an unstamped receipt for an amount exceeding Rs. 20]-,
the master also can be held guilty of an offence under this section. Prime facie, itappears to-
us that this view may require reconsideration.' In fact, we may note that a different view was
taken in a later case' of the same High Court, where a sole surviving partnerof a "ﬁrm was-
held not liable for the clerlr's failure to given stamped receipt. "We have carefully considered
the matter, and are not inclined to recorrimedd any widening of the scope" of the present pro-
vision. . - 22.12. ln the light of the above discussion, we recommend that section 62 should be revised
as follows :----- ' e

"62. (1) Any person- (.a) drawing, malring, issuing, endorsing or transferring, or signing otherwise than
as a witness, or presenting for acceptance or payment, or e.tecut:'ng' as an
acceptor, paying or receving-_payment of, or in any manner negotiating, any
bill of exchange (payable otherwise than on demand) or promissory 
without the same being duly stamped ; or ' ' - " . Compare section 35, Companies Act, 1882 (repealed). . _'
Queen Eirzprggs v. Khetfer Molten, (19{lJ) I.I..R. 27 Cal. 324, 332, 333; 4 C.W.N. (Prinsep and Hill _- '

. Golom Horror}-2 v. Emperor, (1904) B C.W.'N. 3'i"S,'380. U\l:._L4ot-«J

. See para 22 (9). . If this wide change is made, a savingfor section 43 , proviso need not be introduced. director or secretary or other principal ofﬁcer of the company, shall be punishable with fine
which-may extend to hve hundred rupees." ' ' - ' ' " " _ 22.20. Section «:4, clause (cl overlaps clause {is} of section ti8,------which punishes a

_ _ 11, who, with intent to defraud the Government of duty, "practises or is concerned in any
_iia?eﬁ"it§ontrivauce or device not speciﬁcally provided lor_by'this Act 'or any law for the time

 T: "in force." (Punishment is fine upto one tiicusaild rupees). The ingredients are so

 that most cases which fall under one will alsollfall under theother. '" Section 63-I-Re
commendation, Section 64- Introductory. Controversy as
to clause to). Ovwlnppine

hstweeliaetion . ﬂtclnudrueqiup

6U{cJ. ' ' 172 In fact, section 64 (c} would even cover many. acts covered by specific laws. .. For example-_,
the act of manufacturing or selling fictitious stamps wouldfall under section 64_(c'), thougl1_J-t_l_sat
act is an oﬁence under the Indian Penal Code . It would not fall under section 68(0) , because
the acts speciﬁcally cox ered by the Penal Code are excluded by section 68(e) . In this respect,
section I34(c) creates an anomaly. ' i ' ' i '

22.21. In view of the wide scope of section 64(c) as explained above, and the overlapping
between section 64-(c) and section 63 {_c] as mentioned above, as also the anomaly referred
to above, it appears to be desirable to conﬁne section 64(c) to acts analogous to violations of section 27 , say, false statements If whether made in an instrument or not), calctilateid toideprive
the Government of duty or penalty. e '

R=¢0mU1"="d3"P" 22.22. In the light of the above discussion, we recommend that section ﬁnite) should be
to amend section . _
549:1 revised as follows : - III it til It 9|! it (c) Makes rm_1- false sratenienr calculated to deprive the Government of any duty or
penalty under this Act, ' - " The amount "twenty rupees" should be replaced by "one hundred rupees"? in view "of 
30 as proposed. . - e 22.24. According to section 66 , any person who,--' (a) receives, or takes credit for, ' y premium or consideration for. any 
of insurance and does not]. one month after receiving, "or 
for, such premium ,.or. consideration, make out and execute a. stamped
policy of such instlrance ; or . . . _ , . . (b) makes, 'executes or deliver: out any policy which is not duly stamped, or-jiys
or allows in account, or agrees to pay or allow in account, any'n1oney51'apon,
or in respect of", any -such policy, i ' . i " '

shall be punishable with ﬁne which may extend to two hundred rupees.
We have no comments on this Section 51 . 22.25. Section 67 punishes any p=rson_i1ra\,vingi.or eiiecuting a tiiil: of exchantd; otherwise than on demand) or a policy of marine 'insurance purporting t0_bc drawn are _
fit a set of two._or more, and not at the same time drawing 0I..B.secuting..on 

'Question 68 [ Section 64(c) ]. ' Cf! amendment as to section 3-0 . stamped the whole number of bills or policies of which such bill or policy purports the set to
consist. The punishrnent is line which may extend to one thousand rupees. Though the language is somewhat involved, the substance is clear, and needs no charge.
:22.26. Section 68 is important, and may be quoted in full. shall be punishable with ﬁne which may extend to one thousand rupees." With reference to this section, we have olfered our comments under section 64 .'

It may be noted that clause {cl is new, and seems to have been modelled on section
21 of the Stamp Duties Management Act, 1891 (Eng). which reads as follows." No change .5 needed in the section. 22.27. Section 69 punishes--- {a) any person appointed to sell stamps who disobeys any rule made under section 74. and

lb) also any person not so appointed who sells or offers for sale any stamp other
than 10 naye paise or 5 naye paise adhesive stamp. The punishment is iinprisnnmcnt upto six months or ﬁne upto Rs. 500 or both. In so far as the section relates to private persons dealt with in clause (13), the prohibition
against the sale of stamps by a private person is, in our opinion, too widely worded, inasmuch
as a person having surplus stamps which he purchases ham: ﬁde, is prohibited from passing
them on for consideration to another person who requires them. It is, in our view desirable that
the prohibition in clause tb), should be restricted to persons who sell stamps as b:ts.I'm;s.r, and
not to persons who have to sell a stamp in an isolated transaction. 22.28. It may be noted that in England, the penalty is not for unauthorised sale of stamps

or private sale of stamps, but only for unauthorised dealing in star-i-ipr. S The relevant provision-'*
is quoitcdbelow : ' Section 4(1), Stamp Duties Management Act, 189] (5-1 3: $5 Victoria c. 33). 24 M of Law,'77--23 Section 68 . :Penalty for post- dating bills. and
for other devices
to defraud the
revenue. Section 69 . Position in
England. or on the outside thereof, or upon any board or any material whatever exposed
to public view, and whether the same be aﬁxed to his premises or not, any
letters import in or intending to import that he deals in stamps, or is licensed
so to do, he shall incur a ﬁne of ten pounds." Need for 22.29. We are of the view that since there can hardly be an serious abuse when 'the
"""°"d'"°'"' sale is conﬁned to isolated transactions, the English provision is perferable in substance. In ﬁre
d

present scheme of the Act, a person who has unused stamp has to approach the Collector :1__
Obtain refund under section 49 or section 50 . This procedure is cumbersome. and it also

involves a deduction of percentage. Further, section 54(2) imposes a limitation of ti mortthst

for grant of such refund. This position causes hardship to a person who happens to have.'*_
in his possession, unused stamps where there is a person ready and willing to purchase them. '
We do not think that there will be any loss of magnitude to Government if such persons are 3
permitted to transfer such stamps. Nor do we think that such an am.-mclrnent will create 3'
any serious scope for sale of forged stamps. '

We therefore recommend that section 69(1) ) should be revised so as to read» - CHAPTER 23

PROCEDURE IN REGARD TO OFFENCES--SECTION.'s' 70~----?2

211- There are three sections dealing with procedure in regard to offences-- --sections which
constitute modiﬁcations of, or additions to, the general provisions of the Code of Criminal Pro- cedure, 1973. They deal v.=ith---- {i) the conditions requisite for the initiation and continuance of proceedings. (ii) the Court competent to try the oﬁence, and (iii) the venue. 23.2. The conditions i'er.;uisite for the initiation and continuance of proceedings are to
be found in section 70 . A large number of matters are mixed up in that section. Under sub-
section (1), no prosecution in respect of any offence punishable under this Act or any Act
hereby repealed, shall be instituted without the sanction of the Collector or such other othcer
as the State Government generally, or the Collector specially, authorises in that behalf. Under sub-section (2), the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority, or any oilieer generally
or specially authorised by it in this behalf, may "stay any such prosecution or compound any
such offence". It may be noted that this sub--section really comprises two topics: (i) corn- pounding and [ii] stay. Under sub-section {'3}, "the amount of any such composition shall be recoverable in the
manna: provided by section 43 ". 23.3. We have no comments on section ?0(l). As regards section 70(2) , we think that
the authority competent to initiate and the authority competent to compound under sub-section
(2) should not be diﬂerent', and, therefore, the Collector should also have power to compound
an offence under sub--section (2), since he is the person who ordinarily sanctions prosecutions.
He is in the know of facts, and is conversant with the general policy for the initiation of pro-
secutions. He should, logically, be empowered to determine whether or not the offence should
be compounded. It is, there1,o1'e, desirable that the Collector should be added in tiﬂb-5BCLlOﬂ
(2), while retaining the present aiitliorities. 23.4. While we see no objection to the power given to the Chief Controlling Revenue
Authority and others regarding the institution of prosecutions and compounding, we have serious
objection to the present provision as to "stay" in sub-section (2). The word "stay" in this sub-
section has led us to a consideration of the important principle involved. We do not think
that in this context, the power of "staying the proceedings" is appropriately vested in an
executive officer. It is for the court to adjourn its proceedings from time to time when the
exigencies of its business or other considerations of justice require. An executive oﬂicer should
not be given the power of staying judicial proceedings. Perhaps, what the legislature intended
was withdrawal oi the prosecution. lf so. the word "stay" is inappropriate and in any case.
such withdrawal can be safely left to be dealt with by the general provision in the Code of

Criminal Procedure , 1973. We may mention that the suggestion put in our Questionnaire" was that the stay under section 70 shouldbe by the court, and not by the Collector. and that section 70(2) should be
amended for the purpose. That has received general approval in the replies to the Questionnaire.
Although what we are recommending is slightly different from what we put in the Questionnaire,

there is identity of approach between the two. T-Eﬁ section 2 .79, Income Tax Act, 1961 . 3 Q. 69. i... --..'
Ll: . . . . . . . . . . . . .compound any such olfence. (3) The amount of any such composition shall be recoverable in the manner provided
by section 48 ". Recommendation 23.6. It is provided by section 71 that no Magistrate other than a Presidency Magistrate
§';c'E°g;"E,1_ or a Magistrate whose powers are not less than those of a Magistrate of the second class,
shall try any offence under this Act. The net effect of this section is that a Magistrate of the third class cannot try an Offence
under the Act. Under the revised Code of Criminal Procedure ," there are no third class Magis-
trates. We therefore recommend that the section should be omitted. se¢ﬁo,1-,r;_ 23.7. Under section 72 , "every such offence" (offence under the Act) committed in respect
In"°d"°¢°FY- of any instrument may be tried in any district or presidency-town in which such instrument: is
found, as well as in any district or preside-ncy--town in which such offence might be tried under

the Code of Criminal Procedure for the time being in force. The words "such offence" refer to "an oﬁence under this Act",--the words used in section 71. As section 71 is proposed to be omitted", these words will require a slight verbal change.
It is also desirable to substitute "metropolitan area" for "presidency town" in View of the
phraseology adopted in the new Code of Criminal Procedure .'
R I Edam)" 23.8. We, therefore, recommend that section 72 should be revised as follows: ' The Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973. 5 See discussion as to section 71 , supra

' See the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973. 5 Q. 71. CHAPTER 24
RULES : SECTIONS 74 to 76

24.1. Departing slightly from the sequence of the sections, we would, at this stage, like
to deal with, the rule--making power as contained in sections 74 to 76 . At the outset, we
would like to state that we do not see any need at the present day for dealing with this topic
in three sections. When the Act was originally enacted, this scheme was considered necessary,
presumably because at one stage section 74 vested the power in the local government (later,
the provincial government), subject to the control of the Governor General--in--Council, while section 75 vested the power in the Governor General--in-Council. This is no longer the case
now. It is, therefore, proper to combine section 7 '4 (rule relating to the sale of stamps) and section 75 {rules generally to carry out the Act). As regards section 76 (publication of rules),
it refers to "rules made under this Act", and it can be argued that it is wider than the subject
matter of section 74 and 75 , inasmuch as it may, to cite one example,' take in rules under section 9 . Even if that is so, there is hardly any strong reason for retaining it as a separate
section, particularly because, in View of the recommendation which we are going to make
concerning that section", its text will be considerably shortened. 24.2 So much as regards the arrangement of the sections. As to the amendment to be
made therein, we have comments to offer only on section 76(2) , which provides that rules
made hinder the Act shall, upon their publication, "have effect as if enacted by this Act."
According to current doctrine on_ the subject, the quoted words can add nothing to the validity
of the rules. The}; are out of tune with current legislative usage. Being unnecessary verbiage,
they should be omitted. In fact, they create confusion. 'Whatever may have been the earlier
assumptions, today it cannot be asserted that rules not consistent with the parent Act can be

valid. Accordingly, we recommend the substitution of one section for all the three sections,
as under :-- Existing section
76(2) omitted. Existing
Section '14. Introductory'. Section 73 . Meaning of
"Public oﬂicer". Authority by
whom to be
given. Reooruntendation
to revise section 73 . Sections 74-3'6. Section 76A. Section 77 . Section'J"!A

' Act. CHAPTER 25
MISCELLANEOUS SECTIONS 73 and 7? to 73A

25.1. l"'he remaining four sections of the Act are concerned with miscellaneous matters,
such as lItS['.'Ccii0Il, delegation of powers, savings and sale of copies of the Act. These are
inostly a(l1ninist:'ative matters, involving no questions of principle. 25.2. Under section 73 , every public otﬁcer having in his custody any registers, books,
records, papers. documents or proceedings, the inspection whereof may tend to secure any duty,
or to prove or lead to the discovery of any fraud or omission in relation to any duty, shall at
all reasonable times permit any' person authorised in writing by the Collector to inspect for
such purpose the registers, books, papers, documents and proceedings and to take sluch notes
and extracis as he may deem necessary, without fee or charge. This section was inserted for the first time in 1899, and has been taken from the (English)
Stamp Act ,' 1891. The expression "public ofﬁcer", which occurs in this section, has been deﬁned in the Evidence Act , section 74 , and in the Civil Procedure Code, section 2 , but not in the Stamp
We are separately? recommending the insertion of a deﬁnition of that expression. 25.3. It is not understood why authority to inspect records under section 73 could be
sought only from Ila: Collector," and not Erorn an oﬁicer authorised by the State Government,
2.31., from the Inspector--Get1era1 of Stamps (if so authorised). The section is defective in this
respect. 25.4. We, therelore, recommend that section "I3 should be revised as follows :-- We ntay ztdtl liitil Ni-2 uraciitlinent has been favoured by almost all the replies to our
Questionnaire.'

25.5. We have already dealt" with sections 7 '4 to 76 which relate to rules- 25.6. Section ?6A, which was inserted by the Decentralisation Act, 1914, empowers the
State Government to delegate certain powers, and needs no comments. 25.7. Section 7 '7 provides that nothing in this Act contained shall be deemed to affect
1he duties chargeable under any enactment for the time being in force relating to court fees. The section requires no change. 25.8. Under section 'TIA, all stamps in denominations of annas four or multiples thereof
shall be deemed to be stamps of the value of twenty--ﬁve naye paise or, as the case may be,
multiples thereof and shall, accordingly, be valid for all the purposes of this Act. It requires

no change. 1 Section 16 , Stamp Act, 1891 (Eng). ' See discussion as to section 2(22A) . * Section 2(9) deﬁnes "Col]wtor". ' Question 72. 5 Chapter 24, supra. 25.9. Section 78 reqiiires every State Government to make provision for the sale "of Section 78tobe
translations of this Act. "in the principal vernacular l:_-ingunge oi the territories administered by ammdci
it" [at a price not exceeding twenty ﬁve nave poise per copy). The only change required in the section is substitution of "languages of the States"' for
the words "vernacular tanguages of the territories administered by it", and we recommend
.iccortiingI'_i-'. The present phraseoiog}; is inappropriate. Suck it change has been favoured by all
the replies" received on this questionnaire. 25.[U. The Act does not contain any provisions for the rounding off of fractions of a Scgction TEA
rupee. In this connection attention may be invited to provisions on the subject inserted by '§},'u'ﬂ,3,g oﬁof
State amendntents." The utility of such a provision is obvious. After taking into consideration fractions.
various State arnendrnents, we had, in our Quesfionnaire,' suggested that the toiiwing new
section should be inserted : We are now of the View that a fraction of paisa, if less than 2-1/'2 paisa, should
be treated as zero, and in other cases, it Shottid be equated to 5 paisa. We recomrnend the
insertion of a new section on those fines. 1 Cf. sections 95.97, Eiupiog-"sea State Insurance Act, 1948 .
3 Question T4. 3 S3-Jtiﬂl 'NB, imrte-1 i-i i\-I2.t'i;i-a Pradesti; Section 7 '8 substituted in Tamil Nadu and in Antlhra Pratiesh.
' Question T-'5. Introductory. Grouping. Economics value. Selction of duty. CHAPTER 26
SCHEME OF THE ARTICLES

26.1. Having concluded our consideration of the sections, we proceed to a discussion of
the articles in the First Schedule to the Act . The First Schedule to the Stamp Act contains the arithmetic of stamp duties. The Schedule
is to be read with section 3 , clauses (a) and (C) of which speciﬁcally refer to this Schedule. The
rates of duties on various instruments are given in articles arranged alphabetically. These articles (65 in number) levy a duty either of a ﬁxed sum or according to value or, in some
:ases, according to the duty leviable on some other instrument under another speciﬁc entry.
The last mentioned category could raise nice problems, for example, where the duty on the
other instrument is raised. 26.2. It is not easy to trace the rationale underlying the rate of stamp duty prescribed in
each article However, the classiﬁcation attempted below might throw light on some of the
featires of the scheme of eaxation. The charging articles can be divided into two principal groups, namely, those charging duty
ad valarem and those charging a ﬁxed duty. In regard to ad valorem. duties, again, there are
three principal patterns which may be noticed. There is, first. the group of instruments falling
inder the category of bonds. Secondly, there is the group of instruments falling under the cate-
gory of conveyances. Thirdly, there is the group of instruments which are chargeable ad
vnlorem in some other manner, for example, bills of exchange, debentures, mortgage deeds in
certain cases and policies of insurance. in fact, the charging entry as to Mortgage Dced--Entry
40-itself illustrates, in its three clauses (a), (b) and (c), the three different patterns of ad
vulnrem duty. 26.3. Apart from this possible classiﬁcation of instruments on the basis of ad valarem duly
and ﬁxed duty, there are other considerations which enter into the picture. As to the division
between cm' irnlorem duty and ﬁxed duty, the selection seems to depend primarily on the econo-
mice value of the rights created or transferred by the instrument. On this principle, many instru-
ments relating to immovable property or creating a charge thereon are selected for ad valorem
duty. Similarly (even where the instrument does not relate to immovable property), if it is
possible to predicate with reasonable certainty that the right created is of a certain monetary
value, ad vulorem duty is adopted. as in the case of mortgage deeds of movablcs. On the
other hand, where the proprietary or monetary aspect is not prominent or easily ascertninable
and the principal object of entering into the instrument or executing the instrument is not
directly one of a proprietary or monetary character, then ﬁxed duty is adopted. This is illustra-
ted by the charge an adoption deed. aflidavit, agreement, articles of association of a company,

award and the like. This is not to say that in every case where the monetary or proprietary element is directly
involved. the legislature has necessarily selected the irnpositio-n of an ad valorem duty. Conside-
rations of prompt execution of business or other aspects of convenience might have induced a
different ci1oice,--as is illustrated by the articles charging duty 0 npromissory notes. 26.4. Assuming that the case is one where a ﬁxed duty would be appropriate, the amount
of duty to be selected could vary in theory. In fact, the duty does vary from one anna (now
10 paisa) to Rs. 500. What particular amount should be chosen, must not have been a very
easy matter for the legislature, but here also certain broad principles seem to have been borne
in mind. For example, much depends on the question whether the document merely furnishes
evidence of a transaction, or whether it goes further and creates a right. This consideration 180 18!

seems to have regarded as relevant in ﬁxing the duty on acknowledgments and agreements, so
that an acknowledgment is chargeable with a duty only of one anna, while an agreement is
chargeable with a duty of 8 annas. That documents constituting more evidence receive a sym-
pathetic treatment is also illustrated by the charging article relating to certiﬁcate ( article 19 ),
share warrant I article 65 ) and the like. Again, it is on the principle that a document which really evidences a certain fact need
not be chargeable with Bid valorem duty, that a receipt carries only a ﬁxed duty, not fluctuating
with the value of the money or other property the receipt whereof is acknowledged. '

26.5. Of course, "agreement" is a very wide term, and depending on the nature, value.
extent or duration of the right created or transferred, the legislature naturally decided to impose,
on speciﬁc types of agreement, a higher ﬁred duty- It is apparently on this principle that an
Jpprenticeship deed is made chargeable with a duty of Rs. 5, because the rights created there-
under may be expected to endure for a long time and would increase considerably the earning
capacity of the beneﬁciary. The nature of the right created or potentially created scents to have
been regrded as relevant in charging a duty of Rs. 25 on the articles of association of a com-
pany. Here a number of persons are interested, and a new corporate entity is brought into
being, representing a pooling of resources and talent. The nature of the right created might also
have been one of the considerations for charging a duty of Rs. 500 for entry as an advocate. 26.6. Even within the category of instruments appropriate for ﬁxed duty, considerations
of convenience or the urgency of the matter might have induced the legislature to adopt a liberal
view, as is illustrated by the comparatively small amount of duty ﬁxed for bills of lading. pro-
test of Bill or Note, protest by the Master of a ship, and the like. Apart from these legal and commercial considerations, and economic aspects, the legisla-
ture may also regard, as relevant. certain matters of policy. It is on this basis that an assignment
of copyright is exempted from the duty. Otherwise chargeable as on a conveyance and, again,
it is on this principle that numerous exemptions have been granted by the legislature in respect
of documents otherwise chargeable as receipts. 26.7. From this discussion. it is clear that a host of considerations enter into the legislative
determination of the amount of stamp duty to be properly charﬁ. This discussion may appear

_to be academic; but unless one is conscious of these aspects, one is likely to miss the point in

the scheme for charging tax under the Act. 26.8. The articles themselves are numerous, and might appear to have been devised meti-
culously. The alphabetical arrangement is undoubtedly convenient. and there is suﬂicient cross-
referencing--a feature not often noticed in legislative measures. Notwithstanding this scaffolding
of categories created by the legislature for building up its own scheme of taxation, disputes do
arise in practice as to whether a particular instrument falls in one category or the other. In so
far as such disputes arise from the unavoidable fact that human relationships are of an inﬁnite
variety and people do not always enter into transactions with the articles of the Stamp Act in
mind, such disputes may be difficult to avoid. But, in so far as the disputes arise byreason of
obscurity or ambiguity in the description of an instrument in a particular article or by reason
of avoidable overlapping. with a view to considering whether any improvement could be devised.
so that disputes might be reduced in frequency and complexity, even if they cannot be totally
eliminated. Such amendment would reduce the occasions for resorting to the provisions in sections 4 to 5 of the Act--provisions which might be described as designed to operate in the
last resort when the court must decide the dispute one way or the other in order to determine
the proper amount of duty chargeable. 26.9. Since the rates. of stamp duty on many of the instruments mentioned in the Schedule
fall within the State l..egisla1:ive List, it is not our intention to suggest any substantial changes

regarding the rate structure in respect of those instrurnents. Apart from this. even in respect

of instruments falling in the Union Legislative List, it is not our intention to suggest any sub-
stantial changes in the rate structure. This is, however, subject to the qualiﬁcation that such

14 'NI of Lawf'7'i'--2=1'-. Nature of the
right. Convenience. Number of
considerations

Scope for
Improvement

Dtrecdonhr
Ineniawillho
considered. rationalisation as appears to be necessary, and as can be achieved without aﬂecting the rate
structure basically, will be considered in both cases. The desirability of considering verbal improvements in many of the articles will also be
borne in mind. When the Act was revised in 1899, several changes were made in the Schedule. First, the
alphabetical order was improved. Secondly, the legislature removed exemptions from their
position in a separate "schedule of exemptions", and placed them in the schedule of duties
under the articles to which they referred. Thirdly, the ascertainment of duty was made more
direct and more easy. For example, the three t'ables of duty under the heads of bill of exchange,
bond and conveyance were, at that time, drawn up in a very curtailed form. When considera-
ble amounts were involved, it was impossible, without the aid of paper and pencil, to make out
from the dilferent tables, the duty payable on a particular instrument. By expanding the tables,
the legislature made it easy for a person by a reference to the schedule to ascertain directly What
the particular duty was. Nevertheless, there was no attempt made to go into each article from the point of view of
public convenience or case of understanding. It will be our endeavour to suggest improvements wherever practicable, bearing in mind
the limitations to which we have already referred. CHAPTER 27 ARTICLE 1

27.1. Article 1 is as follows : 27.3- Thus, the article in the Act of 1869 did not contain the requirement as to the instru-
ment having been given for the purpose of supplying evidence of the debt. 27.4. Thus, in order to fall within the scope of this article, it was necessary that document
should either balance an old account or should show that the sum acknowledged was due. In 1879 the High Court of Calcutta was called upon to determine the applicability of the
above noted article in the case of seven advance entries in a document called a hattachhitra having
two sides : "amount advanced," and "amount received". And they rightly held that none of the
entries taken singly denoted that the sum mentioned therein was due and could be hit by the
provisions' of Article 5. It was observed that in order to ﬁnd whether a particular sum was or
was not due at a particular date it was necessary to look to both sides of the document, since the
entries on one side controlled those on the other. To quote the relevant observations : The amount due varies from time to time and depends upon the relation-of the amount advan- ced to the amount received. In the present case, no sum is entered under the head of "amount
received," but that is an accident and makes no difference in considering the question as to
what 'E oﬂered in evidence. The intention of the parties in requiring the -signature or seal of
the borrowers to each sum advanced is strictly speaking, to secure under their hands an acknow-
ledgment that the sum is advanced, whether or not that sum is due or a larger sum or a less 1. The duty of one anna should now he read as ten naya paise.
2, Indian Stamp Act (18 of 1869), Schedule H, article 5. 3. Brojendra v. Brcmomoyee, (1379) l.L.R. 4 Cal. 335. - 133'' Article 1. History. Judge Plowderfs
view . sum, depends upon the state of account. In determining whether a document comes _within the
description of a document upon which a stamp is imposed by the Stamp Act , we must look at
the entire document, and see whether it fairly falls within the description. This Act , therefore, by omitting the words "amounting to Rs. 20" and "is expressed to have
been balanced or is acknowledged to be due", brought about two material changes in the law,
namely : (1) That the debt must exceed Rs. 20, and (2) the document need not show that
it is a balance entry or that the sum mentioned therein is really due. 27.6. It appears that the original proposal in the Bill of 1878 was to have an article in
the following form' :-- Some Members of the Select Committee, however, objected to this article at the preliminary
stage.'-' Mr. G. H. P. Evans said that this article must be 'further altered or struck out altogether'.
Whitley Stokes said, "On consideration I agree with Mr. Evans. The clause as it stands
would apply to the statement of the balance in a banker's pass book not signed by the con-
stituent",

27.7. It may also be noted that Mr. Plowden, Judge of the Punjab Chief Court, in hh
comment" on the Stamps and Court Fees Bill, 1818, made a suggestion relevant to acknowledge-
ments, in the following terms 1-- The Select Committee did not, however, indicate why the words "in order to supply evidence

0}' such deb!" were added. 27.8. The article in the Act of 1879 (First Schedule, article I), as utlimately enacted, was
as follows :-- 27.9. The proviso was added when the Act was revised in 1899. In the Report of the
Select Coanmittee2, on the 1898 Bill, the following reasons were given for adding the proviso :-- culties were anticipated even at that 'Li1I16. In order to fall within the purview of Article I, a
docllnlmt must fulﬁl the following conditions : 27.12. The English law may be contrasted. Under English law, a bare acknowledgement
of liability is not chargeable with duty. Thus an I. O. U. or a bare acknowledgement of a loan
01' (E indebtedness, containing no provision as to payment or other evidence of the terms of an

agreement, does not require any stamp' in England. 27.ll2A. The article in the Indian Stamp Act appears '[0 be simple enough at ﬁrst sight.
But the words "in order to supply evidence of such debt" and the proviso relating to promise
to pay, have been found to create diﬁlcult problems of application. Since, under proviso (a) to section 35 , an unstamped acknowledgement cannot be admitted even on payment of penalty
(as section 35 does not apply to documents chargeable with a duty of one anna----now ten
naya paisa), hardship arises in practice. 27.123. In competition with bonds and agreements, an acknowledgment bears a lower
duty. But agreements and bonds (if unstamped) can be admitted 'under section 35 , on payment 1. Final Report of the Select Committee. 31st December, 1373. 2. Report ofthe Select Committee on the Indian Stamp Bill, 1898, para 13. 3. See discussion below, relating to promise to pay. 4 . (8.) Cldiderr v. Boa-Innis. (1822) 111 ER. 893 {I.O.U.).
{bl Ewier om v. Lesue, (1795) no ER. 407. (e) am: v. times, uses) 170 an. 1035. id) Goodyear V. Simpson. (1345) 153 E-R- 742. 743; {Statement of accotmt containing
balance being duefi-om the defendant to the plaintiﬁi. admission of a certain

English law. Words "in order
to supply evi- dence of such
debt". of penalty. An acknowledgement cannot be admitted in evidence if unstamped. This causes

hardship. 27.13. As Schwabe, C.I., observed in a Madras case'-- Prornisetopay. 27.14. There is another point which needs to be considered. Under the proviso to article 1 ,
it is necessary that an acknowledgement should not contain any promise to pay the debt or
any stipulation to pay interest or to deliver any goods etc. Diﬁiculty is created by the qiuestion
how far an express promise is required in order that the proviso to this article may come into
play. It is generally stated that the question whether an instrument is an acknowledgement
containing a promise to pay the debt is one of construction of the document." 27.15. The question must be decided with reference to the language used in, and not
to the legal obligation arising item, the instrument". This is, no doubt, a sound test. But, as a
study of the decided cases shows,' the application of the test is not an easy afiair. And, if some
other alternative could be adopted, which wohld reduce this diﬁiculty, it would be an improve- ment. G,m,iuwrm-ng 27.16. In illustration of the obscurity as to what is and what is not a promise to pay,
obscurity. we may refer to the Allahabad case of Abdul Rnﬁqf' in which the Judges were incﬁned to
take opposite views regarding the unconditional acknowledgement implying a promise to pay.
Even if the interpretation that an express promise to pay is required in order to exclude an
instrument from article I is adopted, it is not, in practice, easy to come to a conclusion
whether the words used in the particular instrument do or do not amount to an express promise
to pay. Besides the cases already cited, the under--mentioned cases may be referred to in

this connection." 27.17. Sometimes. the question also arises whether a memorandum of the rate of interest
to be payable in future, when appended to an acknowledgement, is to be regarded as s stipu-
lation to pay interest within the meaning of the proviso to article 1. In general, the," Courts
hold that mere mention of the rate of interest without more is as good as an express stipulaltionﬂ-;'
Sometimes. nice questions have arisen also by reason of the placing of the signature of the
debtor in relation to the stipulation for interest." 27.18. In a Patna easel", Courtney Terrell, C.J. observed that the policy of the 'article
seems to be to provide for cases where the debtor and the creditor came to an agreement between
themselves, that. in consideration of grant of some time to the debtor. the creditor demand!

omen: v. Anama La! Damani, (1923) I.L.R.. 45 Mad. 943 (per schwabe. OJ.)- 1. 2. Donate v. Gan.-zda (I903) Punj. Rec. No. 35, pages 111-1131' F.B.). 3. Shiv Ram Punrmrn Ram v. Faiz, A.I.R. 1942 Lab. 50, 54, 56 (F.B.). 4. See" Decided cases," infra. 5. Abdul Ruﬁq v. Bhrrja, A.I.R. 1932 Allahabad 199; 1932 Allahabad Law Journal 77. 6. (a) Manila! v. Narwnrlai, AIR 1947 Born. 33? (in) Jog-tundra Chandra Bcmerjee v. Sachindra Kumar 40 Calcutta Weekly Notes 399. ( c) Ntrrayan v. Marayya, A.I.R. 1951 Madras 605. Ed.) Jeerraj v. La! Cizand, A.I.R. I969 Rajasthan 192. 7. Mahndev v. Sbivrqf I.L.R. 4] Allahabad 169 (F.B.). on

. Lakshmi Bat' v. Ganesfr, I.L.R. 25 Bombay 3?3. 9. gﬁntrast Ram Prascd v. Parsizorram. A.I.R. 1937 Allahabad 256 (Full Bench, with Saidilan v. Dam, A.I.R. 1931
ore 4.). _ ' 10. Hablbuiﬁaimman v. Anwar Dhan, AIR 1934 Pat. 629 630 (D3,). as a condition that the debtor shall relieve him from the apprehension that the debt nzay be
barred 393-' h'mz'mtr'an or that the evidence upon which he would be able to rely may not be
available at the time of the suit; and it refers, therefore, to the special bargain where the
debtor agrees to give the creditor evidence upon which he may rely to enforce the debt, as
a condition of :1 concession by the creditor to the debtor. 27.19. But it may be noted that according to the Nagpur view} mere intention to extend
limitation is not enough. -Where the acknowledgement relates to the balance of an account, a nice distinction is
often made between an admission of the correctness of an account and an acknowledgement for
the purpose of stipplying evidence of a debt. Thus, a Bombay case2 holds that a debtor's ad-
mission as to correctness of an account, taken in writing in order that he may not subsequently
dispute its correctness, cannot be regarded as an acknowledgement inteirded to supply evhience
of debt. '

An acknowledgement of the correctness of account does not (for its validity) require
a stamp." The debtor's admission of correctness of account taken on a memo, so that he
might not subsequently dispute its correctness cannot, according to a Nagpur case,' be regarded
as an acknowledgement under Article 1 executed to "supply evidence of" the debt. These decisions rest on a distinction which, at least, is a ﬁne one and which is worth
avoiding in a taxing statute. 27.20. To remove the diﬂidulties referred to above, one or more of the following possible
alternatives could be considered' : 27.21. Alternative (iii) above may be considered too drastic. But both alternatives (i),
and (ii) have much to commend themselves. As regards (i), enough has been said above
to bring out the diﬂiculties caused by the present working, which, though well-intentioned,
causes unnecessary controversies and suffering. The words "in order to supply evidence of
such debt", as well as the proviso excluding a promise to pay, are intended, perhaps, jun
to indicate broadly the description of the instrument. But these have been over--emphasised,
and require to be deleted. Their deletion will create less diﬁiculty than their retention. If the
instrument amounts to a bond or agreement. it will be chargeable accordingly. 27.22. At the same time, alternative (ii) above should also be adopted', and the provisions
of section 35 , main paragraph, should be extended to acknowledgements. If our recommendation
to libcralise section 35 , Proviso is accepted, then, of course, no further change is needed. What
we would like to say is that even if article 35 , Proviso is not liberalised by accepting our
recommendation in .1010, what we have stated in this Chapter as to article 1 and the application
of section 35 should be carried out on its own erits. 1 Pmnhiracﬂ Gulab v. Krisfmaji, A.I.R. 1947 Nag. 145, 150

' Maﬁa! v. Nanmrlai. A.I.R. 1947 Born. 337, 333. 3 Rargamblaa Ojlia v. Bislrrrnath Oja, A.I.R. 1938 Fat. 139. 140. * Haaluvroa v. Hanmmlt. A.I.R. 1941 Nag. 707. I These are not necessarily mutually exclusive. ' See under "English law," supra. Reoonmgendation
to substitute the
word "executed." Increase ct'
amount. Recommendation. 2123. We had in our Questionnaire' put a Question whether article should not be
totally deleted, having regard to the practical dilﬁculties caused. While some replies have
expressed agreement with the suggestion for deletion, some have not. We appreciate that this
would be too radical a course. But we do consider it necessary to recommend such modiﬁcations as would take the
case outside the stringent provision in section 35 , proviso fa). 2'i'.23A. Let us now deal with a verbal point. Article 1 levies duty on an acknowledgement
"Written or signed" by the person acknowledging. There is a small discrepancy between this
article and the charging section. Section 3 is the charging section, and an instrument is chargeable
thereunder with duty if it is "executed". "Executed" and "execution" are deﬁned in section 2(l2) as "signed" and "signature" respectively. A document, though not executed, may yet be an
instrument2; but is not chargeable with duty. Article 1 refers to acknowledgement as being
"written or signed by or on behalf of the debtor". Now. an acknowledgement which is "signed
by or on behalf of the debtor", is duly "executed", and, in this respect, the reference to "signed"
does not create any substantial discrepancy,---though there is no reason for not employing the
expression "executed". But, in so far as mere "writing" attracts duty in respect of an acknowv
ledgement [ article 1 ), there is a discrepancy between section 3 read with section 2 (12] {on
the one hand) and article I ( on the other hand). 27.24. This discrepancy should be rectiﬁed by substituting, in article 1 , for the words
"written or signed", the word "execu1ed"3. An acknowledgement which is only written by or
on behalf of the debtor should not become liable to stamp duty until it' is signed. It may, in
this connection, be noted that the word "executed" is used in some other articles", and, for the
sake of uniformity of language, wherever the word "signed" is used, it should be changed
to "executed"-5. We may note that such an amendment has been approved by most replies to
our Questionnaire". 2'i'.24A. We also recommend that the amount "twenty rupees" should be increased to
hundred rupees, having regard to the present purchasing power of the rupee. 27.25. The following re-draft of article 1 is recommended, in the light of the above discussion
and subject to what we have stated above relating to the points that should not be carried out
if section 35 , proviso is revised according to our recommendation. Proper Stamp duty

|',"l. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT of a debt exceeding one hundred rupees Ten mzye pain. ' inamount or value, executedby, or on bcI'I8Jfof,a debtor. .. . . . ..m any

33 book (other than a banker'.-fpassbook] or on a separate piece of :5';
paper when such book or paper IS left in the Creditors possession. . . . 1. Question 'i'6(a). 2. In re the Application of Chet Pa (1903). 22 LC. 75, 16 (ER) (Lower Burma.) 3. Compare recommendations as to articles 28 and 42. 4. Article 22 and 43. 5. Seealso reeommendationas to artlcleszli and 42. 6. Q. 75(5). CHAPTER 28 ARTICLES 2 TO 4-

28.1. Article 2 levies a duty on an administration bond. The article does not deﬁne the Artiele2
expression "Administration Bond" ; Mulla deﬁnes' it as "a Bond with one or more sureties I'm°d"""°'-V'
[unless sureties are dispensed with), which must be given for the due collection, getting in
and administration of the estate of the deceased, by any person to whom letters of administration
are granted". It should, however, be noted that an administration bond can he demanded even
otherwise than proceedings for the grant of letters of administration. For example, there
may be a suit for aCllI1ll1lSt1'at.i0l12--3. Forms of plaints in such suits are given in the Code of Civil

Procedure '. There does not appear to be any case law on this article, raising doubts. 23.2. The reference in the Article to section 256 of the Indian Succession Act, 1865, to § mn
05]] Ill . section 73 of the Probate and Administration Act, 1861, and to Sections 9 and 10 of the refﬁmmtotm
succession Certiﬁcate Act, 1889, must now be read as a reference to the Indian Succession Act , Indian Succession

1925, and to sections 291, 375 and 376 of that Act respectively. *"°" 1915'

Administration bonds include, therefore, bonds under sections 291, 3 '5 and 376 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 , and section 6 of the Government Savings Act, 1573. The article

should be so amended. 28.3. Article 3 levies a duty on an adoptionldeed, that is to say, an instrument (other ="i1'ﬂd=3-
than _a will) recording an adoption or conferring or purporting to confer an authority to

adopt. History of the article is of interest. In the previous Stamp Act of 1879', the relevant
article provided that "an instrument (other than a will) conferring or purporting to confer IJ1
authority to adopt", was liable to stamp duty. Under the 1879 Act, thus, the record of an
adaptfm was not chargeable with stamp duty. In two Bombay cases" decided under that Act,
the document declared that the adopted son was to be the heir to the interest of the adoptive
father in the undivided family property, but the court held that no stamp duty was chargeable
on this instrument. As regards the present Act, the following extract from the proceedings of the Legislature is
of interest'. 1, Mulls, Indian Stamp Act (6th Edition), 1:. 202. 2, Order 20, Rule, 13, Code of Civil Procedure , 1908,
3, GE. ..'Hmvprasad'v. Prayag Kumar, A.I.R. 1936 Cal. 39'. 4. Code ofCivil Procedure, tans, Schedule 1, Appendix A, Forms 41--43.
5, Stamp Act, 1379, Schedule 1, Article 33. 6. (1) In the matter of Atnbai, (I839) I.L.R. 13 Born. 280;
[b] In the matter of Hanmappa, (18393 13 Born. 281. '7. Sir James West1and's Speech (1898). 2,4 M of Lawm--2s

Case-L 1w. No change. Article 4- Aﬂidavit. Meaning of
"aﬁdavIt"-- _
recommendation
for amendment. 23.4. There are not many reported cases on the section. The expression "recording".
as used in this article, means, according to one Lahore case1,--- The deed in this case referred to the adopted son as the successor of all the property of
the adoptive father, but no reference to this part of the deed was made by the court in deciding

whether stamp duty was payable on the deed. 28.5. Article 3 , of course, does not assume that a deed of adoption, or an authority to
adopt, is required by law. In fact, under the Hindu Adoptions Act , a deed is not required--
nor is it suﬁicicnt. It is, therefore, in very rare cases that article 3 will be attracted. However, it

is not necessary to disturb the article on this ground. 28.6. Article 4 levies a duty of one rupee on an affidavit, including an aﬂirmation or dec-
laration in the case of persons by law allowed to aﬂirm or declare instead of swearing. It

provides for the following exemptions : The Act does not deﬁne the expression "affidavit". 28.7. In the U.P. amended article 4 runs as below' :--- in the case of persons by law

Exe|nptions--Aﬂ:"tdavit or declaration in writing when made--- (a) as a condition of enrolment under the Army Act, 1950, the Air Force Act,
1950 or the Navy Act, 1957, or (b) for the sole purpose of enabling any person to receive any pension or charitable. allowance'; _

28.8. In this article, the words "including an aﬁirmation or declaration in case of persons
by law allowed to afﬁrm or declare instead of swearing", seem to have been modelled on the 
of the present deﬁnition of "affidavit" in the General Clauses Act '. We have, in our Re-
port on the General Clauses Act ", discussed at length, how the deﬁnition in the General Clauses Act is inaccurate. An 'aﬂ'idavit' really means a written statement made on oath or solemn 
etc. and not the atﬁnnation itself. For this reason, in our Report on that Act, we have 1. Labh Singh V. Mehr Singh, A.I.R. (1932}Lal1. 113, I20 (S.B.) 2. U.P. Taxation Law Amendment Act [U.P. Act 11 of 1969) 3. See Rwnasﬁanker v. Coliecror, A.I.R.. 197] All 237 4. Section 3(3), General Clauses Act, 1397. 5. 60th Report. General Clauses Act , paragraphs 3.4 to 3.8, relating to section 3(3) -'amdavit.' 191 recommended a revised deﬁnition of "atﬁdavit", as meaning 'a statement in writing purporting
to be a statement of fact, signed by the person making it and conﬁrmed by him on oath'. Similar
phraseology should be used in article 4 of the Stamp Act also, and we recommend accordingly. 28.9. Exemption (a) below the article refers to the Indian Army Act, 1911, and the Indian
Air Force Act, 1932, in place of which references to the relevant current Acts should be
substituted. These are~--the Army Act, 1950 , and the Air Force Act, 1950 . The Navy Act,
1957 , should also be mentioned. 28.10. Exemption (b) below article 4 exempts, from stamp duty, afﬁdavits for immediate
use in court. When the aﬂidavit is ﬁled in support of an application, the application has usually
to bear court fees. With reference to the expression "'immediate" it has been held that', by virtue of exemption
aiﬁdavits made with the intention of ﬁling in court are not subject to stamp duty, even
though they are sowrn at a diﬂerent place {i.e. not in the place where the court is situated),
and are ﬁled in the court on a later date. The word 'immediate' refers to the purpose of
the aﬂidavit, and not to time. Thus, in an Allahabad case', an afﬁdavit tor a pending proceeding
in Meerut, sworn at Bombay and ﬁled in a Meerut Court after three weeks, was held to be

exempt. 28.11. In Bihar and Andhra Pradesh, however, this exemption has been deleted,--i.n the

former with eﬁect from 31st March, 1958, and in the latter, by Act 26 of 1965. In the
U.P. the exemption has been removed and duty levied, although the duty is less. In an Andhra

(11). I Pradesh case=°', the High Court made the deletion of this exemption for aﬂidavits, -sworn or

declared for the immediate purpose of ﬁling in court, liable to stamp duty under article 4. The High Court, however, agreed with counsel's argument that this would make litigation
costly, and would also cause practical difficulties and hardship to the litigant public and lawyers. We agree with the observations of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. The exemption should
not, therefore, be deleted. We are further of the opinion that in view of the difficulty caused by the word "irnmediate". in eitemption (b), that word should be replaced by "sole". When the afﬁdavit is ﬁled in court,
it will usually accompany an application, and the application will be chargeable with court fee. 28.12. In the light of the above discussion, we recommend that the article should be re--
vised as under : We may mention that the proposed amendment has been approved by most replies to our
Questionnairet. .__._. .........._.__._-, #- ._._.__- ., .._ . ._.__.._..__..._ ._, , .....___.._._.._

"f}}i--:.I:j:}EEcT:a"t;-iii L:}_§:E}E§m7né7t'1lss§ii.ﬁHE Born. 276. 2. .5'irr"Ki.5'l'IarI Das v. Jlrfahd. Nazir, A.l.R. 1947 All. 37 (F.B.) 3. Sambasiya raju v. C'I1cmdr.r_v)'r:, A.I.R. 1967 A1'. 87 4. Q. 7?. Exempti-311(3):- CHAPTER 29 ARTICLE 5 _29.1. Article 5 levies duty on an agreement or a memorandum of agreement. There are Introductory
three clauses in the article, and three exemptions. The exemptions are important. 29.2. The expression "agreement", used in the article could have a wide scope. In ahdeanins of
Lahore case', the Court held that a written promise to pay a timebarred debt coming within "33"°'me"t" section 25(3) of the Contract Act is not a "l:1ond". The High Court had, l1I'.,'IWC'v'C1', no occasion
to consider whether it was an "agreement". In a Calcutta case", the defendants had executed
a document which stated the amount due, and the rate of interest, and "stipulated time for
paymen". The Court held that though this was not a promissory note, it was an agreement
to pay, and therefore, chargeable with duty under article 5. . 29.3. These points may not recur often, and therefore, do not call for any clariﬁcation. Exempti0I1(R;-- or only the words "goods or merchandise". Diﬂiculty arises when the same instrument combines a -sale of goods and a mortgage.
The majority of the full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in one case' has held, that the
Word "exclusiyely" governs the phrase "goods or merchandise", and, therefore, an agreement
for the sale of goods or merchandise is exempt hem stamp duty, even though the instrument
evidences certain other transactions also pertaining to goods or merchandise (e.g., a mortgage).
Verma J. in his dissenting judgment however, held that the exemption applied only if the instru-
ment is so framed as to amount to a more agreement to sell goods and has not got any other 1. David Sutherland Clerk v. Rose Crimshew, A.I.R. 1923 Lab. 481, 433. 2. Prmamlﬁumor V. Ponaulia, A.I.R. 1923 Cal. 659, 661 (D.B.). 3. Section 4 , Sale of Goods Act, 1930. 4. A acmratc recommendation is being made as regards the effect of speciﬁc exemptions in one article on chargcahility

under another article. 5. Section ?.(]0), Stamp Act . 6. Raghubar Darya! v. Emperor. A.I.R.. 1934 All. 201. . 7. L.H. Sugar Factory \-'. Mon', A.l'.R. 1941 All. 243 (RE). Recommendation
to amend
Esemption (a)
so as to

the word
n¢eIcl".si,vdy.1I 194 characteristics. Agreeing with the minority view in this case, the Patna High Court has held'
that a similar document is not covered by the exemption, and is chargeable as an agreement.
In the Patna case, the document combined the characteristics of a sale as well as of a mortgage.
It was held that the word "exclusively" governs the entire clause, and not only the words "goods

or merchandise." 29.5. In the Allahabad case, the facts were somewhat complicated, because, by the same
document, the executant executed a hypothecation of the sugarcanecrops and also promised to
sell the sugarcane at a speciﬁed sum as advanced on interest by the Sugar Factories Ltd. The price
of the sugarcane supplied was to be set off against the loan, and the surplus of the loan was to be

paid by the executant, interest free. The majority took the view that the document did not lose _

its character of "agreemen " or the right to claim exemption under exemption (a) merely because
it also contained the hypothecation, of course, in so far as it contained the hypothecation, it was
chargeable with duty. But the minority (Varma and Mulla JJ.) tool: the view that the exemption
would apply only if the instrument is so framed as to amount to a mere agreement to sell goods
or merchandise and possesses no other characteristics. The majority pointed out that if the exe-
cutant had executed two agreements separately, he would have to pay the stamp duty only on the
instrument of mortgage. There is no reason why the position should be worse for the executant
when he combines the mortgage and the sale in one instrument. As to this, the answer of the
minority was that the frame of the instrument does matter in stamp law. - 29.6 The Patna High Court has agreed" with the minority view of the Allahabad High
Court as already stated. The Rajasthan High Court has held3 that a document which did not exclusively relate

to the sale of goods did not come within this exemption and was chargeable with duty. Here,

the document relating to the sale of a truck provided for payment of price in instalments, and _

also for interest on the unpaid price. It also entitled the seller to seize the truck, if instalments
were not paid in time, and to sell it thereafter, The document was held not to be exempt, be-
cause the right to seize the truck was not a statutory right of the seller, and such terms were
in addition to the agreement relating to the sale of goods. It was therefore taxable as an agree- ment. 29.7. Thus, there is a conﬂict of views, and the need for clariﬁcation is obvious. A decision on the question, what should be the law, requires an examination of the policy
of the exemption. In our opinion, the policy of the legislature appears to be not to tax an amoe-
ment which is for the sale of goods or merchandise. Such sales should be capable of being effected
without any formality like stamping, and the loss of revenue that might be entailed by the
exemption is oﬁset by the convenience of speedy transfer of the goods or merchandise. This reason holds good equality where there is one instrument, as where there are two
instruments.' - T '

It will be proper to observe that if the Legislature intended to conﬁne the operation of
the exemption only to agreements simpliciter for the sale of goods or merchandise, the proper
place for the word "exclusively" would not have been at the end. It would have been before
the phrase "argeement or memorandum of agreement" and not words in juxtaposition with
'-'goods or merchandise". Further, the phrase "agreement or memorandum of agreemen" used
in the opening portion of the "cxemptions" in Article 5, control the three clauses _{a), _(b] and (c) of the "exemptions". It the other View is well--founded, the word "exclusively" .would have
been used not only in one of those clauses, viz. in clause (a), but would have been used an con-
junction with the opening words of the "exemptions" quoted above. To give effect to the other
view would be to hold that the word "exclusively" controls the opening words agreement or

11.2. San: Mum Sugar Man Ltd. v. .S'uga.m' Pandas. A:I.R. 1961 3. Poorramchand v. Basriram Deakisiian, A.l.R. l969 Ray. 313. 4. Para 29.5, supra. Pat. 9, 1o, paras 4 andHtl'(Rai a stnha. JJJ. memorandum of agreement" and thus governs all the three clauses of the exemptions. This is
not permissible, having regard to the phraseology of the "exemptions". The opposite View fur-
ther leads to an obvious anomaly that is illustrated by the following example. Take a case in
which a person executes an agreement for the sale of crop and, by a separate instrument of even
date, mortgages the same crop. The former instrument will, in that case, admittedly fall within
the "exemptions" and he will have to pay stamp duty only on the latter instrument. But if he
joins the two transactions in one and the same instrument he will, according to the argument,
have to pay the stamp duty provided for not only by Article 41. but also by Article 5{ c). This
obviously could not have been intended by the Legislature. Having regard to these considerations, we recommend that Exemption (3.) should be amended
by revising the last few words as "sale of only goods or only merchandise". This will make the
exemption applicable even where the instrument combines as sale and some other transaction,
so long as it does not purport to deal with imrnoveable or intangible property. Of course, even as
regards tangible moveable property, it will not include a pure transaction of hypothecation, gift,
exchange and the like. But the controversy created by the word "exclusively" will not recur. We may mention that the suggested amendment has. in substance, been favoured by most

of the replies to our Questionnaire.'

Introductory. Transactions
by way of
security. Pledge . CHAPTER 3-0 ARTICLE 6

30.1 'While agreements, in general, are dealt with by article 5 , special agreements are dealt
with in the subsequent article. Article 6 levies duty on an agreement relating to (i) deposit of
title--deeds, (ii) p-awn. or (iii) pledge. Duty is chargeable on an instrument evidencing an agreement
relating to such deposit, pawn or pledge where the deposit etc. has been made by way of security
[i] for money, advanced or to be advanced by way of loan, or (ii) for an existing or future debt.
If it is an agreement relating to deposit of title deeds, the title deeds must relate to property other
than a marketable security'-. If it is an instrument of pawn or pledge, the pawn or pledge must be

of movable property. The article is 'not conﬁned to loans on security of movable property. But, in practice, most
instruments falling under the article relate to movable property. 30.2. The principal legal transactions as a result of which a person may create a security
in favour of another, so far as movable property is concerned, are mortgage, charge, piedgc
and hypothecation. In mortgage, there is a conveyance of an interest' in property as security for
the payment of a debt or for the discharge of some other obligations. In a charge, there is no
conveyance of interest in the property, but the charge simply confers upon the charge--holder
certain rights over the property. Mortgages are separately dealt with by article 40. 30.3. A pledge is a species of bailment. In the leading English case on bailments,--Coggs-
v. Bemm-d4--Holt, C.I., enumerated various types of bailments, of which the fourth was vadium,
that is, delivery of goods by a debtor to his creditor, to be kept by him until the debt is dis-
charged. A pledge is to be distinguished from a mortgage, inasmuch as there is no transfer of
property in the goods and, accordingly, no incidental right of foreclosure. This distinction was
strikingly illustrated in one of the English cases', where the pledge of a picture of Madonna and
the child, attributed to a famous painter , was refused a foreclosure order, there being no mort-- gage. performance of a promise is called a pledge'. It should be pointed out that that Act uses the

expressions "pawn" and "pledge" as equivalents of each other. In fact, in the deﬁnition of '

"pledge" in that Act, the bailor is called the pawnor, and the bailee is called the pawnee. The
element: of bailment (transfer of possession) is an essential element of pledge'. A "pawn" is really another name for a pledge, though it is sometimes taken as indicating
these transactions of pledge where the person taking pledge does so as a matter of business.
In England, legislation relating to pawn-brokers imposes certain restrictions on this kind of

business. 30.4. A mere license to take possession, given to the creditor, is not a pledge'. though it

may amount to hypothecation. The twin elements requisite for a pledge--(i) security, and (ii)
delivery of posses-sion--furnish a basis for distinguishing it from other allied transections. 1 As to deposits of marketable securities, see section 23A . ' Compare the deﬁnition of "mortgage deed" in section 20 ?). ' Lord Chorley, Law of Banking (1974). page 289. ' Caggs. v. Befnard. (1703) 2 Ltd. Rayni, 909. ' Frazer v. Eyes. (1895) 11 Times Law Reports 481. i Section 112 , Indian Contract Act, 1872. ' Laiian Prasad v. Rdhmﬂl Ali, A.I.R. I967 S.C. I322 ; (1967) 2 S.C.R. 233
' Ex parts Persons. 16 Q.B.D. 532. Under the Indian Contract Act , the bailment of goods as security for payment of a debt or - 30.5. In his judgment in Hn_Ilday v. Holgnte',i-t/files, 1., described a pledge as a security
intermediate between a lien and a mortgage. By contract, a deposit of goods is made a security
for a debt. but the right to the property 'rests in the pledge only so far as is necessary to secure
the debt. ' - " '

charge and pledge were well known to common law lawyers.
other hand, is a. civil law institution. The _.word -is derived
El'D!Il "i13?p0I1'lBCa". it Was introduced in England through international-trade." it was treated
as effective in equity, being regarded as the equivalent of a charge. It is a legal transaction
as a result of which goods are made available as security for a debt wthout transferring either
the property in them t'.1' the possession to the lender? It_ may, in brief he described as a -security for a debt, which security remains in the possession of a debtor. 30.6. Mortgage,
Hypothecation on

The security is granted by means of a letter of hypothecation. There are two principal
situations where hypothecation is convenient. because a pledge is not practicable. The ﬁrst is
when the goods are temporarily in the custody of third parties". The second is where the goods
are stored in the customer's own warehouse, which cannot be sealed off in such a way as to
enable the bank to become a pledgec. Where it is practicable to seal off -the godown. the practice

_ is'to_ hand over the keys to the bank, in order to -give the bank constructive possession of the

gmds,~--~thereby creating a pledge'. 30.7. A lien, answering to the Incite hypotheca of the Ciyil Lawnis in right conferred by
law, and not by contract, upon one man to retain possession of, or to have a charge upon.
property real or personal belonging to another, until certain demands are satisﬁed": ' ' '

30.8. We have adverted to the distinction between -h)'po'thecation and pledge. This has
has noted in -a few Indian decisions", and is of"nnportance for the stamp law, the "precise-'charg-
irtg article being different in the case of a hyp-othecation without delivery of 'possession.-Tlms; in"an'="Ail!al1abad case', it was contended -that the instrument in question'was_' a'hypothecatioi_1.of-~
movable property, falling within the notiﬁcation" remiting the duty on an unattested deed"'of .'

hypqthecation, and not a pledge falling within Article 6. The contention Was, however, negatived,

on ,t.lie ground that the goods were handed' over to the Bank=in,whose'iavour the document. was _

executed, and there was. therefore, a pledge and not a mere hypothecation.__ ' - , _ _ _
'S5039. This distinction has ﬁgured in the history of the Act also. In"the corresponding Article 29 of the Stamp Act of 1879, the word "hypotl1ecation'° was used. awhile-'in-the'prese'nt: History of the

article. he; ﬁljghle even where possession. was not deliv_ered..- But 'a._I:[.2ale11tta ca__se',_t_ook the nzrjesir ,that__,
the; yard "hypothecation" was used only in the sense of'a, pledge, 'a_n_d'_he_nce', in' _l_he',_abs'en'eeZ"_

ofq.§.,j1P[qyiSlOn for.delivery of possession, that article would _not apply. The. words"'paurn"of,'~

plpdg" were substituted in article 6 when the Act _Was,reﬁ'i§§,etlﬂin .18_99;_,ThllS,,_§t_»h)?12Q§T1¢C&iif2I1_,,_

of movable property, where possession is not given to the creditor," doesnot fall 'under-inst-1i'iit:i=f'

6 t_hougl1 it may fall under "mortgage" ( article 40 ). _

I: D. An amendment of 1904, relevant to_ another point under article-6,_-rnayﬁ also be Article 6(2) (as amended in 1904) includes 7not'"onl§r"loaris' *vi.'hi2:li-are"c'bhtén1'po't'a'rietfvI!s'
nah' " 'agreement (as held to be the case under" tlm-'original' article where-the words "'loa'n-1

Sceurizyfcir " future. The eﬁect of the amendment is to place all such instruments on the same footin'g,-'whether

"1 irrhrirday v. Hui!gare,"{l36S)l1aW'Rt3Apt!'l:i5 3 Ex-ch. 399-

' Lord Clmrlcy, Law of Banking (1974), page 291. s 5% Kg Hamafhon Young and Gun. (1905) 2 Kir1g's Bench 772. -- ___ 7 _ _ _
4- Lod Charley, Law of Banking (1974), page 322. - - ' - ' - " . 1 ' '
I Fishu-, law of Mortgage (6th Ed), para 5 cited by Donough, Stamp Act, Commentary on Article 5. _' _=. {la} Sfmla Banicing Co. V. Pritamr. A.I.R. 1960 Puuj. 42. 1 Sn' Harm': Chandra V. Punjab Nan-'anal' Bank Ltd" A.I.R. 1958 All. 864. 9 See para 30.11, inﬁ-a. 9 K0 Sh!-Pay Atmg V. Srrarag Steel & Cr:-., (1894) I.L.R. 21 Cal. 244-. 1" Queen Empress V. Debendrn Rrisfrrra Mfﬂer, (I390lI.L.R. 2? Cal8T

:34 of I_,awfT7.----26

Effect of
reductions and
remissions. Effect of the
notiﬁcation. in article 6. Reoorum eodntian 198 or not their execution is simultaneous with the loan advanced. On this point, of course, no modi-
ﬁcation of the article is required. 30.11. For a complete statement of the position relevant to article 6 , the clicct of certain
reductions and remissions should also be taken into account, though they ostensibly relate to article 40. The levy of duty on hypothecation under "rnortagage" ( article 40 ) created hardship
and Government had to issue certain remissions and reductions, now consolidated in a notiﬁcation
of 1931. The following reductions and remissions should, therefore, be noted' :-- 31.1 Article 7 deals with two kinds of powers, vi;t., ti) power to appoint trustees, and (ii) power Article 7-
to appoint property. It provides that an instrument, not being a will, by which such power is
.cx.erciscd, is chargeable with a duty of ﬁfteen rupees. Where a person is invested with power to determine the disposition of property of which he
is not the owner, he is said to have power to appoint such property}

The case law on this article reveals no serious diiﬁculty.
An Allahabad case'? decides what is an "appointment". A Bombay case" holds that where the executors of a will, holding property in trust for a
charity, execute a deed appointing the property to an orphanage, the deed is chargeable under this
 A Calcutta case' decides that where the Panch of a community is given power to remove
8 lhrhnit and to appoint new Shebaits, duty is chargeable, when a new Shebait is appointed.
We have no further comments on the article. 31.2 Article 8 levies duty on appraisenacnt or valuation. An appraisernent is distinguished ,ami¢1¢s_
kg',-an ward' though the duty is the same on both. An award requires a judicial determination,
whiﬂpnn appraisemcnt does not. Exemption (a) to the article is based on an early Englishdecisioo". that an agpraisﬁmeent
 for the information of one party only and not in any manner binding between the parties
is no! liable to stamp duty. In the same case' Lord CJ. said : '

"An 'appraiser' is a person who values or appraisos any estate or property real or personal,
or any interest, in possession or otherwise in any estate or property, or any goods,
merchandise or effects, for or in expectation of any hire, gain, fee or reward (46 Geo.
III, e. 43, S. 4 ). This has been interpreted to mean a person who bears the character _
or follows the calling or occupation of an appraiser." '

i I changes are required in this section on which thereyis very little Indian case-law. _ 31.3 Under article 9 , an apprenticeship deed is chargeable to duty (5 rupees). It includes ,amtq1¢g_._. .
every writing relating to service or tuition of any apprentice or. servant, placed with any master §'DP£[1'""°°'h'P
ttrlcnm any profession, trade or employment. - '- - a

A deed of articles of clerkship by which a person is articles to any attorney, ischargeablc
with a graph higher duty' (Rs. 250}. T

'* exemption under article 9 refers to the Apprentices Act, 1850, which h_as been replaced. R=°°I1lﬂ1=ﬂﬂﬁ5°'1
The reference should be substituted by the Apprcoticels Act, 1961. Magistrates no longer
wortas apprentices, and this part of the exemption should be omitted. We recommend that the
article should be so amended. 2 E - ' '

'3'.'t.-'l- Article ID levies duty on the articles of association of a Company. It has buf-h:ld*,.-'\T|5¢'«_|¢1D-
that I. special resolution altering the articles of association on'. I. company is not lialicio duty, even

1 See section 69, Explanation, Indian Succession Act. 1925. _ _
' In rerqﬁrence trader section 5 ?, Stamp Act , A.l'.R. 1956 All. 25 l_'5.lI.}. = In is Amara Haj! Do-mod namza Orphanage, (1911) I.L.R. 35 Born. «:44. * .-inn-ssarv. Gassoirt Gaspar, A.I.R. 1919 Cal. 130, 735, 737. 5 Arﬂﬂ 12; ' Jlﬂlllou V. Fe", ([860) 5 M & S 240; also stocjackrou V. Stopherd, (1834) 3 Law Journal Ex. 95. 31.7. Article 12 levies duty on an "Award", that is to say, any decision in writing an
arbitrator or umpire, not being an award directing a partition, on a reference "made other_wisc,'.than
by an order of the Court in the course "of a suit". The article is silent on the question whether a written agreement at arbitration. is required.
It would be of interest to note that section 2(a) of the Arbitration Act, 1940, deﬁnes' an arbitration
agreement as a written agreement to submit present orfuture diﬁerences to arbitration, whether
an arbitrator is named thereunder or not. Section 2(1) ) of the Arbitration Act deﬁnes an
"award" .as meaning an arbitr-at:'ion_ award. Thus, under the Arbitration Act , t11er:.:"E:'an be
no award without an agreenient for arbitration is'writing3. Every decision by an arbitrator is
not an award. It must be :2. decision oln a written arbitration agreement. '

This aspect of the matter is not brought out very clearly in article 12 and the result is that
controversy arises as to whether an arbitrator's award in writing, given on an oral agrecrnent for
reference, falls within the article. This question usually arises where there is a family arrangement
as aresult of an award'. It is pr r.t.hat the expression "award" in article 12 should be given
the same meaning as under the Arbitration Act . That in fact, has been the judicial interpretation'
in a recent case. by an order of the Court in the course of '3. suit" govern the whole article, and are not to be
read merely with "award directing a partitiolnl". . . .- = . 31.8. In the light of the above discussion, we recommend that article 12 sl1'ould:'be'i'evised I

as under : 32.1. Article 13 levies duty on a'hill of Exchange (other than one payable on demand). The *'"i'3"= 13-
duty varies according to the period within which the Bill is payable (after date or sight). It also
varies according to the value. - I It is not necessary to go into details of the scheme prescribed by the article for calculation
ofduties. But even a cursory reading of the article will show that, in the first place-. there is a
difference in the duty depending on whether the bill is payable within 3 months after date or
sight, or whether it is payable within 6 months after date or sight, or whether it is payable within
9 months after date or sight, or whether it is payable within one year atter date or sight, or
whether it is payable at more than one year after date or sight. After the date of payability is
so ascertained, the next step is to have a look at the amount of the bill. The amount of "the" duty
vggics "according as the bill is for Rs. 500 or less, Rs. 1000 or less, and more than rupees one
tho_usnu_d.' In the ﬁrst two cases (Rs. 500 or less, or one thousand or less), the duty is fixed,
while inthe last mentioned cases, the duty is ad valorem. - Primn fucie, this appears to be a complex scheme. A bill of exchange is a conimereial docu-
 and negotiable. It', therefore, a. simple provision could be devised 'which would reduce the
calculations and labour necessitated by the present compleilty, the attempt would be worthwhile.
Itswas with this ohieet in visrvv that we put, a speciﬁc question in our Questionnaire', setting out
the scheme which, we thought, could be considered. Since many of the replies received agree

 the-- scheme which-, we thought, could be considered. '. Since many of the replies received

agtee with the scheme proposed by us, we think that it is proper that the suggestion put by
usm our -Questionnaire should be pursued and carried out. 32.2. it may be noted that in England, now, the duty on an inland bill of exchange or a Position in
promissory note has been simpliﬁed" as follows" .-- E"3"'"d'

 W"Bill of Exchange or Promissory Note of any kind whatsoever (except a bank note)---drawn
. o-r expressed to be payable, or actually paid or endorsed, or in any manner negotiated,
in the United Kingdom." ' - s. d. (The duty is 2d)
. _ 2d
'i" 32d.--3. We, therefore. recommend that in article 13 , in clnusestb) and (c) respectively, a duty Recoiomeitdntiou T
of-2 rupees SD paise and 5 rupees for every one thousand rupees should be substituted (for the
present duty). A ﬂat duty would be still better, but, _will, perhaps, be unacceptable. (The duty

_ has already been reduced by a Government notiﬁcation/to _1=,t2 of that given in the Act)'. «,,,_.;32-3A." It would appear that by a very recent notiﬁcation? the remission of stamp duty that
'ltlsiﬁanted so far in regard to stamp duty on Bills of'Exchange and ptornissory-notes has been
uniﬁed. The remission tmder the previous notiﬁcation reduced the duty from what is mentioned
in article 13(b)(c) to 1»'5tl1 thereof. In modification of this remission, the recent notiﬁcation adopts
the proportion of U2 of the rate given in" the Act. " Certain proposals were made in our Ques-
 in. regard to these ins_t1'uments in order to simplify the rate structure so as to avoid elabo-
l' :_'cai_lculations. The ratesmoiv require revision in vievv=of_'the notiﬁcation which Wm issued
i'tlieQuestionnaire. ' '- - T 5 . . I 4 "e - ' 

 
 

'Io.a1. ' Finance 'Act, 1961. section 33(1) (Eng) . | _'1'!ie duty (expressed in the previous currency), is 2d. ' Saa1'eduction'ol' duty notiﬁed under SD. 199 (E), dated 16th March, l9?6. my ifthc but does not mus R:-.500 . . . Rs. 9.62;, Rs. 2.50
uplu Rs. Leno . _ . . . . . . Rs. 1.25 Rs. 2.50
for Rs. 24100 . . . . . . . Rs. 2.50 Km. 5.00
for Rs. 5,011) . . . . . . . Rs. 6.25' Rs. 11.50 (ii) If payable between 3-6 months. _ _
if the bill does not emceed Is. 500 . . . . Rs. I .25 Rs. 2.50
for Rs. 1,000 . . . . . . . . Rs. 2.50 ls. 2.50
for Rs. 2,000 . . . . . . . . Rs. 5 .00 R5. 5 
for Rs. 5,000 . . . . . . . .' Rs. 12.50 Rs. 32.50 (iii) If payable between 6-9 months. . . " = 
if the bill does not exceed Rs. 500 . . . . Rs. 1 .87; Rs. 2.50
for Rs. 1,000 . . I . . . . . . Rs. 3.7! Rs. 2.50
for Rs. 2,000 . . . ._ . . . . Rs. 7.50 Rs. 5.00
for Rs. 5,000 . . . . . . . . Rs. 13.75 Rs. 12.50
{M if oayablc between 9-12 months. if the bill does not exceed Is. 500 Rs. _ 2. 50 Rs. 2.50
for Rs. Loco . . Rs. 5 .00 Rs. 2.50
for Rs. 2,000 . . . . . . . . 11:. 10.00 RI. 5 .W
for Rs. s,oou- . . -. . T_ . . . . Rs-. 25.09 in. 12,59. if payable at more than one _ _ -' '
if the bill does not exceed Rs. "130 R3. 5 -99 It 5 .3
59,35? Lmo _ , ., . Rs. 10.00 _'.5.tI3
ﬁn» B_s_ 2.000 _ . Rs. 20.00 .101!)
for Rs; 5,900 _ Rs. 30.00 -ﬁn!'
Artusuotx f . . _. ,. . Nmiﬁggun 5}:-__(}_.199{E.]. 16th 19'ii5.'.----In exercise of the powers couitrt ll _
(3) of subsection (1) of section 9 of the lndian stamp Act. 1899 (2 of 1899) an<i._i=} . 0

 

1 Question 31. _ _ _
3 our Questionnaire was sent to that Minn:-0'3. _' ' _ ' ' . ' In calculating the present duty. the notiﬁcation of 1976 :s_t_o be borne in mind. _. 
4 The proposed rate is Rs. 2.50 for every I,0ﬂ'J1-npusor part In {B}. and Rs. Shrew? L909 1111156

" A fresh notiﬁcation for usance notes issu6d_53' "ﬁll" i"3ﬁt"ﬁ01'I5 lﬁﬁhiiﬂntﬂ 50 ﬂlb 710555315053 09 H. ' 'J95 -.
will be required. of the notiﬁcations of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department. of
Revenue) No. 15, dated the 15th May, 1957, and No. 6, dated the 14th July. 1961, the Central
Government hereby directs that with effect from the 1st June. 1976 the proper stamp duty charge-
able on 131115 of Exchange speciﬁed in items (13) and ic) in article 13 of the First Schedule to the
said Act and promissory notes speciﬁed in item (b) of article 49 of the said Schedule shall be re-
duced to one-half of the rates speciﬁed against the said items (b) and (C) in the said article 13 : vities jointly undertaken with agricultural operationsg: ' (b) "crops" include products of agricultural-operations; (c) the expression "marketing of crops" including the processing of crops prior to marketing
by agricultural producers or any organisation of such producers.
Explanation" 2.-----The duty chargeable shall, wherever mcessnry, be rounded oﬁ
ﬁve pulse. to the next

[No. 16-F. No. 47I,Iil7/'76-Cus. VII] 0. P. MEI-IRA, Dy. Secy. 32.4. Article 14 imposes :1 duty on a bill of lading [inchrding a through Bill of lading),
subject to certain exemptions. A bill of lading in respect of inland navigation also falls within
this artlcie.' ' . - There is an important remission granted by the Government which, as already pointed out,9
should be incorporated in article 13 , in so far as it relates to a hill of lading. We, there;tore,_ re-
coihauad that the following exemption should be added below article 14 :'--- : "'Exemption.----BiIl of hiding issued by a railway company or administration oruan Inland'

Steamer Company for the conveyance of goods or' animals."
, Iﬁxcmption (a) to article 14 also requires change. At present. it reads--- ! lifts) Bill of landing when the goods therein described pre received at a place within th_c__. ,
' port as deﬁned under; the Indian Ports Act ,.1BB9, and are toibc " 5 jIti'ﬂIotild'be pointed out that the Indian Ports Act, 1389 was replaced in 1908 by the Indian

Pork 1908 (15 of 1908). Apart from that, certain Acts dealing with major 'ports, have Ilsa
 In view of the above position, we rccominend that Exemption (a) should be re- worded as follows : ' Question 32. Article 14-- in

tion
mnddemaption. I CHAPTER 33' ARTICLE 15 Acgiﬁiied ft_--_ 33.1. Article 15 levies duty on a bond. We are not concerned n_ow with the case law 'as
"N" to the meaning of this e;;pression-- -a matter which we have already dealt with while considering

Is In _word.s"not _ _ _ A ,_
otherwise 1' the deﬁnlticns. Nor do we pause to consider the details of the rate structure as given in*thl*{
mm" {'3' ' article. ' ' - i ' 7 . A

Conﬁning ourselves to the test of the article, we note that there is a difference of opinion.
as to the interpretation of the words "not.being.otherwise provided for by this Act," which occur
in this article. According to one view,' thesewords mean "not being provided for by any
other prov.".rr'on at this Act dealing with bonds". According to this view, it is only where the
other provision of the Act { under which the instrument falls) deals with bonds, that the appli-
cability of this article to the instrument is excluded. ' It may be noted that there are, -in" the
Schedule, articles dealing with bonds of speciﬁc types e.g., Administration-bond (No. .2], Bot- tomry bond (No. 16), etc. Accordingto. this view, it is only where the instrument" falls under

one of those articles dealing with speciﬁc types of bomis that it can be held to be "otherwise
provided for" within the meaning of article' 15. . The other view takes the words ','not otherwise provided for'_' in an unrestricted sense,_and
simply as meaning, "not providedlfor in any other part of the'Ae ." According to this view. article 15 will not apply to an instrument falling within any other article, irrespective of the
question whether such other article deals with bonds or not." .9: _ _ such an instrument is not "otherwise provided for by this Act", and can, therefore, fall ._--nnder
. article 15 , while, according torthesecond view, the instrurnent must be regarded as "otherwise .- ' ' provided for by this Act" and, therefore, as not being within the scope of article 15. . ._ 

 

 Although the express exenaptionof' "debenture" and 'the Note at the end-of the
article would seem to support_ the first view, we are of_the 'opinion tha't"t11'e second "view?-15$
preferable, because if a document is covéfedlby a speciﬁc entry,----'--in whatever-forn1'--«:i--it. should ..
not be regarded as a bond. Such a construction is n1ore._in_co;1so_nance with the ger_te__ra1,seherne
and intendment of the Act. and with the rule of construction that the speciﬁc 'n1}is't' exclude
the general. ' ' ' ' '

' , 33.4 It is, in our opinion, desirable to clarify the position, by giving effect to the shcond
view. We, therefore, recommend Iitiattor the words, "not being otherwise provided for by this
Act or by the Court Fees Act . 1870", the words "not_being_ otherwise 'provided-'for by any
provinon of this Act wliefher or not reIafz'ng't'o particular types of "bonds or by the' Court Fees
Act , l370,_'m' any enactment corresportdingto that Act in force in any p«;Irt.offInd_:'a" . ,.sh,qu!d
be substituted in article 15. .. .» _ _ p. - I. . T'. ,1

.4

Recommendation. We may add that the views expressed in response to our Questionnaire'! rave', gains!
favoured such an amendment. ' " ' 1

i. ,L. H. sugar F¢'u'(.'.C,t1|t'_}-',_'f"'l'i'.i;i!.?'if\'. Mon', .g|..T._R_. 1.941111; :43; 355, 26§"rp£;i'v:nE§:{'a 'Mute; 2. L. H. Sr.-gar Factory. Pilibhif v. Mari, AIR. W41 xiii. 2-43,' 34, 274 {per Bajnai and Dar; JJ.]."' " 3. Question 33. * 264 CHAPTER 34
ARTICLES l6--2l

34-.l. Article 16 levies duty on "bottoniry bonds", (so named after the ''bottom'' or keel
of a ship). A bottomry bond is a contract in the nature of hypothecation of a ship, as a security for
money lent or expended upon her without reserving any claim against the owner in person,
and usually made by the master-abroad, stipulating that the money advanced, together with
the agreed premium, shall be paid within a stipulated number of days after the safe arrival of
the vessel at a named port of discharge. The master of a ship has, as an agent of necessity,
under certain circumstances, authority' to pledge or hypothecate the ship and its cargo as
security for the money advanced to be expended upon her. The contract is called "bottomry",
and the bond 3 "hottomry bond". From the language of the article, it appears that it is conﬁned to a bond executed by the
master only. Hypothecation of the cargo is called a "respondentia bond". 34.2. The money is lent only upon the security of the ship. Hence, where the owner
undertook a personal liability which was to subsist for a period of about ﬁve months from the
date oi the bond, it was held, that it was not a bottomry bond.'

34-.2A. It should be noted, that there is no such provision as article 16 in the (English)
Stamp Act, 1891. The English Act expressly exempts "instruments for the sale, transfer, or
other disposition, either absolutely or by way of mortgage, or otherwise, of any ship or vessel,
or any part, interest, share, or property of or in any ship or vessel". This would cover botto-
mry--bonds. In India also, a similar exemption has been introduced by section 3(2) . Article
16 must, therefore, be read with and subject to section 3(2) , the effect of which will be to
exclude, from its purview, bonds on all ships registered in the manner indicated by section
3(2) , though not others. 34.3. It may be noted, that bottomry bonds were in vogue before the days of submarine
cables and wireless cornrntmications. Authority had to be given to the masters to act on behalf
of the owners and cargo owners when, in emergency, they could not communicate with them.
B.a!tomry--bonds and respondentia bonds are now obsolete'. The article however may be left
as it is since it may be useful for those exceptional emergencies where wireless fails. 33.4. Article 17 levies a duty of ﬁve rupees on instruments of cancellation, (if attested and
if not otherwise provided for}, including an instrument by which an instrument previously executed
is cancelled. The inclusive portion is unnecessary, and should be omitted. We recommend
accordingly. ' '

We are also of the view that an instrument cancelling a will should be exempted from tax. 34.5. It should be noted, that an instrument cancelling a will has by notiﬁcation' been
expressly exempted from the duty under Article 17. This is an important exemption, and should
ﬁnd place in the Act. As regards the phraseology to be used for incorporating the substance of the
notiﬁcation, the word "cancellation" is used in the notiﬁcation and could be adopted, though the Indian Succession Act , in its provisions relating' to wills, uses the word "revoked"!

l. Chorley, Law of Shipping (1960), page 178. 2. Amrn Katha Sahib Mercoyar v. Mamannthon Chem'. (I399) I.L.R. 22 Mad. 26; 8 M.L.J. 159. 3. Charley, Law of Shipping (1960), page 32. 4. Notiﬁcation of 1931, item No. 112. 5. Section 62 , Indian Succession Act, 1925 (unprivileged wills} and section 1 '2 (privileged wills). 24 M of Law,f7'l'-27. Bottom:-y bond.- scction 16. No duty in
English law. Bottomry bomb
now absolcte. Article I? Article 18- Introductory. Posiﬁon
regarding

incumbrances. Article 19. We recornrnend that the article should be amended on the above points. We may note that such
an amendment has been favoured by many replies' to our Questionnaire. 34.6. Under article 13 , stamp duty is levied on a certiﬁcate of sale (in respect of each pro-
perty put up as a separate lot and sold), granted to the purchaser of any property sold by public

' auctio11 by a civil or revenue court or Collector or other revenue ofﬁcer. 34.7. Before 1394, there were conflicting decisions as to whether incumbrances should be
included in the computation of stamp duty under this article. The majority view was that where
property was sold in execution of a decree subject to an incumbrancc, the amount of stamp duty
payable on the sale certiﬁcate would be calculated only on the amount of the purchase money,
and not on the amount of the purchase money plus the incumbrancef-' But the Bombay High
Court took the view that where property was sold at a court sale subject to a charge, the certiﬁ-
cate of sale should bear duty calculated ad valorem for the amount of the purchase money, plus
the principal mortgage money charged upon the amount." A subsequent case' of the same 'High
Court discusses the question how far mortgages should be entered in the certifican.-.--the deci-
sion being that they should be entered only if the mortgage is admitted by the party or had been
established by a decree or had been declared under section 282 of the Code of 1882 and the sale
had been subject to them. The case does not discuss the question of stamp. To overcome these conﬂicting views, Act 6 of 1894 added the word "only", after the words
"purchase money", in the second column, opposite to clause (c) of the article, and thereby accept- ed the majority view. 34.8. There is, however, still some diﬁerence of opinion in a few Bombay decisions with
respect to a second certificate for sole, issued when the ﬁrst certiﬁcate is found to be-deﬁcient in
stamp. Thus, in one case,~'* where a certiﬁcate of sale was granted on insufﬁcient stamp, and the
insuﬂicient stamp and penalty were ordered to be recovered from the grantee, who wanted a fresh
certiﬁcate of sale from the civil court, it was held that the civil court having granted a certiﬁcate
was not bound to grant. a fresh certiﬁcate so that the grantee might escape the penalty. But in a
later case" the court said that the earlier case merely decided that the court was not obliged to grant

a second certiﬁcate. It did not hold that the court could not do so. 34.9. As to the decision in the earlier Bombay case, it is difﬁcult to see how penalty can,
with any propriety, be recovered from the grantee when the certiﬁcate is prepared and signed by
a government oflicer. The stamp has to be borne by the grantee according to section 29 (E), but,
in practice, the stamp too is purchased according to the advice tendered by some oflicer of the

CO1II'l. As the point is not found in" any recent case, an amendment on the point is not required. 34.10. Article 19 levies a duty on certiﬁcate or other document evidencing the right or title
of the holder thereof or any other person, either to any shares, scrip or stock in or of any incor-
porated company or other body corporate or to become proprietor of shares, stock or scrip of any

such company or body. 'Share' means share in the share capital of a company, and includes stock except when a
distinction between stock and share is expressed or implied. ' 1. Q. 84. 2. (a) Jurainprosad *5'. Ram Nara-r'n, (1893) I.L.R. 15 All. 107. (b) Refcrcnceﬁrom the Board ofﬂcvemze. {[384} I.L.R. 10 Cal. 92. (c) Reference under Stamp Act , s. 49 (1882) l.L.R. 5 Mad. 18 (F.B.). (d) Reference under Stamp Act , s. 46 (1834) I.L.R. 7 Mad. 42]. 3. (a) Meer Kcrisur Khan Ma:-ad Khan v. Emgraiu'.-n Khan Musakiran. (I391) I.L.R. 15 130111. 532.
(I3) Sim Nagir: dos Jay Chane' v. Hnlalkarc Nathawa Gkecrfa (1881) I.L.'R. 5 Bom. 471 (F.B.). 4. S. C. Cfxedambarays v. Srrbmo Ram Chandra Yeﬂapur . (1894), I.L.R. 18 Born, 1975. 5. Nandram Matiram v. Rocha Biron, (1385) l'.L.R. '9 Bom. 526. 6. Collector ofdlrmedabao' v. Ra-motion, A.l.R. 1930 Born. 392. 394- 207 Scrips are also in the nature of certiﬁcates. when debentures are allotted to subscribers upon
terms that the same shall be payable by instalments, a provisional scrip is issued to the subscribers,
to be exchanged for a regular debenture after all the instalments are paid up. 34.11. In a Bombay case,' a certiﬁcate of membership issued by a provident society, insuing
the payment of money on the death of the member of the society, was held to be chargeable under article 47 (Policy of insurance) , and not under article 19. There does not appear to be any conﬂict of decisions or obscruity of language or other
serious difficulty with respect to this article. '

34.12. Article 20 deals wth a Charter-party, which is any instrument (except an agreement
for the hire of a Tug-steamer], whereby a vessel or some speciﬁed principal part thereof is let for
the speciﬁed purposes on the charter, whether the instrument include, rt penalty clause or not. A
charter party is a contract made between the freighter {i.e. the person who charters or hires the
ship or a part for the carriage of his goods) and the owner (or the masters or their agent) (the
master generally having antlrority written or implied, from the terms of his employment), contain-
ing the terms for freight, and, in this contract, the owners or masters bind themselves, the ship,
tackle and furniture that the goods freighted shall be delivered (dangers of the sea excepted), at
the place of consignment : and they also covenant to provide seamen, rigging etc. and then equip
the ship completely which they also warrant seaworthy. The freighter, on his part, stipulates to pay
the freight. A charter party is distinguishable from a bill of lading, inasmuch as the charter--party
relates to the entire ship where as the bill of lading only ascertains the contents oi the particular
cargo. 34.13. The word "chartcrparty" is derived from the expression "carta partita", which, in
medieval latin, meant an instrument written in duplicate, on a single sheet and then divided by
indented edges so that each part ﬁtted" the other. '

There are three types of charter party :-- A voyage or a time charter party confers simply the right to have the goods carried by a
particular vessel, while, in the case of charter by demise, the possession and control is also
trumferred to the charterer3. 34,14. It may be of interest to note that in England, the duty on charter parties has been
abolished, having been found to be unproductive,' we put in the Questionnaire" a questson whether
a similar course would not be useful for facilitating the development of shipping in this country.
Thu": has been considerable support for such a course in the replies. We, therefore, recommend,

deletion of Article 20. Article 21 Article 21 was omitted in 1927. 1. In re Himmnr Provident Society Ltd, (1901) I.L.R. 25 Born. 376. 2. B. C. Mitra. Carriage by Sea (1972). page 8. 3. Payne. Carriage of Goods by Sea (1968), page 9. 4. Finance Act . 1949 (Eng). 5. Question 85- Article 20. Article 20 to be
deleted. Article 22- Intmductory. Qperation

bankruptcy law. CHAPTER 35 ARTICLE 22

35.1. Article 22 levies a duty, under the head of "composition-deed", on four kinds of
instruments by which a debtor arrives at some agreement with his creditors for the discharging
of his debts, namely :-- tors.' This is often referred to as an assignment." It covers what is known in
England as a clausio bonorumf but, in England, it is expected that it should require
the creditors to accept less than the ftdl amount ; (2) an instrument whereby payment of a composition or divide-nt on their debts is

secured to the creditors" ; (3) an instrument, whereby a debtor is allowed to continue his business, under the
supervision of inspectors, for the beneﬁt of his creditors ; (4) an instrument whereby a debtor is allowed to continue his business, under letters
of licencee, for the beneﬁt of his creditors. The duty is ten rupees in each case. 35.2. Ordinarily, the article operates before adjudication. Independently of bankruptcy law,
an insolvent debtor, that is, a debtor who is not able to pay his debts in full or as they become due
and payable, can enter into a valid arrangement with his creditors by which, without paying his
debts in full, he obtains a release from the claims of the arranging creditors. These arrangements
usually take the form either of a composition with creditors, or of an assignment of the arranghg
debtor's property to a trustee for their beneﬁt.' The England, there exists legislation prcscrifmg
certain formalities for such deeds of arrangement." There is no such restriction in India. 35.3. A debtor who is unable to pay his debts in full may arrange his affairs with his credi-
tors without having recourse to a petition for his own adjudication." Arrangements between debtors
and creditors are known as composition agreements. A composition agreement may take the form
of an agreement by which the creditors agree to abandon their claims in consideration of receiving
a composition on their debts, that is. a smaller sum bearing an agreed proportion to the amount
of their respective clairns.1° Or it may take the form of an assgment by which the debtor assigns
the whole of his Property to a trustee for the realisation and rate-able distribution of the proceeds
amongst all his creditors, or amongst those who assent to and take the beneﬁt of the assignment,
and the creditors, in consideration of such assignment, release their original claims and ocean; the
dividend payable under the agreement in discharge of their debts." The diiferenoe between these
two methods is that while a simple composition agreement does not, of itself, operate -as an act of
insolvency, an assignment amounts to an act of ins-olvency."-13 ' '

. Subbarcya v. VyI'}rz'h'.v:ga, (1893) I.'.L.R. 16 Mad. 35, B9. . Cirandrnsfrankar v. Bar' Magma, (1914) I.L.R. 38 Born. 576; A.I.R. 1914 Born. 55, 55. 57.
Compare section Itf2'_|{a), Deeds of Arrangement Act. 1914. Reg. v. Cooban, (1886) 18 Q.B.D. 169, referred to in I.L.R. 38 Born. STE.
Chandrcrirnnkar v. Bar' Megan, (1914) I.L.R. 38 'Bum. 575, 590. See below, point relating to article 38. See Halsbury, 3rd Ed., Vol. 22, pp. 383-89. . See infra. . Mnlla, Insolvency Law (1958). page 341. . Mulla, Insolvency Law (1958), page 341. . See (a] Maiackchand v. Manifal. (1904) I.L.R. 28 Born. 354, 367-363; (b) Re Hanan, (1872) LR. 1' Ch. App. 723, 726. 12. Section 9(a) , Presidency-towns Insolvency Act: 13. Section 1(1) -ta). Baulcruptcy Act, 1914 "conveyance or auignrnent". |--|l-- --t:~.cno;..ig\5n;t-.5nu-- But it is not open to every creditor to base an insolvency petition upon it. Thus, a creditor
who has been a party or privy to the assignment is estopped from setting it up as an act or
insolvency. It should he noted that the assignment must be for the beneﬁt of all creditors; other-
wise it may, amount to a fraudulent preference, which is an act of insolvency on which any other
creditor may base a petition. 35.4 Composition agreements of both the classes' are covered by the article in the Stamp
Act . In addition, it covers instruments providing for inspectors and for continuance of business
under letters of licence. An analogous article? levies a duty of it) rupees on a "letter of licence,"'--i.e. an, agreement
that the creditors shall, for a speciﬁed time, suspend their claims and allow the debtor to carry
on business at his own discretion. In England, letters of licence are, by the Deeds of Arrangement
Act," required to comply with certain formalities prescribed by statute. 35.5. After this preliminary discussion, we shall proceed to consider the various instruments
to which article 22 applies. 35.6. Out of the four categories mentioned above,* assignments and compositions may be
tﬂen together. In a Madras case5, a debtor and the ﬁrm of which he was a member had been
adjudimled banlcrupts in Mauritius, and a receiver appointed by the court. Subsequently, the
creditors met, and resolved that if the adjudication was annulled, a composition payable by
instalments be accepted in full satisfaction of their debts, and that the bankrupfs estate be
assigned to that firm, and the plaintiff be appointed trustee to carry out such agreement. An
instrument was executed to give effect to this resolution, which was also approved by the
insolvency court. The court ordered that the bankrupfs estate should vest in the plaintiff, who
was appointed trustee to carry out the composition, with full powers of realisation. The plaintiff
now sued to recover the nrovt able and immovable property of the bankrupt in lndia. The Court
held that the transaction substantially amounted to a transfer by the debtors of their property
for the beneﬁt of their creditors, and had been duly stamped as a composition deed. In a Bombay case," it was held that the deed in question fell under the first class. In this
case, the debtor, with the consent of the creditors, executed a deed making over all the speciﬁed -assck to certain named creditors. The creditors coming in by a particular date under the deed

. Iﬁﬂd that after all the goods and properties had been made over to the trustees, no other claims

with regard to the amounts due to them should remain outstanding against the dehtor- The
dead also provided that the trustees were to manage the properties for the beneﬁt of the creditors,
and the money realised from time to time was to be distributed among such creditors in proportion
to their claims. Subsequently, in a suit brought by the trustees to recover possession of a house
comprised in the deed, the question arose whether the deed was a composition deed. The
 Courtheldthatthe deedwasacontpositiondeethasitfcllwithinclass (U ofthe
deﬁnition in article 22 as an instrument executed by a debtor whereby he conveys his property
for the beneﬁt of his creditors. 35.7. The third and fourth categories of instruments mentioned above can be distinguished
thus. In the case of the inspectors mentioned in article 22 , though the article is silent as to
who should appoint these inspectors, it is presumed that the inspectors are nominated by the
<21-editors. In the letter of licence, the claims of the creditors are suspended for a speciﬁed tine,
arid the debtor is allowed to carry on his business at his own di.s'r:r-extort.'

I. Para 35.3 supra. 2. Article 38. 3. Section l(2)(c) and (d), Deeds of Agreement Act, 1914 (Eng), William on Bankruptcy (-1953).-PEI! 368-. 4. Para35.l. supra. 5. Subbaraya v. Vytﬁioiinga. (1893) I.L.R. 16 Mad. 85. 6. C!lrana'ra.rhonIt-ar v. Bar' Mayan, (I914) I.L.R. 3-S Born. 576. A.I.R. 1914 Born. 55, 56. 7. Cf. Article 38. Analogous
article- Article 38- Letter of Licence. (1) .3115 (3)
Assignment: and

compositions. Article 38. Position" after
adjudimtion. Procedure under
Insolvency Acts. Meaning of
"Inspectors" in
Article. 11. Practical utility
limited. Recommendation
to amend article 22. 35.3. Where it is a deed falling under article 38 as a letter of licence, the business is carried
on at the discretion of the debtor. It is doubtful how far such a deed is of practical importance,
as presumably the debtor has already mis-managed his business earlier, thus incurring the debts,
and -one wonders if the creditors would allow him to "manage his business further at his own
discretion.' '

35.9. Under the Insolvency Acts," after adjudication, the court appoints the insolvent to
manage the trade or his property in such. manner as the CONT: directs. In such cases, the discretion
of the insolvent is controlled by the court. Therefore, where it is a deed whereby provision is
made for the continuance of the debtor's business "under the supervision of inspectors", it can
be assumed that the inspectors would be nominated by the creditors. 35.10. As regards the procedure for inspecLion,_the relevant provisions in the Insolvency
Actsi provide for a committee of inspection for the purpose of superintending the administration
of the insolvenfs property by the oﬂicial receiver. Under the Insolvency Acts, the committee
of inspection are the creditors themselves or those who hold general powers of attorney from
the creditors. The court has to aua'.':or.".se the appointment of such a committee. 35.11. The question whether, under the Stamp Act , Article 22 , 'inspectors' means those
appointed from among the creditors themselves to supervise the debtor's business, and whether
they have to be approved by the court (as under the Insolvency Act ): is not beyond doubt.
However, one general comment that can be made with respect to deeds of inspectorship (similar
to the comment already made with regard to letters of licence), is that such deeds do not appear
to be commonly used. No case law on these two types of composition deeds is available. 35.12. With regard to the practical use of these deeds, it isinteresting to note the history
of section 67A of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920. This section was added by section 5 of the Act of 1926. Before the amendment, there was no such provision in this Act, though
there were, in the Presidency towns Insolvency Act , sections 88 and 89, which provided for
the setting up of a committee of inspection by the creditors for the purpose of superintending
the administration of the insolvenfs property by the receiver. In 1924, the Civil Justice Com-
mittee made a recommendation for the addition of such a section, making the following observa-
tions :-- We may add that such an amendment has been favoured by most replies to our Question-
nairc." 1. See also Mulls, The Indian Stamp Act, (6th ed.) page 292. 2. (a) Section 66 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920; Mulls Law of Insolvency (1958), (b) Section T5 of the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act, 1909: 3. (9.) Section 67-A , Provincial Insolvency Act. 1920. (b) Sections 88 and 89 , Presidency Towns Insolvency Act, 1909. 4. Para 35.10 Supra. 5. Para 35.7.5-upra. 6. Q. 86. pops 699 and 714:- ment of the class hereinafter mentioned whether under seal or not- (a) made by, for or in respect of the affairs of a debtor for the beneﬁt of his creditors
generally ; (13) made by, for or in respect of the affairs of a debtor who was insolvent at the date
of the execution of the instrument for the beneﬁt of any three or more of his
creditors : '

otherwise than in pursuance of the law for the time being in force relating to bankruptcy. 2) The classes of instrument referred to are-- (a) an assignment of property; lb} a deed of or agreement for a composition ; and in cases where creditors of the debtor obtain any control over his property or business--- (e) a deed of inspectorship entered into for the purpose of carrying on or winding up
a business ; (d) a letter of licence authorising the debtor or any other person to manage, carry
on, realise or dispose of a business with a View to the payment, of debts ; and (c) any agreement or instrument entered into for the purpose of carrying on or winding
up the debtor's business, or authorising the debtor or any other person to manage,
carry on, realise or dispose of the debtor's business with a View to the payment
of his debts. Article 23- tntroduetion. No clung: w'"bm3""'-mo'°fc% l1'lt?l1lS which alter the basis of the charge under article 23 from the amount of the consideration

State
Amendments as
to copyright. ' 1914. (which is the present basis). to the value of the property. Such an amendment basically affects
the' rate of duty. We do not propose to consider the merits or demerits of such an amendment
having regard to the fact that the question is one of policy, and no difficulties resulting from
complexity of law arise. 36.3. There is. in this Article, an exemption from duty in respect of nssigmnentr of copyright
by r=J'ltr}' made under section 5 of the Copyright Act, 1847. It should be pointed out that the Copyright Act, 1847 was repealed by the Copyright Act,
That Act has, in its turn, been repealed by the Copyright Act, 1957 . Both the Act of 1914 and the Act of 1957" prohibit assignments of copyright by entry in the register, and
the exemption under article 23. in the form in which it appears, is obsolete. There can be an assignment of a copyright in a different form, under the Copyright Act,
1957 , section 18 . However, section 19 of that Act is material, and provides as follows' :-- This section corresponds to the Act of 1914. First Schedule, section 5(2) . Thus, the
assignment of a copyright must. under the present Act, be in writing, and signed by the assignor. 36.4. Reverting to the article in the Stamp Act , we may note that State Amendments of article 23 , while taking note of the fact that the Copyright Act of 1847 has been repealed, run
on divergent lines. Brieﬂy. the position is as follows :--- ta? In Gujarat and Maharashtra, a reference to the Copyright Act of 1957 has been
substituted, in place of the reference to the Act of 1847. But adequate notice
does not seem to have been taken of the details of the scheme in the Act of
1957. (bl In Andhra Pradesh. Madhya Pradesh. Madras (now Tamil Nadu), Mysore and
Puniab. all assignments under section l8 of the 1957 Act have been exempted. (c) In Uttar Pradesh, the exemption appears to be limited to assignments of copyright
in musical works by a resident in India or first published in India. (ii) In Bihar. the exemption has been deleted with effect from 31st March, 1958. 36.5. Having taken note of the divergent approaches adopted by State Legislatures, and
after a careful consideration of the merits, we have come to theﬂconclusion that all assignments
of copyright ought to be exempted. The assignment of literary. musical or artistic works should
he treated differently from the transfer of other property. We need not elaborate the reasons. I. See discussion relating to section 2(IO) --"Conveyance". 2. See discussion regarding section 27 . 3. Section 13 . Copyright Act, 1957 . 4. Section 19 . Copyright Act . 1957. 212. 213 It will be enough to say that barring a few exceptions, artists and musicians must assign their
copyright if they are to eke out their living. It is then only that they can put their products

before the public. It is hardly proper to treat the sale of a house and an assignment of a
copyright on an equal footing. 36.591. Deletion of the exemption should, in our view, be regarded as a retrograde step.
Nor is it proper to restrict the exemption to assignments of musical works. Creative activity,
whatever he the medium, ought to be treated on a special footing. There is no reason why only

musical works should be granted protection, and not paintings or sculptures or literary works
or choreography. The primary reason for which the law has, in the ﬁeld of stamp duties, made a distinction
between material property and what is conveniently described as intellectual property, would
appear to be that the latter represents man's journey into spheres bordering on the region of
the spirit. To nourish that laudable endeavour ought to be an object of the law. This is not
to say that if proﬁt is made out of the pursuit of such activity, such proﬁts should never be taxed. The point to be made is that in the context of the stamp law, the assignment should not be
subjected to tax. '

Another aspect also ought not to be ove-rloolred. Brandeis J. observed :--- _
"The general rule is that the noblest of human production, knowledge, truth ascer- tained, conception and ideas become, after valuntary communication to others,
free as the air to common use." In the case of Imemafional News Service,'

Freedom from taxation places the work of art at the disposal of many more persons than
would be possible if there were no exemption. 36.6. We, therefore, recommend that the present exemption should be retained, after sub-
stituting a reference to sections 18-19 , Copyright Act, 1957 {which deal with assignments),
in place of the reference to assignment under section 5 of the Copyright Act, 1847. We may mention that the suggested amendment has been favoured by most of the replies
to our Questionnaire.'

36.6A. Article 24 levies duty on a copy or extract certiﬁed to be a true copy or extract by
or by order of "any public ofﬁoer" and not chargeable with court--fee. The article applies to all
copies certiﬁed to be true copies by pubiic otﬁcers, whether the original was or was not chargeable
with stamp duty. The duty is eight annas if the original was not chargeable with duty or if the
duty on the original does not exceed one rupee. In other cases, the duty is one rupee. It should be
noted that the article applies also to copies of documents which do not create rights' or liabilities -36.7. There are two exemptions. Their details are not material for the comments that
we are going to make on the article. But we may note that. Exemption (h) under the article
exempts, from duty, copies of registers of births and deaths,--which are all docm-nents which

do not create a right or liability. This exemption itself shows that in other respects the article
'a wide, as stated above.'

36.8. We shall ﬁrst dispose of a minor point. We may point out that with reference to
the expression "public oﬂicer", which is used in the article but not deﬁned in the Act, the
Ibnence of a deﬁnition was regretted by Edge CJ." who observed--- 1. Inrenmrional News Service v. Associated Press, (1913) 348 U.S. 215, 25 . '--' 2. Question 87 { Article 23}. 3. Sedtion 2(24), deﬁnition oi' "instrument" {inclusive deﬁnition). 4. Para 36.6, supra. 5. Reference, (1897) I.L.R. 19 All. 293, 294. 24 M of Law!77--28

special fooling. Recommendation". He pointed out (by way of example), that under the Indian Penal Code } apparently, the
Secretary of 5: Municipal Board would be a "public servant" but he would not be a "public
officer" according to the term as deﬁned in the Code of Civil Procedure ." Referring to sections 74 , 76 and 78 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, he held that the record of the proceedings of 1
Municipal Board is a "public document" and the officer who is authorised by the ordinary course
of his oﬁicial duties to give copies of public documents, is. for these purposes, a "public
Oiﬁcer". Hence, a copy of an order passed by 51 Municipal Board on a petition presented to it,
certiﬁed as a title copy by the Secretary to the Board, came within article 24 , and required
to be stamped. This particular difﬁculty will not survive if our recommendation to insert a definition of
"public officer" is accepted. gﬁguﬁ E',g|"d_ 36.9. It may, incidentally, he noted that in England, the entries in the Schedule to the Stamp
Act, 1391 relating to copies and extracts were repealed in 1949.3
 $E 36.10. In one respect, it is still' desirable to deﬁne the scope of the article more precisely

to_sactim 76, than at present. Certiﬁed copies of public documents are issued under section 76 . Evidence

E"d"°°° Act Act, and that is the principal provision of signiﬁcance for the purposes of article 24. We.
therefore, recommend that after the words "public oﬂicer". the words and ﬁgures "under section 76 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872" should be added in this article; the Stamp Act will then be
brought into harmony with the Evidence Act . We are separately recommending the insertion' of a deﬁnition of "public ofﬁcer", but an
amendment is also needed in article 24 , as suggested above. Amendment 36.11. Another point relevant to this article raises certain issues of substance. At present. duty is leviable on a certiﬁed copy or extract given by a public officer, even if the Origirﬂi was

mm! tall . . . . . . req-airy}, not chargeable with duty, by virtue of article 24(1). The rationale of charging duty on such
copies is not readily understandable. No doubt, taxing provisions are meant to collect revenue,
and one cannot always ﬁnd their rationale. But, in this case, the provision obviously causes
hardship and inconvenience. If, for example, a student seeking admission to a college gets
copies of his academic diplomas certiﬁed by a public oﬁicer, the copies so certiﬁed would become
chargeable with stamp duty on a literal reading of the article. Again, where copies of miscellane-
ous correspondence in a pending case are certiﬁed. each of them becomes chargeable, thus
making their use in a proposed litigation costly. Even copies issued for private use, or for
private record, become chargeable. This causes considerable hardship. We are of the View
that this is a situation where the considerations of revenue should yield to those of convenience,
and there should be no duty on a copy if the original is not chargeable. Rocomtnundntino 36.12. In the light of the above discussion, we recommend that the charging portion in
::},,n&"_ 'mg article ?.4f.i} and (ii) should be revised, so as to read as follows :-- _

I i) if the original was chargeable with at duty not exceeding one rupee.
.FiﬁY
' _paise. (ii) if the original was chargeable with a duty exceeding one rupee.
' ' . " One
' rupee. Exemption (a) if the original was not chargeable with dairy. (Other Exemptions as at present, after suitable re-lettering). 1. Section 21 , Indian Penal Code. 2. Section 2 (1'l), Code of Civil Procedure , 1882. , 3. T116 Finalltx Act. 1949, Sections 35 and 52 "). and Eight Schedule, Part 1. entry 12, and Eleventh Schedule;
Monroe, Stamp Duties (1964), page 261, 262. 4. Sea discussion as to section 2 , deﬁnition of "public otﬁcer' (new). We may mention that the suggested amendment has been favoured by most of the replies
to our Questionnaire} - 36.13. Article 25 deals with the counterpart or duplicate of an instrument. This is of
particular importance to leases. A lease is generally prepared in two identical forms, called
the lease and the counterpart respectively. The lease is executed by the lessor alone, and the
counterpart is executed by the lessee alone, then, the lease and the counterpart are exchanged.
Sometimes, the lease is in duplicate. The counterpart or duplicate is chargeable with duty if
the original is chargeable with duty. Where the proper duty has not been paid on the original,
the intention of the law is that the counterpart itself should bear duty. Where article 25 applies, the counterpart which is stamped under the article would not be
admitted in evidence, unless the original is produced to' show that it was duly stamped or
the Collector certiﬁes" the duty paid on the original. In this article, the exemption relating to the counterpart of a lease granted to a cultivator
which is itself exempt from duty" is, strictly speaking, redundant, because the Article itself
would apply only if the original is chargeable with duty. However, the exemption is harmless,
and need not be disturbed. 1. Question as ( Article 24}. _ 2. Section 16 . 3. Article 35 , Exemption (a). as to leases to cultivators. A1-tlclelé. ﬁon
16 ms Article 28. CHAPTER 37 ARTICLES 26--29

37.1. Article 26 levies duty on a customs-bond. It needs no change.
37.2 Article 27 levies duty on debentures. It needs no change. 37.3. Article 28 (Delivery order in respect of goods) refers to the "instrument being signed
by or on behalf of the owner of such goods" ........ . . . Obviously, in this article, the instrument
described as "signed" is one "executed", for the purpose of section 3 . It would be desirable
to substitute the word "executed" for the word "signed", in this article. We recommend that
the article should be so amended. We may note that such an amendment has been favoured

by almost all the replies to our Questionnaire.'

37.4. Article 29 levies a duty of one rupee on an instrument of divorce, that is to say,
any instrument by which any person eﬁects the dissolution of his marriage. Of course, so far
as the law of domestic relations is concerned, such instruments can have legal effect only in
cases where extra-judicial divorce is permitted by law and the scope for the application of
the article is, thus, limited. The article needs no change. 1. Question 90. CHAPTER 38 . ARTICLE 30
. . . _ Arti le 30-
38.1. Article 30 levies duty on entry as an Advocate 1n the following terms : Iuu-:du._-;tjon_
Description of lnstrurnent - Proper Stamp-duty
EEi{§"I{s';.it'AT:.i£ac,s.Te, VIKIL on A'['1'DRNEY o1~:'¥'nsh6r1T I [W W I in

. OF ANY HIGH COURT UNDER the lndian Bar Councils Act . 1926, or
in exercise of powers conferred by Letters Patent or by the Legal Practitioner 5;
Act, 1884-
(al in the case of an advocate or Vakil . . . . . . . Five hundred rupees.
(bl in the case of an attorney . . _ . . . . . . Two hundred and ﬁfty rupees.
Exemption '

Entry of an advocate, vakil or attorney on the roll of any High Court when
he has previously been enrolled in a High Court. 3-8.2. It should, at the outset, be pointed out that the article has become obsolete, with posjﬁcnunder
the cooling into force of the Advocatm Act, 1961 , which has practically supersededl the various WW AC!
enactments relating to advocates referred to in the a.rticIo----that is to say, the Bar Councils '

Act. and the Legal Practitioners Act . Even as regards attorneys, recent amendment abolished

the system. A certiﬁcate of enrolment as Advocate is now issued under section 22 of the Advocates
Act,' which reads--- Under the same Act,' an enrolment fee of tvvo hundred and ﬁfty rupees is to be paid to
the State Bar Council, before enrolment as an advocate. Section 20 'of the Act provides for
a ccnmmn roll, and section 46 provides for the payment of a part of the enrolment fees to the
Bar Council of India by all State Bar Councils. After the passing of this Act. the article in the Stamp Act has become practically out of
date. 38.3. Taking note of the passing of the Advocates Act . 1961, many States have dealt Sm: -1. See section 22 , Advocates Act, 1951. 1' ' 2. Section 22 . Advocates Act, 1961 . 3. Section 24(1) (f' J, Advocates Act, 1961 . (b) Mahara.s.htra.-- Article 31 of the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958 , relating to 215 entry
as advocates etc., has been deleted by Maharashtra Act 10 of 1965. (2) In the following States, the duty under the Stamp law continues to be leviable and
the Stamp Act has been speciﬁcally' amended after the passing of the Advocates Act . The fee
under the Advocates Act, 1961 , is also chargeable : Mysore.--Ar1icle 17 (new) of the Mysore Stamp Act, 1957 as amended by
entry as advocate in conformity with the Advocates Act , l96l, a stamp
Mysore Act 29 of 1962, levies on certiﬁcate of enrolment in the roll of advocates
under the Advocates Act, 1961 , a duty of Rs. 250,': vision as to duty on entry as advocate iunder the various Stamp Acts, in the form prior to the Advocates Act, 1961 , has not been speciﬁcally revised or repealed". Recommendation
to data: CHAPTER 39 ARTICLES 31--34 39.l. Article 31 levies stamp duty on an instrument of exchange of property. No changes Article 3]. are needed in this article. 39.2. Article 32 levies stamp duty on an instrument of further charge. It needs no change. AIﬁ°1¢33-

39.3. Article 33 levies duty on an instrument of gift, not being a settlement, will or transfer. Article 33. We have no comments on this article. 39.4. Article 34 levies duty on an indemnity bond. The duty is the same as on a security .sn1c1e3_.¢--
bond { Article 57 ). It may he noted that the duty on a security bond is lower than that on a bond Egﬁgﬁiggd
in general. Bonds in general are chargeable with duty ad valor.-2m without any maximum { Article 15). while security bonds (and consequentially, indemnity bonds) are subject to a maximum. The article applicable to bonds in general------Articlc 15------app1ies only to a "bond" as deﬁned
in section 2(l5) , not being a debenture (No. 27) and not being otherwise provided for by
the Stamp Act or by the Cou1't--fee Act. Since, in respect on an indemnity bond or a security
bond, provision has been made in article 34 and 57 , the duty on these bonds would be payable
{I1 accordance with those articles. and not in accordance with article 15. 39.S.'Articlc 34 does no': define an indemnity bond. The Indian Contract Act deﬁnes a ﬁggggrofi
"contract of indemnity" as follows :-- '

"124. A contract by which one party promises to save the other from loss caused
to him by the conduct of the promisor himself, or by the conduct of any other person,
is called a. contract of indemnity." In general. this deﬁnition is utilised by the Courts in interpreting the Stamp Act also." 39.6 While article 34 does not require any amendment, a few points arising out of the case Case law.
law may be brieﬂy referred to. It has been emphasised" by the Bombay High Court that the article applies only when the
contract of indemnity is in the form of a bond. An indemnity note passed by a consignee to the
Railway company, in respect of goods for which the railway receipt was lost, was, therefore. held
to be chargeable only as an agreement' and not as an indemnity bond. Then, there is an Allahabad case' relating to an agreement by a company for compensation
to be paid to the Managing agent, on the happening of one of the events speciﬁed therein. This
provision for compensation was a term of the Managing Agency Agreement. It was held that
the term could not be treated as a separate contract of indemnity, as" there was no separate con-
sideration for it. The provision for compensation was not a distinct matter, but was part and
parcel of the agreement as a whole, and it was not, therefore, liable to duty as an indemnity bond.
The agreement was an ordinary service agreement, chargeable with stamp duty as an agreement,
and was not a bond. 39.7. The cases discussed above illustrate the application of the article. They do not,'how-
ever. call for an amendment of the article.- I. Section 124 , Indian Contract Act. 2. Hbxdmran .5'u;ga.r Milt: v. Stare of U.P., A.I.R 1972 All. 8 {S.B.]. , 3. Reference from the Chief Commi.-nioner of Central Provinces, I'L.R. 5 Born. 418 (F113,). 4. Article 5. S. In re Dinmpur Sugar Mills. A.I.R. 1956 All. 25. {Special Benchl. 2.19 Article 3 5- Introductory. Sub-lease and
under-lease and
agreement to let. Meuningot "ﬁn.-." Recommendation

for
Explanation. schuna analysed. .a lease, the duty on the subsequent lease is not to exceed eight annas. CHAPTER 40 ARTICLE 35

40.1. Article 35 levies duty on a lease, including an under-lease or sub-lease and any agree-
ment to let or sub~let. The duty varies according to the nature of the consideration for the lease.
We shall deal with this aspect later, in detail. The duty also varies according to the duration of
the lease. The amount of duty is linked up either with the duty on a bond, or with the duty on a
conveyance. Under the proviso to the article, where an agreement to lease is stamped with a duty as on
The exemption to the

article exempts certain leases executed in the case of a cultivator and for the purpose of cultiva-
tion. 40.2. As already stated, the article aho levies a duty on a. sub-lease, and under-lease, and
an agreement to let or sub-let. Ordinarily, the expression "sub-lease" is understood as denoting
a lease granted by the lessee who remains liable to the lessor. The expression "under--leas-e" is
usually understood' as indicating :1 lease by a lessee for a period less than rhe residue of the
term. As regards agreement to let or sub--let, it should be noted that, with reference to the Registration Act , it is now well-settled that only an agreement which creates a present demise is
compulsory registrahle as a lease. We shall revert to this point later." 40.3. The word "ﬁne" used in clauses (b) and (C) of the article does not mean any pecu-
niary penalty, but appears to be intended to denote the amount paid by the lessee on entry

3 . e . or the fee paid for renewal of the lease. This appears to be the senoe in which it IS used In

England. Since this word is not intelligible to the layman, we recommend that the word "ﬁne"
should be explained by a suitable Explanation!' We may note that such an amendment has been
approved, in substance. by most replies' to our Questionnaire. - We may state that in Fnglandnhe Law of Property Act provides that "Fine" includes pre-
mium or fore--gift, and any payment. consideration or beneﬁt in the nature of a fine, premmm or
fore--g1'ft.*' Again, under General Rate Act," "ﬁne" means ﬁne, prernium, or fore--gift, or other

payment or consideration in the nature thereof. It has been held'? that the "ﬁtness" referred to in Schedule A, No. II, r. 6, of the Income Tart
Act, 1918 [S and 9 Geo. 5, C. 40) are indistinguishable from premium, and are money payments

in consideration of a demise. 40.4. The scheme of the article, in one of its aspects, deserves somewhat detailed exami-
nation. The article is divided into three clauses----(a), (b). (c) ----and the mode of Calclllﬁllﬂtl Of
the duty varies according to the clauses under which the instrument of lease falls. Clause (3)
applies where, by the lease, "the rent is ﬁxed and no premium is paid or delivered". Claluse Eb}
applies where the lease is granted "for a ﬁne or premium or fﬂt moi'!-33' dd'-'ﬂ""-'€d and ""h°"1_ 11°
rem: in reserved". Clause lc) applies where the lease is granted, again, "for :1 ﬁne 0!' P13511915
for money advanced in addition the rent reserve ". 1. Meals? and 'Whiteley, Law Dictionary (1970), page 372. 2. Para 40.11. take. 3. Explanation to be added. 4. Q. 92. 5. Law of Property Act. 1925, section 2051f Ijltxxiii). 6. General Rate Act, 1967, section 36 . 7. Urrlng (B. G.) and Co. V. Htrgﬁes, (1939) 2 KB. 231. 40.5. Broadly, the scheme is based on the principle that where the consideration for the
lease is "rent" i.e., a sum to be calculated on the basis of a period'--then clause (a) should
apply; where the consideration is not a periodical payinenz' as above but a lump
sum. clause (b) should apply; and where the lease partakes of the character of both, clause (c) should apply. 40.6. Some diﬁlculty, however, is created by the discrepancy in wording between the
various clauses. While the phrase used in clause (a) is "rent is ﬁxed", the wording used in
clauses lb) and (c) is "rent . . .reser\-"ed". The two expressions not being identical, an obscurity
arises. It often happens in practice that while the lease provides for a monthly or annual rent,
a substantial part of the rent is paid by the lessee in advance, in order to comply with "the
demand which the lessor might have made at the time of the negotiations for the lease. Now, the
question that falls to be determined is whether such a case comes within (a) of article 35- 40.7. The reported cases on the subject reveal a conﬂict of views between the Bombay High
Court and the Punjab High Court. Although the Punjab case (to be presently referred to)
seeks to distinguish the earlier Bombay judgment, it would, with due respect, appear that the
two judgments cannot be really reconciled. In the Bombay case} a certain amount was paid to the lessor in respect of a lease before
the execution of the lease. The lease was executed on 9th December, 1949. The lessor demis-
ed unto the lessee for a period of ﬁve years the salt pans and land known as Horrnuzed Salt
Pans near Vadala Station in Dadar Taluka. In respect of this lease, two amounts were paid : , 40.3- In the Punjab case" the lease was for a term of ﬁve years from the date of occupation.
the monthly rent being Rs. 700. Clause 1 of the lease deed was as follows: The question to be considered was whether the case fell under clause (a] or clause to)

of article 35. 1. In re Ciaief Coiztroliingilei-enue 4-'lIJu!'i'hS|i'J'l_1»', .=tl.l.R. 1952 Bombay 235 (Chagia CJ. and Gajendragadkar, 1.). 2. Union offrrdin v. (felts-.1: Lrd., A.I.R. 1956 Punjab 48$ (F.B.). .
21 M o" L1w,-'7 7'~29. Period. Rent paid in
advance. Case Jaw on the
subject. Need for change. Reoornrnendation
to substitute the
word "ﬁat-ed" for Article 35- Agreement

tolet. It was held tltat the sum of rupees 25,000 and odd, which was agreed to be paid to the
lessor on the date of occupancy as advance rental for 36 months, was rent; and merely because
the rent was paid in advance under a covenant, its character did not change. The Bombay case
was distinguished on two grounds, ﬁrst, that in that case the payment by the lessee was prior
to the liability for rent arising, and, secondly, that the Bombay High Court was concerned with
Clause ('3). which does not contain the words "in addition to rent reserved"--words which occur
in clause (c). In the Punjab case, the lessee was required to pay the amount as rent for 36
months, and the liability was, therefore, to pay rent. and not the money advanced in addition to
rent reserved. ~

40.9. Even assuming thlt the situation in the Punjab case can be distinguished from the
situation in the Bombay case, there is, in our opinion, scope for re-defining the various cate- gories in a neater form. Essentially, the question is this--where an amount is paid in advance, a

not as premium but M the sum total of the periodical payments of rent. attributable to a part
to the period of the lease, should it be treated as a case of rent reserved or as a case of "money
advanced"? On this basic question, the two judgments show a conﬂict of approach. 40.10. It would appear that on the language of the article, there is much tobe said for
the Bombay view, since clauses (ti) and (c) use the word "reserved". However, so far as
the question what might Io lie the Inn' is concerned, in our view, the law will be simpler if the
case where the rent is paid in advance is also treated as falling within clause (a), because, essen-
tially, what the lessee pays is "rent". The lessee, instead of paying the rent during occupation,
pays it at the initial stage. Though the lessor gets it in lump, the case is distinct from "premium",
because, unlike premium, the rent apportioned period-wise. If this suggestion is accepted, the
object could be achieved by replacing the word "reserved" by the word "ﬁxed", in clauses (b) and {c), on the lines of clause (a). This will remove the disharmony between clause (ti) on
the one hand and clauses {b) and (c) on the other hand and will eliminate the possibility of
die view being taken that where the amount is paid in advance, though it is apportionable, it
ceases to be rent. 40.11. There is another point requiring consideration with reference to this article. 'While
'lease', as defined in section 2 , does not cover an agreement of lease, Article 35 makes an
agreement of lease chargeable as a lease, by an express inclusive provision. What, then, is
the precise scope of the article in relation to an "agreement"'? Does article 35 cover every
such agreement, or is it to receive a narow construction ? The question came up recently
before the Delhi High Court} The premises in dispute were held by the plaintiﬁ in the suit
as a tenant from the defendant. By an agreement "entered into between the parties, it was
provided that the defendant (landlord) would set up, in place of the premises, a multi-storeycd
building on the side, and in consideration of the plaintiff delivering vacant possession of the
leased premises to the defendant, the defendant would give to the plaintiff a ﬁat on the ninth
floor (with certain speciﬁed dimensions), in the multi--storcyed building, on terms and conditions,
set out in the agreement. In case the work on the proposed multi-storeyed building was 'not

commenced before a certain date, the defendant would hand over to the plaiutitf vncantip0sses- - sion of the premises on the same terms and conditions on which it had hitherto been held by
the plaintiff. It was further provided that the agreement shall be valid for a period of it)

years from the date on which the ﬂat in the proposed multi-storeyed building was handed" over. to the plaintiﬁ. - 40.12. Pursuant to this agreement, the plaintiﬁ delivered vacant possession of the premises
to the defendant, but the defendant did not pursue the project for constructing the multi-store-yed
building. The plaintiff ﬁled the present suit for enforcement of the agreement and return of
the premises. The defendant took the plea that the agreement was inadmissible in evidence
because, being a lease, it was insufficiently stamped. The agreement was on a paper of Rs. 2.
'The lower court rejected this contention of the plainliﬁ, and the ﬁled the present revision before
the High Court. \ 1. Mrs. Btrender Amarjir Singii v. General Marketing ti MfE- C-1 U0'-. Catt'!-'ﬂa. A.l.R. 1976 Delhi 15. 16, para 3
(H. L. Anand, J.}. The High Court held that the agreement could not be said to be either a lease or an
agreement to lease and was not, therefore, liable to be stamped under Article 35. In the
opinion of the High Court, in order to be treated as a lease, an agreement must satisfy the test
of immediate and present demise in respect of the property covered by it, and an agreement
to lease was no exception to this rule. Reference was made on this point to the two cases
mentioned in the footnotes.'-3

Further, the right conferred by this document on the respondent was contingent on a
number of imponderehles, and, at best, would be a right to ask for a lease of the flat after
one comes into existence. In our view, the interpretation placed in this case on the scope of the expression "agree-
nﬁnt of lease" is, with respect, sound, and it should be codiﬁed in order to indicate the true
scope of the article. We may note that independently of this judgment of the Delhi High
Court, a Bar Council" has suggested to us that the scope of Article 35 should be so conﬁned.
The object could be achieved by inserting an Explanation that an agreement shall not be charge~
able as a lease unless there is an immediate and present demise. We recommend that the
article should be so amended. What we have stated above is the gist of the provision that
we would like to be inserted. 1. Ifemarlra Ku.man' Devi' v. ildidnapur Znmindarf Co. Lrd., A.I.R. 1919 P.C. 79. ED, 8] .
Z. 'I'rI1-mu' Ba! V. Smt. Li'."a Bar', A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 620. 3. Susaastion ofthe Andhra Pradesh Bar Council (S. No. 61). Article 36- Allotmcnt of . charm. Article 31'--- _I.ettcr of credit. lrkrlicle 38-

Ixttefof licence. Article 39- Mcmorandum of
association. Article 40- Mortaase deed. Exctnption. llu-than 41-
Mortnae of crop. CHAPTER ARTICLES 36----45 41 41.1. Article 36 levies a duty on a letter of allotment of shares, and needs no change. 41.2. Article 117 levies a duty on a letter of credit, and needs no change. Certain palms
relating to letters of credit have been discussed while dealing with the deﬁnition of "bill of
exchange payable on dcn1a.nd.".1

41.3. Article 38 levies :1 duty on a letter of licence. Certain points relevant to this article
have been discussed earlier under "Composition" The article itself needs no change. 41.4. Article 39 levies duty on a Memorandum of Association of a Company. The duty
is ﬁfteen rupees it the Memorandum is accompanied by articles of association under section 37
of the Indian Companies Act, 1382. The duty is forty rupees, if it is not so accompanied.
The exemption exempts a "Memorandum of any association not formed for proﬁt and 
under section 26 of the Indian Companies Act, 1882." '

We recommend substitution of reference to me relevant sectionsa of the Companies Act .
1956, in this article. 415. Article 40 levies duty on a mortgage-deed, not being an agreement relating to deposit
of title-deeds, pawn or pledge (No. 6], Bottomry Bond (No. 16], Mortgage of a crop (No. 41), Respondentia Bond (No. 56), or Security Bond (No. 5?). Under clause (a), the duty
is linked up with the duty on a conveyance where possession of the property or any part oi
the property comprised in such a deed is given by the mortgagor or agreed to be given. When possession is not given or agreed to be given as aforesaid, the duty' is linked up
with the duty on a bond. This is provided in clause (b). However, when the mortgage deed constitutes a collateral or auxiliary or additional or
substituted security, or is executed by way of further assurance for the above-mentioned purpose,
and the principal or primary security is duly stamped, the stamp duty is levied at a much
lesser rate, under clause (c). Under an Explanation below the article, a mortgagor who gives to the mortgagee a power-
of-attorney to collect rents or a lease of the property mortgaged or part thereof, is deemed to
give possession within the meaning of the article. 41.6. There are two exemptions below the article, which exempt from duty- (1) instruments, executed by persons taking advances under the Land Improvement
Loans Act, 1883 ,'or the Agticulturists' Loans Act, 1884 , or by their sureties
as security for the repayment of such advances ; (2) a letter of hypothecation accompanying a bill of exchange. The second exemption relating to a letter of hypothecation should now be to article 6 , in view of the amendment proposed in article 6 { pawn or pledge), where we have
recommended that that article should be applied to instruments of hypothecation aiso. 41.7. Article 41 levies duty on the mortgage of a crop, including any instrument evidencing
an agreement to secure the repayment of a loan made upon any mortgage of a crop, whedaer the
crop is or is not in existence at the time of the mortgage. It needs no change. 1. See discussion as to section 2(l2)(c) -"'I_=i!1 01' ¢H°1'l1E'= P393519 '"1 d°m3"'1"' 2. See discussion as to article 22--composItw=n--de=d- 3. Sections 245 and 23 , Companies Act. 1956-

9-2-'t 225 41.8. Article 42 levies duty on certain notarial acts. In doing so, it refers to the "instru- 
mcnt . . . . . . . .made or signed by a Notary public' in the execution of the duties of his olﬁce. . . ﬁm

IIJIAIGIOII . We recommend that in this Article, for the words "made or signed", the word "executed"
should be substituted, in order to maintain harmony with the language of the charging section
( section 3 ). The legislature perhaps avoided the word "executed" in the present article for
reasons of euphony-~ thinking that the word "execution" which follows later, would then jar on
the cars. If so, that word could be replaced by the word "pcrformance". Incidentally, it may be
stated that in India, notaries are appointed under the Notaries Act, 1952 . 41.9. Article 43 lciies duty on a note or memorandum by a broker or agent to his princi- A1-ﬁg]: 43..
pal, intimating the purchase or sale on account of the principal--- Note 013"'. "3
_ _ a broker. {a) of any goods exceeding in value twenty rupees ; (b) of any stock or marketable security exceeding in value twenty rupees. We recommend that the amount "twenty rupees" should now be increased to one hundred
rupees, having regard to the fall in the purchasing power of the rupee.'

41.10. Article 44 levies duty on a note of protest by the master of a ship. The "protest"
made by the master is chargeable separately5--Art.icle 51. Article 44 deals with the note made
of such protest. The "note" is usually made by a notary public, or by a consular oi':Eu:er.3 Article 44. In England, a "protes " is a declaration made by the master when damage has been caused
to a ship or her cargo, made before a notary or British Consul at the first port of call.' The
object of the protest is to record promptly, in an authentic form, the circumstances in which
loss or damage occurred so as to exonerate the master or his crew from blame. 41.11. In England, a protest is not obligatory, but, in many countries abroad, the swearing U, [,1-P,,m,¢,_
ot protest is a condition precedent to the establishment of legal rights." When a claim for
marine insurance is made, the practice is to "exhibit" the protest." Protests are not receivable in evidence in English Courts, although they may be used in
 don.'-5-°- Explaining the importance of protests, Dr. Lushington observed-- 41.12. The object of requiring the protest to be "noted" by a notary public is that his Noobuul
oﬁee is universally recognised not only in the Courts of this country, but also in those of every mm'
civilind nation. By the law of nations, he has credit everywhere." We have no changes to recommend in this article. 1. Compare discussion as to article 53 , Receipt, infra. 2. Sec article 51. 3. Dover, Handbook to Marine Insurance (1957), page 54-8. at. Halsbtn-y, 3rd Edn., Vol. 35, page 133. 5. Dover, Handbook to Marine Insurance (1957), page 548. 6. Dover. Handbook to Marine Insurance {l95'?), page 56?. 7. ta} 1!. v. Scrivener Ca., (1830)! B as C: Artierealﬁ

22:13

41.13. Article 45 levies duty on an instrument of partition as deﬁned by section 2 (15}. 41.14. A Bar Council has made a suggestion?' that even an instrument recording the terms of
a pas: ti-ansactioia should be taxed as a partition. We have given due consideration to the

I suggestion, but are unable to accept it. Such a provision, if inserted, is bound to cause harassment

in a very large number of cases. It may, for example, take in even casual correspondence in
which a partition is referred to. An instrument which falls short of the creation of a separate
status, ought not to be regarded as a partition, merely because it "i'ecurds" a partition that
took place in the past. To do so is to disregard the distinction between a vestitive fact and
a mere piece of evidence. The legal efiect--and therefore the economic value---of the two

dliier. In the result, no change is needed in article 45. 3. Andhra Pradesh Ber Eotzneil. CHAPTER 42 ARTICLE 46

42.1. Article 46 levies duty on an instrument of partnership. 42.2. In the law of partnership a question which is often debated is whether there can
be a partnership between two ﬁrms. In the Partnership Act a partnership is described in
'terms of relationship between "persons". According to the deﬁnition of "person" in section
3 [42), General Clauses Act , a ﬁrm is not regarded as a person for the purposes of that Act.'
J;Ience, a ﬁrm as such is not entitled to enter into partnership with another ﬁrm, or with a
Hindu tmdivided family or with an individual." It has been observedi' that "the real partnership
is constituted not between the individual and the firm, but between the individual and the
aggregate of the persons who constitute the ﬁrm". On this point, no change is considered necessary. 42.3. The Supreme Court has, in D:t!r'ehr:nd's ca.te,'*--5 traced the history of the law of
partnership in India, which is based on the English law and mercantile usages relating to a
ﬁrm. Under the English common law, a firm, not being a legal entity, could not sue or be sued
in the ﬁrm name, or sue or be sued by its own partner, for one cannot sure oneself. Later on,
this rigid law of procedure, however, gave way to considerations of commercial convenience,
and the law permitted a ﬁrm sue or be sued in the ﬁrm name, as if it were a corporate
body." In the absence of such special provisions. the general rule that a firm is not a legal
entity operates. 42.4. The second qutbslion under this article concerns conveyances. Questions: sonletiints
arise whether an instrument is a conveyance or a partnership deed. in one case,' the Madras
High Court has dealt with the difference between a partnership deed and a conveyance." In
that case, the parties to a protracted partition suit, in which the assets of a trading joint Hindu
family were involved, ertecuted an instrument styled as a "partnership deed". By virtue of the
decree in the suit, one of the parties to the litigation agreed to take over the assets on payment
of a certain amount in court. and those assets were declared as properties of the partnership ﬁrm.
The court held that this instrtnncnt was not a "conveyance", but was a deed of partnership,
and, therefore, there was no presumption that the partner "sold" his property to the partnership
came into cxtstcticc under the 'doci_.=im'nr. There were no words which nprcssly or by implication amounted to a 1:-rm.-i_t'er of interest
as between the partner who threw his property in the partnership and the rest of the partners,
and, therefore, there was no presumption that the partner ''sold'' his propery to the partnership
ﬁrm. The doctnnent was letid to he an instrument of partnership. 42.5. Of course, the case does not call for an amendment of the law, since the question
is one of applying the legal principle, which appears to be this--that a conveyance transfers
assets from one person to another, while a partnership pools them togctlter. ' 1. (a) Barn.-m' v. Babs: Ln]. A.I.P.. 193:, All. 225: 2. Dnlfchmld V. I. T. Commr'.r.\'ioner. A.l.R. 1956 S.C. 354, 358, para 15- 3. Chhatalal Der-ichnnd v'. J'. T. Commi'.s.n'onei', A.l.R. I959 Born. I52, 154 [per Chagla C.J.). 4. Dniichamf v. I. T. Comrnrirsioner, ([956] A.l.R. S.C. 354, followed in A.I.R. 1967 Mad. 449, 45] , para 5 (D.B.).
5_ Sn also ﬁhagwanji v. Afembic Cfrermi-at' Works. A.l.R. I948 P.C'. 100. 6. Cf. order 30, Rule 9. Code of Civil Procedure . 1908. 7. State v. Ckfdnmbnrnm. A.I.R. I9?!) Mad. 1'. 3. Article 23. Question as to
whether a deed
is a oonveyartcc
or partnership
deed. Present position
to a duty. No change. 2'.-".8

42.6. It may be noted that at present, under article 46 , an instrmnent of partnership
is chargeable with a duty of two rupees eight annas if the capital of the partnership does not
exceed rupees ﬁve hundred, and with ten rupees in any other case. A partnership between
ﬁrms, if it does not fall under article 46 because of the stricter view taken in the law of
partnership, would fall solely under "agreement" [ article 5 , clause (c)}, for which the duty
is eight annas. Of course, it is not our direct object to impose 3. higher duty as such on instru-
ments of partnership. The principal object is to take note of business reality, for the limited
purpose of the stamp law, and to state the position clearly so as to avoid controversies. 42.7. Article 46 therefore needs no change. CHAPTER 43 ARTICLE 47-- -POLICIES OF MARINE INSURANCE
43.1. Article -1-? levies duty on policies of insurance. The duty varies according to the nature of the policy, the article having been divided into
dilfenent divisions------A.B.C. and so on----for the purpose. We shall discuss only those portions
Of the article which require consideration having regard to the need Ior amendment in the
particular portions or suggestions made for amendment of those portions. 43.2. We begin with the question of stamp duties on policies of marine insurance (des-
cribed in the Act as policies of sea insurance). A suggestion for amendment of the law on
the subject was received from the Insurance Companies Association of India, and the suggestion
was forwarded by the Ministry of Finance to the Law Commission for its consideration. The

suggestion is to substitute duty for a ﬁxed amount in place of the present duty, which is ad In

valorem in most cases. The duty suggested by the Association is as follows :-- (:1) if the amount of the policy does not exceed Rs. 5,000
('0) in other cases. 43.3. Although general insurance business has now been nationalised, we think that that
would not make any difference as to the points raised and discussed below on the basis of
tile above suggestion. 43.4. The present law on the subject of stamp duties on policies of marine insurance is
contained in Article 47-- -Division A, read with section 2(20) and section 7(4) and sections
66-6? of the Act. 43.5. Existing section 2(20) ' deﬁnes a "sea policy" as follows :-- Introductory. Policies of marine
insura.11oe-- Suggestion of the
Insurance
Association of
dia. Pt-meat law. Policy of sea- sea-polisy. Penalty for not
_ utpolicy

or one
not duly stamped. Penalty for not
drawing full
number_ of bills 230 43.6. Section 7 (4) reads---- 43.7. Article 47 , Division A reads-- 4?. POLICY OF INSURANCE

If drawn in duplicate
for each part

I If drawn singly: Five nay: paise

Ten naye paise Five naye paise

(111 For time- (iii) in respect of every full sum of one thousand rupees and
also any fractional part of one thousand rupees insured
by the policy-- whcre the insurance shall be made for any time not Fifteen nay: paise
exceeding six months; where the insurance shall be made for any time exce- Twenty-ﬁve naye
eding six months and not erceeding twelve months. paise

Ten naye paisc

Fifteen naye paise

43.8. Sections 66-67 teat --- '-es. Any person who----- (a) receives, or takes credit for, any premium or consideration for any contract
of insurance and does not, within one month after receiving, or taking credit
for, such premium or consideration, make out and execute a duly stamped policy
of such insurance ; or
makes, executes or delivers out any policy which is not duly stamped, or pays
or allows in account, or agrees to pay' or allows in account, any money upon,
or In respect of, any such policy ; shall be punishable with ﬁne which may extend to two hundred rupees. 43.9. and 43.10. Mention may also be made of sections 25 and 27 of the Marine Insu-
rance Act,' which have a bearing on the subject. - 43.11. The main point of the suggestion* lies in the proposal for reduction of the prwent
stamp duty which [except in the case covered by Article 47A(lJ (in is calculated dd wziorem
on the sum insured. The suggestion is to reduce the duty to a ﬁxed amount. lb) 1. The Marine Insurance Act . 1963 (11 of 1963)- 2. See para. 43.2, supra. 23L

43.12. The suggestion further says that it the duty is not reduced to a ﬁxed amount, then
many statutory provisions winch were in force in England before 1959 on the subject of stamp
duties on marine insurance' should be incorporated. If, on the other hand, the duty is to
be reduced to a ﬁxed amount, then those provisions need not be incorporated. 43.13. it may be mentioned that the pre-1959 statutory provisions in England were prin-
cipally intended to mitigate hardships felt in certain cases. 43.14. The Finance Act, 1959 (Eng), made important changes in the English law as
to stamp duties on policies of marine insurance." The alteration made in 1959 was mainly due
to the reduction of the duty to a ﬁxed amount of six pence. The principal question to be
considered by us is, whether there should be a similar reduction in the duty on marine insurance
policies under our law, as is the suggestion. 43.15. The reasons for the passing of the Finance Act, 1959 (in England) have been thus
stated" : 1. See Appendix 3 for pre-I959 Englishl aw. K 7 2. Appendices 4--5. 3. Dover, Analysis of Marine and other Insurance clauses (1961), page 557. 4. Emphasis added. gkltcrnatiw point
in suggest!-on- to adopt pro-1959
statutory
provisions. Position in
England after
1959. Reasons for the English Act . Simitar reasons
applicable in
India. Recommendation
to substitute

ﬁxed duly. ﬁm Article 47 Division A 232 (c) policies of insurance on baggage or personal and household eflects only, if made
or executed out of Great Britain ; and an instrument exempted by virtue of the provisions of this sub-section shall not be taken
for the purposes of the Stamp Act, 1891 , to be a policy of insurance. ' "Aln instrument shall not be charged with duty exceeding six pence by reason only that
it contains or relates to two or more distinct matters each falling within the head of charge. 43.16. and 43.17. So much as regards the English Act of 1959. It appear to us that,
of the reaons which led to the passing of the Act of 1959 in England, many apply to India.
In particular, a tax upon insurance policies is a tax upon prudence, and a proposal for reduction
of the stamp duty thereof deserves careful consideration. Moreover, Indian insurers are at a

disadvantage, in that they pay more stamp duty than the insurers of other countries where the
duty has been reduced. These considerations would seem to justify a reduction of the duty

to a ﬁxed one. 43.18. No doubt, any proposal for alteration in the rate of stamp duties usually raises
questions of policy, but here, in our view, there are strong reasons why we should recommend
a change. 43.19. To the reasons already stated, we may add that heavy penalty (as in England)
fmg policies unstamped and brought into the country is not needed for India, since the magnitude
is not comparable. 4320. After very careful consideration, we have come to the conclusion that the stamp
duty on marine insurance policies should be reduced to a small ﬁxed amount, say, one rupee,
i1-xegpective of the question whether it is a voyage policy or time pohcy. We. 'Eh=1'6f0TG: the following

43.21. If this recommendation' (substitution of ﬁxed duty) is accepted,
amendments are required in the Stamp Act and in the Marine Insurance Act : It may be noted that the corresponding provisions in the (English) Marine Insurance
Act (before 1959) were intended to safeguard revenue. This is evident from the fact that,
since the introdluction of stamp duties in 1795 (35 Geo. 3 Ch. 63), the requirements as to
writing have been in existence.-9

(3) Section 7(4), Indian Stamp Act, 1399 [corresponding to repealed section 94 (English). Stamp Act, 1891 ] should be repealed. [See section 30(4) (a), Finance Act, 1859]. The
reason is that section 7 (4) becomes useless if the distinction between "voyage" and "time
policies" is abolished, in relation to stamp duties. (4) Article 47 , Division A, should be amended in order to exclude from liability, slips,
cover notes etc?-5 for marine insurance unconditionaﬂy. This would not affect the provisions in
the Marine Insurance Act }? 'The present exemption is conditional, but should be made absolute,
in view of proposed less stringent approach as to duty. (See - section 30(2) , Finance Act, 1959). (5) In consequence of (4) above, the general exemption, at the end of Article 47 , should
be amended so as to exclude marine policies from that exemption, as these would be governed
by a speciﬁc exemption, under our recommendation. (6) In View of item (4) above, section 66 , of the Stamp Act, should be amended so as to
exclude. cases where the poiicy of insurance is totally exempt. The object of section 66 is to
prevent the loss of revenue that would occur if insurance business were done on slips unstarnped.
As the stringent provisions as to policies in section 7 are repealed or proposed to be repealed,
and as the duty is to be reduced, the provision in section 66 is not required for marine insurance
policies. 2

[Cf. section 30(4) , second paragraph, Finance Act, 1959 , amending section 100 (English) ,
Stamp Act, 1891, which corresponds to section 66 , Indian Stamp Act]. (7) Article 47 , Division A, Stamp Act should be amended by substituting a ﬁxed duty
of one rupee for every marine insurance policy whatever he the amount. (8) In consequence of (7) above, section 67 , Stamp Act (sets of policies) shouldwhe
suitably amended, as the duty will now be a small and ﬁxed amount. There was no exactly
corresponding provision in the English Act , even before 1959. But there was a somewhat
similar provision in section 97(3) , Stamp Act, 1891, now repealed. [See section 30(4) , Finance Act, 1959]. 43.22. We give below a rough draft of the amendments that will be required in the Stamp
Act , in order to carry out the changes recommended above. We may add that some of the
changes' were put forth in our Questionnaire and such replies as were received to the particular

question have been favourablei 1. See Supra 2. See Dover, Hand Book to Marine Insurance (1957), pages 3], 129, 333. 3. See para 43.20, supra. 4. As to existing law, see A.I.R. 1964 S.C. 1396, on appeal from Naﬁarzai Sec:.r.ri'r_r Assurance Co. v. R. ﬁariiai 6: Co. A.I.R. 1961 Cal. 48, 50, 51, 53, paragraphs 11, 13, 16 and 26. 5. Also see Mulla Stamp Act (1963), pages 41, 74 and 317. 6. Sections 2435(1) and 33 , Marine Insurance Act, 1963 (ll of 1963), corresponding to sections 21 , 22 (1) and B9
of the Cﬁlltlish.) Ma tine Insurance Act, 1906 . 7. Q.97to99. Changes needed
10 bring stamp
duties on marine
insurance in
India in line
with the position
in England as
resulting from
the Finance Act,
1959 . Re-draft. Section 7 (Stamp Act)

In section 7 , suh--set:éioI1 (4) shall be omitted. Section 66, Smrnp Act
To section 68 , mo following Exception shall be added, namely :-- Section 57 , Stamp Act

In section 67 ", the words "or a policy of marine insurance" the words "or policies" and the
words "or policy" shall be omitted. Article 47-Division A, Stamp Act
In Article 47 , for Division A, the following shall he subtituted, namcly,-- and an instrument exempted by virtue of paragraph (a) of this Exemption shall not be taken
for the purposes of this Act to be a policy of insurance." Article 47---- General Exemption
In Article 4? ', in the General Exemption, after the words "a policy of insurance", the
words "other than a policy of marine insurance" shall be inserted.
Amendments to Sections 25(2) to 25(5) and section 27(2) , Marine
Insurance Act. 1963 In the Marine Insurance Act, 1963 ,--- (a) in section 25 , sub-section (2) to subsection (5) Shall be Omittﬂd .' (b) in section 27 , sub-section (2) shall be omitted. sugmﬁon 43.23. It may also be added here that there are certain provisions in the English Stamp
ream-din: stamp. Law, namely, section 11 of the Finance Act, 1901 (regarding policies with a continuation
clause) section 3 of the Revenue Act, 1903 (for builders' etc. risks) and section 3 of the
Finance Act, 1912 (for increase in premium), which are relevant and important on the subject
of stamp in marine insurance. The necessity of making similar provisions in the Indian Stamp
Law requires to be considered. Buﬂdm, risk 43.24. In England, the Stamp Act of 1891 does not include builders' risks insurance in
" ' the deﬁnition of "policies of sea insurance". The position was me: by the Revenue Act, 1903
{3 Edw. VIII, C. 46], section 8 of Which fﬂads 33 follows': 11 of 1963. 1. Dover, Handbook to Marine Insurance (1937). 135393 134: 135- 235 43.25. The effect of these provisions is that Builders' risks policies, although invariably
effected for time, are appropriately stamped as for voyage. As it may be diﬂicult at the
outset to fix with precision the time which must elapse before delivery of the vessel to her
owners, such policies are usually arranged in the ﬁrst instance for a period of time anticipated
to be adequate, but a clause is normally inserted in the policy agreeing to hold covered any
necessary extension. Strictly speaking, such extensions might be regarded as new contracts
rather than as continuations, but in practice are endorsed on the original policies and signed
before the period originally mentioned has expired; otherwise, the extension would need to
be stamped as a separate contract. 43.26. After a policy has been effected, by an alteration of the risk the rate of premium
may, by the imposition of an additional premium, be increased so as to bring the total rate of
premium outside the concession: To meet this positio-n, the Finance Act, 1912 , provided as
follows in England?'

" Section 8 . Where the premium or consideration for a policy of sea insurance is
expressed to be a sum not exceeding the rate of half--a--crown per cent of the
sum insured, and is subject to an increase (whether deﬁned or not in the policy)
in the event of the occurrence of a speciﬁed contingency, the premium or
consideration shall, for the purpose of the Stamp Act, 1891 , be treated as a
premium or consideration not exceeding the rate of half-a crown per cent on the
sum insured. But if, owing to the occurrence of the contingency which is the
occasion for an increase of the premium or consideration, the premium or
consideration, is increased so as to exceed the rate of half--a--crown
per cent of the sum insured, the policy or a new policy to be thereupon issued
small be stamped with such an additional sum as is required to represent the
additional duty payable, and may be so stamped without penalty at any time
not exceeding thirty days after the date on which the increased premium
or consideration becomes ascertained. 43.27. Section 4(2) , Marine Insurance Act. 1963 covers construction, building, and launching
risks. There is one anomaly, namely, that while such insurances are treated as analogous to
marine insurances, the policies themselves are stamped with the duty applicable to non-marine
insurance. In England, builders' risks policies are under the Revenue Act, 1903 (3 Bdw. VII,
Ch. 46), section 8 , to be stamped as if for a "voyage" and not deemed to be policies for
time, even if made for more than a year. Other policies on adventures "analogous to marine
arlventures" would presumably be liable to stamp only as non-marine policies.' In India, there
is a no express provision, but entry 47 of the First Schedule to the Indian Stamp Act , sub-division
'A' relating to "sea insurance", could not in terms apply and a ﬁxed duty under sub-division 'B'
would be leviable, because such policies would not be "sea insurance policies" as deﬁned in section 2 (20] of the Indian Stamp Act . 43.28. The position is, in our view, anomalous. It is desirable that at least a provision
requiring all policies governed by sub--section (2) of section 4 of the Marine Insurance Act
to be stamped as marine insurance policies (for voyage} should be inserted in the Indian
Stamp Act . 43.29. The point is mentioned in the 21st Report of the Law Commission (Report on
Marine Insurance)? Construction, building and launching of sea going vessels is a costly and
lengthy process with attendant risks. It is customary to take out insurance policies against
such risks. 43.30. Section 2(20) of the Stamp Act deﬁnes a "policy of sea insurance", in terms
under which policies taken out for these purposes will not be taken as "sea policies" for

voyage.' 1. Dover, Handbook to Marine Insurance (1957), page 135. 2. See section 79 , English Act. 3. 21st Report of the Law Commission (Marine Insuraneel. page 49. paras 2-3. 4. File No. 3{4).I'5'l-L.C. Pt. I. [Precis of important points in lwnistry of Finance, Department of Revenue. File

No. 1.f6D!62 . Cus. VIII, notings dated 23th December, 1962 and 21st March. 1963-}. Anomaly in
Stamp Act. Insurance against
eonstmetion
risks. f:°°mm°°dﬂ"'°11 43.31. We, therefore, recommend the insertion of the following proviso to Article 47 of
amend
35¢], 41 the Stamp Act 2

"Provr'den' that all policies governed by sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Marine
Insurance Act, 1963, shall be stamped as policies of sea insurance for voyage." Policy under- 43.32. Then there are policies underwritten by several persons. With reference to the

$33" by mg; discussion contained in the Report' of the Law Commission on Marine Insurance, it is desirable'
company. that a policy underwritten by more than one company should be considered as only one contract

for the purposes should be added to Aritcle 4?. Voyage and time 2?. (1) Where the contract is to insurance the subject-matter at and from or from one place

p°1""°5' to another or others, the policy is called a "voyage policy", and where the contract is to insure
the subject-matter for a deﬁnite period of time, the policy is called a "time policy". A contract
for both voyage and time may be included in the same policy. (2) A time policy which is made for any time exceeding twelve months is invalid. Dssignaﬁon and :28. (1) The subjecbmatter insured must be designated in a marine policy with reasonable
subject-matter. certainty. (2) The nature and extent of the interest of the assured in the subject-matter insured need
not he speciﬁed in the policy. ( 3) Where the policy designates the subject-matter insured in general terms, it shall be const-
rued: to apply to the interest intended by the assured to be covered. (4) In the application of this section regard shall he had to any usage regulating the designa-
tion of the sulJject--matter insured. APPENDIX 2. Section 2(20) --Rew'sen" deﬁnition of "Policy of Sen Insurance". ('1) agrees to take upon himself any risk attending goods, merchandise 01' 1Jl'DP£'«!'1? Of
any description whatever while on board of any ship or vessel, or

1 gm Report of thg Law Commission (Marine Insurance) page 63, notes to clause 31.
' . _ pr.'-£55 r ' ram ' ts in Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue File
2' ll;-2_3:§'E.i'_5%".§'.,ii.§; Iaircs 2331 ii'$1o'e9rmbe:,FiEi1i'2 and 215: March, 1963}. ,

_-.-.. 23'? , (ii) engages to indemnity the owner of any such goods, Ine.rcl1andise or property against
any risk, loss or damages,

such "agreement or engagement shall be deemed to be a contract for sea insurance. APPENDIX' 3

Statement showing law 0)' Stamp Duty in England before 1959 regarding marine insrrrance.
The Stamp (Con.sof:'a'at:'on) Act, 1891
[54 5: S5 Vict. Chap. 39) Section 92(1) , Act of 1391

(1) Deﬁned policy of marine insurance to mean any insurance (including re-insurance) made
upon any ship or vessel or upon machinery, tackle or furniture of any ship or vessel or any goods

on board of any ship or vessel so as to cover the risk from the commencement of the transit to
_the_-ultimate destination. Section 92(2) , Act' of "1391

Deﬁned a contract of sea insurance to mean an agreement whereby any person in consideration
of any sum of money takes upon himself any risk attending goods, merchandise, or property of
anykinri while on "board of a ship or vessel or engages to indemnify the owner of any such goods,
merchandise or property from any risk, loss or damage. Section 93(1) , Act of 1891
Section 93(1) says that a contract of sea insurance, excepting the one referred to in section
55 of the Merchant Shipping Amendment Act, 1862, shall not be valid unless expressed in a
policy of sea insurance. Section 93(2) , Act 0} 1891
It says that a policy of sea insurance for time shall' not be for a period exceeding 12 months. Section 94 , Act of 1891
_It says that a policy of sea insurance, if made for voyage and also for time or to cover
a time beyond 30 days after arrival at the destination and having been moored shall pay the duty
asapolicy for voyage and also duty as policy for time. Section 95 , Act of 1891 _
It provides how a policy of sea. insurance, if not stamped at the time of exedution, is to be
stamped. _ _
' Section 96 , Act of 1391

. I Section 96 permits alteration of the policy after it has been undenvritten, provided the alternation
is done before notice for determination of the risk originally insured, and does not extend the
period beyond; six months (in case of policies shorter than six months), or beyond 12 months (for

policies of over six months). '

, Provided further that the property remains the property of the same person, and the altera-
tion does not extend the amount of the sum insured. ' - Section 93(1) , Act of 1891

Provides for penalty of one hundred pounds as fine, if one becomes an insurer or enters into
a contract of sea insurance in any manner without issue of a duly stamped sea insurance policy,
or it one is concerned in a fraudulent contrivance or device or any wilful act or neglect with an

intent to evade stamp duty. _ _ T 

24 M of Law,-'77--3| . Section 9 '1'(2),Acto}' 1891

Provides for a ﬁne as above. it a broker, agent or other person transects a sea insurance
contrary to the true meaning any intent of this Act, or writes any policy upon "material not duly
stamped. Further, he shall lose the commission or brokerage or agency, any money paid to him
shall be deemed to be paid without consideration, and shall remain the property of his employer. .__. . _ Section 97(3) , Act of 1891

Provides for a ﬁnc as above, if one makes a copy of the policy of sea insurance without there
being, in existence, any duty stamped.' policy. Section 11(1) , Finance Act, 1901
(1 Edw. 7, ch. 7)
The_ Act of _l 891 {section 91) was i11te11_ded to insure a, regular revenue, and to minimise

taiievasion. _

But it caused hsrdehipto the assured where the previous policy expired, when the ship was
encumbered with bad weather or due to some casualty. This was sought to be met by a "conti-
nuation clause", but the same was held invalid, as it extended: the period of insurance beyond 12
months. This disability was removed by the Finance Act, 1901 . The Act of 1991 section 11(1) provided that notwithstanding anything contained in the Stamp Act, 1891 , a policy of sea insurance made for time may contain a continuation clause: and
 same" shall not be invalid on the ground that it makes the policy available beyond 12 months. Act of 1901, section 11(2) The same Act provided that an additional duty of six pence shall be chargeable on a policy
having a continuation clause. ' ' Act of 1901, section 11(3) The Act also provided for payment of separate duty without penalty, if the risk covered by
the continuation clause attaches and the duty is paid within 30 days after the risk has so attached. Act of 1901, section 11(4) It deﬁnes "continuation clause" to mean that the subject of insurance shall stand covered
until its arrival if the voyage is not completed within the time of the policy, or for a reasonable

time not exceeding 30 days after arrival. and the head of charge "Policy of Sea Insurance" and the head of charge beginning "Policy of
Insurance against Accident" shall be omitted. '
(2) The following shall "be exempt from all stamp duties : . {3} .An instrument shall not be charged with duty exceedinggsix pence by re-ason"'onIy that it
eonhins or relates to two or more distinct matters each falling within the head of charge inserted
by sub-section (1) of this section. a . = e . _ -- _(4-) In consequence of subsection (1) of this section, the Act, 1891, shall be'aii'1endi:d
ta) sections 92 to 97 (which make special provision for policies of sea 'ms_uranee_) shall
eeaseto have effect ; . -- . ' '
(In) section 100 (which imposes penalties in cases where there is nqduly stan:|ped_ policy
of insurance) shall have effect as if the exceptions therein as to sea insurance 'were
omitted; i ' ' ' ' ' i
1 For detailed discussion of each provision of the Marine Insurance Act ', see Dover, Handbook. of Marine
Insurance. (1957), pages l2§|--l36. (c) section 116 (which enables composition to be made for stamp duty on accident
policies} shall apply in relation to all policies of insurance other than life, insurance,
and the second part of the Second Schedule shall have effect accordingly; and the said section 100 shall not apply in relation to an insurance or a policy effecting an insu-
rance if the insurance is such that a policy effecting it is exempt from all stamp duties. " section (2) of section 25 thereof (which are derived from provisions contained in section 93 of
the Stamp Act, 1891) shall cease to have eﬁect. (6) Notwithstanding the repeal of section 93 of the Stamp Act, 1891, a contract for such
insurance as is mentioned in section 506 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, shaltcontinize to
be admissible in evidence although not embodied in a marine policy as reqkrired by section 23 of
the Marine Insurance Act, 1906. (T) This section shall apply in relation to instruments made or executed after the beginning
of August, 1959." and from "or as compensation'_' to the ent1._a.nd
and sub-section (2). In section 99. the words "sea'
insuranceor". In section 100,] the words "other
than sea Insurance" and the words "other than a
policy of sea insurance". . - _ - In the First Schedule, the head of charge "Policy
of 5a Insurance" and the sea of cha:-"Q: beginning
"Policy of Insurance against Accident". S8 6:. 59 Vict. The Finance Act, 1895. Section 13 . c, 16. 59 & 60 liter. The Finance Act, 1896 . Section 13 . c. 28

52 J-, 63 Vic,-t. The Finance Act, 1399. Section 11 . G. 9. 1 Edw. 7. 6;. 7. The Finance Act, 1901 . Section 11 . 3 Enter. '7, c. 46. The Revenue Act, 1903. Section B.

6 Edw. '7 c. 41. The Marine Insurance In section 23 , the words "although it be _ur_tstarnged". Act, 1906. In section 23 , paras. (2) to (5). In section 25 ,
_ sub-section (2). ' - 3 - ' _- ~

'1' Edw. 7 c. 13. The Finance Act, 1907. Section 3 . . , . . 2 r& 3 Gen. 5. c. S. The Finance Act, 1912. Section 3 . 7 _ __ \

. . __ . _ . ' .. '\ _" APPENDIX 5

English law as to Stamp Duties on Marine Insurance Policies after 1959.
(1) Certain provisions as in force in England in 1959 have now been altered'. _ (2) The present position in England is this. The following provisions have been repealed
by the Finance Act, 1959 *. section 3 f Finance Act, 1912 (increase in premium} Section 11 Finance Act, 1901
{continuation clause}

section 3 Revenue Act, 1903

(Builders Risk)

 the Finance Act, 1959, section 30(1) the previous ad valorem duty was replaced by" a ﬁxed

 ofsiilr. pence in the case of all policies of insurance other than life insurance. The - Finance Act, 1959 ,. section 30(2) exempts £1'oi:n.all stamp duties cover notes, slips and
other instruments usually made in anticipation of the issue of a formal policy, and- instruments

 alterations in the terms or conditions ofianyi"policy of insurance and policies" of

insurance on baggage or personal and household effects only, if 'made out of Great Britain. There is no corresponding section in the lndian Stamp Act . ' _
(The repealed provisions of the 1906 Act correspond to section 25(2) to (5) and section
27(2) of. the (Indian) Marine Insurance Act, 1963 (11 of 1963). - {4} The Finance Act, 1959 , section 30(4) has also repealed sections 92-97 of the Stamp
Act, 1391. [ Section 94 of the Stamp Act, 1891 correspond to section 7(4) Indian Stamp Act]
Section 97(3) correspond to some extent to Section 61 ' Indian Act. (5) The Finance Act, 1959 also amends section of the Act of 1891 (penalties). {Section
100 corresponded to section" 66, Indian Stamp Act ). (6) Further, the Finance Act, 1959 amends section 116 of the 1891 Act (composition of
Starnp duty) on accident policies by extending it to all policies other than life. (There is no
 corresponding to section 116 in the Indian Stamp Act ). Til?) Section 30 of the Finance Act, 1959 read with the Stamp Act, 1391 now governs -stamp
dunes in England on marine insurance policies. The position in England now is discussed, in the
uudermentioned books'? 1 A5 to position in 1959, see 21st Report of the Law Commission (Marine Insurance), page 62. ' See Finance Act . 19591'? & 8 Eliz. 2 c. 58), section 30 . _

' See-ta) Dover. Analysis of Marine and other Insurance Clauses (1961), pages 215 at 93 (b) Chalmers, Marine Insurance Act (1966) Pages 165-166. where the Finance Act, 1959 is quoted. (c) Monroe, Stamp Duties (1964-'3, page 133 and pages 267-268. CHAPTER 44 ARTICLE 47 AND ACCIDENT POLICY
44.1. This Chapter deals with the question of stamp duty on policies or insurance ngcnrm

Introductory. accident and sickness. A suggestion for reducing the duty on such policies was made by the
Indian Insurance Companies' Association, Bombay,' and the suggestion has been referred to the
Law Corninission by the Ministry of Finance.'

44.2. The subject of rates of stamp duty on policies of insurance falls within the competence
of the Union', The duties are levied by the Govominent of India', but they are collected by the
State' within which the duties are respectively leviable'. The proceeds of the duty leviable
within a State are assigned to the States'. 44.3. The existing provisions relating to Stamp Duty on ﬁre insurance, etc. and accident
ll'lSut'al'lCE.' i.e., Entries 417-3 and 47-C the First Schedule to Indian Stamp.Act, 1399--gare_quoted
below :- . . if any. chargeable under No. 53." valid for a single Jouriiey only. '

Elelllptilln

When issued to a passenger travelling by the intermediate or the

third class in any railway. (ti) In any other case-for the maximum which may become payable in Fifteen naye pajse : Provided that, in case
the case of any single accident or sickness where such amount does of a policy insurance against death_ by
not exceed Rs. 1,000, and also where such amount exceeds Rs. 1,000, accident when the annual, preiniuin
for every Rs. ].tI)0 or part thereof. payable does not exceed Rs. 2.50 11¢!'

1,000, the duty on such instrument shall
be ten naye paise for every Rs. 1.0!!) or
part thereof or the rinxlmurn amount
which may become payable under it." Article 41 Division cc _ , _ . CC.-INSURANCE BY WAY OF _INDEMNITY against liability to

pay damages on account of aceideng to workmen employed by or . underthe insurancccrr against liability to pay coinpensatwn under T-'J1 H3313' 133153»

the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923 , for every Rs. 100l- or
part thereof payable as premium. Question raised 44.4. The suggestion that has been forwarded to us for considerations raises two major ques- Elgg 3I1lﬂ;:h¢i1'_';1 ti-ons, ﬁrst. reduction of the stamp duty on original policies of accident insurance, and, secondly,
mm' 1. For details of the stlsﬂﬁsiiﬁﬂl 563 ?'Nﬁ'4- _ _ _ _ _

2_ Filg NO, P. 3(4)-[57-L.C. Part LS. No. 35, being a copy of the suggestion in the Ministry of Finance (Deptt. of Revenue) Cus. VII Section, File No. F. 1]'l7l6-Stamp. 3. Union List, Entry No. 91 of the Constitution. 4. Article 268 (1) of the Constituti-31I._
. Article ass (1) lb) of the Constitution- _
. In the case of Union territories, may are collected by the Government of India.
. Article 263 (2) of the Constitution. SCOL 33?"? 90-«Ia-iv: Scheme of the
Report. History. English Law. Schedule to the
English Act . The Act of 1883 added a clause as to the renewal of a policy of ﬁre insurance, which was
remitted to Article 47 by Act 5 of 1906. Act 6 of 1894 added two clauses including a policy-. of
sea. insurance, whether of ship or of cargo, which now forms part of section 2 {20)'. . . ~

44.12. Accident Insurance became a separate clause under the Art of 1899 (i.e- the present
Act). '

The proviso relating to policies wherein the annual premium for accident insurance does not
exceed Rs. 2.50 per Rs. 1,000, was introduced by the Repealing and Amending Act 18 of 19.281
to give statutory recognition to a reduction. of duty granted previously" by notiﬁcation No. 
dated the 4th February, 1928. . , .. 44.13. The article was rearranged in the Act of 1899, and the words in Division D--"Life
insurance or other insurance not speciﬁcally provided "for" were added to include all other forms
of insurance". 44.14 Act 43 of 1923 transferred some of these to Division B, by adding therein the words
"and other clauses of insurance not elsewhere included in this Article, covering goods, merchandise,
personal, effects, crop and other property against loss or damage." . 44.15. Division CC of Article iilivas inserted by Act 15 of 1925, providing for stamp duty" But, by the Act of 1959,? the separate heads of "Sea Insurance", and "Insurance against-accie
dent" were omitted. Consequential changes in the provisions in the nature of deﬁnition were
also made. 44.19. The Schedule to the English Act now reads thus" :---_-- '¥I1:,3'|;,;_.; Sfrillgl:-gnoe mher_f1-,an}if'eiu5m-an°c ' all I I-_ H ' I 7 6 '
Policy of Life Insurance--- 'Where the sum insured does not exceed £10 1

Exceeds £10 but does not exceed £3 . . Exceeds £25 but does not exceed £500 . . . . . . . . . . . For every full sum of £50, and also for any fractional part of' £50, of the sum insured . . . . . 5

Exceeds £500 but does not exceed £1000 for every full sun: of £100, and also for any fractio- nal part of £100, of the amount increase - . . . l 0
Exceeds £1000 : ' See Done-gh's Indian Stamp Law, edited by R.ustornji,(I935), pages 693-699. - ' The Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Bill, says (under Article 47,1, "I'l1edraf'tr'ng of this am'- -
cle has been altered to make its provisions clearer." ' As to the suggestion made in 1898 to reduce the duty on accident insurance. see parauaph 33, inﬁ-a. ' Stamp Act, 1391 (54 «Sr. 55 Vict. c. 38) First Schedule, head of charge "Policy of Insurance etc." ' The Finance Act, 1920 (10 &. 11 Geo. OSC. l8). ,

' Finance Act, 1959 (7 & Eliz. 2:. 58), s. 30. ' Stamp Act, 1891 , (54 at 55 Vic. c. 38) as amended up-to-date.
213-214. See Monme, Stamp Duties (1964), pages 245 SPECIAL EXEMP'I'lONS

Policies under the Friendly Societies Act, 1896, section 33 , are exempt from stamp duty." 44.20. We shall now deal with insurance and its various classes. Insurance is a contract contract of
whereby o-ne person, called the "insurer", undertakes to indemnify another person, called the insurance. 44.21. The two major types of insurance are marine and non-marine.' For convenience,
non-marine insurance mav be studied in its various species. 44.22. In the classiﬁcation of insurance against main types of non-rnarine risks, as given Pctsonalinguxangg

by I-Ialsburyii permim! insurance is thin described :-- and A°"id°"" - Accident policies insure against the contingency of accidental injury or accidental death.
Accident insurance, liability insurance and automobile insurance, all share this feature;-«-that
the insurance covers loss or damage resulting from accident or unanticipated

contingencies
except fire and the elements. 44-23. Every insurance, whatever its nature, postulates that a sum of money will be paid Contingency and
by the insurer on the happening of a speciﬁed event.' In one sense, all categories of insurance indemnity.
are related to a "'contingency".3 But, as a distinction is sometimes made between an "indemnity

insurance" and "contingency insurance", it would be desirable to discuss "indemnity"9 in some
detail. 44.24. The question of indemnity is thus dealt with in Halsbury" :-- 1' Garden v. Ingram (1852) 23 LJ. Ch. 478. at p. 4?9 per Lord St. Loonards.
24 M of Law,"i":'--32. ,

D 246 the assured then and then only becomes entitled to be indemnified, subiect to the limitation of

his contract.'

"He cannot recover more than the sum insured, for that sum is all that he has stipu- lated 1'01 by his premium and ﬁxes the maximum liability of the insurers".
EVE" Within that limit, however, he cannot recover more than What he establi-
shes to be the actual amount of his loss;3 the contract being one of the indemnity,
and of indemnity only, he can recover the actual amount of his loss and no
more,' whatever may have been his estimate of what his loss would be likely
to be, and whatever the premiums he may have paid, calculated on the basis of
that estimate." Certain types of accident business represent a combination of two or these classes, while
others include no less than three. Comprehensive motor policies (private cars] embrace (a), (b) and (c) under the one policy, as do Household Policies." 44.29. It has been said that the business transacted by the Accident Department of a
composite otficc comprises all these sections of Insurance business for winch provision is not
made by a Marine, Life and Fire Department". The variety of its scope will be evident from
the contents of the Accident Section of one of the year Books on Accident Insurance", which
covers persons accident, disease and sickness insurance, burglary insurance, "All Risks" In- '. See 'Ra:/nos "History of British Insurance", pages 233-299, 373-376.
'. Skiilirygv V. Accidental Death Inmmnce Co., (1857) 2 HI & N, 43; (1853) I F. & F. 116.
'. In re Cartoon, (1941) \-'.L.R. 254:1.-1 re Farley (I933) V.I...R. 271 ; In re Kerr {I 943) S. 5 .11. S: Re Packer (Clyne,
.!.--not yet reported}. '. See Stone and Cox. Accident Insurance You Book, (1963). Dan: 7. '. See Stone and Cox. Accident Insurance Year Book, {I963}, page 8-9.
. '. As to ''accident'', see Chitty, contracts, {[961}, Vol. 2. para 83?. 44.32. Halshury, further, states") :-- Halsbury acids, -'In fact, persnnal_ accident insurance devclo-pcd out of life insurance", but
it is necessary now to regard it as a different kind of insurance, and It IS in fact generally so

regarded." It may be added that the distinction is recognised in England in the Assurance Companies
Act". 44.33. Personal Accident insurance is ordinarily effected by policies. But there is also

a system of "coupon insurance" prevalent in England- 1. Chitty on Contracts (1961) Vol. 2, paragrc'lPl'l 903-

'. Road Traffic Act, 1960 (8 St 9 E12 2 C. 16)- 5. See also analysis in Halsbury. 3rd Edn., Vol. 22, pages 353. 354. Dﬂ1'a- 735(7) and 727-

~. Theobald V. Railway PCi.l'st£'?£§'€'3'-5' Amrance'co.. (18541 10 Em 45. at v- 53, -er Aimee: 9- frolic! mm: 44.35. As to stamp duty on instruments by way of coupon insurance, the relevant Stamp on
:oupons section in the English Act is section 116*. Where any person issuing policies so carries on
the business as to render it impracticable or inexpedien-'. that the duty of six pence be charged
upon the policies, the section empowers the Commissioners to enter into an agreement with
such person. T he agreement provides for the delivery of quarterly accounts of sums received
as premium on such policies. Duty is charged on the aggregate (of the sums recovered), at
the rate of ﬁve pounds per cent, as stamp duty. This section, and the Second Schedule, (Second
Part) to the Act, make other detailed provisions, which need not be gone into. 44.35. We shall now discuss the meaning of the expression "policy". The term "policy
is borrowed from the Italian merchants. who introduced insurance into England." The Italian

"poli2:za""', it is statedl, may be derived from the word "polythcha"--a tablet of several l:'olds----- '

used in late Latin for an account memorandum book. The expression "policy" may be used
to describe any contract of insurance, however, informal'?-9. A policy must he issued within a
certain time after the receipt of premium'°--". The deﬁnition of "policy" in the Indian Stamp Act " is not very helpful for a consideration
of the question which we have to discuss. 1. Halshury, 3rd Edn., Vol. 22, pages 302, 308. paras, 604-605.
'. Matter in footnotes not important for the present purpose is not reproduced. '. See Carbiﬂ v. Carbolfc Smoke Bail! Co.. (1893) 1 (1.3. 255, CA. Payment is not essential {Shanks v. Sun Life
Assurance Co. aflndia. 4 S.L.T. 65). ._ Section 116, Stamp Act, 1391 (54 & 55 Vic. C. 39). . Chitty on Contracts (1961), Vol. 2, pages 344, 345, para 303, 804 and f.n. 5. . The full word is "polizza cl' assocurazione". See' Arnould, Marine Insurance (1961), Vol. 1, page 9.
. Chitty on Cont:-arts (I961) Vol. 2, page 344, 345, para 803 804 and f.n. 5. . Forsikriqg Sakriesed Skaber v. Attorney General, (1925) AL'. 639, 642. and fgbtlggiedpgailcd discussion, see I-Ialsbury. 3rd E,dn., Vol. 22, page 209, paragraphs 393, 395, "Meaning of Po1icy''_

1". Section'66, Indian Stamp Act, 1899. 2.50

E|1BliShl:1w- 44.37. The deﬁnition of policy in the English Act of 1891 (as amended in 195.9), relevant
to the topic under discussion, may be quotcdl :~-- 44.38. Policy of life insurance has been thus deﬁned in English Act of 1891 {as amended
in 1959). 93. Policies of lnsurarice (.'.t'r.'£-pf policies of sea insurance

(1) For the purposes of this Act the expression "policy of life insurance" means a
policy of insurance upon any life or lives or upon any event or contingency
relating to or depending on any life or lives except a policy of insurance for any
payn1er.:t9 agree-d to be made upon the death of any person only from accident
or violence or otherwise than from a natural cause. . . . . .. '

The stamp duty is thus prescribed in the Act of 1891 (as amended in 1959). I)°ﬂ'1jtionnf 44.39. The deﬁnition of "policy of insurance against accident" which was given in section

rnolirrrof insufam?-G 98(1) of the {English} Stamp Act, 1391 is useful. The deﬁnition has now been repealed by

"amt accident" the Finance Act, 1959 , which places all policies other than life insurance policies in one class.
The deﬁnition, so far as is relevant, was as follows" :-- Rgsemblancg bet- 44.40. There are, no doubt, some points of resemblance between life insurance and accident

:'cl1*j3emlil'*in_ "Pad insurance. A policy of insurance against accidents, as usually drawn, is not a contract of indem-
iu nityﬁ It is a contract to pay a certain ﬁxed sum per week in case of injury, and a oertain other

nee. ﬁxed sum in case of death." 44.41- The position regarding indemnity in regard to accident has been thus stated" by a
writer on mercantile law: 44.43. The distinction between life insurance and accident insurance, is equally important.
This is very well elaborated in an Australian case.' It points out, ﬁrst, that marine, ﬁre burglary,
personal accident, motor vehicle and other miscellaneous insurances indemnity the insured
against loss from events which may or may not occur, while life insurance is related to a con-
tingency which must occur, the only uncertainly being about its time. Secondly, life policies
are capable of advance calculation. while in other forms of insurance the determination of pro-
babilities would seem to have a less scientiﬁc basis. Thirdly, accident and sickness policies are
ordinarily annual contracts, (like ﬁre etc.), and have no surrender value. 44.4-4. We shall now proceed to consider the speciﬁc question which forms the subject-
Inatter of this Chapter. The point that we have to consider has a history." It would appear
that on 18th February, 1398, the Chamber of Commerce, Bombay, sent a representation? to the
Government regarding stamp duty on accident insurance policies, for bringing the law inline
with the English Act . (This was with reference to the Draft Bill to amend and consolidate the Stamp Act ]. 44.45. The Select Committee' which examined the 1898 Bill, considered this representa«
tion.'. (The representation is mentioned in its Report, in the marginal list of papers considered). The Select Committee did not, however, adopt the suggestion in Toto, but stated : . or can Wake Price & Co. v. Citing, (1951) 1 W.L.R. 45, 51. _ 2. As to "indemnity-"', see In re Miller, Gibb is; Go. Li':!., (1957) I W.L.R. T03, 703. 3. .g'UdbHf'7l v. Great Western Rail' C'o., (I8'i"4) LR. it) Erich. 1; (1874-1830), A.E.R. Rep. 195, 196(1):! Bramwoll

5-: Exemption

"Policies of life insurance granted by the Director General of the Post Ofﬁces of India in
accordance with rules for Postal Life Insurance issued under the authority of the Government
of India." 4_4.4'.-'. We have now to consider whether the law on the subject should be changed. For
this purpose, a consideration of the rationale of the existing law appears to be desirable. Now,
it is not always easy to discover the rationale of the provisions of a taxing law.' For that reason,
it is not easy to formulate the considerations which should be taken into account while coming
to a conclusion whether a change should: be made in such provisions or not. On the one hand, from the point of view of the insurance corporation, a policy of insurance
is a business document. It brings proﬁt, and its tasability is supportable on that ground. 44.48. On the other hand, from the point of view of the insured; the poiicy is merely a
protection against apossible risk; there is no motive of proﬁt, and it is not a commercial transac-
tion so far as the assured is concerned. He does not view it as such. It is not even an
irient', i.e., the conversion of money into some species of property from which income or profit is
expected to be derived in the ordinary course of trade or business.' It may be noted that in cont-
rast, some forms of life insurance---eg., endowmcnt----a1'e investments. 44.49. Again, in modern times, with the increasing risk of accidents, in the factory, tram
transport, from the complexity of urban life and other similar factors, there is every need to
encourage accident insurance, so that the loss is not borne by one person, but is distributed
amongst many. From that point of view, there appears to be ample justiﬁcation for keeping the
stamp duty to the minimum. - 44.50. We shall now consider the comments received by the Ministry of Finance tron: 2_ The pfintgd copy speaks of Division F, but this seems to be a slip for Division B. (Division E listed to
Re~Insura.nce'). ' . " 'invest-i -- (I) Duty on original policy. One State Government and the Administrations of most Union Territories agreed to the
proposed change. Two State Governments and the Administration of one Union Territory,
had no comments. Nine State Governments were opposed to the proposed change. The reasons for oppos-
ing the change, as stated in the various replies taken together, were----- (i) that the rate is not high when compared with life insurance policies; (ii) that any concession in respect of policies under article 47--C and 47--CC will
give rise to similar requests by persons interested in policies governed by
articles 47--A and 4-7-D; (iii) that accident and sickness insurance premia are paid by well--to--do people
either for themselves or for their workmen, and there can be no hardship involved
in paying the present rates; ' (iv) that no reduction of Government revenue can be contemplated during the present
emergency}

(vi that the Insurance Companies Association has not been able to furnish points
of similarity between policies under article 47-13 and those under article 47--C; (vi) that looking to the huge amount insured for comparatively small amounts or
premiums, the stamp duty under article 47-C(b) is not likely to affect the
insurance business; (vii) that under section 29 , it is the person taking out the policy who bears the duty,
and insurance companies "are not directly concerned with the incidence of this
stamp duty." One State Government," which was opposed to the reduction, suggested that has journey
may be included alongwith railway accidents, for exemption under rule 47-C(a), "which
may lead to greater popularity of accident insurance among the less weIl--to--do classes." 44.5]. As regards the duty on renewal, two State Governments were of the view that
renewals are chargeable at the same rates as for the original, and that a speciﬁc provision tr-
that eﬁect may be inserted to remove confusion. One State Government expressed this view- To put the matter differently, in a personal accident policy, the ﬁxed sum dispenses with

the proof of the extent of the loss, by specifying the nature and eﬁect of the injury sustained.'

44.54. A classiﬁcation of the various types of insurance" from the point of View of the
subject-matter would be helpful for appreciating the relevant points. Insurance
PROPERTY PERSONAL
{Loss fr0m_Impair1'nent {Loss of income or
or destruction_ of increased expenditure,
DI0P¢1't3'---wluch may bc--) due to--)
I | i ' i 4
Tangible property Intangible Death Survival Impaired Loss of oportunity to
(la) property (lb) (2a) (213) health contribute Dnc's
(2c) skill, labour and
kuowlcdgeﬂdl
44.55. Examples of each category given in the above classiﬁcation" are :-- Life Insurance. Sickness Maternity, Accident and Invalidity, Insurance. 2d. Unemployment Insurance. 44.56 Though both accident insurance and life insurance fall under "personal" insurance,

yet, in fact, accident insurance stands much nearer to the other classes of insurance than to
life insurance. Assuming (as is stated in one comment)' that accident insurance is taken out
at present by only well-to-do people, there is no reason. why others should not be encouraged...
to do so. See supra. . See supra. . Bncycloapedia of Social Sciences (l'-'Iac'ilIan) (1951-Reprint}, Vol. 8, page 96.
Cl'. Ivarny. General principles of insurance law (1956), page 3 and 357.
This is based mainly on Encyeloapedia of Social Science

. See supra. . S66 supra. . See supra. ﬂ0*--.ltl\[-l'I:lLu}hl:-- pany, does not mean that a suggestion" made by an Association of the Insurance Companies

should not be accepted, if it is in the general interest. 44.59. At this stage, we would like to elaborate the proposition that the policy does not
bring proﬁt3. Accident insurance may not be "indemnity" in the strict sense'. But the amount

recoverable under the policy is regulated. As has been stated by Halsburyﬁ' the policy usually provides for payment of a lump sum
in the event of the assured's death by accident, and of other sums, varying in amount according
to the nature and extent of the injury. The speciﬁed amount is payable in the event of the
assured sustaining certain speciﬁed injuries, such as the loss of sight in one eye or total loss

or night." Sometimes, the policy provides for increased compensation for certain forms of accident.
Thus, in one case', a double beneﬁt was payable if the assured, at the time of the accident, was
a passenger on a public conveyance. Halsbury observes", "Where. the policy provides for payment of compensation in the event
of non-fatal injury, but makes no special provision for its amount, the assured is entitled to
receive compensation for his pain and suffering of and expenses incurred to an amount not ex- ceeding the amount payable in case of death." 44.60. (a) Having regard to the considerations summarised above", and also to the fact
that the premium in respect of policies of accident insurance is low", we think that there is a
case for reduction of the stamp duty as follows. Under article 47 , Division C, pargarph (b}."
in respect of an original policy, (of insurance against accident and sickness), when the maxi-
mum amount which becomes payable in a case of any single accident or sickness does not
exceed Rs. 5,000, the duty yhould be 10 paise for every Rs. 1,000 or a part thereof, and
when the maximum amount which may become payable in the case of any single accident or
sickness exceeds Rs. 5,000 the duty should be Re. 1 irrespective of the amount which may
become payable. If this change is made, then the existing proviso to article 47 , Division C,
paragraph (b), added by Act 18 of 1928, will become superﬂuous, and may be omitted. (b) We have considered the suggestion" regarding bus journeys. We think that policies
of insurance against accidents in course of journey by bus, if valid for a singie journey, should
be exempt, where the amount does not exceed Rs. 5,000. We are, further, of the view that
this exemption should extend to journeys by all conveyances including rail or air. We are of the view that policies for single journey or voyage above Rs. 5,000 should bear
duty of only 10 paise whatever he the mode of conveyance. We are further of the opinion that aircraft should be treated in the same category as railway,
since the article is dealing with accidents. 1. See supra. 2. Sea supra. 3. See supra. :1. See supra. . >5. I-Ialsbury, 3rd Edu., Vol. 22. page 299, para 59?. He stated, that in Calcutta, the insurer transacted their business directly with the oiﬁces.
so that the policy was renewed year by year with the same Company and bore no duty. But,
in Bombay, the business was done through brokers, who might take policies with a new Company,

so that it was a new policy. 44.64. It should, further be noted. that stamp duty under article 47 is chargeable only if
there is a 'policy'". A "receipt" for renewal premium cannot, as such, be charged as ''policy""',
in case of insurance accidentil. It is necessary to consider whether it is chargeable as a

"1'eceipt""3. 44.65. As regards stamp duty on renewal, therefore, the correct position (under the exisﬁng

law) is uncertain". Perhaps, it can be stated that if a policy is issued, it would be chargeablewith
full duty". If a receipt only is issued, article 47 does not apply"'-'''. The position needs clariﬁcation

We recommend, that in respect of each receipt for any payment of a premium or renewal of an =
accident policy, one half of the duty chargeable on the original should be chargeable, (in addition '

to the duty, if any chargeable, under article 53 ). This is on the analogy" of article 47 , division B

. Question 98. . Paragraph 5, supra

. See Halsbury, 3rd Edn., Vol. 22, pages 248, 249. . Srokefl V. Heywood, (1897) 1 Ch. 459. . Halsbury, 3rd Edn. Vol. 22, page 249. para 434. See Stone & Cox, Accident Insurance Year Book (1963), Form of Policy at page 66.
. Halsbury, 3rd Ecln., Vol. 22, page 206, Footnote Ch). . Donogh's Indian Stamp Law, Edited by Rustomji (1935). page 1'7 and page 19. . Indian Stamp Act, 1399, Article 4? , speaks of "Policy of Insurance". . As to the meaning of "policy", see paragraphs 26-23, supra. ' '_
. Contrast Indian Stamp Act, 1899, Article 47 , Division "B', which mentions both an "original policy" and I

"receipt" for renewal. . Indian Stamp Act, 1399, Article 53 , "Receipt". . See supra. . See supra. . See paragraph 52, supra. . Article 53 , Indian Stamp Act, 1899 , may apply if a receipt is issued.
. As to article 4? , Division B, see para 4, supra. i--I-I|---i---n_n:_n |.-1...: ployed by or under the insured or against liability to pay compensation under the Workmen's
Compensation Act, 1923 ." 44.67. Article 47 , Division CC thus. deals with insurance against two kinds of liability,
namely :-- Liability under the ﬁrst head would be mainly at common law'-'. This ordinarily depends on
the proof of negligence. It may be either due to the employer's personal fault {for example, a
dangerous machine}, or to the fault of a fellow-workmen'. [The liability may even be under statntc,----e.g., under factories legislation,--and may be
absolute liability in some cases). Liability under the second head is statutory. In both cases, the insurance is by way of
"indemnity". In both cases again the rate of stamp duty is Ten naya paise for every Rs. 100 or part
thereof payable as premium. 44.68. Although the suggestion' which we are considering mentions article 47 , Division CC,
it does not suggest any change in that article, except that the position regarding renewal may be
clariﬁed. We recommend' that in article 47 , Division CC, so far as renewal is concerned, a
provision similar to that which we have recommended" for renewal under article 47 , Division
C, may be inserted. 44.69. lo the light of the above discussion, we recommend the following re-draft of
the relevant portions of article 47. We may add that the suggested amendments were included
in our Questionnaire' and have been generally favoured by the replies on this particular question. Re-draft of Article 4? , Division C

"C. ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS INSURANCE
(1) In respect of an original Policy (a) against accident on any conveyaizce valid for a single journey or voyage only, when
the maximum amount which may become payable under tlzepolfcy exceeds Rs. 5,090,
if the policy is issued to any passenger in: veilirw on such conveyance. Exemption

when issued to a passenger travelling by the second' class in any railway. against accident valid for more than a singlejourney or voyage oragainst sickness,
where _the maximum amount which may become payable under the
policy 11] the case of any single accident or sickness does not exceed Rs. 5,000. Ten poise

('3) Ten nnya paise for
every Rs. l,([l0 or
part thereof sue}: adopted by railways. One rupee. has been substituted, in view of the changed nomenclazul-¢

Article 47-
Division CC- Employcrs liabi- lity. Two kinds of
liability covered. Recommendation
regarding Article
47CC . (2) in respect a each recelprfor any payment afa premium on any renewal afar: One half of the 
payabie in respect of

orifinafpo icy. the original policy,
in addition in
the amount, if
any. chargeable un-
der Na. 53." Revised A.rl;iI:le 4?, Division CC

"CC. INSURANCE BY WAY OF INDEMNITY. against liability to pay damages on account of accidents to workmen employed by or under
the insurer or against liability to pay compensation under the Workmen's Compensatton
Act, 1923 . (1) In respect of an original policy. Ten naya poise. for every Rs. 100 or part thereof payable as premium. (2) in respect afeaciz receipt for any payment afa premium on any renewal afar: arx'gr'i-zal 0rze--}i-ab" of the duty
policy. payable in rexpau of
' the orawinal policy. in addfgrhn to
amannt, __ nay. chargeable unﬂrr
No. 53." The changes recommended are summarised below. Article 47-C.

(E) for original policy. (3) in respect of insurance against accidents on any conveyance, including air-
craft, complete exemption upto Rs. 5.000 (for single Journey policies). 0:) in other cases- {i) where the maximum amount payable does not exceed Rs. 1,000; Duty rednced ti-om
15 amp. to 10 up. (ii) where the maximum amount exceeds Rs. 1,000 but does not exceed Duty reduced ﬁcm I

15 mg. per 1.1100

Rs. 5,000 ,
Rupees 3o10n._l.per - 1.000 Rupeet. (iii) where the maximum amount exceed Rs. 5,000 ; Duty rea'ueed'ﬁvem _

I5 r.I.p. per 1. Rupees to

1 Rupee (irrespec- tive of the ameum'). (2) In respect of the duty on renewal- . the position is - ' :1. Article ¢I7--CC

Position as to duty on renewal is clariﬁed. CHAPTER 45 ARTICLES 48 to 50

45.1. Article 48 , which deals with powers of attorney', is divided into seven clauses, srlrich Article 43- prescrihe a stamp duty ranging from 50 P- to Rs. 10 and over. The material diﬁerenoe between I"'"°d"°'°'3'-
some of the categories of instruments provided for in these clauses, and the actual range of
duty,--for example, between clauses la) and (c)-~--is so small (50 P.) that it would be con-'
venient if some of these clauses could be combined. A suggestion for such re-grouping will
be made at the proper place. I

45.2. To some extent, the diﬁerences in stamp duty as prescribed in the various clauses
of the article are based on the difference? between general powers of attorney. and special powers G-enlﬂraland special
of attorney. In Halsbury, the following explanation of these powers is given under Dowcrs. 45.3. Some of the various clauses, if examined minutely, reveal a few common features. Clauses la) and
The common feature in clauses [a] and (c) is that of "single transaction". Clause [at] relates §'3;,';E,iP3k'""'
to an authority for procuring the registration of a document or documents in relation to a ' '
single transaction or admitting the execution of one or more of such documents {for registra-
tion)_. Clause (c) relates to acting "in a single transaction" otherwise than und_er clause (a). _
The expression "a single transaction", according to the Madras High Court', applies "either
to a single act or to acts so related to each other as to form one juridical transaction, such

as, all-the acts necessary to perfect a mortgage or a sale of a particular property," This inter-
piptation would be in accordance with the distinction between a special agent and a general
lﬁeﬁi. as set forth in the authorities already referred to'. In View of the connnon features mentioned above, itlmay be convenient to merge clause (a) and clause (c). 45.4. Clause (b) of the article charges duty on Instruments which are required for pro- C1ause(b).
oeedings under the Presidency Small Cause Courts Act, 1832 Under that Act, such Courts are
set up in Calcutta, Madras and Bombay.' -Under section 2t_'2l) of the Stamp Act , such powers of attorney as are chargeable with
court-fees, such as, Valralatnainas under the Court Fees Act, 18 -70, are exempted from stamp
duty. But the Court Fees Act " did not apply to Presidency Small Cause Courts, and there-
fore such instruments relating to these particular courts are chargeable under the Stamp Act .' 1. For deﬁnition, see section 2(21) . 2. See I/'enicutaramuna Iyer V. Narsinga Rao , (1915) l.L.R. 33 Med. 134. I36. 3. Halsbury, 3rd E:cln.. Vol.1, pages 150-151. _ , - Mm 'Bc:ltp'Sier's Law Dictionary, Vol. 2, page 714, quoted in Vertkafarmlam Iycr v. Narsiaga Ran. (l9l5),I.L.R. 38 5. Venkararantana Iyer v. Narasinga Rec . (1915) 'l.L.R. 38 Mad. 134. 13?. 6. Halsbury, 3rd Ed:-1., Vol.1, pages 150-151. 7. Section 5 , Presidency Small Cause Courts Act, 1882. 3. Section 3(3) . Court Fees Act . 9. Hornzusiji K. Bﬁabira V. Nana Apps, A.I.R. 1934 Born. 299. But, in the State of Maharashtra, under the Bombay Court Fees Act, 1959, Court fee has
been imposed on these instruments; and hence the instruments would not be chargeable under
the Stamp Act . Since clause (b) appears to he of a special character, and the individual States can (by
State Acts) levy duty on such instruments covered by the Presidency Small Cause Courts Act .'
there 15 no need to have this clause separately in the Central Stamp Act. Clause (13) should,
therefore, be omitted, leaving the States concerned to deal with the matter in the Court Fees
Act in the manner they think proper. This will simplify article 48. 45.5. Clause (cl) speaks of an authority given to not more than live persons "to act
Clause id} and jointly or severally in more than one transaction or generally". Clause tje) relates to a similar
°'""'°(°i' authority to more than five but not more than ten persons. Both the clauses relate to general
powers of attorney. Taking advantage of this common feature, one could conveniently com- (ii) Clauses id] and (e), which relate to a general power of attorney, should be
combined.' The diﬁereuce in duty imposed under each of the two clauses at
present depends on the number of persons appointed, i.e., Rs. 5 for ﬁve persons
and Rs. 10 for ten persons. The duty should be revised, so that one duty is
imposed for a general power of attorney given to not more than, say, ten per-
sons, (the rate being one rupee per person). (iii) Clauses (fl and (g) may be retained.' Clause (fl may he modiﬁed, on thc lincﬁ
indicated helow'. Clause {3} needs no modiﬁcation of substance." . Constitution, Tth Schedule, State List, item 63. . Jog-I Ram v. Mobammed Raﬁ, A.I.R. 1925 Dudh 172. Para -45.12, infra. Para 45.3. supra. Para 45.4, supra. Para 45.5, supra. . Para 45.6, supra. . Para 45.9 to 45.12, infra. 9. Para 45.7. -fttprn. mvee+w~-- 45.9. A few points of detail relating to individual clauses may now be discussed. Points of detail- (i) Meaning
"cons1derat|on" The Select Committee limited the clause to cases of powers authorising sales of immovable" 24- M of I..awf'l7--34

of

Recommendation
I! to article
4Btf). Flltlhﬁf Con. veyanee. Iii} Prairies. (iii) R9-vocation. Revlrnft. given for a consideration and gave authority for the sale of the property affected,
the duty should be levied in the same way as upon a conveyance. In the objections
that have been made to this provision, apparently some persons have thought
that we levy this duty upon a power-of--attorney given for affecting a sale, and
they fail to observe that it was levied purely upon a power-of-attorney 'given
for a consideration." 45.12. We are of the view that the conveyance subsequently executed in pursuance of
the power of attorney referred to in clause (f) should not be chargeable, except for the excess
consideration that is received, We recommend an amendment of the article accordingly. 4S.l2A. Accepting a suggestion made by a Law Society1_ we recommend that there should
be no duty on a further conveyance after the levy of duty under article 43(f) except where
extra consideration is received by the person as the seller. It is our intention that the proposed exemption should cover all sales in pursuance of the
power, as also a sale between the parties to the power, i.e., (i) sale deed between the principal and the agent, and also (ii) sale deed between the agent and third persons. In our opinion, the principle ought to be that the transfer having been subjected once
to tax, should not be taxed again, except insofar as further monetary gain accrues after the
execution of the power of attorney. We regard the power of attorney as, in substance, though
not in form, a transfer of the property. That in fact, is the rationale underlying the ad valorem
duty. 45.13. The next point concerns proxies. In a Madras case," it was held that a proxy which
empowered a person to vote at a particular meeting of a company "or at any other meeting" It is suggested that it is possible to take the view that the instrument would fall under
clause (d), and not under clause (g). The opposite view is based, perhaps, on the words
"jointly and severally" in clause rd), which are not quite appropriate for one person. This
misunderstanding could be removed by a slight verbal change in clause (:1). 45.14. There seems to be no speciﬁc entry in the Schedule as to the revocation of is
power of attorney. The revocation would, if attested, apparently, fall under the entry relating

to Instrument of cancellation.'
45.15. In order to simplify and amend the provisions of article 43 on the lines discussed
above, we recommend the following re-draft of the article : raliy, or not more than ten persons to act yomtly and severally In more sed but not less than five rupees. than one transaction or generally; (:2) when given for consideration and authorising the attorney to sell any The same duty as a conveyance
'ﬂ'1|?l'10Vﬁbl€ PFUDEFIY; (No.23) for the amount of the
consideration. One rupee for each person autho- (d) in any other case, - - . - rised. Explanation l.--§--For the purpose of this Article, more persons than one when belonging
to the same ﬁrm shall be deemed to be one person. Explanation 2.----'Ihe term 'registration' includes every operation incidental to registration
under the Indian Registration Act, 1908 . Explanation 3.---Where, under clause (42), duty has been paid on :1 power of amamgy
relating to any giroprarry, no out); shall be chargeable on o conveyartce of that property executed
in'pur.s'uan.ce of the power of attorney or between the granter of the power and the grantees,
except in so for as the consideration for the conveyance exceeds the consideration for the

power of attorney." 45.16. It may be convenient to summarise the salient points affecting the rate of duty
with reference to the re--draIt; recommended by us : {ii} In the case of a general power of attorney in favour of six, seven, eight or nine persons,
the stamp duty, at present, is, under article 48(e] , ten rupees, while, under the proposed re-
tlratt, it will be six, seven, eight and nine rupees respectively» But such cases will be rare,
and the reduction in duty is not likely to aﬁect the revenue substantially. (iii) A special provision will govern conveyances executed in pursuance of, or alter
the power to sell, referred to in article 43(f). 45.17. This takes us to article 49. Under article 49 , the stamp duty on a promissory note
is regulated by two sets of provisions. If the note is payable on demand, then, under sub- article (3 ,) ﬁxed rates {as given in the sub--a.rticle] apply, depending on amount of value
{entered in the promissory note). This part of the article presents no diﬁiculty.
otherwise than on demand, the duty is the same as the
able otherwise than ondemaud. Now,
a very complicated scale'. If the duty
than it would indirectly -'I-5.18. But, if the note is payable
duty for a Bill of Exchange for the same amount pay
the duty for such Bills is to be calculated according to
on Bill of Exchange can be simpliﬁed----a.s we have recommended',

fcsult in a simpliﬁcation of the application of article 49 also.
It: may be noted that in England, now, the duty on an inland bill of exchange or a promis-
sory note has been simpliﬁed', as follows :--- The duty is two pence. 1. This case is even now regarded as fallinﬂ within article 4381); hilt thﬁ 'Words ".ioi.utl)' and 95V¢|'l"Y'' 33 3°'
p|.'i|t:o. Hence a speciﬁc provision. 1. Article 13(b). 3. See discussion relating to article 13 , supra. 4. Section 33 , Finance Act, 1961 (Eng). .....__._._.. [E1ti§tll'It'§}I'I.l.|I
Iﬁxistingﬂcllpuso

[Existing clsuee|'_;)]

Difference in duty
under existing
section and
revised section. Article 49---- Pro- 'Notes. Reoommmrhtion
as to article 13. Recommendation
to make the
article self-contai- ned . Article 50. 2.64

45.19. Even if our recommendation to simplify the duty on a bill of exchange is not accepted,
we would emphasise the fact that the present ﬁgures of duty as mentioned in the Act, in Article
4903), do not reﬂect the real position. This is for the reason that there have been important
reductions. ,

45.20. In our view, it is desirable that article 49 should, in the interests of simplicity, be
revised and made self-contained. We, therefore, recommend that the substance of the relevant
notiﬁcations should, in a suitable form, be incorporated in the article. This recommendation
is in addition to our recommendation for simplifying article 13. 45.21; Article 50 levies duty on a protest of a bill or note. This is a notarial actl, but

has been excluded from the general article'--articIe 42--dealing with notarial acts. The duty
charged under article 42 (notarial act) and article 50 [ protest of hill or note) is, however. the same, vi:e:., Re. 1. Under thciblegotiahle Instruments Act', where a promissory note or bill of exchange has

been dishonoured by non-acceptance of non-payment, the holder may, within a reasonable time,
cause such dishonour to he noted and certiﬁed by a notary public. Such certificate is called

a protest. Such noting and protest is not made compulsory but is left to the option of the holder,
except in the case of foreign bills'. No diﬂiculty appears to have been caused by article 50 , which needs no change. 1.-'Section S(d), Notaries Act, 1952 . 2. The articles in the Stamp Acts of 1879 and 1860, corresponding to the present article 42 , included protests falling

under persent article 50. 3. Section 100 , Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. 4. Section 104 , Negotiable Instruments Act. CHAPTER 46 ARTICLES 51 TO 57

46.1. Article 51 levies a duty of one rupee on protest by the master or' a ship, attested or Article 51-" Meaning of

46.3. In legal parlance, the expression "proxy" is used in two senses. It may (1) denote -~pmx,--+_
the person appointed by the share--holder (or other person) to appear at a meeting and cast
the share-holder's vote, or (ii) it may denote the form (usually a printed copy), in which such

an appointment is made". The word "proxy" is a contracted form of the word 'procuracy', procurator'.
A proxy is deﬁned by Lord Hanworth M. R. in Cousins V. International Brick Co.*, as-- This is the first meaning of the expression "prcxy". I, In article 52 , however, the word "proxy" is used in the second sense, that is, the instru-
ment by which a person 15 appointed so to act. In the Companies Act ", the Form of Proxy is thus prescribed-
[See Article 62 of the Table A and also section 176(6)}. which occurred in the Act of 1879. Recunmnmaation 46.7. The article does not mention proxies to be used at a meeting of creditors, a.nd--such

'° ""°°'"h°""i°1"' instruments would apparently fall under article 48-- power of attorney. However, it should

hlieetinﬁgcredif be stated that by a notiﬁcation' issued by the Government of India, the duty on such poetics

""5" has been reduced to the duty chargeable under article 52. In view of this, and in order to make
the article self-contained, we recommend that such proxies should also be brougtt within article 52. Proxies which do not fall under the article, as amended, will continue to be governed 
the article applicable to a power of attorney. 1. Emerson and Latcham. Shareholders'. Democracy (1954) pages 14-15, cited by Bisenberg, "Aceﬁs in Proxy
Machinery". (May, 1970) 83 Harv. Law Review, 1439, 1490. 2. Article 43. 3. See discussion as to article 43 , sapw- 4. In re Tara Iron and Steel C'a.-macros A.I.R. 1923 80, 86 (Crump JJ. 5. Government of India, Notiﬁcation No. 6. dated 14th August, 1937. 6. Cf. Na-rain Cftetrair v. Rarnlarwar Mills, A.I.R. 1952 Mad. 515, 528. 26'.-'

46.3. It may he noted that in England, no duty is chargeable on an instrument of proxy
for use at one meeting at which votes may be given by proxy, whether the number of persons
named in the instrument he one motel. The Finance Act, 1949 ', so provided, by amending
the Schedule to the Stamp Act, 1891 , entry relating to letter or power of attorney, by inserting
exemption (5). The Exemption is in these terms : '

"{5} Letter of power of attorney for the sole purpose of appointing or authorising a
proxy to vote at any one meeting at which votes may be given by proxy, whether
the number of persons named in such instrument be one or more." We are not, of course, sugesting adoption of this English provision. 46.9. We now come to :1 very important article, levying duty on receipts. Article 53 levies 8. duty of 20 nave paise on receipt as deﬁned by section 2 (23}, for any money or other property,
the amount or value of which exceeds 20 rupees. There are 8 exemptions to the article, to
be found in clauses [' a) to (11) of the Exemption. 46.10. Before we proceed to discuss matters of detail, we may record our view that the
amount should be increased from Rs. 20 to Rs. 100. We may mention that some States
have, in their replies to our Questionnaire'-', agreed to the proposed increase to Rs. 100.
In this particular matter, we would have been glad to have comments
from the Ministry of Finance, which We have not received'. However, we may add that we are
malcing this recommendation after a careful consideration of all aspects and we think that
there is a strong justification for it, having regard to the purchasing power of the rupee at the
present day in contrast with what it was in 1899. i

It appears to us that in the present Act, the amount of Rs. 20 must have been ﬁxed on
some {logical basis. That basis, as we conceive it, seems to he that for amounts less than
Rs. 20, the aspect of revenue is over-ridden by the aspect of convenience and the aspect of

P0VB1"5Y- Although we have no material for calculating the present amount corresponding to what
was Rs. 20 in 1899, Rs. 100 would seem to be proper on a rough calculation. In any case,
Rs. 20 appears at the present dag; to he too low an amount in a provision for taxing receipts. 46.11. So much as regards the main article. We new deal with the exemptions. Exemp-
tion (3) to the article relates to a receipt endorsed on, or contained in, (1) any instrument duly
stamped, or (ii) any instrument, exempt under the proviso to section 3 (instruments executed
by the Government etc.), or (iii) any cheque or bill of exchange payable on demand, acknow-
ledging the receipt of the consideration money therein expressed, or the receipt of any prin-
cipal money, interest or annuity or other periodical payment thereby secured. The principle
on which this exemption is ha:-'ed is that, (a) the receipt is incidental to the main transaction, and
the instrument is not executed with the primary object of acknowledging the receipt of money,
and (b) the primary instrument is itself duly stamped or exempt from duty. The exemption
does not, however, mention instruments exempt from stamp duty by virtue of the exemptions
contained below other crrricles in the Schedule to the Act , or insrrurrients exempt by virtue of
a notiﬁcation under section 9 , or by virtue of any other law. We are of the opinion that a
receipt endorsed or contained in any such instrument, it it aclrnowledges the receipt at
the consideration money there expressed, or the receipt of any principal money, interest or
annuity, or other periodical payment thereby secured, should also be exempt from the duty

under article 53. 1. Finance Act, 1949 .. St]: Schedule, Part 1, item 18. 2. Q. 106. 3. The Questionnaire was sent to the Ministry of Finance. Yositiosr in
England. Article
Introductory. 53-

Increase to
115.100 recommen- dad. Article 53-
Re:aipt--Exemp- tion (a). Article 53 Exemption (a). Exemption (I3). Exemption (c). Exemptions (LI),

' (e) and (f}--Rc- co1'urn,endation. Exemption (g). Exemption (11). Recommendation
to revise the

3ﬂ1DUDtiﬂAI[IC1% 53. Article 54. Most replies' to our Questionnaire have favoured such amendment, which we recommend. 46.12. Exemption" (a) to Article 53 should, therefore, be revised as above. Loss of
revenue--a point made in one rcp1y---cannot be a valid argument, when the main instrument
is itself exempt. The principle on which this exemption is based is that, (a) the receipt is
incidental to the main transaction, and the instrument is not executed with the primary object
of aclmowleding the receipt of money, and (b) the primary instrument is itself duly stamped
of exempt from duty. 46.13. Exemption (b) exempts a receipt for ""any payment of money without considera-
tion". There is no such exemption in English law. In general, the exemption is meant for
voluntary payments, or payments made in consideration of natural love or affection, of more
gifts. Internal payments within an oﬂice, or payments by book transfer, are also treated as
falling within this exemption'--'5. It appears however, that a payment of house-tax to the munici-
pality does not fall" within the exemption; it is not treated as a payment "without consideration".
This view receives support from the fact that exemption (g) was considered necessary to provide
for one speciﬁc case of receipt of tax. The exemption needs no change. 46.14. Exemption (cl relates to a receipt for payment of rent by a cultivator on account of
rem assessed to Government revenue, or in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Bombay and
Madras, as they existed before lst November, 1956, of Inam lands. It is obvious that the
exemption is not conﬁned to receipts by the Government-----these will be exempt even under
the proviso to section 3- --but also covers receipts given to raiyats by the holders of revenue
paying land. The exemption, however, ceases to operate where a decree for such rent is
passed and payment is made out of court, under such decree? The exemption needs no change. 46.15. Exemptions (cl), ((3) and (f) relate to receipts given by armed forces in respect
of certain payments. In this connection, our discussion relating to the definition of "soldiers"
ntay be seen. In these exemptions, "soldier" should be substituted. We may state that such
an amendment has been generally favoured by the replies to our Questionnaire. 46.16. Exemption {g} relates to a receipt given by a headman or iumberdar for land
revenue or taxes collected by him. This needs no comment. 46.17. Exemption (11) exempts receipts given for money or securities for money deposited 4

in the hands of any banker, to be accounted for. The exemption needs no change. 46.13 'lhere are two provisos to the exemption, which are not material for our purpose.
The principle of this exemption seems to be that the money received is to be accounted for;
and, unlike other receipts the receipt is not issued for something to be retained permanently
by the person receiving. In other words, it does not discharge any liability, but merely evidences
a transaction of deposit. The factum of deposit itself may create a liability to return the
money or securities. But the deposit receipt is merely a receipt, and nothing more. 46.19. As regards the figure Rs. 20, we repeat our recommendation that it should be
increased to Rs. 100, having regard to the fall in the purchasing power of the rupee. 46.20. Article 54 levies duty on a reconveyance of mortgage

. Question 104. _ _ _
. Point raised by S. No. 11 (Delhi Administration). . General Council ofthe Bar v. Inland Revenue Camnzisafoners, (19073 1 K-11 452- 473-

. (l9l0) I.L.R. 37 Cal. 534, 540. . In re Secretary to the Commissioner ofsalt, Madras, (1911) 9 Indian Cases 342 {F .13.), Madras.
. In re Karachi Municipality, (1388) I.L.R. 12 Bom. 103, 104. Emp. v. Doorzgar Singit. (1909) I-L-Fm 31 A]-L 36, 37-

. See recommendation as to section Z----"soldieI"'- Q. 105. t-ﬂan:-IchLn.ht,,..t§g... If the consideration for which the property was mortgaged does not exceed Rs. 1,000
the duty is the same as on a Conveyance (No. 23) for the amount of such consideration as
set forth in the Reconveyance. ln any other case, it is ten rupees. It needs no change. 46.21. Article 55 levies duty on a release, that is to say, any instrument (not being such
a release as is provided for by section 23A ) whereby a person renounces a claim upon another
person or against any speciﬁed property. The duty is as follows :-- It needs no change. 46.22. Article 56 levies duty on respondentia bond, that is to say, any instrument securing
a loan on the cargo laden or to be laden on board a ship and making repayment contingent
on the arrival of the cargo at lhe port o-f destination. In maritime law, this represents a loan of money, on maritime interest, on goods laden on
board of a ship, upon the condition that if the goods be wholly lost in the course of the voyage,
by any of the perils enumcrated in the contract, the lender shall lose his money; if not, that
the borrower shall pay him the sum borrowed, with the interest agreed upon'. The loan is not recoverable if the ship is lost. The contract is called respondentia, because the money is lent mainly, or most frequently,
on the personal responsibility of the borrower. It differs principally' from bottomry, which
is a loan on the ship, while respondential is a loan upon the goods'. The Article needs no change. 46.23. Article 57 charges duty on a security bond or mortgage deed "executed by way
of security for the due execution of an oﬂiee, or to account for money or other property
received by virtue thereof or executed by a surety to secure the due performance of a contract." 'When the amount secured does not exceed Rs. 1,000, the duty is the same as on a Bond
(No. 15} for the amount secured. In any other case, it is ﬁve rupees. There are certain exemptions, which exempt bond or other instrument, when executed-- ta} by a heatlman nominated under rules framed in accordance with the Bengal
Irrigation Act, 1.876, section 99, for the due performance of their duties under
that Act ; (b) by any person for the purpose of guaranteeing that the local income derived from
private subscriptions to a charitable dispensary or hospital or any other object of
public utility shall not be less than a speciﬁed sum per mensem; (c) under No. 3A of the rules made by the State Government under section 70 of the
Bombay Irrigation Act, 1879 ; (d) executed by persons taking advances under the Land Improvement Loans_ Act,
1883, or the Agriculturists' Loans Act, 1884, or by their sureties, as security for
thc repayment of such advances; and (e) executed by ofﬁcers of the Government or their sureties to secure the due execution" gzig 46.25. It may be pointed out that a similar exclusion--i.e.. in respect of documents provided
underéourtpge for b the Court Fees Actﬂhas not been made in article 40 or in article 57. 3'

and Stamp Act . This creates certain problems. A document which falls under article 40 or article 57 would,

in certain cases, be chargeable both under the Stamp Act and under the Court Fees Act . This
leads to double taxation. - Second [question 46.26. Secondly, a problem is created by the coexistence, in the Stamp Act , of several
fgsetvlfgal agttﬂneﬁ articles, conceivably applicable to security bonds and mortgage deeds". These articles do contain
Act applicable to words excluding each other; but what falls within one or the other remains undeﬁned. In our
mnty moﬁcggz view, it is desirable that the scope of each article should be indicated as precisely as possible.
deeds. security bonds 46.27. It should, in this connection, be pointed out that the want of a precise deﬁnition of
executed under the scope of the relevant articles raises problems of great practical importance in relation to
°'d°"' °f C°""' security bonds executed under an order of the Court. Hundreds of such bonds are executed daily
on behalf of litigai1ts,----particularIy, security bonds executed by a surety when a stay of execution

of a decree is granted. The crucial question that has usually arisen is- (i) whether such bonds are executed "to secure the due performance of a contract", so
as to fall within article 57, or (ii) whether they within article 15 (unsecured bonds) or article 4!} (mortgage deeds}
on the view that they do not fall within article 57. 46.28. This controversy has arisen because. while one view taken on the subject is that an
undertaking in compliance with the orders of a court imposes a contractual obligation, some
courts have taken a contrary view. It is not necessary to refer here to all the cases. Some of them
are conveniently reviewed in the Madras case of In re Kuppuswamy? Meaning of 46.29. There appears to be some uncertainty on the question whether the word "contract" ''C'.''''''*''-''*'' in in article 57 is appropriate for being applied to security bonds executed in the course of judicial

Article 57. . . . . . . proceedings in compliance with a statutory requirement. Generally speaking, there cannot be a
contract between the court and a party to the suit, and this is the view taken by most High Courts
with reference to this articles-11. On this view, a bond given by a surety under Order 41, rule 5 or
Order 41, rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, does not fall under article 57. It is not
a bond for the "due performance of a contract". a '

. These decisions would regard such bonds as falling under article 40. . Article 443. . Article 15. . Court Fees Act , Second Schedule, Article 6. . Amendment in the Stamp Act of 1379 ( Article 13 ), by section 1501} OF A3'! 5 01.1339-

. For previous law, see Kulwant V. M "dF1t1v:'r' Par.-rad, (I383) I.L.R. 11 All. 15, 17

. In re. Kuppuswcmy, A.I.R. 1949 Mad. 56?, 568 (reviews case law). . In re. Kuppuswamy. A.I.R. 1949 Mad. 56?, 568 (reviews case 131*')- . Reﬁrence, A.I.R. 1931 All. 189 (rm. _ ,
. Atmbacker v. Cfitrinarfxambt. A.I.R. 1933 Mad. 252; (1938) 1 Mad. Law Journal 159-
. Datfve Balafi V. Kanliailaf, AIR. 1947 Nag. 25. ' _ ' ' - . Aksimy Zamindari V. Ram Nat}: Barman, I.L.R. (1937'] 1 Cal. 375, 330. >-I-i--- '-I-C)'-Dole--.:|a\l..rIi_g,_u-,N,,___

2?]

The view taken in some case, however, is that a security bond given under Order 41, rule a

5 or 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1903, falls under article 5?. This view was taken by
the Ouch Chief Court', the Lahore High Courtﬂ, and by the Sim] Chief Court'. 46.30. Presumably to settle the position on the above subject', there has been in the U.P.
an amendment of article 5? ", adding the words "or the due discharge of a liability" after the
words "the due performance of a contract". Such an amendment, however, seems to go beyond
what' is needed, and might even cover bonds not executed in the course of civil and criminal
proceedings. A similar amendment was made in Bengal in 1939. 46.31. It appears to us that the position could be simpliﬁed if more attention is devoted to
basic principles. Two basic principles should in this context be borne in mind. Firsf, as far as
possible," the articles should be mutually cxclu'sive----(this is a question of drafting),--and
secondly, a document which bears court fees should not also be liable to stamp duty--(this is a
matter of policy]. The second principle has been accepted when the legislature amended the 1879
Act". There is no reason why the same principle should not be followed iucharging duty under
other articles which are possibly applicable. We are, moreover, of the view that bonds executed
in pursuance of an order of a court cannot be regarded as creating a contractual obligation. They
should be dealt with speciﬁcally, if considered necessary. 46.32. On the above principles, we recommend the following amendments in the various
articles :-- ' (ii) In article 57' , the words "or in pursuance of an order of a court or public officer" (iii) In aricle 57, the words "not being otherwise provided for by the Court Fees Act,
1870 should also be added, after adding the above words. (iv) In article 57 , after the words "security bond or mortgage" (which occur in the
title), the words "where such security bond or mortgage deed is" should be

added. _
46.33. The object of the first amendment is to demarcate the scope of article 40 more

' clearly, by indicating that not only a security bond but also a mortgage deed (iii governed by article 57' ) would be excluded from article 40. The object of the second amendment" is to put an end to the controversy as to the scope
of the words "due performance of a contract" in article 57. The object of the third amendment" is to remove the liability to stamp duty under article
5? where the Court Fees Act is applicable. The object of the fourth 3.t'I1EI1{'lIIlIBI|i.1° is to make it
clear that in article 57 , the words "executed by way. of security. . . . .contract" govern the
words "security bond" as well as the words "mortgage deed". 1. ofﬂet-came v. Latin Bakslaf Sirzgh, A.l.R. 1931 Oudh 91. See, However, Hunter v. E:-np., A.I.R. 1942 Oudh
3'71 7 2. TtrHaJ1.S}zat'I V. Gulam Hnssrm. A.l.R. 1933 Lab. 1004 3. Reference A.I.R. I936 Sind. 41 4. Stamp Act Schedule IA, Article 5?, as inserted in the U.P. 5. Se: Supra. - 6. To be carried out uttdre article 40 7. Sea Supra. 8. See Alcshay Zamindari Ltd. v. Ram Nam Vermﬂrl, I.L.R. (1937) lCal. 375, 380. 9. Compare Article 15. '

II). See Akshny zgmrhdari V} Ram Nor}: Barman, I.L.R. (1937) 1 Cal. 375, 330. U.P. Amend
rnent. Basic principles. Recommendation
to amend article

30 and article

Object of
suggested
amendment. 57.

the 272 46. 34. The material part of article 5'? should, accordingly, be revised so as to read as
under :--- --902 to 911-
(s.) when the amount secured does not exceed Rs. 1,000; The same duty as a bond (No. 15) for the
amount secured. I (b) in any other case. . . . . . , Fm; Rupeg5_

{Exemptions as at pres-ant): 47.1. Article 58 lcvics duty on an instrument of settlement. The deﬁnition of "settlement" as.
given in the Act 'emphasises the occasion or purpose of the gift, that being the feature distinguishing
it from other transfers. Having regard to this special purpose, the legislature has ﬁxed a lower rate
of duty on settlements. But for this speciﬁc article, the instrument would have been taxable as a
gift, thereby attracting the rate of duty leviable on a conveyance. Certain questions relating to
settlements and trusts will be considered when we come to article 64. (Trusts). 412. 'There is, in article 58 , an exemption in respect of a deed of dower executed on the
occasion of a marriage between Muhammadans. This requires discussion. The exemption was previously notiﬁed by Notiﬁcation No. 855 dated 19th February 1886.
The principle of the exemption appears to be that in the case of a Muslim marriage, dower is obliga-
tory and is not a matter of bounty. Dower is a legal right 01' the wife and hence ought not to be
taxed. '

As Mahammcod J. observed in Abdul Kaa'z'r'.r case' "Dower is not the exchange or considera-
tion given by the man to the woman for entering into the contract ; but an effect of the contract.
imposed by the law on the husband as a token of respect for its subject, the woman." 47.3. This aspect of the concept of dower is brought out more clearly in the systems of Islamic
law in certain other countries which have codiﬁed the law on the subject of personal status. Accor-
ding to the law as enacted in the Ottoman Law of Family Rights", dower and maintenance of the
wife become binding on the husband on the conclusion of the contract of a valid marriage. A similar provision is contained in the law Iraq'--5, according to which a woman is "entitled"
to the dower speciﬁed in the contract ; if it has not been specified, she shall get the proper dower. 47.4. The essential nature of dower came up for consideration in an English case in the
rather unfamilar setting of a libel action". The Muslim plaintiﬁ in that case complained that
he had been held up to ridicule and contempt by an article that appeared in the defendant's
newspaper under the heading "Child Wife bought for £1800." The article had gone on describ-
ing the marriage of the plaintiff with a Moroccan girl in Casablanca in terms of a purchase.
The defendants put forth the plea of "Iustiﬁcation" (truth of' the libel). It was their plea
that they were justilied in describing the marriage as a sale, because the negotiations for marriage
had been concluded between the plaintiﬁ and the girl's uncle and 'because a sum of money
was involved. This plea was rejected, and it was held that the defendants had grossly mis-
represented the nature of the proceedings involved in a Muslim marriage. The marriage guar-
dian was in no sense acting as a vendor. It was the bride herself who received the dower.
The bride's uncle had concluded the contract as a representative of the bride and acting upon
l:Icr_wishes, because the Malilri law required him to do so. The plaintiff was awarded £750 - as damages. 1. Section 20 .4}. 2. Abﬂldfadir v. Salima, (1386) I.L.R. 8 All. 149, 157. 3. Ottoman Law of Family Rights (1917), section 69 . 4. I1'aqi,I..aw of Personal Status (1959), section 19(1) . 5. J.N.D. Anderson, Changes in the Law of Personal Status in Iraq (19453) 12 I.C.L.Q. 1026. 6. Safe)! v. Odirams Press, London Times (27th June, 1963]; Coulscn, Conflicts and Tensions in Islamic Jurispru- dence. (University of Chicago Press') (1965), page 27; Current Law Year Book (1963). item 2006 [Stevenson J.). Article 53. Exemption for

dg WEI'. Dower in other
countries. Essential
of dower. II.BI;l.I1'G

Minimum dower. '

No maximum. Word: "as set
forth". Meaning of the
words "occasion
ot'themarnage". The points discussed above would seem to show that dowel' is (i) a right of the wife,
and (ii) it is obligatory by law to provide for it in the case of a Muslim marriage. 415. It is, presumably, for this reason that under the l-Ianaﬁ law, the wife is entitled
to claim as her dower 21 minimum amount', notwithisanding any express agreement not to claim
doweri or an agreement to accept a smaller sum. This is fairly clear from the original texts
cited by Karamat Husain J. in A-sma Bibi"s case? 47.6. Dower is often fixed at a high amount in order to prevent the husband from divor-
cing the wife'. Payment of a portion of the dower could be postponed by agreement until ter-
mination of the niarriage, and if the amount stipulated were high enough, it would obviously
provide an effective brake upon the capricious exercise of the right of repudia-:ion by the
husband-". 47.7'. The matter has been considered at length in a very learned judgment of the Punjab
Chief Court". It may be noted, that apart from cases where speciﬁc statutory provisions of
local application restrict the amount of dower7, there is no legal limit of maximum regarding
the amount of dower under Muslim Law. This has been speciﬁcally held by the Privy Councils.
In an unreported case of the Bombay High Court", a decree for dower amounting to Rs. 13
lakhs was upheld. *

47.8. This being the principle underlying the exemption regarding deeds of dowel', no
modiﬁcation of substance is suggestedin the exemption. We have, however, a point of phraseo-
logy to consider, which will be discussed later. . 419. Reverting to the main article, the words "as set forth in such settlement" are to
be construed with 'value', and not with the word 'property. Turner C]. had these observa-
tions to make ----'lf the terms as set forth in such settlement' refer to the property settled, the
duty is chargeable not on the value of the property which may be mentioned in the settlement,
but on the value of the interest or interests created by the instrument which may not be
co--equal to the value of the property. But if this was intended, the intention might have
been less clumsity expressed". . 10 Dirhams (Hanaﬁ Law}. The agreement is called a tafweez. . Asmn Bibi' v. Abdul Samuel, (1909) I.L.R. 32 All. 16?, 16B. Zakeri Begum V. Sakirarz Begum. (1892) I.l...R. 10 Ind. App. 15?, 165. . Coulson, A History of Islamic Law (1964), pages 207, 208. Sahebmdiv. Saidulnissa, (1880) 15 Punjab Record 297 (No. 123). . Section 5 , Oudh Laws Act. . Zakeri v. Snkina. (1392) I.L.R. 19 Cal. 689, 698 tP.C.]. '_ . . Arm all v. Ba.-ma Begum, (OOCJ Appeal No. 1472). decided in September 1907; Tyabjin, Mohammedan 

(1968) page 111. _" 47.ll. We are of the opinion that this is not a reasonable construction. In our view, the
legislature did not use the words "on the occasion" with any intention of emphasising the exact
identity in point of time; the primary object may have been to indicate that the marriage
must be between the Muslims and that there must be a connection between the marriage and
the deed. Apart from this question oi'. construction, we may also state that the Bombay view
would cause a lot of practical inconvenience since, in practice, parties do not necessarily execute
the deed of dower on the very day of marriage or at the very time of marriage. The deed
might precede the marriage or, if convenience so requires it might be executed even after the
marriage. 47.12. Should it, as a matter of policy, matter whether the deed is or is not simultaneous
with the marriage? We do not think so. Since the exemption in question incorporates a
remission granted previously by a Notiﬁcation of the Government of India} the available historical
material does not throw light on the precise scope which was intended for the exemption. But,
viewing the matter from the angle of principle, we do not see any reason why the fact that the
deed preceded the marriage or followed it should deprive it of exemption under the Stamp

' Law. If, as we have pointed out above," the principle underlying the exemption is that in the

case of a Muslim marriage, dower is a matter of obligation and not one of bounty, then the
distance in point of time should not be material, provided, of course, it is established that the
deed Tisone of dower and that it has a connection with the marriage. Of course, it may be
difﬁcult to draw a line but no one would say that one week is too long an interval. -To avoid
recmrence of controversies and to put in the statute what we consider to be the proper policy,
weirecommend that the words "whether the deed was executed before or after the marriage" as to 48.2. The article does not tell us whether the surrender should be total or partial. It
1331031 !lIl'f¢ﬁdBI- has been held in Madras" than it is immaterial that the surrender is only as regards the unexpired
part of the term, or is with regard to only a portion of the property. While the artide nook
no change of substance, it appears to us that it would be useful to codify what has been held in
the Madras case, as such questions are likely to arise elsewhere also. i

48.3. Accordingly, weirecommended that the following Explanation should be inserted

Recommendation _

to add an E.xp1a- below Article 61 nntwn: _

T "E:rptam.rtion.----For the purposes of this article it is immaterial that the -surrender of
the lease is only as regards the unexpired par: of the term, or is with regard to
only a portion of the property." 48.4. Article 62 levies duty on certain transfers with or without consideration. The various". Article 61'--- [nu-oductory, kinds of transfers listed in the article seem to constitute a heterogeneous collection. Clauses (a),
{b} and (c) can, however, be grouped together broadly as transfers of "actionable claim",
such as, shares, debentures and interests created by bonds, mortgage deeds and policies.
Clause (d) deals with the transfer of property under a particular provision of the Administrator
General's Act , dealing with transfer by an executor. Clause (e) deals with the transfer of '£1 t1'lIst
property witout 'considerotiorﬁ from one trustee to anoter trustee or from a trustee to a
beneﬁciary. There is one feature commo-n to clauses (d) and (e)--the transferor has no bene-
ﬁcial interest. . Section ll1(e), Transfer of Property Act, 1882 . . Section llltff), Transfer of Property Act, 1882 . . See section 111 , Transfer of Property Act. . For example, article 35 , Exemption (:1). . The Ci:iefControIi't'ng Revenrte Authority V. Bil"??? Lakshmi, A.I.R. 1958 Mad. 535 (F.B.).
. Madras Board of Revenue, ruling, cited in Krishnamurthi, Stamp Act (1968), page 551. . The anomaly created by clause (e) is discussed, i:u"ra. --JOHUI-J:-K:-|lNl*-* 276 . Bombay case,'

2.7? It should be noted that all these transfers would, but for this speciﬁc article, have been
chgrgeable either as "conveyance" in view of the wide deﬁnition of that expression as given in
the Act,' or as gifts or under some other entry appropriate to the nature of the right transferred.
The duty under article 62 is lower than that on a conveyance or on a gi.ft,----wl1ich shows the
signiﬁcance of the article. A lower duty seems to have been chosen either because what is
transferred is an actionable claim and not property in possession, or because the beneﬁcial
inttrcst remains unaffected. There are certain aspects of business convenience also, relevant
to some instruments. 43.5. Taking up the clauses themselves, clause (a) deals with the transfer of shares in
an incorporated company or other body corporate. The duty is 75 p. for every 100 rupees
of the value of the share. A few reported cases on this clause may be referred to. In an early
the question was raised how an instrument executed in the following circum-
stances was to be stamped. A Hindu joint family consisting of three brothers owned shares in a limited company,
wind: stood in the name of the eldest brother. The three brothers came to be divided in
interest. The shares remained in the name of the eldest brother, though dividendson the shares
were divided amongst the three brothers. This fact was subsequently recorded in a deed of
 The eldest brother then executed two deeds under which he transferred to his brothers
the number of shares that fell to their shares. It was held that the deeds in question were
chargeable as instruments of partition under article 45 , and did not fall either under Article
62in) or under article 62{ e). sMulla, who was one of the three Judges who decided the case, later seems to have revised
his opinion." He has expressed the opinion that in such a case, after an oral partition, whereby
lnrnprty continues in the name of the one brother and is subsequently tranﬁerred to the otltlers
entitled to-it under the partition, the instrument would fall under article 62(e)---(transfer of
trust property} The reasoning seems to be that the partition has already been effected , and
the persons in whose names the shares continue to remain are not the beneﬁcial owners. In the same Bombay case,' it was remarked that the possession of the one co-owner of
ioint property in his own name is not that of a trustee for the other co-owems. But, as pointed
out one author." the title of the co-owner who is registered holder, can be regarded as that -of a'trustee in regard to the shares of the other co--owners, and the instrument of transfer would,
on that view, be chargeable under clause (cl. $8.5A. In another Case" decided under article 62(3) , it was held that if a company register: . Sec Mulls. & Pratt. The Indian Stamp Act (6th Ed.. page 359), 1st Ed. was published in 1924. 4. Superintendent oJ"'Sramps V. Clrmanlal, (I923) I.L.R. 47 Bom. 321, 326: A.l'.R. 1923 Bo . 237, 2 _
c.1.. Crurnp and Mulla. JJ.). ' '" 39 'Shh "" 5. Krishnamurthy, Indian Stamp Act. 1972. page 569. 6. fit I: Jagdldr Mills Ltd, A.I.R. I955 Born. 79. 7. See also Mrs. Parry v. Union cflndia, A.l.R. 1961 Fun}. 123.
24 M of Law,u'7'l'---36. (Shah

Clause (0-- Transfer or shares. Useoflinslllhr

singular "Sharc" in clause (a). Verbal change in
clause (a) recent- mended to subsu- tute the plural
"sllares". Clause (b)--- trausfer of deben
tures--No
change. Clause to)- transfer of inte- rest secured by a
bond etc.-No

' hange. give rise to some problems. Here, we may refer to an Allahabad case} which, though falling
under clause (c) of the article, discusses clause (a) also. In that case, a person was the
obligee of each of 29 bonds and mortgage deeds executed by different persons in his favour.
I-Ie transferred his interest in all these bonds and mortgage deeds to another person, by executing
one document comprising them all. The consideration for the transfer was one lump sum. On
the question of the proper stamp duty payable, it was held by the majority, that section 5 of
the Act, dealing with instruments comprising or relating to several distinct matters, did not
apply to the case, and that under article 62(c) read with section 13 of the General Clauses Act,
the stamp duty chargeable on the deed in question was rupees ﬁve [under article 62(c) (ii]]. Niarnatullah. I. (dissenting) held that while section 5 of the Stamp Act did not apply,
under article 62(c) itself and without recourse to section 13 , General Clauses Act, the proper
stamp duty payable was the sum of all the duties paid on the bonds and rnortpge deeds,
Subfect to the maximum of Rs. 5 for any one band or mortgage deed. Bonnet J. (dissenting) was of the view that section 5 and article 62(c) each applied to
the case, though with the same result, namely, that the proper duty on the instrument in question
was the aggregate of the amounts of duty payable on each of the 29 transfers contained in the
instrument. Both the dissenting Judges {Niamatullah and Bonnet 3].) expressed the opinion
that the rule that the singular includes the plural (contained in" section 13 ' of the General
Clauses Act } did not apply to the case. '

48.7. We are not, at the moment, concerned with the decision on clause (c). But the
majority of the Judges in the Allahabad case discussed clause la), which is of interest. They
referred to the language of article I52(a), by way of example. 'They said : "This lays down

that the proper stamp duty on a transfer of shares (plural) shall be one half of the duty payable I

on a conveyance (No. 23} for a consideration equal to the _value of the share (singular). Now,
in this case, it is beyond controversy that the word 'share' in the second column. must be
construed as inclmiing the plural, because that plural 'shares' is used in the first c0lurrm."'

The majority has treated the use of the singular 'shares' in item 62{'a) in the second column
re a grammatical error. 4-8.7A. The maiority view as to clause .(a), with respect. appears to be correct. ' We
recommended that that view should be adopted and in article 62in), for the singular "share",
the plural "shares" should be substituted, so as to bring out the correct position. 48.8. Clause (b) of article 62 deals with the transfer of debentures, being marketable
securities,' whether the debenture is liable to duty or not,' except debentures provided for by section 8 . Section 8 deals with debentures issued by local authorities raising a loan. Debentures
payable to bearer would be transferable by delivery, and not by assignment. This clause needs
no change. ' i

48.9. Clause (c) levies duty on the transfer of any interest secured by a bond, meme
deed or policy of insurance. This clause also takes out of "conveyance" a case which could
possibly fall under it. Thus, the sale of a bond, by endorsement on the back of it was held,
in an Oudh case'. to fall under this article, and not under article 23 (conveyance). The duty
under article 621' c) For the bond in question was 'Re. 0-8-0 and if it had been regarded as falling
under article 23. the duty would have been Re. 1/-. The endorsement on the back of the'
bond read, "sold to .......... ..", d the lower court held that this amounted to a ale dead.
The Chief Court did not give any reasons for holding that the document in quesﬁon was

I. Ran: Sump v. J__varr' Terr'. (I933) l.L.R. 55 All.'463, 473; A.I.R. 1933 All. 321. 2. Emphasis sunplierl. 3. See section 2{l6A'l. 4. As to the duty on debentures. see article 27. 5. Jung Bahadur v. Bﬁaggoo, A.l.'R. 1934 Oudh 344. chargeable under article 62 and not under article 23. But, since article 23 is a residuary article,
and the document in question can be regarded as a "transfer", the Chief Court was. with respect,
right in its conclusion. 48-10. There are a tow cases on the transfer of a mortgage,' and one case3 of transfer of 0"" °""°" '
the interest secured by an equitable mortgage which were held to he chargeable under article 62(c). It may be noted that if :1 policy of insurance is transferred by a separate instrument, it
must be stamped under article 6212:); if the transfer is by endorsement, it is exempt under
Exemption (c) to the article. It would, thus, appear, that the transfer of El policy of insurance
by endorsement would be cheaper method, involving no stamp duty. The case law and points referred to above do not call for any change in clause (c). 48.11. Clause id) levies duty on a transfer under the Administrator Gen:-:ral's Act, 1874, Clause (:1)- section 31 . This Act was replaced by the Administrator GeneraI's Act, 1913. The corres-- f,{°,,',',§f§§,",,';°,';f,'"°
pending section in that Act was section 25 . In 1963, a revised Act was passed, and the General': Act---
corrtesponding section in that Act is section 22 . _ This section refers to the transfer, by a pri- ,','§',§,',*f,,,';',',:3'j"' m'
vate executor or administrator, of interest under a probate or letters of administration to the

Arhninistrator-General, by an instrument in writing.' This section is quoted below ; 48.12. We recommend that article 62 , clause (:1), should be revised so as to substitute
a reference to the Admini-strator--General's Act, 1963, section 22 , in place of the reference to

the earlier section. 48.13. Clause (e) levies duty on the transfer of any trust property winhcut consideraripn chm m_
from one trustee to another trustee or from a trustee to a beneﬁciary. In this clause, the Transfer of trust
wads "without consideration" are inconsistent with the words "with or without consideration" g$:"""ﬂ:", A, ,'"""d'l
occurring at the beginning of the article. If these words are regarded as limiting the opening words, ded.
tlian a transfer of property for consideration would be outside this clause. and would be charge-
able as a conveyance under article 23 or as a transfer under article 62 , clauses (a) to (cl). This was the old law-' But, under the present article, there is now some uncertainly, in view
d_ the wide opening words of the article. 48.14. We recommend that this matter should be clariﬁed, by removing the words "with- Rmammmdmoa
out consideration" from clause {e). A transfer for consideration by a trustee to a beneﬁciary as to clause (re). 1. {1} Me Dowel! a Co. v. Rqfave Cherry. (1904) LLR. 27 Maui 'II.
(In) Hitwardhak Carton Mire v. sombre (19091 I-L-R- 33 B°m- 426-
2, In pg Kamla Rmijan Ray, I.L.R. (1937) Cal. 435. 3. section 22, Administrator-Gene1'aI's Act, 1963 (46 of 1963).
4 Simnp reférertce, (1834) l.L.R. 7 Mad. 350, 351 U1-I'ﬁCl¢ 50. Stamp Act, 1879 ). Exemption
analysd. Doubt as to
chnrsausbility. Article 63e- Transfer of lease. or to another trustee would then clearly fall within article (e). Since the beneﬁcial interest
is not transferred, this is justiﬁahlc also. - 48.15. This disposes of the clauses of the principal article. Under the Exemption to the
article, transfers by endorsement of certain documents are exempt. The documents listed are
certain commercial documents---as in Exemptions (a) and lb), or policies of insuranoe---
exemption [C], or securities of the Central Government----exempt'1on (d). 48.16. It should be pointed out as regards some of the transfers provided for in the
Exemption, that their chargeahility under the main arI:'cIe--as it now stands--- is not very clear.
Of the various transfers dealt with in the Exemption, the transfer of only one-type of docu- ment (policy of insurance]--mentioned in Exemption (c),--is speciﬁcally taxable under ; the - main article. Transfers of other instruments mentioned in the eJremption- -{a} transfer of bill
of exchange etc., {I3} and transfer of securities of the Central Governrrrent,------are not .speciﬁc.all_v
taxable under the main article, though they can become taxable under general provisions of the
main article, clauses (:1) and (c). For all practical purposes, clauses (d) and (e) would
hardly be invoked in relation to transfers of pro-notes etc. The better course, therefore, would
be to make transfers of these instruments taxable, by adding them in main1 articleiﬁz, ant!
to retain the present exemption for their transfer by an endorsement. ' i '

48.17. In the light of the above discussion, we recommend that the followings clauses'
should be added in article 62 :-- ment of title fa goods,' (h) of securities of the Central Government." The duty should---on the analogy of clause 62(a}------be 75 paises for every hundred rupees
as part thereof of the value of. the property transferred.' T _. 43.18. Article 63 levies duty on a transfer of a lease by way of assignment. Article 35 governs under-leases or sub-leases. Where the lease is itself exempt from duty, the transfer
thereof is also exempt from duty, as also transfers of leases on which duty has been remitted by
the Government under section 9 . This article does not present any diﬂiculties requiring any
change. . 1. To be carried out under article 62 , main paragraph. 2. For other suggested amendments, see supra, under article 62 , clauses (a), (d) and (e). 3. Compare article 62(a)~---- Transfer of shares. CHAPTER 49
ARTICLES 64-65

49.1. Article 64 levies duty on a declaration of trust. The duty is a ﬁxed one, which is

Article

Gil»- much less than the duty on a conveyance or on a bond. There is considerable overlapping l"'1'°d'|-'°*°='!- 'There are four ingredients of this definition which arernatcrial for our purpose--{il there
'must be a disposition, (ii) it must be non-testamentary, (iii) it must be of property, and (iv)
it must be made on the speciﬁed occasion or for the speciﬁed' purpose. But no particular
machinery is required for effecting the disposition. ' ' -
'V-7-V deﬁnition, for example, seems to be wide enoughtce cover a-disposition-by way of
 The last paragraph is. in fact, speciﬁc on the point. 7 - - -- - - i -
;. _., t 19.3. It may be noted .that the deﬁnition of settlement in the Act is not identical with the
concept" 'of' settlement in conveyancing. A writer' on conveyancing has said--- _ ,

"A settlement is an instrument whereby property or-the enjoyment of it is litnitetl to .. several persons. Unlike the assurance deal: in the earlier chapters which have
for their Cbject alienation of property eitherabsolutely or temporarily, a settle-
ment, as also a trust, seeks to prevent alienation of property tc.tl'te extent the
law will allow. Family settlement are very common in India and 'are -freely
made by deeds {titer vh-0.5 as well as by wills. Marriage settlements and post- We have quoted the above passage in order to show the similarity between a settlement
and a trust. 49.4, Coming to the deﬁnition of settlement in the Stamp Act , we may note that clause (a) wiil include deeds ot dower as well as marriage settlements. An English case' illustrate': and gives it a wider scope. For the present, we shall assume that there is iustiﬁcatidn' for
giving'-it such a widefscope. on . considerations ' of revenue'. ' - - -e . . .- t '
'. Emphasis supplied.' " ' . " i '

. Rhsseﬂ v. Commissioners. (I902) I.N.B. 14 . . Reference, I.L.R. 7 Mad: 349. - . Madt'as)R.evenue Board's Proceedings No. 16, 6th January, 1830 (Madras Stamp Manual, 1:. 163). (Object 'I im- portant . _ '

. In re Abduila Haji, {I911} I.L.R. 35 Bom. 444, 447 (Scott C.J. Russell and Rao JJ.). . Article 33 { Gifts}. . . Article 53 (Settlement). . Article 33 (Gifts). . See Madras Board Case, supra. |¢w~.1.g,u« .IauJt».t'- uaruawwn 233 But, in practice, nice questions arise whether a document is a trust or a settlement. This
diﬁcdty is primarily due to the fact thatthe deﬁnition of settlement is -so wide that one and
the-same instrument can be a gift, a trust and a settlement. No doubt, where a document falls
under two or more articles, it should bear the higher duty.' That general provision in the
Act will take care of the duty, and the object of levying the duty is achieved. But occasions
for the application of this general rule should, in the interest of the common man, be as few as
possible,----even if they cannot be totally eliminated. If something can be done to reduce the
occasions for such controversies, by an amendment of the law, the amendment would be worth
the trouble. _ 49.7. It would appear that the case law shows some uncertainty and obscurity." . For ex-
ample, the Calcutta High Court held in one case" that a document styled "settlement deed'-', by
which all the executanfs properties were given to certain deities, could not be regarded as a
settlement or deed of trust, but only as a deed of gift. Mitter J. observed as follows :---- But this view was dimented from in a later Calcutta case," where it was held that a
similar document by which the executanf property was given to certain deities
is a settlement deed for the purposes of the Stamp Act , notwithstanding that there
was no trust and no disposition of successive interests in The property. It was
there remarked that the express meaning given to the word 'settlement' in the Act
cannot be controlled by reference rtothe meaning given to the word by .'the
Speciﬁc Relief Act (which had been relied on in the earlier Calcutta case) where
a statute gives a deﬁnition for an instrument, that deﬁnition cannot be controlled
by the meaning commonly attributed to the instrument." 49.3. On the speciﬁc question as to the meaning of "settlement", what is more important
to note E that some misconception appears to prevail on the question of inter-relationship of the
two taxing entries. The following extract from an Allahabad case' will show how the High
Court had to take pains to explain the true position. Prar:ticaI_ impor- tance as Illustrated
"by case law. Mis-conception. 49.9. Even disregarding the case law. an important query that suggests itself in this context
Dispositive_ _ and is, how does one distinguish a settlemenﬁ' from a trust" (for the purpose of the stamp Act) ?
§':£'I's"-"")"""t""H' The deﬁnition of "settlement" in the Act stresses the element of disposition of property. The Act ' " ' " '* contains no deﬁnition of "trust". but article 54 speaks of a "declaration of trust" without 
a dispositive clause. It is, then, the intention that an instrument should fall under "declaration ed '
trust", only where it contains no dispositive clause '? A trust ca.n arise without a tlilposititxt in'
praesenti where the trust is by will or whether the author of the trust is the trustee; in such
cases, atransfer in praesenti of the property is not required. In other cases, a disposition is
necessary to create a valid trust'. This may be a possible distinction between a bare declaration of
trust and a settlement. If -so, it is desirable that the relevant article should express the position
more clearly. It may be noted that Indian Law does not recognise distinction between legal and
equitable ownership. 49.10. lt should be noted that the provisions of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 , do not deal
with the distinction between a settlment and a trust. In fact, the Act isprimarily concerned with
how a trust can be created and what are the legal consequences of its creation. It does not deal
with the various descriptions of instruments that can or cannot fall under the head of trust. In
any case, that Act contains nothing inconsistent with the approach adopted inthe present dis
cussion. namely, that an instrument of trust can also amount to a settlement as deﬁned in the
Act, if the principal object or occasion is one speciﬁed in the deﬁnition of settlement. Ordinarily, a trust is created by transferring the property to the trustee, but this is not neces-
sary if the trustee is none other than the author. In that case, it is enough if the author of the
trust declares himself to be the trustee. Where, however, the owner transfers the property to the trustee, there is a "disposition" of
his interest and this disposition could amount to a settlement, if the purpose or occasion is" one
speciﬁed in section 2 (2-4). Should it make a diﬁerence that the machinery employed is that of
trust rather than of a direct transfer 'F We have, while analysing the deﬁnition of settlement in this
Chapter', pointed out that the deﬁnition does not require the employment of a particular machinery?" ment of article 64 (An Explanation could be added). At present, there is a misconcep-
tion on the subject.'

Emphasis supplied. . Article 58. . Article 64. . Section 6 . Trusts Act . . Para 49.2, supra. . Board of Revenue v. Sreedhar, A.l.R. 196% All. 537. at'-'|-F'-Hi'-'." 2'35
(2) A trust amounting to conveyance should be made so chargeable, by an express amend- ment of article 64. (Another Explanation could be added). Reasons for this amend-
ment may be listed as under :----- (a) Ambiguity of the expression "declaration of trust". (b) Words "not otherwise provided for" occurring in the definition, of "conveyance". (c) The anomaly that arises if a contrary view is taken. A trust for a single person not in need (i.e., who is not to be "provided for"), and who is
not dependant, would (on the contrary view), he chargeable only with a ﬁned duty ( article 64 ),
while': trust for a minor son would be chargeable with duty as on a bond as it would amount to a
settlement. ( Article 58 ). Really, the ﬁrst-mentioned trust should be chargeable as a conveyance. (3) Trusts not falling under (1) and (2) above, fall under article 64. Our recommendation is that the scope of article 64 should be deﬁned as above, and the
meaning of "Declaration of Trust" indicated more clearly, in view of the ambiguity of the
exprelsion "declaration of trust" and the Overlapping-With settlement and conveyance. '#9.i'3. The scheme recommended is based on the following propositions :-- p,,,pO,i,;,,m_ (i) The article relating to 'trust'1 is conﬁned to nomdispositive trusts (non-testamentary};
(i.e. Wherethe author is himself to be'the trustee and there is no dispositive clause).
The duty is as on a bond, subject to a maximum of ﬁfteen rupees. (ii) That article (Trust) seems to apply also in relation to public trusts, where the author
is the trustee and there is no dispositive clause. This can be deduced from the fact
that the deﬁnition of "settlement" does not apply where there is no "disposition". (iii) Private dispositjve trusts bear duty as on a conveyance", unless they are settlements. Private dispositive trusts which are for religious purposes, or are in consideration of marriage
or for the members of the family, etc-, i.e., those falling under section 2 .(24)--bear duty as on a
bond.' Formally, these are charged as settlements, but the duty on a settlement is the same
as that on a bond. (iv) Public dispositive trusts also hear duty as on a bond' if the trust is for religious or
charitable purposes, because they fall within section 2 {24], ('Deﬁnition of "settlement"]. This is the scheme recommended by us, as put in the form of propositions. For ease of under-
standing the propositions as set out disregard minor points of detail and also employ rough descrip-
tions ct instruments. 1. Attidl: 64. 1. See article 23. regarding conveyance. 3. dgfccticn 2(24), {5} & (b) and article 58 { Settlements in consideration of marriage or for the beneﬁt of dependants,

4- 390 Sﬂcﬁﬂﬂ 3943(0) and article 53 (Settlements for I:eIigi'tus or charitable purposes). 24 M (if LlW;'77---37, 286 49.14. To put the matter in the form of a chart showing how trusts will be 'taxed. Tmsts

Dispusiaiw.-e 2 Non-dispositive I

4 1 4 1

1(3) Pub1ic---(Duty as on a 1(b) Private--Duty as on a 2(a) Public---{Du1y as on a 20:) Private»-'-{,Du1y as _'

bond) ( Article 53 ) conveyance { Article 23 )- bond, subject to a maximum on a bond, subject to
but if it is on marriage of Rs. 15}- ( Article 64 ) a maximum of Rs. 15
or for dependants, then ~--"Trust". ( Article 64 )---"'1"nn1:".
duty as on a bond
( Article 58 ). We my state Ihat such a restructuring has been favoured by most replies to our
Questionaire! '

. $9.15. We recommend that article 64 should be amended to implement the above scheme.
Recommendation. M-ﬁg; _ 5.5_. 49.15. Article 65 relates to warrant for goods. A Warrant for goods is given by the hnilee
Wi"'"'""'°" 39°55 of goods, and acknowledge the title of the transferee to the goods as between the transferee and the
bailee, who is the warehousemanf

There is no diiﬁcrﬂty caused by this Article, and it requires no change. I. The caitegowries-, 2(a) and 2(b) bear the same duty but-are shown as separate categories for maintenance of symrnetnr
with ](a] and 1(b). 1. Question relating to section 2(24) ,--"Settleme.nt".
'3. See Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 3rd Ed. Vol. 4, p. 3153. CHAPTER SD
CONCLUSION

50.1. We have concluded our consideration of the Act, and would now like to say a few
words about the recommendations made in this Report. 50.2. It would be apparent from the contents of the preceding chapters that we have not
conﬁned outselves to tidying up a few technical anomalies in the Act. Our recommendations are
aimed at improving the substance, form and working of the Act, within the limitation that we set

. out in the first Chapter.'

ﬁroarily speaking, the changes which we have recommended seek to achieve the following
obtects :-- tion of stamps.). to) improvement in the drafting of the provisio11s--in particular, removing uncertainty
caused by conﬂicting views. (d) securing consistency with juristic principles (e.g. our recommendation as to the inclu~
sive portion of the charging article on lease and our recommendation as to liability to
bear the duty. (e) giving proper recognition to sociological considerations relevant to the subject [e.g. our
recommendations as to assignment of copyright and insurance policies" for acci-
dent). (1') providing for uniform interpretation of the Act within a State by strengthening the
procedure for reference (sections 56-57). i (g) avoidance of injustice, 'hardship or inconvenience to the citizens, in court as well as
elsewhere (e.g. our recommendation as to the deﬁnition of promissory note, and as
to section 35 ], where the requisite amendment could be made without a serious
eﬂect on the revenue. I 50.3. As to the ques-tion_of hardship and convenience we would like to point out that
many of the instruments with which the Act is concerned are of an international character.
Bilh of lading, Bills of Exchange, promissory notes and other documents relating to maritime
law or the law merchant are examples. Modem conditions or trade render it desirable tilt!
in regard to such instruments, the law should be simple and easily ascertainable. For the purpose of academic treatment and other purposes, of course, the corpus of
the law is divided into compartments. But the 'businessman does not, when he enters into a

particular transaction, view the matter as such. The international character of maritime law is of peculiar interest. It has been said
that' English maritime law is one part of English law upon which Roman law has had a direct 1. Chapterl. 2. Solﬂhapter 1. 3. F1'lcdn1snI1.1.e58lThco1'1'(195"H. mo 526-

23? 24 M of Lew]??-38. Introductory. Object _of recom- mendntlons. Yatlotl 238 impact. Lord Mansﬁeld took many of the principles of maritime law from the Roman Law.
Again, negotiable instruments are essentially interuationai institutions--which also renders
it desirable that, as far as possible, the law relating thereto should be simple rather than com-
plex. The international character of some instruments has a long history. Bottomry bonds seem

' to have been in vogue in Rome at least as early as 530 All because in that year an edict of

Justinian restricted the interest on money advanced on such bo-nds to 12 per cent.'

In the Narratives of Demosthenes, it is stated that about the year 400 RC. Grecian mer-
chants practised the negotiation of large loans to ﬁnance commercial maritime ventures----a
statement for which support is to be found in the writings of Plutarchf. In India, there are cases of advances similar to bottomry being made for ﬁnancing trade
as early as 660 B.C.'

It is, therefore, appropriate that in the preamble to the first English enactment relating
marine insurance,' it was stated that "it has been time out of mind a usuage among merchants.
both of this nation and of foreign nations, when they make any great adventures ( specially
into remote parts) to give some consideration of money to other persons (which commonly
are in no small numbers) to have from them assurance made of their goods merchandise
shipsandthingsa'dveutured..........." 50.4 India is no stranger to international trade. Pre»hi-storic remains discovered at
several places in India in archaeological excavations show that trade on rivers and oceans was
carried on by boats. 'The Rig Veda refers to the ship wreck of Bhujyu and the subsequent rescue
by the Ashvvins; these incidents give a deﬁnite indication of maritime trade. Later, in tire
pre-Maiurayan and Maurayan periods, such commercial -activities seem to have become quite
common." In fact, when the Roman Empire was as its height, Indo-Roman trade also seen
to have attained its climax. This is evident from' the histories} accounts available in regard to
Gupta period, when India's internal and foreign trade reached great heights. In the first century after Christ, India had a favourable balance of trade with Rome.'

The Mann Smriti has an interesting verse which makes boatmen collectively responsible
for loss caused by their negligence.'-' a

With such a volume and richness of international trade, it is axiomatic that contracts
must have been entered into and recorded in writing, even though the writings themselves may
not be traceable at the present day. '

50.4.-R. We have said enough to indicate that even a taxing statute like the Act aﬂch
we are concerned involves the consideration of a number of theoretical and practical F
The rate structure could bear improvement, the practical working should be remedied ;_
difﬁctilty is caused by the defect in the content of the statute ; avoidable uncertainty ought to be
attended to ; fundamental juristic principles should not be overlooked ; sociological considera-
tions may not be totally irrelevant ; interpretation of the law ought to be uniform : thc kind 1. Dover, Handbook to Marine Insurance (1951), page 2. 2. Dover, Handbook to Marine I11su1'ance{195'i'), page 3. 3. Dover. Handbook to Marine Insurance (1957), page 3. 4. An Act touching the policies of assurances usedarnoltgst merchants (1601). (43 Elizabeth Chépter 12). 5. See in general R.K. Moolterjee "Indian Shipping" Bombay [2nd Ed. (1957) page 37-54] ' 5. See-- '
fa': R.K. Moolcei-_ii_ Indian Shipping {Bombay} and Ed. 1957). Dﬂzes 31-54, 57, 62. TD.
[bl M.C. Bandophadhya, Economic Life and Progress in Ancient India (Calcutta 1945), Vol. I_. (c) Shastri, A History of South India ﬁ-cm pre-historic Times to the fall of Vijayanagar (Madras. 9? Mann 8 :4-08-409. _ _
RX. Mookerji, Indian Shipping (Bombay), (1957), page 36, citing Pliny, Natural History. Vol. 2.18

55''?' 289 of audience to which the law is addressed, and the class of citizens who will primarily be called
upon to comply with it, as well as the nature of the transactions which will normally fall
within its purview, are matters legitimately to be taken into account; above all, a well drafted
law, easy of application and not too difﬁeult to understand, would ultimately result in beneﬁt
to the State as well as to the citizens. _ 50.5. Unfortunately, some of the aspects which we have olutlined above are not properly
appreciated. Taxation law is often regarded as a technical branch of the law, not worthy of
academic study of capable of being subjected to juristic discussion. The Stamp Act , if we
may say so, is the Cinderlla of the law. One hardly ﬁnds, except in judicial decisions relating
to particular controversies or in official documents dealing with particular problems, studies
discussing or exploring the basic principles underlying the taxing provisions of this particular
Act. It is appropriate to make this observation in order to explain why, at some places, we
have found it necessary to consider the fundamentals of 'a particular provision and have not
limited our discumion to the contours of the relevant problem as they appear on the surface. 50.6. It is this broad perspective from which we have approached the subject. We would
like to record our hope that the Governnicnt will view our recommendations in the spirit in_which

we have made them. At the cost of repetition, we would say that we have approached the task of revising the
Act not in a narrow pedantic manner, but from a broader perspective embracing a variety of
considerations. Unlike many other taxing measures, the Stamp Act is a self-executing Act,
in the sense that it is left to the party chargeable with tax to calculate the duty and then to
put the proper stamp according to that calculation. The fact that there is no machinery to
oversee the operation of the Act, or to watch how far the citizens have complied with the Act
may, to a certain extent, justify stringent provisions. But it must, at the same time, be renwnle.-T
bored that the very fact that the duty is to be calculated by the 'assessee' throws a veryheavy
and onerous burden on the Legislature, inasmuch as this part of the task of the citizen is often
difficult. If the legislative scheme is not indicated in clear and precise term in the Act, it becomes
still more diﬂicult. It is only occasionally that the citizen faces the authorities entrusted with
the enforcement of the Act--the Courts, public oﬂicers. the Collector, the Board of Revenue
and others. Cases of compliance or non-compliance with the provisions of the Act also-'come

up before the authorities only occasionally. However, whether or not a particular case comes up before the a'uthorities_,mentioned
above, the law always operates and the citizen must decide for himself what, if any, is the

Importance not
appreciated. spirit of the
rocomniendationr

amount payable as stamp duty. This renders it desirable that the substance and form of the law

and the manner of its implementation should maintain a certain quality. 50.7. In this context, we attach the greatest importance to the easy accessibility of the
statutory material. In the course of our study" of the Act, we have found that a plethora of
notiﬁcations has been issued under the Act, particularly under section 9 which confers upon
the appropriate Government power to issue reductions and remissions of duty. We are not
suggesting any radical change in this power, except the insertion of certain criteria' in order
to preserve the validity of the section against an attack on the ground of excessive delegation
oi, the legislative power. But-we wish to it to the notice of the Gov.ernme_nt the
ordinary citizen must be ﬁnding it difficult, and _sometimes impossible, to acquire accurate
information about the notiﬁcations issued from time to time under this. section. To some extent
we are recommendingthe incorporation of the substance of certain notiﬁcations'in' the-cone
corned articles, but even then a large mass of material contained in the notiﬁcations will 'survive
and retain its validity. To us, it appears desirable that some machinery must be devised of
making these notiﬁcations easily available to the public.'No doubt, there-is. a practice in the
Central Government of bringing out various statutory rules and' orders in volumes arranged . 1. Sue recommendation as to section 9 , supra. Notiﬁcations. Constitutional
positron. Meaning
"rates". Allahabmdcaseas
toenrolmentof

Advotalies. subject--wise, but the dilﬁculty is that those volumes deal with a large number of subjects in
all of which a particular citizen may not be interested. It will, in our view, be better if a handy
volume containing the upto date text of the notiﬁcations is also brought out at regular intervals---
sav, every three yea.rs._The fact that the Stamp Act affects a large number of citizens and not
merely those whose cases some up before the courts or whose controversies happen to be
reported in the published law reports, becomes material in this context. The inconvenience
actually experienced in practice by reason of ambiguity in the statutory materials or their in-
accessibility, is very inadequately reﬂected in the case law that comes to the notice of those
whose business it is to advise the Government on the revision of the laws. We are, therefore,
attaching the greatest importance to the need for re--publication. in a suitable form, of the noti-
fications and rules made under the Act. Of course, this problem is not peculiar to the Stamp
Act . But, at the moment, we are concerned only with that Act. 50.8. We are conscious that many of the recommendations which we have made relate
to documents other than those mentioned in the Union List. Some of the reoomrnertdations
touch the rates of stamp dots in regard to documents mentioned in the State I..ist--e.g.. our
recommendations as to article 64 (trust). However, we would like to make it clear: that we
desire that our recommendations should be carried out even where subject-matter of a particular
recommendation may, in some respects, fall within the State List. Our intention is that the
change recommended will still be useful in regard to Union Territories, as improving and reform-
ing the law in relation to those territories. We are making this observation here, as we have not
discussed, underleach provision, the constitutional position as to the precise legislative entry
applicable to the particular provision under consideration. 50.9. At this stage, a discussion of the constitutional position would not be 
So far as is material, and without entering into details, we may say that under the Constitution
one must consult all the three legislative lists in the seventh Schedule for ascertaining the legis-
lative power on the subject. The topic "stamp duties" falls in the concurrent list,---but with the

very important exception that "rates otstamp duty" do not fall within that entry. As regarm'

rates, the legislative power is partitioned between' the Union and the States--'1t is, again unnecessary
to enumerate the documents placed in each list. But the broad scheme is as indicated above.
This brings to the forefront the precise scope of the expression "rates or stamp duty". Although the expression "rates" would, at 'first sight, seem to be conﬁned to the arithmetical
ﬁgures of duty, the ensuing discussion will show that a diﬁerent view would be better in. the
particular circumstance of this case. '

. 50.9A. In the first place, the case law' shows that the article regarding duty on entry
as Advocate is regarded as within State List, entry 63. It was, for example, held in State v. Bar Council, Allahabudg , that section 3(iii) of the (LP.
Taxation Laws Amendment Act, amending Article 30 of Schedule [B of the Stamp Act, was
prinra-jacie, intro vires the State Legislature, for the subject-ntattgr of this particular gpﬁgcfngnj
falls within Entry 63 of the State List. It so happened that the Act in that case had received
the assent of the President. But that does not meet the position that the subject-matter' of the
Act was held to fall within the State List. That the Act received Presidential assent was an
aspect that was discussed presumably to repel the objection of repugnauoe to the Advocates
Act, 1961 . 50.10. Similarly, in a Mvsorc Case', the High Court uphold the of validitvrof Mymre At!
No. 29 of 1962'. From the Gazette, it appears that the Act received the assent of the 
on the twenty-ﬁfth day of September, 1962 and it had not been submitted for the assent -of the

President. 'i'.':7i}7£ """'" "'" Such a system does not seem to have been adopted in the case of any other tax. A perusal
of the taxing entries in the Constitution shows no such bifurcation in relation to the power to tax _
on a given subject--matter. - In the very nature of things, the legislative arrangement regarding stamp duties presents
complex problems. As every aspect relating to stamp duties, except the mic of stamp duties, falls
under the Concurrent List, the concurrent power assumes importance, if taken literally. The mode
and manner of collection of stamp duties, the pullishmcnt for the violation of the Stamp Act and
evasion of the stamp duties and other consequences ﬂowing from non-stamping etc. can, with-
out much controversy, be regarded as ﬂowing from it. But does it extend to such a vital matter
as the selection of the instrument for charging tax ? Ra . 1 50.16. Sixthly, it would be incomplete, if not meaningless, to speak of rates withdut the

tea income at: . . . . . 'without charge. charge of tax, ]llS'i. as It would be incomplete to speak of rates without the tax cl1arged- Such
a position is rather unusual in taxation legislation in India, to put it at the mildest. 50.17. It is for these reasons that there is, in our view justiﬁcation for readingthe entry-
in the Concurrent List more narrowly than a literal construction would suggest, and for reading the
Entry as to rate more widely than literal construction would suggest. No doubt, some of the"