BY HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SUDHIR AGARWAL, JUDICIAL MEMBER 1. The substantial question relating to environment arising due to

implementation of enactments mentioned in Schedule to National Green

Tribunal Act, 2010 (hereinafter referred to as ' NGT Act, 2010 ') raised

herein is about mining of sand and morrum near Eco-Sensitive Zone

(hereinafter referred to as 'ESZ') and protected reserved forest, in violation

of various conditions of Environmental Clearance (hereinafter referred to

as 'EC'), consent orders and environmental laws, directly causing damage

to environment, aquatic ecology, and in particular flora and fauna in the

area under consideration. 2. Original Application (hereinafter referred to as 'OA') under Sections 3 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 and 18(1) of NGT Act, 2010 has been preferred by Sandal

Parveen D/o Meraj Akhtar resident of Ward No. 1, Babaphulchand Dalit

Basti Robertsganj, District Sonbhadra, complaining about mining

activities of M/s. Sudhakar Pandey and Associates i.e., respondent 14 and

M/s. New India Minerals i.e., respondent 15, at araji no. 824 kha (khand 4), area 12.368 hectares and Araji no. 824 kha (khand no. 3), area 16.194

hectares, respectively, at village Agori Khas, Tehsil Obra, District

Sonbhadra, Uttar Pradesh, in violation of environmental laws and norms

as also the provisions of Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation)

Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as ' MMDR Act, 1957 '). 3. The facts in brief as stated in OA are that applicant is a member of

the Trust namely 'Birsa Munda Foundation and Research Institute'

bearing registration no. 35/2014 situated at behind Chapka Power House

Robertganj, District Sonbhadra. Trust is working for betterment and

welfare of the society, raising issues relating to environmental pollution in

the area of District Sonbhadra, in particular, and State of UP as well as in

the area of Singrauli region comprising both parts of State of Madhya

Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, in general. Concern of the applicant is illegal

mining on and beyond leased area in River Son, restricted forest and wild

life forest area, using heavy machines like JCBs, Poklane etc. and blocking

of free flow of Son river at village Mitapur and Kargara, by constructing

temporary bridge using hume pipes, causing environmental degradation

such as loss of flora and fauna and also by transportation of

morrums/sands on heavy trucks, trippers/trailers, heavily overloaded,

causing damage of Mitapur Kargara Road-Robertsganj/Varanasi

Shaktinagar Road (SH 5A) and also causing heavy dust emissions

damaging and effecting air quality as also causing health hazardous to

local people. 4 4. Singrauli has been declared as 'Critically Polluted Industrial Area'

vide Notification dated 13.01.2010 issued by Ministry of Environment and

Forests (hereinafter referred to as 'MoEF') on the basis of Comprehensive

Environment Pollution Index (hereinafter referred to as 'CEPI'). Total area

of Singrauli, State of Madhya Pradesh is 5672 m2. It consists of North East

area of Madhya Pradesh and Southern part of District Sonbhadra of State

of UP. It is emerging as energy hub of India and known as 'Energy Capital'

due to availability of coal and water. Presently, approximately 12000 MW

electricity per day is being generated by Thermal Power Plants in Singrauli

(Madhya Pradesh). Coal mines and super thermal power plants situated

in the area in Singrauli and Sonbhadra produce 83 million tonnes per

annum of coal ash and 13200 million watts of thermal power. It is

responsible for 16% and/or 10 tonnes per annum of total mercury

pollution through power generation i.e., 720 kilograms of mercury per

year. In entire Singrauli region (State of Madhya Pradesh and UP), a large

number of thermal power plants are running like NTPC's Vindhyanchal

Super Thermal Power Station, Hindalco Industries Power Division,

Renusagar, Kanoria Chemicals and Industries (Power Division) Renukoot,

NTPC Rihand Nagar, NTPC Shakti Nagar, Obra Thermal Power Station

Unit-A and Unit-B, Anpara Thermal Power Station-A, B and C, Hindalco

Industries Limited Renukoot, Hi-Tech Carbon Renukoot, Aditya Birla

Chemicals Industries, L&T Dalla Cement Dalla, Dalla Cement (Bhalua,

Jugal and Padarach Mines), Orient Micro Abrasives Limited, Renukoot etc.

These industrial units are creating acute pollution and continuously

destroying environment in the area spreading in Singrauli region/area.

According to Annual Health Survey of 2010-2011, two and a half times

more cases of diarrhea, dysentery and respiratory infections were detected.

Besides, maximum number of chronic illnesses such as diabetes,

hypertension, tuberculosis, asthma and arthritis were also detected in the 5 area. As declared by Environment Ministry, Singrauli is 9th most critically

polluted area in the country. Centre of Science and Environment, after

investigation found that mercury, a deadly toxicant coal is slowly entering

people's homes, food, water and even blood. It is highly dangerous to life

of peoples and animals. Due to unplanned illegal crusher units working in

the area, small invisible dust particles are being emitted causing

respiratory and other health adversities. Complaining about degradation

of environment in Singrauli area, OA No. 276/2013, Ashwani Kumar

Dubey vs. Union of India & Others and OA No. 20/2014, Jagat

Narayan Viswakarma and Others vs. Union of India & Others were

filed before Tribunal, which constituted a Committee for giving factual

report. Interim report was submitted on 07.07.2014. For monitoring of

potential hazards of industrial development in Singrauli area, vide order

dated 25.08.2014, this Tribunal constituted a core Committee. Ultimately,

report dated 20.08.2015 was considered and a detailed order was passed

on 06.12.2017 with the following directions: 5. Applicant has further pleaded that respondent 14 i.e., M/s.

Sudhakar Pandey and Associates is proprietorship Firm of Sudhakar

Pandey, resident of Civil Line Road, Tehsil Robertsganj, District

Sonbhadra, UP. It was granted mining permit for mining of morrum at

araji no. 824 kha (khand 4), village Agori Khas, Tehsil Obra, District

Sonbhadra, area 12.368 hectares, with the conditions that no mining

outside allotted area or on forest or wild life forest area harming wild life,

flora, fauna and vegetation shall be carried out; there will be no mining in

a way so that it may harm or block the road right of way, public place,

public property, houses etc.; the lessee will not use machines such as JCB

or Poklane in the mining activity and will also not block free flow of Son

River. However, violating all the norms and conditions, respondent 14 has

conducted mining illegally, outside the allotted lease area that is at village

Mitapur, on the forest land/wild life forest habitat which is within buffer

zone of Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary; due to continued mining activities

carried out illegally, the lessee i.e., respondent 14 has endangered flora,

fauna and vegetation along with wild animals such as Black Bucks,

Sambhar, Snoth Bears, Wild Boards, Indian Fox, Jackals, Spotted Deer,

Striped Hyena, Apes, Chinkara as well as number of water bodies

including species of land and water birds, reptilians such as Monitor

Lizard, Pythons etc.; lessee had also constructed illegal bridge of hume

pipes over River Son, blocking free flow of river; the purpose of 8 construction of bridge is for transporting sand by trucks; mining activities

also involve mid river mining using heavy machines like JCBs and

Poklanes; and it has also cut trees for making ways for transportation of

mined mineral. 6. Applicant has further said that Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary

including the area to the extent of one km or around the boundary of the

said Sanctuary has been declared 'Eco-Sensitive Zone' by Government of

India in exercise of power under Section 3(2)(v) and (xiv) and (1) of Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (hereinafter referred to as ' EP Act,

1986 ') read with Rule 5(3) of Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986

(hereinafter referred to as 'EP Rules, 1986') vide Notification dated

20.03.2017, copy whereof has been placed on record at page 84 of the

paper book. Respondent 14 was issued a Term of Reference (hereinafter

referred to as 'ToR') for the aforesaid mining activity by State Level

Environment Impact Assessment Authority, UP (hereinafter referred to as

'SEIAA UP') vide letter dated 02.11.2021. Standard ToR is also given in

the said letter along with additional ToR, copy whereof has been filed as

annexure-2 at page 75 to the paper book. 7. Similarly, respondent 15, M/s. New India Minerals, a proprietorship

Firm, owned by Surendra Tiwari resident of 190, Govind Pur, Ganeshpur,

Akbarpur District Ambedkar Nagar, UP, was issued Environmental

Clearance (hereinafter referred to as 'EC') vide letter dated 01.12.2021 by

SEIAA UP for carrying out river bed morrum mining (Son River) at Araji

No. 824 kha (khand no. 3), area 16.194 hectares at village Agori Khas,

Tehsil Obra, District Sonbhadra; copy of EC dated 01.12.2021 is on record

at page 109 of paper book. EC allowed collection of 259102 m3 per annum

mineral for one year; various conditions i.e., General and Specific, subject

whereto EC was granted, are also mentioned in the said EC and we 9 propose to refer the relevant conditions as and when it is required. 8. Respondent 15, however, in violation of the conditions of EC has

proceeded with illegal mining of morrum on and outside the allotted lease

area at village Kargara, on the forest land/wild life forest habitat which is

within buffer zone of Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary; illegal mining carried

out by respondent 15 has endangered flora-fauna and vegetation along

with wild animals such as Black Bucks, Sambhar, Snoth Bears, Wild

Boars, Indian Fox, Jackals, Spotted Deer, Striped Hyena, Apes, Chinkara

as well as number of water bodies including species of land and water

birds, reptilian such as Monitor Lizard, Pythons etc.; respondent 15 had

also constructed illegally, bridge of hume pipes over River Son, blocking

free flow of river for transporting its sands by trucks; and is also carrying

out mining illegally using heavy machines like JCBs and Poklanes. 9. Applicant has also filed some photographs showing mining with use

of heavy machines by both respondents 14 and 15. Applicant has also

made a complaint to District Magistrate, Sonbhadra against illegal mining

carried out by respondents 14 and 15. District Magistrate constituted a

five members Committee under Sub-division Magistrate, Obra to enquire

into the complaint. The Committee submitted report on 06.05.2022

finding illegal mining by both the respondents as a result whereof, a fine

of Rs. 3,46,98,500/- was imposed upon respondent 14 for illegal

mining of 36615 m3 of morrum at Mitapur while fine of Rs.

2,69,12,500/- was imposed upon respondent 15 for illegal mining of

27590 m3 morrum at village Kargara. 10. Since illegal mining continued, a complaint was made on

12.08.2022 by Ritisha, copy whereof has been filed as annexure 4, page

130 of paper book. On the said complaint, Shri Manoj Kumar, Mining 10 Inspector submitted report dated 24.08.2022 to Officer Incharge,

Collectorate, Sonbhadra stating that as per Enquiry Report dated

06.05.2022, both the respondents were found guilty of illegal mining

beyond the leased area and for that reason, penalty of Rs. 3,46,98,500/-

and Rs. 2,69,12,500/- was imposed upon respondents 14 and 15,

respectively, which has been deposited by them. Presently, due to

monsoon season, mining activities of morrum and its transportation is

completely closed. 11. It is also said that National Board of Wild Life (hereinafter referred

to as 'NBWL') adopted 'The Wild Life Conservation Strategy, 2002' and took

a decision in its meeting held on 21.01.2002 under the Chairmanship of

Prime Minister to notify areas within 10 kms from the boundaries of

National Parks and Sanctuaries as 'Eco-fragile Zones' under Section 3(V) of EP Act, 1986 and Rule 5(1)(viii)(x) of EP Rules, 1986. 12. It is said that in grant of EC, there is violation of the said decision of

NBWL, in as much as, mining activities have been allowed within 10 kms

of National Parks, Sanctuaries and Protected Forest Areas. Mining and

related activities, on the principle of sustainable development comes

within the concept of 'balancing' whereas mining and related operations

beyond the principle of sustainable development comes within the concept

of banning. It is a matter of degree. Balancing of mining activity with

environment protection and banning such activity are two sides of same

principles of sustainable development. They are part of precautionary

principle. Environment and ecology are national assets. They are subject

to inter-generational equity, sustainable development principle and part of Article 21 , 48-A and 51-A(g) of Constitution of India. Information under Right to Information Act, 2005 (hereinafter referred to as ' RTI Act, 2005 ')

was also sought by the members of Trust of which applicant is also 11 member and in reply thereof, illegal mining activities beyond leased area

by respondents 14 and 15 were confirmed. One of such information given

by Senior Mine Officer, Public Information Officer, Sonbhadra vide letter

dated 16.08.2022 to Shri Mehfooz, a member of Birsa Munda Foundation

and Research Institute is on record at page 141 which in reply to items 1

and 2, has said that respondents 14 and 15 were found conducting

mining illegally, beyond their leased area and imposed penalty of Rs.

3,93,10,500/- and Rs. 2,86,56,000/- respectively which was

deposited by them through challan. 13. In the above factual backdrop, applicant has prayed that mining

leases granted to respondents 14 and 15 be immediately cancelled; and

heavy penalty be imposed upon them as per law of restitution of

environment; they should be directed to restrain from using heavy

machines and after making survey of damages and losses caused to the

local people, suitable compensation be determined and awarded under Section 15 of NGT Act, 2010, also for restitution of ecology and

environment and the officer(s) responsible for failure of statutory duties

should be identified and proceeded against, in accordance with law. It is

also said that for causing loss to environment due to construction of illegal

bridges over Son River, appropriate compensation should be assessed and

imposed upon proponents i.e., respondents 14 and 15.

Tribunal's order dated 16.11.2022: 14. OA was taken up for admission on 16.11.2022 and after

considering the facts stated in OA, Tribunal found it appropriate to

constitute a fact-finding Committee comprising Regional Officer, Ministry

of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (hereinafter referred to as

'MoEF&CC'), Lucknow, (Chief Conservator of Forest); Member Secretary,

UP Pollution Control Board (hereinafter referred to as 'UPPCB') and District 12 Magistrate, Sonbhadra. The said Committee was directed to submit a

factual report. It was also mentioned in the order dated 16.11.2022 that

Committee may put the identified violators to the notice of the proceedings

and a copy of report be furnished simultaneously to them so that they may

also have an opportunity of filing their response before Tribunal.

Joint Committee Report dated 17.02.2023: 15. Pursuant to Tribunal's order dated 16.11.2022, Joint Committee

was nominated comprising following: 16. Committee visited the site on 09.12.2022, collected factual

information and submitted report with its observations and

recommendations as under:  Significant mining outside of the lease area is also
 evident from the Google satellite image dated March,
 2022. (Google satellite image attached as
 Annexure C)
  Satellite image also depicted that the area of
 mining outside of the lease is about 5.44 ha
  As mentioned above, illegal mining is being done
 by the lease holder in the main stream of the
 river (outside of the lease area), may certainly
 be change the course of river flow & its velocity
 and its quality, which is contradictory to EC
 General Condition no. 13.  It has also been observed that the lease holder
 setup weigh bridge, borewell, office outside of
 the lease area, etc.
  Boundary pillars is not properly erected on
 each corner of the lease.  No plantation has been done so far.  Sufficient evidences has been observed by
 committee, which shows that the lease holder are
 using various machine for river bed mining in
 lease and outside of the lease area.  Lease holder has not made motorable approach
 road with both side plantation.  It has also been observed that the mining activity
 is also going on the main stream of river Sone,
 i.e., outside of the lease area.  Google satellite images taken on various time
 intervals clearly reflected that the illegal mining
 status beyond the lease area before start of mining
 and in between the mining.  One borewell is found in running condition
 without statuary approvals. 14 mines and the data is transmitted into the server. 2. M/s New India Minerals Village- Aghori Khas, Teh.-
 Obra, District-Sonbhadra. a) The details of the above project & permission obtained
 are as follows:  Latest consent to operate (CTO) vide letter
 170202/UPPCB/Sonebhadra
 (UPPCBRO)/CTO/both/Sonbhadra/2022 dated
 13.01.2023, which is valid from 01.01.2023 to
 31.12.2024 for mining of sand and morrum with
 259104 cubic meter/year. b) Major observation:  Significant mining outside of the lease area is also
 evident from the Google satellite image taken of
 dated. (Google satellite image attached as
 Annexure D) 15  Significant mining outside of the lease area is also
 evident from the Google satellite image dated
 March, 2022.  Satellite image also depicted that the area of
 mining outside of the lease is about 4.72 ha
 towards main stream.  As mentioned above, illegal mining is being
 done by the lease holder in the main stream
 of the river (outside of the lease area), may
 certainly be change the course of river flow &
 its velocity and its quality, which is
 contradictory to EC General Condition no. 13.  Lease holder has also not made motorable
 approach road with both side planation in area.  It has also been observed that the lease holder
 setup weight bridge, borewell, DG sets, office
 outside of the lease area, etc and it seems
 that the above facilities has been setup on the
 government land,
  Borewell is found in running condition without
 statuary approvals.  The weighing bridges have been installed by these
 mines and the data is transmitted into the server.
  It has been found that the compliance of
 Environmental clearance condition and CTO
 condition are pathetic.  None of the statuary permission (EC, CTO,
 production, compliance report, lease
 document, mining plane etc) available with
 the representative of lease holder. 3. Other observation

  At the time of inspection, it was found that the Kachha
 path constructed by the mines lease holders for
 transportation of the sand from the lease area has
 been disturbed by keeping overburdens on the road in
 a such a way that the Committee may not reach to the
 illegal mining lease site outside the co-ordinates of
 the lease area. However, the committee member tried to
 see the factual situation and accordingly it was visible that
 03 mines pit are operational outside the lease
 boundary. The illegal mining area could not be measured;
 however, it is visible on the Google earth and Google satellite
 image is attached as Annexure C, D & E.
  As per Google earth images, there are three illegal pits
 visible near the mine of M/s Sudhakar Pandey and
 Associates, the area of these illegal pits is 5.44 ha.
 Similarly, three illegal pits of 4.72 Ha area have
 existed near the mine area of M/s New India
 Minerals.  The illegal mining pits are located towards the
 center of the river course which can severely affect
 the river economy.  Temporary bridge structure is also visible across the
 river course which can interrupt the flow of the
 river. 16  It has been found that the compliance of
 Environmental clearance condition and CTO
 condition are pathetic in both the mining lease. 4. Environmental compensation (EC) imposed due to
 mining in outside of the lease and over production

  Committee vide letter no. G000081/OA No.818/2023
 dated 28.01.2023 requested to Senior mining officer,
 Sonbhadra to provide various information including
 production details, any illegal mining reported to M/s New
 India mineral and M/s Sudhakar Pandey & associate of
 above mentioned lease. No reply has been received so
 far.  As mentioned above both the lease holder doing significant
 mining in outside of their lease area (illegal mining), as the
 data of production is not available with committee, therefore,
 committee is in opinion to impose Environmental
 compensation (EC) based on the area covered under
 illegal mining as mentioned above.  As per Google earth images, there are three illegal pits
 visible near the mine of M/s Sudhakar Pandey and
 Associates, the area of these illegal pits is 5.44 ha and
 three illegal pits of 4.72 Ha area have existed near the
 mine area of M/s New India Minerals. The depth of the
 pits couldn't be verified because the way of the pits
 were not approachable. As per environmental clearance
 of SEIAA-UP granted to this project, the maximum depth
 of the pits shouldn't be more than 3 Meters. Hence, taking
 the average depth of 1.5 meter, the volume of extracted
 illegal sand can be calculated. Hence the volume of the
 sand shall be equal to area * depth.  The depth of the illegal mining pits mentioned above is
 not measurable. And hence, the excavated quantity could
 not be estimated accurately. The EC calculated above is
 approximation. The accuracy can be verified by
 measuring the depth employing drone mapping or Google
 satellite mapping.  As per CPC B guidelines, the environmental compensation
 has been calculated as follows : Consequently, Tribunal issued notices and granted them time to file their

response/objections to the report as well as to the averments made in OA.

IA No. 67/2023 dated 17.02.2023 filed on 20.02.2023 before Tribunal
by Ritisha D/o Gopal Gond: Since a detailed survey had been done by the State Government
 before carving out the blocks and NOC's had been obtained from
 the concerned authorities, there is no question of the blocks of land
 being within the forest land or within the Eco Sensitive Zone of the
 Kaimur Wildlife Sanctuary. 5. That after carving out of the blocks of land, auction proceedings
 were initiated and a public advertisement was published by the
 office of the District Magistrate, Sonbhadra informing the public at
 large about the grant of mining leases in the four blocks of land,
 through the process of e-tender cum e-auction. The Answering
 Respondents participated in the auction proceedings and
 emerged as the successful bidders in respect of two out of
 the four blocks, with Respondent No. 14 being the successful
 bidder in respect of Khand-4, measuring 12.368 Hectares,
 and Respondent No. 15 being the successful bidder in
 respect of Khand-3 [16.194 Hectares]. 6. That subsequently, after the deposit of the tender security amount,
 Letter of Intent dated 18.03.2021 was issued in favor of
 Respondent No. 14 and after sanction of the Mining Plan and
 issuance of the Environmental Clearance on 02.11.2021 and
 completion of other formalities, including deposit of forty five
 percent of the royalty payable in the first year of the lease deed
 [Rs. 4,59,49,594/-], Lease Deed dated 01.01.2022 was registered
 in favor of Respondent No. 14, with a stamp duty of Rs.
 2,49,35,800/- being paid by Respondent No. 14 at the time of
 registration of the Lease Deed and Rs. 62,50,000/- as registration
 charges. 7. That similarly, Letter of Intent dated 08.01.2021 was issued in
 favor of Respondent No. 15 and after sanction of the Mining Plan,
 issuance of Environmental Clearance on 01.12.2021 and deposit
 of fifty percent of the royalty amount payable for the first year [Rs.
 5,51,89,152/-], Lease Deed dated 13.12.2021 was registered in
 favor of Respondent No. 15, with an amount of Rs. 2,69,55,000/-
 being paid by Respondent No. 15 towards stamp duty and Rs.
 66,33,000/- towards registration charges. Copies of Lease Deeds of the Answering Respondents are annexed
 and marked as ANNEXURE-1 [COLLY]. 8. That subsequent to the registration of the Lease Deeds, when the
 Answering Respondents commenced their mining
 operations, they realized that large-scale illegal mining is
 being done by the local inhabitants/ landowners of the area
 in close vicinity to the lease areas of the Answering
 Respondents, with attempts also being made to infiltrate
 the lease areas of the Answering Respondents. The 20 Answering Respondents also came to know that such illegal
 mining, on the part of the local landowners, whose lands were
 situated all along the river bed of River Sone, had been going on
 since before the commencement of the mining leases of the
 Answering Respondents and due to insufficient replenishment
 in the area, there were pits present within the lease areas
 of the Answering Respondents even before their mining
 operations had commenced. 9. That when the Answering Respondents brought the same to the
 attention of the local authorities, they were surprisingly informed
 that this menace has been going on for some time and that they
 should be concerned about their operations and it is their
 responsibility to demarcate their area and ensure that the local
 landowners are not able to infiltrate into their area. Copies of
 Maps, showing the layout of the area in the vicinity of the lease
 areas of the Answering Respondents, are annexed and marked as
 ANNEXURE-2 [COLLY]. 10.That the Answering Respondents were also informed that under
 the Ret Khet Scheme, mining permissions, for short periods of three
 months, were also granted by the State Government to the local
 landowners, permitting them to mine the sand found in their land.
 However, the local inhabitants never confined themselves to
 their land and did large scale illegal mining in the entire
 area near the river bed. Some of the short-term mining
 permissions, granted in favor of the local landowners by the State
 Government, are annexed and marked as ANNEXURE-3 [COLLY]. 11.That even though the access road to the lease areas of the
 Answering Respondents passed through the land of the local
 landowners and the Answering Respondents had already been
 threatened with dire consequences in case they tried to pose
 hurdles in the illegal mining being done by the local inhabitants,
 who were large in number and wielded great influence and were
 fully capable of resorting to violence, the Answering
 Respondents still mustered courage and brought this
 menace of large scale illegal mining, being done by the local
 landowners, to the attention of the authorities on several
 occasions, through letters and representations. The menace
 of illegal mining being done by the local landowners was also
 highlighted by the local media through several news reports.
 However, the local authorities lent a deaf ear to all such complaints
 made by the Answering Respondents and to the news articles and
 it is then that the Answering Respondents came to know through
 sources that the local authorities work in collusion with the
 landowners and secure illegal gains from them, in return for not
 impeding their illegal operations. Copies of the letters written by
 the Answering Respondents, along with the newspaper clippings,
 highlighting the rampant illegal mining being done by the local
 landowners, are annexed and marked as ANNEXURE-4 [COLLY]. 12.That due to the patronage enjoyed by them from the authorities,
 the pace of the illegal mining being done by the local landowners
 increased drastically after the commencement of the mining leases
 of the Answering Respondents, because the local inhabitants
 realized that once the leaseholders of the other two blocks, which 21 had been auctioned and which, together with the blocks of the
 Answering Respondents, encompassed the majority 12 303 of the
 area in the river bed of River Sone, completed their formalities and
 commenced their mining operations, then it will be very difficult
 for them to undertake illegal mining operations along the
 river bed. 13.That is respectfully submitted that even in the replies submitted
 by the Answering Respondents to the authorities, in
 response to the Show Cause Notices dated 08.02.2022,
 22.03.2022 and 10.05.2022 issued to them for mining
 outside their lease area, it had been categorically
 mentioned by the Answering Respondents that they had not
 done any mining outside their lease area and that the
 illegal mining, noticed during the inspections, was being
 done by the local inhabitants and the same had already
 been informed to the authorities by the Answering
 Respondents. However, the authorities, without considering the
 replies of the Answering Respondents, proceeded in a pre-
 determined manner and imposed penalties on the Answering
 Respondents for mining outside their lease area, in order to
 safeguard themselves and cover the fact that illegal mining was
 being done by the local landowners with the patronage of the
 authorities. Copies of the Replies to the Show Cause Notices,
 submitted by the Answering Respondents, along with the show
 causes notices are annexed and marked as ANNEXURE-5
 [COLLY]. 14.That the Answering Respondents were contesting the penalties
 imposed on them but in the meantime, the authorities threatened
 that in case the penalties imposed on the Answering Respondents
 are not deposited, they shall stop their mining operations and
 block the issuance of their OTP's, which are required by the
 Answering Respondents for generation of the MM-11 Forms. The
 authorities, acting on the said threat, once even blocked the
 issuance of the OTP's in the case of both the Answering
 Respondents. Because of the said situation, the Answering
 Respondents were constrained to deposit the penalties,
 amounting to Rs. 3,93,10,500/- in the case of Respondent
 No. 14 and Rs. 2,69,12,500/- in the case of Respondent No.
 15, to the authorities. The said deposit was made under
 protest by the Answering Respondents without prejudice to
 their contentions on the issue. 15.That it is categorically stated that no mining is being done by the
 Answering Respondents outside their lease area and even within
 their area, the Answering Respondents have been undertaking
 mining after ensuring strict compliance of the applicable norms,
 while also complying with the conditions contained in their
 Environmental Clearances. Contrary to the observations contained
 in the Inspection Report submitted to this Hon'ble Tribunal by the
 Joint Committee, the Answering Respondents have ensured
 that a motorable approach road is present from their lease
 areas to the main road and adequate plantation has also
 been done by the Answering Respondents. Copies of
 documents, evidencing the plantation done by the 22 Answering Respondents, are annexed and marked as
 ANNEXURE-6 [COLLY]. 16.That it is also pertinent to highlight that a huge sum of money,
 amounting to 10% of the total sum of royalty paid by the
 Answering Respondents to the State Government [the total
 royalty was Rs. 10,21,10,208/- in the first year in the case
 of Respondent No. 14 and Rs. 11,03,78,304 in the case of
 Respondent No. 15], has been deposited by the Answering
 Respondents in the Uttar Pradesh District Mineral
 Foundation Trust, which, as per the mandate of Rule 17 of the
 Uttar Pradesh District Mineral Foundation Trust Rules, 2017
 [amended in 2020], is to be utilized for creating basic infrastructure
 in the area, inter-alia including construction and maintenance of
 approach road, electricity, sanitation and providing drinking water
 supply and for undertaking environment preservation and
 pollution control measures in the mining areas, inter-alia including
 common plantation in/around area affected by mining operations
 and measures to prevent illegal mining. However, not a single
 penny out of the said amount has been spent by the State
 Government till date in either providing any facilities
 around the lease areas of the Answering Respondents or in
 undertaking measures to prevent illegal mining being done
 by the local landowners, which could have drastically
 improved the situation in the area. Presumably, this has not
 been done by the authorities because the same would have caused
 disruption in their designs to abet the illegal mining being done by
 the local landowners. Copy of Rule 17 of the Uttar Pradesh District
 Mineral Foundation Trust Rules, 2017 [amended in 2020] is
 annexed and marked as ANNEXURE-7. 17.That it is submitted that the Answering Respondents are operating
 with valid permissions required by them under the Water
 (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air
 (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 , with the latest
 consents being valid till 31.12.2026 in the case of Respondent No.
 14 and till 31.12.2024 in the case of Respondent No. 15.

 Copies of the consents, granted to the Answering Respondents
 under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and
 the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 , are annexed
 and granted as ANNEXURE-8 [COLLY]. 18.That it is pertinent to mention that Respondent No. 15 has also
 got the No Objection Certificate [Valid from 20.12.2021 to
 19.12.2026] issued from the Uttar Pradesh Ground Water
 Department, in respect of the borewell present in its lease
 area. In so far as Respondent No. 14 is concerned, contrary to
 what has been stated in the Report of the Joint Committee, it is
 respectfully submitted that there is no borewell situated inside
 the lease area of Respondent No. 14 and the water required
 for drinking and other activities is procured by Respondent
 No. 14 from external sources at its own cost. Hence, there is
 no question of any permission being required in respect of any
 borewell by Respondent No. 14. The said position can be easily
 verified through an inspection of the lease area of Respondent No. 14. Copy of the NOC dated 26.12.2021, issued by the Uttar 23 Pradesh Ground Water Department in favor of Respondent No. 15,
 is annexed and marked as ANNEXURE-9. 19.That it is also apposite to mention that without conducting a fact
 finding exercise and without studying the role of the local
 inhabitants/landowners, a blatant and partisan attempt has been
 made by the Joint Committee, comprising of members of the local
 authorities, who are fully aware of the real ground situation, to
 safeguard themselves and mask their collusion with the local
 landowners, by attributing all mining done in the entire area,
 adjacent to the river bed of River Son in Village Aghori Khas, to the
 Answering Respondents and recommending imposition of
 Environmental Compensation on the Answering Respondents,
 without any fault on their part. The various complaints given to the
 authorities by the Answering Respondents, as well as the various
 news reports, highlighting illegal mining being done by the local
 landowners, have been deliberately concealed by the Joint
 Committee from this Hon'ble Tribunal, in order to unfairly and
 unjustifiably lay the blame on the Answering Respondents. 20.That the Joint Committee, acting contrary to the directions of this
 Hon'ble Tribunal, contained in order dated 16.11.2022, also
 neither interacted with the Answering Respondents at the
 time of the inspection nor did it provide any intimation of
 the inspection to the Answering Respondents, which would
 have enabled the Answering Respondents to apprise the
 Committee member, who had come from outside, about the
 correct position. The Joint Committee conducted the inspection
 in a superficial manner and without applying its mind or seeking
 to ascertain the correct position or make a proper assessment of
 the quantum of illegal mining, resorted to assumptions and
 conjectures in attributing the entire fault to the Answering
 Respondents and recommending imposition of an exorbitant
 amount as environmental compensation on them. 21.That it is humbly submitted that if the Answering Respondents
 had to undertake illegal mining like the local landowners, then
 they could have done the same without subjecting themselves to
 the regulatory framework and without spending huge sums of
 money, amounting to several crores, in taking part in the auction
 proceedings, getting their lease deeds registered and paying
 royalty to the State Government, apart from GST@18% and
 contribution into the District Mineral Foundation Trust@10%. It is
 very unnatural that the Answering Respondents will be willing to
 put at risk such substantial investments and the future of their
 Lease Deeds, which are for a duration of five years, by indulging
 in illegal mining from the first year of their lease itself and getting
 some little gains through the same. 22.That the fact of the matter is that the Answering Respondents
 are themselves the victims in the present case, as they have
 first been threatened with dire consequences by the local
 landowners, have not received any help or support from the
 authorities, who are hand in gloves with the local landowners, and
 now it is the Answering Respondents who are sought to be made
 the scapegoats by the authorities for the illegal mining done in the 24 area, despite the authorities being fully aware that the Answering
 Respondents have got absolutely nothing to do with the same. 23.That it is respectfully submitted that a fair, impartial and a proper
 fact-finding investigation by an independent agency, shall reveal
 the truth behind the matter and shall help in uncovering the
 collusion of the authorities with the local landowners, because of
 which large scale illegal mining has taken place on the river bed
 of River Sone and which has also caused a lot of harassment and
 inconvenience to the Answering Respondents. It is humbly prayed
 that this Hon'ble Tribunal may kindly order such an inquiry so as
 to safeguard the environment and also to find the real perpetrators
 behind the illegal mining. 24.That it is again reiterated that the Answering Respondents have
 always done mining within their area and within the limits
 specified in their Environmental Clearance. The same can be
 evidenced from the MM-11 Forms generated in respect of the lease
 areas of the Answering Respondents. Further, the trucks of the
 Answering Respondents, carrying the mined material from the
 lease areas, are also regulated by the mining department so there
 is no question of the Answering Respondents indulging in any
 illegal mining or transporting illegally mined material. Further, the
 JCB machines, reference to which has been made in the
 Joint Committee Report, are used by the Answering
 Respondents within their lease areas for lifting the mined
 material but the same are not used outside the lease areas
 by the Answering Respondents for any purpose, leave alone
 for river bed mining. It is submitted that the local landowners
 have been using machines during their illegal mining operations
 and information regarding the same has been given to the
 authorities by the Answering Respondents. 25.That as is evident from the above submissions, the illegal
 mining in the area around the lease areas of the Answering
 Respondents is being undertaken by the local landowners,
 with the collusion and support of the authorities, with an
 attempt being made to lay the blame for the same on the
 Answering Respondents. In such circumstances, it is respectfully
 prayed that this Hon'ble Tribunal may direct for a fair, impartial
 and independent inquiry and investigation to be conducted, with
 a fair opportunity to the Answering Respondents to participate in
 the same, which shall unravel the truth and unmask the real
 perpetrators of the illegal mining. The Answering Respondents
 undertake to render full assistance and cooperation in any such
 inquiry which may be held pursuant to the directions of this
 Hon'ble Tribunal. 26.That it is also prayed that since no illegal mining is being done by
 the Answering Respondents, this Hon'ble Tribunal may kindly be
 pleased to vacate its order dated 20.02.2023 and while dismissing
 the present Original Application qua the Answering Respondents,
 permit the Answering Respondents, premised on them being
 subjected to the strictest regulatory supervision and oversight
 while undertaking their mining operations, to resume their mining
 operations, in consonance with their lease deeds." 25 IA No. 74/2023 dated 02.03.2023 filed on 06.03.2023: Additional Affidavit dated 17.03.2023 filed by respondent 14: ARGUMENTS: mining activities are being carried in the river bed by obstructing free flow

of River Son and such mining activities are illegal and impermissible as it

degrade not only aquatic ecology of river but also cause serious damage to

environment; and that illegal mining is evident from the fact that mining

authorities imposed penalty on account of illegal mining upon respondents

14 and 15 to the extent of Rs. 3,93,10,500/- and Rs. 2,86,56,000/-

respectively, which has been paid by both the proponents. District

Magistrate's letter dated 16.08.2022, annexure 6 at page 141 of the paper

book, replying to questions 1 and 2, states that penalty of Rs.

3,93,10,500/- was imposed on account of illegal mining beyond

sanctioned area upon respondent 14 and penalty of Rs. 2,86,56,000/- was

imposed upon respondent 15 which has been paid by both the parties in

Government treasury. The above penalties were under Mining Statutes.

That being so, it is urged by interveners that both proponents are liable to 27 pay environmental compensation also for having indulged in illegal mining

causing damage to environment. The complaints of illegal mining by

respondents 14 and 15 have been found correct by Joint Committee

constituted by this Tribunal and its report shows that respondents 14 and

15 are conducting illegal mining and, therefore liable to pay not only

environmental compensation but also should face other legal actions

including prosecution etc. 23. Learned interveners also contended that 'Son Ghadiyal Sanctuary'

is being damaged on account of illegal mining in river bed of Son River

which has also resulted in substantial decrease in the strength of aquatic

animals like ghadiyals, tortoises and alligators etc. Our attention is drawn

to newspaper reports placed on record along with IA 67/2023, where it is

reported that in the month of January 2023, some ghadiyals were

found dead in mining pits. 24. It is also evident from record that respondents 14 and 15 have

constructed temporary bridges of hume pipes, obstructing free flow of

River Son and causing degradation to flora and fauna in the river. Damage

is also being caused to flora and fauna due to mining activities, being

carried out with the help of heavy machines like JCBs, Poklanes etc., and

use of heavy vehicles for transportation like Trucks, Trippers/Trailers etc. 25. It is said by interveners that their main concern is about illegal

mining in 'Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary Area' in River Son and Buffer

Area of Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary. Mining in Son river from Village Shilpi

to Gurdah 20.288 KM, Patwadh Anshik to Chikra (Kanhuara) 14 KM and

in between them at Village Kargara, Mitapur, Bandhwa, Rediya and

Village Bhagwa, Gothani, Badgawa, Sinduriya, Ghoriya, Kurcha, Newari,

Agori Khas, Sasnai, Barahmori and Chopan District Sonbhadra endanger 28 the life and habitat of alligators found in Sone Ghadiyal Sanctuary stretch,

situated in District Sidhi, Madhya Pradesh, neighboring District to

Sonbhadra which expands upto 200 KM stretch in River Son starting from

Sidhi District, M.P. to Chopan, District Sonbhadra which has been

reserved for alligators, crocodiles, tortoises and other reptiles found in

Rivers Sone, Gopadh and Banas. Further, 161 KM in River Son, in District

Sidhi, Madhya Pradesh has been reserved for alligators, crocodiles,

tortoises and other reptiles for their conservation and from Sidhi (M.P.) to

Dehari on Son (Bihar) including District Sonbhadra of Uttar Pradesh, the

whole stretch of River Son is corridor where these reptiles frequently move

being their habitat but allotment of mining lease in the area of Son river

between Shilpi to Gurdah 20.288 KM and Patwadh Anshik to Chikra

(Kanhaura) 14.812 KM, in between this in Village Kargara (3136 Mtr. from

Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary), Mitapur (2280 Mtr. from Kaimur Wild Life

Sanctuary), Bandhwa (1388 Mtr. from Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary),

Rediya (2288 Mtr. from Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary), and Patwadh Anshik

(2260 Mtr. from Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary) is causing huge damage to

these animals. Mining leases have been allotted on the pretext that area is

more than 1 KM away from Kaimur Wild life Sanctuary area which is

totally incorrect. Mining leases have been allotted in village Gothani on

Araji no. 142 in Son river in area 10.10 acre (Block 1 to Block 4), Village

Bhagwa in Son river Araji no. 21 Mi in area 10.10 acre (Block 1 to Block 4), Village Badgawa in River Son in Araji no. 1 in area 10.10 acre (Block 1

to Block 4), village Sinduriya in River Son in Araji no. 756 in area 10.10

acre (Block 1 to Block 7), village Ghoriya in River Son Araji no. 1 in area

10.10 acre (Block 1 to Block 10), village Kurcha in Son river Araji no. 1 in

area 10.10 acre (Block 1 to Block 3), village Newari in Son river Araji no. 1

in area 10.10 acre (Block 1), village Agori khas in Son river Araji no. 824

kha in area 10.10 acre (Block 1 to Block 4), village Sasnai in Son river Araji 29 no. 221 Cha in area 10.10 acre (Block 7 to 9) village Barahmori in Son

river Araji no. 185 in area 10.10 acre (Block 1 to 17) and village Khebandha

in river Renu Araji no. 246 in area 10.10 acre (Block 1 to 13) to various

lease holders. 26. M/s. Veera Construction Prop. Rameshwar Prasad, S/o Shyma

Prasad, R/o S 3/36-B Ordely Bazar Varanasi has been allotted mining

lease on Araji no. 21 mi village Bhagwa in River Son. 27. M/s. New India Minerals, 28 Brahpuri Colony Jugali Crossing

Faizabad Road Lucknow, Prop. Sri Surendra Tiwari, S/o Atma Ram Tiwari,

R/o 190 Govindpur Ganeshpur, Akbarpur District Ambedkarnagar has

been allotted mining lease on Araji no. 824 kha village Agori Khas in River

Son and M/s. Sudhakar Pandey and Associates Prop. Sri Sudhakar

Pandey, S/o late Doodnath Pandey, R/o Civil lines Road Robertsanj

District Sonbhadra has also been allotted mining lease for excavation of

sand in River Son at village Agori Khas, Araji no. 824 kha (block 4). 28. These leases have been allotted in prohibited areas and to cause

damage to aquatic animals which are protected and to aquatic ecology. 29. Supporting the application, Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of

State of UP contended that Joint Committee has found several violations

of environmental laws and norms in the course of mining by respondents

14 and 15 and has proposed environmental compensation of Rs. 8.16

Crores upon respondent 14 and Rs. 7.08 Crores upon respondent 15. It

is also pointed out that District Magistrate, Sonbhadra has already

restrained mining and transportation of minerals in the mining projects in

question, carried out by respondents 14 and 15 and further action by

Regulators shall be taken as per the direction of this Tribunal. 30 30. Per contra, Learned Counsel appearing for respondents 14 and 15

contented that the proponents have not carried out mining activities in

any area beyond the area sanctioned and approved by the concerned

authorities. In fact, there are some local land owners who have carried out

such illegal mining and they have also threatened respondents 14 and 15

and created obstructions in mining. Our attention is drawn to annexure-

4 (page 365 of paper book) (collectively), making complaint of illegal mining

by other parties and threats extended to the representatives of the Lease

holders. It is also said that respondents 14 and 15 protested against

imposition of penalty by mining authorities for alleged illegal mining but

since OTP required for generation of e-MM-11 permit for transportation of

mineral was stopped by District Mining Officer, hence under protest,

penalty amount was paid. Learned Counsel for respondents 14 and 15

placed reliance on letter dated 31.05.2022 (page 380 of the paper book)

which was submitted by respondent 15 to District Magistrate, Sonbhadra

stating that under protest and without prejudice to the stand taken by

respondent 15, it has deposited Rs. One Crore through RTGS with a

request to resume OTP at the earliest. 31. On behalf of respondents 14 and 15, it is contended that Joint

Committee did not conduct enquiry properly; proponents were not taken

in confidence since they were not given prior notice and had no occasion

to participate with the enquiry conducted by Joint Committee; Joint

Committee conducted inspection in a superficial manner and without

applying its mind or seeking view point of proponents to ascertain correct

position; and Committee had submitted report on conjecture and

surmises. It is further argued that respondents 14 and 15 had never

indulged in any illegal mining or transportation of mined minerals illegally. 32. Giving background facts of allotment of mining lease to proponents, 31 Learned Counsel appearing for respondents 14 and 15 said that 4 blocks

of land were carved out of khasra no. 824 kha situated in village Agori

Khas, Tehsil Obra, District Sonbhadra, by State Government after

obtaining No Objection Certificate (hereinafter referred to as 'NOC') from

Divisional Forest Officer, Obra Forest Division, Sonbhadra and Divisional

Forest Officer, Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary Division. NOCs issued by

Forest Officers show that the blocks were not within forest land or within

ESZ of Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary. District Magistrate, Sonbhadra

initiated steps for e-tenders cum e-auction in which respondent 14 was

successful bidder in respect of khasra no. 824 kha (khand 4), area 12.368

hectares and respondent 15 was successful bidder in respect of Araji 824

kha (khand 3), area 16.194 hectares. 33. After deposit of tender security amount, Letter of Intent dated

18.03.2021 was issued in favour of respondent 14; and EC was issued on

02.11.2021. After deposit of 5% of royalty payable in the first year of lease

deed i.e., Rs. 4,59,49,594/-, lease deed dated 01.01.2022 was executed in

favour of respondent 14, on payment of stamp duty of Rs. 2,49,35,800/-.

Respondent 14 also paid registration charges of Rs. 62,50,000/-. However,

we may place on record that EC is dated 22.12.2021 and CTO was issued

on 25.01.2022. 34. Similarly, Letter of Intent dated 08.01.2021 was issued in favour of

respondent 15. After sanction of mini ng plan, EC was granted on

01.12.2021. Respondent 15 deposited 50% of royalty amount payable for

the first year of Rs. 5,51,89,152/- whereafter lease deed was executed on

13.12.2021. Respondent 15 paid stamp duty of Rs. 2,69,55,000/- besides

registration charges of Rs. 66,33,000/-. CTO was issued on 08.12.2021.

UP Ground Water Department (hereinafter referred to as 'UPGWD') issued

NOC permitting extraction of ground water on 26.12.2021 as is evident 32 from para 18 (page 310 of paper book) of objections dated 03.03.2023 filed

by respondents 14 and 15. 35. Respondents 14 and 15 claim that number of local inhabitants/land

owners were indulged in illegal mining on land situated all along the river

bed of River Son. It was responsibility of the authorities to demarcate the

lease area which they did not. Instead, they colluded with the local

inhabitants to encourage illegal mining in the river bed. Some land owners

were also issued short term mining permissions under 'Ret-Khet Scheme'.

A few notices were issued against illegal mining by mining licensees which

included notice dated 26.02.2022 (page 350 of paper book) issued to

Shankar, s/o Khannu, resident of village Agori Khas, Tehsil Obra, District

Sonbhadra; notice dated 22.02.2022 (page 355 of paper book) issued to

Smt. Soni Devi w/o Shri Rajkumar, resident of village Agori Khas, Tehsil

Obra, District Sonbhadra; notice dated 25.03.2022 (page 361 of paper

book) issued to Tapeshi s/o Shri Sadan, resident of village Chora

Badgawa, Tehsil Obra, District Sonbhadra and notice dated 26.02.2022

(page 364 of paper book) issued to Lal Mani s/o Dangar, resident of village

Agori Khas, Tehsil Obra, District Sonbhadra. 36. It is also argued that respondents 14 and 15 made complaints about

such illegal mining by local land owners on several occasions through

letters and representations but local land owners were so resourceful and

powerful that neither local authorities acted to prevent such illegal mining

by the local land owners nor took any appropriate action for stopping such

illegal mining. This inaction on the part of authorities shows their apparent

patronage to local land owners. 37. Deposit of Rs. 3,93,10,500/- by respondent 14 and Rs.

2,69,12,500/- by respondent 15, is admitted in para 14 of the objections 33 dated 03.03.2023, filed jointly by respondents 14 and 15, but it is said

that the same was under protest. 38. Respondents 14 and 15 claim that a huge sum towards royalty was

deposited by them i.e., Rs. 10,21,10,208/- by respondents 14 and Rs.

11,03,78,304/- by respondent 15, which, as per the mandate of Rule 17

of UP District Mineral Foundation Trust Rules, 2017 (as amended in

2020), ought to be utilised for creating basic infrastructure in the area

inter-alia including construction and maintenance of approached road,

electricity, sanitation, providing drinking water supply etc. but not a single

penny of the said amount has been spent by State Government till date by

providing requisite facilities around the lease area of proponents. 39. Respondent 14 has permissions/consents under Water (Prevention

and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (hereinafter referred to as ' Water Act,

1974 ') and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 (hereinafter

referred to as 'Air Act, 1981') which is valid upto 31.12.2026. Respondent

15 had such permissions valid upto 31.12.2024. Respondent 15 has also

got NOC from UPGWD, valid from 20.12.2021 to 19.12.2026, filed as

annexure-9 at page 413 to the paper book and, therefore, borewell

installed by respondent 15 is not illegal. So far as respondent 14 is

concerned, it has not installed any borewell inside the leased area and is

procuring water for drinking and other purposes from external sources at

its own cost. It is said that there are no illegal mining activities by

respondents 14 and 15 and, therefore, the applications may be dismissed. 40. On the question whether there was any preparation of DSR and

replenishment study before mining leases were granted to respondents 14

and 15, in the Additional Affidavit dated 17.03.2023, it is said that DSR

was prepared and approved on 28.11.2018 and sand 34 replacement/replenishment study was conducted by CMPDIL Ranchi

(State of Jharkhand) on 30.12.2022. ISSUES: 41. After hearing Learned Counsel for the parties and on perusal of

record, we find that the following issues have arisen which require

adjudication by this Tribunal: DISCUSSION/FINDINGS ON MERITS: 42. We propose to answer issues I and II together. 43. It is not in dispute that mining activities and mining leases in

question, being proceeded by respondents 14 and 15, are in District

Sonbhadra of State of UP. 44. Sonbhadra is a district, rich with minerals like bauxide, limestone,

coal, gold etc. It is also called as 'Energy Capital of India' since a large

number of power plants are established in this area. District Sonbhadra 35 lies in the extreme south-east of State of UP. It is bounded by district

Mirzapur to the north-west, district Chandauli to the north, Kaimur and

Rohtas districts of Bihar State to the north-east, district Garwah of

Jharkhand to the east, Koriya and Surguja districts of Chhattisgarh to the

south and Singrauli district of Madhya Pradesh to the west. It is second

largest district of State of UP. District Sonbhadra has an area of 6788 km2

and population of 1,862,559 as per 2011 census. Population density is

270 persons per km2. Robertsganj is district headquarter town. Main rivers

running through district are Son, Karmanasha and Belan. 45. District Sonbhadra lies on a plateau, north of Kaimur range and

drained by tributaries of Ganges including Belan and Karmanasa river.

South of the steep escarpment of Kaimur Range is the valley of Son River,

which flows through the district from west to east. Southern portion of

the district is hilly, interspersed with fertile stream valleys. Rihand river

which rises to south in the highlands of Surguja district of Chhattisgarh,

flows north to join river Son in center of district. Govind Ballabh Pant

Sagar, a reservoir on Rihand, lies partly in the district and partly

in Madhya Pradesh. East of Rihand, Kanhar River, which originates

in Chhattisgarh, flows north to join Son River. 46. It has been pointed out that the disputed area of mining is near

Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary. Further substantial part of Son River,

falling in State of MP is declared as "Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary".

KAIMUR WILD LIFE SANCTUARY: 47. Area of Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary as also its ESZ falls in State of

UP as well as Bihar. IN STATE OF BIHAR: 48. Vide notification no. S.O. 1160 dated 20.07.1979 issued by Forest 36 Department, Government of Bihar, under the provisions of Wild Life

(Protection) Act, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as 'WLP Act, 1972'), Kaimur

Wild Life Sanctuary situated in the then Shahabad district, lying between

Latitudes 24°3′ and 25°0′ N and Longitude 83°25′ and 85°0′ E, in State of

Bihar, extending over an area of 1504.96 km2 was notified as 'Wild Life

Sanctuary'. 49. The then part of Shahabad district is presently, part of districts

Rohtas and Kaimur. The declared Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary in State of

Bihar was rich in different species of fauna like Leopard, Hyena, Jackal,

Wolf, Wild Boar, Sloth Bear, Cheetal, Sambhar, Black Buck, Chinkara,

Chausingha (four horned antelope), Nilgai, Jungle Fowl, Python, Mugger,

Langur, Monkey. More than 100 bird species are the species of vital

importance in Kaimur Wildlife Sanctuary. The area also included

endangered species like Leopard, Black buck, Chinkara and Four horned

antelope (Chausingha). 50. Further, Sanctuary in the part of Bihar is rich in the following types

of forests: 51. Forests of the Sanctuary also intercept rainfall and help recharge

ground water aquifer, protect rivers and streams against siltation by

minimizing soil erosion; Durgawati and Karmnasha are the main perennial

rivers originating from the sanctuary. The Sanctuary is located in eastern

extremity of Vindhyan hill ranges and its plateau landforms are unique in

State of Bihar. The plateau tract in Sanctuary is inhabited by Chero, Oraon

and Kharwar tribes with sociological significance. 52. Later on, a draft Notification was published on 28.01.2015, inviting

objections and suggestions from persons likely to be affected to declare the

area mentioned in the said notification as 'ESZ'. Final Notification in

exercise of powers under sub-section (1), clauses (v) and (xiv) of sub-

section (2) and sub-section (3) of Section 3 of EP Act, 1986 (29 of 1986)

read with sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of EP Rules, 1986 was issued by Central

Government vide Notification no. 3549(E) dated 30.12.2015 published in

Gazette of India (Extraordinary), of the same date. ESZ is spread over an

area of 459.12 km2 with an extent up to 2 km around Kaimur Wild Life

Sanctuary excluding south-eastern and southern side of the Sanctuary

and also western side of the Sanctuary which shares boundary with State

of Uttar Pradesh. The boundary of ESZ mentioned in para 1 and 2 of

Notification dated 30.12.2015 reads as under: IN STATE OF UP: 53. In State of UP, Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary is situated in districts

Mirzapur and Sonbhadra. The area lying between 24°27′51″N to

24°52′0.9″N and 24°38′19.11″N to 24°39′9.05″N latitudes and

82°20′15.30″E to 83°08′23.3″E and 82°44′59.9″E to 82°45′0.07″E

longitudes, spread over an area of 500.73 km2 in State of UP was declared

'Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary' vide notification dated 10.08.1982. 54. Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary which is part of State of UP offers

natural habitat for Black Bucks (Antilope cervicapra), Sloth Bears

(Melursus ursinus), Wild Boars (Sus scrofa), Striped Hyena (Hyaena

hyaena), Sambhar (Rusa unicolor), Pangolin (Manis crassicaudata), Indian

Fox (Vulpes bengalensis), Jackals (Canis aureus), Apes, Spotted Deer (Axis

axis) and Chinkara (Gazella bennettii). There are a number of water bodies

and a number of species of land and water birds. All the major orders of

Reptilia are represented in this Sanctuary. These include Monitor Lizard

(Varanus sp.), Cobra (Ophiophagus Hannah), Common Krait (Bungarus

caeruleus), Russell's Viper (Daboia), Rat Snake (Panthrophis obsoletus)

and Pythons (Python sp.). Fresh water crocodiles are found in Belan

and Bakhar rivers. 39 55. Later on, a draft Notification dated 22.09.2015 was published under

the provisions of EP Act, 1986 inviting objections and suggestions from all

persons likely to be affected in respect of the proposals to declare certain

part around Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary as ESZ in State of UP. 56. Final Notification dated 20.03.2017 was published by Central

Government in the Gazette of India (Extraordinary), of the same date in

exercise of powers under sub-section (1), clauses (v) and (xiv) of sub-

section (2) and sub-section (3) of Section 3 of EP Act, 1986 (29 of 1986)

read with sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of EP Rules, 1986, notifying an area to

an extent of 1 km all around the boundary of Kaimur Wild Life

Sanctuary in State of UP as Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary ESZ

(hereinafter referred to as 'KWSESZ, UP'). The extent of boundaries of ESZ

in State of UP in respect of Kaimur Wild Life Sanctuary declared in para 1

of the Notification dated 20.03.2017 stated as under: RIVER SON: 57. River Son originates at an elevation of 600 m at Sonbhadra in

Maikala range in State of Madhya Pradesh. Total catchment area of the

basin is 65,110 km2. Important tributaries of Son River are Sone,

Mahanadi, Kanhar, Rihand, Gopad, Banas, north Koel and Ghaghar.

Rihand dam has been constructed on the Rihand river. Total length of river

Son is 784 km out of which about 500 km lies in State of MP, 82 km in 40 State of UP and remaining 202 km in State of Bihar. It meets river Ganga,

about 16 km upstream of Dinapur, in Patna district of State of Bihar.

SON GHARIYAL WILD LIFE SANCTUARY and ECO-SENSITIVE ZONE: 58. State of MP issued Notification dated 23.09.1981 published in

Gazette of Madhya Pradesh, dated 13.11.1981 by exercising powers under

WLP Act, 1972 declaring certain area as Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary.

As per original Notification, the said Sanctuary covered districts Sidhi,

Shadhol and Satna and comprised of the length of Son river-160.93 km,

river Gopad-25.75 km and river Banas-22.53 km. The details of the area

mentioned in the Notification declaring Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary

is as under: English Translation by Tribunal- The breadth of the river is covered under the sanctuary which has not
 been demarcated separately. Under Bagdra Sanctuary the sides of Son River are also included
 which has been fostered by the Sanctuary for earlier." 59. Presently, Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary in State of MP is spread

over 209 kilometer of length and 200 meters width on both river banks of 42 Rivers Son, Gopad and Banas located in districts Sidhi, Singrauli, Satna

and Shahdol of State of MP. Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary falls in arid

zone and supports many species of fishes, amphibians, reptiles and birds.

Important aquatic fauna of the Sanctuary includes Gharial (Gavialis

gangeticus), Mugger (Crocodylus palustris), and turtles (Testudines sp.). 60. Later, in exercise of powers under the provisions of EP Act, 1986 , a

draft Notification number S.O. 1780(E) dated 30.06.2015 was published

by MoEF&CC, inviting objections and suggestions from all the persons

likely to be affected thereby proposing to declare certain area as ESZ

around Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary. 61. Final Notification dated 13.12.2016 was published in Gazette of

India, (Extraordinary) on 14.12.2016 declaring one km from the boundary

of Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary as ESZ in State of MP. This

Notification was issued in exercise of powers under the provisions of sub-

section (1) read with clause (v) and clause (xiv) of subsection (2) of Section

3 of EP Act, 1986 (29 of 1986) and sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of EP Rules, 1986.

The extent of boundaries of Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary ESZ in State

of MP is given in para 1 of the Notification which reads as under: 62. Para 4 of the Notification contains list of activities, prohibited or to

be regulated, within ESZ and item 1 prohibits commercial mining, stone

quarrying and crushing units and reads as under: 43 1. Commercial mining, (a) All new and existing mining
 stone quarrying and (minor and major minerals), stone
 crushing units. quarrying and crushing units shall
 be prohibited effect except for the
 domestic needs of bona fide local
 residents including digging of earth
 for construction or repair of houses
 and for manufacture of country tiles
 or bricks for housing for personal
 consumption. (b) The mining operations shall
 strictly be in accordance with the
 interim order of the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court dated the 4th August, 2006 in
 the matter of T.N. Godavarman
 Thirumulpad Vs. Union of India in
 Writ Petition (Civil) No.202 of 1995
 and order of the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court dated the 21st April, 2014 in
 the matter of Goa Foundation Vs.
 Union of India in Writ Petition (Civil)
 No.435 of 2012. 63. River Karmanasam, tributary of Ganga originates at an elevation of

350 m near Sarodag on the northern face of Kaimur range in Mirzapur

district of UP. It flows in a north-westerly direction through the plains of

Mirzapur and joins Ganga River near Chanusa. The tributaries of

Karamanasa are Durgawati, Chandraprabha, Karnauti, Nadi and Khajuri. 64. Belan river is central Indian river occupies a low-relief valley cut into

Proterozoid quartzite of Vindhyan Group, about 80 km south-east of

Allahabad. River runs westward, parallel to Kaimur hills. It originates from

Kaimur hill series in MP and joins Tons River at Chakghat which flows

northward to Ganga plains south of Allahabad of State of UP. 65. DSR approved on 28.11.2018, filed by respondents 14 and 15 as

annexure A-1 to Additional Affidavit dated 17.03.2023, contains list of

Protected Forests and Reserved Forests of district Sonbhadra as table

1.5 at page 533 which reads as under: 44 हे पढ़ाने वालो ! तुम और हम ऐसा अ छा य न कर क िजससे सिृ ट के पदाथ
 से सम आन द के लये व या करके उपकार को हण कर सक ॥ ६ ॥

 English Tribunal by Tribunal- (iii) "मधमु ॑ ा नो ॒ वन ॒ पितम॒ धमु ॑ ाँ अ तु ॒ सयू ः॑। मा वीग॒ ावो ॑ भव तु नः ॥" (1.90.8)

 Hindi Translation by Tribunal- हे िव ान् लोगो ! तुम और हम आओ िमलके ऐसा पु षाथ कर िक िजससे
 हम लोग के सब काम िस होव ॥ ८ ॥

 English Tribunal by Tribunal- 72. It is a misconception that environmental science and ecology is

knowledge and subject, gathered public awareness only in 19th or 20th 47 century. In Indian ancient scriptures, origin of environmental science and

ecology can be traced long back in the Vedic and ancient Sanskrit

literature. In Atharvveda, 'vritavrita', 'abhivarah', 'avritah', 'parivrita' are

the terms used for 'Paryavaran'. Upanishads mention that the universe

consist of five elements i.e., earth, water, land, air and ether. Existence of

human being on earth planet blossom due to blessings of mother earth.

She is the goddess of nature according to Hindu mythology. She is the

Supreme elixir of our existence on earth. Change to the naturality of

environment is nothing but an abuse to the earth endangering the very

existence of mankind. Increasing natural hazards are result of atrocious

acts of exploiting our earth by people. 73. Ancient Indian texts contain lot of material reflecting concern of

Vedic people for environmental issues. They professed environmental

protection in the form of mythology and traditions so as to give broader

enforceability, acceptability and executabitlity of the wisdom and vision of

Vedic sages. Some Sanskrit shalokas which we reproduce below, are self-

evident to demonstrate how important nature and environment was for

Vedic people and they left no stone un-turned for making it mandatory for

the people to follow life stream which concentrates on protection of

environment: (i) "भूिमरापोऽनलो वायुः खं मनो बुि रेव च। अहङ्कार इतीयं मे िभ ना कृितर धा।।" Hindi Translation by Tribunal - पृ वी, जल, अि न, वायु और आकाश तथा मन, बिु और अहक
 ं ार - यह आठ कार से िवभ हई मेरी
 कृ ित है।। English Translation by Tribunal - Earth, water, fire, air, space, mind, intellect, and ego-these are
 eight components of my material energy. (ii) "संर ेत् दूिषतो न या लोकः मानवजीवनम् । न कोऽिप क यिचद् नाशं, कुयादथ य िस ये ।।" 48 (iv) अ व९ तरमृतम सभु ेषजमपामतु श तये । देवाभवतवािजनः ॥19॥

 Hindi Translation by Tribunal - जल म अमृत है, जल म औषिध है । हे ऋिष जन , ऐसे े जल क शसं ा अथात् तिु त करने म शी ता
 बरत । English Translation by Tribunal - 74. The concept of environment, since Vedic era till date is almost

consistent. Vedic view of environment is well defined in one verse of

Atharavaveda where three coverings of our surroundings are referred as

Chandamsi. Wise utilize three elements variously which are varied, visible

and full of qualities. These are water, air and plants or herbs. They exist

in the world from the very beginning. They are called as Chandamsi

meaning 'coverings available everywhere.' The Sanskrit Shloka reads as

under: 75. As already said, Upanishads talk of five basic elements constituting

nature. Nature has maintained a status of balance between and among

these constituents/elements and living creatures. A disturbance in

percentage of any constituent of the environment beyond certain limits

disturbs the natural balance and any change in the natural balance

causes lots of problems to the living creatures in the universe. Different

constituents of the environment exist with set relationships with one

another. 76. Consistent with the Vedic concept of paryavaran/environment,

broadly, we find definition of environment in Section 2(a) of EP Act, 1986,

reads as under: 77. When we go through the concept of earth (Prithvi), water (Apah), air

(Vayu), ether (Akasha) and fire (Agni), we realize that ancient Vedic

intellectuals knew various aspects of environment, cosmic order and

importance of co-ordination between all natural powers for universal peace

and harmony. When they pray for peace at all levels in Shanti mantra,

they side by side express their believe about the importance of co-

ordination and inter-relationship among all natural powers and regions.

The prayer says that not only regions, waters, plants trees, natural

energies but all creatures should live in harmony and peace. Peace should 50 remain everywhere. Mantra takes about the concord with the universe- 78. Yajurveda expressed its thought that animal should be safe,

protected and healthy. The Shlokas reads as under: प॒ शून ् मे॑ पा॒ यथ॑य प॒ तुं मे॑ पा ह ॥३७॥" (Yajurveda, 3/37)

 Hindi Translation by Tribunal- मनु य को ई वर क उपासना व उस क आ ा के पालन का आ य लेकर उ म-उ म नयम से
 वा उ म जा, शूरता, पुि ट आ द कारण से जा का पालन करके नर तर सुख को स ध करना
 चा हये॥३७॥

 English Translation by Tribunal- (ii) " यौः शाि त॑र॒ त र॑ ॒ शाि तः॑ प ृ थ॒ वी शाि त॒ रापः॒ शाि त॒ रोषध॑यः॒ शाि तः॑। वन॒ पत॑यः॒
 शाि त॒ व वे॑ दे॒ वाः शाि त॒ म॒ शाि तः॒ सव॒ शाि तः॒ शाि त॑रे॒व शाि तः॒ सा मा॒ शाि त॑रे ध॥१७॥" English Translation by Tribunal- 79. In Ishopanisad, it is said that environment belongs to all living

beings so it needs protection by all for the welfare of all. English Translation by Tribunal- 80. In substance, what we find is that Indian sub-continent has a rich

ancient literature dealing the issue of environment and its protection. It

has a long cultural tradition of thousands and thousands of years. Vedas,

Upanishad, Vedantas etc. are the oldest monumental scriptures and

represent wisdom and knowledge of Vedic sages and intellectuals. Since

the dawn of human civilization, mankind has been modifying and

interfering with nature but never with an intention of destroying it

completely. It is the western culture and understanding of development

which has been pressed and passed upon India. The nature has become

enemy and is being destroyed like anything. It is said that environment 52 has been, is and will be, man's permanent teacher. Adequate and

appropriate understanding of environment is vital and indispensable

knowledge to share. Ancient scriptures, Vedic scholars have not only

explained usefulness of trees, plants, rivers, air, soil, etc. but depicted

their beauty, charm and the manner in which they work like friends of

mankind. 81. In this backdrop, we would look into the issues raised in this matter. 82. District Magistrate, Sonbhadra and other mining authorities

proposed to allocate site in question for undertaking mining activities of

morrum in the river bed of River Son, running in part of State of UP and

in particular, Araji No. 824 kha (khand no. 04 and 03), village Agori Khas,

Tehsil Obra, District Sonbhadra. 83. Village Agori Khas, Tehsil Obra, Araji no. 824 kha appears to be a

big chunk of land being part of Son River bed and total area 60.950

hectares. The mining authorities made 4 parts of Araji no. 824 kha (khand 3) with the area as below: (iii) Araji 824 kha (khand 3) - 16.194 hectares (iv) Araji 824 kha (khand 4) - 12.368 hectares 84. For undertaking mining activities at the above site, District Mining

Officer, Sonbhadra issued a certificate dated 23.03.2021 giving details of

500 meters cluster map. 85. Proceedings were initiated for allotting mining lease by inviting e-

tender cum auction after obtaining NOC from Forest Department on

24.05.2021. Approval of mining plan by Director, Geology and Mining, 53 Lucknow, UP was granted vide letter dated 24.05.2021. 86. Respondent 14 was successful bidder in respect of Araji 824 kha

(khand 4), area 12.368 hectares while respondent 15 was successful

bidder in respect of Araji 824 kha (khand 3), area 16.194 hectares. 87. It appears that both applied for grant of EC. ToR was issued to

respondent 14 vide letter dated 02.11.2021 while ToR was issued to

respondent 15 on 11.06.2021. 88. EC was granted to respondent 14 on 22.12.2021. The copy of EC is

available on the Parivesh Portal generated from Parivesh portal of

Government of India, MoEF&CC which shows that public hearing was

organized on 10.12.2021 and final EIA report was submitted by

respondent 14 on 11.12.2021. 'Minable area after leaving 7.5 meters

buffer zone', was mentioned as '9.844 hectares'. 'Type of land' was

mentioned as 'River Bed Government Land'. State Level Expert Appraisal

Committee (hereinafter referred to as 'SEAC') made recommendation in its

meeting dated 13.12.2021 and SEIAA in its meeting dated 17.12.2021

decided to grant EC. Some of the general and specific conditions

mentioned in EC, relevant for the purpose of the case, are as under: Specific Conditions: 43. The mining work will be open-cast and manual/semi mechanized
 (subject to order of Hon'ble NGT/Hon'ble Courts (s)). Heavy
 machine such as excavator, scooper etc. should not be
 employed for mining purpose. No drilling/blasting should be
 involved at any stage. 44. Its be ensured that there shall be no mining of any type
 within 03 m or 10% of the width whichever is less, shall
 be left on both the banks of precise area to control and
 avoid erosion of river bank. The mining is confined to
 extraction of sand/moram from the river bank only. 45. The project proponent shall undertake adequate safeguard
 measures during extraction of river bank material and ensure
 that due to this activity the hydro-geological regime of the
 surrounding area shall not be affected. 61. Concealing factual data or submission of false/fabricated data
 and failure to comply with any of the conditions mentioned above
 may result in withdrawal of this clearance and attract action
 under the provisions of Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 . 89. In respect of respondent 15, EC was granted on 01.12.2021. The

conditions, general and specific, mentioned in the said EC, are similar to

that as contained in EC of respondent 14. Copy of EC dated 01.12.2021

issued to respondent 15 is on record at page 110 of paper book. 90. EC dated 22.12.2021 issued to respondent 14 and dated 01.12.2021

issued to respondent 15 show that mining was permitted along Son River 56 bed at Araji No. 824 kha (khand 04 and 03), respectively, to respondents

14 and 15. Details of production etc. are given as under: 91. Respondent 14 got Consent to Operate (hereinafter referred to as

'CTO') under Water Act, 1974 and Air Act, 1981 from UPPCB on

25.01.2022 (page 410 of paper book) while CTO (as mentioned in para 2(a)

at page 190 of Joint Committee Report) was granted to respondent 15 on

08.12.2021. 92. Lease deed, executed in favour of respondent 14 by District

Magistrate, Sonbhadra on behalf of Government of UP on 31.12.2021 is at

page 323 of paper book and boundaries of mining area are mentioned as

under: "उ र : नई इं डया मनर स के प म वीकृत खनन प टा े । द ण : आराजी सं या -824ख का शेष भाग। पूरब : आराजी सं या -824ख व सोन नद क धारा। पि चम - आराजी सं या :824ख का शेष भाग।" 93. Condition no. 21 and 23 of the lease deed read as under: English Translation by Tribunal - 94. Lease deed in favour of respondent 15 was executed by District

Magistrate, Sonbhadra on behalf of Government of UP on 04.12.2021,

giving details of boundaries of the leased area as under: 95. Conditions of both lease deeds are same. 96. An authorisation/NOC for sinking of new/existing well was granted

by UPGWD under Section 14 of UP Ground Water (Management and

Regulation) Act, 2019 (hereinafter referred to as 'UPGWMR Act, 2019') on

26.12.2021 to respondent 15. NOC is annexure 9 to objections filed by

respondents 14 and 15 at page 413 which shows date of

construction/sinking of well as 01.12.2021. In the application for grant of

NOC, submitted by respondent 15 on 01.09.2021, the maximum allowable

rate of withdrawal of water is mentioned as 30 m3 per hour. As per the

general conditions of NOC, respondent 15 was required to install one

piezometer. 97. It is admitted case of respondent 14 that after completion of all

formalities, it commenced mining activities on 06.01.2022. It is however

on record that CTO was issued to respondent 14 on 25.01.2022. Thus, 58 initiation of mining by respondent 14 on 06.01.2022 was illegal and

continued to be so till 24.01.2022. EARLIER VIOLATIONS: 98. We find from record that both the proponents i.e., respondents 14

and 15, earlier also, were found to have indulged in violation of conditions

of mining lease, EC and CTO etc. for which action under mining statutes

was taken by Mining Authorities and demand of additional royalty, penalty

etc. was raised which was satisfied by respondents 14 and 15. The details

of these violations are as under: 99. VIOLATIONS BY RESPONDENT 14: 22,05,000/- and penalty under Rule 58 of Rs. 2 lakhs; total

 Rs. 28,46,000/-. Show cause notice was issued to respondent

 14 under Section 4 and 21 of MMDR Act, 1957 read with Rule

 3, 58 and 72 of UP Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 2021. (ii) Thereafter, another inspection was made by Sub-divisional

 Magistrate, Obra on 20.03.2022 (page 384 of paper book) and 59 again it was found that respondent 14 has created a new pit

 outside the permitted mining lease area on the north side in

 Son River measuring 58m × 25m × 1.20m= 1740m3 and has

 caused illegal mining of morrum of the quantity of 1740 m3.

 Consequently, vide show cause notice dated 22.03.2022,

 District Magistrate Sonbhadra proposed demand of Rs.

 17,66,000/- as under: Penalty for violation under Rule 58 Rs.2,00,000/- (iii) Respondent 14 replied both the notices vide letter dated

 26.03.2022, copy whereof is at page 385. In the reply he

 admitted violations and said that he has deposited the

 proposed amount towards royalty and penalty. However, he

 sought exemption from the cost of mineral pleading that he

 will not commit such violation in future. The relevant extract

 of the reply dated 26.03.2022 submitted by respondent 14

 reads as under: Therefore, it is kindly requested to forgive the
 amount imposed as mineral price value." (iv) The third show cause notice was issued to respondent 14 on

 10.05.2022 by District Magistrate, Sonbhadra stating that 61 mining lease site was inspected by Mining Officer, Sonbhadra,

 Inspector of Mines and Surveyor of Mining Department on

 06.05.2022 who found that boundary pillars and sign boards

 were not fixed; positioning of 2 CCTV camera was not in order

 and recording was also not properly maintained; there was

 illegal mining by creating two new pits outside the mining

 lease area on north east side in village Mitapur and illegal

 mining was conducted with lifter/suction machines and

 excavator. The details of pits wherefrom illegal mining from

 Son River were conducted, mentioned in the show cause

 notice at page 382, are as under: (v) Show cause notice proposed total penalty etc. of Rs. 3,46,98,500/- as per following details: (vi) The said show cause notice was replied by respondent 14 vide

 letter dated 21.05.2022, copy whereof is at page 383. The

 allegations with regard to boundary pillars were admitted but

 tried to be explained that the same were disturbed by some

 unsocial elements. The allegation with regard to positioning of

 CCTV was also admitted and it is said that now it has been

 corrected. However, with regard to illegal mining on the forest

 land, respondent 14 has said that responsibility of its

 supervision and monitoring was that of Forest Department

 who used to monitor the same; and that respondent 14 has 62 not caused any illegal mining in the forest land. (vii) In the objections dated 03.03.2023 in para 14, however, it

 is said that respondent 14 has deposited penalty amount

 of Rs. 3,93,10,500/- under protest. Before us, it is, however,

 not disputed that neither any appeal has been filed against

 the said order nor any further action has been taken disputing

 liability and seeking refund of the amount paid, till date. 100. VIOLATION BY RESPONDENT 15: (iv) Respondent 15 submitted reply to the show cause notice vide

 letter dated 24.02.2022 (page 376 of the paper book). Denying

 allegations of illegal mining, it was stated that several

 complaints were made by respondent 15 with regard to illegal

 mining on Son River being carried out by local contractor who

 was allotted mining right under Ret-Khet Scheme, in close

 proximity to area leased out to respondent 15. The relevant

 extract of the reply submitted by respondent 15 reads as

 under: (v) Another show cause notice was issued to respondent 15 on

 10.05.2022 (page 377 of the paper book), alleging that Mines

 Officer, Sonbhadra; Mines Inspector, Sonbhadra and 64 Surveyor, Mining Department conducted a joint inspection on

 06.05.2022 and found following violations:  Vehicle no. UP 54 T 5945 at 05:44 on 05.05.2022 and UP

 50 VT 7262 at 06:24 on 05.05.2022 were found standing,

 as per 2 CCTV cameras installed at the weigh bridge site

 but when enquired from the representatives of lease

 holder, they could not show e-MM-11 of the above 2

 vehicles.  On the eastern side of the mining lease, beyond the forest

 land of village Kargara and on the northern side in the

 proposed khand no. 2 of village Agori Khas, a fresh pit was

 found where mining was done and it was found that illegal

 mining was carried out from river Son by using 4

 lifters/suction machines and excavators. Details of pits are

 as under: (vi) Alleging violation of Rules 3, 36, 42, 58 and 72 of UP Minor

 Mineral Concession Rules, 2021 and Sections 4 and 21 of

 MMDR Act, 1957, it was said that the violation is punishable.

 It is also said that there is violation of condition no. 11 of

 mining lease deed general condition part 3, wherein use of

 lifter/suction machines were prohibited. District Magistrate,

 Sonbhadra proposed demand/penalty as under: 65 Penalty for violation under Rule 60(4) Rs.5,00,000/- Total Rs. 2,69,12,500/- (vii) Respondent 15 replied the said show cause notice dated

 10.05.2022 vide letter dated 14.05.2022 (page 378 of paper

 book). It is said that proponent was required to indicate GPS

 coordinates in the Map and erect boundary pillars to identify

 mining area in the presence of officers from Revenue and

 Chakbandi Departments before execution and registration of

 mining lease agreement. It is impossible of not having erected

 boundary pillars since mining lease agreement was already

 executed. Further the lease area was inspected by joint teams

 earlier on 21.01.2022, 03.02.2022, 08.02.2022 and

 22.03.2022 and for the first-time allegations of absence of

 boundary pillars and sign boards was made. Further, with

 regard to CCTV cameras, it was stated that earlier joint team

 of mines officers visited the premises but no such violation

 was pointed out. Four CCTV cameras were installed by

 respondent 15. With respect of non-production of e-MM-11

 permits of 2 vehicles, the explanation was that these trucks

 were yet to be loaded and process of OTP generation was being

 carried out which was disrupted due to visit of inspection

 team. In respect of illegal mining outside the leased area, in

 village Kargara and Agori Khas (khand 2), respondent 15

 explained that several complaints were made in the past about

 illegal mining on Son River being carried out by local

 contractors granted mining rights under Ret-Khet Scheme 66 and the allegations against respondent 15 are incorrect. (viii) Respondent 15 has also placed on record letter dated

 31.05.2022 (page 380) stating that w.e.f. 05:00 pm on

 29.03.2022 since OTP required for generation of e-MM-11

 permit for transportation of minerals from the leased site, was

 stopped by District Mining Officer, hence, under protest,

 respondent 15 deposited Rs. One Crore towards proposed

 demand of penalty etc. vide show cause notice dated

 10.05.2022. (ix) In para 14 of objections dated 03.03.2023, it has been

 stated that respondent 15 infact has paid the entire

 demanded sum vide show cause notice dated 10.05.2022

 i.e., Rs. 2,69,12,500/-. Violations noticed and observed by Joint Committee in its report
dated 17.02.2023: These step-like zones are created along the walls of an open-pit mine for

access and mining. 103. The report further shows various violations on the part of both

respondents 14 and 15. One of the major violations found by Joint

Committee, in respect of respondents 14 and 15 both, is significant mining 67 outside the lease area (towards main stream of river). The observations of

Joint Committee in respect of respondent 14 on this violation reads as

under: 104. The report also shows that significant mining outside lease area is

also evident from Google Satellite Image dated March 2022 and the area

of mining outside the lease area is about 5.44 hectares as per Satellite

image. 105. In respect of respondent 15, the findings with respect to mining

outside lease area, reads as under: 106. Here also, it is said that the mining outside lease area is also evident

from Google satellite image dated March 2022. The area of mining outside

lease area as per satellite image was found by Joint Committee is 4.72

hectares towards main stream. 107. The defense of respondents 14 and 15, in respect of this violation is

that the said mining was not done by the proponents but already done by

land owners of the nearby area and even before mining lease area was

handed over to respondents 14 and 15, such mining was already

conducted by third parties. It is also said that they made complaints to

authorities on various occasions but authorities did not pay any heed to 68 the complaints. 108. With regard to complaints allegedly made by respondents 14 and 15

regarding illegal mining by third parties, when inquired by this Tribunal,

our attention was drawn by Learned Counsel appearing for respondents

14 and 15 to various letters filed collectively as annexure 4 which are on

pages 365, 366, 367 and 368. We have seen these documents and find

that all these letters were written by one Rashmit Malhotra S/o Ajit

Malhotra R/o Main Road, Pipariya, Hoshangabad, Madhya Pradesh who

was allotted mining lease in Aaraji 824 kha (khand 2), area 16.194

hectares. These letters are dated as under: (iv) Letter at page 368 - This letter is dated 08.01.2022 sent by Rashmit

 Malhotra to District Magistrate, Sonbhadra but it does not talk of

 complaint of illegal mining by third party. Instead, it says that at

 araji no. 371, 167, 330, 332, 336, 367, 370, 166, 374 and 375,

 mining of sand/morrum was approved but no morrum was actually

 available in the said area and land is being cultivated/ used for

 agricultural purposes i.e., for sowing of crops. 109. With respect of agori khas (khand 2), it is also said in the above letter

that there is also no sand/morrum available in the private land hence

there is a possibility of theft of morrum from Agori khas (khand 2). 69 110. Our attention is also drawn to copies of certain newspapers reports

while at page 369, 370, 371, 372, 373 and 374. Having gone through the

newspapers, our observations in respect of the said newspapers are as

under: 111. Not even a single complaint, allegedly made by respondents 14 and

15, has been placed on record and except what they have stated in their

reply to the show cause notices, as discussed above, as a matter of fact,

respondents 14 and 15 have failed to show even a single complaint made

to the mining authorities about the alleged illegal mining done by third

parties or land owners/contractors in respect to the allegations of illegal

mining levelled by mining authorities against respondents 14 and 15. 112. In fact, one of the letters on record i.e., dated 26.03.2022 (page 335)

shows a clear admission on the part of respondent 14 regarding illegal

mining beyond the leased area. 113. The defense taken by respondents that the mining outside the lease

area was caused by others and third parties, therefore, neither could be

proved by them nor they could place any material before this Tribunal to 70 show that they made any such complaint when lease area handed over to

them by the authorities that some mining by third parties has already done

in their area or that in nearby area, some mining activities are going on.

The entire defense, in our view, particularly, looking to the fact that the

letter dated 26.03.2022 is also a clear admission on part of respondent 14

regarding illegal mining beyond lease area shows that the defense taken

jointly by both the respondents is an after-thought and in fact, they are

guilty of undertaking mining of morrum in an area outside the leased area.

Joint Committee has actually conducted field visit on 09.12.2022 and

recorded its findings based on the site inspection. Nothing has been

brought on record or placed before us to show that Joint Committee had

recorded any incorrect finding, particularly, when no motive or reason for

giving an incorrect finding has been attributed to the Joint Committee

comprising of high officials like Regional Officer, Integrated Regional

Officer, MoEF&CC Lucknow, Additional District Magistrate (Finance and

Revenue), a nominee of District Magistrate, Sonbhadra and Regional

Officer Sonbhadra of UPPCB. It is not the case of respondents 14 and 15

that Joint Committee did not visit the field on 09.12.2022, as stated in the

report. 114. Further, findings and observations that heavy trenches were created

on account whereof, the Committee could not visit the patch of the land

whereon illegal mining was carried out, as the said trenches created

obstructions in such visit, show a deliberate attempt on the part of

respondent 14 and 15 in creating hurdle in the physical inspection. 115. We find satisfied to draw the above inference from the facts that for

past violations i.e., illegal mining beyond leased area, the penalty amount

imposed by Mining Authorities under mining statutes was already paid by

both the respondents 14 and 15 and they have not taken or initiated any 71 legal action, challenging the said demand or for refund of the amount

already paid. This fact is admitted during the course of arguments when

it is admitted by learned counsel appearing for respondents 14 and 15 that

neither any appeal has been filed before appropriate Appellate Authority

nor any legal action for refund of the amount already paid has been taken

till the date on which the matter was heard by this Tribunal, i.e.,

13.03.2023 and payment has attained finality. 116. Thus, we may summarise on the defense of respondents 14 and 15

regarding third parties' involvement that though respondents 14 and 15

claimed to have made several complaints in the past but not even a single

such complaint allegedly made by respondents 14 and 15 has been placed

on record. They have miserably failed to show that illegal mining was not

carried out by them. There is only a self-claimed denial. Illegal mining has

been carried out in the area, in proximity to leased area to respondents 14

and 15. Mining authorities on physical inspections, have held respondents

14 and 15 responsible of illegal mining and saddled them with liability of

fine and penalty etc. which has been paid by respondents 14 and 15. In

fact, respondents 14 in its reply dated 26.03.2022 has admitted to have

carried out mining outside the lease area. Further, it is also admitted that

both the respondents have satisfied entire demand raised by District

Magistrate, Sonbhadra vide various show cause notices discussed above

on account of illegal mining by respondents 14 and 15. 117. We may also repeat about admission on the part of respondents 14

and 15 during the course of the arguments that the entire demand raised

by mining authorities as per the show cause notices referred to

hereinabove, the amount has been paid by respondents 14 and 15 and

neither they have initiated any further proceedings for refund of the said

amount nor filed any appeal to the higher authorities under mining 72 statutes for revocation of the demand raised by District Magistrate,

Sonbhadra on the allegation of illegal mining by respondents 14 and 15.

Those allegations of illegal mining thus stand ultimately admitted and

consequent liability of fine etc. also stand admitted since payment has

been made. 118. Thus, it is evident that they (respondents 14 and 15) are guilty of

carrying out illegal mining beyond the lease area. 119. The next violation observed by Joint Committee is mining by lease

holder in main stream of the river (outside of the leased area). 120. In this regard, observations made in respect of respondent 14 reads

as under: It has also been observed that the mining activity is also going on
 the main stream of river Sone, i.e., outside of the lease area." 121. In respect of respondent 15, observations of Joint Committee are as

under: 122. In respect of both the respondents 14 and 15, Joint Committee

under the head 'Other Observations' has said as under: 123. On this aspect, we do not find any explanation or defense on the

part of respondents 14 and 15 either in their written objections or any

statement or explanation given at the time of hearing. What is said is that

the mining was allowed in the river bed of Son river but 'mining in river

bed' and 'mining in main stream of river' are two different things. If

sufficient mined mineral has been deposited in the river bed, during dry

period, such mined material may be taken away from the river bed.

Otherwise, in an active stream, if mining is conducted in the main stream,

it has serious consequences and impact on stream's physical

characteristics such as channel geometry, bed elevation, substratum

composition and stability, in-stream roughness of the bed, flow velocity,

discharge capacity, sediment transport capacity, turbidity, temperature

etc. Alternation or modification of the above attributes may cause

hazardous impact on ecological equilibrium of riverine regime. It may also

cause adverse impact on in-stream biota and riparian habitats. This

disturbance may also cause changes in channel configuration and flow-

paths. 124. Sustainable Sand Mining Management Guidelines-2016 (hereinafter

referred to as 'SSMG-2016') says: 125. Under the head "General Approach to Sustainable Sand and Gravel

Mining", SSMG-2016 says as under: 74 126. Enforcement & Monitoring Guidelines for Sand Mining-2020 in para

4.3 (r) says as under: 127. The study of River Son, conducted in DSR-2018 (annexure-I to the

additional affidavit dated 17.03.2023 filed by respondent 14) mentions

that River Son enters the area in State of UP at Kalighat and flowing for a 75 distance of nearly 60 km due each, leaves the area about 15 km north-

east of the Kon area and enters State of Bihar. In this area, River Son

forms a deep cut valley about 12.15 km wide. Along the course of river and

stream, very limited valley fill deposits are observed. River Son divides the

district (Sonbhadra) into two districts topographic divisions. The thickness

of alluvium or weathered zone is more in North of River Son while it is

negligible in south of River Son. River Son generally dry during hot weather

but hold water during the greater part of the year and utilized for irrigation

and contribute a major potentiality of sand mining along which potential

area has been notified for e-tendering and given short term mining permits

in these areas at different villages. 128. DSR-2018 relied by respondents 14 does not show district wise

availability of sand or gravel or aggregated resources. In para 8(b), it gives

description of sand/morrum mining area (vacant) but as required in

SSMG-2016, DSR must contain following: 129. Even in the EC issued to respondents 14 and 15 specific condition

no. 18 says as under: 130. Therefore, there was a clear condition imposed in EC also but this

has been violated by respondent 14 and 15 by carrying out mining

activities in main stream of river and that too outside the leased area. This

is serious violation which has serious consequences, degrading and

damaging effect on the river ecology. On this aspect, we do not find any

explanation or defense on the part of respondents 14 and 15, therefore, 76 this violation stands established against respondents 14 and 15. 131. Temporary bridges structure raised by proponents: The third

violation, common to respondents 14 and 15, noticed by Joint Committee

is creation of temporary bridges structures across the river course liable

to interrupt flow of river. On this aspect, there is no explanation and no

denial on the part of respondents 14 and 15. At the time of arguments, it

sought to explain that the bridge structures were created for

transportation of mineral from one side to another but such structure was

not permitted particularly, when interruption to velocity and flow pattern

is specifically prohibited in the conditions of EC which we have quoted

above. Thus, this violation on the part of respondents 14 and 15 is

well established. 132. Sinking of borewells and extraction of ground water: The Joint

Committee in respect of both the respondents have said that the bore well

was found to have been installed by respondents 14 and 15 and they were

illegally extracting ground water without having obtained any NOC from

Ground Water Department. 133. In regard to respondent 14, findings of Joint Committee on this

aspect are as under: 134. In respect of respondent 15, observations of Joint Committee are as

under: 135. In the objections, it has been said by respondents 14 and 15 that

NOC was obtained by respondent 15 in respect of a bore well for extraction

of ground water from UPGWD on 26.12.2021, copy of NOC is also on 77 record as annexure-9 to the objections on page 413 of the paper book.

Therefore, findings of Joint Committee on this aspect, in respect of

respondent 15 is not accepted. 136. However, with regard to respondent 14, we find no reason but to

accept the findings and hold that this violation is found proved against

respondent 14. The explanation of respondent 14 is that it has not

installed any bore well inside the lease area but no such bore well has been

installed outside the lease area, is not the case of respondent 14. It is also

said that it is meeting its requirement of water from external sources but

what those external sources and in what manner, the water requirement

is being met, nothing has been placed on record though onus lay upon

respondent 14 to prove this fact. In absence of any material, we find

difficult to accept the defense of respondent 14 and hold it guilty of

violation of illegal extraction of ground water by installing a bore well

without having obtained any permission from Competent Authority

and findings of Joint Committee to this extent is accepted. 137. The other violations found in respect of both the cases or

individually are given in the form of chart: 138. Further, Joint Committee has said that both the proponents created

a situation by obstructing road dumping over-burdened so that the

Committee may not reach the illegal mining lease site outside the co-

ordinates of leased area. In this regard, observations of Joint Committee

are as under: 139. On this aspect, neither any explanation has come forward from

respondents 14 and 15 nor there is any denial. Common attempt made by

both the parties to obstruct functioning of Joint Committee is nothing but

an attempt to violate order of this Tribunal which permitted the Committee

to visit the site and furnish factual report. It is also an offence under Section 26 of NGT Act, 2010. This shows that respondents 14 and 15 had

infact committed serious violation by doing illegal mining, hence, are liable

to be proceeded against in accordance with law. 140. The report of committee in respect of the violations as observed

above is accepted and issues I and II are answered against

respondents 14 and 15. 141. Now we proceed to consider issue III. 142. Since findings on issues I and II have gone against respondents 14

and 15, it is thus clear that both are liable to pay environmental

compensation on the principle of 'Polluters Pay' since illegal mining has

caused serious damage to aquatic ecology and riverine regime. For

violation of conditions of EC etc., both are also liable for other action like

initiation of criminal proceedings in accordance with law. 143. Coming to the question of environmental compensation, the moot

question would be the quantum of compensation which has to be paid by

respondents 14 and 15. Principle for Computation of Environmental Compensation: 144. The question of assessment of environmental compensation

includes the principles/factors/aspects, necessary to be considered for

computing/assessing/determining environmental compensation. Besides

judicial precedents, we find little assistance from Statute. Section 15 of 80 NGT Act, 2010 talks of relief of compensation and restitution. It confers

wide powers on this Tribunal to grant relief by awarding compensation for

the loss suffered by individual(s) and/or for damage caused to

environment. Section 15 reads as under: 145. Sub-section 1 of Section 15 enables Tribunal to make an order

providing relief and compensation to (i) the victims of pollution, (ii) other

environmental damage arising under the enactments specified in the

Schedule I. 146. Tribunal is also conferred power to pass an order providing relief for

restitution of property damaged. Section 15(1)(c) enables Tribunal to pass 81 an order providing relief for restitution of the environment for such area

or areas, as Tribunal may think fit. Section 15 sub- section 4 says that

Tribunal may divide compensation or relief payable under separate heads

specified in Schedules II, having regard to the damage to public health,

property and environment so as to provide compensation or relief, (i) to the

claimants and (ii) for restitution of the damaged property or environment,

as it may think fit. 147. Schedule II of NGT Act, 2010 gives a list of heads under which

compensation or relief for damage may be granted. It has 14 heads in total

out of which item (a) to (f), (l), (m) and (n) relates to loss, damage etc.

sustained to the person or individual or their property. Item (i) to (k) relates

to harm, damage, destruction etc. of environment or environmental system

including soil, air, water, land, and eco-system. Items (i) to (k) of Schedule

II of NGT Act, 2010 are as under: 148. Items (g) and (h) relate to expense and cost incurred by State in

providing relief to affected person; and loss caused in connection with

activity causing damage. 149. The damage to environment covers a very wide variety of nature as

is evident from definition of environment under section 2 (c) which is

inclusive and says; 'environment includes water, air, and land and the

interrelationship, which exists among and between water, air and land and

human beings, other living creatures, plants, micro-organism and

property'. 82 150. Section 20 of NGT Act, 2010 requires Tribunal to apply principles of

sustainable development, the precautionary principle and the polluter

pays principle. In the present case, environmental compensation has to be

computed by applying 'Polluter Pays' Principle. 151. The compensation has to be determined holding

proponents/violators liable to pay such compensation applying principle

of 'Polluter Pays'. 152. This principle was recognized as part of environmental law in India

in Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action vs. Union of India ,

(1996)3SCC212. Certain industries producing assets were dumping their

waste. Even untreated waste water was allowed to flow freely polluting

atmosphere and sub-terrain supply of water which ultimately caused

darkening and dirtiness of wells and the streams water rendering it unfit

for human consumption. Certain environmentalists' organizations broadly

alleging severe damage to villager's health, filed a Writ petition as PIL in

1989 before Supreme Court. By that time, some of the units were already

closed. Referring to Article 48-A in Director Principle of State Policy and

51-A in the Fundamental duties of citizens, Supreme Court observed that

said provisions say that State shall endeavor to protect and improve

environment and to safeguard the forest and wildlife of the country. One

of the fundamental duties of citizen says to protect and improve the

natural environment including forest, lakes, rivers and wildlife and to have

compassion for living creature. Proponent has established to operate its

commercial unit contrary to law flouting norms provided by law,

Statutory Regulator is bound to act and if it fails, a judicial forum can

direct it to act in accordance with law. Referring to Oleum Gas leak

case, i.e., M.C. Mehta vs. Union of India , (1987)1SCC395, Court 83 observed in para 58 that the constitution bench held that enterprise must

be held strictly liable for causing such harm as a part of social cost of

carrying on the hazardous or inherently dangerous activity.

Hazardous or inherently harmful activities for private profits can be

tolerated only on the condition that the enterprise engaged in such

hazardous or inherently dangerous activity indemnifies all those who

suffer on account of carrying on of such hazardous or inherently

dangerous activity, regardless of whether it is carried on carefully or not.

Court also referred to its earlier decision in Indian Council for Enviro

Legal action vs. Union of India (1995)3SCC77, wherein PCB identified

about 22 industries responsible for causing pollution by discharge of their

effluent and a direction was issued by Court observing that they were

responsible to compensate to farmers. It was the duty of State Government

to ensure that this amount was recovered from the industries and paid to

the farmers. In para 67 of the judgment, Court said that the question of

liability of respondent units to defray the costs of remedial measures

can also be looked into from another angle which has now come to be

accepted universally as a sound principle, for example, 'Polluter Pays'

principle. On this aspect, Court further observed as under: 153. Court further said that according to the above principle of

'Polluter Pays', responsibility for repairing the damage is that of the

offending industry. Sections 3 and 5 of EP Act, 1986 empower Central

Government to give directions and take measures for giving effect to this

principle. It further said as under: 154. The above principle has been followed in Vellore Citizen Welfare

Forum vs. Union of India , 1996(5)SCC647. In para 25, direction no. 2

reads as under: 155. In Bittu Sehgal and Another vs. Union of India & Others (2001)9SCC181, referring the earlier judgments, Supreme Court has said

that 'Precautionary' Principle and 'Polluter Pays' Principle have been

accepted as part of the law of the land. 156. In Research Foundation for Science vs. Union of India & Ors. ,

(2005)13SCC186, in para 26 and 29, Court, on 'Polluter Pays' principle,

has said as under: 157. In Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board vs. C.

Kenchappa & Others (2006)6SCC371, principle of 'Polluter Pays' has

been explained in detail referring to the earlier judgments in Indian

Council for Enviro-Legal Action vs. Union of India (supra) and Vellore

Citizen Welfare Forum (supra). 158. Thus, broad principles of environmental laws are given but the

methodology for assessing/determining compensation is not provided in

the Statute. Even Rules framed under NGT Act, 2010 are silent on this

aspect. Issue of determination of environmental compensation is

significant in the sense that it should be proportionate to or bears a 86 reasonable nexus with the environmental damage and its

remediation/restoration. Similarly, in case of compensation to be

determined for a victim, it needs to co-relate to injury caused or damage

suffered by such person as also cost incurred for treatment/remediation. 159. Taking into consideration multifarious situations, relating to

violation of environmental laws, vis-a-vis different proponents, nature of

cases involving violation of environmental laws can be categorized as

under: Authorisation under Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and

 other Rules; and NOC for extraction and use of ground water,

 wherever applicable, and similar requirements under other

 Statutes. (ii) Where proponents have violated conditions imposed under

 Statutory Permissions, Consents, Clearances, NOC etc. affecting

 environment and ecology. (iii) Where proponents have carried out their activities, causing

 damage to environment and ecology by not following

 standards/norms regarding cleanliness/pollution of air, water

 etc. 160. The above categories are further sub-divided, i.e., where the

polluters/violators are corporate bodies/organisations/associations and

group of the people, in contradistinction, to individuals; and another

category, the individuals themselves responsible for such pollution. 87 161. Further category among above classification is, where, besides

pollution of environment, proponents/violators action also affect the

community at large regarding its source of livelihood, health etc. 162. The next relevant aspect is, whether damage to environment is

irreversible, permanent or is capable of wholly or partially

restoration/remediation. 163. Determination/computation/assessment of environmental

compensation must, not only conform the requirement of

restoration/remediation but should also take care of damage caused to

the environment, to the community, if any, and should also be preventive,

deterrent and to some extent, must have an element of "being punitive".

The idea is not only for restoration/remediation or to mitigate damage/loss

to environment, but also to discourage people/proponents from indulging

in the activities or carrying out their affairs in such a manner so as to

cause damage/loss to environment. 164. To impose appropriate 'environmental compensation' for causing

harm to environment, besides other relevant factors as pointed out, one

has to understand the kind and nature of 'Harmness cost'. This includes

risk assessment. The concept of risk assessment will include human-

health risk assessment and ecological risk assessment. U.S.

Environmental Protection Agency has provided a guideline to understand

harm caused to environment as well as people. For the purpose of human-

health risk assessment, it comprised of three broad steps, namely,

planning and problem formulation; effects and exposure assessment and

risk categorization. The first part involves participation of stakeholders

and others to get input; in the second aspect health effect of hazardous

substances as well as likelihood and level of exposure to the pollutant are 88 examined and the third step involves integration of effects and exposure

assessment to determine risk. 165. Similarly, ecological risk assessment is an approach to determine

risk of environmental harm by human activities. Here also, we can find

answer following three major steps, i.e., problem codification; analysis of

exposure and risk characterization. First part encompasses identification

of risk and what needs to be protected. Second step insists upon

crystallization of factors that are exposed, degree to exposure and whether

exposure is likely or not to cause adverse ecological effects. Third step is

comprised of two components, i.e., risk assessment and risk description. 166. In totality, problem is multi-fold and multi-angular. Solution is not

straight but involves various shades and nuances and vary from case to

case. Even Internationally, there is no thumb-rule to make assessment of

damage and loss caused to environment due to activities carried out

individually or collectively by the people, and for remediation/restoration.

Different considerations are applicable and have been applied. 167. In India, where commercial activities were carried out without

obtaining statutory permissions/consents/clearance/NOC, Courts have

determined, in some matters, compensation by fixing certain percentage

of cost of project. In some cases, volume of business transactions,

turnover, and magnitude of establishment of proponent have also been

considered as guiding factors to determine environmental compensation. 168. Nature is extremely precious. It is difficult to price elements of

nature like light, oxygen (air), water in different forms like rain, snow,

vapour etc. When nature is exploited beyond its carrying capacity, results

are harmful and dangerous. People do not understand the value of what

nature has given free. Recently, in COVID-19 wave II, scarcity of oxygen 89 proved its worth. In dreadful second phase of the above pandemic, any

amount offered, in some cases, could not save life for want of oxygen.

Further, damage to environment, sometimes do not reflect in individuals

immediately and may take time but injury is there. In such cases, process

of determination of compensation may be different. 169. In an article, 'The cost of pollution-Environmental Economics' by

Linas Cekanavicius, 2011, it has been suggested, where commercial

activities have been carried out without consent etc., and pollution

standards have been violated, Total Pollution Cost (hereinafter referred to

as 'TPC') can be applied. It combines the cost of abatement of environment

pollution and cost of pollution induced environmental damage. The

formula comes to TPC(z)=AC(z)+ED(z), where z denotes the pollution level.

Further, clean-up cost/remediation cost of pollution estimated to be

incurred by authorities can also be used to determine environmental

compensation. 170. When there is collective violation, sometimes the issue arose about

apportionment of cost. Where more than one violator is indulged,

apportionment may not be equal since user's respective capacity to

produce waste, contribution of different categories to overall costs etc.

would be relevant. The element of economic benefit to company resulting

from violation is also an important aspect to be considered, otherwise

observations of Supreme Court that the amount of environmental

compensation must be deterrent, will become obliterated. Article 14 of the

Constitution says that unequal cannot be treated equally, and it has also

to be taken care. Determination/assessment/computation of

environmental compensation cannot be arbitrary. It must be founded on

some objective and intelligible considerations and criteria.

Simultaneously, Supreme Court also said that its calculations must be 90 based on a principle which is simple and can be applied easily. In other

words, it can be said that wherever Court finds it appropriate, expert's

assessment can be sought but sometimes, experts also go by their own

convictions and belief and fail to take into account judicial precedents

which have advanced cause of environment by applying the Principles of

'Sustainable Development', 'Precautionary Approach' and 'Polluter Pays',

etc. 171. Clean-up cost or TPC, may be a relevant factor to evaluate damage,

but in the diverse conditions as available in this country, no single factor

or formula may serve the purpose. Determination should be a quantitative

estimation; the amount must be deterrent to polluter/violator and though

there is some element of subjectivity but broadly assessment/computation

must be founded on objective considerations. Appropriate compensation

must be determined to cover not only the aspect of violation of law on the

part of polluter/violator but also damage to the environment, its

remediation/restoration, loss to the community at large and other relevant

factors like deterrence, element of penalty etc. 172. Committee in its reports has made certain recommendations

determining environmental compensation under certain heads. The

computation by Committee is based on certain formulas it has suggested.

Applying principle of absolute liability, 'Polluter Pays' alongwith

'Precautionary Principle' and 'Sustainable Development', it has to be seen

whether proponents/violators are liable to pay environmental

compensation as suggested by Committee and also to undergo other

statutory sanctions provided in the Statutes including criminal

prosecution, or computation of compensation requires some other method. 173. CPC B Guidelines: CPC B has suggested in a report methodology for

assessment of environmental compensation which may be levied or 91 imposed upon industrial establishments who are guilty of violation of

environmental laws and have caused damage/degradation/loss to

environment. It does not encompass individuals, statutory institutions

and Government etc. Report is titled as "Report of the CPC B In-house

Committee on Methodology for Assessing Environmental Compensation

and Action Plan to Utilize the Fund" which was finalized in the meeting

held on 27.03.2019. It shortlisted the incidents requiring an occasion for

determining environmental compensation. Six such incidents, shortlisted,

are: 174. For the instances at items (a), (b) and (c), report says that 'Pollution

Index' (hereinafter referred to as 'PI') would be used as a basis to levy

environmental compensation. CPC B had already published Guidelines

categorizing industries into Red, Orange, Green and White, based on the

concept of PI. The PI is arrived after considering quantity and quality of

emissions/effluents generated, types of hazardous waste generated and

consumption of resources. PI of an industrial sector is a numerical

number in the range of 0 to 100 and is represented as follows: 175. Since range of PI is 0 to 100, increase in value of PI denotes 92 increasing degree of pollution hazard from industrial sector. Accordingly,

report says, for determining environmental compensation in respect of

cases covered by item (a), (b) and (c), it will apply following formula: 176. The formula incorporates anticipated severity of environmental

pollution in terms of PI, duration of violation in terms of number of days,

scale of operation in terms of micro and small/medium/large industry and

location in terms of proximity to the large habitations. A note is also given

under the aforesaid formula and it reads as under: b. N, number of days for which violation took place is the period
 between the day of violation observed/due date of direction's
 compliance and the day of compliance verified by CPC B/SPCB/PCC. c. R is a factor in Rupees, which may be a minimum of 100 and
 maximum of 500. It is suggested to consider R as 250, as the
 Environmental Compensation in cases of violation.
 d. S could be based on small/medium/large industry categorization,
 which may be 0.5 for micro or small, 1.0 for medium and 1.5 for
 large units. e. LF, could be based on population of the city/town and location of
 the industrial unit. For the industrial unit located within municipal
 boundary or up to 10 km distance from the municipal boundary of
 the city/town, following factors (LF) may be used: For notified Ecologically Sensitive areas, for beginning, LF may be
 assumed as 2.0. However, for critically Polluted Areas, LF may
 be explored in future. f. In any case, minimum Environmental Compensation shall be ₹
 5000/day. g. In order to include deterrent effect for repeated violations, EC may
 be increased on exponential basis, i.e. by 2 times on 1st repetition,
 4 times on 2nd repetition and 8 times on further repetitions.
 h. If the operations of the industry are inevitable and violator
 continues its operations beyond 3 months then for deterrent
 compensation, EC may be increased by 2, 4 and 8 times for 2nd,
 3rd and 4th quarter, respectively. Even if the operations are
 inevitable beyond 12 months, violator will not be allowed to
 operate. i. Besides EC, industry may be prosecuted or closure directions may
 be issued, whenever required. A sample calculation for Environmental Compensation (without
 deterrent factor) is given at Table No. 1.2. It can be noticed that for all
 instances, EC for Red, Orange, and Green category of industries
 varies from 3,750 to 60,000 ₹/day. Table No. 1.2: A sample calculation for Environmental Compensation

 Industrial Category Red Orange Green
 Pollution Index (PI) 60-100 41-59 21-40 Average PI 80 50 30 R-Factor 250 S-Factor 0.5-1.5
 L-Factor 1.00-2.00
 Environmental 10,000-60,000 6,250-37,500 5,000-22,500
 Compensation (₹/day) 177. We find that R which is a factor in Rupees (₹) is taken to be 100

minimum and 500 maximum. It has suggested that R value be taken as

average i.e., Rs. 250/-. On what basis, this minimum and maximum has

been determined and why average is suggested, beyond any

comprehension. We do not find any material in the above report which

may throw light for taking value of R as above. Similarly, for determining

value of S i.e., Factor for Scale of Operation from 0.5 to 1.5, we find no

Guidelines as to on what basis, it has been determined and only on the

size of the industry, divided in small, medium and large, the said factor

has been prescribed. The note further says that minimum environmental 94 compensation would be Rs. 5000/- per day. From table 1.2, we find that

in the highest case i.e., large industry, depending on the level of PI,

maximum environmental compensation would be Rs. 60,000/- per day

and minimum Rs. 10,000/- per day. The above determination excludes

the actual loss to the environment and cost of remediation including

damage to flora-fauna and human beings. Moreover, classification of

industries for industrial policy, or for some licensing purpose, banking

purpose etc. would be wholly irrelevant for environment. A small industry

may be capable of causing much more pollution than medium or even

large industry. For example, pollution caused by a brick kiln using coal as

fuel may be much more than many medium category industries. 178. In respect of items (d), (e) and (f), report says that for determining

environmental compensation, one has to consider the matters in two

parts, one for providing immediate relief and another long term relief, such

as remediation. In such cases, detailed investigations are required from

Expert Institutions or Organizations, based on which environmental

compensation will be decided. Second part of report is with regard to

utilization of environmental compensation fund. For this purpose, report

says that CPC B will finalize a scheme for utilization of fund for protection

of environment. Certain schemes identified by CPC B for utilization of the

said fund are mentioned in para 1.4.1, as under: 179. All the above, except item (e), relate to establishment/infrastructure 95 for monitoring/prevention of pollution which in fact is the statutory duty

and function of officials of State PCB and CPC B. It appears that CPC B has

attempted to utilize environment fund to meet expenses which is the

responsibility of Government. 180. Chapter II of report deals with determination of environmental

compensation for violations of Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in

NCR. Here, a fixed amount of environmental compensation has been

recommended in table 2.1, as under: spots 181. Chapter III considers determination of environmental compensation

where a proponent has discharged pollutants in water bodies or failed to

prevent discharge of pollutants in water bodies and also failed to

implement Waste Management Rules. Laying down Guidelines for

determination of environmental compensation in this category, report has

referred to Tribunal's order dated 06.12.2018 in OA No. 125/2017 and 96 MA No. 1337/2018, Court on its own motion vs. State of Karnataka,

stating as under: 182. It is suggested that determination of environmental compensation

in this category would have two components, (i) Cost saved/benefits

achieved by the concerned individual/authority by not having proper

waste/sewage managing system; and (ii) Cost to the environment

(environmental externality) due to untreated/partially treated

waste/sewage because insufficient capacity of waste/sewage management

facility. It further says that Cost saved/benefits achieved would also

include interest on capital cost of waste/sewage management facility, daily

operation and maintenance (O & M) cost associated with the facility. The

determination of environmental compensation, therefore, is suggested,

applying following formula: 183. Environmental externality has been placed in two categories (i)

untreated/partially treated sewage discharge and (ii) improper municipal

solid waste management and detailed in table 3.1 and 3.2, as under: 97 184. CPC B has further recommended a fixed cap for minimum and

maximum cost for capital and O & M component for environmental

compensation in table 3.3 and 3.4, as under: 185. Para 3.3 deals with the method of determining environmental

compensation for damage/untreated/partially treated sewage by

concerned individual/authority. Under this head, CPC B has considered

that for population above 1 Lakh, requirement of water supply, would be

minimum 150 to 200 lpcd and 85% whereof would result in sewage

generation. It takes capital cost for 1 MLD STP ranges from 0.63 Crores

to 3 Crores and O & M cost around Rs. 30,000 per month. Consequently,

it suggested to assume capital cost for STPs as Rs. 1.75 Crores/MLD

(marginal average cost). Expected cost for conveyance system is assumed

as Rs. 5.55 Crore/MLD and annual O& M as 10% of combined capital

coast. Based on the above assumptions, Committee has

recommended/suggested environmental compensation, to be levied on

urban local bodies, by applying formula and here CPC B has suggested two

formulas and any of them may be adopted: 186. Para 3.4 deals with the method of environmental compensation to

be levied on concerned individual/authority for improper solid waste

management, chargeable from urban local body based on the following

formula: 187. Here also certain assumed figures have been taken by CPC B. Report

says that municipal solid waste generation is approximately 1.5 lakh

MT/day in India as per MoHUA Report-2016. As per principles of Solid

Waste Management Rules, 2016 and Plastic Waste Management Rules,

2016, total cost of municipal solid waste management in city/town

includes cost for door to door collection, cost of segregation at source, cost

for transportation in segregated manner, cost for processing of municipal 100 solid waste and disposal through facility like composting bio-methanation,

recycling, co-processing in cement kilns etc. It is estimated that total cost

of processing and treatment of municipal solid waste for a city of

population of 1 lakh and generating approximately 50 tons/day of

municipal solid waste is Rs. 15.5 Crores which includes capital cost (one

time) and Operational and Management cost for one year. Expenditure for

subsequent years would be only 3.5 Crores/annum. For arriving per day

waste generation, CPC B has referred to a survey conducted by

Environment Protection Training Research Institute (EPTRI) which

estimated that solid waste generated in small, medium and large cities and

towns is about 0.1 kg (Class-III), 0.3-0.4 kg (Class-II) and 0.5 kg (Class-I)

per capita per day respectively. The Committee opined that 0.6 kg/day,

0.5 kg/day and 0.4 kg/day per capita waste generation may be assumed

for mega-cities, million-plus UAs/towns and Class-I UA/Towns

respectively for calculation of environmental compensation purposes. 188. Sample calculation of environmental compensation to be levied for

improper management of municipal solid waste has been provided in table

3.6 which read as under: 190. Here, broadly, determination of environmental compensation refers

to two major aspects i.e., illegal extraction of water as one aspect and

illegal use of ground water as second aspect. For determination of 102 environmental compensation for illegal extraction of ground water,

formula suggested by Committee is: 191. Depending on the category of the area for the purpose of ground

water i.e., safe, semi-critical, critical and over-exploited and also the

purpose for which ground water is used, determination of environmental

compensation for illegal use of ground water, has been suggested

differently for different purpose/use i.e., for drinking and domestic use;

for packaged drinking water units/for mining infrastructure and

dewatering projects and for industrial units. Hence, all these aspects are

separately given in paragraph 4.6.1, 4.6.2, 4.6.3 and 4.6.4 as under: It also cannot be doubted that once there is pollution or damage to

environment, it would affect adversely not only the environment but also

inhabitants and all biological organisms. Damage is there, only degree may 105 differ whether to the environment or to the inhabitants and other

organisms. To find out simultaneously degree of damage and to ascertain

the same in many cases may not be possible or practicable. For example,

polluted air causes respiratory diseases but people do not get infected and

starts reflection of the disease immediately but it takes some time. The

time taken in reflection of injury on the person or body also differs from

person to person depending upon his immunity and other health

conditions. In some cases, damage to environment i.e., air pollution may

be fatal to a person who already has respiratory problem. For some a minor

inconvenience, minor injury to others, and some may not suffer to the

extent of showing symptoms of any diseases at all. When we talk of

environmental compensation for causing degradation to environment and

for its restoration or remediation, it is not a formal or casual or symbolic

amount which is required to be levied upon the violator. It is substantive

and adequate amount which must be levied for restoration of environment. CPC B, in determining values of fixed quotients and Rupees etc., has been

very lenient as if only symbolically violator is to be held liable and it must

pay a petty amount. 196. Statutory Regulators must realize that the amount is needed for

remediation and restoration of damaged environment; enough to be

deterrent, to provide adequate compensation where inhabitants are

affected adversely and where violator has proceeded in violation of

Environmental Laws relating to consents, clearances, permissions etc., to

penalize him for such violation to prove to be a deterrent to him and others.

Unfortunately, the above guidelines laid down by CPC B have not

considered all these aspects and it appears that the same have been

prepared in a very casual and formal manner. 197. In respect of computation of compensation for illegal extraction of 106 ground water, CPC B has referred to Tribunal's order in Court on its own

motion vs. State of Karnataka (supra), directing it to lay down

guidelines to deal with the scale of compensation but has failed to consider

that Tribunal has also observed that its scale may have slabs depending

on extent of pollution caused, economic viability etc. and deterrent effect. 198. Statutory Regulators have also failed to consider that environmental

compensation is not a kind of fee which may result in profiteering to

violators and after adjusting a nominal amount of environmental

compensation, a violator may find it profitable to continue with such

violations. The objective of environmental compensation is that not only

the loss and damage already caused, is made to recover and restore but

also in future, the said violator may not repeat the kind of violation already

committed and others also have a fear of not doing the same else similar

liability may be enforced upon them. Unless amount of compensation is

more than maximum permissible profit arising from violation, the purpose

of environmental compensation would always stand defeated. 199. Loss caused to surroundings of the environment, may also include

flora-fauna and human beings. It is in this backdrop that in various

matters when the issues were considered by Courts and Tribunal and

found necessary to impose environmental compensation upon

proponent/violator of environmental laws, they have followed different

mechanisms. Sometimes, Committee's reports confirming violations have

been referred but for quantum of compensation, directions have been

issued in different ways. In some cases, CPC B guidelines have been

applied while in many other, project cost has been made basis. 200. CPC B Guidelines have taken care of industries and municipal

bodies. Its application in all cases irrespective of other relevant 107 consideration may prove to be disastrous. Individuals, charitable, social

or religious bodies, public sector and Government establishments etc.,

may, in given circumstances, justify a different approach. Further, there

may be cases attracting aggravating factors or mitigating factors, for

example, in national emergency, some activity got performed violating

environmental norms or a proponent is resilient to any advice to adhere

law to protect environment and so on. In fact, quantum of environmental

compensation should have nexus with State's efforts for protection and

preservation of environment and control of pollution. Compensation

regime must be a deterrent to violators and incentivize eco-friendly

proponents. No one should get profited by violating environmental laws

and community should also not suffer for violation of environmental norms

by defaulting proponents. There is no reason, if beside the aspects noticed

above, the computation process also incorporates the elements of inflation,

quality of life, and economic prosperity. 201. In the context of "violation of disposal of Bio-Medical Waste" and

"Non-compliance of Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016" and

determination of environmental compensation for such violations,

Tribunal in OA No. 710/2017, Shailesh Singh vs. Sheela Hospital &

Trauma Centre, Shahjahanpur & Others and other connected matters,

vide order dated 15.07.2019, accepted report of CPC B, and said: 202. The above recommendations i.e., in para 10, Tribunal said that

compensation regime suggested by the CPC B may be adopted. It will be 108 open to the State PCBs/PCCs to adopt a higher scale of compensation,

having regard to the problems faced in such States/UTs. It further says

that if State Governments and UTs still remain non-complying for two

months, compensation will be recovered at the rate of Rs. One Crore per

month till non-compliance continues. 203. In respect of solid waste, sewage effluent, ground water extraction

etc., Tribunal in OA No. 593/2017, Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti and

another vs. Union of India and others , vide order dated 28.08.2019 has

said in para 16, that as regards environmental compensation regime fixed

vide CPC B guidelines for industrial units, GRAP, solid waste, sewage and

ground water is accepted as an interim measure. Tribunal further

observed that recovery of compensation on 'Polluter Pays' principle is a

part of enforcement strategy but not a substitute for compliance. It

directed all States/UTs to enforce compensation regime latest w.e.f.

01.04.2020 and made it clear that it is not condoning any past violations.

Tribunal directed to enforce recovery of compensation from 01.04.2020

from the defaulting local bodies failing which the concerned States/UTs

themselves must pay the requisite amount of compensation. 204. In the matter of illegal mining causing damage to environment,

methodology for determining environmental compensation was examined

in OA No. 360/2015, National Green Tribunal Bar Association vs.

Virender Singh (State of Gujarat) and other connected matters decided

on 26.02.2021. Here a report was submitted by CPC B on 30.01.2020,

placing on record recommendations made by Committee comprising: 205. Report was considered by Tribunal vide order dated 17.08.2020.

Report said: 9. In the first approach, the criteria adopted is: 10. Approach 1 is demonstrated by Table 1 as follows: Table No. 01: Approach 1 11. Approach 2 is demonstrated by following formula: 12. Final recommendation is as follows: Tribunal determined environmental compensation at 5% and 3% of project

cost of two builders. 5% of project cost was imposed where project

proponent had raised illegal constructions while 3% was imposed where

actual construction activity was not undertaken by project proponent and

only preparatory steps were taken including excavation and deposition of

huge earth by creating a hillock. Besides, Tribunal also directed for

demolition and removal of debris from natural drain at the cost of project

proponent. 211. In Goa Foundation vs. Union of India & Others (supra), where

illegal extraction of minerals was involved and in Goel Ganga Developers

India vs. Union of India (supra), where a construction project was 112 carried out without EC in violation of EIA Notification, 2006, Supreme

Court permitted computation of environmental compensation at 10% of

the project cost. In fact, in Goel Ganga (supra) case, exemplary cost of

Rs. 100 Crores were imposed, and Court said that developer would pay

Rs. 100 Crores or 10% of project cost whichever is higher. 212. On the issue of assessment of compensation for damage to

environment in the matter of illegal mining, recently Supreme Court in

Bajri Lease LOI holders Welfare Society vs. State of Rajasthan and

others , SLP (Civil) No. 10584 of 2019 (order dated 11.11.2021) has said

that compensation/penalty to be paid by those indulging in illegal sand

mining, cannot be restricted to be value of illegally mined minerals. The

cost of restoration of environment as well as the cost of ecological services

should be part of compensation. 'Polluter Pays' principle as interpreted by

this Court means that absolute liability for harm to the environment

extends not only to compensate victims of pollution but also cost of

restoring environmental degradation. Remediation of damaged

environment is part of the process of "Sustainable Development" and as

such, the polluter is liable to pay the cost the individual sufferers as well

as the cost of reversing the damaged ecology. 213. Considering the violations noticed above, Joint Committee

recommended environmental compensation of Rs. 8.16 Crores against

respondent 14 and Rs. 7.08 Crores against respondent 15. Calculation

details/method of computation of environmental compensation has been

explained by Learned Counsel for UPPCB as under: 214. Joint Committee has followed the formula as under: 215. Learned Counsel appearing for respondents 14 and 15 had not

addressed this Tribunal on the above computation of environmental

compensation. In fact, during the course of arguments, Learned Counsel

appearing for respondents 14 and 15 agreed that if so directed, they would

pay the said amount but some time may be allowed for such payment. 114 Respondent 14 has also filed an affidavit giving this statement but

requested that it may be permitted to pay the said amount in installment

in six months. 216. In absence of anything else, we find no reason but to accept the

above quantum of compensation computed and recommended by Joint

Committee and accept Joint Committee Report to this extent and answer

issue III accordingly. ISSUE IV: 217. This case is an illustration to show how heavy mining activities in

the river bed and that too, in the main stream of River Son has been

allowed by the mining authorities in District Sonbhadra. The area is

surrounded by Reserved Forest, Sanctuaries and even part of River Son in

State of MP (touching border of State of UP) wherefrom it originates, has

been declared as 'Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary' and certain area has

been further declared as 'ESZ'. The material has been placed on record

along with IA 67/2023, reporting that due to illegal mining in State of UP

in River Son, population of ghadiyal and tortoise have considerably

reduced. Ghadiyal have also been found occasionally in District

Sonbhadra which has been recused by Forest Department from time to

time. The substantial run off of River Son is broadly in State of MP. A small

part, around 85 km is in State of UP and, thereafter, it travels in State of

Bihar. 218. The aquatic animals do not understand political boundaries and

when the river course is common, the aquatic animals may travel to an

area which may fall in one or the other State or District. The river course

of Son is common from State of MP to State of Bihar. The aquatic animals

like alligators, ghadiyal, tortoise etc. can travel to a very long distance and, 115 therefore, traveling of these aquatic animals in River Son from State of MP

to States of UP and Bihar cannot be ruled out. If indiscrete, uncontrolled

and unmonitored mining in the river stream is allowed in States of UP and

Bihar, it is bound to damage these aquatic animals. When substantial

part of River Son in State of MP has been declared as "Son Ghadiyal Wild

Life Sanctuary' and 'ESZ', we do not find as to why the entire course of

River Son to the extent these ghadiyals etc. can travel the run off of River

Son, should not be declared as a Protected Area/ESZ under the provisions

of WLP Act, 1972 and EP Act, 1986 . 219. Inaction on the part of the authorities in not taking appropriate

action for protection of aquatic animals like alligators, ghadiyals etc.

amounts to failure in discharge of statutory functions and is seriously

condemnable. However, this Tribunal, when adjudicate or consider a

matter under Sections 14 and 15 of NGT Act, 2010, is under an obligation

to proceed by applying principles of 'Sustainable Development', 'Inter-

generational Relationship', 'Precautionary Principle' and 'Polluter Pays

Principle'. 220. The issue of prescription and determination of Eco-Sensitive Zones

or extended Buffer Zones, surrounding Wild Life Sanctuaries and National

Parks, and activities prohibited and permitted in such ESZ/Buffer Zone

etc. was considered by Supreme Court in T.N. Godavarman

Thirumulpad, In Re vs. Union of India & Ors., W.P.(C) No. 202/1995. Several orders were passed in the above matter from time to time and we

are referring here the order dated 03.06.2022 passed in T.N. Godavarman (supra) reported in (2022)10SCC544. Supreme Court considered

recommendations of Central Empowered Committee (hereinafter referred

to as 'CEC'). CEC was constituted pursuant to Supreme Court's order

dated 09.05.2002 vide MoEF Notification dated 17.09.2002 issued in 116 exercise of power under Section 3(3) of EP Act, 1986. By this notification,

Committee was given a statutory status. CEC submitted report on

20.09.2012, dealing with creation identification and declaration of safety

zones around Protected Forests all across the country. MoEF&CC also

issued a set of guidelines for declaration of ESZs around National Parks

and Wild Life Sanctuaries vide Government of India's Office Memorandum

dated 09.02.2011. Clauses 3 and 4 of the guidelines stipulated as under: 221. CEC in the report dated 20.09.2012 titled as "Note regarding Safety

Zones (Eco-Sensitive Zones) Around National Parks and Wildlife

Sanctuaries" made recommendations for identification and declaration of

safety zones, classifying into four categories, as under: 117 (iii) CATEGORY C - The protected areas having an area
 between 100 sq km to 200 sq km. The total number of such protected
 areas is 85 and their total area is about 12,066 sq km (about 7.55 %
 of total area of protected areas); and (iv) CATEGORY D - The protected areas having an area up to
 100 sq km. The total number of such protected areas is 344 and their
 total area is about 7422 sq km (about 4.65 % of total area of all
 protected areas)." 222. Supreme Court considered all the above aspects and also the

provisions of WLP Act, 1972, and in para 54 to 56 of its judgment, observed

as under: Within that area, the entire set of restrictions concerning an ESZ shall
operate till a final decision in that regard is arrived at. 56.9. IA No. 1412 of 2005 and IA No. 117831 of 2019 do not
relate to the issues involved in IA No. 1000 of 2003. These
applications may be placed before the appropriate Bench to be heard
independently. 56.10. For the same reason, IA No. 1992 of 2007 shall also be
dealt with independently by the appropriate Bench and no order is
being passed concerning this application at this stage. 56.11. The application of the State of Rajasthan registered as
IA No. 3880 of 2015 relates to clarification of an order passed in Goa
Foundation v. Union of India , (2011)15SCC791 (WP(C) No. 460 of
2004]. Let this application be placed before the Bench taking up the
case of Goa Foundation. 56.12. IA No. 96949 of 2019 and IA No. 65571 of 2021 are
disposed of with directions that the MoEF&CC as also CEC shall
proceed to take a decision in regard to the draft proposal for ESZ made
by the State of Maharashtra to the extent of 0-3.89 km and the
MoEF&CC shall take final decision on that basis within a period of
three months, if the said decision has not already been taken. 56.13. Prayers for impleadment of the applicants in IAs Nos.
984 of 2003, 1026, 1123, 1197 and 1251 of 2004 are allowed.
Necessary amendments may be carried out in these regards. 120 56.14. For the reasons already given, however, prayers of the
 applicants in IAS Nos. 982 of 2003, 1027, 1124, 1198, 1210, 1250 of
 2004 and 1512 of 2006 are rejected. 56.15. CEC shall quantify the compensation to be recovered
 from each miner indulging in mining activities within the Jamua
 Ramgarh Sanctuary in violation of any statutory provision or order of
 this Court. Specific recommendations for compensatory afforestation,
 reclamation, clearing overburden dumping as also compensation in
 monetary units for degradation of forest resources shall also be made.
 A further set of recommendations concerning confiscation of earth-
 moving equipments and other machineries lying within or in the
 periphery of the said sanctuary shall be made by CEC.
 Recommendations shall be made within a period of four months
 before this Court in the form of an application. This Court shall
 consider passing appropriate order upon going through such
 application. The exercise concerning such reparation, including
 quantifying compensation shall be undertaken upon giving the mining
 operator, State and MOEF&CC opportunity of hearing. 56.16. In the event there is any subsisting order of any High
 Court or any court subordinate to such High Court covering any of the
 issues dealt with by this Court in this order, this order shall prevail
 over any such order which may be contrary to these directions. 56.17. We have already observed that there are certain
 overlapping issues involved in this writ petition and the cases of Goa
 Foundation [Writ Petition (C) No. 460 of 2004] and [Writ Petition (C) No.
 435 of 2012]. We request the Hon'ble the Chief Justice of India to
 consider having the present writ petition i.e. T.N. Godavarman
 Thirumulpad, In re v. Union of India: WP (C) No. 460 of 2004 ( Goa
 Foundation v. Union of India ) as also WP (C) No. 435 of 2012 ( Goa
 Foundation v. Union of India ) be heard together before the same
 Bench. The Registry may place this order before the Hon'ble the Chief
 Justice of India." 223. In the present case, Kaimur Forest falls in States of Bihar and UP.

Both the Governments have declared relevant part as Protected Sanctuary

and also ESZ. However, with regard to protection of ghadiyals etc. found

in River Son, only State of MP, in respect of the area in State of MP, had

declared certain part of River Son as "Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary" 224. Section 20 of NGT Act, 2010 mandated Tribunal to follow

"precautionary principle". It reads as under: 225. Precautionary principle finds its recognition and elaboration in

principle 15 of Rio Declaration on Environment and Development 1992,

which states as under: 226. In M.C. Mehta vs. Union of India , (2004)12SCC118, Supreme

Court highlighted importance of 'precautionary principle' and said: 227. In Research Foundation for Science Technology, National

Resource Policy vs. Union of India , (2005)10SCC510, it was held that

'precautionary principle' is part of Indian jurisprudence arising from Articles 47 , 48-A and 51-A(g) of the Constitution. In para 16 of the

judgment, Court said: 228. In Hospitality Association of Mudumalai vs. In Defence of

Environment & Animals , (2020)10SCC589, Court referred to its earlier

decision in M.C. Mehta (Badkal & Surajkund Lakes Matter) vs. Union of

India, (1997)3SCC715, and observed that therein, the 'precautionary

principle' was accepted as part of law of land. Court further said: 229. In Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai vs. Ankita Sinha ,

(2022)13SCC401, Court in para 73 and 74 said as under: 230. In H.P. Bus Stand Management & Development Authority vs.

Central Empowered Committee , (2021)4SCC309, it was emphasized

that the duty of State is to create conceptual, procedural and institutional

structures to guide environmental regulation in compliance with the

"environmental rule of law". Such regulation must arise out of a multi-

disciplinary analysis between policy, regulatory and scientific

perspectives. In para 49 of the judgment, Court said: 231. Considering all its earlier judgment, recently in Pragnesh Shah vs.

Arun Kumar Sharma , (2022)11SCC493, Supreme Court examined

correctness of the directions issued by this Tribunal to modify zonal

management plan so as to bring it in compliance with ESZ Notification and

upholding directions issued by Tribunal, discussed 'precautionary

principle' and said: 232. These principles when applied in the present case, we find that when

aquatic animals like ghadiyal are found in River Son, then considering

their fragility and necessity for protection, if in the part of river which falls

in one State, a Protected Sanctuary and ESZ is declared by MoEF&CC,

unless very apparent and compelling reasons are available, we find no

justification for not following the declaration for further part of river when 125 aquatic animals not only actually are travelling and reaching to the parts

of other States through the passage of same river but also there are report

that they are suffering damage in other States where adequate protections

under relevant statutory enactments have not been extended or made

available. 233. In view of above discussion, we find it necessary to issue a direction

to Ministry of Environment and Forest, State of UP and Bihar as also

MoEF&CC to look into this aspect and take necessary remedial action and

made appropriate declaration of the part of River Son running in States of

UP and Bihar as Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary and its ESZ in

accordance with law within three months. 234. With regard to further actions against respondents 14 and 15 i.e.,

the violators in the present case, the Statutory Regulators are directed to

take appropriate, remedial and punitive action like initiation of criminal

proceedings without any further delay. For violation of conditions of EC,

SEIAA UP would proceed in terms of the other conditions of EC providing

consequences of violation of conditions of EC by proponents. There is one

more aspect. The illegal mining in violation of the provisions of the

environmental laws like EP Act, 1986 etc. also constitute an offence under

the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 if requisite

conditions thereunder are satisfied. THE CRIMINAL LIABILITY - Offence under Prevention of Money
Laundering Act, 2002 : 235. When environmental norms are not observed and in violation

thereof, there is discharge and/or emission of pollutants causing pollution

and thereby commercial activities for commercial gains continue, such

activities also attract provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act,

2002 (hereinafter referred to as 'PMLA 2002' as amended from time to 126 time). 236. PMLA 2002 was enacted pursuant to resolution no. S-17/2 adopted

by General Assembly of United Nation at 17th Special Sessions held on

23.02.1990 on political declaration and global programme of action; and

political declaration adopted by UNGA in the Special Session held on 8th

to 10th June, 1998. It came into force however on 01.07.2005. The term

"money laundering" and "proceeds of crime" are defined in Section-2(p) and (u) which read as under: 237. "Scheduled Offence" is defined in Section 2(y) and says; 238. Section 3 of PMLA 2002 talks of offence of money laundering and

says: 239. There is an explanation also inserted by Finance Act, 2019 w.e.f.

01.08.2019, but for the issue under consideration, it is not relevant, hence 127 omitted. 240. Attachment of property involved in "money laundering" is governed

by Section 5 of PMLA 2002 which permits attachment by Director or any

other officer not below the rank of Deputy Director authorised by Director

for the purpose of such attachment and he has reason to believe (to be

recorded in writing) on the basis of material in his possession that any

person is in possession of any proceeds of crime and such proceeds of

crime are likely to be concealed, transferred or dealt with in any manner

which may result in frustrating any proceedings relating to confiscation of

such proceeds of crime under this chapter (by order in writing), may

provisionally attach such property for a period not exceeding 180 days

from the date of the order, in such manner as may be prescribed. 241. First proviso of Section 5(1) imposes a condition that no such order

of attachment shall be made unless, in relation to the "Scheduled offence",

a report has been forwarded to a Magistrate under Section 173 Cr.P.C. or

a complaint has been filed by a person authorised to investigate the offence

mentioned in that schedule, before a Magistrate or Court for taking

cognizance of the "Scheduled offence". 242. There is an exception in 2nd proviso of Section 5(1) authorising

Director or the officers authorised by him to attach any property of any

person referred to in Sub- Section 1 , if he has reason to believe (to be

recorded in writing), on the basis of material in his possession that if such

property involved in money laundering is not attached immediately, it is

likely to frustrate proceeding under PMLA 2002. 243. Section 5(5) requires the Director or the other officer, who has

provisionally attached property under Sub- Section 1 to file a complaint

within 30 days from such attachment stating facts of such attachment 128 before Adjudicating Authority which is appointed under Section 6 . 244. Section 8 provides the procedure to be observed by Adjudicating

Authority to pass an order confirming attachment of property under Section 5(1) . When such order of confirmation is passed, attached

property would remain under attachment till trial completes and if Special

Court under PMLA 2002 recorded finding of conviction of commission of

offence of money laundering, such property shall stand confiscated to the

Central Government but where Special Court finds that offence of money

laundering has not taken place or properties not involved in money

laundering, it shall release such property to the person entitled to receive

it. 245. Section 5 shows that except the cases covered by second proviso, no

attachment is permissible unless report under Section 173 Cr.P.C.

submitted to the Magistrate or complaint has been filed before the

Magistrate or concerned to take cognizance of "Scheduled offence". 246. Schedule to PMLA 2002 as initially came into force on 01.07.2005,

was having Part-A, divided in paragraph 1, dealing with Section 121 and 121(A) of IPC; paragraph-2 covering certain offences under Narcotic Drugs

and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 and Part-B paragraph 1 offences

under Sections 302 , 304 , 307 , 308 , 327 , 329 , 364(A) , 384 to 389 , 392 to 402 , 467 , 489A and 489B of IPC; paragraph 2 contains some offences of Arms Act , paragraph 3 referred to offences under Wild Life Protection Act 1972, Paragraph 4, offences under Immoral Traffic Prevention Act, 1956 and Paragraph 5, offences under Sections 7 , 8 , 9 and 10 of Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as 'PCA 1988'). 247. Thus, PMLA 2002, at the time of enforcement in 2005, did not cover Sections 120-B , 468 , 420 and 471 IPC and Section 13 of PCA, 1988 and 129 environmental enactments. In other words, offences under these

Sections/Statutes were not "Scheduled offences" for the purpose of Section

3 PMLA 2002. 248. The Schedule underwent amendment for the first time vide Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment) Act, 2009 published in

Gazette of India, Extraordinary dated 06.03.2009. In Part A paragraph 1,

Sections 489A and 489B were inserted. We are not concerned with the

offences referred under paragraph 2 of the Schedule, hence amendments

made therein are omitted. After paragraph-2, paragraph-3 and

paragraphs-4 were inserted relating to offences under Explosive

Substance Act, 1908 and Offences under Unlawful Activities (Prevention)

Act, 1967 . In Part-B, paragraph 1 was substituted and a number of

offences of IPC were added and this included Section 120-B , 420 , 467 and 471 IPC. Some amendments were made in paragraph 3 and 5 of Part-B

and thereafter, paragraphs 6 to 25 were inserted covering offences under

several enactments which are not relevant for the purpose of issue before

us. Part C was also inserted in the schedule to cover cross border offences

and the same is also omitted. Even after this amendment, Sections 468 IPC and 13 PCA, 1988 were not "scheduled offence" so as to attract offence

under Section 3 of PMLA 2002. The amendment was given effect from

01.06.2009. 249. Next amendment was made vide Prevention of Money Laundering

(Amendment) Act, 2012 published in Gazette of India, Extraordinary dated

04.01.2013. Paragraph A part-1 of the Schedule was substituted adding

some more offences of IPC . In fact, entire Part A was substituted by a new

Part-A which had paragraphs 1 to 28 covering offences under various

Statutes, some were earlier in Part A and also Part B and some newly

added. Paragraph 8 Part 1 as substituted in 2012 covered offences under 130 Sections 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 and 13 of PCA, 1988. Thus, Section 13 was included

therein only in 2013. In Part B, paragraph 1 to 25 were omitted and in

Part C serial No. 2 and entries relating thereto, were omitted. This

amendment came into force from 15.02.2013. 250. The offences under environmental norms have been included in the

Schedule to PMLA 2002 inasmuch as paragraph 23, 25,26,27 have been

inserted by Section 30 of PML (Amendment) Act, 2012 which came into

force on 15.02.2013 and said insertion of paragraphs are as under: 251. All these provisions relating to offences under various

Environmental Statutes have been placed in part A of the Schedule.

Application of PMLA 2002 in respect to the aforesaid offences has to be

seen in the light of Section 3 read with schedule as amended vide Amendment Act, 2012 . 252. In A.K. Samsuddin vs. Union of India, Writ Petition No.

15378/2016 decided on 19.07.2016, Kerala High Court said that the

time of commission of the "scheduled offence" is not relevant in the context

of the prosecution under the Act. What is relevant in the context of the

prosecution is the time of commission of the Act of money laundering. It

has to be established that the money involved are the proceeds of crime

and having full knowledge of the same, the person concerned projects it

as untainted property. 253. In Smt. Soodamani Dorai vs. Joint Director of Enforcement,

Writ Petition No.8383 of 2013 decided on 04.10.2018, a Single Judge

of Madras High Court observed that substratal subject of the Act is to

prevent money laundering and to confiscate proceeds of crime. 254. PMLA 2002 brings in a different kind of offence on the statute book. In Janta Jha vs. Assistant Director (2013) SCC Online (Odisha) 619,

High Court of Odisha held that even if an accused has been acquitted of

the charges framed against him in Sessions Trial, a proceeding under

PMLA 2002 cannot amount to double jeopardy where procedure and 132 nature of proof are totally different from a criminal proceeding under IPC . 255. On the contrary in Rajeev Chanana vs. Deputy Director (2014)

SCC Online (Delhi) 4889, it was held by Delhi High Court that after

acquittal of a person from a "Scheduled offence", trial for an offence under Section 3 of PMLA 2002 will not survive. Court said it is hard to imagine

as to how a trial for an offence of money laundering can continue where

the fundamental basis, i.e., the commission of a Scheduled offence has

been found to be unproved. 256. The question of simultaneous investigation by Police or CBI or any

other Investigating Agencies in respect of schedule offences and

Enforcement Directorate (hereinafter referred to as 'ED') under Section 3 of PMLA 2002 was considered by a Single Judge (Hon'ble S.P. Garg, J) of

Delhi High Court in Rohit Tandon vs. Enforcement Directorate in Bail

Application No. 119 of 2017 and Crl.M.B. 121 of 2017. In the

judgment dated 05.05.2017, Court found that Delhi Police registered FIR

under Section 420, 406, 409, 467, 468, 188 and 120-B on 25.12.2016 and

very next date ED registered ECIR on 26.12.2016. Court said that presence

of "Scheduled offence" is only a trigger point for initiating investigation

under PMLA 2002. Act nowhere prescribes, if ED is debarred from

conducting investigation under Sections 3 and 4 PMLA 2002 unless

investigating agency concludes its investigation in the FIR or charge sheet

is filed therein for commission of "Scheduled offence". The proceedings

under PMLA 2002 are distinct from the proceedings of the "Scheduled

offence". In the Investigation of FIR by Police, ED has no control. The

proceedings under PMLA 2002 are not dependent on the outcome of the

investigation conducted in the "Scheduled offences". More over to avoid

conflicting and multiple opinions of court, Section 44 PMLA 2002 provides

trial by Special Court in case of "Scheduled Offence" and offence under 133 PMLA 2002. Delhi High Court relied on a judgment of Allahabad High

Court in Sushil Kumar Katiyar vs. Union of India & Ors.

(MANU/UP/0777/2016) wherein Allahabad High Court said: 257. Against the judgment of Delhi High Court in Rohit Tandon vs. The

Enforcement Directorate, Appeal was filed in Supreme Court and

judgment is reported in (2017) SCC Online SC 1304. Supreme Court

upheld, the order of High Court rejecting Bail. Then meeting further

argument raised on behalf of Rohit Tandon that the incriminating material

recovered, would not take the colour of proceeds of crime as there is no

allegation or the prosecution complaint that un-accounted cash deposited

by appellant was result of criminal activity, it was observed that the

expression "criminal activity" has not been defined but very nature of the

alleged activities of the accused referred to in the predicate offence are

criminal activities. Court observed: 258. Recently in P. Chidambaram vs. Directorate of Enforcement (2019) SCC Online SC 1143, Court considered scheme of PMLA 2002,

and observed that money laundering is the process of concealing illicit 134 sources of money and launderer transforming the money proceeds

derived from criminal activity into funds and moved to other

institution or transformed into legitimate asset. It is realized world

around that money laundering poses a serious threat not only to the

financial system of the country but also to their integrity and sovereignty. 259. In the present case, when environmental norms were not followed,

this resulted in commissioning of Scheduled offence and revenue earned

by committing such crime is proceeds of crime as defined in PMLA 2002

and by showing it part of business proceeds in accounts amounts to

projecting or claiming it as untainted property. The entire activity is

covered by Section 3 of PMLA 2002. 260. It appears that initially PMLA 2002 was enacted so as to cover

activities of terrorist, illegal traffic in narcotics, enemies of the country etc.,

applying to a very limited number of statutes, Enforcement Directorate

had been taking action under PMLA 2002 in a narrow sphere. It has forgot

to take note of the fact that scope of PMLA 2002 has been enhanced or

widened, a lot, at least after amendment Act of 2012 w.e.f. 15.02.2013.

More than nine and half years have passed but not a single action has

been taken by Enforcement Directorate, against violators committing

offences under environmental Statutes which have been included in the

Schedule, part A of PMLA 2002. The offences under Environmental Acts,

as such are non-cognizable but under PMLA 2002, offences are cognizable.

Since Competent Authority has never resorted to proceed against violators

of environmental Statutes despite committing offences thereunder, which

are included in PMLA 2002, this inaction has encouraged polluters to

continue violation with impunity. Parliament's intention of treating 135 environmental violations as very serious offences is writ large from the fact

that, offences under environmental laws as noticed above, have been

included in Schedule, Part A of PMLA 2002 yet enforcement machinery

has frustrated entire attempt. It is incumbent upon the Competent

Authorities regulating and enforcing PMLA 2002 to take action against

such violators. 261. In view of the above discussion, we answer issue IV by directing

Ministry of Environment and Forest, States of UP and Bihar as also

MoEF&CC to look into the question of declaration of part of River Son

running in States of UP and Bihar as 'Son Ghadiyal Wild Life Sanctuary'

and its 'ESZ' in accordance with law within three months and considering

the fact that respondents 14 and 15 have committed/violated conditions

of EC and the provisions of EP Act, 1986 , and the said violation is also an

offence under EP Act, 1986 and since EP Act, 1986 is included in the Schedule of PMLA Act, 2002 , the Directorate of Enforcement may look into

these aspects and take further action under the said Act in accordance

with law. 262. In view of the above discussion, this OA is allowed with the

directions contained in judgment above which are summarized as under: (ii) Ministry of Environment and Forest of States of UP and Bihar and

 MoEF&CC shall consider the matter of declaration of part of River

 Son running in States of UP and Bihar as Wild Life Sanctuary and

 ESZ for protection of ghadiyals etc. in River Son and would take

 necessary, remedial and appropriate action within three months. (iii) A Joint Committee comprising representatives of Ministry of

 Environment and Forest of State of UP, UPPCB, SEIAA UP and

 District Magistrate, Sonbhadra is constituted to re-visit all mining

 leases granted for mining activities in Son river bed for carrying out

 mining activities in District Sonbhadra which are

 degrading/damaging river stream itself and/or the protected

 animals like ghadiyal, turtles/tortoise etc. and take appropriate

 decision/action in accordance with law within three months. (iv) Till a decision pursuant to direction (iii) is taken, no further mining

 in Son river bed in District Sonbhadra shall be allowed. District

 Magistrate, Sonbhadra and UPPCB shall ensure compliance of this

 direction. (v) ECs, CTOs and NOCs granted to respondents 14 and 15 for carrying

 out mining activities in Son river bed shall be re-visited by SEIAA

 UP, UPPCB and other Competent Authorities in light of the

 discussions made above and in the light of the fact that leased area

 is surrounded by Reserved Forest, ESZ and Sanctuaries and

 appropriate decisions would be taken as to whether in such

 circumstances, mining activities should be allowed to continue

 therein or not and till such a decision is taken, no further mining

 shall be allowed by respondents 14 and 15. (vi) Copy of this judgment shall be forwarded to Directorate of

 Enforcement Headquarter for information and appropriate action 137 under PMLA Act, 2002 against the violators/respondents 14 and 15

 in accordance with law. 263. All pending IAs stand disposed of accordingly. 264. Copy of the judgment shall be forwarded to MoEF&CC, Additional

Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary of Ministry of Environment and

Forest, States of UP and Bihar, SEIAA UP, UPPCB, District Magistrate,

Sonbhadra and Directorate of Enforcement Headquarter by e-mail for

information, necessary action and compliance. SUDHIR AGARWAL,
 JUDICIAL MEMBER

 PROF. A. SENTHIL VEL,
 EXPERT MEMBER
May 19, 2023 OA No. 818/2022 R 138