Date of Institution:- 07.01.2020
 Date of Judgment:- 21.10.2024

 Appeal Under Section 96 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 against
Judgment and Decree dated 20.11.2019 passed by Ld. Administrative Civil
Judge Cum Additional Rent Controller, Central District, Tis Hazari Courts,
Delhi in CS No. 595228/2016 titled as " Punjab National Bank Vs. Sh. Anil
 Kumar & Ors ". Judgment 1. This is an appeal under Section 96 of CPC, 1908, challenging the
judgment and decree dated 20.11.2019 (henceforth 'impugned judgment'),
passed by the Court of Ld. Administrative Civil Judge Cum Additional Rent
Controller, Central District, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi (henceforth 'Ld. Trial
Court') in Civil Suit No. 595228/2016, 'Punjab National Bank V/s Sh. Anil
Kumar & Others" (henceforth 'subject suit'), whereby, the Suit of the plaintiff
(in Suit No. 595228/2016) for recovery of money was allowed. 2. Before the Ld. trial court, the appellant herein was the defendant No. 2,
the respondent No. 1 was the plaintiff, respondent No. 2 was the defendant No.
1 and the respondent No. 3 was the defendant No. 3. For convenience, parties
are referred to as per their original rankings before the Learned Trial Court. 3. The plaintiff bank filed a Suit for recovery against the defendants
wherein the defendant No. 3 was the proforma party. The case of the plaintiff
was that the defendant No. 1 was having his savings account with the
defendant No. 2 bank. The defendant No. 1, forged and fabricated a cheque
bearing No. 668709 dated 09.03.2011 for a sum of Rs. 1,50,000/- (Rs. One
Lakh Fifty Thousands Only) by altering the payee's name (by putting a rubber RCA DJ 5/2020 Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 2 of 29
 stamp of his name and account number), which was issued by the defendant
No. 3 (who was an account holder of the plaintiff) from Ludhiana, to one
Sharda Shoe Components, Delhi. The defendant No. 1 after altering the
payee's name by putting his name in place of Sharda Shoe Components, Delhi
deposited/ presented (on 10.03.2011) the cheque bearing No. 668709 dated
09.03.2011 for a sum of Rs. 1,50,000/- (Rs. One Lakh Fifty Thousands Only)
with the defendant No. 2 for realisation at Murthal, Sonepat, Haryana. The
defendant No. 1 in order to conceal the alteration made to the original cheque
had put a transparent tape on the stamp of his name and account. The
defendant No. 2 afterwards sent, through its service branch at Delhi, the
cheque for clearance to the plaintiff through CTS (Cheque Truncation
System). The plaintiff on the strength of the image of the instrument so
presented on 10.03.2011 by the defendant No. 2 through its service branch at
Delhi, paid an amount of Rs. 1,50,000/- to the defendant No. 2 through
clearing and an amount of Rs. 1,50,000/- was debited from the account of the
defendant No. 3. 4. That on 15.03.2011, the defendant No. 3 made a written complaint to
the plaintiff regarding wrong debit of his account for a sum of Rs. 1,50,000/-.
The plaintiff immediately informed the defendant No. 2 vide its letter dated
15.03.2011 and requested to take necessary steps to freeze the account of the
defendant No. 1 and to make available the CCTV footage for identification of
the account holder and the details of the defendant No. 1. The plaintiff bank
sent several reminders to its letter dated 15.03.2011 to the defendant No. 2,
however the defendant No. 2 gave a highly delayed response vide its letter
dated 09.06.2011. The plaintiff wrote letters to the defendant No. 2 on various RCA DJ 5/2020 Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 3 of 29
 dates viz. 30.08.2011, 07.11.2011, 06.02.2012 and 07.03.2012, seeking
informations and details about the defendant No. 1 and also for the refund of
Rs. 1,50,000/- to the plaintiff, but the defendant No. 2 neglected to furnish any
such information and failed to refund the amount to the plaintiff. 5. It was further stated on behalf of the plaintiff that the account of the
defendant No. 1 was opened on 05.03.2011 and the cheque in question was
deposited within four/ five days of opening of the account i.e. on
09.03.2011/10.03.2011. That the account of the defendant No. 1 was opened
by the defendant No. 2 without taking any introduction and without doing any
verification of the address of the defendant No. 1. This all shows negligence
on the part of the defendant No. 2. 6. That the plaintiff settled the claim of the defendant No. 3 on 25.09.2012
by crediting the amount of Rs. 1,50,000/- in his account. Therefore, the
plaintiff had got right to recover the said amount from the defendant No. 1 and
2 alongwith interest @18% per annum from the date of payment of Rs.
1,50,000/- till the filing of suit which comes to Rs. 78,898/-, thus totalling to
an amount of Rs. 2,28,898/-. The plaintiff accordingly filed the present Suit
for recovery of said amount from the defendant No. 1 and the defendant No. 2. 7. Summons of the Suit were duly served upon the defendants. Since the
defendant No. 1 and the defendant No. 3 failed to appear, they were proceeded
ex-parte vide order dated 28.11.2018 and 10.07.2015 respectively. The
defendant No. 2, however, duly contested the Suit by filing the written
statement. In the written statement it was inter-alia pleaded that the plaintiff
had no locus standi to file the present suit against the defendant No. 2 as the
defendant No. 1 presented the cheque in question in his account maintained RCA DJ 5/2020 Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 4 of 29
 with the defendant No. 2 and the cheque was scanned and sent to the plaintiff
through CTS for clearance which was cleared by the plaintiff without any
protest and the amount was transferred to the account of the defendant No. 1
from the account of the defendant No. 3; that the defendant No. 2 took every
steps to ensure that there was no fraud, alteration, fabrication or forgery in the
cheque in question and since no fraud or forgery was detected at the time of
accepting the same, it was sent to the plaintiff for clearance, and if there was
any doubt regarding genuinity of the cheque in the mind of the plaintiff, the
same should not be cleared by the plaintiff; that the defendant No. 1 acted
upon every letter of the plaintiff and duly replied every letter and always
cooperated with the plaintiff; that as soon as it came to the knowledge of the
defendant No. 2 about the forgery committed by the defendant No. 1 with the
plaintiff and the defendant No. 3, it lodged the FIR bearing FIR No. 152 dated
24.06.2011 at PS Murthal, Sonepat, Haryana against the defendant No. 1
under Section 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 IPC; that the defendant No. 2 opened the
account of the defendant No. 1 as per norms and banking rules; and as such the
defendant No. 2 was not liable to pay any amount to the plaintiff. 8. Plaintiff thereafter filed the replication wherein averments made in the
plaint were reiterated and contents of written statement were denied. 9. On the basis of the pleadings of the parties, the following issues were
settled by the Ld. Trial Court vide order dated 09.12.2015:- alongwith pendente lite and future interest @ 18% per annum,
 compounded quarterly against the defendants No. 1 and 2, jointly and
 severally, as prayed for? OPP. Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 5 of 29 ii) Whether the plaintiff has no locus standi to file the present suit against
 the defendant No. 2? OPD2. iii) Whether the plaintiff is not having any cause of action against the
 defendant No. 2? OPD2. iv) Relief. 10. In order to substantiate its case, the plaintiff examined one witness
namely Sh. B.R. Birdi, Senior Manager of the plaintiff bank as PW1. On the
other hand, from the side of the defendant No. 2, four witnesses were
examined. Sh. Suresh Rai Sharma, Senior Branch Manager as D2R1, Sh.
Ramesh Chander Dhawan, Retired Senior Branch Manager as D2R2, Sh.
Mahender Singh Dahiya, Retired Manager as D2R3 and Sh. Devender Kumar,
Deputy Record Keeper, Judicial Record Room, District Court, Sonepat,
Haryana as D2R4. FINDINGS OF LEARNED TRIAL COURT 11. After hearing arguments on behalf of both the parties and upon
appreciation of evidence led on their behalf, Ld. Trial Court vide impugned
judgment dated 20.11.2019, while deciding all the three issues in favour of the
plaintiff, decreed the Suit of the plaintiff. Findings of Ld. Trial Court may be
summarised as follows:- alteration in the payee's name, that the payee's name and account
 was written/put by way of stamp, and that a cello tape was placed
 over the stamp, from looking at the scanned copy of the cheque. (c) D2R3 Sh. Mahender Singh Dahiya himself stated that the
 addition/ alterations or interpolation in the cheque is visible in the
 scanned image as well as in the original cheque. Thus, even from
 the testimony of a defence witness, it is clear that the additions/
 alterations or interpolation are there in the check in question. (d) The facts, that the saving bank account of the defendant No. 1
 was opened without any introduction just few days prior to
 presentation of cheque in question i.e. on 05.03.2011, the cheque
 in question was cleared on 11.03.2011 and thereafter the entire
 amount was withdrawn by the defendant No. 1 by 14.03.2011,
 show that there was negligence on the part of the defendant No. 2. (e) That the plaintiff has a locus standi to file the present Suit and is
 having a valid cause of action against the defendant No. 1 and the
 defendant No. 2. GROUNDS OF APPEAL 12. The aforesaid judgment has been challenged by the appellant/
defendant No. 2 in the present appeal inter alia on the following grounds :- AML. BC. No. 2/14.01.001/2010-11) dated 01.07.2010, there
 was no requirement of introduction at that point of time for
 opening of the account. (G) That the Ld. Trial Court failed to consider that there was
 negligence on the part of the plaintiff itself as it was the plaintiff
 who passed the cheque in question on the same date i.e. on
 11.03.2011 and had not been able to detect any alteration or fraud
 in the same. That the defendant No. 2 gave credits and allowed
 the withdrawal of money to the defendant No. 1 only after
 receiving the credits from the plaintiff bank and as such there was
 no occasion for the defendant No. 2 to be suspicious towards the
 defendant No. 1 who was its customer. (H) That the Ld. Trial Court conveniently ignored the testimony of
 PW1 Sh. B. R. Birdi, Senior Manager of the plaintiff who
 deposed in his cross-examination to the effect as per Ex.PW1/B,
 no interpolation and addition was visible on the cheque image
 with naked eyes. It is correct that the Ex.PW1/B is in the name of RCA DJ 5/2020 Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 9 of 29
 Sh. Anil Kumar, Defendant No. 1. It clearly shows that there was
 no alteration in the cheque in question which was visible from the
 naked eye. (I) That the Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that there is no
 evidence on the record to show that the defendant No. 3 issued
 the cheque in question to the M/s Sharda Shoe Components only
 and not to the defendant No. 1. That the plaintiff failed to prove
 the complaint dated 15.03.2011 allegedly made by the defendant
 No. 3 to the plaintiff. Further, the defendant No. 3 neither filed
 the written statement nor appeared in the Court as a witness. As
 such the plaintiff failed to show that the cheque was presented by
 the defendant No. 1 after altering the name of payee. (J) That the Ld. Trial Court did not specify any specific provision of
 law under which the defendant No. 2 was held liable to pay the
 money to the plaintiff. REPLY 13. No reply to the appeal has been filed on behalf of the respondents.
ARGUMENTS 14. Arguments were heard on behalf of the appellant/ defendant No. 2 and
the respondent No. 1/ plaintiff which were concluded on 20.09.20024. Ld.
counsel for the appellant during arguments questioned the judgment of the Ld.
Trail Court on the grounds referred above and prayed for its setting aside. Per
Contra, ld. Counsel for the respondent No. 1 submitted that the Ld. Trial Court
has rightly decreed the Suit of the respondent No. 1/ plaintiff and prayed for RCA DJ 5/2020 Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 10 of 29
 the dismissal of the present appeal with costs. Written submissions has also
been filed on behalf of the respondent No. 1. 15. This Court has considered the submissions and material on record.
REASONING 16. Let us deal with all the grounds of the appeal one by one. 17. First, the issue of territorial jurisdiction. The plaintiff in its plaint has
stated at para 14 that the impugned cheque of Rs. 1,50,000.00 (Rs. One Lac
Fifty Thousand Only) was presented in clearing at Delhi (by the service
branch of the defendant No. 2, which is situated at Barakhamba Road, New
Delhi - 110001) to the back office of the plaintiff bank situated at Pahar Ganj,
New Delhi - 110055 and the payment thereof was made at Delhi. As such, this
Court has got jurisdiction to entertain and decide the present Suit. The
defendant No. 2 in its written statement in reply to para 14 of the plaint has
stated that the contents of para No. 14 of the plaint as stated are legal. Clearly,
the defendant No. 2 had not controverted the facts alleged by the plaintiff in
para 14 of the plaint, regarding the territorial jurisdiction of the Court. The
defendant No. 2 had absolutely no objection, not even legal, to the territorial
jurisdiction of the Court. As can be seen, no issue and rightly so, was framed in
this regard by the Ld. Trial Court. Section 21 (1) of CPC, 1908 provides that if
the defendant waives the objection regarding territorial jurisdiction, then
subsequently he can not be allowed to take any such objection before the
appellate court. Accordingly, the appellant is precluded to raise objections
regarding lack of territorial jurisdiction of the Ld. Trial Court to decide the
case of the plaintiff at this stage. Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 11 of 29 18. As already noted, the allegations by the plaintiff are that the defendant
No. 1 was having his savings account with the defendant No. 2 bank and that
the defendant No. 1 after forging and fabricating a cheque by altering the
payee's name (by putting a rubber stamp of his name and account Number
and in order to conceal the alteration, had put a transparent tape on the stamp
of his name and account), deposited/ presented the same with the defendant
No. 2 for realization and that the defendant No. 2 sent the said cheque to the
plaintiff bank for collection through CTS (Cheque Truncation System) and
that the plaintiff on the strength of the image of the instrument so presented by
the defendant No. 2 paid the amount to the defendant No. 2. So, the assertion is
that the plaintiff under the mistaken belief that the cheque was genuine, made
payment of the amount of cheque to the defendant No. 2 and that the plaintiff
is entitled to recover the amount from the defendant No. 2. 19. The defendant No. 2 has contested the suit stating that there is no
negligence on the part of the defendant No. 2 as it had collected the cheque in
good faith and without any negligence on its part. It is stated that defendant
No. 1 presented the cheque in question in his account maintained with the
defendant No. 2 and the cheque was scanned and sent to the plaintiff through
CTS for clearance which was cleared by the plaintiff without any protest and
the amount was transferred to the account of the defendant No. 1 from the
account of the defendant No. 3. It is further stated that the defendant No. 2
took every step to ensure that there was no fraud, alteration, fabrication or
forgery in the cheque in question and since no fraud or forgery was detected at
the time of accepting the same, it was sent to the plaintiff for clearance, and if RCA DJ 5/2020 Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 12 of 29
 there was any doubt regarding genuinity of the cheque in the mind of the
plaintiff, the same should not be cleared by the plaintiff. 20. It is an admitted fact that in the present case the plaintiff has paid the
amount on the basis of an electronic image of a truncated cheque sent by the
defendant No. 2 through the Cheque Truncation System (CTS). So, a few
things about CTS. In the traditional banking system of cheque clearance, one
has to present a cheque to his bank, which will send that cheque to a clearing
house, upon clearance of drawee bank, the money was credited to the account.
It usually took 3 days on an average to clear cheques as it involved physical
movement of cheques. Cheque truncation is the conversion of a physical
cheque into a substitute electronic form for transmission to the paying bank.
Cheque truncation eliminates cumbersome physical presentation of the
cheque and saves time and processing costs. Under the CTS system, the
collecting/ presenting bank first verifies and satisfies itself as to the
genuineness of the cheque and then takes its image and sends the image for
collection through CTS clearing. The original cheque is truncated and remains
in possession of the collecting/ presenting bank. The payee bank makes the
payment on the basis of image. 21. At this stage, we can deal with this argument advanced on behalf of the
appellant/ defendant No. 2 that since the original cheque in question was never
brought on record by the plaintiff either by itself or through any other witness
(by summoning the same), any alteration, if any, on the said cheque can not be
verified from the copy of the cheque (Ex.PW1/B) on record. Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 13 of 29 22. The plaintiff examined Sh. B.R. Birdi, Senior Manager of its bank as
PW1. He deposed (by way of his evidence affidavit Ex.PW1/1) to the effect
that; Copy of the scanned copy of the cheque in this respect is Ex.PW1/B. T
 he plaintiff unknowingly and mistakenly took the image of the forged
 and fabricated cheque to be a legal and valid instrument since the
 same came through clearing and under Cheque Truncation System as
 paying bankers, the Plaintiff dealt with the image of the instrument on
 the implied undertaking of the presenting bankers i.e. the Defendants
 No. 2, that it has ensured, verified and checked the genuineness of the
 instrument before lodging and presenting the same through image
 based on presentation. The plaintiff as a paying banker could only
 verify and cross check the signatures, cheque number which was
 found matching and bearing valid unpaid cheque number issued to the
 account holder." Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 14 of 29 23. What transpires from the testimony of PW1 that the plaintiff bank
made the payment to the defendant No. 2 after seeing the image of the
cheque in question. It further appears from the testimony of PW1 that the
original cheque was lying with the defendant No. 2 itself. No suggestion
was given to PW1 in his cross-examination on behalf of the defendant No.
2 that the original cheque was with the plaintiff. 24. A witness namely Sh. Devender Kumar, Deputy Record Keeper,
Judicial Record Room was summoned from the District Court, Sonepat,
Haryana. He was examined as D2R4 on behalf of the defendant No. 2. He
had brought the summoned record pertaining to Case titled as State V/s
Shankar @ Anil bearing FIR No. 152 dated 24.06.2011, U/s
406/420/468/471 IPC registered at PS. Murthal which was decided by the
Court of Ld. JMIC, Sonepat. It appears that a seizure memo was prepared
in FIR No. 152, as per which the IO of the said FIR seized the original
cheque bearing No. 668709 from Sh. Ramesh Dhawan, Manager, Bank of
India (examined as D2R2). Further, from reading testimony of Sh.
Devender Kumar (D2R4) it is evident that the said witness has brought the
original cheque which was seen and returned by the Ld. Trial Court, and its
certified copy was exhibited as Ex.D-2/R-4/B. 25. So, from the testimony of PW1 and D2R4, three things are clear.
First, that the plaintiff can not produce the original cheque on record as it
never was with the plaintiff as the payee bank/ plaintiff made the payment
on the basis of an image sent by the defendant No. 2. Secondly, that the
original cheque was with the defendant No. 2 from which it was seized by
the IO in the FIR No. 152. And, lastly, that the original cheque was RCA DJ 5/2020 Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 15 of 29
 produced in this case by one of the defendant's witnesses i.e. D2R4 which
was seen and returned to the witness by the Ld. Trial Court. 26. Now, coming to the main issue. The main issue which is to be
decided is whether the defendant No. 2 as collecting bank was negligent
and did not act in good faith in presenting the cheque in question to the
plaintiff bank for encashment ? 27. For this, it is necessary to refer to Section 131 of the Negotiable
Instrument Act, 1881. Section 131 of the Act applies when the collecting
bank is sued by the true owner or on behalf of the true owner. Section 131 of the Act provides a protection and shield to the collecting bank which had
received the payment from the paying bank and thereafter made the
payment to its customer. Since the collecting bank acts as an agent of its
customers/ clients, it is not expected to take direct responsibility for the
cheque crossed, generally or specially, to the true owner, when it acts in
good faith and without negligence. In such cases the collecting bank is not
liable to the true owner by reason of only having received payment. 28. Section 131 of the Negotiable Instrument Act, 1881 reads as under:- 29. The law with respect to the liability of the collecting banker,
considering the provisions of Sections 131 and 131A of the Negotiable
Instrument Act, 1881, is contained in the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court
reported as Kerala State Co-operative Marketing Federation V/s. State Bank
of India, 2004 (2) SCC 425. Relevant para of the judgment where the law has
been stated is para 11 and which reads as under:- (3) It is the banker seeking protection who has on his shoulders the
 onus of proving that he acted in good faith and without negligence. Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 17 of 29
 (4) The standard of care to be exercised by the collecting banker to
 escape the charge of negligence depends upon the general practice of
 banker which may go on changing from time to time with the
 enormous, spread of banking activities and cases decided a few
 decades ago may not probably offer an unfailing guidance in
 determining the question about negligence today. (5) Negligence is a question of fact and what is relevant in
 determining the liability of a collecting banker is not his negligence in
 opening the account of the customer but negligence in the collection
 of the relevant cheque unless, of course, the opening of the account
 and depositing of the cheque in question therein from part and parcel
 one scheme as where the account is opened with the cheque in
 question or deposited therein so soon after the opening of the account
 as to lead to an inference that the depositing the cheque and opening
 the account are interconnected moves in a integrated plan.
 (6) Negligence in opening the account such as failure to fulfill the
 procedure for opening an account which is prescribed by the bank
 itself or opening an account of, an unknown person or non-existing
 person or with dubious introduction may lead to a cogent, though not
 conclusive, proof of negligence particularly if the cheque in question
 has been deposited in the account soon after the opening thereof.
 (7) The standard of care expected from a banker in collecting the
 cheque does not require him to subject the cheque to a minute and
 microscopic examination but disregarding the circumstances about
 the cheque which on the face of it give rise to a suspicion may amount
 to negligence on the part of the collecting banker. Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 18 of 29
 (8) The question of good faith and negligence is to be judged from the
 standpoint of the true owner towards whom the banker owes no
 contractual duty but the statutory duty which is created by this section
 and it is a price which the banker pays for seeking protection, under
 the statute, from the otherwise larger liability he would be exposed to
 under common law. (9) Allegation of contributory negligence against the paying banker
 could provide no defence for collecting banker who has not collected
 the amount in good faith and without negligence." 30. Let us appreciate the evidence coming on record in light of the
above-noted exposition of law. 31. PW1 Sh. B.R. Birdi, Senior Manager of the plaintiff bank in his
examination in chief has deposed to the effect that; 32. The relevant portion of cross-examination of PW1 is reproduced herein
below:- 33. At the outset, we can deal with one of the objections raised by the Ld.
Counsel for the defendant No. 2. It is evident that the PW1 is relying on the
Internal Auditor Report dated 11.04.201, Mark D. It was argued on behalf of
the defendant No. 2 that the Internal Auditor Report dated 11.04.2011 of the
plaintiff (Mark D) can not be looked into for proving the negligence on the
part of the defendant No. 2 as the same was not proved as per law. This is an RCA DJ 5/2020 Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 20 of 29
 internal auditor report prepared on behalf of the plaintiff. PW1 was not cross-
examined on this report at all. Neither, any objection was raised on behalf of
the defendant No. 2 at the time of receiving the same in the evidence.
However, as is apparent that the Internal Auditor Report dated 11.04.2011
(Mark D) is fundamentally a self-serving document and as such it should be
excluded for proving the negligence on the part of the defendant No. 2. This
Court is accordingly discarding the document Mark D from the reading of
evidence. 34. One more objection of the defendant No. 2 can be dealt with here itself.
An argument was made on behalf of the defendant No. 2 that the matter was
earlier referred to the National Clearing Cell of the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI) and the RBI did not pass any order against the defendant No. 2, to pay
cheque amount to the plaintiff or the defendant No. 3. The said order dated
17.01.2014, Ex. PW1/O (though written Mark O over the document) was filed
on behalf of the plaintiff. The matter was referred before the RBI panel by the
plaintiff bank and the same was attended by the plaintiff as well as the
defendant No. 2. A perusal of Ex.PW1/O shows that since the original cheque
was not made available to the RBI panel, the panel had returned the case. As
such, the said order was not based on merit and as such the order can not act
like res judicata for the present Suit. The argument of the defendant No. 2 as
such is liable to be rejected and is rejected. 35. As per the plaintiff (considering the testimony of PW1 quoted herein
above), the negligence of the defendant No. 2 lies in the fact, in the opening of
the account of the defendant No. 1 without following the due procedure, and in
sending the cheque in question to the plaintiff bank for collection without RCA DJ 5/2020 Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 21 of 29
 examining that the payee's name was written by putting a rubber stamp of
payee's name and his account Number and that a transparent tape was affixed
on the stamp of his name and account. 36. There is no cross-examination of PW1 (not even a suggestion to PW1)
on behalf of the defendant No. 2 that the payee's name and his account number
was not written by putting a rubber stamp on the cheque in question or that
there was no transparent tape affixed on the stamp of payee's name and
account number. Meaning thereby, the defendant No. 2 is not denying these
facts. Rather, its case is that this (using a rubber stamp and affixing a
transparent tape over it) is a normal banking practice. 37. Sh. Suresh Rai Sharma was the Senior Branch Manager of the
concerned branch of the defendant bank in the year 2017 (when examined as
witness as DW2R1). In his cross-examination he deposed to the effect that; 38. Above deposition clearly shows that witness DW2R1 was evasive in
answering on the aspect of banking practice of presenting cheques wherein
the name of the payee and his account number were put by a rubber stamp.
 A bare perusal of Ex.PW1/B (or Ex.D-2R-4/B) shows that name of the
payee of the cheque is written/ put by way of stamp alongwith his account
number. 39. Under aforesaid circumstances, in the considered view this Court,
the Ld. Trial Court was/ is right in its conclusion that; 40. However, this Court is in agreement with the submission of the Ld.
Counsel for the defendant No. 2 that the Ld. Trial Court misread the
testimony of D2R3 Sh. Mahender Singh Dahiya. Ld. Trial Court gave a
finding that the D2R3 Sh. Mahender Singh Dahiya himself stated that the
addition/ alterations or interpolation in the cheque is visible in the scanned
image as well as in the original cheque. Thus, even from the testimony of a
defence witness, it is clear that the additions/ alterations or interpolation
are there in the check in question . D2R3 had deposed in his cross- Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 23 of 29
 examination that the addition/ alterations or interpolation, if any in the
cheque is visible in the scanned image as well as in the original cheque .
What the D2R3 wanted to convey was that even if it was presumed that
there were some additions/ alterations or interpolation over the cheque, the
same should also be visible to the plaintiff in the scanned image of the
cheque sent to it by the defendant No. 2. This becomes further clear from
the very next line of the cross-examination of D2R3 which he deposed in
response to a suggestion put to him. D2R3 states that it is wrong to suggest
that additions/ alterations or interpolation, if any is more clearly visible in
the original cheque instead of scanned image. 41. As such, this court while concurring with the conclusion arrived at
by the Ld. Trial Court is not relying on the alleged admission of D2R3.
Rather, this Court, for holding that the defendant No. 2 as collecting bank
was negligent and did not act in good faith in presenting the cheque in
question to the plaintiff bank for encashment is relying on two
circumstances; firstly, defendant's not giving any suggestion to the PW1 or
not asking any question to PW1 on the facts that the payee's name and his
account number was written by putting a rubber stamp on the cheque in
question and that there was a transparent tape affixed on the stamp of
payee's name and account number, thereby, pursuing the Court to consider
this (using rubber stamp and affixing a transparent tape over it) as regular
banking practice, and Secondly, yet, being hesitant in producing any such
proof showing this as regular banking practice as is evident from the cross-
examination of DW2R1 Sh. Suresh Rai Sharma. Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 24 of 29 42. So far as argument of the defendant No. 2 that its bonafide should be
inferred from the fact that the moment it came to its knowledge that the
defendant No. 1 played a fraud with the plaintiff and the defendant No. 3, it
got lodged a FIR against the defendant No. 1, is concerned, it being a post
event conduct would not absolve the defendant No. 2 of its negligence in
presenting the cheque to the plaintiff bank for encashment. 43. It is further argued on behalf of the plaintiff that the defendant No. 2
was also negligent in opening the account of the defendant No. 1. The
account of the defendant No. 1 was opened on 05.03.2011 without taking
any introduction and without doing any verification of the address of the
defendant No. 1. The cheque in question was deposited within four/ five
days of opening of the account i.e. on 09.03.2011/ 10.03.2011 which was
cleared on 11.03.2011 and thereafter the entire amount was withdrawn by
the defendant No. 1 during 11.03.2011 and 14.03.2011. Per contra, it was
argued on behalf of the defendant No. 2 that as per the RBI guidelines
issued in Master Circular bearing No. RBI/2010-11/75 (DBOD. AML. BC.
No. 2/14.01.001/2010-11) dated 01.07.2010, there was no requirement of
introduction at that point of time for opening of the account. 44. DW2R2 Sh. Ramesh Chander Dhawan was posted as the Senior
Branch Manager of the concerned branch of the defendant No. 2 bank at
the relevant time. In his cross-examination, he deposed to the effect that; 45. So this is the state of evidence and this was the state of incidents
surrounding the transaction of opening of the account, deposit of forged
cheque, and withdrawal of money. The opening of account, the deposit,
and the withdrawals, thus appear to be so connected in terms of the timings
that there is necessary inference that they are part of the same transaction of
fraud. The defendant No. 2 while dealing with the opening of the account
and the collection of the cheques, and its payment, did not care to be
cautious and dealt with the whole affair as a routine. 46. The Ld. Counsel for the defendant No. 2 has relied on one judgment
of Hon'ble Delhi High Court passed in a Case titled as Axis Bank V/s
Punjab National Bank & Anr. (WP(C) 6201/2014) , decided on 20.03.2015
. In this case the Hon'ble High Court held that in the absence of any nexus RCA DJ 5/2020 Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 26 of 29
 between the two stages of the process, negligence can not be attributed to
the appellant in the context of collection of money against the forged
instrument only on the basis of the fact that there had been negligence on its
part in allowing the account to be opened. Clearly, this case pressed into
service in support of defendant No. 2's claim is distinguishable from the
present case as in the present case this court has already held that the
defendant No. 2 as collecting bank was negligent and did not act in good
faith in presenting the cheque in question to the plaintiff bank for
encashment and that the opening of account, the deposit, and the
withdrawals, appear to be so connected in terms of the timings that there is
necessary inference that they are part of the same transaction of fraud. 47. It was contended on behalf of the defendant No. 2 that there was
negligence on the part of the plaintiff itself as it was the plaintiff who
passed the cheque in question on the same date i.e. on 11.03.2011 and had
not been able to detect any alteration or fraud in the same. It was further
contended that PW1 Sh. B. R. Birdi, Senior Manager of the plaintiff
deposed in his cross-examination to the effect as per Ex.PW1/B, no
interpolation and addition was visible on the cheque image with naked
eyes. It is correct that the Ex.PW1/B is in the name of Sh. Anil Kumar,
Defendant No. 1, which clearly shows that there was no alteration in the
cheque in question which was visible from the naked eye. The defendant
No. 2 gave credits and allowed the withdrawal of money to the defendant
No. 1 only after receiving the credits from the plaintiff bank and as such
there was no occasion for the defendant No. 2 to be suspicious towards the
defendant No. 1 who was its customer. Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 27 of 29 48. This argument of the defendant No. 2 in the considered opinion of
this Court is liable to be rejected in view of para 11(9) of the judgment of
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kerala State Co-operative Marketing
Federation supra that an allegation of contributory negligence against the
paying banker does not provide any defence to the collecting banker who
has not collected the amount in good faith and without negligence. The
mere fact that the collecting bank has made a payment to its customer who
deposited the forged cheque does not raise an estoppel against the paying
bank if later on it is found that the cheque is forged. The collecting bank
can not escape its liability of returning the money, so collected, to the
paying bank. 49. It was lastly argued on behalf of the defendant No. 2 that there is no
evidence on the record to show that the defendant No. 3 issued the cheque
in question to the M/s Sharda Shoe Components only and not to the
defendant No. 1. The plaintiff has failed to show that the cheque was
presented by the defendant No. 1 after altering the name of payee. This
argument of the defendant No. 2 is liable to be rejected for the simple
reason that the defendant No. 2 itself had lodged a complaint against the
defendant No. 1 with the police and a FIR No. 152 was lodged at PS
Murthal, Sonepat, Haryana. Further, the DW2RI deposed in his
examination in chief that the defendant No. 1 was convicted in the said
FIR. 50. From the above discussion, this Court concludes that the defendant
No. 2 as a collecting bank was negligent and did not act in good faith in
presenting the cheque in question to the plaintiff bank for encashment and RCA DJ 5/2020 Bank of India Vs. Punjab National Bank & Ors. Page no. 28 of 29
 that the opening of account, the deposit, and the withdrawals, were so
connected in terms of the timings that there is necessary inference that they
were part of the same transaction of fraud. This Court further holds that the
plaintiff, under the mistaken belief that the cheque was genuine, made the
payment of the amount of cheque to the defendant No. 2 and thereafter,
settled the claim of the defendant No. 3 on 25.09.2012 by crediting the
amount of Rs. 1,50,000/- in his account. As such, since the credit for
money obtained from erroneous remittance being a wrongful gain, it is the
liability of the defendant No. 2 to return it to the plaintiff, in terms of Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. 51. In the considered opinion of this Court, the suit of the plaintiff was
rightly decreed by the Ld. Trial Court and there is no error in the impugned
judgment and decree dated 20.11.2019. The present appeal is thus liable to
be dismissed being devoid of any merit. The present appeal is thus
dismissed and the impugned judgment and decree dated 20.11.2019 passed
by Ld. Administrative Civil Judge Cum Additional Rent Controller,
Central District, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi in Suit No. 595228/2016 is
upheld. Parties to bear their own costs. 52. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. ABHISHEK SRIVASTAVA
Announced in the open court on this 21st day of October, 2024. SRIVASTAVA Date: