Ashok Bhushan, Ag. C.J. This Writ Appeal has been filed against the

judgment dated 02.09.2014 of the learned Single Judge

by which judgment Writ Petition No.10197 of 2005 filed

by the appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

"petitioner") has been dismissed. 2. Brief facts giving rise to this Writ Appeal are: 3. We have heard Shri Leo George, learned

counsel for the petitioner and Shri S.Easwaran, learned W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 6 :- counsel for the Corporation. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner contended

that under Regulation 15 finding of fraud is to be

recoded in a judicial proceeding and the agency having

not been terminated under Regulation 15, renewal

commission cannot be forfeited. It is submitted that

the Corporation is entitled to forfeit commission

payable to an agent whose agency has been terminated

on the ground of fraud whereas in the present case

petitioner's agency was terminated on the ground that

petitioner could not bring in the required business for

the year ending 31.10.1990, hence renewal commission

could not be forfeited in the present case. It is further

submitted that the error committed by the petitioner if

any, could not be equated to fraud for forfeiting

renewal commission. 5. Shri S.Easwaran, learned counsel for the

Corporation refuting the submissions of the learned W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 7 :- counsel for the petitioner contended that for exercising

powers under Regulation 19 for forfeiting future renewal

commission it is not necessary that finding of fraud be

recorded in a judicial proceeding as required by

Regulation 15 rather the Corporation itself is

empowered to enquire and find out fraud on the part of

agent and consequently forfeit the renewal commission.

It is submitted that Regulation 19 is an independent

proceeding which could be drawn by the Corporation

for forfeiting the renewal commission. It is submitted

that in any event if the agency is not terminated on the

ground of fraud and it is detected subsequently that

fraud was played by the agent, Corporation can very

well initiate proceeding under Regulation 19 and

impose the penalty of forfeiture of renewal commission.

He further submitted that in the present case fraud

played by the petitioner in getting the policy of P.I.Issac

renewed was subsequently detected and there was no W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 8 :- error in issuing the show cause notice dated 03.12.1994. 6. Learned counsel for the parties in support of

their respective submissions have placed reliance on

the judgments of this Court, other High Courts and the

Apex Court which shall be referred to while considering

the submissions in detail. 7. From the materials on record and submissions

made by the learned counsel for the parties, the

following are the issues which arise for consideration in

this Writ Appeal. initiate proceeding under Regulation 19

 for imposing penalty of forfeiture of W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 9 :- renewal commission subsequent to

 termination of agency when the agency

 has not been terminated on the ground

 of fraud, and the fraud is detected

 subsequently? (iii) Whether in the facts of the

 present case proceedings undertaken by

 the Corporation for imposing penalty of

 forfeiture of renewal commission vide

 its show cause notice dated 03.12.1994

 are in accordance with the power and

 procedure contemplated under the

 Regulations? (iv) Whether in the present case

 forfeiture of renewal commission of the

 petitioner is in accordance with law? 8. All the issues being interconnected, they are

being taken together. Issues which have arisen in the

present case relate to the scope and ambit of the

Regulations. Regulations have been framed by the

Corporation with the previous approval of the Central W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 10 :- Government in exercise of the powers under Section 49 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956. It is

necessary to look into the scheme of the Regulations. 9. Regulations have been framed for regulating

terms and conditions of appointment and work of

agents. The Corporation appoints agents under Regulation 4 , functions of agent are mentioned in Regulation 8 , Regulation 9 deals with the minimum

amount of business to be secured by the agents, Regulation 10 deals with payment of commission to

agents, Regulation 11 deals with gratuity and term

insurance benefit, Regulation 13 provides for

termination of agency when an agent fails to bring in

business required of him under Regulation 9 , Regulation 14 provides for termination of agency on

cancellation of, or failure to renew licence, Regulation

15 deals with termination of agency on account of

certain disqualifications of an agent, Regulation 16 deals W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 11 :- with termination of agency for certain lapses, Regulation

17 deals with termination of agency by notice and Regulation 19 deals with payment of commission on

discontinuance of agency. 10. From the facts noted above, there is no

dispute between the parties that agency of the

petitioner was terminated by order dated 09.11.1990 on

the ground that petitioner could not comply with the

business guarantee required from him under Regulation 9. It is useful to quote the 1st paragraph of the

termination letter which is to the following effect: 11. Regulation 13(2) provides for reinstatement of

the agency terminated under Rule 13(1) for which

reinstatement petitioner made representation but the

same was rejected and the agency was not reinstated.

It is useful to quote Regulation 13 which is to the

following effect: 3...." Regulation 10 provides for payment of commission to

agents. Regulation 10(6) provides that no commission

shall be payable to the agent if he ceased to be an

agent except as provided in Regulation 19 . Regulation

10(6) is quoted below: Regulation 15 as noted above deals with termination of

agency on account of certain disqualifications which is

to the following effect: Regulation 16 provides for termination of agency for

certain lapses. Regulation 16(1) which is relevant for

the present case is quoted below: (c ) if evidence comes to its knowledge to

 show that he has been allowing or offering, to allow

 rebate of the whole or any part of the commission

 payable to him; (d) if it is found that any averment

 contained in his agency application or in any report W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 15 :- furnished by him as an agent in respect of any

 proposal is not true; (e) if he becomes physically or mentally

 incapacitated for carrying out his functions as an

 agent; (f) if he being an absorbed agent on being

 called upon to do so, fails to undergo the specified

 training or to pass the specified tests, within three

 years from the date on which he is called upon; provided that the agent shall be given a

 reasonable opportunity to show cause against such

 termination." 12. Before we proceed further, one submission

which has been raised by the learned counsel for the

petitioner needs to be considered that the word "fraud"

used in Regulation 19(1) refers to fraud as contemplated

in Regulation 15(c) , i.e., fraud which has been found in

any judicial proceeding. Learned counsel for the

petitioner has referred to a judgment of a learned

Single Judge of this Court reported in Balakrishna

Reddiar v. Branch Manager, L.I.C of India (2007 [4]

KLT 446). In the said case also question of etitlement of W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 16 :- commission under Rule 19 came up for consideration.

Learned Single Judge in paragraph 15, after considering

Regulations 15(c) and 19(1) came to the conclusion

that it is only where termination of agency is under Regulation 15(c) , the Corporation is entitled to forfeit a

claim. It is useful to quote paragraph 15 of the above

judgment: 13. Learned counsel for the Corporation has

relied on the Division Bench decision in L.I.C of India v.

Balakrishna Reddiar (2009 [3] KLT SN 41) which was

an appeal filed against the judgment in Balakrishna

Reddiar v. Branch Manager, L.I.C of India (supra).

The Division Bench did not subscribe to the view taken

by the learned Single Judge. It is useful to quote the

following observations in paragraph 4 of the judgment: Regulations provide for termination of agency on

account of certain disqualification acquired by an agent. Regulation 15 itself contemplated that if an agent

acquires any of the disqualifications mentioned therein

his appointment shall be liable to be terminated and the

competent authority can forthwith terminate his

appointment. The said provision thus mandates

termination on acquiring a disqualification by an agent

and the said termination is not on account of any

proceeding taken by the Corporation. Regulation 16(1) empowers the Corporation to terminate the agency for

"certain lapses". Regulation 16(1)(b) , "if he acts in a

manner prejudicial to the interests of the Corporation or

in the interests of the policy holders" is a very wide

phrase which shall cover any unauthorized and W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 20 :- fraudulent act done by an agent. We cannot

countenance the situation that even if the agent

commits a fraud in carrying on his business with the

Corporation or policy holders, the Corporation cannot

initiate any proceeding for termination of agency on

coming to know that the agent is working fraudulently.

The Corporation has ample jurisdiction and Regulation

16 gives ample power to the Corporation to initiate

proceeding for any lapse committed by the agent

including his fraudulent act or act of forgery for

terminating his appointment. We thus are of the

view that the word "fraud" used in Regulation 19 does

not only refer to fraud as found in the judicial

proceeding under Regulation 15(c) but shall also include

the action of the Corporation terminating the agency

on any fraudulent act of the agent. Thus in proceeding

under Regulation 16(1) also the Corporation after

considering the materials and after giving opportunity W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 21 :- can come to the conclusion regarding the act of fraud

committed by the agent and that can also form a basis

for forfeiting the commission under Regulation 19 . 14. Present is not a case of acquiring any

disqualification under Regulation 15 . Present is not a

case where any proceeding was initiated by the

Corporation under Regulation 16 for terminating agency

of the petitioner on account of any lapses or any acts of

fraud by the agent. Present is a case where

termination of agency was directed under Regulation

13 on the ground that petitioner did not complete the

business guarantee required of him under Regulation 9 during the agency year ending 31.10.1990. Relevant

extract of the order dated 09.11.1990 has already been

quoted above. 15. The core issue in this Writ Appeal centres

around the ambit, scope and jurisdiction of the

Corporation to take action to forfeit renewal W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 22 :- commission in exercise of the powers under Regulation 19. Regulation 19 for its ready reference is quoted

below: provided that in respect of an absorbed agent the

 provisions of clause (a) shall apply as if for the letters,

 figures and word "Rs.2 lakhs", the letters and figures

 "Rs.50,000" had been substituted. (2) Any commission paayble to an agent under

 sub-regulation (1) shall notwithstanding his death, be

 payable to his nominee or nominees or, if no nomination W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 23 :- is made or is subsisting, to his heirs so long as such

 commission would have been payable had the agent

 been alive. (3) In the event of the death of the agent while

 his agency subsists, any commission payable to him had

 he been alive shall be paid to his nominee, or, if no

 nomination is made or is subsisting, to his heirs, so long

 as the such commission would have been payable had

 the agent been alive, provided he had continually worked

 as an agent for not less than 2 years from the date of his

 appointment and polices assuring a total sum of not less

 than Rs.one lakhs effected through him were in full force

 on the date immediately prior to his death. (4) If the renewal commission payable under

 sub-section (1) or sub-regulation (2) or sub-regulation

 (3) falls below Rs.100 in any financial year (hereinafter

 referred to as the said financial year), the competent

 authority may, notwithstanding anything contained in the

 said sub-regulation, commute all commission payable in

 subsequent financial years for a lump sum which shall be

 three times the amount or renewal commission paid in

 the said financial year and on the payment of such lump

 sum to the agent or his nominee or heirs, as the case

 may be, no commission on the business effected through

 the agent shall be payable in the financial years

 subsequent to the said financial year."

Key words used in Regulation 19(1) are "in the event of

termination of the appointment of agency, except for W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 24 :- fraud, the commission on the premium received in

respect of the business secured by him shall be paid to

him if such agent......" Whether the words "except for

fraud" used in the first sentence are the words

referable to or related to termination of appointment of

an agent or it shall also include fraud de hors the

termination of appointment of an agent. 16. Learned counsel for the Corporation has

submitted that the words "except for fraud" which finds

place in Regulation 19(1) after the punctuation,

"comma", has no relation with the event of termination

of appointment of an agent and fraud can be found

out by an action taken by the Corporation even if

termination of agency was not on the ground of fraud. 17. Before we interpret the above provision, it is

useful to remind us of the cardinal principle of

interpretation which is known as literal interpretation.

The Apex Court in Harbhajan Singh v. Press Council W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 25 :- of India ([2002] 3 SCC 722) has laid down the

following in paragraph 9: Justice G. P. Singh in his celebrated work - Principles of

 Statutory Interpretation (Eighth Edition, 2001) states (at

 page 54) - The learned author states at another place (at page 74,

 ibid) that the rule of literal construction whereby the

 words have to be assigned their natural and grammatical

 meaning can be departed from but subject to caution. The

 golden rule is that the words of statute must prima facie

 be given their ordinary meaning. A departure is

 permissible if it can be shown that the legal context in

 which the words are used or the object of the statute in

 which they occur requires a different meaning. To quote,

 "such a meaning cannot be departed from by the Judges
 'in the light of their own views as to policy' although they
 can 'adopt a purposive interpretation if they can find in
 the statute read as a whole or in material to which they
 are permitted by law to refer as aids to interpretation an
 expression of Parliament's purpose or policy.' A modern
 statement of the rule is to be found in the speech of Lord
 Simon of Glaisdale in Suthendran v. Immigration Appeal
 Tribunal (1976 (3) All ER 611, 616) to the effect -
 'Parliament is prima facie to be credited with meaning
 what is said in an Act of Parliament. The drafting of W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 27 :- statutes, so important to a people who hope to live under
 the rule of law, will never be satisfactory unless Courts
 seek whenever possible to apply 'the golden rule' of
 construction, that is to read the statutory language,
 grammatically and terminologically, in the ordinary and
 primary sense which it bears in its context, without
 omission or addition. Of course, Parliament is to be
 credited with good sense; so that when such an approach
 produces injustice, absurdity, contradiction or
 stultification or statutory objective the language may be
 modified sufficiently to avoid such disadvantage, though
 no further." To the same effect is another judgment of the Apex

Court in State of H.P. v. Pawan Kumar ([2005] 4

SCC 350). The Apex Court referring to the basic

principle of interpretation of Statute held that statute

has to be construed in accordance with the plain, literal

and grammatical meaning of the words. Following was laid down in paragraph 8: A catena of subsequent decisions have followed the same

 line. It, therefore, becomes necessary to look to

 dictionaries to ascertain the correct meaning of the word

 "person". W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 29 :- 18. Taking words, phrases and sentences used in Regulation 19(1) it is clear that the words "except for

fraud" which find place in the very first sentence after

the punctuation, "comma" are preceded by the words

"in the event of termination of appointment of an

agent". Regulation 19(1) thus refers to event of

termination of appointment of an agent and when after

the punctuation, "comma" the words "except for

fraud" are used, the said denotes an interrelation to the

preceding words. Regulation 19(1) states that "in the

event of termination of appointment of agent" the

commission on the premium received in respect of the

business secured by him shall be paid to him on

fulfillment of certain conditions mentioned therein.

Thus the main substantive provision in Regulation 19(1) is for payment of commission to agent whose agency is

terminated. As noted above, Regulation 10 which deals

with payment of commission to agents contains a W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 30 :- provision i.e., Regulation 10(6) , that no commission

shall be payable to the agent after he has ceased to be

agent except as provided in Regulation 19 . Reading

Regulations 10(6) and 19 together, it is clear that Regulation 19 is a provision engrafted in the

Regulations providing for payment of compensation to

an agent after termination of the agency. Payment of

commission which is contemplated in Regulation 19(1) is the commission of the agent on the premium

received in respect of the business secured by him.

Thus, commission referred to is the commission which is

payable on the business already acquired by the agent.

The provision of payment of commission has been

made to reward the agent for the business he secured

for the Corporation which payment shall also continue

in future as and when renewal premium is received.

The said payment is with an exception, i.e., in case

when the agency is terminated on fraud, agent is W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 31 :- disentitled to receive the commission, thus the power

has been given to forfeit renewal commission when the

agency is terminated on the ground of fraud. The above

is the plain and literal interpretation of the words used

in Regulation 19(1) . Submission of learned counsel for

the Corporation that the word "fraud" used in Regulation 19(1) is not to be necessarily linked with

termination of appointment of agent cannot be

accepted. Termination of appointment of agent is an

event which is to happen for giving an occasion for

payment of commission on the business already

secured by the agent. Without there being termination

of agency, the question of payment on the business

already secured does not arise. The words "except

for fraud" had to confine and relate to termination of

agency. All the three words used in the first sentence

"except for fraud" have to be given its full meaning.

The word "except" denotes an exception to the earlier W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 32 :- phrase. Use of the word "fraud" clearly links the

termination of appointment of agent on fraud and it is

not possible to read the said words "except for fraud" 19. Regulation 19 deals with payment of

commission on discontinuance of agency. It do not

contemplate any separate proceeding. Regulation 16 which contemplated termination of agency for want of

certain lapses contains a provision that "provided that

the agent shall be given reasonable opportunity to

show cause against such termination. Regulation 19 does not contain any such provision nor Regulation 19 is set out in a manner to indicate that it contemplates a

separate proceeding. Regulation 19 is a power of the

Corporation to determine the commission on

discontinuance of agency and in any event the

Corporation is deciding not to pay commission on the

business of the agent on discontinuance of agency on W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 33 :- the ground of fraud, the said power can very well be

exercised at the time of terminating the agency. 20. Learned counsel for the Corporation in support

of his submission has placed reliance on the judgment of

the Delhi High Court in Mrs.Chandra Prabha Dorga v.

LIC of India (W.A. No.6926 of 2003), decided on

19.04.2004. The said case was with regard to

Regulations 15, 16 and 19. In the above case the

Corporation had issued a show cause notice on

05.10.2001 for termination of agency under Regulation

16(1)(b) and forfeiture of renewal commission under Regulation 19(1) . Petitioner's explanation was sought for

and agency was terminated under Regulation 16(1)(b) and renewal commission was forfeited under Regulation

19(1) by order dated 20.01.2002. It was challenged and

contention was raised that the case falls under Regulation 15(c) and there was no fraud as envisaged

under Regulation 15 . The said argument was repelled W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 34 :- and it was held that fraudulent act outside judicial

proceedings would also be actionable under Regulation

16(b) and it be open for the Corporation to treat the

same as a case of fraud for the purpose of Regulation

19(1) . Following observations were made by the Delhi

High Court: The above was a case where power under Regulations

16(1)(b) and 19(1) were exercised together. Renewal

commission was forfeited since the finding of fraud was

recorded by the Corporation under Regulation 16(1)(b) .

Learned counsel for the Corporation has also relied on

the decision in Indian Bank v. M/s.Sathyam Fibres

(India) Pvt. Ltd. ([1996] 5 SCC 550) for the

proposition that the authorities also possess power to

recall their judgments/orders if they are obtained by

fraud. It is useful to quote the following observations

made by the Apex Court in in paragraph 20: There cannot be any dispute about the above

proposition laid down by the Apex Court in the said

case. Present is not a case of recalling any

judgment or order by the Corporation. The above case

does not help the Corporation in any manner in the

present case. 21. Learned counsel for the Corporation further

placed reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court

in Sree Durga Distributors v. State of Karnataka W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 37 :- ([2007] 4 SCC 476) in support of the submission that

use of punctuation "comma" before the words "except

for fraud" makes the words "except for fraud" has been used expressly after the words "animal feed and

 feed supplements", which indicates that the Legislature

 intended to classify these two items as one

 class/category. Further, the Legislature intended to

 restrict that category by confining that category to

 processed commodity alone and that too for certain

 named animals. In the present case, we are concerned

 with cat feed and dog feed. Cat feed carries a fishy smell

 on account of processing. However, cat feed though

 processed is not put in Entry 5. Similarly, dog feed is also

 excluded from Entry 5. In the circumstances, we do not

 find any merit in the arguments advanced on behalf of

 the assessee." punctuation "comma" has been used after the words

"in the event of termination of appointment of an agent" 23. Next judgment relied on by the learned

counsel for the Corporation on Statutory Interpretation

is Union of India and others v. Raninder Singh

([2012] 12 SCC 787). The Apex Court in the said case

had occasion to interpret Section 52(f) of the Army Act,

1950. The Apex Court held that the two parts of Sec.52 (f) are disjunctive since there is 'comma' and

conjunction 'or' separating two parts of the class. It is

useful to quote paragraphs 11 and 25 of the judgment: 25. We accept the submission of Shri Tripathi

 that the two parts of Section 52 (f) are disjunctive, which

 can also be seen from the fact that there is a comma and

 the conjunction 'or' between the two parts of this sub-

 section, viz (i) does any other thing with intend to

 defraud and (ii) to cause wrongful gain to one person or W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 41 :- wrongful loss to another person. If the legislature wanted

 both these parts to be read together, it would have used

 the conjunction 'and'. As we have noted earlier in Dr.

 Vimla (supra) it was held that the term 'fraudulently' is

 wider than the term 'dishonestly' which however, requires

 a wrongful gain and a wrongful loss. The appellants had

 charged the respondents for acting with 'intent to

 defraud', and therefore it was not necessary for the

 appellants to refer to the second part of Section 52 (f) in

 the charge. The reliance by the Division Bench on the

 judgment in S.Harnam Singh (supra) to justify the

 conclusions drawn by it was clearly erroneous."

The above case was also on its own facts and Section

52(f) was set out by using conjunction 'or' between the

two parts. In the said background the Apex Court held

that if the Legislature wanted to read together both the

parts together, it would have used the conjunction

"and". Section 52(f) as quoted above clearly indicate

that both the classes were separated by the

punctuation "comma" and the conjunction 'or' and was

designated as a separate class. The above case also

do not in any manner help the Corporation. W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 42 :- 24. Learned counsel for the petitioner had placed

reliance on the judgment of the Calcutta High Court in Usha Chatterjee v. Life Insurance Corporation of

India (CDJ 2004 Calcutta HC 665). In the above case ,

the Corporation never alleged fraud against the

petitioner while terminating the appointment of the

petitioner as agent and payment towards commission

could not have denied. 25. Judgment of the Madras High Court has also

been relied by the learned counsel for the petitioner -

(O.A.Seshadri v. The Chairman and Managing

Director, LIC of India and Others - W.P. No.9980 of 995) decided on 01.07.2003. In the said case also

submission was made by the learned counsel for the

petitioner that relying of Regulation 15 , that in case of

termination of agency on the ground of fraud,

misappropriation, the same can be done only after a

finding was rendered by the criminal court and in the W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 43 :- absence of a finding of fraud by criminal court the

agency could not be terminated. In the above case show cause notice was issued as to why agency should

not be terminated under 8(3)(b) and (c), 16(1)(a) and (b)

read with Regulation 19(1) . Argument was rejected and

the Madras High Court held that Regulations 15, 16 and

19 are distinct. The following observations were made

by the Madras High Court: Corporation cannot invoke Regulation 16(1) (a and (b) of

 the Regulations to terminate the agency of the petitioner,

 since ought to have invoked only Regulation 15 . 26. There is one more reason due to which we are W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 45 :- not persuaded to accept the submission of the learned

counsel for the Corporation that under Regulation 19 the

Corporation can initiate separate proceeding for

imposing penalty of forfeiture of renewal commission in

event of termination of agency not terminated on the

ground of fraud which was detected subsequently. As

noted above, the words "except for fraud" are linked

and related to the factum of termination of appointment

of agent hence only when fraud is found while

terminating agency renewal commission can be

forfeited. 27. It is relevant to note that a similar claim

regarding payment of commission is disclosed in Regulation 11 . Proviso to Regulation 11 contemplated

that where the appointment of any person who was

acting on behalf of the Corporation as insurance agent is

terminated on or after 01.09.1971 but before the

published day except for fraud his heirs shall be paid an W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 46 :- amount which shall be equal to the gratuity. Regulation

11 is quoted below: Proceedings initiated by show cause notice dated

03.12.1994 and the consequent order dated

14.01.2005 are vitiated and liable to be set aside. The Writ Appeal is allowed and the judgment of the

learned Single Judge is set aside. Writ Petition filed by

the petitioner is allowed. Exhibit P4 dated 14.01.2005 is

set aside. Respondents are directed to pay the

renewal commission payable to the petitioner on the

premium received on the business secured by the

petitioner. Necessary renewal commission payable to

the petitioner shall be computed within a period of one

month from this day and shall be paid to be petitioner W.A. No. 47 of 2015 -: 50 :- within a period of further one month. Subsequent

renewal commission if any, shall also be paid to the

petitioner in accordance with law. Parties shall bear their costs. ASHOK BHUSHAN, Ag. C.J. A.M. SHAFFIQUE, JUDGE. vsv