1. It is an Appeal, under Section 57(1) of Information Technology Act,

 2000, read with Rule 3(1) of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal (Procedure)

 Rules, 2000, by Appellant Vodafone Idea Limited, against Connectwell

 Industries Private Limited and others, Respondent No.1 (Complainant

 of the Petition) ICICI Bank Limited - Respondent No.2, HDFC Bank

 Limited - Respondent No.3, IndusInd Bank Limited - Respondent No.4,

 RBL Bank Limited - Respondent No.5, Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited -

 Respondent No.6 and Unknown Persons, filed against Order/

 Judgment, dated 21 September 2019, passed by Learned Adjudicating

 Officer Shri S.V.R. Srinivas, IAS, Principal Secretary, Information

 Technology, Government of Maharashtra, in Complaint Case No. 30 of

 2014, dated 9 June, 2014 as amended on 14 December, 2016,

 whereby present Appellant has been directed to make compensation

 to the tune of Rs. 2,000,00/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Only) to Complainant. 2. Memo of Appeal contends that Appellant is a Company, registered

 under the Companies Act 2013, having its registered Office at Suman

 Tower, Plot No. 18, Sector 11, Gandhinagar - 382011, Gujarat with its

 Circle Office at Skyline ICON, 1st Floor, 86/92, Andheri-Kurla Road, 3 Marol Naka, Andheri (East), Mumbai-400059, being PAN India

 renowned Telecom Service Provider. 3. Under Scheme of arrangement between Idea Cellular Limited and

 Vodafone Idea Service Private Limited, with effect from August 31,

 2018, the name of Appellant was changed from Idea Cellular Limited

 to Vodafone Idea Limited. 4. Respondent No.1, Connectwell Industries Private Limited, represented

 through Mr Hitendra Hemmadi, is a Private Limited Company,

 engaged in a business of manufacturing of Electrical Terminal Blocks

 and Connectors, having its Office at D7, Phase 2, MIDC, Dombivili (E),

 Maharashtra-421024. 5. It had two current accounts, number 008805000245 and

 0088050003376 with ICICI bank Limited - Respondent No.2.

 Respondent No.1 is the subscriber of Vodafone Mobile No.

 ******9712, as a Company owned and paid number, in the name of

 Respondent No.1, got applied and issued by way of application form,

 signed by authorised representative, under the seal of Respondent

 No.1. This agreement is Annexure - G to memo of Appeal. 6. On 16 February 2014, a person claiming himself to be Mr Hitendra

 Hemmadi, visited the Vodafone store at Bhoj Mahal, Building No. C, 4 Plot No. 18, VN Purab Marg, Chembur, Mumbai-71 and requested for

 a new SIM Card for above Mobile Number, for and on behalf of

 Complainant, by presenting a signed request letter, on the Letter Head

 of Complainant. This was with an enclosure of a self-attested copy of

 Aadhar Card of Mr Hitendra Hemmadi's identification which is

 Annexure - H to memo and after due verification of the documents as

 per applicable norms and regulations, this request was accepted and a

 new SIM card was got issued by the Store on 16 February 2014, which

 was activated on the same day. After this request, in coming text

 message, on mobile number, were blocked for twelve (12) hours, from

 the time of request for a new SIM card was registered. Complainant

 had opted registered mobile number for having updates about any

 transaction along with registered email for the same and one-time

 password (OTP) was generated through registered mobile number as

 well as email address. 7. On 17.02.2014, there had been unauthorized transactions, to the tune

 of 20,55,000/- (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Fifty-Five Thousand Only) from

 the bank accounts of Complainant, maintained with Respondent No.2,

 of whom beneficiaries were unknown, who maintained their accounts

 in Respondent Nos. 3, 4, 5 and 6 Banks. Out of this Rs. 20,55,000/- 5 (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Fifty-Five Thousand Only), Rs. 4,88,000/-

 (Rupees Four Lakhs Eighty-Eight Thousand Only) had been reverted

 back to the account of Complainant, with another Rs. 10,00,000/-

 (Rupees Ten Lakhs only) transferred to Respondent No.1's account. In

 response of the request, made by Police personal of Police Station

 Manpada, Mumbai, Maharashtra, Appellant furnished the required

 information/ documents, under the cover of its letter dated

 26.03.2014. 8. In Para 6 of Complaint itself, Complainant -Respondent No.1 had

 stated that Mr Hitendra Hemmadi shared Respondent No.1's Bank

 accounts detail with his colleague Mrs. Anita Krushnamurti Rao and

 Mrs Nanda Shekhar Dongre, with a permission to operate above Bank

 accounts via the Mobile Number as also via Internet. Hence, it was ex-

 facie apparent that the Respondent No.1 wittingly shared the

 passwords of their bank account and other such sensitive and

 confidential bank details with at least two of these persons and this

 fact has been taken note by Learned Adjudicating Officer in its

 Impugned Judgment at Pages 22 and 23. This Complaint, U/s 43 read

 with 43 A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 , was got filed by

 Complainant - Respondent No.1, with Learned Adjudicating Officer. 6 Whereas, Information Technology Act was not applicable to the facts

of case of issuing a duplicate SIM card by Telecom Service Provider.

Because duplicate SIM did not contain any information which can be

termed as sensitive personal data or information. Hence, the matter in

issue was without jurisdiction of Learned Adjudicating Officer.

Impugned Order is non-reasoned, ex facie illegal, perverse, displaying

non-application of mind and against the fact and evidence on record.

The present dispute is a Telecom dispute, which falls outside the

scope and ambit of Information Technology Act . No cause of action

was established against the Appellant U/s 43 or 43 A of Information

Technology Act . The Appellant doesn't possess handle or deal with

sensitive personal data or information. The scope of reasonable

security practices and procedures U/s 43A of the said Act, doesn't

include subscriber verification at the time of issuing a duplicate SIM

Card. The Internet Banking guidelines, issued by Reserve Bank of India

(RBI), by way of various Regulations, with regard to Cyber Security

frame work, Customer Protection Circular, were not followed by

concerned Banks/ Respondents. Hence, this Appeal with a prayer for

setting aside Impugned Judgment and complaint. 9. This has been replied by Respondents, whereby, Respondent No.1 -

 Complainant has negated the contention of memo of Appeal with

 further reiteration of the contention of Complaint, made before

 Adjudicating Officer, wherein, specific allegation was that, due to

 negligence and lack of proper implementation of Reasonable Security

 Practices and Procedures, under the provisions of the relevant rules of

 the Act, Deficiency in Services, violation of guidelines of Reserve Bank

 of India, mainly Master Circular - Know Your Customer (KYC) norms,

 Anti-money Laundering Standard, Combating of Financing of

 Terrorism and Obligation of Banks under Prevention of Money

 Laundering Act, 2002 , by the Bank concerned, it had suffered the

 unauthorized transaction from its accounts and this was fumed and

 originated by change of SIM Card, resulting debar from having alert of

 transaction and One time password (OTP) for operating transaction

 from its Net Banking accounts. This Complainant was with its two

 current accounts in Bank Branch of ICICI Bank- Respondent No.2, since

 last twelve years and its authorised signatory used to transact online

 through Net Bank facilities with registered Mobile Number

 ******712, of Appellant Telecom Service Provider. On 17 February

 2014, at around 09.45 A.M, Complainant learnt about the 8 unauthorized transfer of funds from the Current Accounts through

 RTGS and Net Banking Delivery Channel in the tune of Rs. 20,55,000/-

 (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Fifty-Five Thousand Only) in sixteen (16)

 transactions from one account and two transactions from other one,

 detailed in the Complaint. And these transactions were with various

 mule accounts opened by fraudsters within 07.20 to 09.40 A.M i.e., 02

 hours and 20 minutes, in quick succession. And the pattern of this

 unauthorized transactions were in total variance with the normal

 transactions of the Complainant, which should have raised alerts in

 the system of Respondent No.1 and 2 as to possible suspicious

 activities. It was instantly contacted on 17 February, 2014 at 10.45

 A.M., with a complaint to Bank, Respondent No.2 wherein direction

 was to file complaint, and it was filed so. 10. On 16 February, 2014, Sunday, at around 06.30 till 06.45 P.M., the

 authorised signatory of the Complainant noticed that network of the

 Registered Mobile number was disconnected, and it was around this

 time that the duplicate SIM card was activated by fraudsters, which in

 turn, prevented the Complainant from receiving all alerts, including

 OTP from the Respondent No.2, during execution of 18 unauthorized

 transactions, including adding beneficiary accounts. Upon calling 9 Telecom Service Provider the disconnection and the request thereby

change and issue of duplicate SIM Card was apprised, whereas, no

such request nor any visit for having duplicate SIM Card was there, by

Complainant. The Telecom Service Provider, present Appellant, had

issued a duplicate SIM Card of the registered mobile number to

fraudsters, without cross checking the documents submitted by the

Complainant and it was negligent on its part. The conduct was in

violation of procedure laid down by TRAI, which has resulted in the

execution of the unauthorized transactions by the fraudsters. Forged

Letter head of Company, with forged signature of Company Officials,

with a fake Aadhar Card was filed with request and this was with no

verification or authentication. Hence, this transaction took place with

syphoning of Rs. 20,55,000/- (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Fifty-Five

Thousand Only) from the Complainant account under direct nexus

between blocking of registered Mobile Number of Complainant and

issuing a duplicate SIM Card to fraudsters. Instant Police Complaint as

well as this Complaint with Learned AO was got filed. Rs. 4,88,000/-

(Rupees Four Lakhs Eighty-Eight Thousand only) was reversed back to

the current account of Complainant. 11. This Appeal was replied by Respondent No.2, ICICI Bank, with same

 contention as was there before Adjudicating Officer. 12. This Appeal by Telecom Service Provider has been said to be against

 Complainant with a former party of these Banks i.e., the lapse on the

 part of Telecom Service Provider, has been said by Complainant and

 was held by Adjudicating Authority and this ICICI Bank is of no dispute

 with Telecom Service Provider. Rather, it had denied each and every

 allegation made by Appellant- Telecom Service Provider, with no

 liability of this Bank as has been held by Learned Adjudicating Officer. 13. Respondent No.5 had filed its counter with contention that it was

 with no Privity of Contract either with Appellant- Vodafone Limited or

 with Complainant nor there was any lapse on the part of this Bank. 14. The Rejoinder to all these objections has been filed by Appellant, with

 the same reiteration of memo of Appeal. 15. Heard Learned Counsel for both side and gone through material

 placed on record. 16. This Appeal is by Vodafone Idea Limited, challenging the order of

 Adjudicating Officer, whereby, Rs. 2,000,00/- (Rupees Two Lakhs only),

 has been ordered to compensate by this Telecom Service Provider to

 Complainant for unauthorized transaction, thereby syphoning of Rs. 11 20,55,000/- (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Fifty-Five Thousand Only) from two

 of the accounts of Complainant, being maintained by ICICI Bank. The

 other connected Appeals are by Banks. Hence, this Appeal is limited to

 that much extent, which relates to present Appellant Vodafone Idea

 Limited. 17. The Adjudicating Officer held that there was no proof with regard to

 lapse regarding maintaining standard Reasonable Security Practices by

 Officers of RBL Bank and ICICI Bank with regard to said transactions,

 whereas, the illegal transfer and thereby syphoning of money in the

 tune of Rs.20,55,000/- (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Fifty-Five Thousand

 Only) was held to be, because of issuance of duplicate SIM Card by

 Telecom Service Provider i.e., Appellant without observing Reasonable

 Security Practices. 18. The argument raised on the legal points by Learned Senior Counsel of

 Appellant is with regard to jurisdiction of this Tribunal, the dispute

 being a Telecom dispute, not within ambit of IT Act, 2000 , with no

 cause of action U/s 43A of this said Act. Appellant, being not in

 possession, handle or deal with sensitive personal data or information.

 Issuing of duplicate SIM vis a vis subscribers verification at that time, is

 not a Reasonable Security Practices and Procedure, required U/s 43A 12 of the IT Act . There is non-imposition or apportionment of liability

 over respective Banks. 19. All these Legal Issues have been raised by Telecom Service Provider in

 erstwhile decided Appeal CA No.5/ 2018 Vodafone Idea Ltd., Vs. Shri

 Sandeep Singhal & Anr. , coupled with CA No. 3/2018 Bank of India Vs.

 Shri Sandeep and Anr. , wherein all these Issues have been heard and

 finally decided by this Tribunal, against the Telecom Service Provider,

 holding the responsibility of Telecom Service Providers for its

 negligence of non-taking and implementing precautions, while

 maintaining Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures, as

 mandated by guidelines / Rules of 2011 in case of wrongful loss to the

 subscriber and under above facts Section 43A of IT Act, can also get

 attracted against the Telecom Service Provider. The plea that the

 lapses in verifying the bonafides and authenticity of the person,

 applying for a duplicate SIM, amount only to violation of CIF

 Procedure or KYC Procedure, cannot have any diluting effect upon the

 rider of Section 43A of IT Act. 20. In Paragraph 44 of the Judgment of above said Appeal, it has

 specifically been written- 21. This Tribunal, itself, in CA No. 6/2014, Vodafone India Ltd. Vs. Mr

 Prashant Mahadeorao Buradkar And Others, read with CA No. 7/2014,

 State Bank of India Vs. Mr Prashant Mahadeorao Buradkar And

 Another, vide its Judgment, dated 12.09.2024, has dealt, considered

 and propounded its Judgment, discussing all above legal arguments

 made by the same Learned Counsel, in those decided Appeals and had

 argued in present Appeal, negating the argument of Learned Senior

 Counsel for the Telecom Service Provider, present Appellant. 22. Hence, on above settled proposition of law, the legal arguments

 raised above, are of no help to Appellant. 23. On the fact, it is apparent that present Appellant had said before

 Learned Adjudicating Officer that Complainant's authorized signatory 14 submitted a signed request letter on the Letter head of the

 Complainant, alongwith enclosed self-attested copy of authorized

 signatory, Aadhaar Card for identification. Learned Adjudicating

 Officer has held that the undated letter on the alleged Letter head of a

 Complainant, filed on record, revealed that this undated letter was

 improper. The name, photo and address on the original Aadhaar Card

 of the Complainant's authorized signatory Shri Hitendra Hemmadi,

 does not match with the one alleged to be filed for replacement of

 SIM Card. More so, the verification with regard to request on

 alternate number was not got made at the time of issuing of duplicate

 SIM Card. 24. The finding of Learned Adjudicating Officer that the fraud cycle began

 with the fraudsters acquiring the personal information of the

 Complainant, then successfully obtaining duplicate SIM by submitting

 false documents and finally transferring them on from Complainant's

 account to various mule accounts was owing to issue of this duplicate

 SIM Card and there is no substance to deviate from the finding of

 Learned Adjudicating Officer. Learned Adjudicating Officer has

 imposed a very nominal compensation i.e., in the tune of Rs.

 2,000,00/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Only) against the alleged syphoning of 15 more than Rs. 20,000,00/- (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Only). Hence, the

 apportionment made by Learned Adjudicating Officer in response to

 degree of negligence is also proper. 25. Hence, this Appeal merits its dismissal. 26. Appeal is being dismissed with cost. ............................ (Justice Ram Krishna Gautam)
 Member
11.09.2025
/BN/