[1.0] This application is filed by the applicants under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure praying to
release them on regular bail, who are facing FIR, which was
initially registered under Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian
Penal Code as well as under Sections 66 C and 66 D of the
Information and Technology Act, 2000, which came to be
registered at C.R. No.11196040210039 of 2021 with Cyber
Crime Police Station, Vadodara City. [2.0] Brief facts of the case as alleged in the FIR are that
during the period as mentioned in the FIR, the first informant
was prompted from one 'App', bearing number as mentioned
in the FIR through whatsapp message, requesting him to
generate user ID as also the password over the link sent
through the 'App' offering him attractive commission on a
purchase through those user ID as also the password tempting Page 1 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

him to invest Rs.1,53,700/-, which was then transferred to the
account number as mentioned in the FIR opened with the ICICI
Bank in the name of Bruiser Technology Pvt. Ltd. Directors
whereof were the present applicants - accused. It is further
alleged in the FIR that after the aforesaid amount was
invested, no commission was ever offered. Initially some
meager amount was offered in return thereof to gain the
confidence of the first informant to gain more and more in the
said transaction. The first informant from his account kept
with HDFC Bank deposited Rs.83,700/-, from IDFC Bank,
deposited Rs.63,000/- and from Bank of Maharashtra deposited
Rs.7000/-, and threfore, in all Rs.1,53,700/- came to be
deposited by him. For withdrawal of the attractive
commission, he was asked to cross the next stage and in that
attempt the said amount deposited were transferred to the
aforesaid fictitious account opened in the name of Bruiser
Technology Pvt. Ltd., as aforesaid, whose Directors were
present applicants, who opened the said account in the Bank.
Initially, in a Police Station, under local application the
complaint was made and thereafter it was regularly registered
as the aforesaid FIR. [2.1] Pursuant to the registration of the aforesaid FIR, the
applicants came to be arrested on 24.09.2021. After the
arrest, investigation was carried out and concluded on
17.11.2021 and charge-sheet submitted to the competent
Court on 18.11.2021 against the present two applicants
wherein one Shashikumar R.S. - co-accused was shown to be
an absconding - accused. If charge-sheet paper is looked into,
it appears that it is nothing but a mockery of investigation into
such a serious fraud citing four witnesses, which includes, first Page 2 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

informant, Police Station Officer who recorded the FIR,
Investigating Officer and one Madhusudan A.M. Venkatesh,
who is owner of Brick Space, whose statement is not recorded,
who is alleged to have provided the virtual office space.
Surprisingly, the accused, who is shown to be absconding in
the charge-sheet filed against the applicants, who appears to
be the kingpin had applied for an order of anticipatory bail
before this Court and at the time of admitting the matter, this
Court issued rule on 26.10.2021 and made it returnable on
10.12.2021. The said Shashikumar R.S. assured the Court to
appear before the Police on 27.11.2021. Though Public
Prosecutor appeared on an advance copy, Investigating Officer
did not know about it. The appearance on 27.11.2021 before
the Police Station was to cooperate with the investigation.
However, on that day, the said accused did not appear before
the Police may be for whatever reason. It was never informed
to the Court on the subsequent occasion that under what
pretext he did not appear before the Investigating authority.
While making rule returnable and on the statement made by
that accused to appear before the Investigating Officer on a
particular date, he came to be protected. However, without
there being any order for again remaining present before the
Investigating Officer or direction from the Court, he
volunteered himself, who was shown to be absconding by the
Investigating authority, appeared and his statement
exonerating himself came to be recorded on 18.12.2021. The
matter was on board before the Court on 10.12.2021 where
the learned advocate representing that accused sought for
time, which was granted as a last chance and interim relief
came to be extended without disclosing to the Court either by
that accused himself or by the State and subsequent thereto Page 3 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

his statement came to be recorded on 18.12.2021. Based on
such statement exonerating himself and charge-sheet filed
against the present accused, which was nothing less than a
mockery of investigation, considering the material available
with the Court, that accused came to be granted an order of
anticipatory bail. [2.2] Not deterred, even that co-accused had filed a
quashing petition in the present FIR on the ground that now
dispute is amicably settled between the parties and on the first
date of hearing, even advocate on behalf of the first informant
appeared. It is another thing that Court did not quash the FIR
at the relevant time. [2.3] The investigation into this offence in a right
direction came to be initiated subsequent to the oral directions
recorded in the order directing the Investigating Officer to
remain present looking at the papers of charge-sheet, which
Investigating Officer has avoided number of times on one or
the other pretext being busy in the investigation in this offence
or other offence but by the time he appeared and when the
Supervising Officer could sense the seriousness of the offence
with the arrest of other accused, further charge-sheet has
come to be filed invoking conspiracy to the present offence.
Though it may be lacking in invocation of several other
offences to be invested by appropriate authorities under
different Acts like Companies Act, Prevention of Money
Laundering Act and so on, some material appears to have been
collected, possibly having some substance in what is asserted
in the FIR about the fraud committed by the accused named in
it and other persons. Despite investigation into other direction Page 4 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

is still going on, conclusion into the present offence uptill now
reached shows that it is a case of online cyber fraud, which is
not limited to dupe the first informant himself but several other
victims not only throughout the State of Gujarat but in others
parts of country as well. The reference of the material
collected during the course of investigation would be made in
the later part of this order. Suffice it to say that investigation
into this huge scam, which involves thorough investigation into
the incorporation of fictitious companies /Shell Companies,
submission of forged documents for the purpose, detailed
investigation into serious fraud committed by Shell Companies,
which may attract even the provisions of Money Laundering
Act as investigation revealed that the amount of nearly Rs.44
Crores out of Rs.60 Crores into the seven accounts opened in
the name of five fictitious Companies have gone outside the
country, some Central agency, who have all infrastructures
throughout the country, to investigate the same in a short
span of time, which otherwise local investigating authority is
restricted within stipulated time. [3.0] Mr. Ankit Shah, learned advocate for the applicants,
submitted that the applicants are arrested on 24.09.2021 and
since then they are in custody, and therefore, since now
supplementary charge-sheet is filed against other co-accused
where no further material except invoking Section 120B of the
Indian Penal Code is alleged, the applicants are required to be
released on bail. [3.1] He has further submitted that even the co-accused
Shashikumar R.S. with whom the applicants claim to be
working as interns as they intended to prosecute their studies Page 5 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

to become Chartered Accountant, were prompted to become
Directors for a short span during which in all seven accounts
were opened in their capacity as Directors for the five fictitious
Companies. Therefore, as such, for their involvement into such
huge scam, there is no material except they were made
Directors for a particular period and thereafter they resigned
and the period during which the FIR has come to be filed they
were no more Directors in the said Company, according to
them. He has further submitted that co-accused - Chartered
Accountant, Shashikumar R.S., has also settled the case qua
him with the first informant, and therefore, a quashing petition
with the consent of the first informant is already filed, which is
pending. Therefore, he has submitted that since there is no
material against the applicants and the maximum sentence as
provided in the offences alleged against them is seven years,
they are required to be released on bail. [4.0] Mr. Mitesh Amin, Senior Advocate, learned Public
Prosecutor, submitted that despite supplementary charge-
sheet filed against six of the accused subsequently arrested,
crucial investigation is still pending into the direction finding
out the beneficiaries over and above the present applicants
and other co-accused spread over in different parts of country,
and therefore, since prima facie involvement of the present
applicants are made out, for few months, they may be kept in
custody so that other relevant material, which may be against
the present applicants also and which can be utilized against
them if can be found out. In that view of the matter, he has
requested that the Court may not exercise discretionary
jurisdiction to grant bail to the applicants at present. closely related and cousins of the main accused - Shashikumar
R.S., Chartered Accountant, with whom they claim to be
interns and they are part and parcel of the conspiracy hatched
by them collectively from the incorporation of the fictitious
Companies based on forged documents and digital signatures
obtained in the name of different persons, may be as Directors,
received and downloaded in e-pass token, which were obtained
by co-accused - Chartered Accountant, Shahshikumar R.S.,
being 50 in number and downloaded by him, who misused and
mis-utilized those digital signatures for the purpose of
resignation of Directors and making new Directors alongwith
incorporation of the fictitious Companies based on forged
documents. He has further submitted that so far as the
applicants are concerned, investigation reveals so far that
they were Directors at the relevant time of five different Shell
Companies and in all seven Bank Accounts were opened
signing as Directors of those Shell Companies. He has further
submitted that within short span in those different Bank
Accounts of five Shell Companies, they accumulated Rs.60
Crores of rupees of different victims spread over the country,
statements of all of them could not be recorded because of
paucity of time to investigate the huge scam, which has
robbed off the country of its economy. He has further
submitted that the user ID and the password would be
provided to the account holders only, which is basically a
secret thing. The accused - applicants, who are Directors and
the account holders of the Company as Directors have to
account for utilization of such user ID and password for not
only accumulating but transferring every amount accumulated
in those fictitious accounts. It is further submitted that out of Page 7 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

those different accounts money has been transferred to other
90 different accounts, again in a Shell Companies, which is 90
in number. The said transactions, through different
Companies, appear to be endless and such transfer is either an
electronic transfer, online transfer, which require use of user ID
as also password. He has further submitted that for online
transfer an OTP would be generated and sent to the registered
mobile number of the account holder, and therefore, except
the applicants no one would be able to account for the same.
According to his submission, if that mobile number does not
belong to them, it is for them to explain whose mobile number
it is and why it was given for opening of an fictitious account in
the name of fictitious Company. It is further submitted that
part of money trail either directly or through accounts of co-
accused Shashikumar R.S. or his firm has gone to the present
applicants, and therefore, their involvement into the
conspiracy and the huge scam is established. Referring to
page 247 of the affidavit-in-reply, which is list of registered
mobile numbers for opening five bank accounts, which can be
seen from the record, reveals that at least for three mobile
numbers at local addresses of Bangalore when attempted to
be investigated, it is found to be registered in fictitious names
based on forged KYC, and therefore, it is submitted that while
opening bank account the applicants could not have furnished
such mobile numbers, without their involvement into the case,
as registered mobile numbers on which for every online
transactions one time password would be sent. [4.2] It is further submitted that the amount transferred
from the fictitious accounts are either through NEFT or RTGS
by way of online transaction and it has been done by Chinese Page 8 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

national and other persons stationed at different countries and
IP addresses of all those person outside the country and also in
the country are required to be collected and thorough
investigation into it is required more efficiently with other
different investigating agencies. It is further submitted that
this fraud of huge magnitude affecting the economy of the
country, for which the applicants are also responsible as active
participants in the fraud alongwith the co-accused
Shashikumar R.S., who is cousin of present applicants, appears
prima facie to be offences under Money Laundering Act as well
alongwith the offences under the Companies Act where the
provisions of sentence is more stringent than the present
Sections mentioned in the charge-sheet. However, before
invoking the same, investigation into it is by different agencies,
who have been informed about such huge scam and till then
when further investigation is still undergoing, it is submitted
that hearing of this application may be further deferred
awaiting the outcome of it. [4.3] For obtaining digital signatures even the mobile
numbers of the applicants or e-mail generated over the same
have been utilized. It is further submitted that for online video
verification as revealed from the statement of witnesses, they
have been duped to make such verification online offering
them job but as claimed by those witnesses. They have neither
applied for any digital signature nor they have consented for
becoming the Director into any Company. It is further
submitted that so far as grant of anticipatory bail to the co-
accused is concerned, either at the time when anticipatory bail
was granted, no material of present nature was either
available or presented before the Court. Not only that, an Page 9 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

opinion dated 05.03.2022 from the office of Public Prosecutor
is sent to the State Government for preferring cancellation of
anticipatory bail order granted in favour of the co-accused. In
such circumstances, according to his submission, even that
factor cannot be taken into consideration while determining
regular bail application of the present accused against whom
ample material is found and collected during the course of
investigation. He has further submitted that when prima facie
involvement is revealed, which is sufficient to deny them bail,
more particularly, when investigation is still continued, instead
for few months, it may be deferred. Referring to the complex
nature of investigation having large scale ramifications
throughout the country the Investigating Officer needs some
more time. If at this stage bail is granted, it would be against
the interest of the society as well, and therefore, he has
submitted that the application preferred by the applicants may
kindly be rejected. [5.0] Having heard learned advocate for the applicants as
also learned Public Prosecutor, one thing is certain that this is
not an offence of either a criminal breach of trust or cheating
as submitted by the learned advocate for the applicants. Here
is a case where online cyber fraud of huge magnitude is
committed with the active participation of the present
applicants alongwith his cousin brother, the co-accused -
Shashikumar, Chartered Accountant, duping different persons
to invest by generating user I.D. and password through a link
prompting them to deposit amount in it offering them either
job or attractive commission if purchase is made through that
account. As such, this FIR is filed by an individual, who is
duped of only Rs.1,53,700/- but investigation reveals that Page 10 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

there are several victims spread over throughout the country
from whom Rs.60 Crores have been obtained in such a
fictitious account opened and transferred to different other
shell Companies incorporated and operated by Shashikumar
R.S. with the help of the applicants as also other co-accused,
and therefore, prima facie, it does not appear to be merely a
case of cheating or criminal breach of trust as submitted by
the learned advocate for the applicants. [5.1] The applicants, who were Directors at the relevant
time got opened accounts in the name of Shell Companies
where they were Directors and in those accounts through
different transactions huge amount is deposited and then
siphoned off to other shell Companies only with their active
participation into the offence as user ID and password would
be offered to the account holders only and none else. As
claimed in the application since for opening bank account in
the name of the Company, presence of local Directors needed
and the promoter Directors could not go from Jarkhand, the
applicants were made Directors for opening of bank account
and within short span they resigned as Directors. [5.2] However, from the papers of investigation, it
appears that it is again a pretext and their deep involvement
into the offence, which is very clear when the person, who is
claimed to be promotor Directors, have been duped to make
some online video verification for the purpose of job and they
never obtained or received any digital signatures, which are
being used for resignations of promotor Directors and in place
the applicants are made Directors of the said Company for the
purpose of opening account with the Bank in their name. The Page 11 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

very incorporation of the Shell Company is also nothing but a
fraud as comes out from the statement of the Chartered
Accountant - Santosh D.N., who is said to have incorporated
the said Company. According to his statement, the digital
signatures appended to for incorporating the Shell Companies
in his name was digital signature of him, which was never
utilized by him but it is utilized by the Chartered Accountant -
Shashikumar R.S. - co-accused. As per the claim of the
applicants and the investigation reveal that the promotor
Directors resigned from the Company - Bruiser Technology Pvt.
Ltd and the present applicants were made Directors into the
said Company with a view to facilitate opening of a bank
account in the name of the Company. The Company came to
be incorporated, though fictitious, in the name of two promotor
Directors only. Generally, the Central Government shall
appoint the required number of Directors on resignation of
those Directors, who shall hold office till the Directors are
appointed by the Company in a general meeting. There
appears no such procedure followed either for incorporating or
for resignation or inducting any other Directors in place of two
promotor Directors, as claimed. Since a fictitious Company
was incorporated, there is no question of any Board of
Directors existing so as to facilitate resignation from the office
of the Directorship giving notice in writing to the Company.
Even if it is there, it is nothing but again an attempt to throw
dust in the eyes of the investigation as also the Court. If
everything is created under a fictitious name, even the so
called resignation can also be created by the very conspirators,
who have siphoned off huge amount running into crores of
rupees in the accounts of those five Shell fictitious Companies.
As stated earlier, all the victims, by now, could not have been Page 12 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

approached by the present Investigating Officer throughout the
country. The fact remains that the amount collected in the
said fictitious account of Shell Companies have been in turn
diverted to the other fictitious Companies and from there also
onward transfer to other countries. As mentioned in the
affidavit-in-reply filed by the Investigating Officer, report of IP
addresses of the electronic transfers made from those
accounts obtained from Amazon Service Pvt. Ltd. reveal the
user's locations in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan as also US. The
bank will furnish /allot user ID and password for the first time
to the account holders only. The present applicants are
account holders as Directors of a Shell Company - Bruiser
Technology Pvt. Ltd., and therefore, they only can account, to
whom they have forwarded their user I.D. and password to
operate the account or they are the persons who have
operated those accounts. The very fact that with the said user
I.D. and password several transactions are made is a proof of
their thick involvement in the deep rooted conspiracy to siphon
off hard earned money of citizens of India. As stated earlier,
the mobile numbers furnished to the concerned Banks for
opening of the accounts in the name of Shell Companies,
though were registered in India (in different States), but
subsequently there location was found in China or that
particular number was never found in operation. As stated
earlier, even three different mobile numbers, which were
furnished to the Bank for opening of an account were in the
name of fictitious persons, who could not be traced on the fake
addresses provided for obtaining such mobile numbers or sim
cards based on forged documents. It is surprising that the
investigating authority has not thought it fit to invoke the
offence of forgery into the offence when so many transactions Page 13 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

have been made based on forged documents in the name of
fictitious persons. Be that as it may, the fact remains that the
present is such a large scale conspiracy running into much
more figure than it was comprehended by the Investigating
Officer, which is yet to be thoroughly completed and without
the help of central agency, it is not likely to be over within a
reasonable time. This huge scam is beyond the imagination of
one and all. As submitted by the learned Public Prosecutor at
the very said registered addresses of the present five Shell
Companies, the investigation reveals that approximately 1900
plus Companies have been registered over the very said
addresses, which speaks about the magnitude of the scam
under the present offence. The complex nature of
investigation required, having vide ramification throughout the
country, and therefore, concluding investigation by the Police
Agency of a District, that too, within reasonable time is next to
impossible. [5.3] The clandestine activities of the conspirators of the
huge scam started from circulating whatsapp messages by
way of an app obtaining so called investment in the bank
accounts opened by the applicants as Directors of the fictitious
Company and in turn transferring it to other Shell Companies,
which are even spread abroad reflects the active participation
and connivance with each other by all the accused, including
the applicants, which cause loss running into crores of rupees
to several citizens of India and they do not deserve any
sympathy for the present. [5.4] The tall claim made by the applicants that since
they are studying in B.Com and want to pursue course of Page 14 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

Chartered Accountancy, they acted as interns with the
Chartered Accountant - Shashikumar R.S. - co-accused falls to
the ground when the investigation reveal that they are cousins
of that Chartered Accountant - Shashikumkar R.S. and the
applicants are still studying and have not completed even their
B.Com course. Not only that, from the address of one of the
applicants, Shashikumar R.S. and that applicant stays nearby.
Raising such claim is nothing but an attempt to divert the
investigation as also the Court in an incorrect direction. With
full knowledge and connivance of the present applicants,
money drained out of the Company, possibly used for some
other purposes through other resources cannot be ruled out. [5.5] The investigation reveals statement of two of the
witnesses - Chitransh Raj as also Shubam Kumar, which reveal
that through the brother of one of the co-accused, their
documents under pretext of offering job in Bangalore as also
their video was obtained under the pretext that due to covid
pandemic online verification is necessary based on which
digital signature is issued in their name, which were never
applied by them nor received by them. That statements
further reveal that they were shocked to know that they have
been shown as promoter Directors in 19 Shell Companies
registered on the address of Urban Desk. It is further revealed
that they were made Directors in Shell Companies without
their consent and knowledge and they came to know about
such things when their another friend, who was duped by the
co-accused - Shashikumar R.S. and his brother, received notice
under Section 207 of the Companies Act, 2013 from ROC Delhi.
Even those witnesses have also filed complaint to ROC,
Bangalore. There are other witnesses similarly situated Arvind, Page 15 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

Ravi Vijay, Guru Kiran. [5.6] Considering the overall nature of evidence collected
during the course of investigation so far, as all norms for
applying digital signature certificates and incorporating
Companies have been flouted only for the purpose of
committing fraud, no agency bothered even after it has been
brought to its notice by the investigating Officer intimating
them about the flouting other laws also. [5.7] The reliance placed on an order of anticipatory bail
granted in favour of the co-accused - Chartered Accountant,
Shashikumar R.S. by the applicants in support of their plea for
regular bail is misplaced for more than one reasons. Firstly,
the Investigating authority did not collect all these material,
which is on record right now. Banking upon only the first
chargesheet where only four witnesses cited, as aforesaid,
leaving no potential material, which is now at least collected
and in face of it, the order of anticipatory bail granted in favour
of that accused will deter this Court from considering the
same, more particularly, when it has been asserted that
regarding the order of anticipatory bail granted in favour of the
Chartered Accountant, Shashikumar R.S. co-accused an
opinion dated 05.03.2022 has been sent requesting for
cancellation of it to the State Government, which is pending
consideration. As submitted by learned Public Prosecutor, no
decision is yet taken thereof till 11.05.2022, I may not
comment upon that. Suffice it to say that there is ample
evidence not only against the present applicants but against
co-accused also as revealed from the papers of investigation,
and therefore, even on the ground of parity based on an order Page 16 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/18711/2021 ORDER DATED: 12/04/2022

of anticipatory bail, as aforesaid, cannot be entertained for
granting regular bail to the present applicants. Not only that,
the present applicants are having criminal antecedents of
similar nature as reflected from the affidavit filed by the
Investigating Officer before the Session Court objecting to
grant of regular bail to the present applicants. [5.8] In view of the fact that the applicants with the help
of other co-accused duped citizens and lured them to part with
their hard earned money either in lieu of getting job or earning
attractive commission if purchase is made through those
accounts, they were asked to open their accounts, their
activities appears to be on a large scale beyond
comprehension and these are only few FIRs, which appears to
have been filed by now only in two States. I see no reason to
entertain their bail application as while framing of the charge
the Court may frame appropriate charge based on papers of
investigation available with it despite they have not been
charge-sheeted for those offences by the Investigating
authority. Hence, the present application is rejected. Rule is
discharged. (UMESH A. TRIVEDI, J.)
siji Page 17 of 17 Downloaded on : Sat Apr 16 20:45:55 IST 2022