All these appeals are filed by different assessees belonging to the same family
and all the appeals are directed against the order of the Pr. Commissioner of the Income
Tax-10, Kolkata (hereinafter the 'Pr. CIT') dated 11.12.2018 passed u/s 263 of the
Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter the 'Act'), for the Assessment Year 2014-15. 2. Both the parties submitted that the issues arising in all these appeals and the
facts are identical and that they can be heard together and disposed off by way of this
common order. 3. The assessees are individuals and have e-filed their respective returns of income
for the AY 2014-15. All these assessees have claimed that they have derived income
from Long Term Capital Gains (hereinafter 'LTCG') (with STT) and had claimed
exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act. These assessees had entered into share transactions
through M/s. JRK Stock Broking Pvt. Ltd. The AO passed an order u/s 143(3) of the Act
in all these cases and accepted the claim of the assessees for exemption u/s 10(38) of 3 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. the Act. In this order the AO records that a letter u/s 133(6) of the Act was issued to
M/s. JRK Stock Broking Pvt. Ltd., for verification of the transactions of sale of shares and
that he had received a reply confirming the details filed by the assessee. The AO had
concluded that he had not found anything adverse in the claim of the assessee for
exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act. 3.1. The ld. Pr. CIT issued a show cause notice u/s 263 of the Act on 22.11.2018
proposing to revise the assessment order passed by the AO u/s 143(3) of the Act, on the
ground that the AO should have treated the LTCG earned by the assessees as bogus
credit and should have added back the entire credit u/s 68 of the Act, in view of the
investigation conducted by the Directorate of Investigation, Kolkata, which had resulted
in the unearthing of a huge syndicate of Entry Operators, stock brokers and money
launderers involved in providing bogus accommodation entries of LTCG. The ld. Pr. CIT
further mentions that it has come to light that, large scale manipulation has been done
in the market price of shares of certain companies listed in the Bombay Stock Exchange
by certain persons working as a syndicate, in order to provide entries of tax exempt
bogus LTCG, to large number of persons, in lieu of unaccounted cash and that the basic
object of this racket is to convert black money into white without payment of income
tax. 3.2. The assessees replied on 29.11.2018 stating that the assessees had filed all
necessary documents/evidences during the assessment proceedings to prove the
genuineness of the transactions, in response to notice u/s 143(2) and 143(2)(i) of the
Act before the AO. That the AO had made direct third party verification of the
transactions by issuing notice u/s 133(6) of the Act and found nothing adverse. Hence
the assumption that there was failure on the part of the AO to assess the income
correctly is not correct. He relied on a number of case laws for the proposition that the
claim for exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act has been correctly allowed. It was also
claimed that there is no specific evidence or adverse material against the assessee
which would implicate the assessee and that the allegations were general in nature. It
was also argued that powers u/s 263 of the Act cannot be invoked under these facts and
circumstances. I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. 3.3. The ld. Pr. CIT considered these statements and for the detailed reasons given in
his order rejected the contention of the assessees. He concluded as follows: (Emphasis ours) 4. Aggrieved, the assessee is in appeal before us. 5. The ld. Counsel for the assessee, Mr. Subash Agarwal submitted that the order
passed u/s 263 of the Act is bad in law, as the proceedings were initiated at the behest
of the AO and not by the Pr. CIT, as required by the Act. He pointed out to para 2 & 3 of
the order passed by the Pr. CIT u/s 263 of the Act, wherein it is clearly stated that the
proposal for revision was received from the AO. He relied on the decision of this Bench
of the Tribunal in the case of West Bengal National University of Juridical Science vs. CIT
in ITA No. 2643/Kol/2019 order dated 30.09.2020 for the proposition that proceedings
u/s 263 of the Act cannot be initiated at the instance of the AO. 5.1. The ld. Counsel for the assessee further submitted that the AO during the course
of assessment proceedings had made detailed enquiries by issuing notices u/s 133(6) of
the Act to the parties and only obtained confirmation and accepted the claim of the
assessee. He submitted that all bills and other evidences were furnished before the AO
during the course of original assessment proceedings and the AO after examining the
same has taken a positive view and that on these facts the Pr. CIT was wrong in
exercising his jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act. 5.2. He referred to para 5.12.4 of the order of the Pr. CIT, at page 13 of his order and
submitted that the Pr. CIT does not dispute that all details were filed before the AO and 5 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. that some judgements on this issue were in favour of the assessee and that he is
exercising his jurisdiction because the Revenue has not accepted such decisions and as
same are yet not settled in higher courts of law. 5.3. He vehemently contended that the Pr. CIT has not spelt out in his order, what
more the AO should have done during the course of scrutiny proceedings while passing
the original assessment order. He submitted that observations and submissions were
made by the Pr. CIT in his order without stating as to, what was the credible information
received and whether such information and documents have any relation to the
assessee and whether there was any proof that the assessee was involved in this scam
or racket. He submitted that general observations and statements are made in all the
cases, without any reference to any specific adverse material against the assessee. 5.4. Referring to the SIT Report, he submitted that certain directions were given to
SEBI in this report and no action was taken against anyone by any authority. That the
Pr. CIT has not brought out on record this SIT report, so as to enable the assessee to
rebut the presumption being drawn by the Pr. CIT against him/her based on this SIT
report. He distinguished the case laws cited by the Pr. CIT in his order. The ld. Counsel
for the assessee relied on the decision of the ITAT 'C' Bench in ITA No. 01 to
05/Kol/2019 and 13 to 15/Kol/2019 order dated 20.09.2019 in the case of M/s. Girish
Tikmani, HUF & Others and drew the attention of the Bench to page 3-11 of the order
and submitted that the order of the Pr. CIT, in the case on hand, is identical, word to
word, when compared from page 3 to 13 of this order. He submitted that this is just a
cut & paste job being done by ld. Pr. CIT in every case which proves total non-
application of mind. He vehemently contended that the ld. Pr. CIT clearly states that the
transactions are suspicious but orders that the entire sale consideration be added by
the AO u/s 68 of the Act. He submitted that it is well settled that additions cannot be
made, based on suspicion. He submits that all these cases are covered by the order of
the ITAT in the case of M/s. Girish Tikmani, HUF & Others (supra), both on facts and in
law. 5.5. He submitted that there is no adverse material against the assessee and that the
assessee was not confronted with any material or report of the Director General of
Income Tax (Investigation) and additions directed to be made by the Pr. CIT was based 6 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. only on suspicion and general statements and observations. He submitted that the order u/s 263 of the Act cannot be sustained under such circumstance. 5.6. The ld. Counsel for the assessee further submitted that, the Pr. CIT has not
conducted any enquiries or investigations on its own nor he has specified as to what
were the enquiries that were not done by the AO warrants direction of additions u/s 68 and u/s 69C of the Act. He prayed that the order u/s 263 of the Act be quashed. 6. The ld. D/R on the other hand vehemently controverted the submissions of the
assessee. At the first instance he submitted that Pr. CIT has observed that certain
decisions of ITAT are in favour of the assessee and such observations cannot be read as
if the Pr. CIT having conceded the issue. He pointed out that a number of decisions on
the issue on hand are against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue. 6.1. On the issue of the proposal being received from the AO for involving the power
of revision u/s 263 of the Act by the Pr. CIT, he argued that it is for the assessee to
furnish evidence that this proposal has emanated from the AO and that the Pr. CIT has
not applied his mind independently based on examination of records. He drew the
attention of the Bench to the show cause notice issued u/s 263 of the Act and submitted
that the ld. Pr. CIT has clearly stated that on examination of records he has come to a
conclusion that there is an error which is prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue, in
the order passed u/s 143(3) of the Act. The ld. CIT(DR) vehemently contended that,
penny stock scam is a well known scam and the entire country is aware of it and under
those circumstances, orders passed by the authorities cannot be struck down on
technical grounds. He submitted that in the case of West Bengal National University of
Juridical Science (supra) the letter of the AO to the Pr. CIT was produced by the assessee
and based on that evidence the Tribunal has come to a conclusion that the revisionary
proceedings were initiated at the instance of the AO. He submitted that no such
evidence was produced by the assessee in this case. He further submitted that Pr. CIT
takes the assistance of all the AOs, specifically when there is a large scam and the AOs in
these case were collecting information and passing on the information to the Pr. CIT and
that the Pr. CIT has examined this information and record and then only the revision
was initiated. That this was done only on the satisfaction of the Pr. CIT. I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. 6.2. On merits he submitted that the modus operandi of the scam and the manner in
which exemptions were claimed to convert black money into white, are in the public
domain and that he need not specifically argue these matters on merits. He submitted
that the AO while examination of the purchase bills produced before him has failed to
know that there is a time gap between the purchase and the date of payment, and
submitted that this is a highly suspicious circumstance. He submitted that the entire
family has indulged in these penny stock transactions. Referring to the case of Ritin
Lakhmani, he submitted that the purchase bill was dated 16.09.2011 and whereas the
payment was made only on 24.03.2012 i.e. after 6 months. He referred to Circular No.
SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-32/99 dated 14.09.1999 and submitted that off market
transactions were banned by S.E.B.I. and that the assessee should not have accepted
such off-market transactions. He further referred to the CBDT Circular No. 23/2019
dated 06.09.2019 for the proposition that, appeals can be filed in all penny stock
matters before ITAT, High Court and Supreme Court irrespective of the monetary limits.
He referred to the theory of preponderance of probabilities and submitted that the AO
in this case has failed to properly examine the claims of the assessee and has granted
exemption. He justified the directions of Pr. CIT requiring the AO to add the gross
receipts in the consequential order to be passed u/s 143(3) of the Act. 7. In his reply, the ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted that the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of CIT vs. S. Nelliappan [1967] 66 ITR 722 (SC) held that a legal ground
can be taken by any party at any stage of the case by way of argument. He submitted
that in India, the head of the family decides transactions to be done by all the family
members and hence it is not correct for the ld. D/R to find fault that all the members of
the family have purchased and sold shares. 7.1. He further submitted that various judicial authorities including Tribunal have in
numerous decisions held that off-market transactions are legal and have to be accepted.
He further submitted that the CIT(D/R) is trying to make out a new case by pointing out
to the purchase bills and the date of payment etc. when the AO and the Pr. CIT have not
found fault or raised any suspicion on this issue. He submitted that the special Bench of
Tribunal in the case of Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd. v. DCIT [2009] 313 ITR 263 (AT)
(Mumbai) (SB) has held that CIT(D/R) cannot build up a new case for the Revenue,
while defending an order. He prayed for relief. I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. 8. Rival contentions heard. On a careful consideration of the facts and
circumstances of the case, perusal of the papers on record and the case law cited, we
hold as follows. 9. The first issue is whether the ld. Pr. CIT has invoked his powers u/s 263 of the
Act, at the instance of the AO. Paras 2 & 3 of the order passed u/s 263 of the Act read as follows: (Emphasis Ours) 10. A perusal of the above shows that it was the AO had detected an error in the
assessment order and proposed to the Pr. CIT that the order passed u/s 143(3) of the
Act passed by the AO be revised u/s 263 of the Act by the Pr. CIT. These two paragraphs
do not state that the ld. Pr. CIT had on examination of the records initiated proceedings u/s 263 of the Act. The Pr. CIT has, after perusing the proposal of the AO, which was
before him along with the record, came to a prima facie conclusion and initiated
proceedings u/s 263 of the Act. Nowhere does the Pr. CIT state that he has examined the
record. 11. Though in the show cause notice, the ld. Pr. CIT states that "on examination of
records" errors were observed, the fact remains that a proposal from the AO along with
the record was received and was perused (not examined) and the revisionary powers u/s 263 of the Act was initiated by the ld. Pr. CIT. 12. The proposition of law on such facts has been discussed and applied by the
Kolkata 'C' Bench of the Tribunal in the case of M/s. Rupayan Udyog vs. Pr. CIT in ITA No.
1073/Kol/2012 for the AY 2005-06 order dated 28.11.2018. This judgement was
followed by the Kolkata 'A' Bench of the Tribunal in the case of The West Bengal
National University of Juridical Science vs. Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption ) in 9 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. held as follows: 8.1. The ld. CIT(E) initiated proceedings u/s 263 of the Act based on this proposal. The issue is
 whether such initiation of proceedings is valid in law. 8.2. The Kolkata 'C Bench of the Tribunal in the case of M/s. Rupayan Udyog (supra) has held as
 follows:- Similar view was taken by the Kolkata Bench of the Tribunal in the following cases: 9. Applying the proposition of law laid down in this regard in the case law referred above , to
 the facts of the case on hand, we have to hold that the order passed u/s 263 of the Act is bad in
 law for the reason that, the jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act, was invoked by the ld. CIT(E) based
 on the proposals of the Assessing Officer. This is not permissible in law." 13. Applying the propositions of law laid down in these case law to the facts of the
case we have to uphold the contention of the assessee. As the initiation of the
proceedings u/s 263 of the Act were based on the proposal of the AO and not on the
examination of the record by the Pr. CIT, the order passed u/s 263 of the Act is vitiated.
Even if the proposal had come from the AO, the ld. Pr. CIT should have independently
examined the record. 14. We now take up the issue on merits. This Bench of the Tribunal in the case of
M/s. Girish Tikmani, HUF and Others and Manisha Tikmani vs. ITO (supra) had
adjudicated a case with identical facts. In fact, words and paragraphs written by the ld.
Pr. CIT in those orders are, verbatim the same as the wording of the Pr. CIT in this order.
For ready reference para 3 page 3 to 11 of that order where para 5 to 5.12.3 and para 6
of the 263 order were extracted, so that it can be compared with the paragraph
numbers and words that are in this impugned order of the Pr. CIT. They are the promoters of the Penny Stock companies who own the initial share
holding mostly in the name of paper companies either in afresh IPO or purchased from
the shareholders of a dormant company. They are usually a group of 4-5 individuals
who a/so referred to as Syndicate Members and are sometimes also referred to as
Operators. Their nominees are directors of the Penny Stock companies which are
indirectly controlled by them through such dummy directors. The whole operation is
managed by them. They get the net commission income from the transactions. Their
name, however. seldom appears in the actual transactions. ii) The Brokers

They are registered brokers through whom shares are traded both online and off-line.
They are fully aware of the nature of transactions and get paid a commission over and
above their normal brokerage. Some of the big broking houses are also indulging in
such transactions mostly through sub-brokers. The brokers often compromise on KYC
norms of the clients to help the Syndicate Members. Even some very renowned brokers
were involved in the process through their sub-brokers provided them large numbers
of terminals through which these sham transactions took place. iii) The Entry Operators. They are individuals who control a large number of paper/shell companies which are
used for routing cash for the transactions as well as buying and selling shares during
the process of price rigging. They work for commission to be paid by the Syndicate
Members. To cut costs sometimes in smaller operations, the same group performs
more than one function. The Transaction

 The transaction involves three legs. i) Purchase of shares by the beneficiary: In this the beneficiary sold a fixed
 number of shares at a nominal rate. The price and the number of shares to be
 purchased are decided on the basis of the booking taken and the value up to
 which price would be rigged This leg of the transaction mostly is off-line. This
 is done to save on SIT using the loophole in Section 10(38) of the IT Act which
 places restriction of trading by payment of SIT on sale of shares and not
 purchase. ii) Price rigging: After the shares have beef) purchased by the beneficiaries,
 the syndicate members start rigging the price gradually through the brokers.
 In these transactions the volume is almost negligible. Two fixed brokers who
 are in league with the Syndicate buy shares at a fixed time and at a fixed 12 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. price. These low volume transactions are managed through paper
 companies/HUF or dummy persons maintained and controlled by the entry
 operators. iii) Final sale by the beneficiary: This is done after the beneficiary has already
 held the shares for one year. The period of holding may be a little more to
 match the amount of booking with the final rate. The beneficiary is contacted
 either by the Syndicate member or the Broker (Middle man) through whom
 the initial booking was done. The beneficiary provides the required amount of
 cash which is routed through some of the paper companies of the entry
 operator and is finally parked in one company which will buy the share from
 the beneficiary. When everything is ready a specific date and time as well as
 price is fixed by the operator on which the transaction is made. The paper
 company issues cheque to the beneficiary. The beneficiary claims the receipt
 as exempt income U/S 10(38) of the I. T.Act, 1961. The above modus operandi has been confirmed by all entry operators in their
statements at the time of proceedings U/S 132/133A/131 on various dates. 5.3 AII such penny stock companies were identified from the financial accounts of the
companies, trading patterns of the scrips, statement of share brokers, statement of
entry operators, statement of promoters of the companies and the post search/survey
inquiries. The list contains the name of the scrip Unno Industries Ltd. having scrip code
519273which is the traded scrip in the instant case. Some common features of these
companies, as specified in the said report, are: for one year or little more and, thus, their gain on sale of such shares would be eligible
for exemption from Income Tax. (11) An analysis of share buyers of some of LTCG companies was done to see if there
were common persons/entities involved in buying the bogus inflated shares. It was
noted that there were many common buyers [which were paper companies. (12)The prices of the shares fall very sharply after the shares of LTCG beneficiaries
have been off loaded through the pre-arranged transactions on the Stock Exchange
floor/portal to the Short Term Loss seekers or dummy paper entities. (13) The shares of these companies are not available for buy/sell to any person outside
the syndicate. This is generally ensured by way of synchronized trading by the
operators amongst themselves and/or by utilizing the mechanism of upper/lower
circuit of the Exchange. 5.4 From the material available on record, it is proved beyond doubt that the alleged
transactions and the scheme of colourable device mentioned in Para 5.lto 5.3 supra, is
bogus and the entire sale consideration being bogus cash credit should have been
added back U/S 68 of the Act and taxed at Maximum Marginal Rate. The benefit of
(indexed) cost of acquisition should also not have been allowed to the assessee. In this
regard, reference is made to the provisions of Sec 68 of the Act as reproduced below : about the nature and source thereof or the explanation offered by him is not,
 in the opinion 'of the [Assessing] Officer, satisfactory, the sum so credited may
 be charged 10 income-tax as the income of the assessee of that previous year: SEBI has recently barred more than 250 entities, including individuals and
 companies, from the securities market for suspected tar: evasion and
 laundering of black money through stock market platforms. In one such
 instance price of a scrip rose from ₹ 10.20 to ₹ 489 in 150 trading days - a rise
 of 4694%. The SIT obtained the background details of these cases and studied
 them. A typical pattern is observed to be followed in such cases. • A company with very poor financial fundaments in terms of past income or
 turnover is able to raise huge capital by allotment of Preferential allotment of
 shares is made to various entities. • There is a sharp rise in price of scrip once the preferential allotment is done.
 This is normally achieved through circular trading of shares among a select
 group of companies. These groups of companies often have common
 promoters/directors. • The scrips with thus artificially inflated price are offloaded through
 companies whose funding is provided by the same set of people who want to
 convert black money into white. There is an urgent need for having an effective preventive and punitive action is such
matters to prevent recurrence of such instances. We recommend the following measures in this regard:- determined price, at a pre-determined time and to pre-determined buyers with the
help of accommodation entry providers under the shell of director, share broker etc. to
bring his unaccounted income into the regular books of accounts in the form of claim
of exemption u/s 10(38) of the Action LTCG. I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. 5.6.6 A microscopic view of all such data suggests that there is a common pattern in
the trading of all such scrips and the pattern is that they represent a bell shape in their
trading. It means first, their prices start from a low range, then it rises rapidly, stays
there for a while and then it decreases more rapidly. Thus the trading pattern
represents a Bell Shape[ Annexure A and made part of the order]

5.6.7 Ultimately SEBI vide its order dated 29.03.2016 has restrained some
persons/entities from accessing the securities market and buying, selling or dealing in
securities, either directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever, till further direction.
The list includes the name of Unno Industries Ltd besides various other companies. 5.7 Further, in light of the above chronology of events, the Income Tax Authorities are
entitled/ obliged to look into the details of the documents produced and make
thorough investigation into the transactions to find out the actual motive behind it. It
is well settled principle of law as laid down by the Honble Apex Court in the case of Sumati Dayal vs. CIT (214 ITR 801) (SC) that the true nature of transactions have to be
ascertained in the light of surrounding circumstances. It needs to be emphasized that
standard of proof beyond reasonable doubt has no applicability in determination of
matters under taxing statutes. It is also well settled that tax authorities are entitled to
look into surrounding circumstances to find out the reality of the transaction by
applying the test of human probability. This was the principle laid down by the Hon
'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs. Durga Prasad More 82 ITR 540 (sq. Reference
may also be drawn to the ratio of the Judgment by Hon'ble High Court of Bombay in
the case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain v. Principal Commissioner of Income-tax-l,
Nagpurre ported in [2018} 89 taxmann.com 196 (Bombay). It was held therein by
their Lordships that where the assessee had purchased shares of penny stocks
companies at lesser amount and sold such shares at much higher amount within a
short time and had not tendered cogent evidence to explain as to how shares in an
unknown company had jumped to such higher amount in no time, said transactions
were attempt to hedge undisclosed income as Long term Capital gain. 5.8 As discussed above, the claim of receipt of sale proceeds of the scrip of M/s Unno
Industries Ltd.ofRs.53,63,5181-was found to be an accommodation entry of LTCG
earned by the assessee, being the beneficiary. It is clear that the unaccounted money of
the assessee was brought back in the books through bogus LTCG. As per the show
cause notice issued, the assessee was asked to submit details of commission paid in this
regard. However, the assessee is silent on this issue in the written submissions filed. It
was confessed 'by several entry operators, share brokers, exit operators, etc. in the
course of search/survey proceedings conducted by the Investigation Wing of the
Department that they had received commission from the beneficiaries in lieu of such
accommodation entries. Based on their statements, it would be justified to conclude
the payment of commission to entry operators, brokers, etc. @ 5% of such
accommodation entry. Considering the above, it is concluded that the assessee must
have incurred expenditure of Rs. 2,68,176/- [5% of Rs. 53,63,518-] to obtain the above
said accommodation entry. In view of the above, the unexplained expenditure of Rs.
2,68,1761- also needs to be added back U/S 69C of the Act (taxable at the rate 0[30%
as provided U/S 115BBE). 5.9 Reference is also drawn to the judicial pronouncement of the Apex Court in the case
of N.K.Proteins Ltd. v. Deputy, Commissioner of Income-tax SPECIAL LEAVE TO
APPEAL(C) NO.769 OF 2017 JANUARY 16, 2017, as reported in [2017] 84 taxmann.com
195 (SC), wherein the High Court's decision to add back the entire bogus purchase as
per the fictitious invoices debited to trading account holding that percentage
disallowance of bogus purchases goes against principle of Sec 68 and 69C of the Act,
was upheld by the Apex Court. 5.10 It is imperative on the part of the Assessing Officer to examine each and every
transaction and finally to assess correct income of the assessee. In this case, the 17 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. assessment order was passed without arriving at the logical conclusion on the
corroborative material, available at the disposal of the AO. 5.11 In this connection it is pertinent to note that the failure on the part of the
Assessing Officer to make an enquiry on a relevant issue/point would render the
assessment erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the revenue as decided in the
following cases by various courts: - Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd. v. CIT : 243 ITR 83 -CIT vs. Max India Limited : 268 ITR 128 (P&H) [affirmed in 295 ITR 282 (SC)] - CIT v Kwality Steel Suppliers Complex: 395 ITR I (SC) - CIT vs. Amitabh Bachchan: 384 ITR 200 (SC) -. CIT v. Hindustan Lever Ltd 343 ITR 161(Bom.) - CIT v . Vikas Polymers: 341 ITR 537 (Del.) - CIT v. Sunbeam Auto Ltd. : 332 ITR 167 (Del) -CIT vs. Development Credit Bank Ltd : 323 ITR 206 (Born.) - Vimgi Investment (P) Limited: 290 ITR 505 (Del) - Hari Iron Trading Co. vs. CIT: 263 ITR 437 (P&H) - CIT vs. Gabriel India Limited : 203 ITR 108 (Born). 5.12.1 In connection wit the submission of the assessee, received on 03.12.2018, it may
be reiterated that in order to provide clarity on the issue of "erroneous in so far as it is
prejudicial to the interest of the revenue", a new Explanation has been inserted to
clarify that an order passed by the Assessing Officer shall be deemed to be erroneous in
so far as it is prejudicial to the interests of the revenue, if in the opinion of the Principal
Commissioner or Commissioner: This amendment takes effect from 1-6-2015. " • Raimandir Estates (P) Ltd Vs PCIT [2017] 77 taxmann.com 285 (SC)/(2017)
 245 Taxman 127 (SC) wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has dismissed SLP
 against High Court's ruling that where assessee with a small amount of
 authorised share capital, raised huge sum on account of premium, exercise of
 revisionary powers by Commissioner opining that this could be a case of
 money laundering was justified. 5.12.3 Thus in the instant case, it can be summarised that the aforesaid twin
conditions of rendering an assessment erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to the
interests of the revenue, are met since: 6. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and in the light of the
aforesaid decisions of Hon'ble Supreme Court and Hon'ble High Court and in
accordance with the amendment made to Section 263 of the Act with effect from
01.06./.015, I hold that the impugned assessment order dated 29.07.2016 passed by
the A.O. is erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to the interests of revenue. Therefore,
after giving the assessee an opportunity of being heard, that the impugned assessment
order dated 29.07.2016 is quashed with the directions given in this order separately. 7. Accordingly, in view of the facts and circumstances of the case as stated above, and
also respectfully following the judgments cited above, particularly that in the cases of
Sanjay Bimalchand Jain (supra), M/s. VamaSundari Investment (Delhi)(P) Ltd (supra)
and that of N. K. Proteins (supra), I am of the considered view that it is deemed fit and
appropriate in the interest of justice to add back the entire sale consideration of the
bogus penny stock shares, amounting to Rs53,63,518/-unexplained cash credit u/s 68 19 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. of the Act. Further, the quantum of unexplained expenditure on account of commission
 payment to the tune of 2,68,176/- is also liable to be added back u/s 69C of the Act.
 Accordingly, I direct the AO to re-assess.the income of the assessee for the relevant AY
 2014-15 on the issue as discussed above." 15. The ld. Pr. CIT has simply cut and pasted para 5 to para 5.12.3 and also para 6
from the orders he had passed u/s 263 of the Act from the order of the Pr. CIT passed u/s 263 of the Act in the case of M/s. Girish Tikmani & Others. Only in para 7, the
quantum of addition, or the figures of addition have varied from case to case. This
shows that the same general observations and reasons have been given by the ld. Pr. CIT
in all cases where he took action u/s 263 of the Act, in cases where there was a claim of
deduction u/s 10(38) of the Act on LTCG and where the claim was accepted by the AO. 16. Based on this "cut and paste" reasoning, the ld. Pr. CIT has directed the AO to
make additions u/s 68 of the Act of the entire sale consideration received by each of the
assessees on the sale of shares, as well as addition u/s 69C of the Act, of an assumed
commission payment u/s 69C of the Act. No evidence is brought on record except for
stating generalities. SIT recommendations were cited, but these do not have any
reference to these assessees. This, in our view cannot be a ground for the Pr. CIT to give
specific directions to the AO to make certain additions. The assessee is not confronted
by any adverse material. No reference has been made to any specific adverse material.
When the assessee is not confronted with any material no amount can be directed to be
added by the ld. Pr. CIT, on the basis of suspicion, or material in the public domain on
the general modus operandi adopted in such cases. It is necessary for the ld. Pr. CIT to
have conducted his own enquiries, collected adverse material and confronted the
assessee with such adverse material, consider the replied and only after following the
principles of natural justice, he could have directed the additions in question against the
assessee. Additions cannot be made based on general reasoning or some supposed
material in the public domain which was never brought on record. Such direction is
arbitrary and has to be struck down as bad in law. 17. The AO in this case has called for details and thereafter made enquiries with the
parties by issuing notices u/s 133(6) of the Act. Only on receiving replies from third
parties, the AO came to a conclusion that he could not find any discrepancy in the claim
of the assessee for exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act. The Pr. CIT has not pointed out as 20 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. to what was the deficiency in these enquiries of the AO and as to what are the further
enquiries the AO should have done. 18. The ld. D/R had stated that orders were passed by various authorities including
ITAT on this issue, and that decisions were in some cases in favour of the assessee and
in some cases in favour of the Revenue. The AO had taken a possible view, after making
his enquiries and admittedly this view is supported by some judicial decisions. The ld.
Pr. CIT has not specified as to what was the nature of enquiry that the AO has failed to
do, nor he has stated the extent of enquiry that was required to be done in such cases
and when he has not conducted any enquiries himself, no addition can be directed
based on "cut and paste" reasoning from orders of other assessees that additions should
be made u/s 68 and 69C of the Act. In our view, such conclusion by the ld. Pr. CIT is not
in accordance with law. It would have been another matter, had the ld. Pr. CIT restored
the issue to the file of the ld. AO for fresh adjudication in accordance with law after
giving the assessee adequate opportunity of being heard. This was not done. 19. In our view all these cases are squarely covered by the judgement of this Bench
of the Tribunal in the case of M/s. Gitsh Tikmani, HUF and Others (supra) where from
para 8-10 held as follows: 25. In Max India Ltd. (3 Supra), reiterated the view in Malabar Industrial Co.Ltd. (2
Supra) and observed that every loss of Revenue as a consequence of an order of the
Assessing Officer cannot be treated as prejudicial to the interests of the Revenue. For
example, when an Income Tax Officer adopted one of the courses permissible in law
and it has resulted in loss of revenue; or where two views are possible and the Income
Tax Officer has taken one view with which the Commissioner does not agree, it cannot
be treated as an erroneous order prejudicial to the interests of the Revenue, unless the
view taken by the Income Tax Officer is unsustainable in law. On the facts of that case, Sec.80HHC(3) as it then stood was interpreted by the Assessing Officer but the Revenue
contended that in view of the 2005 Amendment which is clarificatory and
retrospective in nature, the view of the Assessing Officer was unsustainable in law and
the Commissioner was correct in invoking Sec.263 . But the Supreme Court rejected the
said contention and held that when the Commissioner passed his order disagreeing
with the view of the Assessing Officer, there were two views on the word "profits" in
that section; that the said section was amended eleven times; that different views
existed on the day when the Commissioner passed his order; that the mechanics of the
section had become so complicated over the years that two views were inherently
possible; and therefore, the subsequent amendment in 2005 even though retrospective
will not attract the provision of Sec.263 . 26. In Vikas Polymers (4 Supra), the Delhi High Court held that the power of suo motu
revision exercisable by the Commissioner under the provisions of Sec.263 is supervisory
in nature; that an "erroneous judgment" means one which is not in accordance with
law; that if an Income Tax Officer acting in accordance with law makes a certain
assessment, the same cannot be branded as "erroneous" by the Commissioner simply
because, according to him, the order should have been written differently or more
elaborately; that the section does not visualize the substitution of the judgment of the
Commissioner for that of the Income Tax Officer, who passed the order unless the
decision is not in accordance with the law; that to invoke suo motu revisional powers
to reopen a concluded assessment under Sec.263 , the Commissioner must give reasons;
that a bare reiteration by him that the order of the Income Tax Officer is erroneous in
so far as it is prejudicial to the interests of the Revenue, will not suffice; that the
reasons must be such as to show that the enhancement or modification of the
assessment or cancellation of the assessment or directions issued for a fresh
assessment were called for, and must irresistibly lead to the conclusion that the order
of the Income Tax Officer was not only erroneous but was prejudicial to the interests of
the Revenue. Thus, while the Income Tax Officer is not called upon to write an
elaborate judgment giving detailed reasons in respect of each and every disallowance,
deduction, etc., it is incumbent upon the Commissioner not to exercise his suo motu
revisional powers unless supported by adequate reasons for doing so; that if a query is
raised during the course of the scrutiny by the Assessing Officer, which was answered
to the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer, but neither the query nor the answer were 22 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. reflected in the assessment order, this would not by itself lead to the conclusion that
the order of the Assessing Officer called for interference and revision. 27. In Sunbeam Auto Ltd. ( 5 Supra), the Delhi High Court held that the Assessing
Officer in the assessment order is not required to give a detailed reason in respect of
each and every item of deduction, etc.; that whether there was application of mind
before allowing the expenditure in question has to be seen; that if there was an inquiry,
even inadequate that would not by itself give occasion to the Commissioner to pass
orders under Sec.263 merely because he has a different opinion in the matter; that it is
only in cases of lack of inquiry that such a course of action would be open; that an
assessment order made by the Income Tax Officer cannot be branded as erroneous by
the Commissioner simply because, according to him, the order should have been
written more elaborately; there must be some prima facie material on record to show
that the tax which was lawfully exigible has not been imposed or that by the
application of the relevant statute on an incorrect or incomplete interpretation, a
lesser tax than what was just, has been imposed. In that case, the Delhi High Court held
that the Commissioner in the exercise of revisional power could not have objected to
the finding of the Assessing Officer that expenditure on tools and dies by the assessee, a
manufacturer of Car parts, is revenue expenditure where the said claim was allowed
by the latter on being satisfied with the explanation of the assessee and where the
same accounting practice followed by the assessee for number of years with the
approval of the Income Tax Authorities. It held that the Assessing Officer had called for
explanation on the very item from the assessee and the assessee had furnished its
explanation. Merely because the Assessing Officer in his order did not make an
elaborate discussion in that regard, his order cannot be termed as erroneous. The
opinion of the Assessing Officer is one of the possible views and there was no material
before the Commissioner to vary that opinion and ask for fresh inquiry. 28. In Gabriel India Ltd. (6 Supra), the Bombay High Court held that a consideration of
the Commissioner as to whether an order is erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to
the interests of the Revenue, must be based on materials on the record of the
proceedings called for by him. If there are no materials on record on the basis of which
it can be said that the Commissioner acting in a reasonable manner could have come
to such a conclusion, the very initiation of proceedings by him will be illegal and
without jurisdiction. It held that the Commissioner cannot initiate proceedings with a
view to start fishing and roving inquiries in matters or orders which are already
concluded; that the department cannot be permitted to begin fresh litigation because
of new views they entertain on facts or new versions which they present as to what
should be the inference or proper inference either of the facts disclosed or the weight
of the circumstance; that if this is permitted, litigation would have no end except when
legal ingenuity is exhausted; that to do so is to divide one argument into two and
multiply the litigation. It held that cases may be visualized where the Income Tax
Officer while making an assessment examines the accounts, makes inquiries, applies
his mind to the facts and circumstances of the case and determines the income either
by accepting the account or by making some estimate himself; that the Commissioner,
on perusal of the record, may be of the opinion that the estimate made by the Officer
concerned was on the lower side and left to the Commissioner he would have estimated
the income at a figure higher than the one determined by the Income Tax Officer; but
that would not vest the Commissioner with power to reexamine the accounts and
determine the income himself at a higher figure; there must be material available on
the record called for by the Commissioner to satisfy him prima facie that the order is
both erroneous and prejudicial to the interests of the Revenue. Otherwise, it would
amount to giving unbridled and arbitrary power to the revising authority to initiate
proceedings for revision in every case and start re-examination and fresh inquiry in
matters which have already been concluded under law. 29. In M.S. Raju (15 Supra), this Court has held that the power of the Commissioner
under Sec.263(1) is not limited only to the material which was available before the
Assessing Officer and, in order to protect the interests of the Revenue, the 23 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. Commissioner is entitled to examine any other records which are available at the time
of examination by him and to take into consideration even those events which arose
subsequent to the order of assessment. 30. In Rampyari Devi Saraogi (21 Supra), the Commissioner in exercise of revisional
powers cancelled assessee's assessment for the years 1952-1953 to 1960-61 because he
found that the income tax officer was not justified in accepting the initial capital, the
gift received and sale of jewellery, the income from business etc., without any enquiry
or evidence whatsoever . He directed the income tax officer to do fresh assessment
after making proper enquiry and investigation in regard to the jurisdiction. The
assessee complained before the Supreme Court that no fair or reasonable opportunity
was given to her. Supreme Court held that there was ample material to show that the
income tax officer made the assessments in undue hurry; that he had passed a short
stereo typed assessment order for each assessment year; that on the face of the record,
the orders were pre-judicial to the interest of the Revenue; and no prejudice was
caused to the assessee on account of failure of the Commissioner to indicate the results
of the enquiry made by him, as she would have a full opportunity for showing to the
income tax officer whether he had jurisdiction or not and whether the income tax
assessed in the assessment years which were originally passed were correct or not" 31. From the above decisions, the following principles as to exercise of jurisdiction by
the Commissioner u/s.263 of the Act can be culled out: tax Officer adopted one of the courses permissible in law and it has resulted in loss of
Revenue: or where two views are possible and the Income tax Officer has taken one
view with which the Commissioner does not agree, it cannot be treated as an
erroneous order prejudicial to the interests of the Revenue, unless the view taken by
the Income-tax Officer is unsustainable in law. c) To invoke suo motu revisional powers to reopen a concluded assessment under Sec.263 , the Commissioner must give reasons; that a bare reiteration by him that the
order of the Income Tax Officer is erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to the interests
of the Revenue, will not suffice; that the reasons must be such as to show that the and
must irresistibly lead to the conclusion that the order of the Income Tax Officer was
not only erroneous but was prejudicial to the interests of the Revenue. Thus, while the
Income Tax Officer is not called upon to write an elaborate judgment giving detailed
reasons in respect of each and every disallowance, deduction, etc., it is incumbent upon
the Commissioner not to exercise his suo motu revisional powers unless supported by
adequate reasons for doing so; that if a query is raised during the course of the
scrutiny by the Assessing Officer, which was answered to the satisfaction of the
Assessing Officer, but neither the query nor the answer were reflected in the
assessment order, this would not by itself lead to the conclusion that the order of the
Assessing Officer called for interference and revision. e) The Commissioner cannot initiate proceedings with a view to start fishing and
roving inquiries in matters or orders which are already concluded; that the
department cannot be permitted to begin fresh litigation because of new views they
entertain on facts or new circumstance; that if this is permitted, litigation would have
no end except when legal ingenuity is exhausted f) Whether there was application of mind before allowing the expenditure in question
has to be seen; that if there was an inquiry, even inadequate that would not by itself 24 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. give occasion to the Commissioner to pass orders under Sec.263 merely because he has
a different opinion in the matter; that it is only in cases of lack of inquiry that such a
course of action would be open; that an assessment order made by the Income Tax
Officer cannot be branded as erroneous by the Commissioner simply because,
according to him, the order should have been written more elaborately; there must be
some prima facie material on record to show that the tax which was lawfully exigible
has not been imposed or that by the application of the relevant statute on an incorrect
or incomplete interpretation, a lesser tax than what was just, has been imposed. g) The power of the Commissioner under Sec.263 (1) is not Commissioner is entitled to
examine any other records which are available at the time of examination by him and
to take into consideration even those events which arose subsequent to the order of
assessment. We now examine the following judgments on this issue:- CIT cannot direct reconsideration on this ground but only when the order is erroneous.
An order of remit cannot be passed by the CIT to ask the Assessing Officer to decide
whether the order was erroneous. This is not permissible. An order is not erroneous,
unless the CIT hold and records reasons why it is erroneous. An order will not become
erroneous because on remit, the Assessing Officer may decide that the order is
erroneous. Therefore CIT must after recording reasons hold that the order is
erroneous. The jurisdictional precondition stipulated is that the CIT must come to the
conclusion that the order is erroneous and is unsustainable in law. It may be noticed
that the material which the CIT can rely includes not only the record as it stands at the
time when the order in question was passed by the Assessing Officer but also the record
as it stands at the time of examination by the CIT. Nothing bars/prohibits the CIT from
collecting and relying upon new/additional material/evidence to show and state that
the order of the Assessing Officer is erroneous. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX vs. J. L. MORRISON (INDIA) LTD. 366 ITR As regard
the submission on behalf of the Revenue that power under Section 263 of the Act can
be exercised even in a case where the issue is debatable, it was held that the case of CIT
vs. M. M. Khambhatwala was not applicable. The observation that the Commissioner
can exercise power under Section 263 of the Act even in a case were the issue is
debatable was a mere passing remark which is again contrary to the view taken by the
Apex Court in the case of Malabar Industrial Company Ltd. & Max India Ltd. If the
Assessing Officer has taken a possible view, it cannot be said that the view taken by
him is erroneous nor the order of the Assessing Officer in that case can be set aside in
revision. It has to be shown unmistakably that the order of the Assessing Officer is
unsustainable. Anything short of that would not clothe the CIT with jurisdiction to
exercise power under Section 263 of the Act. CIT vs. M. M. Khambhatwala reported in
198 ITR 144; CIT vs. Raison Industries Ltd. reported in 288 ITR 322 (SC), not
applicable; Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd. v. CIT reported in 243 ITR 83, relied on. (Para 72) As regard the third question as to whether the assessment order was passed by the
Assessing Officer without application of mind, it was held that the Court has to start
with the presumption that the assessment order was regularly passed. There is
evidence to show that the assessing officer had required the assessee to answer 17
questions and to file documents in regard thereto. It is difficult to proceed on the basis
that the 17 questions raised by him did not require application of mind. Without
application of mind the questions raised by him in the annexure to notice under Section 142(1) of the Act could not have been formulated. The Assessing Officer was
required to examine the return filed by the assessee in order to ascertain his income
and to levy appropriate tax on that basis. When the Assessing Officer was satisfied that
the return, filed by the assessee, was in accordance with law, he was under no
obligation to justify as to why was he satisfied. On the top of that the Assessing Officer
by his order dated 28th March, 2008 did not adversely affect any right of the assessee
nor was any civil right of the assessee prejudiced. He was as such under no obligation
in law to give reasons. The fact, that all requisite papers were summoned and 26 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. thereafter the matter was heard from time to time coupled with the fact that the view
taken by him is not shown by the revenue to be erroneous and was also considered
both by the Tribunal as also by us to be a possible view, strengthens the presumption
under Clause (e) of Section 114 of the Evidence Act. A prima facie evidence, on the
basis of the aforesaid presumption, is thus converted into a conclusive proof of the fact
that the order was passed by the assessing officer after due application of mind. Meerut Roller Flour Mills Pvt. Ltd. vs. C.I.T., ITA No. 116 /Coch/ 2012; CIT vs. Infosys
Technologies Ltd. , 341 ITR 293 (Karnataka); S.N. Mukherjee vs. Union of India , AIR
1990 SC 1984; A. A. Doshi vs. JCIT , 256 ITR 685; Hindusthan Tin Works Ltd. Vs. CIT , 275
ITR 43 (Del), distinguished. ( Paras 90-92, 102) COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX vs.
SOHANA WOOLLEN MILLS 296 ITR 238 (P&H HC) A reference to the provisions of s.
263 shows that jurisdiction thereunder can be exercised if the CIT finds that the order
of the AO was erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of Revenue. Mere audit
objection and merely because a different view could be taken, were not enough to say
that the order of the AO was erroneous or prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue.
The jurisdiction could be exercised if the CIT was satisfied that the basis for exercise of
jurisdiction existed. No rigid rule could be laid down about the situation when the
jurisdiction can be exercised. Whether satisfaction of the CIT for exercising jurisdiction
was called for or not, has to be decided having regard to a given fact situation. In the
present case, the Tribunal has held that the assessee had disclosed that out of sale
consideration, a sum of Rs. 1 lakh was to be received for sale of permit. If that is so,
there was no error in the view taken by the AO and no case was made out for invoking
jurisdiction under s. 263 . COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX vs. LEISURE WEAR EXPORTS LTD. 341 ITR 166 (Del)
The prerequisite to the exercise of suo motu jurisdiction under s. 263 by the CIT is that
the order of the AO is erroneous insofar as it is prejudicial to the interest of the
Revenue. Two conditions are to be satisfied, namely, (i) the order of the AO sought to
be revised is erroneous; and (ii) the error committed by the AO in the order is
prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue. Both these conditions are to be satisfied
simultaneously. It is also well-settled principle that provisions of s. 263 would not be
invoked merely to correct a mistake or error committed by the AO unless it has caused
prejudice to the interest of the Revenue. If an order is based on incorrect assumption of
facts or on incorrect application of law or without applying the principles of natural
justice and without application of mind, it would be treated as erroneous. Likewise, the
expression "prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue" is of wide import and is not
confined to loss of tax. If due to an erroneous order of the AO the Revenue is losing tax
lawfully payable by a person, it would be certainly prejudicial to the interest of the
Revenue. The power of revision is not meant to be exercised for the purpose of
directing the AO to hold another investigation without describing as to how the order
of the AO is erroneous. From this it also follows that where the assessment order has
been passed by the AO after taking into account the assessee's submissions and
documents furnished by him and no material whatsoever has been brought on record
by the CIT which showed that there was any discrepancy or falsity in evidences
furnished by the assessee, the order of the AO cannot be set aside for making deep
inquiry only on the presumption and assumption that something new may come out.
For making a valid order under s. 263 it is essential that the CIT has to record an
express finding to the effect that order passed by the AO is erroneous which has caused
loss to the Revenue. Furthermore, where acting in accordance with law the AO frames
certain assessment order, same cannot be branded as erroneous simply because
according to the CIT, the order should be written more elaborately.-- Malabar
Industrial Co. Ltd. vs. CIT (2000) 159 CTR (SC) 1 : (2000) 243 ITR 83 (SC), Gee Vee
Enterprises vs. Addl. CIT 1975 CTR (Del) 61 : (1975) 99 ITR 375 (Del), CIT vs.
Seshasayee Paper & Boards Ltd. (2000) 242 ITR 490 (Mad), CWT vs. Prithvi Raj & Co.
(1991) 98 CTR (Del) 216 : (1993) 199 ITR 424 (Del) and J.P. Srivastava& Sons
(Kanpur) Ltd. vs. CIT (1978) 111 ITR 326 (All) relied on. (Paras 6 & 7) In the entire order emphasis laid by the CIT is that in respect of four
issues mentioned by him, no queries were raised by the AO. On this premise, though it is 27 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. observed that there was no application of mind on the part of the AO and the AO has
not recorded any reasons to justify the omission to consider the said facts, the CIT does
not take the said order to its logical conclusion which was the prime duty of the CIT in
order to justify exercise of power under s. 263 . There is not even a whisper that the
order is erroneous. Even if it is inferred that non-consideration of the issues pointed
out by the CIT would amount to an erroneous order, it is not stated as to how this
order is prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue. The penultimate paras of the order,
at best, contain the observations that the AO was satisfied with making flimsy
additions which were deleted by the CIT(A). There is not a whisper as to how this order
was prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue. That apart, the approach of the Tribunal
in discarding the observation of the CIT about not making proper inquiries in respect
of the said four issues is also justified and without blemish. (Paras 12 to 14) First comment of the CIT was in respect of finished goods in the
closing stock. The CIT found that these were to the tune of Rs. 5.28 crores. According to
the CIT, when the total turnover of the assessee was Rs. 6.13 crores, the AO should have
satisfied himself by calling for more details as to how there was closing stock of such a
magnitude of Rs. 5.28 crores. Thus, the CIT has not doubted the statement of finished
goods in the closing stock furnished by the assessee. He has only remarked that there
should have been a deeper probe by calling for more details. This is neither here nor
there, when one keeps in view the ingredients of s. 263 . (Para 15) Insofar as the insurance claim is concerned, the CIT observed that the
assessee had shown receivable on this account to the tune of Rs. 1.21 crores but no
details had been furnished. The AO had also not made any inquiries. In the detailed
discussion on this aspect, the Tribunal has observed that insurance claim was lodged
for the goods lost in transit. The assessee at that time had merely filed a claim with the
insurance company. This claim had not been approved as the insurance company had
neither accepted the same nor given any assurance for making payment. Therefore, no
income had "accrued" which could be taxed. The Tribunal rightly held that ordinarily
the income is said to have accrued to a person when he acquires the right to income
and this should be enforceable right, though actual quantification or receipt may
follow in due course. The mere claim to income without any enforceable right cannot
be regarded as an accrued income for the purpose of IT Act . (Para 16) Coming to the claim under s. 80HHC , it was totally uncalled for on the part
of the CIT to say that the AO did not make requisite inquiries because of the simple
reason that the AO had, in fact, declined and rejected this claim of the assessee. If the
AO himself disallowed the deduction claimed by the assessee on this account under s.
80HHC, one fails to understand what further inquiries were needed by the AO. (Para 17) Lastly, the observations of the CIT are in respect of the income of Rs. 1.61
crores shown by the assessee on account of variation in exchange rate. The CIT has
only observed that in the immediate previous year no such gain was shown and
therefore, it needed examination by the AO. However, the moot question would be
examination for what purpose ? It is an income shown by the assessee. Whether the CIT
was of the opinion that there was no such income or he was nurturing an impression
that income on this account as shown was lesser ? There is no such indication in the
order. The CIT also does not at all state as to what was the reason for doubting the
income offered by the assessee. Even if it is found that part of such income was claimed
as deduction under s. 80HHC , no benefit enured to the assessee on this account as
claim under s. 80HHC was fully disallowed by the AO. It is not at all observed as to how
the order of the AO on this account was erroneous and further as to how it was
prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue. Thus, order of the CIT was rightly set aside
by the Tribunal. In the case on hand the ld. CIT finds fault with the AO for not invoking
Rule 8D while making disallowance u/s 14A . The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case
of Maxop Investments Ltd. Vs CIT (supra) held that the AO cannot proceed to
determine the amount of expenditure incurred in relation to exempt income without
recording a finding that he is not satisfied with the correctness of the claim of the 28 I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. assessee. This is a condition precedent while rejecting the claim of the assessee, with
 regard to incurring of expenditure or no expenditure in relation to exempt income. The
 AO will have to indicate cogent reasons for the same and Rule 8D comes into play only
 when the AO records a finding that he is not satisfied with the assessee's method. In the
 case in hand the AO has not made any such recording of satisfaction and has accepted
 the disallowance made u/s 14A by the assessee. In such circumstances it is not open
 for the ld. CIT to come to a conclusion that the AO should have invoked Rule 8D,
 without himself recording the satisfaction that the calculation given by the assessee in
 its disallowance made suo moto u/s 14A is not correct. Coming to the other expenses
 claimed, the ld. CIT has simply collected information after raising queries and has not
 given any finding whatsoever that there is an error made by the AO or that the
 circumstances was such that would require and warrant further inquiry or
 investigation. No error in the assessment order has been pointed out and it is not
 stated as to how prejudice was caused to the revenue. The finding that the AO had
 failed to properly scrutinise the above aspects does not give powers to the ld. CIT to
 revise the assessment u/s 263 of the Act. Making rowing enquiries is not a finding of an
 error. Assessments cannot be set aside for fresh enquiries unless a specific error is
 pointed out at not making proper enquiry cannot be equated with no enquiry. In view
 of the above we quash the order passed u/s 263 of the Act and allow the appeal of the
 assessee. 12. In the result the appeal of the assessee is allowed" I.T.A. Nos. 41 to 47/Kol/2019
 Assessment Year: 2014-15
 Ritin Lakhmani & Others. 20. In view of the above discussion and respectfully following the propositions of
 law laid down by the Kolkata 'C' Bench of the Tribunal in the case of M/s. Gitsh Tikmani,
 HUF and Others (supra), we hold that the order passed u/s 263 of the Act is bad in law
 in the cases of all the assessees before us. The directions for the additions as well as the
 order passed u/s 263 of the Act in all these cases are quashed. 21. In the result, all the appeals filed by the assessees are allowed. Kolkata, the 13th November, 2020. 1. Ritin Lakhmani, Pravesh Kumar Lakhmani, Gopichand Lakhmani, Reeta Lakhmani,
 Jaikishan Lakhmani, Rachit Lakhmani & Ravish Lakhmani, C/o Subash Agarwal &
 Associates, Advocates Siddha Gibson, 1, Gibson Lane, Suite 213, 2nd Floor, Kolkata-
 700 069. 2. Pr. Commissioner of Income Tax-10, Kolkata. 3. CIT(A)- , Kolkata. 4. CIT- 5. CIT(DR), Kolkata Benches, Kolkata. (sent through mail)

 True copy
 By order

 Assistant Registrar
 ITAT, Kolkata Benches