A.K. SIKRI, J. Two FIRs are the subject matter of these appeals. One FIR

 No. 12 of 2013 dated August 01, 2013 is under Sections 406 , 420 , 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ( IPC ) and Section 13(2) of the

 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (PC Act ) has been registered Signature Not Verified against the appellants herein as well as some other persons. Digitally signed by SUSHIL KUMAR RAKHEJA Date: 2018.11.12 Second FIR No.14 of 2013 dated October 03, 2013 is under Section
17 :25:31 IST
Reason: 2) During the pendency of these proceedings, investigation was

 completed. On the day judgment was pronounced by the High

 Court, the chargesheets were filed in the Court of Special Judge.

 After the filing of the said chargesheets, the appellants have also

 filed Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 135 of 2017 in this Court seeking

 quashing of these chargesheets. Both these proceedings were

 clubbed and heard together which we propose to dispose of by this

 common judgment. Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 2 of 53 3) Appellant No. 1 is a Cricket Association of Himachal Pradesh which

 was initially registered as a Society under the Societies Registration

 Act, 1860 vide Registration Certificate dated June 08, 1990. On

 September 15, 2001, appellant No. 1 made an application for

 allotment of land to develop and construct the world class cricket

 stadium and consequently, the Commissioner-cum-Secretary

 (Education) granted permission for transfer of land to the Himachal

 Pradesh Youth Services and Sports Department with certain

 conditions. A lease deed dated July 29, 2002 was executed

 between appellant No.1 and respondent No. 1 through Director,

 Himachal Pradesh Youth Services and Sports Department for the

 said land at Village Mouja and Tehsil Dharamshala, District Kangra

 for construction of an international cricket stadium which was duly

 constructed. On July 14, 2005, a not for profit company in the name

 of Himalayan Players Cricket Association was incorporated under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956. Name of this company was

 changed to Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association on August 31,

 2005. Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 3 of 53 4) Purusant to a proposal to host international cricket matches at

 Dharamshala, the International Cricket Council inspected the cricket

 infrastructure being developed at Dharmashala by appellant No. 1

 and, inter alia, observed that the quality of accommodation left much

 to be desired. Need for some more facilities and hotel

 accommodation of desired quality was specifically stressed. 5) Having regard to this report, the appellants decided to construct a

 club house on the leased land. There was also a parcel of idle land

 in the middle of the land allotted for the stadium. Appellant No.1

 towards this end made a request to the Director, Youth Services and

 Sports for allotment of additional land adjacent to the stadium

 admeasuring 720 square metres, vide its letter dated July 03, 2008.

 Since it was Gram Panchayat land, consent thereof was also

 needed for its allotment to the appellant No.1. Appellant No.1, thus,

 approached the Gram Panchayat. Pursuant to meetings between

 the office bearers of appellant No. 1 and Gram Panchayat, members

 of Uparali Dhari Development Division, Dharamshala, the said Gram

 Panchayat issued no objection for allotment of the land. Proposal of

 appellant No. 1 for allotment of additional land was mooted with the Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 4 of 53 authorities as well. Respondent No. 1 vide letter dated November

 16, 2009 took up the matter with the ACS-cum-FC Revenue to the

 Government of Himachal Pradesh for approval to lease out

 government land in Mohal Kand Mauja Khanyara, Tehsil

 Dharamshala, District Kangra, measuring in 3-28-06 hectare in

 favour of appellant No. 1. Respondent No. 1 granted approval to

 lease out the aforesaid land in favour of appellant No. 1 vide letter

 dated November 16, 2009 which was conveyed vide letter dated

 November 18, 2009. As a result, lease deed was executed between

 appellant No. 1 and respondent No. 1 for lease of the said land

 situated at Mohal Kand Mauza Khanyara, Tehsil Dharmashala. 6) Club house was constructed at the stadium premises at

 Dharamshala under the name and style of “Aveda HPCA Club

 House”. Completion Certificate was issued on March 10, 2011 and

 was certified complete in all aspects as per approved plan of the

 Executive Officer, Municipal Council, Dharamshala. The Town and

 Country Planning Department, Dharamshala also issued no

 objection certificate dated March 15, 2011 for use of part of the

 infrastructure of cricket stadium as club house for cricket activities.

 Respondent No. 1 also approved the tariff for availing the Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 5 of 53 accommodation facilities of the club house vide its letter dated

 September 08, 2011. 7) The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) granted permission

 to the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association to convert itself from a

 "not for profit" society to a "not for profit" company during its annual

 general meeting held on September 19, 2011. A majority of cricket

 associations throughout the country have been converting

 themselves from a not for profit society to a not for profit company

 registered under the Companies Act, 1956 in order to ensure better

 and transparent management of their affairs. Realising that unless world class accomodation was available

 for the teams playing at the stadium and the officials concerned

 accompanying such teams, the venue at Dharamshala that was

 being painstakingly developed by the appellant No. 1 from its own

 funds would be grossly underutilised and the State would lose out in

 hosting cricket matches, appellant No. 1 and its office bearers began

 working out a method to construct a world class motel for such

 purposes. Appellant No. 1 realized that if the use of the same was

 restricted only to usage during match days for use of teams and Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 6 of 53 their officials, the same would not be commercially viable. As the

 terms of the lease may not be technically wide enough to cover this

 allied infrastructure being developed for the game of cricket, vide its

 letter dated December 24, 2011, appellant No. 1 wrote to the

 respondent to request it to permit commercial activity on the said

 land on even non match days and amend the lease terms

 accordingly. The above letter was forwarded by the District

 Magistrate to the Principal Secretary (Revenue), Government of

 Himachal Pradesh and the Principal Secretary (Revenue),

 Government of Himachal Pradesh issued no objection for execution

 of a supplementary lease enabling commercial activity on the

 additional land at Kandi provided that the lease money was charged

 in accordance with the Lease Rules, 2011. A supplementary lease

 deed was executed between the appellant No.1 and the State of

 Himachal Pradesh enabling use of the additional land commercially.

 Necessary permissions for development on the said land were

 obtained including for commercial hotel. The hotel constructed

 under the name and style of “The Pavilion” obtained registration with

 the Tourism Department of the State and Tariffs, etc. were also fixed

 by the said Department on September 26, 2012. In the meantime, Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 7 of 53 on September 22, 2012 resolution was passed by the appellant No.

 1 company to take over the assets and liabilities of the society.

 Agreement dated October 01, 2012 was also executed between the

 Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (the society) and Himachal

 Pradesh Cricket Association (the Company) to enable the Society to

 convert itself into a Company. Accordingly, the Society was

 converted into a Company and the Himachal Pradesh Cricket

 Association stood converted from a society to a not for profit

 company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 and the

 Registrar of Companies was informed of the same in due course. 8) Within a couple of months, from the aforesaid developments, there

 was a change of political executive in the State of Himachal Pradesh

 pursuant to the elections of legislative assembly. According to the

 appellants, with the change of political power, tirade against the

 appellants started by the new Government. In fact, even during the

 election campaign, the Congress (I) had published a ‘Congress

 Chargesheet’ wherein serious allegations were levelled against the

 appellants. The appellants department sprung into action and

 started seeking information from the appellants on various aspects,

 though this information was already available with the State Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 8 of 53 Government. A formal FIR No. 12 of 2013 dated August 01, 2013

 was registered which, according to the appellants, is the result of the

 said ‘Congress Chargesheet’. In fact, some time before that, a

 complaint under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. was made by one Vinay

 Sharma against appellant No. 1 and its office bearers in which

 orders were passed by Special Judge, Kangra on July 02, 2013

 directing the police authorities to investigate the said case and

 submit the report to it. Thus, two parallel proceedings were started. 9) Further allegation of the appellants is that investigation was

 personally monitored by respondent No. 2 herein who was the Chief

 Minister at that time. He had also made various public statements

 from time to time that he was interested in taking over the entire

 function of the Cricket Association and its assets. According to the

 appellants, at the behest of respondent No. 2, even the Registrar of

 Societies, Himachal Pradesh issued notice dated September 7,

 2013 on the issue of formation of company under Section 25 of the

 Companies Act, 1956 and taking over the assets of the society.

 Against this notice, Writ Petition No. 7593 of 2013 was filed wherein

 the High Court passed the orders keeping in abeyance the Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 9 of 53 allegations raised in the notice dated September 7, 2013 of the

 Registrar of Societies. 10) Another FIR No. 14 of 2013 dated October 03, 2013 came to be

 registered against the appellants and others alleging commission of

 offences under Section 447 read with Section 120B of the IPC, Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984

 and Section 13(2) of the PC Act. Many other actions were taken by

 the respondents, which according to the appellants, were mala fide

 moves, reference whereto shall be made at the appropriate stage.

 At this juncture, the appellants filed petition under Section 482 of

 Cr.P.C. on January 06, 2014 seeking quashing of FIR No. 12 of

 2013 which stands dismissed vide impugned judgment dated April

 25, 2014. 11) The High Court in the impugned judgment has taken note of catena

 of judgments of this Court pertaining to powers of the High Court

 within the scope of Section 482 of Cr.P.C. Thereafter, it has

 observed that after lodging of the FIR, investigation has been

 conducted and the material collected during investigation discloses

 that 18 persons made accused in the aforesaid FIR are prima facie

 involved in the commission of offences. On this ground, it has Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 10 of 53 brushed aside the argument of the appellants that it was a case of

 vengeance, political vendeta and mala fide. The High Court has

 also observed that allegations of mala fide based on the facts after

 lodging of the FIR are of no consequence and cannot be the basis

 for quashing the proceedings. For this purpose, it has referred to

 the judgment of this Court in State of Bihar & Anr. v. P.P. Sharma

 & Anr.1 . It has also observed that even otherwise, the file does not

 disclose at this stage how it is the case of mala fide. In the opinion

 of the High Court, in such circumstances, merits of the case is to be

 tested during trial inasmuch as FIR and Final Report of Investigating

 Agency discloses that case for trial is made out. As the power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is to be exercised carefully, cautiously and in

 rarest of rare cases, keeping in mind the law laid down by this Court,

 the High Court refused to quash the proceedings. We may also

 record here that one of the submissions of the appellants before the

 High Court was that appellant No. 2 and other persons are not

 public servants and, therefore, provisions of PC Act could not be

 invoked against them. This argument has also been found to be

 unmerited on the ground that some of the accused persons arrayed

 with the appellants are public servants and also that allegation in the
1 1992 Supp (1) SCC 222 Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 11 of 53 FIR is that all these accused persons has the conspiracy and

 wrongful gain to themselves and wrongful loss to the State, in the

 process, the officials misused their position to show favour to other

 accused persons. 12) Mr. Patwalia, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants, at

 the outset, drew the attention of this Court to the fact that M/s.

 Subhash Ahluwalia, Subhash Negi, Ajay Sharma, Deepak Sanan

 and T.G. Negi, who are the IAS Officers, were associated with the

 grant of three leases. They were the main persons who took active

 part in deciding that the three leases should be granted to the

 appellants and on that basis, final decision was taken. However, as

 far as these Officers are concerned, prosecution sanction has either

 been denied or they have not been prosecuted at all. Likewise, Mr.

 Gopal Chand, who belongs to Himachal Pradesh Administrative

 Service, was arrayed as one of the accused person, but in his case

 also, the sanction though given earlier stood withdrawn. He has

 even been promoted to IAS cader. Mr. Patwalia submitted in tabular

 form status of Officers who have allegedly conspired with the

 appellants, which is as under: reallocation of Type IV,
 UGC accommodation in
 the possession of the
 Education Department
 and the presumptions
 drawn in the meeting were
 made with the intention to
 give undue advantage to
 HPCA. Sh. K.K. Pant
 overlooked the report
 regarding condition of
 building. been prosecuted. He, thus, submitted that the main Government

 functionaries were left out which shows that the Government wanted

 to protect its own Officers but, at the same time, roped in the

 appellants and others because of political enmity. Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 16 of 53 14) Dilating on the aforesaid plea, namely, the entire prosecution is due

 to political vendetta, without any legal basis, Mr. Patwalia submitted

 that the genesis of the prosecution starts with the failed attempt by

 the then State Government to take over appellant No. 1 in the year

 2005 under the provisions of the HP Sports (Registration,

 Recognition and Regulation of Associations) Act, 2005 due to the

 interim protection granted by the Himachal Pradesh High Court on

 May 18, 2005. This Act was subsequently repealed. According to

 him, in view of the repeated interference by State Governments in

 the internal affairs of autonomous cricket associations, the BCCI

 has informally encouraged such member associations to re-register

 themselves as not for profit charitable Section 25 Companies under

 the Companies Act, 1956 , as amended, for better legal compliances,

 transparency and to avoid interference in internal affairs by State

 Governments. Accordingly, various member associations of the

 BCCI have converted themselves to Section 25 not for profit

 charitable companies governed by the provisions of the Companies

 Act, 1956 . Appellant No. 1 also followed the suit as a result of

 aforesaid mandate of the BCCI. Accordingly, a not for profit

 company in the name of Himalayan Players Cricket Association was Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 17 of 53 incorporated under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956. On

 August 31, 2005, the said Company was permitted to change its

 name to Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association and was issued a

 fresh certificate of incorporation. During this process, the HP Sports

 (Registration, Recognition and Regulation of Associations) Act, 2005

 stood repealed and no further steps were taken in the interregnum

 to convert the society to a section 25 company. Thereafter, on

 September 19, 2011, the BCCI took up the pending request of

 appellant No. 1 to permit it to convert itself to a Section 25 not for

 profit company and granted the same. Pursuant to the permission

 by the BCCI, amendments were carried out by the members at the

 AGM of the appellant No. 1 on September 22, 2012 resolving to

 convert the appellant No. 1 society to a Section 25 Company.

 Accordingly, an agreement was executed on October 01, 2012

 converting the society to a Section 25 Company and informing the

 Registrar of Companies of the same. On October 31, 2012,

 appellant No. 1 now registered as a Section 25 Company under the Companies Act, 1956 informed the Registrar of Societies of the

 State of Himachal Pradesh of the change in the memorandum and

 rules of the appellants. Further, on November 02, 2012, once again Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 18 of 53 the intimation regarding change in status of appellant No. 1 from a

 not for profit society to a not for profit company was given to the

 Registrar of Societies, State of Himachal Pradesh. Thus, from

 October 01, 2012, appellant No. 1 has been existing as a Company

 with due intimation to the State of Himachal Pradesh paying its

 lease rent and taxes in accordance with law. He also argued that

 the effect of such statutory conversion from a firm to a company by

 statutory provisions for income tax purposes has been considered

 by the Bombay High Court in the case of Commissioner of Income

 Tax, Mumbai v. Texspin Engg. and Mfg. Works, Mumbai2 and

 Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case of Commissioner of

 Income Tax (Central), Ludhiana v. M/s. Rita Mechanical Works,

 Ludhiana3 wherein it has been held as under: 15) On the aforesaid basis, submission of Mr. Patwalia was that

 conversion of a not for profit society to a not for profit charitable

 company which is expressly permitted by law cannot be construed

 as a crime. The assets - in the present case leased land remain as

 they are. In fact, the appellants have constructed a world class

 stadium and a world class hotel on the leased premises.

 Importantly, the State Government continues to remain the owner of

 the land and has the power under the leases to cancel the same for

 violation of terms and conditions of the lease. 16) It was highlighted by him that on the midnight of October 26, 2013,

 the State Government had cancelled the leases and forcibly

 dispossessed the appellants from the leased lands. However, on

 November 05, 2013, the Himachal Pradesh High Court strictured the Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 20 of 53 State Government and ordered status quo ante and handed over

 the possession of the leased lands to the appellants. The State

 Government thereafter accepted this order and withdrew the

 cancellation of lease notices on November 19, 2013. Subsequently,

 another notice dated May 23, 2015 was issued seeking cancellation

 of the leases which too stands withdrawn on August 09, 2018. At

 present, there are no proceedings pending for cancellation of the

 leases. 17) Mr. Patwalia argued that there were specific allegations of mala fide

 against respondent No. 2 from the very inception of these

 proceedings about how he first caused the FIR to be registered and

 thereafter interfered in the investigations, by being head of the SIT.

 He also further stated that the conduct of respondent No.2 from

 opposing the present appeals after having filed a counter affidavit in

 the present matter stating that he was not a necessary party and it

 was not his job to defend the prosecution, depicts mala fides on his

 part. This, according to him, was sufficient to quash the FIR as

 investigation was tainted. In support, he referred to the case of Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 21 of 53 Union of India & Ors. v. Sushil Kumar Modi & Ors.4 wherein this

 Court held as under: 18) Mr. Patwalia referred to various documents placed on record and

 contended that they would ex facie show that administrative

 decisions were taken at various levels and by variou departments by

 the concerned officers prior to sanction of leases in favour of

 appellant No.1. Therefore, no wrong, much less culpable wrong,
4 (1997) 4 SCC 770 Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 22 of 53 was committed by the appellants and others. He specifically

 referred to the allegation that there is no provision of grant of lease

 at a token rate of Re.1/- per month under the applicable lease rules.

 His response was that this argument is completely fallacious. The

 leases of the appellants were granted under the H.P. Lease Rules,

 1993. The appellants wanted to set up a cricket stadium with allied

 world class infrastructure to enable the ICC to grant international

 games to Himachal Pradesh and, thus, were eligible for grant of

 lease under Rule 4(vii) - public purpose in the interest of the

 development of the State. The appellants were also eligible for

 grant of larger areas under Rule 5 in terms of the exemption

 provided therein. In fact, the decision to lease the land at token rate

 of Re.1/- per month for construction of cricket stadium was a well

 thought out administrative decision by the State Government in the

 interest of the State and has admittedly put Dharamshala on the

 world map. This decision was taken by the State Cabinet after

 considering the advice and presentation from the officers concerned.

 RTI documents in the possession of the appellants record the

 decision of the Cabinet dated May 27, 2002 as under: "Item No. 14 The implementation report of the above decision may please
 be sent to this Department within a fortnight from the receipt
 of this communication. Sd/- Addl. Secretary (GAD)" Therefore, the State Government took a conscious decision in

 exercise of its powers under the proviso to Rule 8(1) of the H.P.

 Lease Rules, 1993 and granted the lease at a token rate of Re.1/-

 per month. 20) Based on the aforesaid material and circumstances highlighted by

 Mr. Patwalia, his submission was that no case was made out

 against the appellants and others, for prosecuting them under

 criminal law, much less under the provisions of PC Act and the High

 Court in its impugned judgment has totally glossed over these

 aspects by limiting the exercise to copiously quoting various

 judgments and on that basis, dismissing the petitions of the

 appellants, without any discussion as to how principles contained in

 those judgments is applicable in the instant case. 21) He also submitted that in the facts of the present case, simply

 because chargesheet has been filed thereafter and the order taking

 cognizance has been passed would not mean that the appellants

 cannot prosecute these cases. He submitted that even the

 chargesheet and cognizance order has been challenged by filing Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 25 of 53 Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 135 of 2017 which, according to him, is

 maintainable having regard to the fact that the appeals arising out of

 petitions under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. are pending in this Court and

 those events happened during the pendency of these proceedings.

 He referred to the the cases of Delhi Judicial Service

 Association, Tis Hazari Court, Delhi v. State of Gujarat & Ors. 5

 and Monica Kumar & Anr. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors.6 ,

 wherein it is held that this Court has inherent power to quash FIR,

 chargesheet, charges etc. in exercise of powers under Articles 32 ,

 136 and 142 to do complete justice in a cause or matter pending

 before it and that there is no restriction on this power of the Court.

 According to him, the present is not a case where the appellants are

 alleging that a judicial order is in violation of their fundamental rights.

 The present is a case where the appellants have pleaded that: 5 (1991) 4 SCC 406

6 (2008) 8 SCC 781 Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 26 of 53 (iii) two Officers Subhash Ahluwalia and T.G. Negi who processed

 the case of the appellants were made Principal Secretary to CM and

 Advisor to CM, respectively, by the respondent No. 2 and were not

 prosecuted; (iv) there is no criminal act on the part of the officers and they

 performed their appropriate administrative duties due to which

 sanction stands declined by the Central Government and the CVC; (v) leases were validly granted as per proper procedures and in

 accordance with lease rules; (vi) FIR was registered on the basis of “Congress Chargesheet”; (vii) investigation was personally supervised by the respondent No.

 2; (viii) chargesheet filed is the outcome of this tainted investigation; (ix) prosecution is mala fide and vexatious to settle personal

 political scores; (x) even otherwise the State Government continues to remain

 owner of the land which is on lease and on which the appellants

 have constructed assets worth above 150 crores; Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 27 of 53 (xi) these assets are for use of the public of the State and are

 being used as such. Further, filing of chargesheet and an order

 taking cognizance is not a final judicial order. It is a preliminary

 process in criminal law and is open to challenge in higher judicial

 fora such as this Court. 22) Last submission of the learned senior counsel was that, in any case,

 at best the matter could have been subject matter of a civil dispute

 between the appellants and the respondents but has mala fidely

 been given the cloak of a criminal proceeding to harass the

 appellants with a mala fide prosecution. The salutary principle of

 law, viz. Actus Reus Non Facit Reum Nisi Mens Sit Rea has been

 erroneously ignored by the High Court and he cited the case of C.K.

 Jaffer Sharief v. State7 and R. Balakrishna Pillai v. State of

 Kerala8 . He also pleaded that, in another politically motivated case

 by respondent No. 2, the same view has been taken by the

 Himachal Pradesh High Court in the case of A.N. Sharma v. State

 of H.P. (Cr. MMO No. 134/2015) against which Special Leave

 Petition filed by the State Government stands dismissed by this

 Court. 7 (2013) 1 SCC 205

8 (2003) 9 SCC 700 Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 28 of 53 23) He, thus, concluded his argument with the submission that case was

 clearly covered by the judgments of this Court in State of Haryana

 & Ors. v. Bhajan Lal & Ors.9 and Vineet Kumar & Ors. v. State of

 Uttar Pradesh & Anr.10 24) Insofar as respondent No. 1 i.e. State of Himachal Pradesh is

 concerned, learned Advocate General submitted that State has

 already taken a decision not to continue with these criminal

 proceedings. He, in fact, supported the case of the appellants and

 submitted that State has no objection if these proceedings are

 quashed. However, there was a strong opposition on behalf of

 respondent No. 2 to the relief sought by the appellants and

 refutation of the arguments advanced by the appellants. 25) Mr. Anoop George Chaudhary, learned senior counsel appearing for

 the respondent No. 2, submitted that the Special Leave Petition was

 infructuous ab initio inasmuch as chargesheet was filed against 18

 accused persons out of whom only appellant No. 2 had sought

 quashing thereof. It was further submitted that, in any case, on the

 very day of passing impugned judgment by the High Court i.e. April

9 (1992) Supp. (1) SCC 335

10 (2017) 13 SCC 369 Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 29 of 53 25, 2014, the Investigating Agency filed the challan under Section

 173 Cr.P.C. and on perusal thereof, the Special Court took

 cognizance vide order dated September 06, 2014 and issued

 summons to the accused persons. Therefore, the Special Leave

 Petition had, in any case, had become infructuous because of the

 aforesaid developments. He also submitted that insofar as

 appellant No. 1, namely, Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association is

 concerned, it was not arrayed as accused person; no challan was

 filed against it and, therefore, no cognizance was also taken. 26) Rebutting the allegations of mala fide, he submitted that because of

 the irregularities committed in the allotment of land etc. by the then

 Government, it was one of the issue in the Assembly Elections in the

 year 2012 and the Congress had complained against the aforesaid

 irregularity by stating the same with the preparation of 'Congress

 Chargesheet'. That would not mean that it was out of political

 vendetta. In fact, the misdeeds of earlier Government was exposed.

 In any case, after 2012 elections, when the earlier Government did

 not come back to power, inquiry was ordered to the affairs of

 appellant No. 1 which was conducted by the Anti-Corruption Bureau

 (ACB). As a result of said inquiry, FIR was registered which Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 30 of 53 culminated in filing of the challan as prima facie case was made out

 by collecting requisite material. He also referred to the Constitution

 Bench judgment in the case of Lalita Kumari v. Government of

 Uttar Pradesh & Ors.11 as per which preliminary inquiry before

 registering an FIR should be conducted to ascertain whether the

 information received, reveals any cognizable offence. He submitted

 that due procedure was followed in accordance with the said

 judgment . 27) On merits, Mr. Chaudhary submitted that on the basis of final report

 and consequently the cognizance order a clear case of

 cheating/fraud criminal breach of trust/criminal

 misconduct/usurpation of public land worth crores of rupees/loss to

 state exchequer is made out against the accused persons. Hence,

 no cogent grounds exist for quashing of criminal proceedings.

 Reliance in this regard has been placed upon a judgment rendered

 by this Court in Indian Oil Corporation v. NEPC India Ltd. &

 Ors.12 : For this purpose, the complaint has to be examined as a
 whole, but without examining the merits of the allegations.
 Neither a detailed inquiry nor a meticulous analysis of the
 material nor an assessment of the reliability or
 genuineness of the allegations in the complaint, is
 warranted while examining prayer for quashing of a
 complaint. (ii) A complaint may also be quashed where it is a clear
 abuse of the process of the court, as when the criminal
 proceeding is found to have been initiated with mala
 fides/malice for wreaking vengeance or to cause harm, or
 where the allegations are absurd and inherently
 improbable. Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 32 of 53 (iii) The power to quash shall not, however, be used to
 stifle or scuttle a legitimate prosecution. The power should
 be used sparingly and with abundant caution. (iv) The complaint is not required to verbatim reproduce
 the legal ingredients of the offence alleged. If the
 necessary factual foundation is laid in the complaint,
 merely on the ground that a few ingredients have not been
 stated in detail, the proceedings should not be quashed.
 Quashing of the complaint is warranted only where the
 complaint is so bereft of even the basic facts which are
 absolutely necessary for making out the offence. (v) A given set of facts may make out: (a) purely a civil
 wrong; or (b) purely a criminal offence; or (c) a civil wrong
 as also a criminal offence. A commercial transaction or a
 contractual dispute, apart from furnishing a cause of action
 for seeking remedy in civil law, may also involve a criminal
 offence. As the nature and scope of a civil proceeding are
 different from a criminal proceeding, the mere fact that the
 complaint relates to a commercial transaction or breach of
 contract, for which a civil remedy is available or has been
 availed, is not by itself a ground to quash the criminal
 proceedings. The test is whether the allegations in the
 complaint disclose a criminal offence or not." 28) Dubbing the allegations of mala fide against respondent No. 2 as

 frivolous, it was argued that the High Court has rightly found no

 merit therein. In any case, argued the learned senior counsel, the

 High Court rightly observed that once the chargesheet is filed, such

 a plea becomes redundant as held in State of A.P. v. Golconda

 Linga Swamy and Anr.13 and Umesh Kumar v. State of Andhra

 Pradesh & Anr.14 . The learned senior counsel also questioned the
13 (2004) 6 SCC 522

14 (2013) 10 SCC 591 Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 33 of 53 move on the part of State Government to withdraw the case in

 question. It was argued that no fresh ground or subsequent aspect

 has emerged or come in public domain for doing the same and,

 therefore, such course of action was not permissible as held in

 State of Tamil Nadu & Ors. v. K. Shyam Sunder & Ors. 15, Andhra

 Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation Federation v. B.

 Narasimha Reddy & Ors.16 and State of Himachal Pradesh v.

 Nishant Sareen17 . Moreover, argued the learned senior counsel,

 the only procedure prescribed in law was to take the route of Section 321 of Cr.P.C. which has not happened in the instant case. 29) Replying to the arguments of the appellants that it was a civil

 dispute, Mr. Chaudhary argued that FIR/Final Report clearly depicts

 that there is sufficient evidence of cheating, criminal breach of

 trust/criminal misconduct, conspiracy and destruction of evidence

 against the accused persons, therefore, it was not merely a civil

 case and, thus, the authorities have rightly registered the FIR and

 filed criminal proceedings. He also argued that at the time of

 cognizance, there was sanction for prosecution against all public
15 (2011) 8 SCC 737

16 (2011) 9 SCC 286

17 (2010) 14 SCC 527 Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 34 of 53 servants (wherever applicable) and even if sanction is subsequently

 withdrawn, it would not impact trial. It was further submitted that in

 the case of two remaining accused i.e. Ajay Sharma and Deepak

 Sanan, challan was not presented for want of sanction under PC

 Act , as the permission seeking sanction was pending with Union

 Home Ministry though sanction for IPC offences was granted by

 State Government. The prosecution sanction against Gopal Chand,

 an HCS Officer was initially granted but later on withdrawn without

 there being any change of circumstance. The necessity of non-

 grant/requirement of prosecution sanction can be decided by trial

 court during the course of trial and it is not a ground for Himachal

 Pradesh Cricket Association to seek quashing of entire prosecution. 30) The learned senior counsel also defended non-prosecution of Ajay

 Sharma and Deepak Sanan, two IAS Officers. He specifically

 pointed out that allegations in the chargesheet against appellant

 No.2 which, according to him, disclosed that prima facie case was

 established against him and, therefore, there was no reason to

 quash the chargesheet. Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 35 of 53 31) Insofar as Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 135 of 2017 is concerned, it

 was argued that such a writ petition was not maintainable under Article 32 of the Constitution, more so, when order of cognizance

 had not been challenged at all. Support from the judgments in Ujjam Bai v. State of U.P.18 , Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar & Ors. v.

 State of Maharashtra & Anr.19 and Northern Corporation v.

 Union of India & Ors.20 was taken in this behalf. He reiterated that

 there were serious allegations against the accused persons and,

 therefore, no case for quashing of the chargesheet/challan was

 made out. 32) Before we undertake the exercise of deliberating on the arguments

 of the counsel for the parties and reach our conclusions, it would be

 in the fitness of things to recapitulate the events in brief with focus

 on the allegations of alleged criminality which have been fastened

 upon the appellants and others. Appellant No. 1 was initially

 registered as a Society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 in

 the year 1990. It is now a not for profit company incorporated under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956. One of the allegations
18 (1963) 1 SCR 778

19 AIR 1967 SC 1

20 (1990) 4 SCC 239 Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 36 of 53 pertains to the so-called illegalities committed in the conversion of

 the society into deemed company under Section 25 of the

 Companies Act, 1956. Be that as it may, the Society, after its

 formation, had applied for land at Village Mauja and Tehsil

 Dharamshala, District Kangra for construction of an international

 cricket stadium. A proper lease was executed between appellant

 No. 1 and the State of Himachal Pradesh through Director, Himachal

 Pradesh Youth Services and Sports Department. It happened more

 than 16 years ago. In respect of this lease, the allegation is that it

 was executed at a monthly rent of Re.1/- which was allegedly done

 to favour the appellants. Admittedly, proviso to Rule 8 of the Rules

 empowers the State Government to adopt such a course and

 decision to this effect was taken after due deliberations at a very

 high level, keeping in view the necessity of such a stadium in the

 State, which did not have any cricket stadium. 33) After the allotment of the land to appellant No. 1, it constructed

 cricket stadium thereupon. Appellant was desirous of making a

 world-class cricket stadium which could host international cricket

 matches as well. For this purpose, it submitted proposal to the ICC.

 The ICC got the stadium and playground inspected through Mr. Alan Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 37 of 53 Hurst, it's match referee. He inspected the stadium and submitted

 his report dated September 20, 2007. The venue was not approved,

 at that stage, for hosting international matches. A perusal of the

 report submitted by the said referee would disclose that there were

 no adequate hotel facilities in the area and, therefore, 'tour support

 was lacking'. Two hotels were shown to Mr. Hurst and it was found

 by him that each of them were at substantial distance from the

 ground. Moreover, the facilities in the said hotels were also not

 adequate. Notwithstanding the same, insofar as the cricket ground

 is concerned, the match referee had lauded it for its quality and

 settings. It can be seen from the general

 comments/recommendations/conclusions in his report and the

 relevant portion whereof reads as under: 34) It is clear from the above that Mr. Hurst was of the view that the

 cricket ground at this picturesque place with scenic beauty can be

 transformed into one of the best cricket grounds in the country,

 which would be suitable for international events if the deficiencies

 pointed out therein are taken care of. Apart from providing other

 facilities to improve the infrastructure (which could be easily taken

 care of), main concern was to have a hotel as an integral part of the

 ground with the dual use as corporate boxes during the game.

 Because of the above, appellant No.1 felt need to construct a club

 house on the lease land and also seek allotment of some other land

 for the purpose of construction of a hotel, keeping in view the

 observations contained in the aforesaid inspection report.

 Accordingly, it sent request for promotion to construct a club house

 on the lease land which was accorded by respondent No.1 through Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 39 of 53 Directorate of Youth Services and Sports on June 23, 2008 subject

 to completing all the formalities. 35) As far as construction of hotel is concerned, the case of the

 appellants is that there was a parcel of idle land in the middle of the

 land alloted for the stadium and for allotment of this land, request

 was made to the Director, Youth Services and Sports. This land

 belongs to Gram Panchayat. Gram Panchayat issued no objection

 for the allotment of land on September 14, 2009 pursuant to which

 respondent No.1 granted approval to lease out this land in favour of

 appellant No.1 on November 16, 2009 and the lease deed was also

 executed on December 14, 2009. Thereafter, for the purpose of

 hotel, additional land was given. 36) Pertinently, insofar as this lease deed is concerned, since the land

 was to be used for commercial purpose, namely, the club house, it

 provided rental at commercial rate i.e. the market rate which the

 appellant No.1 was supposed to pay. After the execution of the

 lease, club house was constructed and the Town and Country

 Planning Department, Dharamshala also issued No Objection

 Certificate for the use of part of infrastructure of cricket stadium as Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 40 of 53 club house for cricket activities. It is also pertinent to mention that

 Principal Secretary (Revenue), Government of Himachal Pradesh

 issued no objection for execution of supplementary lease enabling

 commercial activities on additional land provided that lease money

 was charged in accordance with the Lease Rules, 2011. This led to

 execution of supplementary lease deed dated June 23, 2012 on

 which commercial hotel was constructed after obtaining requisite

 permissions. 37) From the aforesaid events, following aspects can be culled out: Interstingly, in the FIRs, these nine Officers were also implicated and

 specific role attributed to them which has been already mentioned in

 the tabulated format while recording the arguments of Mr. Patwalia.

 This would demonstrate that insofar as Mr. Subhash Ahluwalia

 (IAS), Director-cum-Special Secretary, Youth Services and Sports

 Department is concerned, allegation against him was that he

 ignored the rules and did not mention the provisions of Lease Rules,

 1993. He was also signatory to lease deed dated July 29, 2002. It

 is important to mention that entire FIRs proceed on the basis that

 appellants conspired with these Officers, among others. The

 imputation against Mr. Subhash Ahluwalia is that in fixing the rent at

 Re.1/- per month, he not only ignored the rules and did not even

 mention in his noting thereby implying that he was party to the

 alleged conspiracy. Similar allegations are against other eight

 persons as well alleging their role at different stages.

 Notwithstanding the same, three Officers, namely, Subhash

 Ahluwalia, Subhash Negi and T.G. Negi were not even charged on

 the purported ground that there were not enough evidence and mala

 fide intention. In respect of Mr. Ajay Sharma, Central Government

 had declined the sanction. Though, State Government had Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 44 of 53 accorded the sanction for prosecution earlier but it has also later

 withdrawn. Same is the position in respect of Deepak Sanan. Mr.

 Gopi Chand, who belongs to HPAS, though the prosecution sanction

 was granted earlier, in his case also, not only prosecution sanction

 was withdrawn by the State Government, he has even been

 promoted to IAS Cadre. In case of Mr. K.K. Pant and Mr. P.C.

 Dhiman, other IAS Officers, prosecution sanction is declined. This

 leaves us only Mr. Devi Chand Chauhan, Executive Engineer,

 Dharamshala Division in PWD, though in his case also, prosecution

 sanction was earlier rejected but subsequently granted on the

 recommendation of the then Chief Minister. There are two Gram

 Panchayat members, who had issued no objection for allotment of

 land for club house, who have been prosecuted. These three

 Officers are public servants who remain as accused persons. This

 Court gets an impression that in the entire conspiracy story put up

 by the prosecution, high Government officials are deliberately let off

 and very junior Officers were become scapegoat in order to ensure

 that a case under PC Act survives in respect of appellants as well

 who are not public servants. Even otherwise, when the aforesaid

 eight persons are not charged or proceeded against for want of Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 45 of 53 prosecution, this lends support to the allegations of the appellants in

 imputing motives for their prosecution. 42) This Court, on a 360° scanning of the matter, arrives at the

 conclusion that the elements of criminal intent or criminal acts are

 lacking. Following factors do stand established from record: Principle Nos. (i) and (ii) of Indian Oil Corporation are, therefore,

 become applicable. The entire subject matter has been revisited in

 a recent judgment in Vineet Kumar and some of the discussion

 therein which takes note of earlier judgments is reproduced below: 47) As far as Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 135 of 2017 is concerned, the

 appellants came to this Court challenging the order of cognizance

 only because of the reason that matter was already pending as the

 appellants had filed the Special Leave Petitions against the order of

 the High Court rejecting their petition for quashing of the

 FIR/Chargesheet. Having regard to these peculiar facts, writ petition

 has also been entertained. In any case, once we hold that FIR

 needs to be quashed, order of cognizance would automatically

 stands vitiated. 48) As a consequence, criminal appeals are allowed thereby setting

 aside the impugned judgment of the High Court, allowing the petition Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 52 of 53 filed by the appellants under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and quashing the

 FIR No. 12 of 2013 dated August 01, 2013 under Sections 406 , 420 , 120B of the IPC and Section 13(2) of the PC Act and FIR No.14 of

 2013 dated October 03, 2013 under Section 447 read with Section

 120B of the IPC, Section 3 of Prevention of Damage to Public

 Property Act, 1984 and Section 13(2) of the PC Act. In view thereof,

 writ petition also stands disposed of accordingly. No order as to cost. .............................................J.
 (A.K. SIKRI)

 .............................................J.
 (ASHOK BHUSHAN)

NEW DELHI; NOVEMBER 02, 2018. Criminal Appeal Nos. 1258-1259 of 2018 & Anr. Page 53 of 53