J U D G M E N T
Verma.CJI: Anukul Chandra	Pradhan vs. Union of India and Others- and
orders	dated 24.2.1997 and 18.3.1997 in Writ Petition
(Civil) No. 38 of 1997 - Dr. Subramaniam Swamy vs. Director,
CBI & Ors., are also relevant. The sum and substance of these orders is that the CBI
and other Governmental agencies had not carried out their
public duty to investigate the offences disclosed; that none
stands above the law so that	an alleged offence by him is
not required to be investigated; that we would monitor the
investigations, in the sense that we	 would	do what we
permissibly could to see that the sense that	 we would do
what we	 permissibly could to see that the investigations
progressed while yet ensuring	that we	 did not direct or
channel	 those	 investigations	 or in any other manner
prejudice the right of those who might be accused to a full
and fair trial. We made it clear that the task of	 the
monitoring court would and the moment	 a charge-sheet	 was
filed in respect of a particular investigation and that the
ordinary processes of the law would then take over. Having
regard to the direction in which the investigations	were
leading, we found it necessary to direct the	 CBI not to
report the progress of	 the investigations to	 the person
occupying the highest office in the political executive this
was done to eliminate	any impression	of bias	 or lack of
fairness or objectivity and to maintain the credibility of
the investigations. In short,	the procedure adopted was of
"continuing mandamus". Even after this	matter	was brought to the court
complaining of	the incrtia of CBI and the other agencies to
investigate into the	 offices because of	the alleged
involvement of	several persons	 holding high offices in the
executive, for	quite some time the disinclination of	 the
agencies to precede with the investigation was apparent. The
accusation, if	true, reveled a nexus	between high ranking
politicians and	 bureaucrats who were alleged	to have been
funded by a source linked with the	source	funding	 the
terrorists. In	view of	 the funding also through foreign
currency, some	undesirable foreign elements appeared to be
connected. This revealed a grave situation poising a serious
threat even to the unity and	integrity of the nation. The
serious threat	posed to the Indian polity could not be
underscored. The obvious need for	an expeditious	 and
thorough probe	which had already been	 delayed for several
years could not but be countenanced. The continuing inertia
of the	agencies to even commence a proper investigation
could not be	 tolerated any longer. In view of	 the
persistence of	that situation,	 it becomes necessary as the
proceedings progressed	to make some	orders	which would
activate the CBI and the other agencies to at least commence
a fruitful investigation. Merely issuance of	 a mandamus
directing the agencies to perform their task would be futile
and, therefore, it was decided to issue directions from time
to time	 and keep the matter pending requiring the agencies
to report the progress	 of investigation so that monitoring
by the	court could ensure continuance of the investigation.
It was,	 therefore, decided to direct	the CBI and other
agencies to complete	 the investigation expeditiously,
keeping the court informed from time to time of the progress
of the	investigation so that the court retained siesin of
the matter till the investigation was	 completed and	 the
chargesheets were filed in the competent court for being
dealt with, thereafter, in accordance with law. The first	order to this effect was made on 5.12.1994
when the CBI Director	was required to personally supervise
the investigations carried on	by the	CBI as	the overall
incharge and to report	 to the court the progress made from
time to	 time. The true scope of the matter was indicated in
an order dated 30th January, 1996 [reported in 1996 (2) SCC
199] as under: Investigation into	 accusation made
 against each and every person on a
 reasonable basis,	irrespective of
 the position and	status	of that
 person, must be	 conducted and
 completed	expeditiously.	This is
 imperative	 to	retain	 public
 confidence in the impartial working
 of the Government agencies. In	 this	proceeding we	are not
 concerned with the merits	 of the
 accusations or the individuals
 alleged to	 be involved, but only
 with the performance of the legal
 duty by the Government agencies to
 fairly, properly	 and	 fully
 investigate into	 every such
 accusation	 against every	 person,
 and to take the logical final
 action in accordance with law. In case of persons against whom a
 prima facie case is made out and a
 charge sheet is	 filed	 in the
 competent court, it is that court
 which will then deal with that case
 on merits, in accordance with law. However, if in respect of any such
 person the	 final report after full
 investigation is	 that no prima
 facic case	 is made out to proceed
 further, so that the case must be
 closed against him, that report
 must be promptly submitted to this
 Court for its satisfaction that the
 concerned	authorities have not
 failed to	 perform their legal
 obligations and	have reasonably
 come to such conclusion.	No such
 report having been submitted by the
 CBI or any other agency till now in
 this Court, action on such a report
 by this Court would be considered,
 if and when that	occasion arises. We also direct that no settlement
 should be	 arrived at	nor any
 offence compounded by any authority
 without prior leave of this Court. We may add that on account of the
 great public interest involved in
 this matter, the	 CBI and other
 Government agencies must	expedite
 their action to complete	the task
 and prevent pendency of this matter
 beyond the	 period necessary. It is
 needless to observe that the
 results achieved	so far	 do not
 match the	 available time and
 opportunity for a	 full
 investigation ever since the matter
 came to light. It	 is of utmost
 national	significance that no
 further time is lost in completion
 of the task. " Order dated 09.07.1997 : "The question	pertaining to
 interference with	or shifting of
 any of the officer in any of the
 investigative teams of the C.B.I.
 or	 any	 other connected
 investigative agency such	 as the
 Enforcement Directorate	in the
 several matters under investigation
 by them which are	 being monitored
 by this Court and some of the High
 Courts, is	 under consideration by
 this Court	 in this matter which is
 being heard by a 3-Judge Bench and
 for this reason the same question
 even though raised in some other
 pending matters in this Court is
 not being considered therein. It is
 therefore, inappropriate that the
 same question	 any	question
 connected with it is in any manner
 be entertained or dealt with by any
 other court including and High
 Court in any of the matters before
 it. It has become necessary to say
 so in view of the fact that we are
 informed that the same question in
 different forms is being raised in
 some other	 courts	 including High
 Courts by	different persons. The
 question	being	 comprehensively
 dealt with	 by this 3- Judge Bench
 in this matter by	 this Court, we
 make it clear that no other court
 including	any High Court will
 entertain or deal with the same in
 any direct or indirect manner. It is significant that the machinery of investigation
started moving	as a result of these orders and after
investigation of the	 allegations made against several
persons the basis of the contents of	 the Jain Diaries,
Chargesheets were filed in the competent court in the first
instance against 14 persons, as reported to the court on
22.2.1996. Chargesheets	 against many	other persons	were
filed in the competent	 court thereafter as reported later
from time to time. In	 all, 34 Chargesheets	 against 54
persons have been filed on this basis. Thus, as indicated
earlier, the purpose of these proceedings to the
extent of the complaint of inertia of the investigating
agencies came	 to an	 end with the filing of these
chargesheets, since the merits	 of the	 accusation against
each individual	 has, thereafter, to be considered and dealt
with by the competent court at the trial, in accordance with
law. Trial i n	 the competent	 court	is now	 a separate
proceeding. After the commencement of these proceedings, some other
matters of a similar nature came to this Court in which the
inaction of the investigating	agencies to investigate into
some serious offences was alleged. Two such	 significant
matters are Writ Petition (Civil) No. 640 of 1995 - Anukul
Chandra Pradhan	 vs. Union of India and Others - and Writ
Petition (Civil) No. 38 of 1997 - Dr. Subramaniam Swamy vs.
Director, CBI	 & Ors. These	 cases	revealed a serious
situation eroding the rule of law, where the accusation was
against persons	 holding high offices and wielding power.
Relevant portions of some significant orders	made in	 the
above two cases read as under :- Order dated 07.10.1996 [reported in 1996
(6) SSC 354]: The same perception of the Government of India led it
to constitute another Committee by Order No. 226/2/97-AVD-II
dated 8th September, 1997 comprising of Shri B.G. Deshmukh,
former	Cabinet	 Secretary, Shri N.N. Vohra, Principal
Secretary to the Prime Minister and Shri S.V. Giri, Central
Vigilance Commissioner, called the	 Independent Review
Committee (IRC). The order reads as under : 3. The terms of reference of the
 Committee ar as under :- "4.7(3)(i) In regard to any person who is or has been a
 decision making level officer (Joint Secretary or
 equivalent of above in the Central government or such
 officers as are or have been on deputation to a Public
 Sector Undertaking; officers of the Reserve Bank of
 India of the level equivalent to Joint Secretary of
 above in the Central Government, Executive Directors
 and above of the SEBI and Chairman & Managing Director
 and Executive Directors and such of the Bank officers
 who are one level below the Board of Nationalised
 Banks), there should be prior sanction of the Secretary
 of the Ministry/Department concerned before SPE takes
 up any enquiry (PE or RC), including ordering search
 in respect	 of them. Without such sanction, no enquiry
 shall be initiated by the SPE. (ii) All cases referred	 to the administrative
 Ministries/Departments by	CBI for	 obtaining necessary
 prior sanction as aforesaid, except those pertaining to
 any officer of the rank	 of Secretary or Principal
 Secretary,	 should be disposed of by them preferably
 within a period of two months of the receipt of such a
 reference. In respect of	the officers of the rank of
 Secretary or Principal Secretary	to Government,	such
 references should	be made	 by the Director, CBI to the
 Cabinet Secretary	for consideration of	a Committee
 consisting of the Cabinet Secretary as its Chairman and
 the Law Secretary and the Secretary (Personnel) as its
 members. The Committee should dispose of all	such
 references preferably within two	months from the date
 of	 receipt of such a	 reference by	the Cabinet
 Secretary. (iii) When there is any difference of opinion between the
 Director, CBI and the Secretary of the Administrative
 Ministry/Department in respect of an officer up to the
 rank of Additional Secretary or equivalent, the matters
 shall be referred by CBI to Secretary (Personnel) for
 placement before the Committee referred to in Clause (ii) above. Such a matter should	 be considered	 and
 disposed of by the Committee preferably	 within	 two
 months from the date of receipt of such a reference by
 Secretary (Personnel). (iv) In	 regard to any person	who is	 or has been Cabinet
 Secretary, before	SPE takes any	 step of the	king
 mentioned in (i) above the case should be submitted to
 the Prime Minister for orders." We were informed that the above	 Directive, in	 its
application, is	 limited to officials	at decision making
levels	in the Government and certain other public
institutions like the RBI,SEBI, nationalised banks, etc. and
its scope is limited to official acts. The stated objective
of the	 Directive is	to protect decision making level
officers from the threat and ignominy	 of malicious	 and
vexatious inquiries/investigations. It is said that	such
protection to officers at the	 decision making level is
essential ton protect them and to relieve them of	 the
anxiety from the likelihood of harassment for taking honest
decisions. It was also	 stated that absence of any	such
protection to them could adversely affect the efficiency and
efficacy of these institutions	 because of the tendency of
such officers to avoid	 taking any decisions	which could
later lead to harassment by any malicious and Vexatious
inquiries/investigations. It	was made clear that	 the
Directive does	not extend to any extraneous or non-official
acts of	 the government	 functionaries and a time frame has
been prescribed	 for grant of sanction	 in such cases to
prevent any avoidable delay. Two questions arise in relation to Directive No. 4.7(3)
of the	Single Directive, namely, its propriety/legality and
the extent of its coverage, if it be valid. The learned Attorney General categorically stated in
response to our repeated query that the Single Directive
acts as	 a restriction	only on	 the CBI but is inapplicable
against the general power or the State Police to register
and investigate	 any such offence under the general	law,
i.e., Code of Criminal	 Procedure . He added that it is also
not an inhibition against a complaint being lodged under the
Cr. P.C. before the competent court for any such offence.
The Single Directive was sought to be supported by	 the
Attorney General on the ground that the CBI being a special
agency created by the Central Government, it was required to
function according to the mandate of the Central Government
which has constituted this special agency for specified
purpose. The desirability of	 the Single Directive	 was
supported by the learned Attorney General on the ground that
the officers	at the	 decision making level need	this
protection against malicious or vexatious investigations in
respect of honest decisions taken by	them. We were	also
informed that during hearing of this matter when this aspect
was being debated, the Ministry of Finance has set up a High
Power Board of experts in finance and a retired High Court
Judge to examine the merits in every case for he purpose of
grant of sanction to the CBI for recording the information
and investigating into any such offence, and a time frame
for the	 devision has also been specified. Similarly, in the
case of	 government servants, the authority for grant of
sanction with a provision for appeal in case the sanction is
declined has been provided. It was submitted that such a
structure to regulate the grant of sanction	 by a	high
authority together with a time frame to avoid any delay is
sufficient to make the	 procedure reasonable and to provide
for an	objective decision being taken	 for the grant of
sanction within	 the specified	 time.	It was	 urged	that
refusal of sanction with reasons would enable judicial
review of that decision in case of any grievance against
refusal of the sanction. Reliance was placed by the learned
Attorney General on the decisions of	 this Court in K.
Veeraswami vs.	Union of India and Others , 1991 (3) SCC 655
and State of Bihar and Another etc. vs. J.A.C. Saldanha and
Others. 1980 (1) SCC 554 to support the argument of legality
of the	Single Directive. We shall advert to	this aspect
later. The provision made for deciding the question of grant
of sanction in the cases of officers to whom the Single
Directive applies is as under :- Report of IRC
 The IRC has in its report accepted the legality of the
Single Directive placing reliance on the decision of this
Court in K. Veeraswami (supra). After considering	 the
functions of the CBI and the Directorate of Enforcement, it
has made certain recommendations which are as under :- 5.1 The Directorate must be provided adequate financial and
administrative delegations to enable it to exercise autonomy
in the	conduct and pursuit of investigations without let or
hindrance. Side by side, it is necessary	 to provide
appropriate checks and balances to ensure against
miscarriage of	justice. In this context, the Committee
recommends the following : This shall	 contribute to	greater	 transparency.	This
 effort should be concluded within 2-3 months.
5.2 It	 is importance	 that the Directorate lays down a
clearly	 spelt	 out time frame for	 the completion of
investigation, launching of prosecution and completion of
adjudication proceedings and for the Director to ensure that
the prescribed	time limits are strictly adhered to.	 The
Committee are of the view that the Directorate would be able
to more	 efficiently discharge	its functions if immediate
steps are taken to upgrade the level and quality of its in-
house legal advice mechanism.	At our request, the Cabinet
Secretary convened a meeting with the	 Revenue Department,
Enforcement Directorate	 and other concerned	officers to
consider various proposals	 for	 strengthening	 the
Directorate. The Committee hope that the various decisions
taken at t he	 Cabinet Secretary's level shall witness
implementation within 6-8 weeks. 5.3 The Committee recommends that the Directorate should
take time bound steps	to establish a grievances redressal
mechanism to promptly deal with complaints received from he
public	against	 actions of the Enforcement	Directorate.
Insofar as complaints of arbitrary action by senior officers
of the	Directorate are	 concerned, the Committee recommends
that these should b e looked into by a Committee headed by
the Central Vigilance Commissioner and comprising Revenue
Secretary, Director	 General Revenue Intelligence,
Enforcement Director and a senior representative of	 the
Ministry of Law. 5.4 As regards	 the pursuit of cases which appear to have a
politico-beaurocrai-criminal nexus, the Home Secretary
agreed with the Committees suggestion that the Nodal Agency
in the	Home Ministry (chaired by Home Secretary) shall also
include Member	(Investigation)	 of the Central Board Of
Direct Taxes, Director General Revenue Intelligence and the
Director Enforcement as members. 5.5 The	 Committee recommends that the Annual Report of the
Department of	 Revenue should have	 a section devoted
exclusively to	 the	functioning of the	 Enforcement
Directorate. This report should highlight the number of
cases taken up for investigation by ED, raids and searches
conducted, amount of Indian and foreign currency seized,
etc. The report should	 also indicate the number of persons
arrested, prosecutions	launched and convictions ordered by
the Courts. The Committee feels that enhanced public
knowledge about the work being done by the Directorate shall
demystify its operations and contribute to improved public
confidence." beaurocrat-criminal nexus to	 include Member
 Investigation CBDT, Director	 General Revenue
 Intelligence and Director Enforcement as members (para
 5.4) 24. Annual Report of the Department of Revenue to contain
 an exhaustive section on the working of the Enforcement
 Directorate (para 5.5) 25. Suitable incentives to be provided to functionaries of
 Enforcement Directorate at various levels, to attract
 best material, to be decided within tow months (para
 6.1)
III. NODAL AGENCY ON CRIMINAL NEXUS 1. Requirements of inter-agency do-ordination at fields
 unit level to be evolved by Home Secretary (para 2.1) 2. Na's functioning to be watched	for some time before
 considering need for structural changes (para 3) 3. Home Secretary will hold	meetings of NA every month
 (para 3)" It is sufficient to say that The Minister's general
power to review the working of the agency and to give broad
policy directions regarding the functioning of the agencies
and to	appraise the quality of the work of the Head of the
agency and other officers to the executive head is in no way
to be diluted. Similarly, the Minister's power to call for
information generally regarding the cases being handled by
the agencies is not to be taken away. However, all	 the
powers of the Minister	 are subject to the condition that
none of them	would extend to permit the	Minister to
interfere with	the course of investigation and prosecution
in any	individual case	 and in	 that respect the concerned
officers are to be governed entirely by the mandate of law
and the statutory duty cast upon them. It is useful to remember in this context what	this
Court has no several occasions in the past said about the
nature of duty and functions of Policy officers in	 the
investigation of an offence. It is sufficient to refer to
one of	them, namely, Union of	 India and Others vs. Sushil
Kumar Modi and Others , 1997 (4) SCC 770, (Bihar Fodder Scam
case), wherein it was said, as under :- "4. At the outset, we would
 indicate	that the nature of
 proceedings before	 the High Court
 is	 somewhat similar to those
 pending in	 this Court in Vineet
 Narain v.	Union of India , 1996 ( 2)
 SCC 199 and Anukul Chandara Pradhan
 v. Union of India , 1996 (6) SCC 354
 and, therefore, the High	Court is
 required to proceed with the matter
 in a similar manner. It has to be
 borne in mind that the purpose of
 these proceedings in essentially to
 ensure performance of the statutory
 duty by the CBI	 and the other
 government agencies in accordance
 with law for	 the	 proper
 implementation of	the rule of law. To	 achieve this	object	a fair,
 honest	 and	 expeditious
 investigation into every reasonable
 accusation against	 each and every
 person reasonably	 suspected of
 involvement in the alleged offences
 has to be made strictly in
 accordance with law. The	duty of
 the Court	in such	 proceedings is,
 therefore, to ensure that	 the CBI
 and other	government agencies do
 their duty	 and do	 so strictly in
 conformity	 with	law. In these
 proceedings, the	 Court	is not
 required to go into the merits of
 the accusation or even to express
 any opinion thereon, which is a
 matter for consideration	 by the
 competent	court	in which the
 charge-sheet is	filed and the
 accused have to face trial. It is,
 therefore, necessary that not even
 an	 observation relating	 to the
 merits of	t he accusation is made
 by the Court in these proceedings
 lest it prejudice the accused at
 the trial. The nature of these
 proceeding may be described as that
 of	 "continuing	 mandamus" to
 require performance of its duty by
 the CBI and the other government
 agencies concerned. The	agencies
 concerned must bear in mind and, if
 needed, be	 reminded of the caution
 administered by Lord Denning in
 this behalf in R.V.. Metropolitan
 Police Commr., 1968 (1)	 All ER
 763/1968 (@) QB 118. Indicating the
 duty of the Commissioner of Police,
 Lord Denning stated thus : (All ER
 p.769)
	 "I have no hesitation,
	 however, in holding that, like
	 every constable in the land,
	 he should	 be, and is,
	 independent of the executive. He is not	subject	 to the
	 orders of the Secretary of
	 State,.. I hold it to be the
	 duty of the	Commissioner of
	 Policy, AS it is of every
	 chief	 constable, to	 enforce
	 the law of the land. He must
	 take steps so to post his men
	 that	 crimes may be detected; and that honest citizens may
	 go about their affaires in
	 peace. He must decide whether
	 or not suspected persons are
	 to be prosecuted; and, if need
	 be, being the prosecution or
	 see hat it is brought; but in
	 all these things he is not the
	 servant of anyone, save of the
	 law itself. No Minister of the
	 Crown can tell him	that he
	 must,	 or must not, jeep
	 observation on this place or
	 that; or that he must, or must
	 not prosecute this man or that
	 one.	Nor can any	 policy
	 authority tell him	so. The
	 responsibility for law
	 enforcement lies on him. He is
	 answerable to	 the law and to
	 the law alone." The nature	 of such a proceeding in
 a court of law was also indicated
 by Lord Denning, as under : 5.	 According to	 the Code of
 Criminal	Procedure , 1973 the
 formation	of the	 opinion as to
 whether or	 not here is a	 case to
 place the accused for trial is that
 of the police officer making the
 investigation and the final step in
 the investigation	is to be taken
 only by the police and by no other
 authority, see Abhinandan	 Jha
 v. Dinesh	Mishra , 1967 (3)SCR 668. This must	be borne in mind as also
 that the scope and purpose of a
 proceeding like the present is to
 ensure a	 proper	 and	faithful
 performance of its duty	 by the
 police officer by	 resort	 to the
 prerogative writ of mandamus." The Minister's power in these matters has, therefore,
to be understood as circumscribed by these limitations under
the law. History of CBI
 It is useful to refer at this stage to the history of
the CBI. The Special Police Establishment was formed during
the World War II when large sums of public money were being
spent in connection with the War and there arise enormous
potential for corruption amongst the officers dealing with
the supplies. An executive order was made by the Government
of India in 1941 setting up the Special Police Establishment
(SPE) under a DIG in the then Department of War. The need
for a central government agency to investigate c ases of
bribery and corruption by the Central	Government servants
continued and,	 therefore, the Delhi Special Policy
Establishment act was brought into force in 1946. Under this
Act, the superintendence of the Special Police Establishment
was transferred to the Home Department and its function were
enlarged to cover all	departments of	 the Government of
India. The jurisdiction of the SPE extended to all the Union
Territories and	 could also be extended to the States with
the consent of the concerned State Governments. Then the SPE
was put	 under the charge of Director, Intelligence Bureau.
Later in 1948 a post of Inspector General of Police, SPE was
created and the organisation was placed under his charge.
The Central Bureau of	 Investigation	was established on
1.4.1963 vide Government of India's Resolution No, 4/31/61-
T/MHA. This was done to meet	the felt need of having a
central	 police	 agency	 at the disposal of	the Central
Government to investigate into cases not only of bribery and
corruption but	also those relating to the breach of central
fiscal laws, frauds in	 government departments and PSUs and
other serious crimes. On enlargement of the role of CBI an
Economic Offences Wing was added to the existing Divisions
of the	CBI. In	 1887 tow Divisions were created in the CBI
known as Anti-Corruption Division	and Special Crimes
Division, the latter dealing with cases of	conventional
crimes besides	economic offences. In 1994 due to increased
workload relating to bank frauds and	economic offences a
separate Economic Offences Wing was established in CBI with
the result that since	then the CBI has three Investigation
Divisions, namely, Anti-Corruption Division, Special Crimes
Division and Economic Offences Division. Further particulars
thereof are not necessary in the present context. We are informed that almost all the State Governments
have given concurrence for extension of the jurisdiction of
the Delhi Special Police Establishment in their States with
the exception of only	a few.	The result is that for all
practical purposes, he jurisdiction in respect of all such
offences is exercised in the consenting States only by the
CBI and not by the State Police. This is the significance of
the role of	the CBI in such matters and, therefor,
technically the	 additional jurisdiction under the general
law of the State Police in. these matters is of no practical relevance. The pragmatic
effect of the single Directive is, therefore, to inhibit
investigation against the specified category	of officers
without sanction in accordance with the Single Directive.
Validity of directive No.4.7(3) of the Single Directive
 We may now refer to the two decisions on which specific
reliance has been placed by the learned Attorney General
before us as well as the IRC in its report. The decision in J.A.C. Saldanha (supra) is on Section 3 of the	Police, Act 1861 and deals with the ambit and scope
of State Governments power of `superintendence' thereunder.
It was	held in	 J.A.C. Saldanha (supra) that	the power of
superintendence of the State Government includes its power
to direct further investigation under Section 173	 (8) Cr.P.C.. That was a case in which there was occasion to
require further	 investigation because of the unsatisfactory
nature of the investigation done earlier of a cognizable
offence. Thus, in that case the power of superintendence was
exercised for directing further investigation to complete an
unsatisfactory investigation of a cognizable	 offence to
promote the cause of justice and not	 to subvert it by
preventing investigation. In our opinion, in	the present
context, that decision has no application to support	 the
issuance of the Single	 directive in exercise foe of the of
superintendence, since	the effect of the Single Directive
might thwart investigation of	a cognizable offence and not
to promote the cause	 of justice by directing further
investigation leading to a prosecution. The other	decision of this court	 is in K. Veeraswami (supra). That was a decision in which the majority held that
the prevention	of Corruption Act applies even to the Judges
of the	High court and the Supreme Court, After taking that
view, it was said by the majority (per Shetty, J.) that in
order to protect the independence of	 judiciary, it	 was
essential that	no criminal case shall	 be registered under Section 154 Cr.P.C. against a Judge of the High Court or of
the Supreme court unless the Chief Justice of India is
consulted and he assents to such an action being taken. The
Learned Attorney General contended that this decision is an
authority for	 the proposition that in case of	high
officials, the requirement of prior permission/sanction from
a higher officer or Hear of the Department is permissible
and necessary to save the concerned officer from harassment
cause by a malicious or vexatious prosecution. we are unable
to accept this submission. The position of Judges of High	Courts	and Supreme
Court, who are constitutional	functionaries, is distinct,
and the	 independence of judiciary, keeping it free from any
extraneous influence, including that from executive, is the
rationale of the decision in K. Veeraswami (supra). In
strict terms the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1946 could
not be	applied to the superior Judges and, therefore, while
bringing those	Judges within	the purview of	 the Act yet
maintaining the	 independence of judiciary, this guideline
was issued as a direction but	 the Court. The feature of
independence of judiciary has no application to the officers
covered by the single	directive, The need for independence
of judiciary from the directive influence does not arise in
the case of officers belonging to the executive. we have no
doubt that the decision in K.	 Veeraswami (supra) has no
application to	the wide proposition advanced by the learned
Attorney General to support the single Directive. For the
same reason, reliance on that decision by the IRC to uphold
the Single Directive is misplaced. The question, however, is	 whether, without the aid of
these decisions, the Single Directive can be upheld., In
this context, meaning	of the	 word "superintendence" in Section 4(1) of the Delhi Special Police establishment Act,
1946 requires consideration. The Delhi special police Establishment Act, 1946 is an Act
to make	 provision for	the constitution of a special police
force in Delhi for the investigation of certain offences in
the Union Territories for	 the superintendence	 and
administration of the said force and	for the extension to
other areas of the powers and jurisdiction of members of the
said force in retard to the	investigation of the	said
offences, Section 6 of the Act requires consent of the state
government to exercise powers and jurisdiction under the Act
by the Delhi special police establishment. This is because
Police' is a State subject, being in List Li, entry 2 of the
seventh Schedule; For this reason, the learned Attorney
general contended that the power and	jurisdiction of	 the
state police	in respect of an offence	within	 its
jurisdiction remains intact and is not inhibited by	 the
Single Directive; and	that the CBI	alone is inhibited
thereby. Section 2 of	the act	 deals with constitution and
powers of the Special	Police Establishment (SPE). This is
how the	 CBI has been constituted. Section 3 provides for
offences to be investigated by the SPE and says that the
offences or class of offences to be investigated by	 the
agency may be specified by notification in the Official
Gazette by the Central government. Section 3 of the	Police act, 1861 is in pari materia
with Section 4 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment act
1946. These sections read as under:- The meaning of the word "superintendence" in Section
4(1) of	 the Delhi special police Act, 1946 determines the
scope of the authority	 of the	 Central Government in this
context. There can	be no doubt that the overall administration
of the	said face, i.e. CBI vests in the Central Government,
which also includes, by the virtue of Section 3 , the power
to specify the offences or class of offences which are to be
investigated by	 it. The general superintendence over	 the
functioning of	the department	 and specification of	 the
offences which	are to	be investigated by the agency is not
the same as and would not include within it the control of
the intiation	and the actual	 process of investigation,
i.e., direction. Once the CBI is empowered to investigate an
offence generally by its specification under Section 3 , the
process of investigation, including its initiation, is to be
governed by the statutory provision which provide for the
initiation and	manner of investigation the offence. This is
not an	area which can be included within the meaning of
"superintendence" in section 4(1) . It is, therefore, the notification made by the Central
Government under Section 3 which confers and determines the
jurisdiction of	 the CBI to investigate an offence; and once
that jurisdiction is attracted by virtue of the notification
under Section 3 , the actual investigation to be governed by
the statutory provisions under the general law applicable to
such investigation. This appears to us	the proper
construction of section 4(1) in the context, and it is in
harmony with the scheme of the Act, and section 3 in
particular. the word	"superintendence" in section	4(1) cannot	be constructed in a winder sense to permit
supervision of the actual investigation of an offence by the
CBI contrary	to the	 manner roved	 by the statutory
provisions., The board proportion urged on behalf of	 the
Union of India that it can issue any directive to the CBI to
curtail	 or inhibit its jurisdiction	 to investigate an
offence specified in the notification issued under section 3 by a directive under section 4(1) of three Act cannot be
accepted, The jurisdiction of	the 4 CBI to investigate an
offence	 is to be determined with	 reference to	 the
notification issued under Section any not by	any separate
order not having that character
 This view does not conflict with the decision in J.A.C.
Saldanha (supra) as earlier indicated. In Saldanha,	 the
question was whether an unsatisfactory investigation already
made could be undertaken by another officer	for further
investigation of the	offence	 so that the	offence	 was
properly investigated as required by law, and it was not to
prevent	 the investigation or an offence.	 The single
Directive has the effect of restraining reforming of AIR and
initiation of	investigation and not	 of preceding	with
investigation,	as in	Saldanha, No authority to permit
control of salutary powers exercised	 by the police to
investigation an offence within its jurisdiction has been
cited before us except. K.Veeraswami which we have already
distinguished. The view we take accords not only with reason
but also with the gunnery purpose of the law and is in
consonance with the basic tenet of the rule of law. Once the Jurisdiction is	conferred on the CBI	 top
investigate an	offence	 by virtue of	 notification under Section 3 of the Act,	 the powers of investigation	 are
governed by the statuary provisions and they cannot be
estopped or curtailed by any executive instruction issued
under Section 3(1) thereof. This result follows from	 the
fact that conferment of jurisdiction is under section 3 of
the Act and exercise of powers of investigation is by virtue
of the	statuary provisions covering investigation offences.
it is settled that statutory jurisdiction cannot be subject
to execute control
 There is no similarity between a mere executive order
requiring prior	 permission sanctions investigation of	 the
offence	 and sanction	 needed	 under	 the stature	 for
prosecution. The requirement of sanction for	 prosecution
being provided in the very statue which enacts the offence,
the sanction for prosecution is a pre-requisite for	 the
court to take connivance of the offence. In the absence of
any statutory requirement of prior permission	 or sanction
for investigation, it cannot be imposed as	a condition
precedent for	 institution of the	investigation	once
jurisdiction is	 conferred on the CBI	to investigate	 the
offence by virtue of the notification under section 3 of the
Act. The word "superintendence" in section 4(1) of the Act
in the context must be construct in a manner consistent with
the other provisions of the Act and the general statutory
powers of investigation which	given investigation even by
the CBI. The necessity of previous sanction for prosecution
is provided in Section	 6 of the Prevention of Corruption
Act, 1947 (Section 19	of the	1988 Act) without which no
court can take consistence of an offence punishable under Section 5 of that Act. There	is no such previous sanction
for investigation provided for	 either in the Prevention of
Corruption Act or the Delhi Special Police establishment Act
or in any other statutory provision. The above is the only
manner ii which Section 4(1) of the Act can in harmonised
with Section 3 and the other statutory provisions. The Single Directive has to be examined in	this
background. The	 law does not classify offenders differently
for treatment	 thereunder, including	 investigation	 of
offences and persecution for offences. according to their
status in life. Every person accused of committing the same
offences is to be dealt with in the same manner in
accordance with	 law, which is equal in its application to
everyone. The Single Directive is applicable only to certain
p[person above	the specified level who are described as
"decision making officers". The question is	whether	 any
distinction can be made for	 them for the	 purpose of
investigation of an offence of which they are accused. Obviously, where the accusation of corruption is based
on direct evidence and it does not require any inference to
be drawn depend on the decision making process, there is no
rational basic to classify them differently. In other words,
if the accusation be of bribery which is supported by direct
evidence of acceptance of illegal gratification by them,
including strap cases, it is obvious that no other factor is
relevant and the level or status of the	offender is
irrelevant. It	is for this reason that it was conceded that
such cases, i.e., if bribery, including trap	 cases,	 are
outside the scope of the Single Directive. After some debate
at the	bar, no	 serious attempt was made by	the learned
Attorney General to support inclusion	 within	 the Single
Directive of cases in which the offender is alleged to be in
possession of disproportionate assets. It is clear that the
accusation of possession of disproportionate assists	by a
person is also based on direct evidence and no factor
pertaining to the exercise of decision making is involved
therein. We have, therefore,	no doubt that	 the Single
directive cannot include within its ambit cases of
possession of disproportionate assists by the offender. The
question new is only with regard to cases other than those
of bribery, including trap cases, and of possession of
disproportioned	 assists being covered by	the Single
Directive
 There may be other cases where the accusation cannot be
supported by direct evidence and is a matter of inference of
corrupt motive	for the	 decision, with nothing to prove
directly any illegal gain to the decision maker. Those are
cases in which the inference drawn is that the decision mus
have been made for a corrupt	motive because	the decision
could not have been reached otherwise by an officer at that
level in the hierarchy. This is, therefore, an area where
the opinion of persons with requisite expertise in decision
making of that kind is relevant, and may be even decisive in
reaching the conclusion whether allegation requires	 any
investigation to be made. In view of the fact that the CBI
of the	Police force does not have the expertise within fold
for the	 formation of the requisition opinion in such cases,
the need for the inclusion of such a mechanism comprising of
experts in the field as a part of the infrastructure of the
CBI is	obvious, to decide whether the accusation	made
discloses grounds for a reasonable suspicion of	 the
commission of an offence and it requires investigation. In
the absence of any such mechanism within the infrastructure
of the	CBI, comprising	 of experts in the field who	 can
evaluate the	material for	the decision to be made,
introduction therein of a body of experts having expertise
of the	kind of	 business which	 requires the division to be
made, can be appreciated. But then, the final opinion is to
be of the CBI	with the aid of that advice and not that of
anyone else. It would	be more	 appropriate to	 have such a
body within the infrastructure of the CBI itself.
The Single Directive cannot, therefore, be uphold as valid
on the	ground to it being permissible in exercise of the
power of superintendence of the Central Government under Section 4(1) Act. The	matter now to be considered de hors
hors the Single Directive. Power of the Supreme court
 In view of the common perception	 shared by everyone
including the Government of India and the	 Independent
review Committee (IRC) of the need for insulation of the
need for insulation of the CBI from extrancous influence of
any kind, it is imperative that some action	is urgently
taken to prevent the continuance of this situation with a
view in	 ensure proper	implementation of the rule of law.
This is the need of equality guaranteed in the	Constitution
The right to equality	in a situation like this is that of
the Indian polity and	not merely of a few individuals. The
powers conferred on this Court by the Constitution are ample
to remedy this defect	and to	ensure	enforcement of	 the
concept of equality. There are	ample powers conferred by Article 32 read
with Article 142 to make orders which have the effect of law
by virtue of article 141 and	 there	is mandate to	 all
authorities to	act in	aid of	the orders of this Court as
provided in Article 144 of the Constitution. In a catena of
decisions of this Court, this power has been recognised and
exercised, if need be,	 by issuing necessary directions to
fill the vacuum till such time the legislature steps in to
cover the gap or the executive discharges its role. it is in
the discharge of this	duty that the IRC was constituted by
the Government	 of India with a view to	 obtain	 its
recommendations after an indepth study of the problem in
order to implement them by suitable executive directions
till proper legislation is enacted. The report of the IRC
has been given to the Government of India but because of
certain difficulties in the present context,	 no further
action by the executive has been possible. The study having
been made by a	 Committee considered by the Government of
India itself as an expert body, it is safe top act on the
recommendations of the IRC to formulate the directions of
this Court, to the extent they are of assistance. In the
remaining area, on the basis of the study of the IRC and its
recommendations, suitable directions can be formulate to
fill the entire vacuum. This is the exercise we propose to
perform in the present	 case since this exercise can no
longer	be delayed. it is	essential and	 indeed	 the
constitutional obligation of this court under the aforesaid
provisions to issue the necessary directions in this behalf.
We now	consider formulation of the needed directions in the
performance of this obligation. The directions issued herein
for strict compliance are a to operate till	such time as
they are replaced by suitable legislation in this behalf. There is another aspect of rule	of law	which is of
equal significance. Unless a proper investigation is made
and it	is followed by an equally proper prosecution, the
effort made would not bear fruition. The recent experience
in the	 field	 of prosecution s also discouraging. To
emphasise this	point, some reference has to be made to a
large number of prosecution launched	 as a result of
monitoring by the court in this matter which have resulted
in discharge of the accused at the threshold. It	took
serval years for the CBI to commence investigation and that
too as	a result of the monitoring by this Court. It is not
as if the CBI,	 on conclusion	of the investigation, formed
the opinion that no case was	made out for prosecution so
that the earlier inaction may have been justified. The CBI
did file numerous chargesheets	 which indicated that in its
view a	prima facie case for prosecution had been made out.
This alone is	sufficient to	indicate that	the earlier
inaction was unjustified. However, discharge of the accused
on filing of the chargesheet indicates, irrespective of the
ultimate outcome of the matters pending in	 the higher
courts, that the trial court at least was not satisfied that
a prima facie case was made out by the investigation. These
facts are sufficient	 to indicate	 that	either	 the
investigation or the prosecution or both were lacking. A
similar result	of discharge of the accused in such a large
number of cases where chargesheets has been filed by the CBI
is not	consistent with any other inference. The need for a
strong and competent prosecution machinery and not merely a
fair and competent investigation by the CBI can hardly be
over emphasised. This	 is the	 occasion for us to take the
view that a suitable machinery for prosecution of the cases
filed in court by the CBI is	 also essential to ensure
discharge of its full	responsibility by the CBI. Unless a
competent prosecution	 follows a fair and competent
investigation, the exercise in	 the ultimate analysis would
be futile. Investigation without improving the prosecution
machinery is	of no	practical significance. We would,
therefore, consider the aspect	 of prosecution	 also in the
formulation of the guidelines. In exercise of the powers of this Court under Article
32 read	 with Article 142 , guidelines	and directions	have
been issued in a large number of cases and a brief reference
to a few of them is sufficient.	 In Erach Sam Kanga etc. vs.
Union of India & Anr. (Writ Petition No. 2632 of 1978 etc.
etc.) decided on 20th	march, 1979, the Constitution Bench
laid down certain guidelines relating to the Emigration Act . In Lakshmi Kant Pandey	 vs. Union of India (in re: Foreign
Adoption), 1984	 (2) SCC 244, guidelines for	adoption of
minor children	by foreigners were laid down.	Similarly in
State of West Bengal & Ors. etc. vs. Sampat Lal & ors. etc. 1985 ( 2) SCR 256, K. Veeraswami vs. Union of India	 and
Others , 1991 ( 3) SCC 655, Union Carbide Corporation	 and
Others vs. Union of India and Others , 1991 (4) SCC 584,
Delhi Judicial Service Association etc. vs. State of Gujarat
and Others etc. (Nadiad	 Case),	 1991 ( 4) SCC	 406, Delhi
Development Authority vs. Skipper Construction Co. (P) Ltd.
And Another , 1996 ( 4)	SCC 622 and Dinesh Trivedi, M.P. and
Others vs. Union of India and	 Others , 1997 (4) SCC	306,
guidelines, were laid	 down having the effect of	law,
requiring rigid	 compliance. In Supreme Court Advocates-on-
Record Associations and Others	 vs. Union of	India (IInd
Judge Case), 1993 (4)	SCC 441, a 9-Judge Bench laid down
guidelines and	norms for the appointment and transfer of
Judges which are being	 rigidly followed in the matter of
appointments of	 High Court and Supreme Court	 Judges	 and
transfer of High Court	 Judges. More recently in Vishakha
and Others vs. State of Rajasthan and Others , 1997 (6) SCC
241, elaborate guidelines have been laid down for observance
in work	 places relating to sexual harassment	 of working
women.	In Vishaka, it was said: As pointed	 out in Vishakha (supra), it is the duty of
the executive to fill the vacuum by executive orders because
its field is coterminous with that of the legislature, and
where there is inaction even by the executive, for whatever
reason, the judiciary must step in, in exercise of	 its
constitutional obligations under the aforesaid provisions to
provide a solution till such time as the legislature acts to
perform its role by enacting proper legislation to cover the
field. On this basis, we	 now proceed to give the directions
enumerated hereafter for rigid compliance till such time as
the legislature	 steps	in to	substitute them by proper
legislation. These directions	 made under Article 32 read
with Article 142 to implement the rule of law wherein the
concept of equality enshrined	in Article 14 is embedded,
have the force of law under Article 141 and, by virtue of Article 144 , it is the duty of all authorities, civil and
judicial, in the territory of India to act in aid of this
Court.	 In the issuance of	these directions, we	have
accepted and	are reiterating as far as possible	 the
recommendations made by the IRC. It is a similar perception in England which has led to
the constitution of a	Committee headed by Lord Nolan on
'Standards in Public Life'. In Volume 1 of Lord Nolan's
Report (1995), the general recommendations made are: The Seven	Principles of Public Life are stated in the
Report by Lord Nolan, thus: These principles	 of public life are	 of general
application in	every democracy	 and one is expected to bear
them in	 mind while scrutinising the conduct of every holder
of a public office. It is trite that the holders of public
offices are entrusted with certain powers to be exercised in
public interest	 alone and, therefore, the office is held by
them in	 trust for the people.	 Any deviation from the path
of rectitude by any of them amounts to a breach of trust and
must be	 severely dealt	 with instead of being pushed under
the carpet. If the conduct amounts to an offence, it must
be promptly investigated and the offender against whom a
prima facie case is	 made	out should be prosecuted
expeditiously so that the majesty of law is upheld and the
rule of	 law vindicated. It is duty	of the	judiciary to
enforce the rule of law and,	therefore, to guard against
erosion of the rule of law. The adverse impact of lack of probity in public life
leading to a high degree of corruption is manifold. It also
has adverse effect on	foreign investment and funding from
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank who have
warned that future aid	 to under-developed countries may be
subject to the requisite steps being	taken to eradicate
corruption, which prevents international aid from reaching
those for whom it is meant. Increasing corruption has led
to investigative journalism which is of value to a	free
society. The need to highlight corruption in public life
through the medium of	public interest	 litigation invoking
judicial review	 may be frequent in India but is not unknown
in other countries: R v Secretary of State for Foreign and
Commonwealth Affairs, (1995) 1 WLR 386. Of	 course, the	necessity of desirable procedures
evolved by court rules	 to ensure that such a litigation is
properly conducted and confined only to mattes of public
interest is obvious.	This is	 the effort made in these
proceedings for the	enforcement of	 fundamental rights
guaranteed in	 the Constitution in	exercise of powers
conferred on this Court for doing complete justice in a
cause.	 It cannot be doubted that there is a serious human
rights aspect involved in such a proceeding	because	 the
prevailing corruption	in public life, if permitted to
continue unchecked, has ultimately the deleterious effect of
eroding the Indian polity. As a result of the aforesaid discussion, we hereby direct as
under: P.C. provides	 essential guidelines for	 the CBI's
functioning.	 It is	 imperative that the	CBI adheres
scrupulously to	 the provisions in the Manual in relation to
its investigative functions,	 like	raids,	scizure	 and
arrests. Any	deviation from	 the established procedure
should be viewed seriously and severe	 disciplinary action
taken against the concerned officials. 13. The Director, CBI shall be responsible for ensuring the
filing of chargesheets in courts within the stipulated time
limits, and the matter should be kept under constant review
by the Director, CBI 14. A document	 on CBI's functioning should be published
within three months to	 provide the general public with a
feedback on investigations and	 information for redress of
genuine grievances in a manner which	does not compromise
with the operational requirements of the CBI. 15. Time limit	 of three months for grant of sanction for
prosecution must be	strictly adhered to.	 However,
additional time of one month may	 be allowed where
consultation is	 required with	the Attorney General (AG) or
any other law officer in the AG's office. 16. The Director, CBI should	conduct regular appraisal of
personnel to prevent corruption and/or inefficiency in the
agency. III. ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE 1. A Selection Committee headed by the Central Vigilance
Commissioner and including the	 Home Secretary, Secretary
(Personnel) and Revenue Secretary, shall prepare a panel for
appointment of	the Director, Enforcement Directorate.	 The
appointment to	the post of Director shall be	 made by the
Appointments Committee	of the	Cabinet (ACC) from the panel
recommended by the Selection Committee. 2. The Director, Enforcement Director like Director, CBI
shall have a minimum tenure of two years. In his case also,
premature transfer for any extraordinary reason should be
approved by the aforesaid Selection Committee headed by the
Central Vigilance commissioner. 3. In view of the importance of the post of Director,
Enforcement Directorate, it shall be upgraded to that of a
Additional Secretary/Special Secretary to the Government. 4. Officers of the	 Enforcement Directorate handling
sensitive assignments shall be provided adequate security to
enable them to discharge their functions fearlessly. 5. Extensions of tenure upto	 the level of Joint Director
in the Enforcement Directorate should be decided by the said
Committee headed by the Central Vigilance Commissioner. 6. There shall be no	 premature media publicity by	 the
CBI/Enforcement Directorate. 7. Adjudication/commencement of prosecution shall be made
by the enforcement Directorate within a period of one year. 8. The Director, Enforcement Directorate shall monitor and
ensure speedy completion of investigations/adjudications and
launching of prosecutions. Revenue Secretary	 must review
their progress regularly. 9. For	 speedy conduct of	investigations	abroad,	 the
procedure to approve filing of applications	for Letters
Rogatory shall	be streamlined	and, if	 necessary, Revenue
Secretary authorised to grant the approval 10. A comprehensive circular shall be published by	 the
Directorate to inform the public	about	 the
procedures/systems of	its functioning for the sake of
transparency. 11. In-house legal advice mechanism shall be strengthened
by appointment	 of competent	 legal	 advisers in	 the
CBI/Directorate of Enforcement. 12. The Annual	 Report of the Department of Revenue shall
contain a detailed account on the working of the Enforcement
Directorate. III. NODAL AGENCY 1. A Nodal Agency headed by the Home Secretary with Member
(Investigation), Central Board of Direct Taxes, Director
General, Revenue Intelligence,	 Director, Enforcement	 and
Director, CBI	 as members,	shall be constituted	 for
coordinated action in	 cases	having	politico-bureaucrat-
criminal nexus. 2. The Nodal Agency shall meet at least once every month. 3. Working and efficacy of the Nodal Agency should be
watched for about one	year so	 as to	improve it upon the
basis of the experience gained within this period.
IV PROSECUTION AGENCY 1. A	panel	of competent	lawyers	 of experience	 and
impeccable reputation shall be	 prepared with the advice of
the Attorney General Their services shall be utilised as
Prosecuting Counsel in cases of significance.	 Even during
the course of investigation of an offence, the advice of a
lawyer	chosen	from the panel should be taken by	 the
CBI/Enforcement Directorate. 2. Every prosecution	which results in the discharge or
acquittal of the accused must be reviewed by a lawyer on the
panel and, on the basis of the opinion given, responsibility
should be fixed for dereliction of duty, if	any, of	 the
concerned officer. In	 such cases, strict action should be
taken against the officer found guilty of dereliction of
duty. 3. The preparation of the panel of lawyers with approval
of the	Attorney General shall be completed within three
months. 4. Steps shall be taken immediately for the constitution
of an able and impartial agency comprising	 persons of
unimpeachable integrity	 to perform functions akin to those
of the Director of Prosecutions in U.K.	 On the constitution
of such a body, the	 task of supervising	prosecutions
launched by the CBI/Enforcement Directorate shall be
entrusted to it. 5. Till the constitution of	the aforesaid body, Special
Counsel shall be appointed for the conduct of important
trials on the recommendation of the Attorney General or any
other law officer designated by him. The learned amicus curiae had	urged us to issue
directions for	the appointment	 of an authority akin to the
Special or Independent Counsel	 in the United States of
America for the investigation	of charges in	 politically
sensitive matters and for the prosecution of those cases and
to ensure that appointments to sensitive posts in the CBI
and other enforcement agencies and transfers therefrom were
not made by the political executive.	 We are of the view
that the time for these drastic steps has not come. It is
our hope that it never will,	for we	entertain the belief
that the investigative agencies shall function far better
now, having regard to all that has happened since these writ
petition were admitted and to	 the directions which	 are
contained in	 this	judgment. The personnel of	 the
enforcement agencies should not now lack the courage	 and
independence to	 go about their task as they	should, even
where those to be investigated are prominent and powerful
persons. In view of the problem in the States being even more
acute,	as claborately	 discussed in	the Report of	 the
National Police	 Commission (1979), there is urgent need for
the State Government also to set up credible mechanism for
selection of the Police Chief in the States.	 The Central
Government must pursue the	 matter	 within	 the State
Governments and ensure that	 a similar mechanism, as
indicated above, is	set up in each State for	 the
selection/appointment, tenure,	transfer and posting of not
merely the Chief of the State	 Police but also all police
officers of the rank of Superintendent of Police and above.
It is shocking to hear, a matter of common knowledge, that
in some	 States the tenure of a Superintendent of Police is
on an average only a fee months and transfers are made for
whimsical reasons. Apart from demoralising	 the police
force, it has also the adverse effect of politicizing the
personnel. It is, therefore, essential that prompt measures
are taken by the Central Government within the ambit of
their constitutional powers in	 the federation	 to impress
upon the State Governments that such a practice is alien to
the envisaged	constitutional	machinery. The situation
described in the National Police Commission's Report (1979)
was alarming and it has become much worse by now.	 The
desperation of the Union Home Minister in his letters to the
state Governments, placed before us at the hearing, reveal a
distressing situation which must be cured, if the rule of
law is	to prevail. No action within	 the constitutional
scheme found necessary to remedy the	 situations is	 too
stringent in these circumstances. In the result, we	 strike down Directive No. 4.7(3) of
the Single Directive quoted above and issue the above
directions, which have to be construed in the light of the
earlier discussion. The Report of the Independent Review
Committee (IRC) and its recommendations which are similar to
this extent can be read, if necessary, for a proper
appreciation of	 these directions. To	 the extent we agree
with the conclusions and recommendations of the IRC,	 and
that is	 a large area, we have adopted the same in	 the
formulation of	the above directions.	 These directions
require the strict compliance/adherence of the Union of
India and all concerned. The writ petitions are disposed of in the above terms
 Criminal Misc. Petition Nos. 5879-5882 of 1997
 In view of the disposal of the writ petitions in the
manner indicated above and in the facts and circumstances of
the cases, we do not consider	 it necessary now to examine
the appointment	 of Shri R.C.	 Sharma	 as Director,	CBI.
Moreover, the tenure of Shri Sharma as Director, CBI is to
end soon. We	make it	 clear that Shri Sharma is not to be
continued as CBI Director beyond the date of expiry of his
present tenure.	 Accordingly, these Crl. M. Ps. are disposed
of in this manner. In view of the withdrawal of C.W.P.No.2992 of 1997 in
the Delhi High Court as required by this Court's order dated
11.9.1997, no further order for the disposal of C.W.P. No.
2992 of 1997 is necessary.