The applicant has filed this application under Section 19 of

the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 seeking the following

reliefs: dated 02.02.2024 issued by the Respondent No.3, Annexure
 A9 and to grant such other relief deemed fit, having regards
 to the facts and circumstances of the case." 2. Briefly stated the facts as narrated by the applicant are that

the applicant was appointed as Upper Division Clerk on 07.09.2012

in ESIC Karnataka Region. The initial posting of the applicant was

in ESIC Sub-Regional office Bommasandra. The applicant was

transferred to ESIC Branch office, Bommasandra on 22.01.2016.

The applicant cleared the Departmental Examination conducted by

ESIC and was promoted to the post of Assistant with effect from

24.12.2018. The applicant was subsequently transferred to ESIC,

Regional Office, Bangalore on 17.09.2019 and within a gap of two

months, the applicant was again transferred to ESIC Hospital

Peenya. Later the applicant was transferred to ESIC Sub-Regional

Office, Mangalore on 10.12.2021 and since then the applicant has

been working at SRO-Mangalore. The Respondent No.3 issued
 4 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

charge memorandum dated 02.02.2024 proposing to take action

against the applicant under Regulation 14 and Para 3 of the Third

Schedule of ESIC (Staff and Conditions of Service) Regulations,

1959 (as amended) along with Article of charges, statement of

imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour in support of each

article of charges, list of documents and the list of witnesses.

Being aggrieved, the applicant has preferred this OA. 3. The applicant- party in person has challenged the

impugned charge memorandum on three grounds. Firstly, the Respondent No.3 has issued the charge sheet

after inordinate delay of four years after discovering the irregularity

and after lapse of around eight years from the date of the alleged

incident. Respondent No.3 has violated the guidelines issued by

the Central Vigilance Commission regarding time line framed, for

issue of charge sheet. The inordinate delay prejudices the right of

the applicant in taking defence in the proposed disciplinary

proceedings. In this context, the applicant has placed reliance on

the judgement of the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay in
 5 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

Bhupendra Pal Singh vs. Union of India and others reported in

[2021 SCC Online Bom 6073] . 4. Secondly, the applicant submitted that the charges are

vague. The extract of 'Hand Book for Inquiry Officers and

Disciplinary Authorities' published by the Ministry of Personnel,

Public Grievance and Pension in the year 2013 (Annexure A13)

has been referred to. 5. Thirdly, the applicant submitted that the charge memo

suffers from discrimination and bias. Elaborating the arguments on

this point, the applicant submitted that as per SOP for issuing

approval under Section 17(A) of Prevention of Corruption Act (as

amended in 2018) [ PC Act ], once the complaint is lodged, the

Investigating Agency looks into the veracity of complaint and if

required seeks approval for inquiry or enquiry. In the instant case,

along with the complaint, respondent No.3 submitted the approval

letter under Section 17(A) PC Act for conducting inquiry/enquiry

against the applicant. Even before the approval was sought, the

same was submitted by Respondent No.3 without application of
 6 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

mind and with a prejudged mind set. It was further submitted that

the disciplinary action has been taken against seven

officers/officials in regard to misappropriation of benefit of

payment of Branch Office Bommasandra. Complaint has been filed

with the CBI, ACB Bangalore against the applicant. In the Annual

Accounts report of ESIC for the year 2021-2022, only the name of

the applicant was disclosed concealing the names of other seven

suspected officers/officials. Though the investigation report was

submitted on 11.06.2021 and the complaint lodged with CBI on

29.11.2021, only the name of the applicant was mentioned as

suspected and the name of seven other suspected officers/officials

were concealed. Thus the applicant submitted that the charge

memo is issued without application of mind and the same suffers

from infirmities. Accordingly, seeks for the relief claimed. 6. We have carefully considered the submissions of the

learned Counsel for the applicant and perused the material on

record. 7 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH 7. The moot question that arises for our consideration is,

whether the impugned charge memo dated 02.02.2024 (Annexure

A9) calls for interference by this Tribunal at this stage? 8. Article of charges framed against the applicant,

Annexure-I to the charge memorandum reads thus: ARTICLE OF CHARGE-II: 9 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

persons known to them by collecting their copies of
Aadhaar cards , photographs etc deceiving them in the
pretence of some government scheme, that if they open
bank accounts they will get monthly Rs.500/- to their bank
account. Later all their bank passbook, ATM cards along
with PIN were collected by Sri Vasanth Kumar, Sri Nanda
Kishore Doddamani and Pawan Kumar Doddamani and
even paid them Rs.200/- to Rs.1000 for around three months
for a few of them. In total Rs.96,43,936/- (Rupees Ninety Six Lakhs
Forty Three Thousand Nine Hundred Thirty Six) was
misappropriated from ESIC Branch Offices consisting of
106 Maternity Benefit payments for Rs.76,99,062 (Rupees
Seventy Six Lakhs Ninety Nine Thousand Sixty Two) and
369 Sickness Benefit payments for Rs.19,44,874 (Rupees
Nineteen Lakhs Forty Four Thousand Eight Hundred
Seventy Four). These misappropriated benefit payments
were credited and withdrawn from the 72 Bank accounts. The list of 72 Bank accounts and particulars are as
listed in Annexure-II Statement of imputations. 10 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

ARTICLE OF CHARGE-III: 11 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

 found in 144 numbers of SB dockets. In 22 misappropriated
 MB cases, Form 10 was issued under the signature of Shri
 Vasanth Kuamr and he has accepted the same during his
 inquiry by Vigilance SZ Chennai. It is evident that he with
 a motive to create fake benefit payment claims had signed
 Form-10 certificate and handed over to IPs directly for
 getting certification from the employer instead sending it
 through registered post thereby violating Para 11.37 of
 Branch Office Manual. The details and particulars of Form-10 issued by Sri
 Vasanth Kumar K., wherein it is seen that he had issued
 Form-10 to fake employers are as listed in Annexure-II
 Statement of imputations. Further, Sri Vasanth Kumar, while posted at BO
 Bommasandra issued Form-10 to fake employer code
 number in respect of IP no.5039007871 IW.Sowmya
 towards maternity benefit claim wherein the IP number
 pertained to Branch Office Adugodi." 9. Statement of imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour

in support of each article of charges framed against the applicant

discloses that the applicant in collusion with his brothers-in-law
 12 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

Shri Nandi Kishore Doddamani and Shri Pawan Kumar Doddamani

and his relative Smt.Vijaya Kumari V., using fake documents and

mobile numbers belonging to himself and his brothers-in-law

through the self registration portal for employers of ESIC using

fake phone numbers, fake email ID, details of inactive insurance

numbers of insured persons, or non-existent persons, opened 72

bank accounts at various nationalised banks in the names of their

relatives and persons known to them. The vigilance investigation

revealed that 313 IP numbers were used in preparing the false

benefit claims. Details of Form-10 issued by the applicant to fake

employers are provided. Thus it is alleged that the applicant

conniving with Shri Nandi Kishore Doddamani and Shri Pavan

Kumar Doddamani, who are his brothers-in-law created fake

documents and caused illegal credit of MB (Mobile Banking)

payments into the Bank accounts of persons who were not entitled

to receive, with an intention to make wrongful gain to himself and

financial loss to ESI Corporation. 13 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH 10. It is well settled that the challenge to the charge memo

cannot be entertained in a routine manner. The power of judicial

review in this regard has to be exercised sparingly. At this juncture

this Tribunal cannot go into the merits or demerits of the charges

framed against the applicant. The same has to be considered by

competent disciplinary authority. The applicant should establish

his innocence participating in the process of enquiry contrarily he

cannot rush to this Tribunal seeking for quashing of the charge

memo itself. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Union of

India and others vs. Upendra Singh reported (1994) 3 SCC 357

has observed thus: making process. Judicial review cannot extend to the
 examination of the correctness or reasonableness of a
 decision as a matter of fact. The purpose of judicial
 review is to ensure that the individual receives fair
 treatment and not to ensure that the authority after
 according fair treatment reaches, on a matter which it is
 authorized by law to decide, a conclusion which is
 correct in the eyes of the Court. Judicial review is not
 an appeal from a decision but a review of the manner
 in which the decision is made. It will be erroneous to
 think that the Court sits in judgment not only on the
 15 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

 correctness of the decision making process but also on
 the correctness of the decision itself." 11. In the case of Union of India and another vs. Kunisetty

Satyanarayana (2006) 12 SCC 28 it has been held thus: 12. In the case of Secretary, Ministry of Defence and others

vs. Prabhash Chandra Mirdha (2012) 11 SCC 565, Hon'ble

Apex Court has held thus: 13. In the wake of the aforesaid judgments, it is clear that the

charge sheet cannot ordinarily be quashed at an initial stage, as

ascertaining the correctness or truth of the charge is the function of

the disciplinary authority. Gravity of alleged misconduct is a

relevant concept to be taken into consideration while quashing the

proceedings. 14. According to the applicant, the vigilance investigation

report was submitted on 11.06.2021. As such, the charge

memorandum issued on 02.02.2024 deserves to be quashed on the

ground of delay and laches. As per CVC guidelines, charge memo

has to be issued within two months from the date of receipt of the

investigation report. In the list of documents, Annexure-III

accompanying charge memo, it is mentioned that the list of

documents by which article of charges framed against the applicant

were proposed to be sustained. Copy of vigilance (South Zone)
 18 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

ESI Corporation, Chennai's, investigation report dated 11.06.2021

three volumes Page No.1 to 1636 (along with enclosures), is

referred to, in the said Annexure-III. Analysis of the voluminous

investigation report with the necessary documents and the nature of

the complex issues involved, certainly takes considerable length of

time to take a decision for initiating disciplinary proceedings. 15. In the case of Bhupendra Pal Singh supra, the Hon'ble

High Court of Bombay while considering the delay of long period

of nearly eight years in issuing the charge memo, in para-38,

observed thus: 16. We have examined the matter in the light of the said

judgment. It is thus clear that inordinate delay also can be

condoned if the explanation offered is satisfactory. There cannot

be any mathematical precision or hard and fast rule to consider the

delay aspect for quashing the charge memorandum, the same

depends on the facts and circumstances of the case. In our

considered view, two months time prescribed from the date of

receipt of investigation report, for issue of charge sheet in the CVC

guidelines dated 23.05.2000 could be considered as directory and

not mandatory. Having regard to the complexity of the issues

involved, we find no ground to quash the charge memorandum on

this point. 17. Regarding the vague charges alleged, it is significant to

note that the details of charges are made known to the applicant in

the statement of imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour at

Annexure A-II, though it is mentioned in the article of charge that
 20 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

during the period 29.01.2016 to 17.09.2019 the applicant had

committed gross misconduct and failed to maintain absolute

integrity in his official duty. Hence the reliance placed on the Hand

Book for Inquiry Officers and Disciplinary Authorities referred to

supra, would be of no assistance to the applicant wherein, it is

explained what is vague charge, as under: 18. No negative equality can be claimed on the ground of

discrimination and bias. The so called concealment of the names

of the other officers/officials alleged, would not be a ground to

quash the charge memo issued to the applicant. The purpose of

enquiry is to discern the truth. CBI filing the charge sheet before

the jurisdictional court also would not be a ground to quash the

charge memorandum. Notwithstanding the pendency of the

criminal case, disciplinary proceedings can be proceeded with, as

observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Captain

M.Paul Anthony vs. Bharat Gold Mines Limited and another 21 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

reported in AIR 1999 Supreme Court 1416. It is well settled that

the disciplinary proceedings and criminal proceedings may continue

simultaneously and pendency of criminal proceedings is no legal

bar in conducting disciplinary proceedings. Giving approval for

inquiry or enquiry along with the complaint by the Respondent

No.3 would not be considered as a flaw to quash the charge

memorandum. 19. Thus the grounds urged by the applicant are not

convincing to quash the charge memo at this premature stage. It is

well settled that the purpose of enquiry is to discern the truth.

Truth is always invincible. In order to achieve this object, enquiry

is necessary in the facts and circumstances of the case. It is open to

the applicant to put forth his defence in the inquiry proceedings and

establish his innocence. Curtailing the disciplinary proceedings by

quashing the charge memo at this stage would defeat the purpose

of achieving the object of discerning the truth, more particularly,

when a detailed investigation has been done by the CBI and the

investigation report is submitted in this regard. Issuing a charge
 22 OA 159/2024/CAT/BANGALORE BENCH

sheet does not infringe the right of the applicant. No adverse

orders are passed affecting the rights of the applicants. Hence for

the reasons aforesaid, we are not inclined to interfere with the

charge memo. 20. Resultantly, OA stands dismissed. No order as to costs.