(i) in the case of taxable service in respect of which service tax

 has not been levied or paid or has been short-levied or short-

 paid-- (a) where under the rules made under this Chapter, a

 periodical return, showing particulars of service tax paid

 during the period to which the said return relates, is to be

 filed by an assessee, the date on which such return is so

 filed; (b) where no periodical return as aforesaid is filed, the last date

 on which such return is to be filed under the said rules; (c) in any other case, the date on which the service tax is to be

 paid under this Chapter or the rules made thereunder; (ii) in a case where the service tax is provisionally assessed

 under this Chapter or the rules made there under, the date of

 adjustment of the service tax after the final assessment thereof; (iii) in a case where any sum, relating to service tax, has

 erroneously been refunded, the date of such refund."

 (emphasis supplied) 39. The provisions of Section 73 , save for a variation in the normal

 period, when it was one year as opposed to thirty months in the

 provision as reproduced above, came up for consideration

 before the Honourable Delhi High Court in Bharat Hotels Ltd v. 26 Commissioner of C.Ex (Adjudication ), 2018 (12) GSTL 368

(Del.), and was analysed in detail. The relevant portions of the

judgement are under: Explanation - Where the service of the notice is stayed by an order

of a court, the period of such stay shall be excluded in computing

the aforesaid period of eighteen months or five years, as the case

may be." 21. The meaning of the words 'wilful misstatement' and

'suppression of facts' has been a subject matter of judicial scrutiny

in various Supreme Court judgments which are necessary to be

discussed before proceeding to the merits of this case. However,

these words have been interpreted as given in Sections 28 of the

Customs Act, 1962 (hereinafter referred to as "the Customs Act ")

and 11A of the [Central] Excise Act, 1944 (hereinafter referred to

as "the Excise Act "). In order to determine if the same

interpretation extends to Section 73 of the Act the following

decisions of the Supreme Court have to be looked at. In the case of Uniworth Textiles Ltd. v. Commissioner of Central Excise,

Raipur [(2013) 9 SCC 753 = 2013 (288) E.L.T. 161 (S.C.)]

the Supreme Court discussed its previous judgments to determine

the applicability of the proviso to Section 28 of the Customs Act for

extension of limitation period for issuing notice for payment of

duties that have not been levied, short-levied or erroneously

refunded. The relevant paragraphs of the judgment are excerpted

below : (1) When any duty has not been levied or has been short-levied or

erroneously refunded, or when any interest payable has not been

paid, part paid or erroneously refunded, the proper officer may, - (a) in the case of any import made by any individual for his

personal use or by Government or by any educational, research or

charitable institution or hospital, within one year; (b) in any other case, within six months, from the relevant date,

serve notice on the person chargeable with the duty or interest which

has not been levied or charged or which has been so short-levied or

part paid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made,

requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount

specified in the notice : 22. Section 28 of the Customs Act like Section 73 of the Act (in

this case) relates to notice for payment of duty that has not been

levied, short-levied or erroneously refunded. The proviso to Section

28 of the Customs Act and the proviso to Section 73(1) of the Act,

both set out conditions for extension of limitation period for issuing

of a Show Cause Notice. The difference between the two sections

lies in the insertion of conditions of 'fraud' and 'contravention of any

of the provisions of this Chapter or of the rules made thereunder

with intent to evade payment of Service Tax' in Section 73 of the

Finance Act, 1994. In Uniworth (supra), the Supreme Court

discussed the interpretation of the proviso of a similar

provision in Section 11A of the Excise Act and held that it is

pari materia to the proviso to Section 28 of the Customs Act.

The relevant paragraphs are excerpted below : H.M.M. Ltd. (supra). In all these cases the Court was concerned with

the applicability of the proviso to Section 11A of the Central Excise Act

which, like in the case of the Customs Act , contemplated the increase

in the period of limitation for issuing a show cause notice in the case

of non-levy or short-levy to five years from a normal period of six

months.... 54. While interpreting the said provision in each of the aforesaid

cases, it was observed by this Court that for proviso to Section 11A to

be invoked, the intention to evade payment of duty must be shown.

This has been clearly brought out in Cosmic Dye Chemical case where

the Tribunal had held that so far as fraud, suppression or

misstatement of facts was concerned the question of intent was

immaterial. While disagreeing with the aforesaid interpretation this

Court at p. 119 observed as follows: (SCC para 6) 6. Now so far as fraud and collusion are concerned, it is

evident that the requisite intent, i.e., intent to evade duty is built into

these very words. So far as misstatement or suppression of facts are

concerned, they are clearly qualified by the word 'wilful' preceding the

words 'misstatement or suppression of facts' which means with intent

to evade duty. The next set of words 'contravention of any of the

provisions of this Act or Rules' are again qualified by the immediately

following words 'with intent to evade payment of duty'. It is,

therefore, not correct to say that there can be a suppression or

misstatement of fact, which is not wilful and yet constitutes a

permissible ground for the purpose of the proviso to Section 11A .

Misstatement or suppression of fact must be wilful. The aforesaid observations show that the words "with intent to

evade payment of duty" were of utmost relevance while construing

the earlier expression regarding the misstatement or suppression of 31 facts contained in the proviso. Reading the proviso as a whole the

 Court held that intent to evade duty was essentially before the proviso

 could be invoked. 55. Though it was sought to be contended that Section 28 of the

 Customs Act is in pari materia with Section 11A of the Excise Act, we

 find there is one material difference in the language of the two

 provisions and that is the words "with intent to evade payment of

 duty" occurring in proviso to Section 11A of the Excise Act which are

 missing in Section 28(1) of the Customs Act and the proviso in

 particular.... 56. The proviso to Section 28 can inter alia be invoked when any

 duty has not been levied or has been short-levied by reason of

 collusion or any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts by the

 importer or the exporter, his agent or employee. Even if both the

 expressions "misstatement" and "suppression of facts" are to be

 qualified by the word "wilful", as was done in the Cosmic Dye

 Chemical case while construing the proviso to Section 11A , the

 making of such a wilful misstatement or suppression of facts would

 attract the provisions of Section 28 of the Customs Act. In each of

 these appeals it will have to be seen as a fact whether there has been

 a non-levy or short-levy and whether that has been by reason of

 collusion or any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts by the

 importer or his agent or employee. (Emphasis supplied)" 24. As noticed in the excerpted portions of the Supreme Court's

judgment, the material distinction between the provisos of Section

11A of the Excise Act and Section 28 of the Customs Act was

contemplated in Associated Cement Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of

Customs (supra) [2001 (128) E.L.T. 21 (S.C.)]. The only material

difference in the language of the two provisions is that the phrase

'with intent to evade payment of duty' is not used in Section 28 of

the Customs Act. The Court held that the words 'fraud' and

'collusion' inherently imply the requirement of an intent, which in

this case is the intent to evade payment of duty. With respect to

misrepresentation and suppression of facts the Court held that the

fact that these words are preceded by the word 'wilful' means that

there should be an intention to evade payment of duty behind these

acts. And, therefore, in Uniworth (supra), the judgments of the

Supreme Court interpreting the proviso to Section 11A of the Excise

Act were applied in the interpretation of the proviso to Section 28 of

the Customs Act. 25. The meaning of the phrase pari materia has been explained in

an American case in the following words: "Statutes are in pari

materia which relate to the same person or thing, or to the same

class of persons or things. The word par must not be confounded

with the word simlis. It is used in opposition to it - intimating not 33 likeness merely but identity. It is a phrase applicable to public

statutes or general laws made at different times and in reference to

the same subject." [United Society v. Eagle Bank, (1829) 7

Connecticut 457, p. 470, as cited in CRAIES, Statute Law, p. 134

(7th Edition)]. The provisos to Sections 11A of the Excise Act, 28 of

the Customs Act and Section 73 of the Finance Act, refer to the

same class of persons, i.e., persons from whom tax has been not

been levied, or has been short-levied or erroneously refunded. The

subject matter of these provisos is issuance of a Show Cause Notice

in order to collect such tax. Further, there seems to be no

difference in language of the proviso to Section 11A of the

Excise Act and Section 73(1) of the Finance Act. Since, the

pith and substance of both these provisions is the same, the

various judgments of the Supreme Court discussing the

interpretation of proviso to Section 11A of the Excise Act can

be extended to interpret Section 73(1) of the Finance Act.

Further, since proviso to Section 28 of the Customs Act is

pari materia to proviso to Section 11A of the Excise Act (as

held in Uniworth), the interpretation of proviso to Section 28 may also be extended to interpret the proviso to Section 73 of the Finance Act. Uniworth (supra) is also authority on the

meaning of 'wilful misstatement' and 'suppression of facts';

the Court held that : 26. Again, the Supreme Court in Continental Foundation Joint

Venture Holding v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Chandigarh-I [(2007) 10 SCC 337 = 2007 (216) E.L.T. 177 (S.C.)], held that : 27. Therefore, it is evident that failure to pay tax is not a

justification for imposition of penalty. Also, the word

'suppression' in the proviso to Section 11A(1) of the Excise

Act has to be read in the context of other words in the

proviso, i.e. "fraud, collusion, wilful misstatement". As

explained in Uniworth (supra), "misstatement or

suppression of facts" does not mean any omission. It must

be deliberate. In other words, there must be deliberate

suppression of information for the purpose of evading of

payment of duty. It connotes a positive act of the assessee

to avoid paying excise duty. The terms 'misstatement' and

'suppression of facts' are preceded by the expression

'wilful'. The meaning which has to be ascribed is, deliberate

action (or omission) and the presence of an intention. Thus,

invocation of the extended limitation period under the

proviso to Section 73(1) does not refer to a scenario where

there is a mere omission or mere failure to pay duty or take

out a license without the presence of such intention. 28. In the present case, the Revenue argues that appellant

wilfully suppressed the value of taxable services and thus did not

discharge its liability of paying the Service Tax on same. The

contention of the appellant is that the appellant was under a bona

fide belief that the appellant was not liable for payment of Service

Tax for the Mandap Keeping and Management, Maintenance and

Repair Services. The appellant has supported the non-payment of

Service Tax for Mandap Keeper Services by Notification No.

12/2003-S.T. It also states that, during the enquiry itself, it paid

Service Tax on the sale of the above-mentioned items for the 37 periods 2004-05 and 2005-06 with interest and had also started

paying Service Tax on these items regularly from April, 2006. The

same has been also acknowledged by the DGCEI in the SCN. 29. As regards management, maintenance and repair services the

appellant claimed that it was unaware of the development under Section 65(105)(zzg) of the Finance Act and that when the same

came to the knowledge of the appellant, the appellant promptly got

itself registered for the said service and started discharging its

Service Tax liability with respect to the said service from financial

year 2006-07, and also paid Service Tax for the financial year

2005-06. The same has again been also acknowledged by the

DGCEI in the SCN. The absence of any material disclosing intent to

evade payment of Service Tax by the appellant is evident by the

fact that it promptly made all the payments pertaining to Service

Tax liability with respect to Mandap Keeper Service and

Management, Maintenance and Repair Service as soon as the

appellant became aware of the same (during the enquiry) and

continued to pay Service Tax thereafter. The authorities are

unanimous that to invoke the extended period under

cognate provisions (such as Section 11A of the Excise Act or Section 28A of the Customs Act) the burden is cast upon it to

prove suppression of fact. The Revenue has not been able to

prove an intention on the part of the appellant to evade tax

by suppression of material facts. In fact, it is clear that the

appellant did not have any such intention and was acting

under bona fide beliefs. For these reasons, it is held that the

Revenue cannot invoke the proviso to Section 73(1) of the

Finance Act to extend the limitation period for issuing of

SCN. The SCN was issued on 24-10-2008. The undischarged

liability for payment of Service Tax with respect to Mandap Keeper 38 Service and Management, Maintenance and repair services alleged

 in the SCN is for the period 2004-06 and 2005-08 respectively. Since the proviso to Section 73(1) cannot be invoked the SCN had

 to be served within one year from the relevant date. Therefore, the

 SCN with respect to short payment of Service Tax for Mandap

 Keeper Service for the years 2004-2006 is barred by limitation. The

 SCN with respect to short payment of Service Tax for Management,

 Maintenance and Repair Services for the years 2005-2007 is also

 barred by limitation." (emphases supplied)

 Without multiplying authorities suffice to say, similar views

 have been taken in the decisions in Principal Commissioner

 of CGST & C.Ex, Mumbai v. Securities and Exchange

 Board of India , 2023 (385) ELT 865 (Bom.) and Naresh

 Kumar & Co Pvt Ltd v. UOI , 2014 (36) STR 271 (Cal.). 40. We find that the contention of the appellant that the demand

 was wholly barred by limitation has been addressed by the

 adjudicating authority in para 19.0 of the impugned Order in

 Original, as under: since the nature of services rendered during the entire period

 remains the same. But for the investigation conducted the fact

 of non-payment of service tax would not have come to light.

 Therefore, extended period under proviso to sub-section (1) of

 Section 73 of Chapter V of the Finance Act, 1994 is rightly

 invoked in the present case." 41. We also find that the adjudicating authority itself has conceded

 at para 21 that the appellant has filed the ST3 returns regularly,

 by recording as under: 42. It is also pertinent that the SCN itself under the heading in para

 11 "Invocation of Extended Period", thereafter in para 11.1

 states that the appellant has not discharged appropriate service

 tax on the services provided by them to ESM Pte and have 40 erroneously claimed that they have exported the said services

 thereby resulting in non payment of service tax. To our mind, an

 erroneous claim is a claim made by mistake, and cannot be

 equated with a deliberate claim with intent to evade payment

 duty, which alone would then prove mens-rea, which is essential

 and required to be proved, to invoke the extended period of

 limitation. 43. At this juncture, it would be apposite to notice the decision of a

 coordinate bench of the tribunal in Accurate Chemical

 Industries v CCE, Noida , reported in 2014(300) ELT 451

 (Tri-Del), wherein, the question of the effect of non-scrutiny of

 the returns filed by the assessee upon self-assessment was

 examined in detail. The relevant portions are as under: preliminary scrutiny and detailed scrutiny as per detailed check
list prescribed for this purpose. 7.2 From the above Circulars of the C.B.E. & C.
regarding scrutiny of ER-1 returns, it is clear that the
returns filed by an assessee are required to be subjected
to detailed scrutiny in course of which the concerned
officer can call for the documents from the assessee
wherever necessary for scrutiny. Therefore in this case,
if the concerned Range officer/Assistant/Deputy
Commissioner or concerned Additional Commissioner had
checked the returns, the short payment would have been
immediately detected as, as observed by the Commissioner
in para 4.5 of the impugned order, even the registration
certificate of the appellant mentioned them as a unit of
Accurate Transformers Ltd., and in all the documents of the
appellant, the transfer of goods from the appellant to Accurate
Transformer Ltd. had been reflected as inter unit transfer.
Neither there is any allegation nor evidence to prove that
there was some collusion between the appellant and the
Jurisdictional Central Excise officers. The short payment
was detected when during visit by the audit team, the
records maintained by the appellant and made available
by them to the audit officers were examined by them, - something which should have been done by the
Jurisdictional Range Officers and Divisional Assistant
Commissioner/Deputy Commissioner much earlier. The
assessee cannot be penalized by invoking extended
period under proviso to Section 11A(1) for demand of
duty and penal provisions of Section 11AC for indolence
on the part of the jurisdictional Central Excise officers.
Moreover Apex Court in a series of judgments - CCE v. Chemphar Drugs & Liniments reported in 1989 (40)
E.L.T. 276 (S.C.); Padmini Products v. Collector reported in 1989 (43) E.L.T. 195
(S.C.); Pushpam Pharmaceuticals v. CCE reported in 1995 (78) E.L.T.
 401 (S.C.); Anand Nishikawa Co. Ltd. v. CCE, Meerut reported in 2005
 (188) E.L.T. 149 (S.C.); Continental Foundation Jt. Venture v. CCE, Chandigarh reported
 in 2007 (216) E.L.T. 177 (S.C.)

 has held that something positive other than mere
 inaction or non-payment of duty is required for invoking
 extended period under proviso to Section 11A(1) and
 that suppression means failure to disclose full
 information with intent to evade the payment of duty and
 mere omission to give certain information is not
 suppression of fact unless it is deliberate with intention
 to evade the payment of duty. The above condition for
 invoking extended period prescribed in these judgments
 is not satisfied in this case." (emphasis supplied) 44. We are of the view that allowing the assessee to self-assess the

 tax is a mere facility extended to the assessee. That in no way

 detracts or dilutes the statutory responsibility of the

 jurisdictional central excise officers to ensure correctness of the

 assessment, exemptions claimed and duty payments made. In

 the instant case, on a perusal of the ST-3 returns available as

 part of the Appeal records, we find that in the ST-3 returns filed

 regularly, the Appellants have, under PART B, titled "VALUE OF

 TAXABLE SERVICE AND SERVICE TAX PAYABLE", against B1.8

 titled the "amounts charged against export of service provided

 or to be provided", duly indicated the amounts in respect of

 each month in the appropriate place provided for such

 declaration. The appellant has also indicated in the respective

 rows thereafter, pursuant to the said particulars indicated in the 43 ST 3 returns, the total amount claimed as deduction, the

consequent net taxable value as well as the service tax payable

in the appropriate rows and columns as was necessary.

Therefore, we are of the considered view that the aforesaid

responsibility of the jurisdictional departmental officers to

scrutinize the returns filed, reflecting the information of amounts

charged against export service provided, and declarations of

deductions claimed and service tax payable that has been so

declared by the appellant, and the abject failure to take up the

information for scrutiny, is not to be held to the detriment of the

appellant, by invoking of the extended period of limitation. In

view of the mandatory responsibilities cast on the jurisdictional

officers by various circulars, they cannot abdicate responsibility,

more so when there is complete absence of any evidence that

they have indeed embarked on such a scrutiny and called for the

necessary information and that the assessee has not responded

to their letters seeking such information. In the show cause

notice too, there is no whisper of any finding that the returns

that the appellant has so regularly filed have been scrutinized

and a subsequent allegation that the appellant had not furnished

any information that has been sought for consequent to such

scrutiny. The mandate of the statute, as laid down in Section 14 of the Central Excise Act, 1944, made applicable under Section

83 of the Finance Act, 1994 in relation to service tax as they

apply in relation to a duty of excise, empowers the jurisdictional

range officers to issue summons requiring any person to give

evidence or produce records etc., and can be resorted to by the 44 said officers in the course of performance of their official duties

 as per extant Departmental instructions, if it so becomes

 necessary. 45. Likewise, we find that in a case where revenue had preferred

 the appeals on the ground that the respondents in their monthly

 ER returns filed for the relevant period, have simply shown the

 quantum of credit availed on inputs without specifying the

 service on which the said credit was availed, and that therefore

 this would amount to suppression from the department with

 intent to avail wrongful credit, a co-ordinate bench of this

 Tribunal in its decision in CCE, Indore v Medicaps Ltd ,

 reported in 2011(24) STR 572 (Tri-Del) has held as under: Admittedly the credit availed by the assessee was reflected in the
 monthly returns. If there is no column in the monthly return to
 show the nature of service on which the credit was availed, the
 assessee cannot be blamed for not disclosing the said fact. For
 invoking the longer period of limitation, there has to be a
 suppression or mis-statement with an intent to evade payment of
 duty. When the respondents have reflected the amount of credit
 availed by them in their monthly returns, it cannot be said that
 there was any positive act of suppression on misstatement on their
 part. As such, we are of the view that Commissioner (Appeals) has
 rightly held a part of the demands as barred by limitation. 46. There is a catena of decisions in similar vein wherein, various

 High Courts as well as this Tribunal, have consistently held that

 when the assessee is registered and filing returns regularly, the

 range officer had a duty to scrutinize returns and detect any

 irregularity and to raise pertinent queries in this regard and that 45 in the light of any negligence or failure to do so, the allegation

 of suppression by the assessee cannot be countenanced. To cite

 a few, apart from those cited above, the decisions in Jagadamba Power & Alloys Ltd v CCE, Jaipur , 2025(391)

 ELT 478 (Chhattisgarh) affirmed in CCE v Jagadamba

 Power & Alloys Ltd , 2025 ( 391) ELT 465 (SC), Swastik

 Engineering v CCE, Bangalore , 2010 (255) ELT 261 (Tri- decisions of the Principal Bench of the Tribunal at Delhi in Final

 Order No.50511/2025 dated 23-04-2025 in the case of

 M/s. Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation

 Ltd v. The Commissioner of Service Tax, Delhi-I and in

 Final Order No.50515/2025 dated 23-04-2025 in the case

 of M/s. Industrial Sales & Services v Commissioner of

 CGST &Service Tax, Jaipur, would suffice. 47. We are of the view that when the appellant has duly provided

 all the information sought in the mandatory returns prescribed,

 it would be all the more reason for a jurisdictional range officer

 entrusted with the duty to safe guard Government Revenue by

 verifying and scrutinizing the information being furnished in the

 returns by the assessee, to be diligent and inquire into the

 details of such amounts charged against export of service. The

 very fact that the appellant has claimed and stated that it has

 made export of service, is reason enough for any officer to then

 promptly embark on the requisite inquiry within the mandated 46 period prescribed for such scrutiny as laid down in the

 Department circulars and instructions in order to ensure

 correctness of the assessment and ensure complete remittance

 of the requisite duty. In the instant case, the extended period

 sought to be invoked is from October 2014 to June 2017 and

 hence, even before the present SCN issued on 25-06-2020

 pursuant to investigations commenced on 09-05-2019, there

 was ample opportunity for the jurisdictional range officers to

 carry out their mandated responsibility and detect any

 irregularities, if at all any. In the light of the ratio of the

 decisions stated supra, when the knowledge of the fact that the

 appellant has been claiming the said amounts received as

 towards export of service duly reflecting them in the returns,

 was already known to the Department, we are of the view that

 the learned adjudicating authority has egregiously erred in

 finding that the invoking of the extended period of limitation was

 tenable. 48. A feeble attempt has been made by the Adjudicating Authority

 to attribute deliberate intent on the part of the Appellant on the

 specious ground that the appellant had deleted any direct

 reference to/use of the word "vendor" in the agreement dated

 1st April, 2016 to escape/avoid duty. However, it is pertinent

 that the intent is attributed thus in the show cause notice

 stating that it was to escape/avoid duty and not that the

 appellant had an intent to evade duty, which is the prerequisite

 to invoke extended period of limitation. Tax avoidance, which is 47 resorted to by businesses by tax planning, and tax evasion

which is an illegal activity, are incomparable, like chalk and

cheese. In any event, such a statement by the adjudicating

authority is a mere ipse dixit, sans any evidence. In fact, the

singular statement dated 03-03-2020 recorded from the Head

Finance of the Appellant, does not reflect any such intent

forthcoming in its content, nor is any such question seen put to

him. We hold that the said finding that the appellant had

deleted any direct reference to/use of the word "vendor" in the

agreement dated 1st April, 2016 to escape/avoid duty, sans any

positive evidence on record to substantiate the said finding, is

untenable. On the contrary, we note that the Head Finance has

stated that they have not paid Service Tax because they have

considered their services as "Export of Services" since the

service recipient, namely, M/s. ESM Pte Singapore is abroad and

the appellant has received the money in foreign exchange. We

find that the said bonafide belief expressed is also evidenced by

the very fact that the appellant has chosen to declare the

amounts received as towards exports of service provided and

the consequential service tax payable, in the ST 3 returns filed

regularly by the appellants with the Department. For reasons

best known to the authorities, these returns have not been

scrutinised, or if scrutinized, has not excited them enough to

embark on any inquiry within the normal period so as to raise a

tenable demand, if any, on the appellant. When it is the

responsibility of the jurisdictional departmental officers to

scrutinize the returns filed reflecting the information of amounts 48 towards export service provided and service tax payable

 indicated by the appellant, any failure on their part to take up

 the information for scrutiny can neither be condoned to the

 detriment of the appellant, nor would it then justify invoking of

 the extended period of limitation by the Department. It is also

 pertinent to note that the Honourable Apex Court in Uniworth

 Textiles Ltd v CCE, Raipur , 2013 (288) ELT 161 (SC), has

 held as under: 49. We also find that when the appellant held a bonafide belief that

 its services were not liable to tax being export of services and

 had in fact declared the amounts received as towards export of

 service provided, there cannot be a finding of wilful

 misstatement or suppression of facts with intent to evade 49 payment of duty attributable to the Appellant. Honourable

 Supreme Court has often rendered decisions on these lines and

 apart from those cited in line in the decisions referred supra, the

 following citations also refer to the same, namely, Commissioner of C.Ex & Customs v. Reliance Industries

 Ltd , 2023 ( 385) ELT 481 (SC) and Jayant Juneja v CCE,

 Jaipur , 2015 (326) ELT 634 (SC). 50. That apart, we also find substance in the appellant's contention

 that the issues herein, i.e. whether the appellant is an

 intermediary or not, or whether the appellant's view that

 inasmuch as they are earning foreign exchange by rendering

 service to their service recipient abroad, it tantamount to export

 of service, is a tenable view or not, are all interpretational

 issues. If the appellant has interpreted the provisions to his

 benefit, it cannot be said that it was malafide or an act of wilful

 suppression and in such circumstances too neither can extended

 period be invoked nor any penalty be imposed. Decisions in International Merchandising Company, LLC v CST, New

 Delhi , 2022 (67) GSTL 129 (SC) Lanxess ABS Ltd v

 Commissioner, 2010 ( 259) ELT 551 (Tri) and Ispat

 Industries v CCE, Raigad , 2006 (199) ELT 509 (Tri-

 Mumbai) refers. 51. On a perusal of the ST-3 returns available as part of the Appeal

 records, we have found that in the ST-3 returns filed regularly,

 the Appellants have duly indicated therein, the amounts charged 50 against export of service provided in the appropriate place

provided for such declaration. The appellant has also indicated

the consequent net taxable value as well as the service tax

payable, pursuant to the said particulars indicated in the ST 3

returns. The present matter covers the dispute period from

October 2014 to June 2017 whereas the SCN was issued only on

25.06.2020. The appellant had filed Service Tax returns for this

period on 20.04.2015, 21.10.2012, 22.04.2016, 24.10.2016,

25.04.2017 and 14.08.2017 respectively as is evidenced by the

ST-3 returns. As per Section 73(6)(i) (a) , where a periodical

return, showing particulars of service tax paid during the period

to which the said return relates, is to be filed by an assessee,

the date on which such return is so filed, is the relevant date.

Therefore, given that the returns for the relevant period under

dispute is from October 2014 to June 2017, when the date of

filing of the last return for the said period is 14.08.2017, the

normal period of thirty months would come to an end by

February 2020. In the aforesaid circumstances when the

invoking of extended period of limitation was not available to

the Department considering the fact that the appellant had

declared the amounts received as towards export of service in

the ST 3 returns and the said fact was in the knowledge of the

department, therefore, the SCN issued on 25-06-2020 is beyond

the normal period of limitation and the entire demand is barred

by limitation. The normal period of thirty months when

calculated in the reverse from the date of issuance of the SCN

which is on 25-06-2020, which could at best have been covered, 51 is only if there was a demand for the period from January 2018

 onwards alone. In the present case the service tax returns were

 all filed well before January 2018 and the period under dispute is

 also only upto June 2017. Thus, for the reasons we have

 elucidated supra, the confirmation of the demand of service tax

 in the instant case, which was for the period from 01.10.2014 to

 30.06.2017, was entirely barred by limitation and is therefore

 wholly unsustainable and is liable to be set aside. 52. Given our findings above that the extended period of limitation

 was not invokable and that the demand was wholly barred by

 limitation, we are disinclined to now go into the merits of the

 dispute for more reasons than one. Firstly, a finding on merits is

 rendered inconsequential, as the demands are even otherwise

 unsustainable being wholly barred by limitation. Secondly, there

 is no question of such a demand under Chapter V of the Finance

 Act, 1994 , recurring in respect of the appellant. Thirdly, with the

 advent of the GST regime, the Finance Act 1994 has been

 amended and by virtue of Section 173 of the CGST Act, 2017, Chapter V of the Finance Act, 1994 has been omitted, of course

 subject to the repeal and savings as provided under Section 174

 of the GST Act ibid, and for the proceedings initiated in respect

 of the appellant for the subsequent period under the prevailing

 GST Tax regime, it is seen that the Departmental Adjudicating

 Authority itself has dropped the proceedings rendering a finding

 in favour of the appellant on merits as evidenced by the Order

 V/Adj/15-137/DGGI/Nobel king/ADC/CGST Thane/2023-24 52 dated 27-06-2024 and nothing has been brought to our notice

 to show that the order has not attained finality, Last, but not the

 least, having found in favour of the appellant on limitation, we

 are now forbidden from rendering a finding on merits as per the

 binding judicial precedents cited as under. 53. We find that the Honourable High Court of Allahabad, in Commr of Cus, C.Ex & S.Tax v. Monsanto Manufacturer

 Pvt Ltd , 2014 (35) STR 177 (All), has held as under: 21. The appeal is admitted on the following question of law and is

 by consent taken up for final hearing. 22. The Tribunal came to the conclusion that the demand by

 the Revenue was beyond the period of limitation of one year

 prescribed under Section 73(1) of the Finance Act, 1994 and

 that the period of five years could not have been invoked.

 That part of the judgment of the Tribunal has been confirmed in the

 companion appeal. Once that be the position and the Tribunal

 having come to the conclusion that the extended period of

 limitation could not have been validly applied, the Tribunal, 53 in our view, acted outside its jurisdiction in entering upon

the merits of the dispute on whether the demand for duty

should be confirmed. Once it is held that the demand is time

barred, there would be no occasion for the Tribunal to

enquire into the merits of the issues raised by the Revenue. 23. In State Bank of India v. B.S. Agricultural Industries (I )-

(2009) 5 SCC 121, the Supreme Court dealt with a situation

where the consumer forum had held that the complaint was barred

by limitation but had nonetheless proceeded to decide the issue on

merits. Holding that this would amount to an illegality, the Supreme

Court observed : 24. Consequently, since the Tribunal was justified, as we

have held, in coming to the conclusion that the demand was

time barred, there was no occasion for the Tribunal to enter

upon the merits of the dispute. We, accordingly, answer the

question of law as framed by the assessee in the affirmative and in

favour of the assessee. 25. The appeal by the assessee shall stand disposed of in the

aforesaid terms." (Emphasis supplied) 54 54. We find that the Honourable Supreme Court in Commissioner

 of Customs, Mumbai v B.V. Jewels , 2004 (172) ELT 3

 (SC), has observed that " If, in reality, the CEGAT found

 that the action taken by the departmental authorities was

 beyond the period of limitation, it could have disposed of

 the appeals before it only on that ground without

 examining the merits". This decision of the Apex Court in B.V.

 Jewels ibid has been followed in Commr of Service Tax,

 Mumbai IV v. Rochem Separations (I) P Ltd, 2019 (366)

 ELT 103 (Bom). It is also seen that the jurisdictional High

 Court in E.T.A General Pvt Ltd v Additional Commissioner

 of C.Ex, Chennai, 2016 (44) STR 409 (Mad) has held as

 under: 12. While addressing the above said substantial question of law,

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State Bank of India v.

 B.S. Agricultural Industries reported in (2009) 5 SCC 121, has

 been pressed into service, wherein, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 had an occasion to deal with a situation, where the consumer 55 forum held that the complaint was barred by limitation, but

nonetheless had proceeded to decide the issue on merits. Dealing

with the issue, which is similar to the case on hand, at Paragraph

12, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State Bank of India 's case (cited

supra), held as follows :- Applying the ratio of the Supreme Court in State Bank of India v.

B.S. Agricultural Industries reported in (2009) 5 SCC 121, the

Allahabad High Court in Commissioner of Customs, Central Excise

& Service Tax v. M/s. Monsanto Manufacturer Pvt. Ltd., reported in

2014-TIOL-550-HC-ALL-ST, answered the question of law in

favour of the assessee. 13. Judgment of the Supreme in State Bank of India 's case

(cited supra), followed in Commissioner of Customs 's case

(cited supra), squarely applies to the facts on hand,

wherein, CESTAT, Madras, while dismissing the appeal as

time-barred, has entered into the merits of the case and

dismissed the same, on merits. In the words of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, that would be an illegality. 14. Though Mr. A.P. Srinivas, learned counsel appearing for the

 Revenue submitted that the correctness of the order impugned

 before us, can be decided in an appeal before the CESTAT and

 prayed to sustain the order, dated 15-2-2016 in W.P. No. 5501 of

 2016, in the light of the above discussion and the decision in State

 Bank of India 's case (cited supra), we are not inclined to

 accept the said contention. When the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court has described the manner of disposal of an appeal, as

 illegality, the same can be corrected by this Court, in

 exercise of the powers under Article 226 of the Constitution

 of India and no useful purpose would be served in

 relegating the appellants to approach the alternative

 remedy. Courts have held that a writ petition is

 maintainable, when the act committed is per se illegal, and

 contrary to the statute. 15. In the light of the above discussion and decisions, we

 are inclined to interfere with the order of the Writ Court as

 well as the Order-in-Appeal No. 349/2015 (STA-II), dated

 30-11-2015, passed by the Commissioner of Service Tax

 (Appeals-II) and the same are set aside." 55. Given our findings that the demand is wholly barred by

 limitation for the reasons stated above, adhering to judicial

 discipline and respectfully following the binding judicial

 precedents of the Honourable Apex Court and High Courts cited

 supra, we refrain from delving into the merits of the matter and

 rendering a finding on merits. In asmuch as we have found the

 demand unsustainable and liable to be set aside, the 57 consequential demand of interest and penalty imposed is also

 found to be untenable and liable to be set aside. 56. In the light of our discussions and findings above, we hold that

 the impugned Order-in-Original No.24/2021(C) dated

 26.10.2021 is unsustainable and is hereby set aside.

 The appeal is allowed with consequential relief in law, if any. (Order pronounced in open court on 30.05.2025)

 (AJAYAN T.V.) (VASA SESHAGIRI RAO)
 Member (Judicial) Member (Technical)
 vl