This petition is filed for quashing of RC

No.26(A)/2016 of CBI, ACB, Bengaluru, registered against

the petitioner and others for the offences punishable under section 120B read with Sections 420 , 406 , 409 and 479A of IPC and also u/s.13(1)(C) and 13(1)(D) read with Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, pending

on the file of the XXI Addl. City Civil & Sessions and

Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases, Bengaluru (CCH-4). 2. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and

the learned standing counsel for the respondent - CBI.

Perused the records. 3. Before adverting to the specific stand taken by

the petitioner and the grounds for quashing of the above 3 said proceedings, it is just and necessary to have the brief

factual matrix of the case: 4. On such source information and also on

ascertaining truthfulness of the information, he also found

that the above said Bank authorities, public sectors and

private sector banks have connived with the petitioner

Sri K.C.Veerendra and exchanged Rs.5.76 crores of

demonitised old currency notes to the new currency notes

of Rs.500/- and Rs.2,000/- between November and

December, 2016 with the help of other two persons by

names Thippeswamy and Venkatesh. 5. The source information further reveal that the

officials of Income Tax Department, Hubli, have conducted

searches at the residence of the petitioner Accused No.1

and seized new currency notes of Rs.2,000/- denomination 5 amounting to Rs.5.76 crores from his possession. In fact,

the said amount of Rs.5.76 crores of money was entrusted

to the various Banks for distribution to genuine customers.

But the said amount was fraudulently diverted, and

misappropriated by the unknown officials of the Banks of

SBI, SBM, ICICI, Kotak Mahindra and other public sector

and private sector banks. Therefore, all the accused

persons in connivance with some bank officials and in

furtherance of their criminal conspiracy have mis-utilised

the amounts in their respective Banks with that of new

currency notes, which have been exchanged with the help

of general public through Bank counters. Suspecting the

above said acts of all the Bank authorities and as there is

no explanation by the accused in this regard, the police

have registered a case as noted above. 6. It is an undisputed fact that the currency notes

worth Rs.5.76 crores have been seized from accused No.1

i.e., the petitioner herein. Apart from Rs.5.76 crores, the

petitioner was also found with two lakhs of new currency 6 notes of denomination of Rs.2,000/- which was also not

explained as to how and in what manner, he acquired the

said money. On these allegations, the respondent -

police are investigating the matter and the investigation is

in progress. 7. Now coming to the arguments advanced by the

learned counsel Sri Chandramouli, for the petitioner, it is

strenuously argued that, there cannot be any offence

against the petitioner which can be invoked under the

provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act . Further,

there is no semblance of material available against him

sofar as Sections 406 , 409 and 477A of IPC which are

referable to criminal breach of trust by public servant or by

a Banker, which is not at all attracted because no specific

banker is named and in connivance between any specified

bank and the petitioner is also not alleged or established in

the FIR. The aforesaid provisions under the Prevention of

Corruption Act is only applicable against a public servant

and not against a private individual. 8. The learned counsel for the petitioner also

contends that, petitioner is an Income Tax assessee. He

has declared three crores cash in the year 2015. A raid

was conducted and he has given proper explanation for the

money seized from him. Even otherwise if such amount is

seized by the income tax authorities which has already

been returned to the RBI and the same cannot be the

subject matter of the investigation in this case. He

further contends that even if such money is found with the

accused, it only attract the provisions of Section 69A of the

Income Tax Act, for which penalty can be imposed and tax

can be collected on that money and in no way it attracts

the provisions invoked by the respondent police. Except Section 120-B and 420 of IPC, the other offences are not

attracted though having huge cash found with the

petitioner that itself will not constitute any offence. He

further contends that for the purpose of exchanging the

old currency notes of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/-, there is no

restriction, the Government Notification also shows that 8 any person can exchange the said money within the period

specified by the Central Government in its Notification. He

also relied upon the Notification issued by the Government

through Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic

Affairs) Notification, New Delhi dated 8.11.2016 in

S.0.3407(E) wherein at paragraph 2, he drawn my

attention, that the Government has extended the time for

exchange of the said money upto 30th December, 2016

subject to certain conditions. He submits that after

compliance of all conditions, the said money has been

exchanged. Therefore, the accused has not committed

any offence as alleged. 9. Per contra, Sri P. Prasanna Kumar, learned

standing counsel for the respondent - CBI, has seriously

contended that the matter is still at the FIR stage and on

the basis of the FIR, the police have investigated the

matter and collected sufficient materials, to connect the

petitioner to the offences alleged. In spite of the best

efforts by the police, the accused has not disclosed the 9 source of the said money of Rs.5.76 crores seized from his

custody and how and in what manner, the said amount has

been exchanged. Further, added to that, he has

personally exchanged an amount of Rs.2 lakhs but without

there being any basis. The prosecution has to explain

each and every bundle in Rs.5.76 crores after ascertaining

from which Bank, those amount emanate. Therefore, at

this stage, the court cannot interfere with the investigation

by quashing the F.I.R. itself. He also submits that lot of

investigation yet to be done. Therefore, within the month

of October or November, the CBI would be able to submit

the final report. Therefore, he contended that the petition

deserves to be dismissed. 10. I have carefully perused the allegations made in

the FIR as noted above while narrating the factual matrix

of this case. It is specifically alleged that after the

demonetization, the income tax authorities have raided the

house of the petitioner and they have recovered an

amount of Rs.5.76 crores of demonetized currency notes 10 of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- which ceased to be legal tender

with new currency notes of Rs.2,000/- and Rs.500/-.

Therefore, it becomes the duty of the Investigating Agency

either to extract the information from the accused as to

how he exchanged those notes by tendering and collected

Rs.2,000/- and Rs.500/- new denomination currency notes

or to investigate all the circumstances in this regard.

Though it is argued before the court that the petitioner is a

businessman and he has got lot of employees and those

employees have collected those moneys and the said

money has to be disbursed to the employees etc., But the

specific source of that money and how it has been

exchanged appears to has not been disclosed by the

accused. In such an eventuality, it becomes the burden

on the prosecuting agency to ascertain whether such a

huge amount of Rs.5.76 crores can be released in favour

of one person or it has been disbursed to different persons,

if so by which of the Banks. There is a restriction in the

Notification issued by the Government of India as noted 11 supra, though the time for exchange of money was

extended upto 30.12.2016, but there are certain conditions

which are imposed for the exchange of those money which

are: (emphasis supplied) --- 11. Therefore, on perusal of the above said

conditions, it is not that, without following any procedure

Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- demonetized currency notes can

be tendered and exchanged in the Banks and automatically

a person can get the amount, but there are certain

procedures to be followed even by the customer and as

well as banking authorities, (underlined portions) who are

at the helm of affairs with reference to exchange of the

demonetized currency notes. 12. When a huge amount of Rs.5.76 crores have

been seized from the custody of the accused and further

amount of Rs.2 lakhs which has been exchanged by him

personally, it exceeds the limit of Rs.4,000/- as noted in

the above said Notification. Therefore, how these amounts

have been exchanged, by whom and whether there is any

fraud played by the customer for the exchange of money

as against the rules or whether he connived with the bank

officials for the purpose of exchange of such huge amount

and whether Bank Officers are by violating the norms 15 prescribed by the RBI have allowed the exchange of

money or whether they have maintained such an account

or followed such procedure as contemplated under the

guidelines noted above, are all the factors that play a very

important role to exactly ascertain the real intention of the

customer and the banking authorities and also whether all

these money which are meant for disbursing the amount

amongst the public has been illegally siphoned out from

the petitioner in connivance with the banks, have to be un-

earthed during the course of investigation. Then only the

Investigating Agency or the court may come to the

conclusion as to what exactly the offences committed by

the petitioner and as well as if there is any connivance or

active participation is there by any of the banking

authorities in such an eventuality, what offence the

banking authorities have committed. Only after

ascertaining all these things, the Investigating Officer may

specifically say that what are all the offences which are

actually committed by the customer and the banking 16 authorities whether there was any intention of cheating the

other public who are also entitled for exchange of their

demonetized money. Therefore, all these things can only

be done either by proper and correct information by the

banking authorities or by the customers themselves. If

the banking authorities do not come forward or the

customers themselves do not disclose how they exchanged

the demonetized currency notes with the regular new

currency notes, then it becomes very difficult for the

Investigating Agency to un-earth the truth on facts, that

can only be done by means of collecting circumstantial

evidence. 13. On reading the FIR as noted above, the overall

understanding of the FIR shows that the police officers of

CBI have suspected the conduct of the accused and as well

as the banking authorities and suspected that they might

have committed these offences. 14. Of course, there cannot be any allegations

directly of offence sofar as the petitioner is concerned for

the offence punishable under section 13(1)(c) , 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act or u/s.405 and 409 of IPC at present. But whether he has also

facilitated or abated those offences to be committed by the

banking authorities has to be tested only after un-earthing

the entire factual matrix involved in this particular case.

Therefore, it is just and necessary to permit the Police to

complete the investigation. 15. The learned counsel for the petitioner has

relied upon a ruling reported in (2014) 11 SCC 74

between State through CBI, New Delhi Vs. Jitender Kumar

Singh , wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court has observed that

the provisions of Sections 7 , 10 , 11 and 13 of the

Prevention of Corruption Act, is only applicable to public

servants. Those offences can only be committed by a

public servant though an offence u/s.7 can also be

committed by a "person expecting to be a public servant". 18 Relying upon this, the learned counsel wants to submit

that the petitioner is not a public servant not expecting to

be a public servant. Those provisions are not applicable. 16. As I have already noted that it is not that he

alone can commit the offences u/s.13(1)(d) or (c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act . If he facilitates or assists the

public servant in committing such an offence, then also he

will be caught u/s.12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.

If many number of accused persons are involved, at the

stage of FIR itself, it cannot be bifurcated or specifically

mentioned who actually committed which offence, that can

only be done after thorough investigation and at the time

of filing charge sheet and framing of charges. Therefore, it

is too premature stage to draw an inference as to whether

the petitioner has committed any offence or not that can

only be considered after thorough investigation. 17. In this regard, it is worth to mention here

some of the decisions of the Hon'ble Apex Court. 19 In a decision of R. Venkatkrishnan Vs. Central

Bureau of Investigation reported in (2009) 11 SCC 737,

the Hon'ble Apex Court has observed at paragraph 72

that- 18. To this case if the above principle is applied

and if there is any contract or understanding between the

petitioner and the bank authorities have to be tested by

means of thorough investigation and if that crime is illegal

and that agreement would give rise to criminal conspiracy

or not, it can be ascertained only after the investigation. 19. In another ruling reported in (2005) 13 SCC

540 between State of Orissa and another Vs. Saroj Kumar

Sahoo , wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court at paragraph 11

has observed that: "Inherent powers should not be
 exercised to stifle a legitimate prosecution.
 The High Court being the highest court of a
 State should normally refrain from giving a
 prima facie decision in a case where the entire
 facts are incomplete and hazy, more so when
 the evidence has not been collected and
 produced before the Court and the issues
 involved, whether factual or legal, are of
 magnitude and cannot be seen in their true
 perspective without sufficient material." 21 20. In connection with the same, it is also worth to

note here another ruling of the Hon'ble Apex Court

reported in (2007) 12 SCC 93 between T. Vengama Naidu

Vs. T. Dora Swamy Naidu and Others , wherein the Hon'ble

Apex Court at paragraph 7 has re-iterated that - "It is settled law that an FIR and
 consequent investigation cannot be quashed
 unless there is no offence spelt out from the
 same. The law in this respect is settled that
 the said FIR has to be taken on its offences
 complained of. There was no question of
 considering the merits of the allegations
 contained in FIR at that stage or testing the
 veracity of allegations and the court should not
 normally quash the FIR when the FIR was filed
 long back and investigation has been in
 progress." In another ruling reported in 2010 SCC 488 between D.Venkatasubramaniam and Others Vs. M.K.

Mohankrishnamachari & another , wherein the Hon'ble Apex

Court has laid down the principle that - "FIR cannot be quashed in a criminal
 case, when the investigation is in the midst.
 Whether the material already in existence or to
 be collected during the investigation can be
 sufficient for holding the accused persons
 concerned guilty has to be considered at the
 time of framing of charge, it can also be
 decided whether prima facie case has been
 made out showing commission of offence and
 involvement of the charged person. At the
 stage of FIR, the court cannot go into
 meticulously with regard to the each and every
 sentence and word of FIR to ascertain whether
 it attracts any of the penal provisions or not." 21. On overall looking to the above said principles laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court applying to the facts

of this particular case as I have already narrated that the

investigation is in the half way and the police have

collected certain material according to the prosecution and

they yet to collect some more materials in this regard.

The court cannot quash the entire FIR without ascertaining 23 as to what are all the other materials collected by the

police. 22. Further added to that, it is not the stage where

the court has to meticulously word by word or sentence by

sentence read the FIR isolatedly in order to apply the

definition of penal provisions and to find out whether

exactly any offence is alleged, but it is the overall reading

of the FIR if the courts is of the opinion that some

semblance of allegations are there which broadly make out

a case for investigation or sufficient to create suspicion of

having committed any offences, the same has to be

thoroughly investigated, such investigations should not be

stifled by quashing the FIR. In this case also, I am of the

opinion that on overall reading of the FIR, it gives an

indication that there are certain allegations against the

petitioner that he colluded with the bank officials in order

to siphon out the new currency notes on exchange of

demonetized currency notes. In such an eventuality

unless and until the investigation is completed, the court 24 may not be in a position to ascertain what exactly the

offences committed by the petitioner and other accused

persons. In the above said circumstances, I do not find any

strong reasons to entertain the petition and quash the FIR.

Hence, the following: