16. The other provision with which we are concerned in
this case is Section 11AC relating to penalty. It is as
follows : section (2) of section 11A relates to notices issued prior to
the date on which the Finance Act, 2000 receives the
assent of the President; (1) any amount paid to the credit of the Central
Government prior to the date of communication of the
order referred to in the first proviso or the fourth proviso
shall be adjusted against the total amount due from such
person. 17. The main body of Section 11AC lays down the
conditions and circumstances that would attract penalty
and the various provisos enumerate the conditions, subject
to which and the extent to which the penalty may be
reduced. 18. One cannot fail to notice that both the proviso to sub- section 1 of Section 11A and Section 11AC use the same
 Service Tax Appeal No.74 of 2009 24 expressions : ―....by reasons of fraud, collusion or any
 wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts, or
 contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of the
 rules made thereunder with intent to evade payment of
 duty,...‖. In other words the conditions that would extend
 the normal period of one year to five years would also
 attract the imposition of penalty. It, therefore, follows that
 if the notice under Section 11A(1) states that the escaped
 duty was the result of any conscious and deliberate wrong
 doing and in the order passed under Section 11A(2) there
 is a legally tenable finding to that effect then the provision
 of Section 11AC would also get attracted. The converse of
 this, equally true, is that in the absence of such an
 allegation in the notice the period for which the escaped
 duty may be reclaimed would be confined to one year and
 in the absence of such a finding in the order passed under
 Section 11A(2) there would be no application of the
 penalty provision in Section 11AC of the Act. On behalf of
 the assessees it was also submitted that Sections 11A and
 11AC not only operate in different fields but the two
 provisions are also separated by time. The penalty
 provision of Section 11AC would come into play only after
 an order is passed under Section 11A(2) with the finding
 that the escaped duty was the result of deception by the
 assessee by adopting a means as indicated in Section
 11AC. 19. From the aforesaid discussion it is clear that penalty
 under Section 11AC, as the word suggests, is punishment
 for an act of deliberate deception by the assessee with the
 intent to evade duty by adopting any of the means
 mentioned in the section.‖

4.7 It is seen that by the impugned order, Commissioner
(Appeal) has upheld the demand for the service tax confirmed
against the appellant and as consequence of upholding the
demands for tax has upheld the imposition of penalties under
 Service Tax Appeal No.74 of 2009 25 Section 76 and 78 of the Finance Act, 1994, though the penalty
as imposed by the adjudicating authority was reduced. The
impugned order has in fact upheld the imposition of penalties
under these sections, after confirming the tax short/ not paid
and has also confirmed the invocation of extended period of
limitation as provided by Section 73 . The reduction in penalties
in the impugned order was challenged by the revenue before the
tribunal and tribunal after noting all the facts dismissed the
appeal. For the reason that the appeal filed by the appellant was
dismissed for non-prosecution, tribunal did not interfered with
the order of Commissioner (Appeal) on any other account. From
the facts as noted above it is quite evident that Hon'ble High
Court has upheld the penalties as determined by the
Commissioner (Appeal) in the impugned order and upheld by the
tribunal vide the above referred order. Thus the impugned order
and the order of tribunal dismissing the revenue appeal got
merged with the order of Hon'ble High Court. Thus the order of
Commissioner (Appeal) to this extent has acquired finality to the
extent of the penalties imposed by the impugned order, and
Tribunal is functus officio in the matter. CESTAT Bench cannot
interfere with the order of Commissioner (Appeal) to the extent
which has been upheld by the Hon'ble High Court. We have
discussed above that the penalties imposed under Section 76 and 78 are not in vacuum and are linked with the demand of
service tax. If in the appeals before us which is now listed before
us after being restored third time tribunal concludes that
demand was not maintainable, then it will be contrary to the
earlier order of tribunal and Hon'ble High Court, as the same
would be setting aside the penalties upheld by the impugned
order and subsequent orders of the tribunal and High Court. The
fact that appeal filed by the revenue against the order of tribunal
dated 23.08.2013 has been never brought to the notice of the
benches restoring the appeal filed by the appellant and
dismissed by the tribunal for non prosecution on 23.08.2013.
The order of High Court dismissing the revenue appeal is dated
09.04.2014 and the order restoring the appeal of appellant
 Service Tax Appeal No.74 of 2009 26 dismissed by the order on 23.08.2013 is dated 16.09.2014. It
appears this fact was never placed before the bench restoring
the appeal and subsequent benches which dismissed the appeal
and then restored the same. In case of Dewsoft Overseas (P)
Ltd. [2016 (45) S.T.R. 321 (Tri. - Del.)] when the applicant had
got an ROM application adjudged in his favour by suppressing
the direction given by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, tribunal
observed as follows: deposit, the order of the Tribunal, in such a case, would
merge with the order of the High Court. 8. Further, the Tribunal cannot entertain the M.A. for
restoration of appeal, in view of the specific observations
made by the Hon'ble High Court vide order dated 8-12-
2005, which were to the effect that if the petitioner-
applicant fulfils the condition of such order, then the
Tribunal shall hear and decide the appeal on merits. Since,
the said order has not been complied with by the applicant
in true letter and spirit, entertaining the application for
restoration of appeal will be contrary to the principles of
judicial discipline, which require that the orders of the
higher courts should be followed unreservedly by the
subordinate/lower authorities. In view of above, we agree
 Service Tax Appeal No.74 of 2009 31 with the submissions of the Learned A.R. for Revenue that
the applicant can seek legal remedy, if any, only from the
Hon'ble High Court and not from the Tribunal.‖ 13. The substantial questions of law that have been
framed in this appeal are as follows : 1-2006 and to adjudicate the appeal on merits despite the
appellant having deposited the entire amount of duty of
Rs. 56,06,662/- in view of Section 35F of the Central
Excise Act, 1944? 2. Whether the CESTAT was justified in applying the
doctrine of merger on the question of pre-deposit in a
discretionary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India de hors the law laid down in the case
of Kunahayammed & Others v. State of Kerala & Ors. reported in (2000) 6 SCC 359 = 2001 (129) E.L.T. 11
(S.C.) which had been followed in the case of Kisan
Gramodyog, Kanpur v. CCE, Kanpur reported in 2015
(316) E.L.T. 406 (All.)? 3. Whether the appeal under Section 35G of the Central
Excise Act, 1944 could be dismissed when this Hon'ble
Court had directed the Rehabilitation Committee to decide
the rehabilitation package of the appellant, which
rehabilitation package was pending consideration as per
the notification dated 13-11-1995 & 9-6-2004 wherein the
Customs & Excise Department was participating in the
proceeding? 14. Sri Rakesh Ranjan Agarwal, Learned Senior Counsel
for M/s. Sameer Ispat assisted by Sri Suyash Agarwal has
submitted that once M/s. Sameer Ispat had deposited the
entire amount, the application filed by it for recalling the
order dated 10 January, 2006 and for hearing the appeal
on merits was liable to be allowed by the Appellate
Tribunal. In support of this contention, Learned Senior
 Service Tax Appeal No.74 of 2009 32 Counsel has placed reliance upon the judgments of the
Supreme Court in Kisaan Gramodyog Sansthan & Ors. v.
Commissioner of Central Excise, Kanpur - (2015) 10 SCC
629 = 2015 (319) E.L.T. 370 (S.C.) = 2017 ( 50) S.T.R.
103 (S.C.), Alpha Detergents Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner of
Central Excise - 2006 (204) E.L.T. 521 (S.C.), M/s. Inventa
Electronics (P) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Central Excise &
Customs, Pune - Special Leave Petition No.16935 of 2002,
decided on 13 April 2004 [2004 (168) E.L.T. A121 (S.C.)] as also the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Venus
Electronics & Control Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner of
Customs, Kandla - 2006 (198) E.L.T. 547 (Mumbai). 15. Learned Counsel for the respondents has, however,
contended that no substantial question of law arises for
consideration in this appeal. It is his submission that the
Appellate Tribunal has for good and cogent reasons
rejected the application filed by M/s. Sameer Ispat for
recalling the order dated 10 January, 2006. We have considered the submissions advanced by Learned
Counsel for the parties. 16. It is not in dispute that the appeal filed by M/s.
Sameer Ispat under Section 35F of the Act was dismissed
for non-compliance of the directions for deposit of the
amount. Section 35F of the Act provides that the person
desirous of appealing against the order imposing duty or
penalty has to deposit with the Adjudicating Authority the
duty demanded or the penalty imposed. However, where in
any particular case, the Appellate Tribunal is of the opinion
that the deposit of duty demanded or the penalty levied
would cause undue hardship to such person, the Appellate
Tribunal may dispense with such deposit subject to such
conditions as it may deem fit to impose to safeguard the
interests of the revenue. 17. In the present case, the Appellate Tribunal had
directed M/s. Sameer Ispat to deposit the amount within
 Service Tax Appeal No.74 of 2009 33 eight weeks but this direction was modified by the High
Court in Writ-Tax No. 1615 of 2005 by directing that it
may deposit Rs. 5 lacs within one month. This direction
was also not complied with as a result of which the
Appellate Tribunal dismissed the Appeal on 10 January,
2006. The application filed by M/s. Sameer Ispat before
the High Court for modification of its order was rejected on
21 April, 2006 and the application filed for recall of that
order was also rejected on 12 November, 2009. Even the
application filed by M/s. Sameer Ispat to recall of the order
dated 10 January, 2006 was rejected by order dated 3
January, 2012. M/s. Sameer Ispat then deposited Rs. 5
lacs and filed a restoration application which was also
rejected by order dated 29 February, 2012. The time
extension application filed by M/s. Sameer Ispat in Writ
Tax No. 1615 of 2005 was also rejected by a Division
Bench of this Court. Subsequently, Writ Tax No. 289 of
2014 filed by M/s. Sameer Ispat seeking direction to the
Appellate Tribunal to dispose of the appeal on merits since
the deposit of Rs. 5 lacs has been made, was also
dismissed by a detailed order. 18. It is thereafter that M/s. Sameer Ispat filed a Misc.
Application on 25 August, 2014 before the Appellate
Tribunal for recalling the order dated 10 January, 2006
contending that the entire duty liability confirmed in the
proceedings had been deposited. This application was
rejected by the Appellate Tribunal by a detailed order on
27 March, 2015. 19. It is not possible to accept the submission of Learned
Senior Counsel for the appellant that the order dismissing
the appeal should be recalled and the appeal should be
heard on merits since M/s. Sameer Ispat has now
deposited the entire amount of duty. The order passed by
the Division Bench on 5 May, 2014 dismissing Writ Tax No.
289 of 2014 filed by M/s. Sameer Ispat has attained
 Service Tax Appeal No.74 of 2009 34 finality. If the appeal could not be heard after the deposit
 of amount of Rs. 5 lacs, there is no good reason as to why
 it should be heard after deposit of certain additional
 amount. Once, the appeal had been dismissed, M/s.
 Sameer Ispat had to deposit the amount of duty imposed
 and the penalty imposed.‖

This decision has been affirmed by the Hon'ble Apex Court as
reported at [2018 (361) E.L.T. A228 (S.C.)]. 4.9 The doctrine of merger is a common law doctrine that is
rooted in the idea of maintenance of the decorum of hierarchy of
courts and tribunals, the doctrine is based on the simple
reasoning that there cannot be, at the same time, more than
one operative order governing the same subject matter. Hon'ble
Karnataka High Court has in case of Kothari Industrial
Corporation Ltd., [ILR 1998 Karnataka 1510] held as follows: 9.4 When a civil Court decides a matter, the facts and
reasons and grounds for the decision are contained in the
'judgment' and the formal expression of the adjudication
conclusively determining the rights of parties in regard to
the matters in controversy in the Suit, that is, the actual
decision is contained in the 'Decree'. In England, the word
'judgment' is used to denote both the reasons and the
decree. In regard to the orders of authorities and
Tribunals, there is no such bifurcation regarding the
reasons and decision. The facts and reasons are contained
in the preamble to the order and the decision is contained
in the operative portion of the order. When there is a
decree or order by the appellate or revisional Court or
authority, what merges with such decree or order, is the
decree or the order of the lower Court or authority and not
the reasons for the decision. The doctrine was further examined in Gojer Bros. vs.
Ratan Lal . The Supreme Court held thus : 9.5 Thus where the subject-matter of the order of a lower
authority is the same as the subject-matter of the order of
the appellate or revisional authority, the order of the lower
authority cannot remain to stand simultaneously with the
order of the higher authority on the very same subject-
matter. In such an event, the order of the lower authority
gets merged with the order of the higher authority, so that
there is only one order holding the field. But if the order of
the lower authority related to several distinct matters and
the appeal or revision is filed only in regard to one or few
of the matters, there cannot be a merger of the entire
order of the lower authority with the order of the
appellate/revisional authority. In that event, subject to any
statutory provisions, what will merge in the order of the
appellate or revisional authority is not the entire order of
the lower authority, but only that part of the order which
related to the subject-matter of the appeal or revision.
This is recognised by the Supreme Court in the following
passage in State of Madras vs. Madurai Mills Co. Ltd. : 9.6 The above principle is best illustrated by the facts of
the cases in Amritlal Bhogilal & Madurai Mills (supra)
considered by the Supreme Court. In Amritlal Bhogilal's
case, the ITO had made a composite order granting
registration of the firm and making an assessment on the
basis of registration. The assessee challenged the
composite order, insofar as the assessment was
concerned. The order of registration was not the subject-
matter of appeal before the appellate authority. The High
Court held that the order of the ITO granting registration
to the assessee must be deemed to have merged in the
appellate order and therefore the revisional power of the
CIT cannot be exercised in respect of it. The Supreme
Court reversed the said view holding that the order of the
ITO granting registration cannot be deemed to have
merged in the order of the CIT(A) in an appeal taken
against the composite order of the ITO, in regard to the
assessment, as the question of registration was not before
the appellate authority. 9.7 In Madurai Mill 's case (supra), the facts were : The
assessing authority (Dy. CTO) had passed an order of
assessment for 1950-51, determining the net turnover at
Rs. 15,44,09,109. The assessee filed an appeal aggrieved
by the inclusion of two items in the turnover relating to
commission and sale proceeds of empty drums. The appeal
was allowed in regard to first item and rejected in regard
to second item. Thereafter, the assessing authority issued
a revised assessment on 28th November, 1952.
Thereafter, the assessee preferred a revision contending
that it should not have been assessed to tax on Rs.
6,57,971 collected by it by way of tax. The assessee did
not raise any other objection regarding the order of
assessment dt. 28th November, 1952. The revisional
 Service Tax Appeal No.74 of 2009 38 authority (Dy. Commr. of Commercial Taxes) dismissed
the revision petition by order dt. 21st August, 1954. On
4th August, 1958, the Board of Revenue issued a notice to
the assessee proposing to revise the assessment of the
assessing authority by including in the net turnover, Rs.
7,74,62,706 representing the value of cotton purchased by
the assessee from outside the State of Madras, on the
ground that it was wrongly excluded in the computation of
the turnover. The assessee objected to the proposed
revision inter alia on the ground that the period of
limitation prescribed, namely, four years, should be
computed from 28th November, 1952 and if so done,
proceedings initiated by the Board of Revenue was barred
by time. The Board however including the said turnover
relating to cotton purchased from outside the State, by
order dt. 25th August, 1958 held that the order of
assessment dt. 28th November, 1952 having merged in
the order dt. 21st August, 1954 passed by the Dy. Commr.
of Commercial Taxes in Revision, the four years period
should be reckoned from 21st August, 1954 and therefore
the proceedings were not barred. On appeal, the High
Court set aside the Order of the Board on the ground that
it was barred by limitation. That was affirmed by the
Supreme Court in an appeal by the State, holding as
follows : 10. There is however, a well-recognised exception to the
principle that when an appeal is restricted to a part of the
order of the lower authority, the merger will only be to
that extent and the remaining portion of the order of lower
authority will not merge in the appellate order. Where the
statute confers plenary jurisdiction on the appellate
authority, that is power to examine the entire subject-
matter of the order of the lower authority, even where the
appellant restricts the appeal to a part of the order of the
lower authority, the entire order of the lower authority will
merge with the order of the appellate authority. This is
because, it is the subject-matter of the appeal and not the
subject-matter of the order of the appellate authority that
determines the extent of merger. When the statute gives
plenary jurisdiction to the appellate authority, irrespective
of whether the appellate authority chooses to exercise
such plenary jurisdiction or not, as the subject-matter of
the appeal for the consideration of the appellate authority,
is the entire order of the lower authority, the merger will
be of the entire order of the lower authority. 10.1 The Supreme Court explained the difference between
a Court of appeal under the CPC and an appellate authority
functioning under a statute (IT Act ) providing for plenary
 Service Tax Appeal No.74 of 2009 40 jurisdiction thus, in CIT vs. Rai Bahadur Hardutroy Motilal
Chamaria (1967) 66 ITR 443 (Kar) : TC 7R.590. 10.2 This Court has consistently taken the view that
the entire order of the lower authority will merge in
the appellate order, where under the statute, the
appellate authority is given plenary jurisdiction over
the entire order, irrespective of the appeal being
restricted to only a part of the order of the lower
authority or the appellate authority dealing with and
deciding only a few matters from out of the subject-
matter of the order of the assessing authority [See
Addl. CIT vs. Vijayalakshmi Lorry Service (1986) 157
ITR 327 (Ker) : TC 57R.428 and CIT vs. Hindustan
Aeronautics Ltd. ]. The High Courts of Allahabad,
Patna and Madhya Pradesh have also subscribed to
the said view in J.K. Synthetics Ltd. vs. Addl . CIT ; CIT vs. Rameshwar Das Pannalal 34 STC 296 and CIT
vs. Mandsaur Electric Supply Co. Ltd.. However , the
 Service Tax Appeal No.74 of 2009 41 High Courts of Bombay, Calcutta, Madras, Gujarat and
 Punjab & Haryana have subscribed to the view that the
 merger will be only in regard to such matters dealt with by
 the appellate authority and parts of the assessment order
 which were left untouched by the appellate authority, will
 not merge in the appellate order in CIT vs. Sakseria Cotton
 Mills Ltd. (1980) 124 ITR 570 (Bom) : TC 53R.582, Singho
 Mica Mining Co. Ltd. vs. CIT , Puthuthottam Estates Ltd.
 vs. State of Tamil Nadu ; Karsandas Bhagwandas Patel vs.
 G. V. Shah , ITO and New Diwan Oil Mills vs. CIT .‖

4.10 In the case of A.V. Papayya Sastry [(2007) 4 SCC 221]
Hon'ble Supreme Court observed: 4.13 In case of Municipal Committee Katra & Ors. Vs Ashwani
Kumar [Order dated May 09, 2024 in Civil Appeal No(S). 14970-
71 OF 2017], Hon'ble Supreme Court observed: [2007 (7) S.T.R. 29 (Tri. - Ahmd.)] the issue was in respect of
interconnect usage charges (IUC) and in the case of Power Grid
Corporation of India [2011 (24) STR 307 (T-Del)] followed the
earlier decision to the extent it was in relation to the IUC
between two telecom authorities. However this decision upheld
the demand made in respect of the services provided by one
telecom authority to recipients other than telecom authority. Our
view is supported by the decision in the case of Data Infosys Ltd.
[2006 (4) S.T.R. 34 (Tri. - Del.)] were in following has been
held: (Operative part of the order pronounced in open court)

 (SANJIV SRIVASTAVA)
 MEMBER (TECHNICAL)

 (ANGAD PRASAD)
 MEMBER (JUDICIAL)
 Service Tax Appeal No.74 of 2009 47 akp