Petitioner-Sanjay Arora has applied for the grant of

anticipatory bail in case FIR No.311 dated 31.10.2009 under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B IPC registered at Police Station, NIT

Faridabad. A plea filed by him before the Court of Sessions was negatived

vide order 13.11.2009. For enabling appreciation of the respective pleas raised by the

parties, it would be appropriate to notice the prosecution allegations in the

first instance. Plot NO.5E-17-BP, NIT, Faridabad (400 sq. yards) is owned

by Smt. Shukla Jagota, a NRI residing at 116, BROOK MILL

BLVD,SCARBOR, ON, MIW-2K5, CANADA, who is real Bua(father's

sister) of the first informant Kaushal Madan Lal Khanna, resident of House

No.203, Trishala Apartment, Parley Point, Surat, Gujrat. He received a call

from his aunt aforementioned wherein she informed him as under:- Criminal Misc. No.M-33068 of 2009 -2- Mr. R.S.Rai, learned Senior Counsel (assistant by Shri

R.K.Lamba, Advocate) appearing on behalf of the complainant/first

informant and also the learned State Counsel argued the contrary and

raised the following items of stance to oppose the plea for the release of

the petitioner on anticipatory bail:- The fake character of the transaction is prima facie evident

from the fact that it would be fairly unnatural to expect, in ordinary

commercial parlance, that the possession of the plot ( sold for Rs.1.36

crores) would be handed over to the vendee only on payment on the

alleged payment of Rs.20 lacs which would appear to be too meager in

relation to the total sale consideration. The meager character of the

earnest amount would assume added importance in the light of the fact

that the vendee is also alleged to have been allowed to raise construction

on that plot. Insofar as the gainful engagement and the financial capacity of

the petitioner herein is concerned, it does not ipso facto detract from the

prosecution plea for his custodial investigation and the same applies to the

fact that all other co-accused, with the exception of one, have since been Criminal Misc. No.M-33068 of 2009 -5- ****

arrested and granted bail after they had been interrogated. Whether the

averred cheque, at all, came to be issued and whether any amount came

to be paid in cash has to be ascertained in the course of the investigation.

As per the averments made in the course of the petition, Kishan Chand

had returned the cheque to the petitioner herein. In that view of things, the

recovery of cheque has to be effected from the petitioner only and the fact

of Kishan Chand having been interrogated does not enable the petitioner

to raise a plea that his custodial interrogation would be infructuous just

because Kishan Chand had already been interrogated. The fact that the petitioner herein has not had past my

transaction with the other accused and that he had no association with the

other accused also does not enure for his benefit in consideration of the

plea for grant of anticipatory bail. In the natural course of the things, it is a matter of common

observation that quite a bit of the total sale consideration is paid by the

vendee to the vendor as earnest amount. Apart therefrom, it cannot be

disputed that 400 sq. yards plot in the area of Industrial Township of

Faridabad would be expected to fetch a price of more than Rs. 2 crores. It

would appear unnatural that out of the alleged earnest amount of Rs.20

lacs, a sum of Rs.5 lacs only was paid through a cheque which, too, never

ever came to be presented to the banker and it is alleged to have been

returned by the General Power of Attorney holder Kishan Chand to the

petitioner herein. The investigating agency has not been able to lay its

hands upon that cheque. It would appear to be fairly unnatural that a

vendee would be offered possession and permission to raise construction

as well just on payment of a meager amount of Rs.20 lacs, out of a total

agreed consideration of Rs.1.36 crores. It was, then, argued by the learned Senior Counsel appearing Criminal Misc. No.M-33068 of 2009 -6- ****

on behalf of the petitioner that General Power of Attorney holder and Smt.

Shukla Jagota had been in telephonic touch with each other and this fact,

by itself, disproves the prosecution plea. In the context of that averment,

learned Senior Counsel for the complainant pointed out that calls relied

upon by the learned counsel for the petitioner are all those which are

indicated to have been made by Kishan Chand aforementioned for a

noticeably short duration and the possibility of his having attempted to

create(exparte) evidence about his having been in touch with the original

plot owner cannot be ruled out in the circumstances of the case,

 In the light of the facts noticed above, it is apparent that the

Investigating Agency would require to conduct custodial investigation of the

petitioner herein to find out whereabouts of the cheque. His custodial

investigation would also be required to establish various links in the course

of the averred transaction. The person of the petitioner would also be

required to find out the correctness or otherwise of yet another prosecution

allegation that he had forged the passport of Smt. Shukla Jagota, as the ID

proof, at the time of registration of the General Power of Attorney. The

effective endeavour to be made by the Investigating Agency to interrogate

the petitioner cannot be set at naught by insulating the petitioner with an

order on point of anticipatory bail. The grant of anticipatory bail is in

exercise of an extraordinary jurisdiction which jurisdiction does not call for

exercise in the circumstances of the case. The anticipatory bail plea shall stand rejected accordingly.