26.l..Section 366(1) deals with the modes of pronouncing
a judgment, though the marginal note to the section speaks of
"delivering" a judgment. Under section 366(1) a judgment may

Section 366 (l)-- Modes of_ pro- nouncing judge- be pronounced or its substance explained. Here "pronounced" men

evidently means the reading out of the whole judgment. The
proviso to section 366(1) states that, if the prosecution or the
defence so desire, the whole judgment shall be read out. Further,
under section 367(1), it is permissible to dictate a judgment in
court. Thus, a reading of sections 366 and 367 reveals three
modes of pronouncing a judgment-- judgment already

judgment already

We feel that all the three modes should be
one section. Further, the provisions
ing the dating and signing of
included in this section. brought under
of section 367(1) regard- judgments should also be

26.2. Section 367(1) provides that the judgment shall be
dated and signed at the time of pronouncing it. However, it is
quite obvious that unless the judgment is a very short one, this
requirement cannot be satisﬁed where the judgment is pro-
nounced by dictating in court. Transcribing a dictated judg--
ment will take time. In such cases the judgment can be signed
and dated only when the transcript is ready----which may be some
hours or even days after the judgment is pronounced. Therefore,
besides re-arranging the matter contained in section 366(1) and
367(1) as we have recommended above, the position regarding
the dating and signing of judgments dictated in court has also to
be stated more clearly. 26.3. We also propose to add a provision to the effect that
when the judgment is pronounced by explaining the substance
of it, the operative part of the judgment should be read out. 26.4. The main paragraph of section 366(1) provides that
the judgment shall be pronounced or its substance explained.
Clause (a) says that this should take place immediately on the
termination of the trial or on a later notiﬁed date; and under
clause (b) it should be in the language of the court or in some
language the accused or his pleader understands. Clause (:1)
obviously applies to both modes of pronouncing the judgment,
but clause (b) evidently has reference only to explaining the
substance of the judgment, as otherwise it would mean that the
judgment should be written or read out in some language the
accused understands. We think, that the reference to a language

Dating_ and sign- ing of Judgment. Operative part
should be read- out. Reference to
language in s. 366(1) (b)

unnecessary. Reading out
whole judgment
need to be com- pulsory. Section 366(2). Section 366(3)
and 366(4). Amendment of
Section 366
recommended. the accused or his pleader understands may be safely omitted,
as the court, when "explaining" the substance of the judgment
will ensure that the accused understands what is being

explained. 26.5. The proviso to section 366(1) requires the court to
read out the whole judgment if so requested by either party. We
think that it would suiﬁce if the judgment or a copy thereof is
made available for the perusal of either party. We also propose
to make it clear, that this should be conﬁned to cases where the
judgment is pronounced by explaining its substance. Obviously,
when the whole judgment is read out or dictated, there is no
point in requiring a copy for perusal. 26.6. Section 366(2) provides that the judgment shall be
pronounced in the presence of the accused, except in certain
speciﬁed instances where the presence of his pleadcr is suffi-
cient. This requirement can give rise to difficulties in cases
where there are more accused than one and some of them, out
on bail, fail to appear at the time of judgment. In such cases, the
pronouncement of the judgment will have to be postponed even
against the accused present in court, till the absconding accused
are apprehended. This, apart from wasting the time of the
court, will also cause needless harassment to the other accused. We would, therefore, recommend that a power be given to
the court to pronounce judgment in such instances, even if one
or more of the several accused in the case are not present to hear
it, making it clear that the power is to be used only to prevent
undue delay. True, even under the present provisions such a
pronouncement will not be an illegality due to the saving provi-
sion in section 366(3); but it would be better to give the court
such power in clear terms than to leave the procedure as an
irregularity curable under another section. A consequential
amendment1 to section 383 will be necessary in order to provide
that in such cases the Magistrate shall issue a warrant for the
arrest of the accused who is absent. Two other changes also appear necessary in sub-section (2).
It provides that the accused need not be present to hear the
judgment if his personal attendance during trial had been already
dispensed with and the sentence to be passed is only one of ﬁne
or if he is acquitted, in both of which cases the presence of the
accused's pleader is suﬂicient. We do not think it necessary to
insist on the presence of even the pleader in such cases. Secondly,
the sub-section, as it stands, deals with the cases of the accused
in custody as well as the accused on bail. It would be better, in
the interests of clarity, to provide for these two cases separately. 26.7. No changes are needed in sections 366(3) and 366(4). 26.8. Section 366 may, in the light of the above discussion,
be amended to read as follows :-- ment or acopy thereof shall be immediately made available
for the perusal of the parties or their pleaders free of cost. (5) If the accused is in custody, he shall be brought
up to hear the judgment pronounced. (6) If the accused is not in custody, he shall be required
by the court to attend to hear the judgment pronounced,
except where his personal attendance during the trial has
been dispensed with and the sentence is one of ﬁne only or
he is acquitted . . . . . . ..; Provided that. where there are more accused than one,
and some of them do not attend the court on the date on
which the judgment is to be pronounced, the presiding
officer may, in order to avoid undue delay in the disposal
of the case, pronounce the judgment notwithstanding their
absence. (7) No judgment delivered by any Criminal Court shall
be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the absence of
any party or his pleader on the day or from the place noti-
ﬁed for the delivery thereof, or of any omission to serve, or
defect in serving. on the parties or their pleaders, or any of
them, the notice of such day and place. (8) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit
in any way the extent of the provisions of section 537." 26.9. We have already considered1 that part of section
367(1) which deals with the dating and signing of the judgment.
The remaining part deals with the contents of the judgment. The
same topic is also dealt with in sub-sections (2) and (4). We
recommend that all these provisions be brought together under
me sub--section, so that one can know at a glance what the
ontents of a judgment should be. 1Sce para. 26.2 above. Section 367. Section 367 and
reasons for sen- tence in capital
cases. Pronouncement
of judgment ,,_ by
successor. Section 367(6). No changes are needed in sub-section (3) of section 367.
Sub-section (5), is relevant only to trials by jury. As this 
of trial is proposed to be abolished, sub-section (5) of section
367 may be omitted. 26.10. A recommendation relevant to section 367 was made
in the Law Commission's Report1 on Capital Punishment, while
considering the question whether a provision requiring the court
to state its reasons for awarding the sentence of death or irnpri-
sonment for life in a capital case, should be inserted. The
conclusion was thus expressed-- We are also of the same view, and recommend that the section
be amended accordingly. In this connection, it may be noted
that there are certain offences for which the Penal Code prescribes
the punishment as death or in the alternative, life imprisonment
or imprisonment for a term of years. Therefore, the amendment
recommended above should cover these cases also. 26.11. We note that there is no provision in the Code as to
pronouncement of a judgment written by a predecessor. We
considered the question whether any provision on the subject
should be inserted. In our view, it is not proper that in criminal
cases, a judge should pronounce a judgment written by his pre-
decessor. He can, no doubt, make use of the material contained
in the (draft) judgment prepared by his predecessor. But in
that case he is himself responsible for the contents of the judg-
ment. 26.12. Section 367(6) provides that for the purposes of this
section, an order under section 118 or section 123(3) shall be

1 35th Report (Capital Punishment), paragraph 820-822. deemed to be a judgment. Its main object seems to be to ensure
that, in any such order reasons are given separately for the order
as to each person proceeded against. It is, in our view, suﬁicient
to provide1 in section 118 itself that reasons should be recorded
for an order under that section. No such provision is necessary
for orders under section 123 . These orders are passed by
Sessions Judges, who may be expected to give reasons without a
statutory provision. 26.13. Revised on the lines suggested above, section 367
will read as follows :-- shall contain the point or points for determination,
the decision thereon and the reasons for the decision; (c) shall specify the offence (if any) of which, and the
section of the Indian Penal Code or other law under
which, the accused is convicted and the punishment
to which he is sentenced; and (d) if it be a judgment of acquittal, shall state-the offence
of which the accused is acquitted and direct that he
be set at liberty. (2) When the conviction is under the
Code and it is doubtful under which of two sections, or
under which of two parts of the same section, of that Code
the oﬁence falls, the Court shall distinctly express the same,
and pass judgment in the alternative. Indian Penal

(3) When the conviction is for an offence punishable
with death or in the alternative with imprisonment for life
or imprisonment for a term of years, the judgment shall
state the reasons for the sentence awarded. 26.14. No changes are needed in section 368. 26.15. Section 369, as enacted in 1898, provided that "no
Court, other than a High Court, when it has signed its judgment,
shall alter or review the same, except as provided in sections 395
and 484 or to correct a clerical error." Despite the express
exclusion of the High Courts from the operation of this provision,
they held" that they had no implied power to alter or review their
own judgments whether under section 369 or under section 439
or otherwise. It was accordingly proposed in 1921 that the
words "other than a High Court" should be omitted to make it
clear that section 369 conferred no such power on the High
Courts. The Joint Committee which examined the Bill noticed
that one or two other sections in the Code, besides sections 395
and 484, and clause 26 of the Letters Patent of the High Courts,

1 See para. 8.15 above. '3 Queen Empress v. Durga Charan , (1885) I.L.R. 7 All. 672; Queen
Empress v. C. P. Fox, (1885) I.L.R. 10 Born. 176 (F.B.); In the matter
of Gibbons. (1886) I.L.R. 14 Cal. 42 (F.B.). Revision of Sec- tion 367 recom- mended. Language _ and
contents of Judg- ment. Section 368. Section 369 appli- cability to High
Courts. Amendment
recommended. High Court's
power of review. Section 370. empowered the High Courts to revise their judgments. They
accordingly re--drafted the amendment to read as follows :-- Subsequent adaptation in 1950 and formal amendment in 1955
have given the section its present form. 26.16. It is, however, clear that the Letters Patent or other
instrument constituting a High Court are also laws for the time
being in force and accordingly the words "or in the case of a
High Court established by the Letters Patent or other instrument
constituting such High Court" are redundant and somewhat
confusing. In fact, the reference to Letters Patent of the older
High Courts is practically obsolete after the insertion of section
411A in the Code. We, therefore, recommend that the words
cited above should be omitted from the section. 26.17. It is to be noted that the judgment referred to in
section 369 is the judgment of a criminal court in its original
jurisdiction vide section 366(1). The rule in section 369 that
no court shall alter or review its own judgment except to correct
a clerical error is made applicable by section 424 to the judgment
of any appellate court other than a High Court. The question
whether a High Court has any inherent power of reviewing its
judgment in an appeal or revision will be considered later under
section 561A. 26.18. Section 370 relieves a Presidency Magistrate of the
task of writing a detailed judgment setting out the point or points
for determination, the decision thereon, reasons for the decision,
etc., as provided in section 367 for other Magistrate. He has.
only to record the essential particulars of the case and the ﬁnal
order in all cases, and in those cases in which he inﬂicts imprison-
ment, or ﬁne exceeding Rs. 200, or both, a brief statement of the
reasons for the conviction. It will be noticed that under section
411 a sentence of ﬁne not exceeding Rs. 200 is not appealable
and, presumably because of this fact, section 370, clause (i)
does not require a Presidency Magistrate to record the reasons
for the conviction when the ﬁne is within this limit. In regard
to sentences of imprisonment, however, the said clause is not
logical even where the imprisonment inﬂicted is not more than
six months and consequently the sentence is not appealable under
section 411, the Presidency Magistrate has to record reasons for
the conviction. Then again, although a judgment of acquittal
is appealable under section 417, the Presidency Magistrate need
not record even a brief statement of the reasons for his decision
which the prosecution might not always ﬁnd satisfactory. We
consider that it would be more logical and reasonable to provide
in clause (i) of section 370 that, in all cases in which an appeal 235 lies from the ﬁnal order either under section 411 or under section
417, the Presidency Magistrate should record a brief statement
of the reasons for his decision. This clause should be amended

to read-- 26.19. Under sub-section (1) of section 371, a copy of the
judgment has to be given without delay to the accused on his
application. Though the section does not say that this should
be a certified copy the Supreme Court has held1 that "whether it
is the accused person who applies for a copy under s. 371, sub-
section (1) and (2) or it is the State which applies for a copy.
the copy supplied by the public officer must be a certiﬁed copy."
In conformity with this interpretation the words "certiﬁed copy" In cases where the High Court passes or conﬁrms or main-
tains a death sentence, a certiﬁed copy of the judgment should,
in our view, be immediately given to the accused whether or not
he applies for it. This would enable him to make immediate
preparations for an appeal. Accordingly, sub-section (1) of s. 371 may be simpliﬁed to
read as follows :-- in sub-section (4) may also be omitted. Sub-section (3) does
not require any change. Since an order under s. 118 may result in the imprisonment
of the defendant, we think it desirable that the provisions of sub-
section (1) of this section should also apply to any order under

1State of L-'.P. v. C. ATobit. 1958 S.C.R. 1275. 1280. Section 371. Copy of judg- ment to be given
to accused. s. 118. We, therefore, propose the addition of _a new sub-section
(2) in lieu of the existing sub-section (2) reading as follows :-- gggtions 372 and 26.20. No changes are needed in sections 372 and 373. V- CHAPTER XXVII
SUBMISSION OF SENTENCES FOR CONFIRMATION

27.1. When the Court of Session passes sentence of death

and the proceedingsare submitted to the High Court, section

374 provides that the sentence shall not be executed unless it is
conﬁrmed by the High Court. In an appeal which came before
the Supreme Court, the accused had been sentenced to death by
the Court of Session but the High Court, holding that section 27 of the Evidence Act was unconstitutional, excluded a statement
admitted under that section and acquitted the accused as the
remaining evidence was not suﬂicient to establish his guilt.
Against this order of acquittal the State appealed to the Supreme
Court with a certiﬁcate under Article 134(1) (c) of the Constitu-
tion granted by the High Court. The Supreme Court decided that section 27 of the Evidence Act was a valid provision and that, if
the evidence admitted under that section was taken into account,
there was no doubt as to the guilt of the accused. Their Lordships
accordingly set aside the order passed by the High Court and
restored the order passed by the Court of Session. They
stated' :-- It is difficult to follow the reference to Article 136; and it is pos-
sible that a reference to Article 142(1) was intended. However
that may be, in view of this decision of the Supreme Court, we do
not think it is necessary to amend section 374 of the Code for

this purpose. 27.2. After passing sentence of death, the Court of Session
is expected to issue a "warrant of commitment under sentence of
death" to the Superintendent of Jail. While the form of warrant
is set out as form XXXIV in the Fifth Schedule to the Code, it
is not expressly referred to or provided for in section 374 or any-
where else. It is noticed that when the accused is sentenced by
the Court of Session to imprisonment for life, section 383 expressly
provides for the issue of a suitable warrant and the forwarding of
the accused with the warrant to the jail in which he is to be con-
ﬁned. It is desirable that a similar provision should be made in
section 374 so that there may be speciﬁc statutory authority for
holding the accused in prison after the Court of Session has passed
sentence of death and until it is executed in due course. We
recommend that a sub-section should be added as follows :-- 'State of U.P. v. Deoman Upadhyaya . 1961(1) S.C.R. 14, 33. Section 374 Sup- reme Court's
power to conﬁrm

111 appeal. Authority to issue
;v4arrant in form

Section 375. Section 376. Section 377. Section 378. 27.3. In view of the abolition of jury trials, sub-section (2).
of section 375 may be formally amended to read :-- sence of the convicted person may be dispensed with when
such inquiry is made or such evidence is taken." 27.4. No change is needed in section 376. 27.5. Section 377 requires that every conﬁrmation case shall
be heard and decided by a Bench of two or more Judges of the
High Court. The section, however, does not apply to a Judicial
Commissioner's Court which has only one Judge, as in the Union
Territories of Manipur and Tripura. It is somewhat anomalous
that a person sentenced to death in either of these Union Terri-
tories does not have the beneﬁt of two Judges of the Court of
Criminal Appeal reviewing his case as in the rest of India. An
obvious way of removing the anomaly is to extend the jurisdiction
of the Assam High Court to these two Union Territories. How-
ever, since the number of death sentences passed by the two Ses-
sions Judges is very small, the matter is not of much practical
importance. No amendment is proposed in section 377. 27.6. The wording of section 378 is repeated in section 429*
which applies when the Judges composing the Court of Appeal
are equally divided in opinion in regard to "the case" heard by
them. The question has frequently arisen under section 429 as
to what exactly is the case that is to be laid before the third Judge,
whether it means the entire case of all the accused and all the
charges in which they were tried, or whether it means the entire
case of a particular accused about whose guilt the Judges are
equally divided in their opinion or whether, even more restrictedly,
it means only the particular point or points of law or of fact on
which there is a difference of opinion. This difficulty does not
appear to have been felt to any noticeable extent with reference
to section 378. 27.7. In any event we do not consider it necessary or desir-
able to amend section 378 with the object of clarifying the posi-
tion. When for instance ﬁve persons are tried together on charges
of a capital offence, two are convicted and sentenced to death
and the others are convicted of lesser offences, the whole proceed-
ings before the Court of Session are submitted to the High Court
for obtaining conﬁrmation of the two death sentences passed in
the case. If the two Judges hearing the "referred cases" together
with the connected appeals, if any, of the convicted persons, are
agreed that the death sentence of one of them should be conﬁrmed
but divided in opinion as to the other, it is "the case" heard by
the Bench which has to be laid before another Judge together with
the opinion of the two Judges. The matter in regard td which the
third Judge has to deliver a binding and conclusive opinion under
section 378 is not expressly indicated in the section. There can
however be hardly any doubt that it is the matter over which there
is a difference of opinion between the two Judges and that the
third Judge is entitled and bound to consider this matter in all
its aspects and give his opinion so that a conclusive judgment or
order may follow thereon. There is nothing to be gained by
amending or adding to the words used in section 378 which would
only have the effect of fettering the discretion of the third Judge. 27.8. In several cases the question has been discussed whether
the third Judge ought to consider himself bound by the views
expressed by the two referring Judges on points On Which there
was no difference between them. Under the corresponding pro-
visions in the Letters Patent1 of High Courts and in the Code of
Civil Procedure } the view of the majority of all the Judges includ-
ing those who first heard the case prevails in a civil matter. The
position in criminal cases, however, is different from that in civil
cases where clear--cut issues of fact and law have to be framed and
decided. As observed by the Supreme Court3 with reference to
section 429, it is for the third Judge to decide on what points, if
any, he will hear arguments and this postulates that he is com-
pletely free to resolve the differences in such manner as he thinks
fit and proper. The position for the purposes of section 378 is
no doubt the same. In our view, no change in the Code of Crimi-
nal Procedure is needed on this point, and the matter should be
left to the discretion of the third Judge. 27.9. We may here refer to the amendment of section 378
proposed by the Lowndes Committee in 1917. They stated in
their Report :-- That Committee accordingly proposed the addition of the follow-
ing proviso to section 378 :-- This amendment was not accepted by the Select Committee
which reported on the Bill in 1922 :-- 1See e.,2., Clause 36. Letters Patent of the Calcutta High Court. 2 Section 98 . 3Dharam Singh v. State , (1962) Suppl. 3 S.C.R. 769; Babu v. The
State, A.I.R. 1965 S.C. 1467. 1470. 4Gazette of India (1922), Part V, pages 263 and 264; Report of the
Select Committee under clauses 99 and 113. Q

Section 379. Section 380. 27.10. No change is required in section 379. 27.11. Section 380 is ancillary to section 362 which empowers
Courts to release certain convicted first oﬁenders on probation of
good conduct instead of sentencing them to imprisonment. In
fact, with the enforcement of the Probation of Offenders Act,
1958 , in many States, the utility of section 562 of the Code has
been much reduced. If at all it is necessary to retain that section
in the Code, section 380 may appropriately be added to it. We
propose to omit section 380 from this Chapter and consequentially
to alter the heading of the Chapter to "Of the Submission of
Death Sentences for Conﬁrmation." CHAPTER XXVIII
EXECUTION

28.1. Section 381, as it now stands, is confined to cases where
a sentence of death passed by a Court of Session is sent up for
conﬁrmation by the High Court. When a sentence of death is
passed by the High Court in appeal or in revision proceedings for
enhancement of sentence, its execution is now left to be governed
by sections 425(2) and 442 and the High Court Rules. As it is
desirable to have a speciﬁc provision in regard to this important
matter, we recommend that a new section 381A be inserted after
section 381, as follows :----- 28.2. We propose the insertion of another new section pro-
viding for the postponement of execution of a death sentence in
cases where an appeal against the judgment of a High Court pas-
sing or conﬁrming such sentence can be preferred to the Supreme
Court under the Constitution. Our object in recommending the
new provision is to ensure that where there is a possibility of
appealing to the Supreme Court, the appeal is not rendered
infructuous by an unfortunately prompt execution of the sentence. Appeals in capital sentence cases may come up before the
Supreme Court; (i) as of right under sub--clause (a) or (b) of article 134(1); or (ii) on a certiﬁcate of ﬁtness granted by the
High Court under article 132 or 134(l)(c) or (iii) after obtain-
ing special leave from the Supreme Court under article 136 of
the Constitution. In the first case, since the appeal is as of right, it is clearly
necessary that execution should be postponed until the period of
limitation for preferring the appeal expires, or, if an appeal is ﬁled
within that period, until the appeal is disposed of. In the second case, it is only if an application for a certiﬁcate
is made to the High Court that there is a reasonable possibility of
appeal. If such application is made, execution should be post-
poned until the application is disposed of. If the certiﬁcate is
granted, the possibility of appeal becomes almost a certainty, and
the execution should be further postponed till the period of limita-
tion for preferring an appeal expires. Within that period, the
person sentenced should prefer an appeal and obtain a stay from
the Supreme Court. In the third case, it is sufficient if execution is postponed for
such period as would enable the person sentenced to apply for
special leave to the Supreme Court. Within that period, the
person sentenced can apply for special leave and obtain from the
Supreme Court orders for stay of execution. Section 381 Death
sentence passed
by High Court
in appeal or revi- sion. Execution of
death sentence
passed by High
Court. Postponement of
execution in case
of appeal to Sup- reme Court. New Section
381 B.

Postponement of
execution in case
of appeal to Sup- reme Court. Section 382. Section 383. Execution of sen- tence of imprison- ment. 28.3. The new section providing for postponement of execution
pending possible appeal to the Supreme Court may be as
follows :-- cation to the High Court for the grant of a certiﬁcate under article 132 or under sub--clause (c) of clause (1) of article 134 of the Constitution, the High Court shall order execution of
the sentence to be postponed until such application is disposed
of by the High Court, or if a certiﬁcate is granted on such
application, until the period allowed for preferring an appeal
to the Supreme Court on such certiﬁcate has expired. ( 3) Where a sentence of death is passed or conﬁrmed by
the High Court, and the High Court is satisﬁed that the person
sentenced intends to present a petition to the Supreme Court for
the grant of special leave to appeal under article 136 of the
Constitution, the High Court shall order the execution of the
sentence to be postponed for such period as it considers sulﬁ-
cient to enable him to present such petition." 28.4. No change is needed in section 382. 28.5. Under section 383, an accused person sentenced to
imprisonment has to be forwarded with a warrant to "the jail in
which he is or is to be conﬁned". Section 384, however, refers
to "the jail or other place" indicating the possibility of a con-
victed persons being conﬁned temporarily in a place other than a
jail. It is desirable to bring the wording of section 383 into line
with that of section 384 in this respect. Secondly. where the accused is sentenced to imprisonment till
the rising of the Court, as is sometimes done, he is simply detained
in custody in the Court premises for the few hours. No warrant
is prepared or sent under section 383, which can be regarded as
a breach of the statutory provision. It is desirable to add a pro-
viso to the section legalising the procedure. 'I'hirdlj.', in our discussion1 on section 366, we have suggested'
that a suitable provision should be made in section 383 for cases
where a sentence of imprisonment is passed in the absence of the
accused. Accordingly, we recommend that section 383 may be ampli-
ﬁed and amended as follows :-- pose of forwarding him to the jail or other place in which he
is to be conﬁned; and in such case, the sentence shall commence
on the date of his arrest." 28.6. No change is needed in sections 384 and 385. 28.7. Section 386 lays down the two methods by which the
Court passing a sentence of ﬁne may take action for realising it.
One is to issue a warrant for levying the amount by attachment
and sale of any movable property belonging to the offender, By
virtue of section 4(2) the expression "movable property" has
the meaning assigned to it by section 22 of the Indian Penal Code,
and not the wider meaning given in the General Clauses Act,
1897 ; only "corporeal property" may be attached and sold for
realising the ﬁne imposed by a criminal court. This would appear
to exclude actionable claims, debts, salary not due etc. from the
court's process. Where the offender has only a share in movable
property belonging to a joint family questions have arisen in the
Courts whether the share can be attached and sold, and if so,
whether attachment can be by way of seizure of the property.
We do not, however, consider it necessary to clarify and elabo-
rate this clause. It is primarily intended to furnish the Court
with a rough and ready method of seizing and selling tangible
goods belonging to the offender. especially when the ﬁne to be
realised is not a large sum, and it can be left at that. 28.8. The second method laid down in clause (b) of sub-
section (1) and sub-section (3) is cumbrous and time consum-
ing. The Collector to whom the warrant is sent has to take steps
like any other decree-holder in a civil court for recovery of the
ﬁne. This appears to be a waste of time. Once payment of an
amount has been iudicially ordered, there is no reason why the
amount due to the State should not be recovered like any other
monetary demand of the State. We recommend that a provision
authorising recovery of the ﬁne by the Collector as an arrear of
land revenue may be substituted in place of clause (b). It appears that there is some uncertainty as to how far pro-
pertv exempt from attachment under the Code of Civil Procedure is exempt when the Collector proceeds under clause (b). In
view of the changed procedure which we propose in place of
clause (b), it is unnecessary to discuss this point elaborately. 28.9. Under the proviso to section 386(1), if the offender
has undergone the whole of the imprisonment in default of pay-
ment of ﬁne, no court shall issue a warrant for levy of the ﬁne

Section 384 and 385.

Section 386--Levy
of ﬁne by attach- ment and sale of
movable pro- perty. Fine to be made
recoverable as
arrear of land
1'6)/GRUB. Section 386 (1),

proviso. Fine should be
recoverable when
compensation has
been ordered. unless, for special reasons to be recorded in writing, it considers
it necessary to do so. The obiect of the proviso and the special
reasons that can possibly arise were dealt with at length in a
Bombay easel in these words :-- 28.10. We notice that in the above judgment the fact that
the complainant has been allotted part of the ﬁne was not con-
sidered a relevant special reason for purposes of the proviso as
it stands. A contumacious offender should not, in our opinion,
be 'permitted to deprive the aggiieved party of the small compen-
sation awarded to it by the device of undergoing the sentence of
imprisonment in default of payment of the ﬁne. When an order
under section 545 has been passed for payment of expenses or
compensation out the ﬁne, recovery of the ﬁne should be

1 Digambar v. Emperor, A.I.R. 1935 Bom. 160. 161, 162 (Basumont
0].). 71: other view, the procedure given in section 88(6A) et seq. (which
is analogous to order 21, rule 58, Civil Procedure Code) should
be followed-"-4. The rules should provide for the procedure to
be followed when such claims are made. 28.12. Section 286(3) can be shortened in view of the amend-
ment which we propose in section 386(1)(b). The matter con-
tained in the main paragraph requires to be modiﬁed; the proviso
may be retained with such verbal changes as are necessary in view
of the changes to be made of the main paragraph. 28.13, Section 386 may accordingly be amended to read as
follows : ment and sale of any movable property belonging to
the offender; issue a warrant to the Collector of the district,
authorising him to realise the amount as arrears of
land revenue from the movable or immovable pro-
perty, or both, of the defaulter : es 3in October. 1968. F0? theeolgrislélg. léflselsfosnee I?ISa1ri)r$1:aIi zsAe'itRto19t?§
' 5. . . . . re Pallduramz. AJR. 1932 Bom. 476. 477. rasanna v. Emperor, I.L.R. 55 Mad. 1041; AIR. 1932 Mad 538

agar: Lal v. Memunabi, A.I.R. 1955 Saurashtra 86, 87 para 3*
'ase-law). ' ' '

Section 386 (2_)--- Rules for settling
claims necessary. Section 386 (3). Amendment of
Section 386 re- commended. Warrant for leavy
of ﬁne. Section 387. Section 387A. A Bombay pro- vision. Section 388
to 395. Section 396. Execution of sen- tence on escaped
convicts. of any claims made by any person other than the offender in
respect of any property attached in execution of such

warrant. (3) Where the Court issues a warrant to the Collector
under clause (b) of sub-section (1), the Collector shall realise
the amount in accordance with the law relating to re-
covery of arrears of land revenue, as if such warrant were a

certiﬁcate issued under such law. Provided that no such warrant shall be executed by the
arrest or detention in prison of the offender." 28.l4_ Under section 387, a warrant issued under section
386(1)(a) (warrant for the attachment and sale of movable
property) can be executed within the local limits of the jurisdic-
tion of the Court issuing it, and, if endorsed by the District Magis-
trate or Chief Presidency Magistrate concerned, also outside such

local limits. No amendment of substance is required in section 387. 28.15. Section 387A deals with the levy of fine under a war-
rant issued in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. If, as We have
recommended elsewhere in this Report, the Code is extended to
that State, this special provision will not be necessary and the
section may be omitted. In the meantime, until the Code is so
extended, section 387A will require a slight formal amendment
to bring it into line with the amendments proposed above in clause (b) of sub-section (1) and sub-section (3) of section 386. In
section 387A, for the words "by execution according to civil
process against the movable or immovable property, or both, of
the offender" there should be substituted the words "as if it were

an arrcar of land revenue." 28.16. We have considered an additional provision made in
the Code by a Bombay amendment and numbered section 387AA,
for the recovery by executive Magistrates of ﬁnes and penalties
imposed under special laws. The need for such a provision is
not very clear, and in any event, it does not appear to have been

felt in any other State. 28.17. Section 388 and 389 need no change. Section 390 to
395 have already been repealed. 28.18. Section 396 is not well-constructed.
drafted as follows :-- the new sentence shall take effect immediate" tence which such convict was undergoing when he
escaped, the new sentence shall take effect after he
has suffered imprisonment for a further period equal
to that which, at the time of his escape, remained
unexpired of his former sentence. (3) For the purposes of sub--section (2),---- (:1) a sentence of imprisonment with solitary conﬁne-
rnent shall be deemed to be severer in kind than a
sentence of the same description of imprisonment
without solitary conﬁnement; and (b) a sentence of rigorous imprisonment shall be deemed

to be severer in kind than a sentence of simple im-
prisonment with or without solitary conﬁnement." 28.19. No changes are required in sections 397 and 398. 28.20. Section 399 is in force only where the Reformatory
Schools Act, 1897 , is not in force. Furthermore, the Children's
Acts in force in certain States and Union Territories contain pro-
visions which practically supersede those of section 399 of the
Code. This section is thus obsolete and may be omitted. 28.21. No change is needed in section 400. Section 397 and 398.

Section 399. Section 400. Provisions ancil- powers
under the Consti- lary to

tution. Prerogative

mercy
land. in

of
Eng- CHAPTER XXIX

SUSPENSIONS, REMISSIONS AND COMMUTATION
OF SENTENCES

29.1. The provisions of this Chapter are ancillary to the
powers conferred on the President of India and the Governors
of States by article 72 and article 161 , respectively, of the Con-
situation. Both these articles first refer to the power to grant
pardons, reprieves, respites or remissions of punishment, and
then, to the power to suspend, remit or commute the sentence,
of any person convicted of any offence. Section 401 contains
detailed provisions in regard to the suspensions and remissions
of sentences, while section 402 deals with the commutation of
sentences. Following article 72(1)(c) of the Constitution,
section 402A makes the powers conferred by sections 401 and
402 on the State Governments in respect of the State ﬁeld of
oﬁence exercisable also by the Central Government,

29.2. It is noteworthy that these section do not circumscribe
in any way the power of the President and Governors to grant
pardons, reprieves and respites, which is analogous to the sover
reign's prerogative of mercy in England. This is described as
follows by a writer1 on English constitutional law :-- A pardon is either free or conditional. An example
of the latter is where a death sentence is commuted to
a term of imprisonment for life. The Home Secretary acts
either on a recommendation to mercy by the Judge who
passed the sentence, or on a petition from the criminal or
others on his behalf. In considering whether to advise a
pardon the Home Secretary is responsible to the Sovereign
and not to Parliament. The practice whereby the decision
is made by the Home Secretary and not by the Sovereign
dates from the beginning of Queen Victoria's reign. The Crown may also grant a reprieve, which tempo-
rarily suspends the execution of sentence; or (within statu-
tory limits) may remit the whole or part of the penalty." 10. Hood Phillips. Constitutional Law (1962). 1). 256.
2C1'. Danby's case (1679) 11 St. Tr. 599.
'Thomas v. Sorrell, (1674) Vaughan 330,

»'
,__ 249 29.3. In India, as in England,1 "the effect of a pardon, or
what is sometimes called a 'free pardon' is to clear the person
from all infamy and from all consequences of the offence for
which it is granted and from all statutory or other disqualiﬁca-
tions following upon conviction. It makes him, as it were, a
But the satne effect does not follow on a mere

new man. remission which stands on a different footing altogether. An
order of remission does not wipe out the offence; it also does

not wipe out the conviction. All that it does is to have an effect
on the execution of the sentence. x x x 'The judicial power and
the executive power over sentences are readily distinguishable',
observed Justice Sutherland. To render a judgment is a judicial
function. To carry the judgment into effect is an executive
funcion. To cut short a sentence by an act of clemency is an
exercise of executive power which abridges the enforcement of

an

the judgment but does not alter it qua judgment. 29.4. In connection with the grant of "free pardon" to a
convicted person, we have considered a suggestion of the Minis-
try of Home Affairs that the Government should be required to
consult the appropriate court before granting pardon. In this
suggestion it is stated that where pardon is proposed to be grant-
ed on the ground of miscarriage of justice or discovery of new
evidence, the practice in England is to consult the Judges and
a reference has been made to section 19 of the Criminal Appeal
Act, 1907.2 This section, however, does not go to the length
of providing that a reference must be made in every case but
leaves it entirely to the discretion of the Secretary of State. We are
not aware whether it is invariably the practice in England to
refer the whole case or particular points to the Court of Appeal
before exercising the prerogative of mercy. However that may
be, since the power to grant pardons is derived from the Con-
stitution, it would, in our view, be hardly appropriate to lay
down by statute the procedure for the exercise of the: power,
even if it were constitutionally permissible, a matter about which
we have some doubts Nor do we see any compelling need to
do so. It will be noticed that, even in regard to suspensions and
remissions of sentences, prior consultation of the court is not
mad? compulsory under section 401(2) of the Code. And it is
very seldom, if ever, that the Government seeks the opinion of
the nresiding judge of the court under this section. 'Sara! Chandra Rahha v. Khagendrartath , (1961) 2 S.C.R. 137, 138. '-' This section. as recently amended by the Administration of Justice
Act. l960, reads-- Act shall affect the prerogative of mercy. but
on an_application made to him by a Derson con-
o_r without any such application. may, if be
either- -ider the point so referred and furnish the Secretary of State with
'their opinion thereon." \

Effect of granting
don. Consulting the
Court before
granting pardon. Nature of

the

other powers. Scope of Section
401 not to be en- larged. General
sion as to

provi- effect

of remission or

commutation of

sentence
desirable. not 251)

29.5. As mentioned earlier, Articles 72 and 161 of the Con-
stitution ﬁrst refer to the power to grant pardons, reprieves,
respites or remissions of punishments, and then, to the power
to suspend, remit or commute the sentence, of any person con-
victed. of any oil-ence. "Reprieve" means to take back or with-
draw a seiiteriee for a time, the effect being simply to suspend
the CX€C'.lil0l1 of the sentence. It is no more than a temporary
postponement and, in England, is used as the first step in com-
niuténg a death sentence. The term "respite" means delaying
the punishment, specially in the ease of a death sentence, and
means much the same as a reprieve. It would seem that grant-
in;: a reppieve or respite of punishment is practically indistin-
guishable from suspending the execution of the sentence award-
ed by a court for a temporary period. "Remission" originally
meant a pardon under the Great Seal and 3 release but latterly
it came to mean the same as a reduction of' the quantum of
punishment (e.g., amount of the ﬁne imposed or term of im-
prisonment awarded) without changing its character. "Com-
mutation" means the alteration of a sentence of one kind into
a sentence of less severe kind, as indicated in section 402 of
the Code. 29.6. The use of these two sets of expressions in Articles
72 and 161 of the Constitution is traceable to section 295 of
the Government oi' India Act, 1935 . Sub--section (1) of this
section referred to the power of the Governor-General--in-Council
to suspend, remit or commute the sentence of any person
convicted by a Court, while sub-section (2) referred to the right
of the Crown to grant pardons, reprieves, respite-s or remissions
of punishments. The Constitution has lumped together both
these powers and placed them on thcl same footing. The over-
lap that obviously exists does not harm. There is, however,
no need to enl:xrge the scope of section 401 of the Code so as
to cover expressly pardons, reprieves and respites besides sus-
pensions and re-missions. 29.7. The question of inserting in the Code a provision
on the lines of section 69 of the Criminal Justice Act, 1948,
was raised during the discussions before us. his section pro-
vides that "where Her Majesty pardons any person who has
been sentenced to death on condition that he serves a term of
imprisonment, that person shall be deemed to have been sen-
tenced by the Court before which he was convicted to imprison-
ment for the said term. It was suggested for example that if a
person was sentenced to imprisonment for a term by the court
and a part of this sentence was remitted bv the State Govern-
ment. or the sentence was commuted to one of ﬁne. the con-
vict::l person should be deemed to have bee. sentenced to the
Sl'l0]'a'»',1' .*.~€'.'.'l'n of imprisonment or. as the case may be, to ﬁne
only by the Court. This could be of practical importance be-
('.,£l1l_~".4j many Acts provide for collateral disqualiﬁcations in the
case of :1 person convicted for an oﬁience and sentenced to
imprisonment for a speciﬁed minimum term. We have. how-
ever. come to the conclusion that the gravity of the offence for
which the law provides such disqualiﬁcation should depend on
the sentence awarded by the Court and not on the View which
the State Government may take while remitting or commuting

K 251 the sentence. In any event, this is essentially a question of policy
and if such an arneridment is considered desirable in the context of
:1 pztrticiilzir sp:-22.1; law. it may more appropriately be made in
that law. .".:,'~).E<. Anoilrer suggcstioii was that there should be a pro-
for "general amnesty" which would relieve the appropriate
.nent from the necessity of passing separate orders of
l'.:i'1il",lOIl zmri re-lea.»-e in every individual case. In our opinion,
an amendment of the Code for this purpose is not necessary.
Once the pol€cy of granting a "general amnesty" for certain cate--
gories of convicted prisoners is decided upon by the Govern-
ment. it is hardly desirable that the Government should pass a
general order and leave it to be applied to individual cases by
inc prison authorities. 29.9. Sub-:,eetio'i (4:--\) was inserted in section 401 by the -'\mendment Act of 1923 "to make it clear that the power to
remit sentences conferred by section 401 can be exercised in
the case of Orders of a penal nature, e.g., under section 565
of the Code."1 It covers also sentences passed by tribunals
constituted under i-trgiilzitions and ordinances.'-' Though a literal
or s.i-it .".;3t')li.'atT~: of the provisions of sub--sections (1) to (4)
to the cases mentioned in sub-section (4A) may not always be
satisf:ie:or_v, it lias not created any practical diiliculty. We do
not think any clariﬁeatory amendment of sub-section (4A) is
i'eqi2i:'ctl. '=.":'e ﬁnd that a='-- Uttar Pvadcsli amendment of 1948 has adcled
. "or oth:-r authority" after the words "criminal court" 3 Statement of Objects and Reasons, dated 16th February, 1921.
'-'Report of the Select Committee, dated 26th June, 1922. Provision for
general amnesty
not necessary. Section 401 (4A). Power to com- mute sentences. Section' 402 re- vised : sections
54 , 55 and 55A of
I.P.C. to be omit- ted. Power to com- f

mute SCIHLCDCC. 29.11. We, therefore, propose that section 54 , 55 and 55A
may be omitted from the Indian Penal Code and their substance
incorporated in section 402 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
This section may be revised as follows :---- ment provided by the Indian Penal Code ; (b) commute a sentence of imprisonment for life. for
imprisonment of either description for a tern; not
exceeding fourteen years or for fine; (c) commute a sentence of rigorous imprisonrnent. for
simple imprisonment for any term to Wll1Cl1 that
person might have been sentenced or for ﬁne; (d) commute a sentence of simple imprisonment, for
ﬁne. (2) In this section and in section 401, the expression
"appropriate Government" means-- (a) in cases where the sentence is for an offence against,
or the order referred to in sub-section (4A) of
section 401 is passed under, any law relating to a
matter to which the executive power of the Union
extends, the Central Government; and (b) in other cases, the Government of the State within
which the offender is sentenced or the said order
is passed." 29.12. The power to suspend or remit sentences under sec-
tion 401 and the power to commute sentences under section 402
are thus divided between the Central Government and the State
Government on the constitutional lines indicated in Articles 72 and 161. If, for instance, a person is convicted at the same
trial for an offence punishable under the Arms Act or the Explosives Act and for an offence punishable under the Indian
Penal Code and sentenced to different terms of imprisonment
but running concurrently, both Governments will have to pass
orders before the sentences are effectively suspended, remitted'
or commuted. Cases may occur where the State Government's order
simply mentions the nature of the sentence remitted or com-
muted and is tre-ated as sufficient warrant by the prison autho-
rities though strictly under the law, a corresponding order of the
Central Government is required in regard to the sentence for
the offence falling within the Union List. The legal provisions
are, however, clear on the point and we do not consider that
any clariﬁcation is required. 29.13. It has been suggested that there are a few types of
cases in which the Central Government is vitally concerned
though the offence is against a law relating to a matter to which
the executive power of the State Government extends and as
such the authority to suspend, remit or commute the sentence
is the State Government. 'Important instances are offences
investigated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment, offences 253 involving misappropriation or destruction of, or damage to,
Central Government property and offences committed by Central
Government servants in the discharge of their ofﬁcial duties.
If a State Government chooses to take a lax view of these
olfences and to exercise its powers of remission and commuta-
tion unduly liberally, it is bound to create difficulties of adminis-
tration for the Central Government. We feel it desirable that
in such cases where the, Central Govrnment is obviously con-
cerned in the proper enforcement of the penal provisions,
including the execution of sentences awarded by Court, the State
Government should be required to exercise its powers of remis-
sion and commutation only in consultation with the Central
Government. 29.14. We, therefore, propose that a new section 402B may
be added in this Chapter. Central Govern- ment to be con- sulted in case of
certain sentences. Section 403 and article 20. Section 403 (2). Section 403 (5). CHAPTER XXX
PREVIOUS ACQUITTALS OR CONVICTIONS

30.1. The rules of criminal process, known to lawyers as
autrefois acquit and autrefois convict, ﬁnd their verbal expression
in our Code in section 403 and are considered so important
that a separate Chapter is assigned to them. The principle on
which the rules rest is that "a man may not be put twice in
jeopardy for the same offence". This principle is recognised in
our Constitution in article 20. The rule does not rest on any
doctrine of estoppel. Broadly stated the rule is that a person once; acquitted or
convicted of an offence may not again be tried for the same
offence. Article 20 does not in terms maintain a previous
acquittal; but section 403 does, and goes on to explain in detail
the full implications of the expression "same offence". Seven
illustrations accompany this section explaining in concrete terms
the diﬁerent situations which the Courts may have to deal with. No
particular diﬂiculty in understanding the meaning of these pro-
visions appears to have been felt and we do not, therefore,
suggest any change in the language. Nor is any change neces-
sary in the general scheme employed in section 403. 30.2. Sub-section (2) of section 403 permits a person
acquitted of any offence to be afterwards tried for any distinct
offence for which he might have been separately charged at the
former trial under section 235(1). This is as it should be.
A suggestion has, however, been made that the second trial
should be held within some speciﬁed period of limitation so that
the accused is not kept under suspense for ever. We do not
think any idea of limitation can be safely introduced into criminal
trials, and public interest demands that an offence should be
ordinarily punishable whenever the offender can be conveniently
tried. We are not, therefore, accepting the suggestion. 30.3. Sub--section (5) of section 403 says: "Nothing in this
section shall affect the provisions of section 26 of the General
Clauses Act, 1897". This section provides that when an act or
omission constitutes an offence under two or more enactments,
then the offender shall be liable to be prosecuted under either
or any of these enactments, but shall not be liable to be punished
twice for the same offence. It has been said in certain decided
cases1 that since prosecution under "either enactment" is permit-
ted under this general provision, it follows that the acquittal of a
person under one enactment would not be a bar to his trial
under the second enactment, even when the facts constituting
the offence were the same. We think these observations go too
far, as the intention of section 403 obviously is to prevent the
trial of a person twice on the same facts. However, out of the

1RnsJoI, A.I.R. 1959 Mvs. 136: K. B. Prabhu v. Emp., A.I.R. 1944
Mad. 369; Abdul Ahmad, A.I.R. 1952 All. 957. 599. cases we have mentioned, two were actually decided on other
grounds, and do not create any hindrance in the Way _of the
View we have expressed. We are not, therefore, proposing any
change in the language of sub-section (5) which does not inter-
fere with the main principle underlying section 403. 30.4, The Explanation added to the section says that "the
dismissal of a complaint, the stopping of proceedings under
section 249, the discharge of the accused or any entry made
upon a charge under section 273 is not an acquittal within the
meaning of this section". A suggestion has been made1 for
modifying the explanation by excluding an order of discharge
made by a Court after enquiry on the merits, the argument being
that if the whole evidence has been considered and found in-
sufficient to sustain a conviction, it is not very different from
an order of acquittal and ought, in law, to rank with it. The
difficulty about this suggestion, however, is that while the line
between a discharge and an acquittal unmistakable, no such
line can be drawn between an order of discharge made "on the
merits" and an order of discharge made otherwise; and should
the consideration of the whole evidence be made the test, then
a controversy will arise in most cases whether the "whole evi-
dence" was or was not considered. The prevailing practice is.
that if an order of discharge has been made after full and proper
consideration of the evidence, the Courts will not permit a re-
opening of the same matter; and that practice should, in our
opinion, be suﬂicient to prevent any unnecessary harassment.
We do not, therefore, recommend any change in the Explanation
as regards discharge of the accused. Since we are proposing'-'
the omission of section 273, the words "or any entry made upon
a charge under section 273" will have to be omitted from the
Expl an ation. 30.5. In a case dccided3 by the Supreme Court in 1956.
certain observations were made lending support to a statement
of the Privy Council that the maxim res _iurz'icaza pro veritare
accipitur is no less anplicable to criminal than to civil proceed-
ings. The decision of the case did not depend on any such rule,
but those observations have been repeated in a few subsequent
cases.'-5 it has therefore been suggested to us " that the Supreme
Court has perhaps introduced sorncthinr: new into section 403,
Cr.P C. which is not justified and that the Code should in terms
forbid the use of the doctrine of res judicara or, as it is some-
times called "issue estoppel", in criminal cases. Alternatively,
it has been suggested that the View expressed in Pritam Singh': 3-3.9: para. 23.1 above. 3PriIam Singh V. The Srare A.I.R. 1956 S.C. 415, 422. '1Manipz/r Administration v. Bira Singh, A.I.R. 1965 S.C. 87.
5M0hinder Sing}: V. Slate of Punjab, AIR. 1965 S.C. 83, 86.
Ju';eF). 3(2)/55-L.C. Pt. II, S. No. 33(a) (Suggestion of a High Court

Explanation to

Section 403. Issue estoppel in
criminal cases. Should issue es- toppel be provided
in the Code? rule of "issue estoppel" if it be otherwise desirable. We feel
however that legislation on such a matter would at present be
unwise. We ﬁnd from the reported cases that our Supreme Court
and our High Courts have not had proper opportunity yet of
considering all' the implications of the rule, and any hasty legis-
lation may by its rigidity create diﬂiculties. We may, in this
connection, mention what Lord Devlin recently said in the House
of Lords :1

"The truth is that for estoppel on issues to work satis-
factorily the issues need to be formulated with some pre-
cision. In civil suits, this is usually done as a matter of
record : in criminal process, it is not. If issue estoppel
is going to be introduced into the criminal law, the proper
basis for it is a syste-m of special verdicts on separate issues.
But that would be to introduce a profound change into the
working of our law which I am not prepared at present to
countenance_

Then since estoppel is available to both parties in civil
law, there is the question whether it should be made avail-
able to the prosecution in criminal law. No one so far
has advocated that it should. But is it necessary in the
interests of justice to give the defence unreciprocated advan-
tage? The defence rightly enjoys the privilege of not
having to prove anything; it has only to raise a reasonable
doubt. Is it also to have the right to say that a fact which
it has raised a reasonable doubt about is to be treated as
conclusively established in its favour?" Y.

CHAPTER XXXI
APPEALS

31.1. Section 404 lays down the general principle that 'no
appeal shall lie except as provided for by the Code or any other
law for the time being in force. No change is needed here. 31.2. Section 405 provides that an appeal from an order
rejecting an application under section 89 of the Code shall lie
to the court to which appeals ordinarily lie from sentence of the
court passing the order. No change is indicated here also. 31.3. Under section 406, a person who has been ordered
imder section 118 to give security for keeping the peace or for
good behaviour may appeal, if such order is made by a Presidency
Magistrate to the High Court, and if made by any other Magistrate
to the Court of Session. It was suggested that a proviso to this
section, omitted by the amendment in 1955, to the effect that in
any district speciﬁed by the State Government appeals from the
orders under section 118 made by a Magistrate other than the
District Magistrate or Presidency Magistrate shall lie to the Dis-
trict Magistrate (and not to the Court of Session) should be re-
enacted "for the effective control of criminal administration".
The suggestion cannot, however, be accepted. It is not in con-
formity with the scheme of separation to vest appellate powers in
the District Magistrate. We do not therefore recommend any
change in this section. 31.4. Section 406A provides that "any person aggrieved by
an order refusing to accept or rejecting a surety under section 122 may appeal against such order, (a) if made by a Presidency Magistrate, to the High Court; (b) if made by the District Magistrate, to the Court of

Session; or (c) if made by a Magistrate other than the District Magis-
trate, to the District Magistrate." In clause (a), the formal substitution of "Metropolitan Magis-
trate" for "Presidency Magistrate" will have to be made. While
no change is necessary in clause (b), we think that in clause (c) also, the appellate authority should be the Court of Session,
and not the District Magistrate.' The hearing of the appeal is
a purely judicial function, and after separation this function. ought
to be vested in the Court of Session. We accordingly recommend
that clauses (b) and (c) should be combined (as in section 406)
to read---- 31.5. Section 407 which was repealed in 1955, provided for

an appeal to the District Magistrate from a conviction by a magis-
trate of the second or third class. Now, under the amended

Court of

1 The same recommendation was made by the Law Commission in in
14th Report; see Vol. 2, page 798, para 2. Section 404. Section 405. Section 406. Seetion;406A. Section 487 (Re- pealed . )

Section 409. Section 409(2). section 408, such appeals lie to the Court of Session. We think
that these appeals could well be heard by the Chief Judicial Magis-
trate of the district. This would not only relieve the Court of
Session or a certain amount of less important work but also help
the Chi/-f Judicial Magistrate in supervising the work of the
junior tnagistrates}

31.6. 35 tion 408 provides that an appeal from a sentence
(including a sentence or order under section 380) passed by an
Assistant Sessions Judge. District Magistrate or any other Magis-
trate, sh "l lie to the Court of Session. he section is subject to
two provisos. One lays down that where an Assistant Sessions
Judge or a Magistrate empowered under section 30 passes a sen-
tence of imprisonment of over 4 years; the appeal shall lie to the
High Court; and the other that where a Magistrate convicts a
person for sedition under section 124A 0; the lndian Penal Code
the appeal shall lie to the High Court. In our opinion, all appeals from sentences passed by Assistant
Sessions Judges, or Section 30 Magistrates, irrespective of the
severity of the sentences, should lie to the Court of Session.
There is no need for the special provision that where the sentence
passed is one cf imprisonment for more than 4 years, the appeal
will lie to the High Court, The load on the High Court will be
lightened to a small extent by transferring these appeals to the
Court of Session. (There will be no Magistrates empowered
under section 30 under our scheme). The second proviso regarding appeal from a conviction by a
Magistrate for sedition may also be omitted. Trials for sedition
are rare and the appeals in question would be rarer still. in any
event thcre is no good reason why they should not lie to the
Court of Session. Th-: rt.-Xerence in the section to appeals from seﬁtences passed
by Di:;':':ct lw'ia;;isti'::te:: should be omitted as under the proposed
scl'.er:r.= at "-paration District Magistrates will not hold any trials.
Tm; let'; me to section 380 should be replaced by a rcf~:rence
to section 562 as it is now proposed to coinbine section 380 with
S£'.CllO31 562. 31.7. Under section 409(1) an appeal to a Court of Session
may heard by an Assistant Sessions Judge if it is from a con-
viction on a trial held by a Magistrate of the second or third class.
In viiw of our proposal that all such appeals should lie to the
Chief Judicial Magistrate and not the Court of Session, the
referezice to the Assistant Sessions Judge should be omitted from section 49 . Under section 409(2), an Additional Sessions Judge hears
only such apoeals as the State Government directs or as the
Sessions _.Tud.<J.e makes over to him. Instead of the State Govern-
nreat. the High Court should be substituted, as control over subor-
dinate courts is vested in the High Courts by the Constitution. 1 A similar recommendation was made by the Law Commission in its
14th Report: see Vol. 2. page 802. para 16. 31.8. Section 410 provides that any person convicted by a
Sessions Judge or Additional Sessions Judge may appeal to the
High Court. No changes are necessary here. 31.9. Under section 411, any person convicted by a Presi-
dency Magistrate may appeal to the High Court if the sentence
is one of imprisonment exceeding six months or of ﬁne over
Rs. 200,/-. This limit of non--appealable sentences has come in
for considerable criticism. It appears to equate Presidency Magis-
trates with the High Court for whom also the prescribed limit
is six months and Rs. 200/- under section 413, and to place them
much above the Sessions Judge for whom the limit is fixed at
one month and Rs. 50/--. The historical background of this
anomalous situation as well as other aspects of the question have
been considered by the Commission in an earlier Report} wherein
it was recommended that in this respect a Presidency Magistrate
should be equated with a Sessions Judge and not with a High
Court. We entirely agree with this view. In our opinion, the
limit in both cases should be imprisonment not exceeding three
months and/or fine not exceeding Rs. 200/-. One of the suggestions received by us is to the effect that ap-
peals from Presidency Magistrates should lie to the Chief Presi-
dency Magistrate, while another recommendation is that appeals
from sentences passed by Presidency Magistrates upto a certain
limit of imprisonment and ﬁne should be to the City Sessions
Court. The main idea behind these suggestions is to reduce the
number of criminal appeals to the High Court. We are however
unable to accept either suggestion since it would mean making
a radical change in the character and 'status of the Presidency
Magistrate's courts which does not seem desirable. 31.10. Section 411A deals with appeals from convictions and
acquittals by a High Court in the exercise of its original criminal
jurisdiction. Though it is proposed to abolish the ordinary ori-
ginal criminal jurisdiction of High Courts, this section, if retained,
will continue to apply to trials held by a High Court in the exer-
cise of its extraordinary jurisdiction. Since such trials are
extremely rare, we feel that, in the interests of ﬁnality to the pro-
ceedings, appeals should lie direct to the Supreme Court and
not to another bench of the same High Court, Instead of the
present elaborate rules, we would recommend arsirnple provision
to the effect that an. appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from
a conviction in a trial held by a High Court on fact as well as
law, but there will be no appeal in" the event of an acquittal.
If the State wishes to appeal from an acquittal by a High Court,

it will have to seek leave to appeal under article 136 of the
Constitution. 31.1]. Under section 412, there is no appeal by a person
who is convicted on a plea of guilty by Courts mentioned in the
section. "except as to the extent or legality of the sentence".
The rationale behind the section is that a person who deliberately
pleads guilty cannot be aggrieved by being convicted. The

114th Report, Vol. 2, pages 800-801, para 11. Section 410.. Section 411. Section 411A. Section 412. Section 413. principle is sound. We would go further. In our view, where
a High Court convicts and sentences a person on a plea of
guilty, an appeal should not be allowed, even as regards the
extent or legality of the sentence. It can hardly be contemplated
that the judgment of a High Court would suﬁer from a serious
inﬁrmity in. respect of the extent or legality of the sentence, We
recommended an amendment of the section to bar an appeal in
such cases. 31.l2. Section 413 provides that there shall be no appeal in
the following ca-ses :-- ment not exceeding six months or a ﬁne not exceeding
Rs. 200/-; (ii) where the Court of Session passes a sentence of impri-
sonment not exceeding one month; and (iii) where a Court of Session or District Magistrate or
other Magistrate of the ﬁrst class passes a sentence of
ﬁne not exceeding Rs. 50/~. The Explanation to the section is to the effect that no appeal shall
lie from a sentence of imprisonment passed by such Court or
Magistrate in default of payment of ﬁne when no substantive sen-
tence of imprisonment has also been passed. In our view, there should be a general upward revision in
the non-appealable limit as regards ﬁne in view of the change
in the value of the rupee, and also because it would be a recogni-
tion, though indirect, of the modern tendency to consider ﬁne as
a good deterrent punishment and a means of compensating the
victim of the offence. We recommend that the non-appealable
limit of ﬁne be raised from Rs. 200/- to Rs. 1,000/- in the case
of High Courts and from Rs. 50/- to Rs. 200/- in the case of
Sessions Judges and Magistrates of the ﬁrst class. (Rs. 200/-
is now the limit under section 411 in the case of Presidency

Magistrates). As regards the non-appealable limit of imprisonment the
present term of six months in the case of a High Court does not
call for any change. But the limit of one month in the case of
a Court of Session should be raised to three months. We have
recommended under section 411 that the non-appealable limit of
imprisonment in trials by a Presidency Magistrate should be re-
duced from six months to three months. We are further of the View that there should be no appeal
where there is a combination of imprisonment and ﬁne within
the limits prescribed in section 413. That is to say, if a sentence
of imprisonment upto the period speciﬁed in section 413 is com-
bined with a sentence of ﬁne upto the amount speciﬁed in that
section, there should be no appeal. It was suggested that there should also be no appeal when
the accused person though convicted is not sentenced but re-
leased on a bond or probation under the' provisions of section
562 of the Code. We are unable to accept the suggestion. No -doubt, being released on bond or on probation may not be as 261 serious a matter as a sentence; nevertheless, the conviction does
cast a stigma, and that is suﬂicient justification for permitting an
appeal. Some of the offences to which section, 562 applies are
serious, and may involve moral turpitude. The person convicted
may, therefore, like to clear his reputation, by appealing to a
higher Court. 31.13. Under section 414, no appeal lies from a sentence of
ﬁne not exceeding Rs. 200/-- passed in a summary trial by a ﬁrst
class Magistrate. No change in substance is needed here. 31.14. Under section 415, an appeal may be brought against
any sentence referred to in sections 413 and 414 whereby any
punishment mentioned in those sections is combined with any
other punishment. The language is cryptic, and has caused some
difﬁculty in interpretation} For instance, it does not seem to
apply to a case where two sentences of ﬁne which together do
not exceed the limit mentioned in section 413 are awarded. In
such a case, one has to fall back on section. 413, but that section
itself is not clear enough on this point, nor does one get any
help from section 35(3) which covers only sentences of imprison-
ment. The position therefore requires to be made clear. 31.15. In the light of the foregoing discussion, we recom-
mend that sections 408 to 415 be revised and replaced by the
following sections :-- No appeal in certain cases when accused pleads guilty. 409.
Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, where an accus-
ed person has pleaded guilty and has been convicted on such plea,
there shall be no appeal-- (a) if the conviction is by a High Court; or (b) if the conviction is by,a Court of Session, Metropolitan
Magistrate or Magistrate of the ﬁrst class, except as to
the extent or legality of the sentence. 1 See discussions or case-law in Banwari v. Rex A.I.R. 1949 All, 216. Section 414. Section 415. Revision of
Section *'408 to

415 recommended. Section 415A. Section 417 An- peals against
acquittal. No appeal in petty cases. 410. Notwithstanding anything
contained in section 408 there shall be no appeal by a convicted
person in any of the ;'0l1oi«,'ir1q cases, namely 2-- (a) where a High Court passes only a sentence of imprison-
i;i.:nt ,so:' (2 term not exceeding six months or of ﬁne
not erceezlirzgg one thousand rupees, or of both such
irnpi'1'.«,onnz€nt and fine; (b) where a Court of Session or a Metropolitan Magistrate

passes oxzly a sentence of imprisonment for a term not
exceeding three months or of ﬁne not exceeding two
hundred rup€c's, or of both such im;Jrisor1ment and fine; (c) wlicrc a Magistrate oi the first class passes only a sen-
tence of ﬁne not exceeeing two hundred rupees; or (d) where, in a case tried suinmarily. a Magistrate em-
pou.'::re(l to act under section 260 passes only a sen-
tence oi? ﬁne not exceeding tuvo hundred rupees 2

Provided that an appeal may be brought against any such
sentence if any other pu.li5l1i'Il€'.l'lt is combined with it, but such
sentence shall not be appealable merely on the ground---- (i) that the person convicted is ordered to furnish security
to keep the peace; or (ii) that a diiecti-on for imprisonment in default of payment
of ﬁne is [IlC1lld£'([ in the sent.:°nc»re,- or (iii) that more than one sentence of fine is passed in the
case, if the total amount of fine irnposed does not ex-
cew' !.'1r-' amount liereinbcforc speciﬁer] in respect of
the case. Appeals to Courts of Session how heard. 411. (1) Subject
to the provisions of sub--section (2), an appeal to the Court of
Session or Sessions Judge shall be heard by the Sessions Judge or
by an Additioiial Sessions Judge... (2) An Additional Sessions Judge _ shall hear only such
appeals as the Sessions Judgeof the division may, by general or
sprecial order, make over to him or as the .'--!ig/1 Court may, by

special order, direct him to hear." 31.16. No change is required in section 415A. 31.17. Section 4l7 deals with appeals in case of acquittal
sub-section (1) gives the State Government unrestricted right
of appeal against aux' order of acquittal whether original or appel-
late. and a similar power is given to the Central Government by
siib--scction (2) in cases investigated by the Delhi Special Police
Establishment. The Courts expect. however. that these powers
will be exercised with restraint. and since the Courts are as a

'nterfere with acquittal orders. such appeals

rule reluctant to 1 _ _
are in fact ﬁled after a good deal of scrutiny. Sub--secti0n (3)

permits a private complainant in a case instituted on complaint
to appeal against acquittal, but only after obtaining special leave
from the High Court ' all the appeals under section 417 lie to
the High Court. The provisions for acquittal appeals are, in
a sense, unusual, but experience shows that in the existing set up

I.-can

263 . of our Courts they are necessary to avoid miscarriage of justice,
and that is why the Code requires that all such appeals must be
heard by the High Court. The suggestioril that Sessions Judges
could be entrusted with the responsibility of deciding such appeals
has not attracted us, as it is, we think, only in» the High Courts
that a uniform standard for dealing with such appeal can be

niaintaincd. lt has also been suggested that, apart from the State and the
complainant in complaint cases, other interested persons such as
the first informer to the police? or the victim of a crime?' or his
relatives may be given a right of appeal, in suitable cases. We
are unable to agree, as in criminal proceedings we do not want
to recognise any interest except that of the public, and of course,
to some extent, that of a complainant who actually initiates the
proceedings in court. It is, therefore, not necessary to expand
the scope if section 417 in that direction. 31.18. Sub-section (5) of section 417 says that if an appli-
cation for special leave by a complainant has been refused by the
High Court, no appeal by the State in that same cases will lie, --
and quite properly, for while considering the application for special
leave, the High Court will have examined the judgment under
appeal and presumably found it good. It has been suggested'
that there should be an express provision for the converse case,
namely, that when an appeal by the State has been dismissed, no
application for special leave by a complainant should be compe-
tent. This, however, is already a necessary consequence, for, if
an appeal has been dismissed, no question of admitting or consi-
dering another appeal on the same matter can arise, and it is
unnecessary to burden the code with any express provision to that

effect. 31.19. Another suggestion for our consideration is a pro-
posal5 (in a Private Member's Bill), that in case a single Judge of
a High Court accepts an appeal against acquittal and convicts the
respondent, he should have a right to appeal to" two Judges of the
same High Court. The idea here is to introduce what in civil case
is called :1 "Letters patent" appeal. We are not convinced that
any useful purpose will be served by making any such pro-vision
in the Code. It is quite simple for any High Court to provide by
rule that acquittal appeals should be heard by the Judges, and the
object behind this proposal can be amply served by that arrange-
ment. . 31.20. The time allowed for an acquittal appeal by the State
1S now ninety days". Some time ago, it was six months. It has
been suggested7 that the period should be extended, but we are
unable to ﬁnd any justification for it.'

1F. 3(2)/55~L.C., Part II, page 231, S. No, 30(t), (Suggestion of a
Collector). '-'F.3(2)/55, Part III, S. No. 69 and F.3(2)/55, Part I. S. No. 72. 3F. 3(2)/S5. Part I. S. No. 49. 4F. 3(2)/55-L.C.. Part III, S. No. 52 (Bar Council of Madras). 5Bill of Shri K. V. Raghunath Rcddy (No. 11 of 1963) clause 8,
and Rajya Sabha Debates, 3-9-1965, col. 162. 182-184, 207. secutor to present an appeal against the sentence on the ground
of its inadequacy. (3) An appeal under this section shall lie to the Court to
which an appeal by the person convicted in the case would
lie under section 408." 31.22. Section 418 contains provisions which will be entirely
superﬂuous with the abolition of jury trials. The Statement with
which the section opens, namely, that an appeal may lie on a
matter of fact as well as a matter of law, derives relevancy
from the exception that follows to the eﬁect that, in the case of :1
jury trial. the appeal shall lie only on a matter of law.
The explanation is again with reference to jury trials, making
it clear that there could be an appeal in such trials for reducing
the sentence on the footing that the alleged severity of the sen-
tence shall be deemed to be a matter of law. Sub-section (2)
applies only to trials by jury. We recommended the ornission of
the entire section 418. 31-23. An appeal has to be presented either by the appellant
or his pleader as section 419 requires, but in case the appellant is
in jail, he can present it to the olﬁeer in charge of the jail who has
to forward it to the appellate court as is provided in section 420.
Such appeals are usually called "jail appeals". Section 421 pro-
vides that the appellate court may, after reading the petition of
appeal and the copy of the judgment accompanying it, ﬁnd that
there is no ground for interference and on that the court can dis-
miss the appeal summarily, but before doing so, the Court must
afford Opportunity to the appellant or the pleader to be heard ex-
cept in the case of a jail appeal. In other words, a jail appeal can
be summarily dismissed without hearing any one, but an appeal pre-
sented in person or through a pleader cannot be so dismissed. 31.24. It is obvious that the right vested in the appellant is
:o l3f~;;re',lt one appeal, although there are dilierent. methods oi
sresentinu it. and strictly speaking, if one method lS availed 0t
and one opeal cilhsr under section 419 or section 420 is presented,
no other ppeti! can be .'ot§g;d. N-ractie-:. however, it appears that frequently both
teat-gri and are ealt with as two appeals about
'1 us, an appellant in jail sends an appeal - ll.2l;C1ld£).'-'ll and later a pleader instructed on
:~. another appeal against the same order. No
pru:-that - J .:.i;e;<. it, as is normally the case, both the
app' . are dealt with at the same time. Sometimes, however,
through 0'-Jﬁrfélgllf. one appeal is dispo.ed of and then the other
appeal comes up for disposal, causing considerable emharrassinent
to the appellate Court.' At times a jail appeal is summarily dis-
missed and then an appeal ﬁled through counsel comes up for
hearing when some arguable question is raised, and the Court is
not certain if it can proceed with the appeal, If the appeal is in
the High Court, its inherent jurisdiction can perhaps be invoked,'
but a large number of appeals lie to the Court of Session where
no such solution is available. appcxus 22" 31.28. It will be noticed that section 421 authorises the appel-
late Court to summarily dismiss an appeal without stating its
reasons. In the case of High Courts, this causes no difficulty; but
in the case of Sessions Courts, it does, as their orders are liable
to be revised by the High Court, and it would be very helpful if
their reasons existed on the record. We suggest therefore that
an appellate Court, other than a High Court, should record its
reasons. 31.29. Section 421 may accordingly be revised as follows :- missed unless the appellant or his pleader has had
a reasonable opportunity of being heard in support
of the same; and (b) no appeal presented under section 420 shall be
dismissed summarily until the period allowed for
preferring such appeal has expired. (2) Before dismissing an appeal under this section the
Court may call for the record of the case, but shall not be
bound to do so. (3) An Appellate Court other than the High Court dis-
missing an appeal under this section shall record its reasons
for doing so. (4) Where an appeal presented under section 420 has
been dismissed summarily under this section and the Appellate
Court ﬁnds that another petition of appeal duly presented
under section 419 on behalf of the same appellant has not
been considered by it, that Court may, notwithstanding any-
thing contained in section 430, if satisﬁed that it is necessary
in the interests of justice so to do, hear and dispose of such
appeal in accordance with law." 31.30. Section 422 provides that if an appeal is not dismissed
summarily, the Court shall give notice of the appeal to the appel-
lant or his pleader and to the Public Prosecutor, and in case of
an appeal under section 41 lA(2) or section 417, to the accused.
If the Public Prosecutor applies, he will be furnished with a copy
of the grounds of appeal; but nothing is said about the accused
being given such a copy. No mention is made of a private com-
plainant who may have instituted the proceedings in the trial
Court. We think it proper that in such cases, he should be entitled
to appear. It would also be proper to provide that, along with
the notice of hearing, a copy of the grounds of appeal should be

1'
r'&
'-\ 51.

Appeal
acquittal

against
convic- tion for a diffe- rent oilencc. Power to order

re-hearing
appeal. of 268 (3) Where the only ground for appeal from a convictimf
is the a./:'v'>2rl severity of the sentence, the appellant shall not,
l the leave of the Court, urge or be heard in sup-
: :3.» i,»tf:er gr0zi;:d." 53.3%. Ci1lLl:u;':. (:1) and (b) of section 433(1) deal _with
appeals from acquittal and appeals from conviction respectively,
and it Will e.: co' .'e4iient to deal with thee two clauses separately.
Under clause (:1) in an appeal from acquittal, the Appellate
Court cat}, 1'. His, find the at.cu~-:ed guilty. This power is not

iicd L) 3'3?" 1?. are «ion to the contrary." . erred to 'out not decided, and the order

'<:-:1 of a C..:.:: . .. L
lt do-cs, rm: confer a. power to reverse a ﬁnding of not guilty
becaus.:: eals from acquittal are dealt with separately in clause (a). We ..t.°.ve referred to the judgment of the Supreme Court

 

in dc ail because it lias set at rest the previous conflict of deci-
sicns 3'~

Situatic-.*'s also arise in which the accused is convicted
, . - less crave than that for which he was prosecuted.
cases. the '-ac taltezt is that he is deemed to have been
a cu' the gzraver o[T**1ce. Thus. where a person is charged
:1 302 but convicted under section

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

:1 there i; an implied acquittal of the
7.91/2 3 u. _«....:z ]'.'(:ra_\'t'm, AIR. 1962 SC. 240; (1962) 2 S.C.R. 904. 3.'See 6.9. Bawa Sing]: V. Emp. l.L.R. (1942) Lab. 129; A.l.R. 1941

Lah. 4:5 '.F.B.) and Zumer Qairim v, Emp., A.I.R. 1944 All. 137, 155,

156 (F.B.). Appeal against
conviction- Reversing ﬁnding
and ordering re- trial. Meaning ' of "al- tering the ﬁnding". Appeal from con- viction for less
serious otfenoes
implied acquittal
of offence char- ged. Section 423 (IA)
enhancement of
sentence of
Appellate Courts
other than the
High Court. Power to appeal
for enhancement
of sentence. _Limit of sentenc- ing powers of the
Appellate Court. first offence} If, therefore, the accused appeals against the con-
viction and the State does not appeal against the acquitta1,_the
Appellate Court cannot "alter the ﬁnding" into one of conviction-
under section 302 , Indian Penal Code. 31.39. As a general rule, the Appellate Court hearing an
appeal against a conviction has no power to enhance the sen-
tence. But an exception was made by the amendment of 1955.
Under sub-section (lA), as inserted by that amendment, where the
High Court is the Appellate Court, it can enhance' the sentence
after giving notice to the accused. The High Court can also
enhance the sentence under its revisional jurisdicti0n.3

During our consideration of section 423(1A), the question
of giving power to the Sessions Judge (when hearing appeals) to
enhance the sentence was raised. It was stated that Magistrates
often award very lenient sentences. When the Session Judge,
while hearing an appeal from a conviction, especially for an anti-
social offence, ﬁnds that the sentence is grossly inadequate, he is
required to refer the question of enhancement to the High Court,
causing undue delay and additional expense to the parties
concerned. It may be mentioned here, that in the 14th _Report,4 while
proposing widening of the revisional jurisdiction of the Sessions
Judge, petitions against acquittal and petitions for enhancement
of sentence were speciﬁcally excluded from the scope of the pro-
posal. But, it appears to us that the arguments set out in that
Report for widening the revisional jurisdiction of Sessions Judges
apply as much to the enhancement of sentence as to the widen-
ing of revisional jurisdiction. Power to hear appeals against
acquittal is an extraordinary power, and it is understandable that
it may not be proper to give it to a lower court. But the power
of enhancement of sentence does not stand on the same footing.
Sessions Judge and Chief Judicial Magistrates may be safely en-
trusted with this power, and the High Court need not be troubled
by frequent references. We recommend that sub-section (1A) of section 423 may be
omitted and clause (b) of sub-section (1) amended, conferring
on all appellate courts a power to enhance the sentence after
giving the accused an opportunity of showing cause against such
enhancement. 31.40. We have proposed above5 the insertion of a new
section under which the State Government may, where there is
a conviction, appeal on the ground of inadequacy of the sentence.
The powers of the Appellate Court in such appeals should be the
same as in appeals from a conviction. Accordingly, clause (b)
of section 423(1) should begin with the words "in an appeal
from a conviction or for enhancement of sentence." 31.41. While on the question of sentence, we may refer to
the recent judgment of the Supreme Court where it was held" ing to law; (b) in an appeal from a conviction or for enhancement
of sentence-- (i) reverse the ﬁnding and sentence and acquit or discharge
the accused, or order him to be retried by a Court of
competent jurisdiction subordinate to such Appellate
Court or committed for trial, or
alter the ﬁnding, maintaining the sentence, or
with or without altering the ﬁnding, alter the nature, or
the extent, or the nature and the extent, of the sentence,
whether so as to enhance or to reduce the same : dental order that may be just or proper; Provided that in an appeal from a conviction, the sentence
shall not be enhanced under sub-clause (iii) of clause (b)
unless the accused has had an opportunity of showing cause
against such enhancement; Provided further that the Appellate Court shall not inﬂict
greater punishment for the oﬂence which in its opinion the
accused has committed, than might have been inﬂicted for
that oﬂence by the Court passing the order or sentence under
appeal. 31.44. With reference to section 424, we considered the
question whether an order under section 421 dismissing an
appeal summarily is or is not a "judgment" for the purposes of
section 424. In a Supreme Court decision1 relating to section
439(6), the majority view was that the order under section 421
was a "ﬁnal order", while S.R. Das J. (as he then was) described
it as a "judgment". In another Supreme Court decision?
holding that the summary dismissal of a jail appeal was a bar
to hearing a represented appeal, the dismissal of an appeal
under section 421 was described as an "order", and held to be
"ﬁnal" within the meaning of section 430. In yet another
Supreme Court case3, holding that a high Court was not bound

1 U. J. S. Chopra, (1955) 2 S.C.R. 921; A.I.R. 1955 S.C. 633 (Bhag- win' and Immam 1]) (Das I. contra). 9Pratap Singh, (1961) 2 S.C.R. 509, S12; A.I.R. 1961 S.C. 586, 588.
'Chittaranian, AIR. 1963 SC. 1696, 1700. (ii) (iii)

Section 423(2). Revision of sec- tion 423 recom- mended. Powers of Appel- late Court in dis- posing of appeal. Section 424 Is
order dismissing
appeal summarily
a judgment

Section 424, pro- viso. Section 425. Section 426. to give reasons for the summary

dismissal of an appeal, section
421 did not fall to be considered

The question whether, in the case of a dismissal of an
appeal under section 421, a "judgment" should be recorded by
Courts other than High Courts, has not yet been settled by the
_Supreme Court. There has been in the past a sharp cunﬁict of
judicial opinion1 as to whether an order under section 421 was
a "judgment" or not. lt is, however, unnecessary to discuss
them at length, since the amendment we have suggested above?
in section 421 (requiring every Appellate Court, other than a.
High Court, to record reasons for the order) will render the
question academic. 31-45. It was suggested by a High Court Judge" that the
proviso to section 424 should be amended requiring the appel-
lant to remain in attendance in court on the date on which the
appetite judgment was delivered. It was said that this would
facilitate his recommittal to jail promptly if his appeal was
dismissed. We do not, however, consider it necessary to make
such an amendment. The proviso to section 424 is in the
nature of an exception to the general rule enacted in section
366(2). It is always open to the Appellate Court to direct
the attendance of the appellant on the date ﬁxed for the judg-
ment or to dispense with his attendance if it is not required. The
existing law is thus quite suﬂicient to meet the purpose. 31.46. Section 425(1) requires the order of the High Court
on appeal to be certiﬁed to the lower court when it is that of a
Magistrate, through the District Magistrate. No amendment in
this respect has been made by the Bombay and Punjab Acts
by which separation was introduced, but it seems to be desir-
able that where the order appealed against was recorded or
passed by a judicial Magistrate, the order of the High Court
should be sent through the Chief Judicial Magistrate and where
it was by an Executive Magistrate, the High Court's order
should be sent through the District Magistrate. The second
sentence of s. 425(1) may be revised to read as follows :-- 31.47. No changes are needed in sub-sections (l) and (2)
of section 426. 'Rash Behari Das [vii-Bul gaféal, (l839£i),7ghI..'l?E 21 Cal. 92!: ...... (1) such a convicted person was on bail on the date
of hit: conviction; and

(2) his sentence of imprisonment is not more than two

'38 TS

oorgal however did not find a place
' Tire proposal is reierred to
tor t eir consideration. _ 4 that Gtter conviction there is no _iust?.'..<:z:'sion
for rmkin.-r di:finc' - l'.et\-/L-cit bailable and non--bailable

 

off~:nce~ ..;(2T'.il that for the piirposes 0-' sub-
sect?o* 2- " nombailable offences should be d'~alt

 

i:.'."/'~'.":'.T].'3 in-'itinr*. We are. further, of the view that

 

 

?il-'.7LZl",l rvppy only where iinprisonmzrnt unto
.7 7.:-rot} »fwh~t'nv:r for a bailable or non- ailable

 

7 3 two years' limit (suggested by the Home Minis-
try) ii. our view. unduly high, An Appellate Court would

1Govt, of India. Ministry of Home Affairs. F.3(2)/55-L.C., S. No.
27, Home Ministry File No. 14/8/57-Judl. II. Section 426(_2B). Application
section 426
security cases. of
to 274 not ordinarily release the appellant on bail, where he has been
sentenced to imprisonment for two years. We recommend

that the npening clause of the sub-section may be amended to
read--- In our View this sub-section does not exclude cases where in
addition to imprisonment, a sentence of fine also IS awarded
and hence we suggest no alteration in that respect. 31.48. Sub~section (2B) was inserted in 1945, when special
leave could be granted only by the Privy Council which was
far away. The Adaptation Order of 1950 substituted "Supreme
Court" for "Privy Council" without considering whether there
is any practical need for the provision. The Supreme Court is
not far away, and when the party has taken the trouble and
incurred the necessary expense in obtaining special leave from
the Supreme Court, he could easily request that Court, while
granting special leave, to give appropriate interim relief. We
recommend the omission of the sub-section (2B). We have also considered the suggestionslé' to amend sub-
section (2B) enabling the High Court to grant interim relief to
a person during the interval between the date of the dismissal of
his appeal by the High Court and the date of grant of special
leave by the Supreme Court. In our view any such widening of
the scope of the sub-section is neither necessary nor desirable.
With the quick means of transport available nowadays, it should
not be diiﬁcult for a party to approach the Supreme Court and
obtain appropriate interim relief without delay. 31.49. There is a sharp conﬂict of judicial opinion as regards
the applicability of section 426 to persons who have been directed
to execute bonds for keeping peace or maintaining good behaviour
under sec. 118 and to those who have been committed to prison
on failure to execute such bonds. The cases" noted below may
be seen. It is unnecessary to discuss the relative merits of those
decisions. An order under sec. 118 undoubtedly aﬂects the liberty
of a subject, and we consider it proper that during the pendency
of an appeal against that order, the Appellate Court and the High
Court should have power to stay the execution of the order and.
if the appellant is in custody, to direct his release on bail. It is
true, as pointed out by a High Court Judge' that there should be
some safeguard for keeping peace or maintaining good behaviour
when the appellant is on bail. This can be provided by requiring

1 Gore Lal v. TS/ale, A.I.R. 1958 All. 657. 672.
'~'F.3(2)/55--I..C.. S. No. 8, 26. (Home Ministry ﬁle No. 16/16/56-
J.II). (Suggestion of the Ministry of Home Affairs regarding grant of
bail to person to whom certiﬁcate of ﬁtness for application has been
granted). 3Ja_.<,7ir Singh v. Emp. A.I.R. 1930 Lah. 529 (Tapp J.); C/iaran Mahto
v. Emp., A.I.R. 1930 Pat. 274. (Macpherson and Dhavle IJ.): Katwaroo
v. Emp.. A.I.R. 1932 All. 680; Ram Nath v. Nanak Chand, A.I.R. 1932
All. 686; Darsu V. Emp. I.L.R. 57 All. 264; A.I.R. 1934 All. 845
(Bennett 1.): Ema. v. Masuria. A.I.R. 1936 All. 107. 109.
'F. 3(2)/55-L.C. Part II. S. No, 33(a). . ..-- \,.,'--_ 275 the interim bail bond in such cases to be of the same type as Forms
X and XI of Schedule V, with slight alterations so as to provide
also for his appearance on the date ﬁxed by the Appellate Court.
It is, however, expected that before accepting such bail bond, the
Court will satisfy itself not only about the solvency of the bailor
and the sureties but also about their power, to control the actions
of the appellant. We recommend the addition of a sub-section to section 426
as follows :-- 31.50. No change is needed in section 427 except the omis-
sion of the reference to "section 411A, sub--section (2)". 31.51. With reference to section 428, it was pointed out that
the Sessions Judge. sitting in appeal from a judgment of the
Assistant Sessions Judge, has no power to direct the latter to
record additional evidence. He can either record it himself, or
direct a Magistrate to do so. We do not think that the position
requires any change. Such instances would be rare, and there
is no anomaly if the function of recording evidence is entrusted
to a Magistrate. Moreover Magistrates are available in many
outlying places where an Assistant Sessions Judge is not posted.
It will be more convenient and less expensive to the parties if
they are required to bring their witnesses before the nearest Magis-
trate rather than before the Assistant Sessions Judge. 31.52. Section 429 is intended to provide for a contingency
where a Bench of two Judges of a High Court are equally divided
in their opinion regarding an appeal heard by' them. The "case"
is required to be laid before a third Judge, and the judgment or
order shall follow his opinion. There is a sharp difference of
judicial opinion regarding the true scope and content of the word
'case'. Does it include the entire appeal or is it restricted only to»
those charges in respect of which difference of opinion has
arisen? Is it restricted only to those convicted or acquitted per-
sons regarding whom the Judges have differed? Will it also apply
to those instances where, though the two Judges may agree about
the ﬁnal order to be passed, yet they may differ in respect of the
ﬁndings ? Thus, one Judge may desire to acquit the accused on
the ground that he exercised the right of private defence, whereas
his colleague may be inclined to acquit on the ground that the
prosecution has failed to establish its case beyond reasonable
doubt. The Allahabad and Calcutta decisions, where these
questions have been discussed, are cited below}

31.53. We are unable to accept a suggestion? that an Ex-
planation should be inserted to clarify that the expression "case"
means only the points in respect of which the Judges are divided. 1Sz.'bedar v. State, A.I.R. 1956 All. 529. 538, 539 Subedar Singh v.
Emp., A.I.R. 1943 All. 272 Nemai v. State, A.I.R. 1966 Cal. 194. =F.3(2)-55-L.C. Part II, S. No. 33(a)--Suggestion of a High Court
Judge. Section 427

Section 418

Section 429
Meaningtof the
"case." Explanation of
term not desir- able. Is third Judge
bound to accept
concurrent View
of referring
Judges on other
poirm '.'

Possible anomaly
'ncerrain cases. In our view, it is better to leave this question to the discretion of
the Bench hearing the case, rather than enact a rigid statutory
piovésion on L1 subject which primarily pertains to, and can be
more satisiactorily dealt with by, the pI'clC'.lL3C or the High Courts. 3i.;'>'--'L-. ln some cases there has been a discussion hs to whether
the third Judge ought to consider hiinselr bound by the views
exjﬁresscd Uy the two reterring Judges, on points on which there
was no tiitierence between the two Judges. Ashutosh Mookerjee
J. had observed in o-ne easel, that the term "ca=e" in section 429
is the case or the prisoner as to whom the Judges are equally
divided opirrion, and not merely the point or points on which
they are divided. But in a later Calcutta casef Woodroffe
J. had expressed the view (obiter) that the third Judge could not
ditlcr with the two Judges on a point agreed upon by them, un-
less there were strong reasons for doing so. Our attention was
also _Zi'aw;":, in this connection, to the corresponding provisions in
the Letters Patent} and in the Code of Civil Procedure ,' under
which the View of the majority of all the Judges, including those
who first heard the case, is to prevail. The subject is one in respect of which a general rule appli-
cable to all cases may not be advisable. The position in criminal
cases is diﬁcrent from that in civil cases, where clearcut issues
can be framed, and a demarcation of the points of difference can
be done more easily. This is not practicable in most of the
criminal cases where the ﬁndings are closely inter--mixed and
not easily severable. The position as now understood is that the
third Judge brings to hear his independent opinion.5 As was
observed by the Supreme Court,' it is for the third Judge to decide
on what points he shall hear arguments if any, and this postulates
that the third Judge is completely free in resolving the difference
as he thinks ﬁt. In our view, no change in the Code is needed on this point.
It should be left (as at present) to the discretion of the third
J udjte to decide how far he will or will not disturb the view ex-
p1'esserl unanimously by the two Judges on particular points. 31.55. But there is one aspect of the matter which requires
consideration. if the opinion of the third Judge is to prevail, an
anomalous position may occasionally be created. For example,
in an appeal against conviction, Judge A may be for acquitting
the accused; Judge B may be for convicting the accused for a
lesser offence; Judge C (the third Judge to whom the matter is
referred under section 429), may be for maintaining the convic-
tion. in such cases, the third Judge's View would be really a
minority view, and yet would prevail. 1S.r1raI Chandra V. Emp. , (1911) I.L.R. 38 Cal. 202. '-'Gmm1e Venkata Ramam v. Corvorafioﬂ Of' Calcutta. A.I.R. 1919

Cal. 862. 3 See clause 36_ Letters Patent of Bombay. Calcutta and Madras High
Courts. 4Section 98. Code of Civil Procedure , 1908. 5 Cf. Repana, A.I.R. 1961 A.P. 70. 6Dharnrn Sinqh V. State, (1962) Suppl, 3 S.C.R. 769, 772. 782. 783
see also Babu V. State, A.I.R. 1965 S.C. 1467, 1470, 277 31.56. it may be noted that efforts have been made in the
past to amend section 429. A Bill was introduced in 1914 to
substitute, in: spctic»: i-'+29, the following s.:ction---- 3157. Subsequent experience" has, however, shown that the
problem is not so rare as was thought in 1922. While in most
cases, the procedure laid down in section 429 is satisfactory,
it has led to difiicttlties in special cases. We think it is desirable
to provide that if either of the Judges ﬁrst hearinn the appeal
so requires, or if after reference the third Judge so requires, the
case should be re-heard and decided by a Bench of three or
more Judges. It will be, for the Chief Justice to decide who will

1Gazette of India. (1914). Part V. page 111.
3Gazette of India, (1914). Part V. page 111.
3Gazette of India (1917). Part V. page 107.
4 See para. 27.9 above. 5 Gazette of India, (1922), Part V, pages 263 and 264; Report of the,
Select Committee, under cl-auses 99 and 113. 293312: thc case-law discussed in Subedar v. The State, A.I.R. 1956 A11,

Amendment of
section 429 con- sidered in the Past. Amendment
recommended. Procedure where
judges of court of
appeal are equally
divided

Section 430--- Meaning of
"Final" Cross appeals. constitute the fuller Bench. We recommend that section 429
be amended on exactly the same lines as section 378, 1 to read
as follows :-- ing . . . . as he thinks ﬁt, shall deliver his opinion, and
the judgment or order shall follow that opinion: The exact scope and signiﬁcance of the provision that judg-
ments and orders shall be "ﬁnal" has been the subject of interest-
ing discussion in courts, and much ingenuity has gone into its
interpretation. Primarily, the object of the provision would
appear to be to make it clear that there is no further appeal
from an appellate decision, re--emphasising the principle of section 404. But section 430 has apparently been regarded as of some
relevance in emphasising also that a review or reconsideration
of an appellate decision is not permissible, though the language
of section 430 is different from that of section 369 which is the
main provision prohibiting a review. Section 430 has also been
construed as emphasising that the summary disposal of an appeal
bars the matter being re-opened, at least where no question of
jurisdiction is involved? 3159. Though section 417 has been expressly mentioned in
section 430, controversy has arisen as to whether the ﬁnal dis-
posal of an appeal against conviction bars the hearing of an
appeal against acquittal arising out of the same case. The
decisions of the Punjab High Court and the Gujarat High Court
noted below may be seen.3--4 It is desirable to clarify the law
by inserting an explanation. In view of the new provision we
have recommended giving the Government a right to appeal
against the inadequacy -of sentence.5
to provide that the disposal of the appeal of the accused against
his conviction shall not bar the hearing of the appeal of the
Government regarding sentence. Further, it is necessary to make

1Sez= paras 27.6, 27.7. '3 Sec discussion as to section 421. 3State v. Mtmsha Singh . A.I.R. 1958 Punjab 233 (F.B.), 4.S'ta1.2 v. Diwanji, A.I.R. 1.963 Gujarat 21. 27. paragraphs 13. 15 and

16 (D.B.). 5Section 417A (Proposed). This explanation has also' 279 it clear that section 30 does not affect the new provision'
proposed by us whereunder, notwithstanding the summary dis-
missal of a jail appeal, the power of the appellate court to hear
a represented appeal is saved. 31.60. Section 430 may be re--drafted as follows :-- tion 417A, arising out of the same case, except where
the question of enhancement has already been consi-
dered by the Court in the appeal against conviction." 31.61. Section 431 deals with the abatement of appeals. The
section deals in the ﬁrst part with appeal against acquittals, and
in the second part with other appeals under the Chapter, but
excluding an appeal from a sentence of ﬁne. The ﬁrst class of
appeals abates on the death of the accused, and presents no diﬂi-
culty. The second class of appeals ﬁnally abates on the death of
the appellant, except an appeal from a sentence of ﬁne. A sen-
tence of ﬁne does not abate on the death of the person sentenced,
as it is not a matter which affects a person only, but affects his
property. This principle was enacted in the section to override
an ea_rlier decision of the Bombay High Court3 on the Code of
1882, holding that the appeal of the person sentenced by the
Sessions Judge to imprisonment and ﬁne abated on his death
during appeal. 31.62. In an appeal to the Supreme Court under article 136 of the Constitution in respect of a sentence of imprisonment for
life, the appellant died during appeal and his legal representatives
sought leave to continue the appeal. The Supreme Court refused
to grant leave, on the principle that such a sentence would not
affect his property.4 Though section 431 did not apply in terms
to the case, the Court said that it would not recognise a kind
of interest which the legislature had not recognised. The English
rule that law courts do not recognise any interest other than
pecuniary interest seems to be the basis of this decision. Though
in a majority of cases, where the appellant, who is sentenced

1 Section 421(4). 2 See section 423(l)(b). I )3 In re Nai;i Shah_ (1894) I.L.R. 19 Born. 714 (Jardine and Ranade

4 B. Gajapathi Rao v. State of Andhra Pradesh, A.I.R. 1964 S.C. 1645,
1647, 1653, paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 18; (1964) 7 S.C.R. 25.
33M of HA/69

Amendment
recommended. Finality of judg- ments and orders
on appeal. Section 43l-- Principle under- lying. Decision of
Supreme Court
following the
English rule. Amendment
suggested in a

private Member's
Bill. Amendment '
recommended. g 280 to imprisonment, dies during the pendency of the appeaL the
interest of his legal representatives in the appeal may be purely
sentimental, there are exceptional cases, where the interest may
also be pecuniary. Thus, if the conviction is on a charge of
murder of a near relation, whose heir or one of whose heirs is
the alleged murderer, he (if the conviction is not set aside) will
be disqualiﬁed from inheriting his property}-2 If he dies during
the pendency of the appeal, his heirs have a pecuniary interest
in prosecuting the appeal. If the appeal succeeds, their right
of inheritance to the property of the deceased through the appellant
will be Saved. So far as revision is concerned, it has been held by the
Supreme Court3 that the High Court can exercise the power of
revision in respect of an order made against the accused person
even after his death. The decision of the Madras High Court'
cited below may not be correct in view of the decision of the
Supreme Court which does not appear to have been cited before

that High Court. 31.63. An amendment to section 431 was suggested in a
private Member's Bill5 as follows :-- after the section as so re-numbered, the following
sub-section shall be inserted, namely,-- cuted by any aggrieved person with the permission of
the court to which an appeal lies." the reasons for the amendment were elaborately explained
by the mover of the Bill", but we need not quote them in full. 31.64. The main object of the amendment was to provide
a machinery whereby the children or the members of the family
of a convicted person who dies during appeal could test the con-
viction and get rid of the odium which would otherwise attach
to them. We think that the principle of the amendment is
eminently sound, and recommend that the law should be amend-
ed accordingly. We would, however, give the right to continue (ii)

1 Section 25 , Hindu Succession Act, 1956. 2 As to Muslim law, see Mulla, Muhammadan Law, article 58. 3State of Kerala v. Naravam' Amma, (1962) Supp. (I) S.C.R. 63;
A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 144, 148, para 7. 4BaIasubramania Mudaliar v. Doraikannu Ammal, A.I.R. 1966 Mad. 154.

5 Shri K. V. Raghunatha Reddy's Bill (The points made in the Bill have
been referred to the Law Commission). 3Raiva Sabha Debates. 3rd Sentember. 1963. columns 185 to 187. (15th Edn.) 281 the appeal not to an "aggrieved person" (as was proposed in the
amendment), but to near relatives, viz. the parents, spouse,
children, brother and sister of the deceased appellant. We would also provide a time-limit within which the near
relative should seek the leave of the appellate court to continue
the appeal. The new section1 recommended by us as to appeal
by the Government for enhancement of sentence, may also be
included in the proposed amendment. Reference to section
411(2) may be omitted, as it is unnecessary now." Section 431 may, in the light of the discussion above, be
amended to read as follows :-- 31.65. Before ﬁnishing with this Chapter on appeals, we
have to consider a suggestion with reference to Article 134(1) (a) of the Constitution. This provides that an appeal shall lie to
the Supreme Court from any judgment, ﬁnal order or sentence
in a criminal proceeding of a High Court if the High Court has
on appeal reversed an order of acquittal of an accused person
and sentenced him to death. In a Private Member's Bill3
recently introduced in Parliament, it is proposed that this very
limited jurisdiction of the Supreme Court should be enlarged to
cover cases where the High Court has, after reversing an order
of acquittal, sentenced a person to imprisonment for life or for
ten years or more. This Bill also proposes an identical enlarge-
ment of the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court under Article 134(1) (b). 31.66. A study of the Constituent Assembly Debates on article 134 of the Constitution shows that initially the idea of the
Constitution--makers was not to confer on the Supreme Court
any right of appeal in criminal matters except by special leave.
The Supreme Court was to have only the jurisdiction which the
Privy Council used to have in criminal matters, namely, to inter-
vene when it felt there was a miscarriage of justice, and to exer-
cise this jurisdiction on the basis of a special leave to appeal.
Subsequently, two exceptions were made and incorporated in

1Section 417A. 2See para 31.10 above. 3Bill No. 81 of 1968 by Shri Anand Narain Mulla. M.P.

Abatement of
appeals

Appeals to the
Supreme Court
under Article 134 of . the Consti- tutxon. Constituent
Assembly
Debates on Arti- cle 134. Commission's
View on proposed
enlargement of
Supreme Court's
jurisdiction. New section pro- posed. sub-clauses (a) and (b) of clause (1) of the article. Though
a number of suggestions were made that the Supreme Court should
have a considerable appellate jurisdiction over the High Courts
in criminal matters, they were all turned down by the Consti-
tuent Assembly. It decided to leave any such proposal to
Parliament to consider in due course and, if necessary, to legis-
late under clause (2) of the article. 31.67. The High Court has thus been made the ﬁnal court
in criminal matters subject to two very limited exceptions. The
ﬁrst is that if the High Court on appeal reverses an order of
acquittal of an accused person and sentences him to death, he
has a right of appeal to the Supreme Court. The obvious inten-
tion is to restrict such appeals broadly to capital oﬂence cases.
Even where the man has been acquitted by the trial court of a
capital offence and on appeal the High Court ﬁnds him guilty
but sentences him to imprisonment for life instead of death, article 134(1)(a) does not give him a right of appeal. We feel
that this further limitation is too stringent and not easily justiﬁ-
able and that the convicted person sought to have a right of appeal
in such cases. It has to be remembered that their number is
bound to be much larger than the number of cases in which the
death sentence is passed by the High Court after setting aside
an order of acquittal by the Court of Session. We, however, do not think it would be wise to extend further
this right of appeal to cases where the High Court after revers-
ing an order of acquittal sentences the accused person to imprison-
ment for ten years or a longer period. Oﬁences for which the
law prescribes a punishment of ten years' imprisonment or more
are quite numerous, and if the proposal in the Bill is to be
accepted, it will certainly lead to a large increase in the number
of appeals to the Supreme Court making it, more or les_s, an
ordinary court of second appeal in criminal matters. In our
opinion, the High Courts' position as the ﬁnal court in all
criminal matters, subject to appeal only in exceptional circum-
stances should be maintained. We may mention here that in
an earlier Report1 the Law Commission did not agree with a
proposal to extend the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court to all cases where the death sentence had been awarded
and conﬁrmed by the High Court. They stated that "for over
a century such cases have been dealt with by the High Courts
subject to the superintendence of the Privy Council under its
special leave jurisdiction and there is no reason why the High
Court should not continue to deal with such cases in the same
manner." 31.68. We accordingly propose the following new section :-- 114th Report, Vol. I, page 52. 31.69. Cases of the type mentioned in article 134(1)(b) -Vuljisdiction under
are of such rare and infrequent occurrence that, apart from a"'°1°134(1)(b)-
principle, it will not make any material diﬁerence whether its
scope is widened to include cases where the High Court sen-
tences the accused to imprisonment for life or for a long term
or even for a short period. We have, therefore, recommended
above that any person convicted in a trial held by a High
Court may apeal to the Supreme Court unless the sentence pass-
ed by the High Court is one of imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or of ﬁne not exceeding one thousand
rupees. 1See paras 31.10 and 31.12 above. Introductory. Section 432(1). Section 432 (2). Reference' by
High » Court to
Supreme Co
not necessary. CHAPTER XXXII
REFERENCE AND REVISION

32.1. Ordinarily, the judgment or order of a criminal court
is open to correction only appeal; but all such orders are not
under the law appealable, and to avoid the possibility of any
miscarriage of justice, in such cases, another process called
'revision' has been devised by the Criminal Procedure Code , and
detailed rules governing the exercise of the reversional power
are contained in sections 435 to 440. 32.2. Before, however, considering those powers, it is
necessary to mention two other provisions contained in section
432 which enable an inferior court to consult the High Court on
a matter of law in certain circumstances. Sub-section ( 1) of
that section provides that if a criminal court (not being a High
Court) has to decide whether a particular enactment is consti-
tutionally valid, and feels that it is not, but ﬁnds that neither
the High Court to which the court is subordinate nor the
Supreme Court has pronounced on that enactment, the court
should make a reference to the High Court for the decision
of that question. The intention here is that the validity of laws
possibly in conﬂict with the Constitution should be decided
authoritatively and quickly. This is a satisfactory method,
although of course not many occasions arise for the adoption of
this course. 32.3. Sub-section (2) of section 432 provides that a Prui-
dcncy Magistrate may refer any question of law arising before
him to the High Court for decision. Other Magistrates and
courts have no such power to consult the High Court. The
reasons for conﬁning this method to the Presidency Magistrate
are that their judgments are directly appealable to the High
Court and many judgments are not appealable at all; and, apart
from this, these courts are located in the same place as the High
Court. It has been said that this distinction between Presidency
Magistrates and others should discontinue, the suggestion being
that all courts should have the power of consulting the High
Court on questions of law. We are satisﬁed that such a course
would place too heavy a burden on the High Courts, without
any corresponding advantage. The reference to "Presidency
Magistrate" will be replaced by "Metropolitan Magistrate". 32.4. Another suggestionl requiring more careful considera-
tion is that a High Court should be empowered to refer a
question of law to the Supreme Court if the High Court ﬁnds
that other I-Iigh Courts have, on that question expressed different
views. It does, of course, happen,--and not infrequently-- that a particular provision of law is understood by one High

1 Suggestion of Shri B. C. Sen, Retired Public Prosecutor, Calcutta; 299-

F.3(§'))655-L.C. Part II, S.No. 11, and his book "Criminal Trials", pages . Court in one sense and by another High Court in a different and
possibly opposite sense; and since there are a number of High
Courts, differences of opinion on such matters are bound to arise.
The argument behind the present suggestion is that conﬂicting
opinions of different High Courts make the law uncertam, and
the uncertainty should be quickly resolved.at the instance _of
the High Court itself and not left to the initiative of the parties
who may or may not be disposed to approach the Supreme
Court. It is, of course, desirable that the law should be certain;
but it is even more important that the law should be settled
in a satisfactory manner. Our High Courts are competent
enough to settle the most dilﬁcult questions of law that may
arise, and there is no reason to think that they need the assis-
tance of the Supreme Court at every step. That diﬁerent High
Courts may, on occasions, entertain different views on the same
matter is inevitable; but we do not consider it such a calamity
as the suggestion seems to assume. On the other hand, the
entertainment and expression of different views leads to a clari-
ﬁcation of the real problem to be solved, and the Supreme Court
should be allowed the advantage of considering all the different
views when a sufficiently important case actually arises and one
or other of the parties feels suﬂiciently interested to move the
Supreme Court. Meanwhile, of course, the law in each State
or area subject to the jurisdiction of a High Court remains clear

and certain. »

Looking at the suggestion from the practical point of view,
we feel that, if accepted, it might well ﬂood the Supreme Court
with references of this kind, which may have to be decided
hastily and somewhat unsatisfactorily. We are, therefore, not
disposed to accept the suggestion. 32.5. In section 433 the reference to "the Magistrate" should
be replaced by reference to "the Court". 32.6. We then come to the revisional powers. In general
terms, the scheme for the exercise of revisional powers, is this.
Under section 435, the High Court, the Sessions Judge and the
District Magistrate have concurrent power to call for and
examine the record of proceedings before a Magistrate, and see
if any illegality or impropriety has been committed. (The sec-
tion also mentions the Sub-divisional Magistrate, but he is now
to be deleted from the scheme). If it is found that any com-
plaint has been wrongly dismissed under section 203 or any
accused person wrongly discharged, then a further inquiry into
the case can be ordered by the examining authority (section 436). Further, if it is found that any accused person should
have been committed for trial to the sessions court but has been
wrongly discharged, the authority examining the record can order
a committal to be made (section 437). In case the illegality or
impropriety is of some other kind, the matter has to be con-
sidered by the High Court (section 438), and the High Court
can make any order it thinks proper. The powers of the High
Court under section 439 are very wide; it has all the powers
of a court of appeal and may enhance the sentence. The only
restriction is that is cannot change an acquittal into a conviction.
although of course it can order a re-trial. There is little doubt

Section 433. Scheme of revi- sional
secnonsjﬁs o 439.

Suggestion to vest
powers in Sesslon
Courts

C_ommission's 286 that it is necessary that the High Court should have these wide
revisional powers, and experience shows that they are being
exercised with care and in the interest of justlce. 32.7. It has been suggested that some of these powers can
be safely entrusted to the Session Courts and that would relieve
some of the congestion of work in the High Courts. In the
14th Report,' the Law Commission said: 32.8. Somewhat similar views have been expressed in some
suggestions received by us. 3-4-5 We have given a good deal
of thought to this matter, and considered in detail the implications
of the recommendation, but we have considerable. doubt its prac-
tical value. As we have said, the revisional power given to the
High Courts is wide; not only are the judgments and ﬁnal orders
subject to examination, but also interlocutary decisions. The
High Court is able to maintain one single standard for inter-
ference in such matters; but if this power descends to the courts

114th Report, Vol. 2, page 826. 2.Report of the U.P. Judicial Reforms Committee, (1950-51), page 63. 3 Report of the U.P. Committee for Investigation into the Causes of
Corruption (1963), page 55 and pages 242-243. 4F.3(2)/55-L.C, Pt. II, E.No. 33 and 35 (Suggestion of two State
Governments) . I d5 l)".3(2)/55-L.C. Pt. III, S.No. 49(a) (Suggestion of a High Court

u ge . La: factorily. 32.9. Because of the separation of the judiciary from the
executive, some changes have to be made in the revisional
powers of the courts. The Chief Judicial Magistrate will, of
course, in respect of the judicial magistrates exercise the powers
now vesting in the District Magistrate; but in respect of exe-
cutive magistrates exercising certain judicial functions, power
must remain with the District Magistrate, and we are providing
for that. It is not, however, proper that the Magistrate, who
will now be an executive officer only, should have the power
to ﬁnally decide anything. His power will be limited to send-
ing a report to the High Court for decision, with his recom-
mendation. The Sessions Judge, however, will have power in
respect of all Magistrates. In the result, section 435 will have
'to be revised as follows :-- ther application shall be entertained by the other of them. 32.10. One suggestion made to us regarding section 436
was that, before an order dismissing a complaint under section
203 is disturbed, notice should go to the accused person so
that he can urge what he likes in support of the dismissal order.
This was sought to be supported by the principle of natural
justice. We do not, however, see how such an accused person
can be called a "party to the proceedings" at that stage, and
the Supreme Court has ruled1 that it is hardly proper to permit
him to intervene in the proceedings. Further, in a number of
cases, it will happen that notice to him will mean unnecessary
trouble and expense to a person who may be wholly innocent.
It a Magistrate has, on considering the facts, found that there
is no ground for proceeding against any person and therefore
dismissed the compliant summarily, there is hardly any reason for
the revising Court to call any one to Court as an accused or as
a respondent until of course, after a further inquiry has been
made, and that inquiry justiﬁes the issuing of process. 32.11. Only a few formal amendments are
section 436, 437 and 438, as follows :-- the words "Chief Judicial Magistrate" shall be
substituted; for the words "committed for trial" the
words "committed to the Court of Session for trial" the words "why the order should not be made" shall
be substituted. (iii) In section 438(1), after the words "Sessions Judge" 32.15. Section 441-442 need no change. llagat Bahadur, A.I.R. 1966 S.C. 945, 947; (1966) 2 S.C.R. 822.
2See para 31.39 to 31.43 above. 3See para 31.39 to 31.43 above. 4Home Ministry File No. F. 27/3/55-Judl. II, A . 1, lion 76 s - gestion of the Inspector General of Police, Orissa). pp ( H'
5 Section 417. secti 439(3) t
on_tted 0

Section 439(6)'to
be omitted. '

Section' 440
ﬁnally revised. this option of Court

to hear Parties. Sections 441-442. Section 464 to 468.

Procedure in case
of person tried

High Court being

appeal against
ﬁnding of unﬁt- ness to plead con- CHAPTER XXXIV
LUNA'I'ICS

34.1. Chapter XXXIV comprising sections 464 to 475 deals
with the case of lunatics accused of crime. The procedure to
be followed where the accused is unﬁt to stand trial due to
unsoundness of mind is laid down in sections 464 to 468 and
473, while the case of accused persons who are ﬁt to stand trial
but has been insane at the time of committing the crime is
dealt with in sections .464 to 471. The remaining two sections
474 and 475 contain provisions common to both cases. 34.2. No» changes of substance are required in the ﬁrst ﬁve
sections. In section 465, the reference to "commitment" and
"jury" will have to be omitted. This section may be revised
as follows :-- 34.3. A question of some importance which arises for con-
sideration in this connection is whether the accused should be
given the right to appeal from a ﬁnding that he is unﬁt to stand
trial due to insanity. A plea of insanity is usually taken by the accused. But such
a plea can be taken by the prosecution also and if the court
upholds the plea, the result may be detention of the accused
under section 466. It was suggested before us that in such a
case, it is desirable that the accused should be given a right of
apeal. It is seen that in England, a recommendation for giving
the accused a right of appeal, in such a situation was made by
the Criminal Law Revision Committee} and has been carried
out by the Criminal Procedure (Insanity) Act of 1964. In our opinion, however, thereis no need for such a provi-
sion in India. Almost invariably the plea of insanity is taken by
the defence and it can have no grievance if its plea is accepted
by the Court. In the rare event of such a plea being raised by
the prosecution, and accepted by the Court, the general power
of revision provided in the Code will be suﬂicient to safeguard
the interest of the accused. We, therefore, do not recommend
any provision for appeal in this matter,

1 3rd Report of the Criminal Law Revision Committee/-- "Criminal
Procedure (Insanity)" (1963). Cmd. 2149. page 12. Dara 29. .-a-n__....-i .._..., 1 - 34.4. Section 469 deals with inquiries and trials before
Magistrates of an accused person who, though ﬁt to stand trial,
is found to have been insane at the time he committed the crime,
while section 470 lays down that when such a person 15 acquit-
ted on the ground of insanity, the ﬁnding shall state speciﬁcally
whether he committed the act alleged. Here also, the question
whteher the accused should be given a right of appeal against
such a ﬁnding has to be considered. Where the accused. is
declared guilty but insane, he cannot appeal against the ﬁnding,
because he is acquitted. It was suggested to us that the accused
should be given a right of appeal against such a ﬁnding. It was
stated that there are two special considerations to be borne in
mind in this connection. The ﬁrst is that though the plea of
insanity is ordinarily taken by the accused (in which case he
would not appeal when the decision is in his favour), it is possi-
ble that the prosecution may take the plea, and in such a case,
the absence of a right of appeal against the ﬁnding of "guilty
but insane" may mar his whole life. Secondly, the defence
might take not only the plea of insanity, but also a plea of in-
nocence on the merits; and if the plea of insanity succeeds, the
accused cannot appeal even if he has been found guilty on the
merits. Our attention was drawn, in this connection, to a number of
English decisions' and it was stated that similar situations can
occur in India also. The Criminal Law Revision Committee
in England had recommended? giving the right of appeal to the
accused in such cases and the recommendation has been carried
out by the Criminal Procedure (Insanity) Act, 1964. In our opinion, the power of revision given by the Code is
wide enough to cover such cases, and a change in the law is
not needed. As we have already stated, cases where courts
enter a ﬁnding of insanity against the accused except on his own
plea are too rare to merit any special provision to cover them. 34.5. Under section 471(1), when a person is acquitted on
the ground that he was insane at the time of the commission of
the offence and the ﬁnding states that the accused did commit
the act alleged, the Magistrate or Court shall order such person
to be detained in safe custody in such place and manner as the
Magistrate or Court thinks ﬁt, and shall report the action taken
to the State Government. Under the proviso to the section the
detention of the accused in a lunatic asylum must be in accord-
ance with rules made by the State Government. An order of the Court delivering the accused to the custody
of his relatives appears to be illegal3 as the law stands at pre-
sent. The contrary view taken in an earlier case,4 was based

1Felstead v. R., (1914) A.C. 534 (H.L.); R. V. Duke, (1963) 1 Q.N.
120; (1961) 3 All Eng. Report 737, 738, 739 (C.C.A.); R. v. Jefferson,
(1908) 1 Criminal Appeal Reports 95; R. V. Larkins, (1911) 6 Criminal
Appeal Reports 194; 55 S.J. 501. 5'Criminal Law Revision Committee, Third Report, "Criminal Proce-
dure (Insanity)", (1963), Cmd. 2149, page 5, paragraph 9. 5Superintendent and Legal Remembrancer v. Srish Chandra, I.L.R. 56
Cal. 308; A.I.R. 1928 Cal. 653, 654; Public Prosecutor v. Kandaswami,
I.L.R. 1952 Mad. 485; A.I.R. 1953 Mad. 355. 4 A. B. Muhammad v. Emp., A.I.R. 1922 Mad. 54, 55. Section 469 and 470.

Section 471. Person acquitted
on such ground to

detained
safe custody. in 292 on the language of the section as it stood then, where the word
"kept" was used. The word now used is "detained" and imphes

curtailment of liberty}

It has been suggested that if the person found guilty is
sane at the time of acquittal, his friends and relatives should be
allowed to keep him, after executing a bond with suitable con-
clusion for keeping the peace for ﬁve years thereafter. Delivery
of the convicted person to the relatives is a matter which can,
at present, be dealt with under section 475 by the State Govern-
ment only. The Court can, no doubt, state in its report, that
it will be safe to release the accused? But even if the accused
is sane throughout the trial, he cannot be released under section 471.

In England, the Criminal Law Revision Committee3 while
observing that the Home Oﬂice is in a better position than a
Court to investigate questions relating to treatment of the accus-
ed, and that in such matters uniformity of practice was desirable,
nevertheless recommended that in both cases i.e-, when there
is a "special verdict" (guilty but insane), and when there is a
ﬁnding of unﬁtness to plead, the Court should have a discretion
not to make an order for detention if it considers on medical
evidence that it is safe for the public to order the immediate

release of the accused. We feel that the recommendations of the English Committee
are applicable to Indian conditions also. At least, the manda-
tory provision in section 471 should be replaced by a provision
which would leave some discretion to the Court. The primary
object of the detention order under section 471 is rehabilitation
of the accused (now acquitted) and to prevent any trouble if he
should relapse into insanity. It cannot be denied that the
accused will receive more personal attention and care from his
own relatives and friends than in a public lunatic asylum; and
where his relatives or friends are ready to look after him and
also undertake to ensure that he causes no injury to himself or
others, there seems no reason why the accused should not be
released to their custody. It can, no doubt, be said in favour
of the present provision that if it is found after observation in
the hospital that the person concerned is not a danger to others,
he would be released under section 475. Even then, there
should be no objection to a discretion being given to the Court. We recommend that sub-section (1) of section 471 be revis-
ed and ampliﬁed, and sub-section (2), which contains a provi-
sion common to sections 466 and 471, be made into a separate

section, as follows :-- tion (1), otherwise than in accordance with such rules as
the State Government may have made under the Indian
Lunacy Act, 1912 . (3) No order for the delivery of the accused to a reltb
tive or friend shall be made under clause (b) of sub-.sec-
tion (I) except upon the application of such relative or
friend and on his giving security to the satisfaction of the
Magistrate or Court that the person delivered shall-- (a) be properly taken care of and prevented from doing
injury to himself or to any other person; and (b) be produced for the inspection of such officer, and at

such times and places, as the State Government may
direct. (4) The Magistrate or Court shall report to the State
Government the action taken under sub-section (1). 471A. The State Government may empower the offi-
cer in charge of the jail in which a person is conﬁned under
the provisions of section 466 or section 471, to discharge
all or any of the functions of the Inspector General of
Prisons under section 473 or section 474." No changes are required in the remaining sections of this

Chapter. Power of State
Government to
empower oﬁcet
in charge to dis- charge. Analysis of chap- tel'. CHAPTER XXXV

PROCEEDINGS IN THE CASE OF CERTAIN OFFENCES
AFFECTING THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE

35.1. Chapter 35 of the Code deals with proceedings relat-
ing to certain offences affecting the administration of justice.
Having already provided that1 a criminal court shall not take
cognizance of certain offences except on a complaint made by
the court concerned, the Code now lays down what procedure
the court concerned should adopt when such on offence appears
to have been committed. There are, broadly speaking, three
types of procedure provided in the Chapter for these offences :-- tions 476, 476A, 476B, 479A and 482; (ii) commitment to the High Court or Court of Session,
after inquiry by the court concerned, provided in
sections 478 and 479; and (iii) punishment by the Court itself, dealt with in sec--
tion 480, 481, 485, 485A and 486. As regards the last type of procedure, the speciﬁc provisions
on the subject are followed by a general rule,2 providing that
in other cases, no criminal court (other than a Judge of a High
Court) shall try any person for any offence referred to in sec-
tion 195, when such offence is committed before itself or in
contempt of its authority or is brought under its notice etc. in
the course 'of a judicial proceeding. It may also be noted that punishment of the offender is not

obligatory, and the court is not bound to carry to its conclusion A

a proceeding initiated under these types of procedure. In cer-
tain cases,-3 the court may, in its discretion, discharge the offender
or remit the punishment, on his submission to the order or re-
quisition of such court or on apology being made to its satisfac-
tion. For certain purposes, registering oﬂicers appointed under the Indian Registration Act can also be given powers of civil courts'
under the speciﬁed sections. The offences to which the Chapter applies are, broadly
speaking, of three types--(i) perjury; (ii) forgery; and (iii) dis-
obedience to orders of the court or other species _of contempt
of the authority of the court. Of the three types of procedure
which we have mentioned above, the ﬁrst--complaint to a
criminal court--is permissible in all cases, while the second _and
third types of procedure are permissible for certain speciﬁed

1 Section 195(1). Clauses (b) and (c). 2 Section 487. 3 Section 484. 4 Section 483. oﬁences--depending upon the gravity of the oﬂEence,1 nature
of the oﬁence--i.e. need for prompt action so as to remove
obstructions which hinder the progress of the case? or the C11'-
cumstances in which the oﬂence is committed,3 rendering im-
mediate punishment necessary in order to maintain the dignity
and prestige of the court--for example, where offences consti-
tuting certain types of contempt are committed in the view or
presence of the court. Bearing the scheme of the Chapter in mind, we shall now
consider the changes needed in each section. 35.2. Section 476 is intended to be complementary to sec-
tion 195. The scope should, therefore, be neither wider nor
narrower than that of clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1)
of section 195. But there is a discrepancy between the word-
ing of section 195 and section 476; and this has led to a contro-
versy as to the exact scope of section 476; and this controversy
has given rise to another controversy whether the presiding
oﬂicer of a court can make a complaint under section 476 in
cases not strictly falling within the earlier section. We propose
certain verbal changes in section 476 in order to emphasise that
this section 476 applies only to the oﬂences to which clause (b)
or clause (c) of section 195(1) applies. We also think it
desirable that section 476 should speciﬁcally cover abetment etc.
of those offences, since section 195 applies to them also-.3

Section 476 speaks of "a civil, revenue or criminal court",
while section 195 uses the expression "court", and defines it.4
We propose to use the expression "court" in section 476 also,
and to provide that it has the same meaning as in section 195. The last paragraph of section 476(1) provides that for the
purposes of sub-section (1), a Presidency Magistrate shall be
deemed to be a Magistrate of the ﬁrst class. This can be pro-
vided for brieﬂy and more directly in the main paragraph. We
recommend a drafting change for the purpose. Under the proviso to section 476(1), the complaint in the
case of a High Court is to be signed by such oﬂicer as the High
Court may appoint. In the case of other courts, the complaint
is to be signed by the presiding oﬂicer as provided in section
476(1), main paragraph. We wish to deal with both these
matters in one sub--section, as they relate to the same subject.
We recommend a verbal alteration to achieve this object. 35.3. Under section 476(2), the Court to which a complaint
is made under section 476 shall proceed "as if upon complaint
under section 200". It was suggested during our discussions
that since a complaint is made under section 476 by a respon- 'E. G. section 478, applicable to offences exclusively triable by the
High Court or Court of Session. 9E.G. sections 485 and 485A. 3Section 480 and 482. 3 See section 195(4). 4Sce section 195(2). Section 476. Section 475 (2)

Section 476 (3). Section 476A. Section 476B- right of appeal
should remain. sible judicial oﬂicer (and after inquiry in most cases), the
Courtto which the complaint is-made need not and should not
hold another inquiry under Chapter 16 but should issue process
under section 204. It was urged that when a superior Court
had made a complaint, it 'was inappropriate that a Magistrate
should again hold an inquiry or dismiss it under section 203.
We, however, felt that there was no justiﬁcation for totally dis-
pensing with an inquiry under section 202. The Court making
the complaint under section 476 may not have made a thorough
inquiry, and the Court taking cognizance of the oﬁence under
section 195 might like to have more materials before issuing
process. The nature of the jurisdiction to be exercised by the
Magistrate under sections 202 and 203 is not always similar
to the nature of the proceedings held by the complaining Court
under section 476. For instance, under section 202, further
"Investigation" may be ordered, whereas an "inquiry" under
section 476 is of a limited nature. It would not be correct to
assume that one will serve the purpose of the other in every
case. 35.4. Under section 476(3), the trying Magistrate has a dis-
cretion to adjourn the case if there is an appeal in the main
case. Some delay is caused by such stay; but we think that the
nature of the proceedings under section 476 is such that such delay
is inevitable. We do not recommend any change in this respect.
It has even been suggested1 to us that stay should be mandatory
in case of appeal but we would not like to substitute such a rigid
provision either. 35.5. No change of substance is required in section 476A. 35.6. Section 476B provides for an appeal when a court
makes or refuses to make a complaint under section 476. It
has been suggested? by a High Court Judge that the right of
appeal should be taken away. We are unable to accept the
suggestion. We recognise that the existing provision may cause
some delay. Nevertheless, it is a salutary one, and should not
be disturbed. Abolition of the provision relating to appeal3 may
lead to an anomalous position. If, for example, a court makes a
complaint under section 476 to the eﬂect that a document pro-
duced in evidence before the court was a forged one, and the
appellate court, after hearing the appeal in the main case, comes
to the conclusion that it was not a forgery, then the position of
the appellate court would be helpless, if its power to direct a
withdrawal of the complaint already made under section 476 is
taken away (as proposed). Complaint of forgery is an offshoot
of the main case, and its fate will in most cases depend on the
View taken on the merits in the main case. This position is
inescapable. We are conscious of the fact that where the
olfence of forgery is alleged to have been committed in a civil
suit, that suit may take a decade for its ﬁnal disposal, and till
then the complaint ﬁled after an inquiry under section 476 may
have to be kept pending. However unfortunate the effect of
prolonged proceedings may be on the effective punishment of

'F. 3(2)/55-L.C. Part XIII, S. No. 808 (Suggestion of a High Court
Judge). 2F. 3(2)/55-L.C. Part II, S. No. 33(a) (Suggestion of a High Court
Judge). 3Section 476B. the offender, the diﬁiculty is inherent in the nature of the
offence and in the procedure contemplated by section 195. 'I_'he
only satisfactory solution seems to be to speed up the hearing
of civil appeals and revisions. 35.8. It has been held by the Supreme Court1 that an
appeal lies under section 476B to the Supreme Court from an
order of a division bench of the High Court directing a com-
plaint under section 476. In our view, this position should be
altered by excluding the High Court from the scope of section
476B. So far as the High Court is concerned, there is no need
for an independent right of appeal against its decision to make
a complaint. 35.9. Orders under section 476, 476A and 476B are, at
present, regarded as subject to revision. In our view, the right
of appeal confered by section 476B is enough, and there
should be no further proceeding by way of revision against such
orders. An order under section 476 or under section 476A
should be ﬁnal, subject to the appeal provided for by section
476B; and an order under section 476B should be ﬁnal, being
itself an order passed on appeal. It is also necessary to set at
rest the controversy as to whether the provisions of the Code
of Civil Procedure or of the Code of Criminal Procedure will
apply where the order of a Civil Court passed under section 476
is challenged in revision. 35.10. We accordingly propose that section 476, 476A and
476B should be recast as follows :----- diction; ((1) take suﬂicient security for the appearance of the
accused before such Magistrate, or if the alleged
offence is non-bailable and the Court thinks it
necessary so to do, send the accused in custody to
such Magistrate; (e) bind over any person to appear and give evidence
before such Magistrate. 1M. S. Sheriﬁ, (1954) S.C.R. 1144, 1147; A.I,R. 1954 S.C. 397.
'«'The reference is to the revised section 195: see para 15.101 above,

Section 4763 and
appeals to Sup- reme Court. Section 476 and
revision. Sections 476,
476A and 4763
recast. Procedure in
cases mentioned
in Section 195. Appeal. Procedure of
Magistrate taking
cogmzance. Power to order
costs. (2)1 The power conferred on a Court by sub-section
(1) in respect of an oﬂence may, in any case where that
Court has neither made a complaint under sub-section (1)

in respect of that offence nor rejected an application for '

the making of such complaint, be exercised by the Court
to which such former Court is subordinate within the
meaning of sub-section (2) of section 195_

_ (3)2 A complaint made under this section
signed-- (a) where the Court making the complaint is a High
Court, by_ such oﬁicer of the Court as the Court
may appoint; and (b) in any other case, by the presiding officer of the
Court. (4) In this section, "Court" has the same meaning as in
section 195. 476A. (1)3 Any person on whose application any Court
other than a High Court has refused to make a complaint under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 476 or against
whom such a complaint has been made by such Court, may appeal
to the Court to which such former Court is subordinate within
the meaning of sub-section (2) of section 195, and the superior
Court may thereupon, after notice to the parties concerned,
direct the withdrawal of the complaint or, as the case may be. .
make the complaint which such former Court might have made
under section 476, and if it makes such complaint, the provisions
of that section shall apply accordingly. (2)4 An order under this section, and subject to any such
order, an order under section 476, shall be ﬁnal, and shall not
be subject to revision. 476B. (1)5 A Magistrate to whom a complaint is
made under section 476 or section 476A shall proceed to
deal with it in the manner provided in Chapter XVI,

(2)3 Where it is brought to the notice of such Magistrate, or
of any other Magistrate to whom the case may have been trans-
ferred, that an appeal is pending against the decision arrived at
in the judicial proceeding out of which the matter has arisen,
he may, if he thinks ﬁt. at any stage adjourn the hearing of the
case until such appeal is decided." 35.11. A Bombay Amendment' of the Code makes a useful
provision conferring power to award costs in proceeding under

shall be

1cf. Section 476A. 2 cf. Proviso to section 476(1). 3c)'. section 476B. 4 New provision. 5cf. sections 476(2) and 482(2). 3cf. section 476(3). 7Section 476-C, inserted by Bombay Act 46
follows :-- . _
"476-C. A Criminal Court dealing with an application made to
it for ﬁling a complaint under section 476 or 476A, and a Court
dealing with an appeal under section 476B and the High Court dealing
with an application in revision shall have power to make such order

as to costs as may be iust: _
Provided that no such order shall be made against the Govemment
or any public servant acting on behalf of the Government. of 1948, reads as 299 section 476 and connected sections. We propose to adopt it
with a few modiﬁcations. The new section which should come
next after section 476A may be as follows :-- 35.12. Sections 478 and 479, which deal with commitment
by civil courts, may be omitted. These sections are rarely resort-
ed to. The Civil Court can make a complaint to the Magistrate
even where the offence is triable exclusively by the Court of
Session. 35.13. Section 479A was inserted in 1955 with the object of
"eradicating the evils of perjury". The section has brought into
being a procedure for making a complaint in case of perjury--
a procedure which excluded1 that provided by section 476. Ever
since its introduction the section has been a source of trouble.
First, there was a controversy as to whether it was exclusive of
section 476 or merely provided an additional alternative. That
the former is the correct view is now well-settled. But the main
question which naturally arises is whether this section marks an
improvement over section 476. If speedy punishment of perjury
is the aim, then the section does not go far enough, because,
though it bars an appeal against a complaint made by the court,
it does not give power to the court itself to punish perjury. Moreover, action under the section cannot be taken after
judgment is pronounced. Where a complaint "can be" made
under the section, action cannot be taken? under section 476, so
that if the court, by reason of forgetfulness or insufficient material,
does not make a complaint on the termination of the proceedings,
action cannot be subsequently taken under section 476, and the
offender escapes unpunished--a result hardly intended by the
legislature. This is a positive harm done by this section. 35.14. A mere repeal of the section, however, without some
provision for punishing perjury will not be a satisfactory solution.
Some provision whereby perjury of a ﬂagrant and unchallengable

type could be effectively punished summarily without seriously- prejudicing a fair trial of the person concerned, is desirable.
Adopting the recommendation made by the Commission in the
14th Report,3 for the insertion of a section for punishing perjury
committed by a witness making contradictory statements on oath
On two different occasions, we propose the insertion, in place of
section 479A, of a different section the salient features of which
are as follows : ness who makes contradictory statements on oath; 1 See section 479A(6). 2 Section 479A(6). '3 14 Report, vol. 2, page 833, paragraph 5. Power to order
costs. Section 478 and
479_omitted. Section 479A un-
satisfactory. New provision
for ﬂagrant per- Jury proposed. Summary proce- dure for punish- ment for giving
false evidence by
making contra- dictory statements. (ii) maximum punishment should be 6 months' imprisonment
or ﬁne up to 500 rupees or both; (iii) the court's order should be appealable; (iv) the new procedure should be without prejudice to action
under section 476; (v) it should be limited to contradictory statements on
oath made on two different occasions and should not
cover contradictions between statements made in exami-
nation and cross-examination. We are not unaware of the risks involved in giving power to
punish perjury to the very Court before which it is committed.
The original section 477 (deleted in 1923) gave a power to
the Court of Session to punish perjury. The Select Committee
in 1922 deliberatelyl omitted this section on the ground that it
is not desirable that a court which has instituted the proceed-
ings should dispose of the case itself. The provision which we
recommend is of a very limited character, being conﬁned to
obvious cases of perjury and authorising a small punishment.
Even this procedure will be discretionary, so that where the
Court is of opinion that perjury, even though committed by
contradictory statements on oath, is likely to raise complicated
questions, or deserves more serious punishment than that per-
missible under the proposed section, or is otherwise of such a
nature that the ordinary procedure" is more appropriate, the
court will not proceed under the proposed section. It may also be noted that the proposed section is conﬁned
to contradition between the statement on oath of the witness
in court at the trial and his previous statement on oath recorded
under section 164 or section 200 or section 202 in the same
case. It was suggested in our discussion that various other kinds
of statements, such as statements made in the aiﬁdavit in the
same case under section 145 or in the course of additional evi-
dence recorded under the orders of the Appellate Court, etc.
might also be covered, but in our view these contradictions
should be left to be dealt with by the ordinary procedure for
punishment of perjury by way of complaint under Section. We accordingly propose the following revised section 479A--
punishment of perjury by way of complaint under section 476. mary trials. (3) Nothing in this section shall affect the power of
the Court to make a complaint under section 476 for the
offence where it does not choose to proceed under this
section." 35.15. Sections 480 to 482 which prescribe the procedure
for punishing contempt when committed ex facie curiae do not
require any changes or comments. 35.16. Section 483 empowers the State Government to direct
that any Registrar or Sub--rcgistrar shall be deemed to be a Civil
Court for the purposes of sections 480 to 482. It was suggested
that similar power should be given to the State Governments to
apply sections 480 and 482 to all Tribunals. We are unable
to accept this suggestion. If such a provision is considered neces-
sary, it should be included in the special law constituting such
Tribunals. 35.17. No change is needed in section 484. 35.18. In section 485, the words "and in the case of a Court
established by Royal Charter, shall be deemed to be guilty of
a contempt" occurring at the end may be deleted. The power of
a State High Court to ptmish for contempt is governed by article
215 of' the Constitution and need not be provided for again in
this section. 35.19. In section 485A(2) the words "in which an appeal
lies" may be omitted in view of the changes which we propose1 in
section 263. 35.20. In section 486(1), which provides for appeals from
convictions for contempt, we propose to exclude the High Courts
but add a reference to the proposed new section 479A_ In
regard to sub-sections (3) and (4) we are of the view that
appeals from all the authorities mentioned therein should lie to
the Court of Session. Although City Sessions Courts in the presi-
dency towns are not ordinarily vested with appellate jurisdiction,
we think that in this particular case the power should vest in
them instead of in the High Courts. Section 486, amended on the above lines, will read as follows-- Sections 480 to 482.

Section 483. Section 484. Section 485. Section 485A

amended. Section 486 ro- vised. Appeals from
conviction: in
contempt cases. the Appellate Court may alter or reverse the ﬁnding, or
reduce or reverse the sentence appealed against. (3) An appeal from such conviction by a Court of Small
Causes. . _ _ shall lie to the Court of Session for the sessions
division within which such Court is situate. (4) An appeal from such conviction by any. . . . Regis-
trar or sub--Reg1'strar deemed to be a civil court by virtue of
a direction issued under section 483 shall lie to tlze Court of
Session for the sessions division within which the office of
such Registrar or Sub-Registrar is situate." Section 487 35 .21. In sub-section (1) of section 487, a reference to the

amen proposed new section 479A may be added. In View of the aboli-
tion of commitment proceedings, sub-section (2) is not necessary
and may be omitted. CHAPTER XXXVI
MAINTENANCE OF WIVES AND CHILDREN

36.1. The primary justiﬁcation for placing in the Criminal IntroductofY-
Procedure Code provisions relating to maintenance of wives and
children, which is a civil matter, is that a remedy more speedy
and economical than that available in civil courts is provided for
them. It may also be said that these provisions are aimed at
preventing starvation and vagrancy leading to the commission of

crime. 36.2. As the functions of Magistrates under section 488 are S°°ti°ﬂ 483 (1)-
of a judicial character, the reference to the District Magistrate
and Sub-divisional Magistrates in sub-section (1) may be
omitted. 36.3. Section 488(1) speaks of neglecting or refusing to Does.-child»
maintain the "wife" or "child". Some controversyl exists as to meanaminor '2
whether the expression "child" means a minor, or whether it
includes any son or daughter unable to maintain himself or
herself. It has been suggested2 that a daughter or son of what-
ever age should be entitled to maintenance under section 488. No doubt, the right under section 488 will, if this view is
adopted, be wider than that enjoyed under personal law. For
example, under the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act,
19563 a child can claim maintenance only so long as the child
is a minor. This was also the rule of Hindu Law regarding
sons.4 According to Muslim law also, a father is bound to
maintain his sons until puberty and daughters until marriage, but
not adult sons unless disabled by inﬁrmity or disease." But,
having regard to the primary object of section 488-namely, pre-
vention of vagrancy--a wider view on the subject is desirable.
The emphasis should be on the inability to maintain itself and
not on the age of the child. In fact, the existing wording amply supports a wider inter-
pretation. The position was lucidly explained in the under-
mentioned Patna case" with which we agree. Other cases on the
subject are also noted7 below. 1 See Saraswati v. Madhavan, A.I.R. 1961 Ker. 297 (reviews case-law). 2 Amendment Bill introduced by Shri Ajit Singh Sarhadi. (Lok Sabha
Bill 41 of 1959) introduced on 14th August, 1959. (Discussed in Lok
Sabha on 2-12-1961 and referred to the Law Commission, F.3(2)/55-L.C.
Part II, S.No. 39). 3See section 20(2) . 4Irevalyan. Hindu Law, (1912). Dage 200; Chanviragavda v. District
Magistrate, A.I.R. 1927 Bom. 91, 92; Bhoopazi v. Basant Kumari, (1936)
I.L.R. 63 Cal. 1098, 1111. 5Mu1la, Mahamedan Law, (1961), page 303; Fyzee, Outlines of
Mohammadan Law, (1963), page 205. 6K/tidani v. Legan Singh, A.I.R. 1921 Pat. 379(1). 7 Bhagat Singh v. Emp., (1910) 26 P.R. 1910 Cr.; 6 I.C. 960; 11 Cr.
LJ. 427; Krishnaswamy Iyer v. Chandravadana, (1918) I.L.R. 37 Mad.
565; 25 M.L.I. 349; Thambuswamy Pillay v. Ma Louse, (1917) 9 L.B R.
37 I.C. 311; 10 Bur. LT. 209. Married
daughters. Aged parents. Appeals. 36.4. Another question that has arisen is, as to how far
section 488 applies to married daughters. According to one
view, a person who can claim maintenance from another source
cannot apply under section 4881. On this reasoning, a married
daughter cannot claim maintenance from her father. But a con-
trary view has been taken in a Bombay case," in which a married
daughter of 15 years was awarded maintenance against the father
under section 488. The Bombay case cites other cases to the
same effect?' Here again, we think that the controversy should
be set at rest by amending section 488(1) so as to ensure that
a married daughter can claim maintenance from her father. No
doubt, she has got her rights against the husband. A Hindu Wife
is entitled to be maintained by her husband during her life-time.'
Under Muslim law5 also, the husband's duty to maintain com-
mences when the wife attains puberty. Section 488 also gives her
a right against her husband. But there may be hard cases where'
the husband is not willing to maintain her, and a power to make
an order against the father is desirable to meet such hard cases. 36.4. A suggestion" has been made to the effect that a provi-
sion for maintenance of parents should be made in cases where
they are unable to maintain themselves. It is true, that under section 20(1) of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act,
1956, a Hindu is bound to maintain his or her aged or inﬁrm
parent so far as the parent is unable to maintain himself or her-
self out of his or her own earning of other property. Under the
Muslim law also'', there is an obligation to maintain one's parents
(subject to certain exceptions not material here). We are, how-
ever, of the view that the Criminal Procedure Code is not the
proper place for such a provision. There will be considerable
diﬂiculty in the amount of maintenance awarded to parents
apportioning amongst the children in a summary proceeding of
this type. It is desirable to leave this matter for adjudication by
Civil Courts. 36.5. Several persons have suggested that an order under
section 488 should be made appealable. A right of appeal will,
however, result in unduly protracted proceedings and defeat the
primary object of this section, which is to provide a speedy
for destitute wives and children. The aggrieved party has the
remedy of moving the Civil Court to get the order modiﬁed or
variﬁed'. Hence, a right of appeal is not desirable. 1Chandita/z v. Chakkayayyan, I.L.R. 39 Mad. 957; A.I.R. 1917 Mad. 275.

2Banchhod Das V. Emp., A.I.R. 1949 Bom. 36, 37 (Jabagirdar and
Sen JJ.). 3A.I.R. 1925 Mad. 491; I.L.R. 48 Mad. 503 (Girl of 14 years). 4) Section 18(1) , Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance etc. Act (78 of
1956 . 5Mulla, Mahomedan Law, (1961), page 238; Fyzee, Outlines of
Mohammadan Law. (1964). page 202. °Suggestion of Shri Aiit Singh Sarhadi, vide his Amendment_ Bill intr_o-
duced on 14th August, 1959 (Lok Sabha Bill 41 of 1959) discussed In
gok Sagagia and referred to the Law Commission, F.3(2)/55-L.C. Pt. II. .No. . 7Mulal. Mahomedan Law. (1968). Daras. 371. 372: FY2286. Outline!
of Mohammadan Law. (1964). Dam 206. 8Section 489(2). 36.6. In the light of the above discussion, sub-section (1)
of section 488 may be amended to read as follows :-- 36.7. It has been suggested by two High Court Judges with
reference to section 488(3), that if the husband suffers from any
contagious venereal disease it should be considered just ground
for the wife's refusal to live with him, and this should _be ex-
pressly mentioned in the section. We do not consider it neces-
sary or desirable to enumerate exhaustively the various grounds
which would justify a wife's refusal to live with her husband.
These may be left to the decision of the courts. The Madras
decisionl noted below may be seen in this connection. 36.8. A suggestion has been made? that the words "or if
they are living separately by mutual consent" occurring in section
488(4) should be omitted, but we do not think this can be
accepted. If the parties are living separately by mutual consent,
they may be expected to make the necessary arrangement regard-
ing their maintenance, and if the husband does not carry out the
arrangement, the remedy in the Civil Court should be suﬂicient. In section 488(4), the words "living in adultery" have been
almost uniformly interpreted as indicating an adulterous course
of life, as distinguished from a single lapse from virtue. It has
been suggested3 that a single act of adultery should be enough
to disentitle the wife to maintenance. We are unable to accept
the suggestion. Hardships are bound to arise if the wife is
totally debarred from the remedy under this section because of a
single lapse from virtue. Further, to deprive her of maintenance
for an occasional lapse may force her to lead a sinful life and
give her no chance to redeem herself. 39.9. Section 488(5) requires the Magistrate to cancel his
order in certain contingencies. The question whether in a case
where the wife has obtained an extra-judicial divorce sanctioned
by custom, the Magistrate can cancel his order at the instance
of the husband has arisen. Conﬂicting decisions of High Courts
on this point are mentioned below'. To resolve this controversy,
we suggest that the Magistrate should decide the question under
section 488(5). For this purpose after the words "live with
her husband" in this section, the words "or has been lawfully
divorced by her husband otherwise than by order of a Court" taken (a) where he is, or (b) where he or his wife resides, or (c) where he last resided with his wife or, as the
case may be, with the mother of the illegitimate
child." 1Shantabaz' V. Vishnupant Atmaram, A.I.R. 1965 Bom. 107, 108,
paragraph 4 (Kotval J.). 2Baleshwari Devi v. Bikram Singh, A.I.R. 1968 Pat. 383, 384, para- graph 2 (K. K. Dutta J.). 3I.L.R. (1961) 2 Ker. 702: (1962) 1 Cr. L.J. 40. 41. 4Sakuntala v. Thirumalayya , (1966) 2 Mad. L.J. 326_

X»? CHAPTER XXXVII

DIRECTIONS OF THE NATURE OF A HABEAS CORPUS 37. 1. Chapter 37 consists of a single section which confers
on the High Courts the power to issue directions of six different
types, all of them being in the nature of a habeas corpus. The
section, as originally enacted in 1898, conferred the power only
on "the High Courts of Judicature at Fort William, Madras and
Bombay" and the territorial limits within which any of these
three High Courts could exercise the power were "the limits of
its ordinary original civil jurisdiction" which coincided with the
limits of the presidency-towns. The scope of the section was
considerably widened by the Criminal Law Amendment Act,
1923 . Instead of only the three High Courts at Calcutta, Madras
and Bombay, all the High Courts in British India were conferred
the power of issuing these directions. Furthermore, instead of
being restricted ir1 territorial extent to the limits of the ordinary
original civil jurisdiction of the High Court, the power was made
exercisable within the limits of its appellate criminal jurisdiction,
i.e., within the limits of the Province or Provnces over which the
High Court had authority,

37.2. The ﬁrst two of the six directions which may be issued
under section 491 (1) correspond to the well--known writ of habeas
corpus and are described in clauses (a) and (b) of the section
as follows :-- The next three clauses (c), (d) and (e) describe the circum-
stances in which, and the purposes for which, prisoners detained
in any jail within the jurisdiction of the High Court could be
directed to be brought up before the High Court itself or before
some other Court or authority. The last clause (f) empowers the
High Court to direct "that the body of a defendant within such
limits be brought in on the Sheriff's return of cepi corpus to a
writ of attachment". 37. 3. It will be noticed that article 226 of the Constitution
confers wide and comprehensive powers on the High Courts of
States "to issue to any person or authority, including in appro-
priate cases any Government, directions, orders or writs, in-
cluding writs in nature of habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibi-
tio, quo warranto and certiorari" for any purpose. In view of
this provision, clauses (a) and (b) of section 491(1) have been
practically rendered superﬂuous and can be safely omitted. History of sec- tion 491. 'I_'ypes of direc- tions under£seo- tion 491. Clauses (21) and (b) rendered super- tzlilgus by article 308 "Clan!!! (C), _(d) 37.4. We have another Reportl considered in detail the pro- g (') °1;§"°n visions of clauses (c), (d) and (e) relating to the production of

' mm" ' prisoners in Court for various purposes and recommended that
these clauses (and also section 542 of the Code) should be
omitted and more detailed provisions on the lines of those con-
tained in the Prisoners (attendance in Courts) Act, 1955 , should
be included in this Chapter as section 491A. 37.5. Clause (f) which is couched in archaic and obscure
language relates to "a writ of attachment" which the High Court
may have issued and in regard to which the Sheriﬁ of the presi-
dency-town has submitted "a return of cepi corpus". This writ
of "attachment" is really a writ of arrest in execution of a civil
decree directed to the Sheriﬂ, requiring him to arrest a person
named in the writ and to have the "body" of the person produced
before the Court on a given date. On this writ the "return" by
the Sheriﬂ sets forth what has been done by him under it. The
literal meaning of cepi corpus is "I have taken the body"; and in
its full form cepi corpus et paratum habeo, it means "I have taken
the body and have it ready"? Since the power of arrest in exe-
cution of a civil decree is exhaustively dealt with in the Civil
Procedure Code and since the original civil jurisdiction of the
three Presidency High Courts has been practically abolished, the
power under clause (f), section 491(1), is seldom, if ever,
required to be used. Chapter 37 to be 37. 6. We, therefore, propose that section 491 be omitted

replaced by a and in its place provisions for securing the attendance of prisoners

dlﬂbrent Chapter- in Criminal Courts be included in this Chapter as recommended
in the 40th Report. The existing Chapter XXXVII may be re-
placed by the following Chapter :-- Deﬁnitions. 491A. (1) Whenever, in the course of an inquiry, trial _ or
poweg-uo require other proceeding under this Code, it appears to a Criminal
attendance of Court,--- prisoners. - - - (a) that a person conﬁned or detained in a prison should
be brought before the Court for answering to a charge
of an oﬂence, or

1 40th Report on the Law relating to Attendance of Prisoners in Courts. paaras 27 et seq. 2See Jowitt's Dictionary of English Law, 1959, Vol. I, p. 332. (b) that it is necessary for the ends of justice to examine
such person as a witness,

the Court may make an order requiring the oﬁicer in charge of
the prison to produce such person before the Court for answering
to the charge or, as the case may be, for giving evidence. (2) Where an order under sub-section (1) is made by a
Magistrate of the second class, it shall not be forwarded to, or
acted upon by, the oiﬁcer in charge of the prison unless it is
countersigned by the Chief Judicial Magistrate to whom such
Magistrate is subordinate. (3) Every order submitted for countersigning under sub-
section (2) shall be accompanied by a statement of the facts
which in the opinion of the Magistrate, render the order neces-
sary, and the Chief Judicial Magistrate to whom it is submitted
may, after considering such statement, decline to countersign
the order. 491B. (1) The State Government may, at any time, having
regard to the matters speciﬁed in sub-section (2), by general or
special order, direct that any person or class of persons shall not
be removed from the prison in which he or they may be conﬁned
or detained, and thereupon, so long as the order remains in force,
no order made under section 491A, whether before or after the
order of the State Government, shall have effect in respect of such
person or class of persons. (2) Before making an order under sub-section (1), the State
Government shall have regard to the following matters, namely :-- moved from the prison; and (c) the public interest, generally. 491C. Where the person in respect of whom an order is
:-made under section 491A-- (a) is by reason of sickness or inﬁrmity unﬁt to be
removed from the prison; or (b)

is under committal for trial or under remand pend-
ing trial or pending a preliminary investigation; or (c) is in custody for a period which would expire before
the expiration of the time required for complying
with the order and for taking him back to the prison
in which he is conﬁned or detained; or

is a person to whom an order made by the State
Government under section 491B applies, (d)

the otﬁcer in charge of the prison shall abstain from carrying out
the Court's order and shall send to the Court a statement of
reasons for so abstaining: cutor are dealt with in this short Chapter consisting of only 4
sections. The Chapter does not give any indication of the actual
organisation of the prosecuting agency in the districts. Under
section 492, there could be any number of Public Prosecutors;
some appointed by the Central Government, others by the State
Government, and yet others by the District Magistrate or, subject
to his control, by the Sub-divisional Magistrate. Then under
section 495, any Magistrate inquiring into or trying a case may
permit the prosecution to be conducted by any person who may
do so personally or by a pleader. 38.2. In practice, however, there is in every district an oﬂicer
appointed by the State Government who is designated the Public
Prosecutor and who, with the assistance of one or more additional
Public Prosecutors, conducts all prosecutions on behalf of the
Government in the Court of Session. These senior Public Prose-
cutors are under the general control of the District Magistrate.
Prosecution in the magisterial courts is, generally speaking, in
the hands of either the police--oﬁicers or of persons recruited from
the bar and styled Police Prosecutors or Assistant Public Prose-
cutors all of whom work under the directions of the Police
Department. 38.3. In an earlier Chapter} we have recommended that in
every district a separate prosecution department should be con-
stituted and placed in charge of a Director of Public Prosecutions,
or, if this is not considered feasible, of the Public Prosecutor of
the district who should be given a greater authority, a higher
status and a wider range of functions than he has at present, and
approximating to those envisaged for the Director. Now, section
492 provides for the appointment of several Public Prosecutors
in a district all of whom can apparently function at the same
time. No qualiﬁcations are laid down in the law for a Public
Prosecutor and the Government is empowered to appoint any
one it likes to be a Public Prosecutor. We think that the Code
should provide a better frame-work for organising the prosecuting
agencies in the district in a systematic way, and for this purpose,
we propose the following two sections in place of section 492 :-- 3 See paras. 18.24 and 18.25 above. '
'Cf. art. 233(2) of the Constitution. Introductory. %:'i:.".."'......,"'°'i°.r
C
the districts. Secdonwz. Appointment of
Assistant Public
Prosecutors. Section 493
amended. Appearance by

Public _ Prosecu- tors. Section 494 with- drawal Etom pro- secution only by
Public Prosecu- tor in charge of
case. (3) The Central Government or the State Government may
appoint, for the purposes of any case or class of cases, an
advocate of not less than ten years' standing as a Special Public
Prosecutor. _ zt92.A(l) The State Government shall appoint in every
district one or more Assistant Public Prosecutors for conducting
prosecutions in the Courts of Magistrates. (2) No po7;ice--oilicer shall be eligible to be
Assistant Public Prosecutor under sub-section (1). ( 3) _Where no Assistant Public Prosecutor appointed under
Sub-S8CtlOf1.(l.) is available for the purposes of any particular
case, the District Magistrate may appoint any other person to be
the Assistant Public Prosecutor in charge of that case: The Public Prosecutors appointed under section 492 will
ordinarily conduct cases on behalf of Government in the Sessions
Court, while the Assistant Public Prosecutors appointed under
section 492A will be for conducting cases in the Courts of
Magistrates. Although it is not expressly provided in the latter
section that Assistant Public Prosecutors should be legally quali-
ﬁed, we have no doubt that the present trend of appointing, as far
as possible, qualiﬁed legal practitioners as Assistant Public Prose-
cutors or Police Prosecutors or Police Prosecutors will be main-
tained in all States and the provision made in sub-section (3)
above (corresponding to sub-section (2) of section 492) will be
resorted to less and less in future years. 38.4. Section 493 does not require any change of substance,
but an express reference to the Assistant Public Prosecutor
besides the Public Prosecutor will be necessary. The section may
be modiﬁed to read as follows :-- 38.5. Section 494 seems to authorise any Public Prosecutor
to withdraw from the prosecution with the consent of the Court.
The Supreme Court has held1 that the reasonable interpretation
to be placed on this section is that it is only the Public Prosecutor
who is in charge of a particular case and is actually conducting 1State of Punjab v. Surjit Singh , (1967) 2 S.C.R. 347; A.I.R. 1967
S.C. 1214. the prosecution that can file an application under this section
seeking permission to withdraw from the prosecution. If a Public
Prosecutor is not in charge of a particular case and is not con-
ducting the prosecution, he will not be entitled to ask for with-
drawal from prosecution of that case under section 494. If any
Public Prosecutor who has nothing to do with a particular case is
held entitled to file an application under section 494, the result
will be anomalous. The contrary view viz., that the section gives
 uriquaﬁﬁed right to any mrson who, in law, is a "Public Pro-
secutor" to file an application for withdrawal from prosecution
was, it appears, strongly urged in the case supported by a few

ecisions of High Courts. That view was negatived by the
Supreme Court. 38.6. We have elsewhere referred to a conﬂict of interests that
may possible arise between the Central Government and the State
Government in the matter of remitting or commuting sentences}
A similar conflict of interests can arise under section 494 in
respect of withdrawal of prosecutions. A State Public Prosecutor
appointed by the State Government can, if he is in charge of the
case, withdraw from the prosecution, though the Central Govern-
ment may be much concerned in the prosecution of the offenders.
This could happen where the offence relates to a matter to which
the executive power of the Union extends, or was investigated by
the Delhi Special Police Establishment, or involved the misappro-
priation of destruction of, or damage to, Central Government pro-
perty, or was committed by a Central Government servant in the
course of his oiﬁcial duty.'-' We are of the View that in such
cases it is desirable that the consent oi the Central Government
should be obtained before the Public Prosecutor seeks permission
of the Court to withdraw from the prosecution. We recommend
the insertion of a proviso to that effect in section 494. 38.7. Section 494 may accordingly be revised to read as
follows :-- if it is made after a charge has been framed, or when
under this Code no charge is required, he shall be
acquitted in respect of such oﬂence or offences: 2Cf. revised section 402B proposed in para. 29.14 above. Previous consent
of Central
Government pro- vided for in cer- tain cases. Section N 494 re- vised. '

Withdrawal from
prosecution. Section 495 re- vised. Permission to
qonduct prosecu- tion. A 314 (ii) was investigated by the Delhi Special Police
Establishment under the Delhi Special Police
Establishment Act, 1946, or (iii) involved the misappropriation or destruction 0!,
or damage to, any property belonging to tho
Central Government, or (iv) was committed by a person in the service of the
Central Government while acting or purporting
to act in the discharge of his oﬂicial duty,

and the prosecutor in charge of the case has not been
appointed by the Central Government he shall not
withdraw from the prosecution without the previous
permission of the Central Government." 38.8. In view of the new section 492A regarding Assistant
Public Prosecutors and the changes made in section 494, section
495 may be revised as follows :-- sonally or by a pleader." CHAPTER XXXIX
BAIL

39.1. The broad principles adopted in the Code in regard to
bail are---- (i) bail is a matter of right, if the offence is bailable; (ii) bail is a matter of discretion, if the offence is non-
bailable; (iii) bail shall not be granted by the Magistrate if the offence
is punishable with death or imprisonment for life; but
if the accused is a woman, or a minor under the age
of 16 years, or a sick or inﬁrm person, the court has
a discretion to grant bail; the Court of Session and the High Court have a wider
discretion in granting bail, even in respect of offences
punishable with death or imprisonment for life. 39.2. Under section 496, the right to bail is absolute in case
of bailable offences. It has been suggested1 that where at person
released on bail has absconded or has failed to appear before
the Court on the date ﬁxed, he shall not be entitled to bail, when
brought to court on any subsequent date. We recommend the
acceptance of this suggestion, and further recommend that refusal
of bail under such circumstances shall be without prejudice to any
action that may be taken under section 514 for forfeiture of the
bail bond. Accordingly, section 496 may be re--numbered as sub-section
(1), and the following sub--section may be added as sub-section
(2) :-- sion in that case , he appears before the Court or is brought
in custody. Any such refusal shall be without prejudice to
the power of the Court to call upon any person bound by
such bond to pay the penalty thereof under section 514." 393. With reference to section 497(1), a State Government'
has suggested that the words "there appears sufﬁcient ground for
inquiry into his guilt" be substituted for the words "if there appear
reasonable grounds for believing" (that he has been guilty of an
offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life). The
reason given was, that persons accused of serious offences again
committed serious offences during release on bail. We cannot
accept the suggestion. It would be unduly restrictive of the power (iv)

1 F.3(2)/55-L.C, Pt. II, S. No. 36, page 178 (Suggestion of! Shri A. K.
Roy, Additional Sessions Judge, Asansol). 2F.3(2)/S5-L.C. Pt, II, S. No. 28 (Amendment Bill proposed by
the Government of U.P.). Broad principles
regarding bail. Section 496 per- son breaking bail
bond not to be
released on bail. Section 497 (1). Section 497 (3A)

Grant of bail with

conditions new
sub-section (IA)
in section 497. to grant bail. If the test of "suiﬁcient ground for inquiry" is
substituted, it would amount to denial of bail in almost every
case. If in a particular case, a person released on bail was re-
ported to have committed a fresh offence, or otherwise misused
his liberty, the court may be moved to cancel his bail bond. A Bar Association' has suggested that section 497(1) should
be made more liberal by providing that if the offence is not
punishable with death, bail ought to be granted. We are afraid
that this would be a radical and undesirable change in the law.
Offences punishable with imprisonment for life are serious enough
to justify the present provision. Another suggestion" is to the eﬁect that in section 497(1),
for the words "he may be released on the bail", the following
words may be substitutcd--"he shall be released on bail unless
the Court for reasons recorded in writing otherwise directs". We
are unable to accept this suggestion either. Its acceptance would
practically amount to an abolition of the distinction between bail-
able and non--bailable offences. 39.4. It has been stated in certain suggestions?' sent to us that
sub-section (3A) of section 497 has created diﬂiculties and
should be deleted. This sub-section was inserted in order to
avoid hardship to accused persons in non--bailable cases where
the proceedings are prolonged beyond a certain period (sixty
days). in such cases, the sub-section provides, that the accused
shall be released on bail (unless the Magistrate otherwise directs).
Having regard to the fact that this provision was inserted only
in 1955, we think that much more experience of its working is
required before its deletion on the ground of practical difliculties
can be recommended. 39.5. Cases often arise under section 497, where, though the
court regards the case as ﬁt for the grant of bail, it regards the
imposition of certain conditions as necessary in the circumstances.
In an earlier Report* the Commission examined the position as to
whether such a power exists now and recommended an amend-
ment of section 497 for the purpose. We agree with the recom-
mendation and propose that the following sub-section may be
added in the section after sub-section (1) :-- 39.6. It has been suggested1 that a sub--section should be
inserted in section 497 to the effect that where the investigation
is delayed beyond 60 days, the accused (in non--bailable cases)
should be released on bail. We may, in this connection, point
out that where the investigation is delayed2, the question of the
detention of the accused will come up for review automatically
before the Court; the Court will be free to pass such orders as
it thinks fit, and is not precluded from ordering release on bail
if that is an appropriate course in the circumstances of the case.
We do not think that a rigid provision is necessary on this
subject. 39.7. Section 497(5) and section 498 relate to similar mat-
ters, and can be considered together. Further, section 498 is a
composite section in which two distinct maters, which are not
closely connected, have been put in one sentence. In the
interests of clarity3 a re-casting of these provisions appears to
be desirable. The main ideas found in section 497(5) and
section 498 are---- (i) power of a Court which has released a person on bail
to direct his arrest and to commit him to custody------
section 497(5), in part; (ii) special powers of the High Court and Court of Session---- (:1) to order release of any person section 498(1),
second part; and (b) to order that a person released on bail under
section 497 or section 498(1) be arrested and
to commit him to custody--earlier part of section
497(5) and section 498(2); (iii) amount of the bond not to be excessive, and power
of the High Court or Court of Session to reduce the
bail required by a police oﬂicer or a Magistrate--
section 498(1), in part. It will be noticed that the first is a general power conferred
on all courts; the second is a special power of the superior courts;
and the third is an ancillary power. 1_F.3(2)/55--L.C. Pt. III, S. No. 21 (Suggestion of Himachal Pradcsh
Administration) . 'See discussion relating to section 344. 3_Cf. criticism of section 498 in Amir Chand. ALR. 1950 E.P. 53, in
the Judgment of Xhoela J. Delay in Investi- gntion. Section 497 (5. and section 498) 318 We propose to put the ﬁrst as section 497(3A), so that it
will appear immediately after the first three sub-sections,--the
sub--sections which relate to release on bail. [In consequence,
existing sub--section (3A) will require re-numbering as sub-
section (3B)]. The second will, in view of its importance, form a separate
section------section 497B. The third may be retained in section 498. Along with this re-arrangement of the provisions, some
changes in their content are also desirable. First, as regards the power of a court to cancel bail granted
by it, the relevant part of section 497(5) is obviously
intended to apply to the High Court or Court of Session also,
when bail is granted by that Court. The words "every other
Court", however, create a contrary impression, and we propose
to substitute the words "any court" in their place, to correct
this impression. '

As regards the second proposition stated above, the power
of the superior courts fails under two heads- (a) power to direct release on baf' and (b) power to direct arrest of a person released on bail. The power under head (a) above is expressed in section
498(1) where it says that "the High Court or Court of Session
may, in any case whether there be an appeal on conviction or
not, direct that any person be admitted on bail". The words
"in any case" are, apparently, intended to emphasise that the
power is wide enough to embrace both bailable and non-bailable
offences. We think that the language should be made more
precise. The power is meant to apply to a person accused of an
offence and in custody, and the words "admit to bail" have been
Eilcllicially construed as having the same meaning as "release on

'11". Lastly, the words "whether there be an appeal on conviction
or not" are unnecessary and confusing, and should be omitted. The power under head (b) is now contained partly in sub-
section (5) of section 497, where it authorises the superior
courts to "cause any person who has been released under tlis
section to be arrested" and "to commit him to custody"--
partly in sub--section (2)--where it authorises the superior court: 2 Section 497(5), in so far as it relates to cancellation of bail by the
court which granted it, has been already dealt with. (ii) released on bail in a case where the release was ordered
under its special power by the superior court itself. They do not cover concellation of bail granted in a case relating
to a bailable offence1 under section 496. Now, it is well-established that the Court has power
to cancel bail even where it was granted in a case relating_to 8. bailable offence. The existence of this POWCI Of T_11_€ High
Court has been put beyond doubt by a series of decisions of
the Supreme Court2, and of the High Courts'*. The absence
of an express provision in this respect was described as a
"lacuna" in one of the judgments of the Supreme Court', and
we think that, instead of leaving the matter to the inherent
powres of the High Courts, it should be expressly provided for
in this Chapter, and the power could be given to Courts of
Session as well. For this reason, release under section 496' is
expressly proposed to be _mentioned in the amendment which
we suggest regarding section 498. As regards the third proposition--amount of bail and reduc-
tion thereof--no changes are necessary in the substance of the
powers as provided in section 498(1). A suggestion has been made by two High Court Judges' to
the effect that the trial court should also have power to cancel
bail at the close of arguments, even if the bail was granted by
a superior court. We presume that the object behind the sug-
gestion is to cover cases where, at the close of the arguments,
the court considers it very likely that it will sentence the accused
to imprisonment. We would, however, prefer to leave the law
as it is. When the judgment is pronounced, the accused will
be required to attend the court to hear the judgment pro-
trounced." Ordinarily, no serious mischief could be caused by the
accused remaining on bail in the interval. Where a Court 'A' grants bail in a case and the case is
subsequently transferred to Court 'B', can Court 'B' cancel the
bail granted by court 'A' ? This question arose in a Bombay
case', where the High Court approved of the cancellation by
the transferee court. But the judgment lays stress on the in-
herent power of the court, and it was suggested to us that this
leaves the position doubtful, and that some clariﬁcation may be
desirable. We do not, however, think it necessary to suggest
an amendment. As a general rule, it is implied that a trans- 1The scope of section 496 is somewhat wider, as it applies to "any
person other than a person accused of a non-bailable offence". But we
are concerned here with a person accused of a bailable offence. '-'Talab, (1958) S.C.R._1226; A.I.R. 1958 S.C. 376; Ratilal Bhanji
A.I.R. 1967 S.C. 1639 (judgment of Bachawat 1.). Pampapathy (1967) 1 S.C.R. 115; A.I.R. 1967 S.C. 286 (Judgment
of Ramaswami J . 3See for example Panna Lal AIR 1967 All. 394, 397. 4Talab (1958) SCR 1226; AIR 1958 SC 376. 5F.3(2)/55-L.C. Pt. II. S, No. 33 b , 137, S t'
High Court Judges). ( ) page ( ugges ion of two

6 Section 366(2). 7 Emp. v. Routmal, I.L.R. 1941 Born. 38; A.I.R. 1940 Born. 41. Revised sections
497 (3A), 498 and
498A. Special wers of
High utt or
Court of Sessions
regarding bail. Amount of bond
and reduction
thereof. Anticipatory bail. feree court can deal with the case in the same manner as the
original court, and this implication need not be expressed. 39.8. in the light of the above discussion, we recommend
that in section 497, after sub-section (3), the following sub-
section be inserted :-- Existing sub--section (3A) may be renumbered as sub-section
(3B) and existing sub--section (5) may be omitted. Instead of
section 498, we may have the following sections- (2) V 'hcn a person accused or suspected of the commission
of an offence punishable with imprisonment for a period which
may extend to seven years or more or of an offence under
Chapter Vi, Chapter XVI or Chapter XVII of the Indian Penal
Code , or of the abetrnent of, or conspiracy or attempt to com-
mit, any such offence, is released on bail under sub-section (1)
by the High Court or Court of Session, that Court may impose
any condition which itconsiders necessary-- (a) in order to ensure that such person shall attend in
accordance with the conditions of the bond executed
under this Chapter, or (b) in order to ensure that such person shall not commit
an offence similar to the offence of which he is accused
or of the commission of which he is suspected, or (c) otherwise in the interests of justice'. 39.9. The suggestion for directing the release of a person
on bail prior to his arrest (commonly known as "anticipatory

1 See 36th Report. 3 See 36th Report. . . .,4/2;.'-' '

Direction for
grant of bail tn
person apprehend- ing arrest. bail") was carefully considered by us. Though there is a con-
ﬂict of judicial opinion about the power of a Court to grant
anticipatory bail, the majority view is that therp is no such
power under the existing provisions of the Code. ~. The necessity
for granting anticipatory bail arises mainly because sometimes
inﬂuential persons try to implicate their rivals in false causal
for the purpose of disgracing them or for other purposes by
getting them detained in jail for some days. In recent times,
with the accentuation of political rivalry, this tendency is show-
ing signs of steady increase. Apart from false cases, where
there are reasonable grounds for holding that a person 
or' an offence is not likely to abscond, or otherwise misuse his
liberty while on bail, there seems no justification to require him
first to submit to custody, remain in prison for some days and
then apply for bail. We recommend the acceptance of this suggestion. We are
further of the View that this special power should be conferred
only on the High Court and the Court of Session, and that the
order should take effect at the time of arrest or thereafter. in order to settle the details of this suggestion, the following
draft of a new section is placed for consideration :-- dicated in the direction of the Court under sub--sect.ion (1). (3) If any person in respect of whom such a direction
is made is arrested without warrant by an officer in charge
of a police station on an accusation of having committed
that offence, and is prepared either at the time of arrest
or at any time while in the custody of such oﬂicer to give
bail, such person shall be released on bail." We considered carefully the question of laying down in the
statute certain conditions under which alone anticipatory bail
could be granted. But we found that it may not be practicable
to exhaustively enumerate those conditions; and moreover, the
laying down of such conditions may be construed as [xe-
judging (partially at any rate) the whole case. Hence we
would leave it to the discretion of the court and prefer not to
fetter such discretion in the statutory provision itself. Supetix
Courts will, undoubtedly, exercise their discretion properly, and
not make any observations in the order granting anticipatory
bail which will have a tendency to prejudice the fair trial of
the accused. Section 499. Sections 500 to 502. 39.10. With reference to section 499, various suggestions'-2
have been received by us regarding the procedure for veriﬁca-
tion of sureties, e.g., that in every case the court must make an
inquiry regarding suﬂiciency of the sureties; or that house tax
and income tax receipts should be enough to vouch for solvency
of the sureties. In our opinion, these are matters which can
be more conveniently dealt with by rules and practice rather
than by elaborate provisions in the Code. We do not, there-
fore, suggest any amendment in this respect. In consequence of the recommendation3 regarding grant of
bail with a condition, it is desirable to add the following sub-
section in section 499 :-- 39.11. No changes are needed in sections 500 to 502. 1 Suggestion of the Intelligence Bureau, Home Ministry F.3(2)/55-L.C.
Pt. IV, S. No. 122. 2F.3(2)/55-L.C. Part II, S. No. 33. page 99 (Suggestion of the
Government of U.P. ) . 3See para. 39. above. CHAPTER XL
COMNIISSIONS FOR THE EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES

40.1. Chapter 40 lays down the procedure for issuing com-
missions for the examination of witnesses and for the execution
of such commissions. Different provisions are made in the
Chapter for witnesses in the territories to which the Code
extends, witnesses in areas in India but outside those territories
and witnesses outside India. It also provides for the execution
in India of foreign commissions. 40.2. Section 503 is the main section under which a com-
mission may be issued when the examination of a witness is
necessary for the ends of justice and his attendance cannot be
procured without an amount of delay, expense or inconvenience
which under the circumstances of the case, would be unreason- able. It has been suggested1 that the following proviso may be
added to section 503 :-- As regard presence of the pleader, the Code already contains
a provision? As regards expenses, while we do not think that
an order for paying expenses should be made a condition prece-
dent to the issue of a commission in every case, we do appre-
ciate that the Court should have a discretion to require payment
by the prosecution of such expenses-" as the Court considers
reasonable to enable the accused and his counsel to participate in
the examination on commission. Such payment should however
be conﬁned to cases where a commission is issued for the exami- nation of a prosecution witness. We recommend the addition
of a sub-section (2) as follows :-- 40.3. While the issue of a commission is discretionary under
the main paragraph of section 503, the proviso makes it manda-
tory where "the examination of the President or the Vice-Presi-
dent or the Governor of a State as a witness is necessary for
the ends of justice." The principle on which the proviso seems
to be based is that the head of the State should not be summon-
ed in Court. The proviso is mandatory. Even if the President,
the Vice-President or the Governor wishes to be examined in

1Home Ministry File No. 25/5/54-Indl. Appendix II, Item 43 (Sag-
gestion of Shri P. S. Sundarayya). 3 Section 506(2). 3For the present law as to costs, see Abdul. Aziz, A.I.R. 1958 Ray'. 27. ' ' ' 'I

Introductory. Section 503 pro- vision for pay- ment of expenses
of accused. Section 503,
prov so. Section 504. Section 505
revised. Execution '- of
commission. Sections 506 to
508A. the Court, that cannot be done. The proviso was enacted in
1954 to override the View taken in a Punjab case1 in which
reiusal by a special judge to issue a commission for the exami-
nation of a GOVC1'.".OI' was upheld by the High Court. No change
is necessary in the proviso. 40.4. Sub-section (1) of section 504 provides that a com-
;:ii;<sion for the examination of a witness in the territories to
whic the Code extends shall be directed to the District Magis-
trate or Chief Prejdency Magistrate within the local limits of
whose jurisdiction the witness is to be found. In view of the
~:e-naration of powers such commissions should be issued to the
Chief Judicial Magistrate. Even in the very rare cases in which
no llrecutive Magistrate thinks it proper to issue a commission,
it can be addressed to the Chief Judicial Magistrate. Subsection
(1) may be Ill en/.'l:d to read as follows :----- No amendments are needed in sub-sections (2) and (3) of
the section. 40.5. In section 505(1), which relates to the execution of
commissions, for "District Magistrate", it will be necessary to
substitute "Chief Judicial Magistrate", as a consequence of the
change proposed' to section 504(1). There seems to be no
need for a slightly diﬂerent wording in sub~section (2) and the
two sub-sections may be combined. Accordingly, section 505 may be
follows :-- The remaining sections of this Chapter do not call for any
comments or amendments. revised to read as 1State v. Krishnaswami, A.I.R. 1954 Punjab 294.
9 Sec para. 40.4 above. +

ii

CHAPTER XLI
SEECEAL RULES OF 

41.1. The framers of the Code were aware that the evidence
of certain experts in the service of Government would be tre-
qucntly required in criminal courts, and if these experts were to
be treated as ordinary witnesses whose sworn statement in court
alone could be legal evidence, they would be spending most of
their time giving evidence. Also, the number of such experts
was so small that they could not be always conveniently spared
for attending the courts. Special rules of evidence were therefore
framed for them. They are placed in Chapter 41 of the Code. In framing them, the cardinal rules of evidence have been
kept in view and the number of experts kept at the minimum.
Thus, according to section 509, a civil surgeon or other medical
witness is now exempted from appearing in the Court of Session
if he has given evidence in the committing court; and his recorded
statement in that court is by a special rule made evidence at the
trial, the safeguard being that the trial court (i.e., the Court of
Session) can, if it thinks ﬁt, summon and examine the witness.
By section 510, the report of a Chemical Exarn1-er is made
evidence without the Chemical Examiner being at all called to
give evidence in Court, again the safeguard being that he can
at the discretion of the Court be called and examined. The same
rule applies to the report of the Chief Inspector of Explosives,
the Director of Finger Print Bureau or an ofﬁcer of the Mint.
Various suggestions have been made to include other experts in
this list. It is, we think, necessary that we proceed in this
direction with some caution, for, although past experience does
not show any abuse of these special provisions, it would be
unwise to make them general. 41.2. Regarding section 509, which enables the Court of
Session to accept as evidence the statement of a medical witness
made in the committing court, it has been suggested1 that the
time of such experts could be further saved, if the report could be
treated as evidence without the expert's appearance in Court. We
do not think there is anything to be gained by such a procedure.
In a serious case, medical evidence can be all important, and a
court will rarely ﬁnd it unnecessary to call the medical witness to
court to give oral evidence. On the other hand, there is consi-
derable danger that the opinion of such experts may in such cir-
cumstances become some-what irresponsible. An extreme sugges-
tion? made is that the report of a medical witness should be made
conclusive evidence, a suggestion not worthy of serious considera-
tion. 1 Suggestion received through the Home Ministry----F. 3(2)/55-L.C.
Pt. V, C. No. 200. 2Suggestion received through the Home Ministry---F. 3(2)/55-L.C.
Pt. V. C. No. 200. Introductory. Section 509. Suggestions a to

include reports of

other experts in
section 510. Recommendation
in 25th Report. 41.3. Regarding section 510, the main suggestion is that many
other experts could with advantage be included, so that they could

be saved the need of appearing in Court. Thus, suggestions have

been received for adding the following oﬂicers to those mentioned
in section 510(1) :-- ratory, there may be other investigations like ballistics, phy- sics or biology, which may not call for chemical examina-
tion); (iv) Director and other technical experts of the Haﬁkeins
Institute?' (v) Any expert of the Finger Print Bureau, instead of
only the Director. 41.4. As we have said", it would not be wise to make this
special provision applicable to every expert. The present provision
takes in only those experts who, because of their small number
and situation, require special treatment, and we are satisﬁed that
this consideration alone would justify it. In the prese-nt list are :-- The report of any of these experts on any matter duly submitted
to him for examination or analysis is good evidence. We think that
responsible ofﬁcers in the Government Security Press and the
oﬁice of the Controller of Stamps stand in a very similar position.
The Commission has, in an earlier Report,7 recommended that
a new section (section 509A) should be inserted in the Code,

1 Suggestion of Government of U.P., received through the Home
Ministry--F.3(2)/55-L.C. Pt. VI, S. No. 308. 2F. 3(2)/55-L.C. Pt. II, S. No. 33, page 99. 3Suggesti0n of Shri S. K. Sengupta District Prosecutor, Bihar. F.
3(2)/55-L.C. Pt. I, S. No. 72. 4Resolution of Conference of Inspectors-General of Police and com-
ment of the State Government of Madhya Pradesh thereon (received
through the Home Ministry). ,

5Suggestion of the Government of Bombay, received through the
Home Ministry---F. 3(2)/55-L.C. Pt. I, S. No. 3. 45See para. 41.1. above. 725th Report (Report on Evidence of Otﬁcers about forged stamps,

currency notes etc. ) . A

.P_ 327 covering the case of such ofﬁcers. The need for a separate sec-
tion arose because the Commission felt it necessary to provide
that if any such expert is called to court, he should not be com-
pelled to disclose any conﬁdential information on which the report
might be based, the resaon being that the disclosure of such infor-
mation may facilitate the forging of currency notes or revenue
stamps. The same consideration applies to the officers of the Mint. 41.5. We propose that the new section 509A should be in the
following terms :-- ed by him in the course of the examination of the
matter or thing." 41.6. Section 510 will deal with other expert reports where
security is not a consideration. We propose to add two more
experts in that list, namely,---- (i) the Director of the Haﬂkeins Institute, Bombay; and (ii) the Director of the Central Forensic Laboratory. We are not convinced that handwriting experts employed by
Government should be treated in the same way. Their evidence
is almost always subject to controversy and no special value can
be attached to their reports merely because the expert is employed
by Government. Nor can we justify the extension of this provi-
sion to cover ordinary medical or veterinary experts. The pro-
cedure here is very special and must be conﬁned to special experts. 1'I'he Controller 01' Stamp: who is in charge of distribution is a part
of the India Security Press. Printing of stamps is also done there. 33MofHA/69

New section 509A
proposed. Evidence of oli- cers of Mint etc.

Section 510 rc- vised. Reports of cer- tain Government
scientiﬁc experts. Section 510A and 511.

Section 512. amended. 3'28

In an earlier Report', the Commission noted that section
510(2), as amended in 1955, makes it obligatory for the Court to
summon the Chemical Examiner or other oﬂicer mentioned in sub-
section (1), if either party so desires. The Commission regarded
this provision as unsatisfactory and recommended that it should
be left to the discretion of the court to summon such oflicers. We
agree with this recommendation and are suggesting an amendment
to implement it. Section 510 may be revised to read as follows :-- miner to Government; (b) the Chief Inspector of Explosives; (c) the Director of the Finger Print Bureau; (d) the Director, of the Haﬁkeins Institute, Bombay,- (c) the Director of a Central Forensic Science Laboratory
or a State Forensic Science Laboraroryz." 41.7. No change is needed in sections 510A and 511. 41.8. Section 512 deals with a case which cannot be tried
because. the accused person has absconded and there is no prospect
of his arrest in the near future. A Magistrate competent to try
or commit him for trial can, in such circumstances, record the
evidence produced by the prosecution; and that evidence can be
later used at the trial of the accused when he is arrested, in case
the witness who made that statement is not available to give evi-
dence. This provision has proved useful. and does not need
amendment. The situations in which evidence recorded under sub--sections
(1) and (2) of section 512 can be later utilised are described in
different terms in each sub-section, but it appears that the distinc-
tion is deliberate. Sub-section (2) is meant for a case where the
offender is unknown and the offence is a Serious one. We do not
propose to disturb the distinction,

We propose, however, that in sub--section (1), the words
"cannot be found" be added after the words "if the deponent is

1 14th Report, Vol. 2, pages 848-849, para, 26. 1'-There are, at present, three Central Forensic Science Laboratories
at New Delhi, Calcutta and Hyderabad, and State Forensic Science
Laboratories at several places. 1195!

V... _. dead or is incapable of giving evidence", in order to make the
provision comprehensive', and also, for the word "attendance",
the word "presence" be substituted. These two amendments will
bring the wording of this provision into conformity with that of section 33 of the I§\.'iCl<:n~:e Act. It was further suggested to us that the situation where the
deponent is kept out of court by an adverse party should also be
covered by this provision. It would obviously be difficult to
determine who is an adverse party and there would be allega-
tions and counter--allegations which are bound to create diﬁiculties. This suggestion was therefore not accepted. Introductory. Section 514(1)

CHAPTER XLII
BONDS

42.1. Chapter 42 of the Code contain provisions for bonds,
or rather for the forfeiture of bonds, while the provisions for
the execution of bonds of various kinds are to be found scatter-
ed all over the Code. The main provision regarding forfeiture
is in section 514, which, in substance, says that if a bond is fer-
feited to the satisfaction of the court concerned, the penalty
mentioned in the bond may be recovered from the party liable
to pay it, and the mode of recovery mentioned is attachment
and sale of movable property, and, failing that, by sending the
party concerned to civil iail for six months. 42.2. Sub-section (1) of section 514 empowers the Court
by which a bond has been taken or a Presidency Magistrate
or Magistrate of the ﬁrst class, to order its forfeiture, if satisﬁed
that its terms have been violated; and when the bond is for
appearance before a Court, the Court has similar powers. A
doubt has sometimes arisenl whether, in the case of a bond
for appearance in a particular Court, that Court alone can for-
feit it or whether any Magistrate of the ﬁrst class has the power.
As a matter of policy, we think that this power should, in the
case of a bond for appearance before a Court, be conﬁned to
that Court, as that Court is in the best position to judge the
gravity of the breach of condition causing forfeiture. Occasion-
ally, some doubt has also arisen? whether a bond for appearance
before a Court can be forfeited by the order of a Court to
which the Case was later transferred. It is only proper that
the transferee Court should have the same power to deal with such
:1 bond as the ﬁrst Court had when the case was in that Court.
We propose to clarify both these points by a suitable amend-
ment. It has been suggested?' that, apart from the bonds mentioned
in the Code----and they are mainly for appearance in Court or
for good behaviour or for keeping the peace----a provision
should be made to authorise the police to take a bond for the
production of movable property in Court in case the property,
because of its bulk or other reason, cannot conveniently be
removed from where it happen to be. The normal procedure'
is that the police seizing any property must report the seizure
to a Magistrate who can then make such order as he thinks ﬁt.
It may, however, happen in certain circumstances that the pro-
perty cannot be at once seized in a physical sense, and it may

1Hardwari La! v. The State, A.l.R. 1959 All. 751. 3l\1m"taqi-Mud-Din. A.l.R. 1926 All. 297; Bnllahh Das. A.l.R. 1943
Born. 178, 179 (D.B.); Karali Cliaran Chatrerjee. A.I.R. 1949 Fat. 196, 197.

3Suggestion of the Government of Madhya Pradesh received through
the Home Ministry [F. 3(2)/55-L.C. Pt. IV, S. No. 65]. 4 See section 523. be useful to provide that the police may let it remain in the
ct:st..,,.' of a surety on his executing a bond to produce the pro-
perry in Court when asked to do so. Once such a provision
is made, it would be quite simple to provide for the forfeiture
of the bond. We suggest, therefore, that section 523 should
be suitably amended to provide for such a bond. As far as
section 514(1) is concerned, any such bond should be equated

to a bond for appearance before a Court. We may mention two more suggestions which we have
not found it necessary to adopt. One is1 that a provision should
be made for the forfeiture of a bond which Government some-
times takes under section 401 from a person whose sentence
Government decides to suspend or remit. Such a bond is not
mentioned in the Code, nor is it taken by a Criminal Court,
and it wouid be hardly proper to provide for its forfeiture
through a Criminal Court. The second suggestion is that the
liability or :1 surety in respect of a bond should not be enforced
if the principal has in respect of that bond paid the penalty."
We do not think. however. that the ordinary rule?' that the
liability of a surety should be co-extensive with the principal's
liability should be applied to criminal jurisdiction, where the
object of a bond is different. 42.3. We note that a Maharashtra amendment' of the Code
has replaced the existing sub--sections (2) and (3) of section
514 by a simple provision which equates the procedure for
recovery of the penalty under a forfeited bond with the procedure
for the recovery of a ﬁne imposed by a Court. We propose to
adopt this amendment in the Code. 42.4. We propose accordingly that sub--scctions (1), (2)
and (3) of section 514 be replaced by the fo1lowing:----- feited,

the court shall record the grounds of such proof, and
may call upon any person bound by such bond to pay 1M, Ham' v. Deputy Commissioner, A.I.R. 1953 Pat. 302, 305. The
case went up to the Supreme Court on appeal: A.I.R. 1955 S.C. 478;
(1955) 2 S.C.R. 78; but this point was in issue. As to another case in
\Vl'!1§l'l) such a bond was taken, see Sohan Singh, A.I.R. 1955 Punj. 156
(D. . . '~'See Narain Sahai v. Emp., A.I.R. 1946 All. 333, 336,
which conﬂicting decisions on the point are discussed. 3 See section 128 , Contract Act. 4 See Maharashtra Act 22 of 1960, section 2 . (F.B.) in

Section 514, (2)
and (3). Revised sub-seo- tions (1) and (2). Section 514 (4). Section 515. the penalty thereof or to show cause why it should not be
paid. }':'.x'p;':maz;'0n.---A condition in a bond for appearnace,
or for production of property, before a Court shall be
construed as including a condition for appearance, or as
the case may be, for production of property, before any
Court to which the case may subsequently be transfer-
red. (2) if sufficient cause is not shown and the penalty
is not paid, the Court shall proceed to recover the same
as it' such penalty were a ﬁne imposed under this Code." 42.5. Sub-section (4) of section 514 provides that if the
penalty is not paid and cannot be recovered by attachment and
sale of property, the Court may order the person, who is bound
under the bond, to imprisonment in civil jail for six months.
We feel that imprisonment in these circumstances is out of
accord with modern thinking and propose to omit sub-section
(4.7. 42.6. Section 515 provides for appeals against orders passed
under section 514 by Magistrates. These are, at present, made
appealable to the District Magistrates, but in view of the sepa-
ration of the judiciary we consider that all such appeals should
lie to the Session Judge. Section 51 .5 may accordingly be revised to read as follows :--- Y

CHAPTER XLIII
DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY

43.1. Regarding the disposal of property, Chapter 43 pro-
vides tor the passing of interim orders for the custody and
disposal oi the property pending inquiry or trial and of ﬁnal
orders at the conclusion of the inquiry or trial. The property in respect of which such orders can be passed
may be--(i) property regarding which an offence appears to
have been committed, or (ii) property which appears to have
been used for the commission of an offence, or (iii) any property
or document produced before the court or in its custody. There are detailed provisions in regard to property seized
by the police. Such property, again, may be of various classes,
such asl, articles found upon search of a person arrested? pro»
perty alleged or suspected to be stolen, or~"- property found under
circumstance which create suspicion of the commission of an
offence. The modes of disposal of the property are, again, numerous,
and the particular mode is, for obvious reasons, left to the
discretion of the court. Thus "disposal" of the property may
be by destruction. conﬁscation delivery to any person claiming
to be entitled to possession of the property. restoration to per-
son dispossessed, or sale. etc.

43.2. Section 516A provides that when any property regard-
ing which an offence appears to have been committed or which
appears to have been used for the commission of any offence,
is produced before any Criminal Court during any inquiry or
trial, the court may make such order as it thinks ﬁt for the
proper custody of the property pending the conclusion of the
inquiry or trial. The court is empowered to make such interim
order because, in some cases, it becomes necessary to preserve
the property either as evidence' or in order to make a proper
order after the case is over. '

43.3. In a sugg-:stion5 received by us, it is stated that some-
times property attached (tie. property seized) in crirninalcases of
cheating. criminal breach of trust etc. is attached by civil courts
aiso and appropriated in execution of decrees collusively obtained

lfiee sections 51 . 53 and 153(2). 25cc sections 51 , 54(1) , fourthly, 94(1), 98(1), 165(1) read with
M3 and 551'}. The chronoiogical order is sections 54 . 51, 550 and 528.
Sec cliscussion in Kasruri Ln], .1-'\.l.R. 1965 SC. 1039, 1043, (1965) 1

FLOR. 375. As to procedure. see section 103(2) . 3'?cc- srrctizms 94?!) to 99A, 165 and 554. As to procedure see
wcction l(l3. .. 1' See i?nfr.*rzdra \.', .'-'0-'rig. A.l.R. 1931 Cal. 455, 456 (Rankin CJ. and
Costello 1.). 5F. 4(2)/S5-L.C. Part I, S. No. 59 (Suggestion of District Govern-
ment Counsel. Moradabad). Introductory. Section 516A. Suggestion to bar

attachment by
civil court in cer- tain cases. Documentary and

material exhibits
in_ the inquiry or

trial. Amendment
section 516A. Section 517(1). Disposal of
money. of 334 against the accused. It is suggested that it is necessary to pro-
tect such money from attachment by civil courts, and for this
purpose provision should be made in section 516A, that pend-
ing the conclusion of the inquiry or trial, such property shall
not be liable to attachment under orders of a civil court, and
alter the conclusion of the trial, it shall be subject to the orders
of the criminal court. We are not in favour of the suggestion. The correct pro-
cedure in such cases would be for the complainant or inform-
ant (or other person claiming to be the owner) to ﬁle a claim
or objection under the Code of Civil Procedure } in the pro-
ceeding for attachment. There is no need to amend section
516A, for the purpose. 43.4. Section 516A does not cover all property that comes
into possession of the Court for the purposes of an inquiry
or trial. For instance, property which is produced merely as
evidence of crime is not covered. In many States, express
provision for the disposal of such property is not necessary
since the High Court Rules provide for interim custody and
ﬁnal disposal of all documents and articles produced before
any Court for the purpose of evidence. These are marked as
documentary exhibits or material exhibits. But it will be
noticed that this class of property is expressly mentioned in
section 517(1). There may be some States where the High
Court Rules do not provide for the custody and disposal of
such property. We therefore suggest that section 516A should
be made comprehensive so as to include material and docu-
mentary exhibits in the case which may not have been used
for the commission of the offence or regarding which no offence
may appear to have been committed. 43.5. The opening clause of section 516A may accordingly
be amended to read----"When any property is produced before
any criminal court during any inquiry or trial". 43.6. Section 517 empowers the Court to make, at the
conclusion of an inquiry or trial, orders for the disposal of
any property or document (i) produced before it, or (ii) in
its custody, or (iii) regarding which any offence appears to
have been committed, or (iv) which has been used for the
commission of any oﬂence. The terms of the section are wider
than those of section 516A. The four classes of property are
listed disjunctively, so that, provided the inquiry or trial has
come to an end, and the property falls within any one of the
four categories, the Court has jurisdiction to pass orders under
this section? 43.7. Diﬁiculties arise in practice when a Criminal Court
has occasion to pass orders under section 517 for the disposal
of money, e.g. bank notes or currency notes. Where there is
doubt as to who is really entitled to possession, and the Criminal

1 See Order 21, Rule 58, Code of Civil Procedure , 1908. 2 See Bhimii v. Emp., A.I.R. 1944 Nag. 366, 367. The history of the
section is traced in "Disposal of Property" (1903) 8 C.W.N. (Journal)
43, which criticizes Surendra V. Rai Mohan, I.L.R. 30, Cal. 690, 692. Court makes an order to the best of its judgment leaving the
doubtful cuestion of title to be decided by the Civil Court,
the property may disappear before an effective decision of the
Civil Court is obtained. To quote from a judgment1 of the
Andhra Pradesh High Court :--~

"In cases like the present. where it is extremely doubt-
1'ul whether the petitioner and his §o--accu::.ed are really
entitled to possession of the currency notes, if they should
be, in pursuance of the normal rule, allowed to take back
'these notes, the persons who might really be entitled there-
to may, even if they succeed in the Civil Court, be
unable to recover the property from the petitioner. The
property may, in the meanwhile, vanish into thin air. It
is doubtful even it' the Civil Court could direct the dis-
posal of these moneys with it, pending adjudication of the
right to them. Ithink it is desirable that the Criminal Procedure
Code should make a provision applying to cases like this
one, for instance. enabling a Magistrate to keep the pro-
perty with him for a deﬁnite period of time, pending the
filing of a civil suit relating to it, and direction him to
deliver the property to the Civil Court on being asked
by that Court, after the institution of the suit. There may
alternatively be a provision placing it at the dsposal of
the Government, pending a suit. If very valuable movable
property is, under the general rule, returned to persons
who may not be really entitled to it, serious loss may
result to the true owners, because it can disappear very

easily." In that case, the High Court rejected the argument that such
a power already existed, and dissented from the cases? cited

in support of that argument. 43.8. A Bar Council has suggested that section 517 to 520
should be simpliﬁed on the following lines. In cases of convic-
tion of the accused, the property should be directed to be hand-
ed over to the owner. If there is a dispute as to ownership,
the court should hold a summary inquiry and, if unable to
come to a decision, refer the matter to a civil court whose
decision will be followed. If the trial ends in acquittal, the
property should be handed over to the person from whose
possession it was taken. But if such person was an accused
and he disclaims any ownership of property, the property should
be handed over to the owner. In such a case security should
be taken from the party to whom it is given. The appellate
or revisional court may be statutorily required to pass an order
either of conﬁrmation or reversal of the order passed by the
trial court when such court disposed of the main criminal case.
A right of appeal may be given to the party aggrieved by the

 

__. -,.__-A

1TenaIi Sitialr V. State, A.I.R. 1957 A.P. 1024, 1026 paragraph 11
(Bhimasankaran I.)

9Muttiah v. Vairaperumal A.I.R. 1954 Med. 214; Kedar Nath V.
Mohamed Siddiq A.I.R. 1924 Cal. 455, 456. Suggestion _ by a
Bar Council. Principles regard- ing disposal. C0mmission's
V'lcV\ 5. Section 517 (2). order, in case no appeal or revision petition is ﬁled against the
conviction or acquittal of the accused. 43.9. The principles to be deduced from reported decisions
regarding the Court's power under this section may be sum-
mariscd as follows :-- petty. (ii) The rule is the same as regards cash and currency
notes." (iiii) Ordinarily, the court would not be justified in de-
taining the property till the decision of the Civil
Courts? (iv) An order for indeﬁnite detention in court custody
or in the custody of one of the parties conditional
on a civil suit. would not be desirable.' The
various possible courses to be adopted were analysed
in a Madras caseﬁ (v) Even a conditional order of restoration does not
seem to be contemplated in ordinary cases. The
contrary view was. however, taken in one case.'

43.10. In our opinion, it is not advisable to insert a pro-
vision as suggested in the Andhra Pradesh case. Such a pro- vision would go against the scheme of the Code, which con- templates ﬁnal orders as to disposal by the criminal court either
under section 517 or under section 518 read with section 523.
It may be left to the discretion of the aggrieved party to move
the civil court and obtain interim protection of the property,
till ﬁnal adjudication about its title. For the same reason we
'rc not in favour of the radical revision of the existing section
suggested by the Bar Council. 43.11. Sub-section (2) of section 517 provides that when
a High Court or a Court of Session makes an order under sub-
section ( 1) cannot deliver the property to the person
entitled through its own oﬂicers, the Court may direct the order
to be carried into effect by the District Magistrate. Since a

1Sat/ar A/i V. Afzal Mnhammed, (1927) I.L.R. 54 Cal. 283, 285;
AIR. 1927 Cal. 532; Srirzivaramoorllii v. Nnrasimhulu Naidu, (1927)
l.L.R. 50 Mad. 916. 919: A.I.R. 1927 Mad. 797. 798. 3P1z5/ikar Sfngh v. State, A.'i.R. 1953 SC. 508; In re Pandlmriah,
Y.L.R. 40 'Rom. I86; A.l.R. 1915 Born. 265, distinguished in Akshov
Kumar v, Nay;-z Iﬁwrizar AIR. 1940 Cal. 346. 3Ka.s':'rrmz V. Mak/zunji Dwain'-:41 Pra.md_ A.I.R. 1937 Pat. 591, 592. Kmilluz Ma! v. Hinlaclml Pradesh Adniirzirrration, A.I.R. 1963 H.P. 45
«Reviews case--law). 467. Obszervations in Mr)/zrl. Yusuf v. Kris/1:11! Fvloluzn. A.I.R. 1938
Cal, 17, 2-'). 5Mutr'u'ali V. Vairrtperunzu/, A.l.R. 1954 Mad. 214, 215 (Reviews
case-law). 6Ch(?n,t,7tZ Reddi V. Ramaswamv. A.I.R. 1915 Mad. 588. High Court seldom tries a case itself and the ordinary original
jurisdiction of High Courts is to be completely abolished, this
provision is practically unnecessary for them. A Sessions Court
also should have no dilliculty in getting its order for the delivery
of property to a speciticd person effected through its own officers.
We therefore promise to omit sub-section (2). 43.12. In section 517(3), the period of one month may
1»: increased to two ':=iontl'.s, since the period of limitation is
now more than one n*io.1t'n for certain criminal appeals. Though
in s1'-me case: it is ')8 days, an increase to two months will
sttllicc to enable :1 party aggrieved by an order passed under
~et 2 527(1) 0 obtain stay or modiﬁcation from the appellate
or rewisiorial Court. The appeal mentioned in section 517(3)
will include an independent appeal against the order regarding
disposal of property as well as an appeal in the main case. No
elaboration in this respect is necessary here. in view of the re-
«_:ratt of section we are proposing below. 43.13. Subwzcction (4) is put in a negative form and
states; that nothing in this section shall be deemed to pro-
hibit any Court from delivering any property etc. The object
is to enable a Cour: t) deliver the property to any person on
his furnishing sutﬁcient security to produce the property if and
when required. it appears. desirable to put this in the positive
tom). Since an order made under sub-section (1) is liable
to be modiﬁed or set aside in revision as well as on appeal, the
words "or in rcviscn" should he added at the end. 43.14. Section 518 empowers a Court, instead of inquiring
into the matter and passing a deﬁnite order under section 517
(1), to send on the property to the district Magistrate or to
Ll Sub--divisional Magistrate, and the latter is authorised to dis--
pose of the property in the manner provided in sections 523
to 525. Funcllt'-{ls under the latter sections are at present
exercisable by ExecU.ti'.'e as well as Judicial Magistrates, but
since these are c:sseiitialYy judicial functions, we are proposing
that the police should report any seizure of property to the
appropriate Judicial Magistrate and not to an Executive Magis- trate. Consequently. the delegation under section 518 should
also he to the Chief Judicial Magistrate instead of "to the

District Magistrate or to a Sub--divisional Magistrate". With
this change it i: clear that the delegation should be available
only to a Court of Session and not to any subordinate Court.
Instead o." a scnarate section, this provision for delegation
should properly he maﬁa in section 517 itself. -*§3.l5. It is nccoxlingly proposed that sections 517 and 518
iiigxjy ire C0i'Ilbl?'..".l and revised as follows :---~

"5l7. (l l Wlit;-n an inquiry or 3 trial in any Criminal
Court is concluded. the Court may make such order as it
thinks ﬁt for the disposal, by destruction. conﬁscation or
delivery to any' oerson claiming to be entitled to possession
thereof or othezrvrise, 0." 'any property or document pro-
duced before it or in its custody, or regarding which any
offence appears to have been committed. or which has
been used for the commission of any offence. Section 517 (3). Section 517 (4). Section 518. M.

Section 517 and
518 combined and
revised. Order for dispo- sal of property at
conclusion of
trial. Section 519. Section 520 con- ﬂict of decisions. Commissions'
view-independent
right of appeal
necessary. (2) An order may be made under sub-section (1) for
the delivery of any property to any person claiming to be
entitled to the possession thereof, without any condition
or on condition that he executes a bond, with or without
surities, to the satistaction of the Court, engaging to res-
tore such propcriy to the Court if the order made under
'sub-section (if; is modiﬁed or set aside on appeal or
revision. (3) A Court of Session may, instead of itself making
an order under sub-section (1), direct the property to be
delivered to the Chief Judicial Magistrate who shall there-
upon deal with it in the manner provided in sections 523,
524 and 525. (4) Except where the property is livestock or is sub-
ject to speedy and natural decay, or where a bond has
been executed in pursuance of sub-section (2), an order
made under sub-section (1) shall not be carried out for
two months. or when an appeal is presented, until such
appeal has been disposed of. (5) in this section, the term "property" includes, in
the case of property regarding which an offence appears
to have been committed, not only such property as has
been originally in the possession or under the control of
any party, but also any property into or for which the
same may have been converted or exchanged, and anything
acquired by such conversion or exchange, whether imme-
diately or otherwise." 43.16. No changes are required in section 519. 43.17. The language of section 520 is somewhat ambiguous,
and there is a conflict of judicial decisions1 on its interpretation.
One view is that no independent right of appeal is conferred
on any party against an order passed under any of the three
preceding sections, but where a regular appeal is ﬁled against
the judgment of the trial court, the appellate court, while dis-
posing of the appeal, may exercise the powers conferred on the
trial court by those sections. The other view is, that section
520 confers an independent right of appeal on a party aggrieved
by an order passed under those sections. irrespective of whether
the judgment of the trial court is or is not challenged in appeal.
There is a similar conﬂict of decisions? on the interpretation
of section 522(3). 43,172.. Y!' there was no intention to confer an independent
right of appeal on an aggrieved party, there would have been
no necessity to make -an express provision as in section 520.
Every appellate court has the power to pass consequential and
incidental orders by virtue of clause (d) of sub-section (1) of

1S'hnrfI((1'dz',»v V, Siraiud(I't'n. AIR. 1961 Orissa 121, 123. (Reviews
cases): S/ieodrzc v. Pir Dan, A.I.R. 1963 Pun. 167. 168 (Reviews cases): At the same time. if the main judgment or ﬁnal order in the
original case goes up in appeal or in revision or in a death
sentence case for conﬁrmation by the High Court, the Court of
appeal, conﬁrmation or revision should obviously have the same
powers. [From the practical point of view, it does not seem
necessary that a Court of reference should be included in section
520 or in sub--section (3) of section 522]. 43.19. In making this proposal we are conscious of the
awkwardness involved in two courts dealing with the same subject
which may happen in some cases. Thus, when an appeal
against the main judgment is pending before the appellate court
and the aggrieved party also ﬁles an appeal under section 520
against the order passed under section 517, it is to be expected
that both the appeals will be heard and disposed of by the same
court at the same time. This will avoid conflict of ﬁndings on
the main issues involved in the case. But it may sometimes
happen that the appeal under section 520 is heard after the main
appeal is disposed of. In the former appeal, the court will be
concerned solely with the correctness or otherwise of the order
for disposal of the property, and not with the ﬁndings of the trial
court in the main case. In any event, the appellate Court's order
for disposal of the property under section 517 or 519 cannot
affect the ﬁnality of the order of acquittal or conviction passed in

Proposal for _
altering section 520.

Possibility of two
courts dealing»
with the matter. Section 520
revised
Appeal against

orders under sec- tion 517 or 519. Section 521. Section 522 not to
apply where dis- possession is not
by force. Power to res- tore possession
after evicting by
force. the main case either by the trial Court or by the Court of appeal,
conﬁrmation or revision. Where a first class Magistrate passes an order of acquittal
and an order ior disposal of property under section 517. appeal
against the order of acquittal will be to the High Court, whereas
the appeal against the latter order will be to the Court of Session.
Again, where the Magistrate passes a non-appealable sentence,
it may be challenged in revision in the High Court, whereas the
order under section 517 will be challenged before the Court of
Session. In such contingencies, it should be left to the discre-
tion of the superior court concerned, (whether moved by the
parties or not), to pass appropriate orders with a view to avoid-
ing prejudice to any party till the ﬁnal disposal of all matters in
controversy. There are decided cases where principles have been
laid down for meeting these contingencies, and it will be inadvis-
able and also impracticable to incorporate them in section 520. 43.20. We accordingly propose that the existing section 520
be replaced by the following :-- 43.21. No changes are required in section 521. 43.22_ Under section 522 the Criminal Court is empowered
to restore possession of immoveable property to any person who
has been dispossessed of it by force, show of force or criminal
intimidation, A suggestion has been made to us that in many
cases possession is taken without use of force in the absence of
the original owner and consequently he cannot get the speedy
remedy provided for in section 522. We, however, consider that
the essential requirements laid down in the section before a Cri-
minal Court could order restoration of possession of immoveable
property ought not to be interfered with. because we feel that
any whittling down of these requirements is likely to result in
the misuse of the power. 43.23. While section 522 enables the Criminal Court to order
restoration of possession to the person who has been forcibly
dispossessed of the property, it does not indicate how exactly
this order is to be carried out. In the absence of an express
power to evict by force, if necessary, the person in actual pos-
session of the property, it appears that the order of the Court
under this section may remain ineﬁective. We think this defect
should be removed by a suitable amendment. 43.24. Sub-section (3) of section 522 provides that an order
under sub-section (1) may be made by any Court of appeal,
conﬁrmation, reference or revision. This is to meet cases where
the trial court has failed to make an order under sub-section (1)
and It appears to the Court of appeal or revision that such an
order ought to be made in the interests of iustice. There IS a
conﬂict of decisions as _to whether. the period oi one month from
the date of the conviction which is mentioned in sub-section (1)
also applies to the Court of appeal or revision} This conﬂict
should be set at rest by a slight i'e--wording of_ sub-section (3)
indicating; that the Court of appeal, conﬁrmation, reference or
revision may make such an order while disposing of the appeal,
reference or revision, as the case may be. 43.25. As in the case of orders for the disposal of property
under section 517 and 519, it is desirable that an independent
right of appeal should be conferred upon any person aggrieved
by an order made under section 522(1); so also the Court of
appeal, conﬁrmation or revision dealing with the main case
should have the power to modify. alter or annul an order made
by the trial court under this section. 43. 26. We accordingly propose that section 522 be revised 3.\
follows :-- the provisions of section 520 shall apply in relation thereto as
they apply in relation to an order made under section 519." 43. 27. Section 523(1) deals with two different matters. First
it lays down that seizure of property by a police-oﬂicer shall be
forthwith reported to a Magistrate in certain circumstances. and
then it goes on to provide for the disposal of such property by
the Magistrate. Seizure of property is to be reported by the police-oﬁicer
when it is either under section 51 upon searching an arrested
person, or under section 550 which empowers any police-officer
to seize any property which may be alleged or suspected to have

1(a) Ifari Sn/iu. A.l.R. 1951 Orissa 30; ( b) Krishmm v. Krisliiiakizthy, A.l.R. 1960 Kerala 348 cases). ( Reviews

When Court of

appeal may order
under sub-section
i' 3). Independent right
of appeal desir- able. Section 522
vised. TC- Power to restore
possession of
immovcable pro- P¢fY)'- Section 523

Section 524
amended. Section 525. been stolen or which may be found under circumstances which
create suspicion of the commission of any offence. There are
various other sections in the Code which also empower the police
to seize property, e.g., during the investigation of an offence, and
most of these provisions contain the requirement that the police-
Oﬁicer shonfd report the seizure to a Magistrate. It would there-
fore be better section 523(1) generally referred to all cases
where the seizure of property by a police-officer is reported to a
Magistrate and not only to seizure under sections 51 and 550.
Where such property is produced before any Criminal Court
during an inquiry or trial, it will be dealt with under sections
516A to 522. This class of property may be excluded from the
scope of section 523(1). This sub-section may accordingly be
revised as follows :-- ofﬁcer is reported to a Magistrate under the provisions
of this Code, and such property is not produced
before a Criminal Court during an inquiry or trial,
the Magistrate may make such order as he thinks
ﬁt respecting the disposal of such property or the
delivery of such property to the person entitled to
the poasession thereof, or if such person cannot be
ascertained, respecting the custody and production
of such property." 43. 28. Sub-section (1) of section 524 provides that where
no person is able to establish his claim to the pro erty or where
the person in whose possession the property was ound is unable
to show that it was legally acquired by him, the property shall be
at the disposal of the State Government and may be sold under
the orders of the Magistrate. Sub-section (2) further provides
that every order passed under this section shall be appealable.
From the wording of Sub-section (2) it seems that it is the order
of the Magistrate directing sale of the property that is made
appealable; whereas it is really the implied and antecedent direc-
tion of the Magistrate placing the property at the disposal of the
State Government that is, and has to be. appealable. After the
Magistrate has made a lawful order that the property shall be
at the disposal of the State Government, there is no need to pro-
vide expresslv that it may be sold under the orders of a Magistrate.
It is accordingly proposed that section 524 may be revised as
follows :-- 43.29. No changes are required in section 525. CHAPTER XLIV

TRANSFER OF CRIMINAL CASES

44.1. Sub-section (1) of section 526 sets out elaborately the
circumstances in which a High Court may order transfer of a
case or appeal from one subordinate Court to another or from
any subordinate Court to itself. In contrast, the analogous pro-
vision made in section 527(1) empowering the Supreme Court to
transfer criminal Cases and appeals is very simple: it may direct
transfer whenever it is "expedient for the ends of justice". Of the
ﬁve clauses in section 526(1), clause (c)--"that a view of the
place in or near which any offence has been committed may be
required for the satisfactory inquiry into or trial of the same"----
would seem to be a minor and unimportant matter, and in any
event covered by the more general provision in clause ((1). By
way of simpliﬁcation, clauses (c), (d) and (e) may be combined
as follows :-- venience of the parties or witnesses, or is expedient for the
ends of justice". With reference to clause (i) of sub-section (1), which en- ables the High Court to order that any offence be inquired into or ~

tried by any Court not empowered under section 177 to 184, a
controversy exists1 as to whether the High Court can order
transfer of a case from a Court which does not have jurisdiction
under those sections. There, however, seems to be no need to
alter wording of clause (i). In view of the abolition of commit- , men: proceedings as such, clause (iv) may be formally amended

to read-- While no changes of substance are required in sub-sections
(IA) to (7) of section 526, a few drafting changes and a more
logical re-arrangement of the provisions seem desirable. Sub-
sections (1) to (7) may be revised as follows :-- dient for the ends of justice,

1Pokker, A.I.R. 1950 Kerala 53 (Reviews cases).
33HA/69

Section 526-|ub- sections (1) to (7)
formally reviled. Power of High
Court to transfer
cases and appeals. it may order- (i) that any offence be inquired into or tried by any
Court not qualiﬁed under sections 177 to 184 (both
inclusive) but in other respects competent to inquire
into or try such oﬁences; (ii) that any particular case or appeal, or class of cases
or appeals be transferred from a Criminal Court sub-
ordinate to its authority to any such Criminal Court
of equal or superior jurisdiction; (iii) that any particular case be committed for trial to a
Court of Session; or (iv) that any particular case or appeal be transferred to
and tried before itself. (2) The High Court may act' either on the report of the
lower Court, or on the_application of a party interested, or on its
own initiative: 44.2. Section 526(8) is a peculiar provision whereby a subor-
dinate Court is obliged to stop all proceedings on the more inti-
mation by an interested party that he intends to apply to the High
Court for a transfer of the case. The principle that if an accused
person has reasonable cause to believe that he may not receive
a fair trial at the hands of a particular Judge, he should have
the right to have his case transferred to another Court is unob-
jectionable, as also the corollary that the proceedings should not
be continued while such an application for transfer is pending
before a higher Court. However, the provision for a mandatory
stay of the case on his mere intimation to the Court that he in-
tends so to apply has been subject to gross abuse. 44.3. This provision has come in for scrutiny and criticism
on several occasions. As far back as 1916, the Lowndes Com-
mittee which scrutinised the 1914 Bill to amend the Code
observed :-- '

"There is no doubt that some of the provisions of section
526 are subject to constant abuse, and that a party, against
whom a criminal case is apparently going, will frequently
apply for a transfer on manifestly insuﬂicient grounds. We
are also satisﬁed that advantage is frequently taken of the
section to obtain an adjournment which would otherwise be
refused, without the least intention of making any applica-
tion to the High Court. It is reported to us, for instance,
that in the Dacca Division during three years, adjournments
were obtained in no less than 125 cases in which no attempt
was made to move the High Court." That Committee was of the opinion that "pena1ising an im-
proper application" would put an end to the widespread abuse of
the provision. 44.4. This criticism by the Lowndes Committee was endorsed
by the Select Committee on the 1921 Bill to amend the Code. It
observed :-- Section 526 (8)
compulsory
adjournment on
application for
transfer. Lowndes
Committee': Section 526 A to

be omitted
obsolete. as 346 The section was amended in 1923 whereby a new sub-section,
(6A) was added giving the High Court power to order costs if
the application for transfer was found to be frivolous or vexa-
tious. 44.5. However, the expected improvement did not take place,
and a further amendment had to be resorted to in 1932. The
Statement of Objects and Reasons for the 1932 Bill mentioned
that "the practical working of this new procedure has been care-
fully observed by Government over a considerable period, and
they have come to the conclusion that it lends itself to grave abuse
and is calculated to defeat the ends of justice." In a judgment1 of
the Calcutta High Court, in was forcefully observed :-- The provision was amended is 1932, whereby sub-section (8)
was re-cast in more or less its present form and sub-section (6A)
was amended providing for payment of compensation not exceed-
ing Rs. 250/- to the opposite party if the application for transfer
was found to be frivolous or vexatious. '

44.6. These changes also have failed to improve the situation.
In fact, the amendment of 1955 giving the power of transferring
cases to Sessions Judges has naturally _led to an increase in the
number of transfer applications and consequent delay in the dis-
posal of a larger number of cases. Instances where after securing
adjournment applications for transfer are either not made or not
seriously pressed have not decreased in number. We are, there-
fore, of the opinion that sub-sections (8), (9) and (10) of section
526 which provide for a mandatory stay in trials and appeals
should be deleted. In their place, power should be given to the
Court hearing the application for transfer to stay the proceedings
in the lower court pending the disposal of the application. This
should not lead to any practical difficulties since, after the 1955
amendme-nt, most applications for transfer are ﬁled in the Sessions
Courts and stay could be obtained without delay. We would also
recommend that the maximum compensation that can be awarded
by a High Court under sub-section (6) should be raised from
Rs. 250/- to Rs. 1000/, and that a Sessions Court should be
empowered to award compensation upto Rs. 250/-. 44.7. Section 526A requires the High Court to transfer the
case for trial to itself, where any person subject to the Naval
Discipline Act, the Army Act or the Air Force Act is accused of
any such offence as is referred to in proviso (a) to section 41 of

1Neamat Shah, I.L.R. 59 Ca'.-. 482. the Army Act , and the Advocate-General applies for such trans-
'fer. The three Acts mentioned in this section are Acts of the
British Parliament which governed the British personnel serving
in India. The section has become obsolete after independence
and should be omitted. ,

44.8. Section 527 deals with the transfer of cases by the Sup-
reme Court. Sub-section (3) provides that the court to which
a case has been transferred under this section may act on the
evidence already recorded by the former court unless the accused
demands a re-trial. We do not think that any such special provi-
sion is required. Sub-section (3) may be omitted, so that the
position as regards re-trial of the case after a transfer by order
of the Supreme Court will be exectly the same as in a transfer
under any other provision of the Code. We considered the question whether a provision similar to section 25(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure (about the law
applicable to the transferred proceedings) should be inserted in
section 527. Since it is fairly clear that the substantive law ori-
ginally applicable to the case will continue to apply, no express
provision is necessary. 44.9. Under sub-section (1) of section 528 any Sessions Judge
may withdraw any case, or appeal from, or recall any case or
appeal which he has made over to, any Assistant Sessions Judge
subordinate to him. Earlier in this Report1 we have recommend-
ed that Assistant Sessions Judges need not exercise any appellate
jurisdiction. The mention of "appeal" in this sub-section may,
therefore, be omitted. 44.10. Sub-section (lC), inserted by the Amending Act of
1955, confers on Sessions Judges the power to transfer cases from
one Criminal Court to another Criminal Court in the same sessions
division whenever "expedient for the ends of justice." The Sessions
Judge may, however, act only on an application made to him in
this behalf by an interested party. The sub-section does not con-
tain any details of procedure similar to those contained in section 526.

We consider it desirable that a Sessions Judge should be
authorised to transfer cases, not only on the application of an
interested party, but also on the report of the lower Court or on
his own initiative. The procedural provisions contained in sec-
tion 526 should be applicable mutatis mutandis to applications
for transfer made to a Sessions Judge, should have the power to
order payment of compensation when he ﬁnds that the application
for transfer was frivolous or vexatious. The maximum amount
of such compensation may, however, be Rs, 250 instead of
Rs. 1,000. We have in an earlier Chapter proposed? that appeals from

~conviction_s'by Magistrates of the second class should lie to the
Chief Judicial Magistrate. In View of this proposal, it is desirable

that the Sessions Judge should have the power to transfer a parti- 1See para. 31.7 above. -2 See para. 31.5 above. Section 527 sub- section (3) omit- ted. Section 528 (1). Section 5282(1c). Section 528 (2). Section 528 (5). Section 528 (6). Section '528 re- vised and split
into ﬁve sections. Power of Sessions
Judge to transfer
cases and appeals 348 cular appeal from the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate to
himself, and decide the appeal. 44.11. Sub--section (2) of section 528 has to be read with
section 192 which empowers a District Magistrate or a Sub-divi-
sional Magistrate to transfer a case after taking cognizance of it
to another Magistrate subordinate to him. In our discussion1 of
the earlier section, we have recommended that section 192 should
be conﬁned to making over of cases relating to offences and pro-
vision for transferring other kinds of cases should be« placed
elsewhere. The proper place for such a provision would appear
to be in section 528. 44.12. Sub--section (5) of section 528 provides that a Magis- trate making an order under this section shall record his reasons- in writing for making the same. We consider that this provi-
sion, which is sound in principle, should apply equally to orders
of :1 Sessions Judge recalling, withdrawing or transferring a case
or appeal under this section. 44.13. Sub--section (6) of section 528 provides that the head?
of a village under the Madras Village--police Regulation, 1916, or
the Madras Village--police Regulation, 1821, is a Magistrate for
the purposes of this section. It appears that this provision is prac-
tically obsolete and can be omitted. 44.14. Section 528, as it stands, is a composite provision

dealing with dilferent classes of Courts and with two or three diffe-
rent matters. It is desirable to split it up into ﬁve sections as-
follows :-- minal Court to another Criminal Court in his sessions
division; (b) that any particular appeal be transferred from the
court of a Chief Judicial Magistrate in his sessions
division to his own court. '

(2) The Sessions Judge may act either on the report of the
lower Court, or on the application of a party interested, or on
his own initiative. (3) The provisions of sub-sections (3), (4), (5), (6), (7)
and (9) of section 526 shall apply in relation to an application to
the Sessions Judge for an order under sub-section (1) of this
section as they apply in relation to an application to the High
Court for an order under sub-section (1) of section 526, except
that sub-section (7) of that section shall so apply after substitut-
ing for the words "one thousand rupees" occurring therein, the
words "two hundred and ﬁfty rupees". 1See Dara. 15.83 above. 528A (1) A Sessions Judge may withdraw any case from,
or recall any case which he has made over to, any Assistant Ses-
sions Judge subordinate to him. (2) At any time before the trial of the case or the hearing of
the appeal has commenced before the Additional Sessions Judge,
a Sessions Judge may recall any case or appeal which he has made
over to any Additional Sessions Judge. (3) Where a Sessions Judge withdraws or recalls a case or
appeal under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), he may either
try the case in his own Court or hear the appeal himself, of make
it over in accordance with the provisions of this Code to another
Court for trial or hearing, as the case may be. 528B. (1) Any Chief Judicial Magistrate may withdraw any
case from, or recall any case which he has made over to, any
Magistrate subordinate to him, and may inquire into or try such
case himself, or refer it for inquiry or trial to any other such
Magistrate competent to inquire into or try the same. (2) Any Judicial Magistrate may recall any case made over by
him under sub-section (2) of section 192, to any other Magistrate
and may inquire into or try such case himself. 528C. Any District Magistrate or Sub-divisional Magistrate
may-- (a) make over any case, of which he has taken cogni-
zance, for inquiry to any Magistrate subordinate
to him; (b) withdraw any case from, or recall any case which
he has made over to, any Magistrate subordinate to
him, and inquire into such case himself or refer it for
inquiry to any other such Magistrate. 528D. A Sessions Judge or Magistrate making an order under
2 section 528, 528A, 528B or 528C shall record his reasons for

making it." Withdrawal of
cases and appeal!
by Sessions
Judges. Withdrawal of
cases by Jutﬂcinl
Magistrates. Making over or
withdrawal of
cases by Execu- tive Magistrates. Reasons to be
recorded. Introductory. Section 529. Section 530. ' Section 531. Section 532
omitted. Section 533
nature of evidence
that may be taken,

CHAPTER XLV
IRREGULAR PROCEEDINGS

45.1. Chapter 45 deals with the. effect of irregularities in pro-
cedure on the validity of the proceedings in which they occur.
The Code recognizes the principle that is-not every deviation from,
or neglect of, procedural formalities and technicalities that would
vitiate the proceedings of a Court. Broadly speaking, only irregu-
larities that have caused substantial prejudice to the accused will
render the proceedings invalid, whila minor or inconsequential
errors or omissions are considered curable. The Chapter contains
speciﬁc provisions saving irregularities on certain matters, as also a
residuary provision saving irregularites in general. At the same
time, there are certain provisions of the. Code which are considered
so vital that their disregard must vitiate a fair and proper trial
and, therefore, destroy the validity of the proceedings. 45.2. Section 529 enumerates the irregularities committed by
a Magistrate which do not vitiate the proceedings, where the
Magistrate erroneously, but in good faith, takes a proceeding
though not empowered to do so. No changes seem to be neces-
sary in this section. Though the speciﬁc enumeration of certain
proceedings naturally leaves out others, and may occasionally
cause diﬂiculties, it does not appear to be desirable to insert a
blanket provision saving all irregularities where no injustice has,
in fact beem caused. 45.3. Section 530 enumerates the irregularities which, when
committed by a Magistrate not empowered by law to do a particu-
lar thing, vitiate the proceedings. The section seems to need no
change. . 45.4. Section 531 saves the validity of a proceeding held in
a wrong place unless the error has in fact occasioned a failure
of justice. No changes are necessary in the section. 45.5. Section 532 validates irregular commitments in certain
circumstances. 'In view of the proposed abolition of commitment
proceedings, this section will be rendered unnecessary and may
be omitted. 45.6. Section 533 provides that if the Court before which a
statement or confession of the accused person purporting to be
recorded under section 164 and section 364 is tendered in evi-
dence, ﬁnds_that any of the provisions of such sections have not
_been complied with by the Magistrate recording the statement,
it shall "take evidence that such person duly made the statement
_recorded''. This expression seems to have created some difﬁculty
in interpretation, as is evidenced by the conﬂicting decisions of the
various Courts. One has to distinguish between two questions, (1) whether the
confession or_ other statement was "duly made", that is to say,
made after giving the necessary warning and after putting the re- \

35 1 -quired questions under section 164 , and (ii) whether the confes-
sion or other statement, duly made, was properly recorded. In the: first case, section 533 should not apply, because, to
apply the section in such cases would defeat the very object of

' sections 164 and 364, thereby depriving the accused of a bene- ﬁcial provision on a matter on which the law has always shown
its anxious concern. It is only the second kind of defect----defect
in recordingv--that should be curable. The Magistrate should
have complied with the substantial provisions of section 164 , and
there can be no saving for a non-compliance on that account. If
such compliance is not apparent from the record, it can be proved
«otherwise. That is all that section 533 is intended to provide for. As observed by the Supreme» Court'------ 45.7. We would, therefore. recommend that sub--section (1)
of section 533 be amended as follows to clarify that the evidence
given should relate to the apparent non-compliance with the statu_
tory provisions :-- ' 45.8. It may be noted in this connection that the effect of
irregularities in the recording of a confession on its admissibility
in evidence is also dealt with in section 29 of the Evidence Act.
This section which saves inter alia the omission to warn the accus-
ed as provided for in» section 164 of the Code seems to run
counter to the principle underlying section 533 as explained above,

1StaIe of U.P. v. Singhara Single , (1964) 4 S.C.R. 385; A.I.R. 1964
'S. C. 358 at page 362. Sub-section (1)
amended to cla- rify the position. \

Section 533 of
the Code andsec- tion 29 of the Evidence Act . Section 535 ex- panded and re- vised. Eﬁect of omission
to frame, or
absence of,

or error in,
charge. This has given rise to some diﬂiculty in deciding the admissibility
of such confessions, resulting in a number of conflicting de-
cisionsl. The cause of the trouble may be traced to the omission
to amend section 29 of the Evidence Act when section 164(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code was amended in 1923. The

matter will have to be considered when the Evidence Act comes. up for revision. 459. Section 535 deals with the effect of omission to frame
a charge while clause (b) of section 537 deals with the effect of
"any error, omission or irregularity in the charge, including any
misjoinder of charges". The same matter is also dealt with in
section 232 which provides that if any appellate Court or the
High Court in the exercise of its powers of revision or conﬁrma-
tion is of the opinion that the absence of a charge or an error in
the charge has misled the accused in his defence, it shall order a-
re-trial. The section also provides that if the facts proved in the
case are such that no valid charge can be proved against the
accused, the Court shall quash the conviction. We recommend
that sections 232, 535 and 537(b) which deal with the same sub-
ject, should be combined into one. We are also of the opinion
that a re--trial should not be mandatory as at present. In several'
reported cases, Courts have» in the interests of justice refrained
from ordering a re-trial, as for instance, when the accused had
already undergone sufficient punishment2 or when the evidence
was considered insufﬁcient to support a conviction.3 It would be
better to make the provision for ordering retrial discretionary so
that a Court could pass an order appropriate in the particular
circumstances of a case. Section 535 may accordingly be ampliﬁed and revised as
follows :--- ed, it may,--- (a) in the case of an omission to frame a charge, order
that a charge be framed and that the trial be re---
commenced from the point immediately after the
framing of the charge; (b) in the case of an error, omission or irregularity in
the charge, direct a new trial to be had upon a
charge framed in whatever manner it thinks ﬁt; 1 Rangappa v. State, A. I. R. 1956 Bombay 285; Bala Majhi v. State,
A. I. R. 1951 Orissa 168; Karurhambi, A. I. R. 1951 Madras 579; Vella,
Mauji, A. I. R. 1932 Madras 431. 9See Hdsseni Sardar v. Kalu Sardar (1902), I. L. R. 29 Cal. 481, 482

3Nemain Adak v. State, A.I.R. 1966 Calcutta 89. . Provided that if the Court is of opinion that the facts of
the case are such that no valid charge could be. preferred
against the accused in respect of the facts proved, it shall
quash the conviction." 45.10. Section 536 which relates to jury trials may be deleted. 45.11. Section 537 is a general provision regarding irregula-
rities in complaints, summons, Warrants, orders, judgments and
other proceedings. Clauses (c) and (d) which relate to jury
trials may be deleted. Clause (b) has been incorporated in the
revised section 535(1). The rest of section 537 may be revised
as follows :-- gularity in any proceeding under this Code has occasioned a
failure of justice, the court shall have regard to the fact
whether the objection could and should have been raised at
an earlier stage in the proceedings." _ 45.12. Section 538 provides that no attachment shall be
illegal on account of any defect in the proceedings. No change
is necessary here. Section 536. omitted. Section 537

Finding or sen- tence when re- versible by rea- son of error,
omission or irre- gularity. Section 538,

introductory. Sections 539 and
.539 AA(1). 'Section 539A and
section 539AA(2)

CHAPTER XLVI

MISCELLANOUS

46.1. The last Chapter of the Code is a real hotch-potch and
deserves the title 'Miscellaneous'. A number of provisions rele-
gated to this Chapter could more appropriately and quite easily
have been put in earlier Chapters along with connected or ana-
logous sections. 46.2, Section 539 lists the persons before whom aﬂidavits and
aﬂirmations to be used before any High Court or any oﬂicer of
a High Court may be sworn or affirmed, Then section 539AA(1)
provides that an aﬂidavit to be used before any Court, other than
a High Court, under section 510A (evidence of a formal charac-
ter) or under section 539A (evidence regarding conduct of public
servants), may be sworn or affirmed in the manner prescribed in
section 539 or before any Magistrate. According to one view,1 section 539A(1) does not cover
affidavits under section 145 since they are not of a formal cha-
racter so as to fall under section 510A, A Magistrate also does
not seem to possess a general power to administer oath to any
person who wishes to swear an aﬂidavit before him. The provi-
sions of section 4 of the Indian Oaths Act, 1873, do not confer
such a power? In an earlier Report,3 the Law Commission has
suggested an amendment of this Act for this purpose. We see
no good reason why section 539AA(1) should be limited in its
scope, nor why there should be two separate and slightly different
provisions for the High Court and other Courts on this sub-
ject

As regards the authorities referred to in section 539, the
Clerk of the State, Commissioners to administer oaths in England
or Ireland and Magistrates authorised to take afﬁdavits or aﬂir-
mations in Scotland should obviously be omitted. On the other
hand, it is desirable to add notaries as they have been expressly
authorised by law to administer oaths.' We note that a sugges-
stion to add notaries in the Code of Civil Procedure was rejected
by the Law Commission in its earlier Report5 on that Code on
the ground that the matter should be left to be dealt with 'by the
High Court under section 139 of that Code. We would, how-
ever, prefer to mention notaries expressly in the Code of Crimi-
nal Procedure. 46.3, While no change is required in sub-section (1 )of section
539A (regarding afﬁdavits in proof of the conduct of public
servants), there is no reason why the provisions in sub-section

1Hemdan V. State, A.I.R. 1966 Rai. 5. 2 Wahid v. State AIR. 1963, All. 256; Nandlal Ghose V. Emperor 354.
A.I.R. 1944 Cal. 283. 328th Report on the Oaths Act. page 25. '4 Section 8(1)(a) , Notaries Act, 1952 (53 of 1952). 527th Report, page 125. 3*" able in rclation to all aﬂidavits and all Courts. These _two general
provisions relating to aﬂidavits may be put together In the same
section. 4-6.4. We propose accordingly that sections 539, 539A and
539AA be combined and revised as follows :-- rately, such facts as the deponent is able to prove from his
own knowledge and such facts as he has reasonable ground
to believe to be true, and in the latter case, the deponent
shall clearly state the grounds of such belief. (3) The Court may order any scandalous and irrelevant
matter in the affidavit to be struck out 'or amended. 539A. When any application is made to any Court in
the course of any inquiry, trial or other proceeding under
this Code, and allegations are made therein respecting any
public servant, the applicant may give evidence of the facts
alleged in the application by affidavit, and the Court may,
if it thinks ﬁt, order that evidence relating to such facts be
so given." These two sections should be put in the Chapter relating to the
taking of evidence. 46.5. Sub-section (1) of section 539B empowers any Judge
or Magistrate to visit and inspect any place "for the purpose of
properly appreciating the evidence given at the inquiry or trial".
Whenever he does so, he is required to record without delay "a
memorandum of any relevant facts observed at such inspection".
While it may not always be possible to draw a sharp distinction
between "relevant facts" and impressions or opinion formed by a
Judge at a local inspection, the requirements of the section are
fairly clear. The purpose of the inspection, as indicated in the
sub--section, is neither unduly restrictive nor unduly lax. No
change is required in the sub-- section,

46 .6. The proviso to section 539B(2) relating to jury trial
will have to be omitted. . 46.7. With reference to section 540A, it was suggested during
our discussion that there should be a provision for continuing
the proceedings in the absence of the accused in cases where he
persistently disturbs the proceedings and has therefore to be kept
out. If such an accused is represented by. counsel, it is possible

Authorities be- fore whom aili- davits may be
sworn. Affidavits in proof
of conduct of
public servants. Section 539B(l). Section 539B(2). Section 540A. Section 541(3). Section 542. Section 543. Section 544. Section 545. Section 546 A 356 for the Court, even under the present section, to proceed with
the inquiry or trial in the absence of the accused person. Cases
of extreme contumacious behaviour on the part of accused per-
sons are extremely rare and we do not therefore think it necessary
to make a special provision for those cases. This section and the two preceding sections could well be
included in the Chapter on general provisions as to inquiries and
trials. 46.8. In section 541(3), the references to sections 341 and
342 of the former Code of Civil Procedure should be replaced
by " section 58 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, or section
23 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, as the case may
be." 46.9. We have earlier in this Report recommended1 that this
section may be omitted. 46.10. Section 543 which lays a, duty on every interpreter to
interpret truthfully is a general provision relating to the taking
and recording of evidence and should be included in the appro- priate Chapter. 46.11. No change is required in section 544 which provides
for payment by Government of the reasonable expenses of com-
plainants and witnesses. As a general provision relating to in-
quiries and trials, this section could be put in Chapter 24. 46.12. Under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 545,
the Court may direct "payment to any person of compensation
for any loss or injury caused by the oﬂence when substantial
compensation is, in the opinion of the Court, recoverable by
such person in a, Civil Court". The signiﬁcance of the require-
ment that compensation should be recoverable in a Civil Court
is that the act which constitutes the offence in question should
also be a tort. The word "substantial" appears to have been
used to exclude cases where only nominal damages would be
recoverable, We think it is hardly necessary to emphasise this
aspect, since in any event it is purely within the discretion of the
Criminal Courts to order or not to order payment of compensa-
tion, and in practice they are not particularly liberal in utilising
this provision. We propose to omit the word "substantial" from
the clause. 46.l2a. Section 546A applies only to complaint cases where
the accused is convicted of a non-cognizable oﬂence. In such
cases, the Court may, in addition to the penalty imposed on
the accused, order him to pay to the complainant the fee paid
on the petition of complaint and the process fee for summoning
witnesses and the accused. These fees are small amounts com-
pared to the total expenses properly incurred by the complainant
in prosecuting the offender. We consider that the Court should
have the power to award full costs. Sub-section (1) of section
.546A may be revised to read as follows 2-- may in addition to the penalty imposed upon him, order
him to pay to the complaint in whole or in part the cost
incurred by him in the prosecution, and may further order
that in default of payment, the accused shall suffer simple
imprisonment for a period not exceeding thirty days. Such
costs may include any expenses incurred in respect of process
fees, witnesses and pleader's fees which the Court may consi-
der reasonable.''1 »

46.13. Section 549(1) refers to "the Army Act, the Naval
Discipline Act, the Indian Navy (Discipline) Act, 1934, and
the Air Force Act ", all of which are no longer in force. This
may be substituted by "the Army Act, 1950 , the Navy Act,
1957 and in the Air Force Act, 1950 " which are relevant Acts
now in force,

The sub--section refers to "commanding olﬁcer of the regi-
ment, corps. ship or detchment, to which he (the accused)
belongs". As suggested by the Ministry of Defence, it is proposed
that after the word "ship" the word "unit" should be added in
order to include the basic organisation of the Air Force. The Ministry of Defence have also suggested that an expla-
nation be added to the effect that Court-martial includes a dis-
ciplinary Court constituted under section 95 of the Navy Act,
1957 and also a summary trial by the commanding oﬂicer of the
ship under section 93(2) of that Act. This suggestion appears to
proceed on a misconception of the object of section 549. Every
offence triable under the Navy Act may, according to section
93(1) , be tried and punished by Court--martiall; and under sec-
tion 549(1) of the Code the Central Government has the power
to make such rules as may be appropriate for the Navy con-
sistent with the provisions of the Navy Act . No change ap-
pears to be necessary in section 549 on this point. 46.14. In our Report? on the law relating to attendance of
prisoners in Courts we had recommended that clause (d) of sec-
tion 491(1) be omitted and the provision incorporated in a modi-
ﬂed form in section 549. The following sub-section may accord-
ingly be added to this section--- 46.15. We have in an earlier Chapter3 recommended that
sections 550 and 552 should be put in Chapter VII of the Code
as sections 104A and 100A respectively. 46.16. Section 553 provides for compensation to "persons
groundlessly given in charge in presidency-toWns". Where any
person causes a police-oﬂicer in a presidency--town to arrest an-
other person and it appears to the Magistrate by whom the case is
heard that there was no sulﬁcient ground for causing the arrest,

1 Cf. section 148(3) . 2Fortieth Report, para. 29. 'See paras. 7.9 and 7.10 above. Section 549 (1)
amended. Provision for

securing atten- dance of a priso- ner before a
Court-martial. Sections 550 and 552.

Section 553. Section 554 omit- ted in view of Article 227. Section 555
amended. Section 557. Section 558. Section 559(2). the Magistrate can order payment of compensation as provided
in the section. The section is at present conﬁned to arrests in
presidency--towns but we think that it is a salutary provision and
should be extended to all places. Accordingly sub-section (1) of
section 553 may be amended by omitting the words "in a presi-
dency-town". 46.17. The subject-matter of section 554 is fully covered by
clauses (2) and (3) of Article 227 of the Constitution under which
every High Court has power to call for returns, mak: and issue
general rules and prescribe forms for regulating the practice and
proceedings of courts etc. This Article applies also to Courts
of Judicial Comrnissioners} ection 554 is therefore redundant

and may be omitted. 46.18. Consequentially, in section 555, the reference to sec-
tion 554 may be omitted. 46.19. Section 557 prohibits a pleader practising in a crimi-
nal court from "sitting as a Magistrate" in that court or in any
court subordinate to that court. Practically this prohibition is
in relation to pleaders appointed as honorary Magistrates. The
section enables a pleader practising in the civil courts to accept
such an appointment and function as a Magistrate. The words
"in a prgsidency-town or district" are superﬂuous and may be

omitted from the section. 46.20. Under section 558, the State Government may deter-
mine whit shall be the language of each Criminal Court in the
State other than a High Court (not being the Court of a Judicial
Commissioner), The analogous provision of Civil Courts is con-
tained in section 137 of the Civil Procedure Code. Some States
have issued notiﬁcations under section 558 determining the lan-
guage of subordinate Criminal Courts. Although article 345 of
the Constitution specially empowers the legislature of a State to
determine by law what language shall be used for all or any of
the official purposes of the State, there does not appear to be
any real conﬂict between that article and section 558 of the
Code. As a pre-existing law, this section has been continued
in force by article 372 of the Constitution "until repealed, altered
or amend.d by a competent legislature". No change of substance
is necessary in the section, but as a formal amendment, for the
words "territories administered by such Government", the word
"State" may be substituted. 46.21. Sub-section (2) of section 559 requires to be formally
revised as follows :-- sor in office of such Magistrate." '1--9510See the Judicial Commissioners (Declaration as High Courts) Act,

».i\ 359 46.22. Section 561 contains two special provisions with res-
pect to the oftence of rape where it is committed by a man on
his wife. Under sub-section (1) only a Chief Presidency Magis-
trate or District Magistrate is oompetent to take cognizance of
the offence and to commit the man for trial, if necessary, to the
Court of Session. Under sub-section (2), when a police investi-
gation is ordered, no police--oﬂicer of a rank below that of a
police-inspector may take part in the investigation. The object
of these special provisions appears to have been to prevent harass-
ment by uniriendly neighbours, but considering that prosecutions
for this olfence have been extremely rare, these special provi-
sions appear to be practically unnecessary We propose that the
section may be omitted. 46.23. Section 561A recognises the inherent power of the
High Court to do real and substantial justice between parties.
Assuming its existence, the section provides that nothing in the
Code shall be deemed to limit or affect the inherent power of the
High Court to give effect to any order under the Code (whether
made by itself or by a subordinate Court) or to prevent abuse
of the process of any Court (including subordinate Courts) or
otherwise to secure the ends of justice. In an earlier Report} the Law Commission observed 1- We agree with this recommendation. We do not, however,
consider it necessary or desirable to go further and recognise an
"inherent power" in Courts of Session and other Courts of Appeal
to pass appropriate orders to prevent the abuse of the process of
any subordinzttc Court. We pmpos: that the section may be expanded as follows :-- 46.24. With reference to the provE:~:;> ta s..:tioz1 532(1) we

:'i"',';Vi358'3 c:"_$_f:§jl have in an carli-.-r Chapter' recommended that section 380 may
" "" "be acidcd to this prut-use wi.h which i: is ir.*.r.'.:di.iteEy c=.1:meeted_

Section 562 (IA)
amended. Section 565. The reference to ; have to he omit: : .9
'Ti:.:: proviso ma;: .3. ' '=:Lra»*.cs of the t':.i=-.i c. ; E ; the p:'.,=.:i;g wiii
......;: this cl';s= ;' I~.'ic--E. t.-.:'..:: is to be abolished.
revised to r=:z::i as i'u?;ows :-- sible to release a ﬁrst offender after admonition only in the case
of certain offences punishable under the Indian Penal Code . It
has been stated' that Courts very often release ﬁrst oﬁenders after
admonition in tty cases under various laws other than the Indian
Penal Code , a though this is not strictly covered by section 562.
In principle, however; "there is no reason why section 562 should
not apply also to other laws. We accordingly propose that the
words "under the Indian Penal Code " may be omitted from sub-
section (IA). Occasionally doubts have been raised whether an offence
punishable only with ﬁne is covered by the . expression "any
offence punishable with not more than two years' imprisonment".
Although the Courts' have answered this question in the aftirma-
tive, it seems desirable' to make the position clear by adding the
words "or with ﬁne only" after the words "not more than two

years' imprisonment". 46.26. Section 565 empowers the Courts to order previously
convicted offenders to notify their place of residence and any
change of, or absence from, such residence after their release.
As the section is at present worded, it has been held' that it does
not apply to persons convicted of attempts. abetments and con-
spiracies to commit any of the otfences listed». in clause (a) of

15:: non. 21.11 '
S. _No. 11(Shri N. C. Glaﬂcﬂﬂ. Ghole Lnlﬂu (b)

above. 9 F.3(2)/S5-LC. Pt. IL
Cnlcllth). ' , _ ,
use; Emperor v. Manchcrdnw,,A.I.l,L 1935 Born. I56.
4Do:uiaviuny, A. I. L 1942 Mad. 521., 361 section 565(1). It is obviously desirable that the section should - apply also to such persons. Clause (b) of the section is prac-
tically obsolete because of lapse of time and may be omitted.
?u'b-section (1) cl section 565 may accordingly be revised as
olows :- I 1 (iii) an abeunent of, or attempt to commit, 0f'c0nspiracy

to commit, any of the aforesaid offences.'

I

Five-fold
classiﬁction
under the
Second Schedule. Omission of
columns 4 and 6
recommended. Cognizabllity of

otfences under
column 3. Offences against

State to be cog- nizable,

Oifence under
section 324 should
be cogmzable. CHAPTER XLVll

CLASSIFILKXTION OF OFFENCES IN
SCHEDULE

THE SECOND 47.}. The Second Schedule to the Code classiﬁes offences
under the lndian Penal Code and also offences against other
lavas; from five stand--points. The Schedule has to be referred
to for ascertaining---- (ii whether an offence is cognizable or non-cognizable
(column 3); (ii) whether a summons or a warrant shall ordinarily
issue in the ﬁrst instance (column 4); (iii) whether an offence is bailable or not (column 5); (iv) whether an offence is compoundable or not (column 6); and

(V) by what Court an offence is triable (column 8). 47.2. We have recommended1 in Chapter 17, while discussing
section 204, that column 4 of the Second Schedule may be dis-
pensed with by providing in section 204 itself that in all sum-
mons-cases, a summons should ordinarily issue in the first instance
and in at warrant-case, a warrant. We consider that since the
correct position regarding the compoundability of an oﬂence can
be readily ascertained by looking up section 345, there is no
need for repeating this information in a tabular form in column 6
of the Second Schedule. The ommission of these two columns
will simplify the Schedule to some extent. 47.3. Column 3 of the Schdeulc indicates the offences for
which the police may arrest without warrant and the offences for
which a warrant of arrest must be obtained by them. On a
detailed scrutiny of the Schedule we ﬁnd the present classiﬁcation
to be generally sound in principle, and have few changes to
propose. 47.4. One such change is in regard to offences against the
State speciﬁed in Chapter VI of the Indian Penal Code . It is
curious that. in spite of the fact that all of them are grave offences
punishable with heavy sentences and, except in two cases, triable
exclusively by the Court of Session, they are made non--cognizable
under the Schedule. We are unable to see any real justiﬁcation
for this and recommend that, with these two exceptions (viz.,
sedition punishable under section 124A and the minor offence
punishable under section 129 ), offences under this Chapter -:.hould he cogznizable. 47.5. it has been suggested that the offence of voluntary
Causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means punishable under
section 324 of the Code need not be a cognizable offence since
it is compoundable with the permission of the Court and the- 1 See para 17.3. above. Y 363 maximum punishment for it is only three years' imprisonment.
The actual injury caused might not be serious, but having regard
to its potentialities, it is clearly an oﬂfence for which the police
should have the power to act promptly to prevent serious con-
sequences. in our opinion, the offence is rightly made cogniz~
able. 47.6. We have e-sznsidered a suggestion from :1 lTlCl'C;%.l1tl1C
Association of Calcutta that the fraudulent disposals of property
punishable under setsiions 421 and 422 of the Indian Penal Code should be made cogziizzzivle. lt is said that these oflcnces are
steadily increasing and persons purchasing goods on credit are
taking undue advantage of the system of sale on credit and
defrauding their creditors. While there may be a case for increas-
ing the punishment provided in the Penal Code (now two years
punishment or ﬁne or both), we do not think business morality
is likely to be improved merely by making the offence
cognizablc. The offences are in the nature of things difficult to
investigate by the ordinary police and the result of making them
cognizable may well be a spate of false or exaggerated complaints
and undue harassment by the police at the instance of jealous
business rivals. For similar reasons, we consider that the
offences of forgery and counterfeiting trade and property marks
described in sections 465 to 477A of the Code should remain
non-ccgnizable. 47.7. The offence of enticing away a married woman for
illicit purposes punishable under section 498 of the Indian Penal
Code is, in our view, quite rightly a non-cognizable offence. It
stands on a diﬁerent footing from kidnapping or abduction which
are cognizable offences. 47.8. A State Government has suggested that the offence of
intentionally insulting the modesty of a woman by word or
gesture punishable under section 509 of the Penal Code, should
be made cognizable so that in the changed social circumstances
of the day, when women are coming out in larger numbers and
taking greater part in various professional and business acti-
vities, they may have a sense of security. The States of Madhya
Pradesh, Maharashtra and Mysore have already amended this
item in the S:cond Schedule making the offence cognizable. We
agree that the amendment should be made in the Code so as to
be of all--l'ndia application. 47.9. The classiﬁcation in column 5 of the Second Schedule
is of bailable and non-bailable offences. We do not think that
any changes are required in this column. 47.10. The last column of the Schedule shows the Court
by which 5:1 offence is triable. It will be noticed that against a
number of oitences, the entry in column 8 reads, "Court of
Session, Presidency Magistrate or Magistrate of the first class",
and evzn "Court cf Session. Presidency Magistrate or Magistrate
of the ﬁrst or second class". Since it is clear from section 28 that any offence under the Indian Penal Code may be tried by
the Court of Sessions, whether it is expressly mentioned in
column 8 or not, it is suﬂicient to mention the Court of Session

Fraudulent dis- position of pro- perty, forgery and
counterfeiting
trade and pro- perty marks to
remain non-cog- nizable. Offence under
section 498
should be
non-cognizable

Offence under
section 509 to be
cogmzablc. No change in

column 5. Nature of changes
proposed in
column 8. in that column against those offences which are triable exclu-
sively by that Court. After a careful scrutiny of the Schedule we
have considsrably reduced the number of entyies in which the
Court of Sesdon ﬁgures in the last column. This will have the
effect of transferring some of the work which now goes up to
the Sessions Court on commitment to the Courts of Magistrate
which, under our proposals, will have enlitrnscd powers of
punishment. We have also deleted all rsfereaces to Presidency
Magistratc.;, since in metropolitan areas, the Mcimpolitan Magis-
tratcs will be competent to try all offences triab'e by any Judicial
Magistrate, whether of the ﬁrst class or of the second, in a
district. 47.11. The changes proposed by us are indicated below: Sections 246 to 263------Court of Session may be omitted for
offences in this group where the maximum punishment is 7
years. The offence under section 251 which is punishable
with 10 years' imprisonment may be triable exclusively by
the Court of Session. Section 26 '3A------May be triable by any Magistrate since
the offence is punishable with ﬁne of Rs. 200. Section 292--Any Magistrate should have jurisdiction to
try this offence. No doubt, it is sometimes difficult to decide
whether a publication is obscene; but in the bulk of cases 365 instituted there is no doubt about the nature of the publica-
tion.' - S.':t.'tion 2=)5--An;.- Magistrate should have jurisdiction to
tr;.- this offence which is punishable with 2 years' imprison-
m-. Ell. S;-ction 2')5A--At present, triable by "Court of Ses~ion
or l'.-.-sidency .\l.:'_=i~'.-.ttc". Should be tri'.:b'e bv ".\lag|s'r.-te
oi the lirst class." actions 3|? am! 3l8--Th:se may be triable by Magis-
t.r::._- oi the first class. Reference to the Court of Session
will be omitted. Sections 333. 345 and 346---Considering 'he nature these
oife.:.:cs and the punishment provided for them triable by
Magistrate of t':..: lirs-. class only. Section 363:1, first pan--Court of Sessicn may be omitted,
and the offence may be triable by Magistrate of the first class. .51-t.'tt'un 3(~';'--Court of Session or Magistrate of the first
cla- . accordin; as the offence of kidnapping or abduction
is t i.b!c, should have jurisdiction. .'.':-'t'tt'0n 37'] and 373--Thcse two grzlve offences should
be t:'.:=.b!c cxci.:~.ivclv by the Court of S-:.~:.~i.'".. S' ction 375. I'i.'.v: part-- The off.-race «!mul.l be made triable
ex.-:..»ively by the Court of Session t_ like the iilfer-:e u-:der
the 4.-cond an-.! third parts of the sccti-in), even thnugh the
ni:::imum' punishment is 2 years only. .S"'cti0n 377--Cou't of Session may be omitted. Though
the maximum punishment is l0 years. only a light punish-
meat is nw.trd:d in practice. Sections 386 to 389--These are non-ccgnizzbfe offences,
and a'though the punishment is 7 years or 10 years and in
two ir~t:mces: may be impri~onment for lif:, we propsse that
the-: m -._v be tried by Magistrate of the ﬁr~t cl.:ss (ordinarily
th-.- ("xicf J-.:.l':i,rl Magistrate) instead of the Court of

'7 --tinn.s- 406 and 408----Shou|d be triable by Magi .trate
of =' .- .'i.rs:'. c':tss only. _<.' rsions J30 and 432--Should be triable by Magistrate of
the .":-st cla ~; --nlv, second class Magistrates mav be omitted. 8' r.'.'n.-z 4.'-l--l'ir.t part should be triable by any Magis-
tr :- .md seennd part. for which the punishment may go up

to .5'! rears. b-.' -'=f:r.'i~"rntc of the first class. -21- I--- !)iw.m (':--».m n |al"s siIi.;_r:oost:.t I-vi I:-'e"seI:=t Ci»:- Sections 465 to 477A----Most of the ollenccs are triable
exclusively by the Court of Session, but they are non--cogniz-
able. In order to reduce the pressure on the Court of Session,
we propose that all offences under this Chapter may be
triable by Magistrate of the first class. Serious or compli-
cated cases will be tried by the Chief Judicial Magi:tr::t3. 5ec'I1'0rz 505------May be triable by any .'vlagistr2.t:, since
the punishment is only 2 years. Section 509---As the maximum punishment is one year,
any .\/lagistrate should be competent to try it. 47.12. The latter part of the Schedule dealing with otfences
under other laws puts them in four groups according to the
severity of the punishment prescribed for the olfence. Since the
third Class of Magistrates is to be abolished, the last two groups
will have to be combined. In the third group, offences punish-
able with more than one ycar's but less than three years' impri-
sonment, the Court of Session is mentioned as one of the Courts
competent to try the offence. We propose to omit the mention
of Court of Session here. Under section 28 , the Court of
Session does not get automatic jurisdiction so far as Offences
under other laws are concerned, but this would not be material
in practice. In the first group, we propose, to exclude offences punishable
with imprisonment which may extend to seven years. These
would go into the next group, so that they might be rriable
either by a Court of Session or a Magistrate of the first class.
The last group of os"erices----those punishable with imprisonment
for less than 3 years or with ﬁne only--w0uld be txiable by any
Magistrate. In the second group of offences under column 5 (whether
bailable or not), we propose to omit the exception which reads
"except in cases not relating to ﬁre arms under the Indian Arms
Act, 1878, section 19 , which shall be bailable". The proper
place for this exception is in the Arms Act, 1959 , which has
replaced the Arms Act of 1878. ,--. \

CHAPTER XLVIII
C£)IVCK,USiON

4%.'. We haw: cnizie to the end of our deta'-led study of the
{TM-.. in the course of which we have made rtiiiierous recom-
ions for its impmvement, raiiging from V'C:'i'=3l changes
EiCLi to remove zi:r¥:)ig.tuitie.s and cl:n'ifyin_i__r iizitlcrlyiiig ideas.
. ..t;mtial changes in pmcedu;'v.- with a view to its Sin'1pllC£1-
tion ar-.d the avoidance of delay. The object of the Code is to

 
 

ensure that an accused person gets a full and 'fair trial along
eatznt; weli--:stahlishe(_': and -.veli-understood line» that accord

with our notions. of natural iustice. it mav be said that by iziying
down detailed rules of proeedure for meeting every possible
contingency. the Code m21l('_'f~' one lose sight of the main objec-
tive, but it is olyviouslv not so. As observed iij.' Justice Vivian
Bose the Supreine Court.'

"The Code is cmphatie that whatever the irregu-
lnrity, it is not to be regarded as fatal unless there
is prejudice. It is the substance that we must seek.
Courts have to administer justice. and justice in-
cludes the pttnislzment of guilt just as much as the
protection. of innocence. Neither can be done if the
shadow is mistaken for the substance and the goal is
lost in a labyrinth of unsubstantial technicalities.
Broad vision is required, a nice balancing of the
rights of the State and protection of society in gene-
ral against 'J'Ct('CfiOY1 from harassment to the indivi-
dual and 172:' risks of unjust conviction." revising the

We have kept t' '3j:tttives in View while

Code. -48.2. We do wit
suninnry of all the

~:3lEl3t' it necessary to give a complete
~; inmendations made in the foregoing
pages. We have indie: ' in each Chapter of this Rcnort. corres-
ponding' to a Chapter ' the Code, the provisions which should
be made in lieu of, or in addition to. the existins: provisions, and
also the amendments. both mziior and minor. to be made in them.
The znain changes proposed by us are set out below in broad

outline :--- (1) The extent clause should state the factual position,
viz., that the Code extends to the whole of India
except the State of Jammu & Kashmir, the State of

 
 

Nagaland and the Tribal Areas in the State of
Assam. (2) Steps should be taken to have the sitrne Penal

Code and Criminal. Procedure Code operating in
Iammu & Kashmir as the rest of India. (3) The jurisdiction of Criminal Courtd in relation to
territorial waters should be clariﬁed. /i-liiililie (William) Slaney v. The State of Mtidlzya Prades.hi,W(l955)
2 SCR. 1140. 1168. Ob}'CC.ll\ 9 0 ;'c. 'vi<.ion

Summary oi main
changes
proposed. _ ,,,:,, ,'..7F,,,-Yv: gi tion of Judicial Magistrates at sub-divisioiial 
 i ' quarters,; Additional Chief Judicial Magistrates 5.' pr should be appointed to do theiwtirk of c0-0!'(lI1I?-
 C tion and supervision nag i_done';'l!y_ 
E. '. ' C Magistrates. ' ' " - (6) Ehzéecutive lMz:E;_sr,isti;tratSets; ham'
t ontro o te vemtnent org
as as presexi unpd.'e1-'a'-*Di,strict Magistrate, Additional -.1 a'

District » tes necessuy) and Su "' 

divisional" iviagistrstes. mere is not need for putting - _ C

Executive ,Mag'istrates in" two or 1 'three dilferent " The institution e C _e,of beiﬁ (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21) 369 arrested by the police without
warrant, he should be informed immediately of the
grounds of his arrest and, if the arrest be for a
ba?:l:.ble ollciucc. of his right to be released on bail. When a person is

culd be made for service by post of

addressed to witnesses. P': ovisiort 5:7; sun1n1on.~,cs

In Chap-.er 8, security proceedings under section
107 only shou'.d be the concern of Executive
Magistr:it:s, and those under section 108 , 109 and 110 shoulgl be handled by Judicial Magistrates. In re;;az'd to abatement of public nuisances under
Che : 10. power should be with the Executive
Ma; "ates. Assistance by jury provided for in section 138 should be dispensed with. Executive l'»lagist1'ates alone should have the power
to take action under sections 144 , 145 and 147 . In regard to proceedings under sections 145 and 147 (disputes as to immoveable property), the
position existing prior to the amendments made in
1955 should be restored. In section 161 relating to the examination of
witnesses by the police, two changes should be
made: first. persons shall be bound to answer truly
questions put to them, and secondly when the
statement of a literate person is reduced to writing,
he should be allowed to read and sign the state-
ment so recorded. Section l67(2) should be amended to provide for
rernands in custody during an investigation for a
period not exceeding 15 days at a time and 60 days
in the whole. The duty of furnishing copies of police report,
statements of witnesses and documents to the
accused under section 173(4) should be assigned
to the Magistrate taking cognizance of the offence. In regard to petty offences adequately punishable
by a small ﬁne. provision should be made for the
offender to send a plea of guilty and the proposed
ﬁne instead of appearing before the Court. Commitment proceedings in sessions cases should
be abolished. When the case is instituted on police
report, the Magistrate taking cognizance will only do
the preliminary work of supplying the accused with
copies of the police report. statements of witnesses,
documents etc.. and then send the case to the Court
of Session. When the case is instituted otherwise
than on a police report, the Magistrate should make
a preliminary inquiry as provided in section. 202,
and then commit the case to the Court of Session. 124) 5.)
'J1
¢ 726)

£27)

(28? (30 it (31) (32) (33) 370 All provisions relating to trial by jury should be
ommitted. Provision should be made that when the accused is
convicted in a sessions. case or a warrant-case he
"'.Otliti be heard r:_r_ the question of sentence before
it is passed. 1

Section 250 should be liberalised so that the Magistrate
mav award compensation up to the maximum
zzmrnmt of ﬁne he is empowered to impose. when he
is satisﬁed that there was no reasonable g:ound for
rérzkinsz the accu<.":tion. The procedure to be followed in a case where an
izyeorporated company or other body corporate or a
.\OClCl\' registered under the Societies Registration
Act . 1860, is an accused. should be laid down in
detail. The right of an indigent accused person to assign-
ment of counsel at State expense should be recog-
nised in the Code. at least in all sessions cases in the
tirst instance. with provision for extending it to other
serious cases tried by Magistrates. In order to avoid unnecessary commitment of cases to
the Court of Session. provision should be made for
subordinate Magistrates to submit cases to the Onief
Judicial Magistrate for imposing adequate punish-
ment. The provisions reiating to the mode of recording
evidence and the language of the record in different
classes of cases should be systematised. In regard to judgments in capital cases. the Judge
shOUl(l be required to state his reasons for award-
ing the particular sentence whether it be a sentence
of death or one of imprisonment for life. Pro'~.ésion f:;h0uld be made for postponement of
execution of a death sentence in case of appeal to
the Supreme Court. Section 386(1) should be amended to authorise the
recovery of ﬁne by the Collector as an arrear of
land revenue. In cases where the Central Govemment is imme-
diately concerned, the State Government should
exercise its power to remit or commute the
sentences only in consultation with the Central
Government. The right of appeal to the Supreme Court conferred
by article l34(l)(a'; of the Constitution should be
extended to cases where a High Court has on appeal
reversed aniorder of acquittal and sentenced the
accused to imprisonment for life. There should
also be a right of appeal when a person is convicted

ex (34) %
9; U: enaetment'was "as necessary as repairs are nee:-ssaqr to a railway.
I do not think any Act of iinpaz-mace ought to last for more than
ten or twelve yeasts. '-4.. 11: chi oi U152: :'.:n-2 it should be care-
fully examiaed frra:11 e :2 r.-. *2 '-;.! \\:'-.2. .1; as much as possible
of its general frarn:-x=.'~:'i; : -' are ='=:1"i "cl, it should
be improved and <.-:_~.rr~=.--::t:-.i at ewry ; :'=.-. '.vi.i:;ia neziencc has
shown that it =.'e:,uired imgroverncna a L cnrre E031 "' Seventy
years hm elagsed air.-'.:e the Code v.':.'.;:, .5111: :'e\'i:sc-:i 1:1 rvenacted.
and during llti-: 7--.1i;rd it has |:s::-:n 5: . :Ll to '.'::i'Ei.*i1.S'i'e'-3 amend-
ments on several ueeayions. The c':a= :ecemme".ded by us.
are both so substantial aad numerous that "an Act further to

 
 

 
 

 « -amend the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1893'', as the draitsman

will crisply call the patchwork legislation, will not be satisfactory
We recommend that the Code should he ieruaced by 21 new Cri-
minal Procedure Code. and annex a draft for the purpose. Chairman
. K, V. K. SUNDARAM . nun

Members

N - _S. S. DULAT. . MRS. ANNA CHANDI, 4. R. L. NARASIMI-IAM,* 5. S. BALAKRISI-INAN,*

'43

Secretary
P. M. BAKSHI. New Delhi,
'The 24th September, 1969. 1Guzette of India Supplement, May 4, 1872, page 534. Quoted in the
14th Report. Vol. 2. File 700. » ,

'Shri R. L. Nnrasiinhain and Shri 'S. Balakrishnnn have signed the
'Report. abject In the note Iupended. '

 

Note of Dissent I't"..'-'.'ll'diIl_lg -The proposed Amvtzzlments to sections
161(3) and 1 .625 €.:'»..IiT-lilkli -" ':'-::4:zlI.r'»" 'l".i'~ ' W !II'§:-'.'r-'6 Shri R-
L. i"\':.l.T.»'='-=5z'tl'5I:?'.:: :1-Id . tn

 
 

 
 

The existing :3; :'-vi-*''
Cede have been ﬂu"; '
the Cntrts and t'-."-.{: ii; tial chaavpss in the if". .:a_ _
sion 'out we two TL".E'::..'l our l"".. tions of the maissrilv neg" ncss to Sign his statemezit as recorded by the police. The existing
prohibition in secti-in 162 against the police taking the signature
of any person examined by them is proposed to be deleted. In our
opinion. this would make matters much worse than at present.
With the removal of the statutory ban on the police to get the sig-
natures of witnesses. there is nothing to prevent the police from
compelling a witness, either literate or illiterate, to sign or to give
his thumb impression on what purports to be the statement of'
the witness. A signed statement will certainly discourage even
a truthful witness from departing from it even if he wishes to tell
the truth before the court. At present he can at least say that
what is recorded by the police is not what he stated. But if he
were to sign the statement, this stand would be very difficult
for him to take and he has to sacriﬁce truth at the alter of con- sistency : 6. We are, therefore, of opinion that the recommendations of
the maiority would not improve matters and we, therefore, have
an alternative suggestion in this regard, which is explained fully

in the succeeding paragraphs. 7. At the outset it is desirable to refer to some sections of the Indian Evidence Act which have a bearing on police investiga-.
tion. Section 157 of that Act enables a party to corroborate the
testimony of its witness by proof of a former statement made by
him before an officer authorised to investigate a fact. Section
H5 read with section 155(3) of that Act enables the adverse
party to discredit that witness by proof of previous statements in-
consistent with his deposition in court. These provisions have
been made with a view to ensure fair trial--t'air both for the party
producing that witness and for the adverse party. In a criminal
case the prosecution is. therefore, entitled to show that the version.
as put forward by a witness before the court is not a belated ver-
sion but that it was put forward at the earliest opportunity dur-
ing investigation. Similarly, the defence is entitled to bring out
contradictions between the deposition of that witness in Court
and his earlier statements for the purpose of discrediting him.
These two rights of the rival parties should be carefully. borne in.
mind by the authorities enga edin revising Chapter.XIV of the; Criminal Procedure Code . t is true that the Legislature can
take away or abridge these rights conferred by the Evidence Act : 8. A word of caution is necessary at stage. Merely by
providing for an accurate record of the earlier statement of a
witness the framers of the Code cannot obviously guarantee its
truth. A witness may consistently prejure on oath whereas a
truthful witness may make inconsistent statements on two occa-
sions, but when an opportunity is given, he may be able to explain
the inconsistency to the satisfaction of the Court. The truth or
otherwise of the statement of a witness will have to be judged
by the Court concerned not only on the basis of his consistency,
or contradictions, but also on other considerations such as the
inherent improbabality of the story, the divergent versions put
forward by different witnesses, the interestedness or enmity of
the deponent and such other factors. It is not the function of
the framers of the Code to deal with these in the Code. They
must be left to be decided by the Court in each case. 9. For the same reason, it is not the function of the framers
of the Code to provide for complete elimination of all inﬂuences
when a witness makes his statement on oath. It may be that his
earlier statement during police investigation is made under police
inﬂuence, or else it may be given voluntarily or under the in-
ﬂuence of the informant's Darty. Similarly, his subsequent depo-
sition in Court may be made when the inﬂuence mentioned in the
proceedingsentence continues to persist, or else it may be made
under the inﬂuence of the accused who has gained him over to
his side. These again are matters for the Court to consider while
judging about the credibility of the witness. The revision of the Criminal Procedure Code should not be mixed up with these irre-
levant considerations which tend to confuse the real issues, 10. It is true that confessions made under police inﬂuence are
held to be inadmissible in law but the Criminal Procedure Code while providing for the record of a confession in section 164 has
made adequate provisions for removal of such inﬂuen¢¢_ Thc
Evidence Act nowhere says that the statement of a witness is in-
admissible in law merely because it is made either under the in-
ﬂuence of the police or of the informant or of the accused and
hence these matters should be ignored while revising the Code
for this purpose. 11. Police investigation unde Ch t XIV
divided into the following two ..,§..,. a:p °r my b° b'°"'"5' (a) tracing out of the culprit a d th 11 '
rials to be used against bin: durin:oti'i2'l:lt:o:ngf mate- (b) ariﬁpgreatgfonaiéifora aisleesord dl:i1'ing'iingieaslt.igaﬁon which 376 12. Under the am will come the F.I.R., the tracing out and
questioning of the witnesses whose statements would lead _to.the
detection or' the criminal, the search and recovery of incrimina-
tory articles and the preparation of the search list etc. Under the
second will come the facts observed by the 'police oﬂicer_at the
spot during investigation, the work done by him every _day mc1u_d--
ing the dates on which the various witnesses were examined by 
and a summary of their statements made to him.' The F.I.R. is
admissible as corroborative evidence under section 157 of the
Evidence Act when the informant comes to Court and repeats
the version given in the F.LR, It may also be used PY thc ad'
verse party to contradict him if there is a material discrepancy.
Similarly, the search list is admissible in Court as corroborative
evidence if the oﬂicer conducting the search comes forward as
a witness and proves the search and recovery of the incriminat-
ing articles. These two documents, namely, the F.I.R. and the
search list, are prepared by the investigating police otﬁcer but the
Code contains adequate safeguards to ensure their accuracy.
Thus section 154 requires the F.I.R. to be recorded verbatim in
the very language of the informant (as far as possible), to be
read over and explained to him and to be signed by him. In
some States the Police Manual further requires the Investigating
Oﬁicer to get the F.I.R. attested by some respectable witnesses
who may be present at the time of the lodging of the F.I.R. Sec-
tion 157(1) further requires the I.O. to send the F.I.R. at once
to the Magistrate taking cognizance on police report. Hence,
though subsequent interpolations in the F.I.R. are not unknown,
nevertheless the aforesaid provisions, to a large extent, ensure
their accuracy. Similarly, the search list is required to be pre-
pared in the presence of two respectable witnesses who are re-
quired to attest the same. A copy of it must be sent forthwith to
the nearest Magistrate taking cognizance on police report and
the occupier of the house searched is required to be given a copy
of the same [ section 165(4) read with sub-section (3) and (4)
of section 103 ]. . 13. The most unsatisfactory section in Chapter XIV is sec-
tion 162. The 1.0. is authorised to record the statement of a
.witness without even disclosing to the witness what he has written.
The witness is not required to sign the same nor is a copy required
to be_ sent to the nearest Magistrate with a view to prevent inter-
polation. In consequence, there is no_ guarantee of the accuracy
of _the record of the statement of a witness as made by the 1.0.
It is a notorious fact (which has been admitted by almost all the
persons examined by us) that the statement of a Witness recorded
under sections 161 and 162 is not necessarily what the witness
actually said but is a record of what the 1.0. wants the witness to
say. Indeed, cases were brought to our notice in which so called
statements were recorded without examining the witness at 311,
The 1.0. is enabled to do so by the language of the section
Moreover, while such statement is considered unreliable for the
purposes of corroboration, it suddenly becomes and is treated as
reliable for the 'vurpose of contradiction l Even if a witness
speaks the truth before the court. his evidence becomes unworthy
°ffﬁc°T°d°n°e If What he Says in court contradicts what the police
0 er chose to record as a so-called statement. 14. 'There is a well recognised charge thatthe non-gmtted
police staff is generally corrupt. To quote the Report of the
Delhi Police Commission, 1966-68, Vol. I, at page 490 :-- The Police Commissions of other States also have observed on
similar lines. But strangely enough the deﬁnition of an "oﬂicer
incharge" of the police station in the Criminal Procedure Code refers to the Sub-Inspector of Police and hisesubordinates who are
all non-gazetted police oliicers. Thus, under the existing provi-
sions of the Code, the preparation of the earliest record of the
statement of a witness is left in the hands of an agency whose
integrity is highly doubtful and the mode of recording as provided
in section 162 does not ensure the accuracy of the record. It is
well known that many good cases are spoilt by the insidious in-
correct entries made in the diary by the 1.0. at the instance of
the accused and it is also well known that many innocent persons
are sent up along with the guilty of the 1.0. is gained over by the
informant's party. 15. In Western Europe it is generally considered an essen-
tial guarantee of the impartiality _of the preliminary investigation
that it be conducted independently of the prosecuting arm and
subiect to the control of the courts. This means that the French
judge d' instruction of the German Untersuchungsrichter is
(theoretically, at least) not subiect to the inﬂuence of the prose-
cuting arm in determining whether or not to indict; it also means
that any abuses of the rights of the accused by the judge d' ins-
truction or Untersuchungarichter may be appealed to the courts.
(See Soviet Criminal Law and Procedure by Harold J. Berman,
p. 75). In Russia, however, investigation is controlled not by the
iudiciary but by a quasi-iudicial independent body under the con-
trol of the Procurator-General and his subordinate staff who are
also independent of the executive. In India, at present, it may
not be practicable to adopt wholly either the French or the Ger-
man system or the Russian system of controlling investigation.
Nevcftheless, an important step towards effective control of in-
vestigation may be made if the preparation of the record of the
statement of witnesses during investigation is taken out of the
police and entrusted with the Magistracy. 16. In our opinion the most satisfactory solution for the pre-
sent diﬂiculties and anamolies would be to amend section 164 so
as to make it mandatory for the 1.0. to send to the nearest Magis-
trate all material witnesses questioned by him during the course
of investigation and have their statements recorded on oath 'by

' ate is the.l\/Iaigistrate taking cogni- that magistrate. If the Magis V
zance on police report he keep the depositions along 319 must have been received by him '"3551' 5°°ﬁ°" 17. There can reallv be no obiection to this suggestion on
principle because section 164 even now enables the recording
of statements of witnesses bv a Maoistrate during investigation.
All that we suggest is that the Dfcvisinns of this section should
be resorted to in respect of all material witnesses instead of leav-
ing it to the sweet will of the police to choose the witnesses who
should be examined under section 164 . 18. It mav. however. be urged that instead of sending the
witnesses to the nearest Magistrate if section 162 is amended and
the language of section 154 is adopted. accuracv of the record
mav be ensured. But, the number of witnesses examined during
investigation of a case is sulﬁcientlv large and if in respect of
every such witness the 1.0. is required to record his statement in
his own language. read it over and explain it to him and obtain
his signature and if possible to get the same attested bv two
witnesses, considerable time will be taken bv the 1.0. for this
purpose and to some extent investigation will be hampered.
Moreover, the record bv the 1.0. is not made in public as is done
by a Magistrate and there will alwavs be reasonable grounds to
suspect that the record as prepared bv him is not a true record
especiallv where the witnesses are illiterate, An alternative sug-
gestion has been made thatagazctted police oﬂicer mav be re-
quired to record the statements of witnesses during investigation.
It is true that the gazetted police ofﬁcers' reputation for integritv
is much higher than that of the non-gazetted staff but we consider
that it is much better to have the statements recorded bv Magis-
trates as this will ensure greater conﬁdence in the public. The
statements before the Magistrates are made on oath and they are
recorded in open court whereas even before gazetted police om-
ccrs these salutarv checks will be lacking. 19. One of the distinct advantages of our recommendation 3
thatapersonaoeusinginoﬁerpersonaftheeomnissionote 379 eognisable offence is required to make his statement on oath in
public. It is on his statement along with other materials collected
by the police during investigation that the latter person is placed
on trial. Under modern conditions the mere placing on trial of
a person on a criminal charge causes great harrasment, mental
agony, loss of reputation and heavy expenditure to that person.
His subsequent acquittal after trial is not suﬂicient consolation.or
adequate compensation for the trouble and expenditure to which
he is put in defending himself. It is, we think very unfair that
a person should be put in ieopardy of his liberty by having to face
a trial unless his accuser is prepared to incriminate him on oath
in public. At present enemies of an innocent person may give
his name along with the names of the guilty to the police during
investigation and their statements will be recorded conﬁdentally
by the police under section 162 . If they can induce the police
to believe their statements, that innocent person also will have to
face trial, Thus the existing provisions of the Code encourage
the placing on trial of a person on mere conﬁdential information
given to the police by persons who at that stage are not required
to make their accusation on oath. This type of harrasrnent of a
person on the basis of conﬁdential information is in the nature
of a stab in the back and should be avoided. 20. It is true that the investigation and the tracing out of a
culprit should be facilitated and the sources of information given
to the police should not be disclosed as otherwise many crimes
can not be detected. But it is also necessary that until the cul-
prit is traced out and accused of the commission of an offence his
accuser must be prepared to say so before a Magistrate prior to
his being placed on trial to prevent irresponsible statements to

the Police. 21. This principle has been recognised in the Code in respect
of a non-cognisable_offence. On a mere complaint of an non-
cognisable offence, the Magistrate will not summon the accused.
Under section 200 the complainant is required to substantiate his
statement on oath. The witnesses, if any, brought by him to the
Magistrate are required to be examined on oath. Even there-
after if the Magistrate entertains some doubt, a iudicial enquiry
is made under section 202 where other witnesses of the complain-
ant are examined on oath. It is only then that the accused is
summoned to face a trial. Thus, when for a minor non-cognis-
able oﬂence the Code requires the accuser to make his statement
on oath before the accused is placed on trial, it seems grossly
unfair that for serious cognisable offences a person should be
asked to face a trial on the basis of confidential information given
to the police during investigation. This inconsistency will be re-
moved if our suggestion is accepted. _ 22. We may now refer to possible criticism against the sugges-
tion and meet them. Firstly, it may be urged that during investi-
gation it will be very difficult to know who are the material wit-
nesses and the I.0_. will have to be given Wide discretion in pick-
ing out and choosing those persons who should be sent to the
Magistrate under section 164 . By "material witnesses" is meant
those witnesses who either by direct evidence or circumstantial
evidence incriminate an accused. They need not 'necessarily be 380 eye witnesses to the actual commission of the crime. We agree
that some discretion would necessarily remain with the 1.0., but,
with a view to prevent the 1.0. from deliberately 'withholding
those witnesses who may not support his view of the prosecution
case, provision may be made in section 164 to enable anyone,
other than those sent up by the 1.0., to aDD€81'. Of his OW" vision should also be made requiring those witnesses if summoned
by the l.O. to appear before the Magistrate mentioned in the
Notice. There will also be a further provision to the effect that
apart from witnesses either sent up or summoned to appear be-
fore the Magistrate, any person will be entitled to appear before
the Magistrate, and make his own statement as regards the
offence under investigation and the identity of the culprit. (4) If the Magistrate is the Magistrate taking cognisance on
police report of the oﬁence under investigation, he should lifter
recording the statements of the witnesses on oath send copies
of the same to the investigating police Officer and also grant S
copies to the deponent and other persons who may ask for the
same. He should keep the original depositions along with the
original F.I.R. sent to him under section 157(1) . If, however, 
he is not the Magistrate taking cognisance on police report in
respect of the offence under investigation, he should, after record- \1
ing the statements, forward the same to that Magistrate. 5 5 (5) In section 172 it should be expressly provided that the .. statements of witnesses if recorded by the police during investiga-
tion shall not form part of the diary mentioned in this section
and no court or any party will be entitled to call for the same.
That record must remain a conﬁdential paper accessible only to
the superior police oﬁicers who may supervise the investigation
made by the 1.0. and also to the Police Prosecutors and the
A.P.Ps and P.Ps., if they so desire. (6) Consequential amendment should be made to sub-section
(4) _of section_ 173. As all material papers will be with the
Magistrate taking cognizance on police report, the duty of grant-
ing copies must be left with him and not with the 1.0. 27. Many other sections of the Code may have to be amended
as a consequential step but it is not necessary to refer to them
in this Note. R. L. NARASIMHAM
Member 8. BALAKRISHNAN
Member

'issitAns-cm-. A