% 23.07.2024
 CRL.M.A. 21331/2024 (exemption)
 Exemption is allowed subject to all just exceptions.
 Application stands disposed of. 1. The present petition has been filed seeking quashing in case FIR
 No.780/2019 registered at PS Samaypur Badli, under Sections
 354 / 354A of IPC. 2. The perusal of the FIR indicates that the FIR was lodged on the
 complaint of respondent No.2. The petitioner is the father-in-law of
 the complainant. The complainant has alleged that the petitioner had
 made an attempt to establish a physical relationship with her. The
 complainant further alleged that she told the mother-in-law and
 husband but they pressured her not to insist on lodging the complaint. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/07/2024 at 01:14:37 3. Learned Counsel further submits that during the pendency of the
 proceedings, the parties have resolved their disputes amicably, and in
 furtherance thereof, they have entered into a settlement agreement
 dated 04.07.2023 on the following terms and conditions; (i) It has been settled between both the parties that Sh. Manoj
 (Husband) and second party would dissolve their marriage by
 filing petition of divorce by mutual consent in accordance with
 law, as provided under section 13 (B) (1&2) of the Hindu
 marriage Act. (ii) It is agreed between the parties that the First party shall
 pay to the Second Party a sum of Rs. 8,00,000/- (RUPEES
 EIGHT LAKH ONLY) as full and final settlement against
 Streedhan, dowry, Jewellery, Permanent Alimony, maintenance,
 towards past, present and future qua this marriage) in three
 instalments by way of DD/Pay order. it is further agreed
 between the parties that the first motion petition of mutual
 consent divorce shall be filed within one month from the date of
 signing this MOU. The second motion petition shall be filed
 soon after the completion of the statutory period of the order
 under section 13 (B) (1) of HMA with liberty to file application
 for waiving the statutory time. iii) It is further agreed between the parties that out of the settled
 amount the First Party will pay Rs. 2,50,000/- (Rs. Two Lakh
 Fifty Thousand Only) to the Second Party at the time of
 recording the statement of first motion of mutual consent
 divorce by way of DD/Pay order. iv) It is further agreed between the parties that the First Party
 will pay Rs.2,50,000/- to the Second Party at the time of
 recording of the statement of second motion petition of mutual
 consent divorce by way of DD/pay order. (v) It is further agreed between the parties that the First Party
 shall pay balance amount of Rs. 3,00,000/- (Three Lakhs Only)
 to the Second Party at the time of quashing of FIR No.

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/07/2024 at 01:14:37
 780/2019, U/S 354, 354A IPC ., Police Station Samaypur Badli,
 District Rohini, Delhi Which is pending before the Hon'ble
 Court of Ms. Nidhi Chitkara: North Distt: Rohini Courts: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/07/2024 at 01:14:37
 the first party shall be liable for contempt of court. If the second
 party fails to meet the child then the visitation right for the said
 month will be over. It is further agreed between both the parties
 that they will coordinate a day before the visitation right. It is further agreed between the parties that they will withdraw
 the cases (except the FIR bearing no.780/2019) mentioned as
 under after the 1st motion of mutual consent divorce petition by
 moving appropriate application before the Court Concerned.
 The details are as follows:- ( c) Manoj Vs XXXXXG & W Act No. 67 of 2019 which is
 pending before the Hon'ble Court of Sh.Devender Kumar: Ld.
 Judge Family Courts: Shahdara Distt: karkrdooma Courts: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/07/2024 at 01:14:37
 parties commit breach or default of this mutually agreed
 settlement after the recording of first motion, i.e., if the First
 Party backs out then the amount given in the First Motion
 petition shall stands forfeited by the Second Party and if the
 Second Party backs out, the amount taken at the time of first
 motion petition shall be returned to First party with 2% interest
 per month. It is further understood by the parties that for
 breach of the undertaking given to the concerned court of
 wilful/deliberate violation of a consent order/decree, the
 defaulting party will be liable to be punished for contempt of
 court. (x)It is further agreed between the parties that they shall remain
 bound with aforesaid terms and conditions as mentioned in the
 settlement. The above said settlement is arrive at between the
 parties voluntarily, out of their own free will and consent and
 without there being any undue pressure, force, coercion,
 influence misrepresentation or mistake and the parties have
 agreed that the settlement/Agreement has been agreed that the
 settlement/Agreement has been correctly recorded as per
 agreed terms and conditions. (2) That with signing of this settlement and after receiving the
 full and final amount of the above said settlement, all the claims
 of the Parties arising out of this legal wedlock is being settled
 and thereafter Second party shall be left with no claim in
 respect of custody of child, in the movable and immovable
 property of the first party, her stridhan, dowry articles, past,
 present and future maintenance, permanent alimony etc.
 whatsoever it may be against First Party/Husband and/or
 against his family members. 3. That the parties undertake to withdraw all complaints/cases
 etc. (if any) being filed by them against each other or against
 their family members even if the same are not in the knowledge
 of the other party. All the complaints/cases etc. being filed by
 the parties or their family members against each other or their
 family members shall now become operative and shall be
 treated as null or void. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/07/2024 at 01:14:37 4. It has been further agreed that from the date of execution of
 present agreement both the parties shall not interfere in the
 lives of each other. 5. That after grant of decree of divorce, both the parties shall
 be at liberty to re-marry with any person of their choice,
 without any objection or demur from any quarter whatsoever. 6. That both the parties have entered into this agreement with
 their own free will, consent accord without any fraud, force
 pressure or coercion from any corner whatever it may be. 7. That both the parties undertake to abide by the terms and
 conditions of this Agreement." 4. As per the settlement it has been agreed between the parties that the
 petitioner shall pay Rs.8,00,000/- (Rupees Eight Lakh) in full and
 final settlement of the entire dispute to respondent no. 2/complainant.
 Today as per the MoU, the petitioner handed over a demand draft of
 the remaining amount of Rs.3,00,000/- bearing No 486034 drawn on
 Central Bank of India dated 19.07.2024 in the name of Ruby i.e.,
 complainant. 5. Pursuant to the settlement, a mutual divorce petition was also filed
 and a decree of divorce was granted vide order dated 01.03.2024
 passed by Learned Judge Family Court, Karkardooma Courts, Delhi. 6. Furthermore, the Learned Counsel for the petitioner submits that since
 the parties have resolved all their differences amicably, therefore, it
 would be in the interest of justice to quash FIR No.780/2019
 registered at PS Samaypur Badli, under Sections 354 / 354A of IPC
 and all the proceedings emanating therefrom. IO has duly identified
 the parties. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/07/2024 at 01:14:37 7. It is settled that the inherent powers under section 482 of the Code are
 required to be exercised to secure the ends of justice or to prevent
 abuse of the process of any court. Further, the High Court can quash
 non- compoundable offences after considering the nature of the
 offence and the amicable settlement between the concerned parties.
 Supreme Court and this Court have repeatedly held that the cases
 arising out of matrimonial differences should be put to a quietus if the
 parties have reached an amicable settlement. Reliance may be placed
 upon: B.S. Joshi v. State of Haryana , (2003) 4 SCC 675; K. Srinivas
 Rao v. D.A.Deepa , (2013) 5 SCC 226; Yashpal Chaudhrani and
 Others vs. State (Govt. of NCT Delhi) and Another , 2019 SCC
 OnLine Del 8179. 8. It is made clear that the mutual settlement deed arrived between (the
 petitioner and Complainant/Mother) shall not bind the legal rights,
 title, and interest of the child namely Master Moksh@Mayank aged
 10 years, in any manner. Master Moksh@Mayank shall be at liberty
 to pursue his legal rights in accordance with the law. 9. Taking into account the totality of facts and circumstances of the case,
 this court considers that the parties have entered into an amicable
 settlement out of their own free will, without any fear, force or
 coercion and they should be given an opportunity to lead their lives
 peacefully. No purpose will be served in continuing with the trial. 10.In view of the above, FIR No.780/2019 registered at PS Samaypur
 Badli, under Sections 354 / 354A IPC and all the other proceedings
 emanating therefrom are quashed. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/07/2024 at 01:14:37 11.The present petition along with all the pending applications stands
 disposed of. DINESH KUMAR SHARMA, J
 JULY 23, 2024
 Pallavi

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/07/2024 at 01:14:38