1. The present criminal petition is filed seeking to quash CC

 1107 of 2023 on the file of V Additional Junior Civil Judge -

 Cum - V Additional Metropolitan Magistrate Vijaywada. The

 petitioner is arraigned as accused number 17 in the said

 case for the alleged offenses under Section 120B. 409,

 420, 468, 471, 477A of IPC . 2. As per the complaint filed by the respondent, the first

 accused enter into a criminal conspiracy with private

 persons and caused wrongful loss and corresponding

 wrongful gain to themselves by misusing his official position

 by making premature closure of government deposits of

 Andhra Pradesh Building and other Construction workers

 welfare board Hyderabad and misappropriated funds of

 ₹12,00,00,000. 3. It is the case for the prosecution that accused Nos.1 to 30

 entered into criminal conspiracy during the period March

 2014 to June 2015 with an intention to cheat Syndicate

 Bank SME Branch, Kadapa and in pursuance of the said
 //5//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 conspiracy, the 1st accused has misused his official position

 by closing the deposits of Andhra Pradesh Building and

 other Construction Welfare Workers, Hyderabad

 prematurely and transferring the funds to the accounts of

 third parties. The accused Nos. 2 and 5 have been

 instrumental in transfer of an amount of Rs.12,00,00,000/-

 into various accounts and thereafter the said amounts were

 shared amounts the accused. 4. As per the charge sheet filed by the 2nd respondent the first

 accused had transferred amounts to the second accused

 and the 5th accused was instrumental in obtaining an open

 offer letter from the first accused with regard to the interest

 rate on domestic term deposit of ₹10,00,00,000 and above.

 It is also stated that the 5th accused has introduced himself

 as Manager of Syndicate Bank, Kadapa to the Secretary

 and CEO of Andhra Pradesh building and other

 construction workers welfare board and submitted the offer

 letter issued by accused number one and sought deposits.

 The Secretary and CEO accepted the proposal of the 5th

 accused and thereafter prepared a note to invest

 ₹7,00,00,000/- with Syndicate Bank SME branch, Kadapa
 //6//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 and subsequently transferred the same for fixed deposits. It

 is the case of the prosecution that the accused number 2

 had handed over the original fixed deposit receipt to

 accused number 5 at Hyderabad for making a fake FDR in

 the name of AP Building and other construction workers

 welfare board (hereinafter be referred as 'welfare board'). A

 fake FDR was generated by the 5th accused and he

 submitted the fake FDR with the with the welfare board. 5. It is also stated in the charge sheet that the first accused

 issued another photocopy of the letter intimating the

 interest rate on domestic term deposits of ₹10,00,00,000/-

 and above to accused number 5. The accused number five

 thereafter got another depot deposit of ₹5,00,00,000 from

 the welfare board. The 5th accused again got fake FDR on

 the name of welfare board and submitted the fake FDR for

 record purposes to the welfare board. 6. These deposits were prematurely closed by furnishing the

 original FDR receipts with the bank. The 5th accused had

 submitted fake FDR receipts with the welfare board for their

 records and retained the original FD receipts which were

 misused by the 5th accused. The first accused misused his
 //7//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 position and transferred the prematurely closed fixed

 deposits amount. Thus, the accused have committed

 offences charged under Section 120B . 409, 420, 468, 471,

 477-A of IPC . 7. It is also stated in the charge sheet that the second

 accused had withdrawn amount of ₹1,69,00,000/- from the

 amounts deposited into the account of universal minerals

 and chemicals and subsequently the said amount was

 shared amongst accused Nos.1 to 3 and 5. The charge

 sheet also details the manner in which the amounts were

 transferred from one account to the other account and how

 the other accused had allegedly withdrawn the amounts. 8. In so far as the role of the petitioner is concerned it is

 stated in the charge sheet that the accused No.6 issued

 RTGS application on 30.05.2014 for transfer of an amount

 of ₹38,48,350/- from his account to the account of the

 petitioner. It is stated in the charge sheet that the petitioner

 invested an amount of ₹1,10,00,000 in mutual funds of

 DSP Black Rock Mutual Fund vide check bearing number

 007854, dated 03.06.2014. It is also stated that the
 //8//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 petitioner and accused number 5 and 6 have shared the

 said amount. 9. The other averments of the charge sheet do not relate to

 the petitioner as such they may not be relevant for the

 purpose of deciding this case. The role of the petitioner as

 per the charge sheet is that amounts were transferred to

 the accounts of the petitioner and that the petitioner

 invested those amounts or part of those amounts in mutual

 funds and subsequently it is alleged that the petitioner

 shared the amount with accused number 5 and 6. 10. The learned Senior Counsel Sri O.Manohar Reddy

 appearing for the petitioner submits that the petitioner is

 falsely implicated in this case. It is submitted that the

 allegation against the petitioner is that the petitioner is said

 to have received an amount of Rs 38,48,350 from the

 account of the accused no 16 towards the aviation services

 rendered by the petitioner. 11. It is submitted that except for the allegation that the amounts

 were transferred to the account of the petitioner towards the

 aviation services of the petitioner, the role of the petitioner

 insofar as commission of the alleged offences under Section
 //9 //
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 406, 409, 420, 468, 471, 477. A of IPC cannot be made

 applicable to the petitioner herein. It is further submitted by

 the Learned Senior Counsel that the petitioner company is a

 market leader in providing charter services to corporates

 and others since the year 1976. It is also submitted by the

 Learned Senior Counsel that the petitioner was catering to

 the aviation services of one Shaurya Aviation Private

 Limited and entered into a contract with them. The clients of

 Shaurya Aviation Private Limited were making direct

 payments to the petitioner company, against the invoices

 raised for the services rendered. It is also submitted that the

 petitioner had only rendered aviation services to its clients

 and has charged them by raising invoices. The petitioner

 cannot be considered as a part of the conspiracy when the

 petitioner received monies for the aviation services. 12. On these grounds, the petitioner cannot be arraigned as an

 accused along with others for the alleged offences with

 which the petitioner has no connection either directly or

 indirectly or even remotely. 13. It is also submitted by the Learned Senior Counsel that the

 petitioner has furnished all the details relating to the
 //10//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 Contract which the petitioner had with Shaurya Aviation, the

 documents of Airport Authority of India relating to the flights

 and their invoices, refuelling invoices, flight manifesto, flight

 record book, payment and correspondence with regarding

 outstanding dues and all the other related issues to the

 investigating officer under acknowledgement. Despite

 providing all details, the investigating officer has erred in

 arraigning the petitioner as an accused. 14. It is submitted that a vague and passing allegation is made

 in the charge sheet that the petitioner has invested an

 amount of Rs 1,10,00,000/- in mutual funds on 03.06.2014

 and that thereafter the amounts were shared amongst

 Accused 5, 6 and the petitioner. The Learned Senior

 Counsel would also submit that the petitioner cannot be

 found fault with for dealing with the income generated out of

 business in the manner the petitioner thought fit to deal with.

 The investment of the petitioner in mutual funds from and

 out of the income generated/revenue generated from the

 business conducted by the petitioner cannot become a

 ground for arraying the petitioner as an accused. It is also

 submitted that there is absolutely no material for the
 //11//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 investigating officer to arraign the petitioner as an accused.

 It is also submitted that in absence of any evidence and in

 absence of any statement pointing the involvement of the

 petitioner in the commission of alleged offence, the

 petitioner cannot be arraigned as an accused and

 continuation of criminal proceedings against the petitioner is

 manifestly illegal and as such the case against the petitioner

 ought to be quashed. 15. The learned standing counsel appearing for the respondent

 submits that there are specific allegations against the

 petitioner and that all the accused are charged of offences

 under Section 120B of IPC. As such, the involvement or

 otherwise of the petitioner can be ascertained after a full-

 fledged trial. It is also submitted that the investigating officer

 after completion of investigation has filed a charge sheet

 after recording the statements of as many as 38 witnesses.

 It is further submitted by the Learned Standing Counsel for

 the respondent that the invoices submitted by the petitioner

 to the investigating officer are all after 30.05.2014. As such,

 they cannot be relied upon for the purpose of this case. The
 //12//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 Learned Standing Counsel prays for dismissing the quash

 petition. 16. The Learned Standing Counsel also submits that a detailed

 counter is filed on behalf of the respondents and that the

 allegation against the petitioner of investing in mutual funds

 and thereafter sharing the amounts with accused Nos. 5 & 6

 are specifically made in the Charge Sheet. It is also

 submitted that the respondents in their counter have denied

 the claim of the petitioner and submit that the Case against

 the petitioner cannot be quashed at this stage. 17. In reply, the Learned Senior Counsel submits that in the

 aviation industry booking of aircrafts well in advance by

 making advance payment is an existing norm. It is submitted

 that all the documents relating to the bookings made, flights

 arranged, fuel invoices etc were submitted to the

 Investigating officer. However, they do not find place in the

 charge sheet or they are not even referred to by any of the

 witness. It is submitted that there is absolutely no document

 or any statement from any of the listed witnesses who speak

 about involvement of the petitioner in the commission of the

 alleged crime in connivance with the others in crime. It is
 //13//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 submitted that merely conducting of business and receiving

 payments for the services rendered cannot make the

 petitioner liable for criminal prosecution for alleged offences

 committed by some other accused. It is also submitted in

 reply that the petitioner is seeking quashing of CC 1107 of

 2023 not the FIR as stated at Para 7 of the counter filed by

 the respondent. 18. Heard the Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner and the

 Learned Standing Counsel for the respondent. Perused the

 record. 19. The petitioner is in the private aviation business for almost

 the last 50 years. The petitioner is facing prosecution for the

 alleged offences under section 120 B, 409, 468, 471, 477-A

 of IPC . Section 409 of IPC cannot be made applicable to

 the petitioner. The role of the petitioner for attracting the

 provisions of section 468 , 471 , 477 A of IPC has to be

 ascertained by the investigating officer during the course of

 his investigation. Perused the entire record, the investigating

 officer has recorded the statements of witnesses who are

 either employees of the banks or the officers relating to the

 welfare board, Hyderabad. The investigating officer has
 //14//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 recorded the statements of four other witnesses who are

 unconnected with the petitioner, they also do not support the

 version of the prosecution linking the petitioner to the crime. 20. The investigating officer has curiously not recorded the

 statements of any of the witnesses from either the Airport

 Authority of India or the statements of any witnesses who

 maintained the flight record book or the flight manifesto or

 the other witnesses relating to the oil companies who raised

 the fuel bills on the petitioner. 21. If the investigating officer disbelieved the documents

 submitted by the petitioner and had reasons to believe that

 the documents were generated for escaping from the law,

 the Investigating officer ought to have recorded the

 statements of the concerned witnesses to establish that the

 documents submitted by the petitioner were dis-

 believable/fabricated. None of the provisions of law which

 the accused are charged of having committed can be

 attributed to the acts of the petitioner with the available

 material on record. 22. Admittedly and evidently the petitioner has no role in either

 securing of deposits from the welfare board. Similarly the
 //15//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 petitioner has no role in creation of the fake FDR receipts.

 Role of the petitioner in pre-closing the deposits and

 transferring the amounts into different accounts is also

 evidently not available on record. The allegation relating to

 the receipt of payments to the petitioners account from the

 account of the accused number 16 alone cannot constitute

 an offence. Investing the said amount and other amounts in

 a mutual fund also cannot constitute an offence. The

 investigating officer could not establish the allegation of

 sharing of money with Accused Nos.5 and 6 by the

 petitioner in the charge sheet. 23. Listed witness 1 to 4 are the officers of Syndicate Bank.

 Listed witness 5 and 6 are the employees of the welfare

 board, Hyderabad. Listed witness 7 to 9 are the employees

 of Syndicate Bank, listed witness number 10 is the Assistant

 General Manager of Indian Bank, listed witness No.11 is the

 branch manager of State Bank of Mysore listed , Listed

 Witness number 12 and 13 are the Managers the

 Corporation Bank. Listed witness number 14, 21, 26, 35, 36,

 37 and 38 are other witnesses unrelated tot eh bank and

 also unrelated to the Airport Authority of India or the Oil
 //16//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 Companies, rest of all others are officers of various banks.

 On careful perusal of all the listed witnesses and their

 statements recorded by the investigating officer none of the

 witnesses have spoken about the involvement of the

 petitioner in the Commission of the alleged offenses.

 Evidently the investigating officer has not conducted

 investigation on the veracity of the documents submitted by

 the petitioner to the investigating officer along with a

 covering letter dated 09.08.2016. 24. In absence of any cogent evidence or any other form of

 evidence which could prima- facie point the finger of

 suspicion towards the petitioner, continuation of the criminal

 proceedings against the petitioner would have to be

 considered as illegal. 25. In absence of any evidence, a mere vague statement in the

 charge sheet against the petitioner without any

 corroborative evidence either in the form of a document or in

 the form of a statement recorded by the investigating officer

 continuation of the criminal proceedings against the

 petitioner would only cause unwanted harassment to the

 petitioner. //17//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024 26. In absence of any material to prima facie link the petitioner

 with the commission of the alleged offences, this court is of

 the considered view that the petition deserves to be allowed

 and the proceedings against the petitioner deserve to be

 quashed. 27. Accordingly, criminal petition is allowed and CC.No.1107 of

 2023 on the file of V Additional Junior Civil Judge - Cum - V

 Additional Metropolitan Magistrate, Vijayawada against the

 petitioner is hereby quashed. As a sequel, miscellaneous petitions pending, if any,

 shall stand closed. ___________________
 JUSTICE HARINATH.N
24.04.2025
LR Copy to be marked
B/o.KGM
 //18//
 CRLP 2275 OF 2024

 HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE HARINATH.N CRLP.No.2275 of 2024 24.04.2025

KGM