points out, the evidence of the manager himself is generally interested, and
it may not always be easy to check; but if the Court is not satisﬁed that the
transaction is really for the beneﬁt of the minor, it ought to refuse its
assent." 6.17. No doubt, having regard to the object of guardianship proceedings,
namely, to protect the child, there is something to be said in favour of a speciﬁc
power to appoint a guardian of the interest of a minor in undivided property.
However, it appears to us that the extension of the jurisdiction to all Courts may
be fraught with certain risks. Appointment of a guardian for an interest in
joint family property requires the delicate weighing of several factors. Preser-
vation of the power of the High Court is regarded as beneﬁcial for all concerned --the minor as well as the other sharers. as was observed in one of the Bombay
cases.'-' Rut we are not inclined to confer a similar jurisdiction on other Courts,
who niiiy not be able to bring to bear the mature judgment and delicate balancing
of conflicting considerations which may be needed in such cases. 6.18. This disposes of the points concerning the "property" covered by sec-
tion 7. As to the nature of the order to be passed under section 7 , there seems
to be some controversy on the question whether a conditional order for guardian»
ship can passed. According to the Madras view." a conditional order to the
effect that "upon petitioner furnishing security he is appointed guardian of

'Note the suggestion for law reform. 2Jairam Luxmon, (l892) I.L.R. 16 Bom. 634, 636. 'In re Nattia Vanketesa Perumal, A.l.R. 1927 Mad. 36(F-B.)- minor's property" is bad from the very beginning, but according to the Bombay
view,' this is permissible, and this also appears to be the Lahore view? 6.19. In the Madras case} where conditional orders were described as "sus- Obsfqrvgtions
pensory" orders, the following observations were made:-- m 3 ms case'

"The mischief of these suspensory orders, apart altogether from the
question as to whether they are legal or invalid, is that the matter goes
before the Judge who makes these suspensory orders and then the papers go
into the ofﬁce "where it is nobody's business to see what is being done
about it. The order is not complied with, and then somebody ﬁnds out
that the minor, whom it was desired to protect, has attained his majority,
and the Court is powerless because the guardian has failed to carry out
its directions and the Court has kept no control over the matter by reason
of the nature of the order so as to summon the guardian and ask him: thus dealt with- 6.21. It appears to us that practical considerations justify the adoption of
the wider view in the matter of power to issue conditional orders. Accordingly,
we recommend that a suitable provision in this regard should be made by amend-
ing section 7 . In an appropriate case, the Court should have power to make an appoint-
ment conditional on the performance of a condition by the guardian within a
speciﬁed period. It should also be provided that the order shall not be opera-
tive until the condition is satisﬁed. We recommend that insertion of the following new sub-section in section 7 ,
to achieve this object:--- 111. Application and steps to be taken thereon

6.22. This takes us to section 8 , which provides that an order shall not be
made under section 7 , except on the application of the persons entitled to apply
for an order, as enumerated in the section. These are, in brief, the person
desirous of being or claiming to be the guardian. any relative or friend of the
minor, the Collector of the district or the Collector having authority with respect
to the class to which the minor belongs. The expression "relative or friend" in section 8(b) really means a
who, being a relative or friend, has a beneﬁcial interest in the minor.'

person

6.23. The section does not, however, give the minor himself a right to apply
to the Court. The general view" is that without an application under section 8 the Court cannot proceed in the matter. It may be noted that in England, a
minor possessing property, if his parents are dead and if there is no testamen-
tary guardian. may, after attaining the age of 14 years (male) or 12 years (female),
himself "elect" a guardian? 6.24. Though we need not. in India, go to that length. yet it would be
useful if the minor is at least given a right to apply for the appointment of a
guardian, since it is not inconceivable that the minor may be seriously prejudic-
ed if no third person takes an interest in his welfare. 6.25. On this reasoning. we recommend that the following clause should be
inserted in section 8 :- 'Thangapandiun V. K.B. Nafcker, A.I.R. 1965 Mad. 368. '( a)Sakina v. Mohorned, A.I.R. 1928 Lab. 456. ( b) Jaiwanti v. Gajadhar . (1921) I.L.R. 38 Cal. 783. 785. 3l-lalsbury, 4th Ed. Vol. 24, page 224, footnote 5. citing Ex parte Edwards r1747) 3 A. & E.
519, and Re Brawn's Will, (1881) 18 Ch. D. 61, 72, 76 (C.A.) and other cases. 6.26. Section 9 reads-- section 9_

. . . . . . C urt h '
"9. (I) If the application is with respect to the guardianship of the ;u','i,dic,§'2,",.'"'

person of the minor. it shall be made to the District Court having jurisdic- ;'Lp°]'i1C':t";:;'_'
tion in the place where the minor ordinarily resides. (2) If the application is with respect to the guardianship of the property
of the minor, it may be made either to the District Court having jurisdiction
in the place where the minor ordinarily resides or to a District Court having
jurisdiction in a place where he has property. (3) If an application with respect to the guardianship of the property
of a minor is made to a District Court other than that having jurisdic-
tion in the place where the minor ordinarily resides, the Court may return
the "appli;ation if in its opinion the application would be disposed of more
justly or conveniently by any other District Court having jurisdiction." The "ordinary place of residence" of a minor is a pure question of fact.
Notions of constructive or legal residence do not enter into the picture at
all. There is no presumption that the residence of the guardian is the
residence of the minor. although usually that may happen to be the case.'

The matter being one of fact, the case law on the expression "ordinarilly
resides". though abundant. does not appear to necessitate any change in the
section. 6.27. Section 10 deals with the form of application for guardianship and Section 10 ,
needs no change. 6.28. Section II deals with the procedure on admission of an application for section 11 ,
guardianship, and does not need any change. 6.29. Section l2 reads-- Section 2_
Power to make

"I2. (1) The Court may direct that the person, if any, having the inW10°"t01'Y
custody of the minor shall produce him or cause him to be produced at such .','f,'l§,'o,f°f,f"',,'§;,,o,
place and time and before such person as it appoints, and may make such andt i"t'.°"im f
order for the temporary custody and protection of the person or property £;?s§f,K;I,11d°

of the minor as it thinks proper. P"°P°"Ye

(2) If the minor is a female who ought not to be compelled to appear
in public, the direction under sub-section (1) for her production shall require
her to he produced in accordance with the customs and manners of the
country. (3) Nothing in this section shall authorise- (a) the Court to place a female minor in the temporary custody
of a person claiming to be her guardian on the ground of his being her
husband. unless she is already in his custody with the consent of
parents, if any. or (b) any person to whom the temporary custody and protection of
the property of a minor is entrusted to dispossess otherwise than by due
course of law any person in possession of any of the property." 1( a) Choudhury V. Choudhury , (1974-75) '/9 C.W.N. 784 (rﬂicwl oases). (b) Harihar V. Suresh, A.I.R. I978 A.P. 12, 18, para 6. Section 12- lnterim orders
in cases under
section 25-

Recommendation. Section 13 . Consultation
with child
welfare
experts. Section 14-
Recommendation
to revise sub- section (3). 630. Where the proceeding is not for the appointment or declaration of a
.£'lI(H'diIi!I. but for Custody under section 25- there is some uncertainty on the
qucsti'r': '.i'§;et'*;cr t'==* interim orders for the protection of minor and interim
order for protection of person and property described in section 12 can be legally
made. Section 1 .'. hy its terms, is conﬁned to the pendency of "guardianship"
proceeding. according to one view} but according to another viewf it is not so
conﬁned. One of the High Courts" has, in order to advance the cause of justice,
found out a via media by resorting to the inherent juridiction of the Court. In our opinion. it is desirable to make an express provision, in section 12 ,
recognising. such a power (that is, a power of the nature provided for in section
l2). in regard to proceedings under section 25. We recommend accordingly. 6.3!. Section 13 provides that on the day ﬁxed for the hearing of the ap-
plication or as soon afterwards as may be, the Court shall hear such evidence as
may he adduced in support of. or in opposition to, the application. The section does not, of course, rule out the taking of evidence by the
Court. ln this connection it is to he noted that the Law Commission has, in its
Report on the Code of Civil Procedure , emphasised' the need for an enquiry by
the Court in matters concerning the family. The amended Civil Procedure Code'
pTO\'l£lt?S that in suits or proceedings relating to matters concerning the family. 6.32. The Act does not, at present, contain provisions empowering the Court
to consult Child Welfare Ofﬁeers before appointing a guardian. But such a
provision" has been made in the Code of Civil Procedure . 6.33. Section 14 deals with simultaneous proceedings in different courts. It
may be noted that the section applies also to an application for appointment of
guardian of the property of a minor.'

Sub-section (3) of the section. dealing with the case where the Courts are
not subordinate to the same High Court, provides that the Court shall report
the case to and he guided by such orders as they may receive from their respec-
tive State Governments. The conferment of this power on the State Govern-
ment is not in harmony with the independence of the judiciary and, in fact, later
legislative practice in India indicates a different approach" in regard to analogous
situations. It would be more appropriate if the power is given to the High Court
within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the court in which the earlier pro-
ccedings were taken is situated. We. therefore. recommend that section 14(3)
should be revised as under:-- tion (l). the Courts shall report the case to the High Court, and the High -Wrzrler Sing)': v. Karmr, A.I.R. 1929 Iah. 487, 488. 20957') MP Cases 202; (1957) Iabalpur Law Journal, 336, relying on Nazfr Begum V. Ga/am
Qzlmlir. .'\.l.R. I936 Lah. 313. IV. Separate guardians

6.34. Section 15 deals with the appointment or declaration of separate Section 15. guardians. Sub--section (ll authorises the appointment of two or more guardians
if permitted by the personal law, while sub-section (4) itself empowers the
Court to appoint or declare separate guardians of person and property. Sub-
section (5) further empowers the Court, if the minor has several properties. to
appoint a separate guardian for any one or more of the properties. 6.35. In this context. it is of interest to note that it has been held' that there S¢¢ti0P 15-10511'
is nothing in the Hindu law which prevents the Court from appointing more guardians'
persons than one as guardians of the person of a minor. On this principle. in a
Calcutta ca~«.:.' the Court appointed a joint guardian in order to ensure that the
undertaking taken from one guardian (mother) to bring up the children in the
Hindu faith was properly carried out? It is not clear whether any provision of the Act of 1890 expressly provides
now for joint guardians. However, joint guardians may conceivably come into
existence under an appointment made under a will. In a recent English case.' it was laid down that where there were two un-
impeachable parents who could be reasonably contemplated as capable of co-
operating sensibly with each other over the children whom they both love. it
would be in the interests of the children that a joint custody order be made. We have no change to recommend in section 15. 6.35. Section 16 deals with the appointment or declaration of a guardian for 3°°ti°" 15~
the children that a joint custody order be made property beyond the jurisdiction
of the Court. In such a case the Court having jurisdiction in the place where
the property is situated shall. on production of a certiﬁed copy of the order,
accept the person appointed as duly appointed and give eliect to the order. The section needs no change. V. Consideration to be taken into account in appointing a guardian
under section 17 and under the Act of 1956 and the English law. Section 17-

. . . . M tt t b
6.37. We now come to a section of the Act which is perhaps the most im- coi',S§,'§,e§ bye

portant provision in the Act~section 17. The section deals with the matters thé C°t*!1'1in
to be considered by the Court in appointing a guardian. g3:,°(j?a,l,'_'g a
The subject matter has assumed greater importance because of the modern
debate as to the relative importance' to be attributed to each of the various
factors that come up for consideration---the welfare of the minor, his or her
personal law and rights of the guardian thereunder and the fitness of the parent
or other person claiming to be the guardian. Certain aspects of the matter are
dealt with in section 19 also. 'Chiranji V. Prmam Chand . 48 Indian Cases 75 (Nag). 'Dwijapaa'a v. Baileau. 20 Calcutta Weekly Notes 608, 620. 6.38. In order that the Indian 1ega1system---in regard to statutory rules
relating to the criteria for guardianship----may reﬂect an approach which is sound
on the merits, adequate in its coverage and integrated and harmonious in its
structure, it is necessary that the matter may be examined in some depth. Ac-
cordingly. in the present discussion, while concentrating on section 17 of the Act
oi 1890. we shall also have occasion to consider section 19 of the same Act and
analogrous provisions of the Act of 1956.. '."«./'0 first quote section 17 of the Act of 1890. :1: at

* 3|!

(5) The Court shall not appoint or declare any person to be a guardian
against his will." Section 19 of the Act of 1890 is as follows 2-- Under section 6 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act of 1956, the
father is the natural guardian of a minor. but section 13 of that Act expressly
provides that while appointing or declaring any person as guardian by a Court,
the welfare of the minor shall be the paramount consideration. 1Section 13, Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956 (para 6-42, iﬂf"!1)- Some ditliculty is." no cannot, caused by section 2 of the Act of 1956, which
provides that the provisions of the Act shall be "in arldition to those of" the
Act of 1890. The General view, however. is that the provision of section 19 of
the Act of 1890 and those of section 6 of the Act of 1956 should be construed
together? Questions for

6.39. This is an outline of the statutory provisions that will fall for consi- Consideration

deration in the course of our inquiry into the need for reform of the law relating
to adjudications on guardianship in the context of section 17. The questions that we propose to consider in Connection with section 17 and
allied statutory provisions mentioned above may now be mentioned-- (1) appointment of guardian -- the relative importance to be attribut-
ed to the concept of "welfare of the minor" and other considerations men-
tioned in the various provisions:'

(2) welfare of the minor -- elaboration of this expression, as employ-
ed in the two Acts. so as to reflect the modern concept of the welfare of the
child;5

(3) procedure -----vesting of a power in the Court to call for reports from
the guardian or person vested with custody.'

(4) custody ~-- the age upto which the custody of the minor should re-
main with the mother. in so far as the matter is regulated by a speciﬁc statu-
tory provision.'

6.40. As to the first question posed above." it is proper to note the <;ombin-- Effect of
ed effect of sections l7 and l9 of the Act of 1890.9 Consistent with the law to Sficéloﬁ, ltziken
which the minor is subject .( section 17). the welfare of the minor should be taken totzelher.
into account in appointing a guardian (section 17). However, according to the
text of the Act. ---- section l9(a) and l9/b) --- the preferential right of the husband
or father cannot be ignored unless, the opinion of the Court, the husband or

father is unﬁt to be the guardian. ' Section 13 . Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act . 1956.
'('ﬁ Rafan. v. Bishan, A.I.R. 1978 Bom. 190. deration whether, from any other point of view, the claim of the father. or any
right at common law possessed by the father, in respect of such custody, upbring-
ing, "administration or application is superior to that of the mother, or the claim
of the mother is superior to that of the father." The Act of 1973' provides for the equality of parental these

f6I'ITlSI---- rights in

"l.---(1) In relation to the custody or upbringing of a minor. and in
relation to the administration of any property belonging to or held in
trust for a minor or the application of income of any such property, a
mother shall have the same rights and authority as the law allows a to
father, and the rights and authority of mother and father shall be equal and
be exercisable by either without the other." Then there is the inherent jurisdiction of the High Court in regard to Ward-
ship. 1Smr. Mohim' V. Virender Kumar, A.I.R. 1977 S.C. 1359. tion to a parent having custody of his child, but is not called his "guardian". Act of 1956
and its rela- tionship to
the Act of
1890. Effect of sections 6 and 13 . Act
nf l956. M odem
sociological
developments
and their
relevance. is not in derogation thereof.' Where, therefore, the Act of 1956 is silent. the
Act of 1890 operates. There are. however. some matters on which the Act of
1956 is not silent and makes a speciﬁc provision. Sections 6 and 13 of the Act
of I956 are of particular relevance. Under section 6 , the natural guardian of a
Hindu minor is the father, and after him, the mother (The speciﬁc mention of
the mother may be noted). The father's guardianship is subject to the provisio
that the custody of a minor who has not completed the age of ﬁve years shall
ordinarily be with the mother -- a provision very material to the third question'
formulated by us. Section 13 . it may be recalled? provides that in the appointment of any
person as guardian of a Hindu minor by a Court. the welfare of the minor shall
be the paramount consideration. Here. it must be noted that section 17(1) of
the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, while speaking of "the welfare of the
minor", does not make the welfare of the minor the paramount consideration in
the appointment of any person as guardian. \/96.44. If section 6 and 13 of the Act of 1956' are read together -- as they
must be ----- then it wiil be seen that neither the father nor the mother can. as of a
right, claim to be appointed by the Court as the guardian of a Hindu minor, un-
less such appointment is for the welfare of the minor. The welfare of the minor
is the paranmnnt cionsideration. So, in regard to being granted the custody of
a minor by the Court, the mother cannot, as of right, claim it merely because a
minor is below the age of ﬁve years. nor can the father get the custody as of
right solc'y on the ground that the minor has completed the age of ﬁve years.
This is plain from the fact that section 6 provides only that the custody of a
minor who has not completed the age of ﬁve years shall ordinarily be with the
mother and section 13 . which relaxes the rigour of section 19 of the Act of
1890 in the interest of the minor's welfare, also makes the welfare of the minor
the paramount consideration. The approach adopted by the Act of I956 is thus
somewhat different from that adopted by the Act of 1890, which is tilted to some
extent in favour of the father. 6.45. This difference in approach is understandable. The Guardians and
Wards Act . 1890 was enacted 90 years ago. At the time of its enactment women
had scarcely any rights for them; there were only social and legal degradation,
material insecurity and other manifestations of the dominance and false superio-
rity of man. That is why the Act of 1890 lays an emphasis on the preferential
claims of the father or male member in the matter of appointment of guardian
of minors? The Act of 1956 marks a distinct progress in this respect. There is another matter in respect of which the Act of 1956 marks a pro-
gress. Rccognising the advance in the status of women in all spheres and chan-
ged concepts as to child Welfare, that Act has given women the right of guardian-
ship (after the father} and also provided that the mother should ordinarily have
the custody of the minor child till the age of ﬁve. More important is the pro-
vision of the Act which has made the welfare of the minor the paramount consi-
deration in the appointment of guardian." though it has kept intact the concept
of "minor's welfare" as adumbrated in section 17 of the Act of I890. without
spelling it out for its own purposes. 'Section .7. Act of 1956. Sub--section (2) of section l7 should be replaced by the following sub-
sections:--'

(2) In considering what will be for the welfare of the minor, the Court
shall have regard to the age, sex and religion of the minor, the character

"See further para 650. infra. of a deceased parent may also be taken into
"but not so as to subordinate the factors mentioned in sub- 6.49. We have so far covered of the questions formulated by us in con-
nection with section l7. The third question' concerns a matter of procedure.
In our opinion, there should be a provision empowering the Court to call for
periodical reports from the guardian appointed by the Court about the health,
education and welfare of the minor. The period for submission of the reports
may be ﬁxed according to the circumstances of each case. To achieve this

object, we recommend that two new sub-sections may be inserted in section 17
as follows2:-- periodical reports
uch other matters

"(7) The Court, on receipt of the reports under sub-section (6), shall
consider them as soon as possible and may issue such directions to the guar- dian or other persons furnishing them as the Court may, in the interests of the
minor, think ﬁt." 6.50. Taking up the fourth question, we are of the view that section 6 of the
Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956 should also be amended' so as to
allow the mother the custody of the minor, ordinarily till he or she completes
the age of 12 years.' We may state in brief our reasons for this view. The
period upto the age of twelve represents the formative years in the life of a
child. It is in these formative years that a child develops such qualities as
patience, modesty, honesty, readiness to help and respect for others. The
education that the child receives in these years should be designed to make him
or her a healthy individual of high intellectual and moral standard, capable of
playing an active role in the development of the State and society. Now, it can-
not be disputed that it is the mother's inﬂuence which moulds the character and
qualities of a child. Men are what their mothers make them; no fondest
father's fondest care can fashion the child's heart or shape his life. It was

Napoleon who said "The future destiny of the child is always the work of the
mother". 6.51. Legislative history of the provision' in the Act of 1956 relating to cus-
tody is of interest. Though the mother, in regard to her position as a natural
guardian, is postponed to the father, yet the Act lays down, as already stated, that

'Para 6 . 39. supra. 'If considered appropriate, the matter can_ be dealt with by a separate section to be inserted
in the procedural provisions, say, as section 43A. 'To be carried out under section 6 , Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act. 1956.
'See also para 6.47, supra. 'Para 6 .45 , supra. the custody of a minor upto ﬁve years shall ordinarily be with the mother. In
the original Bill, the age proposed was three years, but the Select Committee
raised it to five years.' Even this enhancement did not satisfy all persons. Some
Members of Parliament felt that the age should be further raised. A lady mem-
ber' of the Select Committee wanted the custody of the minor to be with the
mother till the minor attained majority. Another lady member wanted it to be
raised to twelve. The two other male members wanted it to be raised to ten
and thirteen respectively. Our proposal3 that 'he age of custody should be
raised to twelve is, therefore, not new

6.52. Development in hnglaiid relative to the question may be noted. In
Lngland, as tar back as 12539, the mother was given a right to the custody of
her own children till they were seven years or age.' By subsequent legislation
passed in the latter hall or iytii Century' (uuardianship oi Infants Act, 1886), she
Obtalllctl the right to the custody till the children were sixteen years of age. Sec-
tion l oi the Act of l92:'> extended the provisions of the Guardianship of Infants
Act, lace and laid down that the rights of the mother in the matter of custody,
care, guardianship etc. of the children shall be equal to that of the father; and
that the welfare of the child should be the first and paramount consideration.
It also provided that the Court shall not take into consideration whether, from any
point of view other than the welfare of the infant, the claim of the father in
respect of custody, upbringing etc. is superior to that of the mother or the claim
of the mother is superior to that of the father. The Act of 1971 adopts the same
principle. The Act of 1973 lays down complete equality of sexes as to matters
concerning children. 6.53. The child under twelve years of age needs a tender aﬂection, a caress-
ing hand and the company of his mother, and neither the father nor his family
relations, however close, well-meaning and affectionate towards the minor, can
appropriately serve as a proper substitute for the minor's mother. It should
also be borne in mind that physical needs and comforts alone are not enough
for the proper and healthy development of a child. Parental affection is indis-
pensable for this purpose and in the case of a conflict between the parents when
the child is under twelve years of age, the mother should have a pl'€fC'C:'lll.'7l
claim in regard to the child's custody. It is for these reasons that we have5
recommended an amendment of the Act of 1956 as to the age upto which custody
should ordinarily be with the mother. English law. Need of mother's
care for child
of tender age. 6.54. l'Ol' the sake of convenient, we may at this stage record brieﬂy how Questions

the recommendations made above dispose of the questions that we had formu-
lated" while commencing our discussion of section 17 :- provement in the Act of 1890. (iv) On the fourth question (custody), we have recommended an amend-
ment in the Act of 1956, raising the age to 12 years. 6.55. This takes us to section 18 of the Act of 1890, which provides that
where a Collector is appointed or declared by the Court by virtue of his oﬁce
to the guardian of a minor, the order shall be deemed to authorise and require
the person for the time being holding the office to act as guardian. In fact,
this follows from the principle that the Collector is deemed to be appointed in
his capacity as Collector.'

The section may be retained as it is. u..au. As to the persons who can be appointed as guardians, we have already
referred' to the need for clarincation of the position in regard [O the appointment
of juristic persons. A specmc provision on the subject is, in our view, needed.
At the same time, certain safeguards are desirable in the interests of proper
management 01' the property of the minor and proper care of his person. To
achieve this object, we recommend that the rollowing new section should be
inserted as section 18A :-- 6.58. It will be noticed that section 19 lays down restrictions as to---- Analysis of

section 19. (1) cases in which a guardian cannot be appointed of property, and

(2) cases in which a guardian cannot be appointed of the person. As to property, it bars the appointment or declaration of a guardian where
the minor's property is under the superintentience of a Court of Wards. We
have no particular comments on this part of the section. As to the person of the minor, there are three restrictions contained in
clauses (a) (b) and (c). Here again, clause (C) is conceincd Wtth a minor whose
property is under the superintendence of a Court of Wards, and needs no
comments. But clauses (a) and (b) require consideration. We shall ﬁrst deal
with certain points that are relevant to the entire section or to a major part of
it, and then proceed to discuss points conﬁned to particular clauses. 6.59. The first and most fundamental question to be considered is how section 19 to
much of section 19 should be retained. in this connection, we would like to be "-uh" The correct approach is that taken in a recent iierala case," in which it was
held that the only consideration that was paramount was the welfare of the
child and it could not be correct to talk or the "pre-eminent position" of the
parents or their exclusive "right to the custody of the children when the future
welfare of the children was being considered '1 he fact that the father was not

found to be unlit to be a guardian did not necessarily mean that he was entitled
to the custody of the child

The position has been largely clarined by the Supreme Court' in a judgment
to which we shall revert later also." '1 he Supreme Lourt observed: 6.62. The Supreme Court was making these remarks in relating to a dis- pute that arose between the father and the mother regarding the custody of their
minor son. Section 13 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956 is more speciﬁc
and has, in categorical terms, provided in sub-section (2) as follows:-- 6.63. In Chandler Prablia V. Premnat/1," the Delhi High Court, while award-
ing custody of a male child below five years to the mother, observed:---- Occasionally, however, section l9(b) does receive the construction that if the
father is not unfit, he cannot be deprived of custody.7~"'For this reason, it is

i

desirable to amend section 25 as indicated above. 1Babubhui Pare] V. ,Madav1' Paféj, (I979) l M.L..l. 244, 250. para 13.
'Aimrm1r'.va V. Mukhmr Ahmad, A.l.R. 1975 All. 67 (reviews cases).
'Sebasria.-1 v. T/iomas, (I979) Kerala Law Times 536. 537 (30 Julv I979). For this reason also, it is desirable to amend section 25 as stated above. 6.65. We now proceed to a consideration of points concerning particular section 19 and
clauses of section 19. These clauses prohibit the appointment of a guardian in '°"3"?°"""Y
specified circumstances. Such a prohibition may arise from other rules also. guardians'
For example, where a testamentary guardian has been properly appointed under
a will duly executed, an order appointing another guardian cannot be made5
until the powers of the guardian appointed under the will have ceased under the
provisions of the Act. 6.66. lt may also be mentioned that in the case of Hindus, section l9(b) is Elle?' 0%
controlled" by section 2 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956. spifgijol? M',-norm,
However, we are at the moment concerned only with the speciﬁc prohibitions in 33¢ Guardian- s ip

the section. Act'

6.67. Coming ﬁrst to ciauses (a) and (b), there is a controversy as to whether Section 19,
the person to whom preference is given by clause (a) or clause (b) (husband or :1;'1'5ff))_(3)__
father, as the section stands at present) can himself apply for being appointed Application
or declared as a guardian. Many judicial decisions have taken the view that by f""h°" 7 (a) Sukhdev 17. Ram Chander, A.I.R. 1924 All. 622. (b) Mt. Siddiq unriisa V. Nizanuddin. A.I.R. 1932 All. 2l5, 217.
5 Bat' Tara v. Mohanlal, A.I.R. 1922 Born. 405. 9 ( a) Lakshamau v. Alla Vira, A.I.R. 1925 Mad. 1085 (Baneaan & Jackson J.l.). (b) Re Dakshfnamurthi', (1969)1 M.L.J. 845. 1° Dlzan Kumari V. Mahendra, A.I.R. 1923 Nag. 1919,2100.
1' M1. Taj Begum V. Glmlam, Rasul, A.I.R. , 1923 Lah. 250 (father cannot be appointed).
13 (a) Mr. Chandra Kaur V. ChoteyLal, A.I.R. 1925 Oudh 282 (father cannot be appointed). (b) S. Ahmad Agha V. Mt. Zohra, A.I.R. 1925 Oudh 421 (father cannot be appointed).
(0) Md. Saddig V. Wafati. A.I.R. 1948 Oudh 51, 53 (father cannot be appointed). 13 Raghavaiya v. Lakshmiah, A.I.R. 1925 Mad. 398 (Venkatasubba Rao & Jackson H.). 1' Kamini Mayi V. Bhushan, A.I.R. 1926 Cal. 1193 ,ll94. Need for

amendmei it,

Comment
in legal
Journal. Section Wm) 38 outer world, the certificate of the Court confers a greater importance on his power
than he possesses as the natural guardian. In fact, in the Madras case' of 1925,
there is a hint that the drafting of the present section is defective. 6.69. The position is therefore in need of clariﬁcation. On the merits, it is
in the interests of justice to provide that clauses (a) and (b) do not apply where
the husband or father-' is the applicant for guardianship. Even where such a
person is the natural guardian, he may well consider it desirable to be declared
as a guardian, for reasons mentioned above?'

6.70. in this connection, we may mention that long ago, an editorial in the
Calcutta Weekly l\0ICS,' commenting on the famous Privy Council decision relat-
ing to guardianship," made the following suggestion for a reform of the law:-- The amendment suggested by us will substantially remedy the anomaly. 6.7!. Incidentally. section l0(a) appears to be based on the assumption that
after marriage the right of guardianship of the person and property of a female
minor devolves upon her husband (if not unﬁt), even though the husband he a
minor. 1. Rug/zuvaiya V. Laks/zmiu/z. AIR. 1925 Mad. 398.
Also the mother if para 6.66 is accepted. 3- Para 6.68. supra. 4- Editorial note. "Father's remedy against deprival of custody of children" (l9l4) 18
Calcutta Weekly Notes (Journal) 209, 210. 5- Annie Besant V. G. Narayaniah , (1914) I8 Calcutta Weekly Notes 1089: I.L.R. 38 Mad'
807 (P.C.). °~ Emphasis added. In

I K 39 6.72. The provision in section l9(a) is reminiscent of the earlier English
rule, under which, as soon as the daughter married, the father's natural jurisdic-
tion over her, and his right to her custody during infancy. determined. This was the view taken by Coleridge J. The authority of this view
was shaken by a later case? where it was stated that a husband had no such
right to "custody" as a parent has over his child. In that case a wife was.
by her own desire. living with her son (and apart from her husband). The
Court refused to restore her to his custody. Clause (a). if construed literally. would create an anomaly.--~for exam-
ple. where the husband himself is a minor. In an early Punjab case? which
was a suit for the custody of a wife when both the husband and the wife
were found not to have attained puberty. the decree was refused and it was
held that in Muslim law. a husband is not entitled to custody of the minor
wife too young for intercourse. The case was not decided under section 19. If the matter arose under section l9. the Court can refuse the order
only by regarding the husband as "unfit". 6.73. This shows the right of the husband to custody is not an absolute
one. This naturally raises the question whether clause (a) of section l9 should
be allowed to continue in its present sweeping form. We would have made a
speciﬁc recommendation on the subject so as to avoid conﬂict with personal
law, particularly in a matter where the present law goes beyond the best interests
of the child. However. if our recommendation' to save the jurisdiction of the
Court in regard to custody on a consideration of the welfare of the minor is
accepted. the conﬁict referred to above would cease to have any practical im-
portance. Incidentally. this particular problem does not arise in England. since the
"law to which the minor may be subject" is superseded by the mandatory sta-
tutory rule which regards the welfare of the child as paramount. 6.74. The question may be raised whether clause (a) is needed at all the
present day. when persons below 18 years of age are prohibited from marrying
by the Child Marriage Restraint Act . l929 as amended in 1978. If the present
law relating to minimum age of marriage in India is complied with throughout

India. there would not. in future. be any minor who is a female married in
India. But there could still be minors who are married outside India (who are not
Indian citivensl and who have come to reside in India. and there may also be
minors married in India before l978 (when the Cihld Marriage Restraint Act was
amended so as to make 18 years the minimum age of marriage). I-Ienee clause (a) of section l9 cannot be deleted. 1 Re Cachrane. (1840) 8 Dowe 633. 9 R. V, Leggart. (1852) l8 Q. B. 781. 3 Dim: v. Abdulla, (1 894) Punjab Record 97-93 (Civil Judgement No. 351).
' Paragraphs 6.59 to 6.61 supra. Earlier
nglish
rule as to
husband's

control
nver wife. Right not
absolute_

Utility of
clause (8.)
in the light
of child
marriage
restraint. Section l9(b) ---Equ.1l
status to be
conferred

on mother. Section 19,
clauses (a)
and (b)
overlapping- Amendment

recommended. Personal law. Illegitimate
children. 6.75. The next point is concerned with clause (h) of section 19. The pre-
ference given by section l9(b) is conﬁned to the father. In view of the changed
approach which we have recommended' in relation to the rights of each parent,
it is necessary that the preference given in this clause to the father should be
extended to the mother also, and she be placed on an equal footing with him.
Accordingly, we recommend that in section l9(b), after the existing word "father",
the words "or mother" should be inserted. It may be noted in this context that the principle underlying section l9(b) has
been held even now to apply to a mother as well as to a father, though with lesser
force.'

6.76. There also seems to be some obscurity as to the exact inter-relationship
between clause (a) and clause (b) of section 19, inasmuch as a minor who is a
married female may fall under both the clauses. The point requires to be at-
tended to. In our view, it would be better to conﬁne clause (b) to persons other
than married females. We recommend a suitable amendment for the purpose. 6.77. We would also like to point out that in some respects. section l9(b)
might conflict with personal law, in so far as clause (b) has the effect of giving
pre-emptory preference to the father even where the father is not the natural
and legal guardian by personal law. 6.78. For example, in the case of an illegitimate child, the assumption under-
lying section 19(b) totally breaks down. The reason is that the father has no
legal right of guardianship over such a child. This was the position under uncodiﬁed rules of Hindu law3 and is also the
position under its codiﬁed version.' In Muslim law also. the position is the
same. In fact, the right of the mother to custody can be enforced by haheas
corpus.'

The position was settled long ago" in India for persons of both the commu-
nities. So long ago as 1864. Holloway J. made the following observations? In the case of persons of other communities also. there is fairly recent autho-
ritv-"' speciﬁcallv holding that the mother is the natural and legal guardian of the
illegitimate child. 'See discussion relating to section 17. supra (paragraphs 6.40 to 6.48). Also see para-
graphs 6.66 and 6.69. 'Sumitra Bai V. Subhadra Bai . A.I.'R. I925 Nag. 178, I79. Paternity is a matter governed by 'jus civile' and maternity by 'jus nature'.
The creative forces of nature itself have bound the mother to her issue, whether
born in lawful or unlawful wedlock, in a manner wholly or utterly different from
the bond between the father and his sons. This natural relationship and these
inescapable facts are reﬂected in ancient Hindu law governing succession to the
Stridhana property of women. and in the rules recognised almost everywhere as
to custody and guardianship of illegitimate children. Thus, the provision in section l9(b) is not in tune with the general law in
regard to illegitimate children. 6.80. There may be other cases where the rigid rule in section l9(b) would Foreisncrs.
be inappropriate as conﬂicting with personal law. For example, in the case of a
foreigner governed by another system of law, the Court will have regard to the
system of law by which he is governed, which may not necessarily recognise any

preferential status for the father? though the best interests of the child are para-
mount.'

6.81. In view of what is stated above, it appears to be desirable to exclude, Is'°1c11t'l?")1l'1l"l';("I")°f
from the scope of section l9(b), cases where, under personal law, the father is 1-,¢omm.nd¢d_
not the natural and legal guardian of the minor. This will also apply to the

mother, if she is added in clause (b) as recommended above.'

6.82. To summarise recommendations made above in the discussion relating 5"'"m'"'V °f "'

_ _ _ _ commendations
to sectlon l9, amendment is required on the points enumerated below:---- relating to

section 19. (i) amending section 19 so as to apply the provisions of section 17 rela-
ting to welfare of the child:'' (ii) making it clear that in cases under section 25 in relation to orders
as to custody," welfare of the minor is the paramount consideration. (This
amendment' will be made in section 25). 'Mayana Bar' v. Urraram. (1864) 2 M.l-I.C.R. 196, 203-
'Nugenr v. Verzera. (1 861-1873) All England Reports (Reprint) 318.
3(a) Re Kerrwt, (1964) 3 All England Reports 339. 343. 344 (Buckley J.). (b) Re B's Settlement, (1940) Ch. 54. (c) Re P., (1964) 3 All ER. 977, 983 (C.A.). 'Para 6.66, supra. 'Para 6.59, supra. 'Para 6.61, supra. 6.83. To carry out the points made above, we recommend that section 19
should be revised as under:-- (2) Nothing in this Chapter shall authorise the Court to appoint or declare
a guardian of the person-- (a) of a minor who is a married female and whose husband is not, in
the opinion of the Court, unﬁt to be guardian of her person. or (b) of a minor. who is not a married female, and whose father or

mother is living and is not, in the opinion of the Court. unﬁt to be guardian
of the person of the minor; Provided that--- (i) in determining the question whether a person is unfit to be a guar-
dian with reference to clause (a) or clause (b) of this sub-section, the welfare

of the minor as explained in section 17 shall be the paramount considera-
tion; (ii) nothing in clause (a) or (b\ of this sub-section shall apply to a enve
where the husband or the father or the mother. as the case may be. aprvli"s
for being appointed or declared a guardian; and (iii) nothing in clause (b) of this sub-seetion shall apply to a case where
the father or the mother, as the case may be. is by the law to which the
minor is subject. the natural guardian of the person of the minor'

'This is consequential on para 6.65. supra. 7.1. The duties, rights and liabilities of guardians are dealt with in sections
20 to 37. These sections are not conﬁned to guardians appointed by the Court

but apply to all guardians.' , Scam

7.2. Section 20 deals with the liduciary relation of the guardian to the
ward, and needs no change. Section 20. ., 7.3._Scction 21 provides that a minor is incompetent to act as guardian of . any minor, except his own wife or child, or, where he is managing member of an ,5w°§;',',';§,g2},'f
undivided Hindu family. the wife or child of another minor member of that "child".
family. A doubt has arisen as to whether the expression ('child" in this section

includes an adopted child)? We think that the expression should be widely con- strued. No change. however. is required on this point. 7.4. It is not clear whether "guardian" in this section is conﬁned to the
guardian of the person, or whether the section covers property. If the section
is taken as extending even to guardianship of property, certain anomalies may -arise. Anomalies as
to property. In the first place. the last few lines of the section assume that a minor can
be a managing member of a Hindu family where he is the seniormost male mem-
ber.» However, on this point, thequery raised by Sadasiva Aiyar J. in a Madras
ease (to be referred to later' on) should be noted. In the second place. if the ﬁrst 17 words of the section, ending with "his
own" wife or child" are takenas covering the guardianship of property also. the
resultwould be'th'at 'a minor can be guardian of the property of his familv.
though his own property would be subject to the guardianship of another person. - -'Y , 9 _ . _
As to Hindus, it is now speciﬁcally provided that a minor shall be incompe-
tentrto act as guardian of the property of any minor.'

7.5. The following" observations of Sndasiva Aiyar J. in a Madras case' are ObS€I'Vati0nS
pertinent in this context'---- In Madras case'

"I am. very doubtful whether a minor can at all be the managing mem-
ber of _a Hindu family. though he is the senior male member. 'Guardian'
in section 21 is evidently intended to include the guardianship of both per-
son and property. It does seem anomalous that a minor could be the
guardian of the person of his wife and children. that is. entitled to the cus-
tody of their person and the management of their properties, while his own

"' A nerson is sixbiect to the custodv of the legal guardian of his person. and (while)
his properties are under the management of' the legal guardian of his proper-
ties. But this particular section 21 cannot. in my opinion, be held to dero- lliban Krishna v. Sailendrn Nar/1. A.I.R. 1946 Cal. 7_2.
'Sr/rdrrnrnnf V. (?'nkI//annrld. l8 C.W.N. 160, I64. I

' -Some High Courts have taken the view '[that a minor can be a managing

member of a Hindu undivided family,

7!'. ll is unnecessary to express an opinion on this point. However. so far
as section 2 ] is concerned, it is. on principle, anomalous that the same person
{minor managing member) would be competent to act in matters concerning the
property. while. in matters concerning the person, he is subject to the guardian-
ship of another person. The need for an amendment of section 21 is obvious. 7.7. On a careful consideration of various aspects of the matter, we recom-
mend that section 21 should be revised as under. to remove the anomaly men-
tioned zihovci

"2l. (I) A minor is incompetent to act as guardian of any minor except
as provided in sub-section (2). ( 2) A minor is competent to act as guardian of the person of his own
wife or child so far as it is necessar_v to exercise "his conjugal right and his
ripsvlrt in regard to the rrpbringing of the child." '''.8. This takes us to section 22. which deals with the remuneration of the
guardirm and permits him certain allowances. "Allowances" referred to in the
vnction seem to cover only reward for the "care and pains in the execution of
his duties". It does not seem to cover expenses to be incurred for the maintenance
and education of the minor' (in the case of grardianship of the person). Such
expenses are. at present, governed by rules." It is. however. desirable that this
should be expressly covered by the section. so as to make the section compre-
hensivc. accordingly. we recommend that the following sub-section should be
added to section 22:----~

"{3} The Court may, in the case of a grmrdian of the person. also deter-
2m'n1~ from time to Iinrp the amount to be allowed to the guardian for the
wrnporr. health and crlrrcatinn of ﬁre ward." 7.9. Section 23 provides that a Collector appointed or declared to be the
_2!u3='dfan is subiect to the control of the State Government or of an authority noti-
ﬁed bv the State Government in this behalf. The section needs no change. 7.1!). Section 24 provides that a guardian of the person of a ward is charged
with the custody of the ward and must look to his support. health and education
and such other matters as the law to which the ward is subject requires. The section needs no change. V 1) 77-frrrhnlr Raofi v. Lonkarrm, A.'[.'R. 1948 Nag. 324.
ll"-'l T1'rr:.77r .Trw«7- V. Dhrrbcn Nrrﬂr, AIR. 1953 Orissa 7-
(rs) Mnlla. Hindu Law (1974), page 974. '"'Sectr'on 74. '**Section 50. 7.1]. Section 25, hearing the marginal note "Title of guardian to 'custody Section 25-
of Ward". Contains three sub-sections. Sub-section H). which is concerned with
the ward leaving or being removed from the custody of a guardian of the person, in Custody
empowers the Court to make an order for the return of the ward to the custody M ward'
of the guardian. if such ()nh'r_)1'Hi be for the welfare of the minor. It also empowers
the Court to "cause the ward to be arrested and to be delivered into the custod_v
of the guardian". '

Sub-section (2) confers on the Court, for the purpose of "arresting the ward",
the powers of a Magistrate of the ﬁrst class under' section 100 of the Code of C ri-
minal Procedure. I882---now section 97 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. Sub-section (3) provides that the residence of a ward against the will of tho
guardian with a person who is not thc giiarclian does not, of itself. t«-rrninxw tlw
guardianship. 7.12. A number of questions arise with reference to section 25. In the (52°u";;§'i"'mE5;o
first place. case law as to Court having jurisdiction under the section needs exa- be considered.
mination.' In the second place." it is not clear whether the power under this
section can be exercised where the ward has never lived with the guardian who
now applies for custody. in the third place. the languane of certain prm»i<:ion<
of the section (where it speaks of "arresting the ward") is archaic." in the
fourth place.' although sub-section {ll of the section-itself lays down tlw test
of welfare of the ward, yet attempts are. from time to time. made----though mostlv
unsuccessfully--to argue'' that the rirrhrs of rim guardian should al.m_t'nﬂI!."I1P(> the
dc=cz'.ri0n. Then.' since the section deals with a matter vitally affecting the int-2"ests
of the minor, it is desirable to make a speciﬁc provision as to the extent to
which his wishes should be respected. Finally,' there is also one addition in a matter of nrocedure that we would
like to make. so as to emohasise the need for associating women with the pro-
ceedings. wherever practicable." " According to the Allahabad," Bombay,' Nagpur' and Patna' view' such
proceedings cannot be entertained. Other High Courts,"-7 however. adopt a more liberal interpretation and hold
that even if a child has never been in the actual custody of a guardian. yet the
guardian has constructive custody, and also. that refusal by a person to return

the minor to such guardian amounts to "refusal to return" within the meaning
of the section. According to a recent Andhra case,' the word "removal" is not limited to
physical removal constructive removal clearly falls within its ambit. In :1 Punjab
case" where both the parents lived together and subsequently a minor son of 6
years was taken away by the mother, it was held that there was a crmsrrurriw>

removal of the child from the father's custody and the father had a right to apply
under section 25. '

Some of the earlier decisions on the subject are reviewed in the tlnderrnen: ject would seem to do substantial justice. the result has not been achieved without
straining the present language to some extent. Indeed. this was admitted in one
of the earlier Madras cases on the subject." It is pe'haps for this reason thatiflte
Rangoon High Court." while not accepting the liberal construction, hinted'-at
the need for legislative action. ' " N

'Para 5.12. mpra. 'LatI'}'v. Shakoora, A.I.'R. 1973 All. 44]. 'Achrat/nl V. Chlmanlal. A.T.R. I916 Born. I29. 'Dhrm K/Imnri v. Mnlwndrn. A.I.R. I923 Nag. I99. 200. '.4/rrnrs-f Regzrmn V. ,7vfn.rM_/'rt. 52 LC. 998. I001 ('Pa.t.). 'See also Punjab and Andhra cases, infira. 7.17. The present language of the section does not carry out the intention.
The word "remove" in its literal meaning means "take off or away from the
place occupied, convey to another place, change situation of, get rid of, dis-
miss". There is no particular deﬁnition given in the Act. Doubt will persist as
to its exact sc0pe,,if, it is not clariﬁed. The language of section 25 should, there-
fore, be widened to provide an adequate remedy for the guardian of the minor
to have his right declared to the custody of the minor and to have his right
enforced by adopting the machinery provided in the Act. 7.l8. Thirdly. sub-section (1) of section '25 should be modiﬁed to remove
that part of it which contemplates "arrest" of the minor. This is archaic. As regards sub-section (2), which empowers the Court to exercise the powers
of the Magistrate of the first class under section 100 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure. 1882, it may be mentioned that the Code of 1882 has been repealed
and replaced by successive later legislation. The corresponding provision in the
Code of I898 was section 100, and 'the corresponding provision in the present
Code (of 1973) is section 97. Necessary substitution (which is only. a verbal
change) may be made in sub-section (2). We recommend that section 25(1) and 25(2)' should be amended accordingly. 7.19. Fourtl:ly,_it should be emphasised. that the minor's welfare is the para-
mount consideration" in proceedings, under section 25. This criterion is already
indicated in sub-section (1) bypthe words "if ................ .. it will be for the
welfare of the ward to return to the custody". However, it would be proper to
re-emphasise this aspect." 1Empl1asi.~' added. '
2(3) [\'()5'y _I.'1('(;/) v. Jacob A. C/ltl/t'!'a'I_I1a/(kﬂl. A,I.R. 1973 SC. 2090; para 7. to, supra. (b) Haric/mnd v. Virbala, (1974) 15 G.L.R. 499. (C) Alanjir Singh vi iﬂakshish Singh, A.I.R. 1-952 Punj; 129 (reviews cases'. 7.22. In the light of the above discussion, we recommend that section 25 r{ct.'i=illnlcIldull0D_
should be revised as under:---- ship. (4) In making an order under this seetirm, the Court shall regard the wel-
fare of the ward as the first and paramount consideration. (5) The Court shall not under this section make. an order ('ontrar_v to
the wishes of a child of fourteen years or over, unless "the Court is satisfied
that such an order is necessary by reason of special circumstances. (6) In a proceeding under this scection, the Court shall, wherever prac-
ticable, make an endeavour to secure the services of a woman. whether
related to the parties or not, including a woman professionally engaged in
promoting the welfare of the family, for the purposes of assisting the Court
in discharging the functions imposed by the law on it. (7) The provisions' of this section shall apply notwithstanding any-
thing to the contrary contained in section I9." 7.23. This taken us to section 26, which provides that a guardian of the Eamon 26
person appointed or declared by the Court, unless he is the Collector or a guardian
appointed by will or other instrument. shall not remove the ward from the
jurisdiction of the Court which appointed or declared him without the leave of

'Cf. 0. 32A. Rule 4, Code of Civil Procedure , 1908- posal of property by a guardian is dealt with in section 30. The section pro- R°°°'"'"°"d""°"~
vides that a disposal of immovable property by a guardian in contravention -of
section 28 or section 29 is voidable at the instance of any other person affected
thereby. The view taken in the majority of the judicial decisions seems to be
that a proceeding to set usirlv the transfer made in contravention of the above
restriction" is not needed. " 'i

7.30. We do not consider it necessary to recommend any amendment in Recommendation
this regard. However, the word "immovable" should be deleted. from section 30, tr3_tz;g;ezi3rl0 b
so that it can apply to the disposal of-mavable property" as well--an amendment M '
that is consequential on the proposed expansion of the scope" of section 29. We

W'

recommend that section 30 should be amended accordingly. net. section 20. Indian Trusts Act . 1882. '

'Abdul Rahman v. Sukhdayal Singh. (1906) I.L.R. 28 All. 30 (Bancrji & Richards -73-)- 'Jai Narain V. Bachu Lal, A.l.R. 1938 Cal. 369. 372»

'Jagamath v. Clnmm'. A.I.R. 1940 All. 416, 421 (Mohammad Ismail & Vemia JJ.)- 5Mem Chandra v. Lalir ﬁlohan. (1912), 16 C.W.N- 715-

'Lrrlit Kmnar v. Nagctrdra Lal. A.I.R- I940 C8i- 539, 59'- 7Mur/ml.mnurn ('ln'Ity v. Antony Utluyar. (I915) I.L.R. 38 Mad. 867. 877 (Sada~:iv:t Ayynr &

Rpcitctl' JJJ. '

"Sivuuntului v. .4rmmcImIu. A.'[.R. 1938 Mad. 822 (Venkalesubba Ran & Abdul Rah-nan JJ.).
'-Uagadmnbtt Prnsnd v. Anadi Nath. A.I.R. 1938 Pat. 337, 349 (VVnrt & Manohar Lall .TJ.)- ln consequence, section 3l(3)(b) should be revised as under:---- to the highest bidder .......... ..before the Court or some person etc. (rest as
in the present section)." 7.33. Section 32 deals with the variation of powers of guardians of property
appointed or declared by the Court, such variation to be for the advantage of
the ward and consistent with the law to which the ward is subject. The section needs no change. i

7.34. Under section 33, a guardian appointed or declared by the Court may
apply to the Court for its opinion, advice or direction on any "present question" the Court may, if in its view the justice of the case so requires,- (i) disallow the Wl'l0lr or any portion of the remuneration due to
the guardian for the period of the account with reference to which
default is committed, and (ii) also charge interest at such rate not eaceerling twelve per cent
per annum as the Court thinks just in the _circumstauces of the case,
on the money or monetary value of the property in t'('.s'pe(?t of which
default is committed or which has been improperly retained by the
guardian. for the period of such default or l"('7.('I1flUiI, without prejudice
to any other pI'0('('L'dll"1_g"I which may l.|(' tit/(mi r1_<'riim-I the guurrlian." 7.38. Clause (a) of section 314 requires the .ipp.ieuti».m In he "in the pres-
cribed form". Such phraseology often receives a technical construction, so that
minor departures from the "prescribe'df'i form raise controversies. It would be
better to substitute the words "according to the prescribed form". We therefore
recommend that in section 34(a). for the words "in the prescribed form". the
words "according to the prescribed 'Form" should be substituted. Recommendation
to insert
section 34(2),

Section 34(a)--- Recommendation- 7.39. There seems to be a conflict of decisions of the question whether. 33.,-ggon 34(d;_

in section 34(d). the "balance due" means the balance due as shown in the
accounts exhibited by the guardian. or whether it merms the balance due as
found by the Court on an examination of the accounts. The former view has
been taken by a few High Courts. namely. Caicutta." Lahore.' Madras' and
Nagpur.' In the Lahore case, however, the High Court regretted the position.
because the sum was unquestionably due from the guardian. 'Kasiprttliy v. Venugopal. A.I.R. 1950 Mad. 506, 507. 'DR (Kri.<lmas\\'nmi Naidu J3. esecﬁon 34 is to be re-numbered as Slli)-SCL'i'i'()I't (I). a,,,gu,,,,a,;, V, Alg/m,y]1, (1915) 21 C'.W.N. 628,» 691: /\.I.R. l'>1(: (til. 45*). 'Hakim Ray v. K/iundli Bat', A.I.R. 1930 Lab. 420, 421. 5HarikriShnﬂ v. Govindarajulu, A.I.R. 1926 Mad. 478. 479. 480 and Gnpuln.rwnm_v v. Rnmuiah

AIR. 1944 Mad. 396, 397. - 'Ramlalsao v. Tan Singh. A.I.'R. 1952 Nag. 135, J36. para 6 (Kaushalcndra Rae & Deo JJ.). Reasoning
examined. /Xmendmcnt of
section 34(d)
recommended. Section
34(3) to be
inserted. sectitiii. '34A

sectimtias. The latter and the wider view has been taken by the Allahabad' and Patna?
High Courts. Incidentally, the later Lahore view seems to fall in this category? 7.40. Some of the judicial decisions taking the narrower view have statqdi
that the matter could be dealt with by the procedure laid down in sections 33
and 36, which contemplate a suit against the guardian, where an administration
bond has or has not been taken, respectively. That procedure, however, is some-
what cumbersome and we do not see any reason why, in a proper case. the
Court itself should not have power, under section 34(tl), to direct payment;
It is. no doubt, true that the iniquity under section 34 is, in general,4of-, ausgm-g
mary n;iiure--a reason advanced in support of the narrower view,in«.one of
the earlirr Lahore cases.' However, as was pointed out in a later ecision of the
same Higfn Court.' on such a view, the scrutiny of the accounts'practieally
becomes a farce. 7.4!. Whatever be the true construction of the present wording_ of clause
(cl), we are of the opinion that it will be in the interests of" justice to expand
the scope of the expression "balance due" in the context under consideration.
'Wt: may mention that in the Madras case," a hint as to need for amendment
of the section was given. We therefore recommend that in section 34, at the
end of the clause (cl), the words "and also the additional balance found due by
the ('om-t on an exuniimttion of the accounts, though not shown in the accounts
cxliihitod by him, or so much thereof as the Court directs" "should be added. An appeal may be provided against the order' under section 34(d). in
view of its important." 7.42. We are also of the view that before an order is passed under clause (d) of section 34, the guardian should be given a reasonable opportunity of being
heard. This may be regarded as implicit in view of the adverse consequences of
such an order. but we would like it to be made explicit. To achieve this object.
we recommend the insertion of a new sub-section in section 34 on these lines: mrimi (I). give the guardian a reasonable opportunity of Iwing hcarz

7.43. Section 34A confers power on the Court to award remuneration for
auditing accounts. The section was inserted by an amendment made in 41929?
since it was considered that an adequate audit of accounts was d'e's'irable ahd
had not been provided for in the law as it then stood. The same zimendmentiin-F
scrtcd ciatlse (if) in section 50. The section needs no change. 7.44. Section 35 deals with the procedure for filing a suit against the guardian
where an administration bond has been taken from the guardian. ,

The section needs on change. 'r 1

'Sim Ram v. Gobfndi, A.l.R. l924 All. 593, dissented from in Rrmganarh v. .Murari}n}.' A.T.R:,
1936 All. l79. , 'i

'Mohamed Furizluddin v. Ahmad Abdul. A.I.R. 1928 Pat. 255. 158

"("1/rwun Siirglr V. Hur Kuur. /\.l.R. I933 L311. 484, 485. 4l-Elqir /llu/Ir1ntnim1' v. Bhari. /\.l.R. I932 Lalt 305- -'Clmmm Singh S70 Har Kaur. A.I.R. I933 Lah. 484. 485. 7.46. Section 37 deals with the general liability of the guardian as trustee. S¢°ti°n 37-

The principal object is to save the right of the ward or his representative to pur-
suei any remedy against theguardian or his representative which, not being ex-
pressly provided in either section 35 or section 36, would be legally available
against a trustee or the representative of the trustee. The opening part of the
section contains the words "of the two last foregoing section". It is necessary
to substitute. for these words, the words and ﬁgures "section 35 or 36" (in con-
formity with current legislative practice), and we recommend accordingly. Recommendation. Recommendation

for verbal
amend_m?nt._ ''

.5}

9-'. pi

('H A PTER 8

'|'l"'.|{?\llN»\'l'3t)N (H7 ("!l;\Rl)lANSHll': SECTIONS 38-42

3°°P°- 8.1 l~ive sections in the Act deal with thetermination of guardianship. These
are-- Section 13 Right of survivorship among joint guardians.
Section 39, R€m0\'1Li of guardian. Section 40 .4 Discharge of guardian. . Section -1| ----- Cessation of authority of guardian. Section 4 ?. ~ Appointment of successor to gmardian dead, discharged

or removed. section 38. 8.2. Section 38 deals with the right of surviorship among joint guardians. A
surviving guardian is allowed to continue to function as such, till the vacancy is
ﬁlled up. The rule as incorporated in the section possesses practical utility. The section may. therefore. he leftiundisturbcd. 9¢¢'i°n 39- 8.3. Section 3 ') nrewides for removal of the guardian by the Court on the
speciﬁed g.-rounds. Although there is considerable case law on the section, most
of the reported decisions raise questions concerned with application of the sec-
tion. rather than with the principle of the provision. In this position. We have
no change to recomend in the section. '

section 40. 8.4. Section 40 deals with the discharge of a guardian, and seems to need
no change. Section 4m)_ . 8.5. The circumstances In whtcn the powers of.are guardian ceases are dealt

Recommgndaﬁon, with in section 41. A few matters require discussion under the section. In the first place. section 41(1) provides that the.powers of a guardian of the
person cease on the death, "rentoval" prdischarge of the guardian. The expres-
sion "removal" has been construed' as including an implied removal under sec-
tion 7(2). We are of the view that in order to avoid future controversy, it is
desirable to add, in section 41(1), the words "express or implied" after the word
"removal". We recommend accordingly. Section 41 _ 8.6. The second question is concerned with the death of the ward. Section
::ﬂ'ga:'°p"' 4l(3) provides that when "for any cause" the powers of a guardian cease, the
loath of ward. Court may require him or. if he is dead, his representative, to deliver as it may
direct any property in his possession or control belonging to the Ward or any
accounts in his possession or control relating to any past or present property of

the ward. There is. however. some doubt as to whether sub-section (3) of section 41 is
applicable where the minor himselt" dies. The controversy hinges on the cons-
truction of the words "any cause" appearing in sub-section (3). The Allahabad
High Court takes the narrower View in this respect? In a Bombay case,' the

Ilibmz V. Sailendra. /\.I.R. i946 ('al. 272. 8.7. We think that the wider view should be incorporated by m express Recommendation
amendment of the section. Even at present, the language of section 41(3) is wide ;'e'cf;'n°"f1m
enough to include the case of a guardian ceasing to be such by reason of the and 41(2).
death of the ward.' However, a doubt has been expressed as to-whether the
Court has any power in such a situation----the suggestion being that the parties
must be left to litigate in an ordinary Court.' The position should be made clear

by a suitable amendment recognising the wider scope of the section. Accordingly, we recommend addition of the following words at the end of
section 4l(l)(c) and 4l(2)(c):---- 8.8. Assuming that section 41 applies to the case of the death of the ward,' S°¢U,<>n 41(3)-
there is some obscurity as to the precise order to be passed by the Court in such case order'
a situation under section 4 |(3). Should it be an order for~ (a) delivery of the property to the heir of the minor. or (b) ﬁling of an inter-pleader suit,' or

(C) directing any other course? 8.9 Delivery to the heir would prima facie be an expedient alternative. Recommelgdation
However, there is no speciﬁc provision permitting delivery to the heir. The §'1(;§'_ s°°"°" ' 4

In the first casefthe power of the Court isconﬁhed to a guardian appointed
or declared by 'thé'Court. In the second case. the power extends also to a guar-
dian appointed by a will or other instrument. The procedure in Chapter 2 must
be followed.' " The terms of the section have created no probiems, but_aV question
has arisen as to how far an order appointing a second guardian under sectioii 42
is appeaiable under section 47. We propose to consider the matter under the

t

'See, in particular, section 11 . _ . 'See discussion as to section 47, irtl_'ra_ (part; 9.7).'

CHAPTER 9

SUPl'I.EMl7.NTAL PROVISIONS: SECTIONS 43-51 9.]. Supplemental provisions are contained in sections 43 to 51. These are--~ Sections

Section 43. Orders for regulating conduct or proceedings of gua r- 43 to 51.
dians and enforcement of those orders. Section 44. Penalty for removal of ward from jurisdiction. Section 45. Penalty for contumacy. Section 46. Reports by Collectors and Subordinate Courts. Section 47. Orders appealable. Section 48. Finality of other orders. Section 49. Costs. Section 50. Power of High Court to make rules. Section 51. Applicability of Act to guardians already itppointed
by Court. 9.2. With reference to section 43. it is only sub-section (4) that needs some Section 43- _
comment. This sub-section contains references to sections 492 and 493 of the R°°°mm°"da"°"' Code of Civil Procedure . which should now be revised so as to read as reference
to Order 39. rules 1-2, Code of Civil Procedure , 1908. We recommend necessary
amendment of section 43. 9.3. In section 44. the amount of maximum ﬁne needs revision in view of the Sections
decline in the purchasing power of the rupee since 1890. The section at present 44 t° 46'
provides as under:-- Our recommendation would be to substitute, for the words "one thousand".
the words "ﬁve thousand" rupees. The amounts of ﬁne mentioned in section 45(1), last paragraph also appear
to need revision in view of the changed economic conditions. This paragraph
mentions three amounts. in this context-- (i) the amount of ﬁne as ﬁxed initially must not exceed one hundred
rupees: It would be appropriate to increase the ﬁrst and third amounts tenfold.
having regard to the decline in the purchasing power of the rupee since 1890. 5--2 M of I.J&CA/ND/80

Section 47. Section 47 and
orders under
section 34(d)_

Section
47(ff)---Re- commendation. Section 47 and
orders under
section 42. As to the second amount. since it is a further ﬁne for a continuous default.
it livclold lllt'l'l.T-':.\'L' will do. Accordingly. we recommend that the last paragraph of section 45(l) should
he revistrd as under: Section 46 needs no change. 9.4. The list of appcalable orders is given in section 47. We need not enume-
rate thcm. but shall conﬁne ourselves to the points that need consideration. 9.5. The ﬁrst point concerns orders under section 34, clause ((1), which are.
at present. not appealablc. In our view, an order under this clause. even as the
clause now stands, is an order of some importance and should be appealable.
Observations of eminent Judges' have indicated the need for providing an appeal
against these orders. After the amendment'-' which we have recommended in sec-
tion 34(d). an appeal is all the more necessary against such orders, as their scope
will now be much wider than at present. An order refusing to pass a direction under section 34(d) should also be
appealable. Of course, the appeal should be against a ﬁnal order, and not a
merely interlocutory one, whether it be one directing payment or one refusing
to direct payment. 9.6. Accordingly, we recommend that in section 47, after clause (f), the fol-
lowing new clause should be inserted: 9.7. The next point relating to section 47 concerns orders under section 42.
There seems to be a certain amount of obscurity' on the question whether an appeal
lies against an order appointing a second guardian under section 42. The order is
not speciﬁcally mentioned in the list of appealable orders as given in section 47.
The Chief Court of Sind has taken the view' that the order under secton 42 really
falls under section 7 and is therefore appea'-able. On the other hand according to
the Calcutta view." an appeal does not lie against an order under section 42, but
if the Court. before passing such an order, has not complied with the procedure
for removal of the guardian under section 39. then an appeal would lie against
the order of removal. 'E.g. Go/mlaswam_v V. Ramayya, A.I.R. 1944 Mad. 397 (Leach C.J.). 2Paragraphs 7.34 to 7.36, supra. /\.~'; .'I mnscqiiciitial L'l'l'.t|lgC, in clause (j) of the section, the full stop at the
cm! should lie replaced by the word and punctuation mark: ":or". 9.9. This takes us: to section 48. which reads us under:~- [ Section 622 of the Code of Civil Procedure of 1882 corresponds to
section ll5 of the Code of Civil Procedure . 1908]. 9.|0. The wording of the section is peremptory. But orders under the Act
are intended for the protection and welfare of the minor, and the proceedings Effect of the
are not adversary in the usual sense. In a number of cases,' orders as to cus- 
tody. sanction of alienations and the like have been cancelled or modiﬁed by construed'
the Court to suit changed circumstances". The "ﬁnality" of the order is
confined to a suit or any other form of litigation of a substantive character,
and does not bear cancellation or modiﬁcation of the order in appropriate
cases. 9.1!. In particular, it is recognised that orders as to custody are temporary.' Tempo"?
, _ _ _ , nature 0
A possible exception would be an order appointing a guard1an"'----an order orders. which can either be contestcd on appeal" or (in effect) he set aside by taking
proceedings for the removal of the gurrdian. But apart from such special situ-
ations, courts have, in general. attempted to achieve substantial justice by
allowing review in suitable cases.' In an exceptional case, even an order of an
appointment of a guardian has been recalled.'

9.12. In our view, the language of the section ought to be modiﬁed to

bring it in harmony with the demands of justice and with actual practice of diggm
the courts. 9.13. It may be noted that the provision in section 48 is. to a large extent. History of
derived from the Act of 1874' relating to European British minors. Section 9 section 48- 'See Harriam Singh v. Kiimala Devi, A.I.R. 1971 HP. 25 (review cases). 2Ram l1'arnI(li V. Jaganmitlv. A.I.R. l932 All. 5. 8. niV(.'§'.'lI'd(lS v. /tmmd. (1907) I.L.R. 3] Born. 590. Recovery as
arrears of
land revenue. Section 50

Section 5l---- To be repealed. of that Act provided that "Save as provided by section 8 . no order passed under
this Act in respect to the guardianship of a minors person or property shall
be liable to be contested in any other proceedings". However, it should be
noted that by section 8 of the same Act, it was, inter alia, provided that "in
cases instituted under this Act. the Court shall be guided by the procedure pt'('S-
cribed in the Code of Civil Procedure in so far as the same is applicable ...... .. ".
Thus, in the scheme of the Act of 1874, the provision of the Civil Procedure
Code relating to review became applicable to all orders under that Act. 9.14. In the light of the above discussion. we recommend that section 48

should be revised as under:«--- 9.l5. We have disposed of section 48. Section 49 provides that the costs
of any proceeding under the Act, including the costs of maintenance of a guar~
dian or other person in the Civil Jail, shall, subject to rules made by the High
Court. be in the discremn of the Court in which the proceeding is held. Al-
though the corresponding provision' in the Code of Civil Procedure is more
speciﬁc, it does not appear to be necessary to be so elaborate in the Act under
consideration. The section may therefore be left as it is. 9.16. At present, the Act contains no direct provision for the recovery of
various amounts that might become due under its provisions from guardians.
Sections 35. 36, 43(4) and 45 do contain certain provisions which could be
pressed into service. but these are indirect or secondary and the procedure is not
expeditious. We are of the view that there is need for an express provision
authorising the recovery of such amounts as arrears of land revenue. Accordingly, we recommend that a new sectionﬁsay, as section 49A~should
be inserted in the Act on the subject as follows:---- 9.17. Section 50 enumerates the matters with reference to which rules can
he made by the High Court." It needs no change. 9.!8. Section 51 deals with the application of the Act to a guardian ap-
pointed under any enactment repealed by the Act. These enactments were enu-
merated in a Schedule which was annexed to the Act [890 as originally enacted
and referred to in section 2 . Section 2 and the Schedule were revealed in 1938
by the Repealing Act . By now. all such guardians must have been dead and
the wards also must have either attained majority or died. We therefore recom-
mend that section 5 ] should be repealed. ' Section 35 , Code of Civil Procedure. i908 (costs). '1Cf. section 232. Income Tax Act, 1961 and Jagdish Pratap v. State of U.P. A.I.R. 1973 SC.
1059. ing an Explanation to cover a de facto guardian." Chapter 5--Empowerment of subordinate judicial officers. (3) Section 4A(l) should be amended by substituting, for the words "original
civil jurisdiction", the words "unlimited original civil jurisdiction", so that dele-
gation of powers of the Court under the Act may be made only in favour of
senior judicial otﬁcers.3

Chapter 6----Appoimment and declaration of guardian. (4) In section 7 , an Explanation should be inserted to provide that "property"
includes hereditary trusteeship.'

(5) In section 7 . a new sub-section should be inserted to ensure that the Court
can make an appointment of a guardian conditional on the performance of a
condition by the guardian.'

(6) In section 8 . a new clause--clause (bb)----should be added to entitle the
minor himself to apply to the Court for the appointment of a guardian in certain
cases.'

(7) In section I2. a provision should be added in express terms regarding
power to make an interlocutory order (for production of the minor) in respect to
proceedings under section 25.7

(8) In section 14, the present provision requiring Courts to send a report to
the State Government (in case of multiple proceedings ﬁled in Courts which
are not subordinate to the same High Court) should be altered. Instead. this
report should be submitted to the High Court in whose jurisdiction the proceed-
ings were instituted. The High Court having jurisdiction over the place where
they were first instituted should decide where the proceedings should continue." (9) Section 17 should be revised so as to make the minor's welfare the para-
mount consideration in the appointment of a guardian and to equalise the posi-
tion of the mother with that of the father and to spell out the considerations re-
levant for determining what order will be for the minor's welfare." 'Para 4.5. 'Para 4. I 3. (I2) A new section ~section I 8A ~-should be added as to the appointment
of :: juristic person as guardian. subject to certain conditions." H3) (.'crI:iin unicmlmcnls should be made in section I') to ensure that the
welfare of the minor becomes ll'=.c paramount consideration in appointing a
guardian.'

[As to inaking welfare of the minor paramount under section 25, see
point concerning section 25. infra]. (14) It should be provided in section 19 that clauses (a) and (b) of the sec-
tion do not apply where the husband or the father (or mother) is the applicant
for guardianship.'

(15) In section 19(b], after the word "father" the words "or mother" should
be added.'

(16) Section 19, clause (b), should be conﬁned to persons other than married
females.'

(17) Where, under personal law, the mother or the father is not the natural
guardian of the minor, then he or she should also be excluded from the pw
ferential position given by clause (b) of section 19.'

Chapter 7----Rights, duties and liabilities of guardians. (18) Section 21. which empowers a minor to act as a guardian in certain
cases. should be modiﬁezl as recommended." (19) Section 22 should be amended to empower the Court to authorise the
grant of expenses for the maintenance of the minor." (20) Section 25 should be revised-- (i) to make verbal changes in regard to the archaic phrase "arrest", (ii) to make welfare of the minor paramount, and (iii) to add a provision for consulting the wishes of the minor in
certain cases." (21) In regard to proceedings under section 25, welfare of the minor should
prevail notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section 19." 'Para 6 .49. 'Paragraphs 6.50 and 6.53. 'Para 6.56. 'Paragraphs 6.5') and 6.83. 'Riragraphs 6.59 and 6-83-
'P-aragrnphs 6.75 and 6.83. 'Paragraphs 6.76 and 6.83. 'Paragraphs t». M and 6.8}. 'Para 7 . 7. mendation to expand the scope of section 29." (24) In section 3l(2), an express provision authorising the Court to direct
it private sale of property should be added." (25) Section 34 should be amended to confer power on the Court to direct
the defaulting guardian to pay interest and to disallow remuneration for failure
to submit accounts by the guardian.'

(26) In section 34(a), for the words "in the prescribed form", the words
"according to the prescribed from" should be substituted.'

(27) In section 34(d). an amendment should be made to provide that the
balance as found by the Court may be ordered to be paid by the guardian in case
of default.'

(28) In section 34, a new sub-section should be inserted to require that the
guardian should be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard before an
order requiring payment under section 34(d) is passed.'

(29) In section 36(2), the reference to " Code of Civil Procedure " should now
be suitably revised as a reference to 0.32, R. l and 4(2) of the Code of 1908.8

(30) A new sub-section (3) hould be added to section 36 as follows:-- ment of the balance due under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 34,
the Court shall not grant leave under this section for the institution of a
suit against the guardian in so far as such a suit relates to the amount so
required to be paid, unless the Court is satisﬁed that recovery of that
amount otherwise than by a suit under this section is not reasonably prac-
ticable in the circumstances of the case." (31) The opening words of section 37 should be replaced by a reference
to sections 35 and 36, in conformity with current practice in legislative drafting."'
Chapter 8---Termination of guardianship: sections 38-42. (32) In section 4l(l)(a). after the word "removal", the words 'express or
implied" should be added." 'Para 7.28. '=Para 7.30. (35) In section 41, a new sub-section should be inserted to empower the
Court to give certain directions as to the delivery of property on. the death of
the minor.'

Chapter 9---Suppiem<'ntal provision-F: creased as recommended." (39) In section 47, a new clause (it) should be inserted to provide for an
appeal against an order directing or refusing to direct the guardian under section
34(d) to make payment of the balance due.'

(40) In section 47, a new clause (k) should be inserted to make appealable
orders for the appointment of a successor guardian under section 42. As a
consequential change, 'in clause (j), the word "or" should be added at the end,
and the full stop should be replaced by a comma." (41) Section 48 should be revised so as to make an express provision for
the variation of an order by the Court on certain grounds.'

(42) A new section 49A should be introduced to empower the recovery of
various amounts due from a guardian under the Act as arrears of land revenue.-°

(43) Section 5 ] should be repelaled." P. V. Dixit .... .. Chairman
S. N. Shankar .... .. Member
Gangeshwar Prasad .... .. Member
P. M. Bakshi .... .. Member-Secretary

22nd April, 1980. 'Para 8.7. 'Para 8.7. 'Para 8 .1 I . 'Para 9.2. 'Para 9 .3. Provided that no person shall be entitled to act as the natural guardian of
a minor under the provisions of this seetionw (a) if he has ceased to be a Hindu, or (b) if he has completely and ﬁnally renounced the world by be-
coming a hemiit (vanaprastha) or an ascetic (yati or sanyasi). Explanation.--In this section, the expressions 'father' and 'mother' do
not include a step-father and a step-mother." As to Muslims, under Hanaﬁ law, the mother is entitled to the custody of a Custody in
male child until the child attains the age of seven years and of a female child l'ﬂ'2':r'1;'E)""V
until puberty."--' If the mother is absent or disqualiﬁed during the age of the
child mentioned above, the custody of the child belongs, in Hanaﬁ Law, to the
speciﬁed female relatives. If the mother and the female relatives are all dis--
qualiﬁed, then the father and (in his absence) the speciﬁed male relatives become
entitled to custody." After the ages mentioned above (i.e., in respect of a
male child above the age of seven years or of a female child who has attained
puberty). the father becomes entitled to the custody." Among Shias. the ﬁrst right of custody is that of the parents, and priority shia Law. between them is determined on the basis that the mother should be entitled
during infancy, i.e. in the case of male till the age of two years and female till
seven years. Later on. the father has the right to custody.7 Among Shias
failing the parents, the grandfather is entitled to the custody, and failing him.
certain speciﬁed relatives are entitled? ' Section 6 . Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act , I956. ll. Hindu Law

Rules laid down in the legal system on this subject are not new to India.
In ancient India. infants and students were entitled to the special protection of
the king. until the attainment of majorly by he former and until the completion
of study by the latter. The properties of minors were to be protected": The
duty of the king to protect his subjects thus especially extended to such persons. According to the manusmriti," the king shall protect the inherited (and
other) property of a minor until he (the minor) has returned (from his teacher's
house) or until he has attained majority. In one of the comments on the Bill which led to the present Act, the role
of the Courts in regard to appointment of guardians has been beautifully deduced
from the duties of the king." and also sought to be supported by reference to
some of the ancient Indian law-givers. A verse of Baudhayana has also been
quoted---- 4

"The King is bound to defend his subjects. their goods and chattles,
lands and tenements." The comment l'l£l.\ further ohserved-- ". Dr. Ratti_t;an's views are also of interest" as to the _nosition in ancient India-~~-- band for herself'. So also in the Muhammadan Law in default of the
agnales, certain uterine relations, and the moula~al-mawalah, the power of
giving in marriage is vested in the ruler and the kazi (see Bailey's Muham-
madan Law, page 46; Amir Ali's Personal Law of the Muhammadans,
page 192)." Ill. Muslim Law

In Muslim law also, in default of the de jure guardians, the duty of appoint-
ing a guardian for the protection and preservation of the infant's property de-
volves on the Judge as the representative of the sovereign." It may also be mentioned that the capacity of Hindu and Muslim fathers
to appoint, by their wills, guardians for their children after death has been re-
cognised by the legislature in lndia since the date of the Permanent Settlement." We do not. however, propose to embark upon a detailed discussion of the
rules of Hindu and Muslim law, as those rules do not seem to have furnished
to any noticeable degree the source material for the content of the rules en-
acted in the Act of 1890. IV. Position before I890-~'l'he Acts and the Regulations. It is now time to discuss the position in India before the Act of 1890.
Before 1890, there was no all India Act dealing with the guardianship of minors.
The matter was governed, in part, by several scattered Acts or Regulations and,
in part. by certain uncodiﬁed rules of personal law. The principal legislative
measures may be enumerated: 'Authorities in Hindu Law---- (i) ('olcbrooke's Digest. Vol. III (London l£d.). page 542. (ii) Mann. Chapter VIII, verse 27. Muliannnadan authorities -- (i) Maenaghten's Principles of M.L., Chapter VIII. paragrr-ph 6: I2 Suth. W.R. 337. (ii) Das Moslemische Recht von Micolans v. (Tornauw. page 153 leipzig, l855).
zlmambandi v. Mursuddi, (1918) I.L.R. 45 Cal. 892, 893 ( C.P.C .). did not apply to European British subjects. or to persons under the siiper-
intendeiice of the Court of Wards. (b) Madras Minors Act (14 of 1858). (5) The European British Minors Act (Act 13 of 1874), relating to the
guardianship of European British minors. It did not apply to territories
within the jurisdiction of the Chzirtererl High Courts. (6) Provisions in the charters of the Chartered High Courts. The legislation of 1858, 1864 etc. merely conferred expressly a certain juris-
diction on the courts and deﬁned exactly the position of those who availed them-
selves of, or were brought under those Acts.' 2

The genesis of these Acts is of interest. Soon after the establishment of "mars, of
the Court of Wards in Bengal," it was found necessary to give to the Civil Courts legislation _
. . . " j on guardianship. powers to nominate guardians of mniors over whom that Court p0SS€SS€(i no
power.'

The ﬁrst major step in this direction was the enactment of Bengal Regula-
tion 1 of 1800, which authorised Zillah Judges, where there were no testamen
tary guardians. to nominate guardians to disqualiﬁed landholders not subject to
the authority of the Court of Wards. This Regulatim, with others relating to
the same subject, was repealed by the Bengal Minors Act (40 of 1858). which
provided :1 machinery for the appointment of managers of the estates" and guar-
dians of the person of minors (not being European British subjects)" residing in
Bengal outside the limits of the original civil jurisdiction of the High Court. Similar provision was made for the Madras Presidency by Madras Regula-
tion 5 of 1804, section 20, and 10 of 1831, section 3 . and for Bombay Presidency
by Act 20 of 1864, which was in terms similar to Act 40 of 1858. The Bengal Minors Act (40 of 1858) was the result of certain practical Act of l858---
difﬁculties which had been revealed by the case law or otherwise in the working G°"""" In l86l. there was passed an Act to amend the law relating to minors. The
principal provisions are to be found in sections l and 2, which are quoted below:'

"I. Any relative or friend of a minor who may desire to prefer any
claim in respect of the custody or guardianship of such minor may make
an application by petition, either in person or by a duly constituted agent.
to the principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in the district by which
such application. if preferred in the form of a regular suit, would be cogniz-
able. and shall set forth the grounds of his application in the petition. The
Court. if satisﬁed by an "examination of the Petitioner or his agent, if he
appear by agent, that there is ground for proceeding, shall give notice of the
application to the person named in the petition as having the custody or
being in the possession of the person of such minor. as well as to any other
person to whom the Court may think it proper that such notice should be
given. and shall ﬁx as early a day as may be convenient for the hearing. of
the petition and the determination of the right to the custody of guardian-
ship of such minor. The rest of the Act of 1861 (from section 3 onwards) was mainly concerned
with matters of a procedural nature. Section 3 required the Court, after hear-
ing the statements of the parties. to make an order regarding custody or guardian-
ship. Section 4 required the Court to be guided by Act 8 of 1859 (Act for sim-
plilying the procedure of Courts of Civil jurisdiction not established by Royal
Charter) as far as applicable. Section 5 provided for an appeal to the sudder
court from an order of the lower court under the Act. and section 6 provided
that "any order passed under this Act in respect to the custody of guardianship
of a minor shall not be liable to be contested in a regular suit". Section 7 saved
certain laws, as also the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court and Court of Wards. Section 8 deﬁned the term "Sudder Court". 'Bengal Minors Act. 1858. section 4 . 'Act 9 of l86t'(An"Act to amend the law relating to minors). The Bombay Minors Act of 1864 was passed in these circumstances:'

"It was deemed cxpctlicnl by the Bombay Government, on certain repre-
sentations from the Judges of the late Sudder Adawlut, to make provision
for the better protection of the property of minors. The judges sug-
gested that an enactment was required analogous to Act XL of 1858. Such
an enaeiment was accordingly framed with such alterations as the different
circumstances of the Bombay Presidency demanded, and was passed by
the Court of the Governor of Bombay. The Act provided that proceedings
of the Zillah Judges with reference to minors "should be open to appeal
to the High Court of Judicature in Bombay. But it is stated in the Letters
Patent of the High Court that the appellate jurisdiction of that Court is
confined to cases already subject to appeal to the Sudder Adawlut. and
to cases which shall become subject to appeal to the High Court by virtue
of such laws and regulations relating to civil procedure as shall hereafter
be made by the Governor General in Council. Neither Act 40 of 1959 (Bengal Minors Act) nor Act 20 of l864 (Bombay
Minors Act) was intended to alter or affect any provisions of Hindu or Maho-
medan law, as to guardians who did not avail themselves of those Acts. The
scope of these enactments was merely to confer expressly a certain jurisdiction
and to deﬁne exactly the position of those who availed themselves of, or were
brought under. those Acts, leaving persons to whom any existing rules applied.
unaffected. The Legislature did not mean to sweep away all ancient law on the
subject or to subject to one inﬂexible rule the property of all minors. For
example. a Hindu widow (as mother and natural guardian of her minor son),
could dispose of property belonging to the minor, even though she had not ob-
tained a "certiﬁcate" of administration under those Acts." As regards legal proceedings taken on behalf of

Act of IS64. Acts of 1858
and 1864-
Scope of_

minors. in Bengal, no Legal

guardian could institute or defend a suit connected with the estate of a min0r,P'°°"'""85

unless he had obtained a certiﬁcate of administration? In this respect the law
has undergone a change in the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890 . Under the

Act of l858 (Bengal Minors Act). a "certiﬁcate" was essential, but under the
Act of l89(). it is not required. As was observed in the Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to

the Bill' which led to the Act of 1890- 'National Archives. File relating to Act 8 of i890. notes portion. pages 2. 3.
'(a) Ram Chander V. Brojomzrh. (l877) T.L.R. 4 Cal. 929. 939. (b) Hamzpa v. Nfhalpi. (l89l) l'.L.R. l5 Bom. 259. 261. (C) Murari v. Tavvana. (1896) T.L.R. 20 Born. 286. 289.
'See section 3 of Bengal Minors Act (40 of 1858). 'Statement of Objects and Reasons to the Bill of I886. by minors. Legislation
in force in
Mntlras. Act of 1874

Immediate
occasion for
the Bill_

Act xx of
1864, Section 2 . So much as regards the Presidencies of Bengal and Bombay. In Madras,
bcsidcs R<'g|)i3iiOll 5 of W04. the Following Regulations and Acts contained
a part of the law on this subject. vi2.'t---- Regulation 3 of 1802. Regulation H) of 1831. Act 19 of 1841. Act 21 of 1855. Act 14 of 1858 (Madras Minors Act). Act 9 of 186] (An Act to amend the law relating to minors). It remains now to notice the European British Minors Act, 1874 passed to
provide in the Punjab and elsewhere for the guardianship of European British
subjects. Section 2 dealt with definitions. Appointment of a guardian by the parent
was provided for in section 3 . Incidentally, section 3 of the Act of 1874 is the
genesis of section 5 of the Act of 1890 (The section is now repealed). Under section 4 . if the ('ourt within whose jurisdiction the minor resided
found that a guardian of his person or property had not been provided for under section 3 , the ('ourt could appoint a guardian of his person or property or both. Sections 5 to 9 of the Act of 1874 dealt with procedural matters. Section
10 contained elaborate rules for awarding custody. The guardian's duties, rights
and liabilities were dealt with in sections 10 to 25. An interesting provision was
that contained in section 12 , to the eﬁect that a ward is presumed to be of his
father's religion and the guardian, in the absence of a direction of the Court to
the contrary, must train the ward in such religion. However, if the ward is old
enough to form an intelligent preference for any religion, the Court in giving
such direction "shall attend to such preference". Another interesting provision
was that contained in section 2 ], which provided that on the death of one
or two or more joint guardians. whether appointed by a parent ( section 3 ) or by
the Court ( section 4 ), the power continued to the survivor or survivors until a
further appointment is made by the Court. It would also be interesting to note
that amongst the causes for removal of guardian was one mentioned in section
22(g) of the Act of I874, under which the Court could remove a guardian on
the arrival within the local limits of the Court "of some person whose guardian-
ship the Court may think likely to be more beneﬁcial to the minor than the
guardianship of the person so removed". V. Slate of the law and diﬂiculties felt

The legislation mentioned above constituted the background of the Act of
1890. The immediate occasion for undertaking the legislation that culminated
in the Act of 1890 was furnished by certain practical difﬁculties that had been
experienced in the working of the Bombay Minors Act, 1864. These difficulties
had been brought to the notice of the Government of India by the Bombay High
Court through the Local Government. The ditﬁculty was thus described9-- Though the suggestion pertained only to the Bombay Act , it was. on an
examination of the subject in the Legislative Department, thought that since
the Bengal Minors Act, 1858 was drawn on the same lines as the Bombay Act ,
the improvements suggested in the Bombay Act would be needed in that Act
also. It was further pointed out that the European British Minors Act, 1874
had also created several anomalies. For example, its provisions were confined
to "European" British subjects, and were inapplicable to Eurasians. '

2 Some problems had arisen in Madras also. The minute of the Chief Justice
of Madras? is oi interest in this context-- In view of this position, it was suggested' that it may be considered generally
whether the best plan would not be to consolidate and amend the law relating
to minors for all India. There were defects in Act 40 of 1858, and it might be
useful to invite all Local Governments to report what amendments if any. were
required in the law prevailing in each province. Because of the diﬂiculties felt, the Legislative Department was requested to
be good enough to prepare and introduce into the Council of the Governor
Genera'. for makirig Laws and fxiegulaticns a Bill prepared (on the line suggested).
applicable to all classes, extending to the whole of British India. embodying such
of the provisions of Act 40 to 1858, and Act 13 of 1874, as were suitable and
repealing the Acts and Regulations which related to the appointment of guardians
by the civil courts. It would be for the Legislative Department to consider what
further detailed provisions may usefully be inserted in the Bill, in order that
the proposed measure may be made as complete and comprehensive as possible.
A second Bill might be necessary in order to make the amendments required in
Chapter 3l of the Code of Civil Procedure then inforcre." On the whole, therefore, it was considered proper to propose a comprehensive
and self-contained law that would apply to the whole of British India. A draft Bill prepared by the Legislative Department was, under the autho-
rity of a Government Resolution, circulated for comments to local governments. judges, the bar and the public. lt was in this background that the Bill was introduced' in 1886 in the Council
of the Governor General. 'N;[ion:1lV,'_TChlV€S File relating to Act 8 of 1890, P3355 7-3.7 notes-
'National Archives, File relating to Act 8 of 1890. D88'? 3/C0"'°SP0l'|d¢I10¢-
'Statement of Objects and Reasons, Gazette of India (Jan.-June 1886), page 76. VI The Bill of 1886 and proceedings thereon

The following abstract of the proceedings of the Council of the Governor-- pmceedjn'

Gweral of India relating to the Bill are of interest':~-- of Governor
Genergl in
"GUARDIAI\'S AND WARDS BILL C°""°'l- The Hon'ble Mr. Scoble presented the Report of the Select Committee
on the Bill to consolidate and amend the law relating to Guardian and Ward.
He said':- Vii. Zinactments repealed. The Act of 1890 replaced the pre-existing enactments. or so much thereof
as was surviving. The following enactments were repealed* by the Act:-- 401' i872 Punjab Laws So far as it related to Act 40 of 1858. 19 of i873 T"-rollli-V/t'.;r?C' :~.-'Provinces Section 258. LanI'- FL r. em :3. 'Mr. llbcrt. 'National Archives, Legislative Department Papers relating to the Act, Appendix C, page H. 79 Nllmbcl' and W211' Tlllt' 0|' 5'Ul'_i€C' Extent of repeal
l3 of I874 European British lVlll't()f'~; The whole.
t5nt'ts74 laws Local Extent So far as it related to any enactment re-
pealed by this Act. 17 of I 875 Burma Courts Section 96. 20 of I875 Central Provinces Laws So far as it related to Act 40 of I858.
18 ol' i876 Oudh Laws So far as it related to Act 40 of I858.
Madras' Rz'gI4laII'0/tr
5 of 1804 Court of Wards Section 20, and so much of sections 21 and
22 as related to persons and property of
minors not subject to the superintendence
ol' the Court of Wards. 10 of l83l Minors' Estates Section 3 . VIII. Age of majority

History of the legislation relruing to majority in India is also a fascinating
topic.' The Hindu and Muslim laws current in Bengal with reference to the
age of majority were recognised in Bengal by the Bengal Regulation 10 of l973,2

which declared that minority with respect to both Hindus and Muslims was limited
to the expiration of the ﬁfteenth year. That section was, however, rescinded by
Bengal Regulation 26 of I793, by which" the minority of Hindu and Muslim pro-
prietors of estates paying revenue to Government. was declared to extend to the
end of the eighteenth year. The next enactment. affecting the age of majority of Hindus and Mahomedans

in Bengal was Act 40 of 1858 (the Bengal Minors Act), which provided for the
care by the Civil Court of the persons and property of minors (not being European
British subjects), who had not been brought; under the superintendence of the
Court of Wards. For the purposes of that Act the age of majority was ﬁxed
at eiglzteen years.' Act 40 of l858 has since been repealed.'

By the Bengal Court oi' Wards Act ". which placed under the superintendence
of the Court of Wards all minor proprietors of entire estate (other than pro-
Drietors who were subject to the jurisdiction as respects infants of a High Court).
the word "minor" was deﬁned' as a person under the age of eighteen years. This Act was repealed in 1879. and the repealing Act" deﬁned a "minor"
as a person who had not completed his age of twenty-one years. Madras Regulation 5 of I804, which inter alia constituted a Court of Wards'
for the Madras Presidency, provided" that "where minors may succeed to herit-
able property. they shall not, in any case. be competent to take charge of, or to

administer their own alfairs during the period of their minority, and for the better
understanding thereof the duration of minority shall, without exception, continue

until the completion of the eighteenth year of age." 'Trevelyan. The Law relating to Minors (l9l2), pages 4-5.
3Section 28. Bengal Regulation l0 of I703 (which established the Court of Wards). was contained in section 26, which laid down, "for the purposes of this Act,
every person shall be held to be a minor who has not attained the age of 18
years". This section had been the subject of conflicting interpretations in Cal-
cutta. According to one view. l8 was the age of majority only in cases where the
estate of the minor had been brought under the charge of the Civil Court. Accor-
ding to another view, whether or not the intervention of the Civil Court be in-
voked. l8 was the limit of minority. For example. Mr. Justice Phi-nr held that the expression "for the purposes" I0 'W.R.F.B. 36. I3 VV.R.C.R. 4:32. 5 B.L.R. 8]. ll I-*V.R.C.R. 561. 7 B.L.R. 607. 8 B.L.R. 379. 10 B.I..R. 240. The law respecting majority thus remained in an unsettled state until the Indian Majority Act of 1875 was passed. That Act (as its preamble states) was
passed for prolonging the peroid of non-age and attaining more uniformity and
certainty respecting the age of majority in case of persons domiciled in British
India. The Act of 1890 adopted a uniform age for all purposes for appointing a
guardian. This was achieved by adopting. by reference. the deﬁnition of "minor",
as given in the Majority Act . 1875. The age as given in that Act was 18 years.
Once a guardian was appointed, the age of majority was extended to 21 years.
The latter result was achieved by amending the Indian Majority Act . 1875-an
amendment eﬁected by the Act of I890. 1Scc-- (at The Indian Succession Act (ID of '.8651 section 3 . applied to Hindus by the Hindu Wills

I Act (21 of i870). section 6 . (b) The Limitation Act (9 of 1871). section 3- (c) The Government Saving Bank Act (5 of 1973). (d) Indian Christian Marriage Act (16 of 1872), section 3 . (c) The N.W.P. Land Revenue Act (19 of 1873), section 302). National Archives. File relating to Act 8 of 1890, page 91/correspondence. APPENDIX 3

ENG] ISH LAW. /IN!) ITS [EVOLUTION

I . Introductory

_ English law on the subject of guardianship of minors and custody of children
18 not to be found codified in one single enactment. So much of it as is statutory

is scattered in several enactments. Part of it is still non-statutory. Broadly speak-
ing, the sources of the English law on the subject are the following:---- (1) Legislation on the subject of guardianship and custody (including,
testamentary guardianship). (2) Legislation relating to children. (3) The law relating to inherent jurisdiction of the High Court in rela-
tion to wardship. (4) The law relating to habeas corpus, in so far as it deals with the
recovery of custody of minors below the age of discretion. Legislation on the subject. particularly the statutes passed during the last
half a century or so, shows that mrch of the ﬁeld has come to be regulated by
the State. The "rights" of the parents have receded into the background, while

the welfare of the child has come into the foreground. This stage has not, how-
ever, been reached without consirlerrthle experimentation. Even now, the comp-
lexity of the legislation relating to children and the frequency with which it has
been subjected to amendment, rather shows that the ﬁnal solution to the problem
of securing the welfare of children is not within easy reach. A very brief history of the manner in which the law has evolved would not
be out of place. The law on the subject of guardianship of infants has undergone great
changes in recent years.' Originally based largely on the patriarchal and feudal

theories of the family, it was readjusted to modern conditions on the abolition
of feudal tenures in 1660," and again, with the increasing recognition of the equa-
lity of husbands and wives before the law, in 1886 and 1925. The key-note of
the law is, however, not the traditional rights of the father, nor the abstract rights
of the mother. but the welfare of the child: and this principle was expressly affir-
med by the Act of 1925 as the 'first and paramount consideration'. The principle has been reiterated" in the Act of I971. and again in the
Act of 1973. In this process, the two great instruments of law reform---equity and legisla-
tion~--have played a notable part. The role of judicial decision in common law
courts has been limited. because of the constraints that attach to improvement
in the law by the judicial process. 1Jcnks, The Book of English Law (1953), pages 229-230.
'The Tenurcs Abolition Act, 1660. 'The Tenurcs Abolition Act, I660. 8]

Introduction. Evolution
of law. Evolution in
recent times. Significance. Patria potestas
and development
of guardian- ship. Concept of
Tutelst. Roman law as
to puberty. Persons above
puberty. Statutory
provisions

as to persons
above puberty, 82 II. Roman law

iictiore we deal with the history oi' legislation in England. it would he appro-
priate to refer brieﬂy to certain interesting features of Roman law. Much of the
modern law of guardianship owes its genesis--if not in the content, at least in
its coneeptsto the Roman law. For example, the classiﬁcation of guardians
into legal, testamentary and certiﬁcated guardians, which we ﬁnd in modern legal
systems, ha: a striking parallel in the scheme of the Roman law relating to tutela.
So have the topics of powers of guardians, legal safeguards and many other

matters. The very expression "minor" is ultimately derived from the phraseology
of Roman law. In Ruin-an law. by virtue of pa/riu {mlr'.\'f(I.s', the father was not only the it-cad

of the family. but had extensive powers. "Children begotten in lawful wedlook
are in the power of the parents." Guardianship in Roman law began as a
projection of the patria porestus into the future, with a view to protection of the
liztmilv propcrt_\ after the death of the tt-stator.'-' l'rotc('tion of the [urrsrm Mme
later. and did not assume importance until the institution of the "dative guardian" Where the father was alive, patria potestas was in operation and the ques-
tion of tutela did not arise, in general. The father could also make a testamentary

appointment of guardianship. In certain situations, where the above types of
guardians did not exist. certain Roman Magistrates had power to appoint magis-
terial guardians (tutela dativa). In the city of Rome, there was a special praetor
for the purpose. Tutela was integrally linked with puberty. In the theory of the Roman
law. a person came in the full enjoyment of his personal and proprietary rights
on the attainment of puberty (14 years for boys and 12 years for girls). Upto
the age of pube ty. his or her interests were looked after, and protected, by the
"tutor" in the absence of the father. The essence of tutela consisted in the assis-
tance which the tutor had to give to enable juristic acts to be performed by the
person below age. This was because of the doctrine that as such persons were

not legally independent persons (std juris), their transactions required the ap-
proval of a guardian (tutor).'

Tutela ceased at puberty, but certain other developments relevant to the
protection of persons who had attained puberty should be noted. By an "inter-
diet", the Praetor could nullify transactions into which a person under 25 had
entered l)er'ausc of his luck of husincss sense," -"Derrett, Introduction to Legal Systems 1968, page 25. property could not be made. At a later date, Emperor Marcus Aurelius initiated
the practice of allowing the minor to get a [)(I'/II(lI'l('fII curator appointed.'

The parallel institution of Cara minnrium was thus developed, to save young
persons from the consequences of their own lack of judgment at an age over
puberty. This was meant for persons below 25.' (Minor XXV Anniis). In the
beginning. the praetor exercised certain powers in individual cases to prevent over-
reaching ol' the minor. Later. a curator was appointed on the minor's applica-
tion." In later law. the distinction between tutor and curator' was progressively
blurred. The tutelu impuberum (upto puberty) in the classical law corresponds broadly
to the English concept of guardianship of infants, but its original purpose was
somewhat ditierent from the modern one of guardianship. Modern guardianship
is concerned exclusively with the interest of the ward. Primitive tutelu was con-
cerned more with the riglrts of the guardian.'

As to the persons who could be guadians. the earlier rule" When the feudal system came to an end, the position changed. Where the
Court did not appoint a guardian, the fathers right to control and custody of his
children was, except as limited by statute leg. section 4, Custody of Children Act,
1891), absolute' - even against the mother. IV. The position before the Judirature Acts

Upto the sixties of the last century. the father's right was. by and large, predo-
minant in England. To some extent, the rigour of the law was softened by the

'Lee, Elements of Rttlllllll Law (1955). page 177. para 263 and page 91. para I36. item 5.
lﬂncyclujmctligt lttil;tiinit':t~» ~' RnH';L!l Law-- Law of Pcrsons~~GtIat'tlitm:l1ip". But a mother guilty of adultery was excluded" from these rights. The domi-
nance of the father continued. 'See Carroll (1 .30) All E R Rep at page 210. Bowen, L.J. (24 Ch. D. at page 337 Agw'-Ellis) observed: These cases, which excited strong feeling at the time owing to the rival

claims of father and mother, were probably one of the causes which led to the
insertion of section 5 of the (juardiansliip of lnfants Act, 1886, which provided :°

"The court may, upon the application of the mother of any infant
(who may apply without next friend), make such order as it may think ﬁt
regarding the custody of such infant and the right of access thereto of either
parent. having regard to the welfare of the infant, and to the conduct of
the parents. and to the wishes as well of the mother as of the father
and may alter, vary, or discharge such order on the application of either
parent, or, after the death of either parent, of any guardian under this Act,
and in every case may make such order respecting the costs of the mother
and the "liability of the father for the same or otherwise as to costs as it
may think just." 'Re ,4.€'ru'-1_iI{i.\'. .4J.'m'-If/Ii,\' v. Lrxstfr/Irv. (I 878) 10 ('l1- 1'- 492 (l 8?") 74 Cit 13- 3'7-
me 'jgrzr-ff}/f.v. (t 35:33 :4 Ch.l). 317. 334. 3R0 C,,,.,,-S, (1839) 28 L._]. Ch. 458: sub nom. Curtis v. ('urn's. 34 L.'l'.O.S. t0.
'Emphasis added. 5§ection 5. Guardianship of Infants Act. 1886 (49 & 50 Vie. c. 27)- Court and (since 1886) by country courts was extended (subject to certain lirnita-
(as to religion of the child):w

"Upon any application by the parent for the production or the custody
of a child, if the court is of opinion that the parent ought not to have the
custody of the child, and that the child is being brought up in a different
religion to that in which the parent has a legal right to require that the
child should be brought up, the court shall have power to make such order
as it may think lit to secure that the child be brought up in the religion in
which the parent has a legal right to require that the child should be
brought up. Nothing in this Act contained shall interfere with or alfect
the power of the Court to consult the wishes of the child in considering
what order ought to be made, or diminish the right which any child now
possesses to the exercise of its own free choice." V. Position after the Judicature Acts

After the Judicature Acts. the Court of King's Bench, which had previously
acted on the strict common law views of parental rights, was enabled, by the
fusion of law and equity prevailing, to add to its powers the equitable view of
the Court of Chancery representing the King as parents patriae." The Judicature
Act expressly provided that equity shall prevail. But, the court still vigorously
enforced the right of the parents, especially of the father, to control the religious
education of a young child? However, since the middle of the nineteenth century, Parliament has inter-
vened in a series of statutes, the effect of which has been to whittle down the
father's rights further and also to give the mother positive rights to custody
which even equity did not accord to her.'

The process of reform initiated' in 1839 was gathering momentum. Custody of Infants Act, I873.A--» This Act extended the principal of Ta|fourd's
Act of 1839. by empowering the eoun" to give the mother custody until the
child reached the age of I6. It did not, however, repeat the proviso relating
to her adultery. Section 2 , which is still in force, introduced a further reform,
which had long been overdue, by enacting that agreements as to custody or
control in separation deeds (which had formerly been void as contrary to public
policy) should be enforceable so long as they were for the child's beneﬁt. Guardianship of Infants Act, 1886.--This further extended the provisions of
the earlier Acts by empowering the Court to give the mother custody of her
children until they reached the age of 21. Furthermore, the father was now
stopped from defeating the mother's rights after his death by appointing a testa-
mentary guardian, for it was enacted that the mother was to act jointly with any
guardian so appointed, and for the ﬁrst time she herself was given limited powers
to appoint testamentary guardians. Custody of Children Act, l891.---- This Act was passed as the direct result
of a number of cases in which parents had succeeded in recovering from Dr.

' Section 4 . Custody of Children Act. 1891 (IS & 16 Gcol 5 c. 45)- '('f. section 44. Supreme Court uF .|ndic;1tiire Consolidation Act. 1925. There is some controversy as to the extent to which the principle of "wel-
fare" was regarded as paramount in Chancery. Speaking of the Guardianship
Act, 1925, Lord Donovan remarked in 1969, that it seems "incredible" that
Parliament should have passed such an enactment as section 1 of the Act of
1925, if the position were that it "made no difference at all to the law as already
expounded by the judges". He did not agree that the Act "enacted no new law". On the other hand, Lord Upjohn maintained that the Act "enshrined the
view of the Chancery Courts"," and Lord Guest apparently agreed with him." On balance, it would seem that there was some lingering uncertainty (when
the Bitl was drafted; as to tlie e,\tcnt to which the "wclfarc" principle had en-
crouched on basic parental rights. In the Act of 1925, the language of the opening section----"Where in any
proceeding before "any court . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. the custody or upbringing of an infant
.... ..is in question. the court, in deciding that question, shall regard the welfare
of the infant as the lirst and paramount consideration... ....... .."----secmcd to place
the matter beyond all doubt. Yet, astonishingly, this did not prove to be so.
Another forty-four years were to pass' before it was settled that welfare consi-
derations really must predominate in all custody proceedings. VI. Modern developments
The position in 1953 was as follows:-J

"Subject to this fundamental principle (welfare of the child) an infant's
father still remains his sole legal guardian during his (the father's) life-
time; but this fact, of course, adds little, if anything, to the father's primary
position as a parent. On the father's death, the infant's mother becomes.
either sole guardian, or guardian jointly with a guardian appointed by the
deed or will of the father, or. in default, by the Court. And, even during
i_;_ V, (-__ (1070) /\.C_ 553. 7371); (1969)! /\llE.R. 788, 834.835.
=./. v. (1 (1970) A.('. 068. 724E: (I969) 788. 832-
'' J. v. C , (1970) A.C'. 668, 607F. 'J. v. C., (1970) AC. 568-
ﬁlenks, Book of English law (1953). l7i13€5 229430' 89 the father's lifetime, the mother has the same right to apply to the Court in
respect of any matter aiieeting the infant as the father has, and an equal
right to appoint by deed or will a guardian to act after her death as co-
guardian with her surviving husband, or, if he is dead, the guardian appointed
by him. In the event of dillerences of opinion between the surviving parent
and the guardian appointed by the deceased parent. the Court may award
sole custody of the infant to either, as it may consider best for the welfare
of the infant." V' I1. Present position

lhe principles on which quvstioiis relating to custody, upbringing etc. of Custody»- minors are to be dccitlcd, is thus laid domi in the Liiglish Act of 1971': Section 1(1) of the Guardianship Act, 1973 now provides as follows:--»-- tives and others looking after children on a long term basis can apply for and
obtain the legal custody of the children. Such persons may apply for, what is
called, a "custodianship" order and this vests "legal custody" of the child in the
applicant. who becomes known as the child's "custodian". The Act thus introduces
a new concept. A "custodian" appears to be in a similar position to a parent
having custody of his child. but the Act deliberately refrains from giving him
the designation "guardian". "Custodianship" may be said to be a new form of
guardianship though giving less rights and powers than guardianship, and to be
similar to. but not identical with. custody. (ii) Section 33 provides that. on the application of any qualiﬁed person who
is not the mother or father of the child. the court may make a custodianship
order vesting legal custody of the child in the applicant. "Legal custody" is
deﬁned in section 86. A person is "qualiﬁed" when (i) he is a relative or step-
parent and he has the consent of a person with custody and the child has had
his home with him for the three months preceding the application (though step-
parents are not qualiﬁed in certain circumstances lSee section 33(5) and (8)]. or (ii) he is anybodv else, has the same consent and the child has had his home with
him for 12 months. including the three months preceding the application. or (iii)
he is anvbodv with whom a child has had his home for three years including
the three months preceding the application. So. where a child has lived for three
years away from a person who has legal custody of him. the person. if anv. with
whom he has lived for that period is entitled to ask the court to make him the
custodian and give him legal custodv. though such legal custodv is not equivalent
to the legal custody the ﬁrst person had. (iii) Provision is made for certain snpplementarv orders to accompanv a
"custodianship" order. Orders for access and maintenance may be made (section 34). Custodianship orders mav be revoked and varied (section 35). (iv) A court is empowered. in cases where the requirements for making an
adoption order have been satisfied. to make a custodianship order instead. if it is
of the opinion that such an order would be more appropriate. A custodianship
order mav also be made in Favour of someone where a parent has applied for
cnstodv under fl1o Guardianship of Minors Act . 1971. section 9 (see section 37). (V) Section 39 provides a means wherebv disputes between ioint ciistndiwps
about a child's upbrinning can be resolved bv the court making an order. Provision is made for local authoritv investigation of application for custo-
dianship orders. and for welfare reports to be obtained by the courts (sections
39-40). (vi) Section 41 restricts. pending a court decision. the removal of a child
from an applicant for custodianship who has looked after him for three vears. Children Act of I975. Habeas Corpus. Nature of the
writ and its
unenforceability. Age of
discretion 92 Further provisions deal with enforcement and effect of custodianship orders
(sections 43. 43 & -14). (tu.sto(lians are empowered to apply for affiliation orders in
certain circumstances (section 45). XI. Habeas Corpus

In England, Habeas Cornus has also long been used to gain the custody of
infants. The writ is issued on the application of the party seeking custody and
is directed against whoevur has the control of the infant.' Though. in theory. it still
rests on the idea of relieving an illtttlal restraint. the ordinary rules of family law
apply in custody casns. and the matter is heard in the Family Division (previously.
the ('lmncery Division). An application for custody is a proceeding which involves "not a question of
liberty. but nurture. control and educ:.=tion".' As Scrutton l...J. said in his pictures-
que language.' proceedings (by way of habeas corpusl for custody are being used
"not for the body. bu' for the soul of the infant". The essence of the writ habeas corpus has always been to free the infant
from any unlawful restraint or ill-usacze. and the court has never been bound to
deliver him to anyone. if. therefore. the infant had reached years of discretion and
cscrmcd beyond the control of the father. he would not be delivered to the father
without cxamin.'ition_ but would be allowed to elect where he should go.' In other
words. the right of the father to custody in such cases became unenforceable by
the father.----at any rate by habeas corpus nroceedinqs in a court of law--once the
infant had reached years of discretion. thoucrh the right continued to exist in
theory until the infant attained the age of twenty~one.5

However. so long as the infant remained in the actual custody of the father.
the father' had a legal right to the control of his infant children. and if the
infant were of the years of discretion. the court would interfere only on the same
grounds as it would have interfered if the infant were under that age (though it
was recognised that a young. child reouires very different treatment from an
older one. and conduct of a father which might be tolerated in the case of one
might be perfcctlv intolerable in the case of the other. The one of discretion was :ionnrentlv fourteen years in the case of a male.'
but, by artmment from the provisions of one statute." it was sixteen in the case
of a female infant. So far as concerned an illctvitimate child. it sccms that the infant could elect.
or at least its wishes would bf' taken into consideration as soon as it had nassed
the age of nurture." thourzh the position was. of course. basically different in that
no one appeared to have had any right to the custody of an illegitimate child
after it had attained the one of nurture. 'Sharpe. Law of Habeas Corpus (19761 Dages 168, 169. 'Barn.vrdo V. McH1r,2e. (1 R9!) l OR. 194. 203 (Lord Ezhcr MR.)- 'Rt' Carrol (19313 l KB. 317. 331. 4R. v. Greenhill. (1838 4 A. & E. 624. 'See Hargreaves's More to Coke upon Lfrrlernrr. 88b and Re A,E'nr~Et'Iiv. (l 5383) 24 Ch.D. 317.
'Re Arrnr-Fllis. (I88?) 74 Ch.D. 317. 7R. v. Clarke. (1857) 7 Fl. & BI. 186: T'/znmn.rse! v. 7'honm.rset. (I 894) p. 295. 'The statute (1557) (4 & F 'Phillip & l\v'Im'_\' (2 SH relates to ziductirm. ..Re Hm-'d. (1841) 3 Man. 8' Gr. "-47: R. v. (','.r.u/rs, H957) 7 Fl. & Til. 196: RP Whilf'. (1343)
Hi LT. 349. XII. Wards of Court

A minor can be made a ward of court only upon the making of an application pmcedum
for an order to that effect. Prior to 1949. an infant became a ward automatically
when an action or other proceeding relating to his person or property was com-
tncnccd in the Chancery Division. but now a speciﬁc application is required.'

The court has an extensive and special jurisdiction over wards of courts iI1]urisdiCﬁ0n_
respect of both their person and their property, and exercising that jurisdic-
tion it acts in a parental and administrative manner. Thus, the court will
decide who is to have the cttstoziy. care and control of the ward and who is
to have access to the ward and what access is to be allowed. It will control
where the ward is to live and will not permit him to be removed from the juris-
diction of the court without leave. It follows that it can make orders for his
maintenance. and supervises his education and religzious upbringing and investi-
gates proposals as to IT13l'Y'la§ZQ.2 Of the recent English cases illustrating this
jurisdiction. the most important is that in which the court refused permission to

allow the sterilisation of :2 girl of about I] years of age. who was supposed to be
mentally defective." ln the c\'crcise of this jurisdiction also. the welfare of the minor is the
paramount consideration.'

'Section 9(1), Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1949.
'I-lalsbury, 4th edition, Vol. 24, pagé 266, Dam 597-