J U D G M E N T
(Arising out of SLP (Crl.) No.3879 of 2004)

S.B. SINHA, J : One Abdul Karim Ladsa Telgi (hereinafter referred to as 'Telgi') was 
arrested and proceeded against for alleged commission of offence of printing 
counterfeit stamps and forgery in various States including the State of 
Maharashtra. He was lodged in Bangalore Jail since November, 2001. During the Appellant's tenure as Commissioner of Police, Pune, fake 
stamp papers worth Rs. 2.98 lacs were seized whereupon a first information 
report bearing C.R. No. 135 of 2002 came to be registered at Bund Garden 
Police Station, Pune under Sections 120-B, 255, 249, 260, 263(a) and (b), 
478, 472 and 474 read with Section 34 of the IPC. The said offence was 
being investigated by one Mr. Deshmukh but having regard to the magnitude 
thereof, three teams lead by one Mr. S.M. Mushrif, Addl. Commissioner of 
Police (Crime) were formed. The said Mr. Mushrif is said to be a brother of 
a Minister of the Government of Maharashtra. On or about 16.07.2002, 
however a proposal was mooted to invoke Section 3 of the MCOCA and 
upon obtaining the opinion of Senior Public Prosecutor therefor, the same 
was invoked. One Mr. Mulani, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) 
had been included in the field work team along with other officers in 
connection with the investigation of the said crime. Overall supervision of 
the said crime, however, was entrusted to one Mr. Maheshgauri, Joint 
Commissioner of Police. On the ground of alleged involvement in the aforementioned case, the 
Appellant was arrested on 1.12.2003 whereafter a remand application for 15 
days of police custody was made but he was remanded to police custody 
from 2.12.2003 to 9.12.2003 and thereafter to judicial custody. His 
application for bail was rejected by the Special Court, Pune by an order 
dated 19.1.2004 whereupon he filed an application for grant of bail before 
the High Court. By reason of the impugned order, the said application has 
been rejected. Before adverting to the rival contentions raised in this appeal, we may 
notice some admitted facts. On the basis of the information received by the Appellant and on his 
direction to intercept the car and on his telephonic instruction thereabout, a 
first information report dated 7.6.2002 was lodged. During the course of the 
investigation of the said case, number of places were raided and huge 
quantity of stamps, printing machinery worth Rs. 21,28,47,63,824/- were 
seized from several accused persons. The provisions of the MCOCA were invoked against Telgi who 
figured as accused No. 23 and Mr. Shabir Sheikh, accused No. 25 on the 
ground that a period of 90 days was coming to an end on 3.9.2002. On or 
about 22.11.2002, Mr. Jaiswal, DIG, SRPF, Mumbai granted an approval to 
invoke the provisions of the MCOCA whereupon DCP, Dr. Jai Jadhav took 
over investigation of the said case. Before the High Court, the role of the Appellant was said to be 
rendition of help and support to organized crime syndicate by certain acts of 
omission and commission, i.e., by rendering help or support to Mulani, a 
co-accused when he was Commissioner of Police, Pune and through API-
Dilip Kamat, co-accused while he was the Commissioner of Police, 
Mumbai. The allegations against the Appellant as have been noticed by the 
High Court are as under: Chief Secretary (Home), Government of 
Karnataka. The applicant had assured Ashok 
Basak that he would remove Mulani from 
investigation. Despite this, Mulani was not 
neutalised by the applicant and he was allowed to 
continue in the investigation team. (e) There is no dispute that atleast on 6.9.2002 
Basak had shared the said information with the 
applicant. (f) A complaint of corruption dated 15.7.2002 
received from President, Pune Forum Citizen, 
against ACP Mulani, was received by the applicant 
on 31.8.2002. (g) Mulani was transferred to Jat, Dist-Sangli by 
the order of the Government dated 4.9.2002. This 
order was received in Pune on 6.9.2002. The order 
of transfer of Mulani was not served till he had 
obtained a stay against the transfer from the MAT 
on 6.9.2002 (Page 12843). (h) The Stay was for transfer to JAT Division and 
not for internal transfer. Yet, Mulani was not 
transferred from the investigation of C.R. No. 
135/2002, on the other hand, Mulani was sent to 
Bangalore on 18.9.2002 all alone without the I.O. (i) The Government of Maharashtra had 
constituted Special Task Force (STF) for enquiring 
into all the pending cases relating to counterfeit 
stamps in the State of Maharashtra and the 
applicant was appointed as the Chairman to head 
the STF. Not a single meeting of this STF was 
convened by the applicant. (j) Mulani was allowed to be associated with the 
investigation till 30.9.2002 and he was transferred 
to Special Branch only on 30.9.2002 (Page No. 
12846). (k) On 10.10.2002 certain names were 
recommended for reward in connection with the 
investigation of C.R. No. 135/2002. Although 
Mulani's name was not listed initially, it was 
specifically added by the applicant in his own 
handwriting. (l) The applicant did not ensure the filing of a 
properly reasoned chargesheet in C.R. No. 
135/2002 P.S. Bund Garden and did not ensure the 
timely application of MCOCA to the whole case. Reference statement of the Director General of 
Police, Maharashtra Shri S.C. Malhotra. The filing 
of the chargesheet was hurried through by the 
applicant (Reference statement of Kishore Jadhav - 
Page 11947). II. On this background, on and from 1.1.2003 the 
applicant was posted as Commissioner of Police, 
Mumbai. (a) The applicant was well aware about various 
cases of stamps scam which were pending in 
Mumbai, while he was working as Jt. Commissioner, Mumbai during the year on 
8.6.2002, he had sent a wireless message calling 
for the details of these cases. (b) On 9.1.2003, DIG Jaiswal alongwith Addl. D.G. Karnataka Shri Kumar personally met and 
informed the applicant about Telgi enjoying all 
comforts in his flat at Cuffe Parade, Mumbai. He 
ought to have immediately taken coercive action 
and ensured its implementation. (c) Thereafter, a written report (Page 12181) dated 
10.1.2003 was sent by DIG Jaiswal setting out in 
detail the facts noticed by him during their visit to 
Cuffe Parade flat. On this letter, the applicant had 
made a noting that API Kamat and the constables 
be placed under suspension with immediate effect. 
However, the record shows that they were not 
suspended till 15.1.2003 and no active steps were 
taken by the applicant to ensure the immediate 
suspension though it was within his powers to 
ensure that the same was done with immediate 
effect. The noting dated 15.1.2003 on (Page Nos. 
12202 and 12203) clearly shows that till 15.1.2003 
these police personnel were not suspended. (d) It is significant to mention that DIG Jaiswal in 
his report had specifically voiced an apprehension 
that a big seizure may be concocted in order to 
protect the erring police officer, API Dilip Kamat 
and in fact, this apprehension came though because 
of the conspiracy that was hatched between the 
officials of Crime Branch, Mumbai (Statement of 
ACP Padwal at Page No. 11087). III. According to the prosecution, following 
circumstances could not be explained by the 
applicant. (a) The fact that he had a closed door meeting with 
A.K. Telgi in isolation between himself and 
A.K.L. Telgi only to the exclusion of other high 
ranking officers (Statement of ACP Supriya Patil 
at Page No. 11912, DCP (H.Q.) Koregaonkar at 
Page No. 11898 and DCP Jay Jadhav at Page No. 
111940). (b) The applicant knew A.K.L. Telgi even when he 
was at Mumbai earlier is also apparent from the 
statement of DCP Vasant Koregaonkar (Page No. 
11898) (c) Brain Maping (P-300) of AKL Telgi, shows 
that he had given positive responses to the question 
relating to payment made to the applicant, favour 
shown by the applicant in Pune cases and facilities 
provided in Mumbai custody by the applicant 
(Page No. 12960 to 12963)." The plea taken by the Appellant herein about his innocence was 
rejected by the High Court upon arriving the following findings: (ii)	"Instead, he allowed Mulani to continue in the investigation team 
even after 6.9.02, this lapse on the part of the applicant under any 
circumstances cannot be termed as innocent, innocuous and 
inadvertent. This observation becomes stronger if we look at the 
subsequent events, i.e. overtacts of the applicant after 6.9.02. After 
6.9.02 Mulani was continued in the investigation team. He was sent to 
Bangalore all alone on 18.9.02. When a proposal was placed before 
the applicant to recommend names of officers for rewards for their 
outstanding role in the fake stamps case consisting of nine names, the 
applicant on 10.10.02 included the name of Mulani in his own 
handwriting in the said list of officers. This cannot be termed as 
innocent dereliction of duties. At every stage it, prima facie, shows 
that there was a calculated attempt on the part of the applicant to 
continue Mulani in the investigation team and see that he is projected 
as most efficient officer despite the knowledge of his adverse 
antecedents and the tainted role in the investigation of fake stamps 
case." (iii)	"The facts of the case would go to show that his association with 
Mulani were with actual knowledge or atleast there are reasonable 
grounds to believe that the applicant was aware that Mulani was 
engaged in assisting the organised crime syndicate of Telgi." (iv)	"In my opinion, the acts and commissions on the parts of the applicant 
in helping and supporting Mulani and Kamat would, prima facie, fall 
within the first part of Section 24 and therefore it would not be correct 
to state that Section 24 is not attracted. The role of the applicant 
clearly demonstrates that he rendered help and support to the member 
of an organised crime syndicate." (v)	"In so far as "Cuffe Parade flat" episode is concerned, it is true that 
the applicant took over as Commissioner of Police Mumbai on 
1.1.2003. The custody of Telgi was with Mumbai police from 
20.10.02 to 21.1.03. However, fact remains that on 9.1.2003, DIG 
Jaiswal along with Addl. D.G. Karnataka-Shri Srikumar had 
personally met the applicant and informed him about Telgi's enjoying 
all comforts in his flat at Cuffe Parade, and conducting his unlawful 
activities on mobile phone, requesting him to take immediate coercive 
action and ensure its implementation." (vi)	As regard application of the provisions of the MCOCA, the High 
Court was of the opinion that as the Appellant knowingly facilitated 
the commission of an organized crime through Mulani at Pune and 
Kamat at Mumbai, prima facie, he committed an offence under Section 3(2) of the MCOCA and having abetted them also committed 
an offence under Section 4 thereof. Submissions of Mr. V.R. Manohar, learned senior counsel appearing 
on behalf of the Appellant are as under: It is only on that date, the Appellant was informed by Shri Basak 
about Mulani's integrity. Mulani was pulled out of the Crime Branch 
and posted in a Special Branch by the Appellant despite threat of 
contempt and in fact a contempt petition was filed by Mr. Mulani in 
the Maharashtra State Administrative Tribunal, at Mumbai. (f)	Even the Director General of Police had certified Mulani as an 
excellent officer in the year 2003 and upon invocation of MCOCA, 
Dr. Jai Jadav was appointed as investigating officer. Though he was 
required to find out suitable officers to be included in his team, Dr. Jai 
Jadav made inquiries from the Appellant as also the Joint 
Commissioner, as to the names of the suitable officers therefor and the 
name of Mulani was suggested. Thus, it would not be correct to 
contend that Mr. Mulani was kept in the investigating team by the 
Appellant. (g)	Even assuming that there had been gross dereliction or carelessness on 
the part of the Appellant, there is nothing on record to show that the 
Appellant had benefitted himself in any manner whatsoever or had the 
requisite mens rea. As regard filing of chargesheet against the wife, daughter and brother 
of Telgi, there had been difference of opinion between Mushrif and 
Deshmukh wherewith the Appellant was not involved. Mr. Jaiswal 
prejudged the Appellant's guilt. (h)	As regard initiation of disciplinary proceeding, our attention was 
invited to the fact that the Special Investigation Team (SIT) was 
constituted on 2nd November, 2002 in the following terms: Mr. Jaiswal found the Appellant's guilt of dereliction of duty as early 
as on 3rd April, 2003 and despite the limited jurisdiction of the Special 
Investigation Team, he exceeded his brief implicating the Appellant. 
In this connection our attention has also been drawn to the 
recommendation made by SIT against various persons who do not 
figure as accused, viz., Prakash Deshmukh, Ashok Kamble, Kishore 
Jadhav, DCP Dr. Jai Jadhav, Vasant Koregaonkar which are as under: This investigation was extremely crucial as the 
case had national ramifications and the financial 
structure of the State of Maharashtra and Govt. of 
India was being undermined systematically. Hence, it is for the Govt. to consider appropriate 
action against Shri S.M. Mushrif, Shri M.S. 
Maheshgauri and Shri R.S. Sharma for their 
several acts of omission and commission as 
detailed earlier." It has been pointed out that despite such adverse comments both 
Mushrif and Maheshgauri have been cited only as witnesses and, thus, 
the Appellant was discriminated against. (i)	As regard application of MCOCA, the learned counsel would contend 
that the provisions thereof cannot be given such wide interpretation as 
has been done by the learned Single Judge. (j)	As Mulani never visited Bangalore alone, the learned Judge 
committed a factual error in this behalf. (k)	As regard recommendations for grant of reward in favour of Mulani, it 
was pointed out that the learned Judge had misread and misinterpreted 
the context in which such recommendation was made. It was pointed 
out that DCP Zone II on 10.10.2002 gave a list of officers who have 
done the best works which is as under: According to the Appellant, however, in order of priority, the name of 
(1) PSI Shri Chavan, (2) P.I. Shri Prakash Deshmukh (3) P.I. Shri Kadam, 
(4) PC Shri Steven Sundaram, B.N. 756, (5)	PC Shri Steven Sundaram, B.N. 
756, (6) H.C. Lele were recommended and, furthermore, the following 
endorsement was made: The names of ACP Mulani/Yadav and Davies, thus, were directed to 
be included only in the text, i.e., the history of the case and not for the 
purpose of grant of any reward. Mr. A. Sharan, the learned Addl. Solicitor General appearing on 
behalf of the CBI, on the other hand, would contend that the Appellant had 
known Telgi both as a scamster as well as a person for a long time, as would 
appear from the statement of one Mr. R.S. Mopalwar, an IAS officer 

 	It was urged that from the statement of Mr. Maheshgauri, it would 
appear that the Appellant met Telgi alone, apparently for the purpose of 
interrogation, but no record thereof is available. The said statement is 
supported by Smt. Supriya Patil Yadav and Shri Vasant Koregaonkar, an 
affidavit of Mr. Mushrif in the Public Interest Litigation by Shri Anna 
Hazare. According to the learned counsel the Appellant has helped those 
officers who did not want to make Telgi's wife, daughter and brother as 
accused by dragging his feet. Mr. Sharan would contend that Mulani had in fact been involved in 
the investigating team work, as would appear from the notesheet file of 
investigation, inasmuch as he had interrogated some witnesses. Our 
attention has also been drawn to the answers given by the Appellant himself 
in response to the questionnaire dated 7.11.2003 contending that the 
Appellant accepted that Mulani had not been taken out of the team till 30th 
September, 2002 although he was transferred on 4th September, 2002. Our attention has further been drawn to the brain mapping test of 
Telgi to show that the Appellant had accepted unlawful gratification from 
him. According to the learned counsel, since beginning the Appellant had 
knowledge about the magnitude of the offence but despite the same, he 
helped Kamat by not implementing his order of suspension till 15th January, 
2003 and, thus, allowed him to take steps to protect himself by arranging a 
fake seizure as was apprehended by Mr. Jaiswal. 	Drawing our attention to 
the judgment of the learned Single Judge, it was contended that having 
regard to the provisions of the MCOCA, the Appellant must be held to have 
conspired with the members of the organizing team by facilitating 
commission of the crime. According to the learned counsel, in view of the 
sub-section (4) of Section 21 of the MCOCA, the High Court has rightly 
refused to grant bail to the Appellant. MCOCA was enacted to make special provisions for prevention and 
control of, and for coping with, criminal activity by organized crime 
syndicate or gang, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. The Statement of Objects and Reasons for enacting the said Act are as 
under: Section 2 is the interpretation clause. Section 2(1)(a) , (d), (e) and (f) 
whereof read thus: Sub-section (2) of Section 3 provides for punishment for organized 
crime in the following terms: Section 4 provides for punishment for possessing unaccountable 
wealth on behalf of member of organised crime syndicate. Section 20 provides for forfeiture and attachment of property, sub-section (2) whereof 
reads as follows: Section 21 provides for modified application of certain provisions of 
the Code of Criminal Procedure , sub-section (4) whereof is as under: Section 24 reads, thus: The interpretation clause as regard the expression 'abet' does not refer 
to the definition of abetment as contained in Section 107 of IPC. It refers to 
such meaning which can be attributed to it in the general sense with 
grammatical variations and cognate expressions. However, having regard to 
the cognate meaning, the term may be read in the light of the definition of 
these words under Sections 107 and 108 of the Indian Penal Code. The 
inclusive definition although expansive in nature, "communication" or 
"association" must be read to mean such communication or association 
which is in aid of or render assistance in the commission of organized 
crime. In our considered opinion, any communication or association which 
has no nexus with the commission of organized crime would not come 
within the purview thereof. It must mean assistance to organised crime or 
organised crime syndicate or to a person involved in either of them. It, 
however, includes (a) communication or (b) association with any person 
with the actual knowledge or (c) having reason to believe that such person is 
engaged in assisting in any manner, an organised crime syndicate. 
Communication to, or association with, any person by itself, as was 
contended by Mr. Sharan, would not, in our considered opinion, come within 
meaning of the aforementioned provision. The communication or 
association must relate to a person. Such communication or association to 
the person must be with the actual knowledge or having reason to believe 
that he is engaged in assisting in any manner an organised crime syndicate. 
Thus, the offence under Section 3(2) of MCOCA must have a direct nexus 
with the offence committed by an organised crime syndicate. Such abetment 
of commission of offence must be by way of accessories before the 
commission of an offence. An offence may be committed by a public 
servant by reason of acts of omission and commission which would amount 
to tampering with the investigation or to help an accused. Such an act would 
make him an accessory after the commission of the offence. It is 
interesting to note that whereas Section 3(2) having regard to the definition 
of the term 'abet' refers directly to commission of an offence or assisting in 
any manner an organised crime syndicate, Section 24 postulates a situation 
where a public servant renders any help or support both before or after the 
commission of an offence by a member of an organised crime syndicate or 
abstains from taking lawful measures under this Act.
 	Interpretation clauses contained in Sections 2(d) , 2(e) and 2(f) are 
inter-related. An 'organised crime syndicate' refers to an 'organised crime' 
which in turn refers to 'continuing unlawful activity'. As at present advised, 
it may not be necessary for us to consider as to whether the words "or other 
lawful means" contained in Section 2(e) should be read "ejusdem generis"/ 
"noscitur-a-sociis" with the words (i) violence, (ii) threat of violence, (iii) 
intimidation or (iv) coercion. We may, however, notice that the word 
'violence' has been used only in Section 146 and 153A of the Indian Penal 
Code. The word 'intimidation' alone has not been used therein but only 
Section 506 occurring in Chapter XXII thereof refers to 'criminal 
intimidation'. The word 'coercion' finds place only in the Contract Act . If 
the words 'unlawful means' is to be widely construed as including any or 
other unlawful means, having regard to the provisions contained in Sections 
400 , 401 and 413 of the IPC relating to commission of offences of 
cheating or criminal breach of trust, the provisions of the said Act can be 
applied, which prima facie, does not appear to have been intended by the 
Parliament. The Statement of Objects and Reasons clearly state as to why the said 
Act had to be enacted. Thus, it will be safe to presume that the expression 
'any unlawful means' must refer to any such act which has a direct nexus 
with the commission of a crime which MCOCA seeks to prevent or control. 
In other words, an offence falling within the definition of organised crime 
and committed by an organised crime syndicate is the offence contemplated 
by the Statement of Objects and Reasons. There are offences and offences 
under the Indian Penal Code and other penal statutes providing for 
punishment of three years or more and in relation to such offences more than 
one chargesheet may be filed. As we have indicated hereinbefore, only 
because a person cheats or commits a criminal breach of trust, more than 
once, the same by itself may not be sufficient to attract the provisions of 
MCOCA. Furthermore, mens rea is a necessary ingredient for commission of a 
crime under MCOCA. In Shri Ram Vs. The State of U.P. [AIR 1975 SC 175], it was stated: aided the commission of the crime. Mere proof 
that the crime charged could not have been 
committed without the interposition of the alleged 
abettor is not enough compliance with the 
requirements of Section 107. A person may, for 
example, invite another casually or for a friendly 
purpose and that may facilitate the murder of the 
invitee. But unless the invitation was extended 
with intent to facilitate the commission of the 
murder, the person inviting cannot be said to have 
abetted the murder. It is not enough that an act on 
the part of the alleged abettor happens to facilitate 
the commission of the crime. Intentional aiding 
and therefore active complicity is the gist of the 
offence of abetment under the third paragraph of 
Section 107." Sub-section (2) of Section 3 inter alia provides for facilitating 
conspiracy or abetting or commission of a crime by a person knowingly or 
any act preparatory to organised crime. The expression 'conspiracy' is not a term of art. It has a definite 
connotation. It must be read having regard to the legal concept which is now 
well-settled having regard to several decisions of this Court in Kehar Singh 
and others Vs. The State (Delhi Admn .) [AIR 1988 SC 1883], State of 
Karnataka Vs. L. Muniswamy and others [AIR 1977 SC 1489] and P.K. 
Narayanan Vs. State of Kerala [1995 (1) SCC 142]. In Kehar Singh (supra), it is stated: In P.K. Narayanan (supra), it is stated: In Saju Vs. State of Kerala [AIR 2001 SC 175], this Court held: It was observed: Mens rea, thus, to commit the crime must be established besides the 
fact of agreement. The High Court does not say that the Appellant has abetted Telgi or 
had conspired with him. The findings of the High Court as against the 
Appellant are attributable to allegations of abetting Kamat and Mulani. Both 
Kamat and Mulani were public servants. They may or may not have any 
direct role to play as regard commission of an organised crime but unless a 
nexus with an accused who is a member of the organised crime syndicate or 
an offence in the nature of organised crime is established, only by showing 
some alleged indulgence to Kamat or Mulani, the Appellant cannot be said 
to have conspired or abetted commission of an organised crime. Prima 
facie, therefore, we are of the view that Section 3(2) of MCOCA is not 
attracted in the instant case. Section 24 of MCOCA must be given a proper meaning. A public 
servant can be said to have committed an offence within the meaning of the 
said provision if he (i) renders any help or support in any manner in the 
commission of an organised crime; (ii) whether before or after the 
commission of an offence by a member of an organised crime syndicate or (iii) abstains from taking lawful measures under this Act or (iv) intentionally 
avoids to carry out the directions of any Court or of the superior police 
officers in this respect. The purported acts of omission and commission on the part of the 
Appellant does not attract the first part of Section 24 of MCOCA. It is not 
the contention of the Respondents that he has committed any act which 
comes within the purview of Clauses (3) and (4) hereinbefore. The 
provisions of MCOCA, as for example, Section 20 casts a duty upon the 
persons concerned to see that properties of a member of the organised crime 
syndicate are attached. In view of Section 4 , it also becomes the duty of the 
persons connected with the investigation of crime to see that persons, who 
are in possession of movable or immovable property which cannot be 
satisfactorily accounted for are brought to book. The Act is deterrent in nature. It provides for deterrent punishment. 
It envisages three to ten years of imprisonment and may extend to life 
imprisonment. Death penalty can also be imposed if somebody commits a 
murder. Similarly, fines ranging between three to ten lakhs can be imposed. Presumption of innocence is a human right. [See Narendra Singh and 
Another Vs. State of M.P. , (2004) 10 SCC 699, para 31] Article 21 in view 
of its expansive meaning not only protects life and liberty but also envisages 
a fair procedure. Liberty of a person should not ordinarily be interfered with 
unless there exist cogent grounds therefor. Sub-Section (4) of Section 21 must be interpreted keeping in view the aforementioned salutary principles. 
Giving an opportunity to the public prosecutor to oppose an application for 
release of an accused appears to be reasonable restriction but Clause (b) of 
Sub-section (4) of Section 31 must be given a proper meaning. 
 	Does this statute require that before a person is released on bail, the 
court, albeit prima facie, must come to the conclusion that he is not guilty of 
such offence? Is it necessary for the Court to record such a finding? Would 
there be any machinery available to the Court to ascertain that once the 
accused is enlarged on bail, he would not commit any offence whatsoever? Such findings are required to be recorded only for the purpose of 
arriving at an objective finding on the basis of materials on records only for 
grant of bail and for no other purpose . We are furthermore of the opinion that the restrictions on the power of 
the Court to grant bail should not be pushed too far. If the Court, having 
regard to the materials brought on record, is satisfied that in all probability 
he may not be ultimately convicted, an order granting bail may be passed. 
The satisfaction of the Court as regards his likelihood of not committing an 
offence while on bail must be construed to mean an offence under the Act 
and not any offence whatsoever be it a minor or major offence. If such an 
expansive meaning is given, even likelihood of commission of an offence 
under Section 279 of the Indian Penal Code may debar the Court from 
releasing the accused on bail. A statute, it is trite, should not be interpreted 
in such a manner as would lead to absurdity. What would further be 
necessary on the part of the Court is to see the culpability of the accused and 
his involvement in the commission of an organised crime either directly or 
indirectly. The Court at the time of considering the application for grant of 
bail shall consider the question from the angle as to whether he was 
possessed of the requisite mens rea. Every little omission or commission, 
negligence or dereliction may not lead to a possibility of his having 
culpability in the matter which is not the sine qua non for attracting the 
provisions of MCOCA. A person in a given situation may not do that which 
he ought to have done. The Court may in a situation of this nature keep in 
mind the broad principles of law that some acts of omission and commission 
on the part of a public servant may attract disciplinary proceedings but may 
not attract a penal provision. In Abdulla Mohammed Pagarkar etc. Vs. State (Union Territory of 
Goa, Daman and Diu) [AIR 1980 SC 499], it is stated: In C. Chenga Reddy and Others Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh [AIR 
1996 SC 3390], it is stated: Every act of negligence or carelessness by itself may not be a 
misconduct. The provisions of the said Act, therefore, must receive a strict 
construction so as to pass the test of reasonableness. Section 21(4) of MCOCA does not make any distinction between an 
offence which entails punishment of life imprisonment and an imprisonment 
for a year or two. It does not provide that even in case a person remains 
behind the bars for a period exceeding three years, although his involvement 
may be in terms of Section 24 of the Act, the court is prohibited to enlarge 
him on bail. Each case, therefore, must be considered on its own facts. The 
question as to whether he is involved in the commission of organized crime 
or abetment thereof must be judged objectively. Only because some 
allegations have been made against a high ranking officer, which cannot be 
brushed aside, may not by itself be sufficient to continue to keep him behind 
the bars although on an objective consideration the court may come to the 
conclusion that the evidences against him are not such as would lead to his 
conviction. In case of circumstantial evidence like the present one, not only 
culpability or mens rea of the accused should be prima facie established, the 
Court must also consider the question as to whether the circumstantial 
evidence is such whereby all the links in the chain are complete. The wording of Section 21(4) , in our opinion, does not lead to the 
conclusion that the Court must arrive at a positive finding that the applicant 
for bail has not committed an offence under the Act. If such a construction 
is placed, the court intending to grant bail must arrive at a finding that the 
applicant has not committed such an offence. In such an event, it will be 
impossible for the prosecution to obtain a judgment of conviction of the 
applicant. Such cannot be the intention of the Legislature. Section 21(4) of 
MCOCA, therefore, must be construed reasonably. It must be so construed 
that the Court is able to maintain a delicate balance between a judgment of 
acquittal and conviction and an order granting bail much before 
commencement of trial. Similarly, the Court will be required to record a 
finding as to the possibility of his committing a crime after grant of bail. 
However, such an offence in futuro must be an offence under the Act and 
not any other offence. Since it is difficult to predict the future conduct of an 
accused, the court must necessarily consider this aspect of the matter having 
regard to the antecedents of the accused, his propensities and the nature and 
manner in which he is alleged to have committed the offence. It is, furthermore, trite that for the purpose of considering an 
application for grant of bail, although detailed reasons are not necessary to 
be assigned, the order granting bail must demonstrate application of mind at 
least in serious cases as to why the applicant has been granted or denied the 
privilege of bail. The duty of the court at this stage is not to weigh the evidence 
meticulously but to arrive at a finding on the basis of broad probabilities. 
However, while dealing with a special statute like MCOCA having regard to 
the provisions contained in Sub-section (4) of Section 21 of the Act, the 
Court may have to probe into the matter deeper so as to enable it to arrive at 
a finding that the materials collected against the accused during the 
investigation may not justify a judgment of conviction. The findings 
recorded by the Court while granting or refusing bail undoubtedly would be 
tentative in nature, which may not have any bearing on the merit of the case 
and the trial court would, thus, be free to decide the case on the basis of 
evidence adduced at the trial, without in any manner being prejudiced 
thereby. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar Vs. Rajesh Ranjan Alias Pappu Yadav and 
Another [(2004) 7 SCC 528], this Court observed: We respectfully agree with the above dictum of 
this Court. We also feel that such expression of 
prima facie reasons for granting bail is a 
requirement of law in cases where such orders on 
bail application are appealable, more so because of 
the fact, that the appellate court has every right to 
know the basis for granting the bail. Therefore, we 
are not in agreement with the argument addressed 
by the learned counsel for the accused that the 
High Court was not expected even to indicate a 
prima facie finding on all points urged before it 
while granting bail, more so in the background of 
the facts of this case where on facts it is 
established that a large number of witnesses who 
were examined after the respondent was enlarged 
on bail had turned hostile and there are complaints 
made to the court as to the threats administered by 
the respondent or his supporters to witnesses in the 
case. In such circumstances, the Court was duty-
bound to apply its mind to the allegations put forth 
by the investigating agency and ought to have 
given at least a prima facie finding in regard to 
these allegations because they go to the very root 
of the right of the accused to seek bail. The non- 
consideration of these vital facts as to the 
allegations of threat or inducement made to the 
witnesses by the respondent during the period he 
was on bail has vitiated the conclusions arrived at 
by the High Court while granting bail to the 
respondent. The other ground apart from the 
ground of incarceration which appealed to the 
High Court to grant bail was the fact that a large 
number of witnesses are yet to be examined and 
there is no likelihood of the trial coming to an end 
in the near future. As stated herein above, this 
ground on the facts of this case is also not 
sufficient either individually or coupled with the 
period of incarceration to release the respondent on 
bail because of the serious allegations of tampering 
with the witnesses made against the respondent." In Jayendra Saraswathi Swamigal Vs. State of T.N. [(2005) 2 SCC 
13], this Court observed: In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar Vs. Rajesh Ranjan Alias Pappu Yadav and 
Another [2005 (2) SCC 42], this Court observed: It was, however, observed: We are not oblivious of the fact that in certain circumstances, having 
regard to the object and purport of the Act, the Court may take recourse to 
principles of 'purposive construction' only when two views are possible. The High Court, in our considered view, considered the matter from a 
wrong perspective. Only because the Appellant had the power, the same 
would not by itself lead to a conclusion that he was a privy to the crime. As 
regard Mulani's visit to Bangalore, it is accepted that on all occasions he 
was accompanied by other officers. The purpose of such visit was to have a 
high level conference so as to enable the Government of Maharashtra to 
obtain custody of Telgi. On 9.7.2002, Mulani visited Bangalore in the 
company of the Appellant. On 23.7.2002, he visited in the company of 
Appellant as also the Additional Chief Secretary, Shri Basak. Those two 
visits were prior to 6.9.2002. On 11th September, 2002, he went to 
Bangalore in the company of Shri Sampat Kadam as the case of Telgi was 
fixed on that day. He is said to have been sent by Shri Mushrif. Dr. Jai 
Vasantrao Jadhav in his investigation note dated 15.12. 2003 stated: On 18.9.2002, Mr. Mulani visited Bangalore in the company of the 
Addl. Advocate General of Maharashtra on which date the Court passed the 
order under Section 268 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. As regards Mr. Mulani's participation in the investigation, we may 
notice that Dr. Jadav again in his statement dated 2.4.2002 stated: As regards his inclusion in the team, Dr. Jadav had stated: The Appellant, therefore, did not suggest the name of Mulani himself. 
He did so at the instance of Dr. Jadav and that too both by him as also the 
Joint Commissioner. So far as the recommendation of the Appellant for inclusion of Mr. 
Mulani's name in the list of officers who were to be rewarded for having 
done best work, is concerned, it appears that 10 names were suggested for 
the said purpose. The Appellant changed the priority in the manner as 
indicated hereinbefore. Only those persons whose names are referred in the 
list were to receive award. The names of Mulani, Yadav and Davies were 
directed to be included in the text which would mean mentioning of their 
names in the history of case, as evidently they were involved in the 
investigation throughout. Furthermore, the name of Mulani alone was not added but names of 
two other officers were also added. We may further notice that the 
Appellant by letter dated 22.11.2002 addressed to the Director General of 
Police made serious complaints against Mr. Mushrif stating: About Mulani's lack of integrity, admittedly facts were made known 
to the Appellant only on 6.9.2002. Prior thereto, Mulani received very good 
remarks from his superior officers as would appear from a letter dated 
21.3.2002 addressed by Shri A.K. Sharma to M.C. Mulani. It is undisputed, as would appear from the stand taken by the State 
before the Maharashtra State Administration Tribunal, that transfer of 
Mulani was not by way of penalty but on administrative grounds. The State 
Government through Shri Ashok Basak also could have suspended Mulani. 
It does not appear from the records that apart from field work and searching 
for the accused Mulani took any part in investigation between 6.9.2002 and 
30.9.2002. Mr. Mushrif in answer to the questionnaire categorically stated that 
four teams were formed for investigation and Mulani was in the team of 
field work. He, having been brought by Mr. Mushrif, had been working 
earlier. Mr. Mushrif accepts that the Appellant had asked him to supervise 
the investigation of the teams. He had drawn a broad outline as to how to 
proceed systematically: It is also noteworthy that in the said statement, in certain matters, the 
Appellant's role was described as under: So far as the inspection of Cuffe Parade flat is concerned, the High 
Court failed to notice that at the time of inspection of the flat Jaiswal could 
have taken certain action which he did not. At least he could have seized his 
mobile. The Appellant took all steps which he could take. He passed 
telephonically an order of suspension of the officers in presence of Jaiswal 
when the matter was brought to his notice. When the letter dated 10.1.2003 
reached him on 12.1.2003 he also passed an order of suspension in writing. 
It was for the Joint Commission to implement the said order of suspension. 
It is too much to expect that an officer passing an order of suspension must 
also see to it that his order is implemented by all concerned. The High 
Court is also not correct in attributing motive to the Appellant as regards 
seizure of fake stamps and genuine stamps from the Bhiwandi godown on 
12.1.2003. The Appellant had no role to play therein. Before the learned 
Single Judge admittedly a wrong contention was raised on behalf of the 
Respondents that Jaiswal had at one point of time expressed a suspicion that 
the magnitude of Kamat's involvement may be minimized by making a fake 
raid. For all intent and purport, the High Court has placed the onus of proof 
upon the Appellant, which is impermissible. The Appellant faced a contempt petition before the Maharashtra State 
Administrative Tribunal and in his affidavit, he categorically stated that 
neither Mulani was the investigating officer nor supervisory officer. In his 
affidavit, as regard reason for his transfer to Special Branch from Crime 
Branch, he stated: In Kartar Singh Vs. State of Punjab [(1994) 3 SCC 569], this Court 
observed: In Prakash Kumar Alias Prakash Bhutto Vs. State of Gujarat [(2005) 2 
SCC 409], the Constitution Bench of this Court while noticing Kartar Singh (supra) observed: The learned Additional Solicitor General, however, had drawn our 
attention to the statement of Mr. R.S. Mopalwar. The said statement was 
recorded on 21.6.2004. Shri U.K. Goel has also not been examined on the 
ground that he has gone out of the country. This material was not used 
before the learned Single Judge. Mr. Saran, laid emphasis on the fact that Telgi was interrogated alone 
by the Appellant after asking all others to leave the room without 
maintaining any record therefor. In this connection, we may notice the questionnaire and statement of 
Shri Maheshgauri, question No. 50 whereof reads as under: Are you aware about it? Ans: - CP did interrogate Telgi in camera in his 
own chamber. We were present in chamber of CP 
when AKL Telgi was ushered in by either Mulani 
or PI Deshmukh. By we I mean DCP Koregaokar 
was also present when Telgi entered. CP said, 
"rwgh oks gS uk tks cWkEcs 
gWkLihVy ds nxsZ is vk;k djrk 
Fkk uk" Then we moved out. I do not know if 
the conversation was tape recorded." If the Appellant was knowing Telgi, there was no reason to seek to 
identify Telgi by reference to a person who used to visit Bombay Hospital, 
Dargah. Our attention has also been drawn to the report of the brain 
mapping test of Telgi. In the said report, it is stated: As regard what transpired in the meeting with Telgi during 
interrogation by the Appellant, Dr. Jadhav made the following statement in 
the investigation note: Then we reached the Yerwada Jail. Police sub 
inspector Mr. Hanumansingh Subbalkar (crime 
branch, Pune Police Commissionerate) was the 
chief officer appointed to keep the custody of Telgi 
and party." Therefore, there is some substance in the contention of Mr. Manohar 
that the Commissioner of Police may not like to interrogate an accused 
person as regard his political connections, if any, in presence of others, but 
the line of interrogation was revealed by Telgi immediately after he came 
out of his chamber. It further appears from the record that even Mushrif had 
interrogated Telgi exclusively. Furthermore, it appears that it is Mushrif who wanted to keep wife, 
daughter and brother of Telgi out of the chargesheet, as would appear from 
the statement of Mr. Kishore Eknath Yadav to the following effect: In a case involving an issue as to whether on-job-exposure to the 
manufacturers products promoted small cell lung cancer, the U.S. Supreme 
Court in General Electric Co. Vs. Robert K. Joiner [522 US 139 L.Ed. 2d] 
following Daubert (supra), held that in cases involving the issue of expert 
evidence the appellate court should only consider whether there is any abuse 
of discretion in admitting such evidence by the trial courts and should not go 
into reviewing the evidence itself as it is for the trial courts to assume the 
"gate keeper's role" in screening such evidence to ensure whether it is not 
only relevant but also reliable. This was further expanded in Kumho Tire 
Co. Ltd. Vs. Carmichael [(1999) 119 S.Ct. 1167] whereby the 'gate 
keeping' obligation of the Trial Judge to ensure the relevancy and reliability 
for admitting the evidence extended not only to scientific but also to all 
kinds of expert evidence. In R. Vs. Watters [(2000) All ER (D) 1469], it was held : As at present advised, thus, and having regard to the fact that the 
prosecution did not rely upon the said report before the High Court, we also 
for the purpose of the present matter do not intend to place any reliance 
thereupon. Mr. Manohar's contention to the effect that those officers whose 
conduct was not above board and who did not take any action for attaching 
the property of the accused and his relations in terms of the Act, have not 
been made accused, may also be correct. He has further brought to our 
notice that witnesses have also changed their stand after the Appellant was 
placed under arrest. At this juncture, it may not be necessary for us to go 
into details on the aforementioned contention. We have referred to the aforementioned materials only for the purpose 
of showing that the High Court may not be entirely correct in coming to the 
conclusion that the Appellant prima facie committed an offence under Section 3(2) as well as Section 24 of MCOCA. For the reasons aforementioned, we are of the opinion that the order 
dated 4.11.2004 granting interim bail to the Appellant should continue 
subject to the same conditions. This appeal is allowed.