Page 0701 1. Applicant is arrested by Bund Garden Police Station in connection with C.R. No. 135 of 2002 for offences punishable under Section 120(B) , 255 , 34 , 109 of IPC read with 3(1)(ii), 3(2), 3(4), 3(5) and 4 of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crimes Act (MCOCA for short). The applicant is arrested on 11th June 2003. He applied before the Special Judge for bail. Needless to state that investigation in the said C.R. culminated in Special Case No. 2 of 2003 before the Special Judge, Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA), Pune. The applicants (Accused No. 42) application for bail was numbered as Exh.1215 and placed before the Special Judge. After hearing submissions on behalf of applicants Advocate so also that of the prosecution, by his order dated 10th January 2006 he dismissed the same. 2. This is how the present application is filed. 3. Mr.Mundargi, learned Senior Counsel appearing in support of this application has contended that taking all allegations against the applicant as true, the role of the applicant in the crime is subsidiary and peripheral in nature. He has not been accused of dealing with fake stamps at all. There is no accusation of the applicant being involved in printing, manufacturing or disposing of the same. Therefore, Section 3(2) of MCOCA is not attracted. Mr.Mundargi has taken me through para 26 of the charge sheet and contended that the applicant and the prime accused Telgi came in contact with each other in connection with their activities of import and export of spices and pulses. One company by name Metro Corporation was set up by prime accused Telgi, which was involved in import and export of pulses through State Trading Corporation. The applicant has helped and assisted in booking Page 0702 the consignments which are to be routed through S.T.C. There is no role played by him in the fake stamp scam. In any event, at the most he could be said to be a facilitator. In such circumstances, applicant deserves to be enlarged on bail. 4. Mr.Mundargi has then emphasised the fact that a stringent enactment like MCOCA has no provision for periodical review of cases filed thereunder. In other words, his submission is that there is no provision whereby a special case filed under the MCOCA could be reviewed periodically and qua each accused. 5. He submits that the special case is pending since 2003. There are about 800 witnesses who are going to be examined by the prosecution. Applicant is in custody from 11th June 2003 till date. Thus, even if ultimately he is convicted and sentenced for his alleged role in the crime that would not attract an extreme punishment. Hence, it is quite likely that he may be sentenced for the period which he is presently undergone in custody. In such circumstances and when there is no likelihood of the trial commencing in near future, applicant deserves to be enlarged on bail. 6. Mr. Mundargi has emphasised the mandate of Article 21 and contended that presumption of innocence is human right. It is part of the mandate of Article 21 of Constitution. Nobody can be detained at this stage as if he is convicted. The difference between a person accused of a crime and being convicted thereof has to be maintained. That distinction is the very basis of the applicant being enlarged on bail. In these circumstances and considering that several accused in the special case are enlarged on bail by the Supreme Court, this is a fit case where the applicant be enlarged on bail with such conditions as this Court deems fit and proper. 7. On the other hand Mr.Thakare appearing for C.B.I. submits that it is false to contend that the present applicant has not committed any offence punishable under the MCOCA or is not prima facie guilty of commission thereof. In other words his submission is that the applicant is guilty of offences alleged against him. He submits that the prime accused Telgi (Accused No. 23) had established a complete machinery whereunder Fake revenue stamps were manufactured, printed, circulated and distributed. The enormity of the crime is such that during the course of the dealings and transactions, the prime accused was assisted by the other accused including public servants. He submits that the present applicant has a long standing association with Telgi. 8. Mr. Thakare disputes the contention that the present applicant had come in contact with Prime Accused only during the course of the so called business dealings. He submits that there were no independent business dealings much less as projected by Mr. Mundargi. He submits that the charge sheet would reveal that prime accused set up certain companies and firms and under the garb of some transactions what was being done was to transfer monies from several bank accounts to the prime accused. The present case is where the applicant had made some sort of deal for Import of pulses. However, on the own showing of the prime accused and the applicant, said deal was cancelled. The State Trading Corporation was informed accordingly. S.T.C., therefore, did not pursue the import of spices/pulses and other goods. Once Page 0703 the money was parked with the applicant -accused such deals were cancelled. There is prima facie strong evidence to show that the applicant is a member of a crime syndicate of the prime accused. He has actively participated in their activities which were per se unlawful. Therefore, he has been charged with commission of offences punishable under penal laws mentioned above. 9. He submits that MCOCA is clearly attracted in this case. Mr.Thakare has taken me through the charge sheet, portions of which have been compiled for perusal of this Court. He submits that the intent and knowledge of the activities is clearly there. The telephone conversation which has been relied upon must be seen in that context. Mr.Thakare has invited my attention to portions of the charge sheet where there is reference to Anil Gote and Tabrej Telgi. He submits that prima facie involvement, therefore, is admitted. Mr.Thakare has laid great emphasis on the fact that the applicant was involved in meeting public servants on behalf of prime accused and handing over monies as and by way of bribes in return of favours. In all acts of the prime accused, the applicant was major link. Present applicant at the instance of prime accused, resided at Pune. He checked in Hotel Pride International. It is at this place where a sum of Rs. 5 lakhs was handed in to one of the persons named in the charge sheet. That is nothing but part of continuing unlawful activity of the organised crime syndicate. If the applicant is innocent or has absolutely no knowledge of the activities of Telgi pertaining to fake stamp papers then, there is no occasion for him to have offered his services for payment of some bribes. The investigations would indicate that the prime accused was posted with several developments by this applicant. Therefore, the incident referred to in the charge sheet ought not to be taken in isolation at this prima facie stage. There is a chain which would complete the link and point a finger to the applicant as well. In such circumstances, according to Mr.Thakare, Section 21(4)(B) is attracted and the P.P. is strongly opposing the bail. There are reasonable grounds for believing that the applicant is guilty of offences punishable under this Act. 10. Mr.Thakare submits that the materials need not be scanned and scrutinised in great details. The evidentiary value of the same also cannot be gone into. In such circumstances, there are strong grounds for the aforesaid reasonable belief. 11. He submits that the mandate of Section 21(4)(B) is in no way diluted or affected by the pronouncement of Supreme Court in the case of Shahin (supra). He submits that the Supreme Court had granted bail to co-accused in this case so also to other accused who were guilty of commission of offences under the POTA, TADA etc. by invoking its constitutional powers and that too flowing from Article 142 of Constitution of India. These orders are rendered in the peculiar facts of those cases. They should be restricted to the Applicants before the Supreme Court and cannot be taken as precedents. There is no principle of law laid down which has to be followed. On the other hand, even in R.S. Sharmas case (supra), the Supreme Court has adverted to Section 21(4)(B) of MCOCA and has made clear observations regarding the mandate of the same and held that it needs to be followed. There is no automatic bail. In such circumstances, other decisions must be seen in the typical, factual backdrop and should not be applied to this case. Page 0704 12. For properly appreciating rival contentions, some of the provisions of MCOCA and the object and purpose of enacting the same needs to be referred to. In this context, the Supreme Court in the case of Ranjitsing B.Sharma v. State of Maharashtra reported in 2005(2) Bom.C.R.(Cri.) 567 has observed thus: 13. Analysing the offences thereunder, the Supreme Court has observed that the word "Abet" as defined in the Act in Section 2(a) refers to the "organised crime syndicate". That term is defined in Section 2(f) to mean a group of two or more persons, who, acting either singly or collectively, as a syndicate or gang indulged in activities of an organised crime. The term "organised crime" is defined to mean any continuing unlawful activity undertaken as referred to in the definition either as a member of an organised crime syndicate, by use of violence or threat of violence or intimidation or coercion, or other unlawful means, with the objective of gaining pecuniary benefits, or gaining undue economic or other advantage for himself or any other person or promoting insurgency. The word continuing unlawful activity in short can be said to be an activity prohibited by law for the time being in force but the same is also carefully worded. 14. In the present case, a perusal of the charge sheet insofar as it is relevant for the purposes of present application, discloses that the prime accused had floated a firm by name Metro Corporation at Kemps Corner, Mumbai in 1993-94. He opened a Bank account with the then Bank of Madurai being A/c. No. 17240. Cash amount of Rs. 8,33,000/- was deposited in this account. The present applicant, as a co-conspirator and member of organised crime syndicate so also as part of criminal conspiracy issued cheques to the tune Page 0707 of Rs. 19,99,500/- which were credited to the above bank account. There was no ostensible transaction entered into by the present applicant with the prime accused. Earlier charge sheet mentions that the prime accused had established another firm Metro Exports to deal in export and import of dye-stuff. He opened an account with Uco Bank Colaba. There also a total amount of Rs. 48 lakhs and odd was deposited. All this was done by him to show that he has some legitimate business dealings. It has been demonstrated prima facie that during the course of counter-feiting Government stamps and stamp papers, the prime accused established close contacts with police officials. It is alleged that there are several instances of money laundering inasmuch as amounts credited in several accounts including that pertaining to present applicant consisted of amounts which were proceeds of the sale of fake stamps and stamp pape Rs. This amount was later on utilised for the purpose of carrying on another illegal business i.e. Kerosene business which is being investigated separately by C.B.I. Applicant is a permanent income tax payee. His accounts were utilised for money laundering, from which amounts he utilised the DD obtained for import of pulses and other materials purchased from S.T.C., a Govt. of India undertaking. Once the accounts were seized and study thereof revealed that a sizable amount of money was diverted to bank accounts for import of Nafta, which later on was used for clandestine business, the charge sheet refers to the role of accused No. 45, Anil Gote. As far as the activity of seeking protection and immunity from legal punishment is concerned, in the charge sheet it is alleged thus: 15. My attention is also invited by Mr.Thakare to various statements recorded during the course of investigation and to the report of preliminary investigation in connection with the subject C.R. He has also invited my attention to the order passed by the Special Judge dated 8th October 2004 with regard to the Polygraph test of the present applicant. The Polygraph test and its report are also forming part of the documents. From this it is tried to be demonstrated by the applicant that he was working as a commission agent only with regard to the dealings in pulses and spices. It is also brought to my notice by Mr.Thakare that the role of the applicant is that of a middle man or a mediator in several dealings and transactions. 16. Even the learned Special Judge has referred to the material collected during investigation. He has made reference to the money transactions between the applicant and the prime accused. He has referred to the prosecution case that these transactions were shown apparently during the course of import of pulses through S.T.C. However, there is reason to believe that they are infact money laundering operations carried out on behalf of organised crime syndicate. The Agent normally does not accept huge amounts for obtaining D.D. or pay order on behalf of any customer. He is interested only in his commission. However, the applicant received huge amounts from prime accused. They were in relation to procurement of D.D. or pay orders which were later on cancelled. However, the amounts were retained in the bank account of applicant accused. If there was a dealing in spices/pulses and import through S.T.C. or monies were paid for obtaining/purchasing D.Ds. or pay orders, then, in normal circumstances, once the deal is cancelled, such monies are bound to be returned after deducting usual commission and other charges. That they were not so returned but continued to remain in the bank account of present applicant, is demonstrated by extracts of the concerned accounts. Computer print outs of money transactions which have been seized demonstrate extent of the same. As far as evidentiary value and admissibility of such materials and documents, the trial court has rightly observed that this is not a stage to do so. 17. Once the printing of fake stamps, their distribution and sale, prima facie is an organised crime and laundering of money generated through sale of fake stamps amounts to committing, assisting and abetting continuance of such activity, then, prima facie, the applicant is guilty of commission of an offence under MCOCA. There is prima facie material in the form of documents and deposits of monies in the bank account. It is not as if the applicant can be said to be totally ignorant of the dealings of the prime accused. The business dealing cannot be seen de hors the other aspects of crime, at this stage itself. There is reason to believe that the applicant was familiar with the activities, he knew the prime accused. He had continuous interaction with him and his Page 0709 crime syndicate. On behalf of the crime syndicate several activities were undertaken by the applicant including accepting monies for onward payment to certain public officials and public servants. That is evidenced, prima facie by the telephonic conversation extracts. Therefore, the prima facie conclusion that the present accused was member of organised crime syndicate headed by the prime accused and well aware of the continuing unlawful activities of the said syndicate cannot be said to be erroneous and based on no materials. 18. Learned Special Judge has observed that the applicant sought bail on two occasions earlier. The subject bail application was the third one. All three applications have been rejected. The self-same contents are placed before me. Once, the earlier bail applications have been rejected on merits and in the present one also, a reference is made to all prima facie materials, then, in my view, it would not be proper to grant bail on merits. More so, when I have independently satisfied myself with regard to the mandate of Section 21(4)(B) of MCOCA. 19. It is in these circumstances that I must consider the alternate contention of Mr.Mundargi that for the acts which have been attributed to the applicant and his role in the crime, at the most he would be punishable with a sentence of 5 years and with fine. In some case, namely, the offence punishable under Section 3(5) the sentence would be 3 years. 20. The contention, therefore, is that the applicant has been arrested in 2003 and has spent considerable time behind bars. He is an under-trial. That aspect has bearing on the conclusion that the Court will record whilst satisfying itself about satisfaction of the mandate under Section 21(4)(B) of MCOCA. That should also be borne in mind by me. Once, the number of witnesses is about 800 and the accused has spent three years in jail, then, considering the role attributed to him, he must be enlarged on bail is the effective submission. 21. It is not possible to accede to this submission for more than one reason. Section 21(4)(B) speaks of satisfaction of the Court and existence of reasonable grounds for believing that the applicant/person accused is not guilty of such offence and that he has not likely to commit any offences while on bail. The word "such offence" is used in the context of the accusations and the offences punishable under MCOCA. It does not make any reference to the ultimate punishment. The punishment which will be awarded under the aforesaid substantive provisions is minimum five years and three years and maximum being what is prescribed including imprisonment for life. As to what punishment would be awarded for the offences, if proved, is something which will be decided at an appropriate stage. As at present, it is not proper to hold that the acts attributed to the applicant being such, at the most, he would invite punishment of 3 or 5 years. That is a matter of guess work which is impermissible. More so, when prima facie case is made out of the applicant being guilty of offences as punishable under the Act and more particularly Section 3 thereof. As contended by Mr.Thakare and in my view, rightly, the Supreme Court has taken this aspect into consideration while enlarging the applicant accused before it on bail. However, neither any general rule is laid down nor a principal of law pronounced in the decision relied upon by Mr.Mundargi. Mr.Thakare is right in contending that the mandate of Page 0710 Section 21(4)(B) is not in any manner diluted by the decisions rendered either in R.S.Sharmas case or subsequent thereto. The orders enlarging applicants before the Supreme Court on bail are in facts peculiar to those applicants and the power exercised by the Supreme Court is constitutional power under Article 142. 22. As to what is the ambit and scope of Article 142 of the Constitution of India is by now well settled. The Supreme Court in a recent decision (Textile Labour Assocn. v. Official Liquidator) observed thus: 23. Mr.Mundargi could not seriously dispute that the Supreme Court has enlarged the co-accused on bail under this constitutional power and in facts peculiar to them. Therefore, these decisions/ orders are of no assistance. 24. For self-same reason it is not possible to agree with Mr.Mundargi that no review being permitted of the case under MCOCA periodically, this Court consistent with the mandate of Article 21 should enlarge the applicants on bail by applying the principles in cases under POTA and TADA. Once again absence of review of cases periodically or review powers being conferred, but no effective implementation of the same, are matters which are not germane for deciding bail applications. 24. A review committee is contemplated under the MCOCA for different purposes altegether. That is for authorising interception of wire, telephonic or oral communication. That is not to be equated with the committee for reviewing cases under MCOCA periodically as is contemplated in POTA (now repealed) and TADA. Merely because such a committee is not constituted does not mean that this Court can enlarge the applicant on Page 0711 bail by ignoring provisions of MCOCA. Even the mandate of Article 21 of Constitution cannot be applied straight away for granting bail and that too by ignoring Section 21(4)(B) of MCOCA. That people are languishing in jails as under-trials without their trial commencing in near future is a ground for enlarging an accused on bail but whether relief should be granted on such a ground depends upon facts and circumstances of each case. Even for deciding the application of bail under Section 437 of Cr.P.C. the Supreme Court in ( Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan ) has observed thus: 25. Mr. Mundargi places strong reliance upon the decisions of the Supreme Court in the case of (a) Kartarsingh v. State of Punjab (b) Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee (Representing under-trial prisoners) v. Union of India and ( c) Shaheen Welfare Association v. Union of India . After considering these cases and similar other cases, so also noticing the Mandate of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the Supreme Court in a later decision ( Narinderjit Singh Sahni v. Union of India and Anr. , observed that Article 32 and Article 21 of the Constitution of India was invoked for claiming Writ of Mandamus for releasing the accused, arrested in connection with Criminal case, on bail and dealing with several cases pending against the applicant accused so also referring to the decisions (supra) the Supreme Court has observed as under: Page 0714 26. In my view, these observations of the Supreme Court in the subsequent decision would clarify the position beyond any doubt. It is not as if mere pendency of case, the trial not commencing in near future that the accused can be enlarged on bail, straightaway by ignoring the relevant factors, including serious and gravity of the crime so also the impact of grant of bail on public interest. 27. For the above reasons, the decisions relied upon by Mr.Mundargi arising out of above two enactments would not be of any assistance in deciding the present application. The decisions are clearly distinguishable. 28. In the result, once I am satisfied that prima facie case being made out of the applicant being guilty of the offences punishable under Section 3 of MCOCA on the basis of materials collected till date, then, bail cannot be granted. Consequently, application fails and it is dismissed. 29. At this stage it would be proper to invite attention of all concerned to the observations of the Supreme Court in the case of Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee (Representing Undertrial Prisoners) v. Union of India . Although, these observations are made in the context of rights of undertrials who are facing prosecution for offences punishable under NDPS Act , they are very much relevant for our purpose. This is what the Supreme Court has observed in paras 15 & 17 of this decision: Page 0716
 

17: We are conscious of the fact that the menace of drug trafficking has to be controlled by providing stringent punishments and those who indulge in such nefarious activities do not deserve any sympathy. But at the same time we cannot be oblivious to the fact that many innocent persons may also be languishing in jails if we recall to mind the percentage of acquittals. Since harsh punishments have been provided for under the Act, the percentage of disposals on plea of guilt is bound to be small; the State Government should, therefore, have realised the need for setting up sufficient number of Special Courts immediately after the amendment of the Act by Amendment Act 2 of 1989. Even after the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court refused to grant en bloc en enlargement on bail on 1-2-1993 in Criminal Application No. 3480 of 1992 and B.D. Criminal No. 565 of 1992, no substantial improvement in the pendency is shown since new cases continue to pour in, and, therefore, a one-time exercise has become imperative to place the system on an even keel. We also recommend to the State Government to set up Review Committees headed by a Judicial Officer, preferably a retired High Court Judge, with one or two other members to review the cases of undertrials who have been in jail for long including those released under this order and to recommend to the State Government which of the cases deserve withdrawal. The State Government can then advise the Public Prosecutor to move the court for withdrawal of such cases. This will not only help reduce the pendency but will also increase the credibility of the prosecuting agency. After giving effect to this order the Special Court may consider giving priority to cases of those undertrials who continue in jail despite this order on account of their inability to furnish bail. 30. Despite these observations of the Honble Supreme Court being brought to his notice, learned A.P.P. appearing in this case is unable to give any assurance, except making a statement that he would invite attention of the authorities concerned to the observations of the Supreme Court. Shri Thakare appearing for C.B.I. was unable to throw any further light on this aspect of the matter. Shri Mundargi strenuously urges that large number of witnesses (about 800) are going to be examined and the trial is not likely to commence in near future. I am unable to go into these aspects as all materials in that behalf are not produced by both sides. In any event, for reasons recorded above, the application cannot be granted. 31. Before concluding, I wish to observe that considering the ambit and scope of Article 21 of Constitution of India so also the fact that stringent enactments for curbing Terrorist and Subversive Activities also providing for periodical review, it is for the State to take appropriate measures or else the guidelines laid down in the aforementioned Supreme Court decisions would be a futile exercise.