1. In Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 16/2026, the petitioners are

the Directorate of Enforcement and its Deputy Directors,

whereas in Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 17/2026, the petitioners

are the officers of Enforcement Directorate, who had gone to

the subject premises during the course of investigation,

conducted by the Directorate of Enforcement. 2. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, appearing

for the petitioners, would draw our attention to a series of

events which has led to filing of the present Writ Petitions.

According to him, the Directorate of Enforcement was

investigating a scam amounting to Rs.2742.32 crores, since the

year 2020 and during the course of investigation of the said

scam, intelligence was received that about Rs.20 crores of the

proceeds of crime from Kolkata to Goa was transferred through

R Kanti Lal firm and has eventually channeled into IPAC’s

operational framework by being handed over to persons

executing its work. 3. Armed with authorization to carry out search and seizure

proceedings at the residential premises of Mr. Pratik Jain of

IPAC, the officers visited his premises, amongst other

premises, on 08.01.2026; and when the search was going on,

Shri Priyobrato, IPS, Deputy Commissioner of Police and Shri

Manoj Kumar Verma, IPS, Commissioner of police, Kolkata
entered the premises and thereafter, the second respondent in

Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 17/2026, the sitting Hon’ble Chief

Minister of the State of West Bengal, Smt. Mamata Banerjee

also entered the premises despite making categorical request

for not interfering with the ongoing search proceedings under

the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 . 4. He would submit that this is not a singular incident

where Hon’ble Chief Minister has entered the premises under

investigation, as on an earlier occasion when the Central

Bureau of Investigation was investigating an offence, a

similar event has happened. Therefore, there is a pattern of

interference with the investigation carried out by the Central

Agencies. 5. According to him, the materials collected by the

investigation team of Directorate of Enforcement were taken

away by the respondents in an illegal manner and thereafter,

the West Bengal Police has registered several FIRs against the

officers of the Enforcement Directorate. 6. Learned Solicitor General would next submit that in a

situation like this, it is difficult for the Central Agencies

to carry on the investigations which has connection with a

huge scam to the tune of Rs.2742.32 crores. Learned Solicitor

General would submit that, true it is, the petitioner

Directorate of Enforcement has preferred a Writ Petition

before the Kolkata High Court, but when the matter was to be

taken up for hearing on 09.01.2026, the legal cell of the

Trinmool Congress sent a message to its members on whatsapp,

calling them to assemble in the Court; and thereafter, what
has happened in the Court has been recorded by the learned

Judge of the Calcutta High Court in its proceedings dated

12.01.2026, which is reproduced hereunder: