1. Heard Sri Girish Singh, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Ravi Kant Kushwaha, learned AGA for the State-respondent. 2. The instant application has been filed seeking release of the applicant on bail in Case Crime No. 78 of 2023, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 506 IPC & 66 I.T. Act , Police Station Sachandi, District Kanpur Nagar, during pendency of the trial in the court below. 3. FIR of the present case was lodged against one Ashish Mishra and Smt. Rinki, Proprietors of M/s. Ashish Traders and Raghav Traders, respectively and three others and according to the FIR when applicant was in State of Gujarat then nominated accused persons by playing fraud on the basis of forged documents started running his firm and they also used to generate OTP on mobile no. 8953523526 which does not belong to the informant and they also prepared fake Email ID. 4. It is further mentioned in the FIR that by playing fraud, nominated accused persons are misappropriating the money. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that applicant was not named in the FIR and during investigation, he was made accused on the ground that he was holder of mobile No. 8953523526. 6. He further submitted that however, applicant was having said mobile number but he did not use the same and actually, it was used by his Master Sushil Singh @ Sonu, the Proprietors of Hari Om Sai Traders and Sushil Singh was also made accused during investigation but he has already been released on bail by the co-ordinate Bench of this Court vide order dated 29.3.2024 and his bail order has been annexed as annexure-11 to the affidavit. 7. He further submitted that apart from the present case, applicant is having criminal history of one another case of cheating and forgery but in this case he was made accused subsequent to the present case and he is in jail in the present matter since 1.2.2024. 8. Per contra, learned AGA opposed the prayer for bail but could not dispute the arguments on facts advanced by learned counsel for the applicant. 9. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record of the case. 10. From the perusal of the record, it appears that during investigation, applicant was made accused on the ground that he was having the mobile no. 8953523526 but it appears, applicant was servant of Sushil Singh @ Sonu the owner of the Hari Om Sai Traders. Record further suggests that Sushil Singh @ Sonu was also made accused in the present matter and therefore, argument advanced by learned counsel for the applicant cannot be ruled out, at this stage. 11. Further, Sushil Singh @ Sonu has already been released on bail by this Court. 12.Further, applicant was not having any previous criminal history to his credit but it appears that alongwith the present case, he was made accused in one another case on the basis of similar allegations and in the present matter, applicant is in jail since 1.2.2024. 13. Therefore, considering the facts and circumstances of the case, discussed above, in my view, applicant is entitled to be released on bail. 14. Accordingly, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the instant bail application is allowed. 15. Let the applicant-Ajay Singh be released on bail in the aforesaid case on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions:- 16. In case of breach of any of the above condition, the prosecution will be at liberty to move an application before this Court for cancellation of the bail of the applicant. 17. It is clarified that the observations made h8rein are limited to the facts brought in by the parties pertaining to the disposal of bail application and the said observations shall have no bearing on the merits of the case during trial. Order Date :- 1.5.2024 
 
Ankita