1. The pe oner apprehending arrest in the FIR cap oned above has come up before
this Court under Sec on 438 CrPC seeking an cipatory bail. 2. In paragraph 9 of the bail pe on, the accused declares that he has no criminal
antecedents. 3. The prosecu on's case is being taken from the reply dated 09.07.2024 ﬁled by the
concerned Deputy Superintendent of Police, which reads as follows: 4. Counsel for the pe oner argued that the allega ons had been leveled that Ashin
Khan had come to him because he wanted to take the loan, and he obtained his
signatures. Subsequently, the account was opened, and that has been used for the
transac on, whereas the complainant himself is an accused, and he has used his
account, and it was within his knowledge that he was receiving the amount in the
account. 5. Counsel submi<ed that the pe oner is not concerned with the alleged oﬀense;
he is not named in the FIR. The pe oner is not even known to the complainant,
Abhishek. There are neither any calls by the pe oner to the complainant nor by the
complainant to the pe oner, neither a chat nor a phone call by the pe oner to the
complainant or vice versa. The pe oner has not received any amount from the
complainant's account. There is no transac on between the complainant and the
present pe oner. The pe oner is neither the developer nor the admin of the alleged
Applica on (App); rather, the person who had developed the App had given someone's
name. The pe oner is not involved in this oﬀense at all. There is no transac on by the
pe oner with the complainant or from the complainant's account. The allega ons in
the en re episode are that Ashin Khan opened the account. Vikram is alleged to have
given his place in opera ng the company. Jitender accused is stated to be a bank
employee. The pe oner has no role in the en re episode. None of the accused has
speciﬁcally named the role of the pe oner. The en re transac on is made through
some game app. The pe oner has no role in that APP. The pe oner has not cheated
anyone, nor has the account been received from the complainant account or anyone
else. The pe oner's mobile phone has also not been used anywhere for any kind of
transac on. 6. Counsel for the State opposes the bail and has drawn the a<en on of this Court to
paragraphs 3 to 7 of the reply dated 09.07.2024, which reads as follows: (4). That during inves ga on Naveen son of Balwan resident of
 village Bhandwa District Charkhi Dadri was joined in inves ga on
 and arrested in the case on 19.05.2024 and a mobile phone was
 recovered from him. During interroga on above accused confessed
 his crime and stated that accused Ashin of his village and Vikram
 resident of Laad persuaded him to open his bank account and also of
 thers needy persons to sold these accounts to them and they will use
 these accounts for online gaming money transfer purpose. Thus, he
 opened his account in HDFC Bank and handed over the transac ons
 detail to Ashin and Vikram, who made a transac ons of Rs.1.5 crores
 in his account. The accused further confessed that he persuaded
 Abhishek to open his accounts on diﬀerent banks on the pretext of
 ge<ng loan and handed over the ownership of these accounts to
 Ashin and Vikram by adop ng fraudulent means and these accounts
 were used in transfer of illegal money. From the confessional
 statement of accused, cheque book, pass book of the complainants
 HDFC Bank were recovered along with sim-card. (5). That during inves ga on, raids were conducted on the hide outs
 of accused Ashin and from his oﬃce at Gurugram another accused
 Ashwini son of Bhupender resident of Jagram Bass (who use to work
 for accused Ashin, Vikram, present pe oner and others) was
 arrested in the case on 23.05.2024 and confessed his involvement in
 crime and named the accused/pe oner Vijay Singh as one of the
 master mind of the above men oned fraud sta ng that pe oner
 Vijay Singh operates an account Vijay OTP Group on Telegram App,
 which he use to circulate OTP of transac ons to other co-accused.
 Screen shots of Vijay OTP Group operated by the pe oner were
 recovered from the mobile phone of accused Ashwini and the same
 were taken in police possession. As per the chats of this group, the
 pe oners were in touch through telegram messages with numerous 4 4 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 26-07-2024 06:15:55 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:092852

CRM-M-31156-2024

 peoples including foreigners and accused Ashin Khan and Amit Laad.
 Screen shot of relevant por on of chat group is annexed herewith as
 Annexure R-1 (Colly). Two mobile phones having details of bank
 transac ons and Telegram chat were recovered from the accused
 and the same were taken in police possession. Further, from the
 confessional statement of accused Ashwini, 03 laptops, 05 ATM Cards
 and 02 cheque books were also recovered from the Gurugram oﬃce
 of the accused. As per report obtained from JMIS portal, 11
 complaints are registered against the mobile number recovered from
 accused Ashwini, in which a fraud of Rs.4,43,288/- has been found to
 be commi ed. (6). That as per inves ga on conducted so far and bank account
 detail of the accused named in FIR and the pe oner and
 complainant, obtained from various banks, transac on of about
 Rs.65.00 crores have been found to be made in various accounts
 purchased by the accused Including their own. Further inves ga on is
 under process and it is yet to be ensured that what is the source of
 such large account and where it has been transferred.
 (7). That the inves ga on of instant case is at a very ini al stage and
 the accused/pe oner is one of the kingpins of the en re crime.
 Details of all the given bank accounts, SIM Cards and mobile phones,
 are s ll to be received from concerned banks and the concerned
 Telecom Agencies and once same would come, only therea3er it could
 be ascertained that with how many persons and of how much amount
 cyber frauds have been commi ed by this gang. Huge transac on
 touching the ﬁgure of 65 Crores in a short span shows that master-
 minds are involved to cheat the masses at a massive scale. 7. Mr. Rajat Gautam, Ld. Addi onal Advocate General for the State of Haryana
submits that the pe oner is a mastermind, the main accused, and prima facie; there is
suﬃcient evidence against him. Therefore, they need custodial interroga on of the
pe oner to unearth the massive scam, to determine the involvement of bank oﬃcials,
and to determine how many people have been vic mized. State counsel further submits
that the pe oner commi<ed a fraud of massive amount of Rs.27.61 Crores through
cyber fraud by defrauding people and opening mul ple bank accounts, SIM cards, etc. 8. An analysis of the above submissions, counter submissions, and replies would lead
to the outcome that the prosecu on has suﬃcient evidence connec ng the pe oner 5 5 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 26-07-2024 06:15:55 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:092852

CRM-M-31156-2024

with the massive cyber fraud. There is prima facie evidence of fraud of Rs. 27.61 Crores,
which has been detected ll now, and the pe oner is one of the primary accused. As
per the inves ga on, Rs.65 Crores were transacted by the pe oner and co-accused,
taking advantage of so many loopholes in the system. 9. When cybercrime is rampant, and many people are being duped into online fraud,
any sensi ve and concerned Execu ve would have woken up and taken preemp ve
measures by bringing eﬀec ve and foolproof regula ons, tracking digital devices, and
blocking suspicious websites and traﬃc. Unfortunately, it appears that the concerned
oﬃcials responsible for controlling law and order are either insensi ve or incompetent
or are happy enjoying their plush jobs and plum pos ngs, ignorant of the truth that the
callousness is at the cost of the pains and suﬀerings of innocent vic ms and the
poten al vic ms of cybercrime. Faced with such cruel ground reali es, when the ball
comes to the Court's court, the Courts have to adjudicate in the background of the
gruesome fact situa on. The lack of aﬃrma ve ac on by the Execu ve while dealing
with cybercrime has increased the burden on the Court's shoulders, and the Court has to
be extra cau ous while gran ng an cipatory bail to cyber-thugs. 10. The pe oner's account has unexplained, dispropor onate, and highly suspicious
bank transac ons. Pe oners call details, and chats tell tales of crime. The allega ons
are serious, and the oﬀense is heinous. The evidence collected so far points out that the
pe oner is a mastermind behind cyber thugee, disen tling him for an cipatory bail. 11. In Sumitha Pradeep v Arun Kumar CK , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1529, Hon'ble Supreme
Court holds,

 [16]. ... We have no ced one common argument being canvassed
 that no custodial interroga on is required and, therefore,
 an cipatory bail may be granted. There appears to be a serious
 misconcep on of law that if no case for custodial interroga on is
 made out by the prosecu on, then that alone would be a good
 ground to grant an cipatory bail. Custodial interroga on can be
 one of the relevant aspects to be considered along with other
 grounds while deciding an applica on seeking an cipatory bail.
 There may be many cases in which the custodial interroga on of
 the accused may not be required, but that does not mean that the
 prima facie case against the accused should be an cipatory bail.
 The ﬁrst and foremost thing that the court hearing an an cipatory
 bail applica on should consider is the prima facie case put up
 against the accused. ThereaNer, the nature of the oﬀence should
 be looked into along with the severity of the punishment.
 Custodial interroga on can be one of the grounds to decline
 an cipatory bail. However, even if custodial interroga on is not
 required or necessitated, by itself, cannot be a ground to grant
 an cipatory bail. 6 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 26-07-2024 06:15:55 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:092852

CRM-M-31156-2024 12. In the background of the allega ons and in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, the pe oner fails to make a case for an cipatory bail. 13. Any observa on made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
case's merits nor the court taking up regular bail nor the trial Court shall advert to these
comments. Pe11on dismissed. All pending applica ons, if any, stand disposed of.