The present appeal has been filed by the Revenue challenging the

impugned order dated 11/09/2018, passed by the learned Commissioner of

Income Tax (Appeals)-1, Nagpur, ["learned CIT(A)"], for the assessment year

2011-12. 2. In its appeal, the Revenue has raised following grounds:- 3. Facts in Brief:- The assessee is a company filed its return of income on

28/09/2011, declaring total loss of ` (-) 31,756. Pursuant to information

received from the Dy. Director (Inv.), Unit-2(3), Kolkata, the case was re- opened under section 147 Income Tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") and notice under section 148 of the Act was issued and served on the assessee. Reasons for

the re-opening of the assessment were also provided to the assessee, which

is reproduced below:- ITA no.263/Nag./2018 4. The assessment under section 143(3) of the Act r/w section 147 of the

Act was completed on 29/12/2017, by making addition of ` 5,60,00,000,

under section 68 of the Act as unexplained cash credit. The assessee was

asked to produce the details of shareholders and amount of investment,

details of which are as follows:- 5. The Assessing Officer also referred to the report of Investigation Wing,

Kolkata and the same is reproduced below:- ITA no.263/Nag./2018 i) Priyank MultitradePvt. Ltd. ii) Adhik Multitrade P. Ltd, Mr. Ranjit kumar Das
Director of i) M/s Aadita Construction P. Ltd and ii) Aarjav Commodities P. Ltd
Mr. Jay PrakashKandoi, Director of Aarjav Commodities Pvt. Ltd. and ii) Akshaj
Multitrade Pvt. Lt. And Mr. Shyam Singh director of i) KCA Allied Services Pvt.
Ltd. All the entities maintained current account with the Union Bank of India
as under:- On going through the company details and the departmental data base it is
observed that the STR linked with other STR baring numbers 1000020459 and
20461 in respect of Mr. Anil Kumar Verma, Mr. Rajesh Bhutoria in his
statement dated 14.11.2014 (ΑNNEXURE-A) accepted that the he is one of the
director of the above mentioned companies along with some other companies
that were managed and controlled by him. Through these companies he
facilitated accommodation entry to the beneficiaries in lieu of commission. In
his statement he also admitted that his wife Smt. Sangita Bhutoria is also one
of the directors in the following companies: On going through the bank statement of the above companies it was
seen that M/s. Greenedge Construction Pvt. Ltd. was on the ultimate
beneficiary. Page | 4
 M/s. Greenedge Construction Pvt. Ltd. ITA no.263/Nag./2018 6. In the assessment order, the Assessing Officer has noted that the

assessee in its reply dated 26/12/2017, has submitted income tax return,

Balance Sheet, P&L A/c, etc. of all the 15 companies along with relevant bank

statement. The Assessing Officer also noted that all the companies are having

very meagre income and gross receipts. He also perused bank statement as

on the date these companies advanced funds to the assessee. It received

exactly the same amount from other Group Companies. Thus, the entire

transaction is a colourable devise to route the assessee's own funds back to

its books. He had thereafter extracted the statement of Shri Rajesh Kumar

Bhutoria, dated 14/11/2014, before the Investigation Unit, Kolkata. Shri

Rajesh Kumar Bhutoria, explained that his main business is providing

accommodation entries to various beneficiaries in lieu of commission. He also

mentioned the name of other operators with whom he was working and has

submitted that he has provided accommodation entries in the form of share

capital to Baazar Group of Companies in lieu of commission to the tune of `

0.20 per hundred rupees. The Assessing Officer denied the cross-examination

of Shri Rajesh Kumar Bhutoria, and has added ` 5.60 lakh to the return of

income. However, he did not mention any charging provisions for making the

addition. The assessee being not satisfied, preferred appeal before the first

appellate authority. 7. Before the learned CIT(A), the assessee submitted as under:- The appeal stands rejected. The above judgements are squarely applicable to our client's case as the Ld.
A.O. has not reopened the assessment at any time earlier, even though the
said information in the form of the said statement of Mr. Bhutoria, was always
available with them and that no cross-examination was allowed to the
assessee as held by the Hon. Bombay High Court, which is the jurisdictional
High Court. In View of the above, we once again humbly request Your Honour to quash the
proceedings-initiated U/ S. 148 as Void ab Initio, in the Interest of justice and
equity. Without Prejudice to the above, we would like to draw Your Honour's attention
to the fact that the addition made by the Ld. A.O., U/ S.68 , was only on the
basis of assumptions and presumptions that the assessee company had
received share application money from paper companies, whose identity,
capacity, creditworthiness, were in doubts as the said companies were having
meagre profits only and were not having their own sufficient funds. Page | 7
 M/s. Greenedge Construction Pvt. Ltd. ITA no.263/Nag./2018

In this regard, we would like to draw Your Honour's attention to the fact that
the following companies had invested their funds into the shares of assessee
company: Further, during the assessment proceedings the assessee company had filed
the following details of all the above-mentioned companies before the Ld. A.O.
as can be appreciated from the paper book submitted and which is on Your
Honour's record: ITA no.263/Nag./2018

the share application money was received by Cheque/RTGS from the bank
account of those companies, who were having their own sufficient funds in
their own bank account out of which they had issued cheques/RTGS. 3. The full set of audited financial statements of all the said companies, were
submitted and were on the record of the Ld. A.O. Tax Companies in Assessee
Company along-with their investment in other Their balancesheets clearly
established the Investment made by those companies. This evidence proved
the availability of bonafide funds with those companies and their
creditworthiness. 4. Our client also proved the source of investment of said companies, by
bringing on record their bank statements and balance sheets in which these
investments were clearly accounted for along with their investment in other
companies as per their audited statements. 5. We would also like to point out here that the amendment to section 68 of
further additional proof of sources of investor companies was brought on the
statute book only with effect from 01/04/2013 and hence the said provision
does not apply to our client's case. Even then, the assessee company had also submitted all the documents
proving the Identity, capacity and creditworthiness of the Source of Source to
enable the Ld. A.O. to appreciate the genuineness of all the said transactions. The Ld. A.O. had verified all the said facts and was apparently satisfied about
it, which can be appreciated from the fact that he has not raised any single
doubt or pointed out any single anomaly in any of the documents submitted
before him. To enable Your Honour to appreciate the said details, to which the Ld. A.O.
has not applied his mind as required in the Performance of his Judicial Duty,
we give hereunder the Investment information of those Companies, which
could have been easily appreciated from the Financial Statements of those
Companies submitted to the Ld. A.O.: 6.0 The paper book filed by the AR was sent to the AO and he was asked to
 give his remarks on the same. The AO has sent his remand report dated
 12.07.2018 accepting the fact that all the papers and the submissions were
 filed before him while also holding the same contentions. The copy of the said
 report was forwarded to the appellant for comments on the same. 8. The paper book filed by the AR was sent to the AO and he was asked to

give his remarks on the same. The Assessing Officer has sent his remand

report dated 12/07/2018, accepting the fact that no additional evidences

have been relied upon. In response to the said remand report, the learned

A.R. had submitted rebuttal as under:- However, from the facts of Our Client's case, it is clear that the Ld. A.O. has
not made any inquiry worth its name including cross verifying the transactions
from the concerned assessing officers of those companies and enforcing
attendance of Mr. Bhutoria even though he was not satisfied with the Legality
of the Sworn Affidavit of Mr. Bhutoriaand he was having sufficient powers to
do so. Instead, he has made up his mind to sit with folded hands and put the blame
on assessee company for not producing Mr. Bhutoria without appreciating the
fact that the primary responsibility to produce Mr. Bhutoria, was casted on
him, especially when he was relying on the statement of Mr. Bhutoria. Page | 15
 M/s. Greenedge Construction Pvt. Ltd. ITA no.263/Nag./2018

 Further, as regards the contention of the Ld. A.O. that "all the corroborative
 and circumstantial evidences clearly state that the transactions are sham and
 are way to route Assessee's own unaccounted money back to its books of
 accounts", we have to state that No evidence has been brought on record to
 prove that the Assessee was having unaccounted money, in the first place. As regards the other judgement relied on by the Ld. A.O., we have to state
 that the same is relating to the Loan transactions and not relating to Share
 Application Money and hence is not applicable to Our Client's case. We would also like to point out here that the Ld. A.O. was not justified in
 assuming and presuming that the "paper companies have taken entries from
 the group companies of the assessee (which in turn are also mere shell
 companies) itself to advance loan to assessee", without even enquiring with
 the said companies about the nature of transactions the said companies had
 with the group companies. In view of the above, we humbly reiterate that the share application money
 received by Our Client should be accepted as genuine as Our Client has proved
 the identity, capacity and credit worthiness of all the parties and the Ld. A.O.
 has merely rejected all the evidences by blindly relying on the earlier
 statement of Mr. Bhutoria, which has not been supported with any
 corroborative evidence worth its name. We would like to once again draw Your Honour's attention to the fact that the
 notice U/ S.148 is void ab initio and Bad in Law as mentioned in our earlier
 submissions and as the said notice has been issued without affording the cross
 examination of the concerned person as held by the Bombay High Court. Under the circumstances, we humbly request Your Honour, to kindly quash the
 reassessment proceedings in the interest of justice and equity." 9. The learned CIT(A), after considering the remand report of the

Assessing Officer, reply of the learned A.R. and other documents available

before him, deleted the addition of ` 5,60,00,000, made by the Assessing

Officer under section 68 of the Act. The observations of the learned CIT(A)

are reproduced below:- Page | 17
 M/s. Greenedge Construction Pvt. Ltd. ITA no.263/Nag./2018

The most important point here is that even that statement does not make any
mention of the involvement of the appellant company. This coupled with the
fact that no corroborating evidences were provided makes this statement a
dumb document, and cannot be used against the appellant. It is a settled law
that confession in the form of

a statement is a weak kind of evidence and hence needed to be corroborated.
It may be used to corroborate or contradict a statement made in the court in
the manner provided under section 157 and 145 of Indian Evidence Act. The
statement cannot be used as a substantive piece of evidence but it can be
used for the purpose of corroboration and can be used to contradict by cross-
examining the person who made. 7.4 The issue of the sworn affidavit before the Metropolitan Magistrate was
examined. The AO has summarily dismissed the later Affidavit of Mr. Bhutoria
by stating that merely making a statement in a court stamped paper does not
have evidentiary value. The Court, Magistrate, or other officer as aforesaid,
before whom an affidavit is made, certifies at the foot of the affidavit the fact
of the making of such affidavit before him, and for the purpose of
identification, mark, date, and initial every exhibit referred to in the affidavit.
It is pertinent to note that under Order XIX, Rule 3 of the Code of Civil
Procedure it was mandatory for the affiant to disclose the nature and source of
his knowledge and information with sufficient particulars. Affidavit attested by
a magistrate and an affidavit attested by a notary are equally accepted by all
courts in India. The authenticity of the attestation by a magistrate or a notary
is at par in the eyes of law and equal weightage is given to both of the said
documents when entertained in evidence. Both of the said affidavits are
appraised equally in all Spheres wherever they intend to take effect.
Therefore, to dismiss such evidence as Having no evidentiary value is itself an
act of imprudence and thoughtless, and portrays a lack of understanding of
law. 7.5 It is noted that Mr. Bhutoria has given a sworn affidavit that the share
application money invested in the appellant company was in the normal course
of business. He has further stated that no accommodation entries were given.
It was thus the judicial duty of the AO to probe further and refute the later
sworn statement, in case the AO disbelieved such affidavit. I find that no
further attempt other than brushing aside this statement, was made by the
AO. I find that the A.O. has failed to show as to how the appellant, even after
submitting all the details that are required, has not satisfactorily explained the
transaction, even when he has not examined or verified the same by enforcing
the attendance of the person on whose statements, he is relying on. 7.6 The A.O. has also failed in his judicial duties by denying the opportunity to
the appellant, even though he was specifically requested for the same. The
contention of the AO that providing such opportunity is not necessary for the
Assessing authority reflects a dismal ignorance of due processes of law. It is
noted that Mr. Bhutoria's statement which was given before the Investigation
Wing was not backed by any evidences, and Mr. Bhutoria has also not
mentioned the name of the appellant company in his said statement on which
the AO has heavily relied on, as being a beneficiary of the alleged
accommodation entries. Therefore, the statement of Mr. Bhutoria given in
matters NOT pertaining to the appellant has no legal footing in a court of law,
 Page | 18
 M/s. Greenedge Construction Pvt. Ltd. ITA no.263/Nag./2018

and an assessment of unexplained income in the hands of the appellant on the
basis of such unrelated third party statement, would amount to an assessment
on the basis of conjectures and surmises in the least, and deserves to be
deleted. The AO has not proved that the share application money received by
the appellant was its own money, and once the appellant has provided all the
details and evidences to the AO, the onus of disproving the evidences
furnished was on the Assessing Officer- which he has not discharged. 7.7 As regards the merits of the case, I have carefully considered the facts of
the ase and the written submissions of the appellant. I find substantial force in
the submissions made by the appellant. It is seen that the A.O. during the
course of reassessment proceedings, has not made any efforts to summon the
directors of the said companies. No letter u/s. 133(6) has been sent by the AO
to the any of the said companies at the addresses provided to the AO. In any
case, the appellant has furnished sufficient evidences to the AO to not only to
establish the identity and creditworthiness of the said party but also to
establish the genuineness of the transactions i.e. source of the monies, and
has also provided all the documents to prove the source of source as well. 7.8 It was the duty of the AO to make independent enquiries with said
companies or with their jurisdictional AOs to come to a considered conclusion
with regard to the genuineness of the documents furnished and with regard to
the various claims of the appellant. In the absence of contrary evidence being
brought on record, the assertions and the submissions of the appellant are
required to be accepted. It is also important to take note of the evidence that
have been submitted by the appellant during the course of assessment
proceedings to establish the identity, creditworthiness and genuineness of the
transaction entered into by the appellant with the said companies, which have
not been faulted by the AO. 7.9 To establish the identity of the said company the appellant had provided
PAN, copies of Income Tax Return and Form No. 18 filed by the appellant with
ROC. The appellant has also filed full set of Audited Financial Statements of
the said companies. The amount of investment is clearly shown as investment
made by them in the appellant company along with the investment made in
other companies. The said evidences prove the availability of funds with the
said company and its creditworthiness. The appellant has also submitted their
bank statements. The bank statements of the appellant company as well as of
the said companies were also furnished which clearly establish the fact that
share application money has been received by the appellant through RTGS
from the bank account of the said companies and thus the genuineness of the
transaction is also established. In the face of such overwhelming evidence
there was no basis what so ever for the AO to come the conclusion that the
share application money received by the appellant from the said companies
was unexplained. To 7.10 It is necessary to go through the balance sheets of these companies
to understand if the said companies are paper companies as concluded by the
AO. The investment schedule annexed to the balance sheet of all the above
companies showed that these two companies had made investment in many
other companies and that these companies were having their own sufficient
funds for investment in the shares of the appellant company also. Thus it can
be seen that each of the companies have huge funds available with them and
 Page | 19
 M/s. Greenedge Construction Pvt. Ltd. ITA no.263/Nag./2018

have made huge investments in various other companies and the investments
made in the appellant company is only a small percentage of their total
investments. The table prepared from the financial statements as included in
Page 7 of this order provides a clear evidence to establish that the two said
companies were having more than sufficient funds of their own to invest in the
shares of the assessee company and that their current or past year's profits
were not all required to be considered as a parameter of any sort for
considering the creditworthiness of the said companies. Hence the AO is not
justified in concluding that the said companies are merely paper companies
only on the basis that their profit/income are very low or that they have
received funds from the group companies without even inquiring into the
nature of transactions the said companies had with the group companies. The
Hon. Supreme Court in case of Lovely Exports Pvt. Ltd. 216 CTR 195 has held
that "if share application money is received by Assessee Company from
alleged bogus shareholders, whose names are given to A.O. then Department
is free to proceed to reopen their individual assessments, but it cannot be
regarded as undisclosed income of assessee company." 7.11 In the case of the appellant there is no evidence that there was any
activity of providing accommodation entry at any point in the chain of
movement of funds. No fresh confessional statement by any party has been
brought on record by the AO. in the assessment order to establish the fact
that accommodation entries were provided by the alleged company at any
point in the movement of fund. In light of the above facts, it is incorrect to
add the entire amounts just because the said companies have meagre profit
especially when the appellant has given plethora of information of the said
companies to establish the identity and creditworthiness of the creditors and
the genuineness of the transaction. It is also to be noted that all the audited
financial statements of all the said companies, which have been discussed in
the assessment order, have been accepted by the AO and he has not doubted
the genuineness of those audited statements. In such circumstances, the AO
was not justified in simply brushing aside those evidences. 7.12 On perusal of the documents and submissions pertaining to the said
share allotment transactions, it is found that the appellant has discharged its
onus of establishing the identity of the purchaser/investor and genuineness of
the transaction. Taking into consideration of all the above, I find merit in the
argument of the counsel for the appellant that the primary burden cast on the
appellant was duly discharged. The issue of primary onus is to be weighed on
the scale of evidence available on the record and the discharge of burden by
the appellant is also to be decided on the basis of documents filed by the
appellant and facts and circumstances of the case and on that basis a
reasonable view is to be taken as to whether the appellant has discharged the
primary onus of establishing the identity of share applicant, its
creditworthiness and genuineness of the transaction. In this regard, the
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Divine Leasing &
Finance Ltd. 2008 (299) ITR 268 (Del.) had held as under:- ITA no.263/Nag./2018

Revenue's insistence that it should prove the negative. In the case of a public
issue. the Company concerned cannot be expected to know every detail
pertaining to the identity as well as financial worth of each of its subscribers.
The Company must, however, maintain and make available to the Assessing
Officer for his perusal, all the information contained in the statutory share
application documents. In the case of private placement the legal regime
would not be the same. A delicate balance must be maintained while walking
the tightrope of sections 68 and 69 of the IT Act. The burden of proof can
seldom be discharged to the hilt by the assessee: if the Assessing Officer
harbours doubts of the legitimacy of any subscription he is empowered, nay
duty-bound, to carry out thorough investigations. But if the Assessing Officer
fails to unearth any wrong or illegal dealings, he cannot obdurately adhere to
his suspicions and treat the subscribed capital as the undisclosed income of
the Company. 16. In this analysis, a distillation of the precedents yields the following
propositions of law in the context of Section 68 of the Income Tax Act. The
assessee has to prima facie prove (1) the identity of the creditor/subscriber;
(2) the genuineness of the transaction, namely: whether it has been
transmitted through banking or other indisputable channels: (3) the
creditworthiness or financial strength of the creditor/subscriber: (4) If relevant
details of the address or PAN identity of the creditor/subscriber are fumished
to the Department along with copies of the Shareholders Register, Share
Application Forms, Share Transfer Register etc. it would constitute acceptable
proof or acceptable explanation by the assessee. (5) The Department would
not be justified in drawing an adverse inference only because the
creditor/subscriber fails or neglects to respond to its notices: (6) the onus
would not stand discharged if the creditor/subscriber denies or repudiates the
transaction set up by the assessee nor should the Assessing Officer take such
repudiation at face value and construe it, without more, against the assessee.
(7) The Assessing Officer is duty- bound to investigate the creditworthiness of
the creditor/subscriber the genuineness of the transaction and the veracity of
the repudiation" Hence the question of remanding the matter for re-examination of such
 persons would not at all be justified. The notice was not valid and had to
 be quashed. The appeal stands rejected. 9.3 In view of the above facts and circumstances of the case and in view
 of the judgments of Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Sirpur
 paper mills Ltd. v. ITO [1978] 114 ITR 404 (AP), the Hon. Kolkata High
 Court in the case of S. P. Agarwalla alias Sukhdeo Prasad Agarwalla, ITO
 [1983] 140ITR 1010(Cal.) and the jurisdictional High Court in the case of
 Paradise Inland Shipping Pvt. Ltd., 400 ITR 439, I am of the considered
 opinion that the said notice issued u/s.148 is void ab initio and hence the
 assessment framed on such a void notice is required to be cancelled. 10.0 Considering the above totality of facts and clear evidences furnished
 by the appellant to establish the identity and creditworthiness of the
 investors and the genuineness of the transaction, and respectfully
 following the judgments in the cases as discussed hereinabove, the
 addition made u/s. 68 of Rs.5,60,00,000/- is hereby deleted. The
 grounds of appeal are therefore allowed. The Revenue being aggrieved filed appeal before the Tribunal. 10. Before us, the learned Departmental Representative vehemently argued

that the matter is a part of nation-vide scam and the assessee is one of the

beneficiaries ploughing back its own unaccounted money in the form of share

 Page | 23
 M/s. Greenedge Construction Pvt. Ltd. ITA no.263/Nag./2018

capital and premium. Thus, he submitted that the learned CIT(A) has erred in

both law and facts`````````in grating relief. 11. On the other hand, the learned A.R. requested that the order of the

learned CIT(A) is watertight and cogent and no interference is required at this

stage. He relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Madhya Pradesh High

Court in PCIT v/s Chain House International Pvt. Ltd., [2018] 408 ITR 561

(M.P) to buttress his submissions (SLP dismissed on 18/12/2019). The

relevant part of the judgment is reproduced below:- 12. We have heard both the parties and gone through the entire material

available before us. The addition was made solely on the basis of the

statement of Shri Rajesh Bhutoria, which has been retracted subsequently

just two days before passing the assessment order. However, the Assessing

 Page | 25
 M/s. Greenedge Construction Pvt. Ltd. ITA no.263/Nag./2018

Officer has not made any independent enquiry of the detailed and voluminous

evidences adduced by the assessee. Even the statement so relied upon does

not specifically implicate the assessee and it is apparent that the same has

been taken in connection with the investigation of one Baazar Group of

Companies. Further, the reasons for re-opening his full of infirmities and

mismatch in the amount and in the name of investors. We are surprised to

note that the statement was available with the Department right from

November 2014, but till the date of re-opening, no enquiry whatsoever to

carry out the authenticity of the report of the Investigation Wing as applicable

to the present case. The learned CIT(A) has correctly concluded that the

entire re-assessment has been done out of mere suspicion and is not backed

by independent reason to believe by the Assessing Officer. The statement of

Shri Rajesh Bhutoria, cannot be held to be a gospel truth specifically when

the same has been retracted before the Metropolitan Magistrate. Even in the

remand report, the Assessing Officer has not done any verification to

contradict the humongous evidences adduced by the assessee and to

challenge its authenticity. Accordingly, the entire addition made by the

Assessing Officer is based on mere surmises and conjectures and has no legal

legs to stand upon. Accordingly, we find no merit in the grounds of appeal

raised by the Revenue. The re-opening was initiated on the basis of barrowed

satisfaction and the Assessing Officer could not bring out the live nexus of

information leading to re-assessment. There are lots of infirmities in the

reasons recorded. At this juncture, let us once again draw attention to the

reasons recorded in the order of assessment. Page | 26
 M/s. Greenedge Construction Pvt. Ltd. ITA no.263/Nag./2018

 "As per the information received in this office from O/o Deputy Director of
 Income Tax (Inv.), Unit-2(3), Kolkata, that in F.Y. 2010-11 credits in
 assessee's account from following companies are under mentioned. As per information from Kolkata Investigation that the money was routed
 through a number of bank accounts of jamakharchi/ accommodation entry
 provider companies into assessee's bank account. There were number of directors viz Mr. Arun Behra, Mr. Vimlesh Kumar Singh
 for: the Adhik Multitrade P. Ltd. Further it was informed that STR No.
 1000020462 shri Arun Behera is linked other STR bearing No. 1000020459
 and 1000020461 in respect of Shri Anil Kumar Verma. Mr. Rajesh Buthoria in
 his statement dated 14.11.2014 has accepted that he was one of the directors
 of the above mentioned company. On going through the bank statement of Adhik Multitrade P. Ltd one of the
 ultimate beneficiary is identified as Green edge construction P. Ltd. As the creditworthiness identity and genuineness of this company is itself not
 proved, the source of credit in assessee's book of Rs. 1,47,00,000/- is not
 proved. Income of the assessee introduced as credit in his books has therefore
 escaped assessment. I have therefore reason to believe that the income has
 escaped as on part of failure of assessee to disclose fully and truly all the
 material facts necessary for its assessment for the assessment year Therefore,
 the case is fit for proceeding u/s 147 of the IT Act 1961. 13. Certain persons are named. But it is not clear as to how they are

connected with the company. The Bank Statement of Adhik Multitrade Pvt. Ltd. was examined. But significantly, the name of such company does not

appear in list of four companies mentioned. The reasons only speak of the

conclusions and do not bring out independent application of mind. In fact,

Aadita Construction Pvt. Ltd., has subscribed shares for ` 37 lakh and not `

22 lakh as per reasons. There is no company named Adshaj Multitrade Pvt. Page | 27
 M/s. Greenedge Construction Pvt. Ltd. ITA no.263/Nag./2018

Ltd. in the list of shareholders. These glaring observations of the facts are a

clear pointer to the fact that basis of re-opening is fragile. The learned CIT(A)

has correctly decided which needs no interference at our end. Thus, we

uphold the order passed by the learned CIT(A) by dismissing the grounds

raised by the Revenue. 14. In the result, appeal filed by the Revenue is dismissed.