Position in England

1-G--12. The position in England on the subject has been stated
as follows: 3. Mann in (min) 2': Mod. L.n.._ 31. . 4. .Referc-lice rs. power: of Uity ofﬂla-ws,(1P£3) 3.0.3. 208 (Granada)! Flat'-u. Horitima Brown-
1339 dc Gibbs HA. 'I'. The Republic of ﬂiﬂﬂh 3-033": 5973; 593-5." faﬂﬁﬂda]. 5. Section 61, Fﬁmdamcntsl of Soviet Civil Pmbudun, 330 also Gmyhbilﬂ; Soviet Public
International law (1970), 1). W2. - -- u. Cardozo, 'Sovereign Immunity', unto in Eprr. -1.. 3. nos.
I-.J'B(D}229l£o£|2JaiUA--6{a)- : I_-= ii 'It - 1-G-15A. In a statement of the policy' of the United States State
Department, limiting sovereign immunity in a far more sweeping
manner than ever before attempted, Professor Jack Bernard Tate,'
Acting Legal Adviser to the Department of State, wrote:'

"The Department of State has for some time had under con-
sideration the only question whether the practice of the
Government in granting immunity from suit to foreign
Governments made parties defendant in the Courts of the
United States without their consent should not be chang-
ed. The Department has now reached the conclusion that
such immunity should no longer be granted in certain
types of cases .... .."'

The type of cases excluded from immunity mainly concerned
commercial transactions. 1-G--15B. llt may be noted that a few years ago, the subject of
immunity of foreign States was fully discussed, and a project for
its reform prepared, by the Institute of International law.'

1--G.16. With reference to their attitude in respect of the immu-
nity of foreign States, the various countries may be broadly classi-
ﬁed as follows--- lovakia, Estonia and probably Poland.' Ap arently, the de-
cisions of the courts of Brazil, Chile, ina, Hungary,
Japan, Luxembourg, Norway and Portugal may also be
deemed to support the classical theory of immunity;'
but the decisions are scanty, and are anterior to the de-
velopment of the restrictive theory. - Countries probably accepting absolute immu-nit In
Netherlands, Sweden and Argentina, constant refs?-eunoe
to the distinction between public and private acts of the
State indicate an intention to leave the way open for 3.
possible application of the restrictive theory of immunity'
if and when occasion arises. {iii} Countries adopting the restrictive theory--Presently, the res-
trictive theory (resting on the distinction between
sovereign acts and other acts) is followed in Austria;
Belgium, Egypt, France, Greece, Italy and Switzerland. 1. Letter oflviay 5, 1952, popuuay known as the "Tate letter". 2. Jack 13. Tate, {Associate Dean ofYale University Law School}. Department ofst. Bull.
Vol. 26, p. 934, June 23, 1952, a. letter totlme Acting Attorney General. 3. See also cnsss reﬁeri-ed to in Starloe, International Law, (1972), page 2.55, foo-1-, mu 3_
and in Graig, International Law (1970), page 196, foort notes 7-3. 4. See also William W. Bishog Jr. ' ' New United States PD]-i027 limiting Sovereign Immunity" 5. Annual:-e as 1' Institute cle droid Intern|.tion.u.l{1952),VoL 1,, pp. 1-430 ibid, (1953),
pp. 11:, 121. {Sir H. Loutcr. paqoht]. s. omig, International Law. (1912), pages $13. 219.... (ii)

. ....-........._n_............ . ."-.- |\' 61 (iv) Countries where position is ﬂuid--The position in England
appears to be ﬂuid. Lauterpachfs view

1-G.1'?. Lauterpacht has made certain suggestions,' for reform
of the law. According to him, "In the ﬁrst instance, immunity must
remain the rule with respect of the legislative acts of a sovereign
State and of measures taken in pursuance thereof". "Secondly, there
must be immunity from jurisdiction in respect of the executive and
administrative acts of the foreign State within its territory". "Third-
ly, the principle of immunity must continue with respect to contracts
made with or by the foreign Starte except those concluded in the
UK." "Fourthly, no action should lie or execution be levied against
a foreign State contrary to the accepted principles of international
law in the matter of diplomatic immunities". Arguments against absolute immunity---The arguments advanced
in support of restricted immunity are that the sovereign who en-
gages in ordinary commerce should be held to have waived his im-
munity, and that the tendency in municipal law is to lace the
State and State corporations on an equal footing with o er legal

persons. Decision involving change of policy to be avoided

1-G.18. A decision to alter the scope of immunity involves de-
licate matters of policy, and we do not think it proper to make re-
commendations altering its scope. Moreover, it is not possible to sayi with certainty how far the
restrictive immunity will be adopted -(in substitution of unqualiﬁed
immunity). in the near future, In this state of aifairs, an alteration
in the policy behind these sections is not easy to recommend. Recommendation for change In terminology

1-G.19. But one defect of section 86 should be remedied. Tliis
defect lies in its over emphasis on the concept of the "Ruler" of a
foreign State. Primarily, it is the State which ought to tie immune;
the personnal immunity of the Euler, if any, ought to be secondary,
at least in modern times. '

The Supreme Court has held that section 86 applies to all foreign
States'---whether the form of Government be monarchial or not And
this interpretation should now be carried out by primarily making
"foreign States" immune. The immunity "for Rulers" may be, of
course, preserved for exceptional cases. i 1. Luubarpaoht, "Jurisdictional Immunities" {I951} B.Y.B. I. L. 220, 237, 238. 2. AH Ab-bar V. U.tI.R. . ALB. 19$ B.C. 230. .1. _..g or . ,... .:.... Recommendation relating to execution
:1-G20, Another point relates to section 35(3) ; el5B€ut1on,.against the property: of the Ruler of a foreign State. The

Supreme Court has, with reference to this pI'DVi5i0I1, 0bSe1'W'-'d1'," (in this point also; oppcrtunit-yxemaycbe taken to make the sec-_

121011 more comprehensive, so as. to exempt the property of
the State also. = I -practice

1-G31. It may be stated that immunity" is conceded by the majo-
rity of States' with~-respect 1n 1ne$I.Ero,s'~of execution directed. against
the property of foreign states.'

Position in England as to ex'ecutim1.. 1.G.22.- In theocristtrw.' the: Heuspjuf Lords ruled that a writ -in
rem. issued in Admiralty: against)»: V Q1! in' the control of as foreign
.G_oy,emm_en_t~ior- pub1ie_ puI130ses;' impza process against-eths-.po&
sessorymghts of a,Jore:gn- sg'ver¢i.gn.~ '_ a eondition of obtainingiJn-
munity, it is suﬂicient if the fore' . rnment produces evidence
showing "that its claim is not' . . _ usrmﬁnor on a"l:itIe,
p1anifestl§;_pdefect_ive" '-7, It is I1ot,'boI.tn_d1:ogive a complete. proof pf
1ts.pmr'rietax3r or possessory'tit1£.; ; ' '

1; 41:' urban 1r. U.'J..R. A.I.B. 1943 S20. Thoruluiamslullystated us f'_n:|_m. ' ; P1-o],| -01" '.
diotional Immunities of $50363: lBtgt:E1'ty_{t{951)ub°2%:.f3.Y.B.I.§ am - E E ' Li' ' '

. _ g '- t~ 
' "_M_¥'" I urn. b , J .1. . J .. I . _
.-1. (9) JIM grtgms suwitlaill
(5) T1-'19 '5°F"*'1_'J'-713'-¢?'1n*_?1'J' of roaches oftlie. various. nrisiiistiou to
wraragn immunity in Suclaritku1,'B uniﬁes and Trading ctirity (1931
page: 162--256. ; {6} Enownlie, Public Intmnatlanni Law, 1135}: PO58 233- -- .' 4. Soreusen, Hague Racueil (1960) III. l'l'w"e6$iIie1'a that the practice is not anﬂlﬂently
uniform to support a. customary rule. =

' 5. The chriaaim, (1935)-'A.C. 435. B. $3.-Inc. v. Goaernmeﬁt of Republic ofIm3ama-in. (1955) AL'. 72: T1'iis'ai5 axis to be ii' useful? suggestion, and may be adopted, of
course" 1i7'si'Ih"p1éi' form. '
new méndhti" ' ' biz" . E K 64 (2) Such consent may be given with respect to a speciﬁed suit 01'
to several speciﬁed suits or with respect to all suits of any speciﬁed
class or classes, and may specify, 'in the case of any suit or class of
suits, the Court in which the foreign State may be sued; but it
shall not be given, unless it appears to the Central Government
that the foreign State----- (a) has instituted a suit in the court against the person de-
siring to sue it, or

(.b} by itself or another, trades within the local limits of the
jurisdiction of the court, or (c) is in possession of immovable property situated within
those limits and is to be sued with reference to such pro-
perty or for money charged thereon, or

{d} has expressly or impliedlys waived the privilege accorded
to it by this section. cuted against the property of any foreign State. {4} The provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall apply in
relation to--- (a) any Ruler of a foreign State: {'33) any High Commissioner of a commonwealth country; {:1} any such member of the stali of retinue of a foreign State or
of the Ruler, ambassador or envoy of a foreign State or
oi.' the High Commissioner of a Commonwealth country as
$:m$;nit£a%hg°:§g';11:enf I1l1aY._ by general or special order,

(5) Where a 'request is made to the iientral Government for the
orttnt of any consent under this section, the Central Government shall
E"-'9J'0'|'E refusing to accept the request in ijhole or in part' give tké
person making the request a reasonable Oppﬂffﬂnitqu of being hea,,.d.._
Section 81-]! '

1-G.9. Section [8713 has been already amended' ve 1:1 d
is now conﬁned to f ' ' ' W mean Y' an
ment 0'1' the Constiizauttiiliiliise 0 action ansmg before the commence" tained the leave of the court, may institute a suit, though
no special damage has been caused, for a declaration' and.-
injunction or for such other-relief 'as may be appropriate
to the circumstances of the case". Section 92

_ 1-H.5. In the earlier Report,' attention was drawn to the legislg.
tion _re-garding cy, gres undertalgen in England, and to the analogous
provisions in the ombay Pubhc Trusts Act, 1950 (Bombay Act -29
of 1950), (which have been foll wed by certain other States also).
Some diﬁiculties were felt in. England by virtue of the limited scope
of the cy pres doctrine, under which the _court had power to direct
the application of the income to another purpose only in certain spe-
ciﬁed cases, for example, where the original object had failed. 1. As to appeal against an order under section 91, see disaualion ro||.t' to aeoti. 104
pure. 1-K. 7. Inﬁu. mg on 2. 27th Report, page: 118 to 120 ,. note on-nation 92.7

as -- - -I -. mlir of tl1e$11'°PE_I'15}'; 0: W: re

W.

I-I-L6. Now, there might be cases 'where it would be desirable to'

alter the very purpose of application as mentioned in the trust instru-
ments, because the original "objaI:!:Eh'ﬁe been adequately provided
for by other means, or have ceased to rovide a suitable method of
using the roper , or 'or useless or prejudicial
to the pub 'c we are or are not substantially beneﬁcial to the class
of persons for whom the endowment was intended oriigﬁlly; 1-H.'i'. In England, the Nathan Committee' went into great' detail
in this question. The Committee wassatisﬁed that the most" urgent
need was to enable the Charity Commissioners to give tiniely 

.tance to those trustees who were administering trusts "no longer

adapted to 'm'od°ern cor1diti:bns".}i Bi_1'i_:ﬂ_e'tlie alteration oi! the' objects
of charities' (where the objects 'cdn" s'til§"lJe eitehuted} could only be

ilbnei by "a"; statutory polwerf tl'le'G'i'i1'i11't1iﬁt$ee reco'n'1mendEd~ su.ifa'b=le'
egis - atibnfegardirig cy' 

1-H3. - :2 Charities Act,' has easriadout, to-'ai1srge the
recommend t-Tons-"o_f the Nstl1§iif'Cou'_irni!.1iee'. Brieﬂy stated; under section 13 of that Act, theioriginﬁl of a chaviutble gift can be
altered-i to ailow tlie'propel'tey'ifa be ' M eg;r_1is_es;'wiie1~ef'-thie=n1-ig1-
nal purpose has been fulﬁlled or' _ o1rbe'catvned out"'aGui:d*dirI.g='h
the directions and the Sp' ' 'c_I,'E e. _5, 'or provides theuse for part
 , (_ _ ,_ _' , _',_ _J;"a%*aildb1él53Hvirt'uIeTc'>!the
siftzsnd-9thea:;Pro. Its"??? 70.3. ,,-1;: ssh. ' b'e'.usédJi'n
conninction, or w ere the plurpdses Iaid;'dbwii'_t1i_ith 'f£ifeif'e'iice_']io
an area which has ceased to be a uni _"o'r'a cIh§s'.of p'e';i's'_b1i's'.' has
ceased to be suitable or where the original purfaases'ehsve li'ee:'rii ade-
quately provided for by other means or ceased (as IIe%!'I1Il!lE5s"'dr
harmfulito the comsmeitsi to--he is--her c.:h.aritab,1e er ceasedrto pro-
vide a suitable and effective me %of using 'the jg-epp';t3.L;i.igiJgh1e
by virtue of the gift. Thus, a failure of the original' purpose isnot,

jnhvg; theyizy ';)ifb11}1ii'for"'_iéiJ"pi'8s.' '

 

 . stvmto seem 56 and with sec- '.'< .'. .' - '. :. I ' who lillldﬁ . '
Lﬂaﬁonf hawks! £il1_i;W:.E§D _o 1 Ant, re _ r on an appli

alteration ofthe 'original-'.o'}j ' _ ' _. _ 'enia1:._Is provides that,
if the court is of opinion that e " rrying out of such inten n or
object is not wholly or partially e ient, practicab1e;""dE! " 3. Bombay Public Trust: got'. 1059.,' 4.Th Hind Ra]Jg1o' ' Endomnantl 'r-Z 060-32},
vtepm. $3 banish': 1-mmmapioa gotten 13.14,

4 5. u.-_ i.-.'_. _ 3,

.g.. a... Ant. 1WO.Pbr

_1aw_of- public tr-usts. - '
I

57" tuted by the: B. d Pt'_@ aiaiﬁgbﬂlilgﬁfehvé or consent
referred to in use Ac ;' '
(2) 'No suit s.obe.a.s;;t'§':iib.s:aies:$aasa.isi in sub-sec-»
tion {1)l relating to a w i shall be instituted by any person
91 "- 0I'_-aIit11'D!"i*}*3 Mill?!-' iBoard~witl1out -the consent in'
=' -or writing of theuB_anl6::.. If: ' - , - ' <1' '9 . i'

ammo -aiat.!nn?-shell-:daiaui§ii:a1u11r}bs rcquil'erlrior the insti-
tution of a suit against thrill:-duin rlq:IHt§'lJf~?an}r act pur-
porting to he done by it in pursuance of this Act or of any
rules-'0r'DI*d!rs<~ "" ' ' ' '- ' - -3-' =--* ;z. J--.',,; ;,'-5',
1-H 15. the ' '=-- " v2,',3s..1aid._d in such laws,
need not be disturbed, it is our in on that the e nded scope (on
seeuomscirsiiome apply aainnisi on 1. Srianlfsﬂlaﬂiﬁlﬁna M* mm _-,-_
 1-I-'3', wt... 2. A3 to IPPBBLEIOO section 101 null 

.-.. sa£tfeii"d5.'tﬁﬁm}'ﬁr1I*!§3i?i;9E9 "{:.i""m """"' . Recommendation

1-H.1B. Accordingly, we recommend that section 92(1) should be
revised as follows:--- structive trust created for public purposes of a charitable
or religious nature, or where the direction of the Court is

.. deemed necessary for the administration of any such trust,
. . _ two or more persons having an interest in the trust
and having obtﬁned the leave of the Court, may institute
a suit, whether contentious or not, in the principal Civil
Court of orginal jurisdictic-n.or in any other Court em-
powered in that behalf by the State Government within
the local limits of whose jurisdiction the whole or any part
of the subject-matter of the trust is situate, to obtain a
decree. [Rest as in existing section 92(1)]. 1--H.17. We further recommend the insertion of the following new
sub-section in section 92:- tively used in conjunction, and to that end can suitably, re- ' 3,31'?-l 591318 had 10 the Spirit of the gift, be made applicable - to common purposes; or - 2

'(all where the original purposes were laid down- (il byirefﬂrence to an . which th in t has '
ceased to be "a uﬂitaf1§r'_ sonle otheei-npiziviiiosg, or Emce- ' (ii) bi reference to a class ofapersons or to an area which
113?, f°1"8'113"1'93!°1ls_IiIIco ceased to be suitable, regard
P9133 hill'! 150 519 SP1?" 014110 Sift. or to be practicable
in administering the gift; or

" (El Where the original purposes, in whole or in part, have since
; they were laid down,--- '

or been adequately pyoynea, for by other_mea_ns; gr'

_m_p ;:.a,,¢'..._...:.:' .5 ._,.4a. ,--1.-H --!"-I-s..,.,;--...'. ''(ii} ceased, as being useless or harmful to the community
or for other reasons, to be in law charitable. or (iii) ceased in any other way to provide a suitable and
effective method of using the property available by
virtue of the gift, regard being had to the spirit of
the gift". Section 93

1-H.18_ Section 93 provides for the exercise outside Presidency
towns of powers conferred by sections 91-92 on the Advocate-Gene
ral. In view of our recommendation' to substitute, in sections 91 and
92, the leave of the court in place of the sanction of the Advocate-Ge-
neral, section 93 becomes unnecessary. Recommendation

1-H.19. We, therefore, recommend that section 93 should be
deleted. 1.su:nun-imunuaeoilinnn. ' 

CHAPTER _2.l-I

 sUPELﬁ;am$'rAL_ '1?8pcg1aDmGs

Introductory
1-1.1. Part 6, sections 94 and 95, in the body of the Code, Sleals

..with- what has been described as,'.'su.g1emenl::l proceedings". These
_proceedings are mainly concemed {u:it1Ii temporary relief. No change

is-[needed in this Plart. ; I

......- . Q. - '~i;£.a=:iI~u=.u.''.- ;. - - :1' us: sy,edfe:?tate§t.l°eet%g£:§tt a pee'
the point of view of subject-matter, w erre e"amoun't or v ue 

° e 1.es..*.t...e--r ..e*-m. , 2. Qnuﬁon 72. _ ' 11. 'l'

r 1- '.f*- - . ' :;=-"'.- r

........_...,. subject-matter of the dispute in the court of first instance and still in
dispute on appeal was and is not more than three thousand rupees [or
such other sum as may be considered proper), and the decree or order
does not involve directly or indirectly some claim or question respect-
ing property of an amount or value; exceeding three thousand rupees
(or such other sum as may be considered proper]. sands rupees, except an a question of low." '

Section!!!

1J.":'. Section 99, which, inter alia, saves irregularity in respect
of misjoinder of parties or caums of action, does not apply to non-
joinder. In the earlier Report,' the Commission exanﬁned the ques-
tion whether "non-joinder" should be added in the section, as in
Order 1, Rule 9. It, however. considered it unnecessary to do so, as--- (a) non-joinder of an essential
fatal defect, and _ .'

"(hr)" non-joinder of a proper; party would not, even now, entail

part? should be regarded as a - variation, etc., of a decree. 1-1.8. We agree that the corre"ct_'legal position is as was stated
inthe above Report. ' " " ' ' . ' 1."'2a.h Blport, 122, note on station at]

'.'?':'!1'I£'r.'i\tF*-~.- at

"'-""""' - 1-~=

 

by »q_ . H 73 1-J,9. As was stated in a Madras case,' objections as to non-
joinder, if taken at the earliest opportunity under Order 1, rule 13,
fall under two classes. 2. If it is not a case of imperative necessity but only a matter
of convenience or expediency, either the absent party may be added
or the suit may be tried without him (Order 1, Rule 9). In such 3: Section 99A" . stamnuga v. Snbbcyat, A.I.l-1.1922 ll-Ind. 317, 320 (Rameeam .1). . Amircha.'IId' Nagiﬂdaa V. Rdoji Bllai, A_.I.R. 1930 Mad. 714,. 713. '
. Hhaﬂmﬂ-go v. S-abbayya, .A.I.R. 1922, Marl. 317 (supra). . Similar amendment would be desirable in Order 1, Rule 9. 5. Question 10
L,lB(D]229Mof IJa.GA.--7

III-5;[x.'g>--u

7-1

1--J-13. Replies on this question generally favour the proposal,
and we have come to the conclusion that it is desirable. 1-J.14. We, therefore, favour a provision of the nature suggested
in the question referred to above, but after some discussion, we have
decided to employ the wording "unless it has prejudicially affected
the decision of the case." We further think that want of jurisdiction
should also not matter, in this context. 1-J.15. Accordingly, we recommend the insertion of a new sec«
tion ._ as follows:-- Section 1 (I{|'--Right of second appeal

l-J.16. We now come to a very important question, which per-
tains not to mere procedure but to a substantive right. This is the
right of second appeal conferred by section 100. 1-J.16A. Any rational system of administration of civil law should
recognise~----and it always does--thuit litigation in civil causes (as
described in section 9 of the Code) should have two hearings on
facts--oI1e by the trial Court and one by the Court of Appeal. That,
in fac'£,8 héas been the scheme of the Code of Civil Procedure ever
since 5 . According to recognised principles of adrni-nistration of civil
law, every litigant is entitled to take his cause before a second appel-
late Court on a question of law, and this right also has always been
recognised in our country. The two relevant provisions in which this
right is recognised are section 100 of the Code and a Article 133 of
the Constitution'. ' . '

Two categories of civil Iitigatlon

l--J .17. Traditionally, civil litigation has been placed in two cate-,
gories in our country. For convenience, we may refer. to the two
categories as 'minor' and 'major'. In ourcountry, there is a hierarchy
of the judiciary. beginning with Munsifs. or Civil Judges, Junior
Division, followed by the Civil Judges tor Civil Judges Senior Divi-
sion, (or corresponding officers) and district Judges and, above them,
is the High Court. Formerly, above the High Courts in India, there
used to be the Privy Council, but,, in 194?, the Federal Court took
the place of the Privy Council and, since 1950, the Supreme Court
is the highest Court in the country. 1, Article 133 has been recently amended. »-~u:J--n...-:--- t»- '35

Chronology of litigation instituted in lowest court

l-J .18. The Code of Civil Procedure requires that all civil litiga-
tion must be instituted in the court of the lowest jurisdiction. In-
evitably, minor litigation begins its career in the Court of the Munslf
or the Civil Judge, Junior Division. After he pronounces his';i11<lg-
ment and a decree is drawn, an appeal lies either to the District
Court or the Civil Judge (Senior Division) on whom appellate power
has been conferred. The appeal to this Court is ﬁled under Order
XLI. After the decision of the first appellate Court is pronounced and
an appellate decree is drawn, the aggrieved party moves the High
Court under section 100 of the Code and, broadly stated, such an
ritggaeal has to be within the terms of clauses (a), (b) and (c) of section

1- -J.l9. Major litigation begins its career in the Court of the
Civil Judge or the Civil Judge (Senior Division) and, after the trial
Court has pronounced its judgment and a decree has been drawn,
the aggrieved party goes to the High Court in first appeal under
Order XLI. After the High Court has pronounced its judgment and
an appellate decree-«has been drawn up, the appeal used to go to the
Privy Council, then to the Federal Court and now it goes to the
Supreme Court under Article 133 or with a certiﬁcate under Article
136 of the Constitution. That, broadly stated, is the position of the
hierarchy of the judiciary and, if - we may say so, the hierarchy of
appeals contemplated by the procedural law. Recommendation in Report on Article 133
1-J .20. Before we proceed to consider the changes which wewish

_ to recommend in a-mending s. 100 of the Code, we ought to indicate

brieﬂy the reasons why we recommended to the Union Government
the amendment of Article 133 of the Constitution by our Report on
the subject.' The Union Government has accepted our Report and Article 133 has accordingly been amended. The philosophy of this
amendment is that High Courts in otsr country should ordinarily
decide all questions of law pertaining to the interpretation of State
legislation and their decisions on such 'points should be ﬁnal. If any
of the provisions of State legislation-use material expressions or
clauses which are common to other State legislations and there
appears to be conflict in the views taken by different High Courts in
regard to the interpretation~oi_E such expressions or clauses, the matter
can legitimately be taken before the Supreme Court for resolving
such conflict. Subject to such. cases, in ,a federal structure, it is legi-
timate and natural that High Courts oi the State should be regarded
as ﬁnal Courts of Appeal so far as the interpretation of State statutes
is concerned. A

1-J.21. In regard to the interpretation of Central statutes, how-
ever, the position is diﬁerent. A party aggrieved by the decision of
the High Court in respect of any provision of the Central statute
may be entitled to move the Supreme Court. provided the matter
sought to be raised by him is not already concluded by a decision 1. 45th Report. - LfB(Dj229Moi' IJ}('._fA--'I(a.) ' ? -7 - .---vs»-s.p4U--I - -. _...._,_t.,.,. ._. ._.... .. . :<--:.-:e.Iunt.me------ei-i-.»--v 76 of the Supreme Court. In regard to the interpretation of l31"0V1'5l'?1'-5
of Central statutes, if there is a difference oi' opinion amongst I-Ilgh
Courts, the case for moving the Supreme Court for resolving Such
a dispute is all the stronger. It is in the light of this approach that
we recommended to the Union Government to amend Artlcle 133 In
a radical way; and. in doing so, we had emphasised the fact that
the test of pecuniary valuation, which had been prescribed by the
erstwhile Article 133. had no relevance to our approach in thls
matter. The reference to the pecuniary valuation having now been

deleted, it is conceivable that, even in regard to a case falling under a

the minor litigation, a party may be entitled to go to the Supreme
Court, provided. of course, the test prescribed by the amended Article
133 is satisﬁed. The words used in Article 133 of the Constitution re-
quire that the point raised by the appellant should be a substantial
point of general importance which. according to the High Court_ it
is necessary for the Supreme Court to decide,

Comniissiuufs approach to proper scope or second appeal

1-J22. It is in the light of the amended Article 133 that we pro-
pose to approach the question about the scope of section 100 of the
Code as it should be after it is amended. It would be noticed that
clauses (a). (b) and {c} of section 104) to which we will presently
refer, are, in a sense, very wide in effect. In fact. as we will have
occasion to point out, clauses (b) and {C} have led to a plethora of
conflicting judgments and it may be safely stated that ingenuity of
the lawyers determined to seek admission for second appeals of their
clients in the High Court. coupled with judicial subtlety which gene-
rally believes that even an erroneous ﬁnding of fact does, on the
ultimate analysis. lead to injustice. has unduly and unreasonably

widened the horizon of section 100. His easy enough to understand ~

what a point of law is: but in dealing with second appeals, courts
have devised and successfully adopted several other concepts. such
as a mixed question of fact and law. a legal inference to be drawn
from facts proved, and even the point that the case has not been
'properly approached by the courts below. This has created confu-
sion in the minds of the public as to the legitimate scope of the
second appeal under section 100 and has burdened the High Courts
with an unnecessarily large number of second appeals. Approach of High Court to second annual

1--J.23. The approach to second appeals has traditionally differed
from High Court to High Court. and from Judge to Judge even in
the same High Court. The Kerala Hitth Court, for instance admits
second appeals, where the appellate court has reversed the ﬁndings
of fact recorded by the trial court'; this position is prima facie
difficult" to reconcile with the plain provisions of section 100. Even
where such a position does not exist. it is not uncommon that iudges
are more lenient in admitting second appeals where the courts below
have recorded conflicting ﬁndings of fact. I. See Kcrala amendment» to section 100. 2. See 27th Report, para. 123 and 14th Report Vol. I pages 3'77, 378, para. 25. 26.'

Q,'

'r

7'?'

This aspect of the matter has been noticed by several Committees
and Commissions which dealt with the question of the growing
arrears in the High Courts, substantially because of the indiscrimi-
nate admission of second appeals and civil revision applications, and
W9 will have to say something very radical later on. To anticipate
our recommenadtion, we might say at this stage that we are recom--
mending' that section 115 of the Code, relating to revision, should
be deleted. Discussion in 141311 Report

1-.124. The Law Commission, in its Fourteenth Report,' referred

to the problem posed by the unduly lenient admission of second
appeals and observed that "having regard to the terms of section
10{l, an appeal should not be admitted merely because the appellant
has shown that an arguable or prime Lacie valid point of law arises
in the appeal, but that the Court has to be satisﬁed that the decision
of the lower appellate Court on a point of law was erroneous and
that in order to do justice between the appellant and the respondent,
it is essential that a further hearing should be given to both the
parties", The Commission thought that the existing alarming position
of arrears could be met if it was recommended that the High Court
should adopt the practice of "circulating the papers relating to second
appeal to a judge outside the Court hours for the purpose of en-
abling him to determine whether it should be admitted straight-
away and notice issued to the respondent or whether the appeal
should be posted for ca prelilninary hearing under Order XLI rule 11." The Commission further recommended that such a scrutiny
should be made by a senior and experienced Judge. 1-J-25. The Commission also thought that a statutory require-
ment should be made providing ithatt e Judge admitting the second
appeal should state the P011113 or poin s of law which arise for con-
sideration and enabling the High Court to admit a second appeal
on speciﬁed points only and it should be provided by rules that
where a second appeal is ﬁled, certiﬁed copies of the judgments of
both the Courts below should accompany the memorandum of
appeal and, if in any such appeal the appellant proposes to raise
any question of the construction of a document, a true translation
cg the document should also be ﬁled along with the memorandum
o appeal. - Arrears in High Courts

1-J--26. These recommendations, however, do not appear to have
been implemented and the position of the arrears pending in the
High Court, partly because of indiscriminate admission of second
appeals and civil revision agaplication, grew from bad to worse. The
Shah Comnﬁttee, which de_ t with this problem in 1972, has observ-
ed that "it is necessarywto provide for a stricter and better scrutiny
of second appeals and they should be made subject to special leave, 1. See recommendation relating to section 115. 2. 14th Report, Vol. 1. page 3911, para. 12. 1. : ﬁr

"'1- 79 hnding on the same question of fact. In setting aside the decree of
the second appellate Court, the Supreme Court observed: 1-J-30. Similarly in Deity Petra-bhimmoswamy v. S. Hanymeyya
and others,' the Supreme Court was dealing with an ap eal by
special leave against the judgment and decree oi the High ourt of
Madras set'-ing aside the judgment and decree of the District Judge,
Guntur, whtch had conﬁrmed the judgment and decree of the Sub-
ordinate J 'idge, Guntur_ Reversing the decision of the High Court,
the Supreme Court observed that,' notwithstanding the clear and
authoritative pronouncement of the,Privy Council on the limits and
the scope of the High Court's jurisdiction under section 100 Civil
Procedure Code. "some learned Judges of the High Courts are dispos-
ing of Second Appeals as if the were first appeals. This introduces,
apart from the act that the igh Court assumes and exercises a
jurisdiction which it does not possess, a gambling element in the liti-
gation and confusion in the mindof the litigant public. This case
affords a typical illustration of such interference by a Judge of the
High Court in excess of his jurisdiction under s. 100, Civil Proce-
dure Code. We have, therefore, nog alternative but to set aside the
learned Judge of the High Court had no jurisdiction to interfere in
second appeal with the ﬁndings of fact given by the first appellate
Court based upon an appreciation of the relevant evidence.'

We have deliberately =referred to these two decisions of the
Supreme Court to emphasise the "point that, notwithstanding the
recommendations made by the Committees and Commissions in the
past, and notvvithstanriing the words of caution and warning au-
ihoritativeiy pronounced by the Supreme Court, High Courts do
sometimes unwittingly or ,even deliberately enlarge the scope of their
jurisdiction under section 100 in ursuance of what they honestly
regard as "the requirenients of iris ice", '

Search for absolute truth-' to be 

1-J-31. at this stage. it may be permissible to point' out that a
search for absolute truth in the administration of justice, however
laudable, must in the very naturel of things he put under some
reasonable restraint. In other words, a search for truth has to be

l. Deity Pattabhiramoaunzmy v. S. Hanymcgvyo, A.I.li.. 1959 S.0.|57. reconciled with the doctrine of ﬁnality. Cynics have sometimes said
that, if appeals are provided against the judgments pronounced by
the highest Court in the country, a fair percentage of the decisions
cf the highest Court may be reversed. Indeed, some critics, embit-
tered by their 1.'..Y]:)E1'iBI1I:!e in litigation, have gone to the extent oi'
suggesting that. if the same appeal is placed before two different
Benches of the same High Court or the Supreme Court, it is not
altogether impossihic that different verdicts may be rendered. That
is what has given rise to the saying which is current at the Bar
that the correct judgment is one against which no appeal lies. 1-J-32. We are referring to this aspect of the matter only to
emphasise the point that, in the interests of the litigants themselves,
it may not be unreasonable to draw a line 'in respect of the two
dl-ﬁerent categories. of litigation where procedure will say at a
certain stage that questions of fact have been decided by lower courts
and the matter should be allowed to rest where it lies without any
further appel. This may sound somewhat harsh to an individual
litigant; but, in the larger interest of the administration of justice,
this view seems to us to be juristically sound and pragmatically
wise. It is in the light of this basic approach that we will n3.v
proceed to consider the three clauses of/section 100 and deal elabo-
rately with all the point which ultimately lead to the recommenda-
tion which we propo;-e tcrmake to amend section 100 of the Code of
Civil Procedure in a radical way. Average litigant usually exhausted by the stage of first appeal

14-33. The average litigant is exhausted by the time he has
travelled to the court of. ﬁrst appeal, and too often a wealthy liti-
gant, (such as, a Corporation), may well be in a position to carry
appeals to a point where the ﬁnancial resources of the opposite
party are practically exhausted, No one can deny that courts shouid
be readily accessible to the people; and when litigation is embarked
upon, there shoul.-3 be a remedy againsterroneous decisions. But this
right of appeal should be within a reasonable limit, and within the
tontrol oi the resources of the litigants. Present law considered in detail

1-J-34. Bearing in mind these broad principles we proceed to
consider in detail the presentrlaw on the subject of second appeals. Section 100

1-J-35. The relm.-ant section' of the Code provides--- 1 . Section 100. 'ii. p-..¢.'...,.,.._. m_...,~.,,.... 'V

*'*'~z

S1

(Io) the'c'.ecision having failed to deterrriine some material
issue of law or usage having the force of law; (c) a substantial error or defect in the procedure provided
by this Code or by any other law for the time being
in force, which may possibly have produced error or
defect in the decision of the case upon the merits." (2) An appeal may lie under this section from an appellate
decree passed ex parte. Main principle----Finality of decision on facts

1-J-36. This section was enacted for the express purpose of
securing some measure of ﬁnality in cases where the balance of evi-
dence--verbal and documentary arose for decision.' It is, therefore,
appropriate to consider how far the section (as interpreted judicially)
is faithful to this object. Clause (a) and (b)--Meaning of 'law'

1-J-37. Clauses {a} and (h) of the section are simple in appear-
ance. A second appeal lies under clause (a)- where the decision of
the lower appellate court is "contrary to law". The term 'law' in
clause (3), of course, is not limited in its meaning to statute law;
it means general law? As regards, clause (13), which is not often invoked, the position
would be the same. 1-J~38. But the simplicity of these clauses is deceptive, as will
be apparent from the cases which we shall discuss later. Clause (c) ,

1-J-39. As regards clause (c), the Privy Council found it as "not
perhaps altogether happily expressed." Read widely, it may con-
vert the High Court into a Court of ﬁrst appeal, because all that
it requires is a substantial error or defect in procedure which might
possibly have affected the decision on merits. Case law on interpretation' of section l{|{I--What are questions of law

1-J-40. We shall ﬁrst take up the meaning of the phrase 'law'
in clauses (a) and (lb). The ﬂood of case-law on what are questions
of fact open to interference in second appeal, shows that many
questions of fact have been held to be questions of law. At one
extreme are cases which hold that the question whether a transac-
tion is 'benami' or ﬁctitious or bcma ﬁclc, or was vitiated by undue
inﬂuence; or whether there was reasonable and probable cause for
a prosecution; or whether there was negligence; or whether there
was partition; is a question of fact. 1. Nafur Ghamzm Pat. v. slmtm, (1913) 45 1.3. 133; I.L.R. -16 Cal. 189 [R0,] 2. Ram. Gopal v. Shahhaion, (1893) I.L.R. 20 Cal. 93 (P.C.) 3. Dwrga Ckowdhmﬂi 1T. Jawakir Siwgki, (1391) I.L.R. 13 Cal. 23, 30 {P.C.J (Lord
lirI.a.on.a.ght.en.) . 1-J-41. These ruliiigs emphasise that a court of Second appeal
is not competent to entertain questions as to the soundness of a
ﬁnding of facts by the courts below} A second appeal can only lie
on one or uther of the grounds speciﬁed in the present section," 1-J-44. Thus, where the question in a suit was whether the de-
fendant was bound by a mortgage executed by his mother, and it
was held that he was, the Privy Council held that the ﬁnding was
substantially one of law, and that it was, therefore, open to question
in second appeal, The Privy Council observed- 1-J45. As stated by the Privy Council in another case,' "the
proper legal effect of 3 proved fact is essentially _a question of law",
and the High Court is, therefore, entitled to Interfere in second
appea . . 1. ram Gupta} v. Shoksfuulon, (1392? I.L.R. so cal. 93, 99.100 (R0,). 2. Lachmail v. Poem, (1339) I.'L.R. .16 Cal. 753, (P.C.). 3. R-udr Prasad v. Baij Nat}: {I393} I.L.R. 15 ﬁll. 367.
4.01:9-rtiasi Ulrtmder v. Ezfohendranoﬂz, (1890) I.LlB.. 17 Cal. 291. 2'98, [P.G.}I (Sir Richard
no . Darya Ckowdfo-am' v. Jswoliiir Siﬂgit, (1391) I_._L.R. 18 Cal. 23, 30 (P.C.] (Lord Ma._cI':agh-
en . ' ' - 6. .-lmmgamanjari v. Tripura Sundari, {IBSTJ I.L.R.. 17 Cal. 740, 747 (R0,) (Lord Watson],
'7. Ram Gopal V. Shokslztmi, (1893} I.L.R. 20 Cal. 93, 98, 19 LA. 223, 232 {P.C'-.}
S. (0.) Nofar Chandra Pa! '9'. -'ikukur, U918} 45 LA. 183, 137; I.L.R.--16 Cal, 189, 195; A.I.R..
1913 RC. 92; U1] Dlzumzai v. .-'LI-95$ Sag-azr, (1927), 54 I. A. 1'38, A.I.R. 1927 P.C. 102;
{(3} G;-%1ra;7Ginn£ng are. Go. V. ﬁfolilal Hirabkdi etc. Go. (1936) 63 LA. l-10; A.I.R I930

 

M. 83 Mixed questions of fact and law

1-J-46. No doubt, discussing the true scope of the above observa-
tions, the Supreme Court has pointed out' that there is a distinction
between a pure question of fact, and a mixed question of law and
fact, and the observations aforesaid had reference to the latter, and
not to the former." 1-J-47. But even that leaves ample scope for interference. For
example, it has been held by the Supreme Court* that whether the
dodictatioii of a temple is to the public or is private is a mixed
question of law and fact, because its decision must "depend on the
application of legal concepts of a public and private endowment to
the facts found." 1-J-48. So also, the question whether a property is ancestral or
not,' or the question whether, when a roiyat purchased the interest
of the proprietor, there is a merger of the two interests,' is a mixed
one of fact and law. Though a second appeal does not lie from a
ﬁnding of fact, yet where a legal conclusion is drawn from the find-
ing, a second appeal will lie on the ground that the legal conclusion
was erroneous. 1--J--49. Thus, the question whether possession is adverse or not
is often one of simple fact, but it 'may also be a question of law
or a mixed question of law and fact. 'Where the question of adverse
possession is one of simple fact, no second appeal will lie; but a
second appeal will lie from a ﬁnding as to adverse possession when
such ﬁnding is a mixed question of law and fact, depending upon
ghe proper legal conclusion to be drawn from the ﬁndings as to simple

acts. Concurrent ﬁndings of faet

1-.150. In general, concurrent ﬁndings of fact are not disturbed
by the High Court in second appeal. But this rule is sujbect to the
operation of the express grounds of second appeal enumerated in
section 100. x 1. Skri Meenakahé Mills v. C-'.I.T. (1956) S.G.R«. 691; A.I.R. 1957 53.0. 49. E3. 54, Para. 13.
I9, 20 [Case under the Income-tax Act }. 2. See also Welt Mohammad v. Md. Baksﬁ, A.I.R. 1930 RC. 9], 93, {reviews cases on S. 100 '

(Sir Benode Hitter]. . Deofri No-ndaii v. Jlfural-idltar{1956], S.C.R. '156;A.I.R. 1957 so. 133, I36, para. 4.
oops: some v. Ujagar Singh. (1955), 1 son. as; A.I.R. 1954 s.o.§ 579, 530, pm. 7.
. Jyoiiah Thalcwr v. Temleant Jha, A.I.R. 1953 so. 605, am, para 22. [til Looms-shwar V. Mcmowzrr, (1892) I.L.E. 19 Cal. 253, 19 LA. 18; {P.(}.)

[5] Bdrm V. a5'y-ems Charon. A.I.R. 1922 Cal. 54,
(0) Ram Clea-ndra 1'. Asa. Ram, A.I.R. 1937 All. 429; [d] Jan-rﬂesramo V. Appolaz-in-oust', .-l..I.R. 1954 Med. 772, 779, Pure 23;
to aim of.=1.P. 'U'. K. Faitm es. s.I.B.. 19;: AP. 513. _mf.?I¢l-'L63

(K 84 Basic Principle departed from

1-J-51. It appears to us that the wide language of section 100,
and the somewhat liberal interpretation placed judicially on it, have
practically resulted in giving a goodbye to the basic principle' that
on questions of fact, decisions of the Courts of ﬁrst instance should

be final, subject to one appeal. Proper role of High Court

1--J-52. This situation necessitates a restatement of the proper role
of the High Court, We state below what, in our view, is its proper

role. High Court not an ordinary Court of last resort

1-J-53. Standing as it does at the apex of a hierarchy, the High
Court is no ordinary court of last resort. Its special position does
not ﬁt easily into the well-worn epigram that trial courts search for
truth and appellate courts search for error. 1-J-54. This is our basic approach to the role of the High Court.
We do not conceive of second appeals as "yet another dice in the
gamble." 1--.T-55. There should be one authoritative and digniﬁed tribunal
in various appellate matters3 to give decisions which are recognised
as binding all over the State, and which keep alive the immense

unity of the law. Litigants to be discouraged from persistent appeals

1-J-56. The question could perhaps be asked, why the litigant who
wishes to have justice from the highest Court of the State should be
denied the opportunity to do so, at least where there is a flaw in the
conclusion on facts reached by the trial Court or by the Court of

first appeal. 1-J-57. Our answer to this would be, that even litigants have to
be protected against too persistent a pursuit of their goal of perfectly
satisfactory justice. An unqualiﬁed right of ﬁrst appeal may be neces-
sary for the satisfaction of the defeated litigant; but a wide right
of second appeal is more in the nature of a luxury. 1-.158. The rationale behind allowing a second appeal on a ques-
tion of law is. that there ought to be some tribunal having a jurisdic-
tion that will enable it to maintain, and, where necessary! J/~e--establisl1,
uniformity throughout the State on important legal issues, so that
within the area of the State, the law, in so far as it is not enacted
law, should be laid down, or capable of being laid down, by one
court whose rulings will be binding on all courts, tribunals and
authorities within the area over which it has jurisdiction. This is
implicit in any legal system where the higher courts have authority
to make binding decisions on question of law. ]. Flee "Main principle, etc." supra. 2. cf. Lord Birkenhead's description of the Privy Council, (1927) B3 L.J, 304. ..:. .i. - 1-,. 1' 4 85 Justilication for appeal on question of law

1-J .59. When a case involves a substantial point of law, the ge-
neral interest of society in the predictability of the law clearly neces-
sitates a system of appeals from courts of ﬁrst instance to a central
appeal court. As has been observed.' "The real justification for appeals on ques-
tions of this sort is not so much that the law laid down by the appeal
court is likely to be superior to that laid down by a lower court as
that there should be a final rule laid down which binds all future
courts and so facilitates the prediction of the law. In such a case the
individual litigants are sacriﬁced, with some justiﬁcation, on the
altar of law-making, and must ﬁnd such consolation as they can in
the monument of a leading case". 1--.l.6U. There is, in our view, no justiﬁcation for allowing second
appeal on question of fact. and we should specifically state that pro-
cedural defects of the nature mentioned in clause (c) of section 100
cannot constitute a sufﬁcient basis for invoking appellate jurisdiction
in second appeal, unless they raise substantial questions of law-. View of previous Commissions and of High Court Arrears Committee

1--.l .61. We are aware that in 1958, a previous Law Commission
examined' the matter in detail, and, after Weighing the arguments ad-
vanced in favour of curtailment of the right, did not recommend any
restriction on the right to ﬁle a second appeal under section 100. The
matter was again considered in'the earlier Report on the Code." In
that Report, agreement was expressed with the previous Commis-
sion's conclusion that "considering the conditions in this country,
there is not much scope for curtailing the right of appeal". 1--J.62. We are also conscious that recently the High Courts'
_Committee,' which analysed in detail the causes of arrears {includ-
ing arrears of second appeals), did not recommend any change in
the scope of second appeal. It observed that "the primary cause of
the accumulation is the laxity with which second appeals are admit-
ted Without Scrutiny in the light of the provisions of section 100,
Civil Procedure Code". Re-cxanlination of position necessary I

1-J.63_ We do not mean any disrespect to these bodies when we
say that the matter requires reexamination, and that there is justi-
ﬁcation for considering the scope for modification of the right of se.
cond appeal. This justiﬁcation is derived not only from the spectacle
of mounting arrears in the High Courts, but also from certain basic
issues, which We shall discuss in due course. In that discussion, expe-
rience of the practical operation of the various clauses of section 100
will naturally occupy an important place. - :_.""'

p... . Dniiglas Payne, "Appeals on Questions of Fact." (19.15!) Current Local Problem. 131
I83. " has stated, that ordinarily, a second appeal is admitted only if the
question is not decided at the highest, and has been wrongly decided
by the first appellate court. 1--J.Ei9. Another High Court Judge," who is also opposed to any
amendment, has stated that the law should be uniform in all dis-
tricts. '

. Question 8. S. No. 5; S. No. II; S. No. 12; S. No. 25. . No. 28 and S. No. 16. . No. 10. No. 19. . No. 14. . (rt) 8. No. I5; {M S. No. 16; (r-.] S. No. 28. (£1) 3. NO. 1; (D) S. No. 6; S. No. 20; -(.3) S. No. 21; S. No. 26. 9. S. No. 2 (An Advocate). 10. S. No. 14. ll. S.Nu. 15. 12. S. No. 23. _

M

9" "?'P':".".""" 1--J.'T3. The mere fact that a question of fact has been wrongly de-
cided by the Court of ﬁrst appeal, should not, in our view, constitute
'-1 ground for second appeal" The justiﬁcation for second appeal is to
rest solely on the criteria which we have just now referred to. Again, the mere fact that a ﬁnding of fact is supposed to be per-
verse or manifestly unjust, will not." under our proposal justify ad-
mission of a second appeal. But the appeal would be admissible if a
question of law--whether the question relates to substance, procedure
or evidence--has been wrongly decided. Status and calibre of ﬁnal Court of appeal a vital consideration

1-.l.'i'4. Since we are retaining the right of second appeal with
the above modiﬁcation, the query may be raised why the litigant
who, before coming to the High Court, has had one right of an ap-
peal before a subordinate court), should have the right of two aup-
peals on questions of law. In other words, why a multiplicity of ap-
peals should be allowed. Now, it is to be remembered that in any
legal system which recognises the binding force of precedent, the
status and calibre of the ﬁnal appellate court on questions of law
is vital. This consideration over--balances the consideration of mul-
tiplicity of appeals. It is obvious that the numerous subordinate courts in the dis-
tricts cannot be final arbiters on questions of law. If the law is to be
uniformly interpreted and applied, questions of law must be de-
cided lay the highest Court in the State whose decisions are binding
on all subordinate courts. If the right of second appeal is so abridged as to remove ques-" Nature of the question of law regarded as appropriate for second
appeal

1--J.7T. We shall indicate very broadly the nature of the ques-
tions of law which we regard as appropriate for submission to the
High Court under section 100 as we propose to revise. First--and the most important of all is the consideration of uni-
formity throughout the State. It is obvious that on questions of law
uniformity must be maintained. In so far as interpretation of enacted
laws having State---wise importance is concerned, it is the task of the
judiciary to maintain the unity and the High Court, as the highest
tribunal at the State level, should continue to have the ultimate
authority to establish unity by resolving or avoiding the possibility
of different views in lower courts. Secondly, apart from questions of interpretation of enacted law
which falls in the category mentioned above, there arise other
questions of law. The uncodiﬁed law constitutes a fertile ground for
such questions, as also general principles of construction of statutes.
The law of torts. and so much of the personal law as has not yet been
codiﬁed, furnish examples. Thirdly, there may be points already decided by the High Court
which may, nevertheless, appear to require further consideration.
Not unoften, on a question of law on which there has already been a
pronouncement by the High Court, one comes to take the view that
the matter is capable of further consideration at the hands of the
High Court. To illustrate the cases which may fall in this category,
there may be a judgment of the High Court which contains observa-
tions that are ambiguous, and the ambiguity should be removed by
Clariﬁcation. There may be conﬂicting decisions of Divisions Benches 1. S. No. 14. 2. See "Distribution in tw f 1; Sn ramp Co rt r] f
the High Court" infra. een "OPE D appeal 0 p u an acopeo appaal ta

" -n . - .. int..-Inn ..-- «nu. -wag-(+;g,.-a.1.,_,--.. Jvr

.l.'\--- V 89 decision of the High Court which

of a High Court, There may be a _
in view or subsequent pronoun-

seems to require re-consideration,
cements of the Supreme Court. 1--.I.'i'3. An analogous situation would arise when there has been
a diiierence of opinion among the judges of the High Court Bench
on a question of law, and the usual avenues of settling the diﬁeren-
ces within the High Court have not been exhausted, so that the ques-
tion is one of such difficulty that it ought to be allowed to be submit-
ted for decision by a fuller Bench. 1-J.T9. Lastly, even apart from questions falling within the speci-
ﬁc categories enumerated above, there remain questions of law of
which the High Court should take cognizance, questions falling
within this reS'1dua1'y category, though not easy of deﬁnition in the
abstract, can be recognised when they arise in practice. Wide scope for appellate jurisdiction not contemplated

1-J.8k]_ We should add that we do not visualise such a wide scope
for the jurisdiction of the High Court as would embrace every ques-'
tion as to which a party is aggrieved. Being essentially the highest
court at the State level which declares the law which is binding, the
High Court should not ordinarily engage itself in settling merely
factual controversies, however great the stakes may be. Formula indicated

1--J .81. To formulate in precise language a test which, while exclu-
ding the questions to be excluded from the purview of the High Court
will include all questions to be included in its purview in confor-
mity with what we have stated above, is not easy. After careful con-
sideration, we have come to the conclusion that in respect of second
appeals to the High Court, it is necessary that the question involved
must be a question of law and that it must be a substantial question. 1-132. It is needless to add that the extraordinary jurisdiction
of the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution--jurisdiction
which is admittedly not subject to any rigid limitation pertaining to
courts. proceedings or questions--is not intended to be affected by
our recommendation or by the preceding discussion. Distinction between scope oi appeal to the Supreme Court and scope
of appeal to the High Court. 1-J .33. We should make it clear that the formulae which we pro-
pose will not equate the scope of appeal to the High Court to that of
appeal to the Supreme Court. Although the question of law,
both in the case of the Supreme Court (under article 133 of the Con-
stitutionl and in the case of the High Court( under our propggal) is
described as 'substantial', there is a further aspect which makes all
the difference. In the former case, the question must be one which
needs to he decided by the Supreme Court and must be of general
lm.?3'0?'1'¢mC€, While in the latter case, there is no such restriction. The
Supreme Court, broadly speaking. will concentrate on questions
possessing country-wide importance while the High Court will be
free to deal with a wider range of questions For example, a ques-
tiﬂn Whethﬁl" the purpose for which an institution provided in a
L,a'B{o]22uMof LJ4;CA_s '

 

9!]

"remote village is charitable in the legal sense, will hardly, if ever,

be dealt with by the Suprcrne Court. But the High Court may deal
with it, Simiiarljg. a question of law on which other High Courts have
consistcntl_v taken one view, while Benches of the particular High
Court have given conflicting decisions, can be re-considered by the
pa1'ticular' High Court. but the question may not necessarily
be ﬁt for C{]I11~'ld'.,'l'EllSlDIl by the Supreme Court. 1--J.8=i At the same time, it should be clariﬁed that the question
of law can relate to procedure. e.g, improper rejection of evidence or
improper admission of evidence---in which case correction by the High
Court should be available if the question is substantial. Question need not be of general importance

1-.'I,85. it should be noted that We are not limiting the. scope of
second appeal to the questions of law of general importance. If the
law has been clearly laid down bf,' the High Court, and
the decision of the siihordin ate court is in clear violation of the law
as pronounced by the High Court, the 'power of the High Court to
Correct it should be left intact, This situation will not be covered
if the limitation of general importance is inserted. Historical aspect considered

1-.186. We are aware that in making a recommendation for cut- _

ting down the scope of second appeals to substantial questions of
law as above, We are making a departure from a position which has
held the field for a century. Even then, we may note that the pro-
gre:1;s of law has been towards reduction of the scope of second ap-
 . \

l-.187. The predecessors of the High Courts in their Civil ap-
pellate jurisdiction were the Sadar Divani Adalats. The right of
appeal to the Sadar Divani Adalat was very wide initially, but came
to be severely curtailed in the course of time. The "Conwa]_l_i-s
Scheme", for example. made provi=sion=for two appeals in every cate-
gory of cases, irrespective of its value; By 1814, this was reduced to
one appeal onl_\_-'. Only in cases of Rs. 5,000 or over. there could be
two appeals: one to the Provincial Court of Appeal and second to the
Sadar Divani Adalat. A5 Lord Hastings observed_,-- Provisions in Codes of 1859 and 1382

1--J.88_ There is another aspec'. of the matter. Section 100 of the" 3 of 1859). l. lii"hetii'I'=en l.Hﬁ1l <'1!'l'i 1852, there was the Code of 1877, but its provisions were almost
1110 some as those of the Code of 1332." ,,,...... ..._....,... , '.;._.,..,..x._.,.... I - -9; u ,,... - -up - 1-J39. When the Code of Civil Procedure was revised in 1882,
only a slight change was made in clause (C). Clause (c) In the 1382
Code laid down that a second appeal would lie on the ground of 'fa
substantial error or defect in the procedure as prescribed by this
Code or any other law, which may possibly have produced error or
defect in the decision of the case upon the merits". The correspond-
ing part of section 372 of the Code of 1359 gave a right of second
appeal on the ground "of a substantial error or defect in law in the
procedure or investigation of the case which may have produced
error or defect in the decision of the case upon the merits". The absence of the phrase "investigation of the case", i section
584 of the 1882 Code (and also in present section 100) rnigh lead to
the inference that the right of second appeal was intended to be
more restricted than it was under the 1859 Code; but, on the other
hand, the insertion of the word 'possibly' would lead to the contrary
inference. On the whole, however, the change of language in 1382 in-
troduced no material alteration in the law. . l--J .90. As was observed' in an Allahabad case-- Direction of historical evolution '

1-J31. It would, thus, be seen that the direction of historical
evolution is towards gradually narrowing down the scope of second
appeal to the Sadar Divani Adalat and later to the High Court. We
can, therefore. legitimately claim that having regard to the social
needs of today, we are attempting to hasten the process to narrow-
ing dovvn the scope of second appeals. 1-.192. In the light of the above discussion, we recommend that
section 100 should be revised as follows'.- Re--dmft of section 100

"100. Second appea.I.--(1} Save where otherwise expressly pro-
vided in the body of this Code or by any other law for the time
being in force, an appeal shall lie to the High Court from every de-
cree passed in appeal by any Court subordinate to a High Court.' if
the High Court certiﬁes that the case involves a substantial question
of law. ' 1. See' N97otn'."S€ngﬁ v. sierra Singfl, (1339) i.L.1=§. M11. 649, 657 (per Mahmoud J.).
L,'s(D;22sMar1.JsoA_s(a; ' ' ' -. 92,. (AA) in an appettl under this section the memorandum of appeal
shall prec.-iselg,» state the substaniial qt=:estr;o-n of law on which aclmtse
sicm of the appeal is sought. {1B_J Where the High Court certiﬁes that a substantial question
DJ' Law 'is so in-uoltzed. it shall, at the time of admission of the 613116111-

{a_) formulate that questrlm; (bl state its reasons for so certifying; and

{(2} specify any other points that were raised at the time of
the hearing; prior to the admission, but not accepted as
raising substantial questions of law. (IC) The appeal shall he heard only on the question so certiﬁed,
and the respondent shall. at the hetI'J'°i'.'Lg of the appeal, he al.LowecI- to
argue that the case does not involve such question: {iv} Even as regards clause (a) and clause (bi. decided cases
as to what are questions of fact and questions of law (in-
cluding decisions wh'ch allow second appeal where there
is no evidence) and also 'decided cases dealing with mixed
questions of fact and law. show that in actual practice, the

' basic principle referred to above has been departed from. (v) The question what is the proper scope of the right of
second appeal is linked up with the proper role of the
High Court. The prc per role of the High Court. in the
Commission's View is to introduce and . reintroduce uni-
formity in the State, on srbstantial questions of law. The High Court is not an ordinary court of afopeal, to be in-
voked for correcting the errors of subordinate courts on
all conceivable questions, 93 (vi) The rationale behind the right of second appeal being as
stated above, only substantial questions of law should be
agitated in second" appeal, i

('-«'ii) Limitations on the right of second appeal are, therefore,
desirable. Replies to the Qu'es'Liormai1'e having been con-
sidered, the Commission has come to the conclusion that
a second appeal should be allowed only where the case
involves a substantial question of law. (viii) Nature of the questions of law that would fall within the
above formula is then indicated. (ix) It is also made clear. that a wide scope is not contemplat-
ed for the jurisdiction of the High Court. (X) The formula indicated isillustrated in its application. (xi) The proposed amendment does not go against the trend of
history. as 15 shown by the evolution of section 100. CHAPTER 1-K
APPEALS--MISCELLANEOUS

Introductory

1-K.l. The principal provisions as 'to first and second appeals
have been already discussed. A few miscellaneous provisions as to
appeals are contained in Sections 101 to 112 in the body of the Code.'

Section 102 1- -K.2. In the earlier Report" on the Code, the Commission, after
taking into account the recommendation in the 14th Report.'
recommended an increase of the amount mentioned in section 102
from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 3,000. '

Recommendation

l--K.3. We agree and recommend that section 102 should be re-
vised as follows:-- Section 103

1-K31. In view of the change' proposed in section 100, the last
few words of section 103, which refer to the illegality, error etc..
mentioned in section 100, require change. Further, it appears desir-
able to make it clear that section 103 applies also where the failure
to decide a question occurred not only in the lower appellate court
but also in the trial court. Recommendation

1--K.5. Accordingly, we recommend that section 103 should be
revised as follows:-- . See discussion as to sections 96 to 100, Supra.
. 27th Report, page I23--Note on section 1 %.
. 14th Report, Vol. 1, page 377, 3'78, para. 25-26.
. See dfacussion an to seotion 100. IF~c~'aI:\1n--r 94 95 section 104 (fff) to be inserted to deal with order under sections 91-
92, as proposed to be amended

l-K.6. We have recommended separately" that where the Court
I-efugeg leave to institute a 5,-1511. of the nature referred to in section
91 or section 92 {as proposed to be amended), the order of refusal
Should be appealable. This necessitates an adclitiun to the list of ap-
pealalole orders as given in section 104. Recommendation

1-K}. Accordingly, we recommend that the
should be inserted in section 104:- following clause

1-K.8. Sections 109 and 110 of the code deal with appeals to the
Supreme Court. Since the subject is also deal: within Article 133 of the Constitution, we considered the question whether these sec-
tions should be retained. l--K.9. We have, after some discussion, come to the conclusion
that since these provisions pertain to procedure, they should con-
tinue in the Code. It is appropriate that the Code should, as far as
possible, be exhaustive on matters of procedure. We should, howeveri
state' here that these provisions should be brought into line with
the recent amendment of article 133 of the Constitution." 1. See discussion as to section 91 and soctio11 92. 3. Amendment not drafted. 3. Cf Constitution (30th Amendment] Bill. CHAPTER 1--L

REFERENCE, REVIEW' AND REVISION

Introductory

1-L.1. We now come to 21 group of sections dealing with refs»
rence. review and revision. While an appeal is ta-ken T0 3 -'I?-lP€7'?'-0*" there should, in our opinion, be no exemption. from attendance in
court. No serious hardship is likely to be caused by the removal of
the present exemption, as social conditions have considerably
changed, and this practice is getting obsolete. 1-O.3A. Today,' the seclusion of women is completely inconsis-
tent with the social philosophy on which our Constitution is found-
ed. Section 132 is not to be treated as a concession to some aristo-
cratic families, but is a recognition of a universally observed custom.
Hence. customs and manners of the country prevailing at the present
time should be the criteria, and not the customs and manners which
might have prevailed years ago.'

1-O.3B. Moreover, the paramount task of deciding cases' on the
oral evidence of an important party involves the personalised pro-
cess of the Judge seeing the witness at ﬁrst hand, "instead of pour-
ing over the prolix pages of a Commisseionefs record". The judge
must have the advantage of observing the clemeanour, or at least
the manner of delivery, of the witness, if he is to assess her credi-
bility justly. i

Recommendation to delete section 133 1 .0.4. For the reasons stated above, we recommend that section
132 should be deleted. 1. Bllssi v. Hanan Rae-I: Khan, A.I.R. 1983 All. 340. . Cf. K-7!-:|tH'§' Hohsmmi-ml Y. Ummtl Haji Umam, (1969) Ker. LXI'. 418-, 421-123. 3. Ku.nli'3'1- Holmmrnad 'I'- U-mms Umm, (1959) Ker. L.T. 418, 421. l\'.}

"A

in 101 Section 133

1-0.5. Under section 133, certain high dignitaries of State and
persons holding exalted judicial ofﬁces are exempted from personal
attendance in court. During our consideration oi" the Code, a P0111'
was raised whether such special privileges are consistent with
equality before the law. and whether the list of persons so exempted
shouid be curta-iled . We have, therefore. considered this point at length. Analysis of exemption

1-0-5A. Under the section, the persons enumerated in the section
are entitled to exemption from personal appearance in court. The
list of such persons, as given in the section is long consisting of
11 items, but. in order to facilitate discussion, the persons enumerat-
ed could be grouped into four groups. as follows:--- (i) The President and Governors; (The exemption here is
obviously because of their position as the head of the State); (ii) The V:'.ce--President. the speaker of the House of People.
the Speakers of State Legislative Assembling and the
Chairman of State Legislative Councils; {The exemption
in this case is based on oﬁice held as the presiding oﬁicer
of the Legislature}; -' (iii) Judges of the Supreme Court and High Courts; (iv) Ministers." Justilcation

1-O-5B. The. -exemptions provided for in section 133 could be
justiﬁcd on one or other of the following principles, namel_y:~-- (i) That enforcing the personal appearance of the persons
exempt would be derogatory to their status; or (ii) that forcing their personal appearance would hinder the
cﬂicient performance of important public business. whether
legislative, executive or judicial_

In all the cases mentioned in section 133, one or other of these
principles would apply. For example. Mini5tel's have important
duties to perform, and their being summoned in Court might inter-
fere with the discharge of their important functions. In some cases,
both the principles mentioned above may apply. For example, sum-
moning the President of India in court. may be derogatory to his
position as the head of the State, and may also cause hindrance to
public business. Again, it may be derogatory to the position of a
High Court Judge to he required to appear personally in a subordi-
nate court over whose judgments he might have occasion to hear
appeals. It could also interfere with his judicial business. 1. Section 503 Cr. P.{".. is narrower. 2. Section l3B{1}[xi], relating to Rulers of former Indian Fiiaiee, may be dimrgardod fur
t-lu present purpose. Rules of law as contrasted with public policy

1-D-E-C. We are aware that in a democratic country, such exemp-
tions should be conﬁned to the minimum. The rule of law postulates
that no individual enjoys, by virtue of his position or office, any
special privilege in contrast with an ordinary citizen. But compelling
considerations of public policy may justify qualiﬁcations to this
abstract rule and it is on this assumption that the section provides
a departure from the abstract rule. Position in England

I-O-ED. We may brieﬂy deal with the position in England. In
England, the sovereign in her private capacity is not subject to the
jut-isdiction of the courts This position continues even after the
passing of the legislation abolishing several of the immunities of the
Crown' from litigation. It has been held that a writ of execution
cannot be executed within the precincts of any palace, which is used
as a residence of the sovereign, without her permission. This was
held not to apply to the Hampton Court Palace, on the ground that
it was not a residence of the Sovereign.'

English law does not seem to provide for a general, e.rempt'i.o'n.
from personal appearance in Courts as regards Ministers or Judges,
or even as regards presiding oﬁicers of the Houses of Parliament.
It should. of course. be added that there is immunity from liability
in the case of judges, by reason of special rules of law. Any Parlia--
mentarv privilege may restrict the operation of. the general
power of the court to enforce the attendance of witnesses. But there is
no general exemption from personal appearance as is conferred by
section 133, 7 '

No change in law recommended

1-0-6. We have given thought to the matter since, at ﬁI'5t sight,
the privilege-may not seem to accord with the spirit of the Constitu--
tion. We are reluctant to recommend any change in the law; but.
at the same time, we do express the hope that those who have occa--
sion -to claim this - privilege will, before asserting it, consider
whether it is absolutely necessary to do so in the particular case.
In this connection, we must refer to the salutary example, which
was set I'EC6I'1tl_1,r by the President, who, when it became necessary
for the Supreme Court to examine him as a witness, insisted on
attending that court in person. Section 133(1), item (xii

1-0-7. In section 133(1), item (xi) "relates to persons to" Whom
section 87B app-lies. We may note that section 8'i'B has been new
conﬁned to pre---Constitution causes ot'actior1." 1. The Crown P1'I.Icee-:li11_gs .'rct., 1947. 3. _-l. C. V. Dcrkin, I,'lS':'<}) 19 Wit. lll, {G.A.) cited in Anniml Practice, under Order 42,
rule 3. " _ 3. See discussion as to section 87B. ...y.qu-9--- ~ --u-5-I---r-u 103 Section 135A

1-O-8. Section 135A, broadly speaking confers exemption. from
arrest on Members of Parliament and of State Legislatures, for the
period of the legislative session and for a further period of 14 days
before and after each session. 1-0-9. in the earlier Report' the following recommendation was
made with reference to this section:---- may aclministgtr the oath to the deponent."
Section 141 T 1-0 -13. The applicability of section 141 to various type: of pro-
ceedings has been the subject of controversy. The principal proceed-
ings with reference to which the question has arisen may be men-
tioned: {2} Proceedings under other Acts- (all Where a speciﬁc provision deals with the matter;
{bi .Where no speciﬁc provision deals with the matter. (3) Proceedings under the Constitution. (4) Other proceedings. Section 14l.--a.pplicabi.lity to execution pmeeedings

1-0-14. The case-law is not uniform as 'so the applicability or
section 141 to execution proceedings; for example, do Order 9,
rule 8 and Order 9. rule 9, apply to execution proceedings? The
position is not very clear on the point. We have considered the
question whether section 141 should be extended to execution pro-
ceedings. It'is not, however, feasible to extend section 141 to pro-
ceedings in execution Such an omnibus provision would cause
hardship, There may be rules----e.g. Order 9, -rule 9,----which ought
not to apply, in all their rigour, to execution. We have, however.
considered the utility of applying speciﬁc provisions' of the Code
to execution and, wherever necessary made recommendations in that
regard. Section 141 and Order 9, rule 3

1-0-15. The applicability of section 1 %]. to proceedings under
Order 9 is itself a matter of debate. Under Order 9, various kinds of
orders and prooeedings--c.g. e.-r parte proceedings and orders of
dismissal for default-----can be set aside {for suﬁicient cause). But,
where an application for obtaining such relief is itself dismissed
for default or decided em pa-rte. what is the position'? 1. See for example, rliaeussimi as to Order 9, 9rd-or 21, rules 104-105, Order '98, rule I,
Orior 26 live. »

"" ' -- *'lail:ae..-;; RE

Does section 141 apply so as to bring into application the hene--
ﬁcent provisions of Order 9 itself? That is the question that has
arisen; and it appears that three diﬁerent views have been express-
ed on the point. _ '

Ifi) The High Court of Bombay has. held that section 151
applies in such cases, and not section 141. Reference was

first made to a Privy Council case," in which it was held. that--- to an application to restore a suit to tile which had been dismissed
for default, and not to a ease ewhere-an ea: pm-ts order was issued.
The court distinguished a Supreme Court case' which was concern-
ed with an ea: parts decree in a; sumtnary suit under Order
37 ofthe Civil. Procedure There, the question was whether
such.a decree could be set-aside under section 151. The Supreme
Court pointed out that Order 3?. .rule 9! expressly gave power to
the Court to set aside an ex parte decree passed under the provi-
sions of that Order, and there was therefore no scope for resort
to section 151 for setting aside the decree. The present case did
not relate to any such question. " _

1-0-1.3. Accordingly, it was held that the further
restore. the ap_ ication under Order 9, rule 9, to the
considered un er the i1iherent,ppo'_w"ers,of the court under section
151; and the case was sent back to the' trial court, for disposal in
conformity with this decision. *

1-O-19. In an Orissa case,' it was held that Order 9 has no ap-
plication to a proceelzling
can be applied. Apparently, section 1v_11 was regarded as inapplicable
to such a case. _ ' , _ -A .. Same is the Calcutta view.'

l. Lon:-m.€ In-or-n'me'M Co. v. Tat:-aelmad, A.I.R. 1988 Born. 260, 253 [D.B.]. 2. Tﬁoitmr Pmmd V. Falcirullok. (1395) I.L.a. 17 All. we {P.(1.;- 3. Rtlmalmr '''''v!' v. Hiagwaeam. A.I.R. use so. 1:144. 4. KW ﬁiliori Dos v. Ohourhio Dos. g..I.a.;1_eos_'q:i.a 24 (on. Misra, J.) 5. Sums Krishna Bose v. Biskwemr Mflm. A.I.;_R. Cal. 53-; (D.B.J.

L;B{D}229iio£ Hoops 9

plication to

J

1e could he-_

anon Oriana, but that section 151 106 1-0 -20. The Andhra View is that section .141 applies.' Seine is the
Madras view.' 2 . , _. 1-0-21. The Patna view" is that section ".141 does not apply in

the absence of special circumstancesand section 151 also does not
apply. The applicant can, however, appeal under Order 43_"Rule

ucxd). _ , ,
Recommendation as to section 141 and Order ,

1-0-22. There is no great -reason -'why such-"applications should
not be dealt with under section 1-11.-3A clariﬁcation -on the subject
is desirable. ' 7 - " within the contemplation of section 141, has: been the subject-matter
of controversy. 1-0-26. The Andhra High Court, for example, holds that sec-
tion 141 applies to such proceedings.' The Calcutta ﬁiigh Court"-' takes
a different view. '

l-O-27. The Madras High Court" holds that Order 1 of the C.P.C .
cannot be applied to proceedings under Artic_1.e 226, as section -141 is
not attracted. ' " '

1-0-23. The'AIlahab'ad High Court' has also -held that Order 2,
rule 3, C.P.C . does not apply to writ proceedings, and that section
141 cannot be invoked for-the purpose. 1-O-29. The Punjab" High" Court in a 1968 case," held that
section 141 does not apply. It expressed itself thus-- . 1-0-'30. However, it was held that the court will, in appropriate-
CBSES, apply the principles {as distinguished from the technical ro-
visions) of Order -22, rules 3 and 4= of the C.P.C . in the exercise o its
discretion on the grounds of justice, equity and good conscience. In
this particular case, the court refused to exercise its discretion in
favour of the petitioners, as the petitfonershad delayed their appli-
cations for substitution without any "exp1anation,t_vorth the_naine" Amendment of section 141 1-0 -32. We, therefore, recommend that an Explanation should
be inserted in section 141 as follows:----- ' 
"Explanation--In this rule, the jsxpression "proceeding" in-
cludes proceedings under Order 9, but does not include
proceedings under Article 226 of the .Constit1ition." Section 145 1-0 -3. Section'145 was considered in the earlier Report,' and an
amendment recommended, .We,agree with the earlier Report,

Section in and Under 21, Rule is '

1-O-34. The general principle that-a transferee succeeds to 'the
right of his prcdecemor, is to" be foundiin section 146 "of the Code,
which is as follows:-'-- - - -' _ . The special provision as to the elcootltioh of decrees by assignces
of the decree is contained in Order? 2t,'1'11:le 16_ which provides that
a decree may be executed by assignees, if there is an assignment of
the decree in writing. a ' ' ' " be authorised to do so, a provision for caveat may he, in our view,
useful. The relevant provision' in the.Su reme Court Rulesl is intend-
ed for cases where no appeal is' ,_1_1g',_ but a similar provision,
modiﬁed so as to beapplicahle to cages where a suit is pending as
yelllﬁis to those wherea suit is a},J!3§1_t' to _be instituted Woul b6

e p . l

Recommendation

1-0-4D. Accordingly. we .recommend the insertion of the follow-
ing new section in the Code:-- . - . - Section 152

1-O-41. Section 152 was considered in the earlier Report,' but no
amendment recommended. We agree with the earlier Report. Order 1, rule 8 and execution

1-P.7. The Commission, in its earlier Report _on the Code,' pro-
posed some changes in Order 1. rule 8 regarding execution. The main
change to which it drew ii-ttentiongwas the proposed provision to
the effect, that while a judgment under this rule should be binding
on all persons on whose behalf the suit is brought or is defended,
it shall not, except with the leave of the court, he executed against
any such person who is not actually-a party to the suit. In suggest-
ing this amendment, the Commission followed the provisions of
Order 15. rule 12(3). of the Revised Supreme Court Rules of England. 1--P.8. The relevant provisions ashformulated in the Appendix to
the Report" are as follows: 1. 27th Report, page :33, para. 62. 2. 27th Report, Appendix showing the draft amendments. Order 1, rule 3, Proposed" lub-
rules (ii) to (3). . _ 116 ltecommendation

1-P.9. We have carefully considered this particular point, and we
think that such a restriction is unnecessary. We, therefore, recom-
mend that while carrying' out the amendment in Order 1, rule 8, as
proposed in the earlier Report. on the Code, the restriction as to
execution without leave need not be incorporated. Order 1, rule SA (New)

1-P.1G. The Code has, at present, no provision for permitting the
juinder of an organisation interested in the legal issues in a suit,
i.e. an organisation which, though not concerned with the narrow
questions of fact arising between the parties. has a View to offer on
some broader issues. 1--P.11. It may be noted, in this connection, that in Soviet
Russia, there is a provision for participation, in the trial by organs
of State administration, trade unions, establishments, enterprises. organisations and citizens in defence of the rights of others. The_

Fundamentals of Soviet Civil Legislation porvide as follow":--~

"In the cases provided for by law, organs of State administra-
tion, trade unions, state establishments, enterprises, kol-
khozes and other co-operative and mass organisations or
citizens may take action in defence of the rights and
lawful interests of others. 1--P.13. Some such pi-ovision--suitabl3r adapted, of course, so as
to suit Indian conditionsawould be useful. It is true that it may
not be in harmony with the adversary system on which our proce-
dure is based. Somc safeguards man' also be required. in order to
prevent busy bodies from interfering with private disputes. Nevertheless, it would be worthwhile inserting a provision which
could be pressed into service in suitable cases. Recommendation

l--P.14_ The provision could be somewhat on the following lines
and find a place in Order 1: 1-13.15. This will not be exactly the same as the practice of ap-
pointing an amicus curiae, because the organisation concerned would
have its own views to present, and its role would not he conﬁned to
assisting the court, though its participation may help the court in
elucidation of some of the issues. '

Order 1, rule 9

1--P.1ﬁ. Order 1, rule 9, which deals with the effect of rnisjoinder

and non--joindcr of parties, provides as follows:---- ltecorumendation

1--P'.1T. We are of the view that non--joinder of essential parties
should be excluded from the scope of this rule." Accordingly. we
recommend the insertion of the following proviso: Order 1, rule 10(2)

1~P_18. The following changes were proposed in Order 1, rule
10(2). in the earlier Report on the Code.' in order to make the rule

comprehensive : -- {3} A power to strike off the name of any person who has. for

any reason, ceased to be a proper or necessarv party,
should be added. a '

. R.S.F'. S.1 {. {Tulle of Civil Procedure Art. 147. . lt.S.F.ﬁ.H. f'or,lr,- of Civil Proooflure. Art. I47. . Cf. Llisclission as tn section 99. . 27th Report, page 128, note on Order 1, rule lU{2]. .p.:,aN.:_-:'

115'

{b_) A p0't'\-v.'-31' to J."C1Tl()'.fe any person who has been unnecessarily
joined, should be added. While we 39-0 the utili='.y of such an amendment, it appears to
us that the proposed anriendment will inev.ritabi;»;; give rise to the
question whether the party struck off under the rule (as proposed
to be amended) should be given a right 01 appeal against any deter-
mination of a question which might have been rendered before he
ceased to be a party. It becomes necessary to consider this aspect, be-
cause such a person would not be a party on record when the suit
is finally disposed of and the decree is passed. 1-13.19. The right of appeal against an original decree is govern-
ed by section 96, which is silent as to the person who can appeal.
Courts have, in general, taken a wide View in this respect,' and,
without conﬁning the right to the parties on record, they have en-
tertained an appeal by a person whose rights are aﬁected by a decree,
even where he was never a party. l--P.2U_ Even then, a controversy could arise as to whether the
person whose name is struck off can be recognised as having a right
of appeal against the decree that most be ultimately passed after he
has- ceased to be a party, if the decree aﬁects his interest. Recommendation in earlier Report not to he carried out

1-P.21. In the circumstances. we have come to the conclusion
that the recommendation in the earlier Report as to Order 1, rule
K10(2} should not be carried out. . ~ ,

Order 1, rule 10A (New)

1-P22 The Code czmtains no express provision, empowering
the court to ask counsel {not appearing in the case) to assist the
court by agreements. Such a practice is common. It may he desir-
able to give legislative recognition "to this practice. Recommendation

1--P.2.'i. Accordingly, we recommend that the following new rule
should be inserted in Order 10%»- ''10A_ The Court in its discrettoii, request any pleader to
address the Court as to any interest which is likely to be
ajffectecl by the decision of the matters in issue and which
is not represented." 1 ' ' *1 V 1. Swrmdra Dos V. Bliulu. Prvi.-mil, A.I.R. 1950 Assam 2'2 [Case-law reviewed],

H.

CHAPTER _ 2
FRAME 01;' SUIT.'

Introductory

2.1. Order 2 deals with the frame of the suit; andthe dominant
rule here is that. as far as practicable, every suit shall be so framed
as to afford ground for ﬁnal decisiﬂn 3.113011 the 51-1bl9'3t5 in di5l3_'~1t~'-' _3nd
to prevent further litigation concerning them. With this end in view,
the Code provides that every suit shall include the whole of the
claim which the plaintiff is entitled to make in respect of the cause
of action, and. siniilarly, he must claim all there-liefs which he is
entitled to, in respect of the same cause of action. 2.2. As has been observed.'

"Were the rule otherwise, a man might be sued. repeatedly. in

respect oi' the same matter, and conﬂicting judgments
might be pronou.nced regarding separate portions of the

same property, included in the same cause of action. 2.3. The Code also encourages the plaintiff to unite, in the same
suit, several causes of action against the same defendant jointly,--
the object here again also being-to avoid numerous proceedings. Of
course. where there are several defendants or plaintiffs, and several
causes of action, and one or more of the plaintiffs or defendants are
not interested in one or more of the causes of action, the nice ques;
tion of "multifariousness" arises. The Code expressly provides that
objections on the grounds of rnis-joinder of causes of action must
be taken at the earliest possible stage. We do not recommend any changes in this Order,

Order 2, rule 2 and Execution Proceedings

2.4. Since the provisions of 0.2, r.2 do not apply to execution
proceedings. it has been held" that an application to enforce one
relief will not be a bar to a subsequent application to enforce the
other relief, though both the reliefs were awarded" by one and the
same decree." We do not think that a speciﬁc provision is necessary
in this respect. '

7- 'LIN."ll':-_ﬁ;ipherso1t, New t'-it-il Proceditre for British Imlia 
H3. 2. R.-«Um Kishan '7. Barﬂy: 'Pr:r-aha-If, {I391} I..L.R. 13 Cal. 515. _ CHAPTER 3
RECOGNISED AGENTS AND PLEADERS
Introductory

3,1, Order 3 deals with recognised agents and pleaders. Recognis-
ed agents are persons who do not belong to the profession of law-
yers, while pleaders so be-long. There are rules for appearance.
application and acts to be done by the recognised agents and
pleaders. and for the service of process on them. Pleaders who act
gr plead for a party, have to file in court a document or memoran- um. There are a few points which require discussion in this Order. Order 3, rule 4

3.12. Order 3. rule 4(1). prohibits a pleader from acting for any
person in any court, unless he has been "appointed" for the pur-
pose by a document in writing. Order 3. rule 4(2) and rule 4(3)
contain provisions as to the duration for which such appointment
"shall be deemed to be in force". At ﬁrst sight, the wording of sub-
rules (2) and (3) of rule 4 may create an impression that they apply
so as to regulate, as a matter of law, the duration of the professional
relationship [of counsel and client]; created by a contract. But on
a close reading, this impression is dispelled. Sub-rule {2} is to be
read as relevant only for the purpose of the prohibition in sub-
rule (1). We have examined the matter at some length, and have come
to the above conclusion. But a clariﬁcation on the point is desirable,

Recommendation

3.3. Accordingly, we recommend that Order 3. rules 4(2) and
4(3) should be revised as follows:-- (cl any appeal from any 'decree or order in suit, and 120 O'
."'3"'--'"'.**-::---. « - .._,'..'_ _.._'_.,-.,,__

__&.?_-' .-._.__ 121 (d) any application or act for the purpose of obtaining copieo
of documents or return of documents produced or ﬁled in
the suit or of obtaining refund of monies paid into" the
Court in connection with'the suit,

"{3} Nothing in s-uh-rule (2) Shall be construed-- (a) as extending as between the pleader and his client,
2 the duration for which the pteader is engaged, or

"(b) as a-uthorising service on the pleader of any docu-
ment issued by any court other than the court for the

~ purposes for which the pleader was engaged, except

where the client has otherwise expressly agreed in the
ducu.me'r'1t referred to in sub-rule [l)." in-\

HfB{'D)22B'Mof LJeoA._1o ...: ed rules as to pleadings in general and plaints in particular are

contained in Orders 6 and 7. We do not recommend any changes in this Order. *9,

L.,.,n...'...'

.-..---~_......._

«£5. .I'.'_...A..-.. .-up

)v1I-._

. CHAPTER 5
ISSUE AND SERVICE OF SUI!-'I1\rIUNS

Introductory

5.1. When the plaint has been registered, a summons may be
1gsu.gd.:o the deiendant, or to each defendant where there are more
defendants than one_ It is for the court to decide Whether the Surn-
mons shall be for thesettiement of issues only, or for the ﬁnal dis-
posai of the suit. Elaborate provisions as to the mode of servlce of
summonses are contained in the various rules of Order 5, the object
being to make sure. as far' as possible, that the summons comes
to the knowledge of the dctendant. 5.2. Since a considerable proportion of' suits are decided en: parte
owing to the defendants failure to appear the importance of these
rules is obvious. Rules as to the eifect of appearance and n0n--appea-
rance of the defendant are separately provided for in Order 9
(which also deals with the consequences of nonappearance of the
parties). Most of the rules in Order 5 relate to ministerial acts.
We shall discuss only a few rules of importance. Order 5, Rule 15 z,

5.3. Where, in any suit, the defendant cannot be found, service
of the summons can be made on any adult male member of the 15.
In the earlier Report,' the previous Commission noted that the
word "male" had been omitted by local amendment in Kera]a_ The

previous Commission, however. thought that the amendment may
not be suitable for adoption for the whole of India. Recommendation

5.4. We have considered the matter again, and are of the view
that the word "male" should he dropped. Having regard to the in-
crease in literacy and status of women during the last few years,
this change could safely be made. for the whole of India, We. there-
fore. recommend that in Order 5, rule 15, the word "male" should
be dropped. Order 5, rule 20(1)

5.5. Order 5, rule 20 deals with "Substituted service". The rule
provides that such service can {besides aﬁixation of the summons)
be ordered in such other manner as the Court may direct. The usual
mode of service ordered is by publication in the nev,!,rgpape.Iv_ we con-
sidered the question Whether. besides publication in the newspaper, 1. 21th Report, page 136, Note on Drcler 5, rule 15. - 123 . LfB(D}2293iuf LJ&:C'.A-----1C|(a.)

family of the defendant who resides with him, under Order 5, rule

I24

the court should have power to direct that the substance of the sum-
mons should be read out by means of announcement on the radio.
But, on inquiry being made from the Department concerned, we
understand that, that would not be feasible. '3.)

5.6. We, therefore, recommend no change in this respect.
Postal service i' w
5.1'. A recommendation for service of summons by post along

with personal service has been made in the earlier Report,' and we
wish to record that we are in full agreement with it. /

.--. 1. 27th Report. pages 13!, 137, nail on Orin 5.; rule 19. ............,_., _.._'.. -*-."."- . Cnarrnn 5
PLEADINGS

Iuirouluctory

6.1. The provisions in Order 6 relating to pleadings in general
are taken mainly from the English rules. The fundamental rule is
that only facts, and only material facts, shall be stated in the plead-
ings, but not the evidence, and the statement of facts should be
concise. The whole purpose of the system of pleadings is to narrow
down the dispute between the parties to deﬁnite issues, and thereby
to diminish expense and delay, especially as regards the amount of
testimony required on either side at theihearingf From this funda-
mental rule follow the detailed gutidﬁ-lines given in the Order; and
the philosophy of the Code towards encouraging amendments which
are necessary for the purpose of determining the real questions in
controversy between the parties, is given expression in rule 17 of
this Order. We do not consider any changes in this Order to be necessary. 1. Tharp v. Hoideworth, {ms} 2 Ch. D. 337, 338, 339. (Jeans! 11.11.} 1215 _ Cnsrrsn 7
PLAIN!'

Introductory

7.1. Detailed prox-isions as to the particulars to be contained in
the plaint are dealt with in the _ﬂI'ST. eight rules of Order 7. Where a
plaint is presentecl. it may either be admitted (rule 9), returned, if
the court has no jurisdiction (rule 10}, or rejected for certain
grounds (rules 1] to 13). Each of these three possible alternatives is
of importance. '?.2. Since, usually. the plaintiff sues or relies upon a document
in support of his case. rules -14 to 18 in Order '7 contain detailed pro-
visions as to listing; and production of such documents at the time
when the plaint is presented. Order '7, rule 2

'13. Order 7, rule 2 provides that in a suit for recovery of
money. the plaint shall state the precise amount claimed. Under the
Punjab Amendment to Order 7, rule 2, where the suit is for mov-
able property in the possession of the defendant or for a debt of
which the value cannot be estimated, the plaint shall state approxi-
mately the amount or value. 7.4.1]: the earlier Report' it was considered unnecessary to
adopt such a prmrision But. we think. that it would be useful. Recommendation
T5. Ac-cordingljgv, we recommend the following re--dra'Et of Order 7. rule 2:- Order 1', rule 6
7.6. Order 7. rule 6, requires that a ground of exemption from
limitation should be speciﬁcally pleaded 111 the plaint.
l. 271:}: Report-. p:t_t{s- [45, more on Oruler '3', rule 2. ..,.. ref .-. ... 7.7. Where the ground of_ exemption from 'limitation is 'not
stated in the plaint, the question arises whether it can be ra1S|_!d
later (without amendment of the pleading)_ The earlier Report dis-
cussed the controversy,' on this point. 7.8. Another question is whether. when the around of exemption
from limitation is stated, the plaintiff can take another 31914115,
which is new but is consistent with the allegations In the Dleadllj-E: ?.lU. To summarise the position, as was stated in that Report,- (i} the strict provision embodied in Order 7, rule 6 has been
administered liberally by most High Courts (excepting
the Madras High Court}? (ii) there is some confusion about whether the extra grounds
which can be set up, should be "consistent", with the
earlier ground as set out in the pleadings. ?.11. In view of the majority view, it was stated in the earlier
Report. that an amendment was not necessary. Recommendation

"r'.l2_ But we think that it is desirable that the position should be
clariﬁed. There should he no objection to the court being given a
power to' permit the plaintiff to rely on a new ground of exemp-
tion, so long as that ground is not inconsistent with the allegations
in the plaint_ The insertion of the following proviso at the end of
Order 'i', rule 6, is, therefore, recommended:-- Order 7, rule 10

7.13. Order ?, rule 10 provides that the plaint shall, "at 3.113,;
stage of the suit", be returned to the plaintiff. for presentation to
the court in which the suit should have been instituted, if the
court has no jurisdiction to try the suit. The words 'at any stage
of the suit' have raised one question. Where the suit has been
31TEadi' tried and 8 judgment delivered, can the plaint be returned? 1. 3'I't.h Report, pp. 145-146, Note on Order T, rule 6. 2. 27th Report, pp. 145-146, Note on Order '7, rule 6. 3.. 27th Report, pp. 146-146, Note on Order 7, rule 6. 4. The later decision in H..I{. Hixrimnﬁ 1. K. Raiikalrﬁaﬁnan 15.1.11. 1972 Mod. 108 t"D.B.}
does not seem to make I. diﬂiaronoa. - '

, 128 Does the "stage of suit" still continue? When, for example, it is
found either in appeal or in revisio_n that the decree was without
jurisdiction, can the appellate or revisional court return the plain'.
on the theory that an appeal or revision is a kind of continuation of
the suit'? The authorities are conflicting on the point. 7.14. In a Calcutta case', the plaintiff sought for a return of' the
plaint in similiar circumstances. But, the respondent's counsel argued
that where there had been a trial and a- judgment on a plaint. the
plaint could no longer be returned. The Court held that the plaint
could no longer be returned. - 7.15. In an earlier Calcutta decision', it had been observed that
the plaint had already merged in a decree, and "it is inconceivable
how it struck the munsiff that the plaint could be returned at that
stage". That was a suit for partition. The property was valued at a
certain figure, and a preliminary decree was passed. But, thereafter.
it was found, at the time of the ﬁnal decree, that the suit was under-
valued. On those facts, it was held that it was not open to the Court,
if the value of the property exceeded the pecuniary limits of' the
jurisdiction of the court, to declare the preliminary decree a nul-
litv and to return the plaint for presentation to the competent court. 7.16. It was urged in the later Calcutta case that where the plaint
(or rather, the cause of action)~has merged in a judgment or decree,
the appeal court (or the revisional court). can always make an order
setting aside the judgment and directing the plaint to be presented
to the proper Court. But it was held that normally, having regard to
the context and juxtaposition of Order 7, rule 10, the question of
return of plaint should be considered at a stage where the jud ent
has not been delivered. It is at the stage where the plaint is ﬁl , and
before the summons in the suit had issued, that the plaint is nor-
mally returned. In fact, Order 7, dealing with the plaint, contextually

comes before Order 8. which deals with the written statement. Sub- I

rule (2) of Order 7; rule 10. would also seem to indicate that i.t is
the initial stage that is being considered under this provision, and
not the stage when the suit proceeded to a trial and the judgment
already delivered. 7.17. It was observed further, that the words "presentation",
"return" and "endorsement" of the reasons as envisaged underﬂrder
7, rule 10(2) seem to indicate that the legislature is contemplating
the stage of such return long before the trial of the plaint and before
the delivery of the judgment on such a plaint. The small causes court
judge should have acted under Order 7, rule 10 on this plaint when
it was presented to him, and should have returned it for presentation
to the proper court. The appropriate course for the High Court should
be to set aside the judgment. and not to order return of the plaint for
Jresentation to the proper court. 1. Gap!" Kfialma 7. Am'! Bose, A.I.R. 1965 Cal. 59. 2. Raiikoﬂto Jzfyore v. Sonata-n Buidyo, A.I.R. 1930 0:11.214? (B.B. Ghush and S.K. Ghana J}. T.1-3. Some other High Courts assume' tha-t a wider interpreta-
tion is the correct one. 119. In the above state of the case--law, a clariﬁeation is desir-
able. Dismissal of the suit for want of jurisdiction, though an easier
course, is bound to lead to hardship in respect of court-fees and
limitation. It will be more convenient if a provision is added to the
effect that the power under Order 7, rule 10, can be exercised by
the Appellate Court or by the Revisional Court. As regards the situation where a preliminary decree ha.s already
been passed, we do not think that it would be appropriate to provide
for return of the plaint by the court of first instance. - Recommendation to amend 0.31, 1'. 10(1)
7.20. Accordingly, we recommend that the following Explanation

'should be inserted below Order 7. rule 1ﬂ(1):-- Recommendation to insert 0.1', r. IDA, etc.

7.21 and T22. We are. further, of the View that in order to avoid
delay, the court returning the plaint should ﬁx a date for the appear-
ance of the parties in the new court. We recommend the insertion of
following rules for this purpose:-- ance of the parties in the said court; and (c) requesting that notice of the date so ﬁxed may be
given to him and to the defendant. (2) Where an application is made under sub-rule (1), the

court shall, before returning the p1aint---- -(a] fix a date for the purpose mentioned in clause (b) of
that sub-rule; and

(13) give to the plaintiff and to the defendant such notice
as is referred to in clause (C) of that sub-rule; and
where such notice is given. (if! it shall not be necessary for the Court speciﬁed
hi the application, on presentation of the plaint

' 1 my acme Francis' Ltd. v. Bhopal Municipality, A.l'.l-'t. 1959 M.P. 253, 255, pm. 11 (ii) Ram Asa» -.-. Germ' Siﬂgh A.I.'R.. ma Oadh 11:. 113. l3U

in that Court. to serve the defendant with a sum-
mons for appearance in the suit -instituted by
presenting that plaint, unless that court, for
reasons to be recorded, otherwise directs; and (ii) the said notice shall be deemed to be a summons
for appearance of the defenda-nt on the date so
ﬁxed in the court mentioned in the notice. Where the plaintiff has made an application under sub-
rule (1) and the application has been granted, he shall
not be entitled to appeal against the order returning the
plaint. 103. (1) Where an order directing that a plaint should be

returned under rule 10 is proposed to be conﬁrmed by a-
court in appeal, or where a court hearing an appeal is of
the ViE'W that the plaint should be returned under rule
10, the court (hereinafter referred to as the court of ap-
peal) shall, before passing a ﬁnal order, inform the plain-
tiff, and the plaintiff shall thereupon be entitled to make
an application to the court- (a_] requesting that instead of the plaint being returned,
suit may be transferred to the court in which it should
have been. instituted (hereinafter referred to as "the
groper court"), whether within or without the
ctatc: ance of the parties in the said court: and

C3) requesting that notice of the date so ﬁxed may be
given to him and to the defendant. Where an application is made under sub-rule (1), the court
of appeal shall, instead of returning the p1aint,-- (a) transfer the suit to the proper court; {bl ﬁx a date for the purpose mentioned in clause (13) of
that suh--ru1e; and (c) give to the plaintiff and the defendant such notice as
is referred to in clause {c} of that sub-rule
and where such notice is given,- I (i) it shall not be necessary for the court to which
the suit is transferred to serve the defendant with
a summons for appearance in the suit, unless that
court, for reasons to' be recorded, otherwise
directs; and (ii) the said notice shall be deemed to be a summons
for appearance of the defendant in that court on
the date so ﬁxed. 4.' ...«:§g-gn...-t..4.....(...- .. :. 5-- AA 131 7.23. Order T, rule 11(0), pr{JVidE.'5 that the plaint shall be rejected
I;-.'here the relief claimed is properly valued but the plaint is written
upoii paper irisufiieieiitiy stamped and the plaintiﬁ', on being required
by the court to supply the requisite staInp--paper within a time to
be fixed by the Court, fails to do so. Some conti-overs}!-seems' to exist
on the question whether granting of time under this rule is manda-
tory. One view is, that the matter falls outside section 149, and is
entirely governed by Order 7, rule 11, which is a special provision;
and. therefore. the party is entitled to demand some time for making
good the deficiency. Another View is, that the grant of time is dis-
cretionary, on the ground that the authority to grant time is in sec-
tion 149. and not in Order 7', rule 11, which is a disabling provision. 7.24. The Madras High Court has made an express amendment
to this rule v.'hieh., in sL'hstaI1ee_. orovides that the grant of time is
a matter of discretion. The question whether the Madras amend-
ment should be adopted was considered in the earlier Report', but
it was felt unnecessary to insert any such provision. Recommendation

'F25. We are of the View that the Mzidras amendment should not
be adopted, as it would be too harsh. At the same time. we are of
the View that once time is given, it should not be extended, and
section 148 should not apply to such cases. Recommendation

7.25. Acco1'ding1j,r_, we recommend that present Order 7. rule 11.
should be remumbered as sub~rule (1), and suh-rule {2} should be
znserted in that rule as fol1ows:------ standing anything contained in section 148. time so gm-nted
.-thail not be errte-n.ded". 1. (rs) !?m-Elm Krmm 1'.Drb<mdra»1'a'amyan.. I.L.R. -19 0.11.830: AILR. I922 Gal. sns. 5-":8
.j1'rIno}ter-foo and ("nn1in_g JJ.),

{E} -9'ti'Jbr-'- R6.-£r::'.;z_.r V. F'erJI'(tta-nrrrasfmﬁa Rsdrla,-. AIR. 1937 l\l.';+.d. 'Z66. [ct] V.=nl:amm 1'. .4rIa-«fr9m.a.wa, .-LT.R.. [933 Marl. 512-.5-t3,right hand [Von]-ratnsuhl-ta
Ra-'J J.]. '

id"; Anfivxt h'rt1n:'Fu'Tna'.rrI V. 3r'agI't;;J3iP, ALB, T914 Born. 249, 25"} [B:1.f.-oh-elor and Shah
JJ] ('l'I'ueesl1isior_1r of the rule}. (2) Baijnom. V, D'mr.~3.7m,-rwr. :'L.1.R 1937. Pitt. 560 [PB]. ff) S'.?i2'-r.'=f'I:rzrr1:1 1', Hahn'-ru? Iﬂl, A.1'.I3-. l94l Oudh 31'). |_'9'.l Ram K".-'Jzrln V. J-'zffﬁ»e. A.T.R. 1959 Born. 96 {Mu-'i|Loll(aT' J. T{P\'iews B'1'"E]:l'.i'_ 2. 27th Report, page, I-1'7, note on Order '5', rule 11.
R. 0rd4=.1' '7, rule llf_h) stands on the same footing as Order 7, rule lI{o].H

.. . up--.......,,.._. .7

Cnsrrn. 8
WRITTEN STATEMENT AND SET-OFF

Introductory

3.1. Thh reply of the defendant, to the plaint, which is called
"written statement of his defence", is dealt with in Order 8. A
written statement may be ﬁled; but, if the court so requires, it must
he ﬁled within the time permitted by the court. Order 8, rule 1 so
provides. 3.2. The mode of denial of allegations in the pla-int occupies
rules 2 to 5 of this Order; set--o1'f is dealt with in rules 6 and '7, and
rule 8 permits the defendant to take any new ground of defence
at a later stage. Ordinarily, the plaint and the statement of defence
are the only pleadings allowed; but relaxation of this rule is per-
missible under rule 9. The procedure to be adopted when a party
fails to present a written statement before the court, is dealt in
rule 10,»-a rule which has created some controversy. Order 8, rule 1 and obligatory written statements

8.3. It was noted in the earlier Report' that a recommendation
had been made in the Report on the reform of judicial administra-
tion to make the ﬁling of the written statement obligatory. The
Commission, however. thought that this might work hardship. Recommendation

8.4. We have reexamined the matter, and are of the View that
such a provision should be inserted. In the absence of a proper
pleading by the defendant, it is diﬂicult to proceed with the suit, and
in fact. the whole scheme of the Code postulates that there should
he a written statement which constitutes the foundation of the de-
fence, if the defendant chooses to participate in the proceedings. The
time has now come when a written statement should be obligatory,
and we recommend accordingly, that Order 8. rule 1, should be re-
vised as follows: - Order 8, rule 5

3.5. Under Order 8, rule 5, an allegation of a fact made in the
plaint, if not denied, or not stated to he not admitted in the pleading
of the defendant, is to be taken as admitted. Whether this rule an
plies in a case where the defendant,-has not ﬁled a pleading at all 1. 27th Report, pages 147-148, not on Order 3, rule 1 and obligatory written statement, V 2. let]: Report, 'Vol. I, page 302. para 11. ,...s_,............. .. .. .. ._

g.r..-_,._,,_....,,_..,..._.,........~.
. v-, 133 is a question that was considered in the earlier Reportsl. No amend-
ment to the rule was, however, proposed. as it was felt that on the
language of the rule. it should not apply to such cases. 8.6. However, we are taking a different View on the subject, and
are of opinion that such a provision should be made. If the defen-
dant does not ﬁle a pleading. the court should have a discretion to
treat the allegations in the plaint as admitted. This is necessary in
the interests of expedition, and should not. in our view, cause any
serious hardship, Since the present position" is that Order 8, rule 5,
does not applyjtvhere there is no written statement, an amendment
is necessary if effect is to be given to our view. At the same time,
we would like to emphasise that the court should, in exercising in». discretion, consider whether the defendant has engaged counsel or__

could have engaged counsel. Recommendation

8.1'. We, therefore, recommend that Order 8, rule 5, should be
re-numbered as sub-rule (1), and the following sub-rules should be
added in Order 8, rule 5:--- gaged ct pleader. (4) Whenever a judgment is pronounced under this rule, a
decree shall be drawn up in accordance with such. judg.
ment bearing the same date as the day on which the
judgment was pronounced". Order 5, rule SA (New) (Production of Iloclunent.)

8.3. Order 7, rule 14 provides that where a plaintiﬁ sues upon a. document in his possession or power, he shall produce the docu-
ment in Court when the plaint is presented. Where the plaintiff
relies on any other documents (whether in his possession or power
or not), as evidence in support of his claim, he has to enter such
documents in a list to be added or annexed to the plaint. The
Fourteenth Report' recommended, that 8. similar p1'OViS.l0I'l should
be made in the case of a defendant. 3.9. This recommendation, however, was not agreed in by the
Commission in the Report' on the Code. The Commission felt that
the distinction between a document upon which the plaintiff sues 1. 27th Report, page 15!), Note on Order 8, rain 5. 2. Hardayal Gimme» Lat? in Union of India, LLR. 1339 Plnj. 329 (ration anus}. 3. mi}: Report, Vol. 1, page Blﬁ, para. 32. 4. 27th Report, page 13, para. 28. and a document upon which he relies, Cannot properly be made in
the case of varitten statement. "The only manner in which such a
distinction can be made is between documents on which a defen-
dant bases his defence and other documents on which he .re'lies_as
evidence in support of his defence. In our opinion such a d1St1I1ct10I1
would be unrealistic and impractical. A written statement merely
answers the claim made in the plaint. In practice, it would be diffi-
cult to distinguish between documents on which the defence "is
based" from other documents of purely evidentiary value. We, how-
ever, think that 21 defendant should enter in a list to be added or
annexed to the written statement all documents on which he relies
in support of his defence". Recommendation

8.10. We have carefully examined the matter, and have come to
the conclusion that the recommendation made in the 14th Report
should be carried out. Barring very few cases, the distinction between

the basic documents, and other documents should, we think, pre-- sent no difficulty even in respect of the defence. We recommend there-
fore that a suitable amendment should be made as above. To achieve
that object, the following rule should be inserted in Order 8-»

"SA. (1}* Where a defendant bases his defence upon a docu- -ment in his possession or power, he shall -produce it in
court when the written statement is -presented, and shall,
at the some time, deliver the document or a copy thereof
to he ﬁled with the written statement. (2) A document which ought to he produced in court by the
de_fendcn.t under this rule, but is not so produced, shall
not, without the leave of the Court, be received in evi-
dence on his behalf at the hearing of the suit, (c) Nothing in this rule oppiiestg documents produced for
cross-exami-natioh of the plaintifs witnesses, or in answer
to any case set up by the pltzintiﬂ' s-ubsequently to the
ﬁt-ino of the plaint, or handed to a witness merely to re-
fresh his memory." 8.11. Order 8, rule 10, deals with the procedure to he followed
when a party fails to present a written statement called for by the
court. This rule begins thus: Now. the word 'so' has been construed as limiting the operation
of the rule to failure to tile a written statement that was demanded
under the preceding rule. (Order 3, rule '9), and not as covering the
more frequent case of a written statement demanded under Order 8. rule 1. 3.12-. In the earlier Report", this lacuna was discussed. and an
amendment was also proposed to remove this lacuna. I. 27th Report, page 151, note on Order 8, rule 10. cover the residence of the defendant who has not
been served, or ' . . (bl such defendant is avoiding service of process, or (c) there is any other sufficient cause for extending the
time, in -which case the Court may extend the time
for making such application for such period as it
thinks ﬁt." Order 9, rule 6 and Order 9, rule 1'

9.4. In the earlier Report', two points were considered with
reference to Order 9, rule 6. . 9.5.. The ﬁrst question was, whether the court should have power
to pass a dercee. if it thinks ﬁt, on the basis of a pleading without
formalevidence, where the case progozeds as parts. As pleadings are
not required to be on oath', it was nsidered unnecessary to make
such a change. 9.6. We are. however, of the' view that such a provision would

be useful. Having regard to the paramount need to reduce delay, it

is, in our view, justified even in the absence of oath. ,

9.7. Secondly, the previous Commission noted that it had been
held by the Supreme"-' Court, that even when the defendant against
whom a case has proceeded ea: parts does not assign good cause for
his previous non-appearance, he has a right 130' participate from the
stage at which he appears. The decision of Wallace, J. in 3- Madras
cases on the subject was approved by the Supreme Court. The under-
mentioned decisions' were mentioned by the previous Commission
as illustrating the application of the .r_ule enunciated by the Supreme
Court. - 9.3. The Commission considered it unnecessary to codify the
proposition laid down by the Supreme Court. " L_fB[D}229L£ol'LJ&GA--Il

17;,

9.9. We have considered the matter, and avg'-1' of the VIEW that
what the Supreme Court laid clown should be eodified. We §'PPT3°13t_9
the difficulty of the subject, and the desirability of balanclng consi-
derations of justice (on the one hand} Eﬁalmt the 11395 ft'? EXP'-95-1'
tion (on the other hand}. But, in this case, there can-'be no other
alternative. 9.10. At the same time, while inserting the rule that the deft.-n«
dant can join from the stage a-t which he appears, a clariﬁcation on
one point would be desirable, namely, that past stages of the trial
should not be re-opened. If the defendant, for esxamplﬁ. has not
ﬁled a written statement, and the case has proceeded almost to the
stage of judgment, the defendant cannot insist that he should be
adlowed to ﬁle it. It should, therefore, be ensured that the amended
rule will not affect O. 8, r. 5 and 0. 8, 1". 10. Recommendation

9.11. We, therefore, recommend that Order 9, rule 6, clauseﬂfa);
should be revised as fo11.ows:--~

Revised Order 9, rule 6, clause (a)

"{1} Where the plaintifl appears and the defendant does not
appear when the suit iscalled on for hearing, then---- (a) if it is proized that the 'summons was duly _ser_ved, the
court may make an order that the suit be he-: 1rd.' ex: 9.12. Under Order 9, rule 13, if the court is satisﬁed eiﬁ'2e-rti-tat-the
summons has not been served, or that the defendant was prevented
by sufficient cause from appearing, etc., the ex parte decree should be
set aside. The two branches of the rule are distinctive, and the defen-
dant, whatever his position may be in respect of one branch, is entitl-
ed to beneﬁt of the other branch, if he satisﬁes the court that he has
made -good his contention in respect of the other «branch; 9.13. In the earlier Report', several points were considered with

reference to this rule, and amendments suggested "on endpoint,-thee

broad object being to ensure that adecree shall not be set aside mere-
ly on the ground of irregularity in' service, if the defendant had
knowledge of the decree: Atter consideration of the points discussed
in the earlier Report, we have reached the same conclusion. It . ; Order 9, nth: is mamas 41, rule. 11

9.14. Order 9, rule 13 empowers' a court to set aside an ex parte
decree. Whether an application for setting aside an ex parte decree
can be entertained by the trial court, after an appeal against the ex
parte decree has been dismissed summarily by' the' appellate court,
is a matter on which there is difference of opinion. 9.15. The Bombay High Cou»rt',.after stating that the majority of
the High Courtsi were of the View that as the decree of the trial court
merges with the decree of dismissal of appeal, the trial court can
have no jurisdiction to deal with the decree, expressed its agreement
with the majority view. 9.16. It was held that an appeal was always treated as a re-hearing
of the suit, and it makes no diiference whether the appeal had been
dismissed under Order 41, rule 11, or disposed of after issuing notice
to the respondent. 9.17. The court, after referring to a Supreme Court case cited
before it, said' that that case did not lay down that the decree of the
trial court does not merge in the decree of the appellate court even
for the purposes of review of the judgment of the trial court. 1. 2':'thRep01'b,p1J.153-154,nDteon Order 9, ru1el3and"dnlysor-rod". 2. Kontitala v. Chiba Bore, .-1.1.13'-. 196'? Bum 310 (reviews cases). 3. mg. (:1) 1Jh4mr.ti7v. Taraitunath, 12 Cal. L. J. 531 : (d] Uauri -5'1'umka.r v. Joya! Narain, A.I.B. 1934 All. 134. 4. State of U. P. 1r. Muhammad Naor. {I959}, S.C.E. 595. 9.18. A contrary view has been taken by some High Courts'. $ome
of the decisions make a distinction between cases where the applicant
was a party to the appeal and other cases. 9.19. To settle the conflict of deeisions on the euhject, an amend-
ment is desirable. The Bombay View is, in our 0p'1T11011. 103133-1. and
should be adopted. H, ; J _ i .: ,._ 1,. llecmnmandation . . (9.20. We recommend,' therefore, thiat the "following Expleneition

should be added to Drdeir 9, rule 13--- _

"Explanation---Where there -has-' been me -'appeal against 'the
decree passed in the abtenoe of! the? defendant, ant! the
appeal has been disposed of, mo application under' this rule" Onier 9 and execution proceedings

_ 9:21. The question how far Order 9 -applies to: exeoution: {b] In re Ram Rubin:-n , A._I.R.. 1911.5 All. 1352. _ . _
2- See. for emmp1e.Nemz' Ukwnd v. L-'med Mat, A.I.R.. 1932 Raj, 107. 3." See discussion as to 0. _2] rules I04-10.5 {Raﬁ}: :5 _ ' '

5 .-.4:5 "' ._ _. . J.-'1

CH.I'LP1I.'F.R 1!). EXAMINATKJN. 05'. I-A_.;'.g1n'.s.,,_InL.'.l'li|Ii1_. COURT
Introductory 5 5

. 10.1. Examination of parties by them at the fi t hearing-or at
subsequent hearin is dealt with in, 'Or: r 10. T 'e main; object
of exaznination at ,_ e ﬁrst hearing is it} ascertain how far the allega-
tions made in the pleadings of one party are admitted gr denied" by
the other. The object of this examination is not to elicit adznissions
or to bring into being evidence, but to ascertain what.Ji;;_ the matter
in dispute between the parties. Statements mﬂde at the examination
are distinct from evidence given in a trial of fact. Nevertheless", if
used properly, this examination is of the greatest impottance in
avoiding delay at later stages. ' '

lilarlier reeoniliiendation for ;EIa..lll.illﬂ.ﬁ-_0'l1_'3.'I'i.Vﬁ1'St hearing

10:2. The earlier Repoirtfmade a Ilséifiﬂ recommendation' as to
examination at the ﬁrst hearing bei11g'ma{«Ee'compulsor§*.'_We agitee,
and would add that efforts at setti'émen,t'slfou1d'a1'so be=niade'at- the
ﬁrst'hearing. But only one adjournment for the purpose of effecting
such settlement should be granted. No statutory provision in this
respect (for encouraging settlement) is required for sui s in general,
but we hope that judicial officers will not lose sight of t is aspect. I 1. 21th Rep-nrt: pages 14-15 para. 29.: and page 136, note on Order 10, rule 2_ .
' . L11

'.2-

..muI_zuI."w\l.L.d..=::... ' civil law'. Cnarrirn 11
DISGOVERY it-lib INSPECIIUN
Introductory 11.]. Discovery and inspection are dealt with in Order 11, which,
unfortunately, is one -of the least used Orders in the Code. The object
of What is called ''discovery'' is to secure, if possible, an admission
of facts in aid of proof, to supply-the want of it and to avoid expense!" is not conﬁned to facts, but extends to documents, and 'could he sup-
plemented by orders for the inspection and production of documents. 11.2. Non-compliance with an order to answer interrogatories or
to discover facts, or an order for the discovery and inspection of
documents, can be visited with fatal consequences under rule 11. I;
the order for discovery has" been 'complied with, naturally answer" 1. 'Wig:-am': Point? in the Low of,Di:cotm15', paragraph 2, cited in Stokes' AugEo.I9uh'uu
Codes, Vol. 2. page 401. 2. Story, Plsadings, paragraph 39. cited in Stoke': .inpZa-India» Codes, Vol. 2., page 402. 3. 27th Rcpont, page 156, note on Order 11, rule 14. 4. Ram H-sari v. Niranjan , 50 G.W.N. 84:5. 5. Sriniwas 1'. Election Zl'n'bu'na1, Lucknow. A.I.R. 1955 All. 251. 3. P. Veraikahomamma V. P._BaIa, A.I.R. 1958 A._]?. 157. 7. Boidyanalh 1r. Biaoionath, A.I.B.. 1923 Pat. 7337, 338. I. ',- 11.5. However, we have ultimately come to the conclusion that
no such change is needed, as the present language is sufﬁciently wide

and clear to cover the point. Under 11, rule 1»! . 11.6. With reference to Order 11, rule 14, two points were con-
sidered in the earlier Report'; but, after an examination of the posi-
tion, the Commission considered an amendment unnecessary. We
agree with the view taken in the earlier Report. ' ' "" 11.9. It is also desirable to provide that an order under this rule
can be made only after hearingrthe other side. Recommendation
11.11}. Accordingly, we recommend that D. 11, rule 21 should be

revised as follows:-- 14-4

admit documents (Such costs will be in addition to the costs awarded
at present under this rule). After some consideration, however, it
was decided by the previous Commission not to make this change,
as the Commission felt that the existing provision is adequate. 11.12. We, however, think that such a provision is desirabie.
Further, we think that if a document is not denied, it should be
taken as admitted, unless the Court otherwise direct'. Recommendation

11.13. Accordingly, we recommend the insertion of the following
new rule in Order 12--- " 1. Cf. Order 8, rule 5. rd-M-v-3|-IIi.'W_!i--[""-"T - .1'

CHAPTER 12

ADMISSIONS

Introductory _

12,1_ A5 an alternative to interrogatories and discovery of docu-
ments, a party can avail himself of the procedure prescribed 'in Order
12, of calling upon the other party by notice to adrnlt facts or docu-
ments. Notice to admit facts would, in many cases, supersede 111-
terrogatories, and thus save expense and delay. Notice to admit do-
cuments could similarly save expense and delay of proving the
documents if the documents are admitted iI1 response to the notice. Order 12, rule 6

12.2. Where a claim is admitted, a_ court has jurisdiction under
Order 12, rule 6 to enter a judgment for the plaintiff, and to pass a
decree on the admitted claim {with liberty to the plaintiff to proceed
with the suit in the ordinary way as to the remainder of the claim). 12.3. The object of the rule is to enable a party to obtain speedy

judgment, at least to the extent of the relief to which, according to

the admission of the defendant, the plaintiff is entitled'. 12.4. The rule has been held to be wide enough to cover oral
admissions. The use of the words "or otherwise" in rule 6, without
the words "in writing" which are used in rule 1 of Order 12, shows
that a judgment may be given even on an oral admission'. It is. desir-
able to codify this interpretation. 12.5. It may he noted that under the present rule, a judgment on
admissions can be passed only on an application. According to a
loca-l amendment"; the Court may, on the application of any party or
of its cum motion, make such order or give such judgment. This is a
useful amendment, and should be adopted. 12.6. In our view, it is also desirable to provide that a decree
shall follow on a judgment on admissions. Recommendation

12-7. Accordingly. we recommend that Order 12, rule 6, should be
revised as fo1lows:------~ - ment was pronounced". 1. [970 Haj: L.W. 5&9. referred to in the Quin quennial Digest, (I956-l9'F{l]. 2. 1970 Rs]. L. W. 5549, referred to in Quinque|nj_ia.I Digest (1933.197m_ 3. Sea the Patna Amendment to Order 12, rule 3._

ml

.. ._ _....,._.,_. CHAPTER' 13
PRODUCTIUN OF DOCUMENTS

Introductory
13.1. Detailed rules as to production, impounding and return of
documents are contained in Order 13. These rules apply also to the
material objects other than documents, by virtue of rule 11. The
principal provision is in rule 1, the substance of it being that docu-
entary evidence must be produced at the first hearing. The main
0 ject of this provision is to prevent fraud by the party relying on_
the document and also to prevent surprise to the opposite party and
to give to the court a clear picture of the case of the party concerned
with the documents. A speciﬁc provision deals with the effect of non-
production oi documents, and the court is. empowered to reject irre-
levant or inadmissible documentary evidence. The rest of the pro-'Iri-
sions in this Order really pertain to ministerial acts, such as, ﬁling

the documents, numbering them and the like. Order 13, rule 1

13.2. Under Order 13, rule 1, the parties or their 1:-leaders must
produce "at the ﬁrst hearing" the documentary evidence on which
they intend to rely and which is in their possession or power and
which has not already been ﬁled in court, as also all documents
which the court has ordered to be produced. The expression "ﬁrst
hearing" in this rule has led to some controversy. It has been held
by the Calcutta High Court' that this does not mean the first hearing
for appearance of the defendants. but it means the hearing after
the pleadings are completed and before the issues are framed. 13.3. The Madras view' is that it means the hearing at which
issues are framed. The Madras High Court' observed that parties are
not bound to produce the documents, until the issues are trained. - 13.4. The Madras case' of 1926 points out that the reason for
having all documents produced when issues are framed is to prevenzlz
fabrication to suit the issues. It has also been pointed out that it is
only after the issues are framed that the parties can decide what is
essential. "Unessential documents ﬁled in a case are a nuisance to

all concerned". 13.5. It may be noted that the Patna and Orissa High Courts have
added the following words after the words "at the ﬁrst hearing"- -------..-..n----- - - Cnsersn 14

I ISSUES

Intmductory

14.1. In order that the material points in controversy? may be
rightly decided, and there may .be ﬁnality in litigation, it is-essential
that those points should be properly formulated; and Order 14 provi-
des all that a law can provideto ensure the "the material propositions
of fact or law aﬂirmed by one party and denied by the other" are
presented to the court in a precise form; these propositio,ns_ are
the name of issues. These material propositions are' t'o"oe"tio e d
not merely from the pleadings but also from the exaniination of
the parties, (for example, where the ﬁacts are not sufficiently stated
in the plaint), and from answersto interrogatories, and the contents
of documents produced by the parties. As has been stated', "in the
course of administering justice between litigants, there are two suc«
cessive objects,----to ascertain the subjects for decisions and to decide".
It has therefore been emphasised, on several occasions, in decisions
of the highest courts in India, that the duty of framing proper issues
rests upon the judge himself. Order 14, rule 2. 142. Order 14, rule 2 is as follows:------ 14.3. This rule has led to one difficulty. Where a case can be dis-
posed of on a preliminary point (issue) of law, often the courts do
not inquire into the merits, with the result that when, on an appeal
against the finding on the preliminary issue the decision of the court
on that issue is reversed, the case has to be remanded to the court of
ﬁrst instance for trial on the other issues. This causes delay. It is
considered that this delay should be eliminated, by providing that a
Court must give judgment on all issues, excepting, of course, where
the court ﬁnds that it has no juﬁsdiction or where the suit is barred
by any law for the time being in force. \

Recommendation _

14.4. We, therefore, recommend that Order 14, rule 2 should be
revised as follows:-- and for that purpose may, if it. thinks ﬁt, postpone the settle-
ment of the other issues until after that issue--has been
determined, and may deal with the suit in accordance toith the
decision on that issue." - .- . | .- 4. .,.. , ._.....,..- K... . Cnnvrsn 15

DISPOSAL OF TIEIE SUIT AT THE FIRST HEARING
Introductory

15.1. If, at the ﬁrst hearing, it appears that the parties are not
at issue on any question of law' or fact, the court is, under Order
15, authorised to pronounce judgment at once. If any of the several
defendants is not at issue, the court has a similar power, in 'respect
of that defendant. Sometimes, it appears thafan issue of fact or law
is such that the evidence hearing on it can be immediately produced.
The court is empowered to determine that issue, and to pronounce
judgment under certain circumstances. Order 15, rule 2

15.2. As regards Order 15, rule 2, under which judgment is pro-
nounced if the parties are not at issue, local amendments made by
Madras, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala High Courts provide that
wllienever a judgment is pronounced under this rule, a decree shall
fo low. 15.3. We consider it proper to insert such a provision, Here, we
depart from the View taken in the earlier Report' where section 33
was regarded as adequate for the purpose. Recommendation

15.4. Accordingly, we recommend that Order 15, rule 2 should
be renumbered as sub--rule (1), and the following sub-rule should be
inserted as sub-rule (2): 1. 27th Report, page 130, note on Order 15, rule 3. 150' 1 ! 1'
i. E .1»
1' 

CHAPTER 16
SUMMONING AND ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES

Introductory '

16.1. After the defendant has been served. and the pleadings
ﬁled, and the issue framed, evidence will have to be lfld [U-111955 the
case is disposed of without issues). For that purpose, it becomes I_1ec .-
sary to summon and compel the attendance of witnesses. This Is
dealt with in Order 15, the provisions whereof are ultimately de-
rived from an Act of 1353.' The body of the Code* exemtﬁs Certain
persons from being summoned to attend. 16.2. As a matter of historical -interest, it 1113? be noted that 3
Central Act of 1855' provided that a person known to be of uI1s0_t1I1d
mind should not be summoned as a witness without the P1'_eV1°115
conmnt of the court_ This provision was repealed when H19 EV1d£'m-'39
Act of l8"r'2 came into force. Since such a 99350" is not 3, "-'°mP9t*3nt
witness under the Evidence Act , a party would not ﬁnd it useful to
summon him. 16.21'-L Most of the provisions in Order 16 deal with matters of
detail. We shall deal with such of them as require consideration. Order 16, rule 1

16.3. Under Order 16, rule 1, at any time after the suit is insti-
tuted, the parties may obtain, on application to the court, or to
such oﬂicer as it appoints in this behalf, summonses to persons whose
attendance is required either to give evidence or to produce docu-
ments. The words "may obtain" seem to have led to an argument
to the effect that if a party applies for a summons, the court is
bound to issue it irrespective of any other considerations. The argu-
ment has not been accepted in the categorical form stated above.
Since it has been stated in some suggestions made to the Commis-
sion that the court should have discretion to refuse to issue a- sum-
mons, the case law on the subject has been examined. a 16.4. The case law on the subject shows that the position, is

broadly speaking, as follows':- Section 132 at sag. petent to decline to adjourn the case for their attendance.' It may
be conceded as held that if the application is not bone ﬁde and is
an abuse of the process of the court, then the court may he held
to he possessed of inherent power to refuse to summon the witnesses. 16.6. No amendment on this particular point is required, in view
of the position stated above. Purpose of calling witnesses to be stated

16.7. There is, however, one matter on which an ainendment is
needed. We think that the purpose of calling a witness should be
stated in an application under Order 16. rule 1. 1. Jozgir SEMI; v. Sitrjon Singk, I.L.R. {£965} 2 Pilnj. 50-1-, 509, (Due. J._'|. 2. Case teferrenoea cited in the judgment are omitted here. ...,......,.... ....u . ... .. M

.1523

Recommendation

16.8. Accordingly, we recommend the insertion" of the following
sub-rule in Order 16, rule 1 [after renumbering rule 1 as sub--rule (1)
of rule 1). 1

"'(2) The purpose of s-umihon-ing a witness shall be stated in
' the application under this ride". Order 16, rule 1-!

16.9. Order 16. rule -14 provides that where the Court at any
time thinks it necessary to examine any person other than a, party
Lo the suit and not called as a witness by a. party to the suit, the
Court may, on its own motion, cause such person to be summoned
as a witness to give evidence. or to produce any document in his
possession, on a day to" be appointed, and may examine him as a
witness or require him to produce such document. There is -no power under this rule to summon a party as I1 -witness. No doubt, the court can always examine a party present in
Court, and recall any witness alreadv examined? The Court can
also, while issuing a summons, direct that the defendant shall appear
personally." But there is, in our view, need for a direct provision
enabling the Court to summon a partv for giving evidence as a
witness. This will to a great extent, help in stopping the malprac-
tice of a party not appearing as a Witness and forcing the other
party to call him as a witness. Recommendation

16.10. We. therefore, recommend that in Order 16. rule 14, the
words "other than a party to the suit" should be replaced bv the
words "incluoEi.ng a party to the suit". . Order 16, Rule 19, and Order 26, Rule 4--witnesses beyond juris-
diction

16.11. Order 16, Rule 19, provides that _a witness shall not be
conipelied to attend a court in person unless he resides---- (al within the jurisdiction of the Court, or

{b} outside the jurisdiction but within the speciﬁed distance
(roughly, less than ﬁfty miles) or, if there is an establish-
ed public conveyance for ﬁve--sixth of the distance, then
less than two hundred miles from the court house. Thus. a witness living outside the jurisdiction and beyond the
speciﬁed distance cannot be compelled to attend a court in person.
For the examination of such persons, the Code provides for the
issue of a commission under Order 26, Rule 4. But the word used
in Order 26, Rule 4. is "may". 1. Clrzlnr 1"]. 1' lit': 2, marl with Order lli, rule 4. 2. Order 18, rule l'.'. - 3. Order 5. I"1]iI!'. ii. '
L,fB(D}32'Jl!rIofLJa:(lA- --12 ' 154 16.12. Now, it is obvious that where the witness is "beyond the
speciﬁed distance, and yet is one whose evidence is essential, the

only possible mode of examination is by commission, having regard _

to the restriction in Order 16, rule 19 against compelling him to
attend in person. The common understanding of the position isreﬂected in a
Madras case'-=4

"A party to suit has a right to ask for the issue of a commission
to examine a witness beyond the prescribed distance. The same ]91'1T1-'
ciple app-lies even in the case of an expert witness. In Sitamma v.
Subreya, 21 M.L.J. 889 at p. 390: (12 LC. T4), Abdul' Rahim and
Sundara Aiyar JJ. recognised that principle and stated that the
defendants were entitled as of right to the issue of commission apart
from the question whether they would have ultimately beneﬁted by
it. The same principle is followed and applied in Jagannsdha Sestry
V. Sarathamhal Ammcl, 46 Mad. 5"r'4: [A.I.R. 10) 1923 Med. 3213.
Wallace J. after considering the various decisions cited before him
expressed his conclusion as follows: Distance mention in 0. 16, r, 13

16.14. The next question is, whether the distance speciﬁed in
Order 16, Rule 19, should n-ow be increased, in View of improved
facilities for transport, and, in particular. having regard to the
availability of transport by air. The existing words "established public conveyance" are. perhaps,
wide enough to cover transport by air, but the question of distance
applicable to air travel remains. It could be provided in Order 16,
rule 19. that (ii where transport by air is available between the
place of headquarters of the Court and the place where the witness
resides. and (ii) the distance between the two places does not ex-
ceed. saj-I. eight hundred miles (1200 kms} and [iii] the witness is
paid the fare by air. he rnay be summoned to attend personally. 1. .'L.I.R.. l!J~!9 End. 495, psi-:1 2. ichiliba H-no J.}. 2. Point concerning Hider 36, H-llii 4. I ----au.a.-..-- -.5»-_«. -1'" between the words "public conveyance" and "for ﬁve-
sixth", and (ii) substitute the word "three" for the word "two".
u['i-41-1959]

Bombay: Dadm and Nagar Haveli. For rule 19 substitute the following:-- No one shall be ordered to attend in person to give evi-
dence unless he resides- {2} within the local l-imits of the Court's ordinary origi-
nal jurisdiction, or (b) without such limits but at a place less than one
hundred or (where there is a railway or steamer com-
munication or other established public conveyance
[or ﬁve--sixths of the distance between the place
where he resides and the place Where the Court is
situated) less than ﬁve hr ndrcd kilometres. distance
from the court--house. - (1~e11--1966). Gujarat

In order 16, rule 19(13): for the words "two hundred". substi-
tute the words "three hundred". T(17--8-I961). Punjab, Haryzma and Chandigarh
Add the following proviso to Rule 19[b): munication or other established public conveyance
for ﬁve-sixth of the distance between the place where
he resides and the place where the Court is situated)
less than ﬁve hundred kilometres distance from the
court house. Provided tho,t-- (i) where transport by air is available between the two
places mentioned above, and (ii) the distance between the two 'places does not exceed
one thousand and two hundred kilometres, and (iii) the witness is paid the fare by air, he may be ordered
to attend in person. i. J.-rt.l1a-lrr.w' .-1.-mur1. : . Kﬂr-l-Jlrl, Ffurrznrr, [1QI'.l'U], E. l,.'|'. SM', 870, ST! , 2. As tn 4|]JeJlr|.Im'nl- ill-nl'l1Pl'2ﬁ.. rule 2:. are ]'Iu:'n 115.13, aw,-lpra. H

Cnuvrnsn 1? ADJOURNMENTS

Introductory

1'i'.l. Under Order 1?, rule 1, the court may, if sufficient cause
be shown, at any stage of the suit, grant time to the D31'tie5 01' any
of them, and may, from time to time, adjourn the hearing of the
suit. There is a proviso, now almost a century old,' under Which,
once the hearing of witnesses commences, it should continue _(exCept
for reasons to be recorded} from day-to--day, until all the wltrlesses
in attendance have been examined. lf one object of this proviso is - to avoid delay, expense and inconvenience, there is a larger object,

namely, to avoid opportunities for perjury and attempts to win over
witnesses. 17.2. In general, rules appljca-blc to the first hearing apply to
every adjourned hearing---though the relevant rule' is not well
drafted, and will require detailed consideration at the appropriate
place. Order 1'7. rule 1

17.3. Frequent adjournments of case pose serious problems. As
an ideal, the great majority of cases should be disposed of on the
day originally ﬁxed for hearing. But this ideal is rarely achieved.
Several factors necessitate adjournments. It. is not necessary to go
into those factors here. From the legal point of view, the broad
situations are the following:--- {a) Where more than the average number of cases set down
for trial on a day proves. to be effective and to require
trial, some of them have normally to be given later trial
dates. Such adjournments should not be long. The fact
that on a particular day a number of cases have to be ad. journed shows lack of care in the organisation of the
business of the court. (b) Sometimes, the court has time to try the case, but the
parties themselves desire adjournment. Such adjourn- ments with consent can be avoided. if the members of the
Bar cooperate with the court in the efﬁcient and expeditious
disposal of business. (C) Sometimes, a case is substantially heard, and then ad-
journed at the end of the day. Adjournments may be um-
avoidable in such situations, and all that can be suggested
is that the time likely to be taken should be estimated
as accurately as possible. 1. See Section 158, Code of Civil Pmeedure, 1882. 2. Order 17, rule 2. I57

in-"in

17.4. While studying the question of adjorr-nments, a distinc-
tion should, therefore, be drawn betv.-'ee11 ti) adjouiiiments where
cases are not reached at all on the day ﬁxed for hearing, (ii) adjourn-
merits after less t.han a full da_v"s h§a1"ing, and (iii)
after a substantial day's hea.ring_ The recommendation below
been made. bearing this aspect in mind. has

Order 17, rule 1(2), Proviso

1'15. Order 1?', rule 1(2), proviso, enacts that when the hearing
of evidence has once begun hearing of the suit shall be continued
from da}r~to--clay. In practice however, this provision is rarely
observed.' The need for recoiiding evidence
iy_was emphasised in the earlier Report," and the practice which
prevails in England was referred to. It is obviously desirable as was
observed in the earlier Report that evidence should he recorded
continuously without any break, except in very exceptional circum-
stances. l'i'.6. We agree with the above approach. Further. we are of the
view that Order 1?, rule 1(3). proviso, should be made more restric-
tive, by express amendment. The time has come for enacting speciﬁc
and positive restrictions in this respect; and, in particular, once the
stage of evidence has been reached, an adjournment should be

granted only for unavoidable reasons. That, indeed. is the spirit of

the existing rule; but we would like to give it express recognition.
We would,'in the interest of expedition, also like to impose a few
other restrictions on the grant of a_djDurnme'nts. The restrictions

which we propose will be evident ﬁprn the draft which we give _

below. Recommendation
17.7. We recommend, therefore; that the existing proviso to

Order 1'1', rule 1(2), should be revised, as follows:w-- where the illness of 4:1 pleoder or his inability to conduct
the case for any reason other than his being engaged in
another court 'is put forth as :1 ground for adjournment, the

(la) (d)

._ Hth Rep-art. '\-'ul. 1, page 3li.'J.
. 27th. Report. page 15, para. 31. l 2 adj ournmcrits'

continuous- - .- court shall, before grant-ing the adjournment, consider
whether the party applying for adjournment could not
have engaged another pleader in time; (e) where a witness is present but :1 party or his plea.- der is not present or, though present, is not ready
to examine or cross-examine the witness, the
court may, if it thinks ﬁt, record the statement of the wit-
ness, and pass such orders as' it thinks ﬁt dispensing with
the examination-ion-chief or cross-examination of the wit-
ness, as the case may be. by the *pt1?'ty or pteader not pre-
sent or ready as aforesaid." . I . e..,,...,.._..... 7. ,

Cnaeraa 18

HEARING OF THE SUIT AND EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES
Introductory

18.1. On the day ﬁxed for the hearing of the suit, the party having
the right to begin is to state his case and to produce his evidence in
support of the issues which he wants' to prove; the other party can
then state his case and produce his evidence, and may then address
the Court generally on the whole case. The party beginning will,
then reply generally on the whole case. This topic--¢he statement and
production of evidence»--and the mode of examining witnesses and
recording their evidence is the subjeetmatter of Order 18. Most of
the questions under this Order arise not from any conﬁiet of deci-
sions, but from practical needs. Order 18, rule 3A (examination of pa.rty)--[New rule]

18.2. We shall first refer to an important point regarding exami-
nation of the parties. The matter was considered in the earlier Report',
but, as we take a different view, we propose to discuss it again. 18.3. The Fourteenth Report" had recommended that ordinarily, a
party who w-ish_es to be examined as a witness should offer himself
ﬁrst, before the other witnesses are examined. The Commission, in
its Report on the Code, however, considered it unnecessary to make
any such statutory provision. It noted that this should be the ordi-
nary rules, but thought that a rigid provision on the subject would
not be desirable. Rqcommendation

13.4. We think that the amendment recommended in the 14th
Report should be carried out. Since the proposed rule will be conﬁned

to ordinary cases, the hardships arising from special features of the '

case, should not present a problem. Having regard to the persistent
and notorious malpractice indulged in by litigants in this respect--
malpractice which borders on dishonesty---we think that the time
has come to insert a statutory provision. Accordingly, we recommend the insertion of the following rule
in order 132- 1. 27th Report'. page 1711. Note [in Order 13, ml; 3,
l:'uiu't-eentli 1ieporl.. Vol. I. page 3340, para TI, last nub-plrn.
Cf. Gm'.-lint Krrirr 1'. P342-fa Si-agile, AIR. 1962 Punj. Iii), 181,
. 180 101 Order 13, rules 5, 3, 9, 13 and 14

18.5. It was noted in the earlier report that the Fﬂuﬂeenth RF-'l301'
had recommended'-' that a provision empowering the Judge to dictate
the 1:erl;>at*-.m record of evidence should be inserted, and the Code of
Civil Procedure should be brought into line with the more elabﬂr-ate
provisions contained in this respect in Section 256 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure. The Commission, 1.'1II:W'&'i-'E'*I', after some consideration, felt that the
existing provisions were adequate. The present wording 'under the
personal direction should, in its view, cover dictation. Point as to tapereoordiag

l8.6. We are, however, of the view" that the matter should be
put beyond doubt. We are, further. of the View that there should be
an express provision to the effect that the evidence should be dictated
directly on the type-writer. Lastly, the law should permit the evi-
dence to be tape-recorded. We recommend an amendment of rule 5,
on all these points. . 18.7. Order 18, rule 8, requires that when the judge does not him-
self take down the evidence, he shall make a memorandum of the
substance of the evidence. Such a memorandum is in addition to the
verbatim record kept under rule 5. This 'dual record' is, in our view,
not necessary where the J udgc takes down or dictates the evidence,
and the rule should, therefore. he modiﬁed, accordingly_

18.8. Under Order 18. rule 13. in nonvappealable cases, a memo-
randum of the evidence is to be written by the Judge. Here also, dic-
tation Should he provided for. Rule 14 (permitting dictation of the
merno1'andL'm where the Judge is unable to make the memorandum
himself in appropriate cases} should, in consequence, be omitted,

Recommendation

18.9 to 18.13. In the result, the following re--drafts of Order 18,
rules 5, 8, 9, 13 and 14 are suggested:-- {ii in Writiﬂﬁ bif. Or in the presence and under the personal
direction and superintendence of, the judge, or (ii) from the dictation of the Judge, dictation. on the type-
writer. or (b) recorded mechanically in the_tanguage'o_f the Court in the
presence of the Judge." 1. 271511 Report, pages 170. 1'71, 172, note on Order 18, rule 5. 2. 14th ltepoit, Vol. I, Pages 344. 345, para. 59.
6')'. l-it}. Report, Vol. I. page 344, para. 90. Revised Order 18, Rule 8

"8. Where the evidence is not taken down in writing by the judge,
or from his dictation in the open. court, or recorded mechanically -in
his presence, he shall be bound, as the "examination of each witness
proceeds, to make a memorandum of the substance of what each wit-
ness deposes, and such memorandum shall be written and signed by
the Judge and shall form part of the record." Redraft of Order 18, Rule 9

"9. Where English is not the language of the Court, but all the
parties to the suit who appear in person, and the pieaders of such
of the parties as appear by pleaders. do not object to having such
evidence as is given in English being taken down in English, the
judge may so take it down or cause it to be tal-:_'en down." Revised Order 18, Rule 13

"13. In' cases in which an appeal is not allowed, it shall not be
necessary to take down or dictate or 'record the evidence of the wit-
ness at length; but the judge, as the examination of each witness pro-
ceeds. shall make, or dictate directly on the typewriter, or cause to
be mechanically «recorded, a memorandum of the substance of what
the witness deposes, and such memorandum shall be signed by the
J udge or otherwise authent-icated, and shall form part of the record." [Order 18, rule 14, to be omitted]. Order 18, Rule 17A

18.14. A situation sometimes arises where, after the close of the
evidence -of a party's witnesses. fresh evidence is discovered which
was not within the knowledge of the party. The question may arise
whether the partjv can produce that evidence. The answer should be
yes',

18.15. The Code has no speciﬁc provision on the point, and the
matter is governed by practice. Under the Evidence Act , the order'
in which witnesses are to be produced and examined, depends on the
law relating to procedure. and. in the absence of a law, by the dis-
cretion of the Court. The Code of Civil Procedure also contains pm.
visions' permitting the Court to caller recall witnesses. And the
widewording of the relevant rules,----cg. the words "at any time" in
Order 18, rule 14-., and the words "at any stage of the suit" in Order
18, rule l'?,--suggests that the policy of the Code is to leave a wide
discretion to the Court". 13.16. It is felt that a speciﬁc provision dealing with the situation
described above, would be useful. In the rule dealing with additional
evidence in the appellate Court, we are recommending the insertion
of a provision permitting the production of additional evidence which
was not within the party's knowledge at the time when the decree
was passed. A similar provision, cove-ririg the stage before the decree
was passed, would be desirable. it would minimise the number of
applications for additional evidence in the appellate Court. 1. Section 136, Evidtenct-. Act-. 2. Order iii. Rule 14; Under 18, rule 17. , 3. Sea Madkulm' 7. Amrhailai, A.I.R.. 1947 Born. 156 {case under Order 18. rule ]7]_ , 163 Recommcndatiun

18.1'? Accordingly, we recommend that the follmaring new rule
should be inserted in Order IE-:---- CHAPTER 19

AFFIDAVITS

Introductory

19.1. While the oral examination of witnesses in Court is dealt
with under Order 18, the next Order---Order 19-wempowers the Court
at any time. "for sutﬁcient reason", to order that any particular fact
or facts may be proved by affidavit, or that the afﬁdavit of any witness
may be read at the hearing, on such conditions -as the court thinks
reasonable. But, if either party bona. fide desires to cross-examine the
witness, an order authorising the witness to give evidence by affidavit
cannot be made. 19.2. It is now well settled that in the absence of any agreement
between the parties and in the absence of an order made by a Court
under Rule 1 of Order 19 of the Code of Civil Procedure , and except
in cases in which an Order is made for examination by interrogato-
ries or before a Commissioner the witnesses at the trial should be
examined viva. voce and in open Court'. This rule is modiﬁed by Order 19. There are also other provisions
where, in speciﬁc instances", the Court is expressly permitted to act
upon affidavits. 19.3. In general, the litigating public in India does not seem ta
have taken kindly to affidavits, and the words "for sufficient reason" {2} Order 39, rulo l. 3. -Cf. jiatni Waseppa T. .S-umni.-i{u:1.!.;1.[.R. 1959 Iyl. 139 [Some Hath Iyer J.). 4-'. Crmrren 20
JUDGMENT AND DEGREE

Introductory

20.1. Under Order 20, after the case has been heard, the Court
should pronounce juudgment, which should contain 'a concise state-
ment of case, the points for determination, the decision thereon and
the reasons for the decision. The Court must state its ﬁnding or deci-
sion on every issue. unless the ﬁnding upon one or more of them is
suﬂicient for the decision of the case. 20.2. Under the scheme of the Code', on a jcdgment a decree is
to follow. Thereare detailed provisions as to what the decree should
contain in general, as well as provisions for several types of decrees.
The guiding principle behind these provisions. is that _the decree should
be self--contained and capable of execution without referring to any
other documents or, as has been stated", the decree is the "n1ounth-
piece of the suit in its immediate result". _'

Order 20, rule 

20.3. In the earlier Report', -a point relevant to Order 20, rule 2,
was discussed. Order 20, rule 2 provides that a Judge may pronounce a judg-
ment, written but not pronounced by his predecessor. The Commis-
sion noted that though the word used is "may", one View is that the
rule casts a duty on the succeeding Judge, and it is mandatory upon
the succeeding Judge to pronounce the judgment written by his pre-
decessor, and he cannot re-open the whole matter'. But a contrary
'.'i€'W has been taken in some cases. The former View is based on the
ground, that the Legislature did not intend to leave an uncontrolled
and unregulated discretion to the succeeding J udge, and that a duty
is cast on the Judge to pronounce a judgment in the interests of the
public and to save time. The view taken by the Commission was that the provision seems
to confer a power [and not a duty) but the Code also contemplates
that the power should ordiniaril_v be exercised. It considered it un-
necessary to insert any rigid rule, No change was. therefore, suggested. T. F,-'f. section 2(2) . definition and section 33 of" decree". 2. Rrlnjit v. Iilrrhi. 1'13-83] I.L.R. All. 52!'). 52? {Stuart L'-.J,.fI. 3. 27th R-uplirt, note on Order 2'}. rule 2. _ 4. {rt} 3'. V-mimics-u 'I'. N. S'ur-gmmryanrs, A.I.R. 1959 Anrlhra. Pradesh 16 :fD,H.'.; iii} 2::;zrg';r2-ilrt 1'. _-Ni1£1'£.'L'|'?-"?,'i'!«1',l', I.L.R. 14 Rangoon 136; .°L.l_R-. I936 Rangmln 147, 149
i -B-): ing judge to pronounce the judgment in such case. This will avold
unnecessary delay. We, therefrzrc. recommend that instead of the
word "'mav", the word "shall" should be substituted in Order 20, rule 2.

Order 20, rule 5-A (New)--judg'ment to inform parties of rizht oi

appeal

20.5. In order to acquaint unrepresented litigants with theiighl
of appeal against a judgment adverse to them, it would be desirable
to have a suitable provision to the effect that the judgment should
indicate the Court of appeal and the time limit for appealing. 29.6. It may be of interest to note that the Fundamentals of Civil
Procedure in the l.T.S.S_R.' pI'f.'Vld£'&-- Order 20, r. 6, and registered address--R.ecommendation

20.9. The question whether a provision should be inserted to the
effect that the decree" should mention the address for service {conse-
quential on the proposed addition of a rule requiring a pleading to
be accompanied by the registered address). was considered in the
27th Report". but no amendment was regarded as necessary. We think
that the decree should contain it. We, therefore_. recommend that
Order 20, rule 6(1} should be revised as follows:---- 1. Article 37 , Fitndamoiitals of flicil Procedure of the U.S.S.R. and the Unlon Replillliﬂ

1961. 2. 271;}; Report, page 1'7] , not. on 0- 20, 1-. ti, and registered address. Order 20, r. EA [new]----(Last paragraph of the jllﬂﬁlﬂeﬂt)

20.10. Under Order '20.; rule 6, a judgment has to_ followed bit'
a- decree," which is the "formal expression" of th_e adgudgcation of the
Court. The Code does not contemplate a lone interval between the
judgment and decree. But, in practice. the interval turns out to be
long, with the result that the ﬁlling of an appeal against the decree
is delayed, because an appeal has to be accompanied by a Copjrof
the decree'. We think that this delay could be avoided if a provision
is inserted to the effcct that the last paragraph of the ]'|.1dﬂIT'1E'Y1t
should be framed as precisely as a decree, so that it 'can be used
for the purposes of appeal. We had. in our Questionnaire". inserted
a question on the subject, and the suggestion has been generally
favoured. 20.11. This last paragraph of the judgment could. we think, he
used also for the purpose of execution, (though this aspect was not
mentioned in our Questionnaire). Recmnmendatlan

20.12. Accordingly. we recommend that a new rule should be
inserted in Order 41. as follows'.-- quired to apply for a copy of the judgment." 20.13. We now turn to a minor matter concerning the copies. of
judgments. Where the judgment is typed. it would be desirable if
carbon or xerox copies of the judgment are made available on pay.
ment of prescribed charges. We recommend. accordingly. that the
following rule should be inserted as Order 20, rule 6B:-- 1. Urder 41, rule 1, 2. Question 2|}. Order 20, Rule 11

20.14. Order 20, 1'L.'--le 11, which deals with instalments in case of
money decrees, consists o[ two parts. Under sub--rule (1), the _C0111f't
can, for suflicient reason, order that the money be paid his' 11}5l31'
ments, or may order postponement of recovery. '_I'h_1s power is to
be exercised by passing a separate order', unless it is incorporated 111
the decree. We think. that is more convenient if it is iaid down that---- (i] the order should be incorporated in the decree"; (ii) the power is exercised after hearing the parties who have
apnearcd personally or by pleacler at the last hearing
before t.he judgment. Sub-rule (2) of this rule authorises the court to make an order
for payment by instalments after the decree. But this requires con-
sent of the deerec--holder_ With reference to this sub-rule, it may be
noted that some local amendments" provide. that where the court
pmtioses to pass an order for payment by iiistalments, the decree-
hc-.1der shall be given an opportunity of being heard, but his consent
should not be required. One result of such an amendment would
be. that the court has to exercise a judicial discretion, and the order
would be appealable under section 47, as has been held in cases
under the similar Madras Amendment'. '

20.15. The Commission, in its earlier Report" considered the
question, whether such a change need be made. It took the View that
the present provision is a good and just one. We agree with this
view. Recommendation

20.15. In the result. the only amendment required is in sub--rule
{1} of Order 20. Rule 1]. It should be revised as follows:_

"{1} Where and in so far as a decree is for the payment of
money. the Court may, for any sutﬁcient reason, and after
hea1°in._q such of the parties as were present at the last
hearing, direct by its decree that payment of the amount
decreed shall be postponed, or shall be made by instal-
ments. with or without interest, notwithstanding anything
contained in the contract under which the money is pay-
able." J. .l".**n;-:1:-ti'): V. Firum Jfrzl. .l.l.P.',. I928 Lali. 931. Till-.= will I1'l.-'l.l{!.'-/ll" amnr-.a|::l1|e as part of deer:-r-. '-titre .'~Iadra.s anrl '.\":i-.:psIr- -imenrlnl-?:1ts. 2'-5Ttli Report, tisice l'i"-3. Note on Orrlnr 2|}, Rule 11.
27th B:-port pa.iz_c 172. El. Nci. 28 (in answer to Qtiestimt 29]. ?'F":*":"'.'~T'

T

_..-a -...-...g---..-1

mn- L'? 20,13, It should, however, be pointed _out that the power to
pass a preliminary" decree directing an inquiry as to H1953}? P1"°ﬁl55"'
which is the procedure laid down in Order 20, rule l2{c}--1s a useful
one. Of course, it is not obligatory' in law~--see the word 'may' 111
Order 20, rule 12. But as possession will be delivered after the decree,
the proﬁts for the interval have naturally' to be P1'0Vid_|'-'Cl fﬂri and
since the parties do not furnish the material for calculating the pro-
ﬁts, it becomes necessary to grant time. acceptance of the Suggestion,
thelrefore, is not recommended, as it W111 not be of much practlﬂal
uti ity. Order 20, Rule 12]! {New)-----Execution of document or endorsement
of a negotiable instrument

21.19. Under Order 21. rule 34, where a decree is for the execu-
tion of a document or for the endorsement of a negotiable 1nstru~
ment. and the judgment-debtor neglects or refuses to obey the decree.
the d-ecree--holder may prepare a draft of the document or endorse-
ment in accordance with the terms of the decree, and deliver the
same to the court. The court shall, thereupon, cause the draft to'be
served on the judgment-debtor, together with a notice requiring his
objections (if any) to be made within such time as the court ﬁxes in
this behalf. Where the judgment--debtor objects to thedraft, his ob-
jections are to be stated in writing within such time, and the Court
shall make such order approving or-ialtering the draft, as it thinks
ﬁt. The rule, then contains elaborate provisions as to further action. 20.20. Further, as regards suits for speciﬁc performance of con-
tracts for the sale or lease of immovable property, the Speciﬁc Relief
Act provides'- 20.21. An elaborate' provision regarding the decrees for speciﬁc
performance of contracts for sale or lease of immovable property was
suggested in an earlier Report" of the Law Commission. The recom-
mendation there was to the effect, that complete relief (such as, pos-
session, etc. I'e_Scission. refund of-earnest money, etc.) in such a suit
should' be available by application -in the suit itself (instead of in
execution as at present), and that appropriate provision should be
made in the Civil Procedure Code enabling such applications to he
made and orders thereon and also for appeals, 1. Section 23(3), Speciﬁc Relief Act, 1953, 2. 'Jill Report [Speciﬁc Relief Act}, pages 40-41, 42, para. 81, read with pages 6----IT,
para 35. ! I ' _ - =

n .,..;t .. .......,........ .._._.._. 2[],2?,_ The matter was considered in the 2?th Report, where it was

noted'-- vision which is required is to the effect that the decree
should specify the period fdr payment of the purchase-
money or other amount due under the decree." Order 20, Rule 1523, (New)

20.23. We are of the view that where the decree orders the execu- tion of a document or --for the endorsement of a negotiable instru-
ment, the proceedings for signing the document etc., should be
completed in the very suit in which the decree is passed? Recommendation

be

20.24. Accordingly, we recommend that the following rule should
added in Order 20 as" rule 12B. - e

[0]. 0.21, R. 34(1)]

"12-B. (1) Where the Court passes a decree for the execution
of a document or for the endorsement of a negotiable ins-
trument, and the judgment-debtor neglects "or refuses to
obev the -decree; all subsequent proceedings provided for
in this rule shall take 'place in the suit. - [:C'_f. 0- 21, R. 34:2]; (2) The decree--ho1der may. on such neglect or failure by the
judgment-debtor, prepare a draft of the document or en-
dorsement in accordance with the terms of the decree and
deliver the same to the Court. [c_r. 0.21, R. 34(3)] . (3) The Court shall thereupon cause the draft to he served on
the judgment-debtor, together with a notice requiring his
objections (if any) to he made within time as the Court
ﬁxes in this behalf. - ' . [C[f. 0.21, R. 34(4)]

(4) Where the judgment-debtor objects to the draft, his objec-
tions shall he stated in writing within such time, and the
Court shall make such order approving or altering the
draft. as it thinks -ﬁt, - 1. 27th Report, page-172, note on Order 20. rule 12. 2. Cum scqiiently, Order 21, rule 34 should be deleted.
3' As to Under 20, rule 123;, see 27th Report, page 53 and page 172. n...n._p»-u -.-----:-..- -r

'\- I.
: ing form, name1y:-- '

"C.D., Judge of the Court of

(or as the case may be) for A.B., in a suit by E.F. against

A.B."'. and shall have the same effect as the execution of

the document or the endorsement of the negotiable instru- ment by the party ordered to' execute or endorse the same.
[67, 0.21, R. 34{B]} _ ' '

(7) The Court. or such oﬂicer as it may appoint in this behalf,
shall cause the document to be registered if its registration
is required by the law forthe time being in force or the
decree-holder desires to have it. registered, and may make
such order as it thinks fit as to thepayment of the expenses
of the registration. MfB{D)21ﬂi\Inf[J&CA---12s

, .. ,..,. ......._ .._ . Cnarrnn 21
EXECUTION ,

Introduction
21.1 Order 21 contains detailed rule as to the execution of
decrees. . The body of the Code itselfdeals with certain matters relating
to execution'. But the detailed procedure is dealt with in Order 21.
Payments and adjustments of amounts due under a decree must be
certiﬁed to the Court to avoid controversies later on. Various modes
of execution are provided for. In practice, attachment and sale are
the most common. " ' ' ' '

The rules require an application-for execution to be-in writing,
and in the prescribed form. Most movables are attached by seizure
effected by a process-server under the authority of a warrant; im-
movables are attached by an order served on 'the judgment-debtor,
forbidding him to deal with them. Ifthe property -is not susceptible
of actual seizure from the possession of the jud ent debtor--if, for
instance, it is a debt payable to-the ﬁqdgrnent ebtor--a prohibitory
order is served on the person in possession or controls. 21.2. Attachment may be followed by an application for its remo-
val by a third party, and the present rules require a summary in-
quiry and order, which may be followed by a suit to establish the
right denied in the summary proceedings. Before attached property is sold, notice must be given to the
parties, and a proclamation issued containing the particulars prescri-
bed. The proclamation must be posted on the court house, pro-
claimed by heat of drum near the property, and the court may re-
quire publication in a newspaper. The proclamation gives the date
of sale, which must be at least ﬁfteen days in the case of movables,
and thirty in the case of immovables after the proclamation has
been published. The sale is usually an auction conducted by the
bailiff, an oﬁicer of the court in charge of property under the con-
.tI'01 Of the 601111. and of the process serving staff. The bailiﬁ has a
discretion to refuse the highest bid or postpone the sale. In the case
of movables, the property passes at the fall of the hammer but the
rules governing the sale of immovables are more elaborate. The
Judgment-debtor may secure postponement of the sale if he can

satisfy the court that he may: be able to raise the
money to satisfy the decree by 'sale, lease, or mortgage
of the attached property, or otherwise. If the property- is knocked down, the succe f 1 Hold ' ' d '

one-fourth of the sale price ﬁnd hds ﬁlter: ldaaliylél lghggerfoigi °n§y
the balance. The judgment-debtor may still save his property if wIi)th3: *-1'v'!'!'.¥ '- i'!-'i 173 one-twentieth of the sale price, Any erson interested may_move to
set aside the sale for material irregu arity or fraud in pub11sh1ng'or
conducting the sale, and the successful bidder may apply to set_as1de
the sale because the judgment--debtor had no saleable interest in the
property, but, failing a successful appflicatlon of the kind ilﬁdlﬂllfﬁd.
the sale is conﬁrmed by the court, which may order the purchaser
to be put in possession. Resistance by the Judgment-dehtor 01'_3_I1Y
other person acting on his behalf may be p'uIi1shed by civil imprison-
rnent, but a person unconnected with the Judgrnent-debtor and 111
possession on his own account who has been evicted may_app1y, to
be reinstated. ' ' M '

Order 21, rule 2, and limitation , _

21.3. A point relating to limitation for applications -under Order
23, rule 2, was discussed in the earlier Report', and should be-men-
tioned here. The period of limitation for an application for certiﬁcation of
payment or adjustment is 30 days under the Limitation Act, 1963 , article 125. Since the provision in the. Civil Procedure Code regard-
ing certiﬁcation is now proposedto be made more stringent than at
present (by requiring" -that the payment should be in the manner
provided in Order 21, rule 1 as proposed to be amended or that the
adjustment should be proved by documentary evidence}; it was con-
sidered that a longer period should be allowed. It was, accordingly,
recommended that the period -should-' be increased to 90 days". The
14th Report' recommended that the period should be deleted, but it
was not considered necessary to go so far. While we agree that the neriod should be longer, we think that
60 days should suffice, and we recommend"_ that the Lirnitation Act

should be amended accordingly." ' _
Order 21, rule 2(2) and Sureties c '_ . 21.4, In the earlier Report', it was noted that under the Madras
amendment to Order 21, rule 2, any party to the suit c'an"c'ertifi,r' and
get recorded a payment or edjusmient. Besides. this, by the Madras
amendment, a person who has become a surety-as well aslegal re-
presentatives of the judgment-debtor are also brought under this
rule. These Tarnendrnents were considered in'ethe earlier Report,
but it was felt' that it was unnecessary to adopt them. 21.5. The Commission stated that so far as sureties are concerned.
even now, they fall undertthe rulef.-Sq far as legal representatives
are concerned, section 1 ,46 was adequate, in its opinion; No change
was, therefore, proposed, on these points. 1. :3i'th Report, page 177, note on Order 2], rule :3 and limitation. 2. See 27$]: Report. omendmalt roponani in Order 21, rule 2. 3. If-'f. Limitation Act, 1908, art e17-I. ' 4. 14:}; Report, Vol. I,poge4-14, PM-a.28. _ 5. This wi]lnecessitateamendmentofm-tiole 125,Li1nitotion.Aot19i53. ' 5. 27th Report, [rages 1'74-175. Note on Order 2!, rule 2. 7. {rﬂ Trmril V. Devi, I.L.E. 49 Mod. 325. (El) Dnkormoi 1'. Nriiya, A.I.R. 1923, 'Cal. 313. ._.,..-~. We are, however, of the view" that so far as sureties are concern-
ed, the Madras amendment should" be adopted, so as to make the
position explicit. Recommendation

Accordingly, we recommenduthat in Order 21, rule 2(2), after
the words "The judgment-debtor", the words "or any person who has
become surety for the judgment-debtor" should be added. Order 21, rule 5, Mode of transfer

21.6. Under the earlier half of Order 21, rule 5, where the Court
to which a decree is to be sent for execution is situated within the
same district as the Court which passed such decree, such Court shall
send the same directly to the former Court. Br;-t under the latter half of the rule, where the Court to which
a decree is to be sent for execution is situated in another district,
the decree is to besent through the distinct court. It was noted in the
earlier Report', under local amendments" in casewhere the courts are
situated within the same State. the decree can he sent for execution
to the transferee court directly, instead of through the District Court
as is required by the present rule. The previous Commission, how-
ever, considered that the District Judge would be in a position to
know and check up if the court mentioned is the proper court. and
did not, therefore, favour an amendment. 21.7. We are of the view that the local amendments referred to
above are useful, and we do not think that direct transmission of
papers should, ordinarily. cause any difficulty. We are also of the
view' that in every case of transfer of a decree for exemition (whether
within or without the State), the decree should be sent to the trans-
feree court directly, But the court to which it is sent should, if it
has no jurisdiction, send the papers to the proper court. Recommendation I

21.7A. Accordingly We recommend that Order 21, rule 5, should
be revised as follows: -- - Order 21, rule 11(2)

21.3. Order 21. rule l1{2)(j](i'1) or-ovides for mentioning "attach-
ment and sale" or "sale without attachment" in the application for
execution. It does not expressly mention simple attachment. The local
amendment madﬂ hi? the Bombav High Court adds the words "by; the 1. 27th Report. page [79, note rm u-3], r, 5, . 2. See amendments made by the Allahabad and Bombay High Gum-t,g,

«-4 -175

attachment". Cases of simple attachment may arise when a. decree
or debt or money in the Custody of a public officer, etc.. 15 1:0 be
attached_ It may also be noted, that section 51(b) covers attachment
simpliciter' . '

21.9. The earlier Report" considered it unnecessary to adopt the
Bombay amendment, as the re-siduary clause in rule 11 would suffice.
We think, however, that the Bombay amendment could be usefully
adopted. Recommendation

21.9-A. Accordingly, we recommend that Order 21, rule 11{2)(j)(ii}
should be revised as fol1ows:--- ~

"(ii) by the attachment, or by the attachment and s_ale,,, or
by sale without attachment, of any property." Order" 21, rule 16 - ,

2l.9B. As recommended under" section 146," it is desirable to amend
Order 21, rule 16, to make it clear that it does not affect the pro-
visions of section 146, and a' transferee of rights in the subjectanatter
of the suit can obtain execution of the decree without a separate
assignment of the decree. Recommendation

21.9.0. Accordingly, the insertion of the fol1ou_:_ing,Explanat_ion
below Order 21, rule 16, is recommended:---- ' 1

"Exp-lanation--Nothing in this rule shall aﬁect, the provisions of
section 146, and a transferee of rights? in the property which
is the subject-mdtter of the suit may apply for'e.recution
of the decree without a separate assignment of the decree,
as required by this m1e."'

Order 21 rule 22A

21.10. With reference to execution of decrees, a point concerning
the effect of death of the judgment-debtor was discussed in the earlier
Report'. The ordinary rule is, thatjhe sale of a judgment-debtor's
property after his death, and without bringing his representatives on
record, does not bind his representatives. The Patna High Court has
added iule 22A, to the effect that where property is sold in execution,
the sale shall not be set aside try reason only of the "death of the
judgment-debtor between the date. of issue of the sale proclamation
and the date of sale, notwithstanding the failure to substitute. legal
representatives. But, if the legal representative is prejudiced, the
Court may set aside the sale, The earlier Commission noted the
above position, but considered it_'unne-cessary to adopt the Patna
Amendment. ' ' _ '

.»l1»mtJ'._g,vr.: 1:. Pashujiaii, A.I.R. l95l.Ca,l, -18, 50, para '7. :lTth Report, page 181), note on U . 21. r. 11(2) and Bombay Ameiidment. ,
See discussion as to section 1-16. V

27:11 Report, page 134, note on Order 21, rule 22A Patna. 2'?-'°."'* 116 Recommendation

21.11. It appears to us, however, that such an amendment would
be unobjectionable in principle, and would also reduce delay, and
we recommend insertion of the following as Order 21, rule 22--A:-- Order 21, rule 24(3) '

21.12. Under Order 21, rule 24(3), Ia' process issued by a court {in
execution) should specify the day on or before which it shall be one-
cuted. After the date ﬁxed for return, execution is not valid'. . With reference to this rule, a short point was discussed in the
earlier Report'. The Commission noted that some High Courts had
made local amendments', which remains thatthe day on or before
which the process should be returned, should also be .speciﬁed in
the process. The Commission considered it unnecessary to adopt this
amendment. being of a minor character. Recommendation

21.14. Accordingly, .we recommend that Order 21, rule 24(3),
should be revised as follows:----' _

"{3) In every such process, a dagshall be speciﬁed on or be-
fore which it shall.,be executed, and a day shall also he
speciﬁed on or before whiohit shalt be returned to the
court but no process shalt be deemed to be void if a. day for

' its return is not speciﬁed as required by this rule." _ .- Drder 21, rule 25

21.15. Under Order 21, rule 26(1), the Court to which a decree
has been sent for execution shall, 1.1p'on' sufficient cause being shown,
stay the execution of such degree for " reasonable time. to enable
the judgment-debtor to apply to the. co rt by which the decree was
passed, or to any court having appellate jurisdiction in respect of
the decree or the execution thereof, fo'1'..an order to stay' execution,
or for any other order relating to the decree or execution' which
might have been made by such court of first instance or appellate
court if execution had been issued th .reb1V, or if application for
execution had been made thereto. Underfsub-rule (3) of this rule, the
court may require security ftom the judg"ment--debtor, or imnose
other conditions, before granting stay. 1. See Gurditti v. E-mp. . I.L.R. 55 AlI.l19;A.I.R.1933 All. 46 {Pollen J.}. 2. 27th Roportr, page IHJ, note on the [l- 21, rule 24(3). 3. See also Civil Jiiet-ice Committees Report, {1925}; page 406, paragraph 13, to the same
ct. '

I .__..,..._...u.».... ....\,...--w ..,. \«-I 177 21.16. In the earlier Report, t]1e following observations' were
made with reference to stay (under this rulelzﬂ

"A recornrnendation has been made in the Fourteenth Report' '
to the effect that where a judgement-debtor applies for
stay of execution under this rule, the court shall require
him to furnish security or impose conditions under the
rule, before granting stay. This recommendation was made
in view of the feeling that the courts failed to discrimi-
nate between honest and dishonest judgmentdeh-tors and
thus failed to exercise properly the discretion left to them.
It is, however, considered that the existing provision
should continue, and that making ,it mandatory would
cause hardship. Hence, no change is suggested". We are. however, of the view that the change proposed by the
14th Report is a salutary one, and should be carried out.
Recommendation

21.17. Accordingly, we recommend that Order 21,
should be revised as follower- tution of property' or the discharge of the judgment--debtor,
the court shall require such security from, or impose such
conditions upon, the judgment--debtor as it thinks ﬁt." rule 26(3)

Order 21, rule 29
21.18. Order. 21,_ rule 29, runs as"follows:-- However, it can be provided that ordinarily, before _s_ranting
stay of a money decree. the court shall consider if securlty ought
not he demanded. Recommendation

21.23. to 21.25. In the light of the above discussion, -we recom-
mend the following change in Order 21, Rule 29:- Order 21, rule 34

21.26. Order 21, rule 34 should be deleted, in View of our recom-
mendation" to insert in Order 20 a rule dealing with proceedings for
the execution of a document or for the endorsement of a negotiable
instrument. Order 21. rule 41

21.27. Order 21, rule =11. provides for oral examination of the
judgment--deb-tor in order to ﬁnd out his assets. The Commission in
the earlier Report made a recommendation for the filing of an atti-
davit by the judgment--debtor'. 1.. Ifumsrrtj V. S134'--21.-;Jr»'i.£ri,, .-\.[.R. 1957 Ra-j. 219, (Waueliou (.3.-I". .-ind llavc =3 .)
"2. Cf. t.|1u.- recoiriniendatinns in the 27th Report. 3. See riisottssion as to Order 21}, rule 123 (Prupoed). 4. 27th Report, pages, 188-189, note on Order 21, rule «I-I. - . .,..,..__=._,. ._ . .: It was however, considered unnecessary to make any speciﬁc
provision as to the penalty for failure to make the aﬂidavit in such
cases. The Commission noted that the Evershed Committee had sug-
gested' that the notice should be endorsed with a "penalty notice" The earlier Commission, however, considered it necessary to
adopt these amendments, as it was felt that where the execution
application is dismissed {for default), the attachment must cease. It appears to us that there is need for a clariﬁcation; and we are
further of the view" that cessation of the attachment should "not be
automatic. It is more convenient if the provision istor the effect that
the attachment should continue uI1l:.f."! otherwise ordered. '

Recommendation

21.32. Accordingly. we recommend that Order 21, rule 57. should
be revised as follows: -- Order 21, rule 58

21.33. With reference to Order 2l,srule 58, the earlier Report" dis-
cusssed a number of points. Of these, the position regarding one 'of_
them has been further examined. .'I'h¢_Rep0rt considered the question
of making an express provision as to whether the proceedings under
rule 58 et seq and the decisions given thereon will be binding as
between the judgment-debtor and a third party claimant. The answer
to that question, it was stated, would depend on the question,--_who
are the parties to suit. and what are the matters raised therein?'

We have examined the position -and, it appears to us that the
view taken in the earlier Report" needs no change. 1. (If. the Amenriment:-. made by the High Courts of Calcutta, Manirss. I Nagpur, Patna
etc. 2. Sec (Li vii J11st.Eci- Committee{1!l25}. Rs-port, page -1 01"}. para 22. 3. 27th R-sport-_. page 198. _ 4. Reference was ma-dc to A.I.R. 1957 21.1'. 61. 5. For 3 recent decision, see I.L.R. (1966) ]; All» I01, 103. Urder 21. rule 66

21.34. A point concerning Order 21, rule 66, which was discussed
in the earlier Report' requires consideration. A recommendation had been made in the 14th Report" to the effect
that to avoid the difficulties caused by mistakes in the estimated
Value of the property as stated in the proclamation of sale, rule 66
should be amended on the lines of the Patna Amendment, so as to
provide (in effect) that the court should state merely the estimated
value of the property, if any, as iven by the parties, and insert a
statement that it does not vouch or the accuracy of either. It was
considered by the Commission in the Report on the Code that it
would be sufficient to adopt a simpler amendment, namely, that -the
proclamation should merely contain a statement that the estimated

value is stated. Recommendation

21.35. We agree with the view taken in the earlier Report on the
Code, but we would suggest a small drafting change in the draft
amendment suggested in that Report. Accordingly, we recommend that the following proviso should be
added below Order 21, rule 66(2)(e):-- tion to the amount than due for principal, interest
and costs on the mortgage. (3) in other respects, the provisions of sub-rules (2) and '3)
of rule "F2 shall apply in relation to purchase by t e
decree-holder under that rule." - Order 21, rule 89----period of limitation

21.40. An application to set aside a sale on deposit under Order
21, rule 89, has to be/made within thirty days of the date of sale.'
It has been stated that this period roves to be too short in practice,
and often causes hardship inasmu as the judgment debtor cannot
arrange for moneys within that time. Banks take a far longer period
than one month in sanctioning advances, and it has been suggested
that the period should, therefore, be increased. We ﬁnd some force
in this suggestion, and are inclined to accept it. No doubt, the law
should take into account the position of the' purchaser also; but,
since ﬁve per cent" of the purchase money has to be paid to him
under the rule, no serious prejudice is likely to be caused to him
by an increase in the waiting period. 21.41. Since section 5 , of the Limitation Act does not apply to g

applications in execution, a change in the law is needed if the above
hardship is to be removed. 1. Order 21, H-ulv 72. 2. Iﬁmitation Act, IQE3, article 127. J

Ijleave to bid is granted to such mortgagee, then the Court ' -. i 1 >'-.*- *0'riIe; 212 I'I'I1é-.+":"'='c"'.'.*':*1!%I?*I'*'It = »- 5: . _to the conclusion that the rg¢og'1i' '
. on- the Code, ' 135 As to the d1rection"£1i"4.t#1iréI!i" tiie ihi%i'r"s1hdo'1a ﬁe a=naénded,'r1&ia're
are two alternatives. One-.altcIrn&tiv¢.'is .-to;give the court a power
to extend the period of limitatic:e1,.;eubjm:t.,: of course to some maxi-
mum. The second alternative would be,to increase the period--30
days--to, say, sixt:,'r'da':,rs_. The ﬁrst'd1terﬂativ'e'cou'Itl"l5'é achieved by
inserting aiproviso soilnewhatlpn the 'following lines'- The second alternatitre couidilzie achieved by amending. articie

1-2?l-Ibf the- Limitatiion Act -.-"We. prefe-1*'the second alternative,-which
»i.-?.sirnP1oer_ '=-*- - : = . . 21.42. Although the-problem .has. arisen with reference to appli-
cations 'by the 'judgment-debtor,--t11e=iune:iiied'5:eriod. has to cover all
applications, (i.e. those'unde1i'0rdcr'i31,-<rl1le.9[]~91 also), 'because
after the proposed amen _ ,nt,_the court will have to wait in every
'case for,the'increasedi',1jerii') ']oét_o-;~e__p_ti:iﬁrn1_in,-g the sale.'

: 1:' - v -'

Reeommendetioo ' 'm

.. p »a_ = -_ '
 "-21.'12ﬁ..---.$COOI'd1'.l1g1}"[:- wearocomlninﬂ thetdn the Lirnitation Act,
1963, in the Schedule, in the-second-.oo1u.mn, -against-entry 127, tor
the words "thirty days", the worddéiei-xty days" should be substi-
tuted.' _

 .+. - an .,:;.f 5' '" Order 21, Rule 92(3)

2l.4'f. The question whether an auction purchaser at a court auc- tion, on ﬁnding that the ju { ' nt debtor has no saleable interest in
the property sold, has a» ri t to sue for a refund of the urchase
money on the ground of fai ore of consideration, has pr to be a
controversial one. 1. 27th Report, page 206. note on Order 21. 2, qr. Order 21, rule as. 'u.-._ -nu --<- Three different shades of View prevail on the subject---
(1) No such right is available. (2) Such right is available. _
(3) Such right is available, but only on limited grounds,

21.48. The ﬁrst shade of View is represented by a full Bench deci-
sion of the Andhra Pradesh High {;our-t,' which holds that the auc-
tion-purchaser cannot, after the conﬁrmation of the sale, maintain
an application for setting aside the sale on the ground that the judg-
ment-debtor had no saleable interest in the property sold." Referring to Order 21, rule 92, the Court held that alter the sale
is conﬁrmed, and had become absolute, the auction-purc'hascr is pre-
cluded frorn bringing a suit to set aside the order conﬁrming the
sale. It was also held that -Order 21, rule 93 empowers the purchaser
to apply for payment only in cases where the sales are set aside
under rule 92. Here the rule diﬁers from section 315 of the Code of
1882 (its predecessor}, which contained the provision that even when
it was found that the judgment-debtor had no saleable interest in
the property sold, the purchaser could receive back his purchase
money. This was omitted in_ rule 93. The Court held that--- (a) There is no scope for invoking the doctrine of "money had
and received" since it could not be postulated that the
executing creditor received money which he had no right
to do, and,_ by a legal fiction, the receipt by him was for
the use of the plaintilf. {b} If no one had guaranteed the title of the Judgment-debtor
to the property sold under a legal process and the pur-
caser had purchased only the judgment-de~btor's interest
therein for what it wag worth it could not be predicted
that there was any failure of 'consideration for the urehase
of that, or that the judgment-creditor either unjust 3* or in-
equitably had withdrawn the amount de sited by the
purchaser. The question of failure of consi ration would
arise only if there 'was a convenant of title. In the absence
of it, the principle of money had and received would be
inapplicable, and the suit for return of money cannot be
sustained on that ground. (c) "Sales in invitum" do not involve a covenant of title.
[d] The -purchaser accepts the property with its risks, and the
rule of "caveat emptor" applies, to these cases. (e) As a necessary corollary, he has no right of recovery of
the purchase price, except as contemplated by the provi-
sion; of -Ondew: 21, Rule 91 read with rule 93. 1. .%'urynJcrrnr1tr::n.mrr v. Domgya, A.I.R. 1965 LP. 239 [F.B.]. 2. To the some elfact. is Ngzrgptm P1'll_tzi v. Gopuhn, A.I.'E. 1967 Ker. 145.
L{B\'D)229Moi' LJ.&;C'.A--1-1(3)

188'

21.4813. The Court thought that p:-ritapsi the reason why the
legislature (in enacting the Code .of; M-Z|,{]$)_,_th<_)a_1,ght it ﬁtto take away
the remedy of suit and to limit the scope of the relief envisaged
was that the right of suit invo1vc"s»deLa'y_.'=uncertainty -and often
hardships to execution creditors, andgthat the quick.and.inexpen-
sive remedv provided by the said rules aﬁord adequate 'and equi-
table relief: to the purchaser, by iligwing h_.i.I_n to get out of the diﬂi- culty before the conﬁrmation of L . ,_ g T.

Brit the rjg'ht to recover 'the'au'd{ion--fJrice inbrease of'fr:itid'a!t1d

t misrepresentationﬁwhich had' indlhcecfithe puridhaser to"Hﬁ'wr pro- perty, stands on a diiferent fooiifig,' sales" were -hé51'd*'to=£ai11
outside Order 21, and would be within the provisions of the Indian
Contract Act . T " " " ' ' 

21.48B. As regards the second shade of view, reference may ;be
made to a Madras Full-Bench case,-'.:3.vhich strikes -a divergent note,
R-amesam J., (who delivered the -judgment of the Ful1»i._Beh1ch),
observed: - - - t = : , 'Io - . " ;..; » ;.L, j; following sub-rules

.. . . ,..,.. ........ ..- . H "V

'-1 190 Order 21, Rule 102

21.50. With reference to Order 21, Rule 102, the earlier Report'
discussed one point. Order 21, Rule 102 provides that nothing in rules
99 and 101 shall apply to resistance or obstruction etc. by a person
to whom the judgment-debtor has transferred the property after
the institution of the suit in which the decree was passed or to the
dispossession of any such person. The earlier Commission noted that
the words "a person to whom the judgment-debtor has transferred
the property" had created a conﬁict as to whether an involuntary
sale is caught by these words. One View is that they are caught. 3"'

It has also been held that the proper remedy of such a person is
to raise the matter under section 47, and that he has no locus stundi
to maintain an application under rule 100 or to sue under rule 103.'-5

A contrary view, however, has been taken by the Patna High
Court," on the ground that since o-ld section 333 of the Code of 1882
was adopted at a time when the doctrine of tits pendent: had not
been extended to a transfer in execution, rule 102 cannot be given the
extended interpretation which section 52 of the Transfer of Property
Act had received. 21:51. The previous Commission-, however, did not suggest _a
change. as it was of the opinion that the former view could prevail. Recommendation

21.51A. We agree with the previous Commission that the wider
view will prevail, but we would like to codify the view. Accordingly,
we recommend that the following explanation should be inserted be-
low Order 21, Rule 102- Order 21, Rule 103

21.52. Under Order 21, rule 103, a party (not being a judgment-
debtor} against whom an order is made under rule 98, rule 99, or' rule
101, may institute a suit to establish the right which he claims to
the possession of the property; 'out, abject to the result of such suit,
if any. the order shall be conclusive. The period of limitation for such
suit is one year'. Now, the question to be considered is, whether it
is necessary to institute a suit within one year, or whether a decision
in a pending suit can be availed of. if it involves the same question.
. 27th lleport, page 22119. note on 0rdm' 3], Rule 102. Nageodru North 1'. Ram Kriahaua, .~LI.R. 1960 Cal. 209. . Bepiw Uha.1idra- v. Hem. chanatra, A.I.B. 1939, Cu]. 709. Hiram. Ckrrnd v. .M'oo10fw:nd. A.I.B.. 1934 Lah. 457. . Rnjoru!-nam. v. Shaikh Hans. Bi, A.I.R. 1926 Mad. 968. . ( rt) Hrrriher Pmsad v. Lokhoitlal, A.]I.I-t. 1935 Pat. 230. {5} Hum: Darya Pmsad Roe v. Krishna Boo, I.L.R. 24 Put. ems; A.I.B.. 1943 Par. 134. 7- Article 1l,Limit-:I-tio11Aot, Iﬁﬂﬂmidoorrecponlhigartiole 1'.nt|1ol9ﬁ3Aet. Gimgamgaw

/. 'L

. "'-.r""x -- - v 191 According to one view, the policy underlying Order 21. 131119 103. Civil
Procedure Code is to have speedy settlement of the C11-1*'-'5t1°n Of W91'?
raised in execution----sales, and what m_akes the order conclusive
under Order 21, rule 103, is not the failure to institute a suit, but the
failure to have the right established. Where a suit or an appeal al-
ready ﬁled by the claimant is pending at the time vrhen an order
under Order 21, rule 98, C.P.C _ dismissing his claim is made, it is
not, according to this view, obligatory to ﬁle a suit under Order 21.
rule 103. Two single Judges' decisions of the Madras High Court'-" took
this view, holding that the institution of a suit under Order 21, rule
103, is not the only remedy against the Order under Order 21, rule
98, and that the rule only contemplates the establishment of a_ right
to the property to supersede the order. But these decisions, 1t has
been stated'' should be deemed to have been over-ruled by the Full
Bench decision of the Madras High Court,' which has held that the
provisions of Order 21, rule 103, are mandatory. and the 530151011 in 3
claim petition is ﬁnal unless the party aggrieved takes the course
indicated in the rule by instituting a suit. 21.53. In a Calcutta case' the Court stated that Order 21, rule
103, does not at all refer to the necessity of obtaining a decree of a
court within one year, and all it requires is the ﬁling of a suit within
one year. It was held in the Calcutta decision that the summary
order was superseded by the decree passed by the trial court in a
pending suit within a. year. In the Madras case of 1969', it has been observed that the Cal-
cutta decision would lead to an anomalous result. If the passing
of the decree is delayed beyond one year by one day, the party
would suffer through no fault of his own. 21.54. In this state of the case-law, it is necessary to make a
clariﬁcation. The Madras view and the Calcutta View represent
partial truths. On the one hand. the Calcutta view may, it is true,
lead to,.difﬁculties where the judgment of the court of ﬁrst instance
is given within a year, but the proceedings are prolonged by reason
of appeal and the appellate judgment is pronounced beyond the
period of one year. But, on the other hand. the Calcutta View has
the merit of avoiding duplication of proceedings, because it is illo-
gical to expect a person to ﬁle another suit when he has already
ﬁled a suit for the very relief contemplated by the rules. The whole
diﬁiculty is caused by the rigidity of the Dre.-sent provisions, whose
language leaves out of consideration a situation where a suit is
already instituted and pending. That lacuna should be remedied'
by providing that where the person affected has already instituted
a suit to establish his right, the order shall be subject to the result
of any such suit. . Prilditfppu v. Ifmnuaurdiny, A.I.R. 193? Med. 582. . ["mmmi.al.h V. Pedru Hausa. A.I.R. 1950 Mad. 1'9; [11]-193 M.L.J. 286.
. .S'iru:r:zme.n V. P..1f..S. Mudaiiar. A.I.R.. 1969 Mad. 166. . Scethnoemtz v. Koiareddi, A.I.R. 1969 M9.d..5S6 {F.B.)

. Gopimm 7. .'5'ewa:n(r'!1tJ, A.I.R. 1960 Cal. 580. . Supp-in n. 4

_ .' Similar amendment may be desirable in Order 21 . rule 33, which contains an annlogru one
PEI'! ~..'rF101'l. -l@Ibl|F-lﬂl&r-- - ......... _.......,.. .. . \

Recommendation

21.55. We recommend that_ Order 21'; rule 103, should be_re'vised
soastureadasfollows:------- _ H. _,
"ms. Any party not being. a .j.w;1g1nent-debtor against whom
an order is made under rﬁle 9ﬂ,..ru1e 99 or ru1e.10'l may
institute a suit to esfaablis nhesright which he clalznsuto

the present possession uﬁuproperty; but, subject to such- suit {if any), and subject to the result of any suit which
may be pending on the date-on which the ogder is made

and in which such right :is -in issue, the order shall 

conclusive". 0.21, Rules 104.105 (New}--;~Heai'ing..}of P1-ooeed.in'g§,' =

21.55. 1: is now well settled dim' 'owin to the ndn-applicability
of the provisions of section 141 to" ace' ' on proceedings, Order 9,
also does not apply to" execution 'prance dings. The result ha's"}3een
that the courts have foundjit diiﬁcult td."dé'c'ide the circi1mst'a\i1ee%'ii'1
which an application for execu'¢idn' dhh 'be'ﬂismiss€d for non--&p-
pearance, or. if a court has dismisse-d*a:n.app1icatio-n' for nDn-appear-
ance whether the court, in the-..absence.of =an3r specific provision re-
garding" the restoration in the C..P.C., 're_tton:e-such- application. They
cannﬂtebe restored under -().-.R. 9, as .=tl1at:-rule does not apply to
execution proceedings. ' ' ._ . ' 3 - - - The situation has been proposed to be dealt irith by {He earlier
Reporf where two new ruies were inserted to" deal with the hear-
ing of applications for exeicuﬂihn. We ag'I1!e'wit_}1 this recommenda-
tion. No other amendments are necessary in -this 'regard.=- i 1. Similar a1nenrImeI1l be 111:1-Llc in Order 21. Rule 63. 2. 271.11 Report, page 72, draft 0- 21. R. 304.105 [New], and discussion at page 210. V': if theﬂright to suesurvives Iid awpexty diesTduri.ng the'1'JreI1d-E:1_1_t;y,o_f
the suit, an application mus be-.'_ "'de"_t5ri'thin: the':prescri_hed period'? ;
to the court, to niake the legal representative of the deceased person

a party to the suit. If this is naiidoheietiie-suit-nh'aihu,.--tioti:-by 'i*eaiituri.'" I : . , 1931.' is * '

. . VI ....-pm-u--. .......... .. . -- Orissa, etc. in respect of a defendant who has failed to appear and
contest the suit. It however, felt that such a change should not be
made, as it would impinge upon the rule that litigation should not
proceed in the absence of the heirs of a person who is dead. These
local Amendments were not therefore, adopted. 22.3. We considered the matter further. At one stage we were-
inclined to add sub-rule (4) in Order 22, rule 4 as fol1ows:----- tiff from the necessity to substitute the legal representa-
tive of any defendant against whom the case has been
allowed to proceed ex parts or who has failed to file his
written statement or who, having ﬁled it, has failed to
appear and contest at the hearing, and the judgment in
such a case may be pronounced against such defendant
notwithstanding the death of such defendant, and shall have
the same force and effect as if it had been pronounced
before the death took place." 22.4. We have however, come to the conclusion that any such
amendment would amount to passing a decree against a dead man
and would be wrong in principle. Hence no change is recommended. Order 22, rule 4 and ignorance or death

22.5. On the death of a party, the plaintiff is, under the rules,
required to move for the substitution.of his legal representatives.
The application for substitution has to be made within the time
prescribed by the Limitation Act -'. On failure -to do so, the suit
abates. Now, when the plaintig is ignorant of the defendant's
death, there may be delay in making the application for substitu-
tion of his legal representative. and th question whether the delay
due to such ignorance should be excu d for the purpose of limi-
tation has arisen in several cases. it being competent to the court
to excuse delay under section 5 , Limitation Act, 1963, provided
there is sufficient reason. How far ignorance of the death of the party concerned is a
suﬁicient ground, would depend on the facts of each case'--". 22.6. It was for the last-mentioned reason that the earlier Com-
mission, in its Report on the Code,' after discussing the position as

above. considered it unnecessary to make an express provision as to ,

ignorance of death as a suﬂicient ground. At one stage we were
inclined to think of a solution wheslelmderf due regard could be had
to the fact of ignorance of ﬂash, while considering an application
under section 5 , Limitation Act, for convdonation of delay in respect
of an application for setting aside the abatement. This could be
ichieved by the insertion of the following sub-rule in Order 22, rule 1. The period for aubstitnition is 90 days { article 120 , Limitation Act, 1963 ), and the period
for application for setting aside the abatement il 60 days [ article 12]] Limitation Act, 1963 . 2. (:1) UmIonofIm:h':: v. Rom C-'lsa.rmaA.I.R. F964-S.C. 215,224];
(bl A.I.R. 1951 Sim. 25?. 3. Also {I969} 69 Punj. L.B.. 956, oited in the Yearly Digest.
4- 2?th Report». page 211:, Note on Order 22, rule 4, and ignorance of death. :_ - .. .4 - . the Co-art shall, in considering the application under the said
section, have due regard to the fact of Such i9'-"~0"¢111C€. if
proved". ltecommenﬁtion

22.7. But we are separately recommending a- new rule' which
imposes a duty on the pleeder to inform the court about the death
of a party. Hence &1 provision as to the eﬁect of ignorance is needed. Urge: rule 4-3; (New) (Appointment at person to represent the
a ) . 22.8. In the earlier Report", a suggestion received from the
Calcutta High Court for the insertion of a provision to deal with
cases where the legal representative of a deceased party was not
traceable, was also considered. Reference was, in this connection,
made to Order 16, rule 46 of the Rules of the Supreme Court,-
now Order 15, rule 15 of the R.S.C. Revision {1962}. The adoption
of a somewhat similar provision was suggested in a judgment of
the Calcutta High Court" also, and the suggestion was repeated in
another case'. 22.9. The English rule on the subject; is intended to cover two,

cases; first, where litigation is intended to be started but there is
no "personal representative", and secondly, where litigation has
already started, and then a party dies and there is no personal re-
presentative. History of the English rule is discussed in a judgment
of the Court of Appeal', and the undermentioned authorities' '
discuss the practice under the English rule. 22.10'. The earlier Commission, after considering the above mate-
rial, came to the conclusion that. such cases would not be many, and,

therefore, the provision suggested by the Calcutta High Court need . not be imerted. 1. See Order 22, rule 10-34 (New) ipropoaadizpnra 22-22, infra. 2. 27th Report, page 211, Not-eon Under 22, rule 4 and legal representative not traceable,

a\ William Harold Gibbs v. Debs PI-Mad Roy,'{doci::Ied on I7-it-1950), S5~Ga.loutt.a. 1,": with increasing urbanisation and growing complexity of S.0c_=1et3*.
cases Where the legal representative _o._a_nnD.t.-be ascertained. are 1111613?
to- increase; and .a speciﬁc P1"0Vision tesm?-61'--:5u0h 55ltl13*ti°n'W0u1d be
desirable. . 1 - .=- ~ - 22.12. The English provision is wide enough to cove-r_ death
before the litigation; butwe are concerhied oI_1ly'w_1th deathduring
the pendency of the lit.igation.r=We--alsocoonsider.it-.-.useful toegive
some indication of the persons awhoucould-='he appointed.
Recommendation _ . » -- -- - 22.13. We, therefore, r'ecorm'i1end that the following 'rule should
beinserted as Order '22, rulej'!1iA: "" ' ' ' ' _ ' '

"4A. (1) I)', 'in any suit, it shaii appear to the court that any
party who has died during the peudencgu of the swat has'
no legal. representative, the court may, on my 5??" orderfappoint the ,A_d-rp'._zuist1-t1t ;_ 'e-heral, an oﬁger .o_f,ithe
' court or some cum person to 'represent his estate for the
 trurposcf oivtht: saaitgnavujnhmﬁudgwrcm 61-I order 'Js'ub'3b3" Order 22. Ru-Je 5(1) a I ' _ " _ ? -22.14. Order: 22, ru.'le"9{1) is as .'r¢;ii&m;s':'--.'.. fr ~ 2 . 22.1s.=-The=ru1e=1's"s11_ent on" th'e"o "ii_onwhether*ihe cause; or-'_
action: invoked in the" abated 'suit' coil! -'tkH*rais'ed' 'as'ai§defence"in' _a"'
later suit. - " - "'
22.16. The Madras view' is,-that the -paintiﬂ whose suit has
abated. is not only barred from "a 'fzesh"suit omthe some cause of
action. but he cannot get rid -of the"eﬂi3C'ﬂ of "the earlier decision by

pleading the same mutter as a defence ir_1'the subsequent suit. The
contrary View taken in a Bombay case"'was_-, dissented from. _¢-v:'

1 'E - ;:.e'_' 3-..-. u" 3);'-: .-- r.-3

22.19: On the othdr'hand,-the"'Bornbay High Court has held" Recommendation

22.20. Logically, it would appear that the Bombay View is pre-
ferable. After all, the law should not multiply impediments to just
pleas or defences. Order 22, rule 9, prohibits a fresh suit in order
to avoid undue harassment to the opposite party. But, where the
opposite party himself takes the initiative. and files a suit, there is
no reason why the person whose suit has abated {or his represen-
tative) should be deharred from asserting his rights as a shield.
Procedure should not stand in the way of assertion of lawful claims
01' defences. except where such a bar is absolutely necessary. No
great consideration of public interest appears to justify the exclu-
sion of such defence. The rule is a dmabling ruler'. and should be
strictly construed. It does not create res judicata'. It should not,
therefore. be given a wider effect than is absolutely necessary. Recommendation

22.21. We, therefore. recommend that a suitable Explanation
should be inserted in Order 22, rule 9(1), to give effect to the Bom-
bay view. The Explanation could be on the following lines:------ Order 22,- Rule 10 (New)

22.22. A new rule is proposed to be inserted to the effect that
where a pleader comes to know of the death of a party to the suit,
he shall inform the court», and the Court, in its turn, shall give 1. Rrtjwt 2'. Ra.-m IL'hrmn:I, ALR. 1933 ilah. 752, 753 (D.B.]. 2. Jayasing V. f'}'o;M?, (1904) 6 Hon). L.R. B38 {D.]3.). 3. Bqirti Ragiti V. "1'e§j :'\-'ara1'u A.I.H.. 1943 All. 99 {l\Iut-hm' .l.]. 4. Liz:-.hkmn.r1. '.7. Brmsi Lal, ."L.l.R. 1931 Lab. '79, 80. 5. -'Elm-ikh i'Ia-Min-ifr: V."_ Jr;-m-rn1ma Singh, J-\.I.R. 1958 Pat. 95, 96, para '7. , .......r... ....-my- .. . T!
K

. 'notice to the plaintiff of the death. Such a provision will, to some
extent, reduce the complications that arise by reason of the plain-
tiff's ignorance of the death of a defendant. The new rule will be

as 1:'ollow$:---- ."l0A.(1] When a pleader appearing for II, pafty to the suit
,..1_ ' e'_;,-2-omaes to know of the death of that party he shall infown
1 ' ;the court about it: and the Court shall thereupon gt-ue

,*11ot*ice to the piibinttﬁ of the death. '{2} Where the pleoder of a party, on coming to know of his

death. does not, within a reasonable time, communicate T

the fact of such death to the opposite party, the court

may order him to my the costs occasioned by his failure
4,-" to communicate the fact.''. ' 64 r

2',_

"' " "'9'-"-"' H I "I-E-'Ir-arm '

.. 1 

Y

Cusrraa 23
WITHDRAWAL ANII AD-RISTIIENT OF SUITS
Introductory

23.1. Rules as to withdrawal and compromise of. suits are con-
tained in Order 23. These rules roilihlv correspond with the Rules
or Court in England as to the discontinuance of suits. 23.2. Slade J. has dealt with the mode of dealing with compro-
mises in England'. According to him there are various ways in which
an action can be disposed of when terms of settlement are arrived
at when the action comes on for trial or in the course of the hearing. (1) The first one is very useful where the terms of compromise
consist of an agreement by the defendant to pay a speciﬁed' sum of
money by speciﬁed instalments on ﬂoeciﬁed dates. Here the court
gives judgment for the total amount agreed to be -paid, "coupled
with a stay of execution so long: as the instalments are paid in ac-
cordance with the terms agreed. (2) The second way, which is no doubt, more appropriate when the _

terms of settlement are not so straightforward as the mere payment
of an agreed sum of money. by speciﬁed instalments is to secure an
Order of the Court, made by consent, that the defendnt. and. it may
be, also the plaintiﬂ';---shal1 do the thing which they have respectively

. engaged themselves-to do by the terms of settlement. In such a case

the order would take this form. There would he the title and the pre-
amble and then the order would recite, the terms havi been agreed
between the-. parties: It '3 ordered that "{a} the defen ant do", etc.,
"(b] the plaintiff do", etc. making each of the agreed terms an order
of the court that -it should he carried out.' - (3; The third method is what hasrhecome known as "the mmau
form of order". '

Dashwood v. Dnshwood' is'citei(a_sHt(l'ae authority for that sfgtg.
ment of practice, The AITIWUAL PR E. 1955, P. 200?, goes on to
say: 1. Green 1'. Roam, 11955) 2 All E.R. 797. 2. Dash-wood 7. osstwaos (1927) w.N'. a, 27:5. .109

 

it

Cnaeran 23
WITHDBAWAL AND ADJUSTMENT OF SUITS
Introductory

23.1. Rules as to withdrawal and compromise of suits are con-
tained in Order 23. These rules roughly correspond with the Rules
of Court in England as to the discontinuance of suits. 23.2. Slade J. has dealt with the mode of dealing with compro-
mises in England'. According to him there are various ways in which
an action can be disposed of when terms of settlement are arrived
at when the action comes on for trial or in the course of the hearing. (1) The first one is very useful where the terms of compromise
consist of an agreement by the defendant to pay a speciﬁed sum of
money by speciﬁed instalments on speciﬁed dates. Here the court
gives judgment for the total amount agreed to be paid, coupled
with a stay of execution so long as the instalments are paid in ac-
cordance with the terms agreed. {2} The second way, which is no doubt, more appropriate when the
terms of settlement are not so straightforward as the mere payment
of an agreed sum of money: by" speciﬁed instalments, is. to secure an
Order of the Court, made by consent, that the defendant, and, it may
be, also the plaintiﬁ',------shall do the things which they have respectively

engaged themselves to do by the terms of settlement, In such a case

the order would take this form. There would be the title and the pre-
amble and then the order would recite, the terms having been agreed
between the parties: It is ordered that "(a} the defendant do", etc,,
"(b} the plaintiff do", etc. making each of the agreed terms an order
of the court that it should be carried out. (3) The third method is what, has become known as "the TOMLIN
form of order". Dashwood 1;. Dushwood' is cited as the authority for that state.
ment of practice, The ANNUAL PRACTICE, 1955, P. 200?, goes on to
say: 1. Green v. Roam, (I955 ) 2 ME E.R. 797. 2. Ilasiuimod U'. Denhzmmd (1937) W.K. H. 2'75. SZUU

(-'1} The fourth method is an order of the court made by consent
staying all further proceedings in the action on the terms agreed
on. - (5) Th _ﬁ_fth_met o ! hi ) as _llowe ' ' nt case! is
where thei?e' is rib' otdeil-':'o¥7"t £5: uﬁfgf aill, xii? Eddtffrgfﬁrely being
told by counsel that the case has been settled on the terri:'1_§'tl3gl('i.c:1;%(id
on counsels' briefs. '

23.3. Such' a variety of methods of 1-ecording or acting on com-
promises is not met with in"l"ndian pr_actice.. But there does exist a
variety of methods of consensual Heaitings in connection with'litiga-
tion--e.g. by making the Judge an arbitrator, by agreeingnot to
appeal. by stating a special 'case' u der Order 36, and the like". Some,
but not all of these. ﬁt in with y 9' procedure given in Order 23,
rule 3. under" which the court is empowered to "record 'a' settlement
or "compromise. The most important rules in Order 23, are 'rule 1
(withdrawal), and rule:_3 (recording 411'. Compromise). and most. of the
problems that arise revo1vesi.around- {these rules-; ' . - Order23,_rule1,' In t t. T 23.4. Order 23, rule 1, speaks of. two kinds of "withdrawails"- of
suits, namely-:-- __ p _ _ p
(1) Withdrawal without permission of the Court toiﬁlen aufsresh
'suit, and _ _ _, _ . _. . . H; (2): Withdrawal with-such permission. The first is governed by sub-rule'(1). The second is governed. by
sub-rules;-(2) and (3). For convenience, the first kind of withdrawal
may be described-as --"a-bsol!ute"-w'ithdr3tva'l 1 , while the sei,':ond"may
be described as "qualiﬁed" withdrawal_ The diﬁerences in the legal
incidents of the two types of withdrawal are well--known.'The point
which is proposed to be raiseduhere. is-one of terminolo'gy,---and' the
point is, that the use of the same ex_ r_ession_ to.de-note both _=the.types

of action is confusing. as ordinary' itiganf would certainly get con. fused, and. sometimes even lawyers do not fully realise the diﬁerence
b9tV~'9en the tW'0- The P0.Siti_Qn would be. improved by using the ex-
Eregsign "abandon1'nent" '(of suit},-iwhere_ absolute withdrawal is in-
en' e . '

Recommendation

2315. Accordihgiy. we recommend ' d' 1; rule 1. so. as ttrsubstitute tl1e"'ex rebsio"'?}dbI:g1c';d1ndd1iE1?t",0&'h(;r?ctdIlof: Re-draft of Order 23, rule 1(4)

(-1] "Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to authorise the court
to permit one of several plaintiffs to abandon a, suit or part of :1
claim under sub--rule (1), or to withdraw under sub-rule (2) without
the consent of the others." Order 33, rule 1 and execution proceedings

23.52%. The question how for Order 23. rule 1 applies to execu-
tion proceedings has sometimes arisen, For example, in an Allahabad
case', the decree-holder ﬁlled an application on August 29. 1835 be-
fore the Subordinate Judge requesting that his case may be struck
off for a short time. The Court granted the application, and recorded
an order striking off the case "for the present". On August 23, 1383,
the decree--holder ﬁled another application for execution, to which
the judgment debtors objected.- The Subordinate Judge disallowed the
objections. The judgment-debtors ﬁled? an appeal before the Allaha-
bad High Court. The High Court allowed-the appeal. and-set aside

the Order of the Subordinate Judge. Hence, aggrieved from this '

decision of the High Court, the decr-'ee--holcler_ﬁ1ed an appeal before
their Lordships of the Privy Council-which held that Order 23, rule
1 did not apply. The Privy Council obs-erved"---- Having taken all aspects into consideration, we are of the View
that it would not be convenient to extend order 23. rule 1 to execu- tion proceedings. 1. 'W!.-'1..I:::r Pm.-ggwl 5-'. Fa.ku'r l'.7N1l!Tt{l89-1-l. L.R. 17 All. 601 (P.U.] follmvr-rl in !§'rIm Prrmrutl 7. Hannah K-rm/r. A.I.R. 1922 Pitt. 525. 2_ 'f'k.-.-},-7J.r Prr7.9.n1.ri' 1'. T"fJ.7_-'07-1' "NEIL [.L.Rr. 17 All. H-0] {P11},

L}B[D}229}lof L-J&F'A .-I5

\

Ids
'F
V}

x

.''§ 202 'aide: 23, rule 1.11 (New)

I' 23.6 We now proceed to deal with a situation not expressly pro

vided for in Order 23. Where a suit is Withdrawn by a plaintiﬁ under
Order 23, rule 1, one of the opposite parties sometimes ﬁnds it ne-
cessary to be transposed as a laintiﬁ, so that he can pursue what-
ever claims he may have ma e against a co-defendant. The Court
has, under Order 1, rule 10, already a power to order transposition
of parties'. But it appears to be desirable to provide that where

there is a request by the defendant for transposition {as plaintiff} 

in Vl('l'Vt-' of withdrawal or abandonment of the suit by the plaintiff,
the court should have due regard to this consideration. '

Recommendation

23.7. The insertion of the following rule in Order 23, is, there» - fore, recommended : -- r 23.13. The Madras High C-ourt" and the Patna High Court' have
taken a dlﬁercnt view. In the Patna case. a compromise decree provid-
ingefor recovery of pension contrary to section 12 . Pensions Act, 1871 .
was held to be void, (The Bombay case is not referred to in the
Patna judgment). 23.14. In the Patna casei, it was observed-- 23.15. The House of Lords' has decided that a consent decree
beyond the contractual powers of the corporation is Void--- ' - "It is quite clear that a company cannot do what is beyond its
legal powers by simply going into court and consenting to
a decree which orders that the thing shall be done." \. ....a

. Ve-ni':ofe.shFm_i_.-ya Y. Firoyyo, :LI.I'... 1958 AP. 1 (F.B.] 2. Hfrima Ra-ma 'I'. Atuilsil Rce.sFz.i'.r.?.. .-'L.I.R. I963 Mys. 184 {D.]3.'J. 3. {a} La£~akmrm.aaia.Ia.1n,y Nnrtizilra 1;. Tm.-:-tgmmna, (1930) I.L.R.. 26 Mad. 31: L!'B(D]22QMofLJ&CA---1 5{a}

204-

That case however, is distinguishable from a case of having an
illegal object. 23.16. In the above state of the case --law, it is desirable to make a
clariﬁcation. In the interests of ﬁnality of litigation, it may be better
to provide that a decree shall not be set aside on the ground of illev
,c_{a1ity' of the compromise on which it Is based. Recommendation to insert Order 23. Rule 3A

23.16A. Accordingly, we 1~_eco'_n1nend the insertion of the follow-
ing rule as Order 23, Rule 3A---- 23.11 Order 23, rule 3, authorises the court to pass a decree on
a compromise in so far as the compromise relates to the subject
matter of the suit. The controversy on one point under this rule was
noted in the earlier Report'. That controversy" related to the inter-
pretation of the words "so far as relates to the suit" used in Order 23. rule 3. The question that arose in practice was. whether a decree which - a

records the terms of a Compromise in respect of matters beyond the
scope of the suit is executable, or whether the terms of the decree
relating to matters outside the suit can be enforced {as a contract)
only by a separate suit. It was not. however, (in the Commission's
view) possible to resolve the conﬂict of decisions by verbal changes,
since the application of the rule may vary according to the facts of
each case. As a general amendment was not thus possible. no change
was considered necessarv. 23.18. We have given some thought to the matter and come tr

the conclusion that----~ _ (i) the c0ntrovers_V should be out an end to, and (ii) the only way to put an end to it is to widen the provision,
by requiring the court to pass a, decree covering the whole
compromise. so for as it relates to the parties to the suit,
whether or not the subject matter of the compromise is
conﬁned to the subject of the suit. This will avoid the un-
necessary controvcrsy that arises under the oresent word-
ing, namely. how much of the compromise has attained the
force of a decree; and how much is to be left to be en-
forced by separate agreements. and so on. No doubt, such
a widening can. theoretically, raise questions of jurdis-
diction and court fees. In most cases, however, the wide
power will not affect iurisdiction and court fee, In any
case. the proposed simpliﬁcation is needed, and should
override any such objections. l. .-'ii-l.na.l -.-irnendmcnt not dmfterl. 2. 27th Report-_. page 21.1, Note on Order ,3. rule 9 and th-- \$I,'>rda " so for as relates to". 3. Hoe oust-'--law :]i=u-nosed. in Hair: -fuaaum V. Drzri-idru Nr.."Im_. A.I.R.. 1880 LLP. 280, 232
pa-ran l7 and IR. 1,/'

F'

Recommendation
23.19. Accordingly, we recommzncl that in Order 23. rule fiﬂ'
1' the words "so far as rotates to the suit', the wo1'ds_"so for as relates
to the parties to the suit. whether or not the subject-matter oT_th€'
agreement cc.mprornise or satisfaction is the stnne as the S1tb_'f€(3t-- matter of the suit", should be substituted. ' Order 23, rule 3-21 (New)
23,20_ In a 1-:_=p1"esent.ative suit, leave of the court should be re-
, quired before a comprcmisc s reccrded. Before such leave is given,
notice to interested persons could be provided for. We have in mind
those suits where a decree passed in the suit can bind persons not
formally on the record. Such a. procrision is, in our view, required in
Order to safeguard the interests of Jersons so bound. -' Recommendation
23.21. A new rule is proposed accordingly. as fo11ows:-- Exp1anation--In this rule, the expression "representative su.it"'

means--- . {a} a suit under section 91 or section 92: ((3) a suit in which the manager of on undivided Hindu
family sites or is suei as representing the other mam-
bers of the family; (:13 any other suit in iohich the . decree passed, may by
virtue of the_provisinns of this Code or of any other
iaw for the time being in force, bind any person who
is not 'ﬂamed as party to the suit." dl-' ,. Order 23, rule 3, and the word "praised" 23.22. There is anotiier point co icerning rule 3. According to this
rule, if it is "proved" to the satisfaction of the Court that a suit has
been lawfully compromised or settled, it is bound to pass a decree
3CD0I'§1iﬂg1Y. NOW: the 1.'Xp1"e'S'Si0n "_:ir0ved" has raised an interesting
question as to how far is the sour": bound to hold an inquiry as to
the factum of the compromise. The matter was discussed at length in
a recent Mysore case. The facts were as follows:-- tended that there was no agreement, and that he had not.
received any money as mentioned in the endorsement, and
that the document had been brought about fraudulently.
The Munsiff came to the conclusion on the evidence that
the suit had been settled out of court. An appeal to the
Civil Judge by the respondent was allowed, and the decree
of the Munsiff set aside. On revision before the High Court,
it was contended that the Civil Judge had exceeded his
jurisdiction in examining the allegations of fraud and mis-
representation'. 23.23. The High Court held that Order 23. rule 3, requires that
there should be proof to the satisfaction of the Court that the suit has
been adjusted wliolly or in part by an agreement; and, furthensuchg
agreement should be lawful. The words "where it is proved to the
satisfaction of the court" with which the rule opens impose .... .. an
obligation on the court to be satisﬁed that the suit has been genuinely
adjusted in whole or in part .... .. that the words "proved to the satis-
faction of the court" are comprehensive enough, indeed seem to have
been intended to empower the Court to go into the merits of the
allegations "set up by the party denying or disagreeing with the
terms of compromise or agreement and decide them, so that the
parties get full justice in the suit in which a decree in terms of the
compromise is to be passed under the rule. Where the Court finds
during the course of the enquiry that the alleged agreement or com-
promise is vitiated by fraud_. misrepresentation etc. it cannot be said
legally that an agreement has been arrived at. The agreement con-
templated under the rule envisages the two parties coming to certain
terms voluntarily and of a free will. so as to put an end to the litiga-
tion pending between them in the Court .... .. If (the Court] decides
that the agreement or compromise is vitiated. it can reject it and
proceed to dispose of the suit on merits." -I

23.24. The High Court, after reference to the order of the Civil
Judge and to the depositions of the parties, also came to the con-
clusion that there was no agreement as alleged by the defendant. and
the order of the Civil Judge {for the remand of the suit for disposal

according to law) was therefore affirmed. ,

23.25. The decision is correct on the present language. But it now
requires to be considered whether some modiﬁcation in the existing ﬁr
position is not called for. in the interest of speed. Reference may be
made to the Punjab Amendment. In the Punjab, the following provisos have been added to the
existing ru1e:-- 23.26. A similar provision would be useful. It could, however be
made simpler. Recommendation

23.27. We therefore, recommend that the following proviso should
be inserted below Order 23, rule 3-- CHAPTER 2-}
PAYMENT INTO COURT

Introductory

24.1. In Order 24, there are provisions as to payment into Court,
which apply to everv suit for debt or damages. The payment amounts
to an admission of the claim in respect of which it is made. There is
no power to pay money into Court with :1 defence denying liability.
Provision is made for the two cases,-- - (ajl Where the plaintiff accepts thb deposit as satisfaction in
part. and

{b} where he accepts it as satisfaction in full.
No changes are recommended in this Order. C:m1>-my 25
EIECURHT FOR COSTS
Introductory

25.1. One of the incidental proceedings dealt with in the Code
concerns orders requiring security for costs where the -plaintiﬂ resides
out of or leave India and does not possess suﬂicient immmtable pro- gerty in India. This is in Order 25. No changes are needed in this
rd-er. . ,C1.-L:u=rss_26
__ C(_}MMISSIONS _
Introductory '
26.1. Order 26 deais with commissions issued by Courts.'Com- .-missioiis are of four k_lnds--to. examine witnesses, to make local in- -vestigations-, to examine accounts and to make D3-1"'€1t10I1 of 1-II1m0V*-' -able property. - - - ' ' - - - A Most" of the provisions for commissions to exlamine absent wit-
nesses were adapted by the framers of the first Code (of 1859] from
an Act of 1841', . The rules as to Commissions for local investigations are ulti-
mately derived from three old regulations. Order 26, rule 1
2s.2."orde1- :36. rule 1 provides as follov.-'s:--~
"Any Court may in any suit issue a commission for the exami-
nation on interrogatories or otherwise of any person resi-
dent within the local limits of its jurisdiction who is

exempted under this Code from attending the Court or
who is from sickness or inﬁrmity unable to attend it)'

Order 26, rule 1, and medical certiﬁcate

26.3. A suggestion was made to us, that for proving the sickness
or inﬁrmity of the witness, a certiﬁcate signed by a qualiﬁed medical
practitioner should be accepted. Even now, we were told, it is being
done in some courts: but the practice on the subject is not uniform,
and in some places affidavits" about illness are usually required. We have considered the matter. and see no objection to a provi-
sion permitting the use of such certiﬁcate in evidence. at the discre-
tion of the court, for the purposes of Order 26. rule 1. 26.4. The examination, under the rule is "on interrogatories or
otherwise". It is understood that an order for examination on interro-
gatories is sometimes issued when the examination should really be
comprehensive. 25.5. It is. in our view, against the intendment of the rule to' issue
an order for examination on interrogatories except in special cases,
and we think it desirable to so provide by amending the rule. Recommendation

26.6. Accordingly, we recommend that Order 26, rule 1, should be
revised as follows:-- bu of any _pe'i'SOT1, without ocalling the medical practi-ttmier
as a 'u.'-it'rie3s."" " A '

Order 26, rule 4(1)

:Zti.T. Under Order 26, rule 4(1), any Court may. in any suit, issue
a commission for the examination of--~- (a) any person resident beyond the local limits of its jurisdic-
tion: _ . {b} any person who is about to ieave such limits before the
date on which he is required to be examined in Court; and (c) any person in the service of the 'GovernInent, who cannot,
in the opinion of the Court. attend without detriment to
the public service. 236.8. The rule does not provide for issuing a commission for exa- -- rnination on interrogatories. We think that such a proirisioii would
be useful', although examination on interrogatories should be resort-
ed to only in special cases'. ' - 26.9. There is another point arising outgof .01-der_..1ﬁ,-Bule__19. Order 16, Rule 19, provides the-'_c a witness shall not be compelled
to attend a Court in person unless he resides---- - (3) within the jurisdiction of the Court, or (b) outside the jurisdiction but within the speciﬁed distance
(roughly, less than ﬁfty miles,Tor, if there is anestablished
public conveyance for ﬁve-sixth of the distance, then less
than two hundred miles]. " ' . 26.10_,_Thus_, a witness living outside the jurisdiction and beyond
the speciﬁed distance cannot be compelled to attend a" court in per-
son. For the examination of such person, _the Code provides-for the
issue of a commission under Order 26, Rule 4. But the word used
in Order 26, rule 4,_is_"n1a3:". Now, it is obvious that where the wit-
T195315 beyﬂnd the J}1I'1Sd1"--'t_l0n and beyond the speciﬁed distance, and
yet 15 one whose evidence 15 essential, the only mode of examination
15 by commission. . - 1- If necessary, the expi'esaion"'1-egistered medical practitioner" nayje ioiuai. 3. Cf. Order 2ii,1.'ule l. ' ' 3. Cf. amendment proposed to Crier 23. rain 1. It would, therefore, be better if' the issue of a commission under
Order 26, rule -1 is made obligatory in such cases, if the evidence of
the witness is essential in the interest of justice. Such an amendment
will give a more correct picture of what the law contemplates. Recommendation T
26.11. Accordingly, we recommend that Order 26, rule 4(1) be
revised as iollows:-- '

"«i.(1) Any Court may, in any suit, issue a commission for the
examination on interrogatories or otherwise of--- {a) any person resident beyond the local limits of its juris-
diction; (1)) any person who is about to leave such limits before
the date on which he is required to be examined in
Court; and (c) any person in the service of the Government, who
cannot, in the opinion of the Court, attend without
detriment to the public service; Provided that where, under O'rde1' 16,. rule 19, a. person cannot
be compelled to attend a Court in person, a com-
mission shall be issued for his examination if his evidence
is considered necessary in the interests of justice: that where the Commissioner is not a.-Judge of the civil court, he
shall not be competent to impose a penalty, but such penalty may
be imposed on the application of the Commissioner by the court
which issued the Commission. In the Report" of the earlier Cornrnission on the Code, this was
noted. It was, however, considered unnecessary to adopt this minor
amendment. '

23.13. But we think that the amendment could be usefully ad-
opted. though there may be not many occasions in practice Where
it would make much difference. 1. See discussion as to'Order 18. Rule 19. 3. Sn-. discussion relating to motion 75. 3. 27th Report, page 215, Note on Order 26, Rule 17. ' ' 213 Recommendation

26.14. We, therefore, recommend that the following proviso
should be inserted below Order 26, Rule 1?--- Order 26 and execution proceedings 26.l5A. The Madras High Court' has held that the provisions of
Order 26, rule 4 are not applicable to execution proceedings, and
have not been made so by reason of the prnvisions of section 14 .1. 'L Venkr'-Iyya. v. Raffazyya, A.I.I-L. 1939 Had. 573. CHAPTER 27
stars B! on AGAINST oovmnmnnr

Introductory

' 2'11." D1'dei-'27 deals with suits by or against the Goifernment
gr public ofﬁc-erg in their official capacity. Except as p1'ov1ded by
special Acts. suits against the Government 0]' public oﬁicers me?'
be instituted in any Court, however inferior. But there are certain
special. provisions applicable to such suits. The procedural pI'0V'1-
sions in thisrespect are contained in Order 27. 271A. Most of the matters dealt with in the Order relate to
minor details such as. signing of pleadings. persons authorised to
act. description of the plaintiff or defendant, service of process. ﬁx-
ing a day for appearance. exemption from security and the like. We
shall now discuss such of the rules as require amendment. Order 21', rule 5
27.2. Wc ﬁr-st take up Order 2?. rule which is as follows:----
 The Court, in ﬁxing the day for the Government. to answer
to the plaint. shall allow a reasonable time for the neces-
sary communication with the Govemment through the
proper channel. and for the issue of instructions to the
Government pieader to appear and answer on behalf of
the Government, and may extend the time at its discre-
1-ion." 27.3. In the Report on the Code.' the question of a timealimit for
ﬁling a written statement by the Government was considered. The
Fourteenth Report' had. recommended an amendment to give the
Government a. m.inimn..m period of three months for filing a written
statement. But it was, in the Report on the Code. considered un~
necessary to lay down any such rigid minimum period applicable

to all cases. 27.4. We agree that such a long minimum period is not needed.
We. on the other hand, think that a period of two months should
nc.1'ma1}7,-* suﬁice, and in the interest of expedition. we recommend an
amendment substituting such ﬁxed period. Government. with its re-
sources. shonld not find this period too short. Recommendation

27.5. Accordingly. we recommend that Order 27. Rule 5, should
be revised as folloWs:---- The Court. in ﬁxing the day for the Government to answer

to the plaint. shall allow a reasonable time for the neces. 331'}! communication with the Government through the pro-- -per channel, and for the issue of instructions to the Gov- I. 27th Report. page 'Z16, note on Order 27, rule 5. 2. l-tth l{r--1_)oi't-, Vol. 1. page 3I'I'3, p-,1.ra 13.
21-1

1,-.\. -.. .--A.-«J...»-«

N -,4'

'Z15

ernmcnt pleader to appear and answer
Government, and may extend the time at its discretion.
but the time" so allowed and the time .3-o'e3:t.encled shall
not exceed two m-:.'In.th.s in the aggre_«;rots", - Order 2m, Rule 5-B-'.{New)r '

"2736. I1: is the unfortunate experience of -manvjudicial officers
to deal with litigation between- the Governmenteand the citizen
which could have been' avoided if the Government had been urged
to go into the merits. and if positive attempts at a settlement had
been made at early stages -of the litigation, This, in fact, was one
of the objects behind the provision for notice under section 80 of
the Code. but the object was seldom achieved. 2'-7.1 In our view, the time,_has come to insert provisions that
would impress upon all concerned the need for such an approach,
in litigation in which Government is concerned. 27:8. The Kerala High Court was constrained to, make these
nhservations'---- -2'19. We are of the vi_ejw that there should be some provision em-
phaslng the need for positive efforts at settlement, --in suits to which
the Government is a part_v_ 1. .lhiibrtr.lcer.v. T.i'micm- of India, A.I.R.,]972 Ker. 103, l[I'l_.pa;-:1 .5 (rye; .1-.~,._ _. on xiii '--th.'.- :. Beomnmudatlan
2'i'_1u_ With the above end in view, we recommend the insertion
of the following rule-- Circle: 27, Rule 5A (Now)

27.11. Order 2'? deals with suits against the
public officers. In the Report of the Law Commission' dealing with State liability,
2 re-cozrnnendation had been made to the effect that when a suit for
damamgo is filed against the Government in respect of any act of
its employee, agent or independent contractor, the employees, etc.
should be impleacled as a party to the suit. It was also stated, that
any claim based on indemnity or contribution by the State may well
be settled in such proceedings, as all the parties will be before the
court. An amendment of the Civil Procedure Code was recommended
on these lines. 27.12. The recommendation was not carried out in the Report of
the Commission on the Code', (27th Report), as it was felt that a
mandatory provision of the nature su'gg«este'd was not _needed. 27.13. We agree with the View taken in the 27th Report, as a man-
datory provision of the nature suggested in the 14th Report will on
necessarily cause inconvenience to individual ofﬁcers. But, we would
like to make a provision for the converse situation, namely. where
a suit is ﬁled against the employee for oﬂicial acts. In such cases, the
Government should, we think, he made-a party, so that the question
of State liability is decided in that very suit. Here, af mandatory pro-
vision would not cause hardship-to individual ofﬁcers. Recommendation

27.14. The following rule is. therefore, reoommended:------ 1. First Report {Liability oftho sum in Tom, page 40, pm. IV (in). 2. 27th Report, page 210. note on Order 2?. am] I-nits ﬁgﬂvlilet the Gov-er nmatnt. Government and -u-.---- ----u.-._.._

f_-\. - ..-..r-'

. --n.-'- ....5,_. 5-?" 2T--:"l..3. The Amendment Act accordinglv sought to provide that
in any suit or appeal in which it appears to the Court that a sub-
stantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Government
of India Act or an Or'rierein--Counci1 made thereunder is involved.
the Court shall ﬁrst give notice to the Advocate-General of India
or of the lF'1"0vint'e as the case rr1a_v require. and rnav. if satisﬁed that
it is necessary or desirable for the satisfactorv determination of the
question so to do, order that the Government concerned shall be
added as a partv. 2"r'--A.4. One object of Order 27-A. was, thus, obviously to prevent
collusion between private parties who conspire to obtain a a ruling
about a constitutional question without the court having an oppor-
l.L1I]l'lZ7.r to hear the Government, 1 27-A.5. The provision that the Court must give notice to the
Advocate-General has been adopted in substance from a Canadian
Statute'. As to the provision in Order 2'?'-A, rule 3. barring costs, the

1, Cnn1p:1--re s-.>ot.ion Suﬁ nf the Government of India. Act, 1935. 9. U P. v. .--ln-tiqfﬂegit-in, [lil-til) F.C.R. Ill}; 3.1.3. 1943 EU. 16. r 3. E-'a't..-itmm-ut. nl' Ohientr-i. and Reasons, dutcd 'lﬁth Aiigust, 194-2 to the Ameiirlmciit Bill
o 19-12. 1. Sea the section in the Judlcil.-Ll1i'ﬁ Act. Ontario, infra-. T..'B{D]229?.InfI_J .tcii_1a 218 reason seems to be this. A question may arise as to the Gove1"nment's
right to, or liability,-' for, costs in proceedingsin which the Advocate-
General may appear or in which the Government may be impleadﬁ-It
as a party in accordance with these provisions. As the Advocate-
Gcneral or the Government would. in such cases, come in more to
protect their own interests than for the purpose of making the action
eﬂective between the original parties. it seems to have been consi-
dered reasonable that ordinarily the Government should have no
right to, or liabilitv for, costs in the ﬁrst instance. If, after the Gov-
ernment is added as a party. the case is decided one way or the
other. further proceedings by wav of appeal by the Government or
any of the «original parties will, of course, be governed as to costs
by the general principles governing all actions. In some cases, how-
ever, special considerations may arise. either because of the manner
in which the Government or one or other of the parties conducts
the case. or because of the special nature of the case. In this special
class of cases. the Court can depart from the general principle above
indicated, and make special order as to costs: sary to show the constitutional point proposed to be
argued. (3) Subject to the rules. the notice shall be served six days
before the Gav named for the argument. (4) The Attorney-General for Canada and the Attorney-
General for Ontario are entitled as of right to be heard
either in person or bv counsel notwithstanding that the
Crown is not a party to the action or proceedings. 1. Thodudicaturc Act-, R.S.O.'.l5JﬁU C'. 197 (Ontario, Ca.n5da)_
'. Laskin Canadian Constitutional Law (1960). page 14?. -'E"!'t 219 {5} Where in an action or proceeding to which this section
applies the Attorney--General for Canada or the Attorney-
General for Ontario appears in person or by counsel,
each shall be deemed to be a party to the action or pro-
ceeding for the purpose of an appeal from any adjudi-
cation as to the constitutional validity of any Act or
t-nactment in question in the action or proceeding." 2T--A.?. For cD1'npa1'ab.'e legislation see the Constitutional Ques- '

tions Act. R.S.Aj 1955, c. 55; The Judicature Act, R.S.A. 1955. c.
164, s. 31; Constitutional Questions Determination Act, R.S.B.C.
1948. c. 66, am. 1953, c. 11; An Act for-Expediting the Decis-ion of
Constitutional and Other Provincial Questions, R.S.M. 1954, c. 44;
The Queen's Bench Act, R.S.M, 1954. c. 52. s. T2; Judicature Act,
R..S.N.B. 1952, c. 120; ss. 24 and 24A; The Judicature Act. R.S.M.S.
1952. c. 114. 5. S4 {enacted by 1953. No. 33']; Constitutional Ques-
tions Act, R.S.N.S. 1954, c, 50. The Judicature Act, R.S.P.E.I. 1951,
c. 79, s. 39; Constitutional Questions Act, R.S.S_ 1953, c. 78. Order 27A, Rule 1

2?-AB. On the question whether in a case which involves a ques-
tion referred to in Order 2'?-A, rule 1, notice must be given to the
Advoc-ate--Generai or the Attorney-General, as the case may be,
irrespective of the considerations whether the State is already a
party to the suit, there are three reported cases from Bombay,
Allahabad and Patna. 2'?--A.9. In the Bombay case,' section 6 {4)(a) of the Bombay Land
Requisition Act . 1948 was challenged as contravening the provisions
of the Constitution. The petition, the Court held, involved a substan-
tial question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution, and
Order 27-A, Rule 1 made it mandatory for the Court to give notice
to the Advocate--General or the Attorney-General as the case may
be. The Court observed- 2T--A.l0. It was ureed that if the State or Union was already a
party to the suit or proceeding, then no object could be served by
giving notice to the Advocate--General or Attorney-General. The

Court did not agree with this view. The court referred to such in»

stances as. where the Advocate--Generai represents a charity or where,
apart from being the legal adviser of the State, the Advocate-General
not only represents the State but also the bar as its leader; The
Court held that "The Advocate--Generals and the Attorney-General
have independent rights and independent function to discharge and
an occasion may arise when the presence of either one or the other
may be necessary irrespective of whether the State or the Union
is a party to that litigation." N 1. I't'e.l-P!-:1-ii-I'-V. S2'-rt?-°. 0fBun!i':rt_«,r. A.I.R. 1951 Rom. 191. l21{D.B.) [Chagla ('..J. and Gajend-re: '3'F-.='i.l2. In tho Allahabad case.' one oi" the issues involved was
whether the dismissal of a Government employee had been ordered
by a coiiipetcﬁt authority. and whether sufficient npliortlinitv had
been given to him to defend. In the High Court, after the hearing of
the case had almost concluded, counsel for the State requested that
notice of the appeal should be sent to the Advocate-General of the
State, inasmuch as according to him, (Counsel for the State) the case
involved a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of
the Constitution referred to Order ETA, rule 1, Civil Procedure Code.
The Court held that these two points at issue did not involve any
substantial question of law as to the inteiprctation of the Const'--
tution, and observed:-- fl?-A13. In one Patna case? the -vi-1'e.=.' of the Suits T,-'gloating Act
was challenged in a suit between private parties. Government was
not a party For the appellant, it was urged that certain sections of
the Act were ultra wires the provisions of article 14.» of the Constitu-
tion. But it was conceded that this point could not be decided in
second appeal, because no notice of this particular ground had been
given to the A_ttornev--General, as required under Order 27--A.

Recommendation

?7-Al-1. we have examined the question whether the present prisi-
tion in respect of the point discussed above should be allowed to
continue; Having regard to what was said in the Bombay case, we
would not disturb the present provision. '

27-3-'L15 l.-Vs'. now proceed to discuss one point which concerns the
scope of Order 2T--i*-'L as a whole. It may be noted that Order 2?--A is
confined to situations where the validity of an Act is challenged.
and does not deal with questions relating to validity of, statutory
"rules and orders (and other statutory instruments}

We have considered this question, having regard to the increas-
ing importance of statutory instruments We are of the View that
when the vires of a statutory instrument is challenged in a suit. the
authority which issued the instrument should be made a partv to
the suit, Even now, the promulgating authority would appear tn be

I. (I'm PrrI.i:rr3Tr- V. -,H'£o.£r-. of I 'J'. Ifliiﬁi-J) Lab. LC. 3053, 319. para Qt] [D.33.).
3- ""I=frI fro?! arm? -'We? fl'-J. V. Arm' Ffumdrn. A.I.R. 1961' Pat. 246 {D.]3.',-. a proper party,' in such cases. But om intention is: to make the posi-
tion more explicit in this respect_ It is desirable that the Govern-
ment or other authorii_s,r issuing the instrurnent is given an oppor-
tunity to join as. a party, in such cases. The amendments which we
recommend in this rega1'c] will be substantially on the same pattern
as the present provisions in Order 27-91, which govern cases involv-
ing substantial qiiestions. of law as to the iiﬂte-rpietation of the
Constitution. Recommendation
2'1'-A-16. Accordingly, we make the followiiig recommendations
for amendment of Order 27A:----- 0) The heading of Order '37--A should be res.-'ised, so as t_i read
as follows:--- {Order 2?-A, rule 1 will remain unchanged]. (ii) The following new rule should be added as rule 1--A:~

"'1--A. In any suit in which it appears to the court that any
question as to the validity of any statutory instru---
ment, not being a question of the nature mentioned
in rule 1, is involved, the court shall not proceed to
determine that question until after notice has been
gtven-- ment, if the question concerns an 'author.'ty other
than the Government. Explanationwin this rule. 'statutory instrument'
means a rule, notification, bye--l.auJ, order, scheme
or form made under an enactmentz." [Order 2'?-A, rule 2, will remain unchanged]. (iii) The following new rule should be added as role 2--A:-- ing in the case for the authority which issued the
i.nstru'rrtent, as the case may be, whether upon
receipt of notice under rule 1-A or otherwise, ap-
plies for such addition, and 1. Dr|1|'I' l. l'.'.l:* III. '. In the :ill'ernative, the di--.i'u1it.iuu oould. be [J|.a.L1B-'18.-t-I-llI."t'-llil nfilii: Urticr. (b) the court is sor'e'.<';ﬁcd 2yT.:a.t such addition is neces-
sary or desirazhle for the satisfactory determina-
tton. of the question." - (iv) Order 2'?--A, rule 3, should be revised as. fol1ow.==.:---- IL)

CHa1'rm28

SUITS ET.' DE AGAINST SOLDIERS ETC. 1ntroductor,_r,r

28.1. Order 28 deals with suits by or against members of the
armed forces. The provisions of the Order are mainly designed to
avoid the inconvenience that may be caused to a member of the
armed forces who has to appear as a party to a suit, but cannot
obtain leave of absence. Mainly, the rules empower him to appoint
some other person for the purpose. No changes are recommended
in this Order. CHAPTER 29

SUITS BY AND AGAINST CORPORATIONS

Introductory

29.1. Order 29 deals with su ts by 'and against corporations,
There are provisions for the subscription and veriﬁcation of the
plaint, and for service of the summons on a corporation. As regards
forum in the case of suits against CO1"p0I'atlOI'lS, Explanation II to section 17 is relevant; The Court may require the personal appear-
ance of any principal oﬂicer of a corporation, able to answer material
questions relating to the suit. There are not many points of contro-
versy concerning this Order. We therefore recommend no change in
this Order. 1. See rliscussioii i-elating to section 17 . 1,: The main provision authorises Suing of partners in the name 01'
the iilzn. 1313;-iosu1'e oi partnei s' name is provided for, as also service.
Appearance of partners is dealt with. There is no appearance except
by partners. Appearance under protest is allowed. A suit against a
person as carrying on business in a name other than his own is
governed by similar provisions. Order 30, rule 2

30.2. An amendment has been made to Order 30, rule 2(3) by the
High Court of Orissa, under which the names of the partners disclos-
ed in the manner stated in Order 30, rule 2(1) "shall appear in the
decree". The question whether this amendment should be adopted for
facilitating the execution of the decree against individual partners
was considered in the earlier Report,' but it was felt that there was
no need for any such provision. 30.3. We are, however. of the view that the Orissa amendment
is a useful one, and the particulars proposed to be added may come
in handy at the stage of execution. Recommendation

30.4. Accordingly, we recommend that the proviso to Order 30,
rule 2 should be revised as fol1ows:---- 1, 27th Report, page :31". note on Orrler 30. Rule 2. CHAPTER 31

SUITS BY AND AGAINST TRUSTEES AND EXEUUTORS

Introductory

31.1. In the Order relating to suits by and against trustees, exe-
cutors and administrators, Order 31--the Code first provides that
in suits concerning trust-property, the trustee shall represent the
beneﬁciaries. and that. unless the Court otherwise directs the bene-
ﬁciaries need not be made parties. The Court will order the beneﬁ-
ciaries to be made parties, when the trustees etc. are wholly un-
interested in the matter, or have an adverse interest therein. No

changes are recommended in this Order. I'\

Cimr--1-Ea 32

SUITS BY AND AGAINST MINORS

Introductory

32.1. Order 32 relating to suits by and against minors is Sub: {a} receipt by the next friend or guardian for the suit, of pro-
perty under a decree for minor; (b) agreement or compromise by the next friend or guardian
for the suit. Retirement of next friend, removal of the next friend, and retire-
ment, removal or death of the guardian for the suit, are provided
for. The course to be followed 'by a minor on attaining majority, is
also dealt With. Unreasonable or improper suits by the next friend
are also dealt with. Application of these rules to persons of unsound
mind is provided for. We shall now deal with such points as require amendments. Order 32, Rule 3(4)

32.3. Under Order 32, rule 3(4), notice of an application for ap-
pointment of a guardian ad Iitem is to be given to the father or other
natural guardian of the minor, It appears to us that the notice
should be given to the mother also, even where she is not the natural
guardian. We also concur with certain other amendments recom-
mended in the earlier Report.'

Re-draft of Order 32, Rule 3

32.4. Accordingly, we recommend as follows:-- Order 32, Rule SA (New) (Elfect of adverse interest)

32.5. Where a guardian or next friend has conducted the suit
with care and honesty, can the decree be set aside on the ground
that he had an adverse interest? Of course, the objections which the
minor (or other persons looking after his welfare) may like to urge
as to the partiality of any person, can always be taken when notice
is issued under Order 32, rule 4. But, if the notice does not reach
the minor or the person looking after his welfare, then diﬂiculty
may arise. On the one hand, it is desirable that a decree of a court
should not be liable to be set aside except for strong reasons. On the
other hand, justice requires that a minor should not be bound by the
acts of a guardian adverse to the minor's inte-rests. 32.6. Discussion of the case--law on the subject must start with
a Privy Council decision.' In that case, the suit was ﬁled on 'behalf
of the minor for a declaration that certain decrees and sales were
invalid because the minor had not been properly represented in the
proceedings from which they resulted. It was held that the decrees
and proceedings were invalid, because the sister of the minor, being
a married woman, was not the proper person to be appointed as
guardian ad lite-m, and, as regards the other guardian, who was the
minor's uncle, his interest was obviously adverse, as he had purchased
in the name of his sons the decree passed against the minors father.
and was thus personally interested in the minor's estate adversely
to her. All this was proved in the suit to set aside the decrees and
sales, and it was therefore held that the minor was never a party to

any of the Suits in the proper sense of the term. 32.}. The learned Subordinate Judge had found that" the re-
ceedings impeached in the plaint failed as against the plaintiff ap-
pellant), because she was not properly repersented in them. He held
that Ulfat--un-nisa, as a married woman, could not have been appoint-
ed guardian ad litem, and that Mauladad, whose sons were merely
benomi purchasers on" his behalf, and had an interest adverse to
that of the minor, and was therefore disqualiﬁed. The High Court
on appeal set aside his decree, and dismissed the suit upon the ground
that- 32.8. The Privy Council observed- 32.9. This decision was followed by the High Court of Madras.
and it was held that where the interest of a guardian ad litem is
0bVi0l1Sl1,r adverse, the decree is a nullity.' The High Court of
Travancore-Cochin also seems' to have held that the decree is a
nullity'. 32.10. In an Allahabad casef it was observed~

"It is now settled law that where a 2'Uai'dian ad iitem has an
interest adverse to the minors, they are to be considered
as not having been properly represented in the suit. and
the decree is not binding on them." 32.11. Tn a later Madras case,' the ouestion whether the notice
given to the father was sufficient notice, was considered in the con-
text of a suit on a mortgage where the executant of the mortgage
was appointed guardian ad litem of his minor son. The court, refer-
ring to the above question. observed- 1. 5-'r:.?.E-i\_-pprzc GM-wltdrxn v. llfaeta Naﬂcen [1924] I.L.R. 4'7 Marl. 79, ALR. 1924 Mad. 297. 5. Isrizrzii Hirrrhim V. J-faﬂzaieﬁerion. A,I.R. I955 Tr. Co. 'i'lJl . '. Ckinznjilal v. Syed Hyaa AH, A.I.R. 1924 All. 751 {Domilo and Dads! -TJ.}. '. Monti Swemuer v. Subrame-nits, A.I.R. 1929 Med. 393, 394. 32.12. In a Calcutta case,' Rankin, C. J. doubted whether the
Privy Council case" went so far as to hold that the appointment
of a guardian ad lttem whose interest was adverse rendered the
decree a nullity in every case. 32.13. The Bombay High Court has observed" that where a
minor plaintiff is not properly represented in a suit, he is not en-
titled to ignore the decree passed therein and to ﬁle a fresh suit
to have the issues tried on the merits. He should sue to set aside
the decree in the prior suit, and to revive that suit. 32.14. In a Patna case,' the suit was ﬁled to set aside the mort-
gage decree on the ground that the minors were not properly re-
presented by their father. as his interest was adverse. It was held
on the evidence that as the defences open to the minors were not
put forward by the guardian, the decree was not binding on them,
but that it cannot be said without going into the merits that the
decree was had simply because the father's interest conﬂicted with
that of the sons. '

32.15. In at Bombay case", the position in the case of members
of a Hindu joint family was thus summarisedﬁ

"In the case of a Hindu joint family where the manager has
the power to bind the minor members of the coparce-
nary by an alienation for legal necessity, it is open to
the son to challenge it in a suit brought to enforce the
alienation on the ground that although it may be bind-
ing on the manager, it is not binding on the minor. His
interest may. therefore. conflict with that of the mana-
ger, as the defences of both may be separate debt on
the family. In such a case it would not be desirable to
appoint. the manager as the guardian ad litem for the
minor in the suit' but if he is so appointed and a decree
is passed against the minor's interest in the property. it
cannot be said, in absence of fraud or collusion on the
party of the manager, that the decree is a nullity merely
because the manager ought not to have been appointed
as his guardian. If the minor subsequently sues to set
aside the decree. he must show that the alienation was
not. in fact, binding on him. This would be especially
so where the manager is the father who is the natural
guardian of the minor and whose personal debts also are

" binding on the son if they are antecedent to the aliena-
tion and are not illegal or immoral. In the present case.
there is no proof of fraud or collusion on the part of
the father. and the debts for which the mortgage and
the sale were made are not shown as not binding on the
son. The interests of the father and the son are not thus
conﬂicting. We are of opinion. therefore, that the mort-
gage decree is not proved to be not binding on the son
on this ground." 1. -'~'ru'.Hc A-'.IrIJ.iI .7\'rrrin1 '.7. '7'.71-ﬂturrfvra (1929) 55 Cal. 55. Cal, I2!'-T: g 3. Rrwhfrl rm. v. Jfufutmrnmﬂ I-rimtil, (1909) I.L.R. 31 All. 572 {I'.C.}. 3. Ertrrnan V. Srir.-is-znutii, ,-LLR. I959 Born. 125.
'. r'.'.'-.z'r'.rru1'.i'mr i't'rsrri.i1-1.. Dag Y. Kiiirirt-r Tkakur, A.I.E. 1933 Put-.L-137. 5. .'!'aJttIdetI v. Shankar, A.I.R. 19-'13 Bum. 337, 390 (Davatia. 8:. Lokur JJ]. .,.- 33.16. We are of the view that the position should be settled
in this respect, Mere adverse interest is not, according to the view
of most High Courts, a ground for setting aside the decree. But,
where the minor is prejudiced by reason of such adverse interest,
the decree can be set asde. These propositions should be enacted
into low, At the same time, the ordinary rule that the decree can
he set aside on the ground of gross negligence or misconduct on
the part of the guardian leading to prejudice, should remain. un-
aﬁected, since it is independent of any question of adverm inte-
rest. 332.17. It was suggested to us that it would be better to consider
this point under the Evidence Act , but since it also concerns the
Code, we are dealing with it here. 32.18. No doubt, theoretically, an adverse interest should be
suﬁicient for setting aside the decree. because the minor is not
represented. But, such a provision would create practical compli-
cations. and aﬁect the ﬁnality of decrees in numerous suits to
which minors are parties. The question is of choice between the
abstract pristine view of mere adverse interest (on the one hand),
and adverse interest leading to prejudice to the minor (on the
other hand}. The latter seems to be the present position, and is the
only practical view. Recommendation
32.19. We, therefore, recommend that the following rule
should be added in Order 32:-- taining any relief available under law bu reason of the
misconduct or cross negligence on the part of the next
friend or guardian for the suit. resulting in prejudice to
the interests of the minor." Order 32, rule 15

32.20. _In the earlier Repﬂrtf a recornmendrution was made for
the insertion of a new rule--2A--in Order 32, in the following
terms: 1. 27th Report, Note on Order 32, Rule 241, (New), and draft at page ':5_ 232 {2} Whe1'e such a suit. is instituted informa pauperis, the
security shall include the court-fees payable to the
Got-'ernrnent. '

(:5) The provisions of rule 2 of Order 25 shall, go far as many
he, apply to a suit where the Court makes an' order
under this rule directing security to be furnished." 32.21. This followed broadly the Madras amendment on the
:.L=b;iect. Question of security

32.22. We agree with this recommendation. The reason why_we
refer to it here is, however, connected with another provision,
namely Order 32. rule 15. Under Order 32, rule 15, the provisions contained in Rules 1
to 14 of the Orders, so far as they are applicable, shall extend to
persons adjudged to be of unsound mind and to persons who.
i.hou,r:h not so adjudged. are found by the Court on inquiry. by
reason of unsoundness of mind or mental inﬁrmity, to be capable
of protecting their interests when suing or being sued. Now, the
Madras amendment to Order 32. rule' 15 excludes the operation of
rule EA (security demanded from next friend or auardian) i_e. the

newly inserted rule in relation to persons of unsound mind etc. '- The previous Commission noted this, but considered it unnecc-s~
sary to have any such provision}

Supervening insanity

32.23. Another question relevant to Order 32, rule 15 is of super-
vening insanity. This had also been considered by the previous Coma
mission' in the earlier Report. (at present, rule 2 does not apply
in such case)? It would appear that in England", in case of super-
vening insanity, the action must be carried on by the next friend
(who will, usually, be the receiver in lunacy). The previous Com~
mission took note of this.' position. However, it thought that as
such cases are not frequent, no amendment was required in the
earlier Report. 32.24. We think that although both these points are minor,
they should be suitably dealt with. 1. 2'.TtlI Rﬁpurh I';'..qo 22-'1. '.\'ote on Order .'-32. Rule 15. 3. Firm IJa'ol'mrr1rr. Dds V. Debi Suﬁsm", A.I.R., 1936 Lah. T, 8 {Boclzrat J.)-. -. L;13¢n}229Mo£1.JauucA._17 _

CHAPTER 32A
SUITS CUNCERNTING THE -FAMILY

Introductory

32131.1. We propose to add a new Order, intended to deal with
suits relating to matters concerning the family. We explain below
the reasons for adding it. Peculiarity of disputes concerning the family

32;-'-1.2. In the administration of justice, in disputes relating to
the family. one has to keep in mind the human relationships with
which one is dealing. The objective of family counselling, as a
method of achieving the ultimate object of preservation of the
family, is to be kept in the forefront. 3211.3. Litigation concerning or involving affairs of the fazniiiy,
therefore, requires a special approach, in view of the serious emo~
tional aspects involved. For this sensitive area of personal rela-
tionship, our ordinarv judicial procedure is not ideally suited. As
Sir Garﬁeld Barwick (then Attorney-General of Australia),,said'

in the debates on the Matrimonial Clauses Bill, 1959, the JudgE""~

not unnaturallv feels reticent about intruding into the human re.
latinnship of those who come before him; and the parties them-
selves so often enter into a conspiracv of silence, where their in-
nermost secrets are concerned. 32A.4. It is now being increasingly realised thate (a) as fact' as possible, an integrated broad based service to
families in trouble. should become a part of the Court
system; (lo) the existing court structure should be so organised that
one single court should deal with the problem of pre-
serving the families; and (c) the conventional procedure dominated by the adversary
system may not be appropriate for disputes concerning
the family. 32A.5. Many of these matters are outside the scope of this
Report: moreover. it will require considerable time and effort to
re-mould the legal system to make it an effective instrument for
dealing with them. Nevertheless, it is felt that so far as the Code
of Civil Procedure is concerned, it may be desirable to have spe-
cial provisions on some matters,--provisions which highlight the
need'for adopting a different approach. where matters concerning
the family are at issue, including the need for eﬁorts to bring
about an amicable settlement. 1. Australia, H. Piirl. Del». (New Series]. 2222, 1325.1 997' lnlil. I, 19559]
33%

'U

$4

_.._.... Recommendation

3221.6. With the above object in view. a few_ provisions relat-
ing to suits concerning the family are proposed in the form of a
new Order, which will be as .EUllUws;-- timacy of any person; ((2) a suit or proceeding in relation to guardianship of
the person or custodv of any minor or other person
under disability; (d) a suit or proceeding for maintenance. (e) a suit or proceeding as to the validity or effect of an
adoption; (fl a suit or proceeding relating to wills, intestacy and
succession; (g) a suit or proceeding relating to any other matter in
respect of which the parties are subject to their
personal law. Proceedings to be held in camera--In every suit or pro-
ceeding to which this Order applies, the proceedings may
be held in camera, it the court so desires and shall be
so held if either party so desires. Duty of court to make eﬁorts for settlemm-rt---(1) In
every suit or proceeding to which this Order applies, it
shall be the duty of the Court in the first instance. in
every case where it is possible to do so consistently with
the nature and circumstances of the case, to make every
endeavour to assist the parties in arriving at a settlement
in respect of the subject-matter of the suit. LfB{D]229MofLJadnGA-+173 236 (2) If, in any such suit or proceeding, at any stage it appears

(3) The power conferred by sub-rule {2} 4.

to the court that there is a reasonable possibility of a
settlement between the nartles, the court may adjourn
the proceedings for such period as it thinks. ﬁt. 130 Enable
attempts to be made to effect such a settlement. is in addition to
any other power of the court to adjourn proceedings. As.5'i.str:m.ce of welfare e.trpert--In every suit or proceed-
ing to which this Order applies, it shall' be open to the
Court to secure the services of such person.' whether
related to the parties or not, including a person pro-
fessionally engaged in promoting the welfare of the
family, as the court thinks ﬁt, for the purpose of assist--
ing the Court in discharging the functions imposed by
rule 3 of this Order. Duty to inquire into _facts----In ever}; suit or proceeding
to which this Order applies, it shall be the duty of the
court to inquire, so far as it reasonably can, into the
facts alleged by the plaintiﬁ' and into any facts alleged
by the defendant." For the purposes of this Order. each of the following
shall be treated as constituting a family, that is to sarj,r----- (bl

1' The P3139" sh-°'1]d llmfembfgr be H: Wonzum, wherever a.1'aila.bIe. '.9 i -u...*

CHAPTER 33

SUITS BY INDIGENT PERSONS
Introductory

33.1. Order 33 deals with suits by indigent persons. The Code
does not deal with the subject of legal and, but provides for exemp-
tion from Court fees, in respect of persons who are indigent, called
by the inappropriate name of "paupers". 33.2. The object is to enable persons who are too poor to pay,

court fee to institute a suit without payment of it.' The exemption
does not extend to process-fee (rule 3). 33.3. This Order has a long history.'

In the reign of Henry VII, an Act was passed by the English
Parliament as "a Mean to help and speed poor Persons in their suit". This Act , which permitted the destitute to appear in court without
paying the usual court fees at the discretion of the Chancellor, was
in force in England, with modiﬁcation, until 1949. 33.4. It enabled him to obtain writs original and writs of sub-
poena free of charges. The Indian Legislature ﬁrst dealt with the
subjeota in 1939; :and the provisions have, with necessary additions
and modiﬁcations, found a place in successive Codes of Civil Pro-
cedure. Order 33 and expression "pauper"--Recomrnendation

33.5. With reference to indigent persons, we have a general re-
commendation to make on a question of terminology. We recom-
mend that the expression "indigent person" should be used through-
out the Code. in place of the present expression "pauper", which "is
not in harmony with modern attitudes. Order 3.3, Rule i-----Point. not discussed in August & September,
19 2). 33.6. In Order 33, rule 1, which deals with eligibility to sue, cer-
tain modiﬁcations, Which are summarised below, were proposed by
the earlier Reporti- (i] The amount of rupees one hundred was proposed to be
raised to rupees one thousand; . (ii) In considering the question of suﬁicient means, the subject-
matter of the suit (case Bombay Amendment) and neces-
sary wearing-apparel were proposed to be excluded; plication or the date of its hearing should be the relevant
date for considering pauperism, was dealt with. The deci-
sion on the subject revealed a conflict of views. A provi-
sion had, therefore, been recommended to the effect that
property acquired by the applicant after presentation of
the petition and before decision of the application should
be taken into consideration. We agree with these recommendations. We are also of the view
that certain other points require to be _considered and we proceed
to discuss them below. Order 33, Rule 1, Explanation

33.7, The question whether a person suing. in a representative
capacity. who has no property in his hands in that capacity, can sue
as a pauper. has been the subject matter of debate. as is shown by
judicial decisions.'

33.8. Here. reference may be made to the earlier Re ort" which
has taken a similar view. while referring to the Madras mendment
to Order 33. Rule 1. Explanation (iii), which provides that where a
plaintiff sues in a representative capacity, the question of pauperism
shall be considered with reference to the means possessed by him,
in such capacity It was, however, considered. unnecessary to make
such an express provision, though the Commission agreed with the
\-'ll.-'.'W incorporated in the Madras Amendment. 33.9. We now refer to another point, namely, suits in representa-
tive capacity. '

In a Gujarat" case. the question arose, whether a trustee who has
not no trust property in his hands could sue as a pauper on behalf
of: the trust. even if he is possessed of suﬂicient means in his indivi-
dual capacity. . - . . The High Court held- 33.10. Further, in the Gujarat case, it was held that "merely be-
cause the test of a wearing apparel could not be fulﬁlled and no
deduction of its value could be claimed by persons possessing no
wearing apparel. it could not justify a construction that the word
'person' in the clause refers only to natural persons who can possess
wearing apparel. So also, there isno difficulty in complying with
Rule 2, as regards the presentation of the application by the person
himself. "In such cases of trustees and executors, if the suit is
brought in a representative capacity. they could present the appli-
cation in that capacity, and they could remain present as such be-
fore the court to answer any question relating to the trust". 33.11. The proper test in such cases is to see in what capacity a
person sues and whether in that capacity he is a pauper. The trustees
could therefore, sue on behalf of the trust, provided they had no
sujfficient trust moneys in their hand to pay the necessary court fees,
even though in their -individual capacity they may -not be paupers,
Resources of the trustees in their individual capacity would be irrele-
vant. The question whether the word "person"' in Order 33. Rule 1.
Explanation should be taken to include a limited company incorpo-
rated undcr the Companies Act , was left Qnpen. 33.12. It is in our opinion desirable to make the position clear on
this point. 33.13. It is. in our opinion, also desirable to exclude not only the
necessary wearing apparel while calculating the means of plaintiff
desir-ousof-siiing as a pauper, but all property exempt from attach-
ment. 33.14. The basis on which property is exempted from attachment
by the law' is the assumption that the property is necessary for liveli-
hood or that the exemtion is otherwise necessary encourage
thritt.--all of which can be subsumed under the general rule that
the law does not favour property (of the particular kind). being
disposed or dissipated or spent away for any purpose. It follows,
that the person to whom such property belongs should rot only assign
it.' but be discouraged from selling it in order to provide himself
with the means for fighting litigation. Recommendation----Drder 33. Rule 1. '- '
33.14. Accordingly, we recommend that for Order 33. rule 1,

the following rule should be substituted:-- ree and the subject-matter of the suit, to enable him to _
pay the fee prescribed by law for the plaint in such suit, 'V
or (b) where no such fee is prescribed, when he is not entitled
to property worth one thousand rupees other than the pro- 1
perty exempt as aforesaid and the subje-et--matter of the
suit. Explanation 2.----Any property which is acquired by a person
after the presentation of his application for permission to
site as an indigent person and before the decision of the ap-
phcation, shall be taken into account in considering the
question whether he is an indigent person. Explanation 3.--When the plaintiff sites in a representative capa-
city, the question whether he is an indigent person shall be
determined with reference to the means possessed by him
in such capacity". Order 33, rule IA (New)

33.15. We are of the View that inquiry into pauperism should or-
dinarily be made by the Chief Ministerial Dfﬁcerl of the Court. Accordingly, we recommend that the following rule should be
added in Order 33:--- Order 33, rule 5(c). 33.16. There is a minor point to be considered concerning Order
33, rule 5(a). The rule is as follows:-- - sion to sue as a pauper, or-. (d) .......... .. 1. Cf. Section 128(1) (j). 24-1

33.1? It may be noted, that under clause (c), the application; is rejected on the ground oi fraudulent disposition of proper'ty;or
disposition of property in order to be able to apply £01' P'-3-1"m1551°ﬂ

to sue as a pauper. The assumption behind this rule is, that if the H

property had not been disposed of (ivithin the Speciﬁed peﬁodl, then
the applicant would have had suﬁicient rneansto pay the 0011"? £995-
This. however-_ is not sufficiently brought out in the clause, because
under the present wording, even where the property disposed of and
the property still in possession of the aPDl1C3¥1t.~ taken t°3"-'lfher- 15 ncjt
5-ufﬁcient far paying court fees, the application can be re1ected. We
think that this is rather harsh, and should be set right. Recommendation

33.18. We. accordingly, recommend the insertion of the follow-
ing proviso below rule 5- Order 33, Rule 5(a)

33.19. Amongst the grounds on which an application for per-
mission to sue as a pauper may be rejected, is the ground mention-
ed in Order 33, Rule 5(d). namely, absence of a cause of actlon. 33.20. In the earlier Report,' it was noted that the existing
wording of Order 33, Rule 5(d}--"where his allegations do not
show a cause of action"/had been interpreted widely by the
courts." The Commission considered it unnecessary to disturb the
language of the rule. although it referred to the local amendmenls
relevant to the rule. 3321. Since then, the Gujarat High Court has held' that Order
1'; rule 11 makes a distinction between failure to show a cause of
action "(on the one hand). and bar of limitation or of any other
law [on the other hand). It was pointed out that the two ideas are
quite distinct. "The bar of limitation does not destroy the cause of
action. if any, but only bars the remedy." Therefore, it was held
that the lower court was wrong in holding that the suit does not
show a cause of action because it is time-barred. 33.22. This judgment makes it necessary to clarify the posi-
tion. It may be noted that the Madras High Court' has added a
clause (d-1), under which the Court shall reject the application for
permission to' sue as a pauper where the suit appears to be barred
by any law. As contrasted with this, the Allahabad High Court has
inserted an Explanation to rule 5, to the effect that an application
shall not be rejected under this clause ((1) merely on the ground
that the proposed suit appears to be barred by any law. 1. 27th Report. pages 225. 226. _ 2. [(1) See Balm Paumr v. Go::err2ene'n.t, A.I.R. 1955 All. 415;
(E1) Pr:m-trial, A.I.R. 1!}-11 Had. 398. . .Rit-rnm'.I:la{ 1;. Mutkumiui. A.I.R. 1965 Guj. 21-! (Rain, »T.)_
. As to the eifcct of the Madras aT]!€'|dIIIBnli, see In re .»1n-mtmultm, A.I.R. 1956 Mad. 377,

til-Eh-5 242 Recommendation to insert Order 33, rule 5(ﬂd)

33.23. The Madras amendment is, in our view, preferable. If a
suit is barred by any law, there is no point in granting permission
to sue as a pauper. Of course, borderrline cases could occur; but the
power to reject could be conﬁned to cases where it is clear from
the allegation in the application that the suit is barred. We there-
fore, recommend, therefore, that the following should be added as
clause (dd), in Order 33, rule 55--- ' "(dd) where his allegations show that the suit would be bar- red by any law _fCI'r the time being in force; or". Appeal against order under Order 33, Rule 5

33.23A. We are of the View that an order under Order 33, Rule
5, rejecting the application, should he made appealable,' since the
order followed to stand, would prevent the applicant from enforc-
ing his right to sue. 33.24. Order 33, Rule 7, prescribes the procedure to be followed
at the hearing of an application for permisson to sue as an indi-
gent person. It says- '*7. (1) On the day so ﬁxed or as soon thereafter as may. be
convenient, the Court shall examine the witnesses (if any)
produced by either party, and may examine the appli-
cant or his agent, and shall make a memorandum of the
substance of their evidence. (2) The Court shall also hear any argument which the par-
ties may desire to otter on the question whether, on the
face of the application and of the evidence (if any) taken
by the Court as herein provided. the applicant is or is,
not subject to any of the prohibitions speciﬁed in Rule 5." This rule, thus, turns back to rule 5. 33.25. Under Order 33. rule 5, a Court shall reject an applica-A
tion to sue in _forma paupevis on any of the five grounds mentioned
therein. These relate to----- (ij The form and presentation of the petition: Rule 5(a); (ii) Ting pauperism of the applicant: Rule 5, clauses (b), (c)
an {e}. (iii) The merits of the petitioner's claim: Rule 5, clause (cl). 33.25. Now, the inter-relationship of rule 7 and rule 5 of Order
33 is of interest. First, so far as rule 5(a) goes, a perusal of the petition is suf'ﬁ-
cient to see whether the prohibition applies. so that the examina-
tion uncler rule 7 will not relate to it. Secondly, as regards pau-
perism of the applicant, rules ii and 7 provide for. the adducing of
evidence by the applicant as well as by the Government and by
the opposite party. The examination under rule 7 is, therefore,
certainly directed -at pauperism. Clauses (b). ((1) and (e) of Rule 5
hroadl_v relate to the quest'on of oauoerisrn. So a full enquiry in
ﬂit' Dﬁints mentioned in those clauses has to be held. 1. To be carri-:Ll -13, rule 1 [n_u},

At

...--J

',._. " 33.27. All the High Courts seem to agree that a Court should
not, under rule 7, embark upon an elaborate enquiry regarding the
merits of the petitiongfs claim. But. as to what should form .- the
basis for a decision on the point Whether the petitioner has a
cause of action or not, at least three views can be gathered from
the decisions- (i) The ﬁrst View is, that only the petition can be looked
into for this purpose and nothing else. This View found
favour in a Madras case." But the difficulty with this
View is, that rule 4 gives a discretion to the Court to
examine the applicant as to the cause of his action. If
any statement made by the applicant in the examination
cannot be acted upon by the Court. then it is not easy
to see why a Court should be invested at all with such a
discretion. No doubt, the word "allegations" in Rule 5(d'} may seem to
lend some support to this view. but the word should not be regard- '"e1:I as material on the above point. (ii) The second view is, that a court can take evidence re-
garding the petitioners' cause of action. This View was
taken by in a decision of the Patna High Court," though
a later case takes a different view. It is. however, oppos-
ed to the scheme of the Qrder. The evidence that can be
adduced after notice to the opposite party. should relate
(-as laid down by Rule 6) only to the pauneﬁsm of the
petitioner. (iii) The third View (-which is a middle between the two
extremes mentioned above) is. that a Court can rely
upon the allegations in the petition and the statements
of the petitioner made by him during his exarnination
under rule 4. if an_v. by the court. This view is shared

L ( 'I°- "'7-'II H45-'-'1' v. .|I ;',r. Lt:-. Ptm. .-'t.[.R. 1932 R.":I.I]£{- 10?, T10 [F.B.].
n'? rrfrvanr Pi1i'r4.5 \' F'",rJ'I PHI'!-' (1903), ll} M. L.J. 292 {F.B.).
3 C.l'l.-'u'ir-- -Vila fl'. H.|".'.' 3!-'£.i'f'l";r'E:, :L.l.R. 1919 Pilaf. 53, 59 [D.B.l. IQ 244 by several High Courts.' But there is again a difference
of opinion regarding the scope and nature of the exami-
nation of the petitioner under rule 7'. Some Courts" held that his examination under Rule" T should
not be related to the cause of action but only to his pauperlsm,
while others express the opinion" that his examination under rule

.. 'I may be with reference to the cause of action as well.
33.28. In the Bombay case, it was observed"--- 33.29. It is, of course, not open to the Court to hold an elabo-
rate inquiry into the question whether the claim made by the
petitioner is likely to succeed. In ascertaining where there exists
a "cause of action", the court cannot go into complicated questions
of fact or law". 33.30. The most sensible View (which is practically the same
as the Bombay view)" seems to be, that (i) under rule T, a court
may examine the applicant. touching the 'cause of action'; {ii} that
when he is so examined, the opposite party has a right to cross-
examine him under rule '7; and {iii} that a court may take the
result of such examination together with any examination under
rule 4 and the allegation in the petition in deciding whether the
prohibition motioned in rule 5(d) applies or not: (iv) but the other
witnesses cannot. under rule '3. testify for, or against, the existence
of the cause of action; (V) however. the court can give ,3.» Lion
both on pauperism and on the cause of action (or any other prohi-
bition mentioned in rule 5). 3.31. Since Order 33, rule 6, speciﬁcally mentions that the
evidence to be taken should relate only to the question of paupe-
rism of the petitioner, it is desirable, by a slight amendment of
rule 7, to provide that the examination of the petitioner (as distinct
from the evidence of other witnesses), can extend to the cause of
action also. ]. ( ct) Jcgewirrx V. Darya Cfmmn, A.I.R. 1919 Cal. 385; {5} Bai Clm-nrirm. v'. Ultotfa Lat, A.I.R. 1932 Born. 584, 535 (Rangnekar J.},'

(0) U Ba:.D:Iz-c 1'. Mg. Lu Plum, A.l.R. 1932 Bang. 10'? (F.B.]. 2. [(1) Bid Chanda-H V. Gklmta Lei, A.I.B. I932 Bonn. 534: 3. (rt) U Hr: Drive i'. Mg. by. Plant, A.I.R. I932 Bang. 10?, 11], I12 (]rI=.1jnrit_v view'

to) JnI1r='ruim V. Dmmrz Ckarnn. A,I.R. 1919, Cal. 33%. 39.3. . Bat flkandon v. Chlzotg L423, A.I.R. 1932 Bum. 534, 535 (Rruignekar J.].
. I-'1';.icti Pratap 1.'. Ilukh Harcm. A.I.R. 1962 S.C. 941, 943, Para. 9.
. B-11' Ckamltm v. Chkoaolul, A.I.R. 1932 Boln. 58-1, (Rangnckaﬂ

GGIFI

A

it 3.

'"''''I--\.. I1: is also desirable to provide for a_ full record, in trienr of our
proposal for appeal against orders. rejecting the application for
permission to sue as a pauper. Recommendation

33.32. In the light of the above discussion, we recommend that
Order 33. rule 7. should be revised as follows»:- Appeal against order under Order 33, rule 'i'--Recommendatlon

33.32_A. We are of the view that an order under Order 33. Rule
7', rejecting the application, should be made appealalﬂe." since it
prevents the applicant from enforcing his right to sue." Order 33, rule 3

""""" We now come one point relevant to Order 33, rule 8. In
our Questionnaire. we had included the following Question:'
"30. How far do you consider it the duty to the State to
provide,- (a) to a person without any means. or
. (b) to a person with inadequate means, the following

facilities or concessions in full or part--- (a) Legal aid; (bl exemption from payment of process fees." Replies to this question are generally favourable, and we
think that the suggestion in part (b) of the question relating
to process fees should be implemented. 1. See discussion below. 2. Discussion as to Order 33, Rule 5. 3. To be carried out under Order 43, rule 1 {on}. 4. Question 30. l 246 Recommendation
33.34. Accordingly, we recommend the following amendment in
Order 33. rule 34
"In Order 33 rule 3, for the words and brackets "(other than

fees payable for service of process)", the words "or fees
payable for service of process" should be substituted." Order 33. rule 9A (NeW)--Legal aid to panpers

3334A. Where a person permitted to sue as an indigent person
is not represented by a pleader, it is desirable that the court should -'assign a pleader to him at the expense of the State. As to the mode of selecting pleaders to be so -assigned, the faci-
lities to be allowed to such plea-tiers by the courts and the fees
payable to such pleaders by the Government and other matters. the
High Court can make rules. Recommendation

33.34B. Accordingly, we recommend insertion of the following
rule- {b) the facilities to be allowed to such pleaders by the
Courts; (C) the fees payable to such tpleaders by the Government,
and, generally, for carrying out the purpose of sub-
section [1)." 'Order .33. rule 15 and costs '- A--''' '

33.35. Order 33, rule 14, allows the ﬁling of a second suit by a
person where an application by that -person to sue as a pauper is
refused. But the condition for the second suit is, that the applicant
"ﬁrst pays the costs" of the Government and of the opposite party,
incurred in opposing the earlier application, Whether this payment
of costs is a condition precedent to the very institution of the second
suit, is a matter on which the position is not clear from the deci-
sions. One view' is, that payment of costs is not a condition prece-
dent, but when the matter is brought to the notice of the court, the
court should reject the plaint or stay the suit pending payment. The
I'u'lacIras view' is that the costs have to be paid before institution of
the suit. "In any case, if costs are paid long after the ﬁling of the
suit on insufficiently stamped paper, the suit is 'liable 'to be dismis-
sed. It was recommended in the Report of the earlier Commission
on the Code, that there should be a power in the court to give time
(in suitable cases). for payment of the costs. _--'1l:Ir.io£ Rnkmrtn V. Am.£nbu,i. A.IV.'I'{,. 1913 Bum. 409, 411 {reviews pages], 2. {fl} Ram Kris-.7zIrrr V'. Rn-airrijogo, A.I.B.. 1943 Mod. 541?, 548'
(5) Siva Roe v. R-mmnjaga, A.I.R. lt!J=3 Had. 547, 543. rirjl-in-sf». 33.36. We agree that the court should have power to grant time.
Further, we think, hat it should be made clear that where the costs
are not paid within the speciﬁed time, the plaint should be rejected. Recommendations

33.32'. Accordingly, the following re-draft of Order 33, rule 15 is
suggested. 2 --r
"15. (1) An order refusing to allow the applicant to sue as a
pauper shall be a bar to any subsequent application of the
like nature by him in respect of the same right to sue; but
the applicant shall, subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2),
be at liberty to institute a suit in the ordinary manner in
respect of such right. (2) No such suit shall be entertained unless the applicant pays
the costs (if any) incurred by the State Government and by
thepopposite party in opposing his application for leave to
sue as a pauper: and where such costs are not paid at the
time of institution of the suit or within such period there-
after as the court may allow, the plaint, shalt be rejected". CHAPTER 34
SUITS {IN MORTGAGES

Introductory
34.1. Order 34 deals with suits on mortgages

The scheme of the Code in relation to suits on mortgages is
as fo1lows:---- , Whether the suit be one for foreclosure, sale or redemption, the
preliminary decree in each case must either declare the amount due
on the mortgage, or direct an account to be taken of what is due to
the mortgagee for principal, interest and costs, and for other costs,
charges and expenses in respect of the mortgage--security. An account
is then taken of what is due on the mortgage, the sums so found
due to each mortgagee are included in one report, and the sale-pro-
ceeds are subsequently divided between the plaintiff and the puisne
mortgagees in accordance with their claims as found by the report.
Where the mortgagee is in possession, an account is to be taken of
what is due to the mortgagee for principal and interest, and also of
the income derived by him from the property. 34.2. After this, a ﬁnal decree is passed. The shape which the ﬁnal
decree takes depends on whether the mortgagor has or has not paid
the total amount due on the mortgage. If he has not paid it, the ﬁnal
decree is for foreclosure or sale. 34.3. A fundamental defect in the present procedure under Order
34 is that it necessitates two decrees in the same suit and also the
possibility of two appeals against decrees in the same suit. 34.4. We think that this should be avoided. The scheme which

it ----U..'

r

u:s- we propose is, that there should be only one decree in suits on ',§

gages. That decree will correspond to the present prelin'1'm
decree. All subsequent proceedings will take place in execution. Recommendation
34.5. Accordingly, we recommend the following re-drafts of the
relevant rules in Order 34:- curred by him_un to that date in respect of his
rnortgage--securitj§r, together with interest thereon;
or . succeeds. the 248 9-~.. .-.,

24.9 (b) declaring the amount so due at that date; and (c) di1'ecting~

(ii that, if the defendant pays into Court the amount
so found or declared due on or before such date
as the Court may ﬁx within six months from the
date on which the Court conﬁrms and countersigns
the account taken under clause (a), or from the
date onwhich such amount is declared in Court un-
der clause (b), as the case may be, and thereafter
pays such amount as may be adjudged due in res-
pect of subsequent costs, charges and expenses as
provided in Rule 10, together with subsequent in-
terest on such sums respectively as provided in
Rule 11. the plaintiff shall deliver up to the defen-
dant, or to such person as the defendant appoints,
all documents in his possession or power relating
to the mortgaged property, and shall, if so re-
quired re-transfer the property to the defendant
at his cost free from the mortgage and fro-m all
incumberances created by the plaintiff or any
person claiming under him, or, where the plain-
tiff claims by derived title, by those under whom
he claims, and shall also, if necessary, put the de-
fendant in possession of the property; and (ii) that, if payment of the amount found or declared
due under or by the .......... ..decree is not made on
or before the date so ﬁxed, or the defendant fails
to pay, within such time as the Court may fix, the
amount adjudged due in respect of subsequent
costs, charges, expenses and interest, the plaintiff
shall be entitled to apply in execution for an order
debarring the defendant from all right to redeem
the property. (2) The Court may, on good "cause shown and upon terms to be (3) ﬁxed by the Court, from time to time, at any time before
an order under sub-clause (ii) of clause (c) of sub--rule (1)
is passed. extend the time ﬁxed for the payment of the
amount found or declared due under sub-rule (1) or of
the amount adjudged due' in respect of subsequent costs,
charges. expenses and interest. Where, in a suit for foreclosure,subsequent mortgag-ees,or
persons deriving title from, or subrogated to the rights
of, any such mortgagees are joined as parties, the ....... ..
decree shall provide for the adjudication of the respective
rights and liabilities of the parties to the suit in the manner
and form set forth in Form No. 9 or Form No. 10, as the
case may be. of Appendix D, with such variations as the
circumstances of the case may require. L,'B(D)229}foi'LJandUA-- I8

25%

lie-di-ujt of Order 34, rule 3
5.0}. Where_. before an order debarring the defendant from (3) {3}

all right to redeem the mortgaged property has been pass- ed. the defendant makes payment into Court of all amounts

due from him under sub--rule (1) of Rule 2, the Court shall,
on application made by the defendant in this behalf, in
e.recu.ticm pass an order- {2-.) ordering' the plaintiff to deliver up the
referred to in the decree,

and, if necessary.- {bj ordering him to rc--transfer at the cost of the defen-
dant the mortgaged property as directed In the ....... ..
decree,

and also, if necessary.- (cJ ordering him to put the defendant in possession of
the property. documents

Where payment in accordance with sub-rule (1) has not
heen made, the Court shall, on application made by the
plaintiff in this behalf in execution, pass an order declar-
ing that the defendant and all persons claiming through
or under him are debarred from all right to redeem the
mortgaged property and also. if necessary, ordering the
defendant to put the plaintiff in possession of the property. On the passing of an order under sub-rule (21, all liabili-
ties to whicli the defendant is subject in respect of the
mortgage or on account of the suit shall be deemed to have
been discharged. h'.e--d-raj': of Order 34. Rule 4
4(1). In a suit for sale. if the plaintiff succeeds, the Court shall

ass a............decree to the effect mentioned in clause a' -
P 3 ,4.- (b) and (c) (i) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 2 and further direct-
ing that, in default of the defendant paying as therein
mentioned, the plaintiff shall be entitled to apply in
execution for an order directing that the mortgaged pro-
perty or a siiﬂicient part thereof be sold, and the proceeds
of the sale (after deduction therefrom of the expenses of
the sale) be paid into Court and applied in payment of
what has been found or declared under or by the decree
due to the plaintiff, together with such amount as may
have been adjudged due in respect of subsequent costs,
charges, expenses and interest: and the balance, if any, be
paid to the defendant or other persons entitled to receive
the same. The Court may, on good cause shown and upon terms to
be ﬁxed by: the Court. from time to time. at any time be-
fore an order for sale is passed, extend the time ﬁxed for
the }3a_'i_rrr.r'nt of the amount found or declared due under
sub--rule (1) or of the amount adjudged due in respect of
subsequent costs, charges, expenses and interest. - . #13- (4) 251 In a suit for foreclosure in the case of an anomalous mort-
gage, if the piaintiff succeeds, the Court may, at the in-
stance of any party to the suit or of any other person inte-
rested in the mortgage-security or the right of redemption,
pass a like decree {in lieu of a decree for foreclosure) on
such terms as it thinks ﬁt, including the deposit in Court of
a reasonable sum ﬁxed by the Court to meet the expenses
of the sale and to secure the performance of the terms. Where, in a suit for sale or a suit for foreclosure in which
sale is ordered, subsequent mortgagees or persons deriving
title from. or subrogated to the rights of, any such mort-
gagees are joined as parties, the decree referred to in sub-
rulc (1) shall provide for the adjudication of the res-
pective rights and liabilities of the parties to the suit in
the manner and form set forth in Form No. 9, Form No.
10 or Form No. 11, as the case may be, of Appendix D with

such variations as the circumstances of the case may re-
qui1'e. Re--draft of Order 34, rule 5 5.(l_] Where, on or before the day ﬁxed or at any time before the

conﬁrmation of a sale made in pursuance of an order passed
under sub--rule (3) of this rule, the defendant makes pay-
ment into Court of all amounts due from him under sub-
rule {1} of Rule 4, the Court shall, on application made by
the defendant in this behalf in execution, pass an order- (a) ordering the plaintiff to deliver up the documents re- (C) ordering him to put the defendant in possession of the pro- {2}

ferred to in the decree. and if necessary_.-- lb) ordering him to transfer the mortgaged property as
directed in the decree,

and also, if necessary,---- perty. Where the mortgaged property or part thereof has been
sold in pursuance of on order passed under sub-rule (3) of
this rule, the Court shall not pass an order under sub-rule
(1) of this rule, unless the defendant, in addition to the
amount mentioned in sub-rule (1), deposits in Court for
payment to the purchaser a sum equal to ﬁve per cent. of

the amount of the purchase--money paid into Court by the
purchaser. Where such deposit has been made, the purchaser shall be en- titled to an order for re-payment of the amount of the pur-
ehase--money paid into court by him. together with a sum
equal to ﬁve per cent thereof. Where payment in accordance with sub-rule (1) has not
been made. the Court shall. on application made by the
plaintiff in this behalf in execution. pass an order direct.
ice that the mortgaged property or a suﬁicient part there-
of be sold. and that the proceeds of the sale be dealt with
in the manner provided in sub-rule (1) of Rule 4. L,fB(D}2293lIr:t'I..JandCA»-18a 252 Re-drrlft of O-rdc-r 34, Rule 6--Reco1:er_1,: of balance due on mortgage
in suit for sale. 6. Where the net proceeds of any sale held under rule 5 are
found insufficient to pay the amount due to the plaintiﬁ,
the Court, on application by him may. if the balance is
legally recoverable from the defendant otherwise than out
of the property sold, pass an order for such balance in exe- cation. Re-draft of Order 34, Rule 'TwDec'ree tn redemption-suit. 'F.(1)_ In a suit for redemption, if the plaintiff succeeds, the
Court shall pass a ............. ..decree-- (a) ordering that an account be taken of what was due
to the defendant at the date of the decree for-- ii)

principal and interest on the mortgage. (ii) the costs of suit, if any, awarded to him and,
{iii} other costs. charges and expenses properly incur- red by him up to that date, in respect of his mort-
gage--securit_*;r, together with interest thereon, or (b) declaring the amount so due at that date; and (c) directing- . (i) that, if the plaintiff pays into Court the amount

{ii}

so found or declared due on or before such date
as the Court may ﬁx within six months from the
date on which the Court conﬁrms and countcrsigns
the account taken under clause (a), or from the
date on which such amount is declared in Court
under clause (b), as the case may be, and there-
after pays such amount as may be adjudged due
in respect of subsequent oosts, charges and ex-
panses as. provided in rule 10 together with subse- quent interest on such sums respectively as pro- vided in rule 11, the defendant shall deliver up to
the plaintiff, or to such person as the plaintiﬁ, ap-
points all documents in his possession or power
relating to the mortgaged property, and shall, if
so required, rc-transfer the property to the plain-
tiff at his cost free from the mortgage and from
all incumberanoes created by the defendant or
any person claiming under him, or, where the
defendant claims by derived title, by those under
whom he claims. and shall also if necessary put
the plaintiff in possession of the property: and

that, if payment of the amount found or declared
due under or by the decree is not made on or
before the date so ﬁxed, or the plaintiﬁ fails to
pay, within such tirnc as the Court may fix, the

.1 253 amount adjudged due in respect of subsequent
costs, charges expenses and interest, the defendant

shall be entitled to apply in execution for an
order-- (a) in the case of a mortgage other than usufruc-- tuary mortgage, a mortgage by conditional sale, _

or an anomalous mortgage the terms of which
provide for foreclosure only and not for sale,
that the mortgaged property be sold, or (b) in the case of a mortgage by conditional sale or
such an anomalous mortgage as aforesaid. that
the plaintiff be debarred from all right to re-
deem the property. (2) The Court may, on good cause shown and upon terms to
be ﬁxed by the Court_ from time to time, at any time
before the passing of an order for foreclosure or sale, as
the case may be extend the time ﬁxed for the payment of
the amount found or declared due under sub-rule (1) or
of the amount adjudged due in respect of subseqdent costs,
charges, expenses and interest. Re-draft of Order 34, rule 8-Final Order in redemption suit 8. (1) Where, before an order debarring the plaintiff from all
right to redeem the mortgaged property has been passed
or before the conﬁrmation of a sale held in pursuance of
an order passed under sub-rule (3) of this rule, the plaintiff
makes payment into Court of all amounts due from him
under sub-rule {1} of rule '?_ the Court shall, on application
made by the plaintiff in this behalf, pass a ................... ..
decree or, if a decree has been passed, an order in execu-
tion-- (a} ordering the defendant to deliver up the documents
referred to in the ................ .. decree,

and if necessary-- (b) 'ordering him to re--transfer at the cost of the plaintiff
the mortgaged property as directed in ................... ..
decree,

and also if necessary,--- , (c) ordering him to put the plaintiﬁ in possession of the
property. (2) Where the mortgaged property or a part thereof has been
sold in pursuance of an order passed under sub-rule (3) of
this rule, the Courtshall not pass an order under sub-rule
(1) of this rule, unless the plaintiff, in addition to- tlie
amount mentioned in sub-rule (1), deposits in Court for
payment to the purchaser a sum equal to ﬁve per cent of
the amount 'of the purchase money paid into Court by the

purchaser. Where such deposit has been made, the purchaser shall be
entitled to an order in execution for repayment of the
amount of the purchase-money paid into Court by him,
together with a sum equal to ﬁve per cent thereof. (3) Where payment in accordance with sub-rule (1) has not
been made, the Court shall, on application may by the
defendant in this behalf in execution,- (a) in the case of a mortgage by conditional sale or of such
an anomalous mortgage as it hereinbefore referred to
in rule 7, pass an order declaring that the plaintiff
and all persons claiming under him are debarred
from all right to redeem the mortgaged property and,
also, if necessary, ordering the plaintiff to put the
defendant in possession of the mortgaged property; or (b) in the case of any other mortgage, not being a untrue-
tuary mortgage, pass an order that the mortgaged
property or a sufﬁcient part thereof be sold, and the
proceeds of the sale (after deduction therefrom of the
expenses of the sale} be paid into Court and applied in
payment of what is found due to the defendant and
the balance, if any, be paid to the plaintiff or other
persons entitled to receive the same. Re-draft of Order 34. Rule 8A--Recovery of balance due on mortgage
in suit for redemption
8A. Where the net proceeds of any sale held under rule 3 are
found insufficient to pay the amount due to the defendant,
the Court on application by him in execution may, if the
balance is legally recoverable from the plaintiff otherwise
than out of the property sold, pass an order for such
balance. Re-draft of Order 34, Rule 9--Ord«er where nothing is found due or -where mortgagee has been over-paid--- 9. Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, if it ap-
pears upon taking the account referred to in rule 1', that
nothing is due to the defendant or that he has been over-
paid, the Court shall pass on order directing the defendant,
if so required, to re-transfer the property and to pay to
the plaintiff the amount which may" be found due to him;
and the plaintiff shall, if-. necessary, be put in possession
of the mortgaged property. - Re-draft of Order 34, Rule 1[}-- 10. In ﬁnally adjusting the amount to be paid to a mortgagee
in case of a fore--c1osure, sale or redemption, the Court
shall, unless in the case of costs of the suit the conduct of
the mortgagee has been such as to disentitle him thereto,
add to the mortgage-money such costs of the suit and other
costs. charges and expenses as have been properly incur- red by him since the date of the ............. .. decree for fore-
closure, sale or redemption up to the time of actual pay-
ment'. 1. For further':-1-mendment see below "Reoomment1ation as to Order 34. Rule ID". Rte-draft of Order 34, rule 11---Puyment of interest 11. In any decree passed in a suit for foreclosure, sale or re-
demption, where interest is legally recoverable, the Court
may order payment of interest to the mortgagee as
follows, namely:-- security upto the date of the .......... decree
and added to the mortgage---rnoney,--at the rate
agreed between the parties, or, failing such rate,
at such rate not exceeding six per cent per annum
as the Court deems reasonable; (b) subsequent interest upto the date of realisation or
actual payment on the aggregate of the principal
sums speciﬁed in clause (a) as calculated in accord-
ance with that clause at such rate as the Court deems
reasonable. Order 34, rule 10

3-4 6. There is another point concerning Order 34:. Rule 10.
The present rule Sa_'}.TS-- A question which falls to be considered with reference to this
rule is that of costs of the suit. The rule requires the court to award
these costs to the mortgagee, "unlem the conduct of the mortgagee
has been such as to disentitle him thereto." We considered it desirable
to examine the operation of the rule, with special reference to cases
where the mortgagor has offered the amount due on the mortgage
and also where improvements made by the mortgagee are involved, 256 34.7. A Madhya Pradesh case' related to a mortgage where the
plaintiff-respondents were- the mortgagors, and the defendant--ap-
pellant the mortgagee_ The mortgagors had been awarded the costs
of the suit by the District Judge, and this was contested on appeal.
The High Court held: th t34-3- 111 the Patna 03-59.' it was held by the Patna High Court
a : In the present case, the first court found that the deposit of the
mortgage money under section 83 of the Transfer of Property Act
was insufficient and that there was no misconduct on the part of the
mortgagor in contesting the suit and that there was no mala ﬁdes
on the part of the mortgagee, the mortgagee was entitled to his
costs. But, where the court does not give him his costs, the appellate
court would be exercising its discretion properly if it reverses the
order for costs allowed to the plaintiff-mortgagor against the mort- gagee. 34.9. The facts in one Madras case' were as fo1Iows:--~-- There was a suit for redemption of a mortgage executed by
defendants 2-5 in favour of defendant I under a deed exe-
cuted in 1934. Defendants 2-5 executed a subsequent mort-
gage in favour of the plaintiffs in 1937, and the plaintiffs
ﬁled the suit out of which the appeals arose for redeeming: B. Himhbi dyyar v.Jmm.l:iAoIsa1€¢rA.I.R. 19¢ Ind. 592 {]).B.]. 25'? to the plaintiff petitioners and, therefore, it would he un-
safe for him to receive the amount and hand over posses-
sion in the absence of the mortgagors. It was held that the conduct of the prior mortgagor in taking
the objection was neither vexatious nor unreasonable, and that he
should not be made to pay the costs of the subsequent mortgagee. 34.10. I-n one Patna case,' the mortgagor sent a telegram to the
mortgagee, asking him to refrain from ﬁling a suit, and promised to
pay by a ﬁxed date. Then he sent a subsequent telegram, expressing
willingness "to pay and informing that amount was ready". This.
the court held, did not of itself constitute a valid tender. But the
latter was immediately followed up by the mortgagor actualiy going
to the n1ortgagec's place and offering the money which the court held
constituted a valid tender. In this case where a valid tender of the entire amount due under
a mortgage was made and a request was made that the mortgagee
should accept what was just on accounts being taken, and the mort-
gagee not merely disputed the accounts but refused the settlement
of accounts altogether and the mortgagee rushed to the court with-
out justiﬁcation, it was held that the conduct was such as not to
entitle him to the interest accruing after the date of tender and the
costs of the suit. The mortgagee was also not allowed the costs in
these appeals. 34.11. One of the points raised in a Madras case in an appeal'
against a redemption decree, by the defendants mortgagees was
regarding costs, which the lower court had not awarded. The
Madras High Court held: In these circumstances the High Court refused to hold that the lower
court had exercised its discreti-on wrongly in this matter_

34.12. The facts in one Punjab case" were as follows: A mortgage
was effected on the land in suit by the plaintiff in favour of the
defendantfappellant. The lower court had passed a decree for the
possession of land on deposit of the amount payable to the defendant
and costs, With regard to improvements, the trial court had held that
only part of the amount claimed had been proved. On appeal. coun-
sel for appellant submitted that in order to increase the yield from
the land so as to recompense himself in lieu of the interest due on 1. Jon: L41! 2:. Frttrak Ifafuidzir, A.1'.R. 1929 Put. 3'.-J7 [D.]3.], 2. Vrzatcma Hollie V. Ilfufaafiula Rim, A..I.R.. 1926 Mud. -1105. 3. Rap Rmn v. Munahi china , A.I.R. I960, runj. 4.30 (D.B.]. the principal money, the mortgagee had to effect these improvements.
Dua J. held that the mortgagee in possession cannot be permitted to
lay money in increasing the value of the estate except in circum-
stances whigh strictly fall within the four corners of section 63-A of the Transfer of Property Act. The Court held: With regard to costs, the court held; 34.13. In a Patna case,' the plaintiﬁ had prayed for a decree for
redemption of certain lands, which were the subject of usufructuary
mortgage executed by one M in favour of the defendants. The plain-
tiff claimed to have purchased the equity of redemption. The trial
court gave a decree for redemption in favour of the plaintiif, and
also granted the plaintiﬁ costs of the suit. On appeal, the Patna High
Court held that "in the written statement the defendant challenged
the title of the plaintiff to redeem the property. and we see no reason
why the plaintiff should not be given the costs he has incurred in
the suit." ' . " 37.»: The High Court held' that normally, in a redemption suit, the mort-
gagee is entitled to his costs unless he is guilty of misconduct.
Putting excessive value on improvements is not misconduct so as to
disentitle a mortgagee to his costs. The question involved Was,
whether the mortgagee could claim anything more than what he
bargained for in the mortgage deed. Further' the contesting defen-
dants also put the mortgagor to prove her title to redeem; when there
was no doubt about her title. In these circumstances, the court de-
clined to interfere with the lower court's decision awarding the mort-
gagee only one--fourth of the costs. 34.15. In another Travancore-Cochin case," in a suit for rendemp-
tion, the defendant mortgagee raised untenable contentions regarding

part of the mortgaged property, and also claimed full value of the '

building which had been erected by him contrary to the terms of

1'_ Rr;jlyrlIr1.rl:. x-'. RH.-m Aiufar. _'L.[.R.. 1'36? Fat. '.303. 301 {D513 fl. 2. Pril.-1:-:rxfh£ Nerzirﬂcrinirxn v. U-axnrlini Pillrti. A.I.R. 1952 Trnv. Co. 29.'; [D.l3._l. 3. Narawrxnrz Piillmi v. G. Kr.-.wI-wn-n, AIR. 1955 NU-U ['i'r:i.\-'. Go.) 3433 (D.B.'). the deed. The plaintiff offered to pay only one--fourth of the value of
the improvements to the moriagee srid sis.) ci;.='rr.-ed an exaggerated
amount by way of damages on account of waste. It was held that
the conduct of the parties was such as to disallow them their costs,
and each party was, therefore, to bear its costs. 34.16. The above examination of sample judicial decisions shows
that the rule f:,*i1"|y well_ In particular, if the mortgagor deposits the
fgll amount, he would not be liable for costs of the suit. m34.1?. It may be of interest to note the corresponding English
rule quoted below:'

"Where a person is or has been a party to any proceedings in
the capacity of a trustee, oersnnal renresentativ or mart-
gagee, he shall, unless the Court otherwise orders, be
entitled to the costs of those proceedings, in so far as
they are not recovered from or paid by any other person,
out of the fund held by the trustee or personal representa-
tive or the mortgaged property, as the Case may be: and
the Court may otherwise "order ()I1Iy on the ground that
the trustee, personal representative or mortgagee has
acted unreasonably or, in the case of a trustee or personal
representative_ has in substance acted for his own beneﬁt
rather than for the beneﬁt of the fund," 34.19. The English rule was thus explained" by Lord Selborne
L.C.:-- 34.20. Since t.he right of a mortgagee to his costs of a redemp-
tion or foreclosure suit is a matter of contract and not in the dis-
cretion of the Court, costs cannot be denied except where he has
"unreasonably instituted or carried on or resisted' any proceedings" 34.21. It would, thus, appear, that, in substance, the position in
England does not differ from that in India. Moreover, the rule gives
a discretion which appears to have been soundly exercised. However,
it would, in our view, be desirable to provide expressly that where
the mortgagor pays or desposits the full amount before or at the
time of institution of the suit, ordinarily he shall get his costs, This
does not really change the law, but only makes it more explicit. T. to o--i;=;i:rJ v. .2=.:waiiaa -'I!-«':'.~'2'| LR. 9 oh. 2:35;
Hi) T':u.r-:I1.(-r v. Herr-cr-«'1; l:l.'§H-El 17.'li ('51. D. 303. 2. ROI'!-:|'E'f'. v. Rabi."-mint? flﬂill I Ch. 48!}. 3. Starmford ex part» 1'. Km-hie! H 913'! 2 GIL. p. 1'02. 4. Heath v. China. (1908) Lrtw Time: Reports B55-85B. i, 5361 Recommendation as to Order 34, rule 10

34.22.. Accordingly, we recommended that to Order 34, rule 10,
the following proviso should be addod:-- CHAPTER 35

INTERPLEADER SUITS
Introductory

35.1. Where the plaintiff has no claim as such against a parti-
cular defendant but is interested only for his debt, he can ﬁle an
interpleader suit. under Order 35. The Order on interpleader is derived from an Act' of 1841,
which itself was based on an English Statute". The Order provides
for various matters such as when interpieader suit may be insti-
tuted: when the thing claimed must be paid into Court; the proce-
dure aL the first hearing, when agents and tenants can compel their
principals or landlords to interplead: how the plaintiffs costs may
be secured; and so on. No changes are needed in this Order. 1. r"'nl:t 21- Hf lb"-I-E. 2. 3;i.||1Wil|irI:: 4 ill. .35. 1-

\,.f

CHAPTER 36

STATEMENT OF' CASE

Introductory 36.]. Persons claiming to be interested in the decision 'of any
question of fact or of law may. under Order 36. enter Into an
agreement 1;, W1-iting stating the question in the form of a case
for n;)pinit}I1_, and providing that upon the ﬁnding of the court there-
on, certain monev shall be paid or property delivered by one Of
them to the other. or that one or more of them shall do or refrain
irorn doing some other speciﬁed act. 36.23. The a£{l"eeII1El'1t has to be ﬁled in the court, and _is num-
bered and registered as a suit. Thereafter, the procedure 111 other
respects is substantially the same as in an ordinary suit, and the
scheme of the provisions contemplates a judgtnent as well as a
decree. The pCC:uliu:'i'r.v and special merit of this procedure lies in the
{1} framing by the parties beforehand of the questions involved. (ii) the submission of the case to the court by agreement of both
parties,;to that extent diluting the element of contest met with
in ordinary litigation, (iii) the formulation by the parties of the
precise relief that is anticipated, and (iv) the acceptance by them
before-hand, of the binding character of the determination of the
court. Order 36 Rule 3--Pmcedure under Order 36, not often

3-5.3. UI'1f(Jl'1:1lI1£1[El}", the procedure provided by Order 36 is rarely
invoked, and we venture to think that one of the reasons why it
has not proved popular is the absence of any apparent beneﬁt to the
litigant, The choice is always made in favour of the ordinary procedure,
because, the procedure of a statement of case, even if known to the
ordinary litigant, does not furnish any additional inducement. Some
inducement should be offered. which may be in respect of court fees-
The subject of court fees is outside the competence of the Union. But.
in order to highlight the desirabilitv of making a distinction bet-
ween an ordinar_x_r suit instituted by a plaint and a special case
originating in an agreement, the relevant rule of this order should ex-
pressly provide that the proceeding can be initiated by an applica-
tron. Suggestion to substitute application so as to reduce court fees

36.4.-. An objection was raised during our discussions that the
proposed amendment would be incongruous, as it would bring in
the idea of "decree" and "procedure for suit" in a proceeding in-
stituted on an application But we think that from the point of
View of court fees. such a proceeding should not be treated as a
p aint. it is also desirable to provide that there should be no appeal
from the ClECI'E'x;' passed as a result of such pro-zzeeclings. Even now,
that should he the position, because the decree is, in a sense, a
compromise decree, against which there is no Qppeall. But an ex-
press p1'U\.=i5i0I1 prohibiting appeal would be useful. Recommendation to amend rule 3

 Acco1'ding1y, we recommend that Order 36. rule 3. should
be revised as follows:-- 1. :-'.eI.=.i -u 'JG. mu-.. \-I'

CHAPTER 3? SUMMARY PROCEDURE

Introductory

3'i'.1. Order 37 provides for summary procedure, in respect of
certain suit-_.~,_ A suit under this Order is instituted in the ordinary
form by presenting a plaint; but the summons is issued in a special
form'. The essence of a summary suit under Order 3? is that the
defendant is not, as in an ordinary suit, entitled as a right to de-
fend the suit. He' must applv for leave to defend within ten days
from the date of service of summons upon him; and such leave
will be granted only if the affidavit ﬁled by the defendant discloses
such facts as will make it incumbent upon the plaintiff to prove
consideration, or such other facts as the court may deem suffi-
cient for granting leave to the defendant to appear and defend the
suit. If no leave to defend is granted, the plaintiff is entitled to a
decree. The object underlying the summary procedure is to prevent
unreasonable obstruction by a defendant who hasno defence. Bombay Amendment

37.2. The Order i_s conﬁned to suits on negotiable instruments,
but the effect of the amendments made by the Bombay High Court
is practically to extend it to suits mentioned in section 123(2)(f) of
the Code. 37.3. Moreover, by Bombay amendment, the procedure has, to
some extent,' been made less rigorous by an amendment of rule 3
of the Order 37. The Bombay amendment requires a plaintiff to
serve, with the writ of summons, a copy of the plaint and the
exhibits, and the defendant may at any time, within ten days of
such service enter on1y.an appearance in the ﬁrst instance. Notice

of the appearance must be given to the pIaintif'f"s attorney, and,

thereafter the plaintiff is required to serve on the defendant a sum-
mons for judgment, returnable in less than ten davs from the date
of service, supported by an aﬁidavit-verifying the' cause of action
and the amount claimed and stating that in his belief -there is no
defence to the suit. It is only after the service of this additional
service for judgment that the defendant is required within ten
days thereof to applv for leave to defend. 37.4. In 'the 14th Report" of the Law Commission, a recommen-
dation has been made for-- (at amendment of the rules. relating to summary procedure

on the lines of the Bombav amendment; and

(bi extension of summary procedure to subordinate courts
in important industrial and coinmercial towns like
Ahmedahad. Asanasol. Kanpur and Jamshedpur. 1. Appendix B, Form No. -1.' 2. H-kl: Rep-urt. Vol. I, page '_'.T.':_. pu1'c,._ 22, read with para. 21. i

L[B[D)229ltIo£IJsnc1fJA--19 sss 266 37.5. The Commission, in its Report' on the Code examined
these recommendations and expressed the View that action under (a) above could be taken by the High Courts under section
128{2)(a), and action under (b) above could be taken by the State
Governments under Order 37, rule 1(b). It was, therefore, con-
sidered unnecessary to make any provision on these matters of
detail in the Code. 37.6. We have considered the matter further. As we take a
dilferent view, we should deal with the matter point by point. As
to extending the provisions to other cities. we note that in the 14th
Report, it was observed":--- 37.7. We have taken note of the views expressed in the 14th
Report. We, however. think that the time has come for extending
summary procedure to all courts, in the interest of expedition,
and not to speciﬁed towns only. 37.8. It is, in our vietv, also desirable to extend summary pro-
cedure to all suits mentioned in section 12B(2)(f), in the interest
of expedition." 37.9. In, our opinion, the procedural amendments made by the
Bombay High Court' are also useful. and should be adopted. 37.10. As has been observed, having regard to the scheme of'
Order 37 as amended by the Bombay High Court, it is not necessary
for a defendant to obtain leave to appeal in a summary suit. He

. 271;]: Report, page 233. Note on Order 37 (Summary procedure}.
_ 14th Report, Volume 1. page 2'75. para. 22.
. Para. 37-2. 8u_-pfrt. , Cf. Para. 3'?" 3, supra. Indian Express Ne-wspaper Ltd. v. Basumdi Pn'ua.ts Ltd., A.I.R. 1969 Bom. 40, 46. 4'?
para 14. '

vP€All\5>--«

.- N 267 can also make applications which do not raise a defence to the
suit without obtaining leave defend.'

Recommendation

37.11. In short, our recommendations as to Order 3?, are as
follows:-- ed------ (i) For the existing title of Order 3?, the following title
should be substituted- Summary Procedure (ii) For Order 3?, rule 1, the following rule should be sub-
stituted-- sory notes; [bl suits in which _the plaintiff seeks only to recover
a debt or liquidated demand in money payable
by the defendant, with or without interest, aris-
mg- ['i) on a written contract or; 1. (If. um Report, vol. 1. page 274-275. para. 29-2. 2. 0;. 14th Report. Vol. 1, page 274.275. LfB{D]229h!iofI.JaodCA-----19(a] 268 (ii) on an enactment where the sum sought to be
recooe-red is o. ﬁxed sum of mo-Hey or in the
nature of [L debt mhcr than a penalty; or (iii) on a, guarantee, where _ _
.prncipaI is in respect of a debt or a liquidated

demand only; (iii) For existing Order 37, rule 2, the following rule shall be
substituted: " ' in entering the appearance under sub-rule (1) or (a)'if the defendant 'has'ho1: appliedforn leave to"de-
defend or if such application has been made and
is refused. the plaintiff s.hall be entitled to judg-
ment forthwith.' or (b) if the defendant be permitted to defend as to the
whole or any part of the claim, the Court or the
judge shall direct that on failure to complete the
security [if any), or to carry out such other direc-
'tions as the Court or the Judge may have given
Within the time limit in the Order, the plaintiﬁ

Shall be entitled to judgment forthkiiith. '

The 'Court_ma'y for sufficient cause excuse the delay
in
applying for leaxie to defend the suit under sub-rule
(3) of this rule.''' T '

CHAPTER 38

ARREST AND ATTACHMENT BEFORE JUDGMENT
Introduction

38.1. The provisional remedies which may be required to pre-
vent the defendant from absconding, and property from disappear-
ing or being wasted pending litigation, are also provided for in the
Code. The Code here deals with the following subjects; arrest be-
fore judgment; attachment before judgment; compensation for im-
proper arrests or attachment? temporary injunctions; interlocutory
orders; and, lastly, the appointment of receivers. 38.2. The rules as to arrest before judgment in England super-
seded the writ of rte exeat regno, and the Indian rules roughly cor-
respond to the English Rules of Court. 383. NE EXEAT REGNO' (that he leave not the kingdom},
was a prerogative writ whereby a person is prohibited from leav-
ing the realm, even though his usual residence is in foreign parts.
The writ is directed to the sheriﬂ' of the county in which the de-
fendant is resident, commanding him to take hail from the defen-
dant not to quit England without leave of the court. It is granted
on motion, supported by affidavit showing that a sum of money is
due from the defendant to the plaintiff, or will be due on taking
accounts between them, and that the defendant intends to abscond. 38.4. The writ was formerly applied to great political purposes.
but it is now applied in civil matters only, and is almost superseded
in England by orders under the Debtors Act, 1869, s. 6. Order 33, rule I

38.5. Under Order 38, rule 1, clause {a}, sub-clause (i). if a per-
son has, with intent to delay the plaintiff or to avoid service of
process etc. left the local limits of the court's jurisdiction, he can
be arrested before judgment, if the other conditions mentioned in
the rule are satisﬁed. 38.6. Similarly. under Order 38, rule 1, clause (a), sub-clause (ii),
if a person is, with the above intent, likely to leave the local limits
of the court's jurisdiction. he can be arrested before judgment, if
the other conditions are satisfied. 38.7. We have a small suggestion to make regarding this clause.
The liability to arrest should not arise for ''leaving'' the Court's
jurisdiction on lawful business. In fact, the requirement of a par-
ticular intent. and the juxtaposition of these words with the world
"absc0nd". shows that only rnalaﬁde acts are covered. However. it
is desirable to make the position clear. 1. Sections iii -95. 2. Moseley Jr Whiteley, Law Dictionary (1970), pages 232, 233. 2'71

Recommendation

38.8. We, therefore, recommend that- (i) in Order 38. rule 1, clause (a), sub-clause (i)_, before the
words "left the local limits", the words "without lawful
excuse", should be inserted. (ii) in Order 38, rule 1, clause (a), sub---clause (ii), before the
words "leave the local limits", the words "without lawful
excuse", should be inserted. Order 39, Rule 5

33.9. Order 38, Rule 5(1) is as follows:-- perty from the local limits of the jurisdiction of the
Court, - the Court may direct the defendant, within a time to be ﬁxed
by it, either to furnish security, in such sum as may be speci-
ﬁed in the order, to produce and place at the disposal of the
Court, when required, the said property or the value of the
same. or such portion thereof as may be suﬁicient to satisfy
the decree, or to appear and show cause why he should not
furnish security." 38.10. The rule, it may be noted, requires that the defendant be
given an opportunity to show cause. The question whether non-com-
pliance with this requirement has the effect of making the order
ultra oires and void, and the consequent attachment a nullity, and
whether, if the Court passes such an order, there is total lack of
jurisdiction, is one on which there has been some controversy. 38.11. In a Kerala case,' it was held that the question really was
not so much whether, (as some decisions had put it), the provisions
of Order 38, rule 5(1) are mandatory or merely directory. Even the
breach of a mandatory provision does not necessarily make it illegal.
The High Court referred to a decision of the Supreme Court,' where
it was pointed out that the question to be considered was whether
compliance with a particular provision is a condition precedent for
the assumpton of jurisdiction or whether on the other hand, the
provisions merely lay _doWn the manner in which the jurisdiction
is to be exercised. If it is the former, non-compliance would make
the order void; but, if the latter, noncompliance would only make
the order voidable. The order would be liable to be set aside, but,
until that. is done, it would be operative and cannot be ignored or 1. .Mu-d.ha.1:tm '\'. Strrtr, A.I.R. 1936 Ker. 212 {F'.B.) 2. Iltyevira Hwthail v. Varkey. A.I.R. 1964 S.C. 907. collaterally attacked. Therefore. in the light of the above decision
of the Supreme Court, in this case. even though the attachment is
erroneous and liable to be set aside in appropriate Proceedings. the
order of attachment is one made with jurisdiction and is not a nul-
lity. Hence. it 'cannot be ignored or subjected to attack in collateral
proceedings.' It was held that Order 38. rule 5 is intended for the
protection of the person whose property is sought to be attached
before judgment. If he did not receive the notice required by law,
and was consequently denied the privilege of staying off the attach-
ment by the offer of security, an injury would, no doubt, accrue to
him: but the law gives him a remedy b_v wa_'~,.' of appeal under Order 43. rule 1, from such an irregular order to set it set aside. 38.12. Contrary views had been taken in some of the earlier High
Court decisions," " but these were not accepted as correct in this
case. Hence, it was observed, that the order of attachment in this
case. though erroneous and liable to be set aside in appropriate
profeeclings. was an order made with jurisdiction, and was not a
nu] itv. 38.13. The question arose in a recent Allahabad case', where it
was held that if the procedure provided by law is not followed,
the attachment is a nullity. Recommendation

38.14. A clariﬁcation of the law is badly needed in view of the
recent cases summarised above. On principle. such attachment should
be void, and we recommend the insertion of a' sub-rule in Order
38, rule 5, to that effect." . Order 38, Rule 11 A {news}

38.15. With respect to attachment before judgment {Order 38,
rule 9). reference had been made in the earlier Report' to the con-
troversy on a certain point. An Allahabad case' shows that the con-
troversy still continues. 38.16. In the Allahabad case, the appellants ﬁled a suit in 1941
and obtained an order of attachment before judgment in 1-e5p._ec1;,Df'
the property of the judgment debtor. The property was attached,
The Munsiff appointed the respondent as "superddar" (Custodian) of
the property. In the security bond -executed by the respondent, he
made himself liable for any loss of the pr'opert.Y entrusted to him,

First, the suit was dismissed for default of the plaintiff; but later it

I. Dkian .'i'F1ag-3: r. ﬁlrzcreiary of .'.«'tcItn, A.l'.B. 1945 Nag. 97.
2- xi baht! Krmim V. .-'r'-m' .-'|JoFum.mod. A.I.R. 1920 Cal. 526. 527 (Newbould and Panrton J.) 3. Diﬂrtr .'~'Jfng.?z V. .'.'.rim. I'..'ha.wirr. .-\.I.R. 19314 All. I65, 167 (Raohhpal Singh J.]._

.4. .".~'r+' Krielrrwr G1|3jl1I'l- v. Roam. Brzfm, A.l.R. I967 All. 136 (B. Daya] and 31]). Seth JJ.).
[reviews easo--hw']. _

sir; Ame idmcul. 111'? elraillcd. 5. 27th Report". pages so, H17. 233 [i-nfrujl. fi. Raj Chrtnder v. Ramrsh Kickers, A.l'.R.. 1965 All. 54-6. r'q- . 273

was restored. The defendant went in appeal: and the 9359 W515 Te'
manded for disposal on the merits, and ultimately the _p1ai_I'1tlﬁ Obr
tained a decree. The decree-holder then. moved an al0D4I0l310I1 £01" 38.19. In the instant case. it was, therefore. held that the supurd--
dar could not, after the-._ attachment proceedings had become ineffec-
tive by reason of the dismissal of the suit for default, be held liable
under the security bond executed b_v him. 38.20. In_ this connection, reference may be made to the earlier
Report' portions dealing with Order 21, rule 5?. and the proposed new
Order 33, rule 11A. Order 21. rule 5'? provides that where property
has been attached in execution of a decree, but, because of the
decree-ho1d_er's default. the court is unable to proceed further with
the_ execution application then. itcan dismiss the application, in
which case the attachment_will cease". There was a cgnﬂict gf views,
on the question whether this rule applied to attachment before judg-
ment. As a solution, the Law Commission had suggested that a gene»
ral rule applying the provisions of the' Code frelatinrg to attachment
imadet an execution) to attachments before a jiidgrnent should be
inser e . . I \ 1. am. Report, patties 30. I97. 233." 2'74

38.21. The proposed new rule was as follows:----- 33.22. The judgment of the Allahabad High Court on Order 38,
Rule 9 is in conformity with the general principle recommended by
the Law Commission (in its earlier report). The order of attachment
made before judgment by the court would also fall with the dismis-
sal of the suit. Recommendation

38.23 The earlier recommendation should be carried out. It will
not, however, solve the special difﬁcultv created by the peculiar
facts that were found in the Allahabad case, and it may, therefore,
be worthwhile to provide also that the restoration of a suit does not
revive the attachment made before dismissal. Accordingly, the fol-
lowing rule should be added as Order 38, Rule 11A--- H- Cnmrsn 39
INJUNCTIONS AND OTHER INTERLOCUTORY 03.935

Introduction

39.1. Order 39 deals with various interlocutory Orders, of which
the most important are temporary injuctions. 39.2. The theoretical interest of the subject of injunctions is
matched by its practical importance. Injunctions were invented by
the Court of Chancery as equitable remedies. One of the earliest
reported English cases deals with injunctions in relation to judicial
proceedings, but the utility of injunctions was soon realised, and
the remedy has now embraced other ﬁelds. 39.3. The equitable nature of the remedy is emphasised by so-
veral provisions of the Speciﬁc Relief Act' {which deals with per-
manent injunctions, and by rules in Order 39 (dealing with tem-
porarg injunctions). But it is odd that a subject of such importance
has een dealt with in the Code in provisions which, at
times, prove to be less comprehensive than they ought to
be. It is for this reason that the matter was considered at some length
in the earlier Report, and we also shall have a number of things to
say on this Order. 39.4. The "interdict" of the Roman law bears a resemblance to
the injunctions of courts of equi . It is said to have been called an
lnterdict, because, it was origvinal _ interposed in nature of an inter-
loc-utory decree between two parties contending for possession, until
the dispute as to property could be tried. But, afterwards, the appel-
lation was extended to ﬁnal decretal orders of the same nature". . Order 39, rule 1

39.6. We shall first deal with the scope of the power to grant tern-
porary injunctions. Under Order 39, rule I, where, in any suit, it is
proved by affidavit or otherwise- (a) that any property in dispute in a suit is in danger of being
wasted, damaged or alienated by any party to the suit, or
wrongfully sold in execution of a decree, or (b) that the defendant threatens or intends. to remove or dis.
pose of his property with a view to defraud his creditors,

the court may be order grant a temporary injunction to
restrain such act, or make such other order for the purpose of
staying and preventing the wasting, damaging, alienation, sale,
removal or disposition of the property as the court thinks fit,
until the disposal of the suit or until further orders". 1. Rolicfiiot, 1963. 2. l'5t0l',\'. Et]Ln'+_v Juris]1rudenoe (I917). pane 365. 39.1'. The rule is primarily concerned with preservation of the
property in dispute till legal rights are ascertained. 39.8. The situation Where the defendant threatens to dispossess
the plaintiff or otherwise cause injury to the plaintiff in relation to
any iniﬂisﬁzuibe 'i'n'5-the suiﬁ, ﬁﬂhut adhered on=a~litera:1 read-
ing. We think that it ought to be covered. _ Recommendation

39.9. Accordingly, we recommend that Order 39, rule 1, should be
revised as follows- Revised Order 39 rule 1-- . ' ,"1. Where, in any suit, it is proved by affidavit or otherwise---
_(a) that any property in dispute in a suit is in danger of
being _wasted,.darnageq_I or alienatedlby any party to
the suit, or wrongfully sold in execution of a decree, or
(bithat the defendant_threat"ens' or intends, to" removeor
' :i]:l':1é(i}1.:€ioer£'f:Jf0l":E:S propertynrith a View td'defraudi?_tg__his (c) that the defendant" threatens to dispossess the piainttﬂ
or Otherwise douse. iﬂj1§Ty_tO the plaintiff in relation to
, jlnydaropefty in dispute 1:; the. suit,
the court may "be order grant a temporary injunction to restrain
such act, or '"make such other order for the purpose of staying
.._and presenting the _wasi:ing,.g damaging, alienation, sale, remo-
ve:1. or disposition of the property, or dzspossession. of the plain-
tiff, or qtlierwtse causing injury to the plaintiﬁ in relation to
any property in dispute in the -SW3-t, as the cou.rt- thinksiit,

!-,V.

__ until the disposal of the suit until further orders"-.
Order 3:9,!-'lllE3 'ii. 39.10. Under Order 39, rule 3, the Court is required "to" issue

iiuticre' to theopposite party before ranting an injunction, "except
where "it appears that the-,o'bject of ,a_ritit1g',the injunction would be

"defeated 'by the delay". It is under these 'words of exception that what

are lmown as ex-parte ad interim injunctions are granted. nxiparte -as inteitlin 

I 39.1DA. Complaints are ofteniheard that the grant of temporary
ii'rjunctiotis--par'tic1'ilary ex parte'--bauses hardship, and is an indirect
causeof "delay. ' i

 the ,Questionna1re,_a's to ternpprary 39.'l'1_. Having regard to the "importance of the subject of tem-
porarv injunctions, we had in our Questionnaire' on the Code, in- cluded the following question':--'- there ought to be some restrictiomas to the duration for whit-:h=the
es: parte injunction should continue. _

In' theabsence of such a _restriction, the,--aparty obtaining an in-
junction loses interest in prosecuting the suitwith diligence, and the
par-ty bound by the injunction su.tfers..; While we. realise that too
severe or too many restrictions on the, powers of-the aoourt may work
hardship, we are of the view th__a..t $1-')me broad limitati|3ns.would be
pﬁgiul and workable. What, we=t]11nk,'could be. gneeommended is
{a} interim 23: parte injunctions shoiild-"not granted for a

duration exceeding; say, one month: I "-5" application for injunction. ' -=

39.13A. Some of the replies received on the questiorﬂput by us
in this behalf favour an amendment as suggested, while some ofjhan
are opposed to it on the principle that what is discretionary cannot be
made rigid. Bearing in mind the views» expressed, we have-- made the
above recommendation.' - ' - - - ~ . . '1" . .-f

39.13B. We are, of thelview thatif a party, in an application for Y
temporary injunction or __in the supporting a_fﬁdav'lt, lmowin ﬂakes
3 false statement on a inate-"rial particular, the court should 'mag l 1. Para..23§|- 11, copra. E _' __ _ L j 278 into account in exercising its discretion under Order 39, Rule 4,--
that is to say----in considering the question whether the Court should
vary or discharge the injunction. That is the law even now} but it
can be usefully emphasised. 39.14, It has been emphasised in England," that an injunction may
be refused if the plaintiffs have misled the defendant and the court.
This is on the principle that he who comes in equity must come with
clean hands--a maxim which has been described as not unrelated to
the maxim ex twrppi cause. non oritor actio of the common law'. 39.15. If, on hearing of a motion by a plaintiff for an injunction,
or, in the alternative, to continue an interim injunction already ob-
tained ex porte, it appears that the interim order was irregularly ob-
tained by suppression of facts, the Court may discharge the ex: parte
order without any cross notice of motion for that purpose by the de-
fendant; though it may grant the injunction asked for. Motion of dissolve ex parte injunctions

39.16. Kerr states the position thus: (bl hearing of the application for injunction shall, as
. ' far as practicable, he ﬁnished within one month;
x and =
"{c) if it becomes absolutely necessary to extend the
period for which the injunction is to remain in
force, the extension shall not exceed ﬁfteen days,
except with the consent of the opposite part3,*,"-.-
{ii} The following further proviso should be added below Order

39, Rule 3:-- {c} the application for injunction, and

{ti} the aﬁidavit or other documents on which the ap-
plicant relies". {iii} The following proviso should be inserted below rule 4 of
Order 39:- CHAPTER 
.liEGEl'FEBS
lnitoductory " _

_-= 40.1. Order 404 dealing with receivers, oorrespon to section 503
of the old Code, of which theéportions 'relating to a reoeivefs remune-
1':i_tion and his-_duties are nowtto bq_._fo d in Rules 2 and 3. Under section 5 {J5'of the previous Code, a régeiver could be appointed only
by High_Court5 and District_Cour_ts but_ under the present Code, all
Coﬁrts pan appoint a re'ceivei'. The 'test is 'just and convenient', which
hasi 'Been siibstituted for "nece§'3ary 1':5i~'the realisation, preservation
or better' custody or management of any property, movable or im;
movable; the subject of a suit or -'under:=attachment", thus enlarging
the power of' a_ Court'. ' _ _ -_ ' - N0;.ohaqiges are needed in this Ocfder. -:r. .-' -' -.I .~ =' ' 3.; -- . -=' - ' ' 1 J." ' U:-:' . - 'fl
. .1:+¥?fW,J*°"'-1€*'*?'P?!*¥***:""Ei~f'-hf':¥"%¥'.¥E?":"9! 19*"-=';',. V -. 230 '

.5

,"I_

I

Chapter 41

APPEALS FROM ORIGINAL DEGREES
Introductory

41.1. Procedure as to appeals from original decrees is governed
by Order 41. It is |:iriei'1y as follows:---- &1.2. The appellant presents a memorandum, accompanied by a
copy of the decree appealed against. The Code lays down rules as to
the form and contents of this memorandum, and forbids the appellant
to urge, without the leave of the Court, any ground of objections not
set forth therein, To stop the practice of presenting appeals merely
for the purpose of delaying execution, the Code declares that execu-
tion of a decree is not stayed by reason only of its having been appea-
led; but the appellate Court may stay execution when substantial
loss may otherwise result to the appellant, and he applies without
unreasonable delay and gives security for performing such decree
as may ultimately be binding on him, The rules prescribe the proce-
dure after the appellant's memorandum is admitted. 41.3. To afford the parties reasonable time for preparation and for
instructing their pleaders (if they choose to employ any), a day is
ﬁxed for hearing the appeal, so as to allow the respondent suﬂicient
time to appear' and answer, and notice of the day So ﬁxed must be
published and served on him. If a party neglects to appear on the
day so Fixed. the consequence is judgment by default in the case of
the appellant. and proceeding ex porte in the case of the respondent. -11.4. There are rules as to the judgment to be passed in appeal.
In order that the litigants may understand the grounds of the deci-
sion. and exercise, if they see ﬁt, the right of second appeal, the Code
1'e-"wires the judgment to state the points for determination, the de-
cision thereupon, the reasons for the decision, and, when the decree
appealed against is reversed, the relief to which the appellant is
entitled. Order 41, rule 1A (new)--Court fees on Appeal

41.5. One of the most important problems which a litigant has to
face in respect of appeal is that of Court fees: and, having regard to
its importance. we had. in our Questionnaire.' solicited views on the
following _ question:-- J _ '|'1.i.= I-mi "IF"."..'l-=l'.|!! was .~u.|ggcsl.L-:1 by iii: R-mics l'<'.=1cuL!i{'.~1 rilliiuy in B-'W N'. '9'?!-Fiffiﬂa Ray!
1 it-r'II. ..\__[5. 3|'. 2. (flucsr inn 3?. T.ﬂ3l:X}22§}5'l:}fLJ&C.-L ~20 282 41.6. Majority of the replies on this question favour, broadly,
the suggestion made in the question. After some discussion, we have
also come to the same conclusion. Recommendation

41.7. We, accordingly, recommend insertion of the following
rulew 121. At the time of ﬁlling of the appeal, Only one fourth of the
requisite cou.rt--;fees need be paid, and the remainder of the
court-fees may be paid when the appeal is admitted under

rule 11". Order 41, rule 3A (new) Refund of Court Fees and Process Fees. 41.8. If an appeal is rejected under any rule or dismissed as barred
by limitation or for want of jurisdiction or otherwise than -on the
merits, then a refund of court-fees should in our view. he allowed.
Even now, this can be done under the inherent powers of the court;
but a speciﬁc provision on the subject would. in our view, be useful. Recommendation

41.9. Accordingly, we recommend that a new rule should be in-
serted in Order 41, as follows: Order 41, rule 5. 41.10. One of the most important aspects of an appeal is the grant
of stay of execution of the decree appealed from. In this context, the
question whether a stay order operates immediately or only when it
is communicated to the Court {or the officer conducting the sale) was
examined at length in the Commission's earlier Report'. The Commis-
sion, after referring to the conflicting rulings on the subject, express-
ed the opinion "that ordinarily the order should be effective imxme ' -
tely, and a provision to the contrary may be abused. by interested
parties attempting deliberately to delay transmission of the order
from the appellate Court to the lower Courts". At that time, the
Commission did not recommend any amendment on the subject. 41.11. Since then, the Gujarat High Court has held" that the
stay order granted by an appellate Court becomes eifective not from
the moment of its pronouncement. but from the moment it is com-
municated to the Court. It was held, therefore, that the decree passed
by the Court of Small Causes. before communication of the stay order
issued by the High Court 1' the communication actually took place the
next day}, was a proper decree. 1. 27th Report, page 238, note on 0l'|.lL'I' 4] , Rule 5. 2. H-swish Kttmrll' Y. |'_."}v..7ur.1rttH.a¢J'_ A.I,R, 1Q[j[i Guj. 28]. 1.- On the fact, it was also held that the signing of the decree by the
Judge of the Court of Small Causes after the stay order granted by the
High Court had been communicated to it_, was not a breach of the stay.
order, as the judgment had been pronounced before the stay was com-
rnunicatecl. Recommendation for amendment of Order 41, rule 5

41.12. We have given some thought to the matter and are of the
view that stay should be eﬁective from the date of communication,
since the opposite view might create practical complications. At the
same time, we think that an aﬁidavit by an advocate based on personal
knowledge should be acted upon, until a formal order is received, or
until orders to the contrary are received from the court granting stay. We, therefore, recommend that the following Explanation should
he added to Order 41, rule 5(1). Order 'ail, rule 1l--Judgment in case of dismissal of appeal without
110 06

41.13_ In the earlier Report', an amendment was suggested to carry
out the recommendation made in the Fourteenth Report' with re-
ference to Order 41, rule 11. The object was to provide that even
where the appellate court dismisses an appeal without notice to the
lower court, it shall deliver a formal judgment, and a decree shall
be drawn up. g

41.14. We agree that in such cases. a formal judgment would be
useful The above recommendation should, therefore. be carried out,
both for the High Court and for the district court when hearing first
appeals. 41.15, In the case of the High Court when hearing a second appeal
however, the position should be the reverse. Having regard to the res-
tricted scooe of second appeals? reasons should be required to be re-
corded if the appeal is admitted'. Order 41 rule 5 (4). 41.16, The question of stay of execution of decrees during the
oendency of appeal has engaged our serious attention, and we pro-
pose an important change in this respect. 1. 27th llepnrt. page 238. note on Order 41, Rule 1]. 2. 14th l-'uu_:mrt- V-rl. L page 335. para ll. 1 3. I-lee suction l(_IIIﬂ-l1I.l rocnmmexidation relating thereto. -1. See [1;Lrau;ru.pl1 -L2 . 2 and 42.1! infra.
L,lB(N)22Ql.'tIol'IJ& C'-A» --2(J(a)

r>~:4

41.17. An appeal by itself does not operate as a stay of eXeCuti0I1-
But stay can be granted by the Court 133551113 the demfee '3_r bf?' th_e
appellate court, for "sufficient cause".' The general direction in this
respect in the Code is, that stay shall not be granted, unless the court
'Es satisﬁed about the existence of three circumstances- (:1) like1ih.ood of substantial loss to the applicant for Stay. if the
stay is not gran.ted_'

{bi application without unreasonable delay',

{.3} security by the applicant for the due performance of such
decree or order as may be ultimately binding upon him. Suh--rule (3) of Order -11. rule 5 so provides--But sub-rule (4) of
the same rule says
"{4} Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (3), the
court may make an ea: parte order for stay of execution
pending the hearing of the application". 41.18. It is this sub-rule which causes trouble in practice. Once an
car: parts order of stay is obtained, the appellant is not interested in
":TDIT'lpT. disposal of the appeal. Moreover_, it is common experience
that often the very object of appealing is to obtain stay, particularly
in respect of money decrees. and even if the appellant knows that he
has no case. he appeals with the above object. 41.19. Having regard to what is stated above, we are of the view
that Order 41, rule 5. sub-rule (4). requires radical modiﬁcation, so
that the remedy provided by it may not be abused. It is against the
spirit of suh-rule {4} to grant stav as a matter o'f course, and it cer-
tainly is unjust that stay without the safeguards contemplated by sub-
rzrlel (3) should be granted ex parte. even pending the hearing of the
amp ication. Recommendation -$1.20. We. therefore. recommend that Order 41. rule 5(4), should
he rcvisecl as follows:--- Order 41. rule 1] and appeals under section 47

41.21. A recommendation had been made in the 14th Report of
the Commissioni to the effect that in case of appeals against orders
in execution of money decrees. a restriction should be placed on the
right of an-neat. by reouirine the appellant iudgment-debtor to de-
posit, or at least give sccuritv for. the decretal amount, as a conditi on 7. [_]|'l'."|' I1. ll=;h-:- T-'1'! :'.:::| 51:2'. 3. Hih ll-.=_nnr'.'."-hn11r:1,pa;;n 14'). para. :21. '-u 285 precedent to the admission of the appeal. The Report referred to the

proposal of the
mended the acceptance of the proposal. 41,22. The Civil Justice Committee had stated in its Report that
after trial, it was only just that such a protection should be z'=,'1'«'*°-'T'l 1-0
the successful decreeholdcr. $1.23. The Law Commission in its Report' on the Code, after
noting the above recommendations, expressed the view that such a
rigid provision might cause hardship. and did not, therefore. favour
an amendment. It also expressed the View that the restriction against
stay, embodied in Order 41. rule 5(3) {read with Order 4].. rule 8,},
was enough. 41.24. We have considered the matter at length, and 'nave come
to the conclusion that a provision emphasising the need for demand-
ing security in such cases would prove to be useful. At the same time,
we appreciate that a strict or rigid provision may cause hardship in
some cases. It -appears to us that while the entertaining of the appeal
need not be postponed until seCu1"itj5r is furnished, the apeal should be
admitted conditionally. that is to say, if security is not furnished
within the time fixed by the appellate court, then the appeal should
be liable to be rejected. Reconimendation

41.25. AcCordi11,9,1y, we recommend the addition of the following
sub-rule to Order 41. rule 11:--- . I-itih Report, Vol. 1'. page 392, para 16 second sub-paragraph.
. 27th Report, page 123, Note on section 1130. para 2. 3. Kriahnuji v. Itfu-rffmsa, A.I.R.. 1934 Born. 207, 211 t]d'.B.]
{hj i'~lu..E:}tr1ro v. Gcndaiol, A.J.R». 1954151. P. 24.25 [Reviews cases].
(0) (19373 I M3-'5. L. J'. 1, timid in the yearly Digest. 4. Rel':-ho Tbakzir, v. Ranmavetqn A.I.R. 1936, Pat. 7, 8, 9. 5. LIti1_'si.'r'Iir-air: -'lero-oji V. Sn}RumUkonuTra[I9lI}1ﬁCa],W.N. 92l,922(D.B.) 53.: -1l.33. The conﬂict really is on a slightly different matter.
namely. whether the admission of an appeal in part is Illegal. The
Bombay view' on the subject is, that if the sub]'eCi»~Y11ﬂit91' i5 5C'V5'1"" Order -11, rule 14, and dispensing' with service on respondent against
whom case was ex parte. 413?. With reference to service of the memorandum of appeal,
one point was considered in the earlier Report". A recommenda-
tion had been made in the Forteenth Report' to the effect. that
in the case of parties who had not appeared in the court below,
and who had not ﬁled any address for service. a provision may be
made to dispense with service of the notice of appeal. A somewhat
similar recommendation had been made bv the Civil Justice" Com-
mittee' also, which observed that the necessity of serving each of
th_ose respondents against whom the suit had proceeded ex parte,
with notice of appeal or of any inter'-ocutor_x,r motion, led to an un-
necessary delay. It stated. that this was more specially the case
where the appellant had obtained an interim stay of execution, as
it would be easy for an en: parts defendant to collude with the

. Krislinaji v. Marianas, A. LR. 1934 Bum. 207 (F.B.]

. Eswariali V. Ilmncsﬁu-araya, A.I.R. 1940 Mad. 433. . Paragraph 41-30, supra. . Paragraph -1.1-33, aaprri. . 27th Report», page 239, Note on Order 41, rule 14.,

. 14th Report, Vol. I, Page 393, para. 21. . Civil Justice Committee (T925) Repcrt, page 117, pgm 2'7, second sub-para. -q:|¢3UI:IFhOﬂ[s3i--- defendanl-appvlluiii and evade scrr.-cc of notice. Amendments on
these lines. too have been made by the lligh Courts of Allahab-ad,
Andhra Pradesh. Assam. Calcutta, lvladhya Praclesh, Madras. My-
sore and Punjab. in Order 41. rule 14, and by the High Courts Of
O1.'is>;za and Patna hv inserting Order 41, rule 14.4.. 41.38. The carlia:--r Commission noted the above position, but
felt that it was LinneCessa1'y to carry out the suggested change, as
not much tie"-lay is caused by the necessity of service of notice of
appeal. 41.39. lt appears to us, however, that such a provision would he
'l1S€'f'.ll, saving delay. Itcconiinendation

41.40. Vi-"e_. therefore, recommend that in Order 41, Rule 14, the
following sub-rules should be added--~

"(3} The notice to be served on the -respondent shall be ac-
co-mptmied by a. copy of the memorandum of appeal. {4} Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
s=u.li-'rule (1). it shall. not be -necessary to serve notice of
any -proceedinr; -inc-idcntal to on appeal on any respondent
other than. a 'pe7'3DT1 impleadcd for the first time in the
A30-petlote Court, unless he has tI'pper.17'ed and filed an
address for service either "in the t-rial court or, in the
case of :1 second appeal, in the lower appellate Court, or
has a.ppeU.Ted in the appeal. (5) Nothtogv rn. sub-rule (4) shall bar the resoondent referred
to in the appeal and defending it." Order 41, rule 17 and dispose! on merits in absence of the appellant

41.41.15-'hen an appellate Court does not dismiss an appeal
summarily, it should fix a date for the hearing of the appeal and
notice of the date should be afﬁ:-ced in the appellate Court house
and should be served on the respondent or on his pleader, under
Order 41, rules 12 and 14. The procedure thereafter is provided in
Order 41. rule 1?. which lays down that "Where on the day ﬁxed,
or any other day to which the hearing ma__ be adjourned, the appel-
lant does not appear when the appeal is called on for hearing, the
Court rna}-' make an order that the appeal be dismissed." In this
rule, the word 'may' shows that. apart from dismissal of the ap-
peal for default, the court can pass other orders. One such order
could be adjournment of theappeal. 41.42. But there is a conﬂict of decisions on the question
whether, if the appellant does not appear, the appellate court can,
under this rule, dispose of the appeal on the merits. The Allaha-
bad view' is that a decision on the merits is permissible. l. Gejrm;-1 '*7. Ram Raﬁ, A.'l.ZR. 1965 All. 547, 54!] (Desai and Pathak J. J.)

.- I 289 41.43. Answering the queryehow an appeal can' be disposed
of on merits without the appellant}: or his counsel being heard, the
Court observed "I see no anomaly or even difﬁculty in this. The
appellate court can read the judgment appealed from and the
memorandum of appeal and hear the respondent or his counsel
and then can certainly decide onmerits whether the appeal should
be dismissed or not. If the appeal is a good one and the respondent
or his Counsel is unable to show any cause for its being dismissed
the appellate court. can cc-rtainl_'y' allow it on merits in spite of the
appellants absence. Similarly, if it ﬁnds that the grounds of appeal
have no substance, it can dismiss it on merits. Orally hearing a
party or his pleadcr is not an essential ingredient of a decision on
merits and the appeal in the instant case could have been dismis-
seed by the learned Additional Judge on merits in Spite of the
appellants' absence." 41.44. A later Allahabad casel takes the same view. 41.45. As to Order 41. rule 30. the Allahabad High Court" deals
with the position thus: 41.45. Other High Courts, however, take a different vievt-'."The
most important case in support of the view that the court has no
power to dismiss an appeal on the merits [if the appellant does not
appeal" at the healing'), is 3 Madras one', Mostly. the line of reason- ing adopted in the Madras case has been accepted in the decision
of other High Courts. l. 3061;. Ila-m tr. Hire-gwon Doss. A.'l'.R. l9fl8, All, L (F','l3_) 2. Bo-Ina. Ham V. Ifkwgu-on Baas, A.I.R_ I9-E8 All. I. ll}, para 45, 3. Musaliroktk iﬂulto-mad V. Jfonaoiakrama, A.I.R. 1923 Mat]. 13. ll.=1T. The facts of the Madras case were as follows:---- On the date of hearing of an appeal before the Subordinate
Judge, the appellant was not present, but a Vakit hold-
ing a Vakalatnama from him was present, and applied
for an adjournment, The adjournment was refused, and
the vakil thereupon informed the court that as he had
no instructions or papers. he could not argue the appeal;
he took no further part in the proceedings. The Subordinate Judge, instead of dismissing the appeal for
default, considered the evidence bearing on the appellants claim
with reference to the memorandum of appeal, and dismissed the
appeal on the merits with costs. 41.48. It was contended before the High Court (on behalf of
the appellant} that it was not competent for the Subordinate Judge
to inquire into the merits of the case in the absence of the appellant
and his pleader, and that he could deal with the appeal only in
the manner provided by Order 41, Rule 17(1). This contention was
accepted by the Divisional Bench which heard the case, and the
judgment of the Sulaordinate Judge was held to be without juris-
diction, Both the Judges constituting the Bench referred to the
change from the words, 'shall be dismissed' in section 556 of the
Old Code', to the words "the Court may make an order that the
appeal be dismissed" in Order 41, rule 17(1) of the present Code,
but they were of the View that in spite of the change, the' Subordi-
nate Judge had no power to go into the merits of the appeal. Under
the previous Code, the Court had considered it to be undesirable'
to dismiss the appeal on the merits. '

41.49. According to most High Courts. dismissal on the merits
is illegal", when the appellant is not present. In a Punjab' case it
was held that the remedy is an application for restoration under
Order 41, rule 19. Amendment desirable to remove conﬂict

41.50. Having regard to the conflict of decisions, it is desirable
to make the wording of rule 17 more explicit. Theoretically, a dis-
missal on merits should be permissible. 41.51. No doubt, the following passage from a Supreme Court
case"'( in reference to Order 41, Rule 30) may lend support to the
Allahabad view. 1. Section 556, G.P.C'-. 1882. 2. Mnhrak Ck-under Boar' v. Thdkur Data'. 20 Suth. W.R. 425. 3. (my Ttzfa-er Stem: v. Otarﬂddin Hmmlaar, A.I.R. 1929 Cal. 475.
(I5) Eﬂaagajafir Whoton v. ..'|»#. Bademi, A.I.R. IQH2! Pat. 1 {uvi-1'1'uling A.I.E. 1921 Pat

(cj Digemire (-'Fumdra v. Rridfin Ballot, A.T.R. 1953 Assam. 'I91. (:1) [I968] Ar clh. W.R.. 356, cited. in the Yearly Digest. 4. Kundim Sing}: v. Punjab State, A.I.R.. 1952 Punj. 82 (P. O. Pundit J.) -'.5. Suihpai Sing}; v. Kalyan Singh ALR. 1963 S.['.. 146; (1963) 2 SCR 733. However, these observations should not be taken as necessarily
implying that a disposal on the merits is necessary where the appel- lant is absent, It is not necessary for the Corrt to give a decision
on merits, though it is open to it to do so. Recommendation

41.52. Moreover. in practice a decision on merits in the appellant's

absence, is rarely given. and therefore, the better course -would be- to preclude a decision on merits in such cases. We are of the View
that the Code should be amended on the above 1ines_

Accordingly, we recommend that the following Explanation

' should be added in Order 41, rule 17(1);-- Order 41, rule 18

41.52251. A point concerning Order 41,_ruIe 13 was discussed in
the earlier Report' as follows:-- 41.523. We are, however, of the View that it is desirable to adopt
the amendment suggested in the 14th Report and insert it in the Code.
Such a provision will. to some extent, expedite disposal of appeals. 1. 27th Report, page 239, Note on Under 41, rule IS. 2. 14th Report, Volume 1, page 293, para. 22. Recommendation
 Accordingly, we recommend that Order -11, rule 13, should
be revised as follows:--- Order 41, rule 18 and refund of process fees. 41.54. A point relevant to Order 41, rule 18 and refund of fees
may now be considered. Refund of process fees where appeal dismissed without notice. 41.55. A recommendation had been made in the Forteenth Re-
port'--" for an amendment allowing the refund of process fees where
an appeal is dismissed without notice to the other party. The Com-
mission, however, in its Report on the Code," felt, that this should
be left to be dealt with by the practice of the Courts. No amendment

we 5, therefore, suggested. 41.56. We agree with the view taken in the Report on the Code.
but for a different reason. As process fees are paid after admission
of the appeal, it is not necessary to provide for refund when the
appeal is dismissed summarily. 41.57. For the above reason, we recommend no change in the
existing rule. Order 41. rule 20

41.58. As to Order 41, rule 20. the earlier Report' on the Code
discussed the controversy as to whether a respondent can be added
in an appeal after the period of limitation for appeal had expired.
The decisions on the subject will be found discussed in the under-
mentioned cases". . 14-i-h Report, Vol. 1, page 393, para 22. . See also Order 41:51, rule 2, inserted in Madras.
. 27th Report, page 2-iii, note on Order 41, rule 18 and refund. . P. slnundvu v. M'. Aclaaryzrlu, A.i.R. 1958, Al'. -13 (F.B.] 1 2 3 at. 27th Report, page 2-3}, Note on Order 41, rule 20. 6. j."o|'.£jie-ti Area. Committee, Buria v. tiooind Ram. .a..I.B.. 1959 Pun. 2'77, 2'78 {F.B.)

u'_,f

fvl 293 Some of these decisions. proceed on the inherent power of the
court to add the respondent in such cases. -$1.59, In a recent case,' the Andhra Pradesh High Court held that
Order 41. rule 20, is concerned with a partvto the suit who was not
made a party to the appeal though interested in the_ result of the
appeal. The appellate court can, then, in exercise of Its discretion di- rect that he be made a respondent, This provision is only limited to
certain contingencies. It was held: 41.60, In this case it was. therefore, held that the court below did
not err in permitting the petitioner to be made a party to the appeal
who was a scttlee -pendants lite of one or the items of suit property
b}1;ougt;t by the plaintiff and was a person interested in the results
t ereo . 41.61. In one Kerala case,* the question raised was whether a
party could be implead-ed in the Civil Revision Petition after" the ex-
piry of the period prescribed for ﬁling the petition. The Kerala High
Court held that though the law of limi.tation does not apply to an
addition of parties by the court of appeal under Order 41, rule 20 of
the Code. yet the power under that provision is discroﬁonary, and
should not be exercised in all cases, for instance, where the parts; is
extremely negligent. But if the court ﬁnds it necessary to bring a
party upon the record of an appeal. in order to do justice between
the parties, the court has ample power to do so irrespective of limita-
tion, even in second appeal. Even apart from the provisions of Order -11. rule 20. the High Court has power. under section 151 of the Code,
to add a respondent to the appeal, even after the expiry of the period
of limitation for the appeal against him. if in the circumstances of the
case before it. it thinks fit to do so. The conditions to be satisﬁed before
a partv is impleaded under Order =11. rule 20 are in the ﬁrst place,

I. For example : . (cl) JIM-nshi Rom. v. .»1ﬁrI-71!.-Isis, .'-S.l.B. 1943 Lab. 252.
[*3] P-Film-m Rani r. DI'mIn' Rrrm. A.T.R.. 'I924 Pat. 1773. 2. .'s'nFJfJrrruwt.l4: \-'. Brrdnmmandan, A.I.I{-. 1970 A.P. 21]. 215 {D.R.'_!, fnilmv.-irg Notiﬁed
Area. Uomirifitcr-. Buffer. v. I'?'oi'Jind Ram, ALE. 1959 Punj. 277 {F.B.l

3- Ruginnni v. fﬂteilopjaw Rowflllei', (I96-9) Ker. L.T. 789. that the person must have been a party' to the suit but not made par-
ty in the appeal, and secondly, that the person added is one interes-
ted in the result of the appeal. Once the irnpleadrnent is found neces-
sary in the interests of justice, the question of limitation need not
deter the court, because the necessity for the impleadnnent strikes the
Court only at the time of hearing, and by that time, in most cases,
the period allowed for ﬁling the appeal or revision will be over. 41.62. In the circumstances, the prayer for impleadment was
allowed. 41.63. In one Punjab case: it was held that where a memoran-
dum of appeal does not mention the name of "a contesting p-arty, and
the mistake creeps in on account of the erroneous certiﬁedpcopies
having been supplied by the court ofﬁcials to the appellant, he should
not be made to suffer on account of the mistake having been commit-
ted by some oﬁicer of the court in the discharge of his duties. It is
quite apparent that the appellant or his counsel did not notice that
error at the time when the appeal was ﬁled, and the names of the
parties in the memorandum of appeal had been mechanically copied
out from those mentioned in the heading of the judgment of the trial
court, The mistake on the part of the appellant or his counsel is,
therefore, bona ﬁde and'honest_ and the appellate court has ample
power to allow the m--istcr.lte to 'be rectified and the party added, even
after the expiry of period of l.imitation for appeal. 41.64. In one Patna case", the appeal was ﬁled by an insolvent in
time against one of the creditors. When the other two creditors were
made parties to the appeal, «the period of limitation under section 75
(4) of the Provincial Insolvency: Act had expired. It was held that
under provisions of Order 41. rule 20, even at the time of hearing of
appeal, the court could make persons interested in the result of the
appeal party to the appeal, and the question of limitation would not
arise in such cases. 41.65, In an Allahabad case" under the U.P. Consolidation of Hold-
ings Act, 1954 [Section 43), failure to implead necessary parties to
appeal was held to be fatal. It was held that the court was not bound
to have necessary parties brought on record. 41.66. It is obvious that the postion s. to some extent. nebulous.'
The previous Commission did examine it and stated that the correct
view is, that after the period of limitation has expired against a party
he ceases to be "interested in the appeal" within the meaning of rule 90. as interpreted by the Privy Council.' 1. I-'imm Single. in Gem! 8'-5-ugh T.L.R. (1969), 2 Punj. 369, 372, following Notified Area
Committee, Bio-irt, v. flobind Ram, A.T.R. 1959 Punj. 2'77 (F.I-Ll 2. Roraeahemr Ea! .4_qaa'wrili1: 1:. Kim? Men?» (1969) Labour l.('-. 7'90. 792 [Pat] quoted in the
Ycarly Digest {H369}. Coluniu. 471"'. 3. 11-366 All. 'W.R. (H. C.) l3B--Quoterl in the Yearly Digest, U968) page. -173. 4. 27th Report, page 240. 5. C'.he£al£ng'am. V. Scﬁﬂiﬂi, I.L.R. 3 Rangoon 29; A.I.R. 1927 P. C. 252. a.-J.

H. 295 41.67, The previous Commission also noted that the question whe-
ther such a party can be impleaded under the inherent power of the
Court, or whether a separate appeal can be ﬁled against that respon-
dent after obtaining leave of the Court under section 5 , Limitation Act
were (in the view of the Commission) different matters. The pre-
vious Commission considered it unnecessary to make any anlendment
to cover such cases. 41.68. We are, however. of the view that it would be better if the
position as regards. rule 20 is clariﬁed, and We think that the restric-
tive view, namely, that a respondent cannot be added after expiry of
the period of limitation, should he expressly enacted. At the same
time the court should have powers to grant requests for, impleading
a party after expiry of limitation for reasons to be recorded. Recommendation

41.69. Accordingly, we recommend- that the following sub--rule
should be added' in Order 41, rule 20- Order 41, rule 22

41.70. Order 41, rule 22 gives two distinct rights to the respondent
in the appeal. The ﬁrst is the right (if upholding the decree of the court
of ﬁrst instance on any: of the grounds on which that court decided
aminst him, and, in that case, no notice or memorandum required by
the later provisions of the rule is necessary. The second. right is that
of taking any objection, called "cross-objection"----to the decree which
the respondent might have taken by way of appeal,

41.71. The distinction between the two, though ﬁne, is appreci-
able. In the first case, the respondent supports the decree. In the
second case, he attacks" it. The ﬁrst' requires no formal document.
The second does, and court--fees may have to be paid. 41.72. There is a third remedy--cross-appeal. But this is outside
the rule. -'

4133. The rationale behind the two remedies has been thus
explained'---- . 41.74. and 41.75. In a Punjab case" Dua. C. J. has heid---- T'fHl"|)]°'.'ill|[- -'T. .I'_..5_-_-" .'\,*f3l ' -' 298 that the issue of negligence should have been decided in its favour.
That is what Order 41, Rule 22 sub-«rule (1) of the Civil Procedure
Code provides for.' So the cross-objection, Wholly unnecessary one,
may be left alone_ '

41.81. So much as regards the working of rule 22. We have
referred above to the two limbs of the rule which give two remedies.'
Now, there is a small verbal point regarding the first remedy. The
relevant portion of the rule says that the respondent may "support
thc dccreﬁ on any of the grounds decided against him in the court
below". These words, at ﬁrst sight, appear to be strange, because a
person cannot support a decree on a ground decided against him.
What is meant is. that he may support it by asserting that the
ground decided against him should have been decided in his favour.
It is desirable to make this clear. Reoolnmendatllm

41.32. We recommend, therefore, that Order 41, rule 22, sub-rule
(1), should be revised, so as to read as follows:-- T

"{1} Any respondent, though he may not have appealed from
any part of the decree, may,- (a}' not only support of the decree by stating that the deci-
sion in respect of any ground decided against him in
tllte court below ought to have been in his favour; but
a so (b) take any cross-objection to the decree which he could
have taken by way of appeal, provided he has ﬁled
such objection in the Appellate Court Within one
month from the date of service on him or his pleader
of notice of the day ﬁxed for hearin the appeal, or
within such further time, as the App: ate Court may
see ﬁt to allow." 41.83. There is also another point relevant to Order 41, Rule 22.
We are separately recommending' that a Court must decide all
issues, even if the case can be disposed of 'on a preliminary point,
except where a question of jurisdiction or bar to suit is involved.
This renders desirable a change in the provisions as to cross objec-
tion. Where a decision of the trial court on a preliminary issue is
favourable to the respondent, and the other issues are decided against
him, the respondent should, in View of the recommendation referred
to be empowered to file cross--objection. Strictly speaking, this
follows from the change proposed in the section relating to appeal'
read with the words "any cross-objection which he could have taken
by way of appeal" which appear in Order 41, rule 22. But an express
provision would be desirable. '. Following Lalo Gd/Bﬂ' Slaankar Laiva. JGHH Perallrul {I890} I.L.R.. 17 Cal. 809 (P. 0.],
n ease under section E61 ofthe 1882 Gods, corresponding to Order 41, Rule 22. _ 2. Paragraph 41.70, eupvro. 3. Bee discussion relating to Motion 96, and Ordnr 14, rule 2.
1- Station 95. -t. Recommendation

41.84. We recommend, therefore, that the following Explanation
should be inserted below Order 41. rule 22(1):-- Order 41, rule 22«----(Cross-objections between respondents)

41.85. With reference to Order 41, rule 22, the following point
was considered in the earlier Report:'

"A suggestion has been made to the effect that a respondent
should not be allowed to ﬁle a cross-objection in which
the appellant is not interested. While that would be the
ordinary rule," a rigid provision may not be desirable,
because there may be cases where a diiferent rule might
have to be applied. The suggestion has not, therefore, been
carried out." 41. 86- We examined the matter again, but have come to the
same conclusion as was recorded in the earlier Report. Qross-objec-
tions as between respondent and respondent are not unlmown, and
we do not think it proper to change the existing position. Order 41, rule 23 -11.87. Order 41, rule 23, provides for remand where the lower
court has decided the suit on a preliminary issue. We are recom-
mending separatelyi that a Court may decide all issues except those
of jurisdiction or bar of suit. The amendment proposed by us-leaves
the matter to the court's discretion.-- Hence no consequential changes
will be required in Order 41, rule 23. Order -11, rule 235 (New)

41.88. and 41.89. In the earlier Report' on the Code insertion of
the following new rule was recommended: 1. 27th Report, page 240, "Note on Order 41, rule 22. 2. Foot notes in the 27th Report citing case law have been ommitted here. 3. Sec discussion as to Order 14:, rule 2. 4. 27th Report, page 242. and draft rule at page 32. l'q'B{D)229}I-JfL.»]'. M} .A.--2lfa} 300 Reconimendation
41.90. We ;;g:'cc_ accoL'dingl_~g, we i'econ11r,~cn;j that rule 233-';
should be inserted as follows: Order 41, rule 2'2'

41.91. Order 41, rule 2? relates to taking of additional evidence
in the Appellate Court. In the earlier Report an amendment' had
been recommended in this rule in implementation of the recom-
mendation made in the 14th Report." The object was to provide that
additional evidence may be allowed by the appellate court, if the
evidence could not be produced in the lower court because it was
not within the knowledge, etc, 0-f--the party seeking to produce it
now. 41.92. We have examined the matter and we €l.'.l,lI'E}l§,-' agree
with the recommendation, '

Order 41, rule 31, Contents of Apﬂate Judgment

41.93. At present, under Order 41, rule 31, the judgment oi' a
Court of first appeal or second appeal has to contain the points for
determination, the decision thereon, and the reasons for the decision,
and where the decree under appeal is reversed or varied, the relief
to which the appellant is entitled, It was suggested to us that while
these requirements are obviously necessary in the case of a Court
of ﬁrst instance, their literal application to Courts of appeal may
not be necessai-y in every case. It the court of appeal has nothing
new to say on any of the points decided by the Court of first in-
stance. repetition could be usefullv avoided In other words, the
judgment of a Court of appeal could be in continuation to that of
the tri.al court, since it is to be in support of the same. We con-
sidered a suggestion was to make provisions on the following lines: cular point or :-o;'nf.s, the judgment of the Court of appeal
could start straigshtway with a discussion of those parti-
cular noint or points, followed by its decision thereon and
the effect oi' that decision. l. 537th 1'{v.port .« 1"\.i_;e' -Q1. Hr-ii--.~ do illlrrlcr -'-_-l. rule 27. 9. Mt}? RE'i7fII'i-, 'Fol. ]. natsc -"I5, ]'l.-l.!'¢'i =1-5, F-I'1'L'ﬁ3'.l(1 sial-us]-a.ra.. Wheie, hctore the Court of appeal, a new argument is advanced
in support 0;", or against, a nnding oi' the court below, or an alto-
gether new point is urged, the judgment of the court 01' appeal could
start straightaway with a discussion of the particular point or points,
its decision thereon, and the effect of that decision. 41.94. We have considered the suggestion, but are not inclined
to recommend any amendment. The present rule is sufficiently elastic.
To enact provisions on the lines suggested would make the rule
cumbersome, without making any difference in practice. Order 41, Rule 33

41.95. Under Order 41, rule 33, the Appellate Court shall have
power to pass any decree and make any order which ought to have
been passed or made and to pass or make such further or other decree
or order as the case may require and this power may be exercised
by the Court notwithstanding that the appeal is as to part only of
the decree and may be exercised in favour o__i' oil or any of the res-
pondents or pa-rties, although such. respondents or parties may not
have ﬁled any appeal or object-ion.'

The illustration to the section is as foil-ows:-- We are of the View that this rule should be amended to cover
cross suits and also a suit _in which two decrees are passed. This is
desirable in order to remoize the diﬁiculty caused by the un-
certainty" in this behalf as regards res ﬁudicatc. Recommendation

41.96. Accordingly, we recommend that the main paragraph of
the rule should be revised as follows:-- though on appeal may not have been ﬁled against such
decrees. [- T118 1T1'01'1'ED to the rule is not material, for the present purpose. 2. Sec discussion relating to section 11 . CHAPTER 42

APPEALS FROM APPELLATE DEGREES

Introductory 42.]. Procedure as to appeals from appellate decrees is dealt with
in Order 42. In general the rules as" to appellate procedure in first

appeals apply to subsequent appeals. Order 42, rule 2 (New)

42.2. We have already made a recommendation,' that when a
second appeal is admitted, reasons must be given, but that no reasons
need be given for not admitting it. Recommendation

42.3. Accordingly, we recommend that the following rule should
be inserted in Order 42- 1. Sea discussion under Order 41, rule 1]. faragnph 41.15, supra. an (iv) other 'orders-- which may, for the sake of convenience.
be referred to as interlocutory orders; and

(V) originating orders. 43.3A. Accordingly, an attempt is mad: below to divide the
orders enumerated in Order 43, rule 1, into a few classes, on the
above basis- Class (i)

Orders which are ﬁnal, in the sense that they put an end to
the list, but are not preceded or accompanied by decree: ment of appeals against (Jl ders is, broadly speaking, as follows:-- able,' it is desirable to abolish the appeal against the orders,
but at the same time to provide for an opportunity to
challenge the order in theappeal against the ﬁnal adjudi-
cation. The principal object of such an approach is to
_avoid_suc_cess'-.ve appeals which add to the length of the
. 'litigation. 4 (ii) Where the order is not accompanied or followed by any
such ﬁnal adjudication, the-I1 obviously the question of
'avoiding successive appeals does not arise, but abolition
or modiﬁcation oi" the right of appeal against that order
should be considered on other relevant considerations, in-
cluding, in particular--(1; whether the order, if allowed
to stand, would cause such hardship to the aggrieved party
as to justify a right of appeal, and (2) Whether any other

remedy wouldrbe equally adequate. ,

e We shall now indicate the choiiges needed various clauses
of Order 43, rule 1. Order 43, rule 1(a)

' 43.5. Order 43, rule 1(a), provides. for appeal against 'an order
tinder-'Order '?, rule lﬂ, where"a' plaint is returned to be presented
to the proper court. The only change which is necessary in this rule
is, that the right nfappeal under this rule should be subject to the
new restriction which we propose" ontlie right in certain cases. 1. See pa1;745V.7E:A,-sirrpro. 2. Sec Order 7, rule 1011 {New}

Her:-nn1mend:tt.im1 -;.'_;_tj. .»'icco1'o;1sgly_. we .L'I3L',0IT1I1Z<.°:ld tnat in Order rule its}: nounced under Order 8, rule 10. would be regarded as ﬁnal in the
appeal against the decree--an axpresg provision could be made to
clarify the position. No doubt, the appellant will have to pay high
court fees on the appeal. But we would recommend to State Govern-
ments, that the court fees for appcais against the decree in such cases
should be reduced to the Court fees for appeal against orders. Recommendation
43.9. In short. our recommendations are as follows--- (i) Order 413, rule 1(b) should be deleted; (ii) court fees on an appeal against the decree in cases where
judgment is pronounced under Order 8, rule 10 should be
reduced to the court fees for orders;' (iii) the following rule" should be inserted as Order 43, rule
1A

"1A. Where a court pronounces judgment against ct defen-
dant under Order 8, rule 10. he may appeal against the
decree following on the judgment on the ground that
the judgment ought not to have been so pronounced." Order 43. rule 10:)
a'-3.10. Order 43. lfc) needs no change. Order 43, rule 1(d)

==i3.11. Pole {1} (d) provid-es for appeal against an order under
Osdr.-'r 9. Rule 13. rejecting an application for an order to set aside a
decree passed c.:r pnrle. It requires. no change. 1. E'.m:. 4.3.8, .5-«pro. To he inscrtli an Order 43, rule} \ 306 Order 43, rule 1{e)

'£3.12. Rule 1 (e) provides for appeal against order under Order 10,
rule 4, where the court postpones the hearing of a suit because the
pleader refuses or is unable to answer any material question relating
to the suit and directs the pa1't_v' to be present on such day. Recommendation

=i3.13_ We recommend.- (i) abolition of the right of appeal under rule 1(a). The ground
can be taken in appeal against the main decree. {ii} insertion of Order 43, rule 1-B, as follows':- Order 43, rule 1 (f)

43.14. Under rule 1 if), an order under Order 11, rule 21, is ap-
pealable. The order so made appealable deals with non-compliance
with an order for discovery: etc. The effect of such non-compliance
is, that in the case of the plaintiff the suit is dismissed, and in case
of a defendanrt. his defence is struck out. We have, after some discussion, come to the conclusion that this
right of appeal should» be retained. Order 43, rule 1 (g)

43.15. Rule 1 {g} provides for appeal against an order under Dr-
der l6, rule 10 'for attachment,--where a witness fails to comply with
a summons to attend or produce a relevant document. Appeal against arrest" is dealt with separately- 43.16, The Code does contain' a provision where under the per-
son whose property is attached can apply to the court for vacating
the attachment. This should suffice. Recommendation

43.17'. We recommend therefore that appeal under rule 1 (g)
should be abolished. Order 43, rule 1 (I1)

43.18. Rule 101) provides for appeal against an order under
Order 16, rule 20. Under Order 16, rule 20, if any party1 to a suit
refuses to give evidence when called on by the court, the court may
Eronounce judgment against him or make such order as it thinks

t. 1. To be inserted as Order 43, rule ]-B. 2. Section 1o4(1)(h). 3. Order 16, rule 11. 1-." 3 tr}

43.19. We are of the V1E'W that the appeal under Order 43, rule
1(h) should be abolished. The defendant can, in an appeal from the
decree passed as a result of the order, take the same point as he can
take in appeal under Order 43, rule 1(h). To avoid doubts whether
such a: point can be taken. the matter could be provided expressly'.
The idea is to reduce the present two successive appeals to one. 43,211 We would also recommend to State Governments, that
court fee for appeals against the decree in such cases should be re-
duced' to the Court fees for appeal against orders

Recommendation
43.21. In short, our recommendation is--- (i) to delete Order 43, rule 1(h)j. (ii) to reduce court fees. as indicated above"; (iii) to insert Order 43, rule 1-C, as follows':--- Order 43, rule 1 (1)

43.22. Under rule 1(i), an appeal is allowed against an order made
under Order 21, rule 34, on an objection to the execution of a decree
and the draft of the document prepared by the decree--ho1der or the
endorsement of the negotiable instrument. The scope of Order 21, rule 3-1, is now proposed to be limited'.
However, no change is needed in the rule relating to appeal. Order 43, rule 1 (j)

43.23. Order 43, rule 1(j] provides for appeal against an order
under Order 21, rule 'F2 or rule 92 setting aside or refusing to set
aside a sale, where a decree-holder purchases property in execution
without the permission of the Court. No change is needed in this
rule." 43.24, On the question whether an appeal lies from an order dis-
missing, for default, an application under Order 21, rule 90', the de-
cisions were conﬁicting. In an earlier Calcutta case', it was held
that the language of Order 43, rule 1(j), is wide enough to cover
such cases, as the effect of such an order is to conﬁrm the sale under
Order 21, rule 92. It may, however be pointed out that under clause
(.j) of Order 4:3, rule 1, an appeal lies against an order refusing to set 1. Of. Discussion as to Order 43, rule 1 {_b). 2. Peru, 4: 3.21] supra. 3. To be inserted as Order 43, rule 1-0. 4. See discussion as to Order, 21. rule 3!. 5. It has been considered dssireuble to retain Drdlr 21, :11: '72. 6. Kali Konta Ghuckerbatty Y. Shyam LII. 1.1.11. 191'! GIL 815, following (llllj 8| I. 9. -£92 and {I910} 45 I. G. 493. aside a sale and not against an order conﬁrming the sale. This deci-
sion was followed in another Calcutta High Court case', where also
it was held that the cifect of the dismissal of an application under
rule BU is to confirm the sale under rule 92, and hence an appeal lies
againt the Order. =l:a'.24A. The Patna High Court' has, following two Calcutta
cases'--', held that an order dismissing an application under Order 21,
rule 90 for non-prosecution is ap-pealable under Order 43, rule 1(j}',
'lithe reason given being that if the application is disposed of on merits
and: is dismissed the result is that the sale is conﬁrmed, likewise if
the application is dismissed for non--prosecution, the result is the
same. Further, the question of appealability under Order 43, rule 1(j)
does not depend upon v.-'hethcr the order under Order 21, rule 92 re-
sults in the confirmation of the sale, but on the fact whether the or-
der is one refusing to set aside the sale or setting aside the sale. 43.25. On the other hand; in another Calcutta decision", it was
held that an order of dismissal for default is not a conﬁrmation of
the sale, and does not preclude the party from making a fresh appli-
cation, and that such an order is not appealable under Order 43, Rule
1(j). In that case. Page J , observed that in dismissing the application
for default when neither party appears on the case being called for
hearing, the Court does not refuse to set aside the sale, but in the ab-
sence of the parties refuses to consider whether the sale should he
set aside 01- not. It was observed further, that it is not every order
of rejection that has been made appealable under Order 43, Rule l(j),
but only that order of rejection by which the Court, on a demand
being made by' a person to set aside a sale, refuses to set aside the
sale. This stands to reason, as a party who has allowed his application

_to be rejected for default or non-prosecution, cannot really. complain

that the Court has refused to set aside the sale on prayer. 43.26. In a Madhya Pradesh case", in a proceeding for the execu-
tion of a money decree against the respondent judgment debtors, cer-
tain property belonging to the judgment-debtors was sold and pur-
chased by the second appellant Rajaram. Thereupon, the judgment
debtors ﬁled applications under Order 21, Rule 90 for setting aside
the sale. The application was dismissed by the executing court for de-
fault of appearance of the judgment-debtors. Thereafter, the judg-
ment-debtors ﬁled applications for restoration of their applications
under Order 21, Rule 90 and section 4 ?. These applications were re-
jected, by. the District Judge. A revision petition against this order of

_the District Judge was dismissed by the High Court by a single Judge

decision, Thereafter, the judgment debtors ﬁled an appeal in the High
Court against the order of the District Judge, Tare J ., who heard the 1. .-'\"rt-rm.-from.-itfa. v. Reiltlaizl Doss-, A.l'.R. 1925, Gal. Ell).
. i'i':n'rz__nmfr:.p 1.-'. Trifakziraﬁh. ALR. 1957 Pat. 465'. . Brtmnf Kcmxtr \". Kliirnrfr tlhdlzdm, A.I.R.. 1923 Cal. 25.
.. .AT.=1.vrrlrr': \'-'. a'}'.i'ti.-ri Sirnliizr. .-'L.LR. 1929 Cal. -107. . iirisrtrafnlla v. Rrr1_:z-iufrlin. .-1.1.3. 'L926 Cal. 733. 5. Gap? La? '9'. S'itm'nm, ALR. 1968 ';'l..P. 196 {D.B.}

L1-LL-LJID

''14

1-4'. appeal, took the view that the appeal was nottenable, in view of the
dismissal by the High Court of the revision petition filed by the Judg-
nient-debtors. Apparently. the single Judge, while deciding as above,
expressed some opinion on the correctness of the orders of the District
Judge. 43.27. Letters Patent appeals were preferred by the decree--hol-
der and the auction-purchaser. Although they were not aggrieved by
the actual conclusion reached by the Single Judge (dismissing the
appeal of the judgment-debto1's), their grievance was that having held
that the appeal preferred by the judgment debtors was not tenable,
the single Judge was not justified in expressing an}; opinion on the
correctness of the orders passed by the District Judge. 43.28. It was observed that the ﬁrst question which the single
Judge had to consider was, whether the earlier appeal {the appeal
preferred by the judgi-nent-debtors) was competent or not; it was
only after holding that the appeal was tenable that the Single Judge
could have entered into the merits of the orders passed by the
District Judge. 43. 2.9. The High Court agreed with the reasoning of the Calcutta
case' referred to above", where i-t was observed that when an applica-
tion under Order 21, Rule 90 is dismissed for default. the court does
not "refuse" to set aside the sale. Hence, an order dismissing an app-
lication under Order 21, Rule 90. for default is not appealable under
Order 43. Rule lfjl. It was observed further, that it is not that a per-
son whose application under Order 21, Rule 90 is dismissed for de-
fault has no remedv. Such a dismissal by the Court is in the exercise
of its inherent powers. and the application can be restored by the
court in the exercise of its inherent powers. 43.30. This appears to be the view likely to prevail, and the matter
could be left as it is. Order 43, rule 1 f 1:)

43.31. Rule 1(k} provides for appeal against an order under Order 22. rule 9. where the plaintiff or his representative applies to set aside
the abatcniert or dismissal of the suit and this application has been
refused. it needs no chaIii;e_

Order 43, rule 1 (1)

4332. Rule 11' 1}: provides for appeal against an order under Order 22. rule 10. giving or refusing to give leave to continue suit in case of
assignment of interest before ﬁnal order in the suit. No change is re-
quired in this respect. Order 43, rule 1 (in)

43.33. Rule 1 (mi provides for appeal against an order under Dr.
rler 23 rule 3, recording or refusing to record an agreement. compro-
r-=.?se or satisfaction. 1'. Rasaraiulla V. Rmsw_.:Fr?.7-ii, .~1.I.R. H126 Ca]. 773. 2. Para. 4-3.25, .~mj-mi. 43.34. Our views on this rule are as follows--- H) No appeal should be allowed against an order recording or
refusing to record a compromise. The trial should go on. (2) But, in the appeal against the decree, the fact that a compro-
mise ought to have been recorded or ought not to have been
recorded, should be permitted to be taken, as a ground of
appeal. (3) The object behind the above amendment is to avoid suc-
cessive appeals concerning the same suit. Reoommendation

43.35. Accordingly, we recommend that the following rule
should be added' as Order 43, rule 1-D:-- Order 43, rule 1 (11)

433.36, Under rule l[n), an appeal is allowed against an order re-
jecting an application "for an order under Order 25, rule 2 to set aside
the dismissal of suit for failing to furnish security. It needs no change. Clrdcr 41. rule 1 (tin) (New)-recommended

43-37'. As already recommended', the orders under Order 33, Rule
5 and Rule 7, rejecting the application for permission to sue as an
indigent person. should be made appealable. Order 43, rule I (0) --43.3'?A. Under Order 43, rule 1(0), an appeal is allowed against
an order under Order 34, rules 2, 4 or 7, refusing to extend the time
for the payment of mortgage-money. Recommendation to delete Order 43, rule 1(0)

We recommend that this right of appeal should be abolished,
in view of the changes proposed inthe scheme of Order 34, where-
under such orders will now be passed after the decree'. 1. To be inserted an Order 43, Rule 1-D. 2. Has discussion as to Older 33, Rules 5 55 7. 3. See discussion IEI to Urdu: 34. 1... -n-----.--w 4.': We recommend no change in this provision. Order 43, rule I (q)

43.39. Rule l(q) allows appeal against orders under Order 38,
rules 2, 3 or 6 regarding security by the defendant, on application by
the surety to be discharged or on application by the defendant
against attachment of property on showing cause for furnishing secu- rity. It needs no change. Order 43, rule 1 (r)

43.40. Rule 1(r) allows appeal against an order under Order 39,
rules, 1, 2, 4 or 10, regarding temporary injunction; injunctions to res-
train repetition or continuance or breach of contract or other injury
of any kind, varying, discharging or setting aside an order for injunc-
tion; or where the court orders the money etc. to be deposited in court
etc. -. It needs no change. Order 43, rule 1 (s)

43.41. Rule 1(s) permits appeals against orders under Order 40,
rule 1 or 4 for appointing receivers. and for enforcement of receiver's
duties. - It needs no change. Order 43, rule 1 (is)

43.42. Rule 1 (t) allows appeal against an order refusing, under
Order 41, rule 19, the re--adrnission of an appeal dismissed for default
or refusing, under Order 41, rule 21, to re-hear an appeal, on the appli- cation of a respondent against whom an ear parte appellate decree was
made. It needs no change. 3.12

~l3m':'i and '£3.44. Rule 1[i1} allows appeal against an order under
Order 41, rule 23, remanding a case '.=.-'here an appeal would lie from
the decree of the appellate court. Although we are recommending an
amendment whereunder all i-=.sues; are to be decided by the court, there
will be an exception as to issues of jurisdiction or bar of suit'.
Hence the provision in mic 1(u) will still be needed. It should, there-
fore, be retained. Urder 43, rule l(v) -13.45. Under Order 43, ;.11e 10.'), an order under Order -15,
rule {i made by any court other than a High Court refusing the
grant of a certiﬁcate to appeal to the Supreme Court. is appeal-
'.a':)1I:'. iiecnmmendation

43.45. The appeal contemplated by Order 43 rule lit-'} is obso-
iete. and should be abolished. We 1'ECD1'ﬂ1'!'.=i-'1'.\Cl accordingly,

Order 43. rule MW)

434?. Order 43, rule Hw} provides for appeal agaiiist an order
under Order 4?. rule 4, granting an application for review. The
text of this rule needs: no change. But. we are recommending; cer-
tain changes in Order 47, rule 7. which will have the effect of
expanding the scope of this appeal. Order :13, rule 1-3 (New) -13.48. A new rule 1-13', is p1'(2IpOsEC.l to be inserted" in Order 43. Order 43 rule 1-15 {New}

43.49. A 11-aw rule 1--B is proposed' to he ins;-.i-ted in O1'dn:- 43. Order 43, rule 1-0 (new)

43.50. A new rule 1C is Iiroptused' to be ins-cried. flrdcr 43. rule I-D (now)
43.5]. A new rule l--D is proposed to be inserted." 1. Sec 1'li:sc-113$-ion as to Order 14, rule 2. :3. See dfseuseion as to Order 47, rule 7. Sec disciisusinn as to Order -£3, rule 1f_b]., -rupm.
F}:-v rlisaousa-ii-'H1 an to Uwler 43. rule lfn), 31'!-pftir.
Hen discussiun as to Order 43, rule l(h), .~=1rg.rm..
Sen dfscussinui as. to Order 13, rule Hm), -'8'-".J'.lJ'!l. ..'. ;1 -- L: cussion is found in the earlier Report.'

"Order 44, rule 1(2) provides that an application by a pauper
for leave to appeal as a pauper must be rejected unless
he can show that the decree is contrary to law or usage
having the force of law or is otherwise erroneous or
unjust etc. A suggestion has been put forth that this
provision is unconstitutional under article 13 and 14
(since no such restriction is applicable to appeals by
non-paupers.) It is however, felt that the existing provi-
sion is prime focie reasonable. as it is intended to prevent
frivolous appeals by a pauper. It can be justified on the
ground that a person who has failed in one court should
show a prima. facie case before he can be permitted to
appear." Recommendation

44.3. We are however, of a diﬁerent view. We think that the
present restriction cannot be regarded as jiustiﬁable or reasonable,
and is likely to be regarded as discriminatory and is even otherwise
uniust and unfair. It should be removed. as no rational basis can
be advanced' in its support. We therefore, recommend that Order 44.-, rule 1, sub-rule (2),
should be deleted. Order 44, Rule 2 443. Order 44, Rule 2, contemplates an inquiry into pauperism
of the appellant (who wishes to appeal as a pauper') by or under
the C-1'dE.'I'S of the appellate court. In the interests of expedition,
we recornmenrl the follox-.=in..r_r small amendments- (i) Where the person applying for leave to appeal as a
pauper '-3.-'as allowed to sue as a pauper. such inquiry

I. Sci» discussion as to Order 33. 2. 271.}: Report. page 24¢, note on Order -14, rule 1(2). i.;s(ii}229i{..1'1.mr.4.42

314: Recommendations

44.5. Accordingly, we recommend that rule 2 should be revis-
ed as follows:---- «P1. CI-I&P1'ER 45
APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT

Introductory

45.1. Procedure in appeals to the Supreme Court, in so far as
me ;:i'm,'eedings leading in such appeal take
CuLi1'1.'. its deal'. with in Order 45. 4.5.2. Oi-iginally. Order 45 dealt with appeals to the King in

Council, that is to say, the Judicial Committee of the Privy Coun-- cil_ tn wlinni. in Cases of a certain amount. there was an appeal
in [ﬁg last resi;-1': f1'(;m i,l'1:"' judgments of the CO1.11"1.' Of British India
(and of all the other dependencies and colonies of the realm). This
(Lhapte-1' 1-epmduced the provisions of an Act' of 1374. which had
been. as a submitted to. and approved by, the Judicial Cem-
inittee, and which v.-'as repealed and re-enacted by the Code 01'
2871'. With minor modiﬁcations. the Order has continued in sue
eessive Cedee. It needs no change." 1. The I'rix'_\_: C(|L1tl('li App4.~a.l Act 197-'i-.
L'. ;'L.~'. tn the hiBt.0r_y of artic'rr,- I33 rif ihu (.luusti1.utjnn, 594- 45111 Ra-purl 01' the Law Com.
missiun. ;.m.i':tm':i]1h:-i 'T :iml 8. I 315 L{B(D]229MofIJ&i' .\_ _ £.'.'(a]

place in the High

CHAPTER 46
REFERENCE

Introductory
46.1. Order 46 deals with reference to the High Court. The Court trying any suit or appeal in which the decree is
ﬁnal, i.e. which cannot come before the High Court on appeal,
may either of its own motion or on the application of any of the
parties, draw up a statement of the facts and the question, and
refer such statement, with its own opinion on the point, for the
decision of the High Court. Order 46, Rule 1

46.2. Order 46 rule 1. is as follo-ws:-- 46.3. A suggestion was made during our discussion that a sub-
ordinate court should have power to refer to the High Court a
substantial question of law of ﬁrst impression even where the case
is one in which appeal lies. We have discussed it at some length,
but are unable to accept it. The likely effect of such an amend-
ment would be that numerous references would be made to the
High Court on the slightest pretext, and the situation resulting
from it would be impossible to deal with. No doubt, it would be
in the interests of the public if questions of law could be settled
by a ﬁnal and binding decision of the highest court of the State.
But there are overriding practical considerations in the way of the
proposed amendment. Moreover. the suit would remain pending
till the High Court decides the issue. Lastly, it is not correct to
assume that the trial court will decide the question wrongly in
every case. . We do not, therefore, recommend any such change. 31ﬁ

is

CHAPTER 47
REVIEW

Introductory

47.1. Order 4'? provides for review of judgments. Review is
limited to speciﬁc grounds. and the scope is much limited com-
pared with the scope of review under some other systems. 4'12. For example, Order 41 of the Third Schedule to the Court
Ordinance of the Gold Coast provides as follows'

"1.Anv judgc, magistrate, or other judicial officer, may,
upon such grounds as he shall consider sufficient, review
any judgement or decision given by him (except where
either party shall have obtained leave to appeal, or a
reference shall have been made upon a special case, and
such appeal or reference is not withdrawn], and upon
such review it shall be lawful for him to open and re-
hear the case wholly or in part, and to take fresh evi-
dence, and to reverse, vary, or conﬁrm his: previous
judgment or decision. or to order a non-suit. 2. Any application for review of judgment must be made not
later than fourteen days after such judgment. After the
expiration of fourteen days on application for review shall
not be admitted. except by special leave of the court, on
such terms as seem just." Order 4'3', rule 1

47.3. According to some High Courts", the fact that the view
of the law taken in a judgment has been altered bv the subsequent
decision of a superior court in another case, is not a ground for
review of the judgment. According to the Kerala High Court, how-
ever, it is a ground for review". 47.4. In the Kerala case', Raman Navar .l'. held that the fact
that a subsequent binding authority took a diﬁerent view of the
law from what had been taken in the decision sought to be review-
ed, was a good ground for review. For, it would be the "discovery
of a new and important matter", and in any case, "an error apparent
on the face of the recor ", within the meaning of Order 47, rule 1: 4. Poﬁirosr 1.'. So-nkm-an Nair. A.l.R. 1969 Kent. 136. .1] H

In his opinion, this would be a case r.~."he1'e, withom. an; r-iuorii-ate
argument, one could point to an error regarding which =.:1ere Uiuld
reasonably be no two opinions entertained. That the pl1'r:isi? "ei'1'o)" It was also pointed out that the Supreme Court had held that a
mistake of lau which is glar-ing and obvioiu: is £1 "mista7:e ap;.:i:zi"eni
from the record." -17.5. Further, it makes no difference whether the 'oindiug autho-
ritj,-' demonstrating the error was a decision rendered before. or
Unc rendered after. the decision in which the error occurred. for a
judicial decision only declares the law and does not make or rliange
it. A binding judicial authority is analogous to a statute which
changes the luv; with 1-eti-ospective effect, FO1lO'.'.'i:1j2,' the Supreme
Court case". it vcas held in the Kerala case that if a subsequent
legislation rendering a decision erroneous is a good ground for
review. there is no reason whv a subsequent binding' decision dec-
larin,c_§ to he erroneous should. not be a goocl ground. 47.6. in an Andhra case'_ the facts were as follows:---- An order was passed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court
under Article 236 of the Constitution on 1-2-1968. foils-w--
ing a Supreme Court decision. The decision of the Sup-
reme Court which was relied on had been reversed b_'\-'
the Supreme Court on 25-ltl-1961 but was not Eriigz re-
ported b_V l--2-1968, and was not brou_;'}1t to the 11<1tiE£--? of
the High Court. It was held, that there was an error ap-
parent on the face of the record in the order dated 1-2-1968,
justifying review of the order. An error of counsel was
Sufﬁcient ground for review. The Andhra case is based on error of -counsel as a _g|'-.:'iunr_1 of
revi_ew. But the Kerala ruling to which we have referred above" is
a direct one. Recommendation

47.7. It is felt that the position should be settled on this paint,
If the law is altered by judicial pronouncement of a higher court'!
the part}.-' affected should not. in our opinion. have a right to act
the" judgment reviewed. I. T'.-z:i.t'ufatilrJZw-i-it I.T.0. 1:. Bmiitwy D.daJrf. i".'o. LtrI.. A.I.R. 195% 5;. F5. 875. referrt-cl to.
.3. ﬁvctiori 15. Co1:1'i.]7'r-es .-'tot, 1370.
3 l'Hi.tz1ru.«-Fi'rTi'-3'»; ;'_'!".r.'. lfroirziiay D. d- .11'. Co. A_l.l'.. ]'.u'i-1 '-2_{'_ S73.
4- xr- T. U[{1'c'.n'-i' \'. 'CI'-iirt-'-'rlﬁrl -'i'H'H'. A.l.T{. l!-N39 A..P. 4-4|. 44-3_ ]J&;t1d. 'g''_
7]. Porn 47.5, supra. . As to the eifect ufsuhsequent legislation, see ALR. 1963 A1154}. 47.8. An amendment adopting the Kerala View will create a
serious practical problem. It will keep alive the possibility of
ieview indeﬁnitely. Under the Limitation Act } the period of limi-
tation for an appilcation for review has been prescribed, but the
delay can, "for sufficient cause", be condoned by the Court under
that Act'. Where an application for review is made on the ground
of a later binding authority, the part',-' applying for review will
usually be able to plead "sutﬁcient cause." because it is only when
the superior court has made a pronouncement that he will have a
ground for revir:\=.-': and he can, therefore, argue with considerable
force that there was "sufficient cause" for his not making' the

application earlier. Recommendation

4729. We. therefore. recommend that the following Explanation
should be added below Order 47. Rule ]-- Order -17, rule 7

47.10. There is one point concerning Order 47, rule '7. which
was discussed in the earlier Report" in these words:-- 47.1{lA. We agree with the View taken in the earlier Report.
namely, that the restriction at present imposed by Order 47, rule 7.
on the right of appeal against an order granting review should be
removed. l . Article 124. Limitatinri Act, lllfii-I. 2. Section 5 , Limitation Act. 1963. 3. 27th Report... page 32. wirngraph 7!. Also see. pages 243-244 [Notes], and drs.1't- amend.
uncut at page 34-. CHAPTER 48
MISCELLANEOUS

Introductory -$8.1. Order 48 deals with miscellaneous matters and needs
change. 1'10

1" .93

'*1

CHAPTER 51
PRESIDENCY COURTS OF SMALL CAUSES

Introﬂuctory

51.1. Order 51 deals with courts of Small Causes in the Presi-
dency Towns. If needs no change. Cnarma 52
FORMS

Introductory

52.1. The various Appendices to the Code contain a number of
I'-arms-. We shall deal in this Chapter with such of them as require

amen dment. Appendix I5 Form No. 2. 52.2. In the Commission's lath Report,' a recommendation was
made that instead of a separate order requiring the defendant to file -.2 written statement, the summons by which the plaint is served on
the defendant should itself require him to ﬁle a written statement
within a speciﬁed time. The Commission, in its Report on the Code."
did not consider such an amendment to be useful; but we think that
it would be useful. as likely to reduce delay. Recommendation

52.3. We, therefore. recommend that the necessary amendment
should be made for that purpose Appendix B. Form No. 2 should be

'.'-"".'lS'€d. as follows-- SUi-.#ll\.'IONS FOB. SETTLEMENT OF ISSUES
[Order 5. Rules 1 and 5)
(Title)

To
(Name. description and place of residence)

Whereas ....... ._ has instituted a suit against you for 
you are hereby summoned to appear in this Court in person, or by
a pleader who is duly instructed, and able to answer all material
questions relating to the suit, or who shall be accompanied by some
person able to answer all such questions. on the
day oi......... l9,..............at,........._....o'clock in the __________ ,_
noon, to answer the claim: and you are hereby further direct-
ed to file on that day 0. written statement of your defence, and to
produce on the some day all documents in your possession or power
upon which you base -your defence or set-off or countef-CIaim_ and
where you rely on any other document whether in your possession
or power or not, as evidence in support of your defence or set--oﬂ or
counter-cloim, uou shall enter such documents -in a list to he added
Or annexed. to the written statement. lk. lul-Lii"l:l/':].11)--r:t., 1, page 302, paiut ll. 2. 27th Report-, page 12. para, 25. Take notice that in default of Your appearalme On t'he.d--a3'
before mentioned the suit Wilt be hE'3I"d and deterrﬁmed

in your absence. \

' Given under my hand and the seal of the Court. HHS ---- ..d«'=1Y Of

 _ . .19

Not-ice--1. Should you apprehend your Vi-'iU'1€SSE'S Will not
attend of their own accord, you can have a summons
from this Court to compel the attendance of an? Wltness
and the production of any document that you have a

J, . -- right to call on the witness to produce, on applifing "-3

the Court and on depositing the 1:ecessary expenses. 2. If you admit the claim. you should pa_'.-"_Vf19 1'I1'3"";'.V "'-1-')
Court together with the costs of the suit. to Sf!-"Did exe-
cution of the decree which may be a_e,a1nst your p.".1'50n

Rt" or property. or both." 52.4. We recommend' that for the existing Form No. 4 in
Appendix B, be substituted as Form No 42- "No. 4 SUMMONS IN SUMMARY SUIT

(Order 3'7, Rule 2)
(Title)
To

A_}' (Name. description and place of residence]. WHERAS has instituted a suit against you
under Order 37 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1.903, for
Rs. and interest, you are hereby summoned
within ten days from the service hereof, to cause an
appearance to be entered for you, in default whereof the
plaintiﬁ will be entitled after the ex;.:i1'atio1i of such ten
days to obtain a decree for any sum not exceeding the
sum of Rs. and the sum of Rs. for costs
together with such interest, if any as the Court may
or er. If you cause an appearance to be entered for _\.-'[)U_ the -plain- _» tiff will thereafter serve upon you a summons for judg- -- ment at the hearmg of which you will be entitled to ask

the Court for leave to defend the suit. Leave to defend may be obtained if you satisfy the Court by
aﬁidavlt or otherwise that there is a defence to the suit
on the merits or that it is reasonable that you should be
allowed to defend. '

Given Under my hand and the seal of the Court. this 
day of

, QEEE _" Let all parties concerned attend the (Judge ur Civil Judge,
as may be} on day the day of 19 ,
at o'c1uc1-:in the noon an the hearing of an
application on the part of the plaintiﬁ that he he at
liberty to sign the judgment in this suit against the de-
fendant (or if against one or some Or several, insert
names) for R3. for and interest and costs. Dated the day of 19
was taken out by Pleader for

. This su mmuns
5!

I. This is cons:-suur-.ntinI an the change p1'upoaed. to Order 37, rule 3. _-n'.-1.9..-v: 53.1. As already indicatedin the Chapter or} our approach'. we
now proceed to discuss certain matters to wh1ch_we attach_con-
siderable importance. These concern the remuneration and training
of members of the judiciary. Importance of role of Judges

53.2. Although we have attempted to examine the C1U€5t1011 Of
introducing reasonable changes in the Code of Civil Procedure , as
cmnprehensiveiy as we could, within the time at our disposal, we
ought to indicate some other important aspects_wh1_Ch m33'~ 01? 3
superﬁcial view. appear to be collateral to our 1nqu11'}'_. but which
we regard as an integral part of the basic purpose of our inquiry. It is plain that a Code of Civil Procedure is a means towards
speedy administiation of justice by civil courts; however. the role
which reforms of Civil Procedure Code can play for the legal
system as a whole is limited. Apart from the part which rational
procedure will play in making the administration of justice
speedy, less costly and less unpredictable, the role of Judges in
this direction is undoubtedly crucial. That is why we are expres-
sing our views on this aspect of the matter emphatically in the
present Chapter. 53.3. Even at the cost of repetition, we wish to emphasise that
the success of any system, and particularly the judicial system.
depends on the men who work the system. Judges play an impor-
tant role in its working, and we must. therefore, make some re-
commendations for adequately preparing our junior judges for their
task. But the Members of the Bar have also a vital contribution to
make, and their willing and unstinted. cooperation can contribute
to the successful working of the system. As has been lucidly stated",----- Training of judicial oﬁicers

53.7. We would, also, like to emphasise the need for the train-
ing of judicial oiﬁcers, who join judicial service in the lowest
cadre. We attach vital importance to the question of proper train-
ing. Although this topic is outside the purview of the Code of Civil
Procedure , we are dealing with it here because, in our view. no
amount of reform of the law of procedure will succeed if those
who administer the law are not properly equipped for their task. 53.8. The quality and output of work of judicial officers will, to
a great extent, depend not only on the mental and intellectual
equipment which they posses, but also on their ideals and sense
of service. The State should, therefore, do its maximum to ensure
that they enter on their duties with the best equipment and with
the highest sense of service. Institute recommended

53.9. In the relatively isolated atmosphere of the law school,
it is not possible to impart familiarity with the real life drama
in the court. It is, therefore, eminently desirable that those who
will be called upon to face that drama and to pronounce verdict
on it should be adequately prepared for it. We, therefore, recom-
mend, as a ﬁrst step, the establishment of an institute for the pur-
pose' of training of judicial ofiicers. Training needed to raise' intellectual calibre

53.10. The training to be imparted at the institute should be
such as to ensure that members of the lower judiciary have an
intellectual equipment of the best order. It should be borne in
mind that enrichment of the calibre of subordinate judiciary is a
measure necessary to ensure bettter judicial qualities in the higher
judiciary, because many members of the latter are drawn from the
former.'

'Training to be on all-India basis

53.11. It is desirable in the national interest that the training
should be organised on an all-India basis, and the proposed Insti-
tute should. therefore, be an all-India Institute. The appoint-
ments to judicial services should of course, continue to be
made by the States: but it is desirable that the training
should have an "all--In-dia' character, for more reasons than one. In
the ﬁrst place, it is the task of the judiciary to apply and interpret
the law and familiarise itself with the process of weighing evi-
dence. In India, because of the federal structure and also because
of the vastness of the country, it is specially necessary that the
unity of the legal system based on the several Codes of substan-
tive and procedural law, should bellpreserved and maintained as
a balance against diversities of interpretation. Judicial outlook 330 towards the i1'1terpi'etati0n of statutes should, in its broad features,
be uniform. Initial training on an 'all--India' level would prove to
be a great step towards maintaining the uniformity referred to
ohm-'e. lo the second place, the meeting together of officers from
various States---oi'liccrs who will, in the course of their work, come
in daily contact with the average citizen,--coi:ld_. in the long run,
foster national integration. Mutual discussions and activities pur-
sued together are bound to foster an understanding of the habits
and cultures of people of the several States; it is such understand-
ing which, more than anything else, will pave the way for integra-
tion of hearts, and is much more valuable than mere mechanical
integration. Lastly.-'. the level of judicial officers should also be uniform, as
far as possible, throughout India. Director and staif

53.12. It is desirable that the Institute which we recommend
should he headed by a person of the status of sitting Supreme
Court Judge; and on the staff there should be at least some per-
sons who are of the status of High Court Judges and senior Dis-
trict Judges. All the ofﬁcers, including the Director, should be on
a tenure basis. 1

'Training to be condition precedent to conﬁrmation

53.13. We further recommend that the successful completion of
the training which we have proposed should be a condition prece-
dent to confirmation to appointment in the judiciary. Principles to he kept in mind in framing syllabus

53.14. We would like to indicate broadly the principles which
should be kept in mind when framing the course of training. In this connection. we may refer to the two "commandments",
enunciated by Whitehead. The two Commandments enunciated by Whitehead in his famous
essay on the Aims of Education were'---'do not teach too many
subjects' and 'What you teach. teach thoroughly'. "The result of
teaching small parts of a large number of subjects is the passive
receintion of disconnected ideas not illuminated with any spark of

.vitalit_v. Let the main ideas which are introduced .......... ..be few and

important. and let them be thrown into every combination possible". Subjects

53.15. The subjects to be included should be such as to deal
with the relationship of law to other social sciences, including, in
particular. economics and sociology.' The emphasis should not be
i l. 't'i"hiteh.eVa1Vi,7:J-lduca.tio1:. in the "Age of Science" (Winter. T959} Deadalua, page 193.. as quoted hy Kamlu Ghowdhry, "Developing Administrators for Tomorrow {April-June, liﬂﬂ,
l5 Indian Joiirnal of Public Administration, page 226. 2. For details, see para. 53.19 to 53 .26, infra. -vi 331 on technical law or procedure, but on_ law as a part of an inter-
disciplinary study and on the application of the law to the facts
of a particular case. Report of UK. Committee

53.16. In the Report of the Committee 011 Civil _Service'in
U.K..,' two main attributes were considered essential,-*1n varying
combinations, for work in the Government service. It is this "constant striving for higher stattdards" which will
be fostered by proper training. It may, therefore, become neces-
sary to provide, to prospective members of the judiciary, some
familiarity with the social background' in which the laws which
they have to administer, operate. Objectives of training

53.17. The eﬁectiveness and success of the service aﬂorded by
the administration of justice must largely depend upon the degree
to which it can ef'r'ective1y respond to the genuine needs of the
communitv. And this pre--supposes suﬁcient knowledge of the pro-
blems and difﬁculties of the community, The importance of educa--
tion in these aspects is, therefore, obvious. The almost exclusively legal Universe in which those concern-
ed with the law function should not become an ivory tower, so as
to lead to these needs being ignored. With the growth of the wel-
fare element in State activities. these aspects will assume more
and more importance. Indications as to subjects

53.18. Bearing in mind the considerations mentioned above, we
indicate the guidelines which should be followed in framing the
syllabus for the training proposed above. Social change and legal institutions

53.19. A subject of importance is the effect of social change on
legal institutitns. It is now well recognised that many of the fun-
damental legal concepts have undergone modiﬁcations owing to
social changes. 3. ltepiirt of the {Fulton} Committee [U.K.] The Central Service (1965). 2. See also pars. 53.19 to 53.26, infra. L_.'BI_ D]229.'v'[ ifLJ&;['-..~'\_./i'?3[a) 332 Views of Rescue Pound

53.20. In this connection. we may refer to the observatiﬂﬂs made
by Roscoe Pound': 53.21. Looked at from this broad point of view, the conclusion
inevitably follows that: However, exhaustive a statute may be, there will still remain a
group of cases where the purpose of the legislature is not easy of per-
ception. "And here society and the legislature both entrust themselves
to the law making powers of the courts'"." The judiciary will, there-
fore, always have to concern itself with these 'interstices' of legisla-
tion". One may call this process a ci'eativs=.' one, or only a process of
unfolding what is latent. The name does not matter. Ca.rdow's View

53.29. In the following passage, Mr, Justice Cardozo expressed
his views, formed on the basis of his personal experience', as to the
judicial process. " ....... ._logic and history, and custom, and utility and
the accepted standards of right conduct. are the forces which, singly
or in combination, shape the progress of the law. Which of these for-
ces shall dominate in any case, must depend largely upon the compa-
rative importance or value of the social interests that will be thereby,
promoted or impaired. One of the most fundamental social interests
is that law shall be uniform and impartial. There must be nothing in
its action that savour-s. of prejudice or even arbitrarywhim or mini-
ness. Therefore in the main there shall be adherence to precedent.
There shall be symmetrical development, consistently with history
or custom when history or custom has been the motive force, or the
chief one, in giving shape to existing rules, and with logic or philoso-
phy when the motive power has been theirs. But symmetrical develop-
ment may be bought at too high a price. Uniformity ceases to he a
good when it becomes uniformity of oppression. The social interest
served by symmetry or certainty must then be balanced against this
social interest served by equity and fairness or other elements of so-
cial we1fare_ These may enjoin upon the judge the duty of drawing
the line at another angle, of staking the path along new course, of
marking a new point of departure from which others who come af-
ter him will set out upon their journey. If you ask how he is to know when one interest outweights ano-
ther, I can only answer that he must get his knowledge just as the
legislator gets it, from experience and study and reflection; in brief,
from life itself. Here indeed, is the point of contact between the legis-
lator's work and his". Exercise of judicial discretion

53.30. Yet another subject which should be included is the exer.
else of judicial discretion in several branches of litigation. {A trainee
could of course, be allowed to choose one of them'). V 1. James M. Landie, "Note on statutory ll'l't-1'I'p1'f§f3flOY'_'" (1929) 4.3 Harv.-"Ii. Bey-iew

SE6, 393. 2. Cf. Sauthem Paciﬁc (Jo. 'V. Jensen, 2441- U. S. 205, 22 ] {Holmes J.) 3. ii'-ardozo, The Nature of the Judicial Pieces: (1921), page 112-113. 4. E. g. Sentencing, or family law, or oquita his relief. '\'H.'_

."--I 335 53.31. For example, there are several factors to be taken as guides
for the exercise of the discretion to grant matrimonial relief; (a) the
position and interest of the children; (hi the interest of the party
with whom the petitioner has committed adultery (where relief 15
claimed on that ground}. with special regard to their future marriage; (c) the prospects of reconciliation; (d) the interests of the petitio-
ner, particularly his prospects of re--marriage; (e) the interest of the
community at large, balancing the sanctity of marriage against social
considerations which make it contrary to public policy to insist on the
maintenance of a union which has utterly broken down'. 5.3.32. Similarly, there is suiﬁcient scope for the exercise of discre-
tion in the ﬁeld of equitable relief and also in regard to the award of
costs and (in criminal cases) in the grant of bail and sentencing. Duration of the course

53.33. We now come to the duration of the course. In our opinion,
the total duration of the course should be one year; during the first
three months, the probationers will undergo intensive course of train-
ing in the well--arranged curriculum; in the next six months they will
be attached to the respective trial courts in their states. where they
will gather experience about the working of the courts; "and. in the
last three months, they will once again he in the Institute, where
they will receive training in the shape of lectures. seminars and group
discussions. At the end of the year. the probationers will appear for
an examination. and it is only on passing the examination that they
will be conﬁrmed and posted to the respective courts. Conference to be held periodically

53.34. We also recommend that conferences should be held
periodically. to supplement the training which we have recommen-
ded. Question of expenses

53.35. We are fully conscious that our recommendation to start an
All-India Institute will involve expenditure and we anticipate that
an objection may be raised on this ground; but. we would like to
emphasise the fact that Government have always thought it neces-
sary to train their administrative officers in order that the general
administration of the country should be efficient and for that pur-
pose. administrative training centre. properly manned with a good
curriculum and a well--planned out programme of the education of
the probationers. has been in existence for many years. We are sur-
prised that it did not occur to the Government so long to train judi-
cial members who enter judicial service on lines especially suited for
judicial work. We are. therefore. conﬁdent that the recommendations
we have made will be accepted b_v the Union Government and that
the Union Government will be able to persuade the State Govern-
ments to give their cooperation in imnlementing our recornmenda-
tions. without any delay. As We have indicated in the course of our

l. Cf. Blunt V'. Blu.-at {19-13] A.C. 517 (Lord Simon, L.f'».} 3313 clicussion', the establishment of an A1l--India Institute of this charac-
ter for the training of judicial ofﬁcers will indirectly but inevitably
contribute to national integration. We also feel that it will create an
espvrlrit dc corps amongst our junior judicial officers throughout India
and we wish to emphasis that these espirit dc corps and the sens:-fof
national integration reinforced with the sense of idealism and a spirit
of service will inevitably lead to a considerable improvement in the
quality of administration of justice. 1. Paragraph 53.11, supra. 'if'--- -I' : Ultimate object of reform in procedure

54.2. The ultirnate object of reform of procedure must he to make
the trial of 3 cause in court a judicial investigation for the ascertain-
ment of truth upon which to rest a righteous judgment, rather than
merely a sporting contest of lawyers in the use of rules often adapted
to obscure the truth and cause justice to mis-earry_ We hope that the
recommendations which we have made will help in the realisation of
this ultimate object. 54.3. It is also hoped that our recommendations will enable judi-
cial officers to bring to bear on their work the best judicial qualities.
A famous writer' has, while describing the qualities needed in a
Judge, expressed himself thus:-- Recommendations to be taken as a whole

54.4. We should, ﬁnally, emphasise that our recommendations in
this report should be read as a whole. They are not a series of detached
suggestions, but parts of an integrated scheme, and have been made
21:11 pursuance of our general approach which we have explained at
t e outset. We should, before we part with this Report, place on record our
warm appreciation of the assistance we have received from Mr.
Bakshi, Secretary of the Commission, in dealing with the problem
covered by the Report. As usual, Mr. Bal-zshi ﬁrst prepared a draft
which was treated as a Working Paper, The draft was considered
by the Commission point by point, and, in the light of the decisions 1. Sydney Smith The Judge that smitoe contrary to the law {l924). qtlntctl in 29
Canadian Bar Review, 344. ' '. - ' ..= 338 takcn tentatively by the Commission, Mr. Bakshi prepared a ﬁnal
draft for considcration which was after elaborate discussion approved
by the Commission. Throughout the study of this problem, Mr.
Bakshi took an active part in our deliberations, and has rendered
very valuable assistance to the Commission. '

P. B, GAJENDRAGADKAR Chairma-n
V. R. Ksrsum IYER Member _
P. K. TRIPATHI Member ""'~-*'"'"'
S. S. DHAVAN Member
P. M. BAKSHI Sec-retizry - if; K; -2.?»- NEW Damn; The 6th February, 1353. The scope of the present inquiry will-_. therefore, be conﬁned to a
consideration of the major changes needed in the Code from the
following points of view:-- It is not proposed to examine again questions arising from the
mass of case-law on the Code, the local amendments made in the
various provisions of the Code. as well as the reforms introduced in
other countries,---including, in particular, the changes made in
England in 1962 by way of revision of the Rules of the Supreme
Court,----as these have been already considered by the previous Com-
mission It ought, however, to be emphasised that the questions in-
cluded here are illustrative only, and any suggestions for amendment
of the Code on other matters from the point of View of the present
terms 01 reference will be thankfully received. Costs occasioned by - delay'' 1. Would you favour the insertion of a 'provision to the effect that
the court shall, while passing an order for costs, make the party
responsible for delay with reference to any step in the litigation,
pay the cost proportionate to that delay, whatever may be the
ultimate event of the suit'? 1. 27th Report of Law Commission. The Ctueatiﬂnl have been arranged, as far as possible, in the order in which the relevant-
p1'I')Yl3l$ﬂI appear in the Code. _DJ

_-J

3-1U

Arrest in execution of a Inoney decree
Do you consider an}; change; l'lCC\";SSEi:_'_.,' in the present position
regarding ii-,bi.it_w,- to arrest in execution or a money decree'?
Suits am; execution or against the Government

Do you lavour repeal of section 80 of the Code, which requires
that two months' notice should be given of the institution of a
suit against '.;hc- 6:.-.cr'-:n1=:r.nt or a pubiic officer, etc? What Changes ouloi you suggest in section 82 so as to expedite a . execution against the Government? Pre-trial inquiry
Would you favour the insertion of a provision to the effect that

particularly in suits by or against the Government, the court shall
hold a pro-trial inquiry, with a view to narrowing down the

scope of the contrmersjy', and. (where such a course is practi- cable), [or the settlement of the suit without trial'?
Appeals against decrees,

A5 regards the right of ﬁrst appeal, would you favour any
limitations based on the nature of the questions at issue, or on
any other criterion? There is a suggestion that from the judgments of lowest courts

of ﬁrst instance, an appeal on facts should be excluded in petty. cases, say, cases of 3 nature triabie by a court of small Causes

'from the point of view of subject-matter; where the amount or

value of the subject-matter of the dispute in the court of ﬁrst
instance and still in dispute on appeal was and is not more than
three thousand rupees (or such other sum as may be considered
proper), and the decree or order does not involve directly or in-
directly some claim or question respecting property of an
amount or value, exceeding three thousand rupees (or such
other sum as may he considered proper). The proposal is that in these petty cases, the first appeal
should be allowed only if the appeal court certiﬁes that a ques-
tion ot law is involved, and the issue of such certiﬁcate should
he decided either in charnbers or in open court as the appeal
court may think proper. What are your views in the matter? Would you agree with
the suggestion'? '

Do you agree that a second appeal should be allowed only if a
substantial question of law is involved? Appeals in execution

Do you consider it czlvisable that the right of appeal against all
interlocutory orders made under section 4 '? should be abolished? ,'....... 10.

ll. 12. 13. 14.

15- 16. 18.

'20. would you, as regards appears against ﬁnal orders under section
47, favour adoption of the pL'iI1cip1e that no Such Order Shall be
reversed or substantially 1-'aried_ nor shall any case be remand-
ed, in appeal on account of any error, defect or irregularity in
an_v proceedings not. aﬁecting the merits of the case or the juris-
diction of the Court? Have you an__t_- other :s';ggestio1is ft.'-r restricting the right of
appeal in rcspe.ct of o"dc1*s falling under section 4 ?? Appeals in general

Have you any other
multiplicity of appeals'? ta) Would you favour total deletion of siaction 115, Civil Pro-
Cedurc Code. {revision} leaving the High Court free to
interfere under article 227 of the Constitution in cases of
gross miscarriage oi justice? In the alternative, do you favour any curtailment of the
right of revision'.' If so, in What direction? In particular, do you favour any curtailment of the right
of revision in the case of inter-locutory orders'? If so, in
what respects? suggestions to make for reducing the

{b}

to)

Service of sutnmonses
Would you favour postal service of summonses in all cases? Do you consider it desirable to allow service on the pleader of
a party of all processes issued after the defendant enters ap-
pearance? '

Do vou favour an amendment permitting service of summonses
by a party'? Do you favzur the 'doptlon of 3.15'. or more of these methods
of service simultaneously'? Would you permit the service of summons:-s on an agent nomi-
nated by the Government. a public corporation or a public
company, in the case of a suit by or against them'? Arguments

_Dr_:syou-favour the introduction of Written arguments in suits

or appeals and if so, what
make in this behalf? Judgment and decree

{a} Do you think it desirable to provide that the last para-
graph of the judgment should be so drafted as to indicate
the relief granted in precise terms, thereby facilitating the
drawing up of a formal decree without loss of time? (h) Would you approve of the suggestion that in case a decree
is not drawn up within a speciﬁed period. the aggrieved
party may appeal against the judgment without ﬁlting a
copy of the decree, treating the copy of the last paragraph
of the judgment a5 the decree'? concrete suggestions would you 21. 22. 23. 26. 27.

. Would you make the imposition of security comp-ulsor

34:3

Execution of money decrees

What changes would you suggest in the existing procedure re-
lating to the execution oi" inotiey decrees, with a View to--
{a} avoiding delay, and

{bi Simplifying the procedu1"e'.'

Do you agree with the suggestion that where a decree for the

payment of money remains unexecuted inspite of the best

efforts of the decree holder, the State should assume responsi- bility for its payment upto a speciﬁed amount---- {a} if the decree is for damages for tort, for maintenance or
arrears of maintenance, or (b) the decree is against a public corporation, or (c) the decree is for a debt and its non-executability is certi--
ﬂed by the executing court as due to a refusal or neglect
by the judgment debtor to pay notwithstanding the fact
that he has had means to pay it? (a) Do you suggest any liberalisation of the provisions as to
suits by poor persons? {b} Would you approve of the suggestion that the present defi- nition of "pauper" be widened so as to include a person
who is on-;--:b'.c to pay a port of the corrt fees? Temporary injunctions

ta} Would you favour any limitations on the courts power to
issue temporary injunctions? In particular, do you favour

an amendment to the effect that an ex porte interim in- - junction should not be granted save in exceptional cases,
and for reasons to be recorded in that behalf? e (b) Would you favour the suggestion that in case an en: parts
injunction is granted, it shall be discharged by the court
if it is satisﬁed that the party which obtained the injunc-
tion is not taking diligent action to serve the opposite
party or other steps necessary for the progress of the suit? Stay of execution

before
stay of execution is granted under Order 21, Ru],e_ am or
Order 41, Rule 5(4)'? , --- '

Execution--need for radical changes

It was observed by the Privy Council that the troubles of a
litigant in India begin when he obtains a decree. Bearing this
in mind, would you suggest any radical changes with reference
to the provisions relating to execution, in order to reduce any
delay expense and inconvenience that is caused by the present
provisions? Appeals against orders

Would you favour any curtailment of the list of appealahle
orders as given in Order 43, Rule 1? 29. 343 Appeal by poor persons

Would you favour removal of the present restriction in Ordei -14, Rule 1(2) on the right of appeal of a pauper'? Delay

Have you any other suggestions to make for reducing delay in
the disposal of cases in so far as such delay is due to ciefecis
in the Code of Civil Procedure ? Poor persons Ilr persons with inadequate means--I.ega1 aid and

3D. 31. 33. 34.

process fees

How far do you consider it the duty of the State to provide,---- (a) to a person without any means; or (b) to a person with inadequate means, the following facilities
or concessions in full or port-- (a) legal aid; (lo) exemption from payment oi process fees}

Court-fees--general (a) What suggestions would you make for reducing the amount
of court fees'? (la) In particular. do you agree with the view that court fees
should be nominal and should not be a source of reimburse-
ment to the State and certainly not a source of proﬁt to
the State'? Court-tees in appeal

Would you favour the insertion of a provision to the eﬁect
that at the time of ﬁling of the appeal. only one--fourth of
the prescribed courtsfee need be paid, and the remaining may
be paid when the appeal is admitted'? Expenses other than lawyers fees and court-fees

What concrete suggestions would you like to make as regards
reduction of the expenses of litigation, in so far as such re-
duction could be achieved by an amendment of the Code of
Civil Procedure ? other amendments

Have you an-V other suggestions to make for amendment of
the Code of Civil Procedure in the light of the scope of the
present inquiry?"