The present application for bail has been preferred in

connection with M. L. Case No. 13 of 2022 arising out of ECIR No. KLZO- 2 II/19/2022 dated June, 24, 2022 under Section 3 read with Section 70 punishable under Section 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,

2002. The allegations as set out in the complaint against the petitioner

is as follows:- Mr. Saha, learned senior advocate appearing on behalf of the

petitioner submits that at the stage of filing of the complaint, the

Investigating Agency/prosecution prayed for issuance of process against

the accused persons which included the present petitioner. Learned advocate submitted that at the time when the complaint

was filed before the learned special court on 7 th December, 2022, the

learned court was pleased to take cognizance of the offence under Section 3 read with Section 70 and punishable under Section 4 of the

PMLA Act, 2002. The accused persons who are named in the supplementary

complaint referred to the present petitioner as accused no.11. Learned

senior advocate also pointed out to the order dated 07.12.2022 that the

accused persons who are in custody, there is no question of issuing any

process against them, but in respect of other 11 accused who are 5 companies necessary order for issuance of summons will be issued at a

later stage. However, there is nothing reflected in the order sheet to show

that summons were issued against the petitioner, the petitioner was

served with a summon signed by the learned Judge, Special Court CBI

No.1, Calcutta and Special Court under PMLA Act wherein she was

required to appear on 07.01.2023. In response to the said summons, the

present petitioner appeared on 07.01.2023 and she prayed for bail after

physically appearing in court. On behalf of the Enforcement Directorate

a submission was advanced that they should be permitted to file written

objection and for that, time be granted to them. Accordingly, the learned

Special Court granted time to the E.D. and further observed that the

objection should be filed and counter affidavit be exchanged by

07.02.2023 and she was allowed to return back to her home, pursuant

to the order passed by the learned Special Court. On 07.02.2023, an

accommodation was sought for on behalf of the petitioner as it was

submitted that in the morning hours only she received the written

objection. The learned court as such granted another two weeks' time

fixing 22.02.2023 for hearing of the bail application in respect of the

present petitioner. The said bail application was finally heard on

22.02.2023 and after hearing both the parties, the learned trial court by 6 its order dated 22.02.2023 was pleased to reject the application for bail

which is set out as follows : Learned advocate for the petitioner submitted that in the

meantime petitioner preferred a revisional application challenging the

order passed by the learned special court and the said revisional 7 application was heard on several dates. However, subsequently, the

revisional application was not pressed. In the meantime, the petitioner

on or about 22nd March, 2023 preferred an application under Section 88 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the same was also rejected by the

learned special court. The said order of rejection was challenged before

this Court. However, the learned advocate for the petitioner submitted

that bereft of every details the manner in which the proceeding should

have been conducteed because of mistaken legal advice it remains that

the petitioner is in custody till date. Learned advocate has relied upon the judgment of this Court in

the case of Enforcement Directorate Vs. Shri Debabrata Halder reported

in 2022 SCC OnLine Cal 409 and drawn the attention of this Court to

paragraph 23 which is set out as follows: "23. Be that as it may, there is difference with regard to releasing a
 person on bail who has appeared in response to summons and a
 person who was arrested in course of investigation under the PMLA,
 2022 by the Investigating Authorities invoking their powers under Section 19 of the Act. The accused Nos.2 to 11 appeared before the
 learned Special Court pursuant to the summons which were issued
 to them as such taking into account the provisions of Section 65 of
 the PMLA, 2002 it can be held that if the learned Special Court
 intended to exercise its option under Section 88 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure the same cannot be interfered with until and
 unless supervening circumstances are brought on record." 8 Learned advocate appearing for the ED has taken a preliminary

objection regarding the maintainability of the bail application in view of

the order which has been challenged being 22 nd March, 2023 not being

an order of rejection of bail or the bail application being moved before

the learned special court. Learned advocate has emphasized also on the

issue that the petitioner attempted to obtain an order of bail by way of

preferring a revisional application and the said revisional application

was pending when the present application for bail was preferred.

According to him, the present application must be dismissed in limine. The E.D. has also filed its Affidavit-in-opposition wherein the

merits of the case was demonstrated, the complicity of the present

petitioner in respect of the alleged offence and, to that effect, Learned

Advocate has preferred to rely upon the statement of Hiralal

Bhattacharya, Sanchita Bhattacharya, Pannalal Bhattacharya being the

relations. It was submitted that the son, husband and the present

petitioner i.e. whole family was involved in the offence and they used the

three persons' namely, Hiralal Bhattachaya, Pannalal Bhattacharya and

Sanchita Bhattacarya for the purposes of concealing, possession and

acquiring the proceeds of crime, which were generated in course of the

recruitment scam. Learned Advocate for the E.D. has taken this Court to the chart,

which is part and parcel of the prosecution's Report, wherein according

to him there were deposit of cash, which were stacked in the accounts

credited in the name of these three family memebrs jointly with the

relations and finally, it proceeded through the name of one dead person,

being Mrityunjoy Chatterjee, wherein the joint-holder was the present

petitioner. There were fixed deposits made in the name of the present

petitioner with one of her relatives, which was to the tune of

Rs.1,45,000,00/- (Rupees One Crore Forty Five Lakhs). Learned Advocate for the E.D. submitted that the present

petitioner consciously submitted documents before the Bank Authorities

in the name of one Mrityunjay Chatterjee, wherein it reflects that KYC,

EPIC Card, which was submitted, was in respect of a person, who was

dead and the same was for the purposes of concealing the funds which

were available in the said account. Learned Advocate for the E.D. repeatedly tried to draw the

attention of this Court in respect of the heinousness of the offence

involved particularly that the scam related to recruitment, where

competent people were deprived in lieu of money and recruitments were

granted by people, who held high offices. Learned Advocate tried to emphasise on the particular word

"supervening" in paragraph 23 in Debabrata Halder (supra) to stress that

the rural youth of West Bengal have been deprived of their rightful

employment, wherein people in power have sold the employment. In

order to substantiate his argument, learned advocate relied upon the

following judgments: Another argument which has been lastly canvassed by Mr. Edulji

was that the petitioner made foreign trips by using the said money which

were illegal proceeds of crime. I have considered the submissions advanced on behalf of the

petitioner as well as on behalf of the ED. Certain facts in this case are

admitted. Firstly, the total quantum for which the petitioner has been

charged is Rs. 1.96 crores; secondly, there are no evidence against the

present petitioner that any examinee or any person for that purpose has

directly handed over any money to the present petitioner for the

purposes of employment. The petitioner happens to be the wife of Manik

Bhattacharya who at the relevant point of time was the President of the

West Bengal Board of Primary Education. The petitioner was summoned by the Enforcement Directorate in

course of the investigation and she responded to the said summons

under Section 50 of the PMLA Act, 2002 on 24 th November, 2022. In this case several persons were arrested, however the

Investigating Agency did not exercise their powers under Section 19 of

the PMLA Act, 2002 against the present petitioner. Petitioner received

summons and consequently appeared before the learned special court

on 7th January, 2023 and applied for bail. The learned special court 12 allowed the petitioner to return back home thereby granting time to the

Enforcement Directorate to file their written objection. Subsequently, her application for bail was heard on 22 nd March,

2023 when she was taken into custody. The first issue which has

cropped up before this court is that when the petitioner in response to a

summons appeared before the special court which was acting as an

original court and the original court thought it fit and proper to keep the

bail application with the record (pending) for affording the prosecution to

file their written objection , in that case two options were available before

the original court. Firstly, to take the petitioner into custody or in the

alternative to grant at least an ad interim bail. There is no provision in

the Code of Criminal Procedure which empowers an original court, when

an accused in a cognizable and non-bailable offence appears in response

to a summons to allow him or her to go back to home without declaring

her locus in respect of the case so far as his or her release or detention

is concerned. The legality in the order of the learned court would be dealt with

later. The other aspect which assumes importance in this case is

regarding the exercise of powers under Section 19 of the PMLA Act,

2002. The issue relating to the constitutional validity of Section 19 of

the PMLA Act, 2002 was called in question so far the power relating to 13 arrest is concerned before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal

Choudhary and Others -Vs.- Union of India and Others reported in 2002

SCC OnLIne SC 929. The Hon'ble Supreme Court was pleased to observe

as follows :- laundering, but mainly intended to prevent money-
laundering activity and confiscate the proceeds of crime
involved in money-laundering. It also provides for
prosecuting the person involved in such activity
constituting offence of money-laundering. In other words,
this legislation is an amalgam of different facets
including setting up of agencies and mechanisms for
coordinating measures for combating money-laundering.
Chapter III is a provision to effectuate these purposes and
objectives by attachment, adjudication and confiscation.
The adjudication is done by the Adjudicating Authority to
confirm the order of provisional attachment in respect of
proceeds of crime involved in money-laundering. For
accomplishing that objective, the authorities appointed 16 under Chapter VIII have been authorised to make inquiry
into all matters by way of survey, searches and seizures
of records and property. These provisions in no way
invest power in the Authorities referred to in Chapter VIII
of the 2002 Act to maintain law and order or for that
matter, purely investigating into a criminal offence. The
inquiry preceding filing of the complaint by the authorities
under the 2002 Act, may have the semblance of an
investigation conducted by them. However, it is
essentially an inquiry to collect evidence to facilitate the
Adjudicating Authority to decide on the confirmation of
provisional attachment order, including to pass order of
confiscation, as a result of which, the proceeds of crime
would vest in the Central Government in terms of Section
9 of the 2002 Act. In other words, the role of the
Authorities appointed under Chapter VIII of the 2002 Act
is such that they are tasked with dual role of conducting
inquiry and collect evidence to facilitate adjudication
proceedings before the Adjudicating Authority in exercise
of powers conferred upon them under Chapters III and V
of the 2002 Act and also to use the same materials to
bolster the allegation against the person concerned by
way of a formal complaint to be filed for offence of
money-laundering under the 2002 Act before the Special
Court, if the fact situation so warrant. It is not as if after
every inquiry prosecution is launched against all persons
found to be involved in the commission of offence of
money-laundering. It is also not unusual to provide for 17 arrest of a person during such inquiry before filing of a
complaint for indulging in alleged criminal activity. The
respondent has rightly adverted to somewhat similar
provisions in other legislations, such as Section 35 of
FERA and Section 102 of Customs Act including the
decisions of this Court upholding such power of arrest at
the inquiry stage bestowed in the Authorities in the
respective legislations. In Romesh Chandra Mehta532, the
Constitution Bench of this Court enunciated that Section
104 of the Customs Act confers power to arrest upon the
Custom Officer if he has reason to believe that any
person in India or within the Indian Customs waters has
been guilty of an offence punishable under Section 135 of
that Act. Again, in the case of Padam Narain
Aggarwal533, while dealing with the provisions of the Customs Act , it noted that the term "arrest" has neither
been defined in the 1973 Code nor in the Penal Code,
1860 nor in any other enactment dealing with offences.
This word has been derived from the French word
"arrater" meaning "to stop or stay". It signifies a restraint
of a person. It is, thus, obliging the person to be obedient
to law. Further, arrest may be defined as "the execution
of the command of a court of law or of a duly authorised
officer". Even, this decision recognises the power of the
authorised officer to cause arrest during the inquiry to be
conducted under the concerned legislations. While
adverting to the safeguards provided under that 18 legislation before effecting such arrest, the Court noted as
follows: (emphasis supplied) 325. The safeguards provided in the 2002 Act and the
preconditions to be fulfilled by the authorised officer
before effecting arrest, as contained in Section 19 of the
2002 Act, are equally stringent and of higher standard.
Those safeguards ensure that the authorised officers do
not act arbitrarily, but make them accountable for their
judgment about the necessity to arrest any person as
being involved in the commission of offence of money-
laundering even before filing of the complaint before the
Special Court under Section 44(1)(b) of the 2002 Act in
that regard. If the action of the authorised officer is found
to be vexatious, he can be proceeded with and inflicted
with punishment specified under Section 62 of the 2002
Act. The safeguards to be adhered to by the jurisdictional
police officer before effecting arrest as stipulated in the
1973 Code, are certainly not comparable. Suffice it to
observe that this power has been given to the high-
ranking officials with further conditions to ensure that
there is objectivity and their own accountability in
resorting to arrest of a person even before a formal
complaint is filed under Section 44(1)(b) of the 2002 Act.
Investing of power in the high-ranking officials in this
regard has stood the test of reasonableness in Premium
Granites535, wherein the Court restated the position that 20 requirement of giving reasons for exercise of power by
 itself excludes chances of arbitrariness. Further,
 in Sukhwinder Pal Bipan Kumar536, the Court restated
 the position that where the discretion to apply the
 provisions of a particular statute is left with the
 Government or one of the highest officers, it will be
 presumed that the discretion vested in such highest
 authority will not be abused. Additionally, the Central
 Government has framed Rules under Section 73 in 2005,
 regarding the forms and the manner of forwarding a copy
 of order of arrest of a person along with the material to
 the Adjudicating Authority and the period of its retention.
 In yet another decision in Ahmed Noormohmed Bhatti537,
 this Court opined that the provision cannot be held to be
 unreasonable or arbitrary and, therefore, unconstitutional
 merely because the authority vested with the power may
 abuse his authority. (Also see Manzoor Ali Khan 538)".

 While upholding such validity of the powers of arrest, it was

observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court that the provisions were enacted

and they have reasonable nexus with the purposes and object sought to

be achieved by 2002 Act for the purposes of money laundering and

confiscation of proceeds of crime involved in money laundering including

to prosecute persons involved in the process of activity connected with

the proceeds of crime. With reference to the observations or findings of

the Hon'ble Apex Court wherein it has been held that the powers have 21 been invested with high ranking officials and there are in-built

safeguards to be adhered to by the authorised officers. There are

safeguards against the abuse of such powers which obviously would

include due care to ensure individual freedom and liberty so that the

power of arrest is not misused by the authorities. In this case, what I find that the petitioner was in no way

associated with the West Bengal Board of Primary Education. However,

her husband Manik Bhattacharya was the President of West Bengal

Board of Primary Education. Section 2 (u) of the PMLA Act includes

within its ambit 'proceeds of crime' which relate to any property derived

or obtained directly or indirectly by any person as a result of criminal

activity relating to a schedule offence and Section 3 of the PMLA Act

which defines the offences of money laundering includes within its

ambit, the persons who directly or indirectly indulge or knowingly

assists or is a party or is actually involved in any process or activity

connected along with the concealment, possession, acquisition and use

of proceeds of crime. Thus, a distinction has been created in the statute

itself regarding a person who is involved in the criminal activity or

generation of ill-gotten money and the person who conceals, possesses,

acquires or uses the same from the person who generates it, although

both are offences. Having regard to the fact that the high officials of the

Enforcement Directorate did not exercise their powers of arrest at any

point of time when the investigation continued till the submission of the

complaint, I am of the view that a distinction has already been created

between the person who was in office and had the capacity to generate

the money by illegal means and the person who concealed or possessed

or used the property which was acquired by that means. Further, there

was no prayer before the learned trial court when the complaint was

filed under Section 87 of the Code of Criminal Procedure that the

warrant be issued at the first instance. What was prayed before the learned special court was for

issuance of process. There was no allegation also in the prayer of the

complaint that there is any possibility of the present petitioner

absconding or fleeing away from justice. Petitioner also in response to

the summons appeared on the first day before the court and prayed for

bail. Learned court under Section 45 of the PMLA took cognizance of the

offence but did not decide the issue of bail and also did not take the

petitioner in custody. I am of the opinion impliedly the petitioner was

granted bail on 7th January, 2023. The subsequent written objection

which was filed is in the nature of an application for cancellation of bail

or cancellation of liberty granted to the petitioner on 7 th January, 2023 23 which was considered on 22nd February, 2023 and her bail was

cancelled and she was taken into custody. The series of act which

happened before the learned special court are very disturbing and the

legal steps which were taken subsequently by the petitioner were far

more disturbing but even then there is no dispute regarding the fact that

the petitioner is in custody till date. The law relating to consideration of

bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has already

been considered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sundeep Kumar

Bafna vs. State of Maharashtra reported in (2014) 16 SCC 623 which

relate to the High Court directly considering the application for bail in

certain circumstances. In this case, if the provisions of Section 45 of PMLA Act strictly

has to be considered the twin condition may be dealt with as follows: The aforesaid observations were approved in Vijay Madan Lal

Chowdhury (supra) in paragraph 401 which is set out as follows: Thus, it remains that the court while dealing with the application

for grant of bail, need not delve deep into the merits of the case and the

consideration must on broad probabilities. It has been reiterated by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court that the word guilt appearing in Section 45 of

the PMLA is not to be considered as the finding of guilt or acquittal at

the end of the trial after the evidence is adduced before the court. Having considered the nature of blame worthiness or culpability

of the present petitioner and the fact that she appeared in response to

the summons before the learned special court/trial court and that she is

in custody for more than 5 months, I am of the opinion that further

detention of the petitioner is unwarranted in the facts and

circumstances of the present case. Hence, the prayer for bail of the petitioner is Allowed.

 Accordingly, the petitioner viz, Satarupa Bhattacharya, shall be

released on bail upon furnishing bond of Rs.1,00,000/-(Rupees One lakh

only), with two sureties of Rs. 50,000/- each, one of whom must be

local, to the satisfaction of the Learned Special Court, PML Act/Learned

CMM Court. If on bail, the petitioner after being released shall immediately

surrender her Passport with the Learned Special Court. The petitioner at

any time before leaving the State of West Bengal would inform the

Learned Special Court. Accordingly, CRM(SB) 134 of 2023 is allowed. Pending application(s), if any, is also disposed of.

 Parties to act on a server copy of this order duly collected from the

official website of the Hon'ble High Court, Calcutta. Urgent Photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be

supplied to the parties subject to compliance with all requisite

formalities. (Tirthankar Ghosh, J.)