[per Hon'ble Sri Justice M. Seetharama Murti]

 This civil miscellaneous appeal, under Section 37 of the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act, 1996 is filed assailing the order, dated 05.09.2018, passed by

the learned XII Additional District Judge, Visakhapatnam in IA.no.79 of 2013 in

OS.no.72 of 2011. 2, We have heard the submissions of Sri P. Vikram, learned counsel,

appearing for the appellant - petitioner - 1st defendant and of Sri N. Ashwani

Kumar, learned counsel appearing for the respondents 1 to 3 - plaintiffs.

Respondents 4 to 12- defendants 2 to 10 are stated to be not necessary

parties. We have perused the material record. The parties in this appeal

shall hereinafter be referred to as arraigned in the suit for convenience and

clarity. 3. The facts that lead the 1st defendant to file the present CMA before

this Court may be stated, in brief, as follows: 4. The case of the 1st defendant in support of the request to refer the

parties to arbitration, as stated by the Manager-Branch Compliances of the 1st

defendant, may be stated, in brief, as follows: The client broker agreement pertaining to the plaintiffs in respect of NSE and

BSE are all dated 21.09.2007, 21.09.2007 and 20.11.2007 respectively. The

said agreements, particularly clauses 16 and 17 thereof provide that plaintiffs

being the client agreed to refer any claims or disputes to arbitrations as per

Rules, byelaws and regulations of the exchange and circulars issued

thereunder as may be in force from time and time and also further agreed for

ensuring faster settlement of any arbitration proceedings arising out of

transactions entered into between plaintiffs and 1st defendant. The

regulations and byelaws of NSE inter alia provide for arbitration. For the sake

of convenience, a copy of the Circular, dated 31.08.2010, issued by NSE of

India Limited, the arbitration department is also filed along with the

Interlocutory Application. Similar agreements between plaintiffs and 1st

defendant in respect of BSE particularly clauses 16 and 17 thereof provide for

reference of any claim or dispute to arbitration as per Rules, byelaws and
 4 MSRM, J & GSP,J
 CMA_1303_2018

regulations of the exchange and circular issued in respect thereof as may be

in force from time to time. A copy of circular of BSE, dated 26.08.2010, is

also filed along with the Interlocutory Application. Hence, the subject matter

of the suit is governed by the arbitration agreements between the parties

within the meaning of Section 7 of the Act. From a perusal of the plaint, it

appears that the plaintiffs do not have a cause of action against other

defendants who have been impleaded deliberately and mischievously to get

out of the ambit and scope of Section 8 of the Act. In any event, the

plaintiffs averred in the plaint as follows: - "The plaintiffs further submit that

as a result of fraud played by Ashika Stock Broking Limited, Kolkata,

represented by all the defendants, plaintiffs sustained a loss of about Rs.31

lacs......". There is no independent cause of action against the said other

defendants as per the allegations in the plaint. As per allegations in the

plaint, the said other defendants allegedly represented the 1st defendant and

as such the subject matter of the suit is squarely covered by arbitration

agreement between the parties. Instant suit is not triable by a civil Court and

the parties to the suit shall be referred to arbitration in terms of Section 8 of

the Act. 5. Per contra, the case of the plaintiffs, as stated in the counter filed by

the 1st plaintiff, in brief, is this: 6 MSRM, J & GSP,J
 CMA_1303_2018

agreement copy of September 2007, contract notes for sale F & O margin

money and purchases with details of sale price and quantity of shares

etcetera; but, till the date of filing of this suit, the same were not furnished

for all the three code numbers of the plaintiffs 1 to 3. Without furnishing the

details, reiteration of the claims in the letter, dated 27.01.2010, will serve no

purpose. Letters, dated 16.12.2008, are not received by the plaintiffs. 1st

defendant is put to strict proof of despatch of said letters. 1st defendant

could have referred the cases for arbitration without issuing legal notice, if it

was really interested to settle the matter by way of arbitration. 1st defendant

failed to do so only reflects the mala fides of the 1st defendant as well as the

defendants 9 & 10. The allegations that there were numerous prior demands

as alleged in the affidavit filed in support of the application of the 1st

defendant are false. The allegation that the suit is filed as a counter blast to

the demand of the 1st defendant is false. Prior to the filing of the suit, a

criminal case was filed as early as in November, 2008. An FIR was issued by II

Town Police Station, Visakhapatnam. According to the NSE - investors'

services as downloaded from website, an arbitration application has to be

filed within six months from the date of dispute. Due to non supply of

agreement by the 1st defendant to the plaintiffs for the best reasons known to

them, they cannot now claim that their case is governed by arbitration

agreement. The allegations that all transactions carried out in NSE & BSE are

governed by the terms & conditions of client broker agreements, dated

21.09.2007, 21.09.2007 and 20.11.2007 in respect of plaintiffs is not

admitted. The client broker agreements were not supplied at the relevant

point of time and they were furnished only after filing the present suit. The

allegation that clauses 16 & 17 of the client broker agreements provide for

reference of any claims or disputes to arbitration as per rules, byelaws and
 7 MSRM, J & GSP,J
 CMA_1303_2018

regulations of the exchange is not admitted. When the agreements are not

supplied to the plaintiffs at the relevant times, it is not possible for them to

know the contents of the same. Clause 16 of the agreement for NSE/BSE is

vague in the sense it prescribed preference to arbitration only. The term

'broker' has not been mentioned in paras 1, 1A or 1B of Chapter XI of the

Byelaws of NSE. Therefore, the 1st defendant cannot ask for reference to

arbitration. According to latest circular, dated 09.02.2011, of Securities and

Exchange Board of India, period of limitation for filing an arbitration request

shall be governed by the provisions of Limitation Act and this period is

applicable to cover the cases where three years have not elapsed and parties

have not filed for arbitration with stock exchange. In the instant case, three

years period expired by 21.01.2011. Hence, the arbitration mechanism stated

in para 16 of NSE agreement is not binding on the plaintiffs and they are at

liberty to file the present suit. The allegations that the regulations and

byelaws of NSE provide for arbitration as mentioned in copy of Circular, dated

31.08.2010, issued by NSE is not correct. False trading was done by

defendants 9 & 10 on behalf of the 1st defendant in the name of plaintiffs, on

21.01.2008 and 22.01.2008. Therefore, Circular, dated 31.08.2010, which is a

subsequent circular, has no application to the case. Similarly, copy of

Circular issued by BSE, on 26.08.2010, also has no application. The

allegations that the subject matter of the suit is governed by arbitration

agreement within the meaning of Section 7 of the Act is not admitted. The

further allegation that the plaintiffs have no cause of action against the other

defendants and they were impleaded deliberately to get out of the scope of Section 8 of the Act are not correct. All the other defendants are Managing

Directors, Secretaries and they are incharge of Visakhapatnam franchise of 1st

defendant. Therefore, they are necessary and proper parties to the suit by
 8 MSRM, J & GSP,J
 CMA_1303_2018

virtue of their designations. They are vicariously liable for the fraud

committed by defendants 9 & 10. The allegations that the plaint does not

disclose any independent cause of action against the other defendants and

that the suit is not triable by a civil Court are not correct. The defendants

have unauthorisedly transacted on behalf of the plaintiffs and the alleged

agreements were not supplied to the plaintiffs till the suit is filed. Hence,

the 1st defendant cannot rely on the Circulars, dated 31.08.2010 and

26.08.2010 of NSE & BSE respectively, which are not at all relevant to the

dates of wrong trading done by defendants 9 & 10 on behalf of plaintiffs 1 to 3. Hence, the petition may be dismissed. 6. Learned counsel for the parties made submissions in line with the

pleadings of the parties and the counsel relied upon a number of decisions. 7. We have perused the material record including the order impugned

and we have also carefully gone through the decisions cited. 8. Now the short question is as to whether the civil suit is not

maintainable and whether it is necessary to refer the parties to arbitration in

view of the arbitration agreements being relied upon by the 1st defendant. 9. Since the pleadings are stated in detail, there is no need to reiterate

the pleadings and the submissions made in line with the pleadings. It is

pertinent to note that except stating that there are arbitration clauses/

agreements, and that the client broker agreement pertaining to NSE/BSE and

in particular clauses 16 & 17 thereof provided that the parties agreed to refer

any claims or disputes to arbitration and that the byelaws of the NSE/BSE

inter alia provide for arbitration and that the circular, dated 31.08.2010 of

NSE and Circular, dated 26.08.2010, of BSE are annexed to the application

filed by the 1st defendant, none of the relevant clauses providing for
 9 MSRM, J & GSP,J
 CMA_1303_2018

resolution of the dispute by means of arbitration are extracted in the

pleadings of the 1st defendant. Be that as it may. We have gone through the

documents. 10. The main contest of the plaintiffs is based on the following averments

in the plaint: 'The 1st plaintiff is doing business in electrical items at

Visakhapatnam under the name and style of 'Pioneer Company' and that the

2nd plaintiff and the 3rd plaintiff are his wife and son. The 1st plaintiff for

himself and on behalf of plaintiffs 2 & 3 was doing minor shares trading with

Religare securities limited since 2005, without any problems. However,

defendants 9 & 10, on behalf of defendants 1 & 8, approached the 1st plaintiff

in August, 2007, and stated that they had taken franchise of Ashika Stock

Broking Limited viz., 1st defendant, who is a member of NSE, BSE & NCDEX,

insurance, mutual funds and forex services etcetera and that they will look

after the plaintiffs' shares and money. Believing the said representation of

defendants 9 & 10, the plaintiffs became members of Ashika Stock Broking

Limited/1st defendant, having its address at a place in Kolkata, for

online/direct trading with code numbers S-7218, S-7219 and S-8373. Plaintiffs

used to trade on their own. Defendants 9 & 10 were clearly informed that

they were entrusted to look after plaintiffs' shares and that they should trade

only in case the plaintiffs inform them so to do. At the request of defendants

9 & 10, blank signed margin money books and signed blank cheque book were

given by plaintiffs only to meet the emergency shortage of margin money, if

any. The plaintiffs also signed blank agreements brought by defendants 9 & 10. The plaintiffs were assured that final approved agreement would be sent

by 1st defendant along with the code numbers but final agreement was not

received by the plaintiffs. Plaintiffs were given code word letter and

password numbers initially by the head office of the 1st defendant at Kolkata
 10 MSRM, J & GSP,J
 CMA_1303_2018

for the purpose of trading. Defendants 9 & 10 represented to the plaintiffs

that to facilitate smooth trading, the plaintiffs password should be given to

them; and, in good faith and out of trust, the plaintiffs furnished the same.

At that time, the plaintiffs informed the defendants 9 & 10 that they should

trade on behalf of the plaintiffs only and with the consent of the plaintiffs.

Plaintiffs were never supplied with a concluded agreement, containing terms

and conditions of member client obligations, either by the 1st defendant or

defendants 8, 9 & 10, who are incharge of local branch of Visakhapatnam.

Plaintiffs are totally unaware of the terms and conditions of member client

agreement. Daily statement of trading was also not supplied to the plaintiffs.

While so, when the plaintiffs' financial position was good, defendants 9 & 10,

it appears, started trading with the shares of the plaintiffs, on 21.01.2008 and

22.01.2008, by using their password without permission to lessen their

financial burden. The said defendants 9 & 10 misused three signed blank

cheques given by the plaintiffs for Rs.1.00 lakh each and negotiated them

despite the fact that they had sufficient margin money with them. The said

transactions were done by the defendants 9 & 10 without the consent of the

plaintiffs. In the process, the plaintiffs incurred heavy loss. Plaintiffs

requested the defendants to make good the loss caused to them. The

defendants evaded to do so. Plaintiffs lodged a criminal complaint, on

03.11.2008, before the II Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate,

Visakhapatnam; and, on a reference made, S.H.O., II town police station

registered a case in Crime No.635 of 2008, on 01.12.2008. As a counter blast

to the criminal proceedings, defendants 9 & 10 colluded with the 1st

defendant and advised him to issue legal notice to the plaintiffs to clear the

outstanding dues. On the 1st defendant getting such a legal notice issued, the

plaintiffs sent a suitable reply. Plaintiffs 1 & 2 got issued a reply to the 1st
 11 MSRM, J & GSP,J
 CMA_1303_2018

defendant accordingly showing the details of fraud played by defendants 9 &

10, who are incharge of Visakhapatnam branch. As a result of the fraud

played by Ashika Stock Broking Limited, Kolkata, represented by all the

defendants, the plaintiffs sustained loss of Rs.31.00 lakhs. Hence, the suit is

filed.' The plaintiffs also contend that they were not supplied with KYC

booklets or any other documents at the inception and they were only given

code numbers and that the documents were supplied later in reply to the

registered lawyer's notice, dated 08.01.2011, and that, therefore, they are

not aware of any arbitration clauses. 11. Now the contention of the plaintiffs in this matter is that in view of

serious allegations of fraud and non supply of the documents, which allegedly

contained the arbitration clauses and the plaintiffs being unaware of any such

arbitration agreement, the dispute is not arbitrable and hence the petition of

the 1st defendant is liable to be dismissed. 12. Per contra the case of the 1st defendant is that the documents are

supplied to the plaintiffs and that even if allegations of fraud are raised, the

dispute is arbitrable and, therefore, the request to refer the parties to

arbitration deserves consideration. 13. In support of the said submissions, learned counsel for the parties

relied upon the following decisions: Potluri Madhavilata and Ors4 1 (2000) 4 SCC 539 2 (2003) 6 SCC 503 3 (2015) 14 SCC 444
 12 MSRM, J & GSP,J
 CMA_1303_2018 5. Rajeev Maheshwari and Ors v. Indu Kocher and Ors5 6. Niranjan Lal Todi and ORs v. Nandlal Todi and Ors6 7. Octavius Tea & Industries Ltd., v. Lakshmi Chand Garg and Ors7 8. Cheran Properties Ltd v. Kasturi and sons Lts & Ors8 9. Ameet Lalchand Shah & Ors v. Rishabh Enterprises9 10. RV Solutions Pvt. Ltd. V. Ajay Kumar Dixit & Ors10 11. A. Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam & Ors11 12. Swiss Timing Ltd. V. Commonwealth Games 2010 Organising
 Committee12 13. Booz Allen Hamilton Inc. v. SBI Home Finance Ltd & Ors13 14. P.R. Shah, Shares & Stock Broker (P) Ltd., v. B.H.H. Securities (P)
 Ltd., and Ors14 15. Manoj Javeri Stock Broking Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai v. Gopika S. Mehta15 16. Order, dated 27.07.2018, of a learned Single Judge of the High Court
 of Andhra Pradesh for the State of Telangana and the State of Andhra
 Pradesh in CRP.No.3644 of 2018 14. We have gone through all the decisions. 15. Straight away a reference can be made to the precedential guidance in A. Ayyasamy vs. A. Paramasivam and Ors. (11 supra), which is relevant in

view of the facts and contentions of the parties. In the said decision it is held

as follows: While dealing with such an issue in an application Under Section 8 of the
 Act, the focus of the Court has to be on the question as to whether
 jurisdiction of the Court has been ousted instead of focusing on the issue
 as to whether the Court has jurisdiction or not. It has to be kept in mind
 that insofar as the statutory scheme of the Act is concerned, it does not
 specifically exclude any category of cases as non-arbitrable. Such
 categories of non-arbitrable subjects are carved out by the Courts,
 keeping in mind the principle of common law that certain disputes which
 are of public nature, etc. are not capable of adjudication and settlement
 by arbitration and for resolution of such disputes, Courts, i.e. public
 fora, are better suited than a private forum of arbitration. Therefore,
 the inquiry of the Court, while dealing with an application Under Section
 8 of the Act, should be on the aforesaid aspect, viz. whether the nature
 of dispute is such that it cannot be referred to arbitration, even if there
 is an arbitration agreement between the parties. When the case of fraud
 is set up by one of the parties and on that basis that party wants to
 wriggle out of that arbitration agreement, a strict and meticulous
 inquiry into the allegations of fraud is needed and only when the Court
 is satisfied that the allegations are of serious and complicated nature
 that it would be more appropriate for the Court to deal with the subject
 matter rather than relegating the parties to arbitration, then alone such
 an application Under Section 8 should be rejected.

 While referring to the above decision , the Supreme Court in Ameet

Lalchand Shah and Ors. vs. Rishabh Enterprises and Ors. [9 supra] held as

follows: That apart, the plaintiffs also made serious allegations of fraud and deception

against the defendants 9 & 10 and made a claim for money against all the

defendants on the ground that the 1st defendant is vicariously liable for the

acts of the said defendants and a crime is also registered and is under

investigation. Therefore, it is possible to hold that fraud is alleged against

arbitration agreements themselves. Further, as already noted, plaintiffs filed

a criminal complaint, on 03.11.2008, before the II Additional Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate, Visakhapatnam; and, on reference made, the Station

House Officer, II Town Police Station, registered a case in Crime no.635 of

2008 on 01.12.2008. A plain consideration of the contentions of the plaintiffs

make it manifest that the allegations of fraud are of serious nature and the

issue of fraud is complex and therefore, its resolution by a common law

Court/civil Court is necessary and hence, the dispute is non-arbitrable.

Further, an arbitration agreement means an agreement, which is enforceable

in law; and the jurisdiction of the arbitrator is on the basis of an arbitration

clause contained in the arbitration agreement. However, when the very

documents containing the arbitration clauses are not even supplied to the

plaintiffs, till the exchange of notices, and when it is the case of the plaintiffs
 15 MSRM, J & GSP,J
 CMA_1303_2018

that they are not aware of the arbitration clauses/agreements due to non

supply of the documents to them, they cannot be held to be bound by the

said clauses/agreements, which are being stated to have been not supplied

till the exchange of notices prior to the suit. In the order impugned, the trial

Court noted that it is not the case of the 1st defendant that plaintiffs were

supplied with a copy of agreement to say that the plaintiffs are aware of the

terms and conditions of the agreement. Therefore, it is possible to find that

there is no enforceable arbitration agreement. 16. For the reasons afore-stated, this Court finds that no valid and

sufficient grounds are made out calling for interference with the order

impugned. 17. In the result, the Civil Miscellaneous Appeal is dismissed. There shall

be no order as to costs. Miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, shall stand closed. _____________________
 M. SEETHARAMA MURTI, J

 ______________________
 GUDISEVA SHYAM PRASAD, J
31.07.2019
Note: Issue CC by 06.08.2019. B/o
Vjl
 16 MSRM, J & GSP,J
 CMA_1303_2018

 THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE M. SEETHARAMA MURTI

 AND

 THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE GUDISEVA SHYAM PRASAD

 CMA.NO.1303 of 2019
 [per Hon'ble Sri Justice M. Seetharama Murti]

 31.07.2019

Vjl