1. The prosecution case is that on the

intervening night of 21­22/11/01 DD No. 29A Ex.

PW12/A was lodged by Mausmi Roy w/o Ratan Roy

(now deceased) r/o C Block, Flat No. 60/Y­2, Dilshad

Garden at 1:15am through telephone to the effect

that her husband Ratan Roy who had left the office

of Schneider Electric India Pvt B­1/I­11, Mohand Co­

op. Industrial Estate, Mathura Road, Delhi at about

6/6:30pm had not reached home. She further

informed that her brother in law TK Roy had told

her from Vasant Kunj that he had received a

ransom call. On receipt of the aforesaid DD SI

Rahul Sahni alongwith Ct. Ashok Kumar proceeded

to the spot and after conducting the relevant

proceedings came to know that offence U/s 364A IPC was committed, as such he prepared the rukka 3 and sent the same for registration of the case,

consequently case FIR No. 611/2001 was registered

with PS Badarpur . During investigation he recorded

statement of witnesses to the effect that at about

6:15pm Ratan Roy had left office in his self driven

Car No. DL 3CS 9438. In the meantime SI Rahul

Sahni received a telephonic information that one

Rohit Kumar Bansal colleague of Ratan Roy had

come to the PS. On this information SI went back

to PS where he was informed by Rohit Kumar

Bansal that his senior Romi Chopra had told him

on telephone that Ratan had been kidnapped and

kidnappers were demanding ransom and he was

directed to inform in the PS. Thereafter SI Rahul

Sahni verified from Dilshad Garden where a report

was lodged in this regard and SI Brijmohan was

investigating the matter. Rohit Kumar Bansal further

informed him that the kidnappers were demanding 4 Rs. 10 lakhs and had asked Harmeek Singh a

colleague of Ratan Roy to bring money at Mohan

Nagar Chowk, Ghaziabad in Maruti car No. UP32 I

3894 and that he should come alone. Thereafter SI

Rahul Sahni discussed the matter with Inspt. SS

Malik who discussed the situation with the senior

officers as well as SI Brijmohan and they both

decided to meet at Maharajpur Chowk. Inspt. SS

Malik alongwith SI Rahul Sahni the other staff

members and complainant Rohit Kumar Bansal

reached Noida­ Delhi border where Romi Chopra

s/o Late Sh. Om Prakash Chopra r/o D­86, Sector

27, Noida UP met them and informed that he was

getting telephone calls on his phone from the phone

of Ratan Roy so his phone was taken over by Rohit

Kumar Bansal. Thereafter the police team reached

Maharajpur Chowk where Harmeek Singh s/o

Hardwari Singh and SI Brij Mohan alongwith his 5 staff met them. After discussion SI Brijmohan and

his staff were instructed to sit in the car of

Harmeek Singh whereas Inspt SS Malik alongwith

his staff reached Mohan Nagar Chowk, Ghaziabad

and took their position and stationed the car of

Harmeek Singh at Mohan Nagar crossing. After

some time Harmeek Singh informed on telephone to

SI that he had received a telephone call from Ratan

Roy and asked them to proceed towards Shahdara.

This information was passed on to the Inspt SS

Malik and they proceeded towards Shahdara.

Harmeek Singh stationed his car on GT Road after

crossing the border where as SI Rahul and Inspt. SS

Malik alongwith the staff took their position in the

surrounding area. After sometime Harmeek Singh

informed SI Rahul that Ratan Roy had asked them

to reach near GTB Hospital. This information was

again passed on to Inspt SS Malik and they 6 proceeded towards GTB Hospital whereby Harmeek

Singh was told to follow them in the end. 2. SI Rahul alongwith his staff took

position around GTB Hospital . After sometime he

was informed by Harmeek Singh on telephone that

firing had taken place at Deepak Petrol Pump, GT

road, which information was further passed on to

Inspt. SS Malik. Thereafter both of them alongwith

their staff reached Deepak Petrol Pump and came

to know that after firing one Ford Icon and a

Maruti Car had proceeded towards border, as such

they also proceeded towards border but could not

locate them. Thereafter they proceeded to GTB

Hospital chowk where they came to know that Ford

Icon had hit a rickshaw at GTB Chowk and had

thrown a person out of the car who was identified

as Rattan Roy and was removed by police of

Dilshad Garden to GTB Hospital. So they all went 7 to the hospital and found that Rattan Roy was

admitted in the hospital vide MLC No C­4982/01. In

the meantime Harmeek Singh and SI Brij Mohan

alongwith staff reached there and SI Brij Mohan

sent rukka to PS Seemapuri, consequently case FIR

No. 261/01 U/s 186/353/307/34 IPC was registered at

PS Seemapuri. SI Rahul recorded the statement of

the witnesses. Thereafter SI Rajkumar alongwith

staff from PS Seemapuri came there and alongwith

SI Brij Mohan and SI Rahul proceeded for the

investigation of case FIR No. 261/01 U/s

186/353/307/34 IPC to Deepak Petrol Pump, GT

Road, Dilshad Garden. SI Rajkumar prepared

siteplan and seized the case property vide seizure

memo whereas SI Rahul recorded the statement of

the witnesses and reached GTB Hospital where it

revealed that Ratan Roy had been removed to

Apollo Hospital. In the meantime SI Rajkumar 8 reached the hospital and collected the MLC of

Rattan Roy. There he received the information that

the Ford Ikon Car No. DL3CS 9438 was found

parked in 100ft road, Arya Nagar, Opposite Loni

within the jurisdiction of PS Loni Ghaziabad. At

this SI Rajkumar and SI Rahul alongwith their

respective staff reached carbon factory 100ft Road,

Arya Nagar and found the aforesaid vehicle parked

opposite gate of Mehboob Khaddi. Crime team was

summoned at the spot which took the photographs

and inspected the car and case property was seized.

Thereafter SI Rajkumar alongwith the staff and case

property left for PS Seemapuri whereas SI Rahul

reached the house of deceased Rattan Roy where

his wife Mausmi Roy was not in a fit state of mind

to give statement. Thereafter he went to Apollo

Hospital and found Rattan Roy in Operation

Theatre. He recorded statement of witnesses, 9 collected the details of the mobile phone of Rattan

Roy from the office of Airtel. On checking the

details of the phone call it revealed that on

22/11/01 at 00.35.30 hrs the IMEI of the Sim card

of Rattan Roy bearing No. 9810158032 which was

449125550757180 was changed to 449269200615380. SI

Rahul verified the list of the numbers and

recorded statement of witnesses. On 29/11/01 Rattan

Roy died in Apollo Hospital. His postmortem was

got conducted and dead body was handed over to

the relatives. SI Rahul obtained the details of the

phone call bearing IMEI No. 449269200615380 which

revealed that it was operating on mobile No.

9810590140. IO verified the telephone numbers on

which the calls were made and from which the

calls were received on the aforesaid mobile number

and addresses were also obtained. After the death

of Ratan Roy Sec. 302 IPC was added in the FIR 10 and further investigation was handed over to Inspt.

SS Malik who during the investigation recorded the

statement of the witnesses, searched for the accused

persons and collected the postmortem report

whereby the cause of death was due to head injury

caused by blunt force and all the injuries were

found ante­mortem in nature. The list of mobile

phone number 9810590140 was obtained from the

Airtel office which revealed that it was in regular

contact with few telephone numbers and a watch

was kept on those numbers. With the permission of

Home Ministry Inspt. SS Malik obtained parallel line

to mobile number 9810590140 and this parallel line

was obtained on mobile phone No. 9810657641. SI

Rahul was deputed to hear the calls on the parallel

line. On 15/12/01 accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary,

Rajender Singh and Vikram Yadav were arrested on

finding sufficient evidence against them. They all 11 confessed to their guilt vide their disclosure

statements that they were in need of money, as

such they planned to kidnap a rich person to extort

money. They further disclosed that on 21/11/01 at

about 7:30pm at Apsara border red light they saw a

Ford Ikon coming from the side of Surya Nagar

Flyover wherein there was only one person who

was driving the vehicle. The moment vehicle crossed

the red light and reached Dilshad Garden road, they

stopped their motorcycle No. DL5SL 4176 which

belonged to accused Neeraj, in front of the car.

Accused Neeraj Kumar was wearing uniform of Sub

Inspector and a blue colour wind cheater whereas

Rajinder Singh was wearing jacket of Traffic police.

Accused Neeraj asked the occupant of the car to

show the documents of the car whereas accused

Rajender asked him to show the dicky of the car.

At this Neeraj sat on the driver seat and made 12 Rattan Roy sit at the rear seat. They parked the

motorcycle in the GTB hospital parking and took

the car towards Ghaziabad. They told Rattan Roy

that he was kidnapped and they wanted Rs. 10

lakhs as ransom. They made Rattan Roy give a call

to his family members and friends to arrange for

money. They also withdrew Rs.30,000/­ from his

ATM Card. They further disclosed that they had

asked for delivery of money at Mohan Nagar

Chowk, Ghaziabad, thereafter Shahdara and again

opposite GTB Hospital, through Rattan Roy on

telephone. Further that in the meantime the battery

of mobile phone of Rattan Roy was discharged, as

such accused Rajender Singh used the SIM card of

Rattan Roy in his phone. It was further disclosed

that the petrol in the car had exhausted so the

vehicle was taken to a petrol pump at GT Road

and the moment they stopped the vehicle at Petrol 13 Pump one police official knocked at the window

from the side where Vikram Yadav was sitting and

on seeing the police they got perplexed and at this

Vikram Yadav and Rajender Singh who were

possessing country made revolvers started firing and

police also fired at the car. Neeraj drove the car but

the bullet of the police had hit Neeraj and Rattan

Roy on his left arm. After reaching some distance

the car hit a rickshaw and to get rid of police they

threw Rattan Roy out of the moving car. After some

distance Vikram Yadav and Rajender Singh got

down of the car and out of Rs.30,000/­ withdrawn

from the bag Rs.10,000/­ were kept by Rajender and

20,000/­ by Neeraj whereas Vikram Yadav took two

cheque books of Rattan Roy. Thereafter Neeraj

parked the car at Loni Ghaziabad. Neeraj had

thrown the knife in bushes in Loni. The katta was

thrown by accused Rajender in the bushes near 14 GTB hospital and similarly accused Neeraj had

thrown the jacket of traffic police in the bushes

near the hospital. Accused Vikram Yadav had

thrown katta in the drain at Dilshad Garden. The

mobile phone of accused Rajender bearing No.

9810590140 with IMEI No. 449269200615383 was

seized by the police and one I­card of the Delhi

police bearing the photograph of accused Rajender

with the name of Neeraj Kumar Ct PIS No.

28971478 was also seized from the possession of

accused Rajender. The motorcycle No. DL 5 SL 4176

was also seized from the possession of accused

Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary and he also got recovered

Rs.11,500/­, one khakhi colour uniform ­ pant and

shirt, one blue colour wind cheater, two flaps of SI

Rank which were seized vide seizure memo. The

wind cheater and khakhi uniform had two holes on

the left arm and shoulder. At the instance of 15 accused Vikram Yadav two cheque books were also

seized. All the three accused pointed out towards

the place of occurrence and separate pointing out

memos were prepared. Accused were got medically

examined. The blood sample of accused Neeraj

Kumar Chaudhary was got collected and seized by

the police. The siteplan of the spot was prepared

at the instance of the accused persons. The uniform

shirt and the windcheater which was recovered

from accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary was sent for

forensic opinion. SI Rajkumar searched for country

made pistol thrown by accused Vikram in the drain

but it could not be recovered. Thereafter accused

Neeraj Kumar was taken to Barot in UP by SI

Rahul Sahni where he pointed out Murti Nursing

Home from where he had got his treatment. At the

instance of accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary from

near H NO D 151 Inderpuri Loni 100ft Road near 16 drain of dirty water in the bushes a knife was

recovered. At the pointing out of accused

Rajender Singh a countrymade katta and one empty

cartridge were recovered from the bushes near GTB

hospital which were seized and their sketch were

prepared. These were sent to CFSL for expert

opinion. Investigation was also carried out

regarding the ATM card of deceased Rattan Roy

and the I­card of Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary.

Statements of witnesses were recorded. After

completion of the investigation charge sheet was

filed to Court U/s 364A/ 302/419/468/471/ 34 IPC and Section 25 Arms Act against accused persons

vide FIR No. 611/01 PS Badarpur. Another

chargesheet was filed U/s 186/353/307/34 IPC vide

FIR No. 261/01 PS Seemapuri. 3. Both the charge sheets were clubbed

together for the purpose of disposal. 17 4. Charge U/s. 120B /419 /364A /186/ 353/

307 r/w Sec 34 and 302/ 383 r/w Sec 34 IPC were

framed against all the accused persons. 5. Additional charge was framed U/s 25 Arms Act against accused Neeraj Kumar. 6. Additional charge U/s 27 Arms Act and Section 468 IPC was framed against accused

Rajender Singh. 7. The prosecution in support of its case has

examined 38 witnesses. 8. PW 1 Mausmi Roy is the wife of deceased

Rattan Roy who testified that her husband was

working in Schineider Electric India Limited at

Mohan Cooperative Industrial Area Mathura Road,

New Delhi. He was General Manager in the

company and used to go in Ford Ikon. On 21.11.01

he left home for his office in his car. He used to

return back by 8.30/9 pm but sometimes he used to 18 be late also. On that day she had received a

telephone call from T K Roy, the elder brother of

Rattan Roy, who informed her that he had

received a telephone call from Rattan Roy on the

day of the incident that he had been kidnapped.

Thereafter this witness contacted Harmeek Singh

PW 2 who was working in the office of Rattan Roy,

to verify if Rattan Roy had left the office and when

she was informed by him that he had left the

office at 6.30 pm on that day she informed him

about the telephone call received by her from Sh

TK Roy. She testified that she also received a

telephone call from Romi Chopra that kidnappers

were demanding Rs. 10 Lacs. At 10.30 pm she

had received a call from Rattan Roy that he was

alright and was busy in office meeting and told

her not to worry. Thereafter in consultation with

others she lodged a report on telephone about 19 the kidnapping of her husband and was advised to

report the matter to Badarpur PS as well. She

further deposed that Romi Chopra told her that

kidnappers had asked him to come with money all

alone but Harmeek Singh insisted to accompany

him. Thereafter she again received a call from Romi

Chopra and he told her that kidnappers had

agreed that Harmeek Singh may accompany him.

She further testified that Harmeek Singh alongwith

2 police officials left her house and next day she

received a telephone call from him that her

husband was found and was admitted at GTB

hospital. She further stated that he was shifted from

GTB hospital to Apollo hospital where he died on

29/11/2001. This witness was not cross examined by

any of the accused persons despite opportunity

given as such her testimony is deemed to be 20 admitted as correct by them. 9. PW 2 Harmeek Singh is the person who

had accompanied the police alongwith money for

handing over to the kidnappers. He testified that he

was working in Scheinder Electric as Group

Manager and Rattan Roy was his intimate boss. He

further testified that on 21.11.01 Rattan Roy had

attended the office as usual and had come there in

Ford Ikon car which was purchased by him recently.

This witness left the office on that day around 5

pm since he had to distribute the cards of the

marriage of his sister. At about 9.15 pm he had

received a call from Mrs Rattan Roy that he had

not reached home, so he called the guard at his

office and asked at what time Mr Roy had left the

office, who told him that Rattan Roy had left the

office in the evening. He passed on this

information to Mrs. Roy, who told him that she had 21 received a call from TK Roy, the brother of Rattan

Roy about kidnapping of Rattan Roy. On her

request Harmeek Singh went to her house at about

10.15 pm or so and in his presence a call was

received by Mrs. Roy from Romi Chopra who

informed that he had received a call from Rattan

Roy for ransom amount and they were calling him

alongwith the amount at Mohan Nagar. He testified

that Mrs. Roy then informed Dilshad Garden PS on

telephone who advised her to inform PS Badapur

also. At the instance of this witness Romi Chopra

sent Rohit Bansal to PS Badarpur for registration

of the case. He further testified that the police

from Dilshad Garden came to the house of Mr. Roy

and from there they proceeded to Maharaj Pur

Chowk where Rohit Bansal alongwith SHO and SI

from PS Badapur also reached. It was around 2.45/3

am in the night when they went to Mohan Nagar 22 and kept waiting at Mohan Pur crossing but nobody

turned up. He stated that at that time he was

possessing his own mobile and mobile of Romi

Chopra which was handed over to him by Rohit

Bansal as the calls from the kidnappers were being

received on the said phone . It is further stated that

he received a telephone call from kidnappers at

Mohan Nagar crossing and he was asked to come

to Shahdara Border, as such they all went there but

again nobody turned up, though the police had

taken its position. Again a call was received asking

him to go towards GTB hospital. He stated that all

others cars in which police officials were there,

were moving ahead of his car and he drove his car

in the company of 3 police officials. It is stated

that when they turned towards GTB hospital he

could see a Ford Ikon car coming and told the SI

who was with him that it seemed to be of Mr 23 Rattan Roy. SI told him to reverse the car. When

he reversed the car he saw the Ford Ikon car

entering into nearby petrol pump station. He went

near to the Ford Ikon car and all police officials

came out of his car, after that he could just hear

the firing sound. In order to save himself he

ducked in his car. Thereafter police officials rushed

into his car and told him to chase the said car.

They followed the same and after sometime saw

Ford Ikon car hitting some rickshaw wala and one

man was thrown out of the car who was Mr Rattan

Roy and the Ford Ikon was speeded up. They tried

to chase it but could not. They again came back

and then saw that Mr Rattan Roy was in GTB

hospital under treatment. He was lateron shifted to

Apollo hospital and died on 29.1l.01. The testimony of PW2 Harmeek Singh

during cross examination by Sh SP Kaushal counsel 24 for Vikram Yadav could not be shattered in any

manner. This witness was not cross examined at all

on behalf of accused Rajender and Neeraj Kumar

Chaudhary. 10. PW 3 TK Roy the elder brother of

Rattan Roy deposed that on 21.11.01 he received a

telephone call from his brother Rattan Roy between

8.30/9 pm who informed him that he was caught

by CBI people and he should talk to them.

Thereafter his brother gave cell phone to those

persons who had caught him. During conversation

they told him that they were not from CBI and had

kidnapped his brother. When he told them that

they were service class person and what were they

expecting from them and they told him that he

should not contact anyone and they would leave his

brother around 10.30 pm. Thereafter he informed 25 the wife of his brother about the telephone call

he had received. He further stated that he kept on

receiving telephone calls from his brother with an

interval of one hour approximately and every time

his brother told him that he was OK and should

not contact any person. He further testified that his

brother was injured in the present case and was

admitted in GTB hospital with head injury. Lateron

he died on 29.11.01 at Apollo Hospital. This witness was not cross examined by

any of the accused persons. 11. PW 4 Santosh Kumar Jha, security guard

with Schineider Electric India Limited deposed that

he was working with the company on 21.11.01 and

Rattan Roy ( now deceased) who was officer in the

company had left the company at 6/6.15 pm in his

Ford Ikon car. This witness was cross examined only by 26 the counsel for accused Vikram Yadav, however

his testimony could not be rebutted in any manner. 12. PW 5 Romi Chopra, was the Vice

­President Administration Schineider Electric India

Limited who deposed that deceased Rattan Roy

was working in the company as Regional General

Manager ( Sales). He testified that on 21.11.01 he

had received a telephone call from Rattan Roy at

9.30 pm and told him that he was in need of Rs.

10 lacs. When he told him that it was difficult to

give him this much money and asked him when

he wanted this money, he told him that he needed

it immediately and thereafter the phone was

disconnected. It is further stated that he

telephoned Mr Deepak Sahni the boss of Mr Rattan

Roy about his conversation with Rattan Roy who

told him that he would check up with the house of

Rattan Roy and let him know. The witness further 27 stated that he had asked Rattan Roy as to why he

needed money but he did not give any specific

reason and only requested for arranging money. It

is stated that after sometime Deepak Sahni called

him and told him that Rattan Roy was in trouble as

he was kidnapped and this fact he came to know

from Rattan Roy's house . Thereafter this witness

gave a telephone call at the house of Rattan Roy

where the fact of his kidnapping was confirmed.

He stated that he was receiving calls regularly after

about 15 minutes from Rattan Roy who was

constantly enquiring if he was able to arrange

money or not. He further stated that at the instance

of Harmeek Singh he sent Rohit Bansal to PS

Badarpur to lodge report about kidnapping of

Rattan Roy. It is further stated that Rattan Roy was

insisting on telephone that he should come with

money for his release but he told him that he was 28 unable to arrange money. He further stated that he

spoke to his friends and colleagues for arranging

money and told Rattan Roy on phone that he

would be able to arrang maximum of Rs. 4 to 5

lacs. Romi Chopra further stated that at about 2

O'clock in the night he received a call from Rohit

that they were coming alongwith the police so he

met them at Noida Delhi Border and he gave his

mobile to Rohit as all the phone calls from Ratan

were coming on his mobile. He stated that his cell

phone was given to Harmeek afterward and

thereafter he came back to his house. It is stated

that in the morning he received a call from Rohit

that Rattan Roy was found and was in GTB hospital

in unconscious condition. He further testified that

his mobile number at that time was 9811089860. It

is stated that Rattan Roy was having an ATM card

from ICICI Bank New Friends Colony and the salary 29 of Rattan Roy used to go to that account. This witness was also not cross examined

by any of the accused persons. 13. PW 6 Rajbir was posted as gunman at

Deepak Petrol Pump Dilshad Garden in Nov 2001,.

He testified that he used to perform night duty

from 8 pm to 8 am and was on guard duty in the

night of 21.11.01 and 22.11.01. At about 6 am a

longish car came to their petrol pump for petrol

and thereafter one maruti white car came there just

after that and stopped behind the longish car. It is

stated that some police officials got down from

maurti car and firing took place. The rear wind

screen and driver side window glass of the longish

car broke down in the firing. It is stated that

within 5/6 minutes the longish car sped away from

the petrol pump and it was followed by Maruti Car.

It is further stated that police came to the petrol 30 pump and took photographs of the broken glasses

and cartridges lying there. Thereafter the broken

glasses and empty cartridges were kept in parcels

and were seized vide seizure memo Ex. PW 6/A.

The witness was shown the broken glasses in the

Court contained in the sealed pulandas with the

seal of RK which he deposed were picked up from

the spot. During cross examination he testified that

at the petrol pump there were other workers also

present at the time of incident. Further that two

cars were at a distance of about 25 feet. He stated

that all the police officials who were in Maruti car

got down and fired at Longish car after taking

position behind maruti car. He further stated that

police did not go upto the longish car on foot.

Further the glasses of longish car were tainted and

were rolled up when the car stood at the petrol 31 pump and nothing was visible inside. He further

stated that after the incident he left the petrol

pump since his duty was over but he was again

called back. It is stated that when the articles were

being picked up by the police he saw one

countrymade pistol cartridges and glasses being

picked up. The witness could not say if the bullet

fire by police persons had struck any occupant of

the longish car as he stated that he immediately

ran for his own safety. He further gave the

positions of the cars at the petrol pump by stating

that longish car had stood near the pumping

machine for petrol and maruti car was on the

turning of petrol pump behind the longish car and

was in slanting position. It is stated that police

persons had not given any warning before started

firing on the longish car. 14. Prosecution also examined Sandeep

Sharma, friend of accused Rajender as PW7. He

stated that he had mobile phone bearing NO

9810691713. It is further stated that he spoke to

accused Rajender on his mobile phone on 14.12.01 as

he had given his mobile number to him prior to

14.12.01. It is stated that on 14/12/01 he dialed the

mobile number of the accused and on first dialing

the connection was connected and he heard the

voice ­ 'Hello Hello'' of accused Rajender 3­4 times

and thereafter Rajender disconnected the phone

and this call was made at 8. 15 pm. He further

stated that he again dialed his number but

someone else picked up the phone and told that it

was a wrong number. He further stated that police

met him on 15.12.01 and he told the residential

address of Rajender to the police. During cross examination by the counsel 33 for accused Rajender he stated that police had not

seized his mobile phone instrument. Further accused

Rajender was not with them when police came to

him on 15.12.01. It is stated that police came to him

in the evening on 15.12.01 and enquired about

Rajender. 14. PW 8 Ct Parveen is a formal witness

who had taken the deadbody of the deceased at

AIIMS hospital on 29.11.01 alongwith SI Rahul

Sahani and Ct Anil Kumar from Apollo hospital for

the postmortem. 15. PW 9 HC Charan Dass is a witness to

recovery of countrymade pistol at the instance of

accused Rajender. He testified that on 20.12.01 he

joined the investigation of this case alongwith Ct

Mukender, Ct Balwan and SHO PS Badarpur when

accused Rajender, who was in police custody led

them near GTB hospital after making disclosure that 34 he had thrown a country made pistol in the bushes

near GTB hospital and got recovered a country

made pistol from the bushes. The pistol was

opened and was found containing empty cartridges,

the sketch of both the pistol and cartridges were

prepared and thereafter sealed in a cloth pulanda

sealed with the seal of CDS and seal after use was

given to Ct Balram. It is stated that after coming

to PS the case property was deposited in the

malkhana. The witness was cross examined

regarding the time the police party left the PS for

recovery and about the non­ joining of the public

persons in the investigation. He categorically stated

that they had left the PS at 10.30 am and that

people were coming and going on the road

opposite the hospital. It is stated that there was no

hawkers near the place where the accused had 35 pointed out and they were at some distance. He

further stated that SHO had asked the public

persons to join the investigation but none stopped

and went away. He further stated that they were

travelling in police vehicles which were stopped

near the place where the accused had pointed out

and that the place was open. He denied the

suggestion and entire proceedings of recovery were

fabricated or that accused did not get anything

recovered or countrymade pistol was given by

Seemapuri police and was planted upon the

accused. 16. PW 10 Ct. Balwan Singh joined the

investigation of this case on 15.12.01 and deposed

that on that day he was a member of police team

consisting of SHO , Addl. SHO, SI Rahul, SI Rajesh

and 3­4 more staff members. On that day they had

gone to Ashok Nagar Trans Yamuna Area. SHO was 36 having two mobile numbers. On that day firstly

they had gone to the house of Sandeep Sharma and

showed him the two mobile numbers who told

them that one of the mobile number was his and

other was of Rajender. SHO recorded the statement

of Sandeep Sharma. After that they all went to the

house of Rajender Sharma at Nathu Pura at the

address given by Sandeep Sharma. At that time

Rajender was present at home and was enquired

about the mobile phone number and he had

admitted that it was his mobile number. The

witness further stated that one mobile phone was

lying on the table at the house of accused

Rajender which was having same cell number and

the same was seized after it was sealed with the

seal of RS. Seal after use was handed over to him.

He further stated that on the same table one Delhi

Police I­card Ex.P1 was lying bearing photograph of 37 accused Rajender and name of Neeraj Kumar which

was also seized by the IO vide seizure memo EX

PW 10/F. It is further stated that the disclosure

statement EX PW 10/B of accused Rajender was

recorded and thereafter he led the police to the

house of Neeraj, his accomplice in Ram Nagar

Shahdara where he was found present and was

enquired about the case. He also made a disclosure

statement EX.PW 10/D and got recovered one police

uniform of khaki colour from his house and on the

uniform flap of SI Delhi Police was there and

there were also two holes on the shoulder of the

shirt. He also got recovered one wind cheater of

blue colour which was also having two holes. He

further got recovered Rs. 11,500/­ from his house

and all these articles were sealed in parcel with the

seal of RS were seized vide seizure memos EX PW

10/H, J and K respectively and seal after use was 38 handed over to him. He further testified that one

Bullet motorcycle which was used in the crime and

was parked in the verandah of the house of

accused Neeraj Kumar Chuadhary was seized vide

memo EX PW 10/L. He further testified that

accused Neeraj and Rajender led them to accused

Vikram their accomplice in the crime, at IG

Stadium, Room No. 3 from where he was

apprehended. On interrogation accused Vikram

Yadav made disclosure statement Ex PW 10/M. He

took out two cheque books in his almirah and

handed over to the IO. It is stated that these

cheque books belonged to deceased Rattan Roy

and were sealed with the seal of RS and were

seized vide seizure memo Ex. PW 10/M. Seal after

use was handed over to him. He further stated

that all the three accused persons had pointed out

the place where they had kidnapped Rattan Roy 39 vide pointing out memos Ex. PW 10/O, P and Q

respectively. This witness further testified that he had

joined the investigation on 19.12.01 when accused

Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary was on police remand. He

had accompanied SI Rahul Sahani, Ct Pappu Rathi,

Ct Mukender and accused who had made

disclosure statement EX PW 10/D that he had

received bullet injuries in this case treated from

Barot. Accused Neeraj led the police party to Barot

and after reaching there they recorded their arrival

in PS Barot and took local police with them.

Thereafter accused led them to Murti Nursing Home

in Barot where Dr. Narender Singh met them.

Enquiries were made from him by SI Rahul Sahani

who informed that accused had visited his nursing

home with bullet injuries and he was given first

aid. It is stated that SI Rahul Sahani recorded his 40 statement and thereafter they all came back to

Delhi and the accused led them to Loni Road

where there is a 100 feet road and pointed out the

place where he had thrown the knife as disclosed

by him. It is stated that knife was got recovered by

accused from the place pointed out by him.

Thereafter its sketch was prepared and it was

sealed in a cloth parcel with the seal of RS and

seal was handed over to him. He proved the

pointing out memo prepared at the instance of

accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary and the recovery

memo Ex PW 10/E.

 PW10 Ct. Balwan Singh also joined the

investigation in the present case on 20.12.1001 and

to that effect has deposed on the lines of PW 9

HC Charan Dass that on 20/12/01 he alongwith Ct.

Charan Das, Ct. Mukender and SHO took out

Rajender from the lockup of PS as he had disclosed 41 that he had thrown the country made pistol used in

the incident in the bushes near GTB Hospital,

thereafter accused led the police party to GTB

Hospital, where at a little distance from the

hospital, he pointed out to the bushes where he had

thrown the country made pistol. He proved the

pointing out memo of accused Rajender as EX PW

10/A, The disclosure statement of accused as Ex PW

10/B, the seizure memo of countrymade pistol and

cartridges as EX PW 10/C. 

 This witness was cross examined at length

by the counsel for accused Rajender and Neeraj

regarding non joining of the public witnesses during

the investigation, however he categorically stated

that SHO did make efforts to join the public

witnesses but none agreed and expressed their

inability. He denied the suggestion that knife was

not recovered at the instance of accused Neeraj or 42 that the country made revolver which was

recovered at the instance of accused Rajender was

planted upon him. He also denied the suggestion

that accused Neeraj was lifted from his house

alongwith his younger brother Vineet on 15.12.2001

or that no recovery was effected from their house.

He also denied that Dr Narender Singh had told

them that accused Neeraj had suffered accidental

injuries or he gave papers relating to treatment of

accidental injuries. This witness was not cross

examined at all regarding his testimony that on

15.12.2001 he alongwith the police team had gone to

the house of PW7 Sandeep Sharma at Ashok Nagar

Trans­ Yamuna and from there they obtained the

address of accused Rajender and went to his house

and apprehended him and recovered mobile phone

bearing No. 9810590140 or I­card Ex.P1 nor there

was any cross examination regarding the time of 43 visit of police party to the house of Sandeep

Sharma and to the house of accused Rajender. Similarly there is no cross examination

regarding the apprehension of accused Vikram from

room No 3 IG Stadium . Regarding the recovery of countrymade

pistol and cartridge at the pointing out of accused

Rajender on 20.12.01 he was cross examined at

length by the defence counsel. However, his

testimony remained unshattered and no material

discrepancy could be pointed out in the testimony

of this witness and PW 9 HC Charan Dass.

Rather both the witnesses corroborated the

statement of each other on all the material

particulars. After that they came back to the PS

and deposited the case property in the malkhana.

He correctly identified the case property in the

Court. 17. PW 11 RK Singh Noddle Officer, Bharti

Cellular Limited testified that an application Ex.

PW 11/A was made in their office by the IO and

call details Ex. PW 11/B of Phone No. 9810158032

wef 20.11.01 to 23.11.01 were supplied to the IO. He

stated that these call details are computerised from

the computer maintained in their office in regular

course of business. He further testified that another

application Ex. PW 11/C was made by SI Rahul

Sahani in the office seeking details of IMEI

number of a particular instrument, the details

supplied in this respect are Ex. PW 11/D which

shows that same instrument was used on mobile

No. 9810158032 and then 9810590140 . He further

deposed that call ID chart Ex. PW 11/E shows the

location of towers of their company. Further that ID

given in the call chart is of four digits and first

three digits show the cell ID. During cross examination he testified that

the call details are retained in the computer storage

equipment for the last three years and it is not

possible to tamper the software of the computer

wherein the information remains. 18. PW 12 HC Vijay Singh was duty officer

with PS Badarpur on the intervening night of 21/22­

11/01 from 12 mid night to 8 am He stated that

he recorded DD NO 29 A Ex. PW 12/A at 1.15 am

on the basis of report made on telephone by one

Mausmi Roy wife of Rattan Roy regarding missing

of her husband and ransom call made by the

kidnappers. He stated that at 2.15 am he received

rukka recorded on the same DD No. 29A

Ex.PW12/A and recorded FIR No. 611/01 Ex.PW12/B

U/s 364 A IPC . 19. PW 13 SI Rajkumar had taken the accused

persons to AIIMS hospital on 16.12.01 for medical 46 examination. He also remained associated in the

investigation on 19.12.01 He testified that accused

Vikram Rathi had made a disclosure statement to

the effect that he could get recovered countrymade

pistol from the place from where he had concealed

it / thrown. He alongwith 3 constables was led by

accused Vikram Rathi towards drain near Durga

Puri which is called Nathu Colony and pointed out

towards the place but nothing was recovered. 20. PW 14 SI Brij Mohan from PS Dilshad

Garden testified that on the intervening night of

21/22­11­01 he was given DD No 17A EX.PW 14/A

concerning the kidnapping of a person and he

reached C 16/2, Dilshad Garden where Mausmi Roy

wife of Rattan Roy (the kidnapped) met him. One

Harmeek Singh was also present in the house.

Mausmi Roy told him that her husband was

working with Mohan Cooperative Badarpur Border 47 had left the office at about 6 pm in his car but

had not reached home and her brother in law TK

Roy was receiving ransom call from the

kidnappers . The witness told him that though the

area from where her husband was kidnapped fell

within the jurisdiction of PS Badarpur but police of

Dilshad Garden would also assist her as far as

possible. Thereafter he spoke to SHO Badarpur from

his mobile and appraised him of kidnapping. He

also spoke to his own SHO and narrated the facts.

He stated that he was directed by SHO PS Dilshad

Garden to go to the SHO of PS Badarpur alongwith

two constables and to work under his instructions.

He stated that Harmeek Singh accompanied him to

the PS Dilshad Garden in his car from where he

took arms and ammunitions and Ct Vijender and Ct

Ashok with him and made an entry for going to PS

Badarpur. He gave a telephone call to SHO 48 Badarpur that they were proceeding and SHO

Badarpur told him to meet him at Maharaj Pur

Chowk. It is stated that they reached Maharaj Pur

Chowk where SHO Badarpur SI Rahul, 2­3

constables and some more staff also reached.

Harmeek Singh was having mobile phone of Romi

Chopra, friend of Rattan Roy and on this mobile

calls were received from kidnappers. He stated that

while they were at Maharajpur Chowk a ransom

call was received and Harmeek was called at

Mohan Nagar Chowk. Thereafter SHO Badarpur

briefed them that he shall accompany Harmeek

Singh and ransom money would be given by

Harmeek Singh under his vigilance. This witness

alongwith 2 constables proceeded towards Mohan

Nagar Chowk alongwith Harmeek Singh in his car,

whereas SHO Badarpur and his staff were in a

Gypsy and a car. It is stated that he alongwith 49 Harmeek Singh and two constables waited at

Mohan Nagar Chowk while SHO Badarpur and

others concealed their vehicles and took position.

They waited for sometime but none turned up. In

the meantime battery of Harmeek Singh's mobile

was discharged. So Harmeek Singh transferred /

diverted the calls on the mobile of this witness.

After sometime they received a call from kidnappers

from Apsra Border so they went there and waited

for quite sometime but again none turned up.

While they were waiting at Apsra Border a call

was received from the kidnappers to reach

opposite GTB hospital. Thereafter they proceeded

to GTB hospital. Vehicle of SHO was leading

while car of Harmeek Singh in which they were

travelling was in the end. When they were

proceeding towards GTB hospital and turned from

Deepak Automobile Petrol Pump a car of golden 50 colour was seen coming from opposite side. It's

front number plate had been broken. Harmeek

Singh after seeing the car told him that it looked as

of Rattan Roy as colour of the car of Rattan Roy

was also golden. He told Harmeek Singh to stop the

car and looked back and found golden car turning

in the petrol pump so Harmeek Singh reversed the

car in back gear upto the petrol pump. It is stated

that number plate on the back side of the car was

of Rattan Roy. He told Harmeek Singh to take his

car in front of that car but that car took turn at

petrol pump and it stood near the pumping

machine of petrol pump taking U turn so Harmeek

Singh's car could not go in front of the same so he

stopped his car behind the golden car. It is further

stated that after Harmeek Singh stopped the car he

told the staff to surround the car and he would get

the occupants of the golden car down. He stated 51 that the car was Ford Ikon of golden colour bearing

No. DL 3CS 9438. Further that he went to the

left side window of the car which was slightly open

to call the persons down the car and while he was

telling them to come down but before he could

complete the sentence somebody from inside the car

fired. By the time he could reach for his pistol

another fire took place from inside the car.

Thereafter he fired into the car but the person of

the left side of the car ducked down. He stated that

person on the driver seat was wearing blue colour

jacket. Further, that due to his firing the left

side front window glass broke down. Thereafter the

driver of ford Ikon car immediately sped away the

car towards the direction from which they had

come. At this, he told his constable to fire at the

tyre of the car who fired two rounds. He himself

also fired another round. It is stated that initial 52 two rounds which he had fired struck the person

who was driving the car but the round which were

fired lateron by the constable and him did not

strike the tyre but they struck the car. It is

further stated that then they sat in the car of

Harmeek Singh and told him to chase the car.

After that Ford Ikon car met with an accident with

a cart­puller at GTB Road and they threw

somebody from the car. Harmeek Singh on seeing

this told that the person thrown out of the car

seems to be Rattan Roy. So they stopped their car

near that person and found it was Rattan Roy who

had injuries on the back side of his head and on

the left arm. HC Munshi Lal of PS Dilshad Garden

had reached the spot as PS was just opposite the

place where Rattan Roy was thrown out of the car

and this witness told him to get Rattan Roy

admitted in the hospital and he himself went to 53 chase Ford Ikon car but could not traced it. It is

further testified that thereafter they came to GTB

hospital and collected MLC of Rattan Roy. This

witness prepared rukka EX PW 14/B regarding the

incident of firing by the occupants of Ford Ikon car

on him through Ct Ashok Kumar for registration of

the case. He further stated that SI Rajkumar of PS

Seemapuri came to GTB hospital alongwith Ct.

Ashok Kumar and Ct Ramesh and handed over the

MLC of Rattan Roy to him. Thereafter SI Rajkumar

alongwith the witness and other persons went to

Deepak Automobile Petrol Pump . SI Rahul Sahani

and other staff of Badarpur also reached the petrol

pump. SI Rajkumar prepared the siteplan of the

petrol pump at his instance. The photographer

reached the spot and took photographs, statement

of photographer was recorded. The broken glasses

of car of Rattan Roy and spent cartridges were 54 found which were seized vide seizure memo EX PW

6/A by SI Rajkumar in a sealed pulanda sealed

with the seal of RK. SI Rajkumar recorded his

statement. He further testified that on 13.12.01 SI

Rajkumar seized the service revolver of this witness

and the Ct revolver used by Ct Ashok Kumar from

MHC(M) vide seizure memo EX PW 14/A. He

further stated that on 24.12.01 accused persons were

brought for medical examination to GTB hospital

and he identified all the 3 accused in the hospital

and told that accused Rajender was sitting with

Rattan Roy on back seat while accused Neeraj was

on the driving seat and accused Vikram was sitting

adjoining to Neeraj on the front seat. During cross examination he stated that

he had not mentioned that he was knowing the

occupants of the car from before nor he gave the

description nor he mentioned that he could 55 identify them if shown to him. He further stated

that he did not remember if in rukka he had

recorded that when he fired from left side the

person sitting on left side ducked down. He further

stated that it is mentioned in the rukka that he

fired from the left side and bullet after breaking the

window pane went into the car and the second fire

was also done aiming at the left widow pane of the

car. It is stated that when he saw the car at the PS

its left side widow pane was lying broken and its

rear wind screen was not broken. He could not

say that the person who was thrown out of the

moving car had injury on his head and arm and

that these were bullet injuries. He categorically

stated that when car was at the petrol pump and

firing incident had taken place Rattan Roy was seen

by him on the left side of the rear seat. He further

stated that at that time he did not know as to who 56 was victim out of the four persons present in the

car and that every thing happened just in seconds

at the petrol pump. Regarding the presence of

guard at the petrol pump, he sated that he was

nowhere near the car as by the time Ford car

had reached the pump they also reached behind it

and persons in the Ford car could not call any

pump employee to fill the car. He stated that

guards were however on the right side away from

the car and not in front of the car. Regarding the

colour of the glasses of the car he stated that he

did not remember if they were tainted or not.

However at the same time he stated that left

window pane of the car was 1/4th open. He further

stated that he had told the IO on the day of the

incident when his supplementary statement was

recorded that he could identify the occupants of the

car and had also given their description. He 57 admitted that in the rukka the fact that window

pane of the car was slightly opened is not recorded.

He further stated that he had not recorded in rukka

that the bullet fired by him had hit the driver or

not. He also denied the suggestion that a

countrymade pistol was recovered from the petrol

pump. He was confronted with his statement Ex.PW

14/DA regarding his testimony in chief examination

where he stated that Rajender was sitting with

Rattan Roy at the back seat and Vikram was

sitting adjoining Neeraj on the front seat, whereas

in his statement Ex.PW 14/DA it is mentioned

that Rajender was in the car and regarding accused

Neeraj it is mentioned that he was driving the car.

The witness denied that he was aware of the date

of arrest of the accused persons or that he was

aware that they were arrested on 15/12/01 and

their photographs appeared in TV and newspapers 58 on 16.12.01. He also denied that he wrongly

identified the accused persons as occupants of the

car chased by them or that the accused persons

were not the occupants of the car or that he had

not seen any of the accused persons in the car as it

had tainted glasses. 21. PW15 Ct Ashok Kumar No. 1268 is a

witness to the same effect and deposed on the lines

of PW 14 SI Brij Mohan. He further stated that he

was given rukka EX PW 14/G by SI Brij Mohan

which he took to PS Seemapuri for registration of

the case as the petrol pump where the incident of

firing had taken place fell in PS Seemapuri and he

got the FIR registered. Thereafter SI Rajkumar and

Ct Ramesh Kumar visited GTB hospital and from

there all of them came to Deepak Petrol Pump

where SI Rajkumar prepared siteplan at the instance

of SI Brij Mohan. From the spot in his presence 59 broken glasses were sealed in a cardboard carton

sealed with the seal of RK and one spent cartridge

was also found at the spot which was also sealed

with the seal of RK and seized. He further stated

that he handed over two spent cartridges to SI

Rajkumar from his service revolver which was

sealed with the seal of RK and were seized vide

seizure memo Ex PW 15/A. He identified the broken

glasses seized from the spot collectively as Ex..P9

and the empty cartridge as EX.P10. Two empty

cartridges which he had handed over to SI

Rajkumar from his service revolver are identified by

him as Ex P1 and P 12. He categorically stated that

at the petrol pump there was sufficient light as it

was having a sound lighting. He further stated that

the person who were in the Ford Ikon were seen

by him at the petrol pump when exchange of firing

had taken place. He further identified accused 60 Rajender as sitting on the rear seat, accused Neeraj

was driving the car and accused Vikram was on the

seat adjoining the driver. This witness during cross examination was

confronted with his statement EX PW 15/DA

regarding the side of car from where SI Brij Mohan

had approached the Ford Ikon as in his chief

examination stated that SI Brij Mohan had gone to

the car from its left side whereas in his statement

EX PW 15/DA it is the driver side of the car which

is mentioned. The witness further stated during

cross examination that front window pane of the

car had broken down due to the firing by SI Brij

Mohan. He further stated that the glasses of the car

were not tainted but were plain. As stated by SI

Brij Mohan that it was a matter of few seconds,

this witness also stated that firing had taken place

in 15­17 seconds. He denied that his bullet had 61 struck the rear wind screen as deposed by PW6

Rajvir. He admitted that he had not given the

description of the occupants in his statement to the

IO nor he stated that he could identify them. He

also admitted that he had not stated in his

statement U/s 161 Cr PC that the persons who were

in Ford Ikon were seen by him during exchange of

fire. He admitted that it is for the first time in the

Court he told which accused was sitting where in

the Ford Ikon. He denied the suggestion that a

country made pistol was seized apart from broken

glasses and spent cartridge from the petrol pump.

He denied the suggestion that he had not seen the

occupants of the Ford Ikon car or that he had

identified the accused persons at the instance of the

IO. He categorically stated that he had not seen

the photographers of the accused persons either in

TV or in newspapers. 22. PW 16 HC Surender Kumar testified that

on 11.3.02 on the instructions of ASI Rahul Sahani

he had gone to Sheikh Saria Authority to find out

the ownership of car No. DL 3CS 9438 and as per

the record it was found registered in the name of

Schneider Electrics Pvt Limited . He collected the

computerised slip EX PW 16/A in this regard. This

fact is not disputed by the accused persons. He further testified that at the instance of

ASI Rahul Sahani he went to IG Stadium, to find

out if Vikram Yadav was living there or not. There

he met Mr. Rochque who informed that Vikram

Yadav son of Inder Singh of Village Bhawana was

staying in hostel room No J 3. He further stated

that hostel belongs to Sport Authority of India and

he was practising boxing but on that day he was

not available in his hostel . He further proved the

writing EX.PW 16/B in this regard given to him by 63 Rochque Dyes, Dy Director which he handed over to

ASI Rahul Sahni lateron. This witness was not cross examined by

the counsel of any of the accused persons as such

his testimony that accused Vikram Yadav was

staying in room No. J3 of the hostel is deemed to

be correct. 23. PW 17 HC Rambir deposed that SI

Rahul Sahani had approached his office on

15.2.2002 to verify I card NO 0081531 EX P l in the

name of Neeraj Kumar Ct and after verifying the

record he informed SI Rahul Sahani that it was

issued on 24/8/98 in the name of Ct Neeraj Kumar

PIS NO 28971478. During cross examination he testified that

the photograph of the person to whom the card

was issued was not on the record, therefore he

could not say on seeing the photo on EX P l as to 64 whether it was of accused Neeraj Kumar or not. 24. PW 18 Ct Narveer Singh is a formal

witness who had accompanied the IO and the other

staff to Patiala House Court for TIP of the accused

persons and had also accompanied them to AIIMS

for their medical examination. He had collected the

blood sample of accused Neeraj Chaudhary

alongwith the sample seal from the doctor and

handed over to the IO vide seizure memo EX PW

18/A. 25. PW 19 is Dr Narender Kumar who had

treated accused Neeraj Chaudhary for his injuries at

his Nursing Home run in the name of Murti

Nursing Home Nehru Road Barot. He testified

while pointing out towards accused Neeraj

Chaudhary that he had come to his nursing home

about 8/10/12 months ago as the date he did not

remember. He stated that he was having injuries 65 on his chin and shoulder. He stated that he did not

lodge any report with the police since accused had

told him that a quarrel had taken place between

him and his brother and he had received injuries in

the quarrel. It is stated, after he gave him first aid

and dressed the wound he told him to go. The

witness was put a leading question with the

permission of the Court to the effect that he had

treated Neeraj Chaudhary in Nov. 2001 to which he

replied it is quite possible. During cross examination the witness

could not tell whether the injuries were minor or

major. He could not even say it was a burn injury

or bullet injury or whether the accused had visited

in the second week of Nov 2001 or on the next day

of Diwali. 26. PW 20 Sh Ashish Hariok manager ICICI

Bank produced the statement of account of account 66 No. 004601025195 EX PW 20/A of Rattan Roy with

ICICI Bank. He also produced the record showing

withdrawal of money from the aforesaid account on

ATM Card on 21.11.01 and 22.11.01 which is EX PW

20/B. He stated that this record was taken from

computer which maintains the record in normal

course of business as there has been no alteration

or addition in the computer programme. He

testified that as per the record a sum of Rs. 15000/­

was withdrawn on 21.11.01 from ATM of the bank at

Preet Vihar Branch ie at Sincere Tower, 4, Preet

Vihar Community Center at 22­58 hours. He further

stated that another amount of Rs. 15000/­ was

withdrawn from ATM of Krishan Nagar at B­1 Lal

Quarter on 22.11.01 at 00. 36 hours. The computer

print outs reflecting the ATM withdraws are proved

on record as Ex.PW20/C, D and E respectively. 27. PW 21 Sh SK Khanna manager Canara 67 Bank produced the the statement of account No.

10462 held by Rattan Roy with Canara Bank which

is EX PW 21/A. He also produced the register

showing issuance of cheque book to the customer.

He stated that cheque book containing cheque NO

902531 ­ 902540 was issued to Rattan Roy by the

bank holding account NO. 10462 on 14.7.2001. He

proved the relevant entry to that effect in the

register as EX PW 21/B. 28. PW 22 Ct Mukender Kumar is a formal

witness who had taken one sealed parcel from

malkhana of PS Badarpur to FSL Malviya Nagar

vide RC NO 14/21 to deposit the same but it was

returned by the FSL and he handed over back to

MHC(M) 29. Postmortem on the deadbody of the

deceased was conducted by Dr Amar Nath but

since he had left the services of the hospital, as 68 such PW 23 Dr. Varun Dixit appeared as a substitute

doctor to prove the postmortem report since he

was acquainted with the handwriting and signature

of Dr. Amar Nath. He proved the postmortem

report as Ex.PW 23/A. He testified that on the

examination of the deadbody of the deceased who

found following injuries on the person of the

deceased: He stated that cause of death was coma

due to head injury caused by blunt force. He

further opined that all the injuries were

antemortem. This witness was cross examined at length.

He admitted that in the document Ex. PW 23/B & C

ie the death certificate and the MLC of the

deceased Ratan Roy there is reference of bullet

injury. He further admitted that in the opinion

about the cause of death there is no mention of

fire arm injury and he could not say if injury No. 3

could have been initially caused by fire arm. 70 Perusal of injury No. 3 shows that it is a stitched

wound on the lateral aspect of left arm 11 cm in

length and on medial aspect on the left arm 2.5 cm

partially communicating with each other. He stated

that when postmortem was conducted this injury

was surgically stitched. He further stated that Injury

No. 3 was properly described in the postmortem

report. He also categorically stated that injury No. 3

could not cause death. 30. PW 24 Ct Ashok Kumar NO 3262 was

partly examined and was dropped by the State. 31. PW 25 HC Krishan Lal is a formal

witness with whom the case property was

deposited in the malkhana vide entry Ex.PW 25/A

in the DD register and was sent to FSL. 32. PW 26 SI Rahul Sahani of PS Badarpur

deposed on the lines of PW Harmeek Singh and SI

Brij Mohan. He further deposed that while they 71 were going towards GTB hospital on receipt of

call of the kidnappers they told Harmeek Singh to

follow them in his vehicle and that they would go

to GTB hospital first and then would take their

position. He stated that Harmeek Singh's car was

last in the row and when they reached GTB

hospital they received a call from Harmeek Singh

that firing had taken place at petrol pump so they

rushed to Deepak Petrol Pump and learnt that firing

had taken place between the occupants of Ford

Ikon and the occupants of maruti car of Harmeek

Singh and that both the cars had gone towards

border. He further testified that they searched for

them but they could not trace the cars. When

they reached GTB hospital they learnt that Ford

Ikon had hit a rickshaw and had thrown out a

person while running from there. He further

stated that the person who was admitted in GTB 72 hospital, was identified as Rattan Roy. When they

were in the hospital, SI Brij Mohan, his staff and

Harmeek Singh also reached there and told him

that Ford Ikon succeeded in escaping after crossing

the border. He further stated that SI Brij Mohan

sent a rukka to PS Seema Puri regarding incident

of firing at Deepak Petrol Pump. He recorded the

statements of Harmeek Singh, SI Brij Mohan and his

staff. Then SI Rajkumar of PS Seemapuri reached

there with the copy of FIR and he investigated the

firing incident being IO of that case. He alongwith

SI Brij Mohan and SI Rajkumar went to Deepak

Petrol Pump. There SI Raj Kumar prepared siteplan

and seized the evidential material. He recorded

the statement of gunman Rajbir and came back to

GTB hospital and after sometime an information

was received that Ford Ikon involved in the crime

was standing at Arya Nagar Loni. He alongwith 73 SHO and SI Rajkumar went there where car was

standing. SI Raj Kumar called crime team and got

the car inspected. He thereafter went to house of

Mausmi Roy w/o Rattan Roy, who was not in a

position to make any statement due to kidnapping

of her husband. Then he alongwith Ct Ashok went

to Apollo Hospital where he recorded the statement

of Rohit Kumar Bansal. Rattan Roy (now deceased)

was declared unfit for statement, so he came back

to PS alongwith Ct Ashok Kumar, whose statement

was recorded there. PW26 SI Rahul Sahni further stated that

on 23.11.01 he obtained the call details of telephone

of Rattan Roy from Airtel. On checking the call

details he learnt that after 12 midnight the IMEI

No. of the cellphone had changed and IMEI No.

used thereafter was not currently being used by

anybody for making call. Rattan Roy died on 74 29.12.2001 without making any statement. He

prepared the inquest papers which are Ex.PW 26/B1

to B4 respectively. He got conducted the

postmortem on the dead body of deceased Rattan

Roy. He further stated that he had been in touch

with Airtel Company about the IMEI No which was

later used by the kidnappers and after few days he

learnt that the instrument having the IMEI NO

449269200615380 was now being used. Thereafter details of call being made by

instrument having same IMEI NO 449269200615380

were obtained vide document Ex.PW 11/DA. From

the call details of this instrument they came to

know about some phone numbers of Ram Nagar,

Ashok Nagar and Shahdara and they started

keeping watch on these numbers. Then on 5.12.2001

SHO moved an application for taping conversion of

these telephone on parallel lines. With the 75 permission of competent authority he obtained the

parallel lines on the aforesaid telephones. On

14.12.2001 at about 8.15 pm a call was received

with IMEI number of cellphone No. 9810590140 and

from the location chart they learnt that phone was

now in Shahdara. The call details of this phone

number were obtained from the cell phone

company from 3.12.01 to 14.12.01 which are Ex.PW

26/C1 to C8 respectively. He also obtained the

details of the cellphone who had called the above

cell phone number on 14.12.01. In the call details of

that cellphone there was one house telephone No of

landline which was already under their watch.

The said landline number was 2111031 as shown in

EX.PW 26/C7. He further stated that on 15.12.2001, the

house having this landline in Ashok Nagar was

raided where one Sandeep Sharma met who was 76 enquired about mobile NO 9810691713 from which

telephone calls were made to the other mobile

number. Sandeep Sharma informed that mobile

No. 9810691713 was his mobile and on enquiry as to

whom he had made call on mobile No. 9810590140

he disclosed that phone No 9810590140 was of

Rajender, who was living in the same locality at

some distance and also gave his address. Then they

all went there and accused Rajender was found

there. There one mobile phone was lying on the

table. On checking the same it was found that the

IMEI No. was same which was used by kidnappers

on the day of kidnapping after 12 midnight. The cell

phone was seized vide memo Ex.PW 10/F. One I

card Ex.P1 of Delhi police having name of Neeraj

Kumar and photograph of Rajender was also

recovered, which was seized vide memo EX PW

10/G. Disclosure statement of accused Rajender 77 Ex.PW 10/B was recorded, wherein he disclosed the

names of two of his accomplices namely accused

Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary and Vikram Yadav. Then

accused Rajender led them to the house of Neeraj

at Ram Nagar from where accused Neeraj was

apprehended and his disclosure statement

Ex.PW10/C was recorded, whereby he got recovered

Rs. 11,500/­ as part amount, which they had

withdrawn on the night of kidnapping from ATM of

Rattan Roy using card of Rattan Roy, which were

taken into possession vide memo Ex.PW 10/J.

Thereafter accused Neeraj also got recovered one

motorcycle which was used in the crime, which was

seized vide memo Ex PW 10/L. Accused Neeraj also

got recovered one khaki uniform from his almirah

as well as one wind cheater having holes of bullet

and two flaps of SI of Delhi Police which were

seized vide memo Ex.PW 10/K. 78 Thereafter accused Neeraj and Rajender

took them to IG Stadium from where accused

Vikram Yadav was apprehended and his disclosure

statement Ex PW 10/M was recorded. Accused

Vikram Yadav got recovered two cheque books from

his almirah, one cheque book was of ICICI Bank

and other was of Canara Bank which were seized

vide memo Ex.PW 10/N. Thereafter on the pointing

out of all the three accused persons siteplan

Ex.PW26/D of the place at Apsara Border where

they had stopped the car of Ratan Roy, was

prepared. Thereafter their PC remand was obtained.

On 18.12.2001 accused Neeraj was medically

examined and his blood sample was got preserved. Thereafter on 19.12.2001 PW26 SI Rahul

Sahni alongwith his staff went to Barot where

accused Neeraj got himself treated for the bullet

wound which he received in the encounter at 79 Deepak Petrol Pump. They went to Murti Nursing

home where Dr. Narender Kumar met and his

statement was recorded. On the way while coming

back they stopped at Indra Puri 100 feet road Loni

as accused Neeraj had disclosed that he had thrown

there the knife used in the crime. At the instance

of accused a knife was recovered from the bushes

on the roadside, its sketch was prepared vide memo

EX.PW 26/E and seized vide memo Ex PW 10/H. It

is stated that thereafter they came back and

deposited the case property in malkhana and

statements of witnesses were recorded. This witness was cross examined at length

by counsel for all the accused persons regarding the

arrest of accused Vikram, non ­joining of the public

witnesses at the time of his arrest, regarding

recovery of the exhibits from the spot ie the petrol

pump lifting of blood on the steering and the 80 footmat and regarding the arrest and recovery from

accused Neeraj and Rajender. 33. PW 27 Dr Deepak Vats from Apollo

hospital produced the treatment record of deceased

Mr. Rattan Roy which is collectively Ex.PW 27/A.

He also stated that death certificate of the deceased

Ex.PW 23/B was issued by Dr. RP Basia. 34. PW 28 Ranbir, Record Clerk ST Authority

produced the record of ownership of Ford Ikon Car

No DL 3CS 9438 to the effect that it was registered

in the name of Schneider Electric India Pvt. Ltd. 35. PW 29 KK Nagpal the draftsman prepared

the scaled siteplan EX PW 29/A of the site i.e

where the deceased Rattan Roy was kidnapped. 36. PW 30 SI Mukesh Kumar of PS Murad

Nagar District Ghaziabad was joined in the

investigation of this case on 19.12.2001 when SI

Rahul Sahni alongwith other staff from Delhi 81 visited him and he accompanied them to Moti

Nursing Home in Barot. 37. PW 31 Mr. Rochque Dias deposed that

accused Vikram present in the Court was living in

the hostel room in IG Stadium. He stated that the

police had visited the hostel one day in the early

morning and took him away from the hostel

room. 38. PW 32 Inspt. SS Malik the then SHO PS

Badarpur joined the investigation of this case on

30.11.01 . He is a witness to the arrest of accused

Rajender, Neeraj and Vikram Yadav and recovery

at their instance He deposed on the lines of PW 26

SI Rahul Sahani. He proved the disclosure

statement of accused Rajender as EX PW 32/A. He

further proved the seizure memo of the cell phone

and I card recovered from the possession of accused

Rajender as Ex.PW 32/B and Ex.PW32/C respectively. 82 He proved the sketch of the pistol recovered at the

instance of accused Rajender as Ex.PW32/D and the

seizure memo of the pistol and the cartridge as

Ex.PW 32/E. He further proved the seizure memo of

the articles recovered from the possession of

accused Neeraj Kumar ie one uniform wind cheater,

two flaps of the rank of SI, motorcycle make Bullet

and Rs. 11,500/­ from his house vide Ex PW 32/F

to H respectively. The two cheque books of

deceased Rattan Roy recovered from the possession

of accused Vikram Yadav were seized vide memo

EX PW 32/G as per the testimony of this witness.

He had obtained report regarding the blood group

of accused Rajender which is EX PW 32/J (wrongly

typed as Ex PW 32/A). He identified the case

property before the Court correctly ie I card Ex.P1,

country made pistol Ex.P2, an empty cartridge Ex.P3,

mobile phone Ex.P5, cash amounting to Rs. 11,500/­ 83 collectively Ex.P6, two cheque books Ex.P7 & P8,

uniform shirt Ex.P13, pant Ex.P14, wind cheater

Ex.P15 and the flaps Ex.P16/1­2. ( The recovery memos of these articles were already

exhibited in the testimony of PW 10 as Ex PW 10/C

to K respectively. ) 39. This witness was also cross examined by

the counsel for all the accused persons . He

admitted during cross examination that there were

bullet injuries on the person of deceased Rattan

Roy, however, he did not try to know how he had

received bullet injuries. He testified that the cause

of death of deceased Rattan Roy was brain

haemorrhage due to injuries. He further testified

that he came to know that police had fired at the

car in which victim was travelling but he did not

seize the weapons of the police used in firing and

stated that separate case was registered at PS 84 Seemapur regarding firing at the police officials

from the inmates of the car. He stated that Rattan

Roy had received injury because he was thrown out

of the moving car. He admitted that the fire arm

allegedly used by one of the accused was recovered

but he did not try to find out if the bullet was

fired by countrymade pistol which had hit the

deceased. He denied the suggestion that he came to

know conclusively that the bullet which hit the

deceased was fired from the service revolver or did

not investigate this aspect to shield the police

officials. This witness was also cross

examined regarding interception of the telephone

and regarding the arrest of accused Rajender He

stated that accused Rajender was arrested at 12.30

pm. He admitted that on 15.12.01 they had come to

know from where he could get recovered the 85 countrymade pistol but did not proceed to recover

the same, and he voluntarily stated that they did

not do so since other accused were to be arrested

or they would have run away. He stated that

accused Vikram was arrested at 3.45 pm and that all

the accused were arrested till 5 pm He stated that

accused Neeraj Kumar was having injury on his

neck and all the accused were got medically

examined on 16.12.01. He denied the suggestion

that the weapons were planted upon the accused

and false disclosures were prepared and lateron

weapons were shown to have been recovered on

19.12.01. He also denied the suggestion that country

made pistol was recovered from the place of cross

firing by the staff of PS Seemapuri which was

lateron planted in this case. He also denied that the

I card, currency notes, mobile and jackets were

planted upon the accused persons or that records 86 were manipulated to create evidence against the

accused persons. He categorically stated that at

the time of arrest of accused Neeraj his wife, father

and brothers were present but they refused to

join the proceedings and even neighbourers refused. Regarding the arrest of accused Vikram

Yadav he stated in cross examination that he had

reached the hostel at about 3:30 pm. He admitted

that he had not seen any record that the said

room from where accused was arrested was allotted

to whom. 40. PW 33 ACP Mohd Irshad Haider proved

his complaint U/s 195 Cr PC in case FIR No.261/01

PS Seemapuri as EX PW 33/A. 41. PW34 RB Singh the then MM

Karkardooma Court conducted TIP proceedings of

all the accused persons on 24.12.2001 but they

refused to participate in the proceedings. He 87 proved his order on the application moved by the

IO for conducting TIP proceedings as EX PW 34/A

and the proceedings as EX PW 34/B. 42. PW 35 Dr Anil Das from GTB hospital

proved the MLC of deceased Rattan Roy as EX PW

35/A. He testified that on 22.11.2001 at about 6 am

he had examined Rattan Roy at GTB hospital and

found the following injuries on his person: 43. PW 36 SI Rajkumar investigated case FIR

261/01 U/s 186/353/307/34 IPC PS Seemapuri. It is

testified that during investigation he prepared the

siteplan EX PW 36/A at the instance of SI Birj 88 Mohan. He got the scene of crime photographed

vide Mark A l to A 6. He further testified that he

made efforts to search the car involved in this case.

At 2.30 pm on 22.11.01 he received information from

PP Indra Puri that car No. DL 3 CS 9438 make

Ford Ikon was stationary near carbon factory 100 ft

road Arya Nagar . He alongwith one Constable

went there and seized the car vide memo Ex PW

36/B. On inspection of the car a bullet mark was

found on the dikky of the car and window glass of

left front side was found broken. Further he noticed

blood stains on the steering of the car. He stated

that the senior officers and the crime team had

reached the spot. Photographer was also summoned

there who took photographs of the car Mark A 7

to A 14. He lifted the blood from the steering of

the car vide memo EX PW 36/C. Further that

bullet leds were seized from the car vide memo Ex 89 PW 36/D . The broken pieces of glass and an empty

shell were seized from the spot vide memo Ex PW

6/A . He further conducted the search of the car

and found mobile and one diary which were seized

vide memo EX PW 36/B. He stated that he also

seized pistol and revolver from MHC(M) from PS

Dilshad Garden vide memo Ex PW 14/C. He also

searched for the accused persons and on 20.12.2001

he received a message from PS Badarpur that

accused persons were arrested so he formally

arrested them in case FIR No. 261/01 PS Seemapuri

vide memo ExPW36/D1 to D3. He further proved the

application EX PW 36/E moved by him before the

concerned MM for conducting TIP of the accused

persons. During cross examination he admitted

that police officials did not receive any injuries at

the hands of the accused. He further stated that 90 the abducted person was admitted in the hospital

as he had received injuries. He stated that he

obtained his MLC and found that he had having

head injury and perhaps he was having bullet injury

on one of his hand but he did not try to find out

as to how he had received bullet injury. 44. Regarding the testimony of PW6 Rajbir

the guard at Deepak Petrol Pump, PW36 SI

Rajkumar stated during cross examination that he

was present at the spot when he went there and

told him regarding the position of the site . He

further stated that he did not lift desi katta from

the spot at the pointing out of Rajbir or that he did

not seize the same formally to plant it subsequently.

He denied that there was any news about the arrest

of the accused persons on TV or newspapers. 45. PW 37 KC Varshney had examined the

country made pistol of .315 bore recovered at the 91 instance of accused Rajender and one fired

cartridge of the same bore. He testified that the

pistol was found in working order and the test fire

was conducted successfully and that the fired

cartridge was fired from this pistol and both the

articles fell within the definition of Arms and

Ammunitions. He proved his report Ex PW 37/A. 

 He further testified that on 2nd April 2002

seven parcels all sealed with the seal of RR

except parcel No 7 which was sealed with the

seal of RS was received in the laboratory for testing

in connection with FIR No 261/01 of PS Seemapuri.

The parcels contained exhibits as detailed in his

report. He further testified that he examined all

these arms and ammunitions and found the pistol

and revolver in working condition. He also testified

that BC 1 had been fired from pistol F­1 and EC 2

and EC 3 had been fired from revolver F­2, EV 1 92 had been fired through pistol F­1 and that the

arms and ammunitions examined by him in this

case also fell within the definition of arms and

ammunition as defined under the Arms Act and

proved his report to this effect as Ex.PW 37/B. 46. PW 38 Dr Manish Kumud from Dept of

Forensic AIIMS appeared on behalf of Dr. Varun

Dixit who had examined accused Neeraj vide MLC

Ex PW 38/A since Dr. Varun Dixit had left the

services of the hospital and has settled in UK, as

such Dr Manish Kumud was deputed by the MS to

depose in the present case. He testified that as per

the MLC on examination Dr Varun Dixit found

following injuries on the person of Neeraj: He further testified that as per the

opinion given by Dr Varun Dixit in the MLC the

possibility of the wound on the shoulder due to fire

arm cannot be ruled out. During cross examination he admitted

that dimension of the wound given in the MLC

was of stitched wound as such no depth of the

wound could be given. He admitted that in the

MLC the age of the wound was given as 2 weeks

but he could not say on what basis the said report

was given. This witness could not give the age of

the wound in view of the MLC Ex. PW 38/A. He

admitted that he had not examined the patient so

he could not say on the basis of description of

injury in the MLC that it was caused by fire arm. 94 47. Sh OS Srivastava Sr. Scientific Officer

Serology cum Assistant Chemical Examiner to the

Govt of India CFSL CBI was examined as CW1 who

had given the CFSL report dtd. 24.1.2003. He

testified that portion of exhibit as detailed in the

main biology division report were examined

serologically using various techniques and result

obtained are analysed as given in his report Ex.CW

1/X.

 During cross examination he admitted it

to be correct that A grouping has to be either A+ve

or A­ve. 48. CW 2 Dr. Rajender Kumar, Sr. Scientific

Officer, FSL Rohini, deposed on the lines of CW1

OS Srivastava. 49. Statement of the accused persons U/s 313

Cr. PC were recorded, whereby they denied the

incriminating evidence against them and have 95 claimed to be innocent. 50. Accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary has

claimed that he was picked from his house at 5 am

on 15.12.01alongwith his brother Vineet. He stated in

his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC that on 16/12/01 SI

Rahul Sahni went to his house with his brother

Vineet and took the money from his father and

lateron Vineet was let off and the money which

was given by his father to Rahul Sahni was planted

upon him. 51. Accused Rajender also stated that he was

falsely implicated after being picked up from his

house on 15.12.01 in the early hours. 52. The accused persons produced 7

witnesses in defence. 53. DW 1 Ashwani Kumar, Record Keeper

Karkardooma Courts produced the record pertaining

to case FIR NO 276/01 U/s 279/337 IPC PS 96 Dilshad Garden. He filed on record the certified

copy of statement of Ram Saran son of Ramkumar

from the aforesaid record as EX DW 1/1 and the

certified copy of the judgment as EX DW 1./2. 54. DW 2 Sh Lalit Pershad produced the

record pertaining to FIR NO 284/03 PS Parliament

Street . The certified copy of the charge sheet is Ex

DW 2/A and the FIR Ex DW 2/B. 55. DW 3 Dharam Pal Singh is the father

and DW 5 Vineet Chaudhary is the brother of

accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary. 56. DW 3 Dharam Pal Singh testified that on

15.12.01 police came to his residence at about 4 am

and took his both sons namely Neeraj and Vineet

with them. That he sent a telegram to

Commissioner of police, to the District & Sessions

Judge and to the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court

vide receipts EX DW 3/1 to 3 respectively and he 97 proved the certified copies of the telegrams as Ex

DW 4 to 6 respectively. He further testified that on the next day

around 12 noon his younger son Vineet was brought

back by police and they took Rs. 15,000/­ from him

for releasing Vineet and same day he sent

telegram Ex.DW 3/8 vide receipt Ex.DW3/7 to the

District & Sessions Judge, Tis Hazari Courts

informing about extraction of Rs. 15,000/­. He

further testified that he had received intimation

from the Hon'ble High Court dtd. 15/3/01 Ex.DW3/9

as his telegram was treated as Writ Petition. He

also testified that nothing was recovered from his

house pertaining to this case and that his son is

innocent and has been falsely implicated. 57. DW 5 Vineet Chaudhary deposed on the

lines of his father DW 3. 58. DW 4 Vikram Singh the elder brother of 98 accused Rajender testified that on 15.12.01 7/8

police officials came to his residence around 5 am

and took his younger brother alongwith them and

told that he would be released after interrogation.

He stated that he did not disclose the name of the

PS from where they had come and nothing else

was taken away by the police except his brother

from his residence. It is stated that they were not

accompanied by any public persons or any accused. 59. DW 6 Renu Bakshi Sr Judicial Asstt.

from the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi produced the

record pertaining to Crl Writ NO 102 /02 in the

matter of Dharampal Singh Vs State , the copy of

which is EX PW 3/9. 60. DW 7 Karan Singh from telegram office

New Delhi was summoned alongwith the telegram

record dtd. 15/12/01 and 16/12/01. He stated that

the record is maintained upto 3 months from the 99 date of booking and thereafter it was destroyed. 61. I have heard arguments and have gone

through the material on record carefully. 62. Addl PP for State has argued that the

prosecution has proved on record that deceased was

kidnapped alongwith his car Ford Ikon bearing

registration DL 3CS 9438 on 21.11.01 and DD NO

29A ExPW 12/A was lodged by the wife of deceased

Rattan Roy with PS Badarpur. It is submitted that

through the testimonies of PW Harmeek Singh, PW

Romy Chopra and PW TK Roy it is proved that the

deceased had been kidnapped and kidnappers

demanded Rs. 10 lacs for his release. It is further

submitted that the accused persons while travelling

alongwith Rattan Roy in a Ford Ikon car were

spotted by Harmeek Singh when they stopped at

Deepak Pertol pump and there was exchange of

firing between the accused persons and the police 100 party but they escaped from the petrol pump

speeding away the Ford Ikon belonging to Rattan

Roy and on the way they hit a rickshaw puller and

thereafter threw Rattan Roy from the moving car.

It is submitted that it is proved on record that

Rattan Roy was admitted in GTB Hospital with

injuries on his person and lateron he died in Apollo

hospital. It is further submitted that the prosecution

has duly proved through the testimony of official

witnesses that all the accused were arrested on

15.12.01 and recovery of incriminating material was

effected from their possession. It is submitted that

from the possession of accused Rajender his mobile

phone Ex.P5, fake I­card of Delhi Police ExP1, a

countrymade revolver Ex.P2 and empty cartridge

Ex.P3 used while firing at the police party was

effected and from accused Neeraj motorcycle

bearing No. DL5SL 4176 used in the incident was 101 recovered from his house besides a sum of Rs.

11,500/­ part of the sum which was withdrawn by

the accused persons on the ATM Card of Rattan

Roy was recovered from his possession, besides

police uniform EX P13 & 14 was also recovered at

his instance which was bearing bullet marks. It is

further argued that accused Vikram was arrested

from his room in the hostel at IG Stadium and at

his instance two cheque books Ex.P7 & 8 of

deceased were recovered from his possession. It is

vehemently argued that all the accused persons

refused to participate in the TIP on 24.12.01 which

raises strong suspicion against them of their

involvement in the incident. It is stated that all the

witnesses have corroborated the testimony of each

other and nothing material could be extracted

during their cross examination. It is further

submitted that the call record Ex PW11/B proves 102 that calls were made from the mobile of accused

Rajender with the SIM card of deceased Rattan Roy

on the intervening night of 21/11/01 ­ 22/11/01. It is

further submitted that vide the postmortem report

EX PW 23/A, it is proved on record that the death

of the deceased was on account of coma due to

head injury by fall from the car. It is submitted that

the witness Harmeek Singh SI Brij Mohan and Ct.

Ashok Kumar categorically stated that Rattan Roy

was thrown out of the Ford Ikon car while it was

being chased by the police in Maruti car driven by

Harmeek Singh. 63. It is submitted that it is proved on record

by the prosecution that it is the accused person

who had kidnapped Rattan Roy and the disclosure

statement of all the accused also finds corroboration

from the evidence led by the prosecution with the

recovery of fake I card, police uniform , traffic 103 police wind cheater, bullet motorcycle and other

incriminating material. It is further submitted that

the prosecution has also proved that it is accused

Neeraj who was driving the Ford Ikon and Vikram

was sitting next to him and accused Rajender was

siting at the rear seat alongwith Rattan Roy and

they were all seen by PW SI Brij Mohan, Ct Ashok

Kumar at the petrol pump where they had stopped

for petrol. The Ld prosecutor had further drawn

my attention towards the CFSL report EX .CW1/X1

that the blood lifted from the steering of Ford Ikon

was of A group and the blood of accused Neeraj

was also found to be of A group. It is submitted

that accused Neeraj cannot deny his presence in the

car in view of the aforesaid evidence. It is further

submitted that firing on the police party by accused

persons at Deepak Petrol Pump is also proved

beyond reasonable doubt vide testimony of PW14 SI 104 Brij Mohan and PW15 Ct. Ashok Kumar. It is prayed

that the accused persons are thus liable to be

convicted U/s. 120­B/419/364A/384/302/468 /186 /353

/307/34 IPC & 25/27 Arms Act . 64. On the other hand the defence counsel

has argued that the onus was on the prosecution to

prove the identity of the abductors/murderers and

that prosecution has relied upon three points in

this regard, firstly regarding firing on the police

party at Deepak Petrol Pump, it is claimed by the

prosecution that the police was fired at from Ford

Ikon car at the petrol pump and the assailants were

seen by the police officials in the said car. Secondly,

when the accused sped away from the petrol pump

in the Ford Ikon car their car hit a rickshaw puller

regarding which the case FIR No 276/01 was

registered with PS Dilshad Garden and thirdly that

incriminating material was recovered at the instance 105 of the accused persons. It is submitted that the

prosecution has also claimed that accused Neeraj

was driving Ford Ikon car of deceased Rattan Roy

and he sustained a bullet injury and that the

windcheater which was recovered at the instance of

accused Neeraj was having two bullet holes.

Further that the prosecution has relied upon the

identity card recovered from the possession of

accused Rajender bearing his photograph with the

name of accused Neeraj and has claimed that the

accused persons had impersonated while stopping

the car of the deceased that they were from police

and after involving him in conversation abducted

him in his own car. Further that the prosecution

has relied upon that the mobile of Rattan Roy

bearing telephone No. 9910158032 with IMEI No.

449125550757180 and that this number was changed

during conversation to 449269200615380 which was 106 of mobile No. 9810590140 of accused Rajender. The

defence counsel has submitted that there is ample

evidence on record that deceased had received a

bullet injury in cross firing and there is every

possibility that he died on account of receipt of the

said injury and not due to the head injury as

alleged by the prosecution. It is submitted that no

cogent evidence has been produced on record by

the prosecution that accused persons were seen by

SI Brij Mohan and Ct Ashok Kumar alongwith

Rattan Roy (now deceased) in his Ford Ikon at the

petrol pump when the firing took place between the

police and the occupants of the said car. He

submitted that in view of the testimony of PW 6

Rajbir Singh the guard posted at petrol pump the

police officers could not have seen the occupants

of the car as they had fired at Ford Ikon after

taking position behind maruti car and both the cars 107 were at a distance of about 25 feet. It is submitted

that as per the testimony of this witness the police

officers had not even gone near the Ford Ikon

therefore they could not have seen its occupants.

It is further submitted that PW 6 Rajbir has further

stated during cross examination that the glasses of

the Ford Ikon were dark and window panes were

rolled up, as such again the police officers could

not have seen its occupants even if they had gone

near the car. It is submitted that if police was

already aware of that Rattan Roy was in Ford Ikon

but still they fired at Ford Ikon indiscriminately

without even caring for the life of the person

abducted. It is further submitted that no judicial

TIP was arranged by the IO immediately after the

arrest of the accused persons on the basis of IMEI

number and as such though the accused persons

were arrested on 15.12.01 but they are shown to 108 have been identified by SI Brij Mohan in GTB

hospital on 24.12.01. It is submitted that PW 14 Brij

Mohan and PW15 Ct. Ashok Kumar had not given

any description of the occupants of the Ford Ikon

and as such it was the bounded duty of the IO to

have arranged for TIP proceedings of the accused

persons for their identification by PW Brij Mohan

and Ct Ashok Kumar. It is submitted that after

the arrest of the accused persons they appeared on

TV and newspapers on 16.12.2001 as such their

identification by PW 14 Brij Mohan on 24.12.01 in

GTB hospital and thereafter in the Court is of no

consequence. The defence counsel has further

submitted that the evidence of both PW 14 SI Brij

Mohan and PW 15 Ct Ashok Kumar is shaky

regarding the identification of the accused persons.

He has submitted that as per the prosecution case

the Ford Ikon while speeding away from the petrol 109 pump had hit a rickshaw and a separate case vide

FIR No 271/01 was registered with PS Dilshad

Garden in this regard. However the injured in that

case deposed before the Court that the car was

driven by a Sikh gentleman at that time. It is

submitted that DW1 Ashwani Record, Record keeper

( criminal) from Karkardooma Courts produced the

summoned record pertaining to case FIR NO. 271/01

U/s 279.337 IPC PS Dilshad Garden and filed on

record the certified copy of the statement of Ram

Saran the injured in that case as EX DW 1/1 and

certified copy of the judgment Ex.DW1/2. 65. It is submitted that even the link

evidence is missing in the present case as the the

Ford Ikon car was found abandoned but no finger

prints were lifted therefrom and the blood stains

which were lifted from the steering of the car,

though as per the report of CFSL EX CW1/X1 110 were of human origin ''A'' group but the

prosecution has failed to prove that this blood

group A was of accused Neeraj who was allegedly

driving Ford Ikon at the time of incident. It is

submitted that there are contradictions in the

statement of PW 15 Ct Ashok Kumar recorded U/s

161 Cr PC and his testimony recorded on oath as he

stated in his chief examination that SI Brij Mohan

had told them to surround the golden colour car

and he himself ran and reached to the front

window of the car. During cross examination he

stated that SI Brij Mohan went to left side front

widow of the car, whereas in his statement Ex PW

15/DA recorded U/s 161 Cr PC it is mentioned that

SI Brij Mohan went to driver side of car and told

occupants to get down. It is further submitted that

except PW15 Ct Ashok Kumar no other witness has

deposed about sufficiency of light / sound lighting 111 at the petrol pump. It is further submitted that if

PW 15 Ct Ashok Kumar was positioned near the

rear window of the car then he could not have

seen the faces of the occupants of the car. It is

submitted that in these circumstances his

identification of the accused persons in the Court

for the first time is of no consequence. It is further

submitted that the evidence of this witness

regarding identity of the accused persons is shaky.

The defence counsel has further argued that DW 1

Ashwani Kumar, the Record Keeper (Criminal)

Karkardooma Court produced the judicial record

of case FIR NO 276/01 U/s 279/337 IPC PS Dilshad

Garden, wherein the injured Ram Saran son of

Ram Kumar made statement on oath Ex. DW 1/1

and testified that the about 5/6 months ago in

the morning time at about 5 am he was going to

Gazipur Mandi to purchase vegetables by Rickshaw 112 and when he reached Dilshad Garden red light one

vehicle of white colour came from the side of

Seemapuri and struck against him. He testified that

this vehicle was driven by some sikh. It is pertinent

to mention that case NO 276/01 was registered

with PS Dilshad Garden after the Ford Ikon

bearing registration No. DL3CS 9438 belonging to

deceased Rattan Roy was allegedly driven by

accused Neeraj at a fast speed and had hit the

injured Ram Saran son of Ram Kumar. It is

submitted that in view of the statement of PW

Ram Saran in case FIR NO. 276/01 PS Dilshad

Garden it is not the accused Neeraj who was

driving the Ford Ikon of deceased Rattan Roy at

the time of the accident as claimed by the

prosecution and he has been falsely implicated. It

is submitted that Ram Saran son of Ram Kumar

was an important witness to establish the identity 113 of the accused persons but he was neither cited

nor examined by the prosecution for which adverse

inference be drawn. It is further submitted that the

rukka does not find mention the description of the

accused persons. It is further submitted that there

are discrepancies in the testimony of witnesses as to

whether the right or the left widow pane of the car

was broken. It is submitted that PW 14 SI Brij

Mohan even could not say if the widow panes were

tainted or plain. It is further submitted that PW 14

SI Brij Mohan could have easily identified the

accused persons in the GTB hospital on 24.12.01 as

the accused persons after their arrest on 15.12.01

were shown on television on 16.12.01. 66. Regarding the testimony of PW 15Ct Ashok

regarding identification of the accused persons, the

defence counsel has submitted that in his statement

U/s 161 Cr PC he has nowhere stated that he had 114 seen the accused persons in the car and that he

did not give their description, as such the

identification of the accused persons by this witness

for the first time in the Court does not inspire any

credence. 67. It is further submitted that the prosecution

has failed to prove on record that deceased Rattan

Roy had died on account of injuries received by fall

from the car as there was also a bullet injury on

his person when he was admitted in GTB hospital

and the possibility cannot be ruled out that died on

account of bullet injury. It is submitted that PW 6

Rajbir who was uninterested witness testified during

cross examination that police had started firing the

moment the police persons got down from maruti

car and they did not give any warning before

starting firing on the car. It is submitted that the

police even did not bother even to take care of the 115 kidnapped person who was inside the car. 68. It is further submitted that PW 32 Inspt

SS Malik during cross examination admitted that he

came to know there was bullet injury on the person

of Rattan Roy but he did not try to know how he

had received bullet injury. It is submitted that this

was a serious lapse on the part of all the

Investigating Officers who were investigating a

murder case and it ought have been investigated

as to whether the injury on the person of the

deceased was on account of firing by the police or

by the occupants of the car. 69. Regarding the recovery of Katta at the

instance of the accused Rajender Singh, it is

submitted that it is a false recovery as katta had

already been recovered from the petrol pump as

deposed by PW 6 Rajbir during his cross

examination but police did not seize it formally and 116 planted upon the accused. It is submitted that the

recovery of katta was thus planted upon accused

Rajender. It is further argued that as per the

testimony of prosecution witnesses accused Neeraj

had made a disclosure statement EX.PW10/D on

15.12.01 that he could get recovered a pistol and

that the recovery as per the prosecution was

effected on 20.12.01, therefore since the spot of

recovery was already in the knowledge of the police

which is otherwise a public place no reliance can

be placed on such recovery which is made in the

absence of any public witness. 70. Regarding the injury on the person

of accused Neeraj who was examined by PW 38

Dr Manish Kumath, it is submitted that the

prosecution has failed to prove on record that the

accused Neeraj had suffered bullet injury at the

petrol pump during the police firing nor it is 117 proved on record as to when this injury was

sustained by the accused. 71. Regarding the arrest of accused Rajender

followed by the arrest of accused Neeraj and

Vikram Yadav, it is submitted that as per the

prosecution case the accused persons were making

ransom cal from the mobile phone of deceased

bearing mobile No. 9810158032 and when the battery

of the said mobile phone exhausted the SIM card of

the deceased was transferred to mobile bearing

No. 9810590140 which belong to accused Rajender

and was lateron recovered from his possession. It

is submitted that as per the prosecution the IMEI

NO. of the mobile phone of deceased was

4491255507571890 whereas when the SIM of the

deceased was inserted in the other mobile and

the calls were made to different Nos the IMEI

NO. detected was 449269200615380. It is submitted 118 that the prosecution has claimed that from the

aforesaid IMEI NO the calls made from mobile of

accused Rajender were traced to PW 7 Sandeep

Sharma and through him they reached the accused

Rajender . It is further submitted that as per the

prosecution PW7 Sandeep Sharma was tracked

down on account of land line telephone No. 2111031

but the prosecution has failed to bring any evidence

on record as to at which address the said landline

telephone was installed. It is submitted that IMEI

NO can also be coloned and one such instance is

reflected in the chargesheet Ex.DW2/A pertaining to

FIR No. 284/03 PS Parliament Street. 72. It is further submitted that there are

discrepancies in the testimony of the prosecution

witnesses regarding the time of arrest of accused

Rajender as PW 7 Sandeep testified that the

police had reached his house in the evening of 119 15.12.01, whereas PW 26 SI Rahul Sahni and PW

32 Inspt SS Malik testified during cross examination

that accused Rajender was arrested at about 12.30

pm on 15.12.2001. It is submitted that the accused

Rajender could not have been arrested at 12.30 pm

if the police came to know about his address in the

evening of 15.12.2001, whereas, as per the statement

of PW 32 Inspt SS Malik all the accused had been

arrested till 5 pm. It is submitted that no public

witness was joined at the time of the arrest of the

accused persons despite the fact that the arrest as

per the police officials was conducted during day

time and public persons were available. It is further

submitted that though it is claimed by the

prosecution witnesses that all the accused persons

were arrested by 5pm on 15.12.2001, there is no

explanation as to why on the same date the

recovery at the instance of accused Rajender was 120 not conducted. It is submitted that the defence

witnesses have proved on record that accused

Neeraj and Rajender were picked up from their

respective houses a round 5am on 15.12.2001 and

telegrams were sent to the higher authorities by the

family of accused Neeraj. 73. Regarding the seizure of wind cheater

ExP15 vide seizure memo EX PW 10/K it is

submitted that it was sent to CFSL however as per

the report of CFSL EX.PW37A and PW37/B no

residue of the bullet were found thereon. As such

it cannot be said that these holes were caused on

account of bullet injuries due to police firing at

Petrol Pump. 74. Regarding the recovery of fake I card. EX

Pl it is submitted that no evidence was led by the

prosecution that accused Rajender had forfeited or

ever used this card for his benefit. 75. Regarding accused Vikram Yadav, Adv. Mr

SP Kaushal has submitted that in the seizure

memo Ex. PW 10/M whereby the two cheque books

belonging to the deceased were alleged recovered

from the possession of accused Vikram Yadav

only Room NO 3 is mentioned, whereas there are

several blocks alphabetically in the hostel and in all

the blocks there was room No. 3, as such

prosecution has failed to prove that the recovery

was effected from the room in possession of

accused . It is further submitted that even PW 10 Ct

Balram and PW 26 SI Rahul Sahni have both

stated that recovery was effected from Room No. 3

and they have not given the block in which this

room was situated. It is submitted that it is only

PW16 HC Surender Kumar who deposed that he

met Mr Rochque at the stadium who informed him

that Vikram Yadav son of Inder Singh resident of 122 Bhawana was staying in hostel in Room NO J 3, It

is submitted that except the testimony of this

witness there is no evidence on record that

accused Vikram Yadav was staying in a hostel at

Room J ­3. He has drawn my attention towards

the document EX PW 16/B issued by Rochque Dias,

the Dy Director Delhi Center Sports of India,

wherein the number of the room in occupation of

accused Vikram is mentioned as Room NO 3. The

defence counsel has further submitted that letter Ex.

PW 16/B was not shown to Rochque its author

when he was examined as PW 31. It is submitted

that PW 31 has testified that accused Vikram Yadav

was arrested in the morning whereas all the other

witnesses have deposed about his arrest in the

evening. 76. The defence counsel has further submitted

that PW 32 Inspt SS Malik did not depose from 123 where the cheque books belonging to the

deceased were recovered from the possession of

accused Vikram Yadav. It is submitted that these

cheque books were of no use to the accused since

the cheques were unsigned as such there was no

reason for the accused to retain the cheque books

instead of destroying them. It is submitted that as

per the prosecution also the brief case of the

deceased was recovered from the Ford Ikon and if

the prosecution story is believed the accused

persons had even no time to take out the cheque

books as the car was chased by the police,

deceased was thrown out of the car and then car

was abandoned. 77. It is submitted by counsel for all the

accused that since the prosecution has failed to

bring enough evidence on record showing

involvement of the accused persons in the 124 kidnapping and murder of Rattan Roy, hence they

are liable to be acquitted. 78. After hearing the submissions of both the

parties, I have gone through the record carefully. 79. All the accused persons have faced trial

for kidnapping of Rattan Roy (now deceased) for

ransom in furtherance of their criminal conspiracy

to kidnap someone for ransom and for the murder

of the deceased by throwing him out of the running

car and for firing at the police and obstructing

them in performance of their official duties. All the

accused persons have further faced trial U/s 419 IPC for posing as police officers to Rattan Roy

and stopping his car on the pretext of checking the

documents of car while accused Neeraj was

wearing dress of SI of Delhi Police and accused

Rajender was wearing jacket of traffic police.

Accused Rajender has faced trial U/s 468 IPC being 125 found in possession of fake/ forged I card in the

name of Neeraj Kumar Ct bearing the photograph

of Rajender Singh. Accused Neeraj Kumar and

Rajender have also faced trial under Arms Act .

All the accused have further faced trial U/s 383 IPC for withdrawing Rs. 30,000/­ by using ATM

card of Rattan Roy after his kidnapping, by putting

him under the fear of injury and death. 80. The fact that the deceased Rattan

Roy was kidnapped has not been disputed by the

accused persons nor it is disputed that kidnapping

was with a view to extort ransom as PW1 Mausmi

Roy the wife of the deceased, PW 3 TK Roy

the brother of the deceased, PW 5 Romi Chopra

who had been receiving the telephone calls from

Rattan Roy that he was kidnapped for ransom

have not been cross examined. However, it is

denied that it is the accused persons who had 126 kidnapped the deceased Rattan Roy for ransom in

his own Ford Ikon car bearing registration No

DL3CS 9438 and in the process were intercepted by

the police at the Deepak petrol pump where firing

was exchanged between the police party and the

accused persons and the accused persons sped away

from the petrol pump in Ford Ikon of deceased

Rattan Roy and on the way threw deceased Rattan

Roy out of the fast moving car due to which he

suffered head injury and was removed to GTB

hospital from where he was shifted to Apollo

hospital, where he succumbed to the injuries on

29/11/01. 81. To establish the identify of the accused

persons that they had kidnapped deceased Rattan

Roy for ransom, the prosecution has examined PW

14 SI Brij Mohan and PW 15 Ct Ashok Kumar.

Both these witnesses were travelling in the car of 127 PW Harmeek Singh and were proceeding towards

GTB Road as the call was received from the

kidnappers asking Harmeek Singh to reach

opposite GTB Hospital to pay the ransom and while

they were so moving golden car was spotted by

Harmeek Singh who disclosed this fact to the police

accompanying him and as such they followed the

golden car which had taken turn into Deepak petrol

pump. On seeing the number plate of the Ford

Ikon Harmeek Singh had confirmed to the police

that the car belonged to Rattan Roy deceased, as

such Harmeek Singh was told to take his car in

front of the Ford Ikon but due to short space it

could not be done and the car of Harmeek Singh

was stopped behind golden car. 82. PW 14 SI Brij Mohan testified that after

the maruti car was stopped by Harmeek Singh he

told his staff to surround the car and that he would 128 get down the occupants of the golden car, bearing

No. DL3CS 9438. He went to the left side window

of the car which was slightly open and he told its

occupants to come down but before he could

complete his sentence somebody from inside the car

fired. He stated that by the time he could reach

for his pistol, another fire took place inside the car.

By that time he had loaded his pistol and fired into

the car but the person on the left side of the car

ducked down. It is stated that due to firing by

him the left side front widow glass of the car was

broken He categorically stated that the person on

the driver seat was wearing blue colour jacket. It is

stated that thereafter the driver of the Ford Ikon

immediately ran away with the car towards the

same direction from which they had come. He

directed his Ct. to fire at the tyre of the car and

two rounds fired by the Ct., besides one round fired 129 by him. It is stated that initially two rounds which

he had fired struck the person who was driving

the car. Regarding the rounds fired by his Ct., he

stated that these did not strike the tyre but the car.

Thereafter the police again chased the aforesaid

car in the car of Harmeek Singh and it was

confirmed that deceased Rattan Roy was travelling

in the said car alongwith the other persons when

he was thrown outside the car by its occupants.

This witness testified that on 24.12.01 all the

accused persons present in th Court were brought

to GTB hospital for medical examination where he

identified all three of them and disclosed that

accused Rajender was sitting with Rattan Roy on

back seat, while accused Neeraj was on the driver

seat and accused Vikram was sitting next to Neeraj

on the front seat. The argument of the defence

counsel is that the description of the accused 130 persons was not given in the rukka by SI Brij

Bhushan and he did not even identify any of the

accused persons in any TIP proceedings. It is

submitted the accused persons were arrested on

15.12.2001 and that on 16.12.2001 they appeared on

television, therefore it was easy for PW 14 SI Brij

Mohan to identify the accused persons at any time

thereafter since he had already seen them on the

television, however, I find no force in the

aforesaid argument as no evidence has been led in

defence to the effect that the accused persons

appeared on television on 16.12.01. Regarding the

TIP proceedings it is pertinent to mention that all

the accused persons had refused to participate in

the test identification parade on 18/12/01, as such

there was no occasion for PW 14 SI Brij Mohan or

any other witness to identify the accused persons in

the test identification parade. It is pertinent to 131 note that in the statement of PW14 SI Brij Mohan

recorded U/s 161 Cr.PC on 22/11/01 itself when the

incident had taken place, it finds mention clearly

that he could identify the three kidnappers sitting

in the car if shown to him. The testimony of PW 14

SI Brij Mohan regarding the identity of the accused

persons has not been shattered in any manner

despite lengthy cross examination. It is pertinent to

note that in the testimony of PW15 Ct.Ashok

Kumar who was also alongwith PW14 SI Brij

Mohan at the petrol pump and had seen golden

car of the deceased has testified that there was

sufficient light at the petrolpump which was

having sound lighting. It is further pertinent to

mention that both these witnesses have stated

that the front left side widow pane of the car was

broken due to firing and it is proved on record that

the broken pieces of the car which were lifted from 132 the spot and are collectively exhibited as EX.P9

were of plain glasses which were obviously

transparent and the occupants of the car could be

clearly seen by the witnesses present at the petrol

pump in the light available at the petrol pump. So

for the mere reason that the description of the

accused persons was not given by PW 14 SI Brij

Mohan in the rukka is of no consequence. The

testimony of this witness is corroborated by the

testimony of PW 15 Ct Ashok Kumar who was also

present alongwith him at the petrolpump as he

stated that the person who was in the Ford Ikon

were seen by him at petrol pump when exchange

of firing had taken place. This witness also

categorically stated that the glasses of the car were

plain and window pane of the car were broken into

pieces. This witness had further pointed out during

his testimony towards accused Rajender that he 133 was sitting on the rear seat of the car, he pointed

out towards accused Neeraj Kumar that he was

driving the car and that accused Vikram Yadav

was sitting on the seat adjoining the driver. He

admitted during cross examination that he had told

this fact for the first time that too in the Court

about the sitting arrangements of the accused

persons in the car. He also admitted that he had

not mentioned in his statement U/s 161 Cr. PC

that the persons who were occupants of the Ford

Ikon were seen by him during exchange of fire.

The argument of the defence counsel that he is

deposing for the first time in the Court about

sitting arrangements of the accused persons in the

car and about their identity, as such his testimony

cannot be relied upon, has no force as a witness is

not required to give all the minute details in his

statement U/s161 Cr. PC and merely for the reason 134 he did not narrate certain facts in his statement

before the police he cannot be discredited.

Moreover, in the present case this witness has

categorically stated that the glasses of the Ford

Ikon car occupied by the accused persons were

plain and there was sufficient light at the petrol

pump, as such there cannot be any doubt that

these witnesses had seen the accused persons in the

Ford Ikon at the spot. This witness has

categorically denied the suggestion that he had

not seen the occupants of the Ford Ikon or he

had seen the accused persons either in T.V or

newspaper or had identified them at the instance

of the IO. The other witness who was present at

the petrol pump at the time of the aforesaid

incident was PW2 Harmeek Singh who did not see

the accused persons in the golden car of the

deceased as he stated that when he drove his car 135 to the Ford Ikon and all the police officers went

out of the car he could just hear the firing sound

and in order to save himself he ducked in the car.

The other witness who could have possibly seen the

accused persons in the Ford Ikon was PW 6

Rajbir Singh but he did not speak about the

identity of its occupants. In his chief examination

he supported the prosecution case that on the

relevant date and time a longish car came to the

petrol pump for taking petrol where he was

working as gunman and it was followed by one

maruti car which was just stopped behind it and

some police persons got down from the maruti car

and firing took place. The defence counsel has

submitted that PW 6 Rajbir Singh during his cross

examination has stated that police persons did not

go upto the longish car on foot and that the

glasses of the longish car were tainted and were 136 rolled up when it stood at the petrol pump and

nothing was visible inside. It is taken a note of

that the chief examination of this witness in

substance was recorded on 26.3.03 and was deferred

only for identification of the case property ie

broken glass pieces of the car windows Ex.P9. His

further statement was recorded on 23.5.03 after two

months of his earlier statement when he totally

changed his colour by deposing that the glasses of

longish car were tainted and rolled up and nothing

was visible inside. It is pertinent to mention that

Ex.P9 are the glass pieces which were observed to

be of plain glasses and were not tainted, therefore

this witness made a false statement on oath on

23.5.03 and the possibility cannot be ruled out that

he was won over by the accused persons. Besides

his statement that the glasses of the longish car

were rolled up when the car stood at the petrol 137 pump again does not inspire any credence as if the

car had stopped there for taking petrol either

someone had to get down from the car to place

order for petrol or the glass of at least one

window pane was to be rolled down to place the

order. Thus the testimony of PW14 SI Brij Mohan

that left side front window pane was rolled down a

bit is believable. At the same time the testimony of

PW6 Rajbir Singh during cross examination became

tainted. Moreover, once it is proved on record that

the glasses of the windows of the car were plain, it

is immaterial whether the windowpanes were rolled

up or down as the plain glasses are always

transparent and see through. It is further pertinent

to mention that the blue colour jacket worn by the

driver of Ford Ikon seen at the petrol pump by

PW14 SI Brij Mohan was lateron recovered from the

possession of accused Neeraj and is EX.P15. 138 In view of the above discussion, it is

proved on record by the prosecution beyond any

doubt that it is the accused persons who were

found present in the Ford Ikon of deceased Ratan

Roy at the Deepak Petrol Pump and were seen by

the police officials. 83. The other argument of the defence

counsel is that as per Ram Saran the injured in

case FIR No.276/01 registered with PS Dilshad

Garden,U/s 279/337 IPC that the Ford Ikon car

bearing registration No DL 3CS 9438 was driven

by sikh gentleman and that he categorically denied

that accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary was driving

the said vehicle. It is further submitted that in view

of his testimony in the aforesaid case accused

Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary has been wrongly

identified by PW 14 SI Brij Mohan and PW 15 Ct

Ashok Kumar in the present case as the person 139 found sitting on the driver seat in the Ford Ikon at

the Deepak Petrolpump. However, I find no merits

in the said contention as Ram Saran, the injured in

case FIR No 276/01 PS Dilshad Garden has not

been examined by the accused persons in defence

in the present case. Besides there can be various

reasons for his not identifying the accused in the

aforesaid case such like he was under any

extraneous pressure or infact he had not seen the

driver at the time of the accident. It is pertinent to

mention that incident is dated 22.11.2001 and the

accident as per the certified copy of the judgment

Ex.DW 1 /2 in case FIR No. 276/01 registered with

PS Dilshad Garden U/s. 279/337 IPC took

place at 6 am and it must be dark at that time

and it is quite possible he did not actually see who

was on the driving seat. It is pertinent to mention

that in his statement Ex.DW1/1 in the above 140 referred case the injured Ram Saran besides stating

that some sikh was driving the vehicle also testified

that he cannot identify the driver of the vehicle

who was driving the same at the time of the

accident. He did not depose in chief examination

that accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary present

in Court was not the driver but it was somebody

else who was driving the vehicle, on the contrary

he stated that he cannot identify the driver of the

vehicle. So far the mere reason Ram Saran was

declared hostile in the above referred case no

benefit can be derived by the accused Neeraj

Kumar Chaudhary in the present case since the

Ford Ikon was being chased by the maruti car

driven by PW 2 Harmeek Singh in which the police

persons were also travelling and the occupants of

the Ford Ikon were aware of the fact that they

were being chased, thus it was driven at a fast 141 speed and as such the possibility of the injured in

the accident case seeing the accused driving the

aforesaid vehicle was too less, particularly, 22nd of

November and time was 6AM and judicial notice

of the fact can be taken that in the end of

November at 6 AM there is no day light and

since the accident took place at the spur of moment

so the injured must not have looked at the face of

the driver of the car carefully as before he could

realise that he was hit, the vehicle must have

passed away. It is no case of the prosecution or the

defence that the Ford Ikon after hitting the

rickshaw and hurting Ram Saran had stopped

there even for a second. Besides it is also discussed

above that accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary was

seen by PW 14 SI Birj Mohan and PW 15 Ct

Ashok Kumar on the driver seat at Deepak Petrol

pump and after the Ford Ikon had left the petrol 142 pump after exchange of firing with the police, it is

proved vide the testimony of PW2 Harmeek Singh,

PW14 SI Brij Mohan and PW15 Ct Ashok Kumar

that there car was chased by the maruti car driven

by PW 2 Harmeek Singh and they saw it hitting

the rickshaw and thereafter throwing of Ratan Roy

out of the moving car, as such there was even no

possibility of change of driver from the petrolpump

to the spot of accident so as to say that it was

driven by sikh gentleman at the time of the

accident. Moreover, it is taken note of that it is not

the defence of the accused persons that the police

officials were enimical towards them and they were

falsely implicated for the said reason. It is also not

the case of the defence that these were accused

persons were known to the police from before and

as such they were chosen to be implicated falsely.

The testimony of PW 14 SI Birj Mohan and PW 143 15 Ct Ashok Kumar has proved on record that all

the accused persons were present in the Ford

Ikon alongwith the deceased Ratan Roy at Deepak

petrol pump, accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary was

on the driver seat, accused Vikram Yadav was

sitting next to him in Ford Ikon and accused

Rajender was sitting at the rear seat alongwith the

deceased. There is also other sufficient evidence on

record regarding the involvement of the accused

persons in the present case. The prosecution case is

that deceased Ratan Roy had been making calls to

his brother PW3 TK Roy, his boss PW 5 Romi

Chopra from his mobile that he had been

kidnapped and they should arrange for a sum of

Rs.10 lacs to pay as ransom to the kidnappers. PW

3 TK Roy, the elder brother of deceased Ratan Roy

has testified that on 21.11.01 between 8.30/9 pm he

received a telephone call from his brother Ratan 144 Roy who told him that he had been caught by CBI

person and he should talk to them. At this Ratan

Roy gave his cell phone to those persons who had

caught him. When TK Roy asked the name of the

person to whom he was talking he told him that

his name was Rahim Khan and when he asked

him about the allegations made by Ratan Roy, he

was told that they were not from CBI but had

kidnapped his brother. This witness further testified

that he kept on receiving telephone calls from his

brother Ratan Roy with an interval of about one

hour approximately. Similarly PW 5 Romi Chopra

deposed that he received a telephone call on his

mobile from Mr. Ratan Roy at about 9.30 pm who

told him that he was in need of Rs. 10 lacs and

that he wanted money immediately. He too

deposed that he was receiving calls from Ratan Roy

regularly every 15 minutes or so who was 145 constantly enquiring from him if he was able to

arrange money or not. This witness further testified

that lateron he had handed over his mobile phone

to Rohit Bansal who was going to PS Badarpur to

lodge the report of kidnapping of Ratan Roy as

the calls were received from Ratan Roy on the

said mobile which was lateron given by Rohit

Bansal to PW2 Harmeek Singh. PW2 Harmeek

Singh corroborated the statement of Romi Chopra

to the effect that his mobile phone was given to

him by Rohit Bansal and he had received

telephone call from the kidnapper at Mohan

Nagar crossing asking them to come to Shahdara

border and when they went towards Shahdara

border and waited there, he again received a call

asking him to go to GTB hospital so they turned

towards GTB hospital, when in the meantime they

had spotted Ford Ikon belong to Ratan Roy taking 146 a turn towards Deepak petrol pump. The

prosecution has relied upon call record of mobile

No.9810158032 of Ratan Roy and of accused

Rajender Kumar bearing mobile No. 9810590140 as

on the basis of IMEI number of both the mobiles,

accused Rajender was arrested through his friend

Sandeep Sharma examined as PW 7. The call

record has been proved vide testimony of PW 11

RK Singh, Nodal Officer Bharti Cellular Ltd.

(Airtel) who proved on record the application

Ex.PW 11/A moved by SI Rahul Sahani seeking

details of the incoming and outgoing calls of mobile

No. 9810158032. The witness deposed that in

response to the application the call details of the

aforesaid mobile number Ex.PW 11/B were

furnished. Perusal of the aforesaid call details

shows that the outgoing calls were made from the

telephone No.9810158032 w.e.f 8.51 pm on 21.11.01 147 till 7.07 am on 22.11.01. The call made at 8.51 pm

on 21.11.01 was bearing IMEI No.449125550757180

and this IMEI number appeared on the call record

till a call was made to mobile No. 9810089860 at

12.18AM on 22.11.01. Thereafter the IMEI number

of the calls made from mobile No.9810158032

changed to 449269200615380. PW 11 RK Singh,

Noodle Officer Bharti Cellular Ltd. has further

deposed that SI Rahul Sahani moved an

application Ex.PW 11/C seeking details of the

telephone number having IMEI No. 449269200615380

which IMEI number was reflecting in the call

details of the number of Ratan Roy. In response to

the said letter the details supplied in respect of

IMEI No. 449269200615380 are Ex.PW 11/D which

relates to phone No.9810590140. PW 11 RK Singh,

Noodle Officer Bharti Cellular Ltd. has

categorically stated that the document Ex.PW 11/D 148 shows that the same instrument was used on

mobile No.9810158032 which belonged to Ratan

Roy. This witness further proved the cell ID chart

as Ex.PW 11/E. 84. PW 26 SI Rahul Sahani testified that on

23.11.01 he obtained the call details of telephone of

Ratan Roy from the Airtel and on checking the call

details it was found that after 12 mid night the

IMEI number of the cell phone had changed. It

was also found that IMEI number used thereafter

was not currently being used by anybody for

making call. This witness remained in constant

touch with Airtel Company about IMEI number

which was used by the kidnappers and after few

days he learnt that the instrument having the said

IMEI number was now in use. He collected

operational details of the call being made by an

instrument having IMEI No. 449269200615380 and 149 came to know about some phones of Ram Nagar,

Ashok Nagar and Shahdara. These phones kept

under watch. An application was moved to the

Competent Authority seeking permission to tape the

conversation of these telephones on parallel lines.

On the night of 14.12.01 at about 8.15 pm as

deposed by PW 26 SI Rahul Sahani a call was

received from IMEI No. 449269200615380 having

cell phone No. 9810590140 and from the location

chart it was learnt that the phone was in Shahdara.

The call details of this phone number were

obtained from the Cellular Phone Co. from 3.12.01

to 14.12.01 which are proved on record as

Ex.PW26/C­l to C­8 respectively. PW 26 SI Rahul

Sahani also collected the details of the cell phone

who had called the cell phone No. 9810590140 on

14.12.01 and in the call details of that cell phone

there was one landline telephone No.2111031 as 150 shown in Ex.PW 26/C 7 at point A which was

already under watch and through this information

the police raided the house on 15.12.07 at which

the said landline number was installed where

Sandeep Sharma met the police and was enquired

about mobile No. 9810691713 from which telephone

calls were made to mobile No. 9810590140.

Sandeep Sharma disclosed that the said mobile

number was of accused Rajender Kumar and on

enquiry from Sandeep Sharma about mobile

No.9810691713, he disclosed that the aforesaid

mobile number belongs to him. From the call record

Ex.PW 26/C8, it is proved that two calls were

made from mobile No. 9810691713 on mobile No.

9810590140 at 8.12pm & 8.13 pm respectively and

the cell ID was 13527 & 1351 respectively and this

fact is admitted by PW7 Sandeep Sharma in his

testimony that on 14.12.01 he spoke to accused 151 Rajender Kumar on his mobile. He further stated

that on 14.12.01 he had dialed mobile number of

accused Rajender Kumar and on his first dialing

the connection got connected and he heard the

voice ­ 'Hello Hello' , three/ four times at about 8.15

pm and thereafter he disconnected the phone. He

further stated that he again dialed this number

when someone picked up the phone and told him

that it was wrong number. From the said testimony

of PW 7 Sandeep Sharma, it is proved on

record that two calls were made from the mobile

No. 9810691713 of Sandeep Sharma to mobile

number of accused Rajender Singh on 14.12.2001

at about 8.15 pm but exact time is given in the calls

details Ex.PW26/C8 as 8.12pm and 8.13pm

respectively. It is through these two telephone

calls the police reached PW7 Sandeep Sharma and

through him reached accused Rajender Kumar. 152 85. The argument of the defence counsel is

that the prosecution has not proved on record as to

where the landline telephone No. 2111031 was

installed, as such there is no evidence on record

that the aforesaid number was installed at the

residence of PW 7 Sandeep Sharma leading the

police party to his house. It is further submitted

that it is also not proved on record that the

telephone No. 9810590140 belong to accused

Rajender Singh, hence the evidence of the

prosecution witnesses that through PW 7

Sandeep Sharma the police had reached accused

Rajender Singh cannot be relied upon. However in

my opinion the aforesaid argument has no force

as PW 7 Sandeep Sharma categorically stated in

evidence that he was residing at B 153, Ashok

Nagar Shahdara Delhi and accused Rajender Singh

present in the Court was his friend and living in his 153 neighbourhood. During cross examination of this

witness no such suggestion was given to the

witness that he was not know to accused

Rajender Singh or accused Rajender Singh was not

his friend and was not residing in his

neighbourhood. Besides this witness has

categorically stated that he had his mobile

bearing no.9810691713 and from this mobile he

contacted the accused on his mobile, the call

record to which has been proved on record as

Ex.PW 26/C­8 reflecting two calls made from

telephone No.9810691713 to 9810590140 at 8.12/8.13

pm respectively on 14.12.01. It is further important

to note that PW26 Rahul Sahani has also

categorically stated that he had obtained the

operational details Ex.PW 11/D in respect of the

instrument having IMEI No 449269200615380 and

from the call details of this instrument they 154 came to know about the landline No 2111031 was

in contact with the cell phone no.9810590140, the

relevant record regarding which has been proved

on record as Ex.PW 26/C­7. It is proved on

record that through landline No. 2111031 the house

of PW 7 Sandeep Sharma in Ashok Nagar was

raided by the police team and on his interrogation

the police came to know about whereabouts of

accused Rajender Singh. In his statement U/s

313 Cr PC though accused Rajender Singh has

denied that the address was given to the police by

PW 7 Sandeep Sharma, however he has admitted

that he was picked from his residence, though it is

claimed that it was in early hours. 86. The defence counsels argument that the

call records exhibited during the testimony of PW11

Sh. RK Singh, Nodal Officer (Airtel) and PW26 SI

Rahil Sahni cannot be relied upon as there is 155 possibility of cloning of the mobile phones is of no

consequence as no such defence evidence has been

led in the present case that there was cloning of

the mobile phones or there was any such attempt

by any person to that effect. The defence counsel

has relied upon the chargesheet Mark A filed in

case FIR No. 284/03 PS Parliament Street wherein

there were allegations of cloning of the mobile

phones. However the aforesaid evidence is not

admissible in the present case. Firstly for the reason

that there are only allegation of cloning in the

chargesheet referred above and what was the

outcome of the case has not been brought on

record that actually cloning happened. Secondly, in

the present case there is no such evidence on

record that there was cloning of the mobile phones

which led to the false implication of accused

Rajender. 87. The other argument of the defence

counsel is that there are discrepancies with regard

to the time of arrest of accused Rajender Singh in

the statement of prosecution witnesses, as such the

defence of the accused that he was picked up from

his residence in early hours on 15.12.01 should be

believed. It is submitted that PW 7 Sandeep Sharma

testified during cross examination that the police

had come to his residence on 15.12.2001 in the

evening,whereas PW 26 SI Rahul Sahani during

cross examination stated that he was arrested at

12.30 pm from his house on 15.12.2001 and PW 32

Inspt SS Malik also stated during cross examination

that all the accused had been arrested till 5 pm and

regarding accused Vikram Yadav this witness stated

that he arrived in the hostel at 3.30 pm. It is

submitted that in view of the aforesaid

discrepancies in the statement of the prosecution 157 witnesses, the prosecution has failed to prove on

record the exact time of their arrest. It is submitted

that since the public witness PW7 Sandeep Sharma

has deposed that the police officials had visited him

on 15.12.01 in the evening therefore they could not

have arrested the accused persons during day time

as it is PW 7 Sandeep Sharma who had led the

police to the house of accused Rajender Singh and

thereafter through his disclosure statement

Ex.PW10/B the police arrested accused Neeraj

Kumar Chaudhary and Vikram Yadav. However,

again I find no merits in the aforesaid contention

as all the accused persons in their statement U/s

313 Cr.PC have admitted their arrest on 15.12.2001,

though it is claimed by accused Rajender Singh

and Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary that they were

apprehended in the early morning. 88. Accused Rajender has examined DW4 Vikram 158 Singh his elder brother to the effect that accused

Rajender was picked up from his residence on

15/12/01 around 5am and on enquiry they stated

that he would be released after interrogation and

that he was told by those police officers that they

had come from the PS though did not disclose the

name of the PS. After about one hour witness went

to Mansorvar Park, where he was told that his

brother must have been taken away by the crime

branch or special staff. He further stated that police

had not taken away anything from his residence

except his brother ie accused Rajender. However,

the testimony of this witness does not inspire any

credence as if the accused had been lifted from his

residence on 15/12/01 early in the morning there is

nothing on record that he made any complaint to

any authority about his false implication in the

present case. It is understandable that he is the 159 elder brother of the accused and to save him he

concocted the story. The defence taken by accused

Neeraj that he too was picked up from his

residence on 15/12/01 at about 5am by the police

and to that effect he has examined DW3 Dharampal

Singh his father, DW5 Vineet Chaudhary his brother

and DW6 Renu Bakshi judicial assistant, Record

Room, Hon'ble High Court of Delhi and DW7 karan

Singh, Sr. Section Supervisor, Central telegraph

office. DW3 Dharampal Singh has deposed that on

15/12/01 police came to his residence at 5am and

took away his sons Neeraj and Vineet. That same

day he sent telegram to the Commissioner of Police,

to the Distt. & Sessions Judge and to the Hon'ble

Chief Justice of Delhi High Court vide receipt

Ex.DW3/1 to 3, the certified copies of the telegrams

Ex.DW3/4 to 6 were also brought on record. It is

stated that on that day he could not come to know 160 about the whereabouts of his both the sons and

next day, it is Vineet his younger son who was

brought back at 12 noon and police took Rs.

15,000/­ from him for releasing Vineet. It is stated

that on that day he had again sent telegrams to the

Distt Judge, Tis Hazari Courts informing of about

extraction of Rs. 15,000/­ and the receipt of the

telegram is Ex.DW3/7, the certified copy of the

telegram is Ex.DW3/8. He further deposed that from

the Hon'ble High Court he had received information

dtd. 15/3/01 Ex.DW3/7 as his telegram was treated

as writ petition. He claimed that accused Neeraj is

innocent. Even assuming that these telegrams were

sent to various authorities on 15/12/01 the perusal

of the same shows that these were sent at 11:22 hrs

and as such there is every possibility of these being

sent to the various authorities after the

apprehension of the accused. The witness PW26 SI 161 Rahul Sahni has stated in his cross examination

that accused Rajender was arrested at 12:30pm. It is

taken note of that the accused were arrested on

15/12/01 and the testimony of this witness was

recorded on 11/3/04 when he stated that accused

Rajender was arrested at 12:30pm. So the possibility

that the accused were arrested an hour or two prior

to 12:30pm cannot be ruled out. It is in the natural

course of events that after lapse of time one tends

to forget the minute details such like exact time

when the particular act was done and for this no

benefit can be given to the accused. It is pertinent

to mention that these telegrams were issued at

11:22hrs whereas, as per the defence witnesses

accused Rajender and Neeraj were apprehended at

5am. If at all they were apprehended at 5am why

they waited for 6 hrs to send the telegrams to

various authorities. This delay has not been 162 explained and this suggests manipulation on the

part of the family members of the accused persons.

So the presumption is that these telegrams were

sent only to create false evidence against the police

officials that they had falsely implicated the accused

persons. In my opinion it is proved on record that

all the accused persons were arrested on 15/12/01

during day time. It is pertinent to mention that one

of the telegrams which was sent to the Hon'ble

High Court and was treated as a writ petition was

disposed off on 11/3/02 with the observations that

the particulars of the house and the address of the

signatory of telegram were found to be incorrect

and as per the status report filed by Mr. VK

Malhotra, the then SHO PS Shahdara, accused

Neeraj and his brother Vineet were never detained

by PS Shahdara, as such no benefit can be given to

the accused persons of these telegrams. Even the 163 arrest of accused Neeraj on 15/12/01 stands proved

vide his arrest memo Ex.DW3/P1 which is bearing

the signatures of DW5 Vineet at point A against the

column ''Name, address and telephone number to

whom the information regarding arrest is conveyed''.

This telegram is dtd. 15/12/01. 89. Regarding the arrest of accused Vikram

the defence counsel has argued that it is not proved

on record from which room the accused had been

arrested whether it was room No. 3 or room No. J3

in the hostel. Again it is of no consequence as

accused himself in his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC has

admitted that he was arrested from R.No. J3 in the

hostel. The argument of the defence counsel is that

the letter Ex.PW16/B written by PW31 Rochque Dias

was not shown to him when he appeared in the

witness box and it is further submitted that PW31

had testified that accused was arrested in the 164 morning whereas all the other witnesses of the

prosecution have stated that this accused was

arrested in the evening. It is pertinent to mention

that PW31 Rochque Dias has no where deposed that

the accused Vikram Yadav was arrested in his

presence but has only stated that he had received

this information from the staff, as such he had no

personal knowledge about the time of arrest of the

accused Vikram Yadav. Moreover this witness has

not given the date of arrest of the accused on the

pretext that he did not remember the same, so it is

quite possible that he did not even remember the

time of arrest of the accused as disclosed to him by

his staff. No witness in defence from the hostel of

the accused has been produced in the witness box

to say that accused Vikram Yadav was arrested in

the morning on 15/12/01 and not in the evening as

claimed by the prosecution. The defence counsel has 165 also challenged the recovery of two cheque books

belonging to Rattan Roy now deceased from the

possession of accused Vikram Yadav, on the grounds

that PW32 Inspt. SS Malik did not depose from

where these cheque books were recovered from the

possession of accused Vikram Yadav and on the

ground that these cheque books were unsigned and

were of no use to the accused. PW32 Inspt. SS

Malik in his chief examination has categorically

stated that on 15/12/01 he had arrested accused

Vikram Yadav from the hostel near Indira Gandhi

Stadium and two cheque books belonging to

deceased Rattan Roy were recovered from his

possession which were seized vide seizure memo

Ex.PW32/J. The defence counsel has argued that

during his cross examination the witness admitted

that there were two other boys present in the room

from where accused Vikram Yadav was arrested and 166 recovery of cheque books was effected. It is

submitted that PW32 Inspt SS Malik did not collect

any evidence that the said room belonged to

accused Vikram Yadav. The contention of the

defence counsel that in such circumstances the

recovery of two cheque books from the possession

of accused is doubtful, in my opinion is without any

substance, as accused in his statement U/s 313 Cr.PC has already admitted that he was in occupation of

room No. J3 in the hostel and vide the testimony of

PW14 SI Brij Mohan and PW15 Ct. Ashok Kumar it

is already proved on record that accused Vikram

Yadav was present in the Ford Ikon of deceased

Rattan Roy sitting on the front seat by the side of

driver alongwith accused Neeraj and alongwith

accused Rajender and deceased Rattan Roy who

were on the rear seat of the car. As such to say

that the cheque books belonging to deceased Rattan 167 Roy recovered from Room No. J3 of the hostel were

not recovered from accused Vikram Yadav but from

some other person is of no consequence. The other

argument that the cheques were unsigned and were

of no use to the accused, the answer of this

question must be available with the accused only

who was possessing a criminal mind and what were

his intentions were in this regard were better

known to him only. However, merely the cheques

were unsigned, no presumption can be raised that

these could not be in possession of the accused. The

testimony of PW32 Inspt. SS Malik regarding arrest

of accused Vikram Yadav and recovery of two

cheque books finds corroboration from the

testimony of PW10 Ct. Balwan Singh and PW26 SI

Rahul Sahni who both deposed categorically that

accused Vikram Yadav got recovered two cheque

books from his almirah. Admittedly no independent 168 witness was joined to the arrest and recovery from

accused Vikram Yadav, however, merely for this

reason the testimony of the official witnesses cannot

be rejected which is otherwise found trustworthy

and these official witnesses had no motive to falsely

implicate the accused. 90. Now it is to be seen what recovery was

effected from the possession of accused Rajender at

the time of his arrest from his residence on

15/12/01. PW26 SI Rahul Sahni has testified that PW

Sandeep gave the address of Rajender who was

living in the same locality at some distance so they

went to that house where accused Rajender was

found. One mobile phone was lying on the table of

that house which was checked and it was found

that IMEI of the phone instrument was same which

was used by the kidnappers on the day of 169 kidnapping at 12 midnight. The cell phone was

seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW10/F. He further

testified that one I­Card Ex.P1 was also recovered.

The I­card was of Delhi police bearing the name of

Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary with the photograph of

accused Rajender. The I­card was seized vide

seizure memo Ex.PW10/G. The disclosure statement

of accused Rajender was recorded as Ex.PW10/B

whereby he disclosed about the fact of kidnapping

of deceased Ratan Roy in furtherance of their

criminal conspiracy to kidnap some rich person to

extract money. He also disclosed the manner in

which the deceased Ratan Roy was kidnapped. He

further disclosed that several years before his

friend Yogesh who was resident of Ghaziabad at

that time had given him two country made

revolvers alongwith three cartridges and a knife. He

disclosed that on 21/11/01 at about 5pm all the 170 three accused met near GTB Hospital where accused

Neeraj had brought his bullet motorcycle and was

wearing uniform of S.I and over that he was

wearing blue colour wind cheater and Neeraj had

also brought the traffic police jacket alongwith him

which was worn by accused Rajender. Accused

Rajender kept one country made revolver with him

and handed over another to Vikram Yadav and

knife was handed over by him to accused Neeraj.

He disclosed that both the country made revolvers

were loaded. As per their plan they started moving

on the motorcycle of accused Neeraj and were

looking for a rich person moving alone. At about

7:30pm they saw one Ford Ikon car coming from

the side of Surya Nagar flyover towards Apsara

border traffic signal and there was only one person

in the car who was driving the same. It is disclosed

that when the car crossed the red light and came 171 on the road of Dilshad Garden they placed their

motorcycle in front and stopped the car. Accused

Neeraj asked the person in the car to show the

documents of the car and accused Rajender asked

him to show the dicky. The occupant of the car

showed the documents and thereafter he got down

from the car and showed the dicky as well. At this

the accused Neeraj sat on the driver seat and on

the pretext that for checking they would have to go

to the PS, they made the occupant of the car sit at

the back seat. Accused Rajender and Vikram also

sat with him at the back seat. Thereafter accused

Neeraj asked the name of the person who disclosed

his name as Ratan Roy. After this accused Vikram

was asked by accused Rajender to follow the car on

the motorcycle. Accused Neeraj drove the car

followed by accused Vikram on the motorcycle.

When they reached GTB Hospital parking, Vikram 172 parked the motorcycle there and then sat on the

front seat of the car alongwith Neeraj. After that

they drove the car towards Ghaziabad and told

Ratan Roy that he was kidnapped and asked for Rs.

10 lakhs as ransom. After this Ratan Roy from his

cell phone called his brother and accused Neeraj

also spoke to his brother and demanded Rs. 10

lakhs. It is disclosed that the brother of Rajender

Roy refused to arrange for Rs. 10 lakhs. Thereafter

Ratan Roy spoke to his friend Chopra who told that

he would arrange for the same. In the meantime

they drove the car around Ghaziabad. Ratan Roy

was making phone calls frequently. During this

period Ratan Roy told them that he had ICICI card

and money could be taken out through the same.

As such Rs. 15,000/­ from Preet Vihar were taken

out. After sometime Rs. 15,000/­ were taken out

from Krishna Nagar. Deceased Ratan Roy told 173 Chopra to bring money at Mohan Nagar Chowk

and that Chopra had disclosed that he could

arrange for only Rs.1,50,000/­ . At this they reached

Mohan Nagar Chowk but they did not find anybody

there. They made Ratan make call when he told

them that money would be brought by Harmeek

Singh. In the meantime the battery of the cell

phone of Ratan Roy was discharged so accused

Rajender removed the sim card from the mobile of

Ratan Roy and used in the mobile phone of his

brother in law Vijay which was with him. Again

Ratan Roy was made to make a phone call and

Harmeet told him that he would be reaching in

short time but when he did not come, the accused

persons became suspicious that police might not

have been informed, so they moved the car here

and there from Mohan Ngar Chowk and again

made Ratan Roy to make phone call to ask the 174 person concerned to come to Shahdara. Thereafter

they moved around Seemapuri when accused Neeraj

told them that the petrol was needed in the car so

they took the car at petrol pump at GT Road for

filling petrol and the moment car stopped there one

policeman got opened the window of the car from

the side of Vikram. On seeing police, accused

persons got perplexed and at this accused Vikram

fired from the country made revolver and accused

Rajender also fired one round. Police also fired at

the vehicle of accused persons and Neeraj sped the

car away from there. It is further disclosed that the

bullet of police had hit Neeraj and Ratan Roy. After

reaching some distance the car hit a rickshaw and

to get rid of the police, he had thrown Ratan Roy

from the moving car. He further disclosed that after

travelling some distance he alongwith accused

Vikram got down from the car and out of the Rs. 175 30,000/­ withdrawn from the bank, he kept

Rs.10,000/­ with him whereas Rs. 20,000/­ were left

with accused Neeraj and two cheque books of

Ratan Roy were taken by Vikram. He further

disclosed that the traffic jacket of Neeraj and the

country made revolver was thrown by him in the

bushes near GTB Hospital and thereafter he

separated from accused Vikram. After that he went

to his house and told his family members that he

was going to Manesar to his sister. He further

disclosed that since thereafter he was living here

and there at the place of his relatives. Regarding Rs.

10,000/­ withdrawn from ATM he disclosed that it

was spent by him. Regarding the fake Delhi police

I­card he stated that he was using the same to save

ticket while travelling in bus and that this was got

made from the coloured photocopy of the I­card of

Neeraj. He further disclosed that he could get 176 recovered the country made revolver and the wind

cheater. The said disclosure statement has been

proved on record through the testimony of PW10 Ct.

Balwan and PW26 SI Rahul Sahni. The argument

of the defence counsel that at the time of arrest of

accused Rajender and recovery of mobile phone and

fake I­card no public person was joined as a

witness as such the recovery is doubtful is of no

consequence, as for the mere reason that public

witness was not joined in the investigation does not

effect the prosecution case unless there are glaring

and material contradictions in their testimony.

However, in the present case no such discrepancy

has been pointed out by the defence. It is important

to note that the accused Rajender was tracked

down on account of IMEI number of his mobile

phone bearing No. 9810590140 through which the

calls were made from the sim card of Ratan Roy. It 177 is admittedly there was no motive of the police to

falsely implicate the accused Rajender. If the mobile

phone No. 9810590140 had been recovered from

somebody else the police would have fairly arrested

the other person. It is not the case of the accused

persons that the said mobile had no connection

with accused Rajender. The argument of the defence

counsel that it has not been proved on record in

whose name the said mobile phone was existing is

of no consequence as in the disclosure statement

accused Rajender had disclosed that it belonged to

Vijay Kumar his brother in law and he was using

the same which appears to be correct as if it did

not belong to the close relative of the accused

Rajender, the defence would have summoned some

witness in the defence to prove that it did not

belong to the accused. However, the accused could

not have afforded to implicate his brother in law 178 Vijay, as such no evidence was led in defence that

the mobile phone did not belong to the accused.

The I­card Ex.P1 recovered from the possession of

accused Rajender is apparently a forged document

as it is bearing the name of Neeraj and photograph

of accused Rajender. Besides PW17 HC Rambir has

testified that he had verified the I­card Ex.P1

bearing No. 0081531 in the name of Neeraj Kumar

Constable and after verifying the record it was

found that it was issued in the name of Ct. Neeraj

Kumar PIS No. 28971478 and was issued on 24/8/98.

During cross examination the witness was asked a

question as to whether Ex.P1 was bearing the

photograph of Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary or not to

which he replied that he cannot say if the

photograph Ex.P1 was of Neeraj or not. He stated

that there was no photograph pasted in the record

of the person to whom the card was issued. The 179 said cross examination of the witness is irrelevant

particularly when Ex.P1 a fake I­card is on record

and is bearing photograph of accused Rajender and

not of accused Neeraj. The recovery of I­card Ex.P1

from accused Rajender is proved vide testimony of

PW10 Ct. Balwan Singh and PW26 SI Rahul Sahni.

The prosecution has alleged that further recovery

was effected at the instance of accused Rajender in

furtherance of his disclosure statement on 20/12/01.

The relevant witnesses to that effect are PW32 Inspt

SS Malik and PW10 Ct. Balwan. Inspt Malik has

stated that accused Rajender led the police party to

bushes near GTB Hospital and got recovered a

country made pistol therefrom. He proved the

sketch of the pistol as Ex.PW32/D. It is stated that

there was an empty cartridge in the barrel of the

pistol which he took out and prepared the sketch of

the same and both these items were sealed in a 180 packet with the seal of SSM and seized vide seizure

memo Ex.PW32/E. He stated that these recoveries

were effected on 20/12/01. No doubt PW10 Ct.

Balwan deposed on the lines of PW32 Inspt. SS

Malik regarding the recovery of country made pistol

and the empty cartridge found inside the barrel,

however the recovery of the same does not inspire

any credence particularly when the prosecution has

claimed that this recovery was effected in pursuance

of the disclosure statement of accused Rajender

Ex.PW10/B which was recorded on 15/12/01,

whereas the recovery was effected on 20/12/01. The

prosecution has failed to explain as to why the

recovery could not be effected on 15/12/01 itself or

on next day and why it was deferred till 20/12/01.

Besides, no public witness was joined at the time of

recovery though witnesses were available near

spot of recovery. The plantation of the country 181 made pistol Ex.P2 and empty cartridge Ex.P3 can

not be ruled out in view of the gap of about 4

days between the recording of the disclosure

statement and the recovery. Besides it is admittedly

a public place from where the recovery was effected

as admitted by PW10 Ct. Balwan during his cross

examination who testified that the accused had

taken them near a road on 20/12/01 at 11am and it

was busy road. He also admitted that the GTB

Hospital gate and hawkers were at some distance

from the place pointed out by the accused and they

could be seen from that place and he stated that

none had agreed to join the proceedings from the

public. It is pertinent to mention that IO took no

action against any such person nor has disclosed

the names and addresses of any such person on

record whom he tried to join in the investigation. In

these circumstances the recovery of the country 182 made pistol Ex.P2 alongwith empty cartridge Ex.P3

on 20/12/01 in furtherance of disclosure statement

made on 15/12/01 does not inspire any credence.

Moreover though the prosecution has claimed that

this pistol was used by the accused while firing at

the police party at Deepak Petrol Pump, however no

evidence was led that any such empty cartridge was

recovered from the spot which was fired from the

country made pistol Ex.P1. The evidence of PW37

Sh. KC Varshney to the effect that the country

made pistol Ex.P2 on examination was found in

working condition which is referred as Mark F1 in

his report and one fired cartridge Mark BC1 Ex.P3

was fired with this pistol is of no consequence as

the prosecution has failed to prove its recovery at

the instance of accused Rajender and that this

weapon was used by the accused while firing at the

police party at Deepak Petrol Pump on the 183 intervening night of 21 /22­11­01. Even otherwise the

prosecution has failed to prove on record the

sanction accorded U/s 39 Arms Act for the

prosecution of the accused Rajender under Arms Act for recovery of country made pistol from his

possession. 91. So far accused Neeraj is concerned the

prosecution has produced PW10 Ct. Balwan Singh,

PW26 SI Rahul Sahni and PW32 Inspt SS Malik

regarding his arrest and the recovery of

incriminating material. Regarding arrest of this

accused discussion has already been made above

whereby the prosecution has proved his arrest on

15/12/01 from his house at the instance of accused

Rajender. PW26 SI Rahul Sahni has testified that on

his apprehension he was interrogated and made

disclosure statement Ex.PW10/D which corroborates

the disclosure statement of accused Rajender on 184 material facts. He disclosed that he was Constable

with Delhi Police and was posted with Traffic Unit,

R&D Lines, Teen Murti. Besides, he has further

disclosed that during the police firing he had

received bullet shot on his chin and left shoulder

due to which he started bleeding and blood fell on

steering of the car. He further disclosed that he had

left the Ford Ikon car at Loni Ghaziabad and left

for his house in a TSR and told his family members

that he was injured in an accident. He further

disclosed that he removed his blood stained uniform

and wind cheater and after changing clothes went

to Barot, UP and got his wound bandaged at the

shop of a private doctor whose address he was not

aware of but he could point out the place. He

further disclosed that he had thrown the knife in

the bushes in Loni and that place also he could

point out and get recovered the knife. Regarding Rs. 185 20,000/­ which came to his share after withdrawal

from ATM on the card of deceased Ratan Roy he

stated that after spending some money he was left

with balance of about Rs.11,500/­ which he could

get recovered lying underneath the mattress lying

on the double bed in his room. Regarding the

windcheater he stated that he had washed the same

and kept in the almirah. He further disclosed that

from his I­card, the fake identity card was prepared

by accused Rajender by getting the coloured

photocopy of the same . It is in furtherance of this

disclosure statement that a sum of Rs. 11,500/­ as

deposed by PW26 SI Rahul Sahni was recovered

from his possession vide seizure memo Ex.PW10/J.

Accused also got recovered a motorcycle used in the

offence which was seized vide seizure memo

Ex.PW10/L. At this instance one khaki uniform ­

shirt Ex.P13, pant Ex.P14, one windcheater Ex.P15 186 and two flaps Ex.P16­17 of SI Delhi Police were

seized from his house vide seizure memo

Ex.PW10/K. It is pertinent to mention that both the

khaki uniform and the windcheater were having

holes made by a bullet and were sent to the FSL

Malviya Nagar for experts opinion. Though no

opinion could be given by PW37 KC Varshney Sr.

Scientific Officer as the gun shot residue particles

were not detected around holes, it is taken note of

that accused Neeraj in his disclosure statement had

disclosed that his wife had washed the uniform and

the windcheater and as such it is quite possible that

gun shot residue particles were also washed out. At

the same time merely the gun shot residues were

not found on the uniform Ex.P13­14 and the

windcheater Ex.P15 it cannot be said that the

accused was not wearing the same at the time of

the incident. The recovery of both these articles at 187 the instance of accused has been proved through

unrebutted testimony of witnesses PW10 Ct. Balwan,

PW26 SI Rahul Sahni, PW32 Inspt. SS Malik and the

accused has failed to explain as to how both these

exhibits were bearing the holes at the corresponding

places. Besides the prosecution has also led

sufficient evidence on record to prove that accused

Neeraj had received bullet injury in the aforesaid

incident. To that effect prosecution has examined

PW19 Dr. Narender Kumar who had treated the

accused for the injury. The argument of the defence

counsel that this witness had not given the date

when he treated the accused nor he has

categorically stated that he had treated the accused

for injury received by a firearm as such the

testimony of this witness is irrelevant. However, it is

pertinent to mention that this witness was not

introduced by the prosecution of its own but it is 188 the accused who had led the police to the clinic of

aforesaid witness in furtherance of his disclosure

statement Ex.PW10/D and this witness has

categorically stated that accused Neeraj had come

to his Murti Nursing Home about 8 /10 / 12 months

ago while he was having injuries on his chin and

shoulder. He further categorically stated that he did

not lodge any report with the police because

accused had told him that a quarrel had taken

place between him and his brother and he had

received injuries in that quarrel. Admittedly no

medical document was shown to this witness from

which he could state on which particular date he

had examined the accused. The argument of the

defence counsel that the witness had stated that he

had treated the accused 8 /10 /12 months ago and

it is a vague statement has again no force in view

of the fact that no medical document was produced 189 before him to say as to when he had examined the

accused and once the accused had led the police

party to him it was for the defence to have proved

on record as to when the accused had visited Murti

Nursing Home and for what purpose. Since the

police was investigating the present case and

accused made disclosure statement during the

investigation and led the police party to the clinic

of Dr. Narender Kumar it is obvious that injuries on

the person of accused for which this doctor treated

him had relation with the present case and accused

had gone to him for treatment of his injuries

received during the said incident. During the cross

examination of this witness it is not denied by the

accused that he had not been treated by Dr.

Narender at any point of time for any injury

whatsoever. Hence, despite the fact that this witness

had not stated that he had treated the accused for 190 fire injury, presumption is that the accused was

treated by him for the injury received by him in the

present case. This witness is a truthful witness and

was not interested either to favour the prosecution

or the accused and stated the truth. What is

important regarding this witness is that police

reached him at the instance of accused. It is not the

IO who introduced Dr. Narender but it is the

accused who led the police party to the said doctor

in furtherance of his disclosure statement that he

was injured in the police firing at the Deepak Petrol

Pump and had obtained treatment from the said

doctor. Besides, it is pertinent to mention that PW19

Dr. Narender deposed in his chief examination that

accused had injuries on his chin and shoulder when

he approached him and this fact finds corroboration

from his disclosure statement Ex.PW10/D and his

MLC dtd. 16/12/01 Ex.PW38/A. Besides when the 191 accused was arrested on 15/12/01 he was having

bandage on his skin which is another link in the

chain of the circumstances proved by the

prosecution regarding the involvement of the

accused in the incident. 92. PW13 SI Raj Kumar under the instructions of

SHO on 16/12/01 had taken all the three accused

for medical examination at AIIMS Hospital and

accused were examined by Dr Varun Dixit,

however he could not appear in the witness box,

hence PW38 Dr.Manish Komath from AIIMS Hospital

appeared as a substitute to Dr. Varun Dixit who had

examined accused Neeraj and proved his MLC

Ex.PW38/A. As per the same there was no fresh

injury found on the person of accused Neeraj but

there was one healed stitched wound over the chin

on right and left side of 2cm on left and 1cm of

right and healed wound on left shoulder two in 192 number about 1cm each. The doctor gave the age of

the wounds as more than two weeks and as per the

opinion of the doctor the possibility of the wound

on the shoulder due to fire could not be ruled out.

No doubt PW38 Manish Komath had not medically

examined the accused Neeraj, however, on the basis

of the MLC of the accused prepared by Dr. Varun

Dixit he proved the injuries on the person of

accused Neeraj at the time of his arrest. During

cross examination the witness testified that the

stitches change the dimension of the wound and in

the present case the wound was stitched and

stitches were removed. He also testified that the

dimension of the wound given in the MLC

Ex.PW38/A was of the stitched wound. The

arguments of the defence counsel that this witness

had not examined the accused as such he could not

prove the contents of the MLC does have some 193 force, however, at the same time it is to be taken

note of that this MLC is to be read in the

surrounding circumstances i.e other evidence led by

the prosecution regarding the injuries on the person

of accused Neeraj at the time of his arrest and after

the incident. The MLC Ex.PW38/A is not to be read

in isolation but in the light of disclosure statement

Ex.PW10/D of accused Neeraj and the testimony of

Dr. Narender PW19 who had treated the accused for

injuries and the fact that the accused had led the

police party to his nursing home. It is also pertinent

to mention that the incident of kidnapping of Ratan

Roy for ransom had taken place on 21/11/01 and

deceased Ratan Roy had been thrown out of the

moving car on the intervening night of 21­22/11/01

whereas the accused Neeraj was arrested on

15/12/01 as such the MLC Ex.PW38/A giving the age

of the wound as more than 2 weeks is plausible as 194 by that time 24 days had passed since after the

incident of police firing at Deepak Petrol Pump

wherein as per the prosecution case Neeraj had

received bullet injury. The MLC Ex.PW38/A is

another link in the chain of circumstances relied

upon by the prosecution regarding involvement of

accused Neeraj in the commission of offence. It is

further important to note that PW19 Dr. Narender

who is a neutral witness testified that accused had

told him that he had received injuries in a quarrel

with his brother and for this reason he did not

report the matter to the police , however accused

Neeraj has not led any evidence to the fact that he

had actually sustained injuries in a quarrel with his

brother. He has not even cared to produce his said

brother in the witness box to corroborate his

statement made before Dr.Narender. Nor it is

suggested by the defence counsel to the IO that 195 accused Neeraj was treated by Dr. Narender for the

injuries received in a quarrel with his brother. It is

not even disputed in the cross examination of PW19

Dr. Narender that accused did not make any such

statement to the doctor. 93. The another important aspect of the case

is that the steering of the Ford Ikon Car was found

blood stained. PW36 SI Rajkumar is the witness to

the recovery of Ford Ikon Car bearing registration

No. DL3CS 9438 on 22/11/01 from near carbon

factory , 100ft road, Arya Nagar on receipt of a

secret information. He proved the seizure memo of

the car as Ex.PW36/B. He testified that on the

inspection of the car he found there was a bullet

mark on the dicky of the car and the window glass

of left front side was broken. He also noticed blood

stains on the steering of the car. It is testified that

the senior police officers and the crime team and 196 photographer reached the spot of recovery of car

and took the photographs of the car. He further

testified that he lifted the blood from the steering

of the car vide memo Ex.PW36/C besides two bullet

leads were also seized from inside the car vide

memo Ex.PW36/D. 94. PW26 SI Rahul Sahni testified that he got

accused Neeraj medically examined on 18/12/01 and

got his blood sample preserved. He proved the

seizure memo of blood sample as Ex.PW18/A. It is

pertinent to mention that the blood sample lifted

from the steering of Ford Ikon and blood stained

gauze containing blood sample of accused Neeraj

Kumar were received in the office of FSL Malviya

Nagar on 2.4.02 in case FIR NO 261/01 dtd 22.11.01

PS Seemapuri U/s 186/353/307/34 IPC and on

Biological examination of both these samples, blood

was detected on both the exhibits as deposed by 197 CW 2 Dr Rajender Kumar who testified that EX. 1

was found to have A group of blood but no

reaction was detected on EX 2 on the blood stained

gauze described to be containing blood of accused

Neeraj Kumar. On account of these circumstances

vide order of the Court the blood sample of

accused Neeraj Kumar was taken and sent to FSL

which on analysis was found to be human origin

and of A group and the report of FSL was earlier

exhibited as EX.PW 32/K during the testimony of

PW32 Inspt. SS Malik lateron was re­exhibited as EX

CW 1/X1 in the testimony of CW1 OS Srivastava.

The argument of the defence counsel that merely

the blood found on the steering was having human

origin and of A group and that the blood group of

accused Neeraj Kumar was also found to be of A

group it cannot be presumed that the blood of

accused Neeraj Kumar fell on the steering of the 198 car, as CW l OS Srivastava and CW 2 DR Rajender

Kumar have admitted that blood group A may be

either A+ve or A­ve but in the present case such

grouping has not been proved by the prosecution

and that in these circumstances the prosecution has

failed to connect accused Neeraj Kumar with the

commission of crime. However, the aforesaid

argument has no force as once the prosecution has

proved on record that the blood found on the

steering was of A group and so was the blood

group of accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary, in view

of the other relating evidence that accused Neeraj

was found driving the said car by PW 14 SI Brij

Mohan and PW 15 Ct. Ashok Kumar at Deepak

petrol pump it does not lie in the mouth of defence

to state that the blood group on the steering of the

Ford Ikon was different from the blood group of

the accused. The prosecution has discharged its 199 onus by proving on record that the group of blood

found on the steering and of accused Neeraj Kumar

were both A Group, which in my opinion is

sufficient to link accused Neeraj Kumar with the

commission of crime. Besides, as referred above , it

is proved on record by the prosecution that Neeraj

had suffered a bullet injury on his shoulder and

chin during cross firing between the accused

persons and the police for which he was treated by

PW19 Dr Narender at Barot in UP. Hence , this is

another link proved by the prosecution in the chain

of circumstances regarding involvement of accused

Neeraj Kumar in the commission of the offence. 95. The prosecution has relied upon the FSL

report Ex.CW1/X1. PW36 SI Raj Kumar is a witness

to the recovery of Ford Ikon bearing No. DL3CS

9438 found stationary near the carbon factory Arya

Nagar. He testified that he lifted the blood from the 200 steering of the car vide Ex.PW36/C and two bullet

leds from the car were seized vide memo

Ex.PW36/D besides one mobile phone and a diary.

He also testified that he had also seized the pistol

and revolver from the MHC(M) of PS Dilshad

Garden vide memo Ex.PW14/C. The pistol bearing

No. 16103858 DP No. 3474, 9mm was in possession

of PW14 SI Brij Mohan and the revolver bearing No.

1609.38 bore which was in possession of Ct. Ashok

Kumar and was used in defence at the Deepak

Petrol Pump when the accused persons fired at the

police party. The statement of SI Rajkumar is

corroborated by the testimony of PW14 SI Brij

Mohan and PW15 Ct. Ashok Kumar. 96. It has already been proved vide the

testimony of PW2 Harmeek Singh, PW14 SI Brij

Mohan and PW15 Ct. Ashok that the deceased Ratan

Roy had been thrown out of the moving car by the 201 accused Rajender who was sitting on the rear seat

alongwith the deceased Rattan Roy and it was

obviously in furtherance of their common intention

to divert the attention of the police chasing them

towards Rattan Roy the kidnapped person and to

escape from there. However, Rattan Roy had to pay

the price for the same, as due to head injury

received by him due to fall from moving car, he

went in coma and lost his precious life without any

fault of his. It is proved on record that he had

been removed to GTB Hospital from the spot. PW35

Dr. Anil Das of GTB Hospital testified that on

22/1/01 at 6am he had examined Ratan Roy at the

hospital with the following injuries:­ 1. A round lacerated wound approx 1.5cms in

 diameter on the inner aspect of the left arm and

 similarly over outer aspect, where there was

 blackening but no sinzing and no tattooing. 202 2. Also there was swelling and tenderness over head

 3­4 cms in diameter. It appears in the testimony of PW35 Dr.Anil

Das that the date of admission of Rattan Roy in

GTB Hospital has been wrongly typed as 22/1/01 as

he was admitted in the hospital on 22/11/01 and

the MLC Ex.PW35/A confirms the said date of

admission. PW35 Dr Anil Das stated that the patient was

referred to Sr. Resident Neuro Surgeon and he

proved the MLC of the patient as Ex.PW35/A. The

patient Rattan Roy was lateron shifted to Apollo

Hospital. PW27 Dr. Deepak Vats, CMO Apollo

Hospital produced the record of treatment of Ratan

Roy now deceased. He testified that Ratan Roy

remained under treatment of Dr. AM Jha and Dr.

RP Basia the Resident Doctor in ICU. He further

proved the death certificate of Ratan Roy given by 203 Dr. Basia as Ex.PW23/B. He proved the record of the

treatment of Ratan Roy collectively Ex.PW27/A. As

per testimony of PW1 Mausmi Roy the deceased

had succumbed to the injuries on 29/11/01 in Apollo

Hospital and this fact stands proved from the death

certificate Ex.PW23/B of deceased Rattan Roy. 97. In the present case Dr Amar Nath of AIIMS

hospital had conducted the postmortem on the

deadbody of deceased Rattan Roy. However, since

he had left the services of the hospital, as such PW

23 Dr A Varun Dixit appeared and proved the

postmortem report EX PW 23/A prepared by Dr

Amar Nath. He testified that on examination of the

body of the deceased Ratan Roy had following

injuries on his person: As per the postmortem report the cause

of death was coma due to head injury caused by

blunt force and all the injuries were opined as

antemortem in nature. 98. The argument of the defence counsel is

that the accused had suffered bullet injury on

account of police firing but this fact was tried to be

concealed as in the brief history as contained in the

inquest papers there is no mention of fire arm 205 injury and it is submitted that there is every

possibility that the deceased had died of bullet

injury. No doubt, in the brief history it is not

mentioned that the deceased had also suffered fire

arm injury on his left upper arm but there is no

question of concealment of this fact by the IO as in

the death certificate EX PW 23/B issued by Apollo

Hospital which is part of the inquest papers it is

specifically mentioned in the Col. ''Cause of death''

that there was also a bullet injury on left upper

arm of deceased Rattan Roy. Besides in the MLC

EX.PW 23/C of deceased Rattan Roy also this fact

finds mention. This fact further finds mention in

the document EX PW 26/B1 which is a letter to

Autopsy Surgeon by the IO of the case wherein

there is reference of bullet injury in the left arm of

Ratan Roy besides head injury. In the death report

EX PW 26/B2 again this fact finds mention and all 206 these documents were available to the Dr Amar

Nath at the time he conducted postmortem on the

deadbody of the deceased so there was no question

of concealing this injury by the IO to protect their

own skin. Moreover in the postmortem report the

doctor has categorically mentioned that the cause

of death was Coma due to head injury, which itself

shows that the death was not on account of any

other injury but due to head injury caused by blunt

force and it is not the case of the defence that the

head injury was also due to use of fire arm. The

head injury on the person of deceased was due to

fall from moving car. The postmortem report finds

corroboration from the testimony of PW 2 Harmeek,

PW 14 SI Brijmohan and PW 15 Ct. Ashok Kumar

that Ratan Roy had been thrown out of the

moving Ford Ikon while he was on the rear seat of

the same and it is only on account of his being 207 thrown out of the moving car he has hit the road

causing him such injury which lateron proved to be

fatal. In these circumstances it is proved on

record beyond reasonable doubt that on account of

the fact that the deceased was pushed out of the

moving car from the rear seat by accused Rajender

who was sitting next to him in connivance with the

other two accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary who

was on the steering of the car and accused Vikram

Yadav who was sitting next to him in front to

divert the attention of the police chasing them and

to save themselves, resulting into death of the

deceased Ratan Roy in Apollo Hospital lateron. 99. Vide testimony of PW16 HC Surender who

had verified about the ownership of the Ford Ikon

Car from transport authority, Sheikh Sarai it is

proved on record vide document Ex.PW16/A that it

was registered in the name of Schneider where the 208 deceased was working. 100. Another link in the chain of the

prosecution case is established through the

testimony of PW 11 RK Singh Nodal Officer,Bharti

Cellular Ltd and PW20 Sh Ashish Harioke, Manager

ICICI Bank. It is the prosecution case that after

Ratan Roy was kidnapped a sum of Rs. 15,000/­

was withdrawn on 21.11.2001 and then again a

sum of Rs. 15,000/­ was withdrawn on 22.11.2001 by

the kidnappers through ICICI ATM Card of Rattan

Roy. PW 20 Sh Ashish Harioke Manager with

ICICI Bank produced the statement of Account of

Ratan Roy holding account NO 004601025195 EX PW

20/A. He further produced the record showing

withdrawal of money from the account of Ratan

Roy by use of his ATM Card on 21/11/2001 and

22.11.2001 and the relevant record is EX PW 20/B.

The record Ex.PW 20/A is showing withdrawal of 209 Rs. 15,000/­ through ATM from his account on

21.11.2001 and the another withdrawal Rs. 15,000/­

on 22.11.2001. As per document EX PW 20/B which

is a letter addressed to my Ld Predecessor by the

authorised signatory of the bank the withdrawal of

Rs. 15,000/­ on 21.11.2001 was made from Preet

Vihar Branch i.e from ATM at Sincere Tower­ IV

Preet Vihar Community Center New Delhi at 22.58

hours. The said document further reflects that

amount of Rs. 15,000/­ from ATM Krishna Nagar i.e

at D­l Krishna Nagar Lal Quarter New Delhi was

withdrawn at 00.36 hours on 22.11.2001. The

statement of PW 20 Ashish Harioke and the record

produced by him has not been disputed by the

defence in any manner as the witness was not cross

examined on behalf of any of the accused. This

record is to be read alongwith the documents EX

PW 11/B ie the call details of mobile NO 9810158032 210 w.e.f 20.11.01. The said record has been proved vide

the testimony of PW11 RK Singh Nodal Officer

Bharti Cellular Limited Airtel and the record

contains the calls details of mobile NO 9810158032

we.f. 20.11.01 from 10.12 pm to 22.11.01 at 7.07 am.

As per the call record an outgoing call was made

from the aforesaid mobile at 22.45.16 hours and

with cell ID 1001, the another outgoing call was

made at 23.11.43 hours with Cell ID 2312. The next

call was made from the said mobile at 23:19:47

hours with cell ID 1402 and one more call was

made from the said mobile on 22.11.01 at 18.36

hours. Thereafter another call was made from this

telephone at 00:35:30hours with cell ID 6671 and

next call was made at 00:36:31 hours cell ID No.

2312 and one more call was made at 00:50:27 hours

cell ID No. 1352. It is pertinent to mention that vide

last three calls referred above the IMEI NO. of the 211 mobile NO. 9810158032 was changed from

449125550757180 to 449269200615380 which belong

to the mobile phone 9810590140 recovered from

the possession of accused Rajender. As per the

testimony of PW20 it is proved that the first

withdrawal from the ATM was made at 22.58 hours

at Preet Vihar ATM and the second withdrawal was

made at 00.36 hours from Krishna Nagar ATM,

whereas the cell ID of the calls made from the

mobile of deceased Ratan Roy and thereafter of

accused Rajender was of Laxmi Nagar , Gandhi

Nagar, Dilshad Garden, Sahibabad, Gandhi Nagar,

Durga Puri and all these areas are near and around

Preet Vihar and Krishna Nagar. The aforesaid

record further proves the presence of Ratan Roy

alongwith the accused persons in view of the

change of IMEI No of the mobile No. 9810158032

of the deceased to mobile No. 9810590140 which 212 mobile phone was lateron recovered from the

possession of accused Rajender. The aforesaid calls

record further finds corroboration from the

statement of PW 2 Harmeek Singh and official

witnesses that after every few minutes the

kidnappers were making the deceased Ratan Roy

called Harmeek Singh on the mobile phone of Romi

Chopra which was handed over to him through

Rohit Bansal. 101. Besides it is important to note that no one

including the police was aware of the place of

kidnapping of the deceased and it is only through

the pointing out of the place of kidnapping by the

accused persons this fact was revealed that the

deceased was kidnapped by them on the road

going towards Dilshad Nagar descending from Surya

Nagar flyover as shown at point A in the pointing

out memos of the accused persons which are EX 213 PW 10/O, P & Q respectively proved vide the

testimony of PW 10 Ct. Balwan Singh. PW 26 SI

Rahul Sahni categorically stated that after the

arrest of the accused peons they went to Apsara

Border alongwith accused persons and each of them

were taken separately for identification of the place

where they had stopped the car of Ratan Roy. This

witness further proved the siteplan Ex PW 26/D

of the place where the deceased had been

kidnapped. 102. It is also proved by prosecution that

accused persons had impersonated as police officials

at the time of kidnapping of Rattan Rai as besides,

the recovery of police uniform of SI Rank and blue

windcheater from the possession of accused Neeraj

Kumar Chaudhary corroborates the statement of PW

3 TK Roy who deposed that on 21.11.01 between

8.30/9 pm he had received a call from his brother 214 Ratan Roy who told him that he was caught by CBI

people and he should talk to them and gave his

cell phone to those persons, then TK Roy spoke to

the person who told him that his name was Rahim

Khan and also that they were not from CBI but had

kidnapped his brother. This itself shows that in

furtherance of criminal conspiracy of all the accused

persons to kidnap a rich person for ransom and in

furtherance of their common intention the accused

persons as per their own disclosure statement they

impersonated as police officials and stopped the car

driven by Rattan Roy (now deceased) when they

found him all alone and on the pretext of checking

the documents of the car and the dicky they

kidnapped him for ransom. It is pertinent to

mention that the police uniform and the blue

windcheater recovered from the possession of

accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary were bearing two 215 holes on the left shoulder of both appearing to be

bullet marks which fact finds corroboration that the

accused Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary when arrested

had injury on his left shoulder and as per his own

disclosure statement he was treated for his said

injury by PW19 Dr. Narender Kumar. 103. So far the recovery of fake I­card from

the possession of accused Rajender bearing his

photograph with the name of Neeraj Kumar

Chaudhary is concerned it is proved on record vide

testimony of PW17 HC Rambir that it was issued in

the name of Ct Neeraj Kumar, however, there is no

evidence on record as to who forged the said I­card

and similarly, there is no evidence on record that

accused Rajender ever used this forged card as

genuine. The accused Rajender has though faced

trial U/s 468 IPC for possessing forged / fake I­card

in the name of Neeraj Kumar, rank Constable 216 bearing No. 10081531 bearing his photograph and

the recovery of the said fake I­card has also been

proved on record by the cogent evidence led by the

prosecution, however, merely recovery of a forged

document from possession of accused does not

attract the provisions of Sec. 468 IPC, as to attract

the provisions of the section, it was the duty of the

prosecution to prove that accused Rajender had

forged the said document. As per Sec. 468 IPC, a

person who commits forgery intending to use the

forged document for the purpose of cheating is

liable to be punished. The term 'forgery' has been

defined in Sec. 463 IPC. As per the same whoever

makes any false document with intent to cause

damage or injury to the public or to any person or

with intent to commit fraud, commits forgery.

However, in the present case, the prosecution has

failed to prove on record that the I­card Ex.P1 217 recovered from the possession of accused Rajender

was forged by him. Besides, there is no evidence on

record that he used the forged I­card as genuine to

cheat the public or any person intending to commit

fraud. Hence, no offence is proved to have been

committed by accused Rajender Singh U/s 468 IPC .

Hence, he is acquitted of the charge U/s 468 IPC . 104. In view of the above discussion, the

prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt

that deceased Rattan Roy was kidnapped for

ransom in furtherance of their criminal conspiracy

on 21/11/01 by impersonating as police officers on

the pretext of checking the documents of his car

and the dicky and while the kidnapped person was

being taken here and there to fix a place for

collecting ransom but in the meantime the police

started chasing them while they reached Deepak

Petrol Pump in the Ford Ikon of the deceased and 218 deceased was also in the car at that time, when SI

Brij Mohan wanted the occupants to get out of the

Ford Ikon and knocked at the front left window, in

furtherance of their common intention, the accused

persons fired at the police party obstructing them in

discharge of their official duties, though none of the

police officials was injured in such firing, however,

definitely an attempt on the life of the police

officials namely SI Brij Mohan and Ct. Ashok Kumar

was made by the accused persons while both these

police officials were discharging their official duties

to save the kidnapped Rattan Roy from their

clutches. It is further proved beyond reasonable

doubt that in furtherance of the common intention

of all the accused, the kidnapped Rattan Roy was

thrown out of the moving car by accused Rajender

who was sitting alongwith him on the rear seat to

escape from police, resulting into head injury on the 219 person of Rattan Roy due to which he went in

coma and lateron succumbed to the injury on

29/11/01 at Apollo Hospital and thus, all the

accused committed the murder of the deceased

Rattan Roy. It is also proved on record beyond

reasonable doubt that all the accused after

kidnapping Rattan Roy for ransom had withdrawn a

sum of Rs. 15,000/­ each from ATM at Preet Vihar

and at Krishna Nagar by putting him under fear of

injury or death. Hence, all the accused have also

committed offences punishable U/s 186/353/307/34

and U/s 419/364A/384/302/120B IPC and are

convicted accordingly. 105. However, the prosecution has failed to

bring home the guilt of accused Neeraj Kumar

beyond reasonable doubt U/s 25 Arms Act , hence he

is acquitted U/s 25 Arms Act . 106. Accused Rajender as referred above is also 220 acquitted of the charge U/s 468 IPC . 107. The prosecution has also failed to prove

the guilt of accused Rajender Singh beyond

reasonable doubt U/s 27 Arms Act , hence, he is

acquitted of the said charge. 108. Both the FIR's i.e 611/01 PS Badarpur and

261/01 PS Seemapuri are disposed off. IN THE COURT OF MS RAVINDER KAUR, ASJ,
 NEW DELHI SC No. 145/02 SC No. 66/02 State Vs. 1 Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary
 S/o Sh Dharam Pal
 R/o 1/3032, Ram Nagar 
 Shahdara, Delhi 

 2 Rajender Singh 
 S/o Sh Shiv Raj Singh. R/o B­145 West Nathu
 Colony, Shahdara, Delhi. 3 Vikram Yadav 
 S/o Sh. Inder Singh 
 R/o 951 Village Bawana
 Delhi. Pr.: Ms. Anita Hooda, Addl. PP for State.
 Sh. Ramesh Gupta, Counsel for convict 
 Rajender Singh and Neeraj Kumar 
 Chaudhary. Sh. SP Kaushal, counsel for convict
 Vikram Yadav. Arguments heard on the point of sentence. 1. Sh. Ramesh Gupta, adv for convict Neeraj

Kumar Chaudhary and Rajender Singh has

submitted that it is not the case which falls within

the category of rarest of rare cases to award them

death penalty. It is also submitted that that they are

young boys and convict Neeraj was recently

married before the incident and that they were not

involved in any other criminal case. It is submitted

that they belong to respectable families, hence

lenient view be taken while awarding sentence. 2. Sh. SP Kaushal, adv for convict Vikram 223 Yadav has submitted that he is a young boy and a

national level boxer and is not involved in any

other criminal case. It is submitted that a lenient

view be taken while awarding sentence. 3. On the other hand Ld. Addl. PP has

submitted that since the convicts have committed

gruesome offence they deserve maximum

punishment. 4. After hearing the submissions of both the

parties and going through the material on record I

find that the convicts for lust of money had

kidnapped an innocent person Rattan Roy and

while they were chased by the police they made an

attempt on the life of the police officials and threw

out the Rattan Roy from a moving car, resulting

into his death and in such kind of offences the

convicts do not deserve any mercy as a young life

has been lost on account of no fault of his leaving 224 his family in utter shock and despair. It is further

pertinent to mention that though it is claimed by

the defence counsels that the convicts belong to

respectable families and this fact is supported from

evidence on record also that convict Vikram Yadav

was national level boxer and the other accused

Neeraj Kumar was employed with Delhi Police, in

my opinion it is shameful act on the part of the

convicts that despite the fact they belong to

respectable families and are educated, particularly,

convict Neeraj Kumar Chaudhary who was

Constable with Delhi Police and the job of the

police officials is to protect the public from the

criminals and their unlawful activities but it is

unheard that a police official himself was involved

in such gruesome act, hence the accused persons

deserve no leniency. However, at the same time the

present case do not fall within the category of 225 rarest of rare cases as held by the Hon'ble Apex

Court in the various authorities hence they cannot

be awarded Capital punishment U/s 302/364A IPC . 5. All the accused persons in the facts and

circumstances of the present case are thus

sentenced to life imprisonment U/s 302 r/w 120 IPC . 6. All the accused persons are further

sentenced to life imprisonment and to pay a fine of

Rs. 5000/­ each in default to undergo SI for 3

months each U/s 364A r/w 120B IPC . 7. All the accused persons are further

sentenced to RI for 3 years U/s 384 r/w 120B IPC . 8. All the accused persons are further

sentenced to RI for 3 months U/s 186 IPC . 9. All the accused persons are further

sentenced to RI for 2 years U/s 353 IPC . 10. All the accused persons are further

sentenced to RI for 5 years U/s 307 IPC . 226 11. All the accused persons are further

sentenced to RI for 3 years U/s 419 r/w 120B IPC . 12. All the sentences shall run concurrently. Both the files pertaining to case FIR No.

611/01 PS Badarpur and FIR No. 261/01 PS

Seemapuri be consigned to RR.