For Petitioner : Mr. Aniruddh Singh, Advocate appears on
 behalf of Mr. Dhiraj Kumar Wankhede,
 Advocate
 For Union of India : Mr. Ramakant Mishra, DSGI
 For State : Ms. Upasana Mehta, Dy. G.A.

 Hon'ble Shri Justice Arvind Kumar Verma

 Order on Board

02/07/2025
Heard. 1. The present writ petition has been filed by the petitioner on the

 following relief(s) : 2. By filing the present petition, the petitioner is challenging the illegal

 and unauthorized action on the part of Respondent No. 05 to

 Respondent No. 06 (hereinafter referred as 'Respondent Banks')

 whereby multiple personal loans of exorbitant amount (Rs. 46,00,000/-

 in the present petition) have been sanctioned in the name of more than 4 300 victims of fraud including the petitioner herein (hereinafter

 collectively referred as 'victims') without receiving any application

 from the victims themselves. Respondent No. 07 and Respondent No.

 08 (hereinafter referred as 'Private Respondents') are the Direct Selling

 Agents (hereinafter referred as 'DSA') of the Respondent Banks and

 multiple personal loans were approved and sanctioned by the

 Respondent Banks in the name of victims via single OTP with the help

 of Private Respondents. The Private Respondents committed fraud

 upon the victims by convincing the victims to invest 50% of loan

 amount in their personal bank accounts and promised to provide high

 rate of interest /returns. 3. The challenge is also made against the manner in which the

 Respondent Banks have sanctioned the personal loan of the victims in

 gross violations of the notification, guideline, and circular issued by

 the Reserve Bank of India (hereinafter referred as 'RBI') titled 'Reset of

 Floating Interest Rate on Equated Monthly Installments (EMI) based

 Personal Loans dated 18.08.2023, Guidelines on Fair Practices Code

 for Lenders dated 05.05.2003 and recent Master Circular on

 Management of Advances dated 01.04.2025, respectively. The detailed

 advisory and caution regarding sanctioning of personal loans has been

 provided by RBI to all the Scheduled Commercial Banks, Regional

 Rural Banks, Primary Co-operative Banks, State Co-operative Banks,

 and Non-Banking Financial Companies (including Housing Finance

 Companies). However, without following the guidelines, notifications, 5 and the circulars the Respondent Banks have sanctioned multiple

 personal loans of exorbitant amount on single OTP without any

 application from victims and after disbursement of sanctioned loan,

 50% of amount is transferred to another bank account with the help of

 Private Respondent and the officers of Respondent Banks. 4. It is admitted fact that the Petitioner is a member of Schedule Tribe and

 resident of a tribal area i.e. Kanker. Further, some of the victims are

 Teachers and some are Assistant Professors in their respective Schools

 and Colleges and they have intentionally targeted the victims from

 tribal areas owing to the fact that they have no knowledge of banking

 and finance and Petitioner and other victims were the easy targets

 made available to them just fulfill their selfish desire of getting money

 in the form of service fee, interest, and ancillary charges arising out of

 the exorbitant amount of personal loans. The collusion between the

 Respondent Banks and Private Respondents is also evident from the

 fact that the 4-5 personal loans sanctioned in the name of the individual

 victims and the same were disbursed at once within a time frame of 24

 hours, even though the One Time Password (OTPs) were fraudulently

 obtained days/weeks before the date of disbursement. Immediately

 upon realizing the fraud, the petitioner approached the police

 authorities and an FIR was registered bearing Crime No.50/2025 at

 Police Station Kotwali, District Raipur for the offence under Sections

 318(4) &3(5) of BNS and another FIR dated 08.04.2025 bearing Crime

 No.103/2025 was registered at Police Station Kanker, District Kanker 6 for the offence under Sections 420, 34 and Section 120-B of IPC,

 1860. 5. Learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the petitioner has

 already moved the applications before the Banking Ombudsman,

 which are pending consideration. He further submits that the petitioner

 is the victim as the loan has been taken at the instance of the petitioner,

 however he is having no knowledge about the said loan. It has been

 contended that the petitioner is a low paid employees and he is facing

 hardship due to the aforesaid act of the Banking employees as well as

 Companies. In the present petition, the petitioner is seeking only a

 direction to the Banking Ombudsman to decide the matter in

 accordance with law. 6. Considering the matter in its entirety, this Court is of the opinion that

 since the remedy available to the petitioner to file appropriate

 applications before the Banking Ombudsman, at this stage, it would be

 appropriate that a direction be given to the petitioner to pursue their

 remedy before the Banking Ombudsman and the concerned Banking

 Ombudsman, who is in receipt the copies of the complaints on

 15.05.2025 is directed to consider the case of the petitioner and to pass

 appropriate orders while considering the matter on merits in

 accordance with law. 7. In that view of the matter, the petitioner is directed to file appropriate

 application for grant of interim relief before respondent No.4 i.e. 7 Banking Ombudsman Reserve Bank of India, Regional Office Raipur,

 Subhashish Parisar, Satya Prem Vihar, Mahadev Ghat Road, Sunder

 Nagar, District - Raipur, Chhattisgarh within a period of 15 days and,

 in turn the Banking Ombudsman concerned is directed to consider the

 said application and to pass appropriate orders in accordance with law

 within a period of 30 days from the date of filing of the application by

 the petitioner. 8. Till the application for interim relief is decided by the Banking

 Ombudsman, the Bank authorities are directed not to take any coercive

 steps against the petitioner. 9. With the aforesaid observation/direction, instant petition stands

 disposed rights and contentions of the parties are left open. Sd/- (Arvind Kumar Verma)
 Judge

Vasant