Convicted accused in Special C.C.No.186/2009 by

judgment dated 11.07.2022 on the file of Special Judge,

Belagavi has preferred this appeal. 2. Brief facts of the case are as under: 3. On 13.07.2008, the complainant along with

Maktumsab approached the accused and sought for time and

also requested him that Maktumsab is a poor person and

therefore, sufficient time needs to be given. However, the

request made by the complainant and the Maktumsab was

turned down by the accused and he conversation between the

accused and the complainant was recorded in a mobile phone

and since they are not interested to part away the illegal

gratification, they approached the Lokayukta Police on

16.07.2008 and lodged the complainant. 4. The head of the raid party being convinced about

the veracity of the complaint averments, made arrangements

for the intended trap. He secured two panch witnesses and

explained them about the complaint averments and also took

Rs.4,500/- to be paid from the hands of the complainant

comprising of nine notes of Rs.500/- denomination and entered

serial numbers of the said notes and smeared phenolphthalein -4- CRL.A No. 2760 of 2012 powder and demonstrated the chemical reaction of the

phenolphthalein powder with the sodium carbonate solution to

the panchas and drafted entrustment/ experimental mahazar in

the presence of panch witnesses and took their signature. 5. Thereafter, the complainant was instructed that he

along with shadow witnesses should go to the working place of

the accused, on demand should hand over the tainted currency

notes to the hands of the accused and thereafter gave a pre- designated signal to the rest of the raid party by using his hand

kerchief. 6. Thereafter raid team has been proceeded to place

of the accused where the accused was working, complainant

handed over the money to the accused on demand in the

presence of the shadow witness and gave a pre-designated

signal. Immediately the rest of the raid party came to the

scene of offence; enquired the accused about the illegal

gratification and handling of tainted currency; seized nine

currency notes of Rs.500/- denomination; the serial numbers

of the currency notes were tallied and colour test were

conducted, which stood in positive; explanation of the accused -5- CRL.A No. 2760 of 2012 was obtained; accused was arrested and trap mahazar was

drafted. 7. Thereafter, the accused was produced before the

Special Judge and he was sent to judicial custody. Subsequent

thereto, detailed investigation has been conduced and charge

sheet came to be filed against the accused for the aforesaid

offences. 8. Presence of the accused was secured and he was

on bail and charges were framed. Accused pleaded not guilty

and trial was held. 9. In order to prove the case of the prosecution, in all

25 witnesses were examined as PWs.1 to PWs.25 and

prosecution relied upon the 50 material documents which were

exhibited and marked as Exs.P.1 to P.50. Eleven material

objects were also relied on by the prosecution, which were

marked as MO.1 to MO.11. 10. On behalf of the defence six documents were

marked during the course of examination of prosecution

witnesses Ex.D.1 to D.6. Thereafter accused statement as -6- CRL.A No. 2760 of 2012 contemplated under Section 313(5) of Cr.P.C. was recorded,

wherein the accused had denied all the incriminatory

circumstances found against him and offered written

explanation as is contemplated under Section 313 of Cr.P.C.,

which reads as under: 12. Being aggrieved by the same, accused-appellant is

before this Court challenging the validity of the judgment

passed by the Trial Court on the following grounds. The impugned judgment and order is contrary
 to law and the materials on record and
 therefore, the finding arrived at are vitiated as
 illegal and bad in law, hence, the judgment,
 sentence and order is liable to be set aside. It is humbly submitted that the evidence of PW-
 6 shadow pancha is unbelievable, unworthy of
 credence, unnatural and suffers from
 contradictions, exaggeration and omission. The
 shadow pancha PW-6 is not at all independent,
 the learned trial judge has failed to initiate
 perjury proceedings against him for giving two
 different versions on oath. Instead the learned
 trial judge believed the evidence of PW-6
 without any justification. PW-6 has admitted
 that he has deposed on oath in the
 departmental proceedings as per Ex.D-6,
 wherein, it is clearly stated that PW-6 has not
 heard the conversation between the appellant
 and the complainant PW-3, he has further
 admitted that he has not seen the passing of
 money from complainant to the appellant.
 However, before Special Court he says that he - 10 - has not heard the conversation between
 complainant and appellant but had seen
 appellant receiving the money and putting it in
 pant pocket after counting the currency notes.
 This version should have been discarded by the
 learned Trial Judge as the two inconsistent
 statements of witnesses given at one or the
 other stage of the proceedings shall be
 discarded as unworthy of credence as held by
 Apex Court in Surajmal's case. Thus the learned
 Trial Judge has erred by accepting the evidence
 of PW-6 despite of production of Ex.D-6. It is humbly submitted that the persons who can
 speak about demand and acceptance of illegal
 gratification in the instant case are PW-3
 complainant, PW-4 a person who had
 accompanied PW-3 throughout the proceedings,
 PW-6 shadow pancha and PW-23 the student on
 whose behalf PW-3 has said to have paid illegal
 gratification of Rs.4,500/- Other students
 produced between PW-9 to PW-21 are
 circumstantial witnesses to support demand of
 illegal gratification. In the trial PW-8 to PW-21
 have turned totally hostile to the case of
 prosecution and in-cross examination by Special
 PP also nothing could be elicited against the
 appellant. Similarly, PW 4 who accompanied - 11 - PW-3 throughout the proceedings and PW-23 a
student stated supra have also not supported
the case of the prosecution and were declared
as hostile witnesses and subjected to cross-
examination of Special PP, wherein nothing
against the appellant could be elicited. Thus the
witnesses who remains in the fray are PW-3 and
PW-6. PW-6 has given contradictory statements
by giving one version in the departmental
proceedings as per Ex.D-6 and by giving
diagonally opposite version before the Special
Court. Thus his evidence is unacceptable and
unworthy of credence besides being unnatural
and improbable. Thus what remains with the
prosecution is the isolated version of PW-3. The
complainant PW-3, has not stated anything
about demand. What he has stated is that "he
has paid Rs.4,500/- as fees to the appellant and
not as alleged bribe money. There is colossal
difference between his version in complaint
Ex.P-6 and his deposition before the Hon'ble
Special Court. He has given go by to the case of
the prosecution as for as all other matters are
concerned. There are numerous material
contradictions, even then his evidence is
accepted. Thus evidence of PW-3 is not helpful
to the case of the prosecution for proving
demand and acceptance of illegal gratification. - 12 - The PW-4 who has accompanied PW-3 also says
 that he, (PW 4) has not seen alleged demand
 and acceptance of illegal gratification. evidence
 of PW-3 also should have been discarded for
 above said reasons: Thus the
 prosecution/respondent has utterly failed to
 prove demand and acceptance of illegal
 gratification. It is humbly submitted that the evidence of PW-
 3 is required to be discarded not only for the
 reason that PW-3 has given contradictory
 evidence on demand and acceptance but also
 for the reason that he is accomplice, as such,
 his evidence shall not be accepted without
 corroboration in material particulars as held in S.114 of Indian Evidence Act. PW-3 says he has
 taken SIM from PW-4 and mobile phone from
 PW-8. On enquiry it is revealed that PW-8 was
 not having mobile with facility of recording
 conversation made in cell phone. He has also
 stated that no mobile phone was given to either
 PW-3 or to PW-4. Though PW-3 spoke to one 1.G.Peerjade colleague of appellant 21 times in
 6 days prior to alleged trap. Even then PW-3
 says he does not who is Peerjade and that he
 does not know the holder of mobile number
 9945435607. Therefore, his evidence is - 13 - unworthy of credence and does not inspire the
 confidence. The background of the case should
 not be lost sight off. The Peerjade was placed
 under suspension for manhandling Principal PW- 2. The suspension order was handed over to
 Peerjade by the appellant. Therefore, he had
 developed grudge against the appellant. Hence,
 PW-3 got filed false case against the appellant. It is further submitted that no work of PW-3 or
 PW-23 was pending with the accused/appellant
 as on the date of alleged trap. It is humbly submitted that the learned Trial
 Judge has failed to notice an evidence of PW-6,
 PW-3 & PW-4, who have categorically stated
 that hand wash of the appellant was taken after
 making the accused/appellant to handover the
 money i.e., after recovery. It is humbly submitted that the evidence of PW-
 24 is unworthy of credence as he claims to have
 taken the statement of students produced as
 PW-9 to PW 21 by visiting their college on 27-
 07-2008. It is pertaining to note that the college
 was closed as 27-07-2008 was a holiday being
 Sunday. PW-23 & PW-4 have also stated that
 they have not given statement before 1.0. PW- 24. There are other contradictions and - 14 - improvements made by PW-24 in his deposition
 before the Special Court. Therefore, his
 evidence is liable to rejected. It is humbly submitted that Ex.P-48 does not
 contain the so called proof showing the
 conversation said to have been made by PW-3
 with appellant on 14-07-2008 at 9:30 PM. There
 are number of contradictions and exaggeration
 coupled with omissions which conspicuously
 demonstrate that the investigation is
 perfunctory. It is humbly submitted that the learned Special
 Judge has failed to appreciate the evidence of
 PW-3 in the light of the deposition given by PW-
 4, PW-8 to PW-21 and PW-23. Thereby
 erroneous decision. It is humbly submitted that prosecution has
 utterly failed to prove the scene of offence with
 credible convincing cogent evidence. PW 6 says
 that scene of offence is 5'ft inside the gate, vis-
 à-vis PW-7 says that the scene of offence is
 150'ft away from the gate (that too outside the
 gate). On this solitary ground alone entire
 impugned is to be discarded. It is humbly submitted that learned Trial Judge
 has failed to appreciate the evidence on record, - 15 - including the findings given by enquiry officer in
 the department enquiry. When two views are
 possible the view favourable to the accused
 shall be taken into consideration. In the instant
 case though there are apparently different
 versions the learned judge has failed to give the
 benefit of doubt in favour of the appellant. The
 careful perusal of impugned order shows that
 the approach of the learned Trial Judge in
 presuming the appellant guilty since inception
 itself shows that very mind set of the learned
 judge was against the cardinal principles of
 criminal jurisprudence that the accused shall be
 treated as innocent till the guilt is proved
 beyond hilt. In this case as the very mind set
 was towards guilt rather than innocence, the
 Special Judge has failed to appreciate the
 important admissions, apparent contradictions,
 significant improvements, deliberate evasive
 answers, series of inconsistent statements made
 by witnesses on material aspects of demand and
 acceptance, scene of offences etc.

 It is humbly submitted that prosecution has
 utterly failed to prove that MO-9 contained the
 conversations between appellant and
 complainant. As these conversations are set to
 have been recorded in a mobile, which has not - 16 - been seized nor proved before the Trial Court
and in the absence of subjecting MO-9 to
spectagraphic analysis test, the genuinity of
voisograms cannot be proved. In order to prove
the genuinity of recording, the prosecution shall
prove accuracy of time, date, place of
occurrence and relevancy of fact i.e.,
conversation. To ensure doctoring of
conversation the genuinity shall be proved by
subjecting MO-9 & mobile to the laboratory. In
this case the prosecution has failed to prove
that the mobile of PW-8 was borrowed by PW-4
for the purpose of recording and that the SIM of
PW-3 was used by putting the same in the
mobile of PW-8. PW-3 and PW-8 have denied
having given their respective SIM card and cell
phone. With this the called details collected by
the prosecution shows that on 14-07-2008 at
9:30 PM PW-4 has not called the appellant to
his cell phone i.e., 9880594741. The SIM card
said to have been used by PW-4 claiming to be
PW-3's also was not proved as the said SIM card
belongs to one Shri.Azad Nadaf of Dharwad,
who is nothing to do with this case and he has
neither been cited as witnesses nor has been
examined during the investigation or before the
court. With this PW-3 himself has refused the - 17 - ownership of SIM as his. Thus prosecution has
 failed to recording of conversation. It is humbly submitted that PW-3 & PW-4 have
 stated that nothing has been recorded in the
 cassette recorder given to them by Lokayukta
 Police. This shows that deliberately the cassette
 recorder was not produced as the production of
 the same would have shown that PW-3 trusted
 money into the pocket of accused, as accused
 has shouted and resisted thrusting as the
 recording would have shown the same. Thus
 learned Special Judge has failed to adverse
 inference for not recording the conversation
 despite of carrying the cassette recorder with
 specific instruction from Lokayukta Police to
 record the conversation between complainant
 and appellant. This recording cannot be
 accepted because this material is said to have
 been collected prior to lodging of FIR and has
 not been collected in the course of investigation.
 The learned Judge should have discarded MO-9
 by applying the ratio laid down by Hon'ble Apex
 Court in various decisions. It is humbly submitted that the questionings u/s
 313 Cr.P.C are illegal in as much as the alleged
 incriminating materials pertaining the charge
 are not put to the appellant seeking his - 18 - explanation. The same has prejudiced his
 defence resulting in failure of justice. 15) It is
 humbly submitted that the sanction order is bad
 in law and on this count is alone impugned
 judgment is liable to be set aside. It is further submitted that where, the
 prosecution did not examine any one present at
 the scene of offence, "where whole transaction
 of bribe was alleged to have taken place" and
 no palpable explanation by the prosecution is
 forthcoming as to why no one from amongst the
 natural eye witnesses were produced specially
 when the eye witnesses found to be highly
 interested in success of the trap, the
 accused/appellant would be entitle to acquittal. It is further submitted that where witness
 makes to inconsistent statements in their
 evidence either at one stage or at two stages,
 the testimony of such witness becomes
 unreliable and unworthy of credence. AIR 1979
 SC 1408 in this case PW-3, PW-6, PW-7 & PW
 24 have given contradictory evidence as stated
 supra. Hence, their evidence is liable to be
 discarded. Charge to be proved beyond reasonable doubt
 by prosecution and the accused should be - 19 - considered innocent till it is established
 otherwise by proper proof of demand and
 acceptance of illegal gratification 2009 (CCR)
 231 (SC). When corroboration is wanting for demand and
 acceptance illegal gratifications it is unsafe to
 base conviction. Shadow witness with raiding
 party requires corroboration. 2009 SCC (Cri) 879.

 Corroboration between complainant and shadow
 witness must, evidence of complainant shows
 he gives evasive answer and claims lack of
 memory, exaggerates material facts. His
 evidence is unworthy of credence. 2004(2)
 KCCR 1233. 2006(3) KCCR 1445. Overall assessment of matter disclosing that
 prosecution story was not true accused entitled
 to acquittal 1985 criminal law journal 504. Defence theory given immediately in the form of
 immediate explanation is given under threat it is
 not a voluntary statement. When character of trap witness did not appear
 natural the evidence of such witness needs to
 be discarded. - 20 - When accused proves his case with
 preponderance of probability. The benefit of
 doubt shall be given to accused. 2009 CCR 499
 (SC). For sustaining conviction u/s 7 of PC Act, 1988
 pendency of work is essential. In the instant
 case none of the witnesses have deposed
 regarding the pendency of work and the motive
 for demanding illegal gratification was kept
 under dark. The Special Judge has erroneously
 held that the work is pending even when there
 is no evidence to show that for what purpose
 the appellant has demanded illegal gratification.
 The learned Special Judge failed to appreciation
 the evidence of PW-3, PW-6, & PW-7 in
 accordance with law. It is submitted that when the prosecution has
 failed to prove the case beyond reasonable
 doubt, the learned Special Judge sought not to
 have passed erroneous order assigning the
 imaginary and unjust reasons in the judgment.
 Therefore, the order of the learned Special
 Judge is devoid of merit and perverse. The above facts amply shows that the story of
 the prosecution is unnatural and prima facie
 appears to be false. The appellant has never - 21 - demanded and received any illegal gratification
 from anybody at any point of time, much less
 from the complainant PW-23. The learned Special Judge has committed
 serious error in convicting the appellant by
 relying on the evidence of PW-3, PW-6, PW-7 &
 PW-24 but their evidence suffer from full of
 material contraction and omission which go to
 the root of the case and falsify the entire case of
 the prosecution/respondent. It is submitted that the prosecution has
 suppressed the genuineness of the case and
 they have not come before the court with clean
 hands against the appellant. But the learned
 Special Judge has come to wrong conclusion in
 erroneously convicting the appellant. Thus the
 same has resulted in miscarriage of justice to
 the appellant. It is submitted that the learned Special Judge
 has failed to understand the case of the defence
 while appreciating the witness and accepted the
 case of the prosecution and has not given any
 credence to the defence version. It is submitted that the prosecution has
 suppressed the genuineness of the actual
 incident and came with false story that the - 22 - appellant has demanded and accepted illegal
 gratification. The learned Special Judge also
 accepted the same and arrived to wrong
 conclusion in convicting the appellant without
 assigning *convicting satisfactory and cogent
 reasons. It is submitted that the appellant was not in a
 position to show any favour or disfavor to the
 complainant. No work of the complainant was
 pending with appellant as such, there is no
 question of appellant demand any illegal
 gratification from him. It is humbly submitted that the impugned
 judgment and order dated 11-06-2012 is
 contrary to law and the material record and
 therefore the finding arrived at is vitiated as
 illegal and bad in law, hence, the judgment and
 order impugned is liable to be set aside. That the appellant craves leave to refer and rely
 upon various authorities in support of his case. That the appellant craves to refer to and rely
 upon charge sheet and other exhibited
 documents in support of his case. That the appellant craves leave to add, amend,
 delete, change, alter, modify any of the - 23 - foregoing paras / grounds with the permission
 of this Hon'ble Court." 13. Reiterating the grounds urged in the appeal

memorandum, Sri Shankar Hegde, learned counsel for the

appellant contended that the entire case of the prosecution is

nothing but ingenious and concoction with an intention to

falsely implicate the accused in the case, on account of

previous ill-will nurtured by the complainant party against the

accused. 14. He also pointed out that the case of the prosecution

is not proved to any extent muchless beyond reasonable doubt

inasmuch as the prosecution witnesses namely PWs.9 to 21,

who are the students and classmates of Maktumsab have

turned hostile and therefore, the theory of the prosecution that

sum of Rs.5,500/- from each of the students was demanded by

the accused for easy and effortless passing of the second year

diploma. He also pointed out that the question of Rs.1,000/- being paid and balance sum of Rs.4,500/- being demanded and

accepted by the accused is not proved by placing cogent and

convincing evidence on record in as much as there is no

evidence on record which would subsequently pointed out that - 24 - there was a demand of Rs.4,500/- by the accused either before

lodging of the complaint or at the time of actual trap and

sought for allowing the appeal. 15. He also pointed out that the mobile phone with

which the conversation recorded earlier to lodging of the

complaint took place is not being seized by the Lokayukta

Police and therefore, there is no cogent evidence for the

purpose of proving the demand of illegal gratification by the

accused. 16. Per contra, Sri Santosh B.Malagoudar, learned

counsel representing Lokayukta Police vehemently contended

that in the case on hand, the complainant has supported the

case of the prosecution so also, the shadow witness in toto. There is material on record stating that nephew of the

complainant was studying in Government ITI college, Saundatti

in second year diploma. There is also material on record that

accused has handled the tainted currency in view of the fact

that colour test stood positive. He further argued that insofar

as the work of the complainant is concerned, admittedly the

nephew of the complainant was studying in the Government ITI - 25 - College in the second hear diploma and accused being working

as Junior Training Officer is not in dispute. The prosecution

deemed to have proved that in order to show favour to the

nephew of the complainant, the illegal gratification amount was

demanded by the accused and therefore, sought for dismissal

of the appeal. 17. In view of the rival contentions of the parties, the

following points would arise for consideration. i) Whether the prosecution has successfully
 established all ingredients to attract offences
 punishable under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of PC Act? ii) Whether the impugned judgment is suffering from
 legal infirmity or perversity and thus calls for
 interference by this Court? iii) What order? 18. Regarding Point Nos.1 & 2 : In order to

establish the case of the prosecution, the prosecution relied on

the evidence of PW.3-complainant, PW.6-shadow witness,

PW.7-Co-pancha and investigating officer. - 26 - 19. PW.1 is the Assistant Engineer who drafted the spot

sketch. His evidence is formal in nature. 20. PW.2 is the Principal of the Government ITI

College, Saundatti. He also supported the case of the

prosecution stating that accused was working as Junior

Training Officer and he identified the voice that has been

recorded in the cassette marked at MO.7. 21. In the cross-examination of PW.2, the suggestion

made to him that voice recorded in MO.7 is incapable of proper

identification, which has been denied by him. It is elicited that,

whenever he needs to leave his seat, accused was made as In- charge Principal. He admits that he has also adduced evidence

in disciplinary proceedings. He admits that every Sunday is the

holiday for the college. 22. PW.3 is the complainant, who supported the case

of the prosecution in toto by deposing about the contents of

the complaint, entrustment mahazar and trap mahazar. In his

cross examination it is elicited that he is not aware of

completion of primary education and the metric examination of

his nephew. He also admits that he is not aware of in which - 27 - subject that Maktumsab was studying in the college and

whether he is pursuing his further education. It is further

elicited that Maktumsab had not contacted him earlier to lodge

the complaint in respect of the fee. It is also elicited that he is

unable to narrate the date, time and the place where

Maktumsab approached him in respect of the demand made by

the accused. He admits that before visiting the college he did

not meet the mother of Maktumsab. He admits that he has

visited the college at the request of Mehaboobsab Nadaf and he

had gone to college from Garag. He admits that after visiting

Saundatti, he met the accused and he requested for reducing

fee. It is also elicited that, there was a conversation with the

friends of complainant that if the matter is reported to

Lokayukta, then the fee would be reduced. He admits that with

an intention to get the fee reduced, he met the Lokayukta

officials. He also did not know the last date of paying the fee. He admits that he does not know when Hussainsab had a

conversation with accused and he was not aware of Hussainsab

having a mobile phone and his telephone number. 23. It is also elicited in his cross-examination that on

the date of trap, he had visited Belagavi and after meeting the - 28 - Lokayukta Police, he requested the Lokayukta officials to

reduce the fee of Maktumsab. He admits that on the date of

trap between 1.00 and 1.30 p.m., the police had prepared

complaint and thereafter obtained his signature on those

documents. Hussainsab who is the relative of Maktumsab told

accused that he had approached him to pay the fee. It is also

elicited that at the time of handing over the tainted currency to

the hands of the accused, it is specifically stated that

Hussainsab told the accused that they have come to pay the

fee and handed over the money. He admits that he has got a

mobile phone bearing No.9916654038. It is elicited that he did

not contact the accused through his mobile phone. He admits

that he did not enquire the accused as to where they should

hand over the money. 24. Hussainsab who accompanied PW.3 is examined as

PW.4. He has not supported the case of the prosecution in toto

and to the limited extent, he has supported the case of the

prosecution and he has been cross examined. In his cross

examination, it is elicited that Maktumsab had got parents and

father of Maktumsab is working in Belagavi as labourer. It is

also elicited that he has not aware of the class and the course - 29 - that Maktumsab was studying. It is also elicited that he has not

aware of the conversation between the complainant and the

accused and he has also not seen the transaction that took

place between the complaint and accused. 25. S.R.Umashankar is examined as PW.5. He is the

sanctioning authority issued the sanction order to prosecute

the accused. His evidence is formal in nature inasmuch as

there is no serious challenge to the sanction order. 26. PW.6 is the shadow witness. He has supported the

case of the prosecution in toto by specifically deposing that on

demand the accused has received Rs.4,500/- and kept the

same in his left side pant pocket. There was a conversation

between the complainant and accused for two minutes, but he

was not able to hear the same as he was standing about 15

feet away from the complainant and the accused. 27. In his cross examination, it is elicited that, he has

not heard about the demand made by the accused for the

illegal gratification on the day of trap. It is elicited that the

complainant met the accused inside the gate. The tar road is - 30 - about 12 feet wide and one Hussainsab had also accompanied

the complainant. 28. It is also elicited that in the departmental enquiry,

he has deposed that the accused was made to hold the notes in

his hand, photograph was taken. He admitted his deposition

before the Enquiry Officer, the same which was marked at

Ex.P.6. 29. PW.7-Shivanand Shivalingayya Mathapathi is the

co-pancha. He has supported the case of the prosecution. In

this cross-examination no useful material is elicited. 30. PW.8-Manjunatha Theerthappa Ghodse is the

owner of the mobile shop who carried on the business in the

mane of Manjunatha Traders. 31. He has stated that he has not given any mobile

handset to Hussainsab for recording the conversation. He has

been treated as hostile witness and cross-examined by the

prosecution. In such cross-examination no useful materials are

elicited. - 31 - 32. PWs.9 to 21 are the students of the Government

ITI College Saundatti. These witnesses have been examined by

the prosecution in order to prove that there was a demand of

Rs.5,500/- from each one of them for successfully completing

their course in the college. None of these witnesses supported

the case of the prosecution to any extent and therefore, they

have been treated as hostile witnesses and cross-examined by

the prosecution. In such cross-examination, no useful material

is elicited by the prosecution. 33. PW.22-Superintendent of Police who has directed

the head of the raid party to correct few mistakes crept in the

panchanama. His evidence is formal in nature. 34. Star witness to the prosecution namely Maktumsab

from whom the accused demanded sum of Rs.5,500/- is

examined as PW.23. He also did not support the case of the

prosecution. Therefore he has been treated as hostile witnesses

and cross-examined by the prosecution by confronting the

statements said to have been recorded by the Investigating

Officer under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. - 32 - 35. In his cross-examination, suggestions made to him

that he knew about his improper attendance and in that regard

the accused has given a complaint to the principal is denied by

him. However, he admitted that he has filed a complaint before

the Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum and he admitted the

said complaint. 36. PW.24 is the Investigating Officer and head of the

raid party. He deposed about the receipt of the complaint; securing pancha witnesses; securing the currency for illegal

gratification; smearing phenolphthalein powder; demonstrating

the chemical re-action of the phenolphthalein powder with

sodium carbonate solution; drafting of entrustment mahazar; trap; arrest of accused; filing of charge sheet. 37. In his cross examination, he denied the suggestion

that on 27.07.2008 being a Sunday, college was closed and he

has not recorded statements of PWs.9 to 21. He had pleaded

his ignorance between 21.07.2008 and 31.07.2008 PWs.9 to

21 were in Dharwad for attending the examinations. 38. PW.25 is the Enquiry-Officer who conducted the

departmental enquiry. He supported the case of the - 33 - prosecution. He also identified the report given by him in the

enquiry and marked the same as Ex.P.50. 39. In his cross-examination, it is elicited that only part

of the charges has been proved and therefore, he has

mentioned the same. The above evidence on record is sought

to be re-appreciated on behalf of the appellant for allowing the

appeal. 40. On perusal of the material on record, the

complainant himself has not totally supported the case of the

prosecution. The shadow witnesses no doubt supported the

case of the prosecution to a major extent. However, in the case

on hand, the work that was pending with the appellant is that

he was supposed to see that the nephew of the complainant

namely Maktumsab who is examined as PW.23, was promoted

to the next class by showing official favour by misusing his

official position and in that regard he has demanded Rs.5,500/- to be paid by the Maktumsab and other students. To prove the

said aspect of the matter, Maktumsab is examined as PW.23,

but he has not supported the case of the prosecution to any

extent. The prosecution has treated him as hostile witness and - 34 - cross-examined him in detail as discussed supra. However, in

such cross-examination no useful material is elicited so as to

establish the fact that the appellant had contracted to receive a

sum of Rs.5,500/- from Maktumsab and other students of the

same class for the purpose of promoting them to the next

higher class. In the absence of any such work being pending

with the appellant, all ingredients to attract the offence

punishable under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) read with Section

13(2) of the P.C.Act stands not established in the case on

hand. 41. Further in respect of demand is concerned, it is the

case of the prosecution that Hussainsab recorded the

conversation between the complainant and the accused prior to

the trap. The said mobile phone is not seized by the police. There is no other plausible evidence on record to establish the

demand and acceptance and the seizure of tainted currency

notes by the accused on the date of trap. 42. Further, even with regard to colour test and seizure

of the tainted currency notes, there are discrepancies as is

found from the contents of the trap mahazar and oral - 35 - testimony of the shadow witness. When these aspects of the

matter viewed cumulatively, this Court is of the considered

opinion that the prosecution has not been successful in

establishing any one of the ingredients much less all the

ingredients to attract the offences alleged against him. 43. However, learned trial judge in the impugned

judgment has recorded a finding that the prosecution has

proved the case beyond all reasonable doubt based on

surmises and conjectures without there being any proper and

valid legal proof placed by the prosecution. Further, PWs.9 to

21 being the students of the very same class, have turned

hostile to the case of the prosecution, is also a relevant factor

while appreciating the defence of the accused. It has been the

specific case of the accused that Maktumsab was not having

proper attendance and he has also failed to pay the requisite

fee for taking the examination and in that regard, he had

cautioned not only Maktumsab, the students who did not have

the proper attendance and failed to comply the requisite

payment of the examination fee. In order to prove the same,

the prosecution has relied on the complaint filed before the

Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum by the complainant earlier - 36 - to filing of the present petition. It is found from the records

that the complaint filed by Maktumsab got dismissed. So also

the effort made by the complainant party to approach

Ombudsmen with a complaint against the Principal of the

Government ITI College, Saundatti and the present appellant

also resulted in a dismissal. It is therefore, there is plausible

material placed by the appellant stating that the complainant

party nurtured enmity which resulted in filing the present

complaint. Material on record also disclose that the

departmental enquiry was held against the appellant herein

which also resulted in recording only partial finding about the

deficiency of the appellant herein. It is also elicited in the

cross-examination of the complainant that he does not know in

which class PW.23 is studying and who paid the fees at the

time of his admission and what is the amount of fees, that was

required to be paid by Maktumsab-PW.23 to the institution. It

is also elicited that, he has not heard the mobile conversation

that took place between the accused and Hussainsab. The

person who lent the mobile phone to the hands of Hussainsab,

who is a merchant dealing with the mobile telephones in the - 37 - name of Manjunatha Traders has also turned hostile to the case

of the prosecution. 44. Under these circumstances, non-placing all the

requisite evidence to establish the demand and acceptance

either before lodging of the complaint or at the time of the

trap, has caused sufficient dent and doubt in the case of the

prosecution. 45. It is settled principles of law that the prosecution

has to travel a long distance between 'may be proved' and

'actual proof'. It is also equally well settled that any amount of

suspicion would not take the seat of actual proof. It is also well

settled principles of criminal jurisprudence that any amount of

suspicion would not take the seat of proof. Further, under the

given set of circumstances, if two views are permissible, the

view that favours the accused must be preferred. These

celebrated legal principles in the Indian Criminal Jurisprudence

are not even considered by the learned Trial Judge while

passing the impugned judgment. 46. On cumulative consideration of the above aspects

of the matter there is no iota of doubt in the mind of this Court - 38 - that the prosecution case suffers from many doubts and the

evidence placed on record would not sufficient enough to bring

home the guilt of the accused. No doubt prosecution enjoys the

presumption but in order to take the advantage of the

presumption, the prosecution has to first discharge its initial

burden. 47. In the case on hand, the prosecution has not been

able to discharge the initial burden and therefore, the question

of accused placing rebuttal evidence would not arise at all. Moreover, the accused has sufficiently explained his stand by

filing necessary written submission under Section 313(5) of

Cr.P.C referred to supra. 48. In view of the forgoing discussions, this Court is of

the considered opinion that the prosecution has not been

successful in establishing any one of the ingredients much less

all ingredients to attract the offences punishable under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of P.C.Act. Accordingly, Point No.1 is answered in the negative. Consequently Point No.2 is to be answered in the affirmative

and accordingly it is answered. - 39 - 49. Regarding Point No.3 :- In view of answering

Point Nos.1 & 2 above, the invariable conclusion that this Court

can reach is to allow the appeal by setting aside the impugned

order. Accordingly it is answered. 50. Having discussed the salient features of proof to be

placed by the prosecution in order to record an order of

conviction for the offences punishable under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of P.C.Act, this Court cannot

be a mute spectator for the lapses that is often committed by

the prosecuting agency may be in collection of the necessary

materials in the form of voice samples, or otherwise. 51. This Court, has experienced in many cases, the

voice recorder that is given to the complainant to record the

conversation between the complainant and the proposed

accused would not be properly audible both at the time of

lodging of the complaint or at the time of trap. The readymade

explanation that, "the complainant failed to switch on the voice

recorder in the anxiety". Despite this Court and several other

judicial pronouncements have cautioned the prosecution to - 40 - take utmost care, in the said aspect of the matter, the

prosecution agency is erring repeatedly. 52. Yet another area where this Court is required to

ponder over is the collection of the voice sample. Many times,

the voice sample is recorded either on mobile telephone of the

complainant or by his friend and the same is transferred on to

a media in the form of a Compact Disk Drive or a DVD or a Pen

Drive. In such circumstances, the procedure required to be

followed especially having regard to the requirement of, to

prove a secondary evidence as is contemplated under Section

65 of the Indian Evidence Act more particularly Section 65(B) of Indian Evidence Act. Guidelines already issued for collection

of electronic evidence and certificate thereof is not even

adhered to by the prosecution. 53. It is noticed by this Court that in the absence of

proper procedure being followed by the investigating agency

repeatedly errors are occurring in collection of proper evidence

would enure to the benefit of the accused persons. In other

words, for want of proper certificate as is contemplated under

Section 65(B) of the Indian Evidence Act, voice sample even if - 41 - it is made available before the Court, cannot be relied upon by

the Court on technical reasons. To obviate such procedural

lapses, this Court has felt the necessity of issuing few

guidelines in addition to the guidelines already issued by earlier

judicial pronouncements. It is also often noticed that the voice sample

 recorded on mobile telephone is transferred on to

 the other media to be placed before the Court

 without following the proper procedure. Investigating

 Agency is also not adhering to the proviso available

 to Section 161 Cr.P.C while recording the statements

 of the charge sheet witnesses. 54. In this regard, it is necessary to cull out section

161 of Cr.P.C., which reads as under: Provided that statement made under this
 sub-section may also be recorded by audio-video
 electronic means. xxxx" Where the voice has been denied by the maker it
 will require very strict proof to determine whether
 or not it was really the voice of the speaker. (2) The accuracy of the tape recorded statement
 has to be proved by the maker of the record by
 satisfactory evidence - direct or circumstantial. (3) Every possibility of tampering with or erasure of
 a part of a tape recorded statement must be ruled
 out otherwise it may render the said statement out
 of con text and, therefore, inadmissible - 45 - (4) The statement must be relevant according to
 the rules of Evidence Act . (5) The recorded cassette must be carefully sealed
 and kept in safe or official custody. (6) The voice of the speaker should be clearly
 audible and not lost or distorted by other sounds or
 disturbances." 58. Over passage of time, various modes of electronic

evidence came to be accepted by Indian Courts. It is worth to

note that in the case of Jagjit Singh Vs. State of Haryana reported in (2006) 11 SCC 1 Hon'ble Apex Court held that the

interview of the Petitioner, which was broadcasted on

television, could be utilized as evidence. 59. It is worth to note that in the case of State of NCT

vs Navjot Singh Sandhu reported in AIR 2005 SC 3820

Hon'ble Apex Court dealt with proof and admissibility of mobile

phones and telephone call records. 60. A Division Bench of this Court in Crl.A.No.615/2013
has issued following guidelines for proper preservation of the
Digital Evidence: anti- static envelope, away from humidity and heat in a
proper manner even before the same is produced
before the court and after production the court
should also take care to keep them in proper
manner till the said evidence is admitted by the
Court during the course of the evidence. (5) It has to be ensured that such media do
not
get damaged due to the packing, sustain scratches
(if
optical) in any way while handling the file. (6) Concerned Government Authorities and
the
High Court have to take strict measures to provide
Proper training to the investigating officers and also
the concerned staff, Judicial officers and staff of the
court with reference to packing and preserving the
media for future use and retrieval of the contents of
the said electronic media, as and when required, so
that it would safely exist till the case is logically
concluded. (7) The copy of the electronic record shall be
kept in the server or in the PC of the concerned
police station or the PC provided to the concerned
investigating officer and also the PC provided to the
concerned Court for reference as back up. An - 48 - endorsement should also be made in the order
 sheet in this regard or in the case diary, as the case
 may be. (8) As soon as an electronic record is
 admitted in evidence, a copy of the relevant portion
 be stored in the concerned folder of the said case in
 a separate media and also stored in the PC in a
 separate drive so that a back up is preserved for
 future reference, even if for any reason hard
 disk/C.D. is destroyed or gets
 corrupted or rendered un-readable. (9) The electronic media shall be kept in safe
 deposit with the Chief Ministerial Office of the Court
 with a direction to preserve it in proper manner till
 the case is logically concluded. (10) Experts at FSL also if possible have to
 retain a copy of mirror image, extracted data with
 evidentiary value with proper labelling, which may
 be used as a secondary evidence at any point of
 time." 61. Likewise, learned Single Judge of this Court in

W.P.No.11759/2020 has issued following guidelines for

preservation of the electronic data found in the computer or a

laptop or on mobile telephone as under: power-off mode, the same should not be powered
on. 17.5.7. If the computer is powered on and the
screen is blank, the mouse could be moved and as
and when the image appears on the screen, the
photograph of the screen to be taken. 17.5.8. If the computer is powered on, the
investigating officer should not power off the
computer. As far as possible, the investigating
officer to secure the services of a computer forensic
examiner to download the data available in the
volatile memory i.e., RAM since the said data would
be lost on the powering down of the computer or
laptop. 17.5.9. If the computer is switched on and
connected to a network, the investigating officer to
secure the services of a forensic examiner to
capture the volatile net work data like IP address,
actual net work connections, net work logs, etc.,

17.5.10. The MAC address also to be identified
and secured. 17.5.11. In the unlikely event of the Forensic
examiner not being available, then unplug the
computer, pack the computer and the wires in
separate faraday covers after labeling them. - 51 - 17.5.12. In case of a laptop if the removal of the
 power cord does not shut down the laptop to locate
 and remove the battery. 17.5.13. If the laptop battery cannot be
 removed, then shut down the laptop and pack it in a
 faraday bag so as to block any communication to the
 said laptop since most of the laptops, nowadays
 have wireless communication enabled even when
 the laptop is in the stand by mode. 17.6. Seizure of networked devices: Apart from the

above steps taken as regards seizure of the computer,

laptop, etc., if the said equipment is connected to a

network: - 52 - 17.6.3. To ascertain if any unsecured wireless

 network can be accessed from the location. If so

 identify the same and secure the unsecured wireless

 devices since the accused might have used the said

 unsecured wireless devices. 17.6.4. To ascertain who is maintaining the network

 and to identify who is running the network - get all

 the details relating to the operations of the network

 and role of the equipment to be seized from such

 network manager. 17.6.5. To obtain from the network manager,

 network logs of the machine to be searched and/or

 seized so as to ascertain the access made by the said

 machine of the net work. 17.7. Mobile devices: Mobile devices would mean

an include smart phone, mobile phone, tablets GPS units,

etc., during the course of seizure of any of the mobile

devices, apart from the steps taken in respect of a

computer and/or laptop, the following additional steps to

be taken: to be kept away from magnets, radio transmitters, police
 radios etc., since they could have an adverse impact on
 the data in the said devices. 17.11. To carry out a search of the premises to
 obtain instructions manuals, documentation, etc., as also
 to ascertain if a password is written down somewhere
 since many a time person owning equipment would have
 written the password in a book, writing pad or the like at
 the said location. 17.12. The entire process and procedure followed to
 be documented in writing from the time of entry of the
 investigation/search team into the premises until they
 exit. 62. Keeping in view the above guidelines, especially, in

anti corruption cases, the conversation between the

complainant and proposed accused are usually recorded either

in a digital voice recorder or in a mobile phone or in any other

electronic/digital device. The recordings are inadmissible in

evidence unless such recordings are properly proved when they

are transferred to other media is not supported by certificate as

contemplated under section 65B (4) of the Indian Evidence Act. It is better to retain original digital device/electronic device. Therefore, in case of Arjun Panditrao Khotkar vs Kailash - 55 - Kushanrao Gorantyal reported in (2020) 7 SCC 1 a

direction has been issued to preserve the server and its

contents at least for one year, in order to provide an

opportunity to check the correctness of secondary evidence and

authenticity/admissibility of the original device. In the case of

Anvar PV v PK Basheer, Hon'ble Apex Court was pleased to

hold that 65B certificate must accompany the electronic record

like computer printout, Compact Disc (CD), Video Compact Disc

(VCD), pen drive, etc., pertaining to which a statement is

sought to be given in evidence. 63. However the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Ram Singh supra has stood the test of time and continues to

be relevant even as the modes and methods of collecting

evidence might evolve. But, the problem that law enforcement

agencies face today is a lack of understanding of the tests to

determine the authenticity and accuracy of a digital recording. It is important to ensure that the old or inconsistent rules do

not encumber the steady dispensation of justice. Therefore,

necessity has arisen to issue few guidelines to ensure to

preserve the authenticity of collection of electronic evidence at - 56 - every stage. Few scientific methods in preserving authenticated

data are to be discussed. 64. If the forensic lab is not notified by the Central

Government u/s 79A of the Information Technology Act, 2000

as provided in Sec 45 A of the Indian Evidence Act , then the

opinion of forensic expert will not be admissible in evidence. In

this regard, the ratio was laid down by the Hon'ble Kerala High

Court in Byju B R Vs State of Kerala in Bail Appl. No.288 of

2022 Dated: 29/01/2022 assumes importance. In the said

decision it is held that: HASH VALUE : 65. Indeed, it is always a challenge to properly

establish a voice record (electronic data) before Court of Law. In this regard Hash value is considered as an important aid. A

hash value" is an alphanumeric string that serves to identify an

individual digital file as a kind of "digital fingerprint". Although

it may be possible for two digital files to have hash values that - 58 - 66. In fact, the Government of Maharashtra has

already implemented the practice of collecting hash value of

electronic evidences and collecting the memory component of

the device it is recorded on at the first instance since 2016. A

reference can also be made to the Standard Operating

Procedures issued by the Government of Kerala for collection of

digital evidence related to crimes against women and children,

since 2021. In fact, guidelines on extraction of hash value are

also given in Digital Evidence Investigation Manual Central

Board of Direct Taxes Department of Revenue, Ministry of

Finance, Government of India. 67. Further, in the globe similar situations are already

dealt with. Sophisticated equipments are put to use and

scientific methods have been adopted to prove the voice

sample in the court of law. 68. For example in the case of Lorraine v. Markel 241

FR.D. 534 (D. Md. 2007): the court dealing with the issue - 59 - search by Hash Value also observed that it would narrowly

restrict the searched of digital devices. It further observed that

 "A file can be mislabeled: its extension (a sort of
 suffix indicating the type of file) can be changed; it
 can actually be converted to a different file type
 (just as a chat transcript can be captured as an
 image file, so can an image be inserted into a word
 processing file and saved as such). Any of these
 manipulations could change a document's hash
 value. And in any event a limited hash-value search
 would not have turned up any chat transcripts
 (which, again, can be saved as image files)" 69. Similarly, in the case of Williams v. Sprint/United

Mgmt. Co., 230 F.R.D. 640 (D. Kan. 2005), the court observed

that: 70. Therefore, it is high time that the law enforcement

agencies in our State should make their earnest endeavour to

keep pace with the evolving technology. Before the trap is

laid, it is needles to emphasise that, the important piece of

evidence which would convince the raid party about the

genuineness of complaint averments is voice recording

submitted by a complainant containing the demand of bribe. The whole case often hinges upon this evidence. Unfortunately,

required attention is not bestowed to preserve the said

recording. 71. In order to ensure the same; the following

guidelines are issued: • The chain of custody form should be properly filled
 with clearly detailing the name and designation of the
 officer having custody of the electronic device. • Properly sealed electronic device should be opened at
 forensic lab in the presence of independent witnesses
 and videographed. A mahazar should be drawn
 indicating hash value of the electronic device after - 63 - opening and matched with the hash value calculated
 at the time of sealing. • Forensic lab should be notified by the central
 government u/s 79A of the Information Technology
 Act, 2000 as provided in Sec 45 A of the Indian
 Evidence Act . • Qualified and trained expert should test the samples.
 The report should contain the procedure adopted for
 testing the samples. The equipments used should be
 duly calibrated and updated periodically. • The electronic device should be tested for editing and
 tampering in order to establish its genuineness and
 authenticity. • Digital evidence form be created for every memory
 card/chip used in the trap case containing the unique
 identification features of the memory chip/card used. • The defence should be provided with a cloned copy or
 a mirror image of the electronic device. 72. In view of the forgoing discussion, following order

is passed. - 64 - ORDER

 The Appeal is hereby allowed. The impugned judgment and order of conviction dated
11.06.2012 passed in Special Case No.186/2009 by the IV
Additional District and Sessions Judge and Special Judge (PCA),
Belgaum is hereby set aside and the accused-appellant is
hereby acquitted. Bail bond of the accused stands discharged. Fine amount in deposit if any, is ordered to be refunded
to the accused under due identification. Office is directed to return the Trial Court Records with
copy of this order. Operative portion of this order shall be communicated to
the Trial Court. Sd/- JUDGE

EM/PL*