% 16.01.2026 1. The present petition assails the action of respondent No. 1 of issuing
 communications to respondent Nos. 2 and 3, i.e., the concerned banks,
 whereby the bank accounts of Petitioner No. 1 have been directed to be put
 on hold/frozen. 2. Petitioner Nos. 1 and 2 are engaged in the business of buying and

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/01/2026 at 20:34:51
 selling, inter alia, gold ornaments, gold items, gold bars, coins, and precious
 stones, and have been carrying on such business in compliance with all
 applicable regulations. 3. In July 2024, a company by the name of Dallas E-com Infotech
 Private Limited (hereinafter 'the Customer') approached the petitioners for
 the purchase of gold items, including gold bars and coins. 4. It is stated that prior to entering into any transactions, the petitioners
 undertook due diligence and complied with all applicable Know Your
 Customer (KYC) norms. It is also stated that the petitioners obtained and
 verified adequate banking and identification details of the Customer, and the
 transactions were carried out through regular banking channels. 5. However, it is the petitioners' case that between August 2024 and
 March 2025, multiple transactions were carried out with the Customer,
 aggregating to approximately Rs. 14,20,74,954.99/-. Subsequently, certain
 complaints appear to have been registered against the Customer by third
 parties. It is, however, stated that no complaint, FIR, or proceeding has been
 registered against the petitioners. According to the petitioners, despite this,
 and without any verification or finding regarding the petitioners'
 involvement or complicity, respondent No. 4 proceeded to communicate
 directions to respondent Nos. 2 and 3, resulting in the freezing of the
 petitioners' bank accounts. 6. Mr. Abhimanyu Bhandari, learned senior counsel, appearing for the
 petitioners, reiterates that if any investigating or enforcement agency forms
 an opinion that the petitioners are complicit in any offence, such agency is
 fully empowered to proceed strictly in accordance with law. However, the
 petitioners herein remain completely unaware of any case registered against

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/01/2026 at 20:34:51
 them or of any investigation in which their complicity is even alleged. He
 categorically submits that no summons, notice, or intimation has ever been
 served upon them by any investigating or enforcement agency. 7. The Court had earlier directed for issuance of notice and called upon
 respondent No. 4 to file status reports. 8. The last status report placed on record by respondent No. 4 is dated
 20.05.2025. Thereafter, vide order dated 02.12.2025, this Court directed
 respondent No. 4 to clarify certain specific aspects. For clarity, the operative
 portion of the order dated 02.12.2025 reads as under:- 9. Learned counsel appearing for the concerned respondent stated that
 no further supporting material or updated status report has been filed. It is
 stated that no additional information is forthcoming, and consequently, the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/01/2026 at 20:34:51
 inadequacy of this link noted in the earlier order remained unexplained.
 Learned counsel has rightly submitted that there is no purpose in filing a
 fresh status report. 10. In order 02.12.2025, the Court considered the last status report and
 noted, inter alia, that pursuant to an analysis of certain complaints, a sum of
 Rs. 1,36,53,559/- deposited in the petitioners' accounts has been marked as a
 disputed amount, i.e., alleged proceeds of crime, by the concerned bank
 officials, solely in compliance with instructions issued by law enforcement
 agencies of various States/UTs. 11. Merely because certain offences may have been committed by the
 Customer, cannot, by itself, constitute a lawful basis for a unilateral freezing
 or withholding of the petitioners' bank accounts. The petitioners are, at the
 very least, entitled to be informed of the reasons for freezing their bank
 accounts, which they are otherwise legally entitled to operate. 12. In this context, the provisions of Sections 106 and 107 of the
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita (BNSS) assume relevance. The same
 are extracted as under: - The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/01/2026 at 20:34:51
 the Court as to the disposal of the same: (2) If the Court or the Magistrate has reasons to believe, whether
 before or after taking evidence, that all or any of such properties are
 proceeds of crime, the Court or the Magistrate may issue a notice upon
 such person calling upon him to show cause within a period of fourteen
 days as to why an order of attachment shall not be made. (3) Where the notice issued to any person under sub-section (2)
 specifies any property as being held by any other person on behalf of
 such person, a copy of the notice shall also be served upon such other
 person. (4) The Court or the Magistrate may, after considering the explanation,
 if any, to the show-cause notice issued under sub-section (2) and the
 material fact available before such Court or Magistrate and after
 giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to such person or
 persons, may pass an order of attachment, in respect of those
 properties which are found to be the proceeds of crime: Provided that if
 such person does not appear before the Court or the Magistrate or
 represent his case before the Court or Magistrate within a period of
 fourteen days specified in the show-cause notice, the Court or the
 Magistrate may proceed to pass the ex parte order. (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), if the Court
 or the Magistrate is of the opinion that issuance of notice under the
 said sub-section would defeat the object of attachment or seizure, 46
 the Court or Magistrate may by an interim order passed ex parte direct
 attachment or seizure of such property, and such order shall remain in
 force till an order under sub-section (6) is passed." (6) If the Court or the Magistrate finds the attached or seized
 properties to be the proceeds of crime, the Court or the Magistrate
 shall by order direct the District Magistrate to rateably distribute such

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/01/2026 at 20:34:51
 proceeds of crime to the persons who are affected by such crime.
 (7) On receipt of an order passed under sub-section (6), the District
 Magistrate shall, within a period of sixty days distribute the proceeds of
 crime either by himself or authorise any officer subordinate to him to
 effect such distribution. (8) If there are no claimants to receive such proceeds or no claimant is
 ascertainable or there is any surplus after satisfying the claimants,
 such proceeds of crime shall stand forfeited to the Government." 13. While interpreting the scheme of aforenoted sections of the BNSS,
 High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam, in Headstar Global Pvt. Ltd. V. State of
 Kerela1, has held, inter alia, that freezing of bank accounts must be
 proportionate, reasoned, and supported by material indicating the account
 holder's involvement in the alleged offence. The relevant extract of the
 aforenoted decision reads as under:- 14. The aforenoted judgment was challenged before the Supreme Court in
 SLP being SLP (Cri.) No. 13433/2025, where the Supreme Court declined to
 exercise the jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution. 15. In Kartik Yogeshwar Chatur v. Union of India2, the Bombay High
 Court, while relying on the decision of the High Court of Kerala at
 Ernakulam in Headstar Global, held that an Investigating Agency has no
 power to debit freeze or attach a bank account under Section 106 of the
 BNSS, and that any such action can be taken only in accordance with
 Section 107 of the BNSS upon orders of the competent Magistrate. The
 relevant extract of the aforementioned decision reads as under: - 16. As could be seen, Bank/intermediaries can put the disputed amount
 on lien, but cannot debit freeze the account. 17. Despite such status, some Banks upon receiving certain
 communications from Investigating Agency, which does not even call
 for debit freezing accounts, are proceeding to debit freeze the accounts
 of the account holders resulting into losses to their day-today affairs. 18. Put all together, it is abundantly clear that an Investigating Agency
 has no power of attachment/debit freezing a Bank Account under
 Section 106 of the BNSS. 19. The Investigating Agency may, however, proceed in terms of
 Section 107 of the BNSS to debit freeze or attach a Bank Account." 16. Recently, this Court in Neelkanth Pharma Logistics (P) Ltd. v.
 Union of India, 3 observed that freezing of an entire bank account merely on
 account of a small and identifiable amount alleged to be proceeds of cyber
 fraud having been credited therein, is a disproportionate and arbitrary
 exercise of power, particularly when the account holder is neither an
 accused nor even a suspect in the offence under investigation. The Court
 emphasised that such blanket freezing, without recording or communicating
 any reasons, results in grave civil and financial consequences, including
 disruption of business operations, dishonour of cheques and severe hardship,
 and directly impinges upon the right to livelihood. 17. The Court further observed that innocent and unwary account holders
 cannot be made to suffer merely because proceeds of crime may have
 temporarily passed through their accounts, unless investigation reveals their 3 2025 SCC OnLine Del 1055

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/01/2026 at 20:34:51
 complicity or conscious receipt of such funds. More importantly, taking note
 of the recurring nature of such cases across various High Courts, the Court
 urged the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, to frame uniform
 policies, standard operating procedures and guidelines, in consultation with
 all stakeholders, to strike a balance between effective investigation of
 cybercrime and protection of the rights and livelihoods of innocent account
 holders. 18. Thus, it is fairly trite now that Section 106 of the BNSS empowers the
 police only to seize property for evidentiary purposes and does not confer
 any authority to attach or debit-freeze bank accounts. Attachment or freezing
 of bank accounts, being measures directed at securing alleged proceeds of
 crime, can be undertaken only under Section 107 of the BNSS and strictly
 upon orders of a competent Magistrate, after following the prescribed
 procedural safeguards. 19. In light of these provisions, it is also pertinent to note that any blanket
 or disproportionate freezing of bank accounts, particularly where the
 account holder is neither an accused nor even a suspect in the offence under
 investigation, is manifestly arbitrary, and in the teeth of the fundamental
 rights under Article 19(1)(g) and 21 and of the Constitution of India, which
 encompass the right to livelihood and freedom to carry on trade and
 business. Such indiscriminate debit freezing, without any finding of
 complicity, has the inevitable effect of paralysing the day-to-day business
 operations of an otherwise innocent entity, resulting in loss of commercial
 goodwill and financial consequences, thereby subjecting a non-complicit
 account holder to punitive consequences. 20. Turning to the facts of the instant case, it is noted that on 27.02.2025,

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/01/2026 at 20:34:51
 a cyber complaint was lodged by one Syed Irfan at Kanpur alleging fraud
 and cheating by the Customer. Subsequently, on 28.02.2025 and 18.03.2025,
 petitioner No. 1 was informed by respondent No. 2 and respondent No. 3
 that certain amounts of ₹11,60,000/- and ₹7,50,000/-, respectively, had been
 put on hold pursuant to intimation received from the National Cyber Crime
 Department in connection with the said complaint, alleging loss of money
 on account of fraud committed by the Customer. 21. Furthermore, it is stated that on 25.03.2025, SBI Commercial Branch,
 Ernakulam, vide letter bearing No. CCG/CBEKM/MGDL/2024-25, informed
 petitioner No. 1 that amounts of ₹14,61,857/- and ₹36,50,000/-, with
 respondent No. 2, had been put on hold pursuant to instructions received
 from police authorities/investigating agencies. Thereafter, it is stated that
 vide another communication dated 28.03.2025, the said branch informed
 petitioner No. 1 that a total amount of ₹22,00,857/- had been put on hold
 between 18.03.2025 and 26.03.2025 in one account, and an amount of
 ₹50,60,000/- had been put on hold between 17.03.2025 and 27.03.2025 in
 another account maintained with respondent No. 2. 22. Thus, as stated by petitioners, on 28.03.2025, an aggregate amount of
 ₹80,10,857/- standing to the credit of petitioner No. 1 in accounts
 maintained with respondent Nos. 2 and 3 has been put on hold pursuant to
 instructions issued by police departments/investigating agencies. 23. Furthermore, as per respondents' own stand, as on date, there is no
 complaint against the petitioners. The respondents have also not been able to
 demonstrate any complicity of the petitioners. In the absence of any
 complicity of the petitioners, the continued freezing and withholding of
 various amounts have caused prejudice to the petitioners and have disabled

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/01/2026 at 20:34:51
 the petitioner No. 1 from using its funds for paying requisite salaries of
 employees and meeting their other day-to-day expenses to ensure the
 smooth running of their business. 24. In these circumstances, this Court finds no justification for the
 petitioners to continue to suffer on account of an indefinite and unreasoned
 freezing of their bank accounts. If any investigating or enforcement agency
 is in possession of material suggesting the petitioners' complicity, such
 agency is at liberty to take appropriate action strictly in accordance with law. 25. At this stage, learned counsel for respondent no.2 submits that a
 Standard Operating Procedure (hereinafter 'the SOP') has been framed by
 the Ministry of Home Affairs to deal with instances of freezing in cases of
 cyber fraud/crime. The same is stated to have been duly notified on
 02.01.2026. 26. However, the actions taken in the instant case predate the issuance of
 the SOP. In any event, even assuming that the SOP empowers a concerned
 authority to act in a particular manner, it is always open to such authority to
 take appropriate action. 27. Accordingly, the present petition is disposed of with the following
 directions: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/01/2026 at 20:34:51
 petitioners' complicity, Respondent No. 4 shall be at liberty to issue
 fresh directions, in accordance with law. PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV, J
 JANUARY 16, 2026
 sh/mj

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/01/2026 at 20:34:51