% 12.10.2023 1. The Petitioners before this Court have filed the present petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India challenging inter alia the
 constitutional validity of the Reserve Bank of India (Frauds Classification

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 14/10/2023 at 17:16:05
 and Reporting by Commercial Banks and Select Financial Institutions)
 Directions 2016, issued by the Reserve Bank of India ("RBI") (the "Master
 Directions on Frauds"). The contention of the Petitioners is that without
 following the principles of natural justice & fair play, the account of the M/S
 Neosis Industries Limited (the "Company") has been declared as „Fraud‟.
 Pertinently, the Petitioners were - at the relevant point of time, the Director
 and / or the Chairman Managing Director ("CMD") (as the case may be) of
 the Company. Accordingly, the Petitioner has prayed for the following
 reliefs: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 14/10/2023 at 17:16:05
 order or direction staying any further action/ steps by the
 Respondent Banks in furtherance to the impugned Circular; f) Issue a writ of Mandamus, or any other appropriate writ
 order or direction that the effect and operation of any and all
 such action pursuant to the impugned circular be stayed till the
 pendency of the present petition; g) Pass any other or further order(s) as this Hon'ble Court
 deems fit and proper in the interest of justice." 2. While the matter was being argued, Mr. Sidharth Luthra, Senior
 Counsel, at the outset, has drawn the attention of this Court towards the
 judgment delivered by the Apex Court in the case of State Bank of India &
 Others Vs. Rajesh Agarwal & Others , Civil Appeal No.7300/2022, and
 other connected matters. The Civil Appeals decided by the Hon‟ble Supreme
 Court arose out of a judgment passed by the High Court of Telangana,
 wherein the Petitioners therein challenged the vires of the Master Directions
 on Frauds. The High Court of Telangana has held in the impugned judgment
 that the principles of natural justice must be read into the provisions of the
 Master Directions on Frauds. 3. The decision of the High Court of Telangana was assailed by the RBI
 and lender banks before the Hon‟ble Supreme Court. It was held by the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court that the principles of natural justice, particularly the
 rule of audi alteram partem, has to be necessarily read into the Master
 Directions on Frauds to save it from the vice of arbitrariness. It was so held
 that as the classification of an account as fraud entails serious civil
 consequences for the borrower, the directions must be construed reasonably
 by reading into them the requirement of observing the principles of natural
 justice. It was held that the administrative proceedings which entail
 significant civil consequences must be read consistent with the principles of

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 14/10/2023 at 17:16:06
 natural justice to meet the requirement of Article 14. Where possible, the
 rule of audi alteram partem ought to be read into a statutory rule to render it
 compliant with the principles of equality and non-arbitrariness envisaged
 under Article 14. The Master Directions on Frauds did not expressly provide
 the borrowers an opportunity of being heard before classifying the
 borrower‟s account as fraud. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court, therefore, held
 that the principle of audi alteram partem must then be read into the
 provisions of the Master Directions on Frauds. 4. Thus, to summarise, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in its judgment has
 held as under: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 14/10/2023 at 17:16:06
 the nature of the procedure adopted, it is reasonably practical for the
 lender banks to provide an opportunity of a hearing to the borrowers
 before classifying their account as fraud; (vi) The principles of natural justice demand that the borrowers must
 be served a notice, given an opportunity to explain the conclusions of
 the forensic audit report, and be allowed to make representations
 before the banks/ JLF before their account is classified as fraud under
 the Master Directions on Frauds. In addition, the decision classifying
 the borrower‟s account as fraudulent must be made by a reasoned
 order; and (vii) Since the Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly provide
 an opportunity of hearing to the borrowers before classifying their
 account as fraud, audi alteram partem has to be read into the
 provisions of the directions to save them from the vice of
 arbitrariness. 5. Paragraphs 81 to 83 of the order passed by the Hon‟ble Supreme
 Court read as under: 6. In light of the aforesaid judgment passed by the Hon‟ble Supreme
 Court, as argued by learned Counsel for the Petitioner, no opportunity of
 hearing was granted to the Petitioner and the aforesaid fact has not been
 controverted by learned counsel(s) for the Respondent Banks. 7. Accordingly, the order declaring the Petitioners herein as „Fraud‟ is
 hereby set aside. However, liberty is granted to the Respondent Banks to

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 14/10/2023 at 17:16:06
 proceed ahead in accordance with law in light of the judgment delivered by
 the Hon‟ble Supreme Court. It is made clear that we have not expressed any
 opinion in respect of criminal case instituted by CBI against the
 Petitioner(s). 8. The petition stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms along with the
 pending applications. SATISH CHANDRA SHARMA, CJ

 SANJEEV NARULA, J
 OCTOBER 12, 2023
 Ns

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 14/10/2023 at 17:16:06