The aforesaid appeals have been filed by the assessee against
common impugned order dated 30.03.2017, passed by Ld. Principal
Commissioner of Income Tax-II, (PCIT) Delhi, under section 263 of the
Income Tax Act, 1961, for the Assessment Years 2006-07; 2007-08;
2008-09; 2009-10 & 2010-11. 2. Since the issues involved in all the appeals are common
arising out of identical set of facts, therefore, same were heard
together and are being disposed of by way of this consolidated order.
The entire issue which revolves around the impugned revision order u/s. 263 is that, re-assessment proceedings for the impugned I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 2 Assessment Years are erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of
revenue, because the Assessing Officer has failed to examine the share
application money received from the foreign entity, i.e., Bycell Holding
AG, Switzerland, as the Assessing Officer has only verified the identity
of the said entity but has failed to verify the creditworthiness of such
investor and also the genuineness of the transaction. The amount of
share application money received from Bycell Holding AG, Switzerland
which is one of the main subject matter of present revision
proceedings u/s.263 are as under:- 3. To challenge the impugned order, the assessee has raised the
following grounds which are common and are identical in all the years. A. The Ld. PCIT has erred in law and in fact in holding that the sufficient
 inquiries were not made to ascertain the genuineness and credit
 worthiness of the transactions undertaken by the Assessee in the
 Assessment Year 2006-07. B. That the Ld PCIT has erred by not taking into account the fact that the
 genuineness and creditworthiness of the share application money
 received by the Assessee from its foreign promoter, namely Bycell
 Holding AG, was examined by the Assessing Officer by seeking
 information from the FT& TR, division of the CBDT. C. The Ld. PCIT has erred in law and in fact in holding that the earlier
 orders of the AO under Section 143(3) / 147 of the Act were erroneous
 and prejudicial to the interests of the revenue. D. The order of the Ld. PCIT was passed without giving a reasonable and
 fair opportunity to the Assessee to respond to the issue of identity of the
 Assessee's shareholders, as this issue was neither mentioned in the
 Show Cause Notice nor brought up by the Ld. PCIT during the
 proceedings under Section 263 . E. The order of the Ld. PCIT was passed without giving a reasonable and
 fair opportunity to the Assessee to respond to the issue of genuineness
 and creditworthiness of share application money received by the
 Assessee from Bitcorp Private Limited as this issue was neither
 mentioned in the Show Cause Notice nor during the proceedings under Section 263 before the Ld. PCIT. F. The order of the Ld. PCIT was passed mechanically without any
 application of mind." BRIEF FACTS & BACKGROUND 4. Before dealing with the relevant issues and points as raised
by the learned PCIT in the impugned order, it would be pertinent to
deal with the relevant facts and backgrounds of the case as culled out
from the material placed on record before us. The assessee is a private
limited Company which was incorporated in India with the main object
of carrying business in the field of Telecommunication Services in
India. The 74% equity was held by a foreign company, namely, Bycell
Holding AG, Switzerland and remaining 26% was held by an Indian
Company, namely, Bitcorp Pvt. Ltd. The Swiss entity in turn was held
by a Cyprus entity, M/s. Tenoch Holding Ltd, Cyprus (97% holding).
M/s. Tenoch Holding Ltd., Cyprus was in turn was equally held by
M/s. Quallis Inc., Panama and M/s. Kynance Business Ltd., British
Virgin Islands. M/s. Quallis Inc., Panama in return was 100% held by
Mr. Maxim Naumchenko; and M/s. Kynance Business Ltd., British I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 4 Virgin Islands was 100% held by Mr. Andrey Polvektow. Considering
the fact that foreign investment in telecomm sector was regulated by
Foreign Investment Promotion Board, (FIPB) Ministry of Finance,
Government of India, the Bycell Holding AG, Switzerland applied for
approval of investment to the extent of 74% in equity share of the
Indian Company to undertake the business of Telecom Services in
India. The said approval was accorded by FIPB vide letter dated
17.01.2006. Later on, the assessee filed another application dated
26.09.2007 by FIPB for enhancement of amount of investment in India
so as to expand the area for providing telecom services in India.
Necessary approval was granted by FIPB including approval dated
08.02.2008 for additional investment by the Swiss entity. Based on
such approvals, M/s Bycell Holding AG, Switzerland remitted funds
from overseas towards share application money/ share capital in the
Indian Company from time to time which was utilized for applying of
telecom licenses to the Department of Telecommunication, (DoT)
Government of India. An aggregate amount of Rs.23 crore was given to
the DoT towards entry fee for obtaining UAS License for North-East,
West Bengal, Orissa, Assam and Bihar service area. Later on, on
account of certain security clearance issue based by Ministry of Home
Affairs (MHA), FIPB on 13.05.2009 withdrew the approvals granted to
the assessee company for carrying out any telecom operation in India
with foreign equity participations. The said withdrawal of approval as
well as for the refund of entry fee paid by the assessee to DOT for
obtaining the Telecom Licenses were challenged by the assessee under
writ jurisdiction before Hon'ble Delhi High Court. The Hon'ble Delhi
High Court dismissed the writ petition on the ground that the court
would not interfere with the policy decision of the Central
Government. Thereafter, the foreign investor had invoked arbitration
proceedings under bilateral treaties seeking compensation for I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 5 withdrawal of approvals and refund of entry fees paid by the assessee.
The said arbitration has been stated to be pending for disposal before
the 'Permanent Court of Arbitration' at Hague. 5. For the impugned assessment years regular return of income
were filed and such returns were subjected to scrutiny proceedings
from time to time and assessments were completed mostly u/s.143(3) .
In the said assessments, the amounts shown in the balance sheet
towards share application money/share capital were duly accepted by
the then Assessing Officer. The year-wise positions of completed
assessment are as under:- 6. In the wake of withdrawal of approval by FIPB on the ground
of security clearance by Ministry of Home Affairs, Foreign Tax and Tax
Research (FT&TR) Division of CBDT referred the matter to the
concerned Chief Commissioner of Income Tax for conducting
necessary examination and verification of source of funds of the
investment made by Bycell Holding AG, Switzerland in the assessee-
company. Based on the aforesaid information received from FT&TR I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 6 Division, the Assessing Officer initiated the reopening of the
assessments u/s. 147 vide issuance of notices u/s.148 for all the
impugned Assessment Years, to verify the identity, creditworthiness of
the foreign investor and the genuineness of the transaction in terms of Section 68 . The relevant 'reasons recorded' by the Assessing Officer
read as under:- 3. On perusal of records, it is noticed that the assessee has not offered
such income for taxation purpose even though the assessee failed to
prove the identity, creditworthiness and genuineness of the investors.
Moreover the approval accorded by the Govt .has also been withdrawn
in the case of the assessee. From the above, it is clear that unexplained investments have been
made in the assessee co. and the same axe liable to be taxed u/s. 68 of
the IT Act. The assessee failed to disclose the same in the return of
income filed by it for the relevant period. 4. In view of the above, I have reasons to believe that taxable
income to the tune of the investments amounting to Rs. 17,30,76,920/-
has escaped assessment and I am satisfied that it is a fit case for issue
of notice u/s148 of the Income-tax Act. 5. Since the income chargeable to the tax escaped assessment is
 more than one lakh rupees as per section 149 of the I.T. Act, the prior
 approval of the worthy CIT, Delhi-1, New Delhi is required for the issue
 of the notice u/s 148 as per section 151(2) of the I.T. Act 1961. Hence
 the same is put up for your kind approval. Put up for kind perusal." (Shiv Swaroop Singh)
 DCIT, Circle-3(1),
 New Delhi. 7. Thus, the assessments were reopened to verify the source of
fund received by the assessee company from Bycell Holding AG,
Switzerland. During the course of re-assessment proceedings, the
learned Assessing Officer had raised questionnaires to verify the
transaction of foreign investment in the share application/ share
holdings in the assessee company. In response to which, the assessee
had also filed its respective replies/explanations and documents. All
the relevant questionnaires and reply submitted by the assessee have
been submitted by the Department as directed by the Bench at the
time of hearing in the form of separate compilation. 8. On behalf of the assessee, Learned Senior Counsel, Shri Ajay
Vohra, at the outset pointed out that following details and materials
were furnished by the assessee company before the Assessing Officer
during the course of assessment/reassessment proceedings to
establish the identity/creditworthiness of the foreign investor and the
genuineness of the transaction.  Financial statements of the appellant wherein details/ amounts of
 share application money received and shares allotted were duly
 reflected;  Approval obtained from FIPB by the foreign investor & appellant;  RBI approval for allotment for shares by the appellant company in
 favour of the foreign investor;  Copy of FIRCs establishing the source of foreign remittance and
 receipt of funds through banking channel;  Incorporation certificate, Memorandum & Articles of Association of
 the foreign investor, ByCell Holding AG, Switzerland.  Explanation qua source of funds of the foreign investor, in the form
 of loans and advances from its holding company, i.e., Tenoch
 Holding Ltd, Cyprus.  Incorporation certificate, Memorandum & Articles of Association of
 Tenoch Holding Limited, Cyprus, Nicosia, from whom ByCell
 Holding AG had received the loan for further investment in the
 appellant company in India. 9. The learned Assessing Officer completed the assessment for
all the Assessment Years u/s.147 / 143(3) vide order dated 20.03.2015.
The relevant observations of the Assessing Officer in the impugned
assessment order for the A.Y. 2006-07 which is common to all the
years under appeal, reads as under:- Switzerland, the details of the share application money received
 during the year, copies of the FIRC etc. It was submitted that the
 amount had come through proper banking channels and after
 following all KYC and RBI norms and as tire source and identity of
 the promoter company was proved, it was not necessary to prove
 the source of source and the same would not have arty relevance
 on the nature of receipt once tire source is proved. It was
 submitted that the withdrawal of F1PB approval would not
 change the nature of receipt and could not be the sole reason to
 tax the receipt as unexplained cash credit. It was also argued that
 "if the identity of the non-resident remitter is established and the
 money has come through normal banking channels it cannot be I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 12 treated as deemed income under section 68 or 69 of the income
 tax act 1961. The assessee relied on several rulings to drive home
 the aforesaid arguments which are on record. 3.1 The details brought on record by the assessee have been
 verified and submissions considered. The information received
 from FT&TR is also on record and not being discussed in detail as
 it is covered under the confidentiality obligations as per the DTAA
 between the Swiss Confederation and the republic of The
 Government of India. After examination of details filed and discussion with the AR,
 returned income of Rs.4,49,567/- is accepted. 10. One very important fact as culled out from the aforesaid
reading of the assessment order besides considering the documents
and evidences filed by the assessee was that, the Assessing Officer in
the course of his enquiry had referred the matter to FT&TR CBDT for
exchange of information from Swiss Tax Authorities in order to verify
the identity and creditworthiness of the holding company, Bycell
Holding AG, Switzerland and its promoters. Such information was
received by the Assessing Officer through FT&TR CBDT which has
been kept on record in the assessment records. During the course of
the hearing, the Bench directed the learned CIT-DR to produce the
said information received from FT & TR and also the 'office note' of
the Assessing Officer while completing the assessment order u/s.
143(3) / 147 , which is very vital to the issue involved and also to
examine, whether Assessing Officer has applied his mind or has
carried out inquiry or not, while completing the assessment. The said
'office note' has been kept on record by the Assessing Officer while I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 13 accepting the share application money which for sake of appreciation
of case is reproduced hereunder:- It is also been mentioned in the report that in view of refusal of
 India authorities to grant the telecom license the funds were
 returned in part by Bycell Telecommunications India Private
 Limited to Bycell AG, Switzerland and in turn to the investors with
 exception of the amount used for functioning of the company in
 India. The Federal Tax Administration Switzerland (FTA for service of
 exchange of information on tax matters) has however observed
 that the information on fiscal years prior to Fiscal year 2011/12
 are not covered under the temporal scope of article 26 of the
 updated DTAA between Switzerland and India as held by the
 Swiss Federal Administrative Court in its Decision A-4232/2013
 of 17th December 2013. On verification of the, submissions and financial statements of the
 assessee company regarding the receipt of share application
 money, shares allotted and amount returned the following year
 wise details are gathered: from initial
 subscriber)
2007-08 01.04.2006 4,87,97,080 - 4,87,97,080 -- Aforesaid details were tallied with the information received from
 FT&TR and are found to be in order except for an error in the
 FT&TR report in the A.Y 2011-12 where in the corresponding
 period is wrongly mentioned as 01.04.2011 to 31.03.2012 while it
 should be 01.04.2010 to 31.03.2011.The amount returned to
 ByCell AG in that period is per the information received. There is also typographical error in the report for share application
 money received in A.Y 2009-10 which actually is 7,09,84,431/-
 while shown in the report as amounting to 70,90,15,846/-.
 However the column of remaining application money at the end of
 the year confirms that the same is an error, hence no adverse
 view is taken. The informationn received from FT&TR is on record and has not
 being discussed in detail in the order in view of the confidentiality
 obligations as per article 26 on exchange of information in the I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 15 DTAA between the Swiss Confederation and the Republic of The
 Government of India. It is seen that an amount of Rs 23 crores paid as license entry fee
 is lying as with the Department of Telecom Government of India as
 of date for which the promoters of ByCell AG have initiated
 arbitration proceedings against Government of India under
 UNCITRAL Arbitration rules, 1976 on 04.10.2010 and the matter
 is pending before, "The permanent .court of Arbitration, The
 international Court of Justice, The Hague, Netherlands. The breakup of the total receipts and payments from ByCell AG till
 date is as is as follows: In view of the above, no adverse view is taken in this case. Sd/- Dy. Commissioner of Income Tax,
 Circle-5(1), New Delhi. ISSUES RAISED BY LD. PCIT U/S 263 11. After the conclusion of the assessment in the aforesaid
manner, learned PCIT under his revisionary jurisdiction u/s. 263 issued a show cause notice dated 23.02.2017 stating that order
passed u/s.147 / 143(3) is erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial
to the interest of the Revenue. His sole allegation is that the
Assessing Officer has only verified the identity of the share
applicant by placing reliance on documents like certificate of
incorporation of Bycell Holding AG, Switzerland and copies of I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 16 FIRC filed by the Assessing Officer, however he has failed to verify
the second and third limb of these transactions, i.e., genuineness
of the transactions and creditworthiness of the Swiss entity The
relevant observations with regard to the show cause notice for
each Assessment Year has been incorporated by him from pages
2 to 4 of the appellate order. After perusing the entire records, he
has made certain observations in the impugned year which are
basically the narration of facts and background of the case which
by and large has been discussed by us in the earlier part of our
order, however for the sake of ready reference some of his
observations on the background and facts of the cases are
reproduced hereunder:- M/s Bycell Holding AG, Switzerland in turn is 97% held by M/s
 Tenoch Holdings Cyprus, the shareholding of which is equally
 held by M/s Quallis Inc, Panama and M/s Kynance business
 limited, British Virgin Islands. (ii) M/s Bycell Holding AG, Switzerland was granted foreign
 Collaboration approval by FIPB, Ministry of Finance vide letter
 dated 17.01.2006 so as to undertake the activities of offering
 CGM based cellular telephone services in thirteen States. (iii) Bycell Telecommunications India Private Limited vide its
 letter dated 26.09.2007 sought permission from FIPB to undertake
 activities of offering GSM based cellular telephone services under
 UAS license agreement all over India and permission for foreign
 equity participation of 74%, i.e., amounting to USD 500 Million in
 next 3-5 years in the form of addition to paid-up capital of the I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 17 company. The approval of government of India was conveyed to
the company on 14.02.2008. (iv) Subsequently, Ministry of Home Affairs furnished specific
inputs to F.I.P.B from the security perspective which cast serious
aspersions regarding genuineness of the source of investment
made in the assessee company, which are elaborated as under:- (vi) Thereafter, vide a letter dated 06.02.2014, a request
was made u/s 90 of the Income tax Act, 1961 to tax
authorities in Switzerland to examine the genuineness of I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 18 source of income claimed to have been received by the
 assessee from M/s Bycell Holding A.G. Switzerland and the
 actual; beneficiaries to whom share application money
 claimed to have been returned. (viii) Subsequently, the requisite' information was received
 from Switzerland tax authorities and after conducting
 hearing from time to time, the AO has passed Orders u/s
 147 / 143(3) of the Income tax Act, 1961 in respect of
 assessment years 2006-07,2007-08,2008-09,2009-10, and
 2010-11 on 20.03.2015. [Emphasis in bold added is ours] 12. Thereafter, the ld. PCIT observed that assessee company
had received substantial amount of share application money from
Bitcorp Pvt. Ltd. for which only preliminary information
pertaining to certificate of incorporation, company master data
and PAN have been submitted which only proves the identity of
Bitcorp Pvt. Ltd., but the documentary evidence to prove the
genuineness and creditworthiness have not been submitted
during the course of assessment proceedings like bank
statement, income tax return, balance sheets, etc., which have
not been analyzed by the AO. Apart from that, Assessing Officer
has not made any inquiry by issuing a notices u/s. 133(6) .
Similarly with regard to the share application money by Bycell
Holding AG, Switzerland, the Assessing Officer has only
examined the preliminary information but no documentary
evidence in support of the genuineness and creditworthiness
have been found on record. Here again the bank statement of the
share applicant money has not been brought on record including
P & L account and balance sheet of M/s. Bycell Holding AG, I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 19 Switzerland. Based on the perusal of the assessment record, he
held that following issues have remained unverified during the
course of assessment proceedings:- In view of the facts and findings discussed above, the identity,
 creditworthiness and genuineness of source of share application
 money introduced into the books of accounts of the assessee
 company during the period AY-2006-07 to AY-2010-11 have not
 been properly inquired into and examined." 13. After considering the assessee's reply and invoking the
provision of Explanation-2 to Section 263 inserted by the Finance
Act, 2015 , he held that the assessment orders passed u/s.
147 / 143(3) for the Assessment Years 2006-07 to 2010-11 are
erroneous ins so far as prejudicial to the interest of Revenue as
he has not done proper inquiry and accordingly, directed the I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 20 Assessing Officer to pass fresh assessment orders after making
proper inquiries and verification with regard to the money
received during the year in the form of share application
money/share capital. DOCUMENTS REQUIRED BY THE BENCH DURING THE HEARING 14. During the course of hearing, we required both the parties
to furnish various documents, vide separate order sheet entries
(as per records), like:- 15. Before us, learned Senior Counsel, Shri Ajay Vohra after
explaining the entire facts and material placed on record in this
case, gave following sequence of events to explain the entire facts
and material which was filed by the assessee before the Assessing
Officer to prove the genuineness of the transaction and how this
issue has been examined by the Assessing Officer during the
course of two round of assessment proceedings. The said date
chart specifically for the Assessment Year 2006-07 is reproduced
herein below, which is almost identical with the other
Assessment Years:- ByCell Holding AG, Switzerland filed application for FIPB approval for
 2005 to Feb
 74% foreign investment in telecom sector in India (in the appellant 2008 Company). After due verification of all the details and after obtaining
 mandatory requisite security clearances, FIPB approval was issued in
 favour of the investor Company. 02.04.2008 Original assessment, after due verification of records, was completed
 under section 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") (Original
 assessment order) accepting the income returned by the appellant.
 May 2009 FIPB approval withdrawn on the basis that Ministry of Home Affairs
 ("MHA") had withdrawn the security clearance. 15.05.2009 After withdrawal of FIPB approval on the basis of inputs from the MHA
 regarding investments received from ByCell Holding AG, Switzerland, the
 Foreign Tax and Tax Research (FT&TR) Division of CBDT referred the
 matter to the CCIT/ income tax Department requesting related examination
 of source of funds of investment made by (a) ByCell Holding AG,
 Switzerland; and (b) Bitcorp Pvt Ltd. (India promoter), in the appellant
 company. 14.03.2013 Purely on the basis of information from the FT & TR Division, CBDT, the
 assessing officer reopened the case of the appellant under section
 147 / 148 of the Act for the specific purpose of examination of source of
 funds received by the appellant from the foreign investor. Examination of details/ replies filed during reassessment
 proceedings

22.11.2013 Appellant filed the audited financial statement for the relevant year. Complete details of share capital/ application money is reflected on the
 face of the balance sheet and Schedule 1 thereto. 07.01.2014 In response to the queries of the assessing officer the appellant filed: Details of share application money received from ByCell Holding AG,
 Switzerland

February/ The appellant filed: The assessing officer had, in para 2.1, categorically stated that the
 enquiries made to verify the identity and creditworthiness of the share
 application money received from the foreign holding company. It would be pertinent to note that before conclusion of the assessment the
 assessing officer had sought a report from the FT & TR Division, CBDT
 (the very wing which had directed the Department/ assessing officer to
 examine the issue, as explained above) in respect of the share application
 money received by the appellant from ByCell Holding AG, Switzerland.
 The penultimate paragraph of the reassessment order clearly states that
 the report was received by the assessing officer from the FT & TR Division,
 CBDT. After considering the report and the details filed by the appellant,
 no doubts about the identity and creditworthiness of the investor and the
 genuineness of the transaction were left. In light of this specific report, the assessing officer had accepted the
 returned income. Show cause notice under section 263 of the Act issued by PCIT on the
08.03.2017 ground that only identity of the foreign investor, ByCell Holding AG,
 Switzerland, was examined by the assessing officer but genuineness of
 transaction & creditworthiness of ByCell Holding AG, Switzerland was not
 verified. The appellant duly responded to the aforesaid notice issued under section
21 .03.2017 263 of the Act. 30.03.2017 Impugned order under section 263 of the Act passed by the PCIT setting
 aside the reassessment order dated 30.03.2015 holding that the
 assessing officer did not make enquiry relating to business, directors &
 staff, credential of the investor companies. The CIT directed the assessing
 officer to make necessary enquiries and verification on: 16. From the above, Mr. Vohra submitted that here in this
 case, the issue of share application money/share capital was not
 only examined during the course of the original assessment
 proceedings but very extensively during the course of
 reassessment proceedings also, because the case was reopened
 u/s.148 specifically in the case of ByCell Holdings AG, to
 examine the identity and creditworthiness of the creditor and also
 the genuineness of the transaction which is evident from the
 'reasons recorded'. The assessee had duly submitted all the
 relevant records and documents required from time to time by
 the Assessing Officer and it is not the case of the Assessing
 Officer that any documents required has not been furnished.
 Here in this case the share application money has come from a
 foreign entity after FIPB approval and all the remittances are duly
 backed by FIRCs issued by the banks. The said FIRCs clearly
 state the name of the remitter and the purpose of the remittance. He also pointed out that the report/information was requisitioned
by the FT & TR division of CBDT on the behest of the AO as a
part of his inquiry from the Swiss Tax Authorities from whom
specific information with regard to the remittance and
genuineness of the said transaction was enquired for. In
response, the Swiss Authorities have duly provided the details,
whereby it is conclusively proved that Bycell Holding AG,
Switzerland has given the funds for the share application money
to the Indian Company and this is an investment company which
in turn has received the funds from its holding company, M/s
Tenoch Holdings Cyprus. Even the FIRCs issued by RBI contains
name of remitter as Frixan Services Ltd., Nicosia Cyprus. Bycell
Holding AG, Switzerland has initially obtained loan from its
holding company Tenoch Holding Cyprus. The report obtained
through FT&TR clearly mentions that Bycell Holding AG,
Switzerland has arranged fund as subordinated loan from its sole
share holders, i.e., Tenoch Holdings Cyprus for the purpose of
investment in the Indian Company. Thus, the documentary
evidences which has been sought by the Assessing Officer
through CBDT goes to prove the source of funds and in fact, even
the source of the source stands proved, as ByCell Holdings AG
has received the funds from Cyprus entity, its holding company.
When source is explained from the balance sheet of the foreign
entity, then creditworthiness automatically stands established.
Once these evidences and documents have been appreciated by
the Assessing Officer, then it cannot be held that the Assessing
Officer has failed to carry out any inquiry or has not applied his I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 27 mind properly on the facts and material on record while framing
the assessment. 17. He further submitted that it is quite settled proposition
that the twin condition as envisaged in Section 263 , i.e., firstly, it
is erroneous and secondly, it is prejudicial to the interest of the
Revenue should be satisfied simultaneously and in support he
relied upon various decisions including that of Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of Malabar Industries Company Ltd. Vs. CIT ,
243 ITR 83 (SC); CIT vs. Kwality Steel Suppliers Complex ,
395 ITR 1 (SC); CIT vs. Max India Limited , 295 ITR 282 (SC).
Here in this case, the assessment order cannot be held to be
erroneous, as the AO has passed the order after carrying out
detail inquiry and duly examining the evidences. 18. Mr. Vohra's second limb of argument was that the ld.
PCIT cannot set aside the assessment merely because, according
to him inquiry should have been conducted in a particular
manner or any further inquiry ought to have been done by the
Assessing Officer. Inadequacy of inquiry cannot be the ground for
acquiring jurisdiction u/s.263 . Apart from that, the learned PCIT
prima facie should have recorded his findings on merits before
setting aside the assessment and that to be after conducting
some kind of inquiry especially when AO has diligently done his
job; and simply cannot make blanket set aside of such an
assessment order on the ground that sufficient inquiries were not
conducted by the Assessing Officer. In support of his aforesaid
contentions, he relied upon the following decisions:- 19. On the issue of Section 68 also, he has again cited and
relied upon the various judicial propositions, the list of which
have been duly elaborated in his written synopsis. His
submission with regard to the various issues raised by him to
challenge the impugned order, including the new issue raised of
share application money from Bitcorp Pvt. Ltd. which was not
even arising from the reassessment order or show cause notice u/s 263 , is reproduced hereunder:- resident investor, the assessing officer rightly accepted the amounts
remitted by ByCell Holding AG, Switzerland as genuine and did not
make addition to the income of the appellant under section 68 of the
Act. In light of the aforesaid documents forming part of the assessment
records, on the basis of examination of which the CIT issued notice
under section 263 and having regard to the settled legal position qua section 68 of the Act, it could not be said that the assessment order(s)
passed by the AO accepting as genuine the amounts received from
ByCell Holding AG, Switzerland, was erroneous much less prejudicial to
the interest of the Revenue, in the absence of any contrary material
against the appellant being on record. In that view of the matter, the
jurisdiction assumed by the CIT is clearly flawed, being contrary to the
law laid down by the apex Court in Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra)
and followed in Max India (supra) and Kwality Steel Suppliers (supra). Re: Order cannot be set aside for making further enquiries: In that view of the matter, the CIT could not have assumed jurisdiction
under section 263 of the Act to set aside the reassessment(s) and direct
the AO to make further enquiries qua verification into source of funds
received by the appellant company (i) from its holding company ByCell
Holding AG, Switzerland; and (ii) from Bitcorp Pvt. Ltd. (Indian
promoter), as held by the Hon'ble apex Court in Malabar Industrial and
Max India Limited {supra). Re: No prima facie finding by the CIT; On perusal of the impugned order passed under section 263 of the Act,
it would be appreciated that the CIT has simply set aside the
reassessment order(s) passed by the assessing officer on the ground
that necessary inquiries qua source of funds were not conducted during
the course of assessment proceedings without himself conducting any
inquiry whatsoever or rendering any independent finding qua share I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 33 application money/ contribution towards share capital received from
ByCell Holding, AG constituting unexplained moneys of the appellant
which, as explained above, is impermissible in law. [refer DG Housing, CIT v.
Delhi Airport Metro and CIT v. Modicare Ltd. (supra)]. Re: Invocation of Explanation 2 to section 263 not valid: 6-2015, which, empowers the CIT to revise the assessment order, if in
the opinion of the CIT, the order is, inter alia, passed without making any
inquiries or inquiries/ verification which should have been made. The said Explanation cannot, in our respectful submission, be read to
provide unfettered powers to the CIT to set aside an assessment order,
on a paltry ground of insufficient enquiry being conducted by the
assessing officer, at his whims and fancies. Even after insertion of the
aforesaid Explanation, the CIT, would, in our respectful submission,
need to point out failure on the part of the assessing officer in not
conducting relevant enquiries which were critical for decision on an
issue, before rendering the assessment order to be erroneous and
prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue. Any failure on the part of the
assessing officer in conducting an enquiry, which is not critical for an
issue or did not render the decision of the assessing officer to be fatal,
would not, in our respectful submission, validate assumption of
jurisdiction by the CIT under section 263 of the Act, in accordance with
the consistent view of the Courts referred supra. Re: Share application money/ capital from Bitcorp
India Pvt. Ltd. (Indian partner)
 In the facts of the present case, show cause notice dated
8.3.2017 was issued by the CIT under section 263 , requiring the I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 34 appellant to show cause as to why the reassessment order(s)
 under section 147 of the Act be not regarded as erroneous and
 prejudicial to the interest of revenue for lack of conducting
 necessary enquiries qua source of funds received from ByCell
 Holdings AG, Switzerland (refer page 152 of paper book) which
 was duly responded by the appellant vide reply dated 21.03.2017

 It is submitted that, neither in the aforesaid notice nor during
 the course of hearing, any query was raised with respect to
 share application money received from the Indian partner,
 viz., Bitcorp Pvt. Ltd. However, in the impugned order dated
 30.03.2017, the CIT had, without affording any opportunity of
 being heard to the appellant, set aside the reassessment order, inter
 alia, for verification of source of funds received by the appellant
 from Bitcorp India Pvt. Ltd. as well, which is beyond jurisdiction
 and outside the scope of section 263 of the Act in as much as the
 said findings have been given in violation of principles of natural
 justice, which vitiates the impugned order qua the aforesaid issue.
 Reliance, in this regard, is placed on the following decisions: That apart, the reassessment proceedings under section 147 / 148 of the Act were, as is evident from the reasons recorded by the
assessing officer (refer pages 44-46 of the paper book), initiated
to verify sum received by the appellant from the foreign investor
i.e., ByCell Holding AG, Switzerland in terms of section 68 of the
Act. It is well settled that, the assessing officer is not permitted to
conduct roving and fishing enquiries during the course of re-
assessment proceedings under section 147 of the Act and the
scope of re-assessment is restricted to issues raised in the
reasons recorded or in terms of Explanation 3 thereto on issues
which come to the notice of the assessing officer during the course
of re-assessment proceedings. In the present case, as pointed out above, the issue of
genuineness of share application money received from Bitcorp
Private Limited neither formed part of the reasons recorded before
issuing notice under section 148 of the Act, nor any material came
to the notice of the assessing officer subsequently during the
course of re-assessment proceedings to doubt the source of such
funds received from the Indian promoter. In fact the CIT, too, in the
impugned order passed under section 263 of the Act has not made
reference to any adverse material regarding share application
money received from Bitcorp Private Limited and the aforesaid
issue was set aside in the impugned order only on the ground that
no enquiry qua that party/ investor was conducted by the
assessing officer during the course of re-assessment proceedings. In that view of the matter, since inquiries on the aforesaid issue of I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 36 share application money received from Bitcorp India Private
Limited were beyond the scope of jurisdiction under section 147 ,
no error can be attributed to the assessing officer in not making
inquiries on the aforesaid issue or not making any addition thereof
under section 68 in the reassessment order(s) passed under section 147 of the Act. Reliance in this regard is placed on the following decisions,
wherein it has been held that what the assessing officer could not
directly do, the CIT cannot indirectly do the same in exercise of
power under section 263 of the Act: ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE REVENUE 20. On the other hand, learned CIT-DR after explaining the
facts and background of the case, submitted that, when the
assessment was reopened u/s.147 by the Assessing Officer solely
on the basis of information received through FT&TR, that
genuineness and creditworthiness of the share application
money/share capital needs to be examined, then the Assessing
Officer under the law was required to carry out necessary
inquiries not only for establishing the identity and
creditworthiness of the foreign entity but also to examine the
genuineness of the transaction. The Assessing Officer has only
examined the identity and factum of remittance of the money by
relying on FIPB approval and FIRC Certificates. The Assessing
Officer has miserably failed to carry out any inquiry to examine
the creditworthiness and the business activity of M/s. Bycell
Holdings AG and also the credentials of the company, whether it
is genuine or just a paper company. The Assessing Officer has
even not asked for relevant bank accounts of M/s. Bycell
Holdings AG from where he could have verified the source and
trail of funds in the bank account. Here in this case M/s. Tenoch
Holding Cyprus holds more than 97% of share holding in M/s.
Bycell Holdings AG, which has been stated to be the actual
source of providing the funds for the investment in the assessee
company. The Assessing Officer has even failed to examine the
genuineness and creditworthiness of this Cyprus Company. In
her submissions she highlighted that, the issues and the facts I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 38 which require consideration by this Bench while adjudicating the
matter are:- Maxim Naumchenko is a major shareholder in M/s ByCell
 Holding AG and also simultaneously holds posts in a
 number of companies involved in different business,
 including the St. Petersburg Telecom Sector. (iii) Andrery Polouektov, who is the Director of the Indian
 Venture and is also a partner with Naumchenko in ByCell I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 39 Holding, was earlier associated with a company called
 Gamma Group which was set up with funds from
 individuals involved in the telecom sector in St. Petersburg.
 The Gamma group further set up a company by the name
 of Megafon which was set up with floating currency
 invested by rich individuals in St. Petersburg and this
 company was allegedly involved in a money laundering
 scandal. (iv) It has come to the notice that Tenoch Holdings Cyprus,
 which holds 97% stake in ByCell AG Switzerland, is jointly
 held by (a) Quallis Incorporated, Panama (50%) and; (b)
 Kynance Business Limited, British Virgin Islands (50%).
 Both Panama and British Virgin Islands are well known tax
 havens and there is no information about who are the
 owners of Quallis Inc. and Kynance Business Limited and
 what is the source of funds for these two companies which
 control ByCell Telecommunications India Limited. 3. Issue required to the examined as per the inputs provided by
MHA & comments of Department of Revenue as under:- 4. Against withdrawal of FIPB approval, assessee has filed writ I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 40 petition in Delhi High Court. Hon'ble Delhi High Court dismissed
the writ petition by order dated 16th April, 2010. Hon'ble High
Court considered the MHA inputs received by Ministry of Home
Affairs from the security agencies in respect of the documents
furnished by the appellant and activities of the entities and their
directors i.e. Quallis and KBL both of which have 50%
shareholding on THC and which in turn had a controlling interest
in ByCell AG. ByCell AG hold 73.99% share of ByCell
Telecommunication Ltd. Assessee has provided the information on
the source of funds on the basis of which inputs were called for
from security agencies by MHA. Majority of funds (more than 50%)
were sought to be raised from loans from two Russian nationals. 5. Even in regular decision dated 09.12.2011, Hon'ble Delhi High
Court dismissed assessee's appeal with the observation in para 11
which reads as under:- Since the investments which were made in the form of share
capital not found genuine. FIPB approval, payment received
through banking channel & FTRC could not make it explained.
Assessee tried to prove genuineness and creditworthiness without
furnishing any evidence in support of its contention. Even Hon'ble
High Court of Delhi while dismissing appeal of assessee against
FIPB approval given observation about tainted investment. 6. Assessee has shown investment in share capital from ByCell AG
Switzerland, whereas it is observed that assessee has filed one
FIRC certificate for A. Y. 2006-07 on P-64 of paper book in which
name of the remitter is shown Frixan Services Ltd. Nicosia, Cyprus
not ByCell AG Switzerland. This shows the state of affair of
assessee regarding investment is share capital. 7. Assessee failed to explain the source of investment by ByCell
AG, Switzerland and Bitcorp Pvt. Ltd. The genuineness of
transaction is also doubtful as the FIPB approval withdrawn only
on the basis of the information provided by assessee in respect of
investment as FDI. 8. Assessee failed to satisfy the conditions as per provision of section 68 . It has to prove identity, creditworthiness and
genuineness of the transaction in respect of the amount credited in
its books of account as share capital. 9. FIPB is the deciding authority in respect of investment of
foreign entity in India but it does not examine the source of
investment (share capital) whether it is from disclosed sources or
undisclosed sources. FIPB approval is subject to Indian laws.
Assessee has claimed that creditworthiness and genuineness of the
transaction proved as amount received through banking channels
and FIRCs are there. It is worthwhile to mention here that amount
received through banking channel could not make it genuine
because bank does not examine the source of funds for which FIRC
is issued. 10. In this case, the issue which was required to be examined
as per the inputs received were the source of funding from Tenoch I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 42 holding Cyprus M/s Quallis Inc. Panama, M/s Kynance Business
 Ltd., British Virgin Islands, Mr. Mamim Naumchenko and Mr.
 Andrey Poluektov. AO even failed to examine the source of
 investment from ByCell holdings AG Switzerland and Bitcorp Pvt.
 Ltd. Assessee has not filed balance sheet, bank account, copy of
 return etc. in support of creditworthiness of the subscriber
 company whom it has received share capital. It is held by the
 judicial authorities that there should be some positive evidence to
 show the nature and source of the resources of the shares
 subscribers and bank statement filed before the AO may not be
 sufficient to prove the creditworthiness without any explanation for
 the deposits in the accounts and their source. 11. In this case assessee failed to explain the source of
 investment in share capital & whatever information was provided
 by it to FIPB regarding investment was not sufficient to establish
 genuineness and creditworthiness of the share applicant. 21. Ld. CIT (DR) further relied upon the decisions on Section
68 , wherein in the cases of share application money, strict
interpretation have been given by the Hon'ble Courts, like:- Held, yes - Whether creditworthiness is not proved by showing issue
 and receipt of a cheque or by furnishing a copy of statement of bank
 account, when circumstances require that there should be some more
 evidence of positive nature to show that subscribers had made genuine
 investment or had acted as angel investors after due diligence or for
 personal reasons - Held, yes [Paras 13-18] [Matter remanded] 3. CIT Vs. Bikram Singh, Delhi High Court, 2017, ITA 55/2017. The use of deceptive loan entries to bring unaccounted money into
 banking channels plagues the legitimate economy of our country. The
 mere fact that the identity of the lenders is established & payments are
 made by cheques does not mean they are genuine. If the lenders do not
 have the financial strength to lend such huge sums and if there is no
 explanation as to their relationship with the assessee, no collateral
 security and no agreement, the transactions have to be treated as
 bogus unexplained credits. 4. Dhingra Global Credence (P.) Ltd. Vs ITO, ITAT Delhi, 2009,1 ITR(T) 529.

 Where basic identity of respective share applicants itself was not
 proved, addition of share application money allegedly received from
 them was justified. 5. CIT Vs Empire Builtech (P .) Ltd., Delhi High Court, 2014, 366 ITR 110 Under section 68 it is not sufficient for assessee to merely disclose
 address and identities of shareholders; it has to show genuineness of
 such individuals or entities 6. B.R. Petrochem (P.) Ltd. Vs ITO, Madras High Court, 2017, [2017] 81
 taxmann.com 424 (Madras)

 Where assessee received share capital from various contributors, in
 view of fact that those contributors were persons of insignificant means
 and their creditworthiness to have made contributions had not been
 established, impugned addition made by authorities below in respect of
 amount in question under section 68 was to be confirmed." 22. Thus, in sum and substance, she submitted that; firstly,
the Assessing Officer has failed to enquire about the
creditworthiness of M/s. Bycell Holdings AG by not looking into
bank accounts and sources of funds himself and the entire flow
of funds from various chains of entities; secondly, has not
examined the genuineness of the transaction especially in the
background of the fact that Ministry of Home Affairs had given its
adverse report though it was in respect of security reasons, but
also the Hon'ble High Court too have dismissed their writ
petitions, and lastly, the assessee before the Ld. PCIT or before
this Tribunal has not filed any document like, statement of bank
account, copy of return, etc. in support of the creditworthiness of
the subscriber companies from whom it has received the share
capital and in support she has relied upon various judgments on
powers of Ld. PCIT under section 263 and on Section 68 . REJOINDER BY ASSESSEE 23. In Rejoinder, Mr. Vohra submitted that when the
information received from the Swiss Tax Authorities to the
Government of India, clearly gives the details of the transaction
and also the source of the funds, then their remains no doubt
about the source of the money received and the creditworthiness
of the M/s. Bycell Holdings AG which stands conclusively proved.
In any case, he submitted that assessee has also filed the copies
of balance sheets for all the years under dispute as directed by
this Bench, which clearly points out that money given for share
capital is duly reflected in the balance sheets for various years
and also provides the source of funds with M/s. Bycell Holdings
AG, which was from loan by its holding company M/s Tenoch
Holdings Ltd. Cyprus. Apart from that, certificate of foreign
inward remittances also categorically proves that the money has
come from the foreign entity towards share capital through its
banks. Thus, the entire onus upon which lied upon the assessee
not only stands discharged in terms of Section 68 ; but also the
Assessing Officer who has completed the assessment after
carrying out inquiries by seeking the information from the Swiss
Tax Authorities who have verified and certified the transaction,
then it cannot be held that the Assessing Officer has neither
carried out any inquiry nor has applied his mind while deciding
the issue of share capital. DECISION 24. We have heard the rival submissions, perused the
relevant findings given in the impugned order as well as the
material placed on record. The core issue before us is, whether
the Ld. PCIT was justified in law and on facts in exercising his
revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 for cancelling and setting aside
the reassessment order which was reopened u/s 147 for
examining the share application money received from a holding
foreign entity, ByCell Holdings AG, Switzerland; on the ground
that Assessing Officer has not conducted proper inquiry in so far
as to establish the creditworthiness of the investor. For coming to
his conclusion he has by and large incorporated the facts as have
been incorporated in the "reasons recorded" which in turn was
based on information received from FT&TR about the chains of
entities involved with ByCell Holding AG, Switzerland and
cancellation of FIPB approval. He has mainly gone by his premise
that the AO has accepted the credit of share application without
looking to the documents, like bank statements, return of
income, etc., and no document is found on records which can
establish the creditworthiness of the parties and the genuineness
of the transactions. Thus, dispute is not with regard to nature of
credit, albeit, whether the onus to prove the entire limbs of source
in terms of section 68 is established or not. The amount of share
application money involved in the impugned Assessment Years
before us and the details of the assessments made in various
sections are as under:- 25. As discussed in the earlier part of the order, the assessee
company was incorporated for providing telecom services in India
in which, 74% equity was held by a foreign company, viz., M/s.
Bycell Holdings AG; and remaining 26% was held by an Indian
Company, viz., M/s. Bitcorp Pvt. Ltd. For making the investment
in the equity share capital in the Indian Company, M/s. Bycell
Holdings AG filed application before the FIPB for seeking approval
and the said approval was accorded by FIPB from time to time.
On the basis of said approvals, M/s. Bycell Holdings AG remitted
to the Indian company (assessee), funds from overseas towards
share application money/share capital which was partly utilized
by the assessee in applying for telecom licenses to the DOT
(Department of Telecommunication). Later on, due to certain
security clearance raised by the Ministry of Home Affairs, FIPB
withdrew the approval granted to the assessee for carrying out
telecom operations in India with foreign equity participations.
Against such withdrawal of approval the assessee company had
approached the Hon'ble Delhi High Court under writ jurisdiction,
which was dismissed by the Hon'ble High Court on the ground
that the Court will not interfere in the policy decision of the
Government of India. At present the matter is subjudice in
arbitration proceedings before the Permanent Court of Arbitration
at Hague. In all the years before us, the original assessments
were completed u/s. 143(3) barring for the Assessment Year
2010-11, wherein the return was accepted u/s. 143(1) . In all
such assessments, the amount of share application money stood
accepted. Later on, in the wake of withdrawal of approval by I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 49 FIPB, FT&TR division of CBDT referred the matter to the
concerned CCIT for conducting necessary examination and
verification of source of funds of investment made by M/s. Bycell
Holdings AG in the Indian Company. Based on this information,
all the assessments were reopened u/s.147 as per the 'reasons
recorded' (reproduced in the foregoing paragraphs). Thus, the
cases were reopened by the Assessing Officer with sole purpose of
verifying the entire source and genuineness of the share
application money/share capital made by M/s. Bycell Holdings
AG. From the assessment records produced by the learned CIT-
DR before us, we find that Assessing Officer did enquire from the
assessee to prove the identity and creditworthiness of the foreign
investor and the genuineness of the transaction which have been
responded also by the assessee. The main documents relied upon
by the assessee were mainly; the financial statements of the
assessee company, wherein details of amount of share
application money received and share allotted were duly reflected;
approval obtained from FIPB; RBI approval for allotment of
shares in favour of the foreign investor; copy of FIRCs
establishing the foreign remittance received through banking
channels; the incorporation certificate and Memorandum and
Articles of Association of M/s. Bycell Holdings AG; explanation
regarding the source of funds of foreign investor which was in the
form of loan and advance from its holding company, i.e., Tenoch
Holding, Cyprus; and lastly, incorporation certificate and
Memorandum of Association of Tenoch Holding, Cyprus from
whom M/s. Bycell Holdings AG has received the loan for further I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 50 investment in the Indian Company. The Assessing Officer after
examining such material and record produced before him during
the course of re-assessment proceedings, made further inquiry by
seeking information from Switzerland Tax Authorities through
proper channel of FT&TR division of CBDT, for exchange of
information so as to verify the identity, source of funds and
creditworthiness of the holding company, M/s. Bycell Holdings
AG and its promoters. The said information was duly received to
the Assessing Officer vide letter dated 04.02.2015 through
FT&TR which was received from their counter parts in
Switzerland. The Swiss Tax Authorities have categorically stated
that M/s. Bycell Holdings AG is registered in Zug Switzerland.
The said company though had no revenue but had assets from
investors in the form of a subordinated and conditional loan from
his sole shareholder M/s Tenoch Holding Pvt. Ltd., Cyprus; and
M/s. Bycell Holdings AG after receiving the asset had then
invested in the Indian Company. The details of share application
and share allotted and money returned from the promoter
company was duly provided. This fact has been noted by the
Assessing Officer in his 'office note' as reproduced in the earlier
part of the order. Such an information was made available by
Swiss Authorities from the Financial Statements of ByCell
Holdings AG. Based on this information AO had accepted the
source of funds, creditworthiness of the investor and genuineness
of the transaction. 26. We had also directed the learned CIT-DR to produce the
relevant copy of said information received from Switzerland I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 51 Authorities with regard to M/s. Bycell Holdings AG. In response,
the Department has produced the said report, which for the sake
of ready reference is reproduced herein below:- Federal Tax Administration FTA
 Nina Ulrich
 Eigerstra6Ee 65
 CH-3003 Bern
 Tel. +41 58 464 46 76, Fax +41 58 462 35 99 [email protected] www.estv.admin.ch I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 52 The company has strictly speaking no income, but has assets from
 its investors. In the context of a subordinated and
 conditioned loan from its sole shareholder Tenoch Holdings
 Limited, Nicosia, Cyprus, ByCell Holding AG received the
 assets which they then invested in the Indian company ByCell
 Telecommunications India Private Limited. 1. Details of where the money has gone, which was returned by
 ByCell Telecommunication India Private Limited to ByCell AG
 Switzerland, year-wise details of which are mentioned below: Due to the recent decision of the Swiss Federal Administrative Court
 (Swiss Federal Administrative Court Decision A-4232/2013 of 17
 December 2013), administrative assistance can only provide
 information for tax years from the fiscal year 2011/2012 as the prior
 years are not covered by the temporal scope of Article 26 of the
 updated Agreement between India and Switzerland.
 Having invested the mentioned amount, ByCell Holding AG claims
 that the Indian authorities refused to provide ByCell
 Telecommunications India Private Limited with a mobile phone I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 53 license. In this context, certain portions of the invested assets were
returned (mainly by bank deposit guaranties). The Indian authorities
hold funds which were transferred by ByCell Telecommunications
India Private for fees related to licenses, but that these had not been
issued up to today. The original owner of these funds is ByCell
Holding AG. According to the decision of the shareholders, and in the
absence of any debts or other investment purposes, the funds
returned by ByCell Telecommunications India Private Limited
to ByCell Holding AG were reimbursed to the shareholder and
therefore to the investors who provided these funds, with the
exception of marginal amounts used for the functioning of
this company. ByCell Holding AG stated that the figures in the above mentioned
table for the time period from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012 could
not be located in their books. They did however state that one
transaction took place on 19 April 2011 when ByCell
Telecommunications India Private Limited transferred the amount of
$ 4'026'815.00 to ByCell Holding AG. On the 26 April 2011 an
amount of $ 4'003'000.00 was transferred by ByCell Holding AG to
Tenoch Holdings Limited, Nicosia, Cyprus. With regard to the aforementioned information we would like to
draw your attention to the restrictions on the usability of the
transmitted information as well as the confidentiality obligations
under the administrative assistance provisions of the applicable
agreement (Article 20 Paragraph 2 TAAA) in connection with Article
26 DBA CH-IN. Please do not hesitate to contact us should you have any further
questions. Kindly confirm receipt of this letter. Yours sincerely,
 Service for Exchange of Information in Tax Matters
 Sd/- Sd/- 27. The above information ostensibly divulge following facts:- 28. Ld. PCIT while exercising his revisionary jurisdiction u/s.
263 has stressed upon the fact that only identity of the share
application money has been examined by the Assessing Officer,
but the genuineness of the transaction and creditworthiness of
the investor has not been verified and no inquiry whatsoever has
been done by the Assessing Officer in this regard. In the
impugned order, the learned PCIT though has acknowledged the
aforesaid information received from Switzerland Tax Authorities
requisitioned by CBDT itself, but nowhere has commented or
given any finding as to how the said information received from
Swiss Tax Authority does not either prove the source or
creditworthiness of the investor or the genuineness of the
transaction. Great emphasis has been laid by the learned PCIT as
well as the learned CIT-DR before us that bank accounts of the
M/s. Bycell Holdings AG has not been brought on record during
the assessment proceedings so that the genuineness of the
financial transaction can be verified and also the copy of audited
balance sheets. Whence the money is flowing from the books of
the investor as certified by Swiss Tax Authorities from their
financial accounts including the source of their funds for
investing in Indian Company and remittances are certified from
FIRCs issued by respective banks of the investor and the investee
duly approved by RBI, then how mere not filing of bank
statement vitiates the onus of proving the source. Further,
nowhere in the impugned order learned PCIT has even uttered a I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 56 whisper as to what kind of further inquiry was required to be
done by the Assessing Officer especially when the Swiss
Authority have clearly confirmed, firstly, the source of fund of
M/s. Bycell Holdings AG for investing in share application money
in the Indian Company (which was in the form of loan from its
sole shareholder company, M/s. Tenoch Holdings Ltd., Nicosia
Cyprus); and secondly, the details of money gone from
Switzerland to India and also the return of funds by the Indian
Company to M/s. Bycell Holdings AG. Year-wise details have
been given which was on the basis of books of account of M/s.
Bycell Holdings AG. In the wake of this information/confirmation,
we are unable to appreciate as to, what else was required from
the Assessing Officer or what kind of further inquiry was required
to be done or otherwise the entire source of the share capital
made in the Indian company would be disbelieved. 29. Here in this case the entire exercise of doubting the
genuineness of the transaction is from the fact that the Ministry
of Home Affairs have raised the issue of security concern, on the
basis of which FIPB approval was withdrawn. However, this fact
alone does not ipso facto can lead to an inference that entire
share application money received from the foreign entity has
become non genuine. When the money was invested there was a
due approval by Govt. Of India (FIPB) which was given for
obtaining telecom license with DoT and the flow of transaction
was duly certified by FIRC Certificate which was placed on record
not only before the Assessing Officer but also before the learned
PCIT. These FIRCs duly provide the source of entity who has I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 57 given the money and also the person who had received the money
in India and the purpose for which the said money was given.
Further, much has been harped upon by the Ld. PCIT and ld.
CIT-DR who tried to impress upon us that, M/s. Tenoch Holdings
Ltd. Cyprus was just a holding company which was further held
by two different entities, M/s. Quallis Inc, Panama and M/s.
Kyanance Business Ltd, British Virgin Island and both these
companies were held by some individuals, one of whom allegedly
had some shady past or were involved in some kind of scams,
though not much has not been brought on record in this regard.
On these facts, she had submitted that the Assessing Officer
should have inquired about the entire link while examining the
creditworthiness of the foreign entities. 30. Under the deeming provision of section 68 as was
applicable at the relevant time, the person in whose books of
account any sum is found credited during the relevant previous
year, was require to explain the 'nature' and 'source' of such
credit. For proving the source, the courts since time immemorial
have laid down that assessee needs to prima facie prove the
identity and creditworthiness of the creditor and the genuineness
of the transaction. Once it is prima facie established by the
assessee, then onus shifts upon the Assessing Officer to rebut
such evidence if he is not satisfied with the explanation based on
the evidence filed, by bringing cogent material on record after
carrying out necessary inquiry. If the AO fails to unearth any
incriminating material to dislodge assessee's evidence, then he
cannot obdurately disbelieve the transaction on his suspicion. Inquiry should be made to examine whether the creditor/lender
or investor is legally identified and has the creditworthiness to
lend/ advance or give the money. The proving of source is limited
qua the creditor/lender/investor. It cannot be extended to look
the source of fund of such person unless, it is found by the AO
that money of the assessee has been circuitously routed through
that person. If there is no material to doubt the creditor's source
then it has to be accepted. Proving of source of the source is not
required to be gone into and can only be resorted to under
exceptional circumstances when there is strong prima facie
material that source itself is not genuine. Here in this case,
source of funds ostensibly flows from ByCell Holdings AG,
Switzerland and not only this, its source of advancing the sum is
traceable to its holding company, M/s Tenoch Holdings Ltd.
Cyprus. Thus, in the present case, source of the source has also
been established. Beyond that, is not the mandate or
requirement of law to be adhered by the Assessing Officer.
Nothing has been brought on record by the Ld. PCIT or the Ld.
CIT DR that assessee's own money has been routed through
multi layered entities or money has flown from the coffers of the
assessee. Here in this case it has already been found that when
license was cancelled by FIPB, the money has been refunded
back to the shareholders. This further proves that it was not the
assessee's money brought under the garb of share application
money. Swiss entity is major shareholder of the Indian Company
which was established solely with a view to carry out telecom
business in India post granting of license by DoT and it is an I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 59 admitted fact that it could not carry out the operation after
cancellation of license, which dispute between Assessee Company
and Govt. Of India is before International Court of Arbitration. All
the doubt by Ld. PCIT is based on suspicion and surmise sans
any material. As regard the allegation that creditworthiness of
M/s. Bycell Holdings AG was not looked into or examined by the
Assessing Officer, it is seen from the from records that the
Assessing Officer did not just merely accepted the assessee's
explanation or evidence in air, but carried out inquiry to
ascertain the assessee's version by calling for the information
from Swiss Authorities who had the jurisdiction on the investor
company and after receiving the aforesaid report from the Swiss
Authority was satisfied that the money which was given by the
M/s. Bycell Holdings AG to the Indian company towards share
application money has come from its sole promoter company,
M/s. Tenoch Holding, Nicosia Cyprus. Thus, the entire
creditworthiness of the investor stands proved and onus that lied
upon the assessee and AO stood discharged. Further it is not
necessary, whether the M/s. Bycell Holdings AG was having its
own revenue from operation or not but if the funds have been
given from the loan taken from the holding company, it suffices
the test of creditworthiness for proving the source. Whether the
Tenoch Holding had the creditworthiness to give such amount to
M/s. Bycell Holdings AG to prove the credit of share application
money in the books of account of the Indian company, as held by
us, was not the requirement either under the facts of the case or
under the law. 31. Even under the amended provision of section 68 , brought
by the Finance Act, 2012 , w.e.f. 01.04.2013, whereby proviso has
been inserted qua the deeming fiction on share application
money, share capital, share premium or any such credit, has
been made applicable to resident entity only and not to non-
resident entity. This inter-alia means that deeming fiction cannot
be extended to non-resident entities. Be it as may be, under the
amended law also the onus stands discharged as the investor
company has explained the nature and source of credit, that is,
the share application money/share capital has been given out of
its declared sources in its books of account. Thus, under
amended provision also the addition could not have been made
and AO has rightly accepted the assessee's explanation after
finding it satisfactorily. 32. Here in impugned order, nowhere the Ld. PCIT has
specified as to after conclusive confirmation by Swiss Tax
Authorities, what other inquiry was required under the law which
Assessing Officer has failed to carry out. Without specifying as to
what possible inquiry under jurisdictional power of AO could
have been done, he cannot set aside the assessment. Is the Ld.
PCIT meant that AO should have made the inquiry from Cyprus
Tax Authorities for the source of providing loan to its Swiss
holding Company by the Tenoch Holding Ltd.? Then in that case ,
he should have himself invoked his powers under the treaty
provision with Cyprus to obtain further information through
CBDT. He has not made any kind of inquiry to dislodge AO's
inquiry or finding, which in terms of Section 263 , is required if he I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 61 deems necessary, albeit has simply discarded the AO's effort
without any cogent material brought on record by him. In various
judgments as highlighted by the learned senior counsel, it has
been categorically held that, under section 263 , Ld. CIT if
required, himself has to undertake a minimal inquiry and give
reasons for coming to the conclusion that assessment order was
erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the revenue. There
has to be some finding on merits after carrying out necessary
inquiry. This proposition has been explained in the judgment of ITO vs. DG Housing Projects Ltd. reported in 343 ITR 329 (Del); DIT Vs. Jyoti Foundation reported in 357 ITR 388 (Del. ); CIT
vs. Delhi Airport Metro Express (P) Ltd. , in ITA No.705/2017;
CIT vs. Modicare Ltd in ITA No.759/2016. Thus, the impugned
order of Ld. PCIT cancelling and setting aside the assessment
order cannot be upheld on this ground also. 32. Once again on merits, as discussed above, it evidently
borne out that the money for share application/share capital in
the Indian Company is flowing from the Swiss Company from the
sources disclosed in its regular books duly reflected in the annual
financial accounts and has come through the banking channel.
Merely because the relevant bank statement was not given before
the AO and to draw adverse inference, in our opinion cannot be
the sole deciding factor when the foreign bank as well as the
Indian bank have duly confirmed the transaction by the flow of
money from Switzerland to India. In such circumstances it
cannot be said that bank statement was required to see the
genuineness or the creditworthiness. Here in this case the I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 62 creditworthiness is further borne out from the balance sheets of
ByCell Holdings AG, (the English version of which was produced
before us by the assessee as per our direction along with the
original balance sheet which was in French). From the perusal of
the balance sheet, we find that the entire share application
money given to the Indian company has been duly reflected
including the loan taken from its holding company in Cyprus.
This proves the link of money flown from the coffers of its holding
company, M/s. Tenoch Ltd. Cyprus to M/s. Bycell Holdings AG.
During the course of the hearing the ld. CIT-DR tried to impress
upon the fact that M/s. Tenoch Ltd. Cyprus was the holding
company further held by M/s. Quallis Inc, Panama and M/s.
Kyanance Business Ltd, British Version Island and both these
companies were held by some individuals. On this premise, she
submitted that the Assessing Officer should have inquired about
the entire link while examining the creditworthiness of the foreign
entities. We are unable to appreciate such kind of remote link
especially when the Assessing Officer under the law was required
to see the nature and source of the credit which had come from a
Swiss company and not to examine the source of money
advanced by M/s. Tenoch Holding Ltd to Swiss company. Going
beyond as to how the M/s. Tenoch Holding Company has
received the money and what is the source of M/s. Tenoch
Holding Ltd. is definitely not the requirement of the law unless
any contrary material is found. Otherwise there would be no end
to roving and fishing inquiry. Thus, the contention raised by the
learned CIT-DR about the background of the persons who were I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 63 holding Tenoch Holding Ltd. through their companies will not
make much difference in the law in so far as to further examine
the source of share application money/share capital brought by
non-resident entity. Here in this case the Learned PCIT has
completely ignored the factum of report received from Swiss Tax
Authorities, which perhaps clinches the entire issue in favour of
the assessee and has not even laid down the parameters as to
what should have been the inquiry made by the Assessing Officer
after receiving such a report. Accordingly, the reassessment
orders passed by the AO for the impugned assessment years
cannot be reckoned as erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to
the interest of revenue. 33. Lastly, at the time of hearing, Ld. Counsel for the assessee
has strongly relied upon the judgment of ITAT Delhi Bench in the
case of Russian Technology Centre vs. DCIT , reported in 155 TTJ
316, to contend that on similar set and circumstances, the
identity of the non-resident remitter and source of funds stood
established through FIPB approval and FIRCs issued by the
authorised dealer, RBI, it was held the share application money
stands proved and no addition can be made u/s 68 . We find that
now that decision of the Tribunal has been affirmed the Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court, vide judgment dated 5.12.2017
reported in (2017) 100 CCH 0141 (Del) in the case of CIT and
Another vs. Russian Technology Pvt. Ltd. Though this
judgment came to our notice after the hearing of the case, we are
yet taking note of this judgment being the judgment of Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court. In this case, the assessee company I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 64 had received various amounts from its holding foreign company
to its subsidiary. The assessee to prove the genuineness and
identity of the shareholder furnished FIPB approval copy of
certificate of incorporation of shareholders copy of bank
statement and copy of Form-II filed before ROC and balance
sheets. Despite all those evidences the Assessing Officer had
made the addition which was confirmed by the ld. CIT (A),
however the Tribunal had deleted the said addition. In the wake
of this background the Hon'ble High court has observed and held
as under:- This judgment merely corroborates our finding on merits that the
share application money received from the holding foreign entity,
the documents as mentioned above are sufficient to hold that
transaction is genuine, and in the present case also all these
documents have been placed on record at some stage or the other
and therefore, on merits also the additions u/s.68 is not called
for. 34. Now in so far as the observation and the finding of the
learned PCIT with regard to the share application money received
from other Indian partner, M/s. Bitcorp India Pvt. Ltd., first of
all, we find that this issue was neither there in the "reasons
recorded" by the Assessing Officer as the information which was
received for reopening of the assessment completed u/s.143(3) was only with regard to the examination of the fund received from
the foreign investor, M/s. Bycell Holdings AG in terms of Section
68 ; nor any 'reason to believe' has been entertained by AO during I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 66 the course of assessment proceedings based on any tangible
material coming on record. Once the case was reopened u/s 147 only to examine the source of share application money/share
capital of the non-resident entity and without there being any
tangible material on record that the share application money
received from M/s. Bitcorp India Pvt. Ltd. is not genuine, the
Assessing Officer under the law was not required to conduct any
roving and fishing inquiry within the scope of re-assessment
proceedings which is circumscribed or limited only to the issues
raised and 'reason to believe' entertained in the 'reasons
recorded'; or in the terms of Explanation-3 to Section 147 , i.e., on
the issue which comes to the notice of the Assessing Officer
during the course of re-assessment proceedings. Not only that,
we find that even the learned PCIT while issuing the show cause
notice to the assessee u/s.263 , no issue with respect to share
application received to India partners, viz. M/s. Bitcorp India Pvt.
Ltd. was raised by him. It is also not coming from the impugned
order as to what was the adverse material available in the
assessment record or coming to his notice with regard to the
share application money received from M/s. Bitcorp Pvt. Ltd.
Once this issue is neither flowing from the initiation of re-
assessment proceedings u/s.147 , i.e., "reasons recorded" nor
arising from the reassessment order, then without there being
any adverse material on record and without issuing any show
cause notice to the assessee on this point, learned PCIT cannot
set aside this issue on the ground that no inquiry qua that party/
investor has been conducted by the Assessing Officer. We are I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 67 aware of the proposition that even if the issue which has not been
raised in the show cause notice u/s 263 by the Ld. PCIT, but
same can be raked up in the course of revisionary proceedings,
however, Ld. PCIT can deal upon the issue only when it is
confronted to the assessee at the time of the revisionary
proceedings and that to be when reasonable opportunity is given
to the assessee for explaining the same. However, in the present
case, nowhere the learned PCIT has pointed out that inquiry of
the share application money received from M/s. Bitcorp India
Pvt. Ltd. was within the scope of jurisdiction u/w.147 or is
flowing from the "reasons recorded" by the AO; and once such
inquiry was beyond the scope of the re-assessment proceedings,
then no error can be attributed to the Assessing Officer for not
making the inquiries on the issue or he was required to make any
addition u/s.68 on this score. Here in this case another very
important fact is that, in all these years, the assessments were
completed u/s. 143(3) and prior to the initiation of re-assessment
proceedings all these transaction have been examined and the
same has been duly accepted. While reopening such assessments u/s.147 , Assessing Officer should have credible information and
tangible material coming to his possession to entertain reason to
believe that the share application money received from M/s.
Bitcorp India Pvt. Ltd. during the assessment year 2006-07 to
2008-09 was not genuine. Once there is no such material, then
the finality attained in terms of orders passed u/s. 143(3) accepting the said share application money can neither be raised
nor can be disturbed. Thus, on this score also, we hold that I.T.As. No.2819 to 2823/DEL/2017 68 learned PCIT was not justified either in law or on facts in setting
 aside the issue of share application money received from M/s.
 Bitcorp India Pvt. Ltd. for carrying out any further inquiry or
 pass any fresh assessment order as it is beyond the scope of Section 263 in the present case. 35. Accordingly, in view of our finding given above, we hold
 that the impugned order passed by Ld. PCIT u/s 263 for all the
 impugned assessment years are not sustainable and is thus,
 quashed. In the result, all the appeals of the assessee are allowed. Order pronounced in the open Court on 24th, January, 2018.