1. In this appeal, Kundan Singh challenges judgment dated 18th January,
 2014, passed in S.C. No.32/2008 arising out of charge sheet filed in
 FIR No.592/07, Police Station Mehrauli, convicting him under Section
 302 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ( IPC , for short) for murder of his
 friend Vipin Kumar. The appellant has also been convicted under Section 201 and 404 IPC. 2. By order on sentence dated 21st January, 2014, the appellant has been
 sentenced to imprisonment for life, fine of Rs 15,000/- for the offence Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 1 of 51 under Section 302 IPC with a direction that in default of payment of
 fine, the appellant shall undergo rigorous imprisonment of one year.
 For the offence under Section 201 IPC, the appellant has been
 sentenced to rigorous imprisonment of seven years, fine of Rs.5,000/-,
 and in default of payment of fine, to undergo rigorous imprisonment of
 six months. For the offence under Section 404 IPC, the appellant has
 been sentenced to three years‟ rigorous imprisonment and a fine of
 Rs.5,000/-. On failure to pay the fine, the appellant will undergo
 rigorous imprisonment of six months. Benefit of Section 428 Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( Cr.P.C ) would be given. 3. Before we elucidate and adjudicate upon the contentions raised by the
 appellant with reference to the evidence led by the prosecution, it would
 be appropriate to note the case of the prosecution in brief. 4. On 13th August, 2007, at about 8.45 p.m., one Brahm Singh, who has
 deposed as PW1, noticed an unknown person throwing a black colour
 rexine bag in the jungle near Lado Sarai bus stand. Brahm Singh
 (PW1), who at that time was going in a car, stopped the car, but the said
 person fled from the spot on a motorcycle parked near the bus stand.
 Brahm Singh could not note down the exact number of the motorcycle
 except noticing that the motorcycle had a number with the letters „KA
 9735‟. Contemporaneously, Constable Raghubir Singh (PW13) came
 running to the spot as he had also seen the same incident. Constable
 Raghubir (PW13) and Brahm Singh (PW1) proceeded to open the said
 black colour rexine bag upon which parts of a human body in the form Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 2 of 51 of two hands (chopped), two legs (chopped from the knee) and a head,
 without the torso, of a male person were found. 5. On the statement of Brahm Singh (PW1) marked Ex.PW1/A, FIR
 No.592/2007 marked Ex.PW21/A was registered at Police Station
 Mehrauli. The identity of the person, whose body parts were found in
 the bag, could not be ascertained. Wireless text messages sent to the
 SHOs of Delhi and National Capital Region did not help. Inquest
 papers, under Section 171 Cr.P.C. were prepared and post-mortem, vide
 report marked Ex.PW-25/A, was conducted at the All India Institute of
 Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on 21.08.07, after which the remains of the
 unidentified person were cremated. 6. On 10th September, 2007, one Nirbhay Prashant (PW3), on seeing the
 photographs/advertisement published for identification of the deceased,
 came to Police Post IGNOU, Mehrauli and identified the deceased as
 Vipin Kumar, son of late Kanahiya Singh and husband of his sister.
 Nirbhay Prashant (PW3) disclosed that the deceased used to work at
 Hotel Plaza Soliter, Gurgaon and he (PW-3) had lodged a missing
 report of Vipin Kumar at the Police Station Civil Lines, Gurgaon on 5th
 September, 2007. Other relevant information that the deceased had a
 saving bank account number 009901532543 with ICICI Bank at
 Panchsheel Park branch and had last talked to his wife on 12th August,
 2007 from his mobile phone number 9313341707, came to light. 7. On examination of the call detail records (CDRs, for short) and after
 examining the video footage of the ATM of the ICICI Bank at Saket
 from where money was withdrawn using the ATM card of the Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 3 of 51 deceased, the present appellant was arrested. The evidence and
 materials collected during the police investigation including the
 recoveries made at the behest of the appellant form the core evidence of
 the prosecution case. 8. We now proceed to examine the oral evidence of the witnesses, other
 evidence relied and the contentions of the appellant. The happenings in
 the late evening on 13th August, 2007, when Brahm Singh (PW1) had
 seen an unknown person throwing a black colour rexine bag in the
 bushes at the crossing of Lado Sarai bus stand has been proved and
 established beyond doubt by Brahm Singh (PW1). PW1 affirms that a
 person had fled from the spot on a motorcycle after taking a U-turn to
 proceed towards Khanpur. He was able to partially note the number of
 the motorcycle as „KA 9735‟. In the black colour rexine bag, Brahm
 Singh (PW1) and Constable Raghubir Singh (PW13) found parts of a
 human body including a human head. On the basis of the statement
 made by Brahm Prakash (PW1) marked Ex.PW1/A, the FIR in question
 was registered. Evidence and materials were collected and seized from
 the spot vide seizure memo Ex.PW1/B. 9. The aforesaid narration finds affirmative corroboration from the
 testimony of Constable Raghubir Singh (PW13), who was on patrolling
 duty near M.B. Road, when he had seen an unknown person throwing a
 black colour rexine bag. Thereafter, the said person had fled on a
 motorcycle after taking a U-turn towards Khanpur. Raghubir Singh
 (PW13) had then met Brahm Singh (PW1) and they had checked the
 said bag which was found to be having a male face, two hands chopped Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 4 of 51 from the shoulder and two legs chopped from the knees. The said facts
 are corroborated by Insp. Vinod Pal (PW20) of the Crime Team,
 photographer HC Rampal (PW15), H.C. Virender (PW-19), Ct.
 Chander Pal (PW-22), Inspector Raj Kumar (PW-28) and Inspector
 K.P. Kukreti (PW-30) who reached the spot after receiving information
 about the occurrence. 10. Post-mortem report marked Ex.PW25/A was proved by Dr. Akhilesh
 Raj (PW25), who had identified the signature and handwriting of Dr.
 Bharat Verma, who had conducted post-mortem on the aforesaid body
 parts on 21st August, 2007. The report Ex.PW25/A opines that the
 cause of death was haemorrhage due to external injury i.e. incised
 wound present over the ventral aspect of left upper limb just above the
 wrist, of 5 × 2 cm. and tissue-deep. This injury was ante-mortem in
 nature and sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
 PW25 has also proved the opinion marked Ex.PW25/B given by Dr.
 Bharat Verma regarding the weapon of offence i.e. daab, to the effect
 that the said weapon could have been used to chop the body. The
 sketch of the weapon marked Ex.PW25/C was prepared by Dr. Bharat
 Verma. 11. The aforesaid facts would establish a homicidal death amounting to
 murder. The head, hands and legs below the knee of that person were
 chopped and thrown by an unknown person, who had fled on a
 motorcycle which had a number plate with the letters „KA‟ and
 numerical „9735‟. The victim was unidentified and the perpetrator or
 the culprit was unknown. This would bring us to the testimonies of Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 5 of 51 Nirbhay Prashant (PW-3) and the Investigating Officer Inspector K.P.
 Kukreti (PW-30), SHO, Police Station Mehrauli, who took over the
 investigation on 24th September, 2007. Their statements have to be
 read in seriatim to understand and appreciate as to how the case was
 solved and why the trial court has convicted the appellant. Nirbhay
 Prashant (PW3) has testified that he had identified his brother-in-law
 Vipin Kumar on 10th September, 2007 on the basis of the photographs
 shown to him at the Police Post IGNOU, Police Station Mehrauli. His
 brother-in-law Vipin Kumar was working in a hotel in Section-14 ,
 Gurgaon, Haryana and was missing. He knew that Vipin Kumar had
 last spoken to his wife Jyoti, sister of Nirbhay Prashant (PW3), resident
 of village Bhagwatipur, on 12th August, 2007 from his mobile number
 9313341707. Nirbhay Prashant (PW3) had tried to contact Vipin
 Kumar on the aforesaid number but no one would respond, despite
 rings. On 3rd September, 2007 PW-3, in search, had come to Delhi
 from his village Bhagwatipur, Bihar, but Vipin Kumar could not be
 traced. On 5th September, 2007, PW3 had lodged a missing complaint
 at the Police Station Civil Lines, Gurgaon. Nirbhay Prashant (PW-3)
 from the police station Civil Lines had collected Call Detail Record
 (CDRs) of telephone number 9313341707 for the period 10th July, 2007
 to 1st September, 2007. On thorough examination and studying the
 record, PW-3, noticed that on 31st August, 2007, at 9:40:70 P.M., an
 outgoing call of 149.4 seconds was made from the mobile number of
 the deceased to a landline number 05946266495 located at Haldwani.
 PW-3 from a PCO booth had made a call on this landline number,
 05946266495 and on conversing with the person on the other side, Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 6 of 51 came to know that the mobile number 9313341707 had been used by
 one Kundan, who was working at the Madhuban restaurant, PVR Saket.
 Kundan was residing at Shaidullajab. PW-3 knew and had been told by
 his brother-in-law Vipin Kumar about two close friends, Sanjay
 Srivastav and Kundan Kumar (Kundan Singh) i.e. the present appellant.
 His brother-in-law had earlier worked at Supper Factory, Greater
 Kailash, near Amar Colony in the year 2006 and had be friended Sanjay
 Srivastav and Kundan Kumar. He had also learnt from the person, who
 had answered the call, that Kundan was a resident of Uttranchal and his
 mobile phone number was 9313363224. In his cross-examination,
 Nirbhay Prashant (PW3) clarified that the telephone number being used
 by Vipin Kumar was a prepaid SIM card issued by the operator
 Reliance. We shall subsequently refer to the other supporting evidence
 which confirm several important aspects deposed to by PW-3, but at
 this stage, we would like to refer to the testimony of Inspector K.P.
 Kukreti (PW30), who had taken over the investigation on 24 th
 September, 2007, though being the SHO of Police Station Mehrauli had
 been associated with the earlier investigating officer, Inspector Atul
 Kumar and S.I. Dinesh Kumar. The latter has not deposed as he had
 expired on October 26th, 2010. PW30 has testified that Nirbhay
 Prashant (PW-3) had come to Police Post IGNOU on 10th September,
 2007 and identified the face and body parts of Vipin Kumar. He had
 disclosed details like, mobile number of the deceased 9313341707; that
 the deceased was working in a hotel at Gurgaon and the last call was
 made by the deceased to his wife on 12th August, 2007. Nirbhay
 Prashant (PW-3) had managed to procure a copy of the CDR for the Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 7 of 51 period 10th August, 2007 to 1st September, 2007 from Gurgaon Police
 and had ascertained that Vipin Kumar had worked in a restaurant called
 Supper Factory in East of Kailash in the year 2006 and was friendly
 with one Kundan who used to also work there. On 14th September,
 2007, Nirbhay Prashant (PW-3) had informed PW-30, about the call
 made by him (PW-3) on the landline number 05946266495 and that the
 deceased‟s telephone number was used by one Kundan, who had made
 a telephone call of 149.04 seconds on the aforesaid landline number on
 31st August, 2007 at about 9.04 P.M. He also came to know that Vipin
 Kumar was having a savings bank account number 002901532543 with
 the ICICI Bank. Vipin Kumar was residing in a rented accommodation
 somewhere in Shaidullajab and Kundan used to also reside in the same
 locality. 12. K.P. Kukreti (PW-30) has referred to investigation and information
 gathered by SI Dinesh Kumar, who on 17th September, 2007, had gone
 to ICICI Bank, Panchsheel Park and had obtained the statement of
 account of Vipin Kumar and had also procured Compact Disk of video
 recorded in the ATM located at PVR Anupam Saket vide seizure memo
 marked Ex.PW11/B, from Tanuj Khosla, Channel Manager, ICICI
 Bank. 13. These facts are affirmed and also narrated by H.C. Virender (PW-19),
 who had along with S.I. Dinesh visited ICICI Bank branch at
 Panchsheel and had met Tanuj Khosla, the manager, and had procured a
 CD with ATM video clipping files, which was taken into possession
 and sealed vide seizure memo Ex.PW-11/B. Puneet Sharma (PW-11), Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 8 of 51 whose deposition has been discussed below, has testified that the
 account statement bearing No.002901532543 marked Ex.PW-11/A and
 a CD of the photographs taken by the ATM machine located at Saket,
 marked Ex.PW-11/B, were handed over to the police by Tanuj Khosla. 14. On 24th August, 2007, Inspector K.P. Kukreti (PW30) learnt that the
 person who had used the mobile phone of the deceased Vipin Kumar,
 would be visiting PVR Anupam complex at about 4 P.M. A raiding
 team consisting of PW-30 himself, SI Dinesh, Head Constable Virender
 (PW19), Constable Raj Kumar (PW18) and Constable Raghuvir
 (PW13) was constituted and they along with the secret informer,
 proceeded to the said spot. At about 4 P.M., the appellant Kundan
 Singh was apprehended from the Madhuban Restaurant Complex vide
 arrest memo Ex.PW19/E and his disclosure statement Ex.PW19/G was
 recorded. The appellant then led the police team to House No.477,
 Shaidullajab, where the deceased Vipin Kumar used to reside in a room
 on the first floor as a tenant. The said room was locked and to open the
 lock, a key maker named Bobby (sic Babloo, who has deposed as PW- 12), was called to make a duplicate key and open the room. Inside the
 room, they had noticed and seized a blood-stained wooden stool, one
 mattress, bed sheet and one black suit cover vide seizure memo
 Ex.PW19/B. At the behest of the appellant, the purported weapon of
 offence i.e. a Daab (a heavy metallic weapon with a wooden handle)
 was recovered from a plastic crate kept on the slab inside the said room.
 Sketch of the Daab marked Ex.PW19/D was prepared after measuring
 the same and the Daab was taken into possession vide seizure memo Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 9 of 51 Ex.PW19/E. Other incriminating articles like blood-stained earth etc.
 were also seized and Naresh Kumar, Senior Scientific Assistant on
 being asked, had inspected the crime scene and taken four blood
 samples from the spot. Subsequently, the police team along with
 Kundan Singh, had proceeded to House No.615, Shaidullajab, where
 the appellant used to reside with his relative Bahadur Singh. From the
 said room from a brief case, two share certificates of BHEL and an
 acknowledgment of India Bull Securities in the name of deceased Vipin
 Kumar, were recovered. The appellant, from the said brief case, had
 also taken out one white polythene containing currency notes of Rs.60,
 000/- in Rs.500/- denomination. The currency notes were seized and
 taken into possession vide seizure memo marked Ex.PW6/A. The
 acknowledgment and the share certificates were seized and taken into
 possession vide seizure memo Ex.PW19/J. Appellant Kundan also took
 the police team to G.B. Road (Shradhanand Marg) and on his pointing
 out, a motorcycle bearing registration number KA04EC 9735, Hero
 Honda model of grey colour was seized from the parking. The
 assertion is that it was the same motorcycle on which the appellant had
 fled away after throwing the black colour rexine bag containing the
 body parts of the deceased Vipin Kumar. The motorcycle was seized
 vide seizure memo Ex.PW2/A. 15. We shall now refer to the corroborating circumstances which support
 the prosecution case and have acted as piers and stanchions in the chain
 of circumstances affirming and proving the case against the appellant.
 We have noticed that Brahm Singh (PW1) and Constable Raghubir Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 10 of 51 Singh (PW13) have deposed that the person who had thrown the black
 colour rexine bag near Lado Sarai had fled on a motorcycle, the number
 of which could only be partially identified as „KA 9735‟. This number
 is mentioned and recorded in the FIR, Ex.PW2/A. Inspector K.P.
 Kukreti (PW30) has proved recovery of the motorcycle bearing
 registration number KA 04EC 9735 from G.B. Road. The alphabets
 and numbers of the motorcycle do match with the statement of Brahm
 Singh (PW1). It is noticeable that PW1 did not know who was the
 owner of the motorcycle and was not personally known to the appellant.
 B.M. Mani (PW-8) from Transport Authority, Bangalore, had produced
 records/ papers regarding registration of Motorcycle KA 04EC 9735 in
 the name of Bimal Kumar R/o. NZ House, Modi Bagh, Banglore-32,
 marked Ex.PW-8/A. The said Bimal Kumar is no one but the deceased,
 Vimal Kumar S/o. Late Kanhaiya Singh. The said parentage is
 mentioned on Form No.20. The recovery of the motorcycle
 substantially corroborates and links the appellant to the offence in
 question. Recovery of the motorcycle from the G.B. Road is affirmed
 by Allaudin (PW2), who has testified that the said motorcycle was
 recovered from his parking and seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW2/A
 on 24th September, 2007. The appellant i.e. the accused was present
 and was having a parking slip with him, which was given to PW2 by
 the police staff. The said parking slip was not produced before the
 Court and, therefore, we ignore this part of PW2‟s statement. PW2, in
 his cross-examination, has stated that the motorcycle was in an
 unlocked condition but this cannot be a ground to doubt veracity the
 recovery. Recovery of the motorcycle is asserted by Inspector Praveen Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 11 of 51 Kumar (PW-16) in-charge Crime Team, who is the author of the report
 Ex.PW-16/A and the photographs taken at the spot, i.e. the parking lot,
 by Ct. Dinesh (PW-17) marked Ex.PW-17/14 to 24 and negatives
 Ex.PW-7/1 to 13. The motorcycle was certainly recovered. 16. Rambir (PW4), owner of House No.477, village Shaidullajab had
 given a room on rent to the deceased Vipin Kumar. He has testified
 that there were six rooms on the first floor and in one of the rooms,
 deceased Vipin Kumar used to live. Vipin Kumar who used to work in
 Gurgaon, would not daily return to the tenanted room. On 12th August,
 2007, in the evening, PW4 had seen the deceased Vipin Kumar with the
 appellant i.e. Kundan Singh. They had come on a motorcycle bearing
 registration number KA 04 EC 9735. The said motorcycle was parked
 outside his house and after that, he had not seen the deceased or the
 appellant Kundan Singh. On 24th September, 2007, at about 1.30/2.00
 p.m., Kundan Singh was brought to PW4‟s residence by the police.
 PW4 had then recognised the appellant as the person who had come
 with the deceased on 12th August, 2007 and had parked a motorcycle
 outside his house. He had then learnt that Vipin Kumar had been
 murdered. In his cross-examination, PW4 avers that that one Babloo
 was called by the police to unlock the room of Vipin Kumar. The said
 Babloo, who has deposed as PW12 and affirms having been called by
 the police to open the lock of the room. He has stated that on 24 th
 September, 2007, at about 4:00-4:15 p.m., he had made duplicate key of
 the room‟s lock at the behest of the police. Rambir (PW4) affirms that
 on 24th August, 2007, the said motorcycle was not shown to him. 17. Sukhvir Singh (PW6) has deposed that he had given a room on rent to
 one Bahadur Singh in his property located at village Shaidullajab. The
 appellant was residing with Bahadur Singh as they were related; and he
 had been informed that the appellant would reside in the said room for
 sometime. On 24th September, 2007, police had come along with the
 appellant and from the said room, the appellant had from a briefcase
 taken out 120 currency notes of Rs.500/- each. The currency notes were
 kept in a polythene bag. Money was seized and taken into possession
 vide seizure memo Ex.PW6/A. He identified the currency notes
 amounting to Rs.60,000/-, which were collectively marked Ex.P-6/1.
 Sukhvir Singh (PW6) has accepted that he had never seen the deceased
 Vipin Kumar and that he had first seen the appellant Kundan Singh
 only a month prior to 24th September, 2007 and not before. He had
 identified the two police officers as Inspector K.P. Kukreti (PW30) and
 Devender, Incharge Police Post. Sukhvir Singh(PW6) has not deposed
 on recovery of the share certificates or acknowledgement of India Bulls
 Securities and we would not rely on the said recovery. Sukhvir
 Singh(PW-6) is an independent witness and has positively affirmed
 recovery of Rs.60,000/-. 18. To prove and establish that the deceased Vipin Kumar knew the
 appellant Kundan Singh and were friends, we have the deposition of
 Sanjeev Anand (PW5), owner and proprietor of Supper Factory
 restaurant located at East of Kailash. He has affirmed that the appellant
 and the deceased Vipin Kumar had worked for him in the year 2007.
 They were well acquainted and used to come and go together. While Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 13 of 51 Vipin Kumar had worked for about a year, and the appellant Kundan
 Singh had worked for only one month before they left the job. Sanjeev
 Anand (PW5) proved the bio-data or particular of Kundan Singh
 marked Ex.PW5/D and E and that of Vipin Kumar as Ex.PW-5/A to
 5/C. Thus PW5 positively avers that Vipin Kumar and Kundan Singh
 were well acquainted with each other. Bio-data of Vipin Kumar (son of
 late Kanhaiya Singh) mentions his telephone number as 9313341707
 and Bio data of the appellant, Kundan Singh mentions his telephone
 number as 9313363224. Bahadur Singh resident of 615, Shaidullajab
 was recorded as a reference. 19. We accept the prosecution version that Nirbhay Prashant (PW-3) did
 not know the exact details of residence of the deceased Vipin Kumar
 and was only aware that Vipin Kumar used to reside somewhere in
 Shaidullajab. Pertinently, the missing person complaint was made at
 the police station Civil Lines, Gurgaon and not in Delhi. Nirbhay
 Prashant (PW-3) neither visited the residence of the deceased nor went
 inside the room from where after the arrest of the appellant
 incriminating evidence in the form of blood stains on various articles
 were recovered. The said factum stands affirmed from the testimony of
 Ranbir (PW-4), who had given a room on rent to the deceased Vipin
 Kumar. FSL report, marked Exhibits PW-7/B and PW-7/C, records
 that human blood of group „O‟ was found from stains present on the
 floor of the room, the table, on the towel handkerchief and on a small
 piece of cloth taken from the gadda. 20. The appellant in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. denied that he
 had a relative by the name of Bahadur Singh and that he used to reside
 with him at Shaidullajab. However, he has accepted that he was taken
 to premises No. 477, Shaidullajab, i.e. residence of the deceased Vipin
 Kumar, but asserted that he was not aware of the proceedings that took
 place inside the room as he was made to stand outside. On the question
 of his arrest, the appellant has stated that his brother Pankaj was picked
 up from Nainital and taken into custody. The appellant in the month of
 July, 2007 had left his earlier job and gone to his native place at
 Kathgodam. On learning that his younger brother Pankaj had been
 detained, he had proceeded to Police Station Mehrauli where he was
 arrested and detained. The appellant has also accepted that he had
 worked in a restaurant called Super Factory where he became
 acquainted with the deceased. He claimed that he had not met the
 deceased after he had left the job. In his subsequent statement recorded
 on 23rd March, 2013, the appellant has accepted his particulars/bio-data,
 Exhibits PW-5/D and 5/E and that the document Exhibit PW-5/D was
 in his handwriting. He accepted that the name of Bahadur Singh was
 mentioned by him as a reference. He added that he did not know any
 person by the name of Bahadur Singh. With regard to telephone No.
 9313363224 mentioned in the document Exhibit PW-5/D, he had stated
 that this number was not used by him and he must have given a number
 of an acquaintance. 21. In response to question No. 54, the appellant has stated his father‟s
 name is Jagat Singh and his native address was Malla Beura
 Kathgodam, District Haldwani, Uttrakhand. 22. We now turn to the evidence of Puneet Sharma (PW11) Branch
 Manager, ICICI Bank, Panchsheel Park. He affirms that SI Dinesh
 Chand had come to their branch at Panchsheel Park and had collected
 the copy of statement of accounts of saving bank account number
 002901532543, which was handed over to him by Tanuj Khosla, who
 was then the Channel Manager. Tanuj Khosla had left the bank branch
 and was possibly working in Singapore. The statement of account
 marked Ex.PW11/A was of one Bipin Kumar (Vipin Kumar, the
 deceased). One ATM video clipping CD was also handed over to SI
 Dinesh Chand by Tanuj Khosla in his presence, which was taken into
 possession vide seizure memo Ex.PW11/B. Video clippings of ATM at
 Rudrapur and Bareli were also demanded by the Investigating Officer
 but the same were not supplied as the said ATMs did not have a
 camera. The aforesaid CD was played and it was found to have still
 photographs. The photographs were identified by Puneet Sharma
 (PW11) stating that the same were of their ATM at Saket. In his cross-
 examination, PW11 has deposed that their Information Technology
 Department looked after the computers and other technical aspects.
 The said department had not issued a certificate regarding the ATM
 CCTV footage CD. In his cross-examination, PW11 accepted as
 correct that as per the Reserve Bank of India Guidelines, every ATM
 should have one in-built camera for taking picture of the person using Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 16 of 51 the ATM. However, PW11 immediately corrected himself by stating
 that he was not aware of such RBI Guidelines and banks could provide
 cameras for safety and security. PW11 affirms that the CD furnished
 was having still photographs taken by the in-built camera of their ATM
 at Saket. The said CD was played in the trial court after being taken out
 from a plastic box. 23. In his cross-examination, Puneet Sharma (PW-11) has accepted that the
 said CD and the account statement were never handed over in his
 presence to the Investigating Officer. In view the aforesaid
 contradiction, Puneet Sharma (PW11) was re-examined by the
 Additional Public Prosecutor and thereupon he had stated that he had
 seen the CD and the account statement being handed over by Tanuj
 Khosla to the Investigating Officer and the CD was kept in a plastic
 box. On cross-examination by the counsel for the appellant, PW11
 deposed that a CD could not have been prepared without a password for
 accessing the server on which photographs/data are stored. PW11
 accepted the suggestion that he could not state whether the CD was the
 original version of the data stored on the server or fabricated one. He
 has also accepted as correct that the account statement Ex.PW11/A was
 a photocopy and did not have the stamp of ICICI Bank or certificate
 under the Bankers‟ Books Evidence Act, 1891 . 24. We agree with the learned counsel for the appellant that the said CD
 would be an electronic record and as per the ratio of the Supreme Court
 in Anvar P.V. v. P.K. Basheer and Ors. ; (2014) 10 SCC 473,
 certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act, is required for Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 17 of 51 admitting secondary evidence. A larger and a different question could
 arise in some cases where the electronic record has been taken on
 record and exhibited without objection before the trial court, but the
 said issue does not arise for consideration in the present case as
 objection was certainly taken. 25. However, the testimony of Puneet Sharma (PW11) does show that the
 deceased had a bank account with ICICI Bank, and statement of
 account was taken by the police on 17th September, 2010 for the
 purpose of investigation. The police had also obtained the CD
 containing still photographs of the persons who had withdrawn money
 from the ATM located at Saket. We accept PW11‟s version to the
 extent that the aforesaid materials were collected by the police during
 the course of investigation and ultimately led the Investigating Officer
 to the appellant. To this extent, the testimony of Puneet Sharma
 (PW11) would be relevant under Section 8 of the Evidence Act. This
 lends credence and assurance to the prosecution version given by
 Inspector K.P. Kukreti (PW30) on how they were able to identify and
 apprehend the appellant as the perpetrator. In Balram Prasad Agrawal
 versus State of Bihar and Others ; (1997) 9 SCC 338, the Supreme
 Court referred to the concept of hearsay evidence and observed that
 even if some information is ruled out as hearsay, it may still remain
 admissible as evidence of the conduct of the witness. Relying on Section 8 of the Evidence Act, it was observed as under:- 26. However, there will be no such difficulty with regard to the CDRs of
 mobile phone number 9313341707. We will first begin with the
 statement of Saurabh Kumar (PW10), who has deposed that the
 deceased Vipin Kumar was his friend and used to reside in village
 Shaidullajab as a tenant. As Vipin Kumar wanted a mobile connection,
 he had provided his address proof for subscribing to the aforesaid 1 AIR 1982 SC 673 2 1956 WLR 965 Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 19 of 51 number. In his cross-examination, PW10 affirmed that he had known
 the deceased since 1995. Mobile telephone No. 9313341707 is
 mentioned in the personal details/bio data of Vipin Kumar marked
 Exhibit PW-5/A to C. Nirbhay Prashant (PW-3) has also testified that
 his brother-in-law Vipin Kumar was using mobile telephone No.
 9313341707. 27. Puneet Sharma and Anil Kumar Sachdeva have been referred to as PW- 11. For clarity we have referred to, Anil Kumar Sachdeva as PW-11A.
 Anil Kumar Sachdeva was working in Reliance Communication as a
 Nodal Officer, in his deposition recorded on 9th November, 2009,
 proved the CDRs of telephone numbers 9313341707 and 9313363224
 marked Ex.PW-11/A and Ex.PW-11/B, respectively. He had also
 proved the cell ID towers marked Ex.PW-11/C. Certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act was not produced but during the
 course of his examination, Anil Kumar Sachdeva (PW-11A) had stated
 that on 18th December, 2008, the Investigating Officer Inspector K.P.
 Kukreti (PW30) had visited their office and made a request vide letter
 marked Ex.PW11/D to provide CDRs of the aforesaid mobile phone
 numbers. PW11 could not tell the name of the person, who had
 extracted the CDRs from the computer on 9th November, 2009. The
 said person at that time had not issued any certificate affirming
 genuineness of the CDRs. 28. Anil Kumar Sachdeva (PW-11A) was recalled and re-examined on 17th
 April, 2013. PW-11A had produced certificate under Section 65B of
 the Evidence Act, dated 16th April, 2013 which was marked Ex.PW-
 11/E. On the said date, Anil Kumar Sachdeva (PW11A), Nodal Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 20 of 51 Officer, Reliance Communication affirmed that during the period from
 August 2007 to 30th September, 2007, the computers were operational
 and were in safe custody, and no complaint regarding the operation of
 the computers was received. On receipt of request from a law
 enforcing agency for the supply of CDRs of a particular mobile phone,
 they used to forward the request to the Mumbai office, where the data
 was stored on the main server. Mumbai office used to transfer the
 CDRs asked for, to their FTP server. The computer department, which
 was under the supervision of PW11A, used to access the server and
 handover the data to him. There was no possibility of tampering or
 manipulation of the data accessed, which was completely protected.
 Records provided by them were completely authentic and correct. He
 also testified as to how the cell towers from where the calls were
 connected were identified on the CDRs. PW-11A has deposed: PW11A, in his cross-examination gave an example, which is as under:- 29. Thereafter, counsel for the appellant had put and confronted Anil
 Kumar Sachdeva (PW11A) with the CDRs of mobile telephone number
 9313363224 which for the purpose of identification were marked Mark
 PW11/D1. PW-11A has deposed that the CDR marked PW-11/D1
 appeared to be a print out of the record maintained by their company as
 the parameters mentioned were similar but the CDRs marked PW11/D1
 did not have the stamp of their company and, therefore, he was not sure.
 Referring to the document Mark PW11/D i.e. the request letter written
 by the Investigating Officer to supply the CDRs, PW11A could not
 state whether the said document was presently available at their office
 or not, but the date 17th December, 2008 mentioned on the back side of
 the said exhibit, could be the date on which they had received the said
 request letter. PW11A testified that they were bound to furnish a copy
 of the tower site locations to all the law enforcing agencies on a
 monthly basis, regardless of a request, whereas CDRs were supplied on
 specific request. (The cell tower details are different from CDRs,
 which reflect the calls received and made from a particular number).
 PW11A affirmed as correct in his cross-examination that he had
 brought a computerized copy of the records already tendered by him in
 the Court and he had obtained the same through his archives. In the
 archives, they maintain record of the CDRs, which have been asked for
 by a Court or an enforcement agency, and not otherwise. The entire
 team of the computer department under PW11A maintained the
 archives. He voluntarily affirmed in the cross-examination as under:- 30. We would now refer to the legal position and what is admissible and
 proved by the prosecution. We begin by examining the statutory
 provisions. Section 3 of the Evidence Act in sub-section (2) stipulates
 that documentary evidence means and includes all documents including
 "electronic records" produced for the inspection of the Court. By way
 of amendment to the Evidence Act , incorporated by Act, No. 21 of
 2000, the following was inserted: Section 2(c) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 reads- Section 45-A of the Evidence Act reads as follows: Section 59 under Part II of the Evidence Act dealing with
 proof, reads as follows: Section 65-A reads as follows: Section 65-B reads as follows: and references in this section to a computer
 shall be construed accordingly. (4) In any proceedings where it is desired to give a Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 27 of 51 statement in evidence by virtue of this section, a
 certificate doing any of the following things, that is
 to say-- (a) identifying the electronic record
 containing the statement and describing the
 manner in which it was produced; (b) giving such particulars of any device
 involved in the production of that electronic
 record as may be appropriate for the purpose
 of showing that the electronic record was
 produced by a computer; (c) dealing with any of the matters to which
 the conditions mentioned in sub-section (2)
 relate,
 and purporting to be signed by a person occupying
 a responsible official position in relation to the
 operation of the relevant device or the
 management of the relevant activities (whichever
 is appropriate) shall be evidence of any matter
 stated in the certificate; and for the purposes of this
 sub-section it shall be sufficient for a matter to be
 stated to the best of the knowledge and belief of
 the person stating it. (5) For the purposes of this section-- (a) information shall be taken to be supplied
 to a computer if it is supplied thereto in any
 appropriate form and whether it is so
 supplied directly or (with or without human
 intervention) by means of any appropriate
 equipment; (b) whether in the course of activities
 carried on by any official, information is
 supplied with a view to its being stored or
 processed for the purposes of those activities
 by a computer operated otherwise than in Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 28 of 51 the course of those activities, that
 information, if duly supplied to that
 computer, shall be taken to be supplied to it
 in the course of those activities; (c) a computer output shall be taken to have
 been produced by a computer whether it was
 produced by it directly or (with or without
 human intervention) by means of any
 appropriate equipment. Explanation.--For the purposes of this
 section any reference to information being
 derived from other information shall be a
 reference to its being derived therefrom by
 calculation, comparison or any other
 process." 31. Section 22-A of the Evidence Act is the part of fasciculus of Sections
 from 17 to 31 under the heading „Admissions‟. It specifically deals
 with relevancy of oral admissions as to the contents of an electronic
 document and was inserted w.e.f. 17.10.2000 by the Information
 Technology Act, 2000 . Oral admissions as to the contents of electronic
 record are relevant when genuineness of the electronic record is in
 question. The expression "unless the genuineness ... is in question",
 elucidates the ambit and relevance of the Section. Use of word
 "relevant", viz. "admissibility" is also of significance, though these
 terms are interlaced and connected. The object of providing said
 provision recognizes that the evidence relating to genuineness or
 "reliability" of electronic record is of consequence, in-spite of the
 certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act. Thus, Section 22A Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 29 of 51 specifically provides that when genuineness of an electronic record is in
 question, oral admissions are relevant and could be examined. As
 noticed below, it states and records the obvious. 32. Section 65-B of the Evidence Act, consists of four sub-sections. Sub- section (1) begins with non-obstante clause and gives primacy and
 overriding effect to the said provision. A dissection of that sub-section
 would reveal that it consists of distinct parts. The first part stipulates
 that any information contained in the electronic record in the form of
 paper print output or optical or magnetic media output, i.e. the
 electronic record copied, stored or recorded on an optical or magnetic
 media from another source, shall be deemed to be a document. The
 first part, therefore, deals with the paper printout or optical or magnetic
 media on which the electronic record has been copied, stored or
 recorded as distinct from the original media on which the data or
 information is created, or recorded, stored or copied. Media and paper
 print outs are tangible articles. Paper print outs can be seen and read.
 Media can also be seen and read, when viewed with an appropriate
 equipment and paper printouts taken. Noticeably and pertinently, the
 paper printout output or the optical or magnetic media output, on
 satisfaction of the conditions stipulated in Section 65B is treated as a
 document by itself. The conditions would relate to the information and
 the computer from which the printout on paper or optical or magnetic
 media has been produced by copying, recording or storing the files.
 The following part, states that when the conditions mentioned in the
 section in relation to (a) information (b) computers are satisfied, the
 document i.e. the printed paper or the optical or magnetic media on Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 30 of 51 which the files have been copied, stored and recorded, shall be
 admissible in evidence, without further proof or production of the
 original. In such circumstances, production of the original computer or
 equipment from which the paper print out or media was produced by
 copying, recording or storing the files is not required to be produced.
 Once the requirements are satisfied, the printed document or the optical
 or magnetic media would be evidence of the contents as to what was
 stored in the computer from which the print out, or media was created
 by way of copying, recording or storing files. The last part therefore
 deals with the effect, when the requirements stated in Section 65B are
 satisfied. 33. The computer output - when provisions of section 65-B are satisfied is
 treated as evidence of the contents of the original or facts therein of
 which direct evidence is admissible. The secondary evidence in the
 form of a paper print out or media output produced by copying,
 recording or storing files is treated as a document and are admissible
 and bear the same status as "direct evidence" on the question of
 admissibility. The provision, therefore, negates and does not require
 production of the original computer/equipment/media, on which the
 data was stored and from which computer output be it in the form of
 printed paper or optical or magnetic media data has been obtained. The
 expression "direct evidence" as strictly understood in the Evidence Act ,
 has been explained below. 34. Sub- section 2 to Section 65B explains and elucidates the term
 „computer output‟ and in a manner expounds and expands what is
 meant by the original device or computer from which output is Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 31 of 51 obtained. As per sub-clause (a) to sub- section 2 computer output can
 consist of information produced by the computer during the period the
 computer was regularly used to store or process the information for the
 purpose of any activity regularly carried on over "that period" by a
 person, having lawful control over the use of the computer. Clause (b)
 states that information contained in the electronic record or derived
 from should be regularly fed into the computer in ordinary course of the
 said activities. Clause (c) postulates that the computer during the
 relevant period should have operated properly and if it had not operated
 properly or was out of operation for a part of the period, such failure
 should not affect the electronic record or the accuracy of its contents.
 Lastly, sub-clause (d) recognizes that electronic record could consist of
 data or information collected or fed into the computer. The word
 "derived" used in Sub- section 2 of Section 65B finds its meaning and
 exposition in the explanation. The said expression for the purpose of
 section 65B would mean, derived as a result of calculation, operation or
 any other process. The word derive, therefore, has been given a
 specific and affirmative meaning for Section 65B. 35. Sub-section (3) to Section 65B elucidates and explains sub-section (2)
 and provides that the output produced could be of data stored or
 information processed by combination of computers operating
 simultaneously during that period or different computers in succession
 over the period in question or even multiple computers operating in
 succession over the period. Sub-section acknowledges and accepts that
 the computer, i.e., device from which "computer output" is obtained,
 may be one in the combination of computers used or even one operating Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 32 of 51 in succession. The provisions recognises that information or data is
 easily and frequently for convenience, business or technical reasons
 transferred, copied, recorded or stored in different machines/equipment
 simultaneously or in succession. The importance and relevancy of
 information could arise subsequently and long after it is created. Back-
 up or archives are maintained to store specific and important
 information. In such cases, all computers used for the purpose during
 the period in question from the beginning till the period where the
 output is obtained, are treated and regarded as the single computer for
 the purpose of the Section. 36. Before we advert to sub-section (4), it may be advisable to first
 expound sub-section (5) for the said Section is relevant for interpreting
 sub-sections (1), (2) and (3). As per sub-clause (a) to sub-section (5),
 information is taken to have been supplied to a computer when it is
 supplied in any appropriate form and whether it is done directly, i.e. as
 in the case of call record data which gets recorded in the
 computer/server without any interference, or with human intervention,
 as where a data entry operator gives commands or uses a key board to
 feed the data or when the sales man punches in details of the sales
 made. Importantly, the information or data could be supplied to the
 computer from which the computer output is taken, by means of an
 appropriate equipment. This transfer can be with or without human
 intervention. For example, data or information stored in one computer
 can be transferred to another computer as a result of pre-fixed or
 standard commands after particular period of time or as a result of
 specific commands given as a result of human interference. Sub-clause Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 33 of 51 (a) to sub-section (5) recognises that data or information can be created
 and then transferred, copied and stored to the computer from which
 output is obtained by different modes and ways. Transfer of
 information or data in form of files after they are first created are
 frequent and a common occurrence. The impact of sub-clause (a) to
 sub-section (5) is to be noticed and given effect to when we interpret
 and apply sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 65B to a factual matrix of
 a given case. Sub-clause (c) to sub-section (5) is clarificatory in nature
 and states that computer output can be produced directly as it can
 happen when data or information stored in the computer is printed as a
 result of pre-existing commands. It can happen also when a command
 to take print out or to copy, store or record is given with human
 intervention. The computer output may be a result of appropriate
 equipment attached to the computer. 37. Sub-clause (b) to sub-section (5) is rather ambiguously uses the
 expression "any official" without explaining what is meant by the said
 term. However, when we read sub-section (4) to Section 65B, the
 meaning to be given to the expression "any official" emerges. Sub-
 clause (b) applies when information is supplied to "any official" in the
 course of activities carried on by him, i.e., in the course of "official"
 activities with a view that the said information shall be stored and
 processed for the purpose of the activities carried on by that officer or
 official. It is also elucidated that the information could be beyond or
 otherwise in the course of the said activities. Even in such cases the
 information is treated as supplied in the course of the activities of the
 official. We clarify that the word "official", as used in clause (b) of Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 34 of 51 sub-section (5) of Section 65B, is not intended to mean or be restricted
 to a person holding an office or employed in public capacity. It
 connotes, as exemplified by the use of the same expression (albeit in its
 adjective form) in sub-section (4), a person primarily responsible for
 the management or the use, upkeep or operations of such device. It
 would, thus, cover a computer device containing electronic records in
 the hands or control of a private individual or entity. 38. The certificate under sub-section (4) to Section 65B must state the
 following: 39. Controversy has arisen whether a certificate under sub-section (4) to
 Section 65B must be issued simultaneously with the production of the
 computer output or a certificate under Section 65B can be issued and
 tendered when the computer output itself is tendered to be admitted as
 evidence in the court or as in the present case by the official when he
 was recalled to give evidence. In Anwar P.V. (S) versus P.K. Basheer
 and Others , the Supreme Court has held as under:- (emphasis supplied) 40. The expression used in the said paragraph is when the electronic record
 is "produced in evidence". Earlier portion of the same sentence
 emphasises the importance of certificate under Section 65B and the
 ratio mandates that the said certificate must accompany the electronic Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 36 of 51 record when the same is "produced in evidence". To us, the aforesaid
 paragraph does not postulate or propound a ratio that the computer
 output when reproduced as a paper print out or on optical or magnetic
 media must be simultaneously certified by an authorised person under
 sub-section (4) to Section 65B. This is not so stated in Section 65B or
 sub-section (4) thereof. Of course, it is necessary that the person giving
 the certificate under sub-section (4) to Section 65B should be in a
 position to certify and state that the electronic record meets the
 stipulations and conditions mentioned in sub-section (2), identify the
 electronic record, describe the manner in which "computer output" was
 produced and also give particulars of the device involved in production
 of the electronic record for the purpose of showing that the electronic
 record was prepared by the computer. The aforesaid legal ratio, in our
 opinion, gets affirmation from paragraphs 20 and 21 of the judgment in Anwar P.V. (supra), which read as under:- 21. It may be seen that it was a case where a
 responsible official had duly certified the document at the
 time of production itself. The signatures in the certificate
 were also identified. That is apparently in compliance with
 the procedure prescribed under Section 65B of the Evidence
 Act. However, it was held that irrespective of the
 compliance with the requirements of Section 65B, which
 is a special provision dealing with admissibility of the
 electronic record, there is no bar in adducing secondary
 evidence, under Sections 63 and 65 , of an electronic
 record." 41. Paragraph 21 quoted above records and notices that in State (NCT of
 Delhi) Vs. Navjot Sandhu alias Afzal Guru, (2005) 11 SCC 600, a Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 38 of 51 responsible officer had certified the document at the time of production
 itself and the signatures in the certificate were also identified and,
 therefore, there was compliance of Section 65B of the Evidence Act. In
 these circumstances, we do not accept the legal ratio in Ankur Chawla
 versus Central Bureau of Investigation, (Crl . M.C. No. 2455/12 & Crl.
 M.A. Nos. 8308 and 8318/2014 and Crl. Rev. P. 385/2012 decided on
 20th November, 2014 by the Delhi High Court) wherein it has been held
 that the certificate under Section 65B must be issued when the
 computer output was formally filed in the court and certificate under
 Section 65B cannot be produced when the evidence in form of
 electronic record is tendered in the court as evidence to be marked as an
 exhibit. The said certificate can be produced when the electronic record
 is to be admitted and taken on record, i.e., when the prosecution,
 defence or a party to the civil litigation wants the electronic record to be
 marked as an exhibit and read in evidence. As far back as 1931, the
 Lahore High Court in Baldeo Sahai versus Ram Chander and Others,
 AIR 1931 Lahore 546 had stated:- 42. The aforesaid judgment was quoted with approval in Sudhir
 Engineering Company versus Nitco Roadways Limited , 1995 (34)
 DRJ 86 wherein it was observed as under:- 43. Anwar P.V. (supra) partly overruled the earlier decision of the Supreme
 Court on the procedure to prove electronic record(s) in Navjot Sandhu (supra), holding that Section 65B is a specific provision relating to the
 admissibility of electronic record(s) and, therefore, production of a
 certificate under Section 65B(4) is mandatory. Anwar P.V. (supra)
 does not state or hold that the said certificate cannot be produced in
 exercise of powers of the trial court under Section 311 Cr.P.C or, at the
 appellate stage under Section 391 Cr.P.C. Evidence Act is a procedural
 law and in view of the pronouncement in Anwar P.V. (supra) partly
 overruling Navjot Sandhu (supra), the prosecution may be entitled to
 invoke the aforementioned provisions, when justified and required. Of Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 40 of 51 course, it is open to the court/presiding officer at that time to ascertain
 and verify whether the responsible officer could issue the said
 certificate and meet the requirements of Section 65B. 44. On the questions of importance of electronic evidence in investigation
 and increasing impact of technology in everyday life, in Tomaso Bruno
 versus State of U.P. , (2015) 7 SCC 178, it has been observed: Emails are downloaded and computer output, in the form of paper
 prints, are taken every day. These emails may become relevant and
 important electronic evidence, subsequently. It is difficult to conceive
 and accept that the emails would be inadmissible, if the official i.e. the
 person who downloaded them and had taken printouts had failed to, on
 that occasion or simultaneously record a certificate under Section 65B. 45. Section 65B is a part of Chapter V of the Evidence Act , which relates to
 documentary evidence. Documentary evidence can be primary as
 defined in Section 62 , which means the document itself, or secondary
 which refers to certified copies or copies made from original and even
 oral accounts of the contents of documents by a person, who has seen
 the same. Section 64 states that documents must be proved by primary
 evidence, except when secondary evidence is permitted and allowed. Section 65 states that secondary evidence may be given of the
 existence, condition or contents of a document when any of the sub-
 clauses (a) to (g) apply. In case of sub-clauses (a), (c) and (d),
 secondary evidence can be given even of the contents and the same is Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 42 of 51 admissible. As noticed above, electronic record is by deeming fiction
 treated as a document for the purpose of Evidence Act . 46. Section 65A states that contents of electronic record may be proved in
 accordance with the provisions of Section 65B. We have already
 interpreted and referred to Section 65B. The importance of the said
 Section is that it does away with the requirement to produce the original
 computer or the original media on which data or information was stored
 and allows the secondary evidence in the form of computer output to be
 produced and admitted in evidence, subject to the condition that when
 evidence of computer output is produced and tendered, certificate of a
 person occupying a responsible official position in relation to operation
 of the relevant device or management of the relevant activities as
 prescribed by Section 65B of the Evidence Act is produced. In this
 manner, Section 65B authorises production and admission, in evidence,
 all computer output without production of the original, i.e., it permits
 leading of secondary evidence without the original being produced. It
 is in this context that in Anwar P.V. (supra), the Supreme Court in
 paragraph 24 had stated and held as under:- 47. The aforesaid paragraph clearly states that when electronic record is
 produced as primary evidence, i.e., the original recording itself is
 produced, the requirement or satisfaction of condition of Section 65B is
 not required. 48. Sub-section (1) to Section 65B states that when electronic record is
 produced in terms of the said Section, there is no need for further proof
 or production of the original as evidence of any of the contents of the
 original or facts stated therein of which "direct evidence" would be
 admissible. The term "direct evidence" is opposite of second-hand or
 hearsay evidence. Section 60 of the Evidence Act states that oral
 evidence must in all cases be direct, that is to say, it refers to a fact
 which could be seen be the evidence of a witness who has seen the
 occurrence, or if it refers to the fact which could be heard the witness
 should have heard the said words, or if it refers to a fact which could be Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 44 of 51 perceived by any other sense or any other manner it must have been
 perceived by the witness by that sense or in that manner. 49. The term "hearsay" applies to both spoken or oral evidence and also has
 reference to what is written. Hearsay evidence is rejected on the
 principle that the best evidence obtainable should be produced as it is
 relatively trustworthy, whereas hearsay evidence poses difficulties for it
 derives value not from the witness himself, but on the veracity and
 competence of some other person whose version is not tested in the
 cross-examination. 50. For principle of hearsay to apply and reject an evidence, it must be
 shown that it was made by some other declarant other than the one
 testifying at the trial of hearing and the statement is being offered in
 evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted. Therefore, even if
 the evidence is an assertion made by the declarant, it will not be hearsay
 until it is offered to prove the truth of what is asserted. 51. A statement which is not assertion, i.e., to state the truth declared and
 maintained, but only a statement of fact is not hearsay. A hearsay
 declarants non-verbal conduct may qualify as a "statement" for purpose
 of exclusion under the hearsay rule, if the conduct of the person
 intended by him as a substitute for oral or written verbal
 expression.(see, Matter of Cherl H., 2 Dist. 153 CA 3d 1098).
 Pertinently, in case of self-generated data or information there is no
 declarant as such who is asserting a fact. 52. Evidence may be offered for different purposes. The same evidence
 can be treated as hearsay and non-hearsay depending upon its
 relevance, i.e., whether it is relevant for a substantive truth or for some Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 45 of 51 other purpose. For example, when person A meets person B and speaks
 to him about an occurrence, testimony of person B to the said effect
 would not be hearsay, but may become hearsay if a party seeks to rely
 upon facts stated by person A implicating a third person. Thus, we
 must notice and record the difference between a "factum of statement" 53. In view of the aforesaid discussion, information memorised as business
 record or records maintained in common course of events are not
 treated as hearsay even if the maker lacks personal knowledge of the
 facts or events. The document should be prepared in normal course of
 business must have been at or near the time of events it records and
 should have been made in normal course of business activities or
 events. Sub-section (4) to Section 65B postulates that the certificate
 should be given by a person occupying a responsible official position in
 relation to operation of the relevant device or management of the
 relevant activities. If the said conditions are satisfied, it promotes and Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 46 of 51 establishes the trustworthiness. In such cases, presumption of fact
 regarding genuineness and authenticity of the content can be invoked at
 the discretion of the court under Section 114 of the Evidence Act. 54. In Anwar P.V. (supra) in paragraph 1 itself the Supreme Court noticed
 the difference between relevancy and admissibility, which is examined
 at the initial stage; and genuineness, veracity and reliability of the
 evidence, which is seen by the court subsequently. Thus, the ratio and
 dictum in Anwar P.V. (supra) is based and predicated on the difference
 between admissibility and veracity or evidentiary value. The Supreme
 Court dealt with the aspect of admissibility in strict legal sense, not to
 be confused with evidentiary value or correctness of contents. Of
 course, when the conditions mentioned in Section 65B are satisfied, in
 terms of Section 114 of the Evidence Act, the court may presume
 existence of certain facts for the computer output would have data and
 information collected or derived in common course of human conduct
 and in public and private business. 55. In terms of sub-section (1) to Section 65B, original evidence need not
 be produced when conditions of Section 65B are satisfied. The
 computer output in relation to the information and computer in question
 are admissible as secondary evidence, when certificate under Section
 65B is produced. However, Section 65B nowhere states that the
 contents of the computer output shall be treated as the truth of the
 statement. Section 65B deals with admissibility of secondary evidence
 in the case of "electronic records" and not with the truthfulness or
 veracity of the contents. However, when a certificate under Section 65B
 is produced the Court may presume or form a prima facie opinion, Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 47 of 51 which is rebuttable and may not be accepted. 56. Electronically generated record is entirely a product of functioning of a
 computer system or computer process, like call record details or a
 report generated on a fax, which shows the number from and to which
 the fax were sent, time, etc. is generated electronically. It does not
 contain any assertion. Therefore, as noticed above it is not hearsay.
 These are not writings made by a person (see United States versus
 Khorozian, 333 F. 3d 498, 506). Normally non-assertive conduct is
 more reliable, provided there has been no fraud and interpolation in the
 preparation of the record. Computer generated telephone records are
 not similar to a statement by a human declarant and, therefore, cannot
 be treated as hearsay and the credibility and evidentiary value is
 determined on the reliability and accuracy of the process involved.
 Ergo, in these cases when conditions of Section 65B are satisfied, the
 probative value or weight can be substantial of course, subject to
 verification as to the credibility and integrity of the contents. 57. We have already referred to the distinction between factum of a
 statement and truth of a statement and the concept of presumption of
 memorandum or records maintained in normal course of business and
 the credibility or trustworthiness of electronic records. However, it
 must be understood that mere admission or admissibility of the
 electronic record would not mean that the contents of the electronic
 record have been proved beyond doubt and debate and are
 automatically proved when the document is marked exhibit. Mere
 marking of a document as exhibit does not dispense with the proof of
 its contents (see Sait Tarajee Khimchand versus Yelamarti Satyam , Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 48 of 51 AIR 1971 SC 1865, Narbada Devi Gupta versus Birendra Kumar
 Jaiswal , (2003) 8 SCC 745 and Mohd. Yusuf versus D. and Another,
 AIR 1968 Bombay 112). Provisions of Section 65 of Evidence Act are
 apposite on the said legal principle and reference can also be made to Sections 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act. The latter sections deal with
 exclusion of oral evidence by documentary evidence in certain cases
 and in which cases oral evidence can be led even when there are
 documents recording terms of contract, grant or any other disposition of
 property or when a matter is required by law to be reduced to a form of
 a document. The effect of the aforesaid provisions is that when a
 certificate under Section 65B authenticates the computer output, it will
 only show and establish that the computer output is the paper print out
 or media copy, etc. of the computer from which the output is obtained.
 The court has still to rule out when challenged or otherwise, the
 possibility of tampering, interpolation or changes from the date the
 record was first stored or created in the computer till the computer
 output is obtained. The focus over here is not so much on the creation
 of the out-put as stipulated under sub-section (2) to Section 65B, but
 rather on the preservation and sanctity of the record after it was
 originally created. It extends beyond identification of the particular
 computer equipment and the process or equipment used for computer
 output, etc. It would relate to the policies, procedures for use of the
 equipment that stored the said information since creation and data base
 and integrity of the same. Questions which would arise and have to be
 answered is whether data base was protected and had no or limited
 access, which permits modification/alteration; whether the data base Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 49 of 51 could be wrongly lodged or created or could be transferred or changed
 when the data base was transferred and stored in the backup systems.
 These are questions which are pertinent and have to be examined to
 ascertain whether or not there was possibility of change, alteration or
 manipulation in the initial or original data after it was created. The
 courts must rule out that the records have not been tampered and read
 the data or information as it originally existed. These are aspects which
 are not codified as such, for probative value is examined on the case to
 case basis keeping in mind the relevant facts. 58. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we hold that the trial court had
 rightly taken the certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act
 marked Exhibit PW-11/E on record and, accordingly, relied on the
 CDR of telephone No. 9313341707 marked Exhibit PW-11/A. The
 said CDR would disclose that after the death of Vipin Kumar, his
 telephone number was used to make a call at Haldwani on number
 266495. The CDR would also confirm the deposition of Nirbhay
 Prashant (PW-3) that he had made a call to the same landline number at
 Haldwani and thereupon had ascertained details of the appellant. 59. There is some controversy as to whether the landline No 266495
 installed at Malla Beura, Kathgodam, District Haldwani was installed at
 the residence of the appellant Kundan Singh. In response to question
 No.54 in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C., Kundan Singh has
 accepted that he used to reside at Malla Beura, Kathgodam, Haldwani,
 district Nainital. The telephone connection was in the name of
 Saraswat Devi, wife of Jagat Singh as stated and recorded in the
 customer application form marked Ex.PW-33/A. The appellant in his Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 50 of 51 statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. claims that his mother‟s name is
 Saroli Devi. Appellant accepts that Jagat Singh is his father. 60. The ocular statement of Nirbhay Prashant (PW-3) on the conversation
 he had should be accepted. 61. In view of the aforesaid discussion, when we cumulatively examine the
 facts established and proved, it has to be held that the appellant Kundan
 Singh has been rightly convicted for murder of his friend Vipin Kumar.
 In cases of circumstantial evidence, we have to take the impact and
 consider the full effect of the evidence and material proved/established
 and not individually read and consider the evidence and material to
 ascertain whether conviction is justified. 62. We also do not find any reason to interfere with the order on sentence. In view of the aforesaid reasons, the appeal by Kundan Singh has no
 merit and is dismissed. (SANJIV KHANNA)
 JUDGE

 (R.K. GAUBA)
 JUDGE
NOVEMBER 24th, 2015 NA Crl.A.No. 711/2014 Page 51 of 51