1. By consent of the parties, the appeal and the

 connected application are taken up together for

 hearing. 2. A judgment and order dated August 19, 2025,

 passed by a learned Judge of this Court in

 WPA/13770/2025, being a writ petition filed by the

 present appellant, is under challenge in this appeal

 at the instance of the writ petitioner. 3. The appellant approached the learned Single

 Judge with a grievance that he is a victim of credit

 card fraud. The Bank issuing the credit card has

 contributed to the fraud. He has lost about Rs.2.99 2 lakh. His complaint to the Banking Ombudsman has

been dismissed. He prayed for setting aside of the

order of the Banking Ombudsman and other reliefs

including reversal of the payments debited to his

account by the Bank. 4. Initially, when the writ petition was moved, an

order dated July 21, 2025 was recorded by the

learned Judge. The learned Judge called for a report

by way of affidavit from RBL Bank which issued the

credit card. The learned Judge further directed that

steps taken by the Bank for charging interest from

the petitioner during pendency of the writ petition

would abide by the result of the writ petition. 5. When the writ petition came up for hearing on

August 19, 2025, the learned Judge dismissed the

writ petition. The operative portion of the order of the

learned Judge reads as follows:- 6. Being aggrieved, the writ petitioner is before us

by way of this appeal. 7. We see no reason to interfere with the order

under appeal. It is an admitted position that the

appellant/writ petitioner disclosed the material

particulars of the concerned credit card including the

CVV number to an unknown caller. It is also not in

dispute that the entire fraudulent transaction on the

concerned credit card took place prior to any

complaint being lodged by the appellant with the

Bank. Criminal investigation was initiated and

charge-sheet has been filed. The criminal action will

be carried to its logical conclusion. 8. The appellant says that the Bank should not

have authorized payment without the One-Time

Password (OTP) number. The Bank has contributed

to the fraud being committed by the unknown

miscreants. 9. In the writ jurisdiction we cannot go into such

disputed questions of fact. If the appellant has any

grievance against the Bank or has any claim for

compensation, this order will not stand in his way to

institute appropriate proceedings before the

appropriate forum, in accordance with law. 10. The appeal being FMA/1546/2025 and the

connected application being IA No: CAN/1/2025

stand disposed of. 11. Urgent Photostat certified copy of this order, if

applied for, be made available to the parties upon

compliance with all requisite formalities.

(Apurba Sinha Ray, J.) (Arijit Banerjee, J.)