PER: ANNAPURNA GUPTA - AM: 2. It was common ground that the issue involved in both the appeals
were identical arising in the backdrop of identical set of facts,both the
assessees , father and son,being alleged by the AO to have indulged in a
fraud pertaining to siphoning off of funds from a cooperative bank. That
the Ld. CIT(A), however, had granted relief to both of them holding that
they were not conclusively proved to be the beneficiary of the funds
siphoned off/withdrawn from the bank, but at the same time holding that
since they had facilitated withdrawal of funds from the bank,commission
income was earned on the same ,which he noted both the assessees to have
offered to tax in the return of income filed. The Ld. CIT(A) accordingly
deleted the addition made in the hands of both the assessees. The Revenue
is aggrieved by this order of the Ld. CIT(A) and has accordingly raised
identical grounds in both the appeals before us. 3. Both the appeals were accordingly taken up for hearing together and
are being disposed of by a common consolidated order for the sake of
convenience. We shall be dealing with the facts in the case of the assessee Shri
Rajeshkumar Mohanlal Shah(the son) in the Department's appeal in ITA No. 575/Ahd/2020 and our decision rendered therein will apply paripassu the other appeal also. 4. Grounds raised by the Revenue in ITA No. 575/Ahd/2020 reads as
under: 5,49,98,8847- u/s. 69 A of the I.T. Act on account of alleged withdrawal by the assessee
 from certain bank accounts being introduced by the assessee on the ground that the same
 are operated by the assessee. (2) The Ld. CIT (A) has erred on the facts in not upholding the order of the AO in
 making addition of Rs. 5,49,98,884/- u/s. 69 A of the I.T. Act, 1961 as the information was
 received from RBI that number of accounts were opened in Bapunagar Mahila Co-op.
 Bank wherein introducer is Shri Rajesh Mohanlal Shah, assessee and his father Shri
 Mohanlal Bhupatlal Shah without following KYCs norms credited Rs. 161,16,75,000/-in
 these accounts. (3) It is therefore prayed that the order of the Ld. CIT(A) may be set aside and that of
 the order of the Assessing Officer be restored to the above extent." 4.1 We have heard both the sides. 5. The brief facts relating to the case are that the Assessing Officer had
received information that the assessees were involved in a fraud committed
by Bapunagar Mahila Co-op. Bank. The AO had received information that
during inspection by the Reserve Bank of India on 31.03.2011 of the
Bapunagar Mahila Co-op. Bank, various financial irregularities and frauds
were found to have been committed by the Bank. It was noticed that fake
accounts totalling 9165 were opened by the introduction given by Late Shri
Mohanlal Bhubhatmal Shah and his son Shri Rajen Mohanlal Shah, the
assessees before us, without following KYC norms and total amount of
161,16,75,000/- was credited in these accounts. The amounts credited in
the 9165 accounts had been noted to be siphoned off by both assessees,
therefore, their cases were reopened by issuing notices under Section 148 of the Act. Detailed enquiries were conducted during assessment
proceedings by the AO both from the employees of the bank, from persons
in whose name accounts were opened and even the assessees were
examined and were allowed cross-examination of all the persons ITA No.575/Ahd/2020 & 10/Ahd/2021 ITO vs. Shri Rajeshkumar Mohanlal Shah &
 Late Shri Mohanlal B Shah L/h. Shri Rajeshkumar M Shah
 Asst.Year -2007-08 -4- investigated by the AO. By virtue of the enquiry conducted the AO noted
that: 6. The assessee's stand, however, was that being in the business of
cheque discounting, they had only provided the facility of cheque ITA No.575/Ahd/2020 & 10/Ahd/2021 ITO vs. Shri Rajeshkumar Mohanlal Shah &
 Late Shri Mohanlal B Shah L/h. Shri Rajeshkumar M Shah
 Asst.Year -2007-08 -7- discounting to various persons who were members of workers association
and workers of Ambika Mills who were given payment by cheques. Their
contention was that the members of the worker association and workers of
the Ambika Mills had come to open their account in Bapunagar Mahila
Co. Op. Bank with their ID Card issued by the mill. The assesses role was
limited to giving cash in lieu of the cheques issued in the names of various
persons, which cheques the assesses facilitated in getting deposited in the
Bapunagar bank by helping open their bank accounts , and thereafter
withdrawing cash from their bank account.The members offered them 1%
commission on the money given to the workers. The assessee reiterated
that it was duly verified by the office of the official liquidator about the
existence and genuineness of the workers and all the cheques issued by the
officer of the official liquidator in the name of workers; that the assessee
had only given them cash against the security of these cheques and for
depositing of the cheques they introduced the accounts. 7. The AO, however, found no merit in the contention of the assessee,
noting that having been unequivocally established that the assessee was
involved in a fraudulent activity , opening fake bank accounts and
withdrawing cash from such accounts and having not proved the fact of
having handed over cash to any other person, the assessee clearly had
siphoned off the money withdrawn .Accordingly he treated the amounts
withdrawn by the two assesses from the bank accounts during the year as
their income amounting to Rs.5,49,98,884/- in the hands of Shri Rajesh
Mohanlal Shah and Rs. 2,58,55,572/- in the hands of his father Shri ITA No.575/Ahd/2020 & 10/Ahd/2021 ITO vs. Shri Rajeshkumar Mohanlal Shah &
 Late Shri Mohanlal B Shah L/h. Shri Rajeshkumar M Shah
 Asst.Year -2007-08 -8- Mohanlal B. Shah. The relevant findings of the AO are contained at Para
7 to 7.6 of his order as under: 7.1 In the instant case, the assessee has failed to substantiate his claim that he has
 not withdrawn the amount from the bank accounts being operated by him as well as
 withdrawn by signing on the back side of the withdrawal slip, although this fact has
 been confirmed by the bank manager. Thus, it is established that the assessee has
 actually received the amounts withdrawn from such accounts and the same has not
 been recorded in the assessee's books. Thus, all the conditions are satisfied to invoke
 the provisions of Sec.69A of the I.T. Act. The assessee could not prove the onus cast
 upon him that the money which he had withdrawn from the fake accounts being
 introduced and operated by him and his late father did not belong to him. The assessee
 has merely stated that a Police case has been registered against some of the members
 of mill workers association alleging that they have siphoned off money belonging to
 mill workers. However, the assessee has not categorically admitted that the sums
 withdrawn by him from the fake bank accounts were handed over by him to any other
 person, including the members of mill workers association. Since the assessee has not
 came forward & divulged the names of persons to whom he has passed on the sums
 withdrawn from the bank account, it can be safely concluded that'the assessee remains
 the owner of the money withdrawn. 7.2 When the assessee is found to be owner of any money, the Income-Tax Officer
 is entitled to satisfy himself as to the true nature and source of the amounts entered
 therein, and if after investigation or inquiry, he is satisfied that there is no satisfactory
 explanation as to the said entries, he would be entitled to regard them as representing
 the undisclosed/deemed income of the assessee. When any money is found in
 possession of the assessee, the burden is undoubtedly on him to prove satisfactorily the
 nature and source of these money and to show that they do not constitute a part of his
 business income liable to tax. ITO vs. Shri Rajeshkumar Mohanlal Shah &
 Late Shri Mohanlal B Shah L/h. Shri Rajeshkumar M Shah
 Asst.Year -2007-08 -9- 7.3. The expression "nature and source" has to be understood together as a
requirement of identification of the source and the nature of the source, so that the
genuineness or otherwise could be inferred. Once the assessee has submitted basic
documents relating to nature and source of transaction, then AO must do some inquiry
to call for more details for verifying the genuineness of the transaction. However, in
the instant case, the assessee could not prove that the money do not belong to him. The
assessee has merely stated that he do not know anything. However, the fact in the
instant case that the assessee himself has withdrawn the money from the accounts
being opened by introduction of the assessee and his late father and the accounts
holders in whose name the account is opened, has denied to have opened and operated
such bank accounts and the bank manager of the Bapunagar Mahila Co. Op. Bank
Ltd. has also confirmed that the assessee has withdrawn such amounts by signing on
the back of the withdrawal slips of such bank accounts. The assessee has not submitted
documentary evidences that the money withdrawn by him do not belong to him. In the
absence of the such explanation with supporting documents, it is not possible for the
revenue to give advantage to the assessee from ownership of the money which he has
withdrawn by his signature from the fake bank accounts. Thus, the onus of proving the
nature and source of such money withdrawn was upon the assessee. When the nature
and source of such money cannot be satisfactorily explained by the assessee, it is open
to the revenue to hold that it is the deemed income of the assessee and no further
burden lies on the revenue to show that the income is from any particular source. 7.4 The assessee has failed to prove that he is not owner of such money withdrawn
by him from the various fake bank accounts. Merely stating that he does not know
anything on the alibi that his father did and managed all these activities and the money
withdrawn do not belong to him is not sufficient to establish the non-owning the money
by him which he himself had withdrawn. There must be some supporting documents
which relates to the particular transactions and proves and justifies the genuineness
of the transactions. Mere statements would not enough to justify that the money
withdrawn by him do not belong to him. Some evidences that the money was belonged
to someone which he had withdrawn on behalf of him/her was required to be placed
by assessee. However, the assessee has failed to establish these facts of his case. 7.5 Thus, it is established that the assessee was the owner of the money withdrawn
by him by signing on the back side of the withdrawal slips pertaining to the bank
accounts being opened by his and his father's introduction. The assessee has not
submitted the nature and source of such money withdrawn with supporting evidences
thereof. The assessee could not explain that the money withdrawn by him were not
belonged to him. Therefore, it is revealed that the assessee Was the owner of such
money withdrawn and therefore, treated as deemed income of the assessee1 for the
year under consideration. 7.6 In view of the above reasoning, facts and circumstances discussed above, I
add Rs.5,49,98,884/- U/s. 69A of the I. T. Act, being the amount withdrawn by the
assessee from the fake accounts being opened and operated by him during the year. It
is confirmed from the above discussion that the assessee is the owner of such amounts
which are not recorded in the assessfee's books of accounts and the assessee has not ITA No.575/Ahd/2020 & 10/Ahd/2021 ITO vs. Shri Rajeshkumar Mohanlal Shah &
 Late Shri Mohanlal B Shah L/h. Shri Rajeshkumar M Shah
 Asst.Year -2007-08 - 10 - explained the nature and source of such income. Hence, the sum of Rs. 5,49,98,884/-
 is deemed to be the income of the assessee U/s. 69A of the I. T. Act, for the year under
 consideration." 8. On going through the order of the Ld. CIT(A), we find that though
he has not given a clean chit to the fraud committed in the bank with the
cooperation of both the assessees of siphoning off funds to the tune of Rs.
11.61 crores.,he has however deleted the addition made in the hands of
the assessees accepting their contention of their role being limited only to
the extent of providing cheque discounting facilities to the various cheques
issued in the name of the workers. The Ld. CIT(A) we find has diluted to
a very great extent the grave findings of the AO as noted above which we
find are arbitrarily done and not based on any cogent evidences. 9. The order of the Ld. CIT(A) at Page 56 & 57 of his order reveals
that he accepted assessee's explanation of being involved in the fraud only
in his capacity as a cheque discounter by noting that the source of funds
was definitely verifiable coming from various employee related funds and
the withdrawals slips contained the signatures of the respective account
holders on the front as well as back. He noted that it was a fact that the
account holders had signed the cheques and that the source of the funds
were established. That therefore, he held, that the amount was withdrawn
on behalf of the assessee account holders. He believed accordingly the
assessee's explanation of being only the provider of cheque discounting
facility in the whole fraudulent operation. ITO vs. Shri Rajeshkumar Mohanlal Shah &
 Late Shri Mohanlal B Shah L/h. Shri Rajeshkumar M Shah
 Asst.Year -2007-08 - 11 - 10. We are unable to agree with the Ld. CIT(A) in this regard. The Ld.
CIT(A) has clearly ignored the fact of the AO's investigations revealing
that the accounts were not opened by any workers at all. As noted above
in our order the AO found on sample check basis that the workers in whose
name the accounts were opened were not traceable and those who were
traceable had denied opening any accounts in the bank. That despite
providing opportunity of cross-examination to the assessee, the assessees
were unable to disapprove the claim of the workers. The accounts holders
had denied knowing the assessee at all. The Ld. CIT(A), we find, has noted
the accounts to be opened by the workers without controverting the
adverse findings of the AO as aforestated. His premise of the assessee
being only a facilitator of cheque discounting in the entire fraud rests on
the premise that the workers were all genuine and the accounts belonged
to the different workers, but this fact, we find,was itself was disproved by
the AO during enquiries conducted which revealed that the accounts were
all fake and the persons on whose accounts were opened were either not
traceable or they denied having any knowledge of the bank accounts
opened in their names. Even the assessee was unable to prove the fact that
the persons were all genuine persons in whose name bank accounts were
opened when provided opportunity of cross examination of the employess
by the AO or even independently. Therefore, the Ld. CIT(A)'s finding of
the assessee being only a facilitator , we hold,is based on an incorrect
premise/ fact. ITO vs. Shri Rajeshkumar Mohanlal Shah &
 Late Shri Mohanlal B Shah L/h. Shri Rajeshkumar M Shah
 Asst.Year -2007-08 - 12 - 11. At Page 59 the Ld. CIT(A) has agreed with the contention of the
assessee that the fraud committed in the opening of 9165 accounts in the
bank had nothing to do with the assessee; that he was not associated with
the same and the opening of the bank accounts without following KYC
norms was attributable to the bank and not the assessee. 12. This again we find is an incorrect finding of the Ld. CIT(A). The
enquiry conducted by the AO during assessment proceedings revealed
9165 bank accounts to have been opened with the introduction of the
assessee. The CD of these bank accounts were handed over by the Branch
Manager to the AO which revealed the said fact. Therefore, the denial by
the assessee of having anything to do with the fake bank accounts is
grossly incorrect on the part of the Ld. CIT(A). The assessee being the
introducer for the opening of all these bank accounts, the Ld. CIT(A) was
wrong in holding that the assessee was not involved in any irregularities
and it was the banks responsibility for having opened these bank accounts
without following KYC norms. The finding of the Ld. CIT(A) that the
assessee could not be held responsible, we hold, is grossly. 13. This appears to be the only basis on which the Ld. CIT(A) has
accepted assessee's explanation of being a mere facilitator in the fraud and
not the beneficiary of the entire amount withdrawn. But we do not find any
merit in the reasoning of the Ld. CIT(A) as discussed above. ITO vs. Shri Rajeshkumar Mohanlal Shah &
 Late Shri Mohanlal B Shah L/h. Shri Rajeshkumar M Shah
 Asst.Year -2007-08 - 13 - 14. Therefore, finding the AO to have made a strong concrete case
against the assessee of being the beneficiary of the amounts fraudulently
withdrawn from the 9165 bank accounts and the Ld. CIT(A) being unable
to dislodge the findings of the AO. We accordingly, confirm the order of
the AO. The order of the Ld. CIT(A) is set aside and the addition made in
the hands of both the assessees is confirmed. 15. The grounds raised by the Revenue are allowed. 16. In effect both the appeals of the Revenue are allowed. आदे श की ितिलिप अ ेिषत/Copy of the Order forwarded to : आदे शानुसार/ BY ORDER,

 //True Copy//

 उप/सहायक पंजीकार (Dy./Asstt. Registrar)
 आयकर अपीलीय अिधकरण, अहमदाबाद / ITAT, Ahmedabad 1. Date of dictation 06.03.2026 2. Date on which the typed draft is placed before the Dictating Member 06.03.2026