Ba fYA SAU ANNEISA Of BERT

CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL
CUTTACK BENCH

QA 260 (000326 of 2021

_ Reserved on: 27.08.2023 Pronounced on: 19.10.2023

CORAM: 2. National Aluminium Company Ltd. fa Govt. of India
Enterprise}, represented through its Chairman Cam
Mana gin x Director, Corporate Office at NALCO Bhawan,
Pl, Nayapalll, Bhubaneswar, Dist. Khurda, PIN-
PSLOTS. 3. The Director (H&A), National Aluminum Company
Lid, (A Government of India Enterprise} Corporate
Office at NALCO Bhawan, P/1, Nayanalll, Bhubaneswar,
Dist. Khurda, PIN-?S2013. 4. The General Manager T&E & Compliance), NALCD {A
Gevt. of dneia Enterprise), Corpurate Office at NALCO

Sed

OA PEA NMOSIS OF PURE

Bhawan, P/1, Nayapalli, Bhubaneswar, Dist. Khurda,
PIN-PSTOLS, 5. The Deputy General Manager (H&A), National
Aluminum Company Ltd, (A Government of India
Enterprise}, Corporate Office at NALCO Bhawan, P/1,

Nayapalli, Bhubaneswar, Dist. Khurda, PIN-?ST0TS.
joo RESHONCENLES
For the applicant > Mr SKOtha, Counsel

For the respondents. Mr. O.K. Patnaik, Counsel

O ROD ER

The prayer of the applicant in this OA is as under: fii} And direct the Respondents to reinstate the
Applicant to service forthwith and grant him all
DY §
consequential and service benefits retrospectively: fb} That, subsequently during the course of your
employment you had submitted a request for change in

your date of birth from 22.03.1959 to 10.08.1964,
supporting your claim with a copy of a 'duplicate' Transfer

igo

Certificate purported to have been issued by the same
Syed Mumtaz All High School, Nuapalll, Bhubaneswar, on
11.09.1981. You have also confirmed your claim of change
of date of birth by mentioning your date of birth as
10.08.1964, In your family declaration submitted on

OO OLS018. fe) That, the 'duplicate' Transfer Certificate dated
11.00.1987 submitted by you while requesting a change of
your date of birth record has been found to be a forged

certificate. 2. The shove acts af your constitute major
Clause Z5{B]Uv), £5

Clause 25C}08)

Clause 25(R] xx}

Clause 25(8}0)

(Bixaxty) and 25(8)
Standing order of the Company, which read as under: 3. You are, hereby, called upon to submit your explanation ip
writing to the undersigned on the above mentioned charges
within 72{seventy-twe) hours of receipt of this Chargesheet
as to why action should not be taken against you as per
Certified Standing Orders of the Company, iniling which if will
he construed that you have no explanation to offer and
disciplinary action as deemed Ht will be taken against you" Patnaik regarding his DOB as 10.06.1964 in the personal Hie?
Ans. Sa

ONO-1TO: Have you seen 3 prope ¢ TC in support of his DOB
22.05,1959 in his personal Me? Ans: 8a,

@ Noli: Who process the fle for any employee for any change
of his BOR proaf? Ans: HRD. Shie for san

a, Now if: Do you feel Mr. & 3
PC ins sup vcatt of DOR 10.08.1964? proceeding of his duplicate
fui. No comunents,

@ No-1S: Did yeu get any certificate regarding Mr. Patnaik from
Syed Mumtas All high school? Ans: Yes. {8-§)

t Noa-da: How you are sure that Mr. Patiiak hed submitted a
fra certificate TC? Ans: The schoal records certifed by head mistress of Syed
Mumtaz Al High schoo! contradicts the char nged schol leaving
certificate submitted by Mr. Patnaik in 198? te NALCO. rding letter issued by

: Ans: Two. One submitted at the time of joining (Typewritten)}
and another submitted with the application for change of DOB. Statement of DW-3, Sri Santosh Kumar Mohanty, Ex-AGM (PR),
NALCO

QO. Nol: Now you know Mr. Pratap Patnaik? Ans: When | jomed in NALCO in 1983 Shri Pattanaik was
warking In my Department. Q No 02: Do you know what is the DOB of Mr. Patnaik
Ans; 19m4

Q Ne 03 Please go through the chargesheet issued to Shri
Patnaik and say whether any forgery in DOB document has been
done by Shri patnaik? Ans: As for as my knowledge is concerned [ have not found any
information regarding submission of forgery DOB document by
Shri Patnaik

O No G4: What are the imputation of charges in the charge sheet? Ans: | have no such knowledge about standing order. G. NO. O05: what is your knawledgs about the matter connected
with submission of forgery decument and what is the true
picture? Ans: ta my knowledge there is no such forgery document
submission by Shri Patnaik. This dees nat come under my
purview and this is basically HRD fonction as per practice. Q No. 06 Doe you know Shri Patnaik passed Matriculation during
the year T9877 . bred,
bao

Ans. | knew that Shri Patnalk has passed the NSC and | have not
seen fis HSC certirate,

fxamination of DW-04 Shri PoC Behera Ex-Asst Manager{Secth}
NALCO. G. Nat, What is your Name and place of stay?
Ans: Purnachandra Behera, Bhubaneswar 0. No.2 Haw de you know Shri Pratap Kumar Patnsik? Ans: | Join the PR Department af NALCO, Corporate in September
7O83, Since 29 of my service In PR Department, Shri Patnaik
closely associated with me ag a MIOSSEN TET. My

Q. No. 03 Go you know what his DOE is? Ans: As Precallect and |] remember his DOS is dy 2964. O. No. 04: How do you know his DUB? Ans [came te know the DOS of Shri Potnalk after seeing his HSC
Certificate during LQ87 when he was celebrating his success In.
HSC in the Department. Q. Na 05: Please go through the Charge sheet alleging that there
is forgery in his DOD? Ans: ft is not true that there is forgery in his DOB. As per his
Board certificate, Voters, [1 and Bank pass Book, his DOB was
TOLOS 1964. Q. Na Q6: What was is the factual position regarding change of

DOR of shri Patnaik as
kent £0 YOu
Ane Pave heard that Shri Patnaik has changed his DOB

Q, Na. OF: Do you knew to whom in HRD the copy af the HAC
Roard Certificate was

submitted bearing DOB as 10.08.1964

Ans: | accompanied Shri Patmaik and the copy af the HSC Board
Certificate was submitted to Miss, Shagahati Mishra the then
dealing assistant in HRD in the year ass. OW TU AINIG OFS

18 OA SSG /OU NS of 2021. Q No, OB: In your opinion how is the behaviour of Shri Patnaik in
the PR Department? Ans: Shri Patnaik is a good person,

Examination oof DW-OS Shri BP. oC Panigrahi, Ex-
B.OUIncharge [HRD NALCO. G No 1: What is your Name and place of stay? Ans: My name is Shri Purna Chandra Panigrahi and | stay in
Bhubaneswar

Q. Na. 2: Since when you are in NALCO and what is your present
profession? Ans: Since 1982 [ was in NALCO and then after in 2072 T was in
Seal India as Director H&A and presently | am a freelance
consultant

@. Ned. How do you know Mr, Pratap Patnaik'

Ans: We belong to the same place of Birth and our parents are
erown te cach ather and residing in old town Bhubaneswar 0
now. g. No. 4: As you were working as ED H&A in-charge and shri
Fratap Pathanik was in PR Department, Do you know what is his
DOE? Ans: What I recollect way back in 1999-2000 Shri Dinabandhu
Satpathy was the DGM(Admin & CC] in NALCO Corporate and
Shri Satpathy called me and enquired about an angnymous
complain received by him where in an allegation regarding DOE
of Shri Patnaik. Then | recollected my initial Joining In NALCO in
$982 when at my home, father af Pratap Parnaik came to meas!
was enployed in NALCO and said that DOB of shri Patnaik in RM
High School has been wrangly entered and he wants to correct it.
By that time Shri Pratap Patnaik has shifted his schas} education
from BM High School to Syed Mumtaz Al Gov. high schaal. |
replied him that | will go through the rales of NALCO as | was
new to NAICO and his father was specifically wanted to know
how can the correct DOB can be brought inte record. Then [was
posted In NALCO Angul and consulted Shri Ashok Mandal the
then DGM(H&A) S&P and narrated the whole episode to him. He
went through the standing order of Company ard explained me

the prescribed provisions for change of ROB. Few days le" 'ASHANBSSUND OU JO SUES
Yau Jo ayer jeangeu po saydiunid Suasesgqe AQ 2G Ey
IRIS SOUR Baar ty Anois ppoy sea, danbue Agwuruyard
JOS "Due BIURLOdU sy sagoy Crrabue drew RO Waa ay
'SQTNY SY] dopim prey sp dambua {BpHSay BU quoNbayap
OF ISUIERe poyenuy aq pmoys <ankes Amand
ASQISGM WO Puy oy Ayuo ep Agmabus Appunurord
AYE PMYSALIeY Jo ass: aoye pejanpuoo Agmbue
Sty UNA Op a} Suge sey Aurnbor Areunuypaad eo,

AOTREP SE ORO PER anssy
OH ERIM JeSP MNO SHA BETZ OS 2aGT HIV COUPER
JO EIQ AIEEE RARER EATER RY Pe

{EES OS LEST NIV ysoYy YEN yee
AMOR SUEY GUO JO using "empuy jo juemroason
'os[e Bag) [Pappe siseydig) esq oy aon you "REY
TET JO HOHI@MI SY OF Pap UE sr QURAueS jUSUNTA.as
RU JRGG TYE OSS TY a: paresyoy qusuIYySNTE gaheu
BSAUT STD JO OO TUBAIOS JuMuauadcd ayz ue Buyoyyur go
asatind ayy toy dainbus pyaouredsp e POY o} spaasoad
TISEEOAGT OP NSUM ATG sp go pur sauinhar aay
SU USeMiag UdIsNpIas GU ay 'SzoPezey) Ysnee aay. AEH 88 B Ny SSUN AY TINY

we

"e
SLL PSY eq Gant Ginbuy meynsear e asinanay op se quawuuissns

TEN O SEEROO FHOe Wd rE

Mp Jo uaod queagjar ayy 'pieser sng uy 'PSZYLN Sue spleumoop

HONS tuo Jsurede juenburyep ayy oy dqengaedda

S47 JO WOUIRSHES AYI 26; Aposout sr Aainbuy aepy se paeay aq Oy
WISE OU Bey ay 'adeys yemy Je Ing "Anbu ue yans ge uoas RAIS
WOURMGAGH ayy cuaay yyBnoy eq dem uoneurydss ue 'SSOUIERY
JO SHES Bq) Joy Ayyensn Yysnoys ganuusasa'd ayy jo vonaeysnes
ay 10) Aaw 81 agy oqred-se pyay aq Ami Sunbur AINUHRURI
APU, JO HORMIRSEa ayy JOTSITER ORR yo stonaoud
ayy Aq pottioaos you sy Cambor dgeuyaid ayy Aainbar spider
iM Pasnyliag aq Jou prays Armbar Ameunutaid PeyI prey aaa
JEQUUIS B AUNPED Spflyss Jano sig] je yousg vonnwsuay e | Spy
OS UGE MEY "ERUP CO A YS TEP VRRP ay Atenas ys

"PERG Sq O2 Doumbas si jusnburnas
con 3 : EER

aig suede Surpaasoad Caeundissyy a RPA! BIQUIDYAL OF SE META

& AYR] O] APUO pasn aq deur yy passed aq ueo JUBUIS ind po gape
ou Anbar Creuruyaid ur pepyose. starpay AY FO SIS aqy us
PEE PaQREWOo UBag SEY DNPUOASHU peFaye syQ says of se
MOWY OF "Ghoep EL pur jor wepnosred s SuUIPUyy jo asodund ayy
JOP AWIO SP TaNpRaastU pokeye aemonied x fo Jodses ur Aginbey
Aapunuypord e dumppoy yo asadand any TEND PIS "P66 3S O96) NI¥
TEAREN SUMP TIS TSED PLOW Ta PUS TUL NS SIRT EASY
PATEROGS NPGS ur HAO Sy YO Yoeg uoynjusuay y 'Oe

HY
JO JOH SURUENS -s5005 oy AHunaddoe ou pey ays you JOY PE
SuEQedde ayy jo yoeq ayy puryag Play WasQ pay gous 'Agmbar
Ageuttaread oy} ur papucasa SHIGUIOQHES JAG] UOR Raped
QUE SHEP QP MAU] JO a9yye say apyssaed sea 3 SAUISLAS
] SE OSE SeOp LoNsenh ayy 'orajouayy uoogig SIUEARLA Sy
Sag Aunbur Aiwunuyaid ay) w 'STEQUAPY "UOYIUR ig UES
$8 FEQT Pue pueuiepdaroo peep coe ayy 'qeaoapy Welles ge) pays
Ag ape yuauejeys aug ue soured Aswoy Arad @ pooryd pey 'apres
FROIN] UG [Osi Se AIS aAneLsHUpY te BNO Un Sy] UBL EY
&unbug ayy "ipagpy eases SRE UP PIAJOAUT Snssi uRAgtar
SSURE SUF JSPISUNA OP BABY as oupoorg presauoze QU YG T,

apun se spear (erdns} epeyp{ epeuaiy 70 @SED aQy UT WoIsinap

TAR PY oe rena nes 9 Oe

anp Supsig yneyqaa

PRE SJUGIENGOD YoNs Jo Aoriss ayy Sunuituexa ynoyyn ssitpiaa. 20

JUAMTIOP AUR uo SoHE AY aor} 3 yous ay

AOWIBE OT ey IENy sunsnap
JO BURQEO BOUT papas yo st wey SIUALINDOP YRS jo AeA oy
3803 6) JuUBSHdde ay oy payddns sea qoday Armbua Areuranjod yarns fo
Adios Jou Armbua IEPNIoa JO BS. ayy Suvnp paunupse jou seas snbiis
Aqgunuyaid Saganpuos attym Awoggne ayy £q pautuexe aiom win
Suostad otf Ing pasacy punay sem pue Ze6y avec ayy ul juroyddy aig dq
PSRENGAS SEM "POET BOOT sv pauonuett Usag sky quRaydde ayy jo gag
OW UPS "TRE T GOTT PIER OE ony WAN Suypyoy qaoday sy PONS
pue Aymbue Ageuruyand © Paionpuaa yuauquedag-siuapuodsay oy;
UR CIIOD Jo Jdjages UO JeYL soysyqeisa H'spiogas jo jesmaad uy" aleayao woBRPOLaEyY poysruuny juesgdde Qoyearsy], PIG AN OT
SP POPMOORT SEAM URED JO S]PP Shy Ufa MIPASSHEGREA "poOOuIS
ys ipy genunyw pads jo 9, weaqdnp yo Adoo Suisopue "pga reroL
ACHT EO EZ MOY YR) Jo ayep sry Subueys 20) poauueyo sadosd Fupaojypo)
jnoyjim 'uoqeoudde pajepun powmuqns jusoydde "Rare Trg sour
JO UG Bod PT fo ose ayy ye H seep ur Surdpygs aq pymoaa ay Jey] ussw
DINGM VY PYGLRAOT s© pajdoooe si quroydde oyy je guiyy aig) ase Uy ren
PAVMLUQNS SE }y | aunsuesy, jo puamysnand sys yi Pasodtur seas qupaydde
ay 'OL a yo quodaa aig yo eourydagse ui 'pur Aainbur pequsungap
AXESSIIAU BUNHONPUGS AaYP MSLA SLIES BYR WON, OsTe OF ay] "suo paduoy
aq O] PIGY SEMA TRST OTT PAEP SageQuE aa au] 'Arinbul Areuitutoud ayy

QU QED PaVMAgns ALY syiapuadsas BUY FOP PSST} "PP ROO Ia 'a

"YO STED UL Pate se yoticu aug zoy pedeid sey jueoydde ayy soy pasunoy
py 'spunaus saoqe ayy ug "ydea o} Agojopeuios spuejs ayqeydaecor
you seas qwanbeu sry "saojasayy 'pure Sunol sry go suped OA UNYIEM sod

RY UOIRIIOD 10} STLOYHASS pres ayy guugns pou prim preaydde sqy yeys

PSOE OCHO LOVE VO

We
sg

YOHRSOTE ay WM preacioy Suwa 'pasuayeys se uorwspap SYP LOYAL PUR

aud padigy seas yaeoydde ayy Aq pannuqns rosgrae ry PAIEP SPI yas
AD JEYD UONEHOYE OY] UO JasyS esreyO ayQ yo souenssy Jaye "aucyauay 4,
'PUNAIS ayy oy sypey sHurpassosd ayy yo ogra gue Anbu Aseupid
AJGA BYI JUSAS FEUD UT "yHEY UL Haas Passaonad ow seas JME ydde
aly Jo sanbss oy 'sarad aay unpem go ayy yo akueys soy uanesydde
SHY Pens Jou pey yuenjdde aq; saspucdsa: ay} oy Supacooe
ff JEYD Papuaquos vaaq sey py Gseay sy you Inq ysey "sysod snows
O} suoownid payuerd asye Ajusnbasyns pure yuswaiour agueape sue
UY PIMOTE PGG TOO' OT SP POR Shy WUNGIOE cqu Surey apes qwopuadsas
81 "peaysuy "uonpafor ao souwejdaace oy Suneyar uy op payeonununainys
UGS AALY OJ RYSNO WoSsay] Woisep 'Passed o} usyey Seay sures ayy pur
ZQ6T VYUAWAS UP TRGLSOTT Paley 3 au panmugns pey yoeoudde
SY] FUSION E JOY SUTPSIUaI UsAs Jeyy pauonsand oye sey Jue dade
BUF FOP FSSA PY 3 OOTYN Ag pass: parsy Ayguepy 'ET Buea
SPIYAS HOP NoGeaydde ayy ul 'pany uojsnad sasdojdiue "wry oj parse: dys
dvd SHY UT PEyaySAs SEM POST AQT se Po sny SyryQIas yons ua paseg
SIsNd SHOLEA GQ] won! Weald osye seas ay 'Apuenbasuoo pur paeog
aU) IG JEAOAUIE SNP EIEN JUSLUAIOUT SATRADR tO Sug PSUNHSUES SEAL St

PUE "POGTBOOL 86 Papuogss osye seas quesydde sya go gory ayy dlowsys

ids
fa

48 DA POO AHAS

Satpathy further told me that he has cansultant the then legal
afficer, posted in Corporate fram whom he gathered that for all
wractical purposes fhe DOB once recaried fn the board
certificate ig binding and {nal and anything contrary there is the
Roard certificate has te be brought to the notice of the higher
secondary education and their views hag to be taken te adjudgs
any contents regarding name, DOR, ete More b bver higher

Secondary Board is created by an act of legislature and authority
other then judicial and above Higher Secendary Board, has no
authority to declare a certified document of the Board tou be
wrong behind the Board. As this matter is an interesting HR
matter we further discuss and out of Mr. Satpathy own
experience in SAIL he educated me about the practice In this
case in SATL. As per him in SAIL where ever there is an authentic
HSC Board Cartifeate is available the DOB of the Board
Certificate is treated as binding and beyond Board Certificate if
any anomaly in DOB in school leaving certificate is observed
then the matter Is referred to a medical Board to take expert
apinion to determine the age thus in the motant case in Ris
verification he found that the first and the revised school leaving
certificate of Syed Mumtaz ALN Government Nigh school and NSC
doeument are all genuine and he finds no mistake nor any sctof
omission or commission for which any cognizance can be taken
by him. | sald to Mr. Satpathy that you are the authority
cumpetent to take any decision. He replied I don't find any
irregularity and Board Certificate being genune he will go by
theRoard Certificate ag prevailing in many PSUs. G.No.S: Flease give your views on the charge-sheet framed
against Shri Patnaik

Ans: The charge memo has 3 clauses

The clauses 1 a, b, c, was the imputation of the charges. Clauses 2 based on the imputation the misconduct clauses of
standing order have heen braught in. Geing through the imputation | don't find the conclusion made
that the duplicated TC dated 11.09.1981 ean be declared to be
forged certificate as it is not qualifying the meaning under [PC er
dicthonary. Further the letter did. T1Q5 £019 from Nead Mistress Syed
Mumtaz All Schae! is very crystal clear and conclusive when it
SAYS

Saf Rh

38 OA 2EO AOA af

"Oy the Hasiy of affidavit the head master of that time would
have issued the transfer certificate aller correction of the date of
Birth bat original copy of aki TC is not readily available in the
Schoo}, | have enclosed the zeros copy of affidavit here with for
your kind perusal" Rae
> «gs forge ane Availability af the
aid by the heasd mistress rather if
is ealed We ig not Instantly available. Go it is not praper to read the
content i prejudice aye wivek may end in capital panishment af
lnaging bread snd butter of Mr. Partasik. So | arm net aprerable f
the charge that the decument is forge and when document ie not

urged it is logical rhat rest all shaken other contents

found to be |
af the meme are shaken and are not acceptable and cant with-
stand the scrutiny of the law." 52 Next, he drew our attention to the relevant portion of the report af

the 10, which is as under 7O.0) Coanchision: St Based on the aforesaid finding, {ft has been submitted by the Ld.
Counsel for the applicant that the {0 ignored the deposition by holding
that the deposition is not supported by any documentary evidence and,
thus, no credence can be shown to such deposition, which finding is
absolutely contrary te law because if the statement of the deposition
could not be taken as evidence, there was na necessity to call them and
examine/cross examine the witnesses, be it prosecution or defence
withesses, The 10 is duty bound under law to pay due regard to the
depositions and weigh them and then anly to come into a conclusion. Therefore, based on the report of the 10. imposition of punishment and
ES

we

2G SU RAG NIST ef BORE

retiring the applicant prematurely retrospectively is based on no
evidence. 58 tn order to substantiste his submission that the entire ganvot of
exercise was conducted and concluded in violation of principles of
natural justice 'audi alteram partem, Ld. Counsel for the applicant drew

our attention to the letter Ne. 14 dated 11.02.2019 issued by the

an the specific request of the NALCO authority vide office letter Na. V/C-
1706/681 dated 19.12.2017 wherein it was intimated to the NALCO
Authority as under: Sb By placing rellance on the notes of argument submitted by the Ld.
Lounsel for the respondents, Ld. Counsel for the applicant has submitted
that the respondents have fairly submitted in their written notes of
submission at page 3 that in September 1987 applicant passed HSC
examination and submitted the certificate wherein his DeB has been
mentioned/recurded as 10.08.1964. The applicant appeared the HSC
examination with due permissian of the competent authority of
respandents-department, The reapondents-authority accepted the HSC
certificate wherein his BoB has been recorded as UN0S.1964 and
sanctioned one advance increment @ Rs, 13 per month in the pay scale

of Rs. 590-138-752 /- wal OLS 1987 vide arder dated 17.02.7988 for

z

scheme approved by the Board but this aspect af the matter has not heen
taken Inte consideration in course of hearing or while passing the

impugned urders. The respondents have also suppressed the acceptance

af the HSC certificate and sanctioned one advance increment in favour of
the applicant. It has been contended that the stand of the respandents
that NSC certificate is not relevant for his DoB in service record is
contrary fo law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the cage of
Eastern Coalfields Limited & Ore. Vs. Bajrangi Rabidas, (2014) 13
oCC O81, wherein it was dedded that [ioB recorded In HSC or

Matriculation shall be authentic one. so? [thas been contended that the respondents have admitted that the
applicants submitted application for correction of DoR on or after
Q2 22198" by producing SLC is sot correct because when the applivant
was having Matriculation certificate In September, 1987 wherein his DoB
was recorded as 10.08.1964 question of submission of SLC did not arise.
This itself establishes that the applicant requested for change of DoB by
producing the TC duly granted by the Syed Mumtaz All High School,
Nayapalli, Bhubaneswar In 1983, which was alse authenticated by the
witnesses in course of Inquiry and admitted by the respondents In the
counter that the applicant was taken to record, Further, relying on the
written note submitted by the respondents, it has been contended that

an SIM 2D LS preliminary Injury was conducted by the Viellance

tab

DA 2OnfOOr es af SON 5

ot

department, NALCO helding that the TC dated 11.09.1981 was forged
ane based on which charge sheet was issued on 11.00.2018 without
imputation of charge, list of RUDs/documents. According to him, this
itself establishes that the holding of inquiry was mere an eyewash as the
authority concerned based an the preliminary inquiry report decided to
hold that the certificate dated 11.09.1981 is forged one but no
preliminary report was supplied to him nor persons from whom the
detailed data was collected were called upon fur examination /cross
examination in course of regular hearing and to substantiate that taking
cagnigance on the preliminary inquiry report without supplying the
preliminary inguiry report, the Inquiry is vitiated, Ld Counsel for the
applicant has placed rellance on the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court
in the cases of Employees of Firestone Tyre and Rubber Co. (Private)
Lid. Vs. The Workmen, AIR 1968 SC 234, and Nirmala LJhala Vs. State

of Gujarat and another, (2013) 48CC 301. = In stating so, Ld. Counsel for the applicant has submitted that the
entire action of the respandents smacks of malafide exercise of power,

Further, it has been submitted that in page 5 of the written note the

respondents have fairly admitted that on 09.12.2017 letter containing

certified copy af TC and admission register was received from
Headmaster, Sved Mumtaz Al High School, Nayapalll, Bhubsneswar,
which letter was issued by the Headmaster of the School specifically
stating therein that the DoB recorded in TC dated 11.09.1981 was based
an records but the counterfoil of the certificate book is net available at
this distant pried of 36 years. Nowever, other permanent records are
available which shows that the duplicate certificate Issued with
correction of Deb is correct one. Gut, surprisingly, the [OQ or of that
matter respondents, did not take into consideration the above letter and
did not examine the author, who had issued the TC dated 11.09.1987 and
swayed away with the Qndings of the Vigilance, NALCO, which were
prepared behind the back of the applicant. Thus, according to the
applicant, the report so submitted by the 10 Is based on conjecture and
surnises and contrary te the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the

SCC (USS) 398. §.9 Based on the application, which the applicant had submitted along

with the TC dated 11.09.1981 in the year 1993 wherein the Dob was

recorded as 10.08.1964, followed by acceptance of the NSC certificate,

38 OS SSN ARMES6 of SOS)

unsolicited ane and cannot be relied on, which is contrary te record, The
iO ignored the depositions adduced by the witnesses during enquiry on

the ground that the said statement is no corroborated with evidence but
the 10 did not require the same in course of the enquiry, The 10 sught
not to have ignored the statement in such a casual marmer, which is
found contrary to law. The author of the document, who had issued the
duplicate certificate, was called apon and examined by the 10, Further, it
is seen that the 10 came to the finding basically depending upon the
report of the preliminary enquiry but without examining as to whether
such report had ever been made available to the applicant In the case af Noor Aga v. State of Punjab & Anr , AIR 2009 §C (Supp) 852, it was held
that the departmental proceeding being a quasi judicial one, the
principles of natural justice are required to be complied with. The Court
exercising power of judicial review are entitled to consider as te whether
while inferring commission of misconduct on the part of a delinquent
officer relevant plece of evidence has been taken Into consideration and
irrelevant facts have been excluded there from. Inference on facts must

be based on evidence which meet the requirements of legal principles. Porther, in the case of M.S. Bindra v. Union of India & Ors , AIR 1998
SC 3058, it was held as under: that an what basis after 38 years. the secondary Education Board,

Shag,

"~ SEE PEPER oe gyn ae
33 NA SHY OGOS 2S af F029

Bangladesh corrected the Matriculation Certificate is essentially a
question of fact In which the Hon'ble High Court gueght not to have
exercised his writ jurisdiction te determine the real date of birth, which
is not the case In hand. Therefore , the said decision is not held to be
applicable in the present case, Similarly, in the case of Bharat Coking
Caal Ltd and Ors (supra), and in the case of Harnam Singh (supra) the
request for change of DeB sought at the fag end of service was held
impermissible in law, but in the instant case, the fact of the matter is
different as discussed above,

{3. Ht is evident that the applicant appeared the HSC (Matriculation)
examination after taking permission from the authority and came out
successful and submitted the HSC/Matriculation certificate mm
september, L987. Undisputedly, the authority concerned accepted the
same and sanctioned one advance Increment in his faveur vide order No.
CPD/NEE/S3046/1251(2) dated 17.02.0988 and hased on the
qualification he was subsequently promoted, It is the specific stand that
he had submitted the duplicate certificate in the year 1983 which was
taken to record has been admitted by the Respondents supperted by the
deposition adduced in course of enquiry, noted above but accarding to

the respondents he had submitted the same in September, L987. {f there

38 GA SOOO I ES OF RTS

was discrepancy in the DoB one recorded in his service record and other
one reflected in his HSC/Matriculation, the autharigy concerned should
not have sanctioned advanced increment based on such
HSC/ Matriculation certificate and given him: promotion to higher posts.
His date of birth 10.06.1954 has alse been reflected in the pay slip and
identity card issued by the Respondents. The said date of Irth has also
been reflected in the employees' pension Amd and mentioned in the
application submitted to avail LTC based an which he was sanctioned the

amount. If the DeB was 22.09.1959, the applicant would not have been

allowed wt continue SH 8.922020 and made him to retire

retrospectively wed 31.03.2018, which itself establishes that the
respondents consciously allowed him to continue based on his DoB as
10.08.1984. From the discussions made abave, if establishes that it Is not
a case where the applicant seeks to change is Do at the fag end of fis
service rather it is a case where the respondents wanted to alter the
changed DoB of the applicant. Learned Counsel for the applicant bas
placed relance in the case of Eastern Coalfields Ltd.& Ors (supra) to
substantiate that the date of birth mentioned in Matriculation or Higher

Secondary certificate bas to be accepted as authentic. in the case of State

38 TA BHO MINOT of 2OR? of Orissa vs Dr. (Miss) Binapani Dei & Ors , 19&7 AIR 1269, the

Hon'ble Apex Court held as under: