1. List revised. 2. Heard Sri Pranav Tiwary, Advocate holding brief of Sri Aushim Luthra, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Ajay Singh, learned A.G.A.-I for the State and perused the material on record. 3. This is third bail application of the applicant. The first and second bail applications of the applicant were rejected by this Court vide orders dated 09.07.2021 and 18.11.2022 passed in Criminal Misc. Bail Application Nos. 16416 of 2021 and 49706 of 2021. 4. This bail application under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed by the applicant- Karam Allahi, seeking enlargement on bail during trial in connection with Case Crime No. 129 of 2021, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 120-B I.P.C. and Section 4 / 20 / 21 / 25 of Indian Telegraph Act, Police Station Phase-3 Noida, District Gautam Budh Nagar. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that against the order dated 18.11.2022 rejecting the second bail application of the applicant in Criminal Misc. Bail Application Nos. 49706 of 2021 ( Karam Allahi Vs. State of U.P. and Another ) the applicant preferred a Special Leave to Appeal (Crl.) No. 1485 / 2023 ( Karam Allahi Vs. State of U.P. and Another ) which was dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to the petitioner in renewing his prayer for bail at the appropriate stage and it was provided that any renewed prayer for bail shall be examined by the court concerned on its own merits and in accordance with law vide order dated 10.02.2023 by the Apex Court, the same reads as under:- 6. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that as such a fresh prayer for bail in the present third bail application has been made which may be considered and decided. It is submitted that there is no record to show that any loss has been incurred to the Government till date. While placing the first information report of the matter it is submitted that the same was lodged against Basit Farooq Dar and Karam Allahi (the applicant) and an unknown person. It is submitted that charge-sheet in the matter has been submitted against the applicant, Basit Farooq Dar, Aashiya Afzal Lone and Mustafa Mohd. Ali Sheikh for offences under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 120-B I.P.C. & Section 4 , 20 , 21 , 25 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885. It is further submitted that the trial in the present matter has started in which the statement of three witnesses have been recorded. The statement of two witnesses namely Ankit Shukla as P.W.-1 and Ziaur Rahman as P.W.-2 are annexed as Annexures- 11 & 12 to the affidavit respectively whereas the statement of Rupesh Chirde as P.W.-3 is annexed as Annexure-1 to the supplementary affidavit dated 07.08.2024. While placing the statement of P.W.-3 is it argued that the said witness has not stated about the amount of financial loss to the Government. It is submitted that the trial is going on which has not yet concluded and will take time and thus prayer for bail of the applicant be considered in as much as the prosecution has proposed to examine a total of 14 witnesses but only 03 witnesses have been examined till date. The applicant has no criminal history as stated in para 08 of the second supplementary affidavit dated 10.03.2025 and is in jail since 10.02.2021. 7. Per contra, learned counsel for the State opposed the prayer for bail and submitted that this is third bail application of the applicant. The first and second bail applications of the applicant were rejected by this Court vide orders dated 09.07.2021 and 18.11.2022. It is further submitted that the applicant was involved in illegal activity which pose serious threat to the national security and also monetary loss to the Government. It is submitted that the act of the applicant was of setting up a telephone exchange and receiving calls from foreign countries at his exchange which were then converted in a local call shown to be from the numbers of within the country and then forwarded and connected to persons within the country and from the said act it could not be known as to who and from where was the actual caller. Learned counsel for the State submitted that as per his instructions 07 prosecution witnesses have been examined which would go to show that trial is in progress diligently and there is no slackness in the trial. It is submitted that even perusal of the statement of P.W.-3 would go to show that plenty of instruments for setting up telephone exchange were recovered which were in working condition. Through it the said illegal activity was going on. It is submitted that there is no new & fresh ground in the present third bail application. 8. After having heard learned counsel for the parties and perusing the record, it is evident that this is third bail application of the applicant. The first bail application of the applicant was rejected by this Court vide order dated 09.07.2021. The second bail application of the applicant was rejected by this Court vide order dated 18.11.2022 in which the order rejecting the first bail application of the applicant is already quoted, the same reads as under:- The order dated 29.9.2021 granting bail to the co-accused Mustafa by a co-ordinate Bench of this Court reads as under :- The identity, status and residential proof of sureties will be verified by the court concerned and in case of breach of any of the above conditions, the court below shall be at liberty to cancel the bail and send the applicant to prison. It is clarified that the observations, if any, made in this order are strictly confined to the disposal of this bail application and must not be construed to have any reflection on the ultimate merits of the case. The party shall file computer generated copy of such order downloaded from the official website of High Court Allahabad. The concerned Court shall verify the authenticity of such computerized copy of the order from the official website of High Court, Allahabad." The order dated 26.5.2022 granting bail to the co-accused Basit Farooq Dar by a co-ordinate Bench of this Court reads as under :- In case of breach of any of the above condition, the prosecution shall be at liberty to move bail cancellation application before this Court. It is pointed out that the applicant is resident of the State of Jammu & Kashmir. He may be unable to obtain local sureties. The trial court shall accept sureties of persons belonging to Jammu & Kashmir or from any other part of India. The courts and authorities in the State of Jammu & Kashmir are expected to cooperate and ensure expeditious verification of sureties take place." After having considered the facts and circumstances of the case and looking to the material available on record and the distinction as has already been drawn in the orders of said co-accused and also looking to the role of the applicant, this Court does not find it to be a fit case for interference in this second bail application to release the applicant on bail. Therefore, the second bail application of the applicant is rejected." 9. The applicant then preferred a Special Leave Petition before the Apex Court against rejection of the second bail application which was got dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to file bail application which was directed to be decided in accordance with law. Thus this is third bail application of the applicant before this Court. The trial in the matter is in progress and as per the statement of learned counsel for the State seven prosecution witnesses have been examined, the same in no manner goes to show that the trial is at standstill stage but to the contrary shows that it is proceeding diligently. The statement of P.W.-3 goes to show that ample amount of appliances & instruments were recovered from the place and also there were various digital acts done to create false and fictitious gateways to receive calls from foreign countries and convert them into local numbers and then forward it within the country for communication, the same was serious threat posed to the nation. No ground for bail exists. 10. Looking to the facts and circumstances of the case, this Court does not find it a fit case for bail, hence, the bail application is rejected. 11. Pending application (s), if any, shall stand disposed of. (Samit Gopal,J.) 
 
October 13, 2025 
 
AS Rathore