Madan B. Lokur, J. 1. On 25th August, 2014, this Court delivered judgment in Manohar Lal Signature Not Verified Sharma v. Principal Secretary.1 Subsequently, further orders were passed Digitally signed by MEENAKSHI KOHLI Date: 2017.07.20 14:18:01 IST Reason: 1 (2014) 9 SCC 516
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 1 of 53 in the case on 24th September, 2014.2 These decisions are commonly referred

 to as having been rendered in the Coal Block Allocation cases. 2. Much earlier, on 25th July, 2014 the following order was passed by

 this Court in the Coal Block Allocation cases (the relevant extract is

 reproduced): On such appointment, Mr. R.S. Cheema may choose two other
 advocates, who, in his opinion, will be of assistance in the matter.
 While doing so, Mr. R.S. Cheema may keep in view the magnitude
 and complexities of the case. 7. The Special Public Prosecutor shall have access to the entire
 evidence/material including case diaries collected in the course of
 investigation. 8. We direct the CBI to render all necessary assistance to the Special
 Public Prosecutor. 2 (2014) 9 SCC 614
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 2 of 53 9. All cases pending before different courts in Delhi pertaining to
 coal block allocation matters shall stand transferred to the court of
 Special Judge as afore-noted. 10. We also make it clear that any prayer for stay or impeding the
 progress in the investigation/trial can be made only before this Court
 and no other Court shall entertain the same.” 3. Leave granted. 4. The issue in the present appeals concerns the interpretation and effect

 of paragraph 10 of the above order which provides that any request for stay

 or impeding the progress in the investigation or the trial of the coal block

 allocation cases can be made only to this Court and no other Court shall

 entertain any such request. 5. As a result of orders passed by this Court from time to time, the

 Central Bureau of Investigation (for short ‘the CBI’) filed a charge sheet

 against the appellant Girish Kumar Suneja and others. On 29 th April, 2016

 the learned Special Judge appointed to hear the criminal cases arising out of

 the illegal allocation of coal blocks, directed framing of charges in the case

 titled CBI v. Jindal Steel and Power Ltd. & Others in R.C. No.

 219/2013/E/0006 against Suneja and others for offences punishable under Sections 120-B / 409 / 420 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13(1)(c) and Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (for short “the PC Act ”). Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 3 of 53 6. Being aggrieved by the order passed by the learned Special Judge,

 Criminal Misc. Case No. 3847 of 2016 was filed in the Delhi High Court by

 Girish Kumar Suneja. In the High Court, a preliminary issue arose regarding

 the maintainability of the petition in view of paragraph 10 of the order

 passed by this Court on 25th July, 2014. 7. A learned Single Judge of the High Court heard elaborate submissions

 of learned counsel and by a well reasoned order, after relying upon several

 decisions of this Court and of the Delhi High Court, concluded that in view

 of the order passed by this Court on 25th July, 2014 the petition deserves to

 be dismissed as not maintainable. Against that decision of the High Court,

 the present appeal has been preferred by Suneja. 8. Appeals raising a similar issue have been preferred by other accused

 persons arising out of the same order and also by others in other proceedings

 before the learned Special Judge. The learned Special Public Prosecutor Mr.

 R.S. Cheema placed before us a tabular statement of all appeals raising the

 same substantive issue as has been raised by Suneja. With consent, we took

 up all these appeals and heard learned counsel for the appellants as also the

 learned Special Public Prosecutor and learned counsel for the CBI. 9. Learned counsel for the appellants raised several contentions, all of

 them directed towards the conclusion that paragraph 10 of the order passed

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 4 of 53 by this Court had prevented them from exercising certain legal and

 constitutional rights. The general submission was that the order passed by

 this Court deserves to be recalled or revisited since the appellants have been

 denied access to justice in that: Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 5 of 53 (vi) The High Court has an inherent right to grant a stay of proceedings,

 but this Court has precluded the High Court from granting a stay of

 proceedings and has thereby deprived the High Court of exercising an

 inherent right; (vii) The prohibition in granting a stay under Section 19(3)(c) of the PC

 Act is not absolute and in an appropriate case, a stay of proceedings

 could be granted in favour of an accused person particularly when

 there is a failure of justice. Any restrictive reading would entail a

 fetter on the discretion of the High Court which itself might lead to a

 failure of justice. 10. Before dealing with the submissions, we make it clear that if the order

 passed by this Court needs correction, we have no hesitation in doing so.

 Therefore, this issue need not detain us at all. Right to file a revision petition 11. The submission made on behalf of the appellants was that they have a

 right to file a revision petition against orders passed by the learned Special

 Judge but the order passed by this Court effectively prevents the High Court

 from entertaining any such petition. 12. The Constitution Bench of this Court considered the scope of the

 revision jurisdiction of the High Court under Section 439 of the Criminal

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 6 of 53 Procedure Code, 1898 (the old Code) in Pranab Kumar Mitra v. State of

 West Bengal.3 The consideration was in the context of an application for

 substitution filed by the son of a convict who had challenged his conviction

 and sentence, but had expired during the pendency of the revision petition.

 The Constitution Bench held that the revision jurisdiction of the High Court

 is a discretionary jurisdiction to be exercised in aid of justice. What is

 significant is that a litigant does not have a right to have a revisable order set

 aside. Whether the High Court chooses to exercise its revision jurisdiction in

 a particular case or not depends upon the facts of that case - hence, the

 reference to the revision jurisdiction as a discretionary jurisdiction. The

 revision jurisdiction of the High Court only conserves the power of the High

 Court to ensure that justice is done in accordance with the recognized rules

 of criminal jurisprudence and that criminal courts subordinate to the High

 Court do not exceed their jurisdiction or abuse the powers vested in them by

 the Criminal Procedure Code (the old Code). In view of these conclusions of

 the Constitution Bench, there is no doubt that the appellants do not have any

 right to the revision of a revisable order. It was held as follows: 13. The decision of the Constitution Bench has been subsequently

 followed in a large number of cases, including somewhat more recently in Kamlesh Kumar v. State of Jharkhand.4 14. However, learned counsel for the appellants go a step further and

 submitted that even though the appellants have no right to have a revisable

 order set aside since the power of revision is an “extraordinary discretionary

 power”5 they are entitled to approach the High Court through a revision

 petition and then it is for the High Court to decide whether to entertain that

 revision petition or not. According to the appellants, the order passed by this

 Court prevents the High Court from even considering whether its

 extraordinary discretionary power should be exercised or not. In support of

 the submission that such an order cannot be passed by this Court, various

 passages from A.R. Antulay v. R.S. Nayak6 were read out to us. In other

 words, it is not only the right to file a revision petition that is agitated before
 4 ( 2013) 15 SCC 460
 5 Akalu Ahir v. Ramdeo Ram , (1973) 2 SCC 583
 6 (1988) 2 SCC 602
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 8 of 53 us but the right to be heard in a revision petition which might then be

 disposed of one way or the other by the High Court. The objection really is

 to the finding of non-maintainability of a revision petition. 15. To appreciate the submission, it is necessary to interpret Section 397 of the Cr.P.C. which reads as follows: Explanation.—All Magistrates, whether Executive or Judicial, and
 whether exercising original or appellate jurisdiction, shall be deemed
 to be inferior to the Sessions Judge for the purposes of this
 sub-section and of Section 398. (2) The powers of revision conferred by sub-section (1) shall not be
 exercised in relation to any interlocutory order passed in any appeal,
 inquiry, trial or other proceeding. (3) If an application under this section has been made by any person
 either to the High Court or to the Sessions Judge, no further
 application by the same person shall be entertained by the other of
 them. 16. While the text of sub-section (1) of Section 397 of the Cr.P.C. appears

 to confer very wide powers on the court in the exercise of its revision

 jurisdiction, this power is equally severely curtailed by sub-section (2)

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 9 of 53 thereof. There is a complete prohibition in a court exercising its revision

 jurisdiction in respect of interlocutory orders. Therefore, what is the nature

 of orders in respect of which a court can exercise its revision jurisdiction? 17. There are three categories of orders that a court can pass – final,

 intermediate and interlocutory. There is no doubt that in respect of a final

 order, a court can exercise its revision jurisdiction – that is in respect of a

 final order of acquittal or conviction. There is equally no doubt that in

 respect of an interlocutory order, the court cannot exercise its revision

 jurisdiction. As far as an intermediate order is concerned, the court can

 exercise its revision jurisdiction since it is not an interlocutory order. 18. The concept of an intermediate order first found mention in Amar

 Nath v. State of Haryana7 in which case the interpretation and impact of Section 397(2) of the Cr.P.C. came up for consideration. This decision is

 important for two reasons. Firstly it gives the historical reason for the

 enactment of Section 397(2) of the Cr.P.C. and secondly considering that

 historical background, it gives a justification for a restrictive meaning to

 Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. 19. As far as the historical background is concerned, it was pointed out

 that the Cr.P.C . of 1898 and the 1955 amendment gave wide powers to the

 7 (1977) 4 SCC 137
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 10 of 53 High Court to interfere with orders passed in criminal cases by the

 subordinate courts. These wide powers were restricted by the High Court

 and this Court, as matter of prudence and not as a matter of law, to an order

 that “suffered from any error of law or any legal infirmity causing injustice

 or prejudice to the accused or was manifestly foolish or perverse.” This led

 to the courts being flooded with cases challenging all kinds of orders and

 thereby delaying prosecution of a case to the detriment of an accused person. 20. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Cr.P.C . state that the

 Government kept in mind the following for the purposes of enacting the Cr.P.C .: 21. The concept of an intermediate order was further elucidated in Madhu Limaye v. State of Maharashtra 8 by contradistinguishing a final

 order and an interlocutory order. This decision lays down the principle that

 an intermediate order is one which is interlocutory in nature but when

 reversed, it has the effect of terminating the proceedings and thereby

 resulting in a final order. Two such intermediate orders immediately come to

 mind – an order taking cognizance of an offence and summoning an accused

 and an order for framing charges. Prima facie these orders are interlocutory

 8 (1977) 4 SCC 551
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 12 of 53 in nature, but when an order taking cognizance and summoning an accused

 is reversed, it has the effect of terminating the proceedings against that

 person resulting in a final order in his or her favour. Similarly, an order for

 framing of charges if reversed has the effect of discharging the accused

 person and resulting in a final order in his or her favour. Therefore, an

 intermediate order is one which if passed in a certain way, the proceedings

 would terminate but if passed in another way, the proceedings would

 continue. 22. The view expressed in Amar Nath and Madhu Limaye was followed

 in K.K. Patel v. State of Gujarat9 wherein a revision petition was filed

 challenging the taking of cognizance and issuance of a process. It was said: 23. We may note that in different cases, different expressions are used for

 the same category of orders – sometimes it is called an intermediate order,

 sometimes a quasi-final order and sometimes it is called an order that is a

 matter of moment. Our preference is for the expression ‘intermediate order’

 since that brings out the nature of the order more explicitly. 24. The second reason why Amar Nath is important is that it invokes the

 principle, in the context of criminal law, that what cannot be done directly

 cannot be done indirectly. Therefore, when Section 397(2) of the Cr.P.C.

 prohibits interference in respect of interlocutory orders, Section 482 of the

 Cr.P.C. cannot be availed of to achieve the same objective. In other words,

 since Section 397(2) of the Cr.P.C. prohibits interference with interlocutory

 orders, it would not be permissible to resort to Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. to

 set aside an interlocutory order. This is what this Court held: 25. This view was reaffirmed in Madhu Limaye when the following

 principles were approved in relation to Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. in the

 context of Section 397(2) thereof. The principles are: Therefore, it is quite clear that the prohibition in Section 397 of the Cr.P.C.

 will govern Section 482 thereof. We endorse this view. 26. In this context, reliance on Antulay is completely misplaced. In that

 case, this Court was concerned with Section 9 of the Criminal Law

 Amendment Act of 1952 which reads as follows: It is quite obvious that the Section is with reference to the Cr.P.C . of 1898

 and not the Cr.P.C . of 1973. The law as it stood with reference to the Cr.P.C .

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 15 of 53 of 1898 is radically different from the law with reference to the Cr.P.C . of

 1973. Moreover and quite obviously, since this Court had directed in

 Antulay that the trial would have to be conducted not by the Special Judge

 but by the High Court, no revision would lie to the High Court from its own

 order. Therefore, we are of opinion that the appellants cannot draw any

 support for their submissions from Antulay. 27. Our conclusion on this subject is that while the appellants might have

 an entitlement (not a right) to file a revision petition in the High Court but

 that entitlement can be taken away and in any event, the High Court is under

 no obligation to entertain a revision petition – such a petition can be rejected

 at the threshold. If the High Court is inclined to accept the revision petition

 it can do so only against a final order or an intermediate order, namely, an

 order which if set aside would result in the culmination of the proceedings.

 As we see it, there appear to be only two such eventualities of a revisable

 order and in any case only one such eventuality is before us. Consequently

 the result of paragraph 10 of the order passed by this Court is that the

 entitlement of the appellants to file a revision petition in the High Court is

 taken away and thereby the High Court is deprived of exercising its

 extraordinary discretionary power available under Section 397 of the Cr.P.C.

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 16 of 53 28. However, this does not mean that the appellants have no remedy

 available to them - paragraph 10 of the order does not prohibit the appellants

 from approaching this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution. Therefore

 all that has happened is that the forum for ventilating the grievance of the

 appellants has shifted from the High Court to this Court. It was submitted by

 one of the learned counsel that this is not good enough for the appellants

 since this Court is not obliged to give reasons while dismissing such a

 petition unlike the High Court which would necessarily have to give reasons

 if it rejected a revision petition. In our opinion, the mere fact that this Court

 could dismiss the petition filed by the appellants under Article 136 of the

 Constitution without giving reasons does not necessarily lead to the

 conclusion that reasons will not be given or that some equitable order will

 not be passed. The submission of learned counsel has no basis and is only a

 presumption of what this Court might do. We cannot accept a submission

 that has its foundation on a hypothesis. 29. This leads us to another facet of the submission made by learned

 counsel that even the avenue of proceeding under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C.

 is barred as far as the appellants are concerned. As held in Amar Nath and

 with which conclusion we agree, if an interlocutory order is not revisable

 due to the prohibition contained in Section 397(2) of the Cr.P.C. that cannot

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 17 of 53 be circumvented by resort to Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. There can hardly be

 any serious dispute on this proposition. 30. What then is the utility of Section 482 of the Cr.P.C.? This was

 considered and explained in Madhu Limaye which noticed the prohibition in Section 397(2) of the Cr.P.C. and at the same time the expansive text of Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. and posed the question: In such a situation, what

 is the harmonious way out? This Court then proceeded to answer the

 question in the following manner: 31. The expanse of Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. was also discussed in great

 detail in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal12 in the context of quashing a first

 12 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 18 of 53 information report or a complaint. After giving several illustrations, this

 Court cautioned that the power available under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C.

 should be exercised in the “rarest of rare” cases. It was said: and that petition is entertained, the trial under the PC Act cannot be stayed.

 The litigant may convince the court to expedite the hearing of the petition

 filed, but merely because the court is not in a position to grant an early

 hearing would not be a ground to stay the trial even temporarily. With

 respect, we do not agree with the proposition that for the purposes of a stay

 of proceedings recourse could be had to Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. Our

 discussion above makes this quite clear. 13 (2001) 8 SCC 607
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 19 of 53 33. Proceeding on this basis, what is the nature of cases that we are

 presently dealing with? While in some appeals the order summoning the

 appellant or the order for framing charges is in question (we have already

 dealt with these issues), in other appeals the grievance is in respect of: 34. How ridiculous a challenge can become was illustrated in Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India 14 wherein this Court cautioned

 against challenging the appointment of the Special Public Prosecutor or his

 assistant advocates! Quite obviously, these are tactics employed by the

 accused to delay the trial while the endeavour of Parliament is to expedite all

 trials to prevent harassment to the accused. This has led to odd situations in

 14 (2012) 3 SCC 117
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 20 of 53 which some accused are desirous of continuing their harassment by delaying

 the trial and then complaining about it. In any event, such orders cannot fall

 in the “rarest of rare” category and can always be made a ground for appeal,

 if necessary, after the final order is made since in respect of such orders even

 a petition under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. would not be maintainable. Article 226 and Article 227 of the Constitution 35. It was submitted on behalf of the appellants that paragraph 10 of the

 order passed by this Court prohibits the appellants from approaching the

 High Court under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution. In this context, it

 was submitted that it is now well settled that judicial review by the High

 Court and by this Court is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution

 and this has been recognized in L. Chandra Kumar v. Union of India.15 36. It was submitted by relying upon Shalini Shyam Shetty v. Rajendra

 Shankar Patil16 that the jurisdiction of the High Court under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution is very vast and the principles for the exercise of

 jurisdiction have been culled out in that decision by this Court on an analysis

 of several earlier decisions. The principles have been stated in paragraph 49

 of the Report and are not repeated here. 15 (1997) 3 SCC 261
 16 (2010) 8 SCC 329
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 21 of 53 37. There is no doubt that the power of superintendence available to the

 High Court under Article 227 is extremely vast but at the same time as held

 in Shalini Shyam Shetty the High Court cannot exercise that power of

 superintendence on the drop of a hat. In addition, in exercise of its power of

 superintendence the High Court cannot correct mere errors of law or fact

 only because another view is possible. What is more important is the

 following principle that has been culled out: 38. The Cr.P.C . is undoubtedly a complete code in itself. As has already

 been discussed by us, the discretionary jurisdiction under Section 397(2) of

 the Cr.P.C. is to be exercised only in respect of final orders and intermediate

 orders. The power under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. is to be exercised only

 in respect of interlocutory orders to give effect to an order passed under the Cr.P.C . or to prevent abuse of the process of any Court or otherwise to serve

 the ends of justice. As indicated above, this power has to be exercised only

 in the rarest of rare cases and not otherwise. If that is the position, and we

 are of the view that it is so, resort to Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 22 of 53 would be permissible perhaps only in the most extraordinary case. To

 invoke the constitutional jurisdiction of the High Court when the Cr.P.C .

 restricts it in the interest of a fair and expeditious trial for the benefit of the

 accused person, we find it difficult to accept the proposition that since Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution are available to an accused person,

 these provisions should be resorted to in cases that are not the rarest of rare

 but for trifling issues. 39. In any event, if such a one in a million case does arise, the appellants

 can certainly approach this Court for relief under Article 136 of the

 Constitution. 40. While there can be no doubt that the jurisdiction of a High Court

 under Articles 226 and 227 cannot be curtailed, yet extraordinary situations

 could arise where it would be advisable for a High Court to decline to

 interfere. In Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab17 this Court considered the

 “nagging question” whether an accused could approach the High Court for

 the grant of bail under Article 226 of the Constitution in a case arising out of

 an offence under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act of

 1985 and 1987 or the TADA Act . In that context, this Court took the view

 that given the special nature of the statute, if a High Court entertains a bail

 17 (1994) 3 SCC 569
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 23 of 53 application invoking its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 and

 passes orders, the very scheme and object of the TADA Act and the

 intendment of the Parliament would be completely defeated and frustrated. It

 was held that a High Court would interfere, if at all, only in extreme and rare

 cases and additionally, judicial discipline and comity of courts require that

 High Courts should refrain from exercising their jurisdiction in entertaining

 bail applications, more particularly since this Court could grant relief in an

 appropriate case under Article 136 of the Constitution. It was held: 18 (1994) 2 SCC 664
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 24 of 53 in rare and appropriate cases in extreme circumstances. What those
 rare cases are and what would be the circumstances that would
 justify the entertaining of applications under Article 226 cannot be
 put in strait-jacket. However, we would like to emphasise and
 re-emphasise that the judicial discipline and comity of courts require
 that the High Courts should refrain from exercising their jurisdiction
 in entertaining bail applications in respect of an accused indicted
 under the special Act since this Court has jurisdiction to interfere and
 correct the orders of the High Courts under Article 136 of the
 Constitution.”

 This was reaffirmed subsequently in the decision in the following words: Violation of Article 14 of the Constitution 42. According to learned counsel for the appellants, paragraph 10 of the

 order violates the provisions of Article 14 of the Constitution inasmuch as

 the appellants are denied equal protection of the law by being singled out to

 have their case dealt with by a special procedure not provided for by law. In

 this regard, reliance is placed on paragraph 81 and the discussion following
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 25 of 53 that paragraph in Antulay. Reliance was also placed on State of West

 Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar.19 43. In our opinion, it is not as if one single case has been taken up for

 allegedly discriminatory treatment out of an entire gamut of cases. All the

 cases relating to the allocation of coal blocks have been compartmentalized

 and are required to be treated and dealt with in the same manner. The coal

 block allocation cases form one identifiable category of cases that are

 distinct from other cases since they have had a massive impact on public

 interest and there have been large scale illegalities associated with the

 allocation of coal blocks. It is therefore necessary to treat these cases

 differentially since they form a unique identifiable category. The treatment

 of these cases is certainly not arbitrary – on the contrary, the classification is

 in public interest and for the public good with a view to bring persons who

 have allegedly committed corrupt activities, within the rule of law. It is

 hence not possible to accept the submission that by treating the entire batch

 of coal block allocation cases in a particular manner different from the usual

 cases that flood the Courts, there is a violation of Article 14 of the

 Constitution. 19 1952 SCR 284
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 26 of 53 44. In Kedar Nath Bajoria v. State of West Bengal 20 this Court explained

 Anwar Ali Sarkar and held that it proceeded on the basis that no identifiable

 principle was laid down for the trial of a case by the Special Court except

 that it was for the “speedier trial of certain offences”. However, where there

 is a definite objective that furnishes a tangible and rational basis of

 classification, then there would be no violation of Article 14 of the

 Constitution. A distinction was drawn between discrimination with reason

 and discrimination without reason. No general rule can be laid down and it

 would depend on the relevant facts in each situation and a practical

 assessment of the law. In this context, it was said: 45. Insofar as the present appeals are concerned, the cases fall in a class

 apart, arising as they do out of the illegal and unlawful allocation of coal

 blocks. It is only in respect of these cases that this Court monitored the

 investigations and it is only in respect of these cases that the order was

 passed by this Court on 25th July, 2014. The cases are concerned with large

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 28 of 53 scale corruption that polluted the allocation of coal blocks and they form a

 clear and distinct class that need to be treated in a manner different from the

 cases that our justice delivery system usually deals with. The classification

 being identifiable and clear, we do not see any violation of Article 14 of the

 Constitution. 46. Learned counsel for the appellants then submitted that in effect, this

 Court has legislated and that it was not permissible to do so. In our opinion,

 it is not that this Court has legislated, otherwise every order passed by this

 Court giving special treatment to a case (such as an out of turn hearing)

 would amount to legislation. Learned counsel have mixed up legislation in

 the classical sense and giving special treatment to an identifiable class of

 cases. The order passed by this Court does not amount to legislating in the

 classical mould but according special treatment to a class of cases for good

 and clear reason and in larger public interest as well as in the interest of the

 accused. Violation of Article 21 of the Constitution 47. It was submitted that the right to life and liberty guaranteed by Article

 21 of the Constitution has also been restricted by paragraph 10 of the order

 passed by this Court. The submission made in this regard was that there are

 certain procedural safeguards provided by statutes and these have been

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 29 of 53 denied to the appellants or in any event restricted or constricted by a judicial

 order and therefore the procedure established by law has been compromised.

 It is further submitted that the procedure which the appellants are subjected

 to is not just, fair and reasonable. 48. This contention of learned counsel for the appellants also deserves

 rejection. No procedural safeguard has been denied to the appellants and it

 is a complete misnomer to say that any statutory right has been restricted or

 constricted by a judicial order. The remedies available to the appellants

 continue to be available to them except that the forum has been shifted from

 the High Court to this Court in larger public interest. 49. It must not be forgotten that the cases arising out of the coal block

 allocations are not ordinary cases but fall under a special or distinct category

 which requires special attention given the magnitude of the illegalities

 allegedly committed including some with criminal intent. It is in this view

 of the matter that this Court had no option but to hand over the

 investigations to the CBI and to monitor the investigations so that they reach

 their logical conclusion, without any interference from any quarter. The

 magnitude of the illegalities is such that it appears that even the integrity of

 the Director of the CBI was prima facie compromised, and this Court had to

 intervene and direct investigations into the conduct of the Director of the

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 30 of 53 CBI. That being so, it can hardly be said with any degree of seriousness that

 the procedure adopted by this Court, in the facts and circumstances of the

 case, violate any right to the life and liberty of any of the appellants or any

 other persons allegedly involved in the criminality associated with the

 allocation of coal blocks. Article 32 and Article 142 of the Constitution 50. It was submitted that paragraph 10 of the order contravenes the

 fundamental right of the appellants to access justice and an accused person

 cannot be deprived of this fundamental right even by a judicial order.

 Reliance was placed on Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar & Ors v. State of

 Maharashtra.22 It was further submitted that in the garb of doing complete

 justice, this Court could not deprive the appellants of their right to access

 justice. 51. It is no doubt true that the words ‘complete justice’ appearing in Article 142 of the Constitution enable this Court to exercise extremely wide

 powers but there is also no doubt that the power is ancillary and can be made

 use of only when it is not in conflict with the substantive provisions of any

 law. This has been the view expressed by several larger Benches of this

 Court including in Mirajkar and Antulay and was also settled in Supreme
 22 (1966) 3 SCR 744
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 31 of 53 Court Bar Association v. Union of India.23 It is not necessary for us to

 further elucidate this position or to elaborate on it. 52. While it is true that the fundamental rights of a citizen cannot be taken

 away even by an order of the court except where a restriction is placed by

 the statute such as remanding an accused to judicial custody, no right of the

 appellants has been curtailed by this Court by the order under consideration.

 As repeatedly emphasized, it is only the forum in which the right to seek

 relief has been varied, and not denied. We do not see how this is

 impermissible or contrary to any law or any fundamental right of the

 appellants. 53. This Court is undoubtedly obliged to protect the fundamental rights of

 the people in the country in accordance with the Constitution, but it is

 equally true that while doing so public interest cannot be flung out of the

 window. It is now time for all of us including the courts to balance the right

 of an accused person vis-à-vis the rights and interests of individual victims

 of a crime and society. Very often, public interest is lost sight of while

 dealing with an accused person and the rights of an accused person are given

 far greater importance than societal interests and more often than not greater

 importance than the rights of individual victims. This is a delicate balance
 23 (1998) 4 SCC 409
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 32 of 53 to be struck and we do not see any curtailment of any fundamental right of

 the appellants or any violation of any substantive law if there is a change in

 the forum in the exercise of the rights of the appellants given the nature of

 the allegations against them and the wide impact on society. It is not as if

 the appellants have been denuded of their rights. It is only that their rights

 have been placed in the proper perspective and they have been enabled to

 exercise their rights before another forum. 54. In State of Punjab v. Rafiq Masih24 this Court considered the powers

 under Article 142 of the Constitution. It was held that this Article enables

 this Court to pass such an enforceable decree or order as is necessary for

 doing complete justice in any case or matter. While discussing the meaning

 of the expression “complete justice”, this Court took the view that there were

 several decisions that have been rendered which made it clear that though

 the powers are wide, nevertheless, the power is ancillary and could be used

 when not necessary in conflict with substantive provisions of law. Article

 142 of the Constitution is supplementary in nature and cannot supplant

 substantive provisions of the statute. It is the power that gives preference to

 equity over the law enabling the moulding of a relief as distinguished from a

 declaration of law as contemplated under Article 141 of the Constitution.

 24 (2014) 8 SCC 883
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 33 of 53 While directions issued under Article 142 of the Constitution do not

 constitute a binding precedent, a declaration of law under Article 141 of the

 Constitution does constitute a binding precedent. Stay of proceedings 55. The penultimate submission of learned counsel for the appellants was

 that the High Court has an inherent power to stay proceedings in a criminal

 case. Reliance was placed on Income Tax Officer v. M.K. Mohammed

 Kunhi25 wherein it was categorically held by this Court that the Income Tax

 Appellate Tribunal must be held to have the power to grant a stay as

 incidental or ancillary to its appellate jurisdiction. Reference was also made

 to Satish Mehra v. State (NCT of Delhi ).26 There is no doubt that a High

 Court has an inherent power to grant a stay of proceedings and it is not

 necessary to labour any further on this issue. 56. However, it was then submitted that in passing the order of 25 th July,

 2014 this Court has prevented the grant of any interim stay by any court and

 has even otherwise gone beyond its remit as stated in Vineet Narain v.

 Union of India27 wherein it was specifically held that the task of monitoring

 investigations by a court is over the moment a charge sheet is filed in respect

 25 AIR 1969 SC 430
 26 (2012) 13 SCC 614
 27 (1998) 1 SCC 226
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 34 of 53 of a particular investigation. It was submitted that paragraph 10 of the order

 permits the continuation of the monitoring process at the stage of trial as

 well and therefore goes beyond the stage of investigation. In other words, it

 was submitted that the terms of the order passed by this Court result in

 monitoring and supervising the trials by this Court, which is impermissible. 57. There is obviously some misconception in this regard as far as the

 appellants are concerned. This Court is not in any manner monitoring the

 progress of the trial in the coal block allocation cases nor is it supervising

 the trial. Conducting the trial is entirely the business of the learned Special

 Judge. Paragraph 10 of the order only results in the removal of any

 impediment in the progress of the trial. To ensure that the trial is concluded

 at the earliest not only in the interest of the accused persons but also in

 public interest, any application intended to stay or impede the trial will be

 subject to orders of this Court. This out of the ordinary step has been taken

 given the serious nature of allegations made against those believed to be

 involved in the illegal allocation of coal blocks and in the interest of the

 accused as well as in larger public interest. As mentioned above, there is a

 need for maintaining a balance between the rights of an accused and the

 rights of an individual victim and society. Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 35 of 53 58. In Vineet Narain it was further observed by this Court that a proper

 investigation must be followed by an equally effective prosecution so as not

 to make the exercise completely futile. This is an important aspect of the

 rule of law, the emphasis being on a strong and competent prosecution

 machinery and not merely a fair and competent investigation followed by an

 equally fair trial. This is in the nature of an entire package and to obtain

 appropriate results (one way or the other) is to ensure there is no

 unnecessary impediment in a trial, in the form of a stay of proceedings or in

 any other manner. The emphasis given by learned counsel on the right of the

 appellants to apply for a stay of proceedings gives the impression that the

 appellants are primarily concerned with an interim order of stay and not in

 the conclusion of the trial. It should be clear that a stay of proceedings is not

 the most important part of a trial and should not be the main or the sole

 objective of an accused. We need to think beyond a stay of criminal

 proceedings which has played havoc with our criminal justice delivery. 59. The submission that paragraph 10 of the order passed by this Court

 fetters the discretion of the High Court in granting a stay of proceedings

 proceeds on the assumption that the High Court has an unfettered discretion

 to stay a trial. This is simply not so – the stay of a trial is a rather

 extraordinary step and cannot be given for the asking.

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 36 of 53 60. In this context, we may note that we are not concerned with any

 ordinary criminal trial, but a trial for an offence punishable under the

 provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . We may draw

 attention to the Statement and Objects and Reasons for introducing the

 Prevention of Corruption Bill in Parliament, with which we are concerned. It

 is stated, inter alia, that “In order to expedite the proceedings, provisions for

 day-to-day trial of cases and prohibitory provisions with regard to grant of

 stay and exercise of powers of revision on interlocutory orders have also

 been included.” Both these objectives have been incorporated in the

 provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 through Section 19 and Section 4 thereof. For the present we are concerned with Section 4 of the

 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 which provides in sub-Section (4) as

 follows: 61. This takes us to the last submission on behalf of learned counsel for

 the appellants, namely, with regard to the interpretation of Section 19(3)(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Section 19 of the Act reads as

 follows:- Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 38 of 53 (b) no court shall stay the proceedings under this Act on the ground
 of any error, omission or irregularity in the sanction granted by the
 authority, unless it is satisfied that such error, omission or
 irregularity has resulted in a failure of justice; (c) no court shall stay the proceedings under this Act on any other
 ground and no court shall exercise the powers of revision in relation
 to any interlocutory order passed in any inquiry, trial, appeal or other
 proceedings. (4) In determining under sub-section (3) whether the absence of,
 or any error, omission or irregularity in such sanction has occasioned
 or resulted in a failure of justice the court shall have regard to the
 fact whether the objection could and should have been raised at any
 earlier stage in the proceedings. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, - (a) error includes competency of the authority to grant sanction; (b) a sanction required for prosecution includes reference to any
 requirement that the prosecution shall be at the instance of a
 specified authority or with the sanction of a specified person or any
 requirement of a similar nature.” 62. The submission of learned counsel for the appellants was that the

 prohibition against granting a stay of proceedings is not absolute insofar as Section 19(3)(c) of the PC Act is concerned. It was submitted that if there is

 a failure of justice, a stay of proceedings could certainly be granted by the

 High Court. 63. We are not in agreement with the over-broad interpretation given by

 learned counsel for the appellants to Section 19(3)(c) of the PC Act.
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 39 of 53 64. A reading of Section 19(3) of the PC Act indicates that it deals with

 three situations: (i) Sub-clause (a) deals a situation where a final judgment

 and sentence has been delivered by the Special Judge. We are not concerned

 with this situation. (ii) Sub-clause (b) deals with a stay of proceedings under

 the PC Act in the event of any error, omission or irregularity in the grant of

 sanction by the concerned authority to prosecute the accused person. It is

 made clear that no court shall grant a stay of proceedings on such a ground

 except if the court is satisfied that the error, omission or irregularity has

 resulted in a failure of justice - then and only then can the court grant a stay

 of proceedings under the PC Act . (iii) Sub-clause (c) provides for a blanket

 prohibition against a stay of proceedings under the PC Act even if there is a

 failure of justice [subject of course to sub-clause (b)]. It mandates that no

 court shall stay proceedings “on any other ground” that is to say any ground

 other than a ground relatable to the error, omission or irregularity in the

 sanction resulting in a failure of justice. 65. A conjoint reading of sub-clause (b) and sub-clause (c) of Section

 19(3) of the PC Act makes it is clear that a stay of proceedings could be

 granted only and only if there is an error, omission or irregularity in the

 sanction granted for a prosecution and that error, omission or irregularity has

 resulted in a failure of justice. There is no other situation that is

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 40 of 53 contemplated for the grant of a stay of proceedings under the PC Act on any

 other ground whatsoever, even if there is a failure of justice. Clause (c)

 additionally mandates a prohibition on the exercise of revision jurisdiction in

 respect of any interlocutory order passed in any trial such as those that we

 have already referred to. In our opinion, the provisions of clauses (b) and (c)

 of Section 19(3) of the PC Act read together are quite clear and do not admit

 of any ambiguity or the need for any further interpretation. 66. Sub-section (4) of Section 19 of the PC Act is also important in this

 context inasmuch as the time lapse in challenging an error, omission or

 irregularity in the sanction resulting in a failure of justice is of considerable

 significance. Unless the challenge is made at the initial stages of a trial and

 within a reasonable period of time, the court would not be obliged to

 consider the absence of, or any error, omission or irregularity in the sanction

 for prosecution. Therefore, it is not as if the accused can, after an

 unreasonable delay, raise an issue about the sanction; but if that accused

 does so, the court may not decide that issue both at the appellate stage as

 well as for the purposes of stay of the proceedings. 67. In Central Bureau of Investigation v. V.K. Sehgal28 it was held that

 for determining whether the absence of or any error, omission or irregularity

 28 (1999) 8 SCC 501
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 41 of 53 in the grant of sanction has occasioned or resulted in a failure of justice, the

 court has a duty to consider whether the accused had raised any objection on

 that score at the trial stage. Even if it had been raised at the trial and early

 enough, it would not be sufficient to conclude that there was a failure of

 justice. Whether in fact and in law there was a failure of justice would differ

 from case to case but it was made clear that if such an objection was not

 raised in the trial, it certainly cannot be raised in appeal or in revision. It

 was explained that a trial involves judicial scrutiny of the entire material

 before the Special Judge. Therefore, if on a judicial scrutiny of the evidence

 on record the Special Judge comes to a conclusion that there was sufficient

 reason to convict the accused person, the absence or error or omission or

 irregularity would actually become a surplusage. The necessity of a sanction

 is only as a filter to safeguard public servants from frivolous or mala fide or

 vindictive prosecution. However, after judicial scrutiny is complete and a

 conviction is made out through the filtration process, the issue of a sanction

 really would become inconsequential. It was held in paragraphs 10 and 11 of

 the Report as under: 29 (2001) 2 SCC 577
 30 1978 AC 359
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 45 of 53 72. This decision was followed in State of M.P. v. Bhooraji31 and also in Rattiram v. State of M.P.32 In the latter decision, it was held that the

 expression ‘failure of justice’ must be given its due significance otherwise

 every procedural lapse or interdict could be interpreted to result in a failure

 of justice making the criminal justice delivery system completely illusory.

 Rattiram dealt with non-compliance with Section 193 of the Cr.P.C. and it

 was held that this did not result in a failure of justice. It was held in

 paragraphs 65 and 66 of the Report as follows: 73. In Bhooraji33 this Court concluded that in the event of a failure of

 justice, a de novo trial could be ordered but that should be the last resort and

 only when such a course becomes desperately indispensable. If the “core” of

 the case is not affected but there are some procedural illegalities that would

 not be a good ground for ordering a de novo trial. “This is because the

 appellate court has plenary powers for revaluating and reappraising the

 evidence and even to take additional evidence by the appellate court itself or

 to direct such additional evidence to be collected by the trial court.” 74. Interestingly, in an Advisory Opinion given by the International Court

 of Justice34 one of the questions referred was as follows: 75. In the Advisory Opinion, the International Court considered Article 11 of the Statute of the United Nations Administrative Tribunal (as it then

 stood). The words ‘which has occasioned a failure of justice’ appearing in

 that Article were introduced at the 499th meeting of the Fifth Committee on

 the proposal of the Indian delegation which stated: 76. While considering the interpretation of the expression ‘a fundamental

 error in procedure which has occasioned a failure of justice’ the International

 Court of Justice expressed the view that to constitute a failure of justice an

 error in procedure is fundamental when it is of the kind where the

 fundamental right of a staff member to present his case, either orally or in

 writing is denied. The International Court then proceeded to identify certain

 elements of the right to hearing well recognized as for instance the right to

 an independent and impartial tribunal established by law; the right to have

 the case heard and determined within a reasonable time; the right to a

 reasonable opportunity to present the case to the tribunal and to comment

 upon the opponent case; the right to equality in the proceedings vis-à-vis the

 opponent; and the right to a reasoned decision. It was stated in paragraph

 92 of the Advisory Opinion as follows:- If the expression is to be understood as in common parlance, the result

 would be that seldom would a trial reach a conclusion since an irregularity

 could take place at any stage, inadmissible evidence could be erroneously

 admitted, an adjournment wrongly declined etc. To conclude, therefore, Section 19(3)(c) of the PC Act must be given a very restricted interpretation

 and we cannot accept the over-broad interpretation canvassed by learned

 counsel for the appellants. Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 49 of 53 78. In Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India 35 this Court

 passed the following order on 11th April, 2011 in what is now, commonly

 known as the 2G Spectrum Scam cases: 79. The aforesaid order came up for consideration before this Court in Shahid Balwa v. Union of India.36 80. While dealing with the submissions made in relation to the aforesaid

 order (submissions that are similar to those made before us) this Court held

 that considering the width and ambit of the investigation which could even

 spread overseas and also considering the larger public interest, the aforesaid

 order was passed reserving the right of the accused to move this Court if

 there is a grievance against the order passed by the Special Judge during the

 trial and that this would ensure that progress in the trial is not hampered.

 Such an order was permissible under the provisions of Article 136 read with Article 142 of the Constitution. It was also made clear that the parties

 35 (2012) 3 SCC 117
 36 (2014) 2 SCC 687
 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 50 of 53 cannot invoke the jurisdiction under Article 226 or 227 of the Constitution or

 under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. so as to ensure compliance with the orders

 passed by this Court otherwise the very purpose and object of the order

 would be defeated. This Court held in paragraphs 22 and 23 of the Report as

 follows: …………………………..J
 ( Madan B. Lokur )

 ………………………….. J
 ( Kurian Joseph )

 …………………………..J
 New Delhi; ( A. K. Sikri )
 July 13, 2017

 Crl. Appeal Nos.______/2017 etc. (@ SLP (Crl.) Nos. 9503/2016 etc.) Page 53 of 53