% 01.12.2022 1. The present writ petition is filed challenging the orders
 dated 02.11.2022 and 22.11.2022, passed by the learned Special
 Judge, Rouse Avenue, New Delhi. Police during the investigation undertaken pursuant to FIR No.
 378/2022, registered at Police Station Jamia Nagar, New Delhi,
 under Sections 24 / 54 / 59 of the Arms Act, 1959. 3. The petitioner is aggrieved by the directions given by the
 learned Special Judge, thereby, directing Delhi Police to hand
 over the mobile phone of the petitioner to Enforcement
 Directorate for the purpose of investigation being conducted by
 them. 4. Learned Counsel for the respondent states that the present
 writ petition is not maintainable. He submits that the writ
 petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India cannot be
 entertained to challenge judicial orders passed by a Court. 5. On the last date of hearing, the respondents were directed
 to take instructions. 6. Learned Counsel for the Enforcement Directorate on
 instructions, states that on a request being made to the Delhi
 Police, they have agreed that the phone would be cloned and the
 data would be handed over to the Enforcement Directorate. 7. Mr. Chadha, learned Counsel for the petitioner very fairly
 submits that he has no objection to the cloning of petitioner's
 phone and only requests that the same be done in an expeditious
 manner. 8. In view of the above, without going into the issue of
 maintainability of the writ petition, this Court feels it apposite
 that the present petition be disposed of with a direction to Delhi
 Police to complete the cloning of the phone of the petitioner and
 return the phone within a period of two weeks from today. 9. Learned Counsel for the petitioner submits that he will not
 dispute to the content extracted from the phone after cloning and Signature Not Verified will not dispose of the phone without taking permission of the Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR W.P.(CRL) 2820/2022 Page 2 of 3 Signing Date:02.12.2022 18:23:05 respondent agency. 10. He further submits that he will hand over the instrument as
 and when required by the respondent agency if the same request
 is made within a period of next six months and will not tamper
 with the instrument. 11. Learned Counsel for the respondent states that suitable
 directions will be issued to the concerned service provider for
 unblocking the sim card once the cloning of the phone is
 completed and the data is handed over to the respondent. 12. In view of the above, no further directions are required to
 be passed. The present petition is, accordingly, disposed of. 13. It is, however, made clear that this Court has not expressed
 any opinion on the maintainability of the petition and that would
 be considered in an appropriate case. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 DECEMBER 1, 2022
 "SS"