1. The present appeal has been preferred against the common

judgment/order dated 14.5.2001 passed by the learned Addl. Sessions

Judge, Hoshiarpur, whereby the appellants were sentenced to 7 years RI for

conviction u/s 397 IPC and 1 year RI for conviction u/s 25 of the Arms Act

along with a fine of `1000/-, in default of payment of which the appellants

were further required to undergo RI for 3 months. 2. Brief facts of the prosecution case are that 29.04.1998

complainant Jaswinder Singh, PW3, made a statement Ex.PA, before

inspector Mohinder Singh that he returned from the United States of

America and was operating a truck at Hoshiarpur. His brother-in-law Raju

was running a electric shop at Garhshankar and was known to Kulwant

Singh and Kiran Bhushan @ Nikka. It has been further stated by the

complaint Jaswinder Singh in his statement Ex.PA that his brother-in-law Crl. Appeal No. 657-SB of 2001 2 Raju told him that the accused Kulwant Singh and Kiran Bhushan had links

with a party at Patna who deals in supplying fake currency notes in

exchange of genuine currency notes and would give `3 lacs fake currency

on payment of `1 lac currency notes as genuine currency notes, which could

be circulated in the market. It was further stated by complainant Jaswinder

Singh that due to his greed, he agreed to exchange genuine currency notes

with fake currency with accused Kulwant Singh. Complainant Jawinder

Singh alongwith his brother-in-law Raju and accused Kulwant Singh

proceeded towards Patna from Hoshiarpur in Tata Sumo bearing No. HR-

04-5461. When they reached Patna, the accused Kulwant Singh introduced

the complainant Jaswinder Singh with one person in a hotel at Jagadhri.

The complainant Jaswinder Singh delivered `2 lacs to that person on the

asking of Kulwant Singh. Accused Kulwant Singh and that person told the

complainant that they would deliever fake currency notes at a place which is

at a distance of 150 kms from that place but they did not deliver fake

currency notes at Patna. Complainant and his brother-n-law came back to

Punjab and started inquiring about `2 lacs. Kulwant Singh accused told

Jaswinder Singh that he would give fake currency in exchange of earlier

`2 lacs and the money to be arranged by the complainant. That on

29.04.1998 at about 4.45 a.m., complainant Jaswinder Singh alongwith his

borther-in-law Raju, accused Kulwant Singh, Kiran Bhushan and two

unknown person proceeded from Hoshiarpur to Balachaur in the Tata Sumo

No.HR-04-5461. When they reached near Saila Khurd petrol pump,

accused Kulwant Singh and Kiran Bhushan took out their respective pistols

and threatened the complainant to stop the vehicle. The two unknown Crl. Appeal No. 657-SB of 2001 3 person armed with pistols, also threatened the complainant to stop the

vehicle. Complainant Jaswinder Singh and Raju alighted from the vehicle

on account of fear of being killed by the accused. The accused persons fled

with Tata Sumo and `3 lacs, which were to be exchanged with fake

currency notes, kept in the vehicle belonging to complainant Jaswinder

Singh. Complainant Jaswinder Singh immediately went to police post Saila

Khurd and informed the police. A message was flashed to all the police

stations. 3. Inspector Mohinder Singh, PW10, took all the police officials

of the police station Garhshankar and held a naqa near the court of SDM

Garshankar in order to apprehend the accused alongwith Tata Sumo and

currency notes of `3 lacs. At about 5.15 a.m., Tata Sumo bearing No.HR-

04-5461 coming from the side of Saila Khurd was stopped by the police

party. At that time Jawinder Singh and Raju were also with the police party.

The currency notes of `3 lacs were kept in a bag and the same was hanging

on the left shoulder of accused Kulwant Singh. The same were taken into

possession by Inspector Mohinder Singh vide recovery memo Ex.PD and

attested by the witnesses. Tata Sumo bearing No. HR-04-5461 alongwith its

registration certificate was also taken into possession by inspector Mohinder

Singh vide recovery memo Ex.PD. On the basis of statement Ex.PA made

by complainant Jaswinder Singh, formal FIR Ex. PC was registered against

all the four accused under section 392 IPC. 4. On personal search of accused Kulwant Singh, Inspector

Mohinder Singh recovered one pistol of 315 bore with two live cartridges

from the right side Dubb of pant. Sketch of pistol Ex.PB was prepared and Crl. Appeal No. 657-SB of 2001 4 then ruqa Ex.PW14/A was sent to the police station on the basis of which

formal FIR Ex.PC/1 was registered against the accused Kulwant Singh

under section 25 of the Arms Act. Ex.PP is the site plan of the place of

occurrence. Ex.PW4/C is the site plan of the place of recovery of pistol and

then ASI Sham Sunder tested the pistol and gave his report Ex.PA. The

District Magistrate accorded the sanction Ex.PR for prosecuting the accused

Kulwant Singh under section 25 of the Arms Act and after completion of

investigation challan was presented against the accused Kulwant Singh

under section 25 of the Arms Act. 5. From the personal search of accused Satnam Singh by ASI

Balkar Singh a 12 bore loaded pistol alongwith two live cartridges were

recovered from him. The pistol and live cartridges were taken into

possession vide recovery meo Ex.PF attested by the witnesses and the

sanction Ex.PQ was accorded by District Magistrate to prosecute against

accused Satnam Singh under section 25 of the Arms Act. After the

completion of the investigation challan was presented against the accused

Satnam Singh under section 25 of the Arms Act. 6. From the personal search of accused Kiran Bhushan by

Surinder Pal Singh SI, one 32 bore pistol duly loaded was recovered and the

pistol was in working condition. Sketch Ex.P1 of the pistol was prepared

and the live cartridges were taken into possession vide recovery meme Ex.

PJ attested by the witnesses. The sanction Ex. P5 was accorded by the

District Magistrate and after completion of the investigation, challan was

presented against the accused Kiran Bhushan under section 25 of the Arms

Act. 7. The personal search of accused Iqbal Singh was made by Sub

Inspector Sarin Kumar on 29.04.1998 and one pistol 315 bore Ex.P9 duly

loaded was recovered. The pistol and live cartridges Exs.P10 and P11 were

taken into possession by Inspector Sarin Kumar vide recovery memo Ex.Pl

attested by the witnesses. Ex.PM is the site plan of the place of recovery.

After the sanction Ex.PP/PT was accorded by the District Matgistrate and

completion of investigation challan was presented against the accused Iqbal

Singh under section 25 of the Arms Act. 8. After supplying the copies of the documents as required under section 207 Cr.P.C. to the accused, all the challans were committed to the

court of Session. All the four accused were charged sheeted under section

397 IPC vide order dated 5.4.1999, to which they pleaded not guilty and

claimed trial. Accused Kulwant Singh, Kirna Bhushan and Iqbal Singh

were separately charge sheeted under section 25 of the Arms Act on

5.4.1999 to which they pleaded not guilty to the charge sheet and claimed

trial. Accused Satnam Singh was charge sheeted under section 25 of the

Arms Act on 5.8.99, to which he pleaded not guilty. 9. The learned Additional Sessions Judge, Hoshiarpur vide orders

dated 5.4.1999 and 28.4.1999 consolidated all the four cases i.e. Session

cases No.12 to 15 of 1999 as they arose out of same occurrence and same

set of witnesses were required to be examined in each case. It was ordered

that the evidence would be recorded in main session case no.12 of 1999.

So, all these four cases were tried together and disposed of vide single

judgment dated 14.5.2001 from which this appeal arose. 10. In order to prove the case against the accused the prosecution Crl. Appeal No. 657-SB of 2001 6 examined Sarwan Singh PW1, MHC Kewal Singh PW2, Jaswinder Singh

PW3, Kamaljit Singh Constable PW4, Balkar Singh ASI PW5, Gurdev Dass

HC PW6, Jagdish Chander HC PW7, Inspector Sarin Kumar PW8, ASI

Sham Sunder PW9, Mohinder Singh Inspector PW10, Sat Pal PW11, HC

Resham Singh PW12, SI Surinder Pal Singh PW13, Inspector Mohinder

Singh PW14 (again examined) and closed the evidence. 11. When the statements of all the accused under section 313 Cr.P.C. were recorded, incriminating portion of evidence was put to them.

The accused denied the allegations of the prosecution and stated that the

whole story has been fabricated by the police. The main accused who were

in Tata Sumo and Esteem vehicles were released by the police and there was

news item in The Punjab Tribune, The Punjab Kesari, The Ajit and The

Nawan Zamans dated 24.4.98 and 28.4.98 about the apprehension of the

Tata Sumo and Esteem cars alongwith huge amount because they were

dealing in Hawala. However, nothing was recovered from the possession of

the accused. It has been further stated that the accused were brought from

their villages by the police and falsely implicated in this case. The accused

also examined Surinder Singh DW1, Jiwan Dass DW2, Harcharanjit Singh

DW3 and Rajesh Arora DW4, Mr. Narinder Dansiwala DW5, Partap Singh

DW6 and closed their evidence. 12. After hearing counsel for both the parties and going through the

record, learned Addl. Sessions Judge, Hoshiarpur vide judgment/order dated

14.05.2001 convicted and sentenced the appellants as in para 1

aforementioned. 13. The present appeal was admitted for regular hearing on Crl. Appeal No. 657-SB of 2001 7 1.6.2001. 14. Before embarking upon the task of judging the guilt of the

appellants, it would be expedient to give a gist of the arguments advanced

by both the Counsels. 15. The learned counsel for the appellants has argued that

accused/appellants have been falsely implicated in the present case and the

real culprits were let off by the police. He further argued that the

accused/appellant Kulwant Singh was picked up by the police and falsely

booked in this case. 16. It has further been argued that the testimony of complainant

Jaswinder Singh, PW3, cannot be relied upon as he was involved in illegal

activities. Learned counsel has also argued that no independent witness was

joined while effecting recoveries. 17. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State has argued that

the prosecution has fully proved its case against all the accused. Jawinder

Singh, PW3, has supported the prosecution case in its entirety and he has no

motive to depose against the accused. He is a truthful witness. The official

witnesses are as good as independent witnesses unless and until any

hostility is alleged against them. Lastly, the learned counsel has submitted

that the prosecution has fully proved its case beyond doubt. 18. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and perused the

record with their able assistance. 19. A careful consideration of the arguments addressed by the ld.

counsel appearing for the Appellants brings out that the main defence

argument is regarding false implication of the appellants i.e. that the Crl. Appeal No. 657-SB of 2001 8 Appellants have infact been made scapegoats and the real culprits, who

allegedly were travelling in a TATA Sumo and an Esteem Car carrying

Hawala money on 24.4.98, were let off. The ld. Counsel for the Appellants

has placed great reliance on newspaper reports i.e. appearing in The Punjabi

Tribune, The Punjab Kesari, The Ajit and The Nawan Zamana, in order to

substantiate his argument, he has also contended that the learned trial court

committed a grave error by not attaching any evidentiary value to the said

news reports. 20. As per the learned counsel for the appellants, the

accused/appellant Kulwant Singh was picked up by the Police authorities

and kept in illegal custody till 29.4.98, when he was produced before the

Illaqa Magistrate by showing him to have been apprehended for committing

robbery along with three other accused. The contention of the Appellant

was that he was targeted by the Police since his brother, who happened to be

the Vice President of Municipal Committee of Garhshankar raised hue and

cry over the alleged fact that the Police authorities had let go off the main

accused who were involved in the incident dt. 24.4.98 involving a TATA

Sumo and an Esteem car. 21. This argument, advanced by the learned counsel, is a bit hard to

believe. Firstly, it is not clear as to whether Harvail Singh i.e. brother of

Kulwant Singh and Vice President of Municipal Committee, Garshankar

was actually at the forefront of an agitation against the district Police

authorities for having let off the main culprits of the alleged incident dated

24.4.98. His position of being the Vice-President of a Municipal Committee

does not connect him in any way with the possible malfunction of the police Crl. Appeal No. 657-SB of 2001 9 authorities. Although as a responsible citizen, each one of us is expected to

highlight a misdeed on the part of a public or private person/s, yet it is of

common knowledge that in our country normally we do not bother at all for

such incidents and we wake up only when some personal mishap occurs or a

personal difficulty arises. To believe that Harvail Singh was such an

enlightened citizen that he could not digest the fact of the Police letting off

the main culprits allegedly carrying Hawala Money and publicly raised the

matter, would be a bit too much. There is nothing on record to show that he

made any representation to the higher administration regarding the said

misdeed of the police authorities. Infact, it is common knowledge that these

small time politicians are either having very good relations with the local

Police officials or are at their mercy for getting their petty works done.

Simply saying that he encountered the Police for letting off the alleged real

culprits involved in Hawala transaction and that was the driving force

behind false implication of his brother is not good enough especially when

this alleged fact has a great bearing on the innocence or guilt of the

Appellant. 22. Second reason which persuades the Court to disagree with the

argument of false implication of the Appellant Kulwant Singh is that despite

being the brother of a public figure, his brother did not make any

representation against his illegal detention. There is nothing on record to

show that he moved any application either before the administration or the

judiciary praying for the release of his brother from illegal custody. It is

hard to believe that a political person, presumably having a decent local

following at least, would not do anything to get his brother released from Crl. Appeal No. 657-SB of 2001 10 illegal detention. this fact also negatives the contention on behalf of the

Appellants that the brother of Appellant Kulwant Singh raised his voice

against the misappropriation of alleged Hawala money by the local police

officers since it does not stand to reasoning that Harvail Singh would have

raised his voice against the alleged police misappropriation of Hawala

money when he did not even know who the real culprits were and at the

same time would do nothing to ensure the safe release of his brother from

illegal police custody. 23. Third reason going against the argument of false implication is

that if for a moment it is believed that the concerned Police did manage to

let go the main culprits of the alleged incident of 24.4.98 and infact gobbled

up the entire illegal hawala money recovered from the said vehicles, even

then it is not believable that the concerned Police authorities, having

misappropriated the entire illegal hawala money, would keep away a huge

sum of `3 lacs to ensure the false implication of the Apepllant Kulwant

Singh. It must be kept in mind that this case pertains to the year 1998 when

Rs, 3 lacs was a huge amount and even today it is a big amount especially

when it is ill gotten. The Police could have easily planted a much lesser

amount on the Appellants and could have still implicated the Appellant.

There was no reason to plant a big amount of `3 lacs especially when a

major part of even this amount could have been usurped by the Police

authorities, in addition to the amount that they allegedly already had. 24. Learned counsel for the appellant further argued that infact the

complainant himself was a criminal having admitted to being involved in an

earlier attempt to transact in fake currency notes and hence, no reliance can Crl. Appeal No. 657-SB of 2001 11 be placed on his testimony/ allegations. The Complainant no doubt admitted

his guilt in dealing with fake currency notes but this fact, in the opinion of

the Court, supports the postulation that the Complainant came out with the

truth. Otherwise, who would lodge a complaint with the Police knowing

well that the facts of his complaint fully expose him also to criminal

prosecution. Only such a person can admit his guilt, while disclosing the

commission of an offence by another, who himself has suffered a loss,

which in this case was `3 lacs i.e. the amount which was robbed from the

complainant. 25. It has also been argued that no independent witness was

associated by the police at the time when the Appellants were apprehended.

As per the record, the time of apprehension of the Appellants is stated to be

at or around 5 am. In our country, citizens generally steer clear of any matter

in which they have to depose against criminals and in addition to it, the

timing of the "naka" put up by the police i.e. at 5 am, made it even more

improbable for them to join anybody as a witness. To accept it as fatal to the

prosecution case that no independent witnesses were joined at 5 am in the

morning, would be unfair to the prosecution. 26. Though Jaswinder Singh @ Raju, brother-in-law of the

complainant, was given up as having been won over, no benefit can be

accorded to the appellants on that score. 27. The Official witnesses have deposed in very categoric terms

about the recovery of weapons from the Appellants and their testimony

inspires confidence. The Complainant has fully also supported his

complaint. An argument has been raised that the Complainant was not able Crl. Appeal No. 657-SB of 2001 12 to verify/ confirm the source of `3 lakh, which was allegedly robbed from

him, giving rise to the suspicion that the money was actually supplied by the

Police. This argument has been raised by contending that the currency notes

were not carrying any bank mark/ slip nor any bank transaction has been

proved that the said money was withdrawn from the Bank. This argument

does not hold good in view of the fact that the said currency notes were

taken on 'superdari' by the complainant. Even though the prosecution did

not produce the relevant bank transaction details, yet, in view of the

categorical assertion by the Complainant that the money was withdrawn by

him from the Bank i.e. half by him and half by his sister, it was open for the

defence to call for the Bank records to rebut the prosecution assertion.

However, no such exercise was carried out. Raising a suspicion about the

happening of a fact is not enough; whether it is the prosecution or the

defence, it has to be proved beyond doubt by leading cogent evidence that

such fact never actually occurred. 28. In view of the foregoing discussion, the prosecution evidence

inspires complete confidence and there is no reason to differ with finding

returned by the learned trial court. Accordingly, the present appeal is

dismissed. The judgment and order dated 14.5.2001 passed by the learned

trial Court is maintained. The appellants are stated to be on bail. Their bail

bonds stand cancelled and they be taken into custody forthwith to serve the

remaining part of their sentence.