Since both the bail applications pertain to the same complaint/case diary,

 they are proposed to be dealt with together and disposed of by a common

 judgment. 2. The petitioners are in custody for more than nine months and pray for

 bail. 3. One Sayan Chatterjee lodged complaint before Bidhannagar Cyber Crime

 Police Station wherein he stated that he came across an advertisement on

 facebook regarding share trading with huge benefit and on being

 interested in investing in the same, he was added to two whatsapp groups

 being Vip 125-BCF Investment Academy and Schonfeld Mutual Aid

 Community 375 by using the groups' link on April 16, 2024 and April 18,

 2024 respectively. He downloaded the app ESCORTS from the app of Vip

 and Ssa-EE from google play store and invested total amount of Rs.

 1,00,35,000/- from his three bank accounts to different bank accounts as

 provided by the above two platforms in their groups and whatsapp. When

 he tried to withdraw his money, he was asked to pay more money which

 raised a doubt in his mind with regard to the genuineness of the

 transactions. On the basis of his complaint, Bidhannagar Cyber Crime

 Police Station case no. 139 of 2024 was registered and charge sheet as

 well as supplementary charge sheet has been submitted against 16

 accused persons including the petitioners. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioners has submitted that no explicit/implicit

 contact between the petitioners and the victims have been found in course

 of investigation. The bank accounts of the petitioners have been seized. 3 No part of the allegedly cheated amount has been recovered from the

 petitioners or from their accounts. There is no money trail connecting the

 petitioners to the alleged offence. The petitioners have not been identified

 in T.I parade. None of the witnesses has implicated the petitioners in their

 statement recorded under Section 161 / 164 of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure. Petitioners Prem Kumar Mahaseth and Jitendra Kumar

 Chourasia were mere office staff in the organization from where they were

 arrested. Petitioner Shilajit Choudhary was an employee of Yes Bank.

 They had no role to play in the alleged crime. No telecommunication

 device has been seized in course of investigation to suggest existence of

 any mode of transfer to foreign individuals. The case is based on

 documentary evidence which are in custody of the State. The seized

 material does not connect the petitioners to the alleged offence.

 Petitioners Prem Kumar Mahaseth and Jitendra Kumar Chourasia have

 been granted bail in two other subsequent complaints lodged against

 them before Bidhannagar Cyber Crime Police Station. They undertake to

 co-operate in investigation. They are permanent residents of the country

 and are not at flight risk. All the offences alleged except Section 413 of the

 Indian Penal Code are triable by the Learned Magistrate. 5. Only two mobile phones and an ATM card belonging to petitioner Shilajit

 Choudhary were seized from his possession. He was the customs relations

 officer of Yes Bank. He received applications to open bank accounts and

 processed such applications. It was within the domain of the bank

 manager to consider the applications. He has been shown as a

 conspirator in the alleged crime but material collected during 4 investigation does not substantiate the same. He is on bail in connection

 with another complaint lodged against him. 6. Vehemently opposing the prayer, learned counsel for the State has

 submitted that the matter relates to an international organized racket

 which lures people to invest huge amount of money. More than 700 bank

 accounts have been found to have been opened and 1530 complaints have

 been registered by the victims on different portals. The gang dupes people

 of huge amount of money by offering them jobs and opening mule

 accounts by using their Aadhar cards and other documents with an

 assurance that their salary will be deposited in the said accounts. The

 accused procure fake seals, fake boards of companies and defraud

 innocent people in connivance with bankers of different banks, open mule

 accounts and smuggle the money to Dubai and Srilanka by operating

 such accounts. Besides being involved in investment fraud, they are also

 involved in digital arrest fraud, electricity fraud, OTP based fraud and the

 like. 7. Petitioners Prem Kumar Mahaseth and Jitendra Kumar Chourasia along

 with other accused were arrested from the office used by them for opening

 bank accounts, preparing credentials for the bank accounts and other

 illegal work. As led and identified by the accused persons, several

 incriminating articles were seized from various offices used by them which

 connect the accused to the crime. Details of trade licence found from the

 seized device and documents connected with the fake user Ids suggest

 that they were used to procure trade licence connected with the crime. In 5 the event the petitioners are granted bail, they may intimidate witnesses,

 tamper with electronic evidence and are also at flight risk. 8. I have considered the material on record. 9. Petitioner Shilajit Choudhary was an employee of Yes Bank. It prima facie

 appears that he was in touch with the co-accused and the whatsapp

 chats between this petitioner and co-accused suggest opening of accounts

 and the account numbers being sent to the co-accused. In course of

 investigation it has transpired that this petitioner used to share

 confidential data of the bank with the co-accused and one witness

 Satyajit Sharma has stated that though he is the proprietor of Nidhir

 Enterprise in whose name a bank account was opened in the branch of

 this petitioner, the bank opening kit and bank account details were taken

 from him by this petitioner who operated the account for unexplained

 purposes. Withdrawal of an amount of Rs. 5,00,000/- approximately by

 this petitioner is also apparently detected. This petitioner appears to have

 played a vital role in the alleged offence. 10. As many as 704 bank accounts were opened in the names of different

 companies and 1530 complaints have been lodged in connection

 therewith. Job aspirants were lured with assurance of jobs in various

 companies which did not exist at all and trade licence and seals of such

 companies were manufactured. 11. With regard to petitioners Prem Kumar Mahaseth and Jitendra Kumar

 Chourasia, they were employees of the office where the fake rubber

 stamps, name plates, trade licences, connected certificates, bank account

 opening forms and other incriminating material/documents were seized. 6 The statement of one of the victims Amit Sardar recorded under Section

164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure implicates these petitioners.

Several incriminating material/documents including debit cards, pan

cards, rubber stamps of various companies, account opening forms,

mobile phone, laptops and sim cards were seized from these petitioners'

office as shown and identified by these petitioners and the co-accused.

Several notarial certificates containing details of licence and tenancy

agreements and also partnership deeds pertaining to various companies

were seized at the instance of petitioner Jitendra Kumar Chourasia. The

issue involves a huge racket dealing in opening mule accounts and

portraying non-existent companies for siphoning huge amount of money.

Though no electronic device appears to have been seized, material

collected in course of investigation prima facie implicates the petitioners,

No monetary transaction has been shown in the personal accounts of the

petitioners for obvious reasons. Several mule accounts were opened for

the purpose. There could not have been any direct nexus between the

complainant and the petitioners since there was no scope for the

complainant to identify them or find out the persons operating behind the

curtain. Therefore the petitioners not being placed in/identified in T.I

parade is not very relevant. Incriminating material has transpired against

the petitioners in course of investigation prima facie connecting them to

the alleged crime. In the event the petitioners are released on bail at this

stage, possibility of their intimidating/influencing the witnesses, thereby

hampering smooth trial cannot be ruled out. 12. In the light of the discussion made hereinabove, prayer for bail is rejected

 at this stage. 13. Accordingly, CRM (M) 167 of 2025 and CRM (M) 47 of 2025 are disposed

 of. 14. There shall however be no order as to costs. 15. Urgent certified website copies of this judgment, if applied for, be supplied

 to the parties expeditiously on compliance with the usual formalities. (Suvra Ghosh, J)