Shri Pravahan Mohanty filed an information on 16.04.2010 against
HDFC Bank Ltd. HDFC Bank Ltd. is a banking company subject to the
regulations framed by the Reserve Bank of India under the Banking
Regulation Act . It has a nation-wide network of 1725 branches and 3898
ATMs in 771 Indian towns and cities. The bank started the credit card
business in the year 2001. According to the information the total number
of credit cards issued by the HDFC Bank is 13 million and there are over
70,000 point-of-sale terminals in different merchant establishments. The
informant is also a credit card holder of HDFC Bank issued to him on
24.11.2006. The informant has alleged that in order to expand the credit
card business in competition with other banks, the respondent bank
resorted to unethical, illegal and unfair trade practices and the informant
is one of the victims of the bank. It has also alleged that the said bank is
in a dominant position as it was the second largest private sector bank in
India. It has also alleged that the respondent had abused its dominant
position. In the credit card business, it is not necessary for a person to
become an account-holder of the bank, though credit is given on the
strength of the credit cards. For this purpose the banks charge an 1 entrance fee, an annual membership fee. It was also alleged that the
credit given through the bank cards lead to increased inflation. The
informant was working with M/s Ernst and Young at Gurgaon. He was
approached by an agent of the informant with a request that he should
subscribe to credit card of the HDFC bank. It was explained to him that
the process was easy and simple and that it would improve the financial
standing of the informant. At the time of this discussion no detail of the
conditions likely to be imposed on the informant after the receipt of the
credit card was furnished. After the credit card was received by the
informant he was asked to sign an agreement form which contained a
large number of onerous and complex clauses. The informant has alleged
that the said contract was not a valid contract under the provisions of the Contract Act . The informant's main grouse is that the card agreement
came with the card for which the informant had applied and that the
onerous clauses were not explained to him. The informant's argument
was that the most of the credit card holders are victims of such unfair and
fraudulent trade practices adopted by the banks. Another issue which
was raised that though the credit card operations of the bank are
throughout the country, the Cardmember Agreement provides that only
courts in Chennai shall have jurisdiction to deal with all disputes between
the bank and the Cardmember. It was also alleged that the interest rates
applicable to the card holder is not mentioned in the Cardmember
agreement. It was stated that after allowing an interest-free period of
one month i.e. from the due date of the last statement to the due date of
the next statement, the respondent charged an unstated and unstipulated
interest on the outstanding balance along with further debits under the
head "interest". No detailed working of how the finance charges over and
above the interest charged was calculated. It was argued that even after
a card holder had rescinded the Agreement and the bank ceased to
provide service, interest was being charged. It was argued that this is in
violation of sections 39 and 54 read with sections 73 and 75 of the
Contract Act 1972. It was argued that the charging of interest after the 2 termination of the contract and after the service agreement had expired
amounts to an abuse of dominant position. The informant referred to
Page 29 of the Cardmember Agreement where it is mentioned that
interest and any other applicable charges shall continue to accrue on the
Card Account until the outstanding balance of such Card Account was
reduced to nil and this clause was operative even after the cancellation of
the credit card by the bank. Regarding the rate of interest, it was argued
that the bank unilaterally charged the rate of interest and even after
single default the rate of interest was 30% per annum. It was stated that
the charging of such interest rate was violative of the Usurious Loans Act,
1973 and the circulars of the Reserve Bank of India. It was stated the
banks allure the customers by asking them to pay off 10% of the amount
due and that on the balance of the 90% interest goes on increasing. It
was stated that this is a hidden debt-trap and cash-cow of the bank. It
was again stated that the interest on the outstanding amount was levied
on daily basis and that there was no interest-free period in respect of
cash advances. It was stated that in the Cardmember Agreement the
term "current daily percentage rate of interest" is mentioned but no
definition have been provided. It was stated that the bank charged
compound interest. It was further argued that the service tax was levied
even when there was no transaction in the month on the card. It was
stated that the service tax fee not paid is added to the due amount and
interest is levied for the benefit of the bank and not for the benefit of the
State. It was thus alleged that the respondent cheated the Government
even in the service tax returns. Another issue raised was in respect of
"Lien and Right of Set-Off" mentioned in the Cardmember Agreement.
According to this rule any amount standing to the credit of any card
holder with the bank could be adjusted against the outstanding amount
on the card account. Even any shares in the depository account could be
adjusted towards dues of the card account. The informant argued that in
view of this item in the Cardmember Agreement the entire amount
standing in the credit balance of the saving accounts of the informant was 3 adjusted by the bank against the outstanding dues against the card
without giving any proper notice. Another issue raised was that the
respondent could appoint third party representatives to collect amounts
due to the respondent and that the respondent claimed that it was not
responsible for any wrongful act of such representatives. Further the
amounts paid by the respondent to the third parties were made
recoverable from the card member. The informant further stated that
these third parties have threatened him and his family on various
occasions on phone. It was stated that the use of the third party was
unfair and illegal and that the respondent cannot claim immunity from its
actions. It has also been stated that respondent did not disclose its
address of the registered office or that of the card division and that there
was no provision of grievance redressal mechanism. Thus, no intimation
of any change of address could be sent to the respondent. The informant
then argued against another stipulation in the Cardmember Agreement
according to which any amount outstanding against the informant could
be sold to a third party and any cost incurred in this respect could be
recovered from the cardholder. There is also a stipulation in the
agreement that even a disputed amount on the card has to be paid by the
cardholder. The informant has also objected to another item in the
Cardmember Agreement on the basis of which the card members'
personal information could be given to a third party. It was argued that
this violated the personal privacy of the informant. The informant then
referred to page 44 of the Cardmember Agreement wherein under the
head "Changes to Cardmember Agreement" the respondent bank
reserved the right to unilaterally vary any of the terms and conditions of
the Agreement from time to time without prior notice to the Cardmember.
The interest rate could be changed without the knowledge or consent of
the Cardmember. It was argued that this strikes at the root of the
doctrine of mutuality in law of contract and therefore it was unfair and
illegal. It was further stated that informant was willing to pay all the legal
dues but was unwilling to pay any amount due to illegal foisting of illegal 4 dues on the informant. The informant has sought the following relief from
the Commission:- Interim Reliefs under S.33 of the Competition Act, 2002

 (A) Direct the respondent not to take away and appropriate, without
 specific instruction from the informant, any sum deposited by or
 for the informant in any account (saving, current or fixed) held
 by the informant in any branch of the respondent. (B) Direct the respondent not to take any coercive steps for
 realization of the alleged dues under the aforesaid Cardmember
 Agreement. (C) Direct the respondent to retransfer/redeposit the sum of
 Rs.64,002/- to the Informant's Saving Account No.
 00901140185423. 2. The Commission took cognisance of the information submitted in
May-June 2010 and came to the conclusion that there existed a prima
facie case under the Competition Act . The Commission therefore referred
the case for investigation by the Director General. 3. On receipt of the directions of the Commission, the Additional
Director General issued a showcause notice to HDFC Bank. The bank
replied that the informer had given the information to the Commission to
harass the bank. It was argued that the informant had acted in this
manner mainly to get his outstanding amount pending with the bank to
be written off/settled. According to the bank, the credit card was taken
by the informant on 24.11.2006. The bank had recovered a sum of
Rs. 1,55,636/- and a further amount of Rs. 44,043/- was still recoverable
from the informant. It has been argued on behalf of the bank that as the
amount outstanding against the informer (I.P.) was not paid inspite of
various reminders, the bank had no option but to make the recovery out
of the account of the I.P. maintained with the bank. No explanation has
been given as to why no notice was given by the bank before exercising
the Bankers' General Lien. It was further stated that the I.P. was an
industry analyst with E&Y and was aware of the Cardmember Agreement
before taking the credit card. It has also been stated that cards of
various banks are available in the market and the IP had to make a choice
of cards and that the IP made a choice and selected the card of the bank.
It was stressed that the functioning of the bank was transparent and the
'Most Important Terms and Conditions' (MITC) were explained at the time
of sourcing the card, at the time of the issue of the cards and every
month on the reverse of the account statement and on the website. It
was stated that all the guidelines laid down by the RBI had been followed
and that no illegality or impropriety had been indulged in by the bank. 4. It was further argued that the story of the Abuse of Dominant
Position has been concocted by the I.P. and that the bank did not enjoy a 6 dominant position. It was further argued that the issue of MITC had come
up before the MRTP in case no. UTPE 34 of 2005 - DGIR vs. HDFC Bank
and that the bank had taken a large number of consumer friendly steps
and for this reason the MRTP Commission had dismissed the petition. It
was also stated that no unfair or discriminatory condition in the purchase
or sale of goods or services has been imposed by the bank on the issue of
cards and therefore there was no violation of section 4(1) of the
Competition Act. Further, the agreement entered into by the customers is
not anticompetitive nature and does not violate any provision of the Contract Act . The bank stated that it is a small player in the credit card
market having a share of only 17%. 5. The Additional D.G. made further queries regarding the cost of
doing business. The bank replied that the cost of doing business
consisted of the following factors:- 6. The additional DG enquired from the I.P. regarding the outstanding
amounts of the other holders of credit cards taken by him as well as
details of any other supporting evidence to support his case. Regarding
the outstanding amounts on the other credit card holders the I.P did not
submit the details. Regarding the other items asked for I.P. has stated
that the very use of unethical, illegal and unfair trade practices gave the
bank competitive edge over other banking companies carrying on its
credit card business. It was further stated that by mentioning in the
Cardholder Agreement that the use of the card would amount to the
acceptance of the terms of the agreements and would also lead to the
loss of the freedom of choice of I.P. It has also been stated that many 9 items were hidden in the agreement such as numerous onerous clauses.
It was therefore argued that the bank not only eliminated the choice of
the I.P. but also tricked him into accepting severely onerous terms. Then
the I.P. relied on the explanation of section 4 which states that the
position of strength enjoyed by an enterprise in the relevant market in
India enables to affect its competitors or consumers or the relevant
market in its favour. It was therefore argued by the I.P. that the abuse of
dominant was established in the case by the bank. 7. The Additional D.G. obtained the details of the outstanding amounts
on the other cards which have been taken by the I.P. But the details are
not been discussed here because they are not relevant to the points at
issue. Another letter was issued by the Additional D.G. to the RBI and on
the basis of the letter of the RBI as on 30th June 2010, the HDFC bank is
the second largest issuer of credit cards i.e.45,16,377. The largest issuer
bank is ICICI Bank having 64,08,707 clients. The RBI also informed the
Additional D.G. that banks whose net profit is over Rs.100crores and
above were eligible to undertake credit card business without any further
approval from the RBI. Regarding the regulation of the credit card
business the RBI had come out with the Master Circular on 30.06.2010. A
copy of the Circular was enclosed. A perusal of the Master Circular gives
the following facts:- In the same Circular under the same head the RBI has mentioned that
the bank should prescribe a ceiling rate of interest including processing
and other charges in respect of small value personal loans and loans
similar in nature. This included credit card also. It has also been
mentioned in the said circular that banks can charge interest rate which
vary based on payment / default history of the cardholder but that there
should be transparency in levying of such differential interest rates. The
RBI circular mentions that the higher rate of interest being charged to the
card holder on account of payment / default history should be made
known to the cardholder and the method by which the interest rate is
calculated should be intimated to the cardholder. It has also been stated
in the Circular that the changes in the charges should be made only with
prospective effect giving at least one month's notice. If a credit card
holder wanted to surrender his card then the bank should accept the
surrender subject to settlement of the dues by the cardholder. The RBI
desired that there should be transparency without any hidden charges
while issuing the credit card. The RBI also desired by the Circular that
the confidentiality of the customers' record and fair practices should be
followed by all the banks. The RBI also stated as before reporting default
history of cardholder given to Credit Information Bureau of India Ltd.
(CIBIL) or any other credit information Company, a notice should be
given to the cardholder. As far as debt collections are concerned, the RBI
observed that the Fair Practice Code should be followed and agents of the
banks should refrain from any action that would damage the cardholder.
The RBI opined that there should be a grievance redressal procedure for
the case of cardholders and that the redressal of grievances should be
completed within 30 days of filing of the complaint and that the
cardholder could also approach the Banking Ombudsman. The Bank i.e.
HDFC submitted details of the Cardholder Agreement, Fair Practices code 11 of Credit Card Operations. The Additional DG has also obtained the
Cardholder Agreement of State Bank of India and ICICI Bank. He also
obtained a copy of the decision of the National Consumer Disputes
Redressel Commission in Complaint Case No. 51 of 2007 as well as
revision Petition No. 1913 of 2004. The Additional D.G. then submitted a
Report. 8. While analysing the relevant market the Additional D.G. held that
the relevant market has to be defined with reference to relevant product
market as well as relevant geographical market. As far as relevant
product market is concerned in his view the relevant product market was
the market for credit card services. As far as relevant geographic market
is concerned the relevant geographic market in his view was whole of
India. 9. The Additional D.G. then examined the interest rates on the
outstanding amount on the credit cards. His findings are as under:- One of the reasons given by the Additional D.G. for the high interest rates
in India was that one out of every ten cardholder in India defaulted in
clearing their outstanding on credit cards whereas in the U.S. one in
twenty five Cardholders defaulted. It was also argued by the Bank that
huge amount of outstanding dues on cards were written off as bad debts.
The details of such debts were not furnished by the bank. The claim of 12 the bank is not established as no segment wise accounting has been
maintained. Further there is no material to hold that the default on credit
cards is one out of ten in India and that is the reason for a high interest
rate on card outstandings. The bank regulator, the Reserve Bank of India
has not issued any guidelines regarding the charging of Interest and it
has left it to the banks. In country like USA the credit card business has
not regulated by the Central banks but by consumer / fair trade
regulators. 10. The Additional DG then examined as to whether the bank was in a
dominant position. He relied on the data of the RBI wherein it has been
stated that the market share in the card business by the bank was only
17%. The Additional DG examined the capital, reserve and surpluses and
deposits of HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and State Bank of India and he found
that HDFC did not enjoy a dominant position in the relevant market. The
data relied upon by the Additional DG was in respect of all the banking
operations and not credit card operations and therefore a finding on this
basis that the bank was not in a dominant position is erroneous. The
Additional DG further held that growth in the credit card issued by the
banks was due to normal competition and not due to any anti-competitive
measures taken by the bank. He also stated in Para 8.7 of the Report
that the bank did not possess any particular market power which enabled
the bank to act independently of the competitive pressure in the market.
In his opinion the bank had no power or ability to charge a monopolist
price and that in the credit card market the consumers were free to
choose the card issuers and were equally free to dump the bank in case
they were not satisfied with the services. The Additional DG has further
stated that once the consumer had accepted terms and conditions as per
the Cardholder Agreement they were bound by the opaque, onerous and
unfair conditions imposed by the card issuer. He has also found that all
the banks were having similar terms and conditions and therefore there
was least dependence of the consumer on the bank. In his opinion there 13 could be case of unfair practice against the credit card issuers. In his
view the credit card in India is not mature and that the market has been
operated by banks. The additional DG agreed with the findings of NCDRC
that the credit card issuers have indulged in unfair trade practices and
that there was a need for intervention by the banking regulator i.e. the
Reserve Bank of India. The Additional DG held that no evidence of abuse
of dominance was produced by the IP and that no such findings could be
made on the basis of investigation carried out by him. In his view as the
bank was not dominant in relevant market in India no case for abuse of
dominant position in terms of section 4(2) of the Act could be made out. 11. After the report of the D.G. was received, the Commission decided
to send the report to the I.P. and the bank and obtain their comments
before taking up the case. In January 2011 the bank replied that on the
issue it had already given its submission to the D.G. It was stated the
said reply should be treated as part and parcel of the submission made
before the Commission. In addition to the earlier arguments some other
arguments were advanced before the Commission. It has been stated
that the issue of credit cards to consumers could not be treated as the
imposition of unfair and discriminate conditions on the consumers. There
was therefore no violation of section 4 of the Act. It was also stated that
the agreements between the bank and the consumers were not
anticompetitive and therefore the provisions of section 3 were not
attracted. The bank stated that the findings of the D.G. that the bank
was not in a dominant position considered with reference to the factors
mentioned in section 19(4) are correct. Further it was stated that the
findings of the D.G. that the bank could not be treated as a dominant
player is correct. But the bank has not accepted the findings of the D.G.
that the issuers of the credit cards were indulging in 'unfair trade
practice'. The bank wants the case should be closed forthwith. It was
argued that the issue of credit cards are in accordance with the Circulars
of the RBI and further Cardmember agreement is also in line with the 14 circulars of the RBI. It was also argued that transparency as envisaged in
the RBI Circulars has been followed by the bank and the findings of the
D.G. support this view. It was further argued that MITC was read and
signed by the customers and that the customers were aware of the terms
and were bound by the terms of the agreement. The bank denied that it
had indulged in any fraud or cheating the customers. It was also stated
that the conditions in the MITC came for adjudication before the MRTP
Commission in the case UTPE No. 34 of 2005 and that after the bank
introduced some customer friendly measures in the MITC, the case was
dismissed by the Commission. It was also stated that the issue of unfair
trade practice was only a passing reference made by the bank and
therefore the same should be ignored. 12. As far as the I.P. is concerned, written submissions were given
which are reproduced as under:- The use of the word "or" in the above provision implies that the provision
contemplates 4 distinct types of dominant position: Clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) or S.4(2) of the Act define abuse of
dominant position enumeratively. Use of the work "or" separating these
clauses imply that each clause can be treated as a stand-alone and
sufficient definition. For inquiring whether there has been an abuse, one
or more of these clauses could be invoked. Clause (a) is most relevant to
Type D of dominant position with which we are concerned. Clause (a) of
section 4(2) reads: In this case IP has alleged unfair, indeed unconscionable and illegal,
conditions imposed in the Cardmember Agreement as well as unfair,
indeed hugely excessive and legally untenable, price - which includes 17 "interest", "finance charge", "service charge", "illegally collected "service
tax" and interest thereon, non-refundable entrance fee and annual
membership fee, cumulative interest on interest in the event of a single
default - unilaterally imposed on the Cardmember. The IP has also alleged abuse of dominant position having regard to
Clause (c) of Section 4(2) which says: The IP alleges that the enterprise foists on him all the unfair conditions
and prices by providing that the Cardmember shall be deemed to have
accepted the Cardmember Agreement containing the conditions by merely
using the card, while the said Agreement is hidden somewhere in small
print in the Users' Guide without being indexed, couched in legal jargon,
and sent for the first time with the card ready for use. This denies the
Cardmember his right to access the open market of credit cards by
exercising any intelligent and informed freedom of choice. It is
immaterial that the IP or other Card members have become victims of
similar practices by two or three other card-issuers. Two or three cases
of victimization of the IP cannot be called his freedom of choice. It is not
as if he has discarded one in favour of another at the time of entry into
the market or subsequently. Having been tricked into a debt trap he has
been unable to he has been discard one and choose another - surrender
costs money, indeed payment of false and illegal "dues". Further, the IP has alleged abuse of dominant position having regard to
Clause (e) of Section 4(2) which says: Lacunae and errors in DG's Report

 Whereas Reg. 20(4) CCI (General) Regulations, 2009 mandatorily
requires that the Report of the DG "shall contain his findings on each of
the allegations made in the information or reference, as the case may be,
together with evidences or documents or statements or analysis collected
during investigation," the present Report does not give findings on all the
allegations made by the IP. The findings of the IP are contained in paras
9 and 9.1 of the Report. These paras merely state (wrongly) that the
analyses of the allegations of the IP reveal that they pertain primarily to
'unfair trade practice'. The DG has completely ignored all the pertinent
allegations of the IP pointing to dominant position of the enterprise in the
light of the aforesaid position of law. The DG has not given his own
findings on the unfair practices alleged by the IP and revealed by the
Cardmembers Agreement produced by him. If he had given his findings
on the unfair practices, abuse of dominant position would have been
established. The DG has wrongly held that the IP has produced no
evidence. The clauses in the Cardmember Agreement produced by the IP
are themselves unfair conditions and unfair prices within the meaning of
S.4(2)a) of the Act. The DG being a mere investigating agency should
not have been concerned with burden of proof and should not have drawn
adverse inference from the IP not producing further evidence that
Cardmember Agreement and other documents besides his allegations on
oath. The DG erred in ignoring the provision of Explanation (a)(ii) to S.4(2) of the Act as regards dominant position of the Type D qua
consumers, and the provision of S.4(2)(a) as regards abuse in the form of
unfair conditions and unfair price, and also violations in terms of S.4(2)(c)
and (e) as stated above, and wrongly held that no evidence of abuse of
dominant position could be found during the course of investigation. The
DG should also have recorded his findings on whether the enterprise is
indulging in practices mentioned in paras 2.3.2 and 2.3.3 above (as 21 alleged in the information) and thereby abusing its dominant position in
terms of S.4.2(c) and (e) of the Act. This being primarily a case involving dominant position qua
consumers (Type D) as distinct from dominant position qua competitors
Types (A and C) and dominant position qua relevant market (Type B), the
DG failed to select the right factors enumerated in S.19(4) of the Act.
The statement in para 9 of the Report that 'there is enough competition in
the market of credit card services is relevant to the dominant position qua
competitors (Types A and C) and not dominant position qua consumers
(Type D). The crucial question is not the existence of competitors but
whether the practices indulged in by the enterprise prevents the
consumers from making free and intelligent choice of the available
enterprises and undue advantage accrues to this enterprise because of
these practices (as mentioned in paras 2.3.2 and 2.3.3 above). The DG
has recorded no findings on these questions. The DG ought to have noted
that competition in the market of credit card services is really competition
in commission of unfair practices and illegalities in the absence of
regulation by the Reserve Bank, no accountability and no-holds-barred
operati8ons in the market. Some of questions of crucial importance, raised by allegations of the
IP, on which the Report of the DG contains no finding are as follows:- and "without prior notice" vary any of the terms and conditions 23 of the Agreement, the right to unilaterally sell, transfer or assign
 outstanding dues to any third party of the Bank's choice, the
 right to unilaterally appoint third parties to collect dues and claim
 immunity for wrongful acts of such third parties, all amount to
 unfair conditions. (ix) Whether in the context of "social cost" mentioned in S.19(4)(k) of the Act, and unregulated credit expansion in the economy due
 to credit card issues in the relevant market of credit card
 services, the Reserve Bank of India exercises any control over
 issue of credit cards, and what is the total volume of credit
 created (i.e. total nominal credit limit of the cards issued and
 total credit so far availed of) and the share of the present
 enterprise in such credit. (x) For aforesaid reasons no meaningful decision can be arrived at
 on the basis of the Report of the DG. (xi) It is therefore necessary in the interest of justice that further
 investigation / inquiry may be made in terms of S.26(7) of the
 Act." 13. A perusal of the arguments raised by the I.P. are mainly against the
findings of the D.G. The first argument is that the factors enumerated in section 19(4) have not been examined by the D.G. while submitting the
report. Further, Regulation 20(4) requires that the D.G. should examine
all the allegations made by the I.P. Even the findings of the DG that the
case may be one of unfair trade practices have not been supported by the
facts. Even the explanation defining dominant position in section 4 with
reference to the consumers have not been looked into by the D.G. The
D.G. has also not discussed the information asymmetry in the case of
consumers when they were making the choices. Some other legal issues
have been raised by the I.P. and for the reason it has been argued that
the case should be sent for further investigation under section 26(7) of
the Act. 14. The D.G. in his report has also enclosed a copy of the order of
National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in case no. 51 of
2007. In this case a complaint was lodged against the RBI, HSBC,
American Express, Citi Bank and Standard Chartered Bank. The issue
raised before the commission were: In this case the RBI in its argument before the Commission agreed that
large number of complaints were being received by the RBI against the
charging of very high rates of interest. It was argued that RBI had
already issued a direction to the banks that excessive rates of interest
should not be charged. On behalf of Citibank, it was argued that under section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act the RBI can fix the maximum
rates of interest charged by the banks. It was stated if the RBI does not
prescribe the interest rate then the banks cannot be held liable for
charging very high rates of interest. It was also argued that the rate of
interest was calculated taking into account the defaults and the risk
involved and therefore the charging of interest at the rates of interest
36%-49% was not excessive. On the other hand RBI argued that it was
not rendering any services and therefore the Consumer Act could not
apply to it. It further argued that the charging of interest does not
amount to unfair trade practice. The RBI further stated that it was for the
RBI to determine as to what would be excessive or usurious rate of
interest. The charging of interest depends on various factors. The RBI
then relied on Usurious Loans Act, 1918 where 'excessive interest' has 25 been defined to mean as to what the Court deems to be in excess of what
should have been charged taking into account the risks involved.
According to the RBI, the card business is in the non-priority sector and
that the banks were free to fix the rate of interest, without reference to
their "benchmark prime lending rates". They also argued the RBI was a
regulator and therefore cannot be made subject matter of proceedings
before the Commission. It was also argued that the policy decision had
been taken by the RBI after the liberalization of the economy that the RBI
would not regulate rates of interest charged by banks. HSBC argued that
the charging of interest could not be the subject matter of disputes before
the Commission in view of section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act
1949. HSBC further argued that the interest due was calculated only on
the unpaid balance. Similar arguments were advanced by the American
Express Bank. It was also argued that the credit card market in India was
very small and that the chances of recovery in India in view of the legal
complexities involved was very small. The Commission considered all the
arguments and held that the complaint was maintainable under the Consumer Protection Act . The Commission also held that the practices
followed by the banks were unfair trade practices. The Commission,
therefore, directed that the bank should not charge interest in excess of
30% per annum. It also held that the penal interest can be charged only
once for one period of default and cannot be capitalized. It was further
held that the interest with monthly rests is also unfair trade practice. The
Commission bank therefore directed that the banks should not indulge in
the aforesaid unfair trade practices. Aggrieved against this order of the
National Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, the banks went to the
Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has stayed the order of the
Commission. 15. From perusal of the above discussion, it is clear that in this
particular case the complaint is only against the HDFC bank. The practice
followed by all the banks in the credit card market is the same. Therefore 26 it is a case of class action and a case of practices followed by the banks in
the credit card business. 16. Before proceeding further it is necessary to examine the nature of
the credit card business in India. The business is mainly carried out in
the credit card area through the provision of the services provided by two
American Companies i.e. Visa card and Master card. These two American
Companies have signed agreements with shops, establishments,
enterprises that they would accept payments by cards on purchase of
goods and services made by the customers. The banks have also taken
help from Visa and Master cards by paying fees and on the strength of
their agreements with these two American companies banks have issued
cards to various customers. The Customers or the cardholders holding
the cards of the banks issued in association with Visa and Master card can
make purchases without carrying any money. After the transaction of
purchase or services is made the data gets electronically transferred to
the computer base of Visa or Master card and after settlement the
amounts are transferred to the banks by the card operators. A bank then
raises the bills on their customers and gives them a grace period. If the
customers make the payments within the grace period no interest is
charged by the banks. The bank also gives an option to the cardholders
that they could make the payments in installments known as EMI on
which the banks charge interest and service charges. Most of the banks
in India have their card services division located at Chennai and therefore
all the bills are raised from Chennai. 17. The card business started in the USA. Initially the person who
started the business attached a magnetic strip to the card and the said
person contacted many shops and establishments which would honour the
card. The cardholders made the payment by card and the data of the
transaction was captured on the magnetic strip. The customer would
then go to the bank and the bank on the basis of magnetic strip would 27 work out the amount payable by the customer and customer would pay
the amount. Subsequently, with improvement in computer science and
telecommunication the card system got a boost in the USA and the first
company which started the system of credit cards was Diners card
sometime in the 1960s. Subsequently the banks took up the business
and started issuing cards. But after the entry of Visa & Master cards,
after 1970s the credit card business took over as it became a source of
credit for the consumers. In India also Diners card made an entry in
around 1980 and the foreign banks introduced the credit card system in
India afterwords. The first public sector bank which introduced credit
card in India was Bank of Baroda. Subsequently, the other banks
followed. The credit card business has a huge potential in India though it
has not been popularized till today. 18. In fact in 2008 there were 27 million holders of credit card in India
and in 2011 the total number of credit cards in India came down to 18.85
million. Thus there was a decrease of approximately 8 million cards
within a period of nearly three years. There are certain consumer
organizations in India which are asking consumers to surrender their
credit cards for the simple reason that the bank are following unfair trade
practices by charging very high rate of interest and by capitalizing interest
and the service charges every month. It was therefore primarily due to
the practices followed by the banks that the credit card business has not
grown by leaps and bounds in India. In fact before the RBI there are over
nearly 18,000 complaints in respect of overcharging, non-transparency
and misselling of the credit cards. 19. On the other hand the debit cards in India have increased by 31%
in the last one year and the total numbers of debit cards are 137 million
in India. These debit cards also marketed by the banks in association
with Visa and Master Cards and the Cards are linked with the accounts of
the holder of the cards in the various banks. In the case of debit cards, 28 one cannot spend more than the available balance in the bank accounts.
Debit cards in India are more popular because Indians by nature are
saving lot of money as the saving rate in India is nearly 33% whereas the
saving rate in the USA prior to 2008 was 0.2%. 20. Credit cards give credit to the credit cardholders in the market and
this helps in the following ways:- 21. The above discussion shows that growth in credit cards leads to the
growth of credit in the markets in India and it leads to higher
consumption by the consumers and therefore economic development. Under the Competition Act, 2002 , one of the key elements is economic
development in India and the other item is the protection of consumers.
Maintaining and sustaining competition in the markets in India is only for
the benefit of the consumers. All these items are mentioned in the
Preamble to the Competition Act. The Preamble also talks of having
freedom of trade for all the participants in India. Freedom of trade means
freedom of choice, lower switching costs and proper information system
for the consumers to make the right choice. Freedom of trade amounts 29 to the protection of consumers and participants in the market from
anticompetitive agreements, protection from cartels, from anticompetitive
trade practices, control of markets, collusive bidding, refusal to deal, tie in
arrangements etc. and abuse of dominance. Abuse of dominant position
involves the above named factors, unfair and discriminatory practices and
prices, denial of market access, supplementary obligation and protecting
other markets. Freedom of trade, equality before in law and liberty of
thought are also incorporated in the Constitution of India. Therefore the
Competition Law expands the scope of Constitutional guarantees. These
are all incorporated in Sections 3 and 4 of the Competition Act. 22. A salient feature of the Act is the presence of markets. Freedom of
trade can only exist when markets exist. All the factors mentioned in
Sections' 3 and 4 presuppose the existence of a market. In a market
there has to be a buyer and a seller. The buyer is also known as a
consumer and economy does well when consumer surplus increases. In
fact anticompetitive agreements are those which create an appreciable
adverse effect in the markets in India. Market is a general terms whereas
relevant market is a special and a narrower term. Under the provisions of
section 4, an abuse of dominant position can exist only in a relevant
market. 23. In this case when the consumer wanted to subscribe to a credit
card, there were a large number of banks which had the products which
the consumer could take. The market for credit cards was vibrant as
there were large number of players and no player was a monopolist.
Choosing a good credit card depended on the perception of the
consumers. Such perception is built on advertisement and the persuasive
powers of the agents of the card issuers. Incidentally in India the card
issues in India are mainly banks. But the card business of the bank is a
different market from the main banking business of the banks. 24. Further, the trade practices followed by most of the banks are the
same. Most of them charge very high rate of interest when a person
defaults in payment. They also capitalize the interest on daily basis and
also include some hidden costs which is charged to the consumers.
Therefore in reality though the banks are having a different card system
there is no difference as far as the levy of the charges on the consumer is
concerned. In fact once the consumer opts for credit card of a bank then
he is captured by the bank and once the captured he is made to pay
heavy payment of interest which is capitalised on daily / monthly basis.
Once a consumer opt to take a card of another bank he is out of the
market of credit card but he can re-enter the credit card market if he
takes the card of another bank. Thus there are different relevant markets
i.e. one is the banking market and the other is credit card market. But
once a consumer opts for a card he is out of both the markets and he is in
the market where the dominant player is the bank which has issued the
credit card to him. This market is sometime known as the aftermarket or
the market of servicing of credit taken on the credit cards. This third
market is different from the banking market or credit card market and the
main players in the market happen to the consumer and the bank issuing
the card unless there is a securitisation of the outstanding on the credit
cards. 25. The DG in his report has stated that even after an agreement is
reached between a bank and a consumer market remains the credit card
market and as HDFC bank is not a dominant player in the credit card
market no case of abuse of dominance is made out. As already discussed
above when we are considering the consumer and the bank the market is
neither banking nor credit card market but it is a market of the serving of
credit taken on the credit card. To this extent the findings of the DG are
erroneous. 26. The DG has also stated that in order to be a dominant player in the
market one has to be a biggest player in the market. In fact the issues
raised by the I.P. before him were never considered by the DG. In the
explanation to section 4 of the competition Act dominant position has
been defined as follows: The above definition will show dominant position means a position of
strength and does not mean that the player in the relevant market should
be biggest player in the market. A position of strength is achieved when
enterprise can operate independently of the competitive forces prevailing
in the relevant market or it affects its competitors or consumers or the
relevant market itself in its favour. In this particular case the relevant
market has already been decided to being a market where a consumer
services the loans or credits taken on his credit card. The geographical
market in this case would be entire India. In this particular market the
banks issuing the card enjoys a position of strength which affects its
consumers in its favour. Therefore, all onerous charges on the consumer
have to be borne by the consumer and he has to suffer abuse. 27. The question would arise about existence of a market consisting of
only the bank and the consumer. This market known as an aftermarket is
supported by the decision of the U.S. Supreme Court the case of Kodak
[Kodak Co. Vs. Image Tech. SVCS504 U.S. 451(1992)]. In the case,
Kodak was the manufacturer of photocopiers like many other
manufacturers. Initially for repairs and servicing of photocopiers Kodak 32 appointed 17 persons as service agents. Some of the service agents were
very efficient and started getting some items manufactured on their own
for servicing the photocopiers of Kodak. As Kodak used to buy the entire
spare parts from the part suppliers, it changed its business policy in
respect of maintenance and service of photocopiers. Kodak cancelled the
service contracts of the 17 service agents and it asked its customer to get
the photocopiers serviced and maintained in the workshops of Kodak or
some authorised agents of Kodak. As a result the 17 parties who were
the earlier service agents suffered a loss and their business came to a
standstill. These 17 persons therefore moved the Courts. The issue went
to the U.S. Supreme Court which held that the market of photocopiers is
different from the market of servicing and maintenance of photocopiers.
Though Kodak was not a major player in the market of photocopiers, it
became a monopoly player in the market of maintenance and service of
the photocopiers as servicing and supply of spares was under the control
of Kodak. The Supreme Court in this case held that Kodak abused its
position in the relevant market of servicing and maintenance of
photocopiers. While coming to this conclusion the Supreme Court held
that the aspects to be seen in such cases of aftermarket abuse are the
costs of switching and information asymmetry. 28. In this particular case we have to examine as to whether switching
costs exist. A person can switch from the credit card of one bank to
credit card of another bank after he has cleared of his dues with the
earlier bank at whose hand the consumer may have suffered abuse. A
consumer can take an additional card also in the credit card market but
he cannot exit from the card of a bank where dues are still outstanding.
Information asymmetry exists in this case because in this particular case
the facts were not made known to the consumer and only when the
Cardmember Agreement was given to the consumer. It can be assumed
that the card member is supposed to read the card member agreement 33 but the recovery portion is written in such a manner that a normal person
finds difficult to understand. There is no doubt that a consumer could
refuse to use the card provided he was able to read and understand the
terms which were there in the Cardmember Agreement. There is,
therefore, a case of information asymmetry in this particular case. 29. A question may arise that once a consumer knowing all the terms
agreed to the terms for the use of the card he is bound by the terms even
if they are onerous. This view of privity of contract has been raised
before the Supreme Court of India in various cases and the Supreme
Court decided such a view was possible only in the 19th Century and not
in the present era. According to the Supreme Court the factors to be
seen while deciding the validity of a contract is whether the contract is
opposed to a public policy and whether it violates Parts III & IV of the
Constitution of India. If a contract contravened the above named items
then such a contract was a void contract and not enforceable. The
Supreme Court in some other cases has held that when a very big
economic player enters into a contract with an individual who is
economically weak, then the courts have to decide whether the contract is
loaded in favour of the big player. In such cases, many contracts have to
be examined and may be declared as void. 30. The agreement here i.e. cardholder agreement is not a proper
agreement. For agreement to be valid there should be an offer and
acceptance and then the terms can be drawn up in the form of
agreement. Here the cardholder agreement is thrust on the cardholder
provided he wants to use the card of the bank. In fact most of the banks
and other business establishment follow this practice for historical
reasons. Such a contract is known has a Contract of Adhesion. Whether
such a contract is valid or not can only be decided by Court of Law and as 34 far as the Commission is concerned, such a contract can be considered
only under Section 3(1) of the Competition Act. 31. The informant wants the case to be referred back to the DG for
further investigation. The DG's role is that of a fact finding body and any
opinion or any legal provision be given by the DG is not finding and it is
for the Commission to decide the validity of such findings. In this
particular case all the facts have been brought on record and therefore
there is no necessity in sending the case to the DG for fresh investigation.
The erroneous view of law propounded by the DG can be overruled by the
Commission while deciding the case. 32. In this particular case the relevant market and the relevant
geographical market have already been defined. The relevant market is
the market where a consumer services the loans or credits taken on his
credit card and the geographical market is entire India. The next
question to be examined is as to whether there is an abuse of dominant
position by the bank. In this case the dominant position of the bank in
respect of consumer has already been discussed above. The only issue to
be decided is the issue of dominance. In this particular case the first
issue is a charging of interest on outstanding balance for the use of credit
card. In the case of cards interest is charge on daily / monthly basis. But
in the case of overdraft interest is charge on quarterly basis whereas in
the case of agricultural loans interest is charged on yearly basis in
accordance with the direction of the RBI. There is hardly any difference
between overdraft facilities and credit availed of on the strength of credit
cards. Both are borrowings and the borrowings are not secured by any
assets. Following different practices of charging interest on credit cards
and overdraft accounts it is discriminatory and in violation of section
4(2)(a)(i) of the Competition Act. The International practice is that 35 interest should be charged on half-yearly or the yearly basis. The
question which arises as to why in the case of credit cards the interest is
charged on daily basis. 33. The reason given for charging interest on daily / monthly basis is
that the element of risk on the credit cards is very high. The element of
risk in overdraft accounts is in the same as the risk on outstanding on
credit cards. Therefore, this argument does not hold good. It is quite
possible that this method of charging interest is the adopted by the banks
in India following the foreign banks who introduced credit cards in India
before the PSU banks entered this business. In the view of the foreign
banks India was an underdeveloped country and had higher risks and
therefore they started charging interest on daily / monthly basis. This
practice is not followed by them in their home countries. This is a
discriminatory behaviour. The Indian banks followed the same practice
without the application of mind. The credit cards business in India exists
for the last 30 years against 50 years in the U.S. The market is not
nascent and market is quite mature. Further, India is not a
underdeveloped country. It is one of the top five economies in the world.
For this reason the element of risk in India is not very high. Moreover it
was the duty of the bank to bring on record the element of risks by giving
data in respect of bad debts dates on account of credit cards. This has
not been done and therefore the arguments are not supported by any
material. The total amount outstanding as bad debts in the books of
banks is $28 billion i.e. Rs. 1,40,000crore approx. Against this as per the
last date available the total outstanding on the credit cards of all the
banks is approx Rs.6500crores. This is a very small amount compared to
the total outstanding bad debts of banks. 34. In this case the bank is charging very high rate of interest on the
outstandings on the credit card. In certain cases the interest charged is
approximately 50%. The banks are relying on section 21A of the Banking
Regulation Act 1949 and arguing that courts cannot look into the aspect
of the charging of interest. Section 21A of the Competition Act reads as
under: 35. while examining an issue under section 4 of the Competition Act,
not only the provisions of section 4 have to applied, even the factors
mentioned in section 19(4) have also to be seen. The explanation to
section 4 talks of position of strength in the relevant market in India
which enables an enterprise to affect its consumers in its favour. As
already discussed above, the relevant market cannot be the credit card
market. Once a person takes a credit card, he goes out of credit card
market and he becomes a consumer of the bank whose credit card he has
taken. The consumer is then governed by the contract of adhesion which
the consumer had signed. Thus, the market is the aftermarket. In fact,
the ratio laid down in Kodak's case is incorporated in the Competition Act,
2002 . As far as the factors in Section 19(4) of the Act are concerned,
clause (g) is applicable because it talks of dominant position acquired
otherwise i.e. by the contract. The other factors such as clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (j) and (l) are clearly applicable to this case. There is no
point in discussing them in detail as the facts have already been
discussed in this order. The practices followed by the banks act as a
brake to economic development and are therefore anticompetitive. The
interest charged by the banks are usurious and require to be decreased.
The charging of interest after the operation of the card and then
compounding the said interest is unfair. 36. Therefore in pursuance of section 27 of the Act, (i) the bank should cease and desist from carrying on business on the
basis of the Cardmember agreement and the bank should not abuse its
dominance with reference to its consumers. (ii) the bank should not enforce the Cardmember agreement and
should not recover from the informant than that what was due and should
not charge any interest after the use of the card was stopped. (iii) the charge of interest by the bank is excessive and no interest in
excess of 30% should be charged. Penal interest should be charged once
only and should not be capitalised. Even the interest charged with
monthly rest is unfair trade practice and should be stopped. (R. Prasad)
 Member, CCI 40