1. The writ petition has been preferred against the

 demands of the respondent-Bank on the basis of

 transactions allegedly made by the petitioner. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner argues that the

 petitioner was the victim of cyber crime and was duped

 into making the transaction. 3. The petitioner reported the incident within one

 hour from its occurrence to the Bank. 4. As such, by placing reliance on the Circular issued

 by the RBI on July 6, 2017 for Customer Protection -

 Limiting Liability of Customers in Unauthorized

 Electronic Banking Transactions, learned counsel

 submits that as per payment due under Clause 8 thereon

 the petitioner has zero liability as a customer if the fraud

 is reported within three working days. 2 5. Learned counsel for the Bank submits that the

Bank has already initiated a proceeding for arbitration in

that regard. 6. Moreover, it is argued that the petitioner himself

confirmed the transaction by responding to the OTP

number. 7. However, the very premise of the petitioner's

allegation before the Bank and the investigating agency is

that the petitioner was a victim of cyber fraud. 8. Hence, the mere fact that the petitioner might have

responded to the OTP, being misled to do so, was one of

the components of the fraud and cannot be held against

the petitioner. 9. Moreover, the Circular dated July 6, 2017 issued

by the RBI prevails and the petitioner's liability, having

reported the fraud within three working days, is zero. 10. Thus, irrespective of the Bank's initiation of an

arbitration proceeding, the Bank cannot insist upon the

petitioner paying the amount which is the subject matter

of the fraud. 7. Accordingly, WPA 10311 of 2023 is allowed, thereby

restraining the respondent-Bank from making any claim

whatsoever from the petitioner on the basis of the amount

which was fraudulently debited from the account of the

petitioner on the strength of the petitioner's credit card. 3 8. It is made clear that nothing in this order shall

influence the ongoing investigation in any manner. 9. Subject to the outcome of the said investigation, it

will be open to the parties to renew their claims against

each other on the said sum. 10. The respondent-Bank shall also reverse the adverse

CIBIL listing of the petitioner on the ground of the

amount covered by the said fraud within twenty four

hours from now. There will be no order as to costs. Urgent photostat copies of this order, if applied for,

be given to the parties upon compliance of all requisite

formalities. (Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya, J.)