1. This Cyber Appeal, under Section 57 (1) of Information Technology

 Act, 2000, (IT Act ) has been filed by Appellant, Telecom Service

 Provider, i.e. Vodafone Idea Ltd. (formerly Idea Cellular Ltd.) against

 complainant/respondent No. 1, Mr. Rajkumar Shreelal Singhee and

 seven others, against impugned Judgment, of Shri S V R Srinivas, IAS,

 Principal Secretary (Information Technology), Government of 3 Maharashtra, / Adjudicating Authority, under Information Technology

 Act , dated, 14.08.2018, passed in Complaint No. 39 of 2016 (Mr.

 Rajkumar Shreelal Singhee Vs. Gajanan Doye and others). 2. In brief, the memo of appeal contends that respondent no. 1,

 Rajkumar Shreelal Singhee is a subscriber of appellant i.e. Vodafone

 Idea Ltd., which is a public limited company, duly incorporated under

 the Companies Act, 2013 , having its registered office at Suman Tower,

 Plot No. 18, Sector 11, Gandhinagar, Gujarat 382011, and Circle office

 at The Metropolitan, F.P. No. 27, S. No. 21, Old Mumbai Pune

 Highway, Wakdewadi, Shivajinagar, Pune 411003. This is a cellular

 network service provider and a licensee, under the Unified access

 Service License (UASL), duly licensed by the Department of

 Telecommunications(DoT), Government of India, to provide mobile

 telephony services. 3. Respondent No. 1, had originally been the customer of Idea Cellular

 Ltd., which is the erstwhile name of the Appellant Company, but this

 name has been changed from Idea Cellular Ltd. to Vodafone Idea Ltd.

 w.e.f. 31.08.2018, and the Certificate of Incorporation of Registrar of

 Companies, evidencing change of name is Annexure A1 to this memo.

 Complainant / respondent no. 1, Mr. Rajkumar Shreelal Singhee was 4 issued a SIM card for mobile number 9822227982 in his name with a

 CAF alongwith supporting documents, which are collectively annexed

 as Annexure A2 to the memo. 4. A Complaint No. 39 of 2016, dated 9.8.2016, was filed with

 Adjudicatory Authority, with a contention, that on 02.07.2016, a

 person, claiming himself to be Rajkumar Shreelal Singhee, visited "My

 Idea" store namely, Shreemant Services, situated in Gondia Town,

 Nagpur, Maharashtra, which is a franchisee store of the appellant,

 with a grievance that he has lost his original SIM card and requested

 for issuance of a duplicate SIM card. Upon the receipt of SIM

 replacement request, alongwith requisite documents of the

 subscriber, namely, the PAN Card copy, bearing the name of

 respondent no. 1, the appellant verified the documents and

 subsequently, issued a new SIM card to that person, after following

 the strict prescribed procedure. But owing to this issuance of SIM

 card, the entire liability of Rs. 26,70,000/- has been imposed over

 appellant vide impugned order dated 14.08.2018, by adjudicatory

 authority, with a direction to make payment of compensation in the

 tune of Rs. 26,70,000/-. Whereas, complaint was with contention that

 complainant is the proprietor of Suryodaya Metal Craft Pvt. Ltd.,

 Sanket Steel Industries and Swastik Refrigeration located at Nagpur. 5 The complainant had accounts with United Bank of India (A/c No.

1258210031851), Punjab National Bank(A/c No. 03530002100965426)

and Saraswat Bank (A/c No. 067500100000271) for above said

business units, wherein complainant's mobile number 9822227982

was registered as registered mobile number and this mobile number

was being used since last 10 years. On July 2,2016, the complainant

noticed that his mobile had no connectivity and upon visiting the

office of respondent no. 2, it was informed by the service provider

that a new duplicate SIM card was issued on the number of

complainant on 2.7.2016 by one of the dealers i.e. respondent no. 1 in

complaint. The complainant protested the said un-authorised

activation of SIM card without his consent and on 04.07.2016, a new

SIM card was issued to the present complainant on the same mobile

number with an assurance for its activation after complete verification

being made. On 05.07.2016 morning, complainant received two

messages from United Bank regarding debit of Rs. 5,00,000/- each. On

visiting the office of concerned bank i.e, respondent no. 4 of the

complaint, the complainant observed that a total of Rs. 17,00,000/-

was got transferred from his United Bank of India Account on July 4

and July 5, 2016, through NEFT and RTGS mechanism. On verifying

with other accounts also, he observed that his PNB and Saraswat Bank 6 accounts were also showing fraudulent transfer of Rs. 3,70,000/- and

Rs. 6,00,000/- respectively. These transactions through NEFT / RTGS

and mobile mechanism transfers were not authorised by the

complainant. Rather, were a result of fraud. A Police complaint was

got lodged in this respect on 6.07.2016 at Tahsil Police Station, Nagpur

vide FIR No. 135/2016. The matter was got investigated by the police,

with a conclusion, on the basis of documents including complainant's

plea and the responses given by the respondents, investigated by the

police. The immediate reason for the occurrence of un-authorised

transaction in the bank account of the complaint appears to be a

duplicate SIM card issued by a service provider, through its franchisee

Shreemant Services, i.e. respondent no. 1 in complaint, a franchisee of

respondent no. 2, without properly verifying the KYC of the person

requesting for a duplicate SIM Card. It was also alleged by the

complainant that there is lack of observance of reasonable security

practices and procedures by the banks i.e. respondent nos. 4, 5 and 6,

as the complainant used to carry out NEFT/RTGS transactions by

issuing cheques and never through online fund transfer option, except

in matters of government tenders and the same deviation was not

caught by the respondent banks. It was alleged by respondent that

respondent nos. 7,9,11 and 13, being the beneficiary banks, did not 7 follow KYC norms while opening accounts. Therefore, it is claimed that

 the financial loss, suffered by the complainant, be got compensated

 by these respondent banks. 5. The adjudicatory authority issued notices to respondents in complaint,

 and in response, the present appellant, respondent no. 2 for it and on

 behalf of respondent nos. 1 and 3, vide reply dated 26.7.2017 stated

 that they have implemented all security practices and layers

 mandated by DoT and TRAI guidelines, and that the complainant and

 respondent banks have been negligent in keeping his account details,

 safe and confidential. Respondent no. 2 stated that the request for

 issue of SIM card was made by the fraudster, citing loss of SIM card as

 a reason and documents given for the same i.e. PAN Card copy with

 name of Rajkumar Singhee and the request form, signed by said

 fraudster ,were properly verified. Since complainant had not provided

 his registered email address to the respondent, notification of SIM

 Card change was sent on the alternate mobile number of the

 complainant. Respondent no. 2 also stated in their written response,

 dated 14.08.2018 that the bank transfer cannot be completed without

 a customer ID or Login ID and the same cannot be recovered or

 changed using mobile number. The United Bank of India, respondent

 no. 4 of the complaint, vide its reply dated 13.08.2018, stated that the 8 details of the transaction were delivered to the complainant via SMS

alert and all beneficiaries were added on 02.07.2016, the information

of which was also sent to the complainant. No deviation in the system

with respect to security and OTP based transaction and no lapse in

Bank's internet banking were observed by the bank. Complainant

must have compromised with the login ID and transaction passwords,

without which these transactions may never occurred. More so,

complainant ought to visit the bank branch immediately on noticing

the registered mobile number had no connectivity, in order to avoid

illegal transactions. Punjab National Bank, respondent no. 5 in

complaint, in its reply dated 9.08.2018 stated that the fraud was

practiced by creating duplicate SIM Card facilitated by respondent

nos. 1, 2 and 3. SMS intimation was served for the transaction in

question on the registered mobile number of complainant.

Meaningful investigation through Fraud Investigation Unit was carried

out by respondent no. 5. They have necessary checks and balances to

ensure that no fraud takes place and they have taken all precautions,

while KYC norms to be in place. Saraswat Bank, respondent no. 6, in

its reply dated 6.8.2018, had stated to have taken measures to

mitigate the risks of unauthorised use of the customer's online

banking and mobile banking facilities and have inbuilt codes in their 9 software systems to avoid suspicious transactions. In present case, the

person who accessed the online banking of the complainant was

already aware of the login ID and transaction passwords, because the

bank only generates OTP, when it was requested from the registered

mobile number. The IP address, from which the fraudulent

transaction took place, is the same IP address, from where number of

other transactions have been carried out by the complainant. Bank

had taken all necessary actions in relation to complainant's online

banking account. The beneficiaries banks, in their respective replies,

have categorically denied their responsibilities, with regard to

concerned transactions. Rather, had mentioned that transactions

were made through RTGS and were completed by way of subsequent

withdrawal of same. All KYC norms were followed at the time of

opening of those beneficiary accounts and after this communication

of fraud, those credit and debit were freezed immediately on

intimation of fraudulent transactions. The averments made in

pleadings as well as evidences placed on record, with written

submissions filed by the parties were heard and impugned order,

directing to make payment of Rs. 26,70,000/- by this service provider - appellant, was made without observing and making discussion over

the pleadings and negligence of complainant himself regarding 10 compromise with user password ID, transaction ID, alert for these

 transactions. Hence, this appeal with this ground that the complaint,

 at best will fall under the telecom dispute, which falls outside the

 scope and ambit of IT Act . 6. Appellant company is a cellular network service provider and a

 licensee under the Unified Access Service License, duly licensed by

 the DoT, Government of India, in the State of Maharashtra and Goa,

 with effect from 11.10.2013. It's functions were governed by the

 provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 , Indian Wireless

 Telegraphy Act, 1933 and TRAI Act, 1997 . Allegation in the instant

 case revolves around the unauthorised / fraudulent transfer of money

 from the bank accounts of respondent no.1, complainant, maintained

 with respondent banks. And there exists no contractual relationship

 between the Telecom Service Provider i.e., appellant with respondent

 banks. 7. The subscriber verification is not a subject matter of IT Act . Rather, it

 falls under the jurisdiction and domain of DoT, under the Telegraph

 Act and the rules made therein. Learned Adjudicatory Authority is not

 the appropriate forum for adjudication of the alleged general

 negligence. Rather, deviation of required precaution by and on behalf 11 of TSP will originate a telecom dispute to be resolved through a

 specific mechanism prescribed under Telecommunication statues and

 not under IT Act . No cause of action had arisen against the TSP under section 43A , of IT Act because the appellant does not possess, handle

 or deal with the sensitive personal data or information. Learned

 Adjudicating Authority failed to appreciate that in the process of

 issuance of SIM cards, Replacement of SIM card, or issuance of

 duplicate SIM card, the documents required and mandated to

 appellant are limited to personal identification documents, such as

 PAN Card, authority letter and the requisite form, which does not

 include the information such as bank accounts number, online

 banking and login account password etc. which were constituting

 sensitive personal data for the purpose of commission of any offence

 as alleged under the IT Act . 8. In the present case, TSP, i.e appellant has no role to play in the

 completion of NEFT/RTGS transaction in any way, whatsoever, rather,

 the complainant i.e. respondent no. 1 had himself been negligent in

 compromising his sensitive personal data i.e. login password,

 transaction password of his bank accounts. The exemption from

 liability under section 79 of IT Act accrues in favour of appellant. 12 Hence, this appeal with a prayer to set aside the impugned order,

 dated 14.08.2018. 9. Reply to this memo was by complainant - respondent no. 1 with the

 same contention as were in the complaint, written as above. The

 sensitive personal data of complainant's SIM Card was compromised

 at the location of TSP, present appellant and thereby complainant

 suffered a loss of Rs. 26,70,000/- for which approach was made to

 Hon'ble adjudicatory authority of State of Maharashtra, wherein

 impugned judgment has been passed. Failure to protect sensitive

 personal data, in the control of TSP, and thereby commission of such

 fraudulent transaction, is governed and exclusively covered under section 43 of IT Act with a remedy of filing complaint within the scope

 of IT Act before Adjudicating Authority as per section 46 of IT Act.

 Unauthorised / fraudulent transfer of money was resultant of the

 issuance of duplicate SIM card, without proper verification of data,

 held by the TSP-appellant, is genesis of present dispute. 10. Telecom Service Provider, present appellant has violated two

 significant guidelines issued by DoT, No. 1 - File No. 800-09/2010 -

 VAS dated 29.12.2014, issued to all CMTS/UAS/UL(AS)/UL Licensee(s)

 highlighting collecting aadhar numbers alongwith Customer 13 Application form and storing in data base alongwith other data by

 TSP. No. 2 - File No. 800-09/2010 -VAS dated 09.08.2012, highlighting

 instructions on verification of New Mobile Subscribers (Pre- Paid &

 Post Paid) which makes passport size photograph of customer

 mandatory alongwith CAF and physical verification of documents

 with original and updation of SIM in data base of licensee. Both these

 guidelines make the information about the subscribers to be uploaded

 in data base. At the time of verification, this data base residing in

 computer resource of appellant is assessed and in present case, it is

 relevant that negligence in handling of above data base, thereby

 causing huge loss to complainant is established. Hence, the prayer was

 for dismissing the appeal. 11. The objection was further replicated by rejoinder wherein again,

 contention of reply as well this memo of appeal was reiterated. 12.The reply of PNB and rejoinder over it, reply of Saraswat Bank and

 rejoinder over it, reply of UBI and rejoinder over it, reply of UBI and

 rejoinder over it, reply by respondent no. 5 SBI, are with the same

 contention and reiteration as were written before Learned

 Adjudicatory Authority, written as above. 13.This Tribunal while hearing this appeal at the very admission stage had

 observed that the actual alleged fraudulent transaction was of Rs.

 26,70,000/- and the award was of Rs. 26,70,000/- i.e. with no interest,

 no cost, no cost for damage or for mental harassment etc. 14.Hence, the complainant was given an opportunity to raise a counter

 appeal with regard to it in case of any advise to him. And in response

 to this order, Cyber Appeal No. 20 of 2018 was filed by complainant-

 Mr. Rajkumar Shreelal Singhee, as appellant, against same

 respondents, who were opposite parties in original complaint i.e.

 Gajanan Doye / Shreemant Services, Shop No. 39, Raj Laxmi Complex,

 Pal Chowk, Rail Toli, Gondia, Maharashtra and 14 others, with the

 grievance against impugned judgment dated 14.8.2018 of Ld.

 Adjudicating Authority, Maharashtra, passed in Complaint No. 39 of

 2016, with this contention that complaint was filed before

 adjudicatory authority for a compensation of Rs. 30 lakhs for failure to

 protect sensitive personal information, under Section 43 A of IT Act,

 but Rs. 26,70,000/- was ordered to be paid by TSP only, with no denial

 or finding regarding the remaining claim and aggrieved by this order

 for awarding less/inadequate compensation, present appeal has been

 filed with the same contention of the complaint, as was made before

 Ld. Adjudicatory authority, written as above and this appeal too, was 15 being countered and rejoindered, with the same contentions by

 respective parties, as have been there in connected Cyber Appeal no.

 10 of 2018, that is the leading appeal, being decided together. 15.The prayer in this subsequent appeal is to enhance the amount of

 compensation with a direction for making a compensation in the tune

 of Rs. 3,30,000/- to be paid by respondent nos. 1 to 3 in addition, to

 previously granted one and additional compensation for the loss of

 interest, as well as business loss due to delay of 18 months for

 deciding the matter by adjudicating authority to the tune of Rs. 10

 lakhs and expenses of this litigation in the tune of Rs. 50,000/- with

 any other relief, which this appellate court thinks fit. 16.The very legal argument, made by learned counsel for appellant, with

 regard to jurisdiction of learned adjudicating authority, under section

 43 of IT Act, appeal under section 56 / 57 of IT Act, caring for personal

 data, ouster of jurisdiction of this Tribunal, because of matter being

 telecom in nature, not under the domain of IT Act, 2000 etc. etc. have

 been vehemently argued in previously decided Cyber Appeals argued

 by this very learned senior counsel and have been heard and decided

 against the Telecom Service Provider, with proposition of law that the

 issuance of duplicate SIM card, without observing the due procedure 16 and precaution, thereby fraudulently syphoning of money, is within section 43 of IT Act, to be raised and got adjudicated by learned

 adjudicatory authority, under section 46 of IT Act. Few of judgments,

 with citations are being mentioned below for avoiding repetition of

 same and in the interest of brevity of judgment: Though this complaint was be got filed by a director, Rajkumar 19 Shreelal Singhee, but the complaint ought to be, for and on behalf of

 those three independent units. But it is not at all on record. This was

 raised before learned adjudicatory authority, but was not taken in

 account at all. 19.From the very perusal of impugned judgment, it is apparent that the

 loss was there to those three business units, but none of them had

 been made as a party in this proceeding, nor the claim is there for

 their favour. Apparently, this is a blatant error on the face of record.

 For a loss to a company a claim / petition / complaint, with a prayer to

 compensate that loss by a individual director without making

 company as a claimant or array in the party is not maintainable. 20.The judgment in its concluding para is with cryptic finding that "on the

 basis of averments and the written statements submitted by the

 complainant as well as respondents, it is clear that the loss was caused

 to the complainant due to the duplicate Sim Card issued to the alleged

 fraudster without following the KYC norms. The Respondent No.1

 should have thoroughly checked all the relevant documents before

 issuing a duplicate Sim Card, as per telecom guidelines. The complete

 name as well as the signature of Mr. Rajkumar Shreelal Singhee on the

 Pan Card should have been properly tallied. Thid does not seem to 20 have been done by the IDEA franchise. Because of this issuance of

 duplicate Sim Card, the money transfer was facilitated and as a

 consequence, a loss of Rs. 26,70,000/- was caused to the complainant.

 As far as the responsibility of Respondent Banks and other beneficiary

 banks is concerned, they seem to have followed all the norms and

 security measures. In the final analysis, the responsibility of Respondent No. 1, 2

 and 3 is quite serious and cannot be condoned. The undersigned,

 therefore, directs that the complainant be compensated Rs.

 26,70,000/- as the loss was caused due to the issuance of duplicate

 Sim Card by Respondent No. 1, 2 and 3 without proper due diligence.

 Respondent No.1,2 and 3 are directed to pay the said amount to the

 complaint within one month of the receipt of this order. The case is disposed as of above. No order as to costs." 21. There is no reasoning, no discussion with regard to compromise of

 login password, transaction password, KYC norms observation by

 fiduciary banks through which the money was syphoned, deviation

 and pattern in withdrawal of those fraudulent money though RTGS /

 NEFT, without issuing cheques, as was previously being made by

 complainant, or as per complaint itself, no loss of complainant 21 Rajkumar Shreelal Singhee. Rather, the loss of independent three

 business units, including company and business units. Hence, the

 finding and observation of learned adjudicating authority is cryptic,

 not within the domain of judgment, to be said to be a result of a

 judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding. The maintainability of this

 petition / complaint by Rajkumar Shreelal Singhee in its individual

 capacity, without mentioning himself as director, of those three legal

 and independent entities, whether acceptable or not are to be

 adjudged by learned adjudicating authority. 22.Under above discussions, both of these two appeals merits to be

 allowed and the impugned judgment dated 14.8.2018, is liable to be

 set aside, with a further direction of remand of this proceeding to

 concerned learned adjudicating authority, Maharashtra with a

 direction to hear afresh in view of the observations made above and

 the perspective of law and procedure. Thenafter to pass a reasoned

 judgment on the basis of fact and evidence placed before it. 23.One thing is also to be apprised that the claim is of the year 2016 and

 it ought to be decided at an earliest. ORDER

 With above observations, the Cyber Appeal No. 10 of 2018 and Cyber

Appeal No. 20 of 2018 are being allowed. Impugned judgment / order dated

14.08.2018 of adjudicatory authority, is being set aside and file and

proceeding is being remanded back to learned adjudicatory authority for

hearing and decision afresh, as above. ............................ (Justice Ram Krishna Gautam)
 Member
28.11.2025
/NC/