1. The plaintiffs have filed an application being G.A. (Com) No. 1 of 2025

 praying for interim order. The defendants have filed an application

 being G.A. (Com) No. 2 of 2025 praying for referring the parties to

 arbitration. 2. The plaintiff no. 3 is one of the sons of Bhagat Ram Gupta (deceased)

 and the plaintiff no.2 is the wife of the plaintiff no.3 and the plaintiff

 no. 1 is the wife of one of the brothers of Bhagat Ram Gupta (deceased).

 Bhagat Ram Gupta (deceased) had three sons and all the three sons

 were looking after their separate businesses. The plaintiff no. 3 along

 with his wife, the plaintiff no. 2 had shifted their businesses to

 Hyderabad and while the plaintiff no. 1 is residing at Ghaziabad and

 they are involved in various businesses at Hyderabad. There is no stake

 or involvement of the plaintiffs in the defendant no.3. 3. Mr. Chayan Gupta, Learned Counsel appearing for the plaintiffs

 submits that though the plaintiffs have shifted their respective

 businesses at Hyderabad and Ghaziabad, the personal accounts of the

 plaintiffs were filed from Bhubaneswar, as it had always been done in

 the past, by the office of the defendant no.3. In view of the relationship 3 between the plaintiffs and the defendant no.3, the defendant no.3

 would coordinate with the plaintiffs for all filing process and for

 maintenance of their personal accounts. 4. Mr. Gupta submits that on 29th December, 2023, the plaintiffs were

 served with an application under Section 9 of the Arbitration and

 Conciliation Act, 1996 being A.P. (Com) No. 39 of 2023. On receipt of

 the said application, the plaintiffs came to know that the defendant

 no.1 had rendered a loan or any financial assistance of Rs.

 2,00,00,000/- to the defendant no.3 and the plaintiffs are co-applicants

 or co-borrowers of the purported loan. 5. Mr. Gupta submits that the purported loan agreement dated 25th July,

 2023, contained the purported digital signatures of the plaintiffs. He

 submits that the plaintiffs have never signed any agreement for loan.

 The plaintiffs through recollection of memory came to know/ realise

 that on several occasions when the plaintiffs have been asked by the

 defendant no.3 for providing a One Time Password (OTP) for the use of

 digital signature, which would be generated by the defendant no.3, for

 filing and signing various documents for the petitioners, the defendant

 no.3 used such digital signature of the plaintiffs on the alleged loan

 agreement dated 25th July, 2023. 6. Mr. Gupta submits that no consent from the plaintiffs was obtained by

 any of the defendants prior to utilizing the digital signatures of the

 plaintiffs on the alleged agreement. He submits that the defendant no.1 4 and its officers have committed fraud by creating fabricated documents

 dated 25th July, 2023. He submits that the alleged agreement is illegal

 and void. He submits that in reply filed by the defendant no.1 in A.P.

 (Com) No. 39 of 2023 reveals that the entire loan has been adjusted or

 repaid. Despite such being the position, the defendant no.1 is

 purporting to pursue the defendant no.3 and the plaintiffs for

 repayment. 7. Mr. Gupta submits that the plaintiffs have no privity with the alleged

 transaction and are not bound by the alleged document dated 25th

 July, 2023. He submits that the defendant nos.1 and 2 have illegally,

 arbitrarily and malafidely published the names of the plaintiffs as

 defaulters and this would negatively impact on the credit scores of the

 pplaintiffs. 8. Mr. Gupta submits that the parties cannot be referred to arbitration

 and the plaintiffs are not the parties to the agreement and the

 signatures appearing in the agreement are not in any capacity. He

 further submits that the plaintiffs have filed the suit for cancellation

 and declaration of the agreement as null and void and the arbitrator

 cannot declare the agreement as null and void. 9. Mr. Gupta further submits that one of the principal reliefs claimed by

 the plaintiffs in the suit is a direction on CIBIL not to take any steps

 on the basis of the false reporting made by the defendant no.1 and

 CIBIL is not a party to the agreement. 10. Mr. Gupta submits that the agreement is only between two parties i.e.

 'lender' being the defendant no.1 and the 'borrower' being the defendant

 no.3. Nowhere, in the said agreement, the names of the plaintiffs

 appear in any capacity to make them as party to the arbitration

 agreement. He submits that merely because the signatures of the

 plaintiffs were obtained by the defendant no.1 by perpetrating fraud,

 the plaintiffs cannot be said to be 'parties' to the agreement. 11. Mr. Swatarup Banerjee, Learned Counsel representing the defendant

 no.1 submits that after detailed verification and credit analysis of the

 defendant no.3, the defendant no.1 sanctioned a loan facility to the

 defendant no. 3 on 25th July, 2023, which was accepted by all the

 parties. The facility agreement was also signed by all the parties

 including the plaintiffs. The defendant no.3 was the primary applicants

 to the facility agreement and the plaintiffs and others are the co-

 applicants of the loan agreement. Through the facility agreement dated

 25th July, 2023, the defendant no.1 has extended a credit facility of Rs.

 2,00,00,000/- and all the parties have executed the agreement by

 affixing digital signatures. 12. Mr. Banerjee submits that the agreement contains arbitration clause

 and all the parties to the suit except CIBIL are the parties to the

 agreement. He submits that the plaintiffs instead of invoking the

 provisions of the arbitration clause in the agreement have filed the suit

 before this Court by making CIBIL a party to the suit only to avoid

 arbitration. 13. Mr. Banerjee submits that with respect to the claims between the

 plaintiffs and the defendants, CIBIL is not a necessary party and the

 plaintiffs have not prayed for any relief against CIBIL. 14. Mr. Banerjee submits that the borrowers failed to repay tranches of

 credit facilities granted against the invoice dated 31st July, 2023 and

 have committed default under the facility agreement due to which the

 defendant no.1 recalled the loan and called upon the borrowers to

 repay the amount which had fallen due. 15. Mr. Banerjee submits that the defendant no.1 had filed an application

 under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 for grant

 of interim order against the borrowers but in the said application, the

 defendant no.3 has filed an affidavit stating that an amount of Rs.

 2,00,00,000/- in terms of the invoice dated 31st July, 2023, had

 already been paid. Taking into consideration the Hon'ble Court

 dismissed the application filed by the defendant no.1. He submits that

 from the affidavit of the defendant no.3 itself reveals that an amount of

 Rs. 99,44,000/- is still remains unpaid. 16. Mr. Banerjee submits that the allegations of fraud, which has been

 stated in the plaint clearly demonstrates that the plaintiffs do not

 dispute the agreement per se being invalid or not in existence but

 alleges that the plaintiff's digital signatures have been obtained by

 fraud. He submits that the validity and existence of the agreement is

 not in dispute. 17. Mr. Banerjee submits that as the agreement contains arbitration clause

 and the parties are required to be referred to arbitration, thus no

 interim order can be passed as prayed for by the plaintiffs. 18. The plaintiffs have filed the suit praying for the following reliefs: 19. The document which the plaintiffs pray for declaring as null and void is

 the Facility Agreement dated 25th July, 2023. Clause 15 of the said

 agreement reads as follows: 20. The contention raised by the plaintiffs that the plaintiffs have not

 executed any agreement but the defendant no.3 misused the OTP

 provided by the plaintiffs and used the digital signatures of the

 plaintiffs in the said agreement without the consent of the plaintiffs.

 The defendant no.1 had filed an application under Section 9 of the

 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. In the said proceeding, the 9 plaintiffs were also made as party respondent. In the affidavit filed by

 the defendant no.3 in the said proceeding, it had disclosed documents

 showing that the defendant no.3 had deposited the principal amount of

 Rs. 2,00,00,000/-. In the said case also, the plaintiffs have taken stand

 that the signatures appearing in the said documents were obtained

 without the consent of the plaintiffs and the plaintiffs are not the

 beneficiaries of the loan amount. 21. In the Sanction letter dated 25th July, 2023, the name of the plaintiffs

 is appearing as co-applicant nos. 3, 4 and 5. In the schedule of term

 the name of principal borrower is recorded as Vedanta Limited and in

 column 14, the details for notice and communication, the names of the

 defendant no.3 along with the plaintiffs are also mentioned. 22. Mr. Gupta relied upon the judgment in the case of Vingro Developers

 Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Nitya Shree Developers Pvt. Ltd. through its Principal

 Officer and Others reported in 2024 SCC OnLine Del 486 and

 submitted that the defendant no.3 is the principal borrower and the

 plaintiffs were not the beneficiaries of the said loan and the signatures

 were not obtained in the document with the consent of the plaintiffs

 thus, the plaintiffs cannot be referred to arbitration. 23. Mr. Banerjee relied upon the judgment in the case of Avitel Post

 Studioz Limited and Others Vs. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius)

 Limited reported in (2021) 4 SCC 713 and submits that the only

 allegation of fraud which has been raised by the plaintiffs is that the 10 defendants without the consent of the plaintiffs have obtained digital

 signatures in the document. The plaintiffs have not initiated any

 criminal case against any of the defendants for committing an offence

 for forgery. Mr. Banerjee relied upon the guidelines for usage of digital

 signatures in e-Governance wherein in question no.11, it is stated that: 24. In the case of Avitel Post Studioz Limited and Others (supra), the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court held that: 25. Chandrachud, J. then cautioned against
the use of N. Radhakrishnan case as a precedent,
and distinguished it as follows: Once parties have agreed to refer disputes to
arbitration, the court must plainly discourage
and discountenance litigative strategies 13 designed to avoid recourse to arbitration. Any
 other approach would seriously place in
 uncertainty the institutional efficacy of
 arbitration. Such a consequence must be
 eschewed." 25. The plaintiffs have only taken the ground of fraud that the defendant

 no.3 has misused the OTP provided by the plaintiffs and the said OTP

 was used for digital signatures of the plaintiffs and the plaintiffs had

 never consented for the said signatures. The defendant no.3 is not

 denying the agreement. The defendant no.3 has paid an amount of Rs.

 2,00,00,000/- during pendency of the application under Section 9 of

 the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The agreement and other

 documents contained digital signatures of the plaintiffs. The stand

 taken by the plaintiffs that the defendants have frequently and without

 the consent of the plaintiffs obtained the digital signatures of the

 plaintiffs and the plaintiffs are not the beneficiaries of the loan can be

 raised before the arbitrator. As regard that the CIBIL is not the party to

 the agreement but the plaintiffs have made the CIBIL as the defendant

 no.2 in the present suit, this Court finds that the only claim made by

 the plaintiffs against the CIBIL is for removing the name of the plaintiffs

 as defaulters of any loan of the defendant no. 1. If the plaintiffs succeed

 in the arbitration proceeding, automatically, the plaintiffs can request

 the CIBIL for removal of their name as defaulters of the loan of the

 defendant no.1. This Court finds that the plea raised by the plaintiffs in

 the present suit, the same can be agitated before the Arbitrator. This 14 Court also finds that the plaintiffs have not initiated any criminal

 proceeding on the allegation of fraud against the defendants. 26. Considering the above, this Court finds that the disputes raised by the

 plaintiffs are duly covered under Clause 15.2 of the Facility Agreement.

 Thus the parties to the suit are referred to arbitration for adjudication

 of dispute in terms of Clause 15.2 of the Facility Agreement dated 25th

 July, 2023. 27. G.A. (Com) No. 2 of 2025 is allowed. G.A. (Com) No. 1 of 2025 along

 with C.S. (Com) No. 55 of 2025 are accordingly dismissed. (Krishna Rao, J.)