1. The instant appeal under Section 19(1) of the Family Courts Act, 1984 is
 directed against the order/judgment dated 30.09.2024 passed by the
 learned Principal Judge, Family Court, Chaibasa in Original Suit No. 63
 of 2024, whereby and whereunder, the learned court has dismissed the suit
 filed by the petitioner-husband for dissolution of marriage on the ground
 that the petitioner/husband (appellant herein) failed to establish that his
 wife (respondent herein), has solemnized second marriage with Dura
 Munduiya and is living with him. 2. The brief facts of the case as per the original matrimonial suit needs to be
 referred herein as under: Muffasil, District- West Singhbhum in presence of the relatives and
 friends of both parties. After solemnization of marriage, both parties
 started conjugal life at the house of the petitioner at Village- Kuidbusu,
 PS-Muffasil, District-West Singhbhum up to 28.01.2022. One son, 1 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

namely, Pankaj Bari was born out of their wedlock, who is living at
Champua Hostel and studying in Kerala English Medium School,
Champua in Class-IV. When petitioner wanted to make physical contact
with the respondent, she used to make one and another pretend and lastly
refused to make physical relation. When he made inquiry then he found
that respondent used to talk over the phone with her boyfriend, namely,
Dura Munduiya and used to chat with him regularly in absence of the
petitioner saying the word "you are my one true love." When petitioner
tried to made her understand, she refused to live with him and left the
matrimonial house on her own sweet will on 28.01.2022 and started living
with Dura Munduiya. The petitioner is Sub Inspector in S.S.B. and at
present posted as S.H.Q. Gangtok, Sikkim. When his villager Chandra
Mohan Bari informed him that his wife/respondent has illegal relation
with Dura Munduiya, he took leave and came to his village and he found
that his wife is not at Home then he made inquiry and came to know that
she is in the house of Bandra Killa, Khapparsai, Chaibasa then along with
his mother Tungri Bari, as well as Chandra Mohan Bari went to the said
house and opened the door forcibly and he found that his wife/respondent
was in that house with Dura Munduiya and having physical relationship as
well as Dura Munduiya was in the Bed room of Bandra Killa. When the
petitioner asked the respondent why she cheated him then she clearly told
that she had love affair with his boyfriend, Dura Munduiya, and he is
capable to fulfill her physical demand which is not possible by you
(petitioner) regularly. The respondent abused the petitioner and threatened
him to face dire consequences, if he opposes or takes any action against
her as well as Dura Munduiya. Since then, respondent is living with Dura Munduiya and there
is no contact with the petitioner and she also does not take care of her
child, namely, Pankaj Bari. The respondent is regularly threatening the
petitioner demanding money saying that if petitioner does not pay any
maintenance then she will lodge false criminal case against him. Now
respondent/wife has got second marriage with Dura Munduiya on
29.02.2024 without taking divorce and living with him at village Pampara,
Chaibasa. The petitioner requested the respondent/wife to take divorce but 2 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 she is denying and her intention is to extort money from the petitioner
 regularly. Finding no way petitioner requested the village Munda, namely,
 Gurucharan Bari to call a meeting regarding second marriage of the
 respondent/wife then Village Munda called a meeting on 02.03.2024 and
 after meeting the entire proceeding was reduced in writing in presence of
 villagers. Petitioner had informed the police earlier but no action was
 taken against the respondent, then again, he submitted an application to
 Muffasil police station on 05.07.2024. The petitioner also informed the
 S.P. Chaibasa submitting a written application to him on 05.07.2024 and
 lodged online complaint No. 365948 dated 05.07.2024. A meeting was
 called by village Munda of Tuibir on 14.07.2024 and a written document
 was prepared regarding their dissolution of marriage. The respondent has
 decided not to lead conjugal life with the petitioner, she has got second
 marriage with Dura Munduiya and living according to her choice. 3. It is evident from the factual aspect as referred hereinabove which led to
 filing of the present appeal that, as per the Original Matrimonial Suit, the
 appellant married with the respondent and started living together. After
 some time of the marriage, one son, namely, Pankaj Bari was born out of
 their wedlock. On denial of making physical relation with the appellant
 used to refuse for such and on inquiry he found that respondent used to
 talk over the phone with her boyfriend, namely, Dura Munduiya and the
 respondent left the matrimonial house on 28.01.2022 and started living
 with Dura Munduiya. When his villager Chandra Mohan Bari informed him that his
 wife/respondent has illegal relation with Dura Munduiya, he took leave
 and came to his village and he found that his wife is not at Home then he,
 along with his mother Tungri Bari, as well as Chandra Mohan Bari, went
 to the said house and found that his wife/respondent was in that house
 along with Dura Munduiya. It is the case of the petitioner that her wife, the respondent
 herein, has solemnized second marriage with Dura Munduiya on
 29.02.2024 without taking divorce from him and is living with Dura 3 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 Munduiya at village Pampara, Chaibasa and on making request for
 divorce respondent/wife denied for divorce. A meeting regarding this was also held and after meeting the
 entire proceeding was reduced in writing in presence of villagers.
 Petitioner had informed the police earlier and again, he submitted an
 application to Muffasil police station on 05.07.2024. The petitioner also
 informed the S.P. Chaibasa submitting a written application to him on
 05.07.2024 and lodged online complaint No. 365948 dated 05.07.2024. 4. It is evident from the factual aspect that the appellant had a motion by
 filing a petition under Section 7(1) explanation (b) of the Family Court
 Act, 1984 for dissolution of marriage on the basis that the respondent has
 solemnized her second marriage with Dura Munduiya and is living with
 him. 5. The learned Family Judge has called upon the respondent-wife. The wife
 has filed written statement and altogether five issues have been framed by
 the learned Family Court which are as follows: [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 (VI) Whether petitioner is entitled other relief/relieves what-so-ever
 on the basis of pleading? 6. The evidences have been led on behalf of both the parties. Thereafter, the
 judgment has been passed dismissing the suit by holding that the
 petitioner has failed to establish that the respondent has solemnized her
 second marriage on 29.02.2024 with Dura Munduiya, which is the subject
 matter of the present appeal. Submission of the learned counsel for the appellant: 7. It has been contended by Mr. Rajendra Prasad Gupta, learned counsel on
 behalf of the appellant/petitioner that the factual aspect which was
 available before the learned court supported by the evidences adduced on
 behalf of the appellant/petitioner has not properly been considered and as
 such, the judgment impugned is perverse, hence, not sustainable in the
 eyes of law. 8. It has been submitted that just after the second marriage of the respondent
 with Dura Munduiya on 29.02.2024, a meeting was convened by Village-
 Kuidbushu on 02.03.2024 in presence of the villagers and the entire
 proceeding of that was reduced in writing in the village register and the
 same register was produced before the Court as also P.W.-1, P.W.-2,
 P.W.-3 and P.W.-4 as also P.W.-5 have put their signature but the said
 aspect of the matter has not properly been considered by the learned
 family court. 9. Learned counsel for the appellant/petitioner, based upon the aforesaid
 grounds, has submitted that the judgment impugned suffers from
 perversity, as such, not sustainable in the eyes of law. Submission of the learned counsel for the respondent: 10. Per contra, Mr. Anjani Kumar, learned counsel for the respondent-wife,
 while defending the impugned judgment, has submitted that there is no
 error in the impugned judgement. The learned Family Judge, considering
 all the issues in right perspective and having come to the conclusion that
 no evidence has been adduced to establish that the respondent has 5 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 solemnized her second marriage with Dura Munduiya, has dismissed the
 petition. 11. Learned counsel, based upon the aforesaid ground, has submitted that if
 on that pretext, the factum of solemnization of second marriage by the
 respondent has not been found to be established, based upon which the
 decree of divorce has been refused to be granted, the impugned judgment
 cannot be said to suffer from an error, as such, the present appeal is fit to
 be dismissed. Analysis: 12. This Court has heard the learned counsel for the parties and gone through
 the finding recorded by the learned Family Judge in the impugned
 judgment. 13. The case has been heard at length. The admitted fact herein is that the suit
 for dissolution of marriage has been filed on the ground that the
 respondent has solemnized her second marriage with Dura Munduiya, i.e.,
 by filing an application under Section 7(1) explanation (b) of the Family
 Court Act, 1984 and accordingly, issues have been framed. 14. The evidences have been led on behalf of both the parties before the
 Family Court. For better appreciation, the evidences led on behalf of the
 appellant are being referred as under: He resides with his father and nowadays he is getting study in
 Class-Vth at Kerela Public School, Champua, Odisha. The
 altercation ensued in between Prakash Bari and Poonam Champia
 in the year 2022. So, Poonam Champia arrived to Village- Tuibir. [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

Both Poonam Champia and Prakash Bari are residing separately
since 2022. Poonam Champia does not reside with her husband
Prakash Bari. Prakash Bari is posted as Sub Anspector in S.S.B, át
Sikkim. When Prakash Bari tried to make physical relation with
Poonam Champia then she used to refuse the same. It has also
been deposed by P.W.-1 in para -8 that on 28.02.2024, they caught
Dura Munduiya @ Rahul Munduiya with Poonam Champia in
objectionable position in a room at Village-Khapparsai. His wife
Damyanti Bari took photo through Mobile. The mother of Prakash
Bari namely Tungri Bari was also there, but he does not know that
who was the owner of that house. The P.W.-1 identified the
photographs having four photos which have been marked as Mark-
X. The P.W.-1, further, deposed that the marriage of Dura
Munduiya and Poonam Champia was solemnized on 29.02.2024 at
Village Pampara in the house of Bamiya Munduiya but he was not
present there. One meeting was convened on 2nd of March, 2024 at
Village-Kuidbusu in regard to marriage of Dura Munduiya and
Poonam Champia in the leadership of Munda Gurucharan Bari but
neither Poonam Champia nor anyone attended on her behalf. The
persons appeared on behalf of Prakash Bari only. The entire
proceeding of meeting was reduced in writing in Village Register
kept by Village Munda on which he also put his signature at Sl.
No.-44 which has been marked as Ext.-1. During cross examination, the P.W.-1 deposed in para-18
that no one appeared on behalf of Poonam Champia in village
meeting. P.W.-1 further deposed in para-19 that no date of
marriage has been mentioned in Village Register. P.W.-1 deposed
in para-22 that he has no knowledge that what is the relation in
between Prakash Bari and Soniya Sinku. P.W.-1 further deposed in
para-25 that a meeting was also convened in the village of Poonam
Champia where Poonam Champia had demanded some documents
from Prakash Bari but he did not provide her. P.W.-1 deposed in
para-31 that Prakash Bari used to keep his wife Poonam Champia
in the house situated behind the S.P. resident at Chaibasa and 7 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 whenever he came from his duty, he used to reside with his wife at
 Chaibasa. P.W.-1 deposed in para-32 that Prakash Bari came 4-5
 times to his village in 2024. (II) P.W.- 2 Juggu Bari deposed that Poonam Champia has
 solemnized her second marriage. So, Prakash Bari has filed the
 suit for divorce. The marriage of Prakash Bari and Poonam
 Champia was solemnized in the year 2012. One son namely
 Pankaj Bari was born out of their wedlock, who resides with his
 father Prakash Bari. Prakash Bari and Poonam Champia have been
 living separately since 2022. It has been deposed that Poonam
 Champia and Rahul Munduiya were found in a room at Village
 Khapparsai. At that time Chandramohan Bari, Prakash Bari and
 the mother of Prakash Bari were also present there. The wife of
 Chandramohan Bari has taken photographs. It has also been
 deposed that Rahul Munduiya and Poonam Champia have
 solemnized their marriage at Village- Pampara. A meeting was
 convened at Village- Kuidbusu in the leadership of Gurucharan
 Bari in regard to marriage of Poonam Champia and Rahul
 Munduiya. The entire proceeding of meeting was reduced in
 writing in Village Register. He also put his signature at Sl. No.48.
 The signature of Juggu Bari has been marked as Ext.-1/1. During cross examination, P.W.-2 deposed that he was
 not present in the marriage ceremony of Poonam Champia and
 Rahul Munduiya. He has also deposed in Para.-12 that the mother
 of Prakash Bari had told him about the occurrence of Khapparsai.
 P.W.-2 deposed in Para-13 that Prakash Bari and Poonam
 Champia resided at Chaibasa. It has also been deposed in Para-16
 that it is not true that the marriage of Poonam Champia and Rahul
 Mundurya was not solemnized. (III) P.W.-3 Amit Kumar Bari deposed that the suit has been filed by
 Prakash Bari against Poonam Champia for divorce. The marriage
 of Prakash Bari and Poonam Champia was solemnized in the
 month of November, 2012. One son namely Pankaj Bari was born 8 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

out of their wedlock who resides with his father. Prakash Bari is
posted as S.I. in Gangtok, Sikkim. P.W.-3 furtherdeposed that
when Prakash Bari goes to his duty place then Poonam Champia
and Dura Munduiya both visits together. Poonam Champia and
Dura Munduiya were found in Bandrakila at Village-Khapparsai.
P.W.-3 further deposed that Dura Munduiya and Poonam Champia
solemnized their marriage on 29.02.2024 according to Ho rites and
rituals. While he was returning from his village during Maghe-
Parv then he heard the sound of Drum so he went there and saw
that the marriage of Dura Munduiya and Poonam Champia was
going on. He took the photos of marriage ceremony as well as did
video recording too. He sent the audio and video to Prakash Bari
through his mobile but the mobile phone was not in order, so, he
did not deposit the same before the Court. A meeting was
convened on 02.03.2024 in the leadership of Village Munda
Gurucharan Bari in regard to the marriage of Poonam Champia
and Dura Munduiya. The entire proceeding was reduced in writing
and he put his signature on Sl. No.-3 which has been marked as
Ext.-1/2. In his cross examination, P.W.-3 deposed in Para-13 that
it has not been mentioned in Village Register that by whom the
photo attached with the Register was taken. P.W.-3 further
deposed in Para.-14 that no one was present on behalf of Poonam
Champia in Village meeting. The witness deposed in Para.-17 that
he cannot produce any evidence that he was present on 29.02.2024
at Village Pampara. The witness deposed in Para.-18 that he did
not give any information to Village Munda of Pampara about the
marriage of Dura Munduiya and Poonam Champia. The witness
deposed in Para.-21 that Lilmuni was also present in marriage
ceremony but he did not take her photo. The witness deposed in
Para.-23 that he cannot state the name of that person, who told him
about the incident of Khapparsai. The witness deposed in Para.-30
that it is true that one inquiry is going on by the police about the
incident of Prakash Bari and Poonam Champia. [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

(IV) P.W.-4 Prakash Bari, the petitioner herein, deposed that his
 marriage was solemnized with Poonam Champia on 16.11.2017
 according to Ho rites and rituals. One son, namely, Pankaj Bari
 was born out of their wedlock who resided within the father. He
 further deposed that he and the respondent are living separately
 since 28.01.2022. The witness deposed in Para.-5 that he came to
 know from Chandramohan Bari that Poonam Champia and Dura
 Munduiya have been living as husband and wife in Bandrakilla at
 Khapparsai. The witness, further, deposed that when
 Chandramohan Bari, Juggu Bari, Amit Bari, Tungri Bari had gone
 to Khapparsai village then they found that the door was closed
 from inside and when it was opened, Dura Munduiya and Poonam
 Champia were in bedroom. Damyanti Bari took photographs and
 sent it to him through Mobile. The video recording was also made.
 He got print out from the Mobile and filed the same before the
 Court. Poonam Champia and Dura Munduiya used to chat with
 each other and they had gone to visit at Puri, Odisha. He has seen
 one chatting in the Mobile of Poonam Champia which was sent by
 one Randhir Kumar as "you are my one true love..... my wife". The
 witness deposed in Para.-9 that he has filed Pen-drive in which 17
 photos and four videos have been uploaded. The video was
 recorded by Lilmuni and she sent photographs and videos to him.
 The witness further deposed that in photographs in which Dura
 Munduiya and Poonam Champia are worshiping was sent by
 Bamiya Munduiya to him. The witness has identified the Pen-drive
 filed by him which has been marked as Exhibit-2. One meeting
 was convened on 02.03.2024 at village Kuidbusu in regard to
 marriage of Poonam Champia and Dura Munduiya in the
 leadership of Village Munda Gurucharan Bari where 69 persons
 attended the meeting. The witness deposed in Para.-13 that no one
 was present in the meeting on behalf of Poonam Champia. The
 witness further deposed that no notice was given to Poonam
 Champia as she was changing her place. The witness deposed in
 Para.-14 that his Sasural is 2 kms away from his village. The 10 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 witness identified his signature on Register which was reduced in
 writing on 02.03.2024 which has been marked as Ext.-1/3. He had
 filed complaint before Muffasil P.S. Chaibasa as well as made on-
 line complaint about the marriage of Poonam Champia and Dura
 Munduiya but the F.I.R. has not been registered till date. The
 inquiry is going on. During cross examination, the witness deposed in Para.-
 23 that the contents of Ext.-2 was sent by Lilmuni and Bamiya
 Munduiya to him. The witness deposed in Para.-26 that he never
 resided at Chaibasa with Poonam Champia. The witness deposed
 in Para.-30 that it was not discussed in meeting held in his village
 about the date of marriage as well as the person who took the
 photographs of the marriage of Poonam Champia with Dura
 Munduiya. The witness deposed in Para.-31 that it is wrong to say
 that on 27.01.2024 he and Poonam Champia had gone to visit
 Bihar and they were at Bodh Gaya on 24.01.2024 and 26.01.2024
 and both shared their photos in their family group. The witness
 deposed in Para.-32 that he has not made party to Dura Munduiya
 in the Suit. The witness deposed in Para.-33 that he has written his
 name as the husband of Poonam Champia in the suit and has not
 made witness to Dura Munduiya. The witness deposed in Para.-36
 that it is wrong to say that he wants to marry with Soniya Sinku,
 therefore, he has filed the suit for getting divorce from Poonam
 Champia. (V) P.W.- 5 Gurucharan Bari deposed that the suit has been filed by
 Prakash Bari against Poonam Champia for getting divorce. One
 son was born out of the wedlock of Prakash Bari and Poonam
 Champia, who is aged about 12 years and resides with his father
 Prakash Bari. Prakash Bari does job in army. The witness, further,
 deposed that one meeting was convened in his leadership on
 02.03.2024 at Village Kuidbusu where it was discussed that
 Poonam Champia has solemnized his second marriage. The entire
 proceeding was reduced in writing by Birendra Bari and 67 11 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 persons put their signatures. He also put his signature as well as
 put the seal of village Munda which has been marked as Ext.-1/4.
 One photograph was also attached with that Register which
 consists the photo of Poonam Champia and Rahul Munduiya. The
 witness deposed that the entire proceeding was reduced in writing
 which consists three pages and he knows about the entire
 proceeding which has been marked as Ext.-1/5. It has also been
 deposed that Poonam Champia and Prakash Bari reside separately
 nowadays. During cross examination, the witness deposed that he
 has not seen Rahul Munduiya. The witness deposed in Para.-10
 that the date of marriage of Dura Munduiya @ Rahul Munduiya
 and Poonam Champia has not been mentioned in Ext.-1/5. The
 witness deposed in Para.-11 that whenever Prakash Bari came
 from his duty, he used to reside with Poonam Champia. The
 witness deposed in Para.-13 that none was present on behalf of
 Poonam Champia on 02.03.2024. The witness clearly deposed that
 he had not sent any notice to the family members of Poonam
 Champia. The witness also deposed in Para.-14 that he did not call
 the village Munda of Village Pampara in meeting convened on
 02.03.2024. The witness also deposed in Para.- 15 that he did not
 call Dura Munduiya to ask that he has solemnized his marriage
 with Poonam Champia or not? (VI) P.W.- 6 Tungri Bari has deposed that Poonam Champia is her
 daughter-in-law. The marriage of her son Prakash Bari was
 solemnized with Poonam Champia in 2021. One son namely
 Pankaj Bari was born out of their wedlock, who resides with them.
 Her son is posted in S.S.B. at Gangtok. The witness further
 deposed that Poonam Champia and Prakash Bari have been living
 separately since 2022 but Poonam Champia resides at Chaibasa
 beside the S.P. residents. The witness, further, deposed that she
 heard that Poonam Champia and Dura Munduiya are visiting
 together and they are living at Village-Khapparsai. So, she went 12 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 there and knocked the door at 08:00 A.M. then Dura Munduiya
 opened the door, she saw that Poonam Champia was standing in
 skirt but did not say anything. Chandramohan talked with her and
 thereafter they came out from the room. At that time she,
 Chandramohan, Damyanti, Sishupal and Amit Bari were there.
 Poonam Champia has solemnized her second marriage with Dura
 Munduiya at Village-Pampara and the marriage was solemnized at
 the residence of Dura Munduiya. Lilmuni Deogam and Raimuni
 Deogam were present there. No one was present from village
 Kuidbusu. One meeting was convened at her village where she put
 her signatures at Sl. No.13 which has been marked as Ext.-1/6. During cross examination, the witness deposed in Para.-
 11 that Poonam Champia and Prakash Bari resided at Chaibasa.
 The witness, further, deposed that Prakash Bari used to come to
 meet with his mother at his village in vacation but after meeting
 with her mother, he return back. The witness further deposed that
 Poonam Champia had come to her house to take rice. The witness
 deposed in Para.-16 that she has no knowledge that her son
 Prakash Bari and Soniya Sinku has illicit relation and whenever
 her son comes from duty used to go to meet with Soniya Sinku.
 The witness deposed in Para.-19 that his son used to come two to
 three times to his village within a year and spent 60 days but he
 did not stay a single day with her. He resides with his wife. The
 witness deposed in Para.-20 that her son never resides with her
 after his marriage. (VII) P.W.- 7 Lilmuni Deogam deposed that she knows Prakash Bari,
 who is the resident of Village-Kuidbusu. The marriage of Prakash
 Bari was solemnized with Poonam Champia. One son was born
 out of the wedlock of Prakash Bari and Poonam Champia. Prakash
 Bari does duty in Army. Poonam Champia was at Village-
 Khapparsai for a month thereafter, she got her marriage
 solemnized with Dura Munduiya. She was also present in the
 marriage ceremony. She put Haldi Lepan and Oil Lepan to Rahul 13 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 Munduiya and Poonam Munduiya. The marriage ceremony was
 performed in the house of Dura Munduiya. She does not know that
 by whom photographs were taken. Dura Munduiya has performed
 two marriages but she does not know about the first wife of Dura
 Munduiya. The witness deposed in Para.-10 that at the time of
 marriage Dabung Munduiya was beating Drum. Bablu Munduiya,
 Menjhari Munduiya, Suman Munduiya and Gurwarı Munduiya
 were present there. The step-mother of Dura Munduiya was
 present there but Bamıya Munduiya was not there. The witness
 deposed in Para.-14 that her house is 100-150 meters away from
 the house of Dura Munduiya. The witness deposed in Para.-17 that
 he has not seen Poonam Champia and Dura Munduiya together
 going to market or visiting at any place. (VIII) P.W.- 8 Raimuni Deogam deposed that the marriage of Rahul
 Munduiya and Poonam Champia was solemnized where she put
 Haldi Lepan to Rahul Munduiya and Poonam Champia. The
 witness further deposed that five houses are situated in between
 her house and the house of Rahul Munduiya. The witness deposed
 in Para.-4 that no one from the house of Poonam Champia was
 present at the marriage ceremony. Bamiya Munduiya and the step-
 mother of Dura Munduiya were present there. The Munda and
 Mukhia of Pampara village were not present there. The witness
 deposed in Para.-8 that she does not know that by whom
 photographs were taken as she was busy in Haldi Lepan. During Cross examination, the witness deposed in Para.-
 11 that the marriage of Dura Munduiya and Poonam Champia was
 performed without the consent of their parents. The witness
 deposed in Para.-13 that after marriage Dura Munduiya and
 Poonam Champia resided at Village- Pampara for a week,
 thereafter, the guardians of Poonam Champia arrived from village
 Tuibir and took her. 15. The evidences led on behalf of the opposite party/respondent are being
 referred as under: One Son was born out of their wedlock. Prakash Bari does work in
 S.S.B. (Sima Surksha Bal). Earlier he was posted at Gaya, Bihar
 but now he has been transferred from Gaya, Bihar. Poonam
 Champia and Prakash Bari had gone to visit Gaya in 2024 and
 photographs were taken during Gaya visit and it was sent in
 WhatsApp group. His sister does not want to live with her husband
 Prakash Barı as because Prakash Bari has illicit relation with Sonia
 Sinku. During cross examination, the witness deposed in Para.-
 07 that his sister does not want to live with her husband now. The
 witness deposed in Para.-10 that he and his sister did not file any
 complaint in writing before police station or S.P. office, Chaibasa
 in regard to relation of Prakash Bari and Sonia Sinku. The witness
 deposed in Para.-12 that it is wrong to say that Poonam Champia
 has solemnized her marriage with Dura Munduiya. (II) R.W.- 2 Anil Kumar Champia deposed that Poonam Champia is
 his younger sister. Her marriage was solemnized with Prakash Bari
 in the year 2012. One son namely Pankaj Bari was born out of
 their wedlock. After marriage Poonam Champia went to her
 matrimonial home at Village-Kuidbusu but thereafter she and her
 husband shifted to Chaibasa in their own house situated behind the
 S.P. residence, Chaibasa. Prakash Bari used to come in vacation.
 The witness further deposed that he has not heard ever that
 Poonam Champia has solemnized marriage with Dura Munduiya.
 Prakash Bari and Poonam Champia had gone to Gaya, Rajgir and
 Bodh Gaya together and they sent the photos to their groups. The
 photographs are still in his mobile as well as in the mobile of
 Prakash Bari. The witness deposed in Para.-6 that he wanted that 15 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 Prakash Bari and Poonam Champia resided together and look after
 their son properly. During cross examination, the witness identified the
 photographs of his sister but did not identify the photos of male
 member, who is accompanied with his sister. The photographs
 have been marked as Mark-X/1. The witness also identified the
 photographs marked earlier as Mark-X and told that the same
 photographs were sent by his elder sister Sunita Kudada to him.
 The witness deposed in Para.-11 that the photographs attached
 with village Register is not concerned with his sister. The witness
 deposed in Para.-12 that his sister had gone to visit Gaya on
 27.01.2024 and his sister Poonam Champia informed through
 WhatsApp chat that she has come with her husband. (III) R.W.-3 Sunita Kudada deposed that Poonam Champia is her
 younger sister. The marriage of Poonam Champia was solemnized
 with Prakash Bari on 16.11.2012. After marriage both resided at
 Village- Kuidbusu thereafter they shifted to Chaibasa and started
 residing at Village Tambo beside the S.P.'s residence. Both were
 residing well but Prakash Bari used to talk with Soniya Sinku and
 it came to the knowledge of her sister that there is relation in
 between Prakash Bari and Soniya Sinku. His sister used to send
 video to her but she has no photograph or video in which Prakash
 Bari and Soniya Sinku are together. The witness deposed in Para.-
 4 that she tried to understand Prakash Bari not to talk with Soniya
 Sinku. Then he assured that he will not talk with Soniya Sinku in
 future. Prakash Bari had gone to Gaya with her sister in the month
 of January, 2024 at that time Prakash Bari was posted at Gaya. Her
 sister returned from Gaya to Chaibasa on 28.01.2024. During cross examination, the witness identified after
 seeing photographs marked as Mark-X & X/1 and only recognized
 her sister but did not recognize the male, who is with her. The
 witness deposed in Para.-10 that she has no knowledge that her 16 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 sister has solemnized her marriage with Rahul Munduiya @ Dura
 Munduiya. (IV) R.W.-4 Poonam Champia deposed that Prakash Bari is her
 husband and her marriage was solemnized with Prakash Bari on
 16.11.2022 at Village- Kuidbusu according to Ho rites and
 customs. After marriage both started residing at Village-Kuidbusu
 but thereafter they shifted to village- Tambo beside the S.P,
 residence, Chaibasa. In the month of November, 2012 one Son
 was born out of their wedlock on 22.03.2014 in Sadar Hospital,
 Chaibasa. He resides with his father and presently getting study at
 Champua, Odisha. His entire educational expenses are borne by
 his father. She used to go to meet with him and lastly, she had
 gone to meet with her son in the month of May, 2024. The witness
 deposed that she is unemployed and having no source of income.
 Therefore, she is maintained by her brother Anil Kumar Champia.
 The witness deposed that nowadays she resides at her parental
 home at Village- Tuibir which is five kilometers away from Civil
 Court, Chaibasa. The witness, further, deposed that her husband is
 Sub Inspector in S.S.B. (Sima Suraksha Bal) and presently he is
 posted in Gangtok, Sikkim. Her husband gets salary of Rs.98,000/-
 per month. Her husband is not paying any maintenance to her
 since 2024. The witness further deposed that she resided with her
 husband in the month of January, 2024 and at that time both had
 gone to visit Gaya and Bodhgaya. Some photographs were shared
 in their group. She has filed Pen-drive having loaded with
 photographs. One video related to Soniya Sinku and Prakash Bari
 is also uploaded in Pen-drive. Her husband used to pay money to
 Soniya Sinku and the phone of Soniya Sinku is also recharged by
 her husband. One message is also in Pen-drive in which Soniya
 addressed to Prakash Bari that "Teri Bibi meri didi ko kyo call ki".
 She has filed two Pen-drive in the Court, out of which one copy is
 clone one. The witness, further, deposed that there is joint saving
 account in Canara Bank, Kolhan University branch which is still
 working. She wants to live with Prakash Bari. The witness 17 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 deposed that the family members of Prakash Bari had made viral a
 fake video about her. Her husband has filed the instant suit for
 divorce so that he could solemnize her marriage with Soniya
 Sinku. During cross examination, the witness denied that she has
 been standing in front of the vehicle bearing Registration No.JH-
 05-CX-3325. The witness further deposed in Para.-17 that the
 photographs Mark-X & X/1 are fake. The witness also deposed in
 Para.-19 that the photographs attached with Village Munda
 Register is also fake. The witness deposed in Para.-21 that she has
 no knowledge that a Panchayati was convened at Village-
 Kuidbusu in regard to her marriage with Dura Munduiya. The
 witness deposed in Para.-22 that it is wrong to say that she has
 been living separately from her husband since 28.01.2022. The
 witness also deposed in Para.-23 that it is wrong to say that she
 solemnized her marriage with Dura Munduiya on 29.02.2024. The
 witness deposed in Para.-25 that it is wrong to say that her
 allegations about Soniya Sinku and her husband is false. The
 witness deposed in Para.-26 that it is wrong to say that the
 photographs loaded in Pen-drive are fake and concocted. The
 witness deposed in Para.-27 that it is wrong to say that Raimuni
 Deogam and Lilmuni Deogam put Halid lepan to her on
 29.02.2024. The witness deposed in Para.-28 that the photographs
 marked as Mark-X/1 on which it has been written in English "you
 are my true love.... my wife" does not belong to her Instagram. The
 witness deposed in Para.-31 that it true that she has not filed any
 case against her husband as because she does not want to defame
 her husband. 16. The learned counsel for the appellant has argued that the evidence
 regarding the second marriage performed by the respondent with Dura
 Munduiya has not properly been considered and as such, the judgment
 suffers from perversity, hence, not sustainable in the eyes of law. [2025:JHHC:31728-DB] 17. While on the other hand, argument has been advanced on behalf of the
 respondent that the judgment is well considered one and merely by
 committing fraud, the suit for divorce has been filed. 18. This Court while appreciating the argument advanced on behalf of the
 parties on the issue of perversity needs to refer herein the interpretation of
 the word "perverse" as has been interpreted by the Hon'ble Apex Court
 which means that there is no evidence or erroneous consideration of the
 evidence. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Arulvelu and Anr. vs. State
 [Represented by the Public Prosecutor] and Anr. , (2009) 10 SCC 206
 while elaborately discussing the word perverse has held that it is, no
 doubt, true that if a finding of fact is arrived at by ignoring or excluding
 relevant material or by taking into consideration irrelevant material or if
 the finding so outrageously defies logic as to suffer from the vice of
 irrationality incurring the blame of being perverse, then, the finding is
 rendered infirm in law. Relevant paragraphs, i.e., paras-24, 25, 26 and 27
 of the said judgment reads as under: [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 "Perverse.--Showing deliberate determination to behave in a way
 that most people think is wrong, unacceptable or unreasonable." 2. Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English, International
 Edn. Perverse.--Deliberately departing from what is normal and
 reasonable. 3. The New Oxford Dictionary of English, 1998 Edn.
 Perverse.--Law (of a verdict) against the weight of evidence or the
 direction of the judge on a point of law. 4. The New Lexicon Webster's Dictionary of the English
 Language (Deluxe Encyclopedic Edn.)
 Perverse.--Purposely deviating from accepted or expected
 behavior or opinion; wicked or wayward; stubborn; cross or petulant. 5. Stroud's Judicial Dictionary of Words & Phrases, 4th Edn. 19. Admittedly, the ground, on behalf of the petitioner, for seeking divorce
 has been taken that the respondent-wife has performed her second
 marriage with Dura Munduiya on 29.02.2024 and is living with him. 20. This Court, for appreciation of the ground as has been taken on behalf of
 the petitioner, has gone through the judgment impugned passed by the
 learned family court wherein the learned family court has observed that
 the petitioner has alleged in Para-9 of his plaint that he was informed by
 Chandramohan Bari that his wife has illegal relation with Dura Munduiya
 then he took leave and came to his house and found that his wife is not in
 home and on enquiry, he came to know that she is in the house of Bandra-
 killa, Khapparsai, Chaibasa then he, along with his mother Tungri Bari as
 well as Chandramohan Bari, went to the said house and opened the door
 forcibly and found that his wife was in that house along with Dura
 Munduiya and having physical relationship. But, during trial, Chandramohan Bari deposed in Para-08 that
 on 28.02.2024 Poonam Champia was caught red-handed with Dura
 Munduiya in objectionable position and his wife Damyanti Bari took
 photos of that incident but the plaint does not disclose that Damyanti Bari
 was present at the place of occurrence. 21. It has also been observed that the P.W.-2 Jaggu Bari deposed in Para-5
 that Poonam Champia and Rahul Munduiya were found in a room at 20 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 Khapparsai and he was also present there but stated in Para-12 that the
 mother of Prakash Bari had informed about the occurrence. P.W.-3 Amit
 Kumar Bari deposed in Para-5 that Poonam Champia and Dura Munduiya
 were found in objectionable position in Village-Khapparsai where the
 mother of the Prakash Bari namely Tungri Bari, Chandramohan Bari,
 Damyanti Bari, Sishupal Bari and Jaggu Bari were also present there.
 However, in Para-9 of the plaint he has disclosed otherwise. P.W.-1 &
 P.W.-2 have not taken the name of Sishupal Bari, Jaggu Bari and Amit
 Kumar Bari that they were present at the place of occurrence. P.W.-3 has
 not stated the date on which Poonam Champia and Damyanti Bari were
 found in Bandrakilla at Khapparsai. During cross examination, the witness
 deposed that by whom he came to know about the occurrence of
 Khapparsai, has no knowledge and he does not want to disclose the name
 of that person. 22. The learned family court, on the aforesaid, has found that there are
 contradictions in Para-5 & 23 of P.W.-3 and P.W.-4 Prakash Bari
 (petitioner) deposed in Para-5 that he came to know through
 Chandramohan Bari that his wife Poonam Champia and Dura Munduiya
 are residing together as husband and wife. So, Chandramohan Bari, Jaggu
 Bari, Amit Kumar Bari, his mother Tungri Bari went there and found that
 the door was closed but petitioner does not depose that he was present at
 that day at Khapparsai. However, he has mentioned in Para-9 of the plaint
 that he was present physically at the time of occurrence, therefore, there is
 contradiction in the deposition of Prakash Bari about the fact mentioned in
 Para-9 of the plaint. The petitioner has deposed that Damyanti Bari was
 present at the time of occurrence occurred in Khapparsai but her name has
 not been disclosed in the plaint and she was not examined by the
 petitioner. P.W.-5 Gurucharan Bari has not stated anything about the
 occurrence took place at Bandrakilla at Village Khapparsai though he is
 the Munda of Village-Kuidbushu. P.W.-6 Tungri Bari deposed in Para.-5
 that Poonam Champia used to visit with Dura Munduiya and one day she
 came to know that both are residing in Village-Khapparsai. So, early in
 the morning about 08:00 A.M. she went there and knocked the door, as a
 result Dura Munduiya opened the door where she found that Poonam 21 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 Champia has worn skirt, thereafter, they came out from the room at that
 time, Chandramohan Bari, Damyanti Bari, Sishupal Bari and Amit Kumar
 Bari were there but Tungri Bari has not stated the date, month and year of
 occurrence in her examination in chief. P.W.- 7 Lilmuni Deogam and
 P.W.-8 Raimuni Deogam have not deposed anything about the occurrence
 occurred in Village-Khapparsai. 23. The learned family court has taken into consideration that on the basis of
 evidences led by P.W.1 to P.W.-8, only P.W.-1 has deposed in Para-8 that
 the occurrence took place at Village-Khapparsai occurred on 28.02.2024
 and none out of him has disclosed the date, time, month and year of
 occurrence either in their examination in chief or during cross
 examination. 24. This Court, on consideration of the impugned judgment, is of the view
 that if the respondent and Dura Munduiya were caught red-handed in
 Bandrakilla (house) at Village- Khapparsai despite that neither the
 occurrence was informed to Village Munda of Khapparsai nor any person
 were called from Khapparsai. The entire witnesses from P.W.-1 to P.W.-8
 either belonged to Kuidbushu or village Pampara. It is said that
 Chandramohan Bari and Tungri Bari both had gone together and opened
 the door at Khapparsai at 08:00 A.M., but they did not bother to call any
 person from village Khapparsai. None has stated that who was the owner
 of Bandrakilla house. 25. This Court is also of the view that if such incident did occur, then why the
 F.I.R. was not instituted about the occurrence which is said to be occurred
 on 28.02.2024. 26. So far as the fact about convening of meeting by village munda of
 Village-Kuidbushu on 02.03.2024 in presence of villagers and second
 marriage having been performed by the respondent with Dura Munduiya
 is concerned, the entire proceeding of that meeting was reduced in writing
 in the register, as has been taken note in the impugned judgment, but the
 said register does not disclose either the date of marriage or any details
 regarding the persons who attended the marriage ceremony. [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 It has also come on record that the names of P.W.-7 and P.W.-8,
 who are said to the eye-witnesses of the second marriage performed by the
 respondent with Dura Munduiya, has not been mentioned in the village
 register. P.W.-7 has deposed at para-10 that at the time of marriage, the
 step-mother of Dura Munduiya was present but his father was not present,
 however, P.W.-8 has deposed that the step-mother and father of Dura
 Munduiya both were present at the time of marriage but, both the persons,
 i.e., the step-mother and father of Dura Munduiya have not been produced
 before the Court for their evidence as also have not been made witness for
 proving the fact of marriage. Even the fact that the respondent and Dura Munduiya were
 caught red-handed in objectionable position on 28.02.2024 has not been
 disclosed in the meeting convened on 02.03.2024. 27. Further from the impugned order it is evident that on behalf of the
 petitioner/husband some electronic evidence saved in the pen-drive had
 placed before the learned Family Court in order to prove the marriage
 between respondent and Daru Munduia. 28. However, the same has been opposed on behalf of the respondent by
 taking the point that unless and until a certificate is issued by the
 petitioner himself or the person by whom the material contained in the
 pen-drive was cloned from primary evidence and a certificate is separately
 issued, the same is inadmissible in the evidence. 29. At this juncture, it would be apt to refer herein the settled position of law
 as settled by the Hon'ble Apex Court that electronic evidence can be
 presented as evidence in the court, but they require proper authentication
 and compliance of Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act (now replaced
 by the Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam, 2023). This means a certificate is
 usually needed to confirm the authenticity of the evidence. For ready
 reference the section 63 of Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam, 2023 (BSA
 2023) corresponding to Section 65B of the Evidence Act, 1872 is being
 quoted as under: 30. The electronic evidence saved in the pen-drive, in the context of the
 present case, is to be considered as the secondary evidence, and as such
 the requirement of a certificate under aforesaid provision is required. 31. However, here it would be relevant to refer Section 14 of the Family
 Courts Act, wherein it has been provided that Evidence Act, 1872 now the
 Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam, 2023 will not be applicable in strict sense
 in the Family Courts Act , rather, it depends upon the Presiding Judge to
 accept or not to accept the WhatsApp massages depending upon its
 authenticity and genuineness. Reference in this regard be made to Section
 14 of the Family Courts' Act, which reads as under: 32. Thus, from perusal of Section 14 of the Family Courts Act, it is evident
 that it is not mandatory upon the family court to accept any type of
 electronic evidence rather same is to be accepted by the learned family
 judge in view of provision of Section 14 of the Family Courts Act and the
 genuineness of the electronic evidence is to be assessed by the learned
 family judge in order to come to the conclusion of the lis. The issue of
 authenticity is sine qua non in adjudication of the issue and if the 25 F.A. No. 234 of 2024 [2025:JHHC:31728-DB]

 authenticity of the chat without verifying the same is to be accepted, then
 it will lead to miscarriage of justice and it will not come under the
 purview of fair trial. The evidence like that of Whatsapp chat can be
 accepted in view of Section 14 but it must be after verifying the
 authenticity of the chat for ascertainment of the fact that there is no
 tampering with the aforesaid electronic evidence. 33. Further, the authenticity of the Whatsapp message is required to be
 assessed in order to avoid any type of confusion or mischief. For example,
 suppose if any mobile phone/SIM has been purchased by the husband in
 the name of the wife and he used to make chat with the aforesaid mobile
 device/SIM to his mobile device purchased in his name, and the transfer
 of the Whatsapp messages/chat from both the mobile phones are there and
 after getting the chat from that mobile device if it will be accepted, then it
 will be acute miscarriage and that is the reason the authenticity of the
 Whatsapp chat/messages is to be ascertained to avoid any type of
 confusion before accepting the Whatsapp message or any conversation
 recorded there. 34. It needs to refer herein the ratio of judgment rendered by the Hon'ble
 Apex Court in the case of Anvar P.V. v. P.K. Basheer , (2014) 10 SCC
 473 wherein it has categorically been held that safeguards provided under Section 65-B of Act, 1872 are to ensure the source and authenticity of
 electronic records. As electronic records are more susceptible to
 tampering, alteration, transposition, excision, etc., without such
 safeguards, whole trial based on proof of electronic records can lead to
 travesty of justice. For ready reference the relevant paragraph is being
 quoted as under: [2025:JHHC:31728-DB] 35. However, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Shafhi Mohammad v.
 State of H.P. , (2018) 2 SCC 801, has observed that the requirement of
 certificate under Section 65-B(4) being procedural, can be relaxed by
 Court wherever interest of justice so justifies and thus, requirement of
 certificate under Section 65-B(4) is not always mandatory. 36. The Full Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Arjun Panditrao
 Khotkar v. Kailash Kushanrao Gorantyal , (2020) 7 SCC 1 while
 overruling the judgment passed in the case of Shafhi Mohammad v. State
 of H.P. (supra) has settled the controversy surrounding the electronic
 evidence and has observed that the certificate under Section 65B (4) is
 unnecessary if the original document itself is produced and this can be
 done by the owner of the laptop, mobile phone etc. by stepping into the
 witness box. In cases where the "computer" happens to be a part of a
 "computer system" or "computer network" and it becomes impossible to
 physically bring such system or network to the Court, then the only means
 of providing information contained in such electronic record can be in
 accordance with Section 65B(1), together with the requisite certificate
 under Section 65B(4). For ready reference the relevant paragraph is being
 quoted as under: Also, the judgment in Shafhi Mohammad [Shafhi Mohammad v. State
 of H.P. , (2018) 2 SCC 801 : (2018) 2 SCC 807 : (2018) 2 SCC (Civ)
 346 : (2018) 2 SCC (Civ) 351 : (2018) 1 SCC (Cri) 860 : (2018) 1
 SCC (Cri) 865] and the judgment dated 3-4 2018 reported as Shafhi
 Mohd. v. State of H.P. [Shafhi Mohd. v. State of H.P., (2018) 5 SCC
 311 : (2018) 2 SCC (Cri) 704], do not lay down the law correctly and
 are therefore overruled. 73.2. The clarification referred to above is that the required certificate
 under Section 65-B(4) is unnecessary if the original document itself is
 produced. This can be done by the owner of a laptop computer,
 computer tablet or even a mobile phone, by stepping into the witness
 box and proving that the device concerned, on which the original
 information is first stored, is owned and/or operated by him. In cases
 where the "computer" happens to be a part of a "computer system" if an electronic record as such is used as primary evidence under Section 62 of the Evidence Act ..." is thus clarified; it is to be read
 without the words "under Section 62 of the Evidence Act,...". With
 this clarification, the law stated in para 24 of Anvar P.V. [Anvar P.V.
 v. P.K. Basheer , (2014) 10 SCC 473 : (2015) 1 SCC (Civ) 27 : (2015)
 1 SCC (Cri) 24 : (2015) 1 SCC (L&S) 108] does not need to be
 revisited. 73.3. The general directions issued in para 64 (supra) shall hereafter
 be followed by courts that deal with electronic evidence, to ensure
 their preservation, and production of certificate at the appropriate
 stage. These directions shall apply in all proceedings, till rules and
 directions under Section 67-C of the Information Technology Act and
 data retention conditions are formulated for compliance by telecom
 and internet service providers. 73.4. Appropriate rules and directions should be framed in exercise of
 the Information Technology Act , by exercising powers such as in
 Section 67-C, and also framing suitable rules for the retention of data
 involved in trial of offences, their segregation, rules of chain of
 custody, stamping and record maintenance, for the entire duration of
 trials and appeals, and also in regard to preservation of the metadata
 to avoid corruption. Likewise, appropriate rules for preservation,
 retrieval and production of electronic record, should be framed as
 indicated earlier, after considering the report of the Committee
 constituted by the Chief Justices' Conference in April 2016." 37. Taking into consideration the aforesaid settled position of law this Court is
 re-adverting to the impugned order wherefrom it is evident that the
 learned family court has categorically observed that on the basis of the
 discussion made above and in the light of direction and guidelines passed
 by the Hon'ble Apex Court until and unless the certificate is furnished
 under section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, the material/contents of
 Pen-drive and photographs are inadmissible. It has further been observed
 that P.W.-3 took the photographs of marriage and also made video
 through mobile but he did not produce the original Mobile before the
 Court. It is also evident from the case record that Lilmuni Deogam
 recorded the photographs and video of marriage ceremony and sent to
 Prakash Bari but Lilmuni Deogam (PW-7) herself deposed that she does
 not know that by whom photographs were taken. PW-8 Raimuni Deogam,
 who is said to be present at the time of marriage has deposed in para-8 that
 she does not know that any photography was conducted at the time of
 marriage or not? For ready reference levant paragraph is being quoted as
 under: The documents do not inspire the requisite amount of confidence in
 the lack of certificates, therefore, the electronic documents and
 photographs filed by both parties are inadmissible in evidence.
 Hence, the petitioner failed to establish by reliable, cogent and
 convincing evidence that the marriage of Poonam Champia was
 solemnized with Dura Munduiya." 38. Thus, from the aforesaid it is evident that the learned family court after
 due consideration of all the aspects was not satisfied with respect to the
 authenticity and genuineness of the Electronic Evidence, as would be
 evidence from relevant paragraph of the impugned judgment quoted and
 referred hereinabove, which led the learned family Judge to dismiss the
 suit. 39. This Court, on consideration of the impugned judgment as also the
 material available on record, has found that no such cogent evidence has
 been produced by the appellant-husband to establish that her wife, the
 respondent herein, has performed second marriage with Dura Munduiya
 on 29.02.2024 and is living with him. 40. Thus, the learned Family Judge, on consideration of entire aspect, has not
 found the ground for dissolution of marriage and therefore, has dismissed
 the suit. [2025:JHHC:31728-DB] 41. Thus, it is evident that the learned Family Judge has analyzed the
 evidences available on record in threadbare manner by taking into account
 each and every aspect of the matter, therefore, this Court is of the
 considered view that the order impugned requires no interference. 42. This Court, based upon the aforesaid discussion, is of the view that the
 appellant/petitioner has failed to establish the element of perversity in the
 impugned judgment as per the discussion made hereinabove, as such, the
 instant appeal deserves to be dismissed. 43. Accordingly, the instant appeal fails and is dismissed. 44. Pending interlocutory application(s), if any, also stands disposed of.