1. The petitioner is the original accused, who came to be arrested on 22nd October, 2002, in connection with C.R. No.I-452 of 2002 registered with Naranpura Police Station for the offences punishable under Sections 167, 406, 409, 467, 468, 471, 477 r/w. Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code and also under Section 46 of the Banking Regulation Act. The petitioner has introduced himself in paragraph:2 of the memo of the petition as a law abiding citizen of the country, having graduated in Science and Law. It is contended that he had started legal practice in the year 1953 and joined public life in the year 1960 as a Social Worker at Visnagar. It is not necessary to mention various activities mentioned in paragraph:2 of the memo of the petition because these aspects were brought to the notice of the Court initially when the petitioner had approached this Court for bail after his arrest and when he had attempted to get regular bail even pending investigation of the crime. But in short, the say of the petitioner is that he is a man of very high reputation in the society as well as in the co-operative movement in the State of Gujarat. He has served as a Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) of State of Gujarat for 10 years i.e. between 1985 and 1995, as well as Member of Public Accounts committee, Gujarat Legislative Assembly from 1986 to 1987. The petitioner has moved this Court on more than one occasions for bail and this Court has not accepted the bail plea on merit on any of the earlier occasion. One such application moved to get regular bail was Criminal Misc. Application No. 9498 of 2004. During pendency of the hearing of the said regular bail application, the petitioner was extended relief of temporary bail on the ground of health and the nature of treatment he was taking in the Civil Hospital and thereafter, in the private hospital. This Court vide order dated 10th February, 2005, rejected the prayer of regular bail and the petitioner was granted four weeks time to surrender before the Jail Authorities, especially in order to enable the petitioner to approach the Apex Court in between, if he so desired. Being aggrieved by this order, the petitioner preferred one petition being Special Leave Petition (Cri) No. 1169 of 2005 and vide interim order dated 07th March, 2005, the time to surrender to the Jail Authorities granted by this Court was extended till further orders by the Apex Court. The Apex Court after hearing both the sides dismissed the said Special Leave Petition vide order dated 01st August, 2005. On the strength of one observation made by the Apex Court in the order, the present application has been filed saying that the petitioner has been granted permission by the Apex Court to approach this Court afresh for regular bail observing that this Court has not decided the bail plea on merit. For the sake of brevity and convenience, it would be appropriate to reproduce the order dated 01st August, 2005 passed by the Apex Court in the above mentioned Special Leave Petition, which is as under : 2. The memo of present petition is a detailed petition running into about 50 pages and Mr. A.D. Shah, learned senior counsel, has taken me through the history of the earlier petitions filed by the present petitioner and the orders passed thereon. He has also taken me through certain observations made by this Court while dealing with the earlier applications and the orders extending the temporary bail granted or extended by this Court on the ground of health. He has also taken me through some of the orders passed in favour of co-accused persons of the same crime granting them bail on merit; especially the orders granting bail to the son of the petitioner-Kaushikbhai and the order passed in favour of another co-accused-Babubhai Shivlal Shah. 3. To appreciate the say of Mr. A.D. Shah, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner, firstly I would like to reproduce the nature of main reliefs prayed for in the main petition in paragraph: 17, which is as under : 4. This Court has been extending the time to surrender of the petitioner before the Jail Authorities from time to time and lastly the same is extended till the date of decision of this Court in the present application so that the petitioner may not feel that when the Apex Court had granted extension pending hearing of Special Leave Petition (Cri) preferred by him, this Court ought not have forced him to surrender before the Jail Authorities ignoring the detailed petition for regular bail filed by him on the strength of the observations made by the Apex Court in the aforesaid order. 5. Mr. A.D. Shah, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner, has concentrated his arguments on various points including the ground of health and old age of the present petitioner. But this ground of health or advanced age of the petitioner would not help the present petitioner because this Court has dealt with the submissions on merit on more than one occasion and the Apex Court has also refused to grant regular bail on the ground of health or advance age while dismissing the Special Leave Petition vide order dated 01st August, 2005. On the contrary, the impression created in the mind of the Court is that the petitioner has regained his health on account of the opportunity to get best treatment given by the Court by passing earlier orders of extension of temporary bail and granting of bail for a fixed period and in the event of some exigency, the State is able to take care of the present petitioner by providing health assistance through Civil Hospital; especially U.N. Mehta Cardiology and Research Centre where the petitioner has taken treatment for a reasonable good period because of the interim orders passed by this Court. 6. Mr. A.D. Shah has submitted that the contentions of the present petitioner to grant regular bail should be dealt with on merit and all the grounds were agitated before the Court for filing a detailed regular bail application, if need is considered a fresh as if these grounds were never discussed or decided because of the orders passed by the Apex Court while dismissing the aforesaid Special Leave Petition. The first submission of Mr. Shah is that the petitioner was not at all responsible for any wrong which has been committed in the Bank or by the Bank because the functioning of the Bank was mainly on two committees constituted i.e. Advisory Committee for several branches of the Bank and Loan Sanctioning Committee which was common for all branches of the Bank and these committees were very well functioning till the Administrator was appointed on the Bank on 13th August, 2002 and overall responsibility was on the shoulder of the Manager and other managerial staff of the Bank and he had only supervisory status in the Bank. The names of about 16 persons have been mentioned in paragraph: 9 of the memo of the petition who have been granted regular bail and it is submitted that the present petitioner was also granted bail by High Court from 30th June, 2003 to 29th July, 2003 and 01th October, 2003 to 09th February, 2003 and thereafter, he was granted time to surrender before the Jail Authorities upto 09th March, 2005 and at present he is on temporary bail on account of extension of time to surrender granted by the Apex Court as well as this Court. It is necessary to mention that one of the accused Babubhai Shivlal Shah is enjoying temporary bail because the substantial amount borrowed by Kaushikbhai Bholabhai Patel (son of the present petitioner) and son of Babubhai Shah is now being paid gradually. So in the event of failure in making payment undertaken by Kaushikbhai Bholabhai Patel and/or son of Babubhai Shah, may bring the cancellation of temporary bail of Babubhai Shah and regular bail granted to Kaushikbhai Patel. According to me, the bail granted to two borrowers who had taken loan of crores of rupees from the very bank would not be a matter of much relevance and some of them have started paying amount to the Bank. The status of the borrower of a bank who has obtained loan under a conspiracy to siphon off money of the Bank with the help of present petitioner an other senior managerial cadre personnel is materially different. Undisputedly, the present petitioner was and is the captain of a team which defrauded the Bank and its depositors. The element of manipulation of account is also emerging because in absence of substantive recovery of interest of loan amount or net profit large sum was advanced to some of the borrowers against the adjustment of loan and some institutions have been paid donations beyond actual capacity to pay and there is ample evidence on record to show that the petitioner was not only key person in arriving at a particular decision by the respective committee. It also emerges that some loans were disbursed against the resolution and Mr. A.D. Oza, ld. Public Prosecutor, has rightly placed reliance on certain aspects which makes the case of the prosecution against the present petitioner a strong prima facie case. 7. Mr. A.D. Shah, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner, has submitted that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Audit Report justifies many actions including act of giving donations to charitable educational institutions. It is not the say that the said amounts were donated against the policy or guidelines issued by the RBI. This aspect is likely to to against the present petitioner because the Audit Committee of the RBI has to see the account adjusted at the end of financial year and when the loans are adjusted immediately prior to the end of a financial year or to a given date when the borrower is supposed to repay the interest and loan amount by doing fresh advances, are not supposed to be counted upon unless it is noticed by the Audit Committee. If this version of Mr. Shah is accepted then it would amount to accepting one of the defence plea as to disbursement of amount by way of donation to the institutions where the petitioner might be craving to have command or influence merely because other banks were also donor to the institutions where the Bank in question had donated, by itself would not make the action of the petitioner justifiable. Here the say of the prosecution is that though there was no actual capacity or net financial gain and the things shown to the RBI were a paper flower bouquet. This submission of Mr. Shah is not found accepted. So the details mentioned in the petition are not found convincing in weighing the case in favour of the present petitioner. Here I would like to note that on earlier occasions when the Court was not inclined to grant regular bail to the petitioner on merit and has shown inclination to assign reasons by appreciating material documents collected by the Investigating Agency but the same was not done only with a view to prevent prejudice to the petitioner-accused and the Court was aware that it might be indirectly evaluating evidence collected by the prosecution, which is not the business of the bail Court. On some occasions, even this Court has observed that the petitioner has no case on merit so far as regular bail is concerned but I would like to refer to those observations later. 8. It is true that the petitioner has been granted bail for three different offences registered with Visnagar Police Station, practically in compliance of the order passed by the Apex Court for committing similar offences for which he is being prosecuted on earlier complaint filed with Naranpura Police Station registered in the year 2002 i.e. C.R. No.I-452 of 2002. So under a larger conspiracy when the accused was found guilty of more than one offence by the Investigating Agency, a formal separate complaint can be filed and for how many times a person accused can be arrested for defrauding the same Bank at different places and with the help of different set of accused. So one of the questions, I am told, posed before the Apex Court when the petitioner was directed to appear before the competent Court at Visnagar and pray for bail. Of course, a copy of the aforesaid Special Leave Petition (Cri), filed by the petitioner before the Apex Court on earlier occasion under which he was directed to approach the competent Court for appropriate favourable order of bail, is not a part of the present proceedings. But the prosecuting agency positively can point out once the copy of the said petition was tendered to the Court for perusal and contents thereof. In the same way, in the present crime the Police had continued investigation and many of the borrowers have been arrested at a later stage during the course of investigation and more than one supplementary chargesheet has been filed. But so far as the present petitioner is concerned, the case placed by the prosecution was available to the Court for appreciation in deciding whether the petitioner deserves any discretionary relief of bail and after submission of chargesheet against the present petitioner, the Court decided not to exercise discretionary jurisdiction of granting bail pending trial and keeping mind the condition of health of the present petitioner, the Court decided to grant bail for a fixed period. On all earlier occasions when the temporary bail was granted and subsequently extended on occasions, was based on papers of treatment which was being given to the petitioner. When the Court found that this is not a fit case for regular bail so far as petitioner is concerned, the petitioner was granted bail for fixed period so that he may not have to approach or to get extension after intervals of some days. It is true that the observations made in Condition SO of the order (paragraph :26) dated 22nd April, 2004, passed in Criminal Misc. Application No. 2926 of 2003, provides that : 9. However, this Condition SO should be read in reference to the earlier paragraphs of the decision and the situation under which the Court decided to grant bail for a fixed period and the earlier order of extension of temporary bail pending hearing of the said bail petition. When the Court has refused to consider the regular bail, the ground of health only was pressed into service and that point was hammered and, therefore, that point pressed into service by Mr. S.A. Shah, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner, in the said petition, the Court decided to grant temporary bail. While passing such orders, the Court cannot even indirectly think that the condition of health of the petitioner-accused may become delicate or more serious and if complaints made before the doctor are really genuine and if the petitioner becomes disabled within a period of six months, then in that situation, he can pray for extension of bail, which was granted for a fixed period and simultaneously at that time, the Court can also consider the regular bail plea and the petitioner may not get the order of rejection on technical ground that his request for bail is nothing but a successive application. So this small window by putting Condition SO was kept in the order solely on a humanitarian ground and the Court perceives that the same has been wrongly projected by the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner before the Apex Court and, therefore, it seems that the learned counsel representing the petitioner before the Apex Court was able to submit that rejection of earlier bail application is a rejection of bail plea on the ground of health and the same was not on merit. Each point that has been placed in the present petition was argued, pressed into service and at one point of time, Mr. S.A. Shah, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner, had decided to press into service only ground of health for regular bail and the Court found that this is not a fit case wherein the regular bail should be granted to the petitioner but in view of earlier order of extension of temporary bail and the nature of treatment that the petitioner had taken in earlier years, he should be granted bail for a fixed period so that he can complete the treatment and in that period of six months, if the situation takes the worst turn then he can approach this Court for regular bail on the ground of health and such ground of health and such ground of health if pressed into service for regular bail then the petitioner may not receive an order of rejection saying that the bail plea on the ground of health has been decided on merit and, therefore, regular bail on the same grounds again cannot be prayed or at least can be granted. It is fortunate that the Apex Court as well as Full Bench of this Court has observed that successive application in respect of the same offence of one accused, whose bail plea has been entertained by a particular Bench, the subsequent such petition should be heard and decided by the same Judge/Bench. The Full Bench of this Court in the case of Babubhai Bachubhai Bhabhor v. State , reported in 2004(3) GLH 101 has held that : 10. Mr. A.D. Shah, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner, has pointed out some other aspects also which can be mentioned in brief, are as under : 11. When earlier application was filed and disposed of, the investigation was pending and it is found by the Court that the petitioner is able to influence the witnesses and capable of tampering with the documentary evidence also and the entire thrust of the prosecution was on the pendency of investigation in number of other offences registered against the borrowers, etc. It is true that it was submitted by Mr. A.D. Oza that at least the petitioner should not be enlarged on bail, till the investigation of all the cases registered against the present petitioner is concluded. This point has been developed by the petitioner in the present petition in detail but on completion of investigation also, it appears that some of the key witnesses are employee of Visnagar Co-operative Bank Ltd. and working under the petitioner-accused. The Police has recovered most of the documents but the safety of other relevant documents, which can be referred to or shown to the Court as corroborative piece of documentary evidence and thousands of pages lying in the volume of the Bank accounts shall have to be brought before the Court to prove the genuineness of the documents seized by the Police and are capable of being referred to by the witnesses during the course of cross-examination. So it is not possible for this Court to say that the State had no resistance against the regular bail provided the investigation is concluded. It would be wrong to argue that in each case where the witnesses are not capable of approaching the accused where the nature of evidence is basically documentary evidence, the bail should be a matter of course. The grant of bail depends on various circumstances and facts of each individual case and that too against each individual accused. The mute question before this Court when the bail plea is raised, is whether the petitioner-accused deserves any discretionary relief of bail as his privilege to live as a free independent citizen because presumption of innocence in favour of all the accused persons is always there. 1. The present petitioner has approached this Court for various reliefs mainly of bail by filing different petitions. Most of them are Criminal Misc. Applications praying for either bail or temporary bail or for extension of temporary bail granted earlier. It is possible to mention some such numbers like Criminal Misc. Application Nos. 6979/2002, 7080/2002, 7106/2002, 7175/2002, 7274/2002, 7374/2002, 6922/2002, 8103/2002, 8737/2002, 8748/2002, 340/2003, 444/2003, 1675/2003, 2706/2003, 2781/2003, 2926/2003, 5171/2003, 6175/2003, 6950/2003, 10072/2005, etc. But this Court has not granted regular bail or has ever shown any inclination to grant regular bail to the present petitioner when the Court was asked to grant regular bail to the petitioner for the reasons assigned by the Court. Once even temporary bail was not granted/extended which was granted earlier on the ground of health of the petitioner and the petitioner was taken into judicial custody. 2. One of the arguments of Mr. A.D. Shah, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner is that in the month of July, 2003, the petitioner was taken to Government Civil Hospital by the Jail Authorities for treatment because of health problem and, thereafter to facilitate the petitioner this Court, after a lapse of some period, had granted temporary bail to the petitioner on health ground when he was taking under treatment under the observation of Cardiologist of U.N. Mehta Institute of Cardiology attached with the Government Civil Hospital. This Court even accepts today that the health of the petitioner is not very good and he has become older by two more years from that date but he is far more comfortable on account of conservative treatment. 3. It is also one of the arguments that none of the grounds under which regular bail plea has been turned down by this Court earlier or after filing of the chargesheet even does not now exist, because the investigation is over. Practically all the supplementary chargesheets have been filed and there is no scope of submission of fresh supplementary chargesheet except for the accused persons who are still absconding. So when the investigation is over and when there is no possibility to proceed with the trial expeditiously and to conclude it in a given period of time, the petitioner-accused should be enlarged on bail because he himself has not received any financial benefit directly and the son of the present petitioner, who was a party in taking financial advantage of the administration of his father i.e. present petitioner-accused, is on bail and some amount has been paid by him in the account where the liability of the son of the petitioner has been fixed. The son of the present petitioner had started Joint Ventures with the son of the accused-Babulal Shivlal Shah, who is one of the main conspirators and has not been granted regular bail till date. Of course, the efficient police has not placed any papers establishing the link of investment of siphoned off amount in the said business. 1. Mr. A.D. Oza, ld. Public Prosecutor, has tried to point out that though none of the fixed deposit holders have been paid amount of their T.D.R. or F.D.R., in the case of the son of the present petitioner, the Registrar, Board of Nominees has drawn a decree saying that set off of the entire amount of deposit may be given to the petitioner's son by the Bank and the tug-of-war against the present petitioner is pending before the higher forum. This Bench is not supposed to comment upon this factual aspect but the fact remains that the case of the prosecution is consistent from the very beginning that under the influence and as per the conspiracy hatched, the persons in inner circle of the petitioner have been obliged for crores of rupees either by granting loan or by granting cash credit facility, etc. It is true that 162 witnesses are required to be examined but in cases of criminal conspiracy, the Criminal Courts have examined more than 100 or 200 or even more witnesses throughout the country on number of occasions. The son of the present petitioner is found involved in three different transactions and the return of Bank guarantee is one of the mode under which it is argued that the liability of the son of the present petitioner is not of more than Rs. 45 lakhs though it is alleged that when the transactions were entered into by the bank, the total amount was of about 17 crores. 2. Without entering into merits of the transactions entered into by the son of the present petitioner, it is clear that limited number of persons i.e. about 19 persons or concerns have been given substantial amount by the Bank i.e. more than 200 crores, under the alleged illegality or irregularity and the amount of the Bank has been siphoned off in a planned manner is the allegation. The chargesheet says that in favour of following 19 different persons/companies the following amount was either given or is outstanding towards the amount of loan or towards the cash credit facility, which was not returned to the Bank. The case of the prosecution is that the Bank management including the petitioner and the person-borrowers were fully aware about the fact that they were not going to return the said amount to the Bank and ultimately, one day the amount can be returned as bad debts/ not recoverable debts. The said figures mentioned in the chargesheet read as under : 8. Ld. counsel Mr. Saurin Shah has taken me through the observations made in the Report of RBI and Notes made by the Auditors of the Bank and in none of these documents which are relevant, the present applicant is held as a person responsible for the scam. On the contrary, it is submitted this Court should not accept the say of the prosecution that the applicant himself has attempted to kill the Institution which was flourished and developed but for his efforts and endeavour. It is further stated that the applicant is a man of repute, his presence can be secured at any time, he was once a Minister in the State Government. The real defaulters who have cheated the Bank are now asked to pay the amount misappropriated by them and some of them are paying agreed amount to the Bank and when Members of Loan Committee have been enlarged on bail by this Court, it would not be proper for the Court to say at this stage that the present applicant was a sole dictator in the decisions taken for advancing huge amount to certain limited parties and there was no role of other Committee Members. It is not the duty of the Chairman to scrutinise the loan documents and the person who could have been made accused by the Investigating Agency, is made a complainant and some of such persons have been made witnesses by the prosecution. In this situation, the applicant should not be kept behind the bars for indefinite period. XXX XXX XXX XXX
 

9(ii) Role played by the accused is narrated by ld. PP Mr. Oza and he has submitted that formal misappropriation of money is not required to be proved by the prosecution in such or similar cases. Managers of the Bank can take disadvantage of their position in various manners if they know how to play tricks which have been played by the present applicant in the instant case. Son of the present applicant was made a partner in one of the businesses to whom the Bank has advanced money. More than one Institution or Co. Op. Society have been advanced large sum of funds from the Bank by a decision taken under the Chairmanship of the present applicant wherein the present applicant himself is either a Chairman or a person controlling the affairs of those Institutions or Co.Op. Societies and those institutions are not paying any heed to the request to return the amounts/loans advanced by the Bank. In more than one cases, in absence of formal resistance either by the Board or by the Loan Committee, money has been advanced at the instance of the present applicant and some documents have been tampered so that the amount granted against Over Draft Facility can be increased. A special favour has been shown to a limited class of borrowers whose debt/liabilities have been written off to huge extent at the instance of the present applicant. Example pointed out on behalf of the applicant of one Jayantibhai Revabhai Patel would not help the applicant on the point of parity at all. An amount of Rs. 60 Crores have been sanctioned by the Head office at the instance of the applicant accused without proper recommendations and where investigating agency had found that relevant papers are tampered with. In some cases, back-dated resolutions have been passed only with a view to regularise the wrong done earlier. The applicant accused, according to ld. PP Mr. Oza, was responsible for flouting the guidelines issued by RBI from time to time. 9(iii) Ld. PP Mr. Oza has further submitted that over and above constructive responsibility and direct liability, as per the case of the prosecution, the indirect liabilities of the applicant are as under:- Mr. Oza has further submitted that the investigation of other offences registered against the applicant is going on. Mr. Oza further submits that the prosecution apprehends that order of bail will put the applicant in advantageous position and he would be able to influence witnesses or tamper with documentary evidence because large number of documents are yet to be recovered by the Investigating Agency from other Institutions and Co. Op. Societies where the present applicant is in controlling position. He has further submitted that if tampered document is tendered to the police, then it may seriously prejudice the case of the prosecution. Number of accused persons are absconding. Some of staff members who were appointed by the present applicant are important witnesses who are to be examined by the prosecution and enlargement on bail of the present applicant would affect the morale of these witnesses and it may give an opportunity to the present applicant to emotionally blackmail those witnesses. At least, till the investigation in all the cases registered against the present applicant is not concluded, this Court should not enlarge the present applicant accused on bail. XXX XXX XXX XXX 15. I have considered the above decisions on facts and other circumstances emerging from the cited decisions and relevant paras referred to by ld. PP Mr. Oza. (ii) The next decision i.e. The State (Through Deputy Commissioner of Police, Special Branch, Delhi) v. Jaspal Singh Gill (supra), talks about the larger interest of the State and public when the bail plea is pressed into service by an accused involved in such or similar offences. The Apex Court has observed in para-9 as under:- So, this decision would not help the prosecution. (iv) Next decision on which ld. PP Mr. Oza placed reliance is in the case of Mansab Ali v. Irsan and Anr. (supra) wherein the Apex Court has observed that the provisions of CrPC confer a discretionary jurisdiction on criminal courts to grant bail to accused pending trials or in appeal against convictions. Since the jurisdiction is discretionary, it requires to be exercised with great care and caution and by balancing valuable right of liberty of an individual and he interest of society in general in granting or refusing the bail. As per the Apex Court, the Courts exercising powers under this section, are required to indicate, may be very briefly, the reasons for grant or refusal of bail. Jurisdiction has not to be exercised in casual and cavalier fashion. While disapproving the judgment of the High Court, the Apex Court undertook the exercise of going through the police papers and the evidence so far recorded by the trial Court to consider the prayer of the complainant for cancellation of bail. The observations of the Apex Court in the cited decision were that the trial Court was supposed to consider relevant factors like nature of accusation, character, behaviour, antecedents and standing of the accused. This decision would not help the prosecution squarely, but the ratio can be considered that before exercising discretion, this Court is supposed to keep balance between the freedom of an individual and interest of the society in general. (v) The next decision relied upon by ld. PP Mr. Oza is in the case of Balvantji Halaji Palvi (Darbar) v. State of Gujarat (supra), wherein this Court has observed as under:- The facts are not identical. Status of the accused, his role in the crime, his responsibility towards investors and depositors of the Bank and the impact of the criminal conduct of the accused in the total management, push the case of the applicant into a separate category. It is true that all the Directors are equal and Chairman may be the first amongst the equals. However, looking to the bye-laws and other statutory provisions, each one is assigned a separate role including the privilege to put his casting vote. It is true that different benches of this Court have enlarged Managing Directors or Chairmen of other Co.Op. Banks found involved in the similar scams on stringent conditions and some of them have been asked to deposit or pay a particular sum to the Bank as one of the conditions of enlarging them on bail. In the present case also, Mr. Nanavaty has submitted that present applicant though is not responsible to pay any amount as he has not borrowed any amount or has taken any advantage, he can deposit any amount which this Court may direct him to deposit between Rs. 19 Lakhs to 93 Lakhas. However, subsequently it has been clarified by ld. counsel Mr. Saurin Shah that this submission has been made on behalf of the applicant before the Court because son of the present applicant has taken financial advantage of the management of the applicant and real brother of the present applicant was also owing some financial liabilities. As per the case of the prosecution, the applicant has put his real brother and son to financial advantageous position and both of them were defaulters on the day on which the complaint was filed. But thereafter, real brother of the present applicant was arrested by the police and while in custody, brother of the applicant committed suicide. Till 15.04.2004, this fact was not brought to the notice of the Court, but this Court has no reason to disbelieve the statement of ld. Counsel Saurin Shah. So, it is submitted by the applicant accused may be relieved from obligation created because of the statement made before the Court and while doing this favour, this Court may also consider that the son of the applicant now has been enlarged on bail on certain conditions and he is complying with the condition of depositing Rs. 10 Lakh per month to the Bank. However, Mr. Shah has clarified that the applicant may be asked to deposit any reasonable amount in the High Court as one of the conditions that may be determined by the Court. XXX XXX XXX XXX 17. The ratio of the decision of the Jharkhand High Court in the case of Lalu Prasad Yadav (supra) would not also squarely apply and that decision has persuasive value. Jharkhand High Court, in the cited decision has observed that:- 18. Mr. Saurin Shah, ld. counsel appearing for the applicant accused has placed reliance on the following decisions:- 19. It is true that the petitioner is a leading citizen and was active in administration of the bank since 1982 and was a Minister in the year 1993 & 1994 for State of Gujarat in Co. Operation & Panchayat Department and bank deposits rose from Rs. 50 Crores to approximately more than Rs. 600 Crores between 1996 & 2000 and the Bank was a Scheduled Bank. State of Gujarat has faced disaster devastating entire part of the State of Gujarat including city of Ahmedabad on account of earthquake occurred on 26.1.2001 and the complainant Bank was one of the co-operative bank who had taken measures in helping borrowers and recovery of the amount was not made effective for a period of 2 years and on several occasions, relaxations also have been given as per the directions issued by RBI. One of the largest Co. Op. Bank of Gujarat i.e. Madhavpura Mercentile Co. Op. Bank Ltd. failed in clearing debt on 13.3.2001 and, therefore, there was a huge rush of the depositors to all other co-operative banks including the bank led by the present applicant and prosecution even has not disputed one fact alleged By Mr.. P.R. Nanavati, ld. counsel appearing for the applicant that about Rs. 175 to Rs. 200 Crores were paid to the depositors on request of withdrawal between 13.3.2001 and 16.3.2001 i.e. within four days and the officers of the Bank have cooperated RBI machineries and have responded practically all calls made between March 2001 and June 2001. However, it will be difficult to accept that the Bank is put to trouble only on the ground of political rivalry between the applicant and a sitting MLA Mr. Prahlad Patel and the Bank has been made victim by publishing misleading advertisements issued in local news paper. Financial crisis that has cropped up in the month of June & July 2001 destroyed the backbone of the bank. But these facts probably may not help the present applicant on merits because the prosecution is because of the financial irregularities committed collectively and under the leadership of the present applicant, is the main allegation. I would like to refer some of the observations of the Apex Court in the case of Ram Narain Poply v. CBI , . In this cited decision, the Apex Court was dealing with the case of scam in nationalised bank's money utilised by Harshad Mehta and his group. Observations made in paras 363, 381, 382 and 383 would be relevant for the purpose of the present decision because present application was trustee of the amount of the bank headed by him. XXX XXX XXX XXX 20. This Court in the case of Mohammed Ali Pirbhai Dodhia v. State of Gujarat , 2003(3) GLR 2267, considered regular bail application of the members of Board of Directors of Co. Op. Bank, has observed in paras 7 & 9 of the decision as under:- 21. Having considered number of other decisions placed before the Court by ld. counsel Mr. Saurin Shah and ld. PP Mr. Oza including the decision in the case of Nur Ahemmad Abdulkadher Surti and Ors. v. State of Gujarat while dealiang with Cri.Misc. Application No. 7741/2003 to 7753/2003 (group matters) and in the case of son of the present applicant i.e. Kaushikbhai Patel (viz. two decisions (i) first decision refusing bail plea dated 13.5.2003, and (ii) subsequent decision accepting the bail plea on changed circumstances dated 26.12.2003) and the order passed in the case of Ishwarbhai Tribhovandas Patel while dealing with Cri. Misc. Application No. 1675/2003 dated 13.5.2003 (Coram: Akshay Mehta, J), it would not be either proper or justified to reject the bail plea absolutely. This Court is of the view that present applicant does not deserve discretionary relief of regular bail irrespective of his age and health condition especially when number of criminal complaints are still under investigation, but on the ground of advanced age, temporary bail can be granted for a limited period on certain stringent conditions as submitted when ld. counsel Mr. Saurin Shah was brushing his final arguments to accept the bail plea on the strength of the certificate issued by Dr. Apurva Madia dated 4.4.2004. I would like to quote relevant part of the said certificate:- 22. Ld. PP Mr. Oza confirms that the certificate issued is genuine and it is opined by Investigating Officer who is in charge of the investigation at present that the applicant is undergoing treatment and he may have to undergo prolonged treatment. According to Mr. Shah, health condition of the present applicant does not show any sign of improvement and, therefore, if the Court is not inclined to enlarge the applicant on regular bail, then he can be granted temporary bail of some longer period on any condition that the Court may deem just and proper and he may be asked to shift to his residential house i.e. 1, Utsav Bungalow, Nr. Drive-in Cinema in the city of Ahmedabad. It is pointed out by Mr. Shah that residential house of the applicant is opposite to SAL Hospital where the applicant is taking treatment at present and applicant is able to arrange for para-medical personnel and can get assistance and renown physician and doctor in couple of minutes in case of necessity or he can be shifted to SAL Hospital within very short notice. While developing his arguments, Mr. Shah has placed reliance on one decision in the case of State of Maharashtra v. Captain Buddhikota Subba Rao , and has taken me through relevant part of the decision. In this decision, the Apex Court allowed the appeal and set aside the impugned order dated 18.6.1989 granting bail to the respondent accused whereby the accused was granted bail for a period of 2 months on the terms and conditions mentioned in the order. This order is turned down by the cited decision only to maintain judicial discipline and to fortify the observations made by the Apex Court in para-5 of the judgment in the case of Sahejjad Hussain Khan v. Istiaque Hussain Khan, . The Apex Court found that for the reasons mentioned in the said decision, There was no justification for passing the impugned order in absence of substantial change in the facts situation. The impugned order before Supreme Court was found an order "bit out of ordinary", but the fact remains that the appellant for a limited period was once granted bail by Bombay High Court on conditions catalogued in the order permitting him to be kept in virtually under house arrest. So, all the arguments advanced before the Court and the fact that some similarly situated custodians and managers of the bank have been enlarged on bail by this Court by various other Benches, the applicant can be enlarged on bail for a temporary period. He may not be put virtually under house arrest, but conditions appropriate can be imposed to take care of certain situation including the apprehensions expressed by ld. PP Mr. Oza. XXX XXX XXX XXX 24. ... So, when the Court is called upon to exercise discretionary jurisdiction, then objectively should record a conclusion that in a given case, the Court is not inclined to grant bail because the same would cause injustice indirectly to the society. In another decision in the case of Ashok Dhhingara v. NCP of Delhi, reported in AIR 2000 SC P.3537 wherein a Japanees citizen was cheated and defrauded by the Indian citizen, the Apex Court observed that the accused does not deserve bail, however, as the accused was on bail, the order of bail was not disturbed. Relevant observations made therein by the Apex Court are relevant for our purpose. 17. This Court while dealing with aforesaid petition has answered the question as to whether the accused whose regular bail application has been rejected, can be granted a temporary bail or the bail for a fixed period and this Court has observed that on this point there are conflicting views of different High Courts and has referred to the decision in the case of State of Uttar Pradesh v. Atique Ahmed, reported in 2003 AIR SCW 2673. The view of the Apex Court is that the accused whose regular bail application has been turned down on merit, cannot be granted temporary bail even on health ground. So this Court was not at all agreeable with the submission that the accused deserves regular bail and now Mr. A.D. Shah, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner, has placed the following main grounds before this Court which are not found favourable to the petitioner by this Court: 18. In the same way, the fact that the Apex Court permitted the petitioner to appear before the ld. JMFC, Visnagar and executed the bail bond as may be ordered by the ld. JMFC in three different offences registered at Visnagar, also would not twilt the balance in favour of the petitioner because the Special Leave Petition preferred by the present petitioner on the grounds and nature of reliefs prayed for as discussed earlier, was of the type whereby it can be prayed that subsequent three FIRs filed at Visnagar are nothing but harassment to the petitioner because the details of those criminal wrongs can be made part of the present chargesheet and supplementary chargesheets could have been filed for that wrong. While appreciating the say of Mr. A.D. Shah qua the order of bail passed by the Apex Court for three different crimes registered with Visnagar Police Station, one more point emerges is that the wrong has not been committed only by the Manager, Office bearers or the staff members or Loan Committee of Usmanpura Branch at Ahmedabad but even at Visnagar also such or similar fraud has been committed and according to prosecution, the present petitioner is one of the main culprits. So the submission regarding innocence or ignorance qua irregularity and illegality is not prima facie found convincing. One audit report is also shown to the Court by Mr. A.D. Shah during the course of hearing, wherein the auditor has tried to note while doing audit of Visnagar Group Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd., Visnagar, that the members of the Executive Committee cannot be held liable individually under Section 93 of the Gujarat Co-operative Societies Act, 1961, placing reliance on some decisions of this Court in the matter of Co-operative Societies and it is argued that there is constructive liability of all the members of the Board and the Committees and when other directors and members of Loan Committee, etc. are enjoying bail, the petitioner should not be asked to remain in prison. The proceedings drawn by the auditor and referred to by him are subsequent to the rejection of the earlier order of bail Court in the main crime and the auditor's report is of 30th May, 2005. The auditor's report in the matter of one co-operative society would not twilt the balance in favour of the petitioner in getting regular bail. It is likely that the Criminal Court may reach to a different conclusion then recorded by the auditor in criminal proceedings. 19. In earlier decision, it is observed that it is true that one of the main conspirators is Babulal Shivlal Shah, who is at present on temporary bail. It is also true that one witness has mainly involved the said accused Babulal Shah who according to prosecution was acting as an inter-mediator in passing the kick back money to the management, has not named/involved the present petitioner as an accused. However, more than one witnesses i.e. Prahladbhai Karsanbhai, Shaileshkumar Kantilal, Rameshchandra Fulshankar Mehta, etc. have impeached the present petitioner, including Jasvant R. Patel, Ex-Manager of the Bank. It is rightly argued that the Apex Court in one of the cases has observed that economic offences ransacking financial stability of middle class or lower class depositors or investors, are more serious and grave. This Court is of the view that the case of the present petitioner falls in the category where he should not be granted bail on any ground. The present petitioner should be asked to face the trial as an undertial because the apprehension that he may influence even the witnesses who are required to be examined during trial were in service of the Bank and under obligation o the present petitioner or who can be pursued because of the earlier relations of such witnesses with the Bank and the management and when some of them are still on pay-roll of the Bank under administration, gets strengthen. It is also relevant fact that some of the accused are still absconding or the police is not able to arrest them for their involvement in the offence. When it is stated by the State that on each sensitive movement earlier, the Jail Authorities had provided treatment to the petitioner from the bes available doctors and cardiologist and the petitioner was kept in Medical Ward specially maintained by the State in Sabarmati Central Prison, then there was no need to extend the temporary bail on the ground of health also because undisputedly, the petitioner now has to remain under conservative treatment and the scope of surgery by experts is practically nil. It is known fact to the society at large that a person taking conservative treatment is available to survive for several years who has undergone by-pass surgery in past. The petitioner, as observed earlier, once was the Minister in the State of Gujarat, having degree in Law and knowledge of working of a Co-operative Bank, cannot plead innocence or ignorance qua the huge irregularities which have taken place in the Visnagar Co-operative Bank Ltd. 20. The substantial amount of donation given to the charitable institutions is still lying in the respective bank account or some of the close relatives of the petitioner are likely to lose their deposits and the fact that the petitioner has not taken any loan for himself or for his family, etc. are the weak arguments. If these arguments are accepted for granting bail liberally on the ground of health or advanced age, then I am afraid the people of senior age in the management of a financial institution may carve out methodical system under a conspiracy to siphon off large sum by not drawing single pai for himself and asking the office persons to keep some amount from the amount siphoned off, with the Bank as deposit or by keeping some amount as deposit, systematically huge amount can be siphoned off in the names of persons who have kept some deposits. So I am not attracted with this submission also which is made by Mr. A.D. Shah. Similar submissions were made before this Court on earlier occasion when application for regular bail was rejected on 22nd April, 2004. 21. It is true that one Special Leave Petition was preferred against the order passed by this Court on 09th February, 2005 but this Court at the relevant point of time was dealing with extension of bail for a fixed period granted by the earlier Court vide order dated 22nd April, 2004. Because of strong resistance by the State and detailed submissions which were made, a speaking order was passed on 09th February, 2005. So the order dated 22nd April, 2004 was in the background and in the mind of Court. It is not possible for this Court to infer as to whether while preferring Special Leave Petition by the petitioner-accused against the order dated 09th February, 2005, earlier order dated 22nd April, 2004, attached for kind perusal of the Apex Court as annexure or not. It is neither possible nor necessary to comment upon the same but at least this Court can say that earlier rejection of the application vide order dated 22nd April, 2004, keeping a small window open by putting Condition SO, was a rejection of regular bail plea on merit discussing all grounds but as the petitioner is of advanced age and had taken treatment of a particular nature, keeping apprehension of certain serious turn in the health as discussed earlier, the said window was kept. It appears that by magnifying that Condition SO referred to hereinabove, the petitioner has attempted to revive all the pleas which were placed before this Court, including the scope of protraction of trial on account of complicated investigation and large number of witnesses. 22. In view of above discussion and observations, the regular bail application of the present petitioner is hereby dismissed. The petitioner-accused needs to surrender himself before the Jail Authorities forthwith. The Apex Court had granted time to surrender to the petitioner-accused of a fixed period. However, without entering into the technicalities and directing the petitioner to approach the Apex Court for getting the time extended to surrender, this Court has extended the period of time to surrender to avoid frustration in the interest of justice. But now when the present bail petition is ordered to be dismissed, no such extension is granted. The petitioner-accused now shall surrender himself before the concerned Jail Authorities within a period of 10 (ten) days from today, failing which the competent Court shall take appropriate steps to secure his presence. Notice is discharged.