SH.JAGROOP SINGH MAHAL,
MEMBER. Argued by: Sh.Ghulam
Nabi Malik, Advocate for the appellant. PER JUSTICE SHAM
SUNDER, PRESIDENT 1.               
 This appeal is directed against the order
dated 14.11.2011, rendered by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum-II,
UT, Chandigarh (hereinafter to be called as the District Forum only) vide which
it accepted the complaint, and directed Opposite Party No.1 (now appellant), as
under:- 2.               
The facts, in brief, are that the complainant
(now respondent no.1) was persuaded by Opposite Party No.2(now respondent
no.2), an authorized representative of Opposite Party No.1, and was
offered immigration to Australia. The complainant was convinced that Opposite
Party No.1, would arrange a suitable employer, from Australia, to facilitate him(complainant)
and his family for Australian Immigration, without the requirement of passing
ILETS. In consideration of the said services, Australian Dollars 10,000 as
service charges and Rs.15,000/- for assessment fee alongwith Australian Dollars
300, in favour of Recognition Australian were also demanded by Opposite Party
No.2 for finding a suitable nomination/sponsor
in Australia, for the complainant. After receipt of a sum of Rs.15,000/-, the Opposite Parties, issued
receipt No.0179 dated 9.8.2006. Australian Dollars to the extent of 300 were
paid by the complainant, through a demand draft, bearing No. FDB16012243-06
dated 30.10.2006, and receipt Annexure
C-2, was issued by the Opposite Parties. The complainant also deposited Rs.3,50,000/-,
with Opposite Party No.2, under
acknowledgement dated 19.12.2006 Annexure C-3. It was stated that the complainant
furnished all the requisite documents, like academic certificates and work
experience certificate. He also submitted the pre-migration skills assessment
application dated 7.11.2006 (Annexure C-4). Thereafter, the complainant made
repeated visits to the Opposite Parties, to know the status of his case. In the
meanwhile, for the purpose of visa processing, a medical report was demanded by
the Opposite Parties, which he submitted vide receipt Nos.2270 and 2910 dated
11.12.2008 Annexures C-5 and C-6, respectively. It was further stated that the
complainant had to incur approximately Rs.3,500/- for the said test. However,
ultimately, Opposite Party No.2, left the service of Opposite Party No.1, and
started his own concern under the name and style of ONTINA EDUCATION
CONSULTANT, 21E, ESTATE at Ambala Cantt. Haryana. When no response was given,
by the Opposite Parties, with regard to the status of the immigration of the
complainant, left with no other alternative, a legal notice dated 13.12.2010
Annexure C-7, was served by the complainant, upon them, but no reply to the same, was
received by him. It was further stated that the aforesaid acts of the Opposite Parties, amounted to deficiency, in rendering service
and indulgence into unfair trade practice. When the grievance of the
complainant, was not redressed, left with no alternative, a complaint under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (hereinafter to be called as
the Act only), for refund of Rs.3,78,300/- alongwith interest @15% per annum; Rs.50,000/-,
on account of mental agony and physical
harassment; and Rs.20,000/- against
miscellaneous expenses, was filed. 3.      Opposite Party No.1, was duly served, but no authorized agent, put in appearance, on
its behalf, as a result whereof, it was proceeded against exparte, vide order
dated 26.4.2011. 4.               
Opposite Party No. 2, put in appearance, and
filed its written version, wherein, he stated that he was an employee of Opposite
Party No.1, at the relevant time. It was further stated that Dr. V. Mattu was
the Managing Director of Opposite Party No.1, at the relevant time. It was admitted
that Opposite Party No.2, obtained the amount, referred to, in the complaint, from the
complainant. It was further stated that the same was deposited, in the account
of Opposite Party No.1. It was further stated that the crucial document i.e.
IELTS, which was the condition precedent, for getting sponsorship of an
employer from Australia, was not submitted, by the complainant, and the
remaining documents submitted by the complainant, were of no use. It was further
stated that Opposite Party No.2, was no longer an employee of Opposite Party No.1.
It was denied that Opposite Party No.2, was, in any way, deficient, in
rendering service, or indulged into unfair trade practice. The remaining averments,
were denied, being wrong. 5.               
The complainant, and Opposite Party No.2, led
evidence, in support of their case. 6.               
Later on, none even appeared on behalf of
Opposite Party No.2, on 27.10.2011, and thereafter. 7.               
After hearing the Counsel for the complainant
and, on going through the evidence, and record of the case, the District Forum,
accepted the complaint, in the manner, referred to, in the opening para of the
instant order. 8.               
Feeling aggrieved, the instant appeal, has
been filed by the appellant/Opposite Party No.1. 9.               
We have heard the Counsel for the appellant,
and, have gone through the evidence, and record of the case, carefully. 10.            
The Counsel for the appellant/Opposite Party
No.1, submitted that though Opposite Party No.1, was not served, yet, it was
wrongly proceeded against exparte, by the District Forum, as a result whereof,
it was not provided an opportunity, to put forth its version. It was further
submitted that Opposite Party No.2, was neither an employee of the Company, nor
he was authorized by Opposite Party No.1, to collect money, from prospective immigrants, to
various Countries. It was further submitted that actually, the Company, wanted
to open its Branch Office, at Chandigarh, and for that purpose, it approached
Opposite Party No.2, to arrange accommodation, for opening the same. It was
further submitted that Opposite Party No.2, did not deposit any amount, if received,
by him, from the complainant in the account of Opposite Party No.1. It was
further submitted, that the District Forum, fell into a grave error, in holding
that Opposite Party No.1, was deficient, in rendering service. It was further
submitted that the order of the District Forum, being illegal and invalid, is
liable to be set aside. 11.            
After giving our thoughtful consideration, to
the contentions, advanced by the Counsel for the appellant, and the evidence, on record, we are of the
considered opinion, that the appeal is liable to be dismissed, at the
preliminary stage, for the reasons to be recorded hereinafter. Opposite Party
No.2/respondent No.2, in his written version, in clear-cut terms submitted,
that he was an employee of the appellant/Opposite Party No.1 and, in that
capacity, he collected the amount, mentioned, in the complaint, by the
complainant, for his immigration to Australia. He also admitted, in the written
version, that the amount, so collected from the complainant, was deposited, in
the account of the appellant/Opposite
Party No.1. Alongwith the appeal, an application Annexure A-2, dated
14.08.2008, was filed by the appellant. This application was addressed by
Opposite Party No.1/appellant to the SHO Police Station, Sector 3, U.T.,
Chandigarh. Para 3 of this document reads as under:- From the afore- extracted para 3, of Annexure
A-2, it is proved, that Opposite party
No.2, was looking after the affairs of the Company, at Chandigarh Office, and
was collecting money, and other papers, from the students. He was also doing
the job of processing and other paper work. It is further evident from this
document, that he was to deposit the amount, so collected, in the account of
the Company. So the submission of the Counsel for the appellant, to the effect,
that Opposite Party No.2, was never authorized to collect the money, but was
only given the responsibility, to look after the office space, where it wanted
to open its office, is belied from document Annexure A-2, referred to above. In
case, after collecting the money from the complainant, Opposite Party No.2 did
not allegedly, deposit the same, in the account of Opposite Party No.1, then
this is a dispute, between them, but the third party, i.e. the complainant,
could not be made to suffer, for their
act and conduct. From Annexure C-3, the certificate, dated 19.12.2006, it is
evident that an amount of Rs.3,50,000/-, equivalent to 10000 Australian
dollars, was deposited by the
complainant, as the initial deposit for his visa processing under employer
nomination scheme. This document was issued by Satinder Singh Soni, Opposite
Party No.2/respondent No.2. When Opposite Party No.1/appellant, was unable to
arrange Australian immigration for the complainant and his family members, for,
whatever the reason may be, then, it was its duty to refund the entire amount
of Rs.3,78,300/-, deposited by the complainant, with Opposite Party No.2, its
employee. Opposite Party No.1, did not refund the amount of Rs.3,78,300/-,
which was deposited by the complainant, despite the fact that it did not render
the requisite service to him. Opposite Party No.1, thus, could, certainly be
said to be deficient, in rendering service. The complainant, was, thus,
entitled to the refund of amount with interest. The District Forum, was right
in holding so. The findings of the District Forum, being correct, are affirmed. 13.            
No other point, was urged, by the Counsel for
the appellant. 14.            
The order passed by the District Forum, being
based on the correct appreciation of evidence and law, on the point, does not
suffer from any illegality or perversity, warranting the interference of this
Commission. 15.            
For the reasons recorded above, the appeal,
being devoid of merit, must fail, and the same is dismissed, at the preliminary
stage, with no order as to costs. The order of the District Forum is upheld. 16.            
Certified Copies of this order be sent to the
parties, free of charge. 17.            
The file be consigned to Record Room, after
completion 

 

Pronounced. January 18, 2012 

 

Sd/- [JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER] 

 

PRESIDENT 

 

  

 

Sd/- [NEENA SANDHU] 

 

MEMBER 

 

  

 

SD/- [JAGROOP
SINGH MAHAL] 

 

MEMBER 

 

Rg