Mr. H.S. Guram, Member. Present:- He alleged therein that in pursuance of the advertisement issued by

opposite parties No.1 and 2 and the offer made by opposite party

No.3, he applied for residential flat in the Scheme/Group Housing

Project titled as "The Terraces Mohali" by submitting an application

form to opposite parties No.1 & 2. The flat was having Unit

No.574/FF located in Pinewood Park, Sector 108, Mohali, having

super area of 1520 square feet (approximately). The Buyer

Agreement was duly executed between them and as per the terms

thereof, he was to pay total amount of Rs.39,89,631/-, as the price of

the flat; the details of payments were mentioned in the Agreement

itself and the project being construction linked those were to be

made as per the work on the project. It was made clear by the

opposite parties that the possession of the independent flat would be

handed over to him within 36 months and that the project had

already been started and the work was in progress. It was on that

assurance that he had entered into the second agreement. The

booking amount of Rs.2,50,000/- was paid by him, vide receipt dated

25.06.2009 and the first instalment of Rs.3,45,445/- was paid on

30.6.2009. Thereafter he visited the site and found that the work

had not been started upon which he got apprehensive. Therefore,

before making the payment of second instalment, he approached the

opposite parties with the grievance that the work had not been

started and, as such, the same would not be completed within 36 Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 3 months. However, he was assured by them that the work was to

start soon and would be completed in the time frame as given in the

Agreement. It was on that assurance that he deposited the second

instalment of Rs.3,17,570/- on 2.9.2009. Before making the

payment of third instalment, he again approached opposite parties

No.2 and 3, who made a number of excuses regarding the delay in

the construction and told that there were technical issues with regard

to the project pending with the Government offices, which were

going to be solved very soon and that they would start the project. It

was on that assurance that he paid the third instalment of

Rs.3,17,570/- on 28.11.2009. He was forced to make the payment

of fourth instalment of Rs.3,17,570/- on 21.4.2010. Though he had

paid in all a sum of Rs.15,48,155/-, yet the work on the project had

not been started in spite of the fact that the opposite parties had

been giving the above said assurances. He had been continuously

approaching the opposite parties regarding the progress of the

project and to know about the status of the completion thereof but

they kept lingering on the matter on one ground or the other. In fact,

he had applied for the flat, as he was planning to shift his family from

Abohar to Mahali, which is adjoining to Chandigarh. He wanted to

shift his family as soon as possible and on account of non-

completion of the project, had to stay in rented accommodation in

Mohali. As per the conditions of the agreement, the construction of

the flat was to be completed within 36 months from the date of the

Agreement and the possession thereof was to be delivered to him

but the opposite parties failed to do so. Accordingly he got issued Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 4 legal notice dated 6.7.2012 through his counsel upon opposite

parties No.1 and 2. While giving the reply to the notice, those

opposite parties admitted the fact that the possession was to be

handed over within 36 months of the signing of the agreement but

the same was silent about the completion of the project. In fact,

those opposite parties with the intention to commit fraud upon him

were sending false and fake photographs through e-mail in order to

show that the work was about to complete, whereas the work had

not been started. The opposite parties have delayed the project and

have failed to refund the amount paid by him to them, which is being

misused by them. The same amounts to deficiency in service and

unfair trade practice and for the same they are liable to pay interest

at the rate of 18% per annum on the said amount for the period of

delay and are also liable to pay damages to the tune of Rs.20,000/-. 2. The opposite parties filed joint written reply. They admitted

that the complainant applied for the flat in their project and the

Buyer's Agreement was executed between them and that the

amounts, as mentioned in the complaint, were paid, as per the terms

of the Agreement to them. They also admitted that it was a

construction linked payment plan and that there was a clause for

handing over of the possession in the agreement. While denying

the other allegations made in the complaint, they pleaded that

initially the Payment Plan was Time Linked as per Schedule

attached with the Agreement but the same was re-structured to

Time-Cum-Construction Linked and the revised Payment Plan was

provided to the complainant on 10.7.2009. The complainant being Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 5 the signatory to the Agreement is bound by the terms and conditions

contained therein. No doubt, they proposed to hand over the

possession of the constructed flat to the complainant within 36

months but there was no definite promise to deliver the same within

specified time. In cases of sale of immovable property and

construction, time is never regarded as the essence of the contract.

Moreover, it is stipulated in clause 22.1 of the Agreement that in

case of delay in handing over the possession, they shall be liable to

pay to the complainant compensation of Rs.5/- per square feet per

month for the period of delay subject to the complainant complying

with the terms and conditions of the Agreement. With a view to fulfil

the desire of the complainant for immediate possession, they as a

goodwill gesture offered relocation to him where the possession

could have been handed over readily but he did not choose that

option. It is well settled that where an alternative site is offered at

the agreed price, the allottee will not be entitled to interest or

compensation. The prayer of the complainant for possession of the

flat is not maintainable as the same amounts to specific performance

of the contract, which is beyond the powers of the Consumer Forums

and the same can be exercised only by the Civil Court. He cannot

claim compensation for deficiency in service. In fact, the

complainant accepted the alleged delay by not rescinding the

contract and there is no deficiency in service on their part. The

complainant has adequate remedy under the Act and the complaint

is liable to be dismissed on that ground. Moreover, as per clause 42

of the Agreement, all the disputes are to be referred to the Arbitrator Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 6 to be appointed as per the provisions of the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act, 1996 and on that ground the complaint is liable to

be dismissed/returned for presentation to the proper Forum. There

are allegations of fraud in the complaint, which cannot be

adjudicated upon by this Commission. The complainant has no

cause of action to file this complaint. They prayed for the dismissal

thereof. 3. To prove the allegations, as made in the complaint, the

complainant proved on record his affidavit Ex.CA and documents

Ex.C-1 to Ex.C-9. On the other hand, opposite parties No.1 and 2

proved on record the affidavit of Rajnish Kaushik, their Legal and

Authorised Agent Ex.OP-1/A and the document Ex.OP-1/1.

Opposite party No.3 proved on record his affidavit Ex.OP-3/A. 4. We have heard learned counsel for both the sides and have

carefully gone through the records of the case. 5. Before starting the arguments it was submitted by the learned

counsel for the complainant that the complainant is not pressing this

complaint so far as the direction to the opposite parties for handing

over the vacant physical possession of the flat is concerned and that

the same is being confined to the refund of the amount already paid

by the complainant, along with interest; the payment of

compensation and litigation expenses. He submitted that from the

evidence produced by the complainant, which includes the Buyer's

Agreement Ex.C-1, it stands proved that the possession of the

constructed flat was to be given to the complainant within 36 months

and that period could have been extended at the most by 90 days. Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 7 The payments were construction linked and no construction was

ever raised and the payments were made as per the Schedule,

which form part of the Agreement. The Agreement was executed on

10.6.2009 and, as such, the possession was to be delivered by the

opposite parties to the complainant on or before 10.6.2012 and at

the most on or before 10.9.2012 but they failed to do so. From that

evidence, it also stands proved that the construction had not been

started at the site and the opposite parties were not in a position to

hand over the possession of the constructed flat. After the said date

the complainant served legal notice dated 6.7.2012 Ex.C-7 upon the

opposite parties to which they sent their reply dated 27.7.2012

Ex.C8. Even in that reply they did not state that they were ready to

deliver the possession of the constructed flat and the same is silent

regarding the progress of the construction. The complainant cannot

wait for all times to come to get the flat as he is in dire need of the

flat to accommodate his family which is to shift from Abohar. The

opposite parties have failed to perform their contract and they were

negligent in not delivering the possession; as a result of which the

complainant suffered mental agony and harassment and is entitled

to the compensation by way of interest on the amount already paid

by him, besides the refund of that amount. He also submitted that

keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case and the

settled law the complainant is entitled to interest at the rate of 18%

per annum from the date of payment of the said amount. 6. On the other hand, it was submitted by the learned counsel for

the opposite parties that no prayer has been made by the Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 8 complainant in his complaint for the refund of the amount deposited

by him and, as such, no direction can be issued to that effect. No

doubt, the possession of the constructed flat could not be delivered

to the complainant but that will not entitle the complainant to any

compensation by way of interest or otherwise as in case of the sale

of immovable property or construction of flat the time is never the

essence of the contract. It is very much clear from the interpretation

of the terms and conditions of the Agreement that the parties never

intended that the time should be the essence of the contract. The

penalty to be imposed upon the opposite parties for delayed

possession is provided by way of clause 22.1 of the Agreement and

at the time of delivery of possession, the complainant can claim the

amount mentioned in that clause. Therefore, he is not entitled to any

such interest by way of compensation. In support of his

submissions, he relied upon the following judgments:- i) (2007) 6 Supreme Court Cases 711 ( BANGALORE

 DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY vs. SYNDICATE BANK ); ii) AIR 1993 SC 1742 [Smt. Chand Rani (dead) by LRs v. Smt. Kamal Rani (dead) by LRs.]; iii) Revision Petition No.2002 of 2005 (ASHOK KHANNA v. GHAZIABAD DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY) decided

 by the Hon'ble National Commission on 18.8.2009. 7. The first and foremost question to be decided for the disposal

of the present complaint is whether the time was the essence of the

contract as entered into between the parties and which is in the form

of Buyer's Agreement Ex.C-1? It can be termed as a contract for the Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 9 transfer of immovable property. It is now well settled that in a case

of transfer of immovable property time is not the essence of the

contract. It was held in Bangalore Development Authority 's case

(supra) by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that in a contract involving

construction, time is not the essence of the contract but the same

was qualified by the words "unless specified". It is the settled law

that time is not ordinarily the essence of contract for sale of

immovable property though the parties can make it so by express

stipulation in the contract itself or inferred, if the nature of the

property intended to be sold requires it. The Consumer Forum may

infer that the contract for the sale of immovable property is to be

performed in a reasonable time if the conditions are; (i) from the

express terms of the contract, (ii) from the nature of the property,

and (iii) from the surrounding circumstances. For example, the

object of making the contract. 8. No doubt, the above said judgments have been cited by the

learned counsel for the opposite parties in support of his

submissions that time was not the essence of the contract between

the parties but if those are read minutely, it becomes clear that those

do not support the case of the opposite parties. As already said

above in Bangalore Development Authority 's case (supra) it was

clearly held that in contract involving construction time is not the

essence of the contract unless specified (emphasis supplied). In

Smt. Chand Rani's case (supra) while keeping in view the well

settled law that in transactions of sale of immovable property time is Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 10 not the essence of the contract, the following was held by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court:- It was also held that:- " It is a well-accepted principle that in the

 case of sale of immovable property, time is never

 regarded as the essence of the contract. In fact,

 there is a presumption against time being the

 essence of the contract. This principle is not in

 any way different from that obtainable in England.

 Under the law of equity which governs the rights Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 11 of the parties in the case of specific performance

 of contract to sell real estate, law looks not at the

 letter but at the substance of the agreement. It

 has to be ascertained whether under the terms of

 the contract the parties named a specific time

 within which completion was to take place, really

 and in substance it was intended that it should be

 completed within a reasonable time. An intention

 to make time the essence of the contract must be

 expressed in unequivocal language." It becomes very much clear from these judgments that though in

case of sale of immovable property time is not regarded as the

essence of the contract, yet it has to be ascertained from the terms

of the contract, as to whether the time was the essence of the

contract and for that purpose the intention of the parties to be

gathered from the terms of the contract itself and such an intention

must be expressed in unequivocal language. 9. Learned counsel for the opposite parties has also placed

reliance on Ashok Khanna's case (supra) but the facts of that case

were different though in that case reliance was placed upon the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court rendered in Bangalore

Development Authority 's case (supra). In that case, the complainant

had taken the delivery of possession of the property but has alleged

deficiency in service on the part of the opposite party on account of

delay in delivering the possession. There was a clause in the

Agreement regarding the time of completion of the construction but Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 12 in that clause it was mentioned that the apartments are expected to

be completed within two years from the date of reservation and there

was no specific stipulation to deliver the possession within the

specified time. It was on the basis of the words used in the clause

"expected to be completed" that it was held that the time was not the

essence of the contract and that had the time been the essence of

the contract, then the word "expected" would not have been used

and instead definite period would have been given for delivery of

possession. In that case the complainant had accepted the delayed

performance in terms of the contract and did not rescind the contract

on the ground of non-performance. 10. In the present case, there is a specific stipulation in the

Agreement to hand over the possession within a period of 36 months

from the date of signing of the Agreement, though the opposite

parties were entitled to a grace period of 90 days after the expiry of

36 months for applying/obtaining the occupation certificate in respect

of the Terraces. In order to determine whether the time was the

essence of the contract or not the above said clause and the other

relevant clauses are reproduced below:- A conjoint reading of these two clauses makes it clear that the time

was the essence of the contract. The opposite parties were to

deliver the possession within 36 months from the date of signing of

the Agreement and the grace period of 90 days was to be granted

only for applying/obtaining the occupation certificate in respect of the

Terraces. When one is to go for the constructed flat and is required

to pay major part of the construction, it can easily be concluded that

in such like cases the time is the essence of the contract. No one

wants that his money be blocked and the possession be not

delivered within the time stipulated by the contract. From our above

discussion, we conclude that the time was the essence of the

contract. 11. As the Agreement was executed on 10.6.2009, so the opposite

parties were to deliver the possession of the constructed flat to the

complainant by 10.6.2012 and they could have taken further period

of 90 days for obtaining the occupation certificate in respect of the

Terraces and they were bound to deliver the possession on or before

10.9.2012 but they failed to do so. The present complaint was filed

by the complainant on 11.4.2013. The non-delivery of the

possession within the stipulated period amounts to deficiency in

service on the part of the opposite parties. It is the case of the

complainant pleaded in the complaint, which has been supported by

his affidavit Ex.CA, that he had applied for this flat in order to shift his

family from Abohar to Mohali, which is adjacent to Chandigarh. The Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 15 mental agony of such a person for not having given the possession

during the period so promised and during all that period living under

the hope to shift his family, can well be imagined. This deficiency in

service on the part of the opposite parties caused harassment and

mental agony to him for which he is entitled to compensation. 12. No doubt, in the complaint that compensation was claimed at

Rs.20,00,000/- but at the time of arguments, learned counsel for the

complainant confined his prayer for awarding of interest on the

amount already deposited with the opposite parties by way of

compensation and claimed interest at the rate of 18% per annum by

referring to clause 19.1 of the Agreement, which entitle the opposite

parties to charge interest at the rate of 24% per annum in case of

delay in the payment of instalments. 13. It was held by the Hon'ble Court in Ghaziabad Development

Authority v. Balbir Singh [2004 CTJ 605 (SC)] that compensation

cannot be uniform (i) in cases where delivery of possession is

directed there would be compensation for harassment/loss worked

out looking into the facts of each case, (ii) in cases where monies

are being simply returned, then party is suffering a loss inasmuch as

he had deposited money in the hope of getting a flat/plot and he is

deprived of the benefit of escalation of the price of that flat/plot,

therefore, the compensation in such cases would necessarily have to

be higher, (iii) in cases where possession is being directed to be

delivered, the compensation for harassment will necessarily have to

be less because in a way the party is being compensated by

increase in the value of the property. In that case interest at the rate Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 16 of 18% on the amounts paid by the complainant was allowed.

Keeping in view the ratio of that judgment and the facts of the

present case, we are of the considered opinion that the

compensation by way of interest at the rate of 18% on the amounts

already paid by the complainant is a reasonable one. It is now well

settled that this interest is to be allowed from the date of the

respective payments. 14. Accordingly the complaint is partly allowed and the opposite

parties are directed to refund the sum of Rs.15,48,155/- to the

complainant, along with interest at the rate of 18% per annum from

the date of payment of the respective amounts till the date of

payment. They are also directed to pay Rs.22,000/- as the litigation

expenses. These amounts are to be paid by them within 30 days of

the receipt of the certified copy of this order. 15. The arguments in this case were heard on 4.4.2014 and the

order was reserved. Now, the order be communicated to the parties. 16. The complaint could not be decided within the statutory period

due to heavy pendency of court cases. (JUSTICE GURDEV SINGH)
 PRESIDENT

 (MRS. SURINDER PAL KAUR)
 MEMBER

April 17 , 2014. (HARCHARAN SINGH GURAM)
Bansal MEMBER Consumer Complaint No.44 of 2013. 17