(Suit for Recovery of Rs. 81,197/-) 1. This suit has been initially filed by the plaintiff, Punjab
National Bank, against defendants, namely Canara Bank, Govind Singh and
Lahore Hospital Society, seeking recovery of amount of Rs. 81,197/- along
with the pendente-lite and future interest at the rate of 18% per annum from
the date of institution of the suit till realization of decretal amount. Thereafter, during pendency of suit, vide order dated
23.10.2019, defendant No. 2 Sh. Govind Singh & and vide order dated
16.08.2023, defendant No. 3/Lahore Hospital Society (Regd.) have been
dropped/deleted from the array of parties by the plaintiff itself. PLAINTIFF'S VERSION 2. The brief facts of the present case are that the plaintiff bank
being legal entity filed the present suit against the defendants through its
Authorized Representative Sh. Pramod Goyal, Dy. Manager. It is stated that CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 2 of 24 defendant No. 1 is also the bank. It is submitted that the plaintiff bank on
23.11.2017, on the strength of the truncated image of PNB cheque No.
GQW 371265 dated 14.11.2017 of Rs. 76,172/-, presented by defendant
No.1 bank/Collecting Bank, made the payment to the credit of defendant
No.1 bank through Cheque Truncation System of clearing of cheques, by
debiting the CC Account No. 1522008700003800 of defendant No. 3-
Lahore Hospital Society (Regd.) with Rajendra Place branch of the plaintiff
bank. 2.1 It is further submitted that the aforesaid cheque No. GQW
371265 dated 14.11.2017 of Rs. 76,172/-, was purported to be drawn in
favour of defendant No. 2, who has been maintaining a Bank Account No.
3203101013950 with the defendant bank/Canara Bank. It is further
submitted that, later on the plaintiff bank received a complaint from
defendant No. 3, at the Rajendra Place Branch of the plaintiff bank
intimating that defendant No. 3 had issued the cheque No. GQW 371265
dated 14.11.2017 of Rs. 76,172/- in favour of "Parnasa Mediworld Pvt.
Ltd." and due to tampering of beneficiary's name, the said cheque was
cleared in favour of defendant No. 2, who has been maintaining Account
No. 3203101013950 with the defendant bank, which complaint was
forwarded to CDPC cum Service Branch vide trailing mail dated
13.12.2017. 2.2 It is further submitted that the plaintiff bank immediately
informed defendant No. 1 Bank vide e-mail and letter dated 14.12.2017
about the above said unauthorized withdrawal and defendant No.1 was CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 3 of 24 requested to refund the amount of Rs.76,172/- which was illegally and
unauthorizedly being debited from the account of defendant No. 3 in favour
of defendant No.2, an account holder of the defendant bank. The plaintiff
bank further asked the defendant bank to provide the necessary details of
the account holder, CCTV footage and status of KYC compliance
pertaining to its customer, i.e. defendant No.2. 2.3 It is further submitted that defendant No.1, despite repeated
follow ups by the plaintiff bank vide numerous letters neither provided the
above details asked for nor refunded the amount of Rs. 76,172/-, which was
wrongly debited from the account of the defendant. From the above facts,
it has become crystal clear that defendant No. 2 had played fraud with the
plaintiff bank by materially altering the cheque No. GQW 371265 dated
14.11.2017 and has caused wrongful loss to the tune of Rs. 76,172/- to the
plaintiff bank. That the plaintiff bank has time and again taken up the
matter with defendant No.1 bank, but despite repeated requests on various
occasions by the plaintiff bank, defendant No.1 never cared to remit back
the amount of Rs. 76,172/-. 2.4 It is further submitted that in view of the above facts and
circumstances, the plaintiff bank got issued a legal notice dated 09.05.2017
to defendant No.1, thereby calling upon to defendant No.1 bank to remit
the aforesaid amount of Rs. 76,172/- together with interest at the rate of
18% and other consequential /incidental charges including a sum of Rs.
5500/- as cost of the said notice within 15 days from the date of receipt of CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 4 of 24 the said notice. 2.5 With these averments, the present suit is filed by the plaintiff
bank with the prayer to pass a decree in favour of the plaintiff bank and
against the defendant Nos. 1 & 2, jointly and severally, for recovery of
Rs.81,197/- (i.e. a sum of Rs. 76,172/- towards principal and a sum of
Rs.5025/- on account of interest at the rate of 18% p.a. with monthly
interest on the said amount from 23.11.2017 till 11.06.2018) along with
pendente-lite and future interest on the said amount at the monthly
compounding rate of 18% per annum till realization thereof. DEFENDANT'S VERSION 3. Summons of the present suit for settlement of issues were
issued and served upon defendant No.1 on 28.09.2018 and upon defendant
No. 3 on 29.09.2018. 3.1 In pursuance of which, defendant No.1 filed its written
statement by taking preliminary objections that defendant No.1 is a
nationalized bank and always as per directions and norms issued by RBI
and in the present matter also, defendant No.1 after necessary formalities
opened the bank account of defendant No. 2, hence, defendant No.1 is not
liable in any manner. That the suit preferred by the plaintiff is barred by
non-joinder of the necessary parties. The plaintiff himself mentioned in
para-No. 9 of the plaint that Defendant No.2 had played fraud with the
plaintiff bank by materially altering the cheque No. 371265 dated CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 5 of 24 14.11.2017 and has caused wrongful loss to the tune of Rs.76,172/- to the
plaintiff bank. 3.2 It is further submitted that when defendant No.1 came to know
about the alleged fraud done by defendant No.2, himself taken action
against defendant No. 2. The Branch Manager of defendant No.1 wrote a
letter addressing the plaintiff bank that he has collected the alleged
instrument in good faith and without any negligence, defendant No.1
confirmed having observed all the precaution as a prudent banker does
under normal cause i.e. to check apparent tenor of the instrument, physical
case and after due course the cheque was presented to the plaintiff bank
who after taking care passed the cheque after satisfaction about the cheque.
It is submitted that defendant Canara Bank has only collected the alleged
instrument and without any negligence on behalf of the answering
defendant whose account has been opened as per guidelines for opening the
account. That defendant No.1 referred in rule line 9 of the PRD grounds
rules and once again requested to the plaintiff bank but there was no reply
given by the plaintiff bank. Rest of the contentions are denied by defendant
No.1. Prayer is made accordingly to dismiss the suit of the plaintiff with
heavy cost in the interest of justice. 4. In the written statement filed on behalf of defendant No. 3,
defendant No. 3 has specifically and categorically submitted that the
cheque in question bearing No. GQW 371265 dated 14.11.2017 of
Rs.76,172/- was never in favour of defendant No.2 by defendant No.3 and CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 6 of 24 was issued in the name of "Parnasa Mediworld Pvt. Ltd.". It is further
submitted that defendant Nos. 1 & 2 in the stated circumstances are liable
to refund the wrongly collected amount of Rs. 76,172/- along with interest
which has been so collected by defendant Nos. 1 & 2 on the basis of
forging and tampering the cheque in question. Rest of the contentions are
denied by defendant No.3. Prayer is made accordingly to dismiss the suit
of the plaintiff with heavy cost in the interest of justice. But, defendant No. 2/Govind Ram and defendant No. 3/
Lahore Hospital Society have been dropped/deleted from the array of
parties vide during the pendency of suit on the statement of AR of plaintiff. 5. In the replication, the plaintiff has denied all the averments
made in the written statement and reiterated those made in the plaint. 6. From the pleadings of the parties, the following issues were
framed by my Ld. Predecessor vide order dated 02.03.2020: - along with the pendente lite and future interest @18% per
 annum, as prayed for? OPP ii) Relief. PLAINTIFF'S EVIDENCE 7. In support of its case, the plaintiff got examined its A.R. Sh.
Pramod Kumar Dubey, Manager at CDPC cum Service Branch of Punjab CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 7 of 24 National Bank, Paharganj, New Delhi, who tendered his evidence by way
of affidavit Ex.PW1/A. He relied upon the following document: - PW-1 was cross-examined at length by Ld. Counsel for the
defendant. Thereafter, P.E. was closed on 07-06-2023. DEFENDANT'S EVIDENCE 8. On the other hand, the defendant got examined Sh. Sanjay
Kumar, Divisional Manager, Accounts Section, Canara Bank, as DW-1,
who tendered his evidence by way of affidavit Ex.DW1/A. He relied upon
the following document: - ii) Ex. DW1/2, is the copy of KYC documents of the defendant
 No. 2, which is now de-exhibited and marked as Mark 'B'. iii) Ex.DW1/3 is the copy of fraud report given to authority,
 which is now de-exhibited and marked as Mark 'C'. DW-1 was cross-examined at length by Ld. Counsel for the
plaintiff. Thereafter, the evidence of the defendant was closed vide order
dated 02.04.2024. FINDINGS 9. I have heard the arguments advanced by Ld. Counsel for the
parties and carefully perused the record. My issue-wise findings are as
under: - 10. The burden of proving this issue is on the plaintiff. In this
case, it is the version of plaintiff/PNB that a cheque No. GQW 371265
dated 14.11.2017 of Rs. 76,172/-, drawn by defendant No. 3, on PNB CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 9 of 24 Bank/plaintiff bank, purported to be drawn in favour of defendant No.
2/Govind Ram, who has been maintaining a Bank Account No.
3203101013950 with the defendant bank/Canara Bank, has been presented
in Canara Bank, Shashti Nagar Branch, Delhi and money has been credited
in the account of defendant No. 2, Govind Ram and account of defendant
No. 3, Lahore Hospital Society has been debited. But later on, plaintiff
bank/PNB received a complaint from defendant No. 3 that he had never
issued cheque in question to defendant No. 2/Govind Ram, but had issued
in favour of "Parnasa Mediworld Pvt. Ltd." and due to tampering of
beneficiary name, the said has been cleared in favour of defendant No. 2.
Now, it is the case of plaintiff bank that, due to negligence of defendant
No.2/Canara Bank, who has allowed the defendant No. 2 to operate the
bank account without KYC compliance and due to fraud by defendant
No.2, cheque has been collected in the account of defendant No. 2,
therefore, defendant No. 1/Canara Bank is liable to return the amount to
plaintiff bank. On the other hand, it is the case of defendant No. 1 that there is
no negligence on the part of defendant and it has collected the alleged
instrument/cheque in good faith and without any negligence, defendant
No.1 after having observed all the precaution as a prudent banker does
under normal cause i.e. to check apparent tenor of the instrument, physical
case and after due course, the cheque was presented to the plaintiff bank,
who after taking care passed the cheque after satisfaction about the cheque.
It is argued that defendant Canara Bank has only collected the alleged
instrument and has acted without any negligence and account of defendant CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 10 of 24 No. 2/Govind Ram has been opened as per guidelines for opening the
account. It is argued by the plaintiff bank that defendant bank is liable
for the conversion, since it has received the cheque for the customer who
do not have a valid title to the instrument and the defendant bank being the
agent of their customers, is liable for their acts. It is further argued that it is
settled law that if a cheque has forged endorsement or defective title then
Collecting Banker would be liable to the real owner or to the legal owner of
the cheque, since collecting banker collects a cheque as an agent of their
customer & has no rights of their own. Hence, the credit for the money
obtained by Defendant no.2 from erroneous remittance being a wrongful
gain, it is the liability of the person, receiving it wrongfully to return it in
terms of Section 72 of the Contract Act in order to prevent unjust
enrichment which is based on the doctrine of equitable restitution. It is
inconsequential whether the mistake has occurred inadvertently or was a
result of deliberate acts indulged in with intent to deceive or defraud. It is
argued on behalf of plaintiff that plaintiff bank has failed to take safeguards
as it was responsibility of the defendant bank under CTS 2010 guidelines
while collecting the cheque on behalf of customers, to check the material
particulars of the cheque as the defendant bank utterly failed to put the
cheque under MICR coder/UV Lamp/scanner to check its genuineness,
before transmitting the image of the cheque to the paying bank. Plaintiff
bank has stated that there has been no compliance of CTS 2010 guidelines
by the defendant bank as name of payee was forged by scratching the name
of real payee and collecting bank would have detected forgery, if the said CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 11 of 24 cheque was being viewed under UV lamp by defendant bank. Therefore, the moot question which is to be decided here is
that whether defendant No. 1, Canara Bank has taken due care and caution
and whether the payment has been made by defendant No. 1 in favour of
defendant No. 2, when cheque in question was presented, in good faith and
without any negligence to avail the immunity granted to collecting bank
under Section 131 of Negotiable Instrument Act. Section 131 of Negotiable Instrument Act, 1881 provides as
under:- Hence, as per Section 131 of NI Act, strictly speaking, Section
131 of the Act applies when the collecting bank is sued by the true owner or
on behalf of true owner, and Section 131 of the Act is a protection and
shield meant for the collecting bank that had received and had made CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 12 of 24 payment. Since the collecting bank acts as an agent of its customers/clients,
it is not expected to take direct responsibility for the cheque crossed,
generally or specially, to the true owner, when it acts in good faith and
without negligence. In such cases the collecting bank is not liable to the
true owner by reason of only having received payment. Now, the question
as to whether a bank is guilty of negligence depends on the particulars of
each case, albeit the onus of proving good faith and absence of negligence
is on the banker. The law is very exhaustively stated by the Supreme Court in its
judgment in the case of Kerala State Cooperative Marketing Federation Vs.
State Bank of India and Others , (2004) 2 SCC 425, which is relied upon by
plaintiff bank also. The relevant para of this judgment of the Supreme Court
which summarises the legal position is para 11 and the same is reproduced
herein below: - A careful reading of the aforesaid paras of the judgment of the
Supreme Court also shows that ordinarily once there is undue haste and
lack of proper verification in opening of a bank account, a collecting banker
will not be able to seek exemption of its liability by relying upon the
provisions of Sections 131 and 131-A of the Negotiable Instruments Act.
Want of good faith and negligence of a banker is not only with respect to
opening of an account but also with respect to operation of the account and
there cannot be large cash transactions in the account immediately after
opening of the account and if it is so found then the collecting banker
would have to be held guilty of negligence and want of good faith and CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 15 of 24 thereby disentitled to avoid its liability by taking the defence under Sections 131 and 131-A of the Negotiable Instruments Act. Supreme
Court has also held that the opening of account, presentation of the bank
draft and withdrawal of the amount can also, depending on facts of each
case, be treated as a part and parcel of one integral scheme if within a short
period the bank account is opened, amount is credited in the bank account
in terms of a banking instrument and operation of the bank account
thereafter permitted including by allowing large cash withdrawals. The said judgment of Supreme Court has been re-affirmed in
many cases of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in M/s Adya Global Export Inc.
& Anr. Vs. Canara Bank, W.P. (C) No. 6778/2016 & C.M. No.27868/2016
and Indian Overseas Bank Vs. HDFC Bank Ltd. & Anr. CS(OS) No.
354/2001 and in recent judgment of Supreme Court of Pradeep Kumar and
Another Vs. Post Master General and Others , (2022) 6 SCC 351. Also, from the Explanation II to Section 131 of the NI Act
inserted with effect from 6th February 2003, it comes out that it is the duty
of every banker who receives payment based on an electronic image of a
truncated cheque to verify the prima-facie genuineness of the cheque, and
exercise due diligence and ordinary care to verify fraud, forgery or
tampering apparent on the face of the instrument. 11. Hence, from the principles enunciated by the courts, it can be
said that in present case: Now, it has to be examined in present case, whether defendant
Canara bank has been able to prove that it has exercised good faith and has
not acted in negligent manner in light of standard of care expected from it
discussed above and has taken due caution to verify the prima-facie
genuineness of the cheque, and exercised due diligence and ordinary care to
verify fraud, forgery or tampering apparent on the face of the instrument.
Now further, the general practice adopted by the banks in this regard needs
to be looked into to decide the dispute between both banks. Plaintiff bank
has argued that defendant bank has not complied with the CTS 2010
guidelines issued by RBI. To understand CTS system, it has to be explained
briefly. Cheque Truncation Process (CTS) is the process of stopping
the flow of the physical cheque issued by a drawer at some point, by the
presenting bank to the paying bank branch. In its place an electronic image
of the cheque is transmitted to the paying branch through the clearing
house, along with relevant information like data on the MICR band, date of
presentation, presenting bank, etc. Cheque truncation thus obviates the need CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 17 of 24 to move the physical instruments across bank branches. In CTS, the
presenting bank (or its branch) captures the data (on the MICR band) and
the images of a cheque using their Capture System (comprising of a
scanner, core banking or other application) which is internal to them and
meeting the specifications and standards prescribed for data and images
under CTS. As part of the requirement, the collecting bank (presenting
bank) sends the data and captured images duly signed digitally and
encrypted to the central processing location (Clearing House) for onward
transmission to the paying bank (destination or drawee bank). For
participating in the clearing process under CTS, the presenting and paying
banks use either the Clearing House Interface (CHI) or Data Exchange
Module (DEM) that enables them to connect and transmit data and images
in a secure and safe manner to the Centralised Clearing House (CCH). The
Clearing House processes the data, arrives at the settlement, and routes the
images and requisite data to the paying banks. This is called presentation
clearing. The paying banks through their CHI/DEM receive the images and
data from the CCH for further processing. Physical cheques are retained at
the presenting bank itself. Now, what is CTS 2010 guidelines which is
being relied upon by the plaintiff bank. In CTS, only CTS-2010 standards
compliant instruments can be presented for clearing through CTS. CTS-
2010 standards contain certain benchmarks towards achieving
standardization of cheques issued by banks across the country. These
include provision of mandatory minimum-security features on cheque
forms like quality of paper, watermark, bank's logo in invisible ink, void
pantograph, etc., and standardisation of field placements on cheques. The CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 18 of 24 minimum-security features and standardisation help presenting banks while
scrutinising/recognising cheques of drawee banks in an image-based
processing scenario. Hence, CTS 2010 has been brought by RBI circular
Ref. DPSS.CO.CHD.No. 1832/04.07.05/200910 dated February 22, 2010 to
co-ordinate and advise banks on the introduction and implementation of
additional security features on cheque forms. CTS-2010 Standards
Specifications issued by RBI contains mandatory features which are
minimum required security features on cheque forms and optional/desirable
features, inclusion of which depends on respective bank and their risk
perception subject to the features being compatible with CTS requirements. Hence, CTS 2010 provides only about the security features on
cheques which are mandatorily required by all the banks to follow. CTS
2010 does not provide that what things/specific precautions are required to
be followed by the collecting bank (presenting bank) at the time of
presenting of cheque for payment. As far as duties of collecting bank is concerned, since the
payment processing is done on the basis of images, the same is continued to
be guided by explanation II to Section 131 of Negotiable Instruments Act.
The member banks have to enforce KYC (Know Your Customer) norms in
letter and spirit. The banks should observe all precautions which a prudent
banker does under normal circumstances, e.g., to check the apparent tenor
of the instrument, physical feel of the instrument, any tampering visible to
the naked eye with reasonable care, etc. As per practice adopted by banks,
for enhanced attention, based on exceptions, the banks may employ suitable
risk management techniques like scrutiny of high value transactions, limit- based checking by officials, new accounts alerts, etc.
 In the present case, the original cheque i.e. Ex.PW1/4 has been
filed by the plaintiff. If we peruse Ex.PW1/4, the name of the payee
Govind Singh is printed in bold, whereas the other entries like amount in
figures or words are not in bold letters. Also, there are star marks after the
name of the payee which is unusual as no star marks are generally printed
after the name of the payee in the cheque. PW-1 in his cross-examination
has also admitted that the name of the payee is written in bold letters
whereas figures and other letters are not in bold letters. DW-1 is asked in
his cross-examination as to whether the cheque was put under U.V. Lamp,
and DW-1 has stated that the cheque in question was put under U.V. Lamp.
Perusal of the cheque shows that there is no endorsement on the cheque in
question that it was scanned under U.V. Lamp. Although, minute and
microscopic examination of the cheque paid in collection may not
ordinarily be necessary but in the present case there is a tampering which is
apparent from the face of the instrument as the name of the payee is written
in a different way than other entries in the cheque. So, there was duty of
the collecting bank to verify the genuineness of the cheque by adopting
other security measures like examination under U.V. Lamp, which has not
been done by the defendant bank. Hence, in the considered opinion of this
Court, the defendant bank has not been able to prove the good faith and
caution while collecting the cheque. In this case, it is argued on behalf of the plaintiff that the
defendant bank was also negligent in opening the account and fulfilling the
KYC requirements. Defendant No.1 has relied upon the copies of KYC CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 20 of 24 documents of defendant No.2 which is Mark 'B'. Perusal of the Mark 'B'
shows that the same are account opening form of Govind Singh, his Aadhar
Card and PAN Card. It shows that the account of Sh. Govind Singh was
opened on 11.10.2017. Defendant has also relied upon the fraud report
dated 06.12.2017 given to the authority which is Mark 'C', which shows
that the cheque in question was presented in outward clearing of the Canara
Bank on 23.11.2017, which was detected on 24.11.2017 as suspected fraud.
It is also reported in the fraud report that another cheque dated 16.11.2017
of ICICI Bank Ltd. was presented in the outward clearing which was
returned by ICICI Bank Ltd. and the said case is reported under attempted
fraud. Thereafter, defendant bank has written to the concerned DCP for
registration of an FIR against Sh. Govind Singh and his account was also
freezed. The fraud report itself shows that the account was opened in
October, 2017 and the cheque in question was presented in the month of
November, 2017 and amount was withdrawn in a short span of time. Also,
the fraud was attempted qua other cheques during the same time. Hence, as
per law discussed by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Kerala State
Cooperative Marketing Federation (Supra), the opening of account,
presentation of cheque and withdrawal of amount can, depending on the
facts of each case, be treated as part and parcel of one integral scheme, if
within a short period the bank account is opened, amount is credited and
amount is withdrawn, so as to lead an inference that depositing of the
cheque and opening the account are inter-connected moves in an integrated
plan. In the present case, the opening of an account, the presenting of the
cheque and withdrawal of amount has been made in a short span of time i.e. CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 21 of 24 within a month. Hence, inference can be drawn that the defendant bank
had not acted in good faith and without the negligence. The defendant bank
has not filed the original account opening form or the KYC documents i.e.
Aadhar Card or PAN Card on the record, also, it is not clear from the copy
of the account opening form that whether any reference has been obtained
from any third person with respect to the identity and reliability of the
proposed customer i.e. defendant No.1 Govind Singh at the time of account
opening. It is the duty of the bank to act prudently and in accordance with
the current banking practice. Hence, defendant bank is unable to prove that
it has complied with all the mandatory KYC requirement at the time of
opening the account of Sh. Govind Singh. Hence, it is clear in the aforesaid factual position that
defendant No.1 Canara Bank has acted with negligence and there is lack of
good faith, firstly, at the time of opening of bank account that account has
been opened without any reference of any existing customer and secondly,
at the time of collection of cheque in question that the defendant bank has
overlooked the fact that the name of the payee was written in an unusual
manner. Therefore, in the opinion of this Court, the defendant bank cannot
take the benefit of provisions of Sec. 131 and 131-A of NI Act. As far as the contention of defendant bank that even the
plaintiff bank is guilty of negligence as it credited the amount of the said
cheque to the defendant bank without verifying the genuineness of the said
cheque from its customer, however, the said contention is liable to be
rejected in terms of para 11(9) of the Judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court
of India in Kerala State Cooperative Marketing Federation (Supra), that an CS No. 1937/18 Punjab National Bank Vs. Canara Bank Page 22 of 24 allegation of contributed negligence against the paying banker does not
provide any defence to the collecting banker who has not collected the
amount in good faith and without negligence. In view of the above-mentioned discussion, Issue No. 1 is
decided in favour of the plaintiff and against defendant No.1/Canara Bank. 12. In the present case, plaintiff bank has also claimed pendente
lite and future interest @ 18% per annum. Section 34 of CPC provides that
Court may, in a decree for payment of money, order interest on the principal
sum adjudged for any period prior to institution of the suit and from the
date of institution of the suit to the date of the decree, as the Court deems
reasonable. Further Section 34 of CPC provides that Court may order future
interest at such rate not exceeding 6 percent per annum and for liability
arising out of a commercial transaction, Court may order future interest
exceeding 6 percent per annum but not exceeding the contractual rate of
interest and if there is no contractual rate of interest, at the rate on which
nationalized bank advance loans. Hence, this court is not inclined to award
pendente lite and future interest at the rate of interest which the plaintiff
claims. Considering the aforesaid proposition of law, interest as claimed by
plaintiff @ 18 % per annum appears to be too exorbitant and it would be in
the interest of justice if interest @ 9 % per annum on the total amount i.e.,
Rs. 81,197/-, is awarded in favour of the plaintiff. RELIEF 13. In view of the above discussions, the suit of the plaintiff is
hereby decreed in favour of the plaintiff, PNB Bank and against defendant
No.1/Canara Bank. The plaintiff bank is entitled to recovery of the principal
amount of Rs. 81,197/- along with simple interest @ 9% per annum on the
same from the date of filing of the present suit till its realization. Decree-sheet be prepared accordingly. File be consigned to record room as per rules. Announced in the open ( Ajeet Narayan )
Court today on 27.05.2024. Civil Judge -02 (Central),
 Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi.