1. The pe oner incarcerated in the FIR cap oned above had come up before this
Court under Sec on 483 of Bhara ya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, [BNSS], seeking
regular bail. 2. In paragraph 5 of the bail pe on, the accused declares that he has the following
criminal antecedents: 3. The facts and allega ons are being taken from the reply ﬁled by the State, which
reads as follows: It is apposite to men on here that whenever any person/driver/conductor
 of any vehicle would approach the co-accused for the payment of tax, the
 accused would use the afore-men oned fake link, instead of the
 original/genuine e-Parivahan So4ware of the Government and issue a
 fake receipt from the same. The said receipt was similar looking to the
 original and the accused in order to authen cate the receipt would also ﬁx
 a rubber stamp of "Government of Punjab, department of transport,
 check post e-receipt Mohali". The said fake and forged receipt would also
 bear a Govt. logo and a QR code. The above markings, seals, stamps were
 so near perfec on that any/every person would believe it to be true." 4. The pe oner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent condi ons and
contends that further pre-trial incarcera on would cause an irreversible injus ce to the
pe oner and his family. 5. The State's counsel opposes bail and refers to the reply. 6. It would be appropriate to refer para No. 7 and 9 of the reply, which read as
follows: "7. That the present pe oner is a part of inter-state racket which spread
 throughout the state of Punjab and Haryana and are indulging into illegal
 ac vi es by forging the tax receipts on behalf of the Govt. and thus
 instrumental in causing ﬁnancial loss to the tune of lakhs of rupees to the
 state exchequer and thus are indulging into corrup on and has rendered
 themselves liable for the oﬀenses commi;ed by them in the present FIR. 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 09-11-2024 00:09:31 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:146053

CRM-M-51335-2024 9. Subsequently, the present pe oner got arrested by the Inves ga ng
 Agency on 09.05.2024 and it has surfaced during inves ga on that the
 present pe oner had provided the fake/forged link to the co- accused
 Sandeep Kumar who had installed a khokha (cabin) at his Ashirwad Dhaba
 situated at Shahbad, District Kurukshetra, Haryana who further in
 connivance with another co accused Kapil Kumar had issued fake receipts
 from the forged link to the drivers of the commercial vehicles and had
 caused loss to the Government. It is per nent to men on here that, the
 co-accused Sandeep Kumar further provided the link to the main accused
 Harpal Singh and he (Sandeep Kumar) got arraigned as an accused and
 arrested on 10.06.2022, on the basis of the disclosure statement suﬀered
 by main accused Harpal Singh with the Inves ga ng Agency." 7. There is suﬃcient primafacie evidence connec ng the pe oner with the alleged
crime. However, pre-trial incarcera on should not be a replica of post-convic on
sentencing. As per para 9 of the reply, the pe oner was arrested on 09.05.2024. Given
the penal provisions invoked viz-a-viz pre-trial custody, coupled with the primafacie
analysis of the nature of allega ons, and the other factors peculiar to this case, there
would be no jus ﬁability for further pre-trial incarcera on at this stage. 8. Without commen ng on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances
peculiar to this case, and for the reasons men oned above, the pe oner makes a case
for bail. This order shall come into force from the me it is uploaded on this Court's
oﬃcial webpage. 9. Given above, provided the pe oner is not required in any other case, the
pe oner shall be released on bail in the FIR cap oned above subject to furnishing
bonds to the sa sfac on of the concerned Court and due to unavailability before any
nearest Illaqa Magistrate/duty Magistrate. Before accep ng the surety, the concerned
Court must be sa sﬁed that if the accused fails to appear, such surety can produce the
accused. 10. While furnishing a personal bond, the pe oner shall men on the following
personal iden ﬁca on details: 11. This order is subject to the pe oner's complying with the following terms. 12. The pe oner shall abide by all statutory bond condi ons and appear before the
concerned Court(s) on all dates. The pe oner shall not tamper with the evidence,
inﬂuence, browbeat, pressurize, induce, threaten, or promise, directly or indirectly, any
witnesses, Police oﬃcials, or any other person acquainted with the facts and
circumstances of the case or dissuade them from disclosing such facts to the Police or
the Court. 13. Any observa on made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
case's merits nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 14. A cer ﬁed copy of this order would not be needed for furnishing bonds, and any
Advocate for the Pe oner can download this order along with case status from the
oﬃcial web page of this Court and a>est it to be a true copy. If the a>es ng oﬃcer
wants to verify its authen city, such an oﬃcer can also verify its authen city and may
download and use the downloaded copy for a>es ng bonds. 15. Pe00on allowed in terms men oned above. All pending applica ons, if any,
stand disposed of.