- These four appeals have been filed by the convicts

challenging the conviction recorded by the learned Additional Sessions

Judge, Chandrapur in Sessions Case No. 22/2015 against the

appellants in these appeals under different Sections of the Indian Penal

Code (hereinafter referred to as "the IPC ") and the Information

Technology Act, 2000 (for short, "the IT Act "). Since, the appeals are

arising out of the same judgment of conviction, therefore, they are

being disposed of analogously. The learned Additional Sessions Judge,

Chandrapur, by the impugned judgment, convicted the appellants in all

the appeals and sentenced them as follows :- Technology Act, 2000 r/w. Sections 34 , years
 149, 109, 114 of IPC . Section 452 of IPC r/w. Section 34 , 149, R. I. For 7 Rs. 3000/-
 109 and 114 of IPC years
 4 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

 Section 354A r/w. Section 34 , 109, 114 R.I. for 3 Rs. 1000/- of IPC years
 Section 354B r/w. Section 34 , 149, 109 R. I. For 3 Rs.1000/- Section 326 r/w. Section 34 , 149, 109, R. I. For 10 Rs. 4000/-
 114 of IPC years Section 66E of the Information R. I. For 3 Rs. 1000/- Technology Act, 2000 r/w. Sections 34 , years
 149, 109, 114 of IPC . Section 452 of IPC r/w. Section 34 , 149, R. I. For 7 Rs. 3000/-
 109 and 114 of IPC years
 Section 366 r/w. Section Section 34 , R. I. For 10 Rs. 4000/- Section 354B r/w. Section 34 , 149, 109 R. I. For 3 Rs.1000/- Section 376D r/w. Section 34 , 109, 114 R. I. For life Rs.50000/
 of IPC (remainder - Section 506-II r/w. Section 34 , 109, 114 R. I. For 7 Rs. 3000/- of IPC years
 Section 307 r/w. Section 34 , 109, 114 of R. I. For life Rs. 5000/- IPC Section 394 r/w. Section 34 , 109, 114 of R. I. For 10 Rs. 4000/- Sheikh Kadir Sheikh Section 450 r/w. Section 34 , 149, 109, R. I. For 10 Rs. 4000/- Jakir 114 of IPC years
 Section 326 r/w. Section 34 , 149, 109, R. I. For 10 Rs. 4000/-
 114 of IPC years Section 66E of the Information R. I. For 3 Rs. 1000/- Technology Act, 2000 r/w. Sections 34 , years
 149, 109, 114 of IPC . Section 452 of IPC r/w. Section 34 , 149, R. I. For 7 Rs. 3000/-
 109 and 114 of IPC years
 Section 366 r/w. Section Section 34 , R. I. For 10 Rs. 4000/- Section 354B r/w. Section 34 , 149, 109 R. I. For 3 Rs.1000/- and 114 of IPC years
 Section 376D r/w. Section 34 , 109, 114 R. I. For life Rs.50000/
 of IPC (remainder - Section 506-II r/w. Section 34 , 109, 114 R. I. For 7 Rs. 3000/- of IPC years
 Section 307 r/w. Section 34 , 109, 114 of R. I. For life Rs. 5000/- IPC Section 394 r/w. Section 34 , 109, 114 of R. I. For 10 Rs. 4000/- IPC years

Siraj Khan Pathan @ Section 450 r/w. Section 34 , 149, 109, R. I. For 10 Rs. 4000/- Section 326 r/w. Section 34 , 149, 109, R. I. For 10 Rs. 4000/-
 114 of IPC years Section 66E of the Information R. I. For 3 Rs. 1000/- Technology Act, 2000 r/w. Sections 34 , years
 149, 109, 114 of IPC . Section 452 of IPC r/w. Section 34 , 149, R. I. For 7 Rs. 3000/-
 109 and 114 of IPC years
 Section 354B r/w. Section 34 , 149, 109 R. I. For 3 Rs.1000/- Salim Khan Pathan @ Section 212 r/w. Section 34 , 109, 114 of R. I. For 3 Rs. 1000/- 2. The prosecution's case can be culled out as under:- ii) The genesis of the incident dated 05.11.2014 and dated

06.11.2014 is an altercation between Maksud, the brother of Shabbir

and the prosecutrix on account of use of water for washing their

"Activa" vehicle. As a result of use of filthy language by Maksud against

the prosecutrix, he received two slaps from her. Maksud continued

abusing the prosecutrix as well as Dinesh. Landlord- Shabbir pacified

them. The prosecutrix and Dinesh went inside the room. Thereafter,

Maksud banged the door and when Dinesh opened the door, Maksud

who had an Axe in his hand, tried to assault Dinesh. Dinesh gave him

a jolt, resulting into Maksud falling on the ground. After some time,

Maksud called Wasim and Kadir. They barged into the room of the

prosecutrix. Whereas, Siraj and a juvenile in conflict with law,

Wasim's other colleague were standing outside the room. Kadir

assaulted Dinesh on his head and on other parts of the body with a

Baton whereas, Wasim slapped the prosecutrix. Dinesh sustained

injuries on his head and legs. Meanwhile, Rakesh (PW-3), a common
 7 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

friend of the prosecutrix and Dinesh arrived there. He was also beaten

up by Kadir. Liquor was brought there. Wasim made the prosecutrix

and Dinesh drink the liquor and smoke cigarettes. Wasim asked the

prosecutrix and Rakesh to strip themselves. When Rakesh protested,

Kadir assaulted him with a knife. Ultimately, they obeyed. They were

made to kiss each other and to get into various compromising positions

in naked condition. Wasim took photos and recorded videos of those

poses in his mobile phone. They allowed Rakesh to go home. Maksud

was asked to leave. Thereafter, Wasim, Kadir and the Juvenile in

conflict with law took the prosecutrix and Dinesh in an Indica Car to

Nandori Railway track beyond Bhadrawati village. Dinesh was put on

the Railway track twice to get run over by a train. He was also beaten

there by means of an iron rod. Somehow, he saved himself and fled

away from there. However, the prosecutrix was taken away by Wasim,

Kadir and the juvenile in the said vehicle. All three of them committed

rape on her one by one at different places. Lastly, she was taken to

Shegaon village. When they got to know that the Police was searching

for them, they took the prosecutrix into a jungle. Initially, they decided

to kill the prosecutrix however, they left the prosecutrix at Vidya Vihar

Convent. iii) The prosecutrix went to her house and after that to the

Police Station and lodged the report. Meanwhile, Dinesh after
 8 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

rescuing himself had reached the Police Station in an injured condition

and he was sent to the hospital for treatment. On complaint of the

prosecutrix, law was set into motion and the offences under Sections

450, 506-II, 326, 452, 366, 354-A, 354-B, 354-C, 376-B, 426, 307, 394,

201 and 212 r/w. Section 34 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 67 and 67-A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 r/w. Sections 109 and 114 of the IPC came to be registered against the appellants and the

juvenile in conflict with law. Maksud, Wasim, Kadir, Siraj, Salim and

Jobi were arrested and after completion of the investigation, charge-

sheet came to be filed. iv) The appellants were charged for commission of the above

referred offences. They abjured the charge and claimed to be tried. The

prosecution in all examined 24 witnesses. Whereas, Maksud examined

landlord- Shabbir Gaffur Sheikh (DW-1) in his defence. The Trial Court

on conclusion of the trial found the appellants guilty under different

offences and sentenced them for the same as referred above in para

no. 2. Feeling aggrieved with the judgment of conviction, these

appeals came to be filed. EVIDENCE 3. Before appreciating the arguments advanced by the

learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective appellants and
 9 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

the learned APP appearing on behalf of the State in different appeals,

we intend to see what has been brought on record by the prosecution

to prove the charges against the appellants. We propose to categorize

the witnesses examined by the prosecution and the evidence adduced

in the following four categories:- 4. The prosecutrix, a star witness of the prosecution has

deposed that in the month of October-2014, Wasim alongwith Kadir

had been to the house of the prosecutrix. They tied her hands and

Wasim reiterated his request to leave Dinesh and maintain physical

relations with him instead. However, due to the arrival of Dinesh, they

left after threatening both of them. With regard to the incident dated

05.11.2014, she deposed that when she was washing the vehicle with

the help of Dinesh, Maksud switched the water pump off and as a

result of that, an altercation took place between them. Maksud abused
 10 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

her saying "Tu Bhadkhao Hai, To Bin Shadi Kiye Rahti hai". Therefore,

she slapped him. Thereafter, Maksud brought an Axe and tried to hit

Dinesh but Dinesh pushed him and Maksud fell down. Maksud then

made a call to Wasim from his mobile phone and asked him to come.

Wasim and Kadir alongwith the other accused persons came there and

barged into the house of the prosecutrix. Kadir unleashed a blow of

Bamboo stick on the head of Dinesh. The prosecutrix made a call to

Rakesh who then reached there. They beat Dinesh and Rakesh

mercilessly, whereas Wasim slapped the prosecutrix. Wasim asked the

prosecutrix to have physical relations with Rakesh. Liquor was brought

there. They removed the clothes of the prosecutrix and Rakesh.

Rakesh told that he considers the prosecutrix as his sister. They made

Dinesh, Rakesh and the prosecutrix drink liquor and also beat Rakesh.

Wasim was recording videos of the prosecutrix and Rakesh while they

were asked to make different poses in compromising positions. When

Rakesh refused to remove his clothes, Wasim beat him by means of a

stick. Eventually, they allowed Rakesh to go home. They brought the

prosecutrix and Dinesh out of the house, lifted injured Dinesh and put

him in the Indica car. Wasim, Kadir and the juvenile in conflict with

law took Dinesh and the prosecutrix towards Nandori Bifurcation.

They put Dinesh on the Railway track and the prosecutrix was taken to

Nagpur Road near a Dhaba. When Wasim and Kadir alighted from the
 11 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

vehicle, the juvenile in conflict with law made physical relations with

the prosecutrix. Thereafter, they took her into a jungle. At about 4:30

am, they made her descend from the vehicle and Wasim committed

sexual intercourse with her. Thereafter, Kadir repeated the same act.

They took the prosecutrix to a village called small Shegaon and

thereafter, towards Tadoba Road. At about 9:00 to 9:30 am, she was

made to get down from the vehicle and Wasim and Kadir committed

sexual intercourse with her. Wasim and Kadir had a long knife and a

rod and they were discussing whether to kill the prosecutrix or let her

go. When they got to know that the Police had found Dinesh, Wasim

and Kadir alighted from the vehicle. They took the knife and left the

rod in the vehicle. Kadir left the prosecutrix near Vidya Vihar Convent. 5. This witness on 17.11.2014 identified the juvenile in

conflict with law and on 25.11.2014 she identified accused- Kadir and

Siraj respectively. She further deposed that she sustained injuries

below her right eye and right elbow, whereas Dinesh sustained injuries

on his head and legs and Rakesh suffered injuries on his legs and

hands. 6. Dinesh (PW2) is an injured and also an eye-witness. This

witness also deposed on the same lines except the incident of October-

2014. His evidence regarding the incident with Maksud is on the same
 12 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

lines as that of the prosecutrix but in detail. According to him, there

was an altercation between the prosecutrix and accused Maksud on

account of washing of the vehicle. Maksud was worried about the

electricity bill due to usage of the boring for extracting water from the

bore. On this count, he started hurling abuses and even assaulted the

prosecutrix. Shabbir tried to pacify Maksud but still, he abused the

prosecutrix in filthy language and therefore, the prosecutrix slapped

him. He even deposed about Maksud bringing an Axe in order to

assault him. About the main incident, he also deposed that accused

Maksud, Wasim and Kadir alongwith one more person entered into the

house of the prosecutrix. Kadir banged the mobile phone of this

witness on the floor to break it and removed its SIM to take it with

him. Kadir gave a blow of the Baton on his head and he sat on the Cot.

Kadir continued to beat this witness with a Baton. At that time,

Rakesh came there. He was made to sit between this witness and the

prosecutrix. Wasim forcibly made them drink liquor. Wasim asked

Rakesh and the prosecutrix to remove their clothes. When Rakesh

refused, he was given a blow on his legs. Kadir also slapped him and

the prosecutrix. Wasim asked Maksud to go out. It appears from the

version of this witness that he was made to drink a full bottle of liquor

and was feeling dizzy. Rakesh was also assaulted with a knife and was

made to kiss the prosecutrix on the cheek and lips. Various types of
 13 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

poses of the two of them were snapped and recorded in the mobile

phone. Wasim, Kadir and an 18 year old boy lifted him and the

prosecutrix and put her in the vehicle on the middle seat whereas, this

witness was put on the back seat. At the instance of Wasim and Kadir,

the juvenile removed the wallet of this witness containing Rs.3,000/-

and kept it with him. They took them to Chandrapur- Bhadrawati road

and after the toll plaza at Nandori, they alighted from the vehicle.

They lifted this witness from the vehicle and made him lay on the

Railway track and waited for the train for 15-20 minutes. When this

witness tried to hide himself in the bushes, Kadir and the juvenile

pulled him out of the bushes. The juvenile gave two blows of the iron

pipe on the backside of his head and they again pulled him over the

Railway track and made him lay there. They kept his neck on the track

and gave a blow of the pipe on his head. For the next 15 minutes, he

was laying there. A train came and he turned turtle. He then went to

the opposite side of the track, started walking through the hidden road

towards a field and went to village Vislon. After borrowing a mobile

phone from a Railway personnel, he called his brother-in-law who

reached there after 1½ to 2 hours and took him to Ramnagar Police

Station, Chandrapur from where he was referred for medical

examination to the Government Hospital. Thereafter, he was admitted
 14 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

to the ICU of a private hospital for two days. He also identified the

juvenile and two other accused persons. 7. Rakesh Hiraman Bhovte (PW3), another injured has also

testified that on a call made by the prosecutrix, he went to the house of

the prosecutrix. A boy was standing outside her house. He went

inside the room. A man and a boy, whom he later identified as Kadir

and Maksud were present there. Kadir unleashed a blow of the baton

on his hand and Maksud pushed him. Kadir again gave a blow of the

Baton on his leg and Wasim asked him to remove his clothes. When he

denied, Kadir gave a knife blow on his hand. Wasim made him

remove his clothes and kiss the prosecutrix on her lips. Before that,

Wasim had beaten the prosecutrix and made her drink liquor and

remove her clothes. At the time when the kissing was taking place,

Wasim took photos and videos on his mobile. Wasim asked this

witness to have sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix. He denied

and then Wasim made the prosecutrix put her face on his private part.

Dinesh was badly beaten up and was made to drink liquor forcibly.

Thereafter, Kadir pushed him outside of the room and he was directed

to go home. Before that, Kadir had removed the battery and the SIM

from the mobile phone of this witness. On the next day, he stated the

incident to Vijay Gurnule. 15 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

MEDICAL EVIDENCE 8. Dr. Dipti Shrirame (PW10), who examined the prosecutrix

has deposed that she examined her and found that blood stains were

present over the right and left sleeves of her shirt. She found the

following injuries over her person:- There was an old injury over her hymen. Two fingers were easily

inserted. Overall findings were that she was subjected to sexual

intercourse. 5) She obtained her sample of blood, vaginal swab, pubic hair for

chemical analysis. She was asked some questions as per Exh.157. On

questionnaires put to her, this witness could not say whether she was

subjected to gang rape. She did not find injuries over her private

parts. She did not find any evidence related to forcible sexual

intercourse. 16 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt 9. Dr. Morarji Kusnake (PW-15) examined Rakesh (PW3) and

accused Wasim and Kadir. He found following injuries on the person

of Rakesh (PW3) :- 10. He opined that the said injuries might have been inflicted

using a hard and blunt object. No injury was found on the person of

Kadir however, Wasim suffered an abrasion over his left scapula

admeasuring 5 cm X 5 cm. He further deposed that accused Wasim

and Kadir were capable of sexual intercourse. 11. Dr. Digambar Rathod (PW20), a Medical Officer attached

to Civil Hospital, Chandrapur examined Dinesh (PW2) on 06.11.2014,

found the following injuries on his person and issued medical report at

Exh.258. This witness also examined the Baton and the steel rod

and opined that injury nos. i) and ii) may be caused due to these

weapons and death may also occur. 12. Dr. Amal Potdar (PW14), the surgeon in whose hospital

Dinesh (PW2) was admitted for two days has been examined by the

prosecution. He also found the following injuries on the person of

Dinesh (PW2):- 173 and Exh.174. The recovery of the seat cover from the vehicle in

which the prosecutrix was taken away was done in the presence of the
 18 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

prosecutrix (Exh.175) after she identified the vehicle. It is further the

version of this witness that the clothes of Dinesh and Rakesh with

medical samples were seized in his presence under panchnana Exh.

178 to 185 and this witness claimed to be present at the time of

preparing the spot panchanama of the Railway Track and seizure of the

shoe from a nearby place under panchnama Exh.186 and 187.

Thereafter, this witness also went to the spot at Tadoba Jungle and

panchnama at Exh. 175 was prepared. Apart from this, this witness

has also testified that the statement of appellant- Kadir was recorded at

the Police Station pursuant to which, a knife and a 'Zara' were

recovered at the instance of appellant- Kadir, under panchnama

Exh.188 and 189. It appears from the tenor of cross-examination that

this witness alongwith the Police went to the room of the prosecutrix

and seized articles which were relevant to the investigation. This

witness identified those articles in the Court. So far as recovery of the

shoe belonging to Dinesh near the Railway track is concerned, in the

cross-examination this witness has identified the shoe and admitted

recovery of the shoe from the bushes near the Railway track. Though,

this witness has shown acquaintance with Dinesh and Rakesh but

considering the tenor of cross-examination and corroboration of his

version with the version of Pralhad Rupgir Giri (PW23) coupled with
 19 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

production of the articles before the Court, the Trial Court rightly held

that the recovery of articles deposed by this witness is proved. 14. This takes us to the version of Vijay Jagdish Sharma

(PW13), one of the panchas to the seizure of clothes of appellant -

Wasim, seizure of two mobiles phones and one rod at the instance of

appellant- Wasim. He deposed that on 16.11.2014, appellant- Wasim

admitted in his presence that he will produce the weapon and the

clothes. The said statement was recorded at Exh.199 and thereafter,

he took them to his Garage and produced clothes, two mobile phones

and one rod which were seized under panchnama Exh.200. According

to this witness, on the next day, at the instance of appellant- Wasim, a

wheel spanner was seized under Exh.192. This witness identified all

these articles seized in his presence. The cross-examination does not

suggest that the mobile phone and iron rod were not seized from the

house of Wasim, only the identity of the mobile phone is questioned in

his cross-examination. This evidence is corroborated by Pralhad Giri

(PW-23), the investigating officer and production of the Nokia mobile

phone ( Article - 4 ) in the trial Court. 15. The prosecution also came up with recovery of the Axe by

which appellant- Maksud tried to assault Dinesh during the initial

quarrel. For this purpose, the prosecution has relied upon the version
 20 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

Feroz Gafur Sheikh (PW24), a Panch Witness who has testified that on

9.11.2014, appellant- Maksud disclosed that he has kept the Axe used

in the incident in his house which was recorded under Exh.267 and

pursuant to which, he took this witness and other panchas including

the photographer to his house and took out the Axe which was seized

under panchnama Exh.268. Nothing elicited in the cross-examination

of this witness to disbelieve his version that the Axe was recovered

from the house of Maksud. OTHER WITNESSES 16. We will now examine the versions of Gangadhar Nagorao

Bhoyar (PW-16), Ganesh Gajanan Dethe (PW-17) and Vivek Zade

(PW21). 17. The testimoy of Ganesh (PW-17) and Vivek (PW-21)

reveals that they are employees of the Railways. On 05.11.2014, they

were on night paroling duty between location No. 837.0 to 839.0. In

the morning, at about 5:00 to 5:30 am, they went to the boring-pump

to fetch water near Zilla Parisad School, Vilson. According to them,

they saw a boy in an injured condition having injuries on his head and

his shirt was blood-stained. He asked them for water. On his request,

Vivek (PW21) lent his mobile phone to the said boy. He talked to his

Bhauji and told him that he was beaten up and also disclosed his
 21 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

location. This witness also talked to the said person on the mobile

phone and requested him to pick up the injured. 18. Gangadhar Bhoyar (PW16), the employer of Dinesh with

whom he was working, is the person to whom Dinesh (PW2) made a

call from the mobile phone of Vivek (PW21) from village Vilson. This

witness testified that he talked to Dinesh (PW2) and the person to

whom the mobile phone belongs. Vivek (PW21) told Gangadhar

(PW16) that Dinesh is lying in an injured condition at village Vilson

and after asking for the exact location, Gangadhar (PW16) reached

village Vilson and found Dinesh lying there. Dinesh had injuries on his

back and head and his clothes were stained with blood. This witness

further testified that on the way to the hospital, Dinesh informed him

about the incident. 19. We shall now discuss the evidence of other two witnesses

which is relevant to decide these appeals. Rupesh Pande (PW19), the

owner of the Tata Sumo vehicle and Kashinath Nigot (PW22), the

owner of the Tata Indica vehicle wherein, the alleged incident took

place. 20. Rupesh Pande (PW19), the owner of the Tata Sumo

bearing registration No. MH34/M-9740 has testified that on
 22 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

06.11.2014, Goldi and Jobi came to his house at about 11:00 in the

night. They requested this witness to let them borrow his vehicle in

order to take Wasim's mother to the hospital. Therefore, this witness

accompanied them in the said Tata Sumo vehicle and he also

consumed liquor. Thereafter, Jobi started driving the vehicle.

Appellant- Jobi took them to Sindewahi where appellants Wasim, Kadir

and the juvenile in conflict with law arrived in a Maruti Car and

boarded the Tata Sumo. They went towards Chandrapur where Joby

and Goldi got down from the vehicle and others proceeded towards

Adilabad. At Adilabad, Wasim and Kadir got down and this witness

and the juvenile in conflict with law proceeded back to Chandrapur

when the Police vehicle started chasing them on the way. The juvenile

in conflict with law fled and this witness was apprehended. 21. Kashinath (PW22), is the owner of the Tata Indica vehicle

bearing registration no. MH-01/Y-1943, who testified that on

05.11.2014 at about 9:00 am in the morning he handed over the Tata

Indica Car to appellant- Wasim for repair work and Wasim assured that

he will deliver the vehicle in the afternoon. When in the afternoon, he

enquired about the vehicle, Wasim said that the vehicle is yet to be

repaired. In the evening when this witness made a phone call to

Wasim, he told that after the repair work is done, he will drop the

vehicle to the house of this witness. Wasim did not return the vehicle
 23 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

to this witness as promised. On the next day i.e. on 06.11.2014, Wasim

informed this witness that there was a quarrel and thereafter, Wasim

sent the vehicle to this witness through one Bhurya. Wasim, in his

statement under Section 313 of the CrPC admitted that the vehicle was

with him on 05.11.2014 and 06.11.2014. FORENSIC EVIDENCE 22. The DNA report, Exh.330 shows that the full shirt and the

jeans pant seized from Dinesh (PW2), which he was wearing at the

time of the incident, were stained with blood as well as the seat cover

and the shirt seized from the prosecutrix was also stained with the

blood of Dinesh (PW2). That apart, the DNA report also depicts that

the wall scrapping seized from the School at Vilson also contained the

blood of Dinesh (PW2). No semen was detected either on the clothes

of the prosecutrix or on the clothes of appellants- Wasim, Kadir and the

juvenile in conflict with law. Apart from that, burnt cigarette butts

contained the DNA profile of the prosecutrix. 23. The prosecution has also relied on the reports of chemical

analysis at Exh. 333. The CA report reveals the presence of blood on

the clothes of the prosecutrix; full shirt and jeans pant of Dinesh

(PW2); full shirt of Wasim and scrapping of the wall as well as on the
 24 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

seat cover. The CA reports Exh. 275 and 276 depict the presence of

Alcohol in the blood of the prosecutrix and Dinesh (PW2).

IDENTIFICATION OF THE ACCUSED PERSONS 24. It is the case of the prosecution that the prosecutrix,

Dinesh (PW2) and Rakesh (PW3) identified appellants- Kadir and Siraj

in the test-identification parade conducted by Pramod Kulte (PW9),

the then Naib Tahsildar. He has been examined at Exh.161. He

testified about the requisition by the Police for conducting test-

identification parade; and accordingly, he conducted the test-

identification. This witness has testified that Rakesh (PW3) identified

accused- Shaikh Kadir and Siraj. Likwise, Dinesh (PW2) and the

prosecutrix also identified appellant- Shaikh Kadir and Siraj in the

presence of panchas and therefore, memorandum panchnamas at Exh.

164 and 165 were prepared. The version of Pramod Kulte (PW9),

Circle Officer, who conducted the test identification and Rahul Jagdish

Shende (PW12), witness to the test identification parade, reveals that

the test identification was conducted wherein Kadir and Siraj were

identified. ELECTRONIC EVIDENCE 25. It is to be mentioned here that the Nokia mobile phone

seized at the instance of Wasim was sent for Cyber Forensic
 25 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

examination and 69 images and 10 videos were retrieved. The said 69

images and 10 videos were produced before the Court in the form of a

CD containing the photos and videos of the prosecutrix and Rakesh in

compromising positions, which is palpable from the panchnama

prepared at the time of running of the said CD before the Trial Court. 26. No doubt, the mobile phone in which the alleged videos

were recorded and photos were snapped has been produced before the

Court but the CD which was run before the Court consists of the videos

and the photos, poses a question whether in absence of the certificate

mandated under Section 65B of the Evidence Act, the Court could have

relied on the contents of the CD that contained copies of the videos

and the photos. 27. Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act provides for

admissibility of copy of electronic records on production of a certificate

in compliance with the conditions mentioned in the Section. Section

65B contemplates issuance of a certificate by the person having lawful

control and use of the said electronic records mentioning that the

conditions under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act have been

complied with. Here accused- Wasim, the accused in the crime, was

the person having lawful control and use of the Nokia mobile phone in

which naked photos and videos of the prosecutrix and Rakesh in
 26 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

compromising positions were recorded. The electronic record sought

to be proved is against Wasim, therefore, as contemplated under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, a certificate issued by Wasim

would be required. Obviously, the electronic record which is sought to

be proved is against Wasim and therefore, the prosecution could not

get the certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act for

two reasons: Firstly, Wasim will never agree to issue a certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act and Secondly, an accused in a

crime cannot be compelled to give incriminating evidence against

himself. 28. In the case of Arjun Panditrao Khotkar Vs. Kailash

Kushanrao Gorantyal , the Supreme Court after discussing two 1 maxims: Firstly ex non cogit ad impossibilia i.e. the law does not

demand the impossible; Secondly impotentia excusat legem i.e. when

there is a disability that makes it impossible to obey the law, the

alleged disobedience of the law is excused, has held in para no. 51 of

the judgment as under:- 1 2020 (7) SCC 1
 27 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt 29. In wake of the two reasons stated above, it was not

possible for the prosecution to obtain the certificate provided under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act from Wasim, who was having

lawful control over the electronic device i.e. the Nokia mobile phone.

Therefore, non-production of the certificate under Section 65B of the

Indian Evidence Act by the prosecution will not be fatal to the case,

provided that the prosecution is able to prove the authenticity of the

electronic record which has been produced in the Court. 30. This takes us to the report of the Cyber Forensic Lab

Exh.328, which describes how the data was retrieved from the mobile

phone having IMEI 1- 353637065232250 and IMEI 2-

353637069731711. It was firstly copied on the hard disk and

thereafter in the CD/DVD, which came to be produced in Court. That

apart, the 'Hash Value' of the original as well as the copy of the said

electronic record was verified and it matched as per the report. Hence,

the 'Hash Value' of the copies produced in the Court matches with the

'Hash Value' of the videos and the photos retrieved from the mobile

phone of Wasim. 31. The Supreme Court in the case of Zakia Ahsan Jafri Vs.

State of Gujarat 2 has held in para no. 278 as under:- We find no reason to deviate therefrom." 32. In light of the observations made above, the Trial Court

was justified in relying on the electronic record without the certificate

mandated under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act.

APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE 33. Considering the number of accused and the number of

offences alleged to have been committed by the appellants, we deem it

fit to consider the evidence of prosecution's witnesses in sequence and
 29 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

therefore, for the sake of convenience, we divide the case of the

prosecution in three parts:- iii) The incident which occurred outside the room of the prosecutrix.

INCIDENT NEAR THE ROOM OF THE PROSECUTRIX 34. We now deal with the incident which occurred near the

room where the prosecutrix and Dinesh were residing. It has come in

many words in the evidence of the prosecution's witnesses that the

prosecutrix was residing with Dinesh in a rented room owned by

Shabbir, the brother of Maksud. Rather, this aspect has not been

disputed by the defence. For this purpose, the prosecution relied on

the version of the prosecutrix, Dinesh and Rakesh. 35. The quarrel between the prosecutrix and Dinesh on one

side and Maksud on the other is palpable from the evidence of the

prosecutrix and Dinesh. The statement of Maksud recorded under Section 313 of the CrPC also reveals that a quarrel took place between

him and the prosecutrix. The prosecutrix and Dinesh have deposed

about the quarrel between them and Maksud on account of increase in

the electricity bill due to washing of her vehicle with the help of motor.

In that quarrel, Maksud abused the prosecutrix by calling her
 30 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

"Bhadkhau". The Trial Court relied on the version of these two

witnesses and held that Maksud has committed the offence of criminal

intimidation with threat of causing grievous injury and convicted and

sentenced him for seven years imprisonment. 36. Criminal intimidation has been defined under Section 503 of the IPC, which reads as under:- 37. Thus, to bring the accused within the ambit of criminal

intimidation, the ingredients of Section 503 of the IPC will have to be

considered. Section 503 of the IPC states that, a person must threaten

another with injury to his person or reputation or to the property with

intent to cause alarm to that person or cause that person to do or to

omit an act which he is not legally bound to do. There is nothing on

record to show that Maksud threatened the prosecutrix and Dinesh

with intent to cause alarm to the prosecutrix to do any act which the

prosecutrix or Dinesh were not legally bound to do. Utterance of the

word "Bhadkhau" by Maksud by no stretch of imagination is
 31 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

threatening so as to bring him under the gamut of criminal

intimidation, that too punishable under Part-II of Section 506 of the

IPC. Therefore, the finding of the Trial Court holding Maksud guilty for

the offence punishable under part - II of Section 506 of the IPC is

erroneous. We accordingly set it aside. INCIDENT INSIDE THE ROOM OF PROSECUTRIX 38. The deposition of the prosecutrix and Dinesh further

depicts that after the quarrel was pacified by Shabbir, Maksud went to

his house, brought an Axe, barged into the room of the prosecutrix and

even tried to assault Dinesh but he could not succeed due to the push

given by Dinesh. The version of Pralhad Rupgir Giri (PW-23) reveals

that at the instance of Maksud, an 'Axe' was recovered at Exh.268. 39. It is further the version of the prosecutrix as well as

Dinesh that Wasim, along with Kadir and some unknown persons also

barged into the room of the prosecutrix along with Maksud. The

prosecutrix and Dinesh in chorus have categorically deposed that the

moment they opened the door after Wasim knocked, Kadir assaulted

Dinesh by means of a baton on his forehead and other parts of the

body. It is also the version of the prosecutrix, Dinesh and Rakesh that

Rakesh was assaulted by Kadir and Wasim after he reached there.

Moreover, Wasim made the prosecutrix and Dinesh drink liquor and he
 32 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

also forced the prosecutrix to smoke cigarettes. Their version is also

corroborated by the spot panchnama and seizure of cigarettes butts,

empty liquor bottles, water bottles and seizure of baton from the spot

of the incident. The DNA report Exh.330 also shows that cigarettes

butts carry the DNA of the prosecutrix. The CA report also reveals that

the blood of the prosecutrix and Dinesh contains Alcohol. The injury

certificate Exh.213 and Exh. 258 issued by Dr. Amal Potdar (PW14)

and Dr. Digambar Rathod (PW20), who examined Dinesh reveals that

Dinesh had an injury on his forehead and other parts of the body. The

CA report and the DNA report reveal that the clothes seized from the

person of Dinesh had stains of blood which belongs to Dinesh. Injury

certificate (Exh-215) and evidence of Dr. Morarji Mohan Kusnake

(PW-15) also corroborates with the version of the prosecutrix, Dinesh

and Rakesh that Kadir also assaulted Rakesh with a baton and a knife

and inflicted injuries on him. 40. It has been submitted by Mr. Tiwari, learned counsel for

Kadir that the parading procedure for conducting the Test

Identification (TI) Parade contemplated under the Criminal Manual

has not been followed and therefore, the TI Parade stands vitiated and

cannot be relied upon. We are hastened to add that TI Parade assures

that the investigation is in the right direction. It is a rule of prudence
 33 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

which is required to be followed where the accused is not known to

the victim. 41. In the present case, the initial incident occurred inside the

room of the prosecutrix in close proximity with the

eye-witnesses/victim. The prosecutrix, Dinesh and Rakesh had ample

opportunity to identify Kadir as he was with them inside the room for

more than two hours. Rather, Rakesh was acquainted with the friend

of Kadir. Thereafter, Kadir was with Dinesh till they reached the

Railway track and with the prosecutrix for the whole night. Therefore,

even if there are procedural lapses in conducting the TI Parade, the

evidence of the prosecutrix, Dinesh and Rakesh cannot be doubted.

These witnesses identified Kadir not only in the TI Parade but also in

the Court. Above all, the conviction of Kadir is not solely based on the

TI parade but there is ample corroborative evidence in the form of

recovery of weapon, travelling back to Chandrapur along with Wasim

and the juvenile in conflict with law in the vehicle of Rupesh Pande

(PW19). 42. There is consistency in the version of the prosecutrix,

Dinesh and Rakesh regarding the fact that accused Wasim made the

prosecutrix and Rakesh strip themselves and get into compromising

positions and for that purpose, Wasim and Kadir beat Rakesh whereas,
 34 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

Wasim slapped the prosecutrix. Wasim videographed and snapped

photos of the prosecutrix and Rakesh in compromising positions. Their

version is supported by electronic evidence i.e. the images and videos

found in the Nokia mobile phone belonging to Wasim wherein, the

prosecutrix and Rakesh were seen in compromising positions. Thus,

the versions of the prosecutrix, Rakesh and Dinesh corroborate with

each-other and is also corroborated by other evidence including

electronic evidence as discussed above. The depositions of the

prosecutrix, Dinesh and Rakesh inspire confidence of the Court and the

Trial Court has rightly appreciated and relied on the versions of the

prosecutrix, Rakesh and Dinesh. 43. Needless to mention that, considering the role played by

each accused, i.e. Wasim calling Maksud and asking him to come to the

room of the prosecutrix; Wasim accompanying Kadir who brought the

baton with him; Maksud, Wasim and Kadir entering the room of the

prosecutrix; Kadir assaulting Dinesh and Rakesh at the instance of

Wasim and Maksud; and recording of pornography inside the room

indicates sharing of common intention amongst them. 44. Thus, from the above material available on record, the

Trial Court was completely justified in holding that accused Maksud,

Wasim and Kadir committed criminal tress-pass in the room occupied
 35 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

by the prosecutrix with intent to commit offences punishable for

imprisonment for life i.e. with preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful

restrain and thereby committed the offences punishable under Sections

450 , 452 , 354A , 354B , 354C of the IPC and Section 66E of the IT Act,

2000. 45. Sofar as Siraj is concerned, it has been claimed by the

prosecution that Siraj also accompanied Wasim and Kadir while

trespassing into the room of the prosecutrix and remained inside the

room and hence, he has common intention. It will be worthwhile to

mention here that, though the prosecutrix has identified Siraj in the

test-identification parade conducted by Pramod Kulte (PW9) but the

scrutiny of evidence of the prosecutrix, Dinesh and Rakesh goes to

show that none of these witnesses have deposed that Siraj also entered

the room of the prosecutrix. Rather, their version goes to show that

only three persons were inside i.e. Maksud, Wasim and Kadir baring

one person aged about 18 years who brought liquor at the instance of

Wasim who perhaps appears to be a juvenile. Therefore, it will be

difficult to rely on the version of the prosecutrix, who identified Siraj

on the basis of guesswork as the person who accompanied Wasim and

Kadir, who entered in her room. I find force in submission of Mr. Daga,

learned counsel that the Trial Court missed this aspect and erroneously

convicted Siraj for the offences punishable under Sections 450, 452, 36 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

326, 354B r/w 34, 109, 114 and 149 of the IPC . The benefit of doubt

goes in favour of Siraj. Accordingly, we set aside the conviction of Siraj

for the aforesaid offences. 46. This takes us to the findings of the Trial Court convicting

appellants- Maksud, Wasim, and Kadir for the offence punishable

under Section 326 of the IPC and sentencing them to suffer rigorous

imprisonment for 10 years. 47. To accord a conviction under the offence punishable under Section 326 of the IPC, grievous hurt defined under Section 320 of the

IPC is a sine qua non. The Trial Court relied on the Query Report

(Exh-259) issued by Dr. Digambar Rathod (PW-20) wherein he opined

that if complications arise, the injury caused to Dinesh may cause

death. Relying on Clause VIII of Section 320 of the IPC, the Trial Court

held that any hurt which endangers life will come under the sweep of

grievous hurt. Query Report (Exh-259) shows that if complications

arise, only then the injuries caused to Dinesh will endanger his life. It

is a matter of record that both the Doctors recorded that the injuries on

the person of Dinesh and Rakesh are simple injuries. It cannot be

disputed that if complications arise even simple hurt may endanger

life. The purport of Clause VIII of Section 320 of the IPC is that hurt

caused by the offender must endanger life and it does not depend on
 37 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

the condition of future complications that are likely to arise. For

invoking Clause VIII of Section 320 of the IPC, the offender must cause

injury which itself endangers the life of the victim, which is absent in

this case. The finding of the Trial Court that grievous hurt was caused

is not correct. The injuries caused to the person of Dinesh and Rakesh

do not come under the ambit of grievous hurt/injury. The conviction

recorded by the Trial Court against Maksud, Wasim and Kadir under Section 326 of the IPC does not stand for the reason that simple hurt

has been caused by the baton and knife which is punishable under Section 324 of the IPC and not under Section 326. We, therefore, set

aside the conviction of Maksud, Wasim and Kadir for the offence

punishable under Section 326 of the IPC and instead, we hold them

guilty for the offence punishable under Section 324 of the IPC.

INCIDENT OUTSIDE THE ROOM OF THE PROSECUTRIX 48. We now turn to the incidence which occurred thereafter. It

is the version of the prosecutrix and Dinesh that Wasim, Kadir and the

juvenile in conflict with law brought them out of the room and put

them in the Tata Indica car. Dinesh was put on the back seat of the

Tata Indica car in an injured condition whereas, the prosecutrix was

made to sit on the middle seat of the car and they took them to

Nandori Bifurcation. It is also the version of Dinesh that the juvenile in

conflict with law as per direction, removed the wallet containing
 38 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

Rs.3,000/- from the person of Dinesh. The prosecutrix's version is that

they put Dinesh on the Railway track. The version of Dinesh shows

how he, who was in a drunken condition, was kept on the Railway

track by Wasim, Kadir and the juvenile in conflict with law twice and

when the train came, he succeeded in saving his life by removing

himself from the Railway track. His version gets corroboration by

recovery of his shoe from the bushes near the Railway track. His

version that he was assaulted on the back of his head is also

corroborated by the version of Dr. Morarji Kusnake (PW-15) and Dr.

Digambar Rathod (PW-20), who found an injury on back of the head of

Dinesh and opined that the injury may be caused with the help of an

iron rod. The consistent version of Dinesh also gets support by the

discovery of blood from the wall of a School on the way to village

Vilson where he stayed. The DNA report also reveals that his blood was

found on his shirt, seat cover of the Tata Indica car as well as on the

clothes of the prosecutrix. Ganesh Gajanan Dethe (PW-17) and Vivek

Zade (PW-21), the employees of the Railways who were on patrolling

duty in wee hours of 06.11.2014 met Dinesh in an injured condition

and under the influence of liquor. Dinesh succeeded to contact his

employer Gangadhar Nagorao Bhoyar (PW-16) through these

witnesses who deposed that Gangadhar Nagorao Bhoyar (PW-16) came

there, took him to Chandrapur and got him admitted to the Hospital. 39 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

The version of Dinesh is corroborated in many words by Ganesh

Gajanan Dethe (PW-17), Vivek Zade (PW-21), Gangadhar Bhoyar (PW- 16) and other evidences. 49. At this juncture, it will also be proper to state that Rakesh,

after returning from the room of the prosecutrix again went to the

room of the prosecutrix alongwith Mahesh Gurunule, Mangesh Uke

and Dewa at about 2:30 am in the night. They found nobody inside

the room of the prosecutrix. This also corroborates the abduction of

the prosecutrix and Dinesh and the incident that occurred in the jungle

with Dinesh. In view of the voluminous evidence available on record,

the Trial Court did not err in relying on the version of the prosecutrix

and more particularly, Dinesh. 50. Mr. Arjun Bobde, learned counsel for Wasim vehemently

submitted that the injuries on the person of Dinesh were simple

injuries. If it had been the intention of Wasim and the other accused

persons to commit the murder of Dinesh, they would have left Dinesh

with severe injuries to make sure that he dies. According to him, this

aspect has not been considered by the Trial Court. To buttress his

submission, he seeks to rely on the decision of the Supreme Court in
 40 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

the case of Sivamani and another Vs. State Represented by Inspector of

Police 3, wherein it is held as under :- 51. It is a settled principle of law that for recording conviction

under Section 307 of the IPC, injury is not a sine qua non and it is not

necessary that bodily injury capable of causing death should have been

inflicted. The Court has to see whether the act, irrespective of its

result, was done with intention or knowledge and in accordance with

the circumstances mentioned in sub- Section 307 of the IPC. In the

case of Jage Ram Vs. State of Haryana 4, it has been held that just

because a fatal injury was not sustained, that alone does not dislodge Section 307 of the IPC. What is material is the intention of the accused

which can be gathered from surrounding circumstances including the

actual injury, nature of weapon and severity of the blow. We must

state here that it has been proved that the accused persons put Dinesh,

3 2023 SCC Online SC 1581
4 2015 (11) SCC 366
 41 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

who was under the influence of liquor as proved in the CA report, on

the Railway track to make sure that he gets crushed under the Train

and does not survive. When he managed to save himself inspite of

being under the influence of liquor, the accused persons particularly,

Kadir and the juvenile in conflict with law again brought him on the

Railway track to make sure that he gets killed but fortunately, again he

succeeded in saving himself. Thus, from the facts which have been

brought on record, it is clear that Wasim and Kadir alongwith the

juvenile in conflict with law tried to kill Dinesh by putting him on the

Railway track to make sure that he gets crushed under the wheels of

the Train. Therefore, we see no infirmity in the conviction recorded by

the Trial Court holding Wasim and Kadir guilty for the offence

punishable under Sections 307, 366 and 394 read with 34 of the IPC .

GANG RAPE 52. As per the IPC , where a woman is raped by one or more

persons constituting a group or acting in furtherance of common

intention, all those persons shall be deemed to have committed the

offence of gang rape. It is the case of the prosecutrix that in the

intervening night of 05.11.2014 and 06.11.2014 Wasim, Kadir and the

juvenile in conflict with law committed rape on her. 42 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

SUBMISSIONS 53. Mr. Arjun Bobde, learned counsel appearing on behalf of

Wasim vehemently submitted that there was no injury on the private

parts of the prosecutrix. Though, hymen was ruptured but it was an

old injury and no signs of force or restrain to penetrative assault were

seen. All these rule out the possibility of forceful rape much less gang

rape. The material on record also does not suggest any injury except

injury on her elbow and below the right eye. According to him, if the

alleged incidents of gang rape occurred on the ground in the jungle

and if a person is raped on an earthy surface, particularly, if it is a case

of gang rape then injuries on other parts of the body, more particularly

on the back of the victim are bound to be present. Even the nail

clippings of the prosecutrix suggest that no attempts were made by the

prosecutrix to resist the accused. Therefore, all these suggest that no

incident of rape occurred, much less gang rape. He further went on to

submit that if forceful gang rape is committed then injury on the

private part of the prosecutrix is one of the determining factors which

is conspicuously absent in this case. 54. A strong reliance has been placed on the admission of the

prosecutrix in her cross-examination that during sexual intercourse,

semen spilled over her private parts and on her clothes. Taking help of

this admission, Mr. Arjun Bobde, learned counsel vehemently
 43 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

submitted that the DNA report (Exh.333) emphatically mentioned that

no semen was found on the leggings of the prosecutrix which she wore

at the time of the alleged incident. According to him, this itself goes to

show that the prosecutrix is deposing falsely about the incident and the

fact that she was repeatedly raped by Wasim, Kadir and the juvenile in

conflict with law. He further went on to submit that the DNA report of

the vaginal swab and the pubic hair of the prosecutrix is also

inconclusive. Therefore, Wasim and Kadir are entitled for benefit of

doubt at the least. According to him, the version of the prosecutrix is

not corroborated with the DNA report and therefore, it will not be safe

to rely on the version of the prosecutrix particularly, in light of the fact

that the prosecutrix formerly had an intimate relationship with Wasim.

Therefore, possibility of the prosecutrix deposing falsely cannot be

ruled out. Hence, the present accused persons, particularly Wasim

should be given the benefit of doubt by recording the order of acquittal

against the charge of gang rape. 55. Mr. Bobde would submit that even the Doctor was not

sure and she has answered question no. 2 of the query report by

stating that she cannot comment whether the prosecutrix was

subjected to gang rape. He further went on to submit that even the

clothes of the prosecutrix did not have traces of earth of the jungle.

Therefore, all these rule out the possibility of forceful sexual
 44 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

intercourse, more particularly gang rape. Therefore, the version of the

prosecutrix in this regard is doubtful and cannot be believed. To

buttress his submission, he seeks to rely on para nos. 11 and 12 of the

judgment in the case of Raju and others Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh 5,

which reads as under :- 5 (2008) 15 SCC 133
 45 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt 56. He also relied upon the judgment in the case of Santosh

Prasad @ Santosh Kumar Vs. State of Bihar 6,which reads thus :- 57. Reliance is also placed on the case of Rai Sandeep @

Deepu Vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) 7, wherein in para no. 31 it is observed

as under:- 58. Conversely, learned APP for the State vehemently

submitted that the evidence of the prosecutrix is entitled to great

weightage even in absence of corroboration. She is not an accomplice

but her evidence is to be scrutinized as the evidence of an injured

witness. The prosecutrix cannot be disbelieved even if the Doctor

found no sign of injury or restraint. According to him, the prosecutrix

was habitual to sexual intercourse and therefore, absence of injury on

her private parts would not ruled out rape, more particularly, when the

prosecutrix was under the influence of liquor which was forcefully

administered to her by Wasim. To buttress his submission, he seeks to

rely on the judgment in the case of State of Rajasthan Vs. Biram Lal 8,

wherein in para no. 15, the Supreme Court has held as under:- CONSIDERATION 59. Having heard Mr. Bobde, learned counsel appearing for

appellant- Wasim and Mr. Tiwari, learned counsel appearing on behalf

of Kadir as well as the learned APP, we have gone through the record.

As per medical report, more particularly according to Dr. Dipti

Shrirame (PW10), there was no injury on the private part of the

prosecutrix as well as other parts of the body except on the left elbow

and below the right eye. As per the DNA report, no semen was

detected on the leggings of the prosecutrix which she wore at the time

of the incident and no DNA came to be amplified from the public hair,

vaginal swab and sputum sample of the prosecutrix. 60. Evidently, there is no injury on the private parts of the

prosecutrix inspite of having deposed that she was subjected to

repeated sexual intercourse by Wasim, Kadir and the juvenile in
 48 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

conflict with law during the intervening night of 05.11.2014 and

06.11.2014. However, at the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that

the prosecutrix was made to drink large quantity of liquor and she was

under the influence of it. This is evident from the CA report reflecting

the presence of Alcohol in the blood of the prosecutrix, the sample of

which was taken by Dr. Dipti Shrirame (PW10) in the afternoon of

06.11.2014. The counsel for the appellants have themselves admitted

that Wasim and the prosecutrix knew each other prior to the incident

which suggests that they were well acquainted with each other prior

to the alleged incident. Apart from that, the prosecutrix was

surrounded by three strong men and she was inebriated. These factors

are self explanatory as to why the prosecutrix did not resist when she

was being subjected to sexual assault. Rather, it was not the case that

physical force was used by each one of them while committing sexual

intercourse. The seizure panchnama of the leggings shows that it was

soaked with dust which proves that she was made to lie down on an

earthy surface. The absence of injury on the back and other parts of

the body of the prosecutrix inspite of repeated sexual intercourse by

the three of them has been sufficiently explained by the learned APP as

the prosecutrix was habitual to sexual intercourse. Therefore, absence

of injury on the body of the prosecutrix is already explained and it

would not be of any advantage to the accused. 49 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt 61. It will be appropriate to refer the case of State of Uttar

Pradesh Vs. Chhotelal 9, wherein the Supreme Court in para no. 32 has

held as under:- 62. In the case of Rajendra @ Raja Bhat Vs. Bajrang

Shankarpale Vs. State of Maharashtra10 it has been held as under:- 63. In the case of Vijay @ Chinee Vs. State of M. P. 11, it has

been observed that non resistance on the part of the prosecutrix cannot

be relied upon to demonstrate that the conduct of prosecutrix was

9 (2011) 2 SCC 550
10 2009 ALL MR (CRI) 3534
11 2010 ALL MR (CRI) 3326
 50 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

unnatural as it could be due to fear. It could not be assumed that the

prosecutrix consented to the act, even if she was a major. Conviction of

the accused was held to be proper. 64. In the case of Maroti Domaji Sadmake Vs. State 12, it has

been held that while appreciating evidence in a case of rape, mere

absence of medical evidence to prove sexual intercourse would not be

enough to reject strong, truthful and reliable evidence of the

prosecutrix. 65. In the case of Radhakrishna Nagesh Vs. State of Andhra

Pradesh 13 in para nos. 19 to 22 of the judgment, it has been held as

under:- 66. Concededly, the prosecutrix has admitted in her cross-

examination that semen spilled over her private part and on her

clothes. Whereas, the DNA report indicates absence of semen on the

leggings which the prosecutrix wore during the intervening night of

05.11.2014 and 06.11.2014. The DNA report further exhibits that the

DNA could not be amplified from the pubic hair, vaginal swab and

sputum sample of the prosecutrix. Further cross-examination of the

prosecutrix reveals that she has in categorical terms deposed that after

each sexual intercourse, she put on the leggings. This indicates that

before every sexual intercourse, the leggings were removed. In that

scenario, there is no question of presence of semen on the leggings

which has been duly dealt with by the Trial Court. Lastly, perhaps the

semen might have spilled on the inner-wear/underwear of the

prosecutrix which was not seized during the investigation and

therefore, it was not subjected to DNA analysis. Thus, in wake of the

version of the prosecutrix that on every occasion of sexual intercourse,

the leggings were removed, absence of semen on the leggings will not

be beneficial to Wasim and Kadir. Just because the underwear of the
 52 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

prosecutrix was not seized, which is the fault of the Investigating

Officer, the benefit of doubt cannot be extended to the appellants. So

far as inconclusive DNA report of pubic hair, vaginal swab or sputum

sample are concerned, just because the DNA could not be amplified,

the prosecutrix cannot be blamed for it. Here is not a case of

contradiction between ocular and medical evidence so as to doubt the

testimony of the prosecutrix. Reference can be made to para 19 of the

decision in the case of Radhakrishna Nagesh (supra). 67. Before considering whether the sole testimony of the

prosecutrix can be relied upon, we must refer to the decisions of the

Supreme Court on this aspect. In the case of Deepshikha Vs. Vibha 14,

the Supreme Court has held as under:- 68. In State of Maharashtra v. Chandraprakash Kewalchand

Jain15 , the Supreme Court held that a woman who is the victim of

14 2008 ALL MR (CRI) 2583
15 (1990) 1 SCC 550
 53 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

sexual assault is not an accomplice to the crime but is a victim of

another person's lust and therefore, her evidence need not be tested

with the same amount of suspicion as that of an accomplice. The Court

observed as under: (SCC p. 559, para 16)

 "16. A prosecutrix of a sex offence cannot be put on par with
 an accomplice. She is in fact a victim of the crime. The
 Evidence Act nowhere says that her evidence cannot be
 accepted unless it is corroborated in material particulars. She is
 undoubtedly a competent witness under Section 118 and her
 evidence must receive the same weight as is attached to an
 injured in cases of physical violence. The same degree of care
 and caution must attach in the evaluation of her evidence as in
 the case of an injured complainant or witness and no more.
 What is necessary is that the court must be alive to and
 conscious of the fact that it is dealing with the evidence of a
 person who is interested in the outcome of the charge levelled
 by her. If the court keeps this in mind and feels satisfied that it
 can act on the evidence of the prosecutrix, there is no rule of
 law or practice incorporated in the Evidence Act similar to
 Illustration (b) to Section 114 which requires it to look for
 corroboration. If for some reason the court is hesitant to place
 implicit reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix it may look
 for evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony short
 of corroboration required in the case of an accomplice. The
 nature of evidence required to lend assurance to the testimony
 of the prosecutrix must necessarily depend on the facts and
 circumstances of each case. But if a prosecutrix is an adult and
 of full understanding the court is entitled to base a conviction
 on her evidence unless the same is shown to be infirm and not
 trustworthy. If the totality of the circumstances appearing on
 the record of the case disclose that the prosecutrix does not
 have a strong motive to falsely involve the person charged, the
 court should ordinarily have no hesitation in accepting her
 evidence." 69. In State of U.P. v. Pappu 16, the Apex Court held that even

in a case where it is shown that the girl is a girl of easy virtue or a girl

is habituated to sexual intercourse, it may not be a ground to absolve

the accused from the charge of rape. It has to be established that

16 (2005) 3 SCC 594
 54 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

consent was given by her for that particular occasion. Absence of injury

on the prosecutrix may not be a factor that leads the court to absolve

the accused. The Apex Court further held that conviction can be based

on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix and in case the court is not

satisfied with the version of the prosecutrix, it can seek other evidence,

direct or circumstantial, by which it may get assurance of her

testimony. The Court further held as under: (SCC p. 597, para 12)

 "12. It is well settled that a prosecutrix complaining of having
 been a victim of the offence of rape is not an accomplice after
 the crime. There is no rule of law that her testimony cannot be
 acted upon without corroboration in material particulars. She
 stands at a higher pedestal than an injured witness. In the latter
 case, there is injury on the physical form, while in the former it
 is both physical as well as psychological and emotional.
 However, if the court of facts finds it difficult to accept the
 version of the prosecutrix on its face value, it may search for
 evidence, direct or circumstantial, which would lend assurance
 to her testimony. Assurance, short of corroboration as
 understood in the context of an accomplice, would do." 70. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh 17, the Supreme Court

held that in cases involving sexual harassment, molestation, etc. the

court is duty-bound to deal with utmost sensitivity. Minor

contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of a

prosecutrix should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise

reliable prosecution case. Evidence of a victim of sexual assault is

enough for conviction and it does not require any corroboration unless

there are compelling reasons for seeking corroboration. The court may

look for some assurances of her statement to satisfy judicial
17 (1996) 2 SCC 384
 55 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

conscience. The statement of the prosecutrix is more reliable than that

of an injured witness as she is not an accomplice. The Court observed

as under: (SCC pp. 394 96 & 403, paras 8 & 21)

 "8. ... The court overlooked the situation in which a poor
 helpless minor girl had found herself in the company of three
 desperate young men who were threatening her and preventing
 her from raising any alarm. Again, if the investigating officer
 did not conduct the investigation properly or was negligent in
 not being able to trace out the driver or the car, how can that
 become a ground to discredit the testimony of the prosecutrix?
 The prosecutrix had no control over the investigating agency
 and the negligence of an investigating officer could not affect
 the credibility of the statement of the prosecutrix. ... The courts
 must, while evaluating evidence, remain alive to the fact that in
 a case of rape, no self respecting woman would come forward
 in a court just to make a humiliating statement against her
 honour such as is involved in the commission of rape on her. In
 cases involving sexual molestation, supposed considerations
 which have no material effect on the veracity of the prosecution
 case or even discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix
 should not, unless the discrepancies are such which are of fatal
 nature, be allowed to throw out an otherwise reliable
 prosecution case. ... Seeking corroboration of her statement
 before relying upon the same, as a rule, in such cases amounts
 to adding insult to injury. ... Corroboration as a condition for
 judicial reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix is not a
 requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under given
 circumstances. ... * * * * * 21. ... The courts should examine the broader probabilities of a
 case and not get swayed by minor contradictions or
 insignificant discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix,
 which are not of a fatal nature, to throw out an otherwise
 reliable prosecution case. If evidence of the prosecutrix inspires
 confidence, it must be relied upon without seeking
 corroboration of her statement in material particulars. If for
 some reason the court finds it difficult to place implicit reliance
 on her testimony, it may look for evidence which may lend
 assurance to her testimony, short of corroboration required in
 the case of an accomplice. The testimony of the prosecutrix
 must be appreciated in the background of the entire case and
 the trial court must be alive to its responsibility and be sensitive
 while dealing with cases involving sexual molestations." (emphasis in original)
 56 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt 71. In State of Orissa v. Thakara Besra 18, the Supreme Court

held that rape is not mere a physical assault, rather it often distracts

(sic destroys) the whole personality of the victim. The rapist degrades

the very soul of the helpless female and therefore, the testimony of the

prosecutrix must be appreciated in the background of the entire case

and in such cases, even non-examination of other witnesses may not

be a serious infirmity in the prosecution case, particularly where the

witnesses had not seen the commission of the offence. 72. In State of H.P. v. Raghubir Singh 19, the Supreme Court

held that there is no legal compulsion to look for any other evidence to

corroborate the evidence of the prosecutrix before recording an order

of conviction. Evidence has to be weighed and not counted. Conviction

can be recorded on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix, if her

evidence inspires confidence and there is absence of circumstances

which militate against her veracity. A similar view has been reiterated

by the Supreme Court in Wahid Khan v. State of M.P.20 placing reliance

on an earlier judgment in Rameshwar v. State of Rajasthan21 . 73. Thus, the law that emerges on the issue is to the effect

that the statement of the prosecutrix, if found to be worthy of credence

18 (2002) 9 SCC 86
19 (1993) 2 SCC 622
20 (2010) 2 SCC 9
21 AIR 1952 SC 54
 57 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

and is reliable, requires no corroboration. The court may convict the

accused on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix. 74. In the case of Krishan Kumar Malik v. State of Haryana22 , it

is observed and held by the Supreme Court that to hold an accused

guilty for commission of an offence of rape, the solitary evidence of the

prosecutrix is sufficient, provided the same inspires confidence and

appears to be absolutely trustworthy, unblemished and should be of

sterling quality. 75. Who can be said to be a "sterling witness", has been dealt

with and considered by the Supreme Court in the case of Rai Sandeep

alias Deepu v. State (NCT of Delhi )23. In paragraph 22, it is observed

and held as under: 76. What is deduced from the decisions of the Supreme Court referred above is that in case of rape, the Court must while evaluating

the evidence stay mindful of the facts of the case. The evidence of the

victim is on the highest pedestal and is to be treated at par with that of

an injured witness. Corroboration is not a sine qua non for recording

conviction in a rape case. The conviction can solely be based on the

evidence of the victim, if it is trustworthy, unblemished and of a

sterling quality. 77. In the light of the legal principles discussed above, we will

now consider whether it is safe to convict the accused solely on the

evidence of the prosecutrix in absence of supporting medical evidence
 59 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

and whether the evidence of the prosecutrix inspires confidence, is

trustworthy, unblemished and of a sterling quality. 78. From the version of the prosecutrix, it is revealed that

after putting Dinesh on the Railway track, Wasim, Kadir and the

juvenile in conflict with law took her to Nagpur Road and halted their

vehicle near a Dhaba. Wasim and Kadir alighted from the vehicle and

went towards the Dhaba. The juvenile in conflict with law made

physical relations with the prosecutrix and thereafter, proceeded

ahead. At about 4:30 am in the jungle, they made the prosecutrix

descend from the vehicle. Wasim committed sexual intercourse with

the prosecutrix and thereafter, Kadir also committed sexual intercourse

with her. The third incident of rape, according to the prosecutrix, was

at about 9:00 to 9:30 am between chhota Shegaon and Tadoba road

where they made her get down from the vehicle and thereafter, Wasim

and Kadir had sexual intercourse with her. Dr. Dipti Shrirame (PW10),

who clinically examined the prosecutrix has found two injuries on the

person of the prosecutrix i.e. abrasion over right elbow and contusion

below right eye with swelling. On genital examination of the

prosecutrix, she found that her hymen was torn as a result of an old

injury and two fingers were easily inserted. Ultimately, she opined that

the prosecutrix was subjected to sexual intercourse. She also took
 60 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

blood sample, vaginal swab and pubic hair of the prosecutrix and

sealed it. 79. The incident inside the room has been duly proved by the

prosecution wherein the prosecutrix and Rakesh were stripped and

were made to give posses in sexually compromising positions. Rakesh

was asked to go and Dinesh and the prosecutrix were abducted by

Wasim, Kadir and the juvenile in conflict with law and they were taken

away in the car. They put Dinesh on the Railway track and thereafter,

took the prosecutrix along with them towards to Nagpur- Chandrapur

road, in particular, Tadoba. 80. Further, the version of Rupesh Pande (PW19), who on

06.11.2014, at the instance of Goldi and Jobi took the Tata Sumo car to

Sindewahi and brought Wasim, Kadir and the juvenile in conflict with

law reveals that at Adilabad, Wasim and Kadir alighted whereas, the

juvenile in conflict with law, after noticing that the Police vehicle was

following their Tata Sumo, fled away whereas Rupesh Pande (PW19)

Goldi and Jobi were caught by the Police squad which was searching

for them after receipt of the information of the incident. All this

material cogently establishes that after putting Dinesh on the Railway

track, Wasim, Kadir and the juvenile in conflict with law took the

prosecutrix in their car. 61 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt 81. The prosecutrix narrated the incident of repeated sexual

intercourse by the three and gave a detailed account of the possible

events. The version of the prosecutrix on the incident that happened

prior to the gang rape is fully corroborated by other clinching and

cogent evidence. There is no reason to doubt her testimony over the

incident of gang rape. The factum of snapping photographs and

recording videos of the prosecutrix and Rakesh in naked and

compromising positions by Wasim clearly establishes that Wasim and

Kadir took the prosecutrix into the jungle, leaving Dinesh on the

Railway track, with a perverted mindset to exploit her sexually. This

also supports the constant version of the prosecutrix on gang rape

committed by the three of them. Just because she could not tell the

route and the place of incident of rape in the jungle, her evidence can

not be discarded. One cannot remain oblivious to the fact that the

prosecutrix was taken into the dense forest near Tadoba and chhota

Shegaon in the night. That apart, she was inebriated and therefore,

was not fully conscious. The incident happened at night in a dense

forest near Tadoba. In such a scenario, it cannot be expected from a

frightened woman to remember the route and the spot of incident in a

dense forest, more particularly at night. Though, there are some minor

contradictions and discrepancies in the version of the prosecutrix but

they do not make her version unreliable. 62 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt 82. In the case of Sham Singh Vs. State of Haryana24 , the

Supreme Court has held as under:- 83. We find that the prosecutrix has passed the test of a

sterling witness as held in the case of Rai Sandeep @ Deepu (supra).

The version of the prosecutrix on repeated sexual intercourse is

reliable and can be safely acted upon particularly, considering the fact

that the prosecutrix lodged the first information report on the very

next day. The version of the prosecutrix is found to be consistent right

from the incident near the room; inside the room and outside the

room. Her version matched with the version of every other witness

and other evidence. The Trial Court has rightly considered her

evidence as worthy of credit. 24 (2018) 18 SCC 34
 63 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

"NO MEANS NO" 64 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

Therefore, it is an offence if sexual intercourse is done without the

consent of a major woman of the age of 18 years and above. A woman

who says "NO" means "NO". There exists no further ambiguity and

there could be no presumption of consent based on a woman's so

called "immoral activities". Therefore, even though there may have

been a relationship between the prosecutrix and Wasim in the past but

if the prosecutrix was not willing to have sexual intercourse with

Wasim, his colleague Kadir and the juvenile in conflict with law, any

act without her consent would be an offence within the meaning of Section 375 of the IPC. A woman who consents to sexual activities

with a man at a particular instance does not ipso facto give consent to

sexual activity with the same man at all other instances. A woman's

character or morals are not related to the number of sexual partners

she has had in wake of Section 53A of the Indian Evidence Act. The

intimacy, if any, will not absolve Wasim, at the most, this will be

relevant while considering the punishment. Thus, we are of the

opinion that the Trial Court was right in holding that the prosecution

has proved that Wasim and Kadir have committed the offence of gang

rape punishable under Section 376D of the IPC. 86. Sofar as conviction recorded by the Trial Court against

Wasim and Kadir for the offence punishable under Section 506-II of the

IPC is concerned, the learned Judge relied on the version of the
 65 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

prosecutrix that Wasim and Kadir were discussing amongst themselves

that the prosecutrix will go to the Police and will lodge a complaint

against them. Therefore, it is better to kill her. From this version it is

not clear whether they really threatened her as they were merely

discussing amongst themselves. Even otherwise, the fact deposed by

the prosecutrix does not suggest that they threatened her with an

intention to cause her not to lodge the complaint against them.

Therefore, the ingredients of criminal intimidation are not made out.

We hold that the conviction recorded by the Trial Court against Wasim

and Kadir for the offence punishable under Section 506-II of the IPC is

not sustainable. 87. Sofar as the material against Jobi is concerned, the version

of Rupesh Pande (PW19) is abundantly clear on the fact that he, on the

pretext of medical emergency, asked him to accompany them to pick

up Wasim, Kadir and the juvenile in conflict with law with intent to

protect them from arrest. The reason for visiting Sindewahi is itself

evident that he was harboring Wasim, Kadir and the juvenile in conflict

with law with intention of protecting them from legal punishment.

CONCLUSION 88. To conclude, the Trial Court has rightly held Maksud guilty

for the offence punishable under Sections 450, 452, 354A and 354B 66 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

r/w Section 34 of the IPC and Section 66E of the IT Act except for the

offence punishable under Sections 506-II and 326 of the IPC. 89. The conviction of Wasim for the offence punishable under

Sections 450, 452, 366, 354A, 354B, 354C, 376D, 307, 201, 394 r/w.

34 of the IPC as well as conviction under Section 66E of the IT Act r/w. Section 34 of the IPC is completely justified except for the offence

punishable under Section 506-II and 326 of the IPC. Conviction under Section 326 of the IPC is converted into Section 324 of the IPC. 90. Likewise, the conviction of Kadir for the offences

punishable under Sections 450, 452, 366, 354A, 354B, 376D, 307 and

394 r/w. 34 of the IPC as well as Section 66E of the IT Act is upheld.

His conviction under Section 326 of the IPC is converted into Section

324 of the IPC and he is acquitted under Section 506-II of the IPC.

Thus, Maksud, Wasim and Kadir are guilty for the offence punishable

under Section 324 of the IPC. 91. We also concur with the findings of the Trial Court

convicting appellant- Jobi for the offence punishable under Section 212

r/w Section 34 of the IPC. However, we could not endorse the

conviction imposed by the Trial Court on Siraj. We give him the

benefit of doubt. 67 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

PUNISHMENT 92. Now, we propose to examine the punishment imposed by

the Trial Court. In the case of State of M.P. Vs. Munna Choubey 25, in

para nos. 12 and 13, it has been held as under:- 93. Maksud, Wasim and Kadir have already undergone the

sentence imposed for the offences punishable under Sections 450 , 452 , 354A , 354B , 354C and 366 of the IPC. The defense has also not

25 (2005) 2 SCC 710
 68 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

pressed much for reduction of the sentence in these offences but Mr.

Bobde, learned counsel appearing on behalf of Wasim and Shri Tiwari,

learned counsel appearing on behalf of Kadir submitted that there are

mitigating circumstances which require consideration for reduction in

the sentence imposed by the Trial Court. Mr. Bobde, learned counsel

appearing on behalf of Wasim submitted that the prosecutrix was

known to Wasim, rather there was an intimate relationship between

them. Also, Wasim has a daughter who needs her father around. When

the offence was committed, he was in his thirties and has suffered the

sentence for more than 10 years. Nothing has been reported by the

Jail Authority regarding the conduct of Wasim and Kadir. There are no

criminal antecedents of Wasim and Kadir. This is their first offence and

therefore, the incident which occurred was not pre-planned and

because of the peculiar circumstances, Wasim and Kadir committed the

act. Therefore, it is submitted that a lenient view may be taken and

their punishment be reduced to the extent of the period which they

have already undergone. 94. The Trial Court sentenced Wasim and Kadir for

imprisonment for life for the offence punishable under Section 307 of

the IPC and for remainder of their natural life for the offence

punishable under Section 376D of the IPC. We are mindful of the fact

that rape is a heinous crime much less gang rape and it is an offence
 69 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

against the vulnerable section of the society i.e. woman hence, the

offender of such a crime is to be dealt with heavy hands. 95. One of the principles of punishment is that punishment

should be proportionate with the crime and shall be awarded

according to the offence. For deciding the appropriate sentence, a

balance has to be maintained between the aggravating and mitigating

circumstances in which the crime has been committed. Imposition of

punishment in a rape case depends upon the degree of atrocity of

crime, conduct of the criminal and the defenseless and unprotected

state of the victim. 96. Turning to the present case, from the tenor and version of

the prosecutrix, it is revealed that Wasim and the prosecutrix knew

each-other. Rather, it appears that there was an intimate relationship

between the prosecutrix and Wasim due to which Wasim's family life

was disturbed. The prosecutrix started residing with Dinesh due to

which Wasim got jealous and every now and then an attempt was

made by Wasim to make sure that the prosecutrix should be physically

involved only with him and nobody else. He could not succeed and the

incident of the prosecutrix with Maksud gave him a reason to give a

design to the crime, which he then committed. It is also a matter of

record that Wasim and Kadir did not cause any grievous injury to the
 70 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

prosecutrix during the incident. Considering the above facts and the

fact that Wasim has a daughter who needs her father around; and that

no incident of misbehavior or cruelty is reported by the Jail Authority,

we propose to reduce the imprisonment of Wasim and Kadir from

imprisonment for remainder of their natural life to rigorous

imprisonment for 20 years. 97. Likewise, considering the facts and circumstances of the

case as well as the injury on the person of Dinesh, we also reduce the

sentence of imprisonment for life to rigorous imprisonment for 10

years for the offence punishable under Section 307 of the IPC. 98. Sofar as Jobi is concerned, Mr. Vyas his learned counsel

prayed for leniency. Considering his age and the fact that he was

working under Wasim due to which he obeyed the orders of his master,

imprisonment for 3 years is reduced to the period of the imprisonment

which he has already undergone. Resultantly, we proceed to pass the

following order:- iii) The conviction of Wasim Khan Ajim Khan and the sentence

and fine imposed upon him for the offence punishable under Sections

394, 201, 450, 452, 366, 354A, 354B and 354C r/w. 34 of the IPC and Section 66E of the IT Act are maintained. His conviction under Section

326 r/w. Sections 34 , 149 , 109 and 114 of the IPC is altered to Section

324 r/w. 34 of the IPC and he is sentenced to suffer rigorous

imprisonment for 3 years with fine as imposed by the Trial Court. All

the sentence shall run concurrently. iv) The conviction of Sheikh Kadir Sheikh Jakir and the

sentence as well as fine imposed upon him for the offences punishable

under Sections 450, 452, 354A and 354B, 366 and 394 r/w. Sections

34 of the IPC and under Section 66E of the IT Act are maintained. His

conviction under Section 326 r/w. Sections 34 , 149 , 109 and 114 of

the IPC is altered to Section 324 r/w. 34 of the IPC and he is sentenced
 72 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 3 years with fine as imposed by the

Trial Court. All the sentence shall run concurrently. v) The conviction of Wasim Khan Ajim Khan and Sheikh

Kadir Sheikh Jakir for the offence punishable under Section 307 r/w.

34 of the IPC is maintained. However, rigorous imprisonment for life is

reduced to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years with the fine imposed

by the Trial Court. vi) The conviction of Wasim Khan Ajim Khan and Sheikh

Kadir Sheikh Jakir for the offence punishable under Section 376D of

the IPC is also maintained. However, the sentence is reduced from

rigorous imprisonment for remainder of their natural life to rigorous

imprisonment for 20 years with fine as imposed by the Trial Court. vii) Appellant Sirajkhan Pathan @ Raja Shaadat Khan Pathan

is acquitted of the offences punishable under Sections 326, 450, 452,

354B r/w Sections 34 , 149 , 109 , 114 of the IPC alongwith Section 66E of the IT Act r/w Sections 34 , 149 , 109 and 114 of the IPC. viii) The conviction and sentence imposed on Jobi Ashokan

Welythan for the offence punishable under Section 212 r/w. 34 of the IPC is maintained. However, his sentence of rigorous imprisonment
 73 cr-appeal-336-16+4.odt

 for 3 years is reduced to the period which he has already

 undergone. ix) The conviction of Maksud Sheikh Gaffur Sheikh, Wasim

 Khan Ajim Khan and Sheikh Kadir Sheikh Jakir and the sentence and

 fine imposed upon them for the offences punishable under Section

 506(II) r/w Sections 34 , 109 and 114 of the IPC is hereby set aside and

 they are acquitted of the said offences. x) Accused are entitled for set off in terms of Section 428 of

 the Criminal Procedure Code, for the period already undergone. xi) Needless to mention that the juvenile in conflict with law

 has been tried separately and therefore, the observations with regard

 to the juvenile in conflict with law are limited to the extent of deciding

 the present appeals and will not affect his case. In the above said terms, the appeals are disposed of.

 (M. W. CHANDWANI, J.) (NITIN B. SURYAWANSHI, J.)
 RR Jaiswal

Signed by: Mr. Rajnesh Jaiswal
Designation: PA To Honourable Judge
Date: 07/05/2025 18:35:46