1. The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 29.03.2007, HC 

 Ramesh Chand along with Ct. Manoj Kumar, Ct. Babu Singh and 

 Ct. Shiv Shanker, were on duty for checking incidents of snatching SC No.268/10 Page 1/36 etc at Metro Station Uttam Nagar West, main Najafgarh Road, at 

 about 4 p.m, and at about 5.10 p.m, one three wheeler scooter 

 no.DL1RD­3218 of yellow colour came from the side of Najafgarh 

 and was moving towards Uttam Nagar which was stopped for 

 checking, then the two pillion riders started running away as soon as 

 the said TSR was stopped, who were overpowered, whose name 

 transpired as Vijay and Rajender Singh and name of the driver of the 

 TSR was Naresh and on the search of accused Rajender Singh, from 

 the right side pocket of his pant, one dagger was recovered and from 

 the right pocket of the pant of Vijay, one mobile phone without SIM 

 card was recovered and he could not explain the possession of the 

 mobile phone despite interrogation and the driver of the TSR namely 

 Naresh, on interrogation, disclosed that the said TSR has been taken 

 by him on hire basis and the said mobile, as per interrogation of

 Vijay, was looted along with Rs.250/­ by them at night time at Balaji 

 Chowk after showing the said passenger the dagger and the 

 passenger was made to get off the TSR there and the SIM card of the 

 said mobile was kept by the side of a pillar near his house and on 

 which the said Head Constable requested 3/4 public persons to join 

 the proceedings but none agreed and thereafter, the sketch of the 

 said knife was prepared and it was sealed with the seal of RC and 

 was seized and the FIR was got registered and investigation was 

 entrusted to the said Head Constable, who arrested the accused and SC No.268/10 Page 2/36 recorded their disclosure statements and the chip of the mobile 

 phone was recovered, from which the phone number transpired as 

 9911249965 and the rightful owner of the said mobile phone was 

 searched and one Rakesh Singh was joined in the investigation, who 

 identified all the three accused as the persons who, on 28.03.2007, at 

 night time, had committed robbery and gave beatings to him in the 

 TSR and accordingly, Section 397 IPC was added to the case and the 

 charge sheet was filed against all the three accused. 2. On the basis of the said evidence and the charge sheet my Ld. 

 Predecessor, vide his order dated 25.07.2008, framed charge against 

 all the accused u/s 392 / 34 & 397 IPC and a separate charge u/s 411 IPC against accused Vijay, to which they pleaded not guilty and 

 claimed trial. 3. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, has produced as 

 many as 9 witnesses, which have been discussed below. 4. The statements of the accused u/s 313 Cr.PC were recorded 

 wherein they pleaded their innocence and denied the incriminating 

 evidence against them as false and examined Sh. Pritpal Singh and 

 Sh. Vijay Kumar as DW1 and DW2 in their defence, who deposed 

 that accused Rajender Singh and accused Vijay were with them 

 respectively on 28.03.2007, right from 4 or 4.30 p.m or 3 or 3.30 

 p.m respectively and they deposed that accused had been falsely SC No.268/10 Page 3/36 implicated in the case, but both the defence witnesses, in their 

 respective cross examination, admitted that they did not take any 

 action against false implication of the accused nor reported the 

 matter to the higher police authorities nor they advised or took 

 themselves any action in a court of law nor they could assign any 

 reason for not taking any action against the false implication of the 

 accused. 5. I have heard Ld. APP for the state, Sh. A.K. Chawla, 

 Advocate for the accused and perused the record. 6. PW1 Rakesh deposed that on 28.03.2007, between 11 p.m and 

 12 mid night, he was coming back after finishing his work at 

 Rajender Nagar and when he reached Uttam Nagar, he hired one 

 TSR wherein two persons were already sitting in the TSR and he 

 also joined them as the passenger for going to his residence at Balaji 

 Chowk, Mohan Garden and when they reached near Aggarwal 

 Sweet shop, near Balaji Chowk, half kilometer away from his house, 

 at about 11 p.m, the TSR was stopped by the driver at the instance of 

 one of the two boys, who gave him beatings and that the driver and 

 the two boys, who were sitting in the TSR, are present in the court 

 and that accused Rajender showed him the knife and put it on his 

 chest and snatched his mobile phone bearing no.9911249965 make 

 Nokia and Rs.250/­ cash and accused Vijay and Rajender forcibly SC No.268/10 Page 4/36 snatched his above said belongings by pointing out knife and giving 

 him beatings and the accused persons went away in the said TSR 

 after robbing him and that he went to his house but he did not lodge 

 any complaint to the police as he sustained injury and it was odd 

 hours in the night and he narrated the incident to his wife Smt. Praba 

 Devi and on the following day, he went to the PS after receiving a 

 phone call at about 8 p.m, where police showed him his mobile 

 phone and he produced the bill of the mobile phone to the police 

 which is already Ex.PW3/A which was seized by the IO vide memo 

 Ex.PW1/A and he identified the accused persons at the PS as driver 

 of the TSR and two other persons who were sitting in the said TSR 

 at that time and that the identification memo is Ex.PW1/B and 

 thereafter he produced the case property which was on superdari 

 with him and the mobile phone was identified and exhibited as 

 Ex.P1. 7. In his cross examination on behalf of the accused, he replied 

 that he was working as a cook in the parties and on 28.03.2007, he 

 was working in China Market, Karol Bagh and was preparing food 

 for a Langar on the festival of Ashtami and Navami which was 

 organized by his staff members. He further answered that on 

 28.03.2007, he started preparing Langar from 7 a.m which was over 

 at about 3 or 4 p.m and he remained at China Market till 5 or 6 p.m 

 and thereafter he came at Rajender Nagar Market for other SC No.268/10 Page 5/36 management. He further answered that he left Rajender Nagar in a 

 private bus at about 8.45 or 9 p.m and alighted at bus stand Uttam 

 Nagar at about 10 or 10.15 p.m and started waiting for 15 to 20 

 minutes for TSR and for taking a TSR, some distance was to be 

 covered from the said bus stand. He further answered that TSR of 

 the accused was already there wherein two passengers were already 

 sitting, who are the two accused persons present in court. He 

 admitted that it was night time when incident took place and it was 

 dark but he denied the suggestion that he cannot identify the accused 

 due to darkness. He could not tell the registration number of the 

 TSR but the same was not of the CNG fuel but its colour was same 

 as that of the three wheelers which were old and were not being run 

 on the CNG fuel. Thereafter the witness, on asking of question by 

 the Ld. Defence Counsel, has touched accused Rajender correctly 

 who showed him the knife. He answered that he was taken to DDU 

 hospital by the police on the next day at night hours for his medical 

 examination. Thereafter a question was asked by the Ld. Defence 

 Counsel to the effect that the witness identified the accused at the 

 instance of the police, though it was disallowed being exercise to 

 mislead the witness and was observed not to be read in evidence, but 

 for the appreciation of the Appellate Court, the answer was taken on 

 record wherein the witness replied in negative and further answered 

 that he identified the accused of his own. He further answered that SC No.268/10 Page 6/36 accused persons were already present in the PS when he reached 

 there. He denied the suggestion that he had named the accused 

 persons at the behest of the police. 8. PW2 Prabah Devi is the wife of the PW1, the complainant, 

 who deposed that about three years ago, her husband Rakesh Singh 

 reached at the house at about 12 mid night and he was frightened 

 and that her husband was working as cook in the marriages and 

 when she asked her husband as to why he was frightened, he told her 

 that he had taken a TSR at Uttam Nagar terminal to come to the 

 house and at that time two passengers were already sitting in the 

 TSR, who, on the way, robbed his telephone and a sum of Rs.200/­ 

 or Rs.250/­ with the help of knife and that he was also given fist 

 blows by the culprits and she did not know anything else about the 

 case. In her cross examination on behalf of the accused, she 

 admitted that whatever her husband told to her, she narrated to the 

 police officials and same thing before the court as well as today and 

 that she has no personal knowledge about the case but she denied the 

 suggestion that she had been tutored by the police. 9. PW3 Sh. Puneet Arora is the owner of the shop of mobile 

 phone, who produced the original receipt book containing bill 

 no.216 dated 14.12.2005, whereby he sold the said mobile bearing 

 IMEI number 357593005127660 to one Rakesh Singh and the SC No.268/10 Page 7/36 receipt is Ex.PW3/A and in his cross examination, he denied the 

 suggestion that the said receipt was ante­timed and was prepared 

 later on at the instance of the IO. 10. PW4 Sh. Inderjeet Singh is the father in law of the 

 complainant Rakesh Singh, who deposed that on 29.03.2007, at 

 about 8 p.m, he received a telephone call from PS and the police 

 officer asked him as to whom the phone number 9911249965 

 belonged to which he replied that it belonged to said Sh. Rakesh 

 Singh, his son in law and police official informed him that the said 

 mobile phone was recovered from some persons and asked him to 

 send Rakesh Singh in the PS and that he immediately informed 

 Rakesh Singh and sent him to PS. In his cross examination on 

 behalf of the accused, he denied the suggestion that no such phone 

 call was received by him from PS and for this reason he was unable 

 to tell the name of the police official who called him. He further 

 replied that he had not brought any record regarding the phone 

 installed at his house on which the alleged call was received. 11. PW5 HC Anil Kumar was the duty officer who proved the 

 copy of FIR as Ex.PW5/A and DD No.36A as Ex.PW5/B and he was 

 not cross examined on behalf of the accused. PW6 Dr. Rita Baruah 

 proved the handwriting and signatures of Dr. Rahul Singh on the 

 MLC of the complainant Rakesh Singh which is Ex.PW6/A and that SC No.268/10 Page 8/36 of accused Vijay as Ex.PW6/B. 12. PW8 Retd. SI Randhir Singh was the subsequent IO to whom 

 the case was entrusted for further investigation and he deposed that 

 during investigation, all the three accused present in court were 

 identified by one Rakesh in the PS, who was robbed by them at the 

 point of knife and at the instance of said complainant Rakesh, HC 

 Ramesh prepared the site plan which is Ex.PW8/A. In his cross 

 examination on behalf of the accused, he replied that he did not sign 

 the site plan. 13. PW7 Ct. Manoj Kumar deposed in his examination in chief 

 that on 29.03.2007, he along with Ct. Babu Singh, Ct. Shiv Shanker 

 and HC Ramesh were checking the vehicles under Uttam Nagar 

 West Metro Station and at about 5.10 p.m a TSR came from 

 Najafgarh side having its number as 3218, which was stopped by 

 them and two boys, who were sitting on the back portion of the said 

 TSR, tried to run away but were apprehended by them and they were 

 interrogated and their formal search was conducted and from the 

 possession of accused Rajender, one dagger was recovered from the 

 right pocket of his pant and from the right pocket of the pant of 

 accused Vijay, one mobile phone make Nokia 1100 of grey and 

 black colour was recovered which was having no SIM card and on 

 interrogation from both the said boys and the driver of the said TSR, SC No.268/10 Page 9/36 it transpired that on the previous night in the same TSR, one 

 passenger was robbed by them on the point of said dagger and they 

 took Rs.250/­ cash and said mobile from him and sketch of the 

 dagger Ex.PW7/A was prepared which was sealed with the seal of 

 RC and was seized vide memo Ex.PW7/B and that the mobile phone 

 was also taken into possession vide seizure memo Ex.PW7/C and 

 thereafter IO prepared a rukka and handed over the same to Ct. Babu 

 Singh for getting the case registered, who came back at the spot with 

 the copy of FIR and rukka and accused Vijay present in court 

 disclosed that he had kept the SIM card of the mobile phone near a 

 pillar at his house vide his disclosure statement Ex.PW7/D and 

 thereafter the accused led them to the said place i.e. J.J. Colony, 

 Shiv Vihar and got recovered the SIM card which was inserted in 

 the mobile phone by the IO and IO gave a mobile phone call on the 

 last dialed number, on which a person by the name of Jeet responded 

 and he revealed that the said mobile phone number was of one of his 

 relatives namely Rakesh and then IO asked him to come to the PS 

 with the said Rakesh and in the meanwhile, SI Randhir Singh also 

 reached there and the SIM card was seized vide seizure memo 

 Ex.PW7/E and thereafter all the accused present in court led them to 

 the place of incident where they committed the offence of robbery 

 on the previous night and pointed out the said place vide pointing 

 out memo Ex.PW7/F. He further deposed that prior to that TSR SC No.268/10 Page 10/36 No.3218 was also taken into possession vide memo Ex.PW7/G and 

 all the accused were arrested vide memos Ex.PW7/H to Ex.PW7/N 

 and the disclosure statements of accused Rajender and Naresh are 

 Ex.PW7/O and Ex.PW7/P. He further testified that at the PS said 

 Rakesh met them there, who, on seeing all the three accused, 

 identified them as the same persons who robbed him on the previous 

 night and the memo regarding identification of the accused by 

 Rakesh is already Ex.PW1/B and said Rakesh produced one cash 

 memo with regard to purchase of mobile phone which is Ex.PW3/A 

 and same was taken into possession vide memo Ex.PW1/A and he 

 identified the dagger as Ex.P2 and mobile phone as already Ex.P1. 

 He further identified the TSR from the documents as Ex.T1 to T6. 14. It is noteworthy here that the TSR was on superdari with Ms. 

 Babita, wife of accused Naresh who was summoned to appear to 

 produce the TSR No.DL1RD­3218, whose old number as DER­569. 

 On 15.04.2011, she sought an exemption from appearance and case 

 was adjourned for 18.04.2011 and on 29.04.2011, the said superdar 

 Smt. Babita appeared who could not produced the TSR in terms of 

 her superdaginama dated 30.05.2007, which was in the amount of 

 Rs.30,000/­ to be paid in case of violation of the conditions of the 

 said bond passed by the concerned Magistrate on 30.05.2007 and the 

 superdar deposited Rs.30,000/­ with this court as a result of the 

 violation in not producing the said TSR before the court. Said Smt. SC No.268/10 Page 11/36 Babita further failed to disclose as to whom she had disposed off the 

 said TSR. The IO, the then SHO and MHC(M) were summoned 

 with a direction to produce the photographs of the TSR, if kept, and 

 the chassis number and the engine number of the said TSR, who 

 disclosed that there was no photograph as per direction of the 

 superdaginama given by the said superdar and thereafter, at the 

 request of Ld. Addl. PP, the TSR was directed to be proved by way 

 of secondary evidence and SHO was directed to approach the 

 concerned Transport Authority to know regarding the documents of 

 the said TSR, who filed some computer reports from the transport 

 department, as per which the said TSR had been destroyed and in its 

 place, a new TSR has been registered and again, the details of the 

 destruction of the said TSR were summoned from the concerned 

 officials of the said transport department from where one UDC 

 appeared on 26.08.2011 before this court, who produced the 

 destruction record whereby the said TSR was destroyed on 

 28.02.2009, at the request of the then owner namely Rajender 

 Kapoor and he produced the concerned document as Ex.T1 to T6 

 and which were ordered to be read in evidence and the identity of 

 the said TSR shall be deemed to have been established by the said 

 documents and it was by way of these documents that PW7 

 identified the TSR. 15. In his cross examination on behalf of the accused, PW7 SC No.268/10 Page 12/36 replied that colour of the TSR was green and yellow and that the 

 mobile phone was lying in the pocket in closed condition but it was 

 not wrapped in any envelope or polythene and that the SIM was of 

 IDEA company and that the SIM was recovered at about 8.30 or 

 8.45 p.m but again said that it was recovered after 9.30 p.m. He 

 further answered that no public person was present at the time when 

 the SIM card was recovered but at the time of recovery of mobile 

 phone and dagger, 4/5 public persons were present there who 

 refused to join the investigation. 16. PW9 ASI Ramesh Chand deposed in his examination in chief 

 on the same lines on which PW7 has deposed and he identified the 

 said case property and he was not cross examined despite 

 opportunity given which was declared as "Nil". 17. With this evidence on record, it has been contended on behalf 

 of the accused that neither PW1, the complainant Rakesh, nor PW7 

 Ct. Manoj uttered anything against accused Naresh, the driver of the 

 TSR and that there is a delay of 36 hours in recording the FIR and a 

 reverse procedure has been adopted that accused were apprehended 

 first and recovery of the mobile phone and SIM card was effected 

 and thereafter the complainant was called and FIR was registered. It 

 was further submitted that there is no identity of TSR on the record 

 nor the concerned TSR was ever produced in the court for its SC No.268/10 Page 13/36 inspection. It is further contended that there is no independent public 

 person either at the time of initial recovery effected and arrest of the 

 accused nor subsequently. 18. On the other hand, Ld. Addl. PP has submitted that it is a 

 foolproof case and the complainant is a stranger to the accused 

 having no reason to implicate them in the present case and that even 

 the deposition of the IO has remained unrebutted on the record as he 

 was not cross examined and that recovery of SIM card is a technical 

 scientific piece of evidence which connected the said mobile phone 

 recovered from the accused with the owner of the mobile phone and 

 which could not have been planted as such and non joining of the 

 public witnesses is not the essential requirement of the law because 

 now­a­days none from the public dares to come forward to help in 

 such matters and that accused had pointed out the place where they 

 have committed the robbery which was not earlier in the knowledge 

 of the police and the conduct of the accused Naresh, who was the 

 driver of the tempo, in pointing out the place where the robbery was 

 committed coupled with the conduct of the wife of accused Naresh 

 in disposing off the said TSR, which was a piece of evidence, and 

 not producing the same before the court of law being the superdar of 

 the same, the inference goes against not only against accused Naresh 

 but also against other two accused. SC No.268/10 Page 14/36 19. The objection of the Ld. Defence Counsel that there was a 

 delay in the registration of FIR of 36 hours, is fallacious in view of 

 the fact that when the accused were apprehended and the dagger and 

 one mobile phone handset without SIM was recovered by the police 

 party, they were checking the vehicles during the anti snatching 

 drive and it was 5.10 p.m on 29.03.2007 and the case was registered 

 u/s 411 IPC only, as per the complaint Ex.PW9/A and the FIR 

 Ex.PW5/A was registered at 6.40 p.m on 29.03.2007 and the 

 distance between the place of occurrence and the PS was one 

 kilometer and the said complaint Ex.PW9/A was sent at 6.30 p.m 

 and as such, the FIR was recorded at 6.40 p.m immediately after the 

 apprehension of the accused and recovery of mobile handset and a 

 dagger from the possession of the accused and there was no delay. It 

 was during the investigation of this case that the statement of PW1 

 Rakesh was recorded, who disclosed that incident of his robbing at 

 the point of a dagger was dated 28.03.2007 at about 11 pm or 12 mid 

 night and as he had received injuries, he went to his house and it was 

 odd hours in the night, he did not lodge any complaint to the police 

 and he narrated the incident to his wife Prabha Devi. In the said 

 circumstances, the said contention that there was a delay in the 

 registration of FIR is not at all maintainable and is hereby rejected. 20. The contention that accused were apprehended first and then 

 the complainant was called in a reverse direction, is again fantastic SC No.268/10 Page 15/36 and does not hold much water because there was nothing wrong in 

 apprehending the accused during the checking of vehicles in an anti 

 snatching drive because two accused, who were pillion riders in the 

 TSR, started escaping looking at the police party, which created a 

 doubt in the mind of police officials and they apprehended and 

 searched them and from their respective possession a mobile handset 

 without SIM card and a dagger was recovered, which further created 

 doubt against their conduct as the accused Vijay, from whose 

 possession the said mobile phone without SIM card, Ex.P1, was 

 recovered, could not give any satisfactory answer with regard to its 

 possession, which further gave a cause of action to the IO of the case 

 to get the FIR registered and thereafter the accused disclosed that the 

 said mobile along with Rs.250/­ were robbed by them on the 

 previous night from a person and it is in this context the SIM of the 

 mobile phone was got recovered at the instance of accused Vijay 

 from near an electric pole by the side of his house and the SIM card 

 was inserted in the said mobile and it was made operational and a 

 missed call from his mobile phone was given to know the number of 

 the said mobile phone, which came to be 9911249965 and when the 

 last dialed number from the said mobile phone was dialed, then one 

 Inderjeet responded, who informed that his son in law namely 

 Rakesh, PW1, who was robbed by three persons on the previous 

 night and his said mobile along with cash amount was snatched from SC No.268/10 Page 16/36 him by them and it is in this background that the case was unearthed. 

 Hence, there is nothing strange or out of way in the said 

 investigation conducted by the IO in the said manner and the very 

 nature of the SIM card is such which cannot be planted as any other 

 general item, such as, a weapon of offence or the currency notes and 

 it is admittedly not the case of both the parties before me that any 

 clone of the said SIM card was prepared by the IO or by the PW1, in 

 order to falsely implicate the accused in the present case. Hence, the 

 said contention is also not tenable under the law. 21. The further contention on behalf of the accused is with regard 

 to the TSR not produced as a piece of evidence and no identity was 

 fixed of the said auto rickshaw from the victim PW1, who could not 

 even give the registration number of the TSR. In this regard, the Ld. 

 Addl. PP has rightly argued that deposition of PW9, the IO, and that 

 of Ct. Manoj Kumar, PW7, has remained unrebutted on the record 

 with regard to identity of the said TSR whose registration number 

 was deposed by them as DL1RD­3218 which was seized vide 

 seizure memo Ex.PW7/G and admittedly, it was in the name of the 

 wife of accused Naresh Kumar namely Smt. Babita, who was 

 admittedly the superdar of the said TSR and who executed the 

 superdaginama dated 30.05.2007 in the name of concerned court of 

 MM with an undertaking to produce the same before the court at the 

 time of evidence. The said Smt. Babita, wife of accused Naresh, not SC No.268/10 Page 17/36 only failed to produce the said TSR before the court, but remained 

 silent, as mentioned in my order dated 29.04.2011, and in this 

 background the said TSR was allowed to be proved by way of 

 secondary evidence vide my order dated 20.05.2011 and in this 

 process, it transpired that old number of the said TSR was DER­569 

 and Sh. Ram Kishan, UDC of the Transport Department appeared 

 and produced the record with regard to destruction of the said TSR 

 on 28.02.2009 at the request of the then owner namely Rajender 

 Kapoor and the said documents were exhibited as Ex.T1 to Ex.T6 

 and it was ordered that identity of the said TSR is deemed to have 

 been established by all the witnesses who are concerned with the 

 said TSR by the said exhibited documents vide my order dated 

 26.08.2011. The natural inference is that it was the superdar Smt. 

 Babita, being the wife of accused Naresh, who was interested in 

 destroying the TSR as a piece of evidence in the case and her said 

 conduct on behalf of all the accused as a circumstantial piece of 

 evidence must be read against all the accused and the TSR has been 

 rightly proved by way of secondary evidence. 22. The next contention that the recovery of the SIM card was 

 from an open place and at the time of apprehension of the accused 

 on 29.03.2007 and recovery of dagger from the possession of 

 accused Rajender, no public witness was joined, does not carry 

 much weight in view of the fact that in such cases generally, the SC No.268/10 Page 18/36 general public is reluctant to help the investigation apprehending 

 some mishappening or untoward incidents with them either at the 

 hands of the police or at the hands of the accused in the said cases 

 and that is in hard reality is the practical reason that nobody wants to 

 poke his nose into other's affairs particularly in metropolitan cities 

 like Delhi. I am fortified in my said view by the judgment of the 

 Hon'ble Supreme Court titled Appabhai and Anr. vs State of 

 Gujarat reported as AIR 1988 SC 696 wherein, in para 10 and 11, it 

 was held as under: 23. Moreover, I have already discussed that it was the recovery of 

 the SIM card which was a technological and scientific thing and was 

 unique in its nature which could not have been planted in order to SC No.268/10 Page 20/36 falsely implicate the accused as alleged on behalf of the accused, and 

 in said circumstances, non joining of a public witness at the time of 

 its recovery is not worth considering and does not help the accused 

 at all. 24. The weakest point in the case of the victim PW1 is the identity 

 of the accused by him as admittedly the accused were not put to the 

 TIP. This argument was not raised by the Ld. Defence Counsel at 

 all but still, as a court of law, I am bound to appreciate the 

 deposition of PW1 independent of the contentions raised by both the 

 parties. The law with regard to identity of any person or a thing and 

 the evidentiary value of the Test Identification Parade has been laid 

 down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a series of judgments. 25. Identity of the accused or a thing under the law is a relative 

 term and not an absolute term. Establishing the identity of a person 

 or a thing may range from eye witness account, sense of perceiving 

 the objects, up to the scientific and technological identities 

 established through comparison of finger prints, DNA test etc. It 

 may also include the scent identification of a sniffer dog. All the 

 said aspects of identity are having their own limitations. It is the 

 evidentiary value of the circumstances wherein the identity of a 

 person or thing has been established on record, which is material 

 consideration for relying upon the identity of the accused or a thing. SC No.268/10 Page 21/36 Some of the examples may be cited of the decisions of the Hon'ble 

 Supreme Court highlighting the said proposition of law as under. 33. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case titled Malkhansingh and 

 others Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh reported as 2003 CRI. L.J. 

 3535 while dealing with the aspect of identity of the accused and 

 evidentiary value of the TIP in a rape case has held as follows: 26. In another case titled Shivraj Bapuray Jadhav and others Vs. 

 State of Karnataka reported as 2003 Crl. Law Journal 3542, the 

 Hon'ble Supreme Court rejected the plea that eye witnesses could 

 not have seen the occurrence because incident had taken place at 

 night two days prior to new moon day and held that when parties are 

 used to live in midst of nature and accustomed to live without light, 

 the witnesses could have identified the accused easily not only from 

 the voices but from the fact that they are known persons and close 

 relatives and living in the neighbouring huts and the incident 

 occurred very near to the huts of deceased and the accused and the SC No.268/10 Page 23/36 presence of the eye witnesses at that time was normal and nothing 

 strange. 27. The said examples of the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme 

 Court go to establish that it is the presence of the witness at the time 

 of occurrence, his relationship and position qua the accused, time 

 taken by the witness in observing the facts at the time of occurrence, 

 which are important for the identity of the accused and of course, 

 light as a medium of perceiving the things is required but it is not 

 always necessary that identity can only be established with the help 

 of light only. 28. There was no motive with PW1 Rakesh to implicate the 

 accused for a meager amount of Rs.250/­ and only for a mobile 

 phone. He deposed that at about 11 p.m, when the said TSR reached 

 near Aggarwal Sweet Shop, at Balaji Chowk, about half kilometer 

 away from his house, the TSR was stopped by the driver at the 

 instance of one of the two boys, who gave him (the witness) 

 beatings, and the driver and the said two boys, who were sitting in 

 the TSR, are present in the court as accused and it was observed by 

 the court that he (the witness) has correctly identified the accused 

 persons. PW1 further deposed that accused Rajender showed him 

 knife and put it on his chest and snatched his mobile phone and 

 Rs.250/­ cash and accused Vijay and Rajender forcibly snatched his SC No.268/10 Page 24/36 above said belongings by pointing out knife and giving him beatings 

 and thereafter the accused persons went in TSR after robbing him. 29. The said acts of the accused in robbing the PW1, must have 

 taken a considerable time wherein there was sufficient time for PW1 

 to see and watch the features of the accused and the act of pointing 

 out the knife at his chest and forcible snatching of the mobile and the 

 money from him by the persons, must have been imprinted in his 

 mind and as such, even if the accused were not put to TIP, the 

 deposition and identification of the accused for the first time before 

 the court by PW1 cannot be discarded on this account alone. 30. The deposition of PW1 is otherwise fully corroborated by the 

 deposition of PW2 Smt. Prabha Devi, to whom he narrated the 

 incident immediately being his wife at the said odd hours of the 

 night. PW2 is an illiterate lady and was a rustic villager, who, in her 

 natural flow of deposition, could not tell about the date of incident 

 but deposed that about three years ago, her husband Rakesh Singh, 

 reached at the house at 12 mid night and was frightened and he told 

 her regarding taking a TSR at Uttam Nagar terminal to come to his 

 house and two passengers were already sitting in the said TSR and 

 that her husband further told her that on the way, three accused 

 persons had robbed his phone and a sum of Rs.200/­ or Rs.250/­ 

 with the help of knife and her husband also told her that the culprits SC No.268/10 Page 25/36 had also given one fist blow to her husband and that she did not 

 know anything else about this case. Her testimony could not be 

 assailed by way of cross examination in any manner whatsoever. 31. The testimony of PW1 that he was the owner of the said 

 mobile phone Ex.P1, was proved by PW3 also, who was a dealer in 

 the mobile phones in the name and style of M/s Arora Telecoms at 

 shop No.34, Old Rajender Nagar, New Delhi and he produced the 

 copy of the bill Ex.PW3/A. 32. The deposition of PW1, the victim, is further corroborated by 

 his father in law, PW4 Sh. Inderjeet Singh, who deposed that on 

 29.03.2007 at about 8 p.m, he received a phone call from PS 

 inquiring him as to whom phone number 9911249965 belonged, to 

 which he disclosed that PW1, his son in law, was the owner of the 

 mobile and he was asked to reach the PS along with PW1. His 

 testimony could not be disturbed at all by way of cross examination 

 on behalf of the accused. 33. The testimony of PW1 further becomes evident by his MLC 

 Ex.PW6/A on record which mentions that he suffered injury below 

 his left eye and it was not suggested to the doctor PW6 that it was a 

 self inflicted injury by PW1, although I am conscious of the fact that 

 concerned doctor has not appeared in the witness box to prove the 

 said MLC technically. SC No.268/10 Page 26/36 34. Finally, the testimony not only of PW1, but of PW4 Inderjeet 

 Singh, were corroborated by the PW7 Ct. Manoj Kumar and the IO 

 PW9 ASI Ramesh Chand, who were associated with the 

 investigation of the case and whose testimonies have been 

 reproduced above. 35. From the said evidence on the record, nothing came on the 

 surface imputing the motive to PW1 to falsely implicate the accused 

 persons in the case and the alleged defence of DW1 Prit Pal Singh 

 with regard to accused Rajender Singh and DW2 Sh. Vijay Kumar 

 with regard to accused Vijay, which is based on plea of alibi that at 

 the time and date of incident both the said accused were with the 

 said two DWs respectively, has not only been demolished by their 

 cross examination on behalf of Ld. Addl. PP, as reproduced above, 

 but under the law also the plea of alibi is a double edged weapon 

 meaning thereby that if the person alleging the said defence failed to 

 establish the same with certainty and high probability, the said 

 defence may go against him. 36. In the last, it has been argued on behalf of the accused that 

 there is no deposition or evidence of any of the witness against 

 accused Naresh, who was the driver of the said TSR. In this regard, 

 PW1 not only has identified him as the driver of the TSR in his 

 deposition before the court, but he deposed that accused persons SC No.268/10 Page 27/36 went in the said TSR after robbing him. If accused Naresh was not 

 at all guilty in his mind, he failed to explain as to why he did not 

 help a victim like PW1 who was admittedly his passenger and if he 

 would have done so, then the fight would have been two against two 

 i.e., accused Naresh as driver and PW1 as victim on one hand and 

 accused Vijay and accused Rajender Singh on the other hand as the 

 culprits. He did not do so. He took the said robbers i.e. accused 

 Vijay and Rajender Singh, along with him in the said TSR. It is not 

 a suggestion on his behalf to the witnesses that even he himself was 

 threatened by accused Vijay and accused Rajender to take them in 

 the said TSR so as to justify his conduct in not stopping and helping 

 the PW1 as the victim of the incident. Even after leaving accused 

 Vijay and Rajender, if I take them also as passengers at all, he did 

 not go to report the matter to the police that the said incident had 

 happened in his TSR nor he became a witness in the present case 

 with the police if he was thinking that he was innocent. Further, he 

 was the person with the other two accused who, on 29.03.2007, 

 disclosed to the police the place of incident near Aggarwal Sweet 

 shop, Balaji Chowk, Uttam Nagar, where they robbed a passenger at 

 about 11 p.m in the said TSR at the point of knife on 28.03.2007 and 

 admittedly the said place of incident was not in the knowledge of the 

 police by that time till it was disclosed by the accused and as such, 

 the pointing out memo Ex.PW7/F is not hit by Section 24 & 25 of SC No.268/10 Page 28/36 the Evidence Act and is admissible u/s 27 of the said Act, as the 

 same was related distinctly to the fact of the said place of occurrence 

 discovered thereby. Section 32 & 33 of the Indian Penal Code 

 declare that "words which refer to acts done extend also to illegal 

 omissions" and the said conduct of the accused Naresh in remaining 

 silent is nothing but his illegal omissions whereby not only he 

 helped the other accused, but himself was a participant in the crime 

 with "common intention". I have already drawn negative inference 

 against all the accused while giving my opinion on the act of getting 

 the said TSR destroyed by the superdar Smt. Babita, who was 

 admittedly the wife of accused Naresh. In these circumstances, I am 

 of the considered opinion that but for the help of accused Naresh 

 extended in the said manner, the other two accused would not have 

 become successful in robbing the victim, the PW1, who was 

 working in his capacity as a labour for cooking in the marriages. 37. In view of my said discussion, I am of the considered opinion 

 that prosecution has been successful in bringing home the guilt of 

 the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt and accordingly, all 

 the three accused are held guilty and convicted for the offence u/s 

 392 / 34 IPC & accused Rajender Singh @ Monu is held liable to be 

 punished with the minimum mandatory punishment for the said 

 robbery as provided u/s 397 IPC because the same is not a charging 

 section and provides only enhanced and minimum mandatory SC No.268/10 Page 29/36 punishment and is individualistic in nature, as it cannot be applied to 

 others with the help of any provision of joint liability such as Section 34 or 149 of the IPC . The accused Vijay is further held 

 guilty u/s 411 IPC for dishonestly retaining the stolen property i.e. 

 the mobile handset and the SIM card belonging to the victim PW1, 

 having reasons to believe the same to be a stolen property. 

(Announced in the open court on
18.05.2012)
 (RAKESH TEWARI)
 ASJ­06(OUTER)
 ROHINI COURTS, DELHI SC No.268/10 Page 30/36 IN THE COURT OF SH. RAKESH TEWARI ASJ­VI(OUTER), ROHINI 
 COURTS, DELHI SC NO.268/10 FIR NO. 266/07 U/S 392/397/411/34 IPC
PS Uttam Nagar
Unique Case ID No. : 02404R0009702008

 State 

 Vs. 1. Rajender Singh @ Monu s/o Jogender Singh

 r/o H.No. A­62, Shiva Enclave, Uttam Nagar, N.Delhi. 2. Naresh s/o Dhanpat

 r/o R­22, Vikas Nagar, Uttam Nagar, N.Delhi. 3. Vijay s/o Vishambar Dayal

 r/o H.No. B­49, J.J. Colony, Shiv Vihar,

 Uttam Nagar, N.Delhi. ORDER ON SENTENCE: An amount of Rs.250/­ and a old mobile phone may not be worth 

 considering by a person belonging to the affluent strata of the 

 society but it may carry value for a poor person who was working 

 for preparing meals in the marriage parties such like one who is 

 victim of the present case. Merely, an amount was meager is no 

 ground to give a license to the present convicts to take the law in to 

 their own hands and causing unlawful loss to other persons. 9. God knows, considering the enormous increase in the number of 

 motor cars on the roads of Delhi, tomorrow there may not be a FIR 

 registered for the theft or robbery of the same. This case is to be 

 seen in the said circumstances and historical development. 10. This was by a sheer chance that this case was unearthed when the 

 police was on checking duty and a mobile phone hand set was 

 recovered without its SIM card which further created a doubt in the 

 mind of the concerned police official. Admittedly, the convicts were 

 apprehended on the following day and that too with a dagger and 

 the said mobile phone in their possession, from which a natural SC No.268/10 Page 34/36 inference can be drawn that the convicts were involved in such 

 kind of offences on a routine basis, as if robbing the persons in a 

 public transport i.e. TSR was their profession for earning their 

 livelihood. Moreover, the convicts had no repentance because 

 even during the trial they were instrumental in connivance with 

 Smt. Babita wife of convict Naresh, in getting the TSR, used in the 

 commission of the offence, destroyed through proper channel by 

 the transport authority so as to make the non availability of a piece 

 of evidence of the present case. 11. In the said circumstances, all the convicts do not deserve any 

 leniency and if at all any leniency is shown, a wrong message will 

 go to the society that even after a person having no enmity or 

 otherwise interest against the convicts, identifying them as the 

 culprit of the offence, may be set free even after committing such 

 dastardly act of robbing a poor person at the point of knife. I have 

 already held that convict Naresh being the driver of the public 

 transport i.e. the TSR, failed to discharge his special duty as such 

 driver who would have helped the victim but he joined hands with 

 other two convicts in robbing the victim. 12. In the circumstances, convict Naresh and Vijay are sentenced to 

 undergo RI for a period of five years with a fine of Rs.10,000/­ each 

 for the offence U/S392/34 IPC and in default of fine they are further SC No.268/10 Page 35/36 directed to undergo SI for a period of six months. 13. The convict Vijay is further sentenced to undergo RI for a period of 

 two years for the offence U/S 411 IPC . 14. Convict Rajinder is to be punished with the minimum mandatory 

 punishment and he is directed to undergo RI for a period of seven 

 years with a fine of Rs. 10,000/­ for the offences U/S 392/397 IPC and in default of fine, he is further directed to undergo SI for a 

 period six months. 15. All the said sentences shall run concurrently with a benefit of 

 Section 428 Cr. PC if any, to all the convicts. 16. Let, the conviction warrants be prepared accordingly. Copy of this 

 order and the conviction order dated 18.05.2012 be given free of 

 cost to the convicts forthwith. 17. The file be consigned to Record Room. (Announced in the open court on
 th
25 May, 2012)
 (RAKESH TEWARI)
 ASJ­06(OUTER)
 ROHINI COURTS, DELHI SC No.268/10 Page 36/36