(a) the live video or live television link system stops working and it would
 cause unreasonable delay to wait until a working system becomes available; (b) it is necessary for the court to do so to comply with its duty to ensure that
 the proceedings are conducted fairly to the parties thereto; (c) it is necessary for the court to do so, so that the witness can identify a person
 or a thing or so that the witness can participate in or view a demonstration or
 an experiment; (d) it is necessary for the court to do so because part of the proceedings is being
 heard outside a courtroom; or (e) there has been a material change in the circumstances after the court has
 made an order. (5) The court shall not make an order under this section, or include a
particular provision in such an order, if to do so would be inconsistent with the
court's duty to ensure that the proceedings are conducted fairly to the parties to
the proceedings. (6) An order made under this section shall not cease to have effect merely
because the person in respect of whom it was made attains the age of 16 years
before the proceedings in which it was made are finally determined. (7) Evidence given by a witness, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, through
 a live video or live television link by virtue of this section shall be deemed for the
 purposes of sections 193, 194, 195, 196, 205 and 209 of the Penal Code (Cap. 224) as having been given in the proceedings in which it is given. (8) Where a witness gives evidence in accordance with this section, he shall,
 for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to be giving evidence in the presence of
 the court. (9) The Rules Committee constituted under the Supreme Court of Judicature
 Act (Cap. 322) may make such rules as appear to it to be necessary or expedient
 for the purpose of giving effect to this section and for prescribing anything which
 may be prescribed under this section." In New Zealand, sec. 19 introduced by the Evidence Amendment Act,
1994, likewise refers to the Court granting leave for receiving evidence by
video link and telephone conference from Australia. Sec. 20 deals with
powers of New Zealand Court in Australia, enabling the New Zealand Court
to exercise in Australia all its powers which it is permitted to exercise in
Australia under Australian-law. Sec. 21 refers to evidence and submissions
by video-link. Sec. 22 refers to evidence and admissions by telephone. Sec.
23 deals with rights of Australian Counsel. Sec. 24 likewise enables
Australian Courts to take evidence and receive submissions by video-link or
telephonic conference in New Zealand. Sec. 26 refers to orders of
Australian Courts. Sec. 27 refers to 'place where evidence given part of
Australian Court'. Sec. 28 refers to 'privileges, protections and immunities
of Judges, Counsel and witnesses in Australian proceedings'. Sec. 29 refers
to power of Australian Courts to administer oaths in New Zealand. Sec. 30 to contempt of Australian Court by a person in New Zealand. Sec. 31 deals
with assistance to Australian Courts. Sec. 32 of the UK Criminal Justice Act, 1988 also refers to evidence
by television-link. The British Law Commission, in its 245th Report felt that
evidence by television link is better than hearsay. In a case decided in Florida State, on March 9, 1997 by the District
Court of Appeal, Third District, video-conference evidence was allowed: The Judge referred to sec. 90 .801(1)(c) of Fla. Stat (1995) as to exclusion of
hearsay and Art. VI of the US Constitution as to 'confrontation' and there
does not appear to be any other new amendment in the law of evidence. He
only referred to the protocol taken from In re San Juan Dupont Plaza Hotel
Fire Litigation: 129 F.R.D 424 (D.P.R. 1989) which read as follows: The courtroom deputy clerk will administer the oath to the witness, hand him any
documents which the witness is asked to refer to during his/her testimony and
perform such other duties and functions as a courtroom deputy clerk would
normally perform. 4. Documents to be shown to the witness. The party calling the witness shall
furnish the Document Depository at least seven (7) working days prior to the
transmission a list of all documents to which the witness will be asked in direct
examination. The Document Depository will provide the courtroom deputy clerk
at the district where the witness will appear copy of all such documents with
sufficient time in advance for these to be available when the testimony is
scheduled to commence. Any documents needed for cross-examination or redirect which are not available
at the site of the testimony when cross-examination commences shall be shown to
the witness via satellite or copy thereof transmitted by telecopier. 5. Telephone and telecopier. There shall be available in the courtroom, for
coordinating any necessary technologic aspects or any other matters that may
arise during the satellite transmission, the following telephone number: (809) 766-
5448. The party calling the witness shall provide a headset/headphones
compatible with the existing telephone equipment. A telecopier capable of using
the same telephone number shall also be placed in the courtroom by the party
calling the witness. There shall also be available in the room where the witness is to give his
testimony a telephone with a headset/headphones compatible with the equipment
and a telecopier. It shall be the responsibility of the party calling the witness to
provide this equipment, to ensure it is in place and in working condition in time
for the transmission and to pay all expenses related to its use. 407 The party calling the witness shall advise the Court of the number(s) of the
telephone and telecopier (if different) to be used in the district where the witness
is to appear. This shall be done no later than fifteen (15) calendar days before the
satellite transmission is scheduled to commence. 6. Additional Equipment. In addition to the technical equipment needed for
the transmission to be carried out, the party calling the witness shall also provide
the following, at its own expense. a. Courtroom in Puerto Rico. 1. In addition to the existing monitors, an IN monitor and an
 OUT monitor from and to the location where the witness
 is present. 2. A screen to be placed on the witness stand where the
 witness would sit. 3. In addition to the existing cameras and monitors, one
 remote control camera to be placed on the witness stand
 focusing on the questioning attorney and another focusing
 on the presiding judge, each one with its corresponding
 monitor. 4. Switcher(s) for the additional cameras. b. Room where witness is present. 1. Monitor for the witness to see the pertinent person(s),
 documents and/or exhibits in the courtroom. 2. Adequate sound for the witness to hear any matters
 originating in Puerto Rico including headphones if
 necessary. 7. Coordinating technical matters in this district. Any coordination on
technical matters needed for the courtroom in Puerto Rico shall be made through
Mr. Jaime Sotomayor, this Court's audio and video technician. 8. Coordinating with other district(s). The party calling the witness shall
advise this Court, at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to commencing each
satellite transmission, the address in each district where the transmission will be
originated and the intended date(s) for each transmission. It shall be the responsibility of the party calling the witness to coordinate in those
other district(s) all necessary personnel and logistical matters to allow for a timely
and smooth transmission. This includes securing the attendance of the courtroom
deputy clerk, court reporter if necessary and ensuring all equipment is in place
and in working condition prior to the transmission. 9. Safeguarding transmission. No person shall make or allow to be made
any recording/videotape or copy of a recording/videotape of the satellite
transmission except by written order of this Court in which case such
recording/videotape made shall be the sole property of the Court. Necessary
measures (encoding or scrambling) shall be taken by the party calling the witness
to ensure that persons other than those in the courtroom are not able to watch,
hear, or otherwise monitor the satellite transmission. Implementation of effective
prophylactic measures to ensure this are a condition for allowing the satellite
transmissions. 10. Cost. The entire cost of the procedures authorized herein, the necessary
technical equipment as well as all logistical arrangements attendant to these 332 procedures shall be borne by the party calling the witness. This includes any
 expenses associated with necessary delays or adjournments and those warranted
 to complete cross-examination; provided, however, that any abuse of cross-
 examination, including repetitive or cumulative questioning, or any unnecessary
 prolonging of the testimony by repetitive, long or frivolous objections will result
 in allocation of costs due to delays to the party responsible. 11. Cancellation of testimony. In the event of cancellation of the testimony of
 any witness, the cost associated therewith shall be borne by the party calling the
 witness. If the cancellation was avoidable or resulted from matters within the
 cancelling party's control, the calling party shall bear the cost. Should the witness
 not be available to testify for a valid reason, the party having control over the
 witness shall advise the party calling the witness immediately or else the
 cancelling party will bear all costs associated with the cancellation. 12. Subpoena and option to testify in Puerto Rico. Any party seeking to
 compel 408 the testimony of any witness pursuant to the procedures set forth
 herein shall serve upon the witness a subpoena at least fifteen (15) calendar days
 in advance of the intended transmission. A witness subpoenaed to testify by way of a satellite transmission may elect to
 testify instead at trial in Puerto Rico in which case all expenses related to such
 attendance shall be borne by the party calling the witness. This option, however,
 must be notified to the calling party at least seven (7) calendar days in advance of
 the date for the transmission in which case the calling party may either decline the
 option or the party having control over the witness will bear the cost of any
 expenses related to the aborted satellite transmission if these could not be
 avoided, e.g., pre-production costs. 13. Recalling of witnesses. A witness who testifies via satellite will not be
 allowed to subsequently appear in person at trial. His/her subsequent testimony
 will be either by way of satellite transmission or deposition. In the event it is by
 way of satellite transmission, the calling party shall bear all associated expenses." The above judgment convicting the accused was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Appeal of Florida State in David Harel vs. State of
Florida, No 90114 on 23.4.98 (709, So. 2d. 1364 = 23 Fla. L. Weekly 2236)
(Harding J delivered the judgment and Kogan CJ, Overton, Shaw, Wells and
Anstead JJ concurred). The State Supreme Court held that the defendant's
right to physically confront his accusers under the Confrontation Clause is
not absolute and there are certain exceptions where a defendant's right to 333 face-to-face confrontation will give way to conductors of public policy on
the necessities of the case. Exceptions are only permitted when the
reliability is otherwise assured, and reliability can be exhibited through the
other three elements of confrontation, the oath, cross-examination, and
observation of witnesses' demeanour. For the virtual picture via image on a
screen in the Court for the purposes of the Confrontation Clause, in order to
qualify as an exception, the proposed procedure must (1) be justified, on a
case-specific-finding based on important interests, public policies, or
necessities of the cases, and (2) must satisfy the other three elements of
confrontation, that is, the oath, cross-examination, and observation of the
witnesses' demeanour. Here, the witnesses were living beyond the subpoena
power of the Court and there was no way to compel their appearance in
Court, one witness was in poor health and could not make the trip to US and
both witnesses were absolutely essential to the case as they were the victims
of the crime. Depositions to perpetuate testimony are analogous to satellite
procedure to provide live testimony subject to Confrontation Clauses, and
the proper approach for determining when the satellite procedure is
appropriate is similar to that made under the rules providing circumstances
under which and the procedure by which a party can take a deposition to
perpetuate testimony for those witnesses that are found to be unavailable.
For the party who, in a criminal case, moves for satellite testimony, it is
incumbent to (1) verify or support by affidavits of credible persons that a
prospective witness resides beyond the Court's territorial jurisdiction or is
unable to attend or is prevented from attending a trial or hearing, and (2)
establish that witness's testimony is material and necessary to prevent a
failure of justice. Upon such a showing, the trial Judge shall allow the
satellite procedure that affords live, contemporaneous opportunity to cross- examine the witness and allows the jury to observe the witness's demeanour
during exchange. In case the parties are in conflict as to whether satellite
proceeding or a deposition to perpetuate testimony is more appropriate, the
decision shall be left open to the discretion of the trial Judge based on
whichever procedure the Judge feels will be better to serve justice.
Procedure in presenting testimony via satellite satisfied the safeguards of the
Confrontation Clause of oath, cross-examination, and observation of
witness's demeanour and thus, witness's testimony was sufficiently reliable;
out-of-country witnesses were placed under oath by State Court client,
defence had an opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses, jury could
observe the witnesses as they testified, witnesses could see the jury, and
witnesses were subject to possible penalty for perjury. Oath required by the
Confrontation Clause is only effective if the witness can be subjected to
prosecution for perjury upon making a knowingly false statement. To
ensure that the possibility of perjury is not an empty threat for witnesses that
testify via satellite from outside US, in order for the oath requirement of
Confrontation Clause to be met, it must be established that there exists an
extradition treaty between the witness's country and the US and that such
treaty permits extradition for the crime of perjury. Extradition treaty exists
between US and Argentina for perjury, and this, testimony of Argentina
witnesses via satellite, satisfies oath requirement of Confrontation Clause.
Due to possible audio and visual problems that can develop with satellite
transmission of witnesses testimony, the trial Judge must monitor such
problems and halt the procedure if problems threaten the reliability of the
cross-examination or the observation of the witnesses' demeanour
requirements of the Confrontation Clause. For the above reasons, the Supreme Court of Florida dismissed the
appeal and confirmed the conviction. Harding J concluded, stating that
courts 'cannot sit idling by, in a cocoon of yesteryears': Video conferencing in UK (Family Division) Practice Direction: (2002 (1)
W.L.R. 406)

 In the United Kingdom, in the Family Division, procedure for video
conferencing has been laid down by means of a Practice Direction issued by
the Senior District Judge, Mr. Gerald Angel, with the approval of Justice
Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss P. It reads as follows: We may also refer to the UK Criminal Procedure and Investigations
Act, 1996 which deals with Television links and video recordings. (see
http://www.hmso.gov.uk/acts/acts1996/96025--n.htm)

 So far as making a provision in the Evidence Act in regard to video-
conferencing, we are of the view that the time is not ripe enough to introduce
any provision in this behalf. A reading of the provision introduced in other
countries shows that first there must be facilities in the trial Courts for video-
conferencing and they must be fool-proof. Further, considerable expense is
involved in providing these facilities. So far as contempt law is concerned,
we have seen that Australia and New Zealand have a bilateral arrangement
which is reflected in the Rules. The judgment from USA shows that so far
as perjury is concerned, there must be extradition treaties with the States in
which the witness is resident. In Singapore, we find, the facilities are
restricted to proceedings other than criminal proceedings. In the light of these problems, we are of the view that at an
appropriate point of time, we can bring a separate law relating to Television 338 links as in Singapore or New Zealand, with such modifications as may be
necessary. Video recordings: (2) Save as otherwise expressly provided under this Act, the contents
 of documents or electronic records shall not be proved by oral
 evidence." Section 60 : The second proviso refers to what is called "real evidence" But, we feel that the 'rough draft' is some what defective as it
nowhere refers to the discretion of court. Instead, we redraft the proposed
proviso as follows: Section 60A: (as proposed in the 69th Report)
 This section was proposed in the 69th Report in regard to "evidence of
age" but the Commission gave up the proposal as it felt that the provision
will be abused. We respectfully agree. Section 61 to 73A in Chapter V

 These sections have been grouped together under the heading 'Of
Documentary Evidence' under the same chapter V. Other groups of section
are dealt with under other headings. We shall take up section 61 to 73A in
one group. Section 61 : Section 62 refers to 'primary evidence', section 63 to 'secondary
evidence', section 64 to 'proving of documents by primary evidence, section
65 to 'cases in which secondary evidence relating to contents of documents
may be given', section 65A and section 65B to 'special provisions as to
evidence relating to electronic record and their admissibility', section 66 to
'Rules as to notice to produce' (which refers to section 65 clause (a)), section 67 to 73 refer to other matters of detail, relating to proof of signature,
execution, comparison of signature, proof of verification of digital
signature'. So far as section 61 is concerned, the 69th Report stated (see para
27.11) that it does not require any amendment. We respectfully agree. Section 62 : There is an illustration to the section and it relates to 'printed'
placards, all printed from one original. Any one of the placards is primary
evidence of the contents of any other but no one of them is primary evidence
of the contents of the original." Phipson says (see 15th Edn., 1999, Pr. 41. 08) that it is 'not always
easy, however, to determine what is the original document so as to constitute
primary evidence in this sense; and sometimes the same document is
primary for one purpose and secondary for another'. Where documents are produced by "reprographic, automated or
computerized" system, they must be marked as "original" to comply with Article 20 (b) of the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits
(UCPDC)" which is deemed generally to be incorporated in most documents
transacted by Banks (see Glencore, International A.G. vs. Bank of China)
(1996) (1) Lloyds Rep 135. See also Federal Bank Ltd. vs. V.M. Jog Engg.
Ltd. (2001 (1) SCC 663). Explanation 2 shows that in the case of printing etc., each is not the
primary evidence of the original but each is the primary evidence only of the
other copies. Phipson says (ibid) (para 41.19) that a copy made by a 346 copying machine is regarded as a secondary evidence of the original (Nodin
vs. Murra: (1812) 3 Camp. 228). And printed, lithographed and
photographed copies - though, as we have seen, are primary evidence of
each others' contents, - are merely secondary evidence of the common
original. In Re Stephens: LR 9 C.P. 187. Photographs of non-removable
records were received; but the accuracy of a photographic copy, particularly
of external objects, must, like that of a map or plan, be established on oath,
to the satisfaction of the judge, either by the photographer or by someone
who can speak to its correctness (Hindson vs. Ashby: (1896) 2 Ch. 1; U.S.
Shipping Board vs. The St. Albans 1931 A.C. 632. The Supreme Court observed in Govt. of AP vs. Karsichinna Venkate
Reddy, AIR 1994 SC 591 that when the genuineness of a document is the
fundamental question, the photostat copies thereof should be accepted after
examining the original record. Carbon-copies produced by type-writers may, for all practical
purposes, be regarded as equivalent, though the impression on the lower
sheets, are likely to be imperfect. Cash memos prepared at the same time
are primary evidence (Gurumurty Patra vs. State of Orissa, 1990 Cri. L.J.
(NOC) 160 (Orissa). In Federal US Co. vs. Indian L & M Co. (176 Ind. 328), in the case of a machine-carbon-copy in triplicate, each one was held
to be an original ( Prithi Chand vs. State of H.P. , AIR 1989 SC 702). The 69th Report stated that section 62 does not require any
amendment. We agree. Section 63 : There are four illustrations below this section. In the 69th Report, there was division of opinion 3:3 between the
members. Dr. P.B. Gajendragadker, Shri Sen Verma and Sri P.M. Bakshi
proposed that what is mentioned in clause (b) and (g) of section 65 should
also be brought into section 63 because section 63 is otherwise being treated
by courts as exhaustive of the definition of secondary evidence. In fact,
there was some conflict among the courts in this behalf. This controversy
has arisen because section 63 uses the words "means and includes". On the
other hand, Dr. Tripathi and Shri Mitra felt that section 63 should not be
amended and they gave a separate note. Dr. Dhavan gave a separate note for
disagreeing with the views of Dr. P.B. Gajendragadkar, Mr. Sen Verma and 348 Mr. P.M. Bakshi. In view of this difference, nothing was finally decided as
to the amendment. Section 63 refers to five types of evidence. Clauses (1), (2) and (3)
refer to three types of copies of documents. Clause (4) refers to
counterparts; Clause (5) refers to oral account of contents of documents. Illustration (a) refers photograph, first part of clause (2) says that no
comparison with original is necessary. Illustration (b) refers to copy
compared with copy and refers to the latter part of clause (2) and states that
comparison with original is necessary. Illustration (c) refers to clause (3),
copies transcribed and compared with original. Illustration (d) refers to
clause (5) and shows that an oral account of the contents of the original and
not of the copy would be secondary evidence. Section 65 says secondary evidence may be given of the existence,
condition or contents of a document when - (a) ..... (b) when the existing condition or contents of the original have been
 proved to be admitted in writing by the person against whom it is
 proved or by his representative in interest, (c) .................. (d) ................... (e) .................... (f) ..................... (g) when the original consist of numbers accounts or other documents
 which cannot conveniently be examined by the court, and the fact to
 be proved is the general result of the whole collection. Section 65 further says that in clause (b), the written admission is
admissible and in clause (g), evidence as to the general result of the
documents by any person who has examined them, and who is skilled in the
examination of such documents, is necessary. Sarkar says (15th Edn., 1999, p.1064) that "some other forms of
secondary evidence have already been considered, eg., admissions,
statements by deceased person, etc. and that it has been held in a case that
this section is exhaustive of the kinds of secondary evidence admissible
under the Act. Where the terms of the document were sought to be proved
by a judgement containing a transaction thereof in a suit which was not
between the same parties or their representatives, neither the translation nor
the statement in the judgment was secondary evidence of the contents of the
document. It was so held in Jagannath vs. Secretary of State , AIR 1922
Madras 334. Sarkar also refers to Hafiz Mohd. Vs. Hariram, AIR 1937 Lah 370,
that the section is exhaustive and an abstract translation which is a summary
of a document does not come within the purview of section 63 . Draft of
award of arbitrators, from which award was prepared, unless shown to have
been compared with the fair award, is not secondary evidence ( Girdhar vs.
Ambika , AIR 1969, Pat 218). But in Kalliani Amma vs. Narayanan , AIR 1915 Mad. 962, (referred
to in the 69th Report, para 29.10), it was held that section 63 was not
exhaustive. The case related to written admission of contents of the
document. Tyabji J. stated that clause (b) and (g) of section 65 do not fall
within the five clauses of section 63 . In Hindustan Construction Co. vs. Union of India , AIR 1967 SC 526,
527 it was held that a copy means a document prepared from the original
which is an accurate or true copy of the original. Now, we shall discuss the difference of opinion in the 69th Report.
The crucial difference in the opinions between the Members of the
Commission may now be summarized. According to Dr. P.B.
Gajendragadkar, Mr. Sen Verma and Sri P.M. Bakshi in view of Kaliani A's
case stated above, clause (b) and (g) of section 65 are to be added to section
63 for they do not, as stated by Tyabji J. in this case, fall within any of the
five clauses of section 63 . On the other hand, according to Dr. Tripathi and Sri B.C. Mitra, when
clause (b) of section 65 says that 'admission' is admissible, it is only
referring to a situation where secondary evidence is admissible and is not
making the admission equivalent to secondary evidence of the document as
such. So is the position with clause (g) of section 65 where evidence as to
the general result of a number of documents - which are too numerous to be
produced in court - can be given and that is not secondary evidence of those
documents in that full measure. While this latter reasoning is correct, in our opinion, Dr. Tripathi and
Sri B.C. Mitra do not say that clauses (b) and (g) of section 65 can fall
within any of the five clauses in section 63 . Coming to the dissenting view of Sri Dhavan, upto a point he agrees
that Tyabji J. is correct, that clauses (b) and (g) of section 65 are not covered
by section 63 but the very fact of adding these clauses to section 65 would
mean that the legislature treated the five clauses of section 63 as not being
exhaustive. The Member says, with the development of science and
technology, new forms of secondary evidence may come into being and it is
not desirable to make section 63 exhaustive. Having said this, the Member
says that, if any change is at all to be made, he would prefer to replace the
words "means and includes" by the words "includes". We may point out that section 63 says "secondary evidence means
and includes" and contains five clauses as already set out above. Section 65 bears the title "Cases in which secondary evidence relating to documents
may be given". Now, the view of the three Members in favour of the amendment does
not answer the point raised by the two other dissenting members i.e. Dr.
Tripathi and Sri B.C. Mitra that clauses (b) and (g) only make admission and
a 'general account' admissible as secondary evidence but by that, the
entirety of the document, word for word, is not coming on record. At the
same time, the said two Members do not answer the point raised by the first
three that the cases falling under clauses (b) and (g) of section 65 do not fall
within any of the five clauses of section 63 . The third dissent goes a long 352 way in supporting the amendment but satisfies itself to omit the word
'means' in section 65 in as much as more types of secondary evidence may
come into being with the advance of science and technology. We have noticed the statement by Sarkar (p.1064) that 'some other
forms of secondary evidence have already been considered, eg., admissions,
statements of deceased person etc.' We can visualize also that with the
development of science and technology, there could be addition to clauses
(1) to (5) of section 63 . In that sense, section 63 is exhaustive "only for the
present". While the comment that clauses (b) and (g) of section 65 do not
substitute the document word for word and are secondary evidence in the
full sense, the admissions and general account referred to in these clauses
being admissible, could form the basis of proof for one party. Phipson refers under para 41.13 to 41.36, 'secondary evidence' but
the discussion covers not only what is contained in section 63 but also that in section 65 . In the light of the above discussion, we are of the view that clauses (b)
and (g) cannot be included in the definition of 'secondary evidence' by
adding them to section 63 because they do not bring in the whole document.
But, as clauses (b) and (g) make evidence admissible, otherwise than of the
original document, such evidence must be 'secondary evidence', if it is not
'primary evidence' because we do not have a third or hybrid character of
evidence. Thus section 63 cannot ignore the concepts behind clauses (b) and (g) of section 65 . The only way this can be achieved, and the further scope
for scientific developments can also be given, is to drop the word "means 353 and" in section 63 . We have reached our conclusion in this behalf for
reasons which are other than or in addition to the reasons given by Sri
Dhavan. We now proceed to deal with other clauses of section 63 . We agree with the 69th Report that in clause (3) for the words "made
from or compared" the words "made from and compared" shall be
substituted. In the 69th Report, three clauses were separately considered (see paras
29.23 to 29.28) and it was held that no amendment is called for except to use
the word 'seen' for the word 'read' in clause (5) of section 63 . That relates
to oral accounts of contents given by those who have 'seen' the document.
Surely, in our opinion, 'read' is a better word. In the result, we recommend deletion of the word 'means and' in the
opening portion of section 63 and substituting the word 'read' for 'seen' in
clause (5) of section 63 and also substituting the words "made from and
compared" in clause (3) of sec. 63 for the words "made from or compared". Section 64 : In the 69th Report, it was observed that no amendment of section 64 is
necessary. We respectfully agree. Section 65 : In the 69th Report, in para 30.26, five recommendations (a) to (e)
were made for amending section 65 . It becomes, therefore, necessary to deal with section 65 in some detail.
The section reads as follows: of the person against whom the document is sought
 to be proved, or 355 of any person out of reach of, or not subject to, the
 process of the court, or

 of any person legally bound to produce it, and
 when, after the notice mentioned in section 66,
 such person does not produce it; (b) When the existence, condition or contents of the original
 have been proved to be admitted in writing by the person
 against whom it is proved or by his representative in
 interest; (c) When the original has been destroyed or lost, or when the
 party offering evidence of its contents cannot, for any other
 reason not arising from his own default or neglect, produce
 it in reasonable time; (d) When the original is of such a nature as not to be easily
 moveable; (e) When the original is a public document within the meaning
 of section 74 ; (f) When the original is a document of which a certified copy
 is permitted by this Act, or by any other law in force in
 India, to be given in evidence; (g) When the originals consist of numerous accounts or other
 documents which cannot conveniently be examined in 356 court, and the fact to be proved is the general result of the
 whole collection. In cases (a), (c) and (d), any secondary evidence of the contents
 of the document is admissible. In case (b), the written admission is admissible. In case (e) or (f), a certified copy of the document, but no other
 kind of secondary evidence, is admissible. In case (g), evidence may be given as to the general result of the
 documents by any person who has examined them, and who is skilled
 in the examination of such documents". The notice contemplated in section 65 (a) is the notice referred to in section 66 and is to be issued in the manner mentioned in Order 11, Rule 16
of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 except in the cases mentioned in the
proviso to section 66 . Whether various clauses of section 65 mutually exclusive

(1) In para 30.5 of the 69th Report, it was pointed out that the various
 clauses of sec. 65 are not mutually exclusive in the sense that if a case
 does not satisfy the requirement of one clause, it may still be
 admissible as secondary evidence under another clause. For example,
 if a case falls under clause (a), then secondary evidence is admissible,
 even if the conditions of clause (e) or clause (f) are not satisfied. The
 Report suggested that an attempt to contend that the clauses were 357 mutually exclusive was urged but not accepted in 'In the matter of
 Collusion' (1879) ILR 5 Cal 568 and in Sunder vs. Chandreshwar: It was pointed out that a clarification in this behalf is not necessary so
far as clauses (a) to (d), (g) are concerned, but is necessary because of the
negative words used in the last part of the penultimate para of the section: The 69th Report suggested (see para 30.6 and 30.7) that the words
"unless some other clause of this section applies" be added in the
penultimate para after the words 'is admissible'. We agree respectfully. (2) S. 65(a) One of the important aspects concerning s. 65(a) which requires a
close examination is the third clause therein which refers to non-production 358 of a document by "any person legally bound to produce it". In such a case,
the section permits secondary evidence of its contents. The clause is applicable obviously to 'any person' which may mean
'the opposite party' or even a 'third person non-party' who is a witness or
who may, by compulsion of the Court's orders, be called upon to "produce
the document in court." The controversy concerning section 65 (a) is whether indeed it was
intended to cover a situation where the original document is in the
possession of a person 'not bound to produce it', in which event, the party
relying on it may be entitled to produce secondary evidence. It has been
pointed out that under English Law, the provision is referable to a person
'not compellable by law to produce', on the ground of some privilege, e.g.,
as it goes against him, or he has a lien on the title deed or the document may
incriminate him. (Mills vs. Oddy, (1834) 6 C&P 728), Hibberd vs. Knight
(1848) 2 Exch 11: Newton vs. Chaplin: (1850) 10 C.B. 356. He has to be
compelled by subpoena duces tecum and must expressly claim privilege
(Lloyd vs. Mostyn) (1842) 10 M&W 476. See also Halsburry 3rd Edn., Vol.
15, para 647; Wigmore (para 1212) says 'if after service of subpoena, the
possessor is recalcitrant and refuses to obey, the proponent should be
excused'. Under English Law in the case of a person 'bound to produce',
but if he does not, he can be sued for damages. But, this according to Indian
law was not just. The proponent must, in such a case, be entitled to produce 359 secondary evidence under section 65 (a) (see Sarkar, 15th Edn., 1999,
p.1089). The question was debated whether section 65 (a) meant or should
have also provided for permitting secondary evidence if the person in
possession thereof is not bound to produce it but refuses court orders to
produce it. These views are recorded in Sarkar's commentary as also in the
69th Report. Several jurists like Markbhy, Cunningham, Field, Norton and
Sarkar have all stated that the section must also permit secondary evidence
in a case where the refusal is by a person not bound to produce it.
Otherwise, grave injustice would be caused to the proponent if he is not
permitted to bring in secondary evidence. The 69th Report after referring to this aspect (see para 30.10 to 30.13)
accepted that section 65 (a) should have provided for the above situation. It
said: and in para 30.17 to 30.20, they recommended that provision should be
made in section 65 (c) by an amendment adding necessary words after 'for
any reason not arising from his default or neglect.' The actual string of
words to be added in section 65(c) was not spelled out. We would, however, think that the addition must be in section 65 (a) itself and not section 65 (c) . We would think that in section 65 (a) at the
end, after the words "such person does not produce it", another clause is
added, or, "of any person not legally bound to produce it, where after notice
by court at the instance of any party, to produce it, such person does not
produce it". (This is proposed under clause (aa)). In this context, Order X Rule 16 of the CPC may not be helpful
because it contemplates notice to a 'party' and not notice to a witness, other
than a party, who, not being bound to produce, does not produce the
document. To avoid confusion, we propose, clause (a) to be sub-divided as
follows: In para 30.11, the 69th Report suggested that the words "and when, after
notice mentioned in sec. 66 , such person does not produce it", do not apply
to "any person out of reach of, or not subject to, the process of the Court".
We agree and have incorporated a change in sec. 65(a) accordingly. In the 69th Report, it was also suggested (see para 30.12) that the word
'after the notice mentioned in section 66 ' may be replaced by the words
'when any person in whose possession or power the original may be, does
not, after receiving the notice (if any) required by section 66 , produce such
originals" and that after the figure "66", the words "when such notice is
necessary" are added. We do not think that this is necessary. The above format has to be further changed, in as much as we have
agreed for the proposal in para 30.11 as follows: Section 65(b) : After some discussion of sec. 67 (including cases of registered
documents), the 69th Report stated (see para 31.15) that no amendment is
necessary. But, in our view, the following Explanation be added below sec.
67 to clarify the meaning of the word 'execution' or 'signatures' in sections
68 to 73 . Section 67A: We may add that the proposals are broadly in conformity with the
English law as it stands after the (UK) Evidence Act, 1938. Phipson says
(para 40.13): In para 40.16(f), it is observed: It will be noted that the corresponding law in England is to accept not
only documents other than a will but even in case of wills, to accept other
situations where the witness is kept out of the way. So far as attestor who
cannot be found, that aspect is covered by sec. 69 . We shall now refer briefly to the reasons given both in England
(Phipson) and in India (69th Report and Sarkar) as to why the procedure of
calling an attesting witness in the case of all documents (other than wills),
should be given up. The reasons in the 69th Report and those added by us are: (i) hardship
in calling the attestor as a witness, in as much as, over a period of years, the
attestor may have gone to a distant place, or become old or sickly; (ii) if the
evidence of the executant, if living, is not mandatory, why should attestor's
evidence be mandatory; (iii) any way, attestation has to be proved, if the Transfer of Property Act had made attestation compulsory in the case of
some documents. Even in the case of documents which did not require
compulsory attestation, proof of attestation may add to the proof of
genuineness of the document; (iv) sometimes, if the attestor denies his
attestation, the parties have to cross-examine him and prove attestation; (v) it
is not necessarily the best evidence. Phipson also says (see para 40.13) that the original principle was this: But, according to Phipson, this old principle is no longer accepted: Sarkar (15th Ed, 1999, p. 1124) quotes Wigmore (para 1288) to say
that the theory that parties must be deemed to have agreed that an attestor
will be a person who should speak about the circumstances of the execution,
is not correct and there "no such agreement can be implied, particularly
when attestation is required by law". In other words, the mandate of the law
excludes any theory of an implied agreement that "the attestor" is to be the
witness to the circumstances of execution. Wigmore also says (para 1288)
that the right to cross-examine the attestor is not a weighty safeguard.
Sarkar says: "This reason is also criticized by Wigmore on the ground that
"the rule applies even where fraud, duress, and time are not in issue, and
even where the maker himself is competent as a witness." Again, the
attestor "is in practice, not usually a person who knows anything about the
circumstances preceding the document's execution, or knows more than any
other person who by being present, would be a qualified witness". (Sarkar
p. 1124)

 The real reason for requiring attestation (though not for calling the
attestor a witness), according to Wigmore (para 1288) is that precaution
against forgery, non-existence of special hardship in obtaining the attestation
of a witness, the attestor's testimony being the most desirable and
trustworthy evidence as to the fact of execution of documents by illiterate
persons who are dead and the fairness of placing the burden of producing the
attesting witness upon the party of whose duty it was to prove the due
execution and attestation. It has also been held that under sec. 68 , it is not necessary that an
attesting witness should prove execution; it requires that an attesting witness
must be called to prove execution, but if he forgets or pretends to forget or
denies execution or proves hostile, it may be proved by other evidence under sec. 71 (see Bashiran vs. Md. Hussain, AIR 1941 Oudh 284; Sarjoo vs.
Jagatpal, AIR 1942 Oudh 201 (quoted in Sarkar, p. 1124). Sarkar says that the changes made in England in 1938 under the U.K.
Evidence Act, 1938, to which we have already referred to are long 'overdue'
in India and the "continuation of the former English law leads to avoidable
perjury in many cases". Sarkar (15th Ed, 1999) enumerates about 14 situations in which it may
be difficult to call or examine an attestor (p. 1125-1126). One of them is
that under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, documents requiring
attestation, may be proved without calling attesting witnesses. We find that
all these are covered by the proposals referred to in the 69th Report and the
additions we have suggested. We are, therefore, not referring to these
fourteen types of cases. One other aspect is whether the words 'shall not be used as evidence'
mean that the document can be used for collateral purposes. Such a view
was not accepted in Shib Ch. vs. Gour Ch : 27 CWN 134 following the older
English cases. But, in several jurisdictions in America, the rule is relaxed
when the document whose execution is to be proved is not a document
necessarily involved in the pleading but comes collaterally or incidentally in 372 issue (Wig. S. 129 quoted by Sarkar p. 1129). However, the Allahabad
High Court has relaxed this rule - an admission in a mortgage bond of a prior
mortgage could be relied upon for purpose of an acknowledgement without
proof of attestation ( Shyam Lal vs. Lakshmi , AIR 1939 All 366) or to prove
the handwriting of a scribe (Motichand vs. Lalta (ILR 40 All 266; Mathura
vs. Chhedi, AIR 1915 All 254; Radhakrishnan vs. Bharaethan , AIR 1990
Kerala 146. We propose that inadmissibility must be confined to the
testamentary disposition coming into effect and not for collateral matters,
such as where the will contains an acknowledgement of debt or proof of
relationship etc. Sec. 63 of the Indian Succession Act requires that the testator 'sign or
affix his mark', but while referring to attestation, sec. 63 used the word
'sign'. There is a conflict of opinion among the High Courts (see Sarkar p.
1143) and the author says that the view that 'mark' could be accepted as
attestation is correct. We have already made a provision by adding an
Explanation in sec. 67 . Again, in regard to contention that the signature of a Registrar of
Assurances should be treated as attestation appears to be not acceptable (see Abdul Jabbar vs. Venkata Sastri , AIR 1969 SC 1147), there are conflicting
views in the High Courts as to whether a scribe or any one who does not
sign in the capacity of an attesting witness, can be treated as an attesting
witness (see Sarkar p. 1147-1151). The Supreme Court has stated in Abdul
Jabbar 's case that a scribe or identifier cannot be an attesting witness unless
he puts his signature animo attestandi. We have referred to some of these aspects which have arisen under sec. 68 , but in view of the decisions of courts, we do not think any specific
provision need be made in the section. In the result, we recommend that sec. 68 must be confined only to
wills and required to be redrafted and the exceptions added and referred to in
the 69th Report require further expansion. The section as redrafted in the 69th Report reads as follows (see para
32.34). (Of course, one member Sri Mitra gave a note of dissent). Sec. 89 deals with documents in regard to which a notice is given for
production and sec. 90 to cases of wills more than 30 years old. We propose a few more changes. One is that the bar must apply only
in respect of proving the 'testamentary disposition' and not to proving
collateral facts, already referred to. The other one is that the exceptions
must also refer to a case where the attesting witness is kept away by another
person in collusion with the adverse party. We, therefore, recommend that sec. 68 be redrafted as follows: (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), an
 attestor need not be called as a witness to prove the execution of a will
 if,- (a) the attesting witness is incapable of giving evidence;
 or is kept out of the way by the opposite party or by
 another person in collusion with that party or is one
 whose presence cannot be obtained without an amount
 of delay or expense which, under the circumstances of
 the case, the Court considers unreasonable; or (b) the will is in the possession of the opposite party; or (c) a party wants to refer to any collateral fact contained
 in the will; or (d) the provisions of section 89 or section 90 apply." Section 69 : The 69th Report recommended (para 32.37 & 32.30) and rightly in our
view, for replacing the word 'document' by the word 'will', and for omitting
the words "or if the document purports to have been executed in the United
Kingdom". We agree. The revised section, as recommended, is as follows: Section 70 : In view of the recommendation for confining sec. 68 to 'wills', it is
obvious that sec. 70 must be confined to wills. But the question is whether
the testator, being the sole party, would have had occasion to admit
execution of the will, the fact remaining that a will comes into effect only
after the death of the testator. In fact, the 69th Report had this aspect in view and observed (see para
32.47) as follows: "Since a will speaks from the death of the testator,
questions as to its execution would arise mostly only after the death of the
testator. However, it is not inconceivable that during his lifetime, the
testator is a party to a proceeding in which the will is in issue - for example,
in the case of mutual wills". We find that since the 69th Report was submitted, the Kerala High
Court held in R. Saraswathy vs. Bhavathy Ammal : AIR 1989 Ker 228 that sec. 70 is not applicable to a will because the executant of a will, which will
become effective only on the death of the executant, will not be available to
admit the execution at the relevant time. In the case of a will, if the testator had, during his life time, occasion
to admit the execution of will (say) in some other registered document or
while giving evidence in some other case, that evidence may be relied upon
by those who claim under the will as against those who dispute its execution,
after the testator's death. It was also recommended in the 69th Report (see paras 32.43 to 32.47)
that the admission of execution of the document (i.e. will) must have been in
the course of a legal proceeding, in a pleading or evidence but not an
admission before the litigation started. The Commission accepted this view
as correct as against the opposite view that the admission could be before or
outside the litigation. We agree with the view of the Commission and the
reasoning that the principle is "that the parties arrange for attestation with
the object of securing evidence in case of litigation" (see para 32.44). The revised section as recommended in the 69th Report (see para
32.48) is as follows: With regard to this format, we have something to say. We are of the
view that the section must speak of the 'executant' rather than 'party' to an
attested will. Secondly, keeping in view the Kerala Judgment, it will be 378 useful to add the words "such admission", after the words "executant of the
will". Again, instead of the words "against him", the words "as against
those who dispute the attestation". We recommend sec. 70 to be revised as follows: Section 71 : The word 'document' must for the reasons stated hereinabove, be
replaced by the word 'will'. There is another aspect where there is more
than one attesting witness and the party who wants to prove the will calls
him but he turns hostile or does not remember. One view was that there is
no duty to call the other attesting witnesses, even if available (see Hason Ali
vs. Gurdas, AIR 1929 Cal 188; Manki vs. Hansraj, AIR 1938 Pat 301; Ayenati vs. Md. Ismail , AIR 1929 Cal 441 (Contra Mitter J). This view 379 was accepted in the 69th Report (see para 32.51) on the basis that the section
did not say so and that, calling other attestors, will cause inconvenience. The opposite view that other attesting witness may then have to be
called is supported by the observation of the Privy Council in Surendra vs.
Behari , AIR 1939 PC 117 and is more appealing to us. This opposite view
that other attesting witnesses must be called was taken in Hare Krishna vs.
Jagneswar, AIR 1939 Cal 688; Vishnu vs. Nathu , AIR 1949 Bom 266. The
law in England also is the same, having regard to the fact that proof of wills
has always been put at a higher pedestal. In Pilkington vs. Gray: 1899 AC
401, one of the two witnesses to a will gave adverse evidence and said that
the signatures were forged. It was held that other evidence could not be let
in unless the absence of the second attesting witness was satisfactorily
explained. In Coles vs. C, 13 LT 608, it was held that the other attesting
witness must be called although the party may know him to be adverse. See
also Bowman vs. Hodgson (1867) I P&D 362; Dayman vs. D 71 LT 699.
The Patna High Court held in Tubla vs. Gopal 1 Pat Law J. 369 and the
Calcutta High Court also held in Gobind vs. Pulin 31 CWN 215, that a plea
that even if he is called, he will be hostile, has not been accepted. Sarkar says that the view that other attestors need not be called is not
correct and we agree with that view and respectfully disagree with the
reasoning given in the 69th Report. Of course, the exceptions laid down in sec. 68 will always be applicable, such as the other attestor not being alive,
or being kept away by the opposite side etc. 380 The 69th Report recommended that sec. 71 should be revised as
follows: Instead, we recommend sec. 71 be revised as follows: Section 72 : The 69th Report again confined sec. 72 to wills. (No doubt, there are
categories of wills not required to be attested - see Indian Succession Act,
1925 ). The revised sec. 72 we propose is as follows: Section 73 : The recommendation in para 33.19 of the 69th Report is that the
 word 'purports' be substituted by the words 'is alleged'. We agree
 with this recommendation. (b) Another controversy was whether the comparison is restricted to
 comparison by the Court and whether it extends to comparison by
 an expert or any other person. After referring to the conflict in the
 case law, and in particular to Kailash Chandra vs. Dhobi Barik: In para 33.28, the 69th Report opined that this is an aspect which
 certainly needed to be clarified. Second para of sec. 73 : So far as the second para of sec. 73 is
concerned, the power to compel a witness to give his signature or
thumb impression or `writing, it must be noted, does not offend Art. 20(3) of the Constitution of India ( State of Bombay vs. Kathi
Kalu AIR 1961 SC 1816. The 69th Report refers to the judgments of various High Courts
which stated that the Court of a Magistrate or similar Court cannot
direct signature or thumb impression be given, when a criminal
complaint is under investigation and before the Court had taken
cognizance of an offence. The reasoning was that the Evidence
Act applies only to judicial proceedings and not to stages of
investigation. It was therefore recommended in para 33.40 that an
Explanation be added. Sec. 73 does not apply to a criminal Court
before it had taken cognizance of an offence. The proposal was to
add an Explanation as follows: But, in our view, it should not appear that at the stage of
investigation, such a power could not at all be vested in a court. It
would be necessary to add the following words before the words
"Nothing in this section",

 "Without prejudice to the provisions of any other law" (2) The Court may direct any person present in Court to write any
 words or figures for the purpose of comparison of the words or figures
 so written with any words or figures alleged to have been written by such
 person. (3) This section applies also, with any necessary modifications, to
 finger impressions, palm impressions, footprints and type-writing. (4) Without prejudice to the provisions of any other law for the time
 being in force, nothing in this section shall apply to a criminal Court
 before it has taken cognizance of an offence." Section 73A: Explanation: For the purposes of this section, 'Controller' means the
 Controller appointed under sub-section (1) of section 17 of the
 Information Technology Act, 2000." We do not think that any change is necessary in this section. Section 74 : In the 69th Report, after a lengthy discussion, it was proposed in para
34.18 that the plaints, written statements, petitions and other papers filed by
parties be regarded as public documents by adding following Explanation: Before making the above recommendations, the 69th Report examined
the conflicting case law of various High Courts on the question. The Commission, in paras 34.13 to 34.15 referred to the problem
concerning the meaning of the words "documents forming the acts or 387 records of the acts". Case law concerning income tax returns on the one
hand and pages forwarded to a magistrate by a police officer in connection
with the Code of Criminal Procedure (see Narasimha vs. Venkataramayya : We agree with the above view, and finally agree that the limited
Explanation which is applicable to courts/public offices pronouncing judicial
orders, be accepted. We propose a modified Explanation be added in clause (1) of sec. 74 ,
using the word 'deemed'. For convenience, we shall reproduce it again: Section 75 : After referring to the provision of various Indian statutes and some
English statutes, the 69th Report observed in paras 35.14 to 35.17 that it is
necessary to clarify that: Reference in that connection was made to the Bombay judgment in
Devi Ram vs. Sri Ram: AIR 1932 Bom 291 where it was held that an
assessee cannot get a copy of his own income tax return or order as the Act
of 1922 gave no right to inspect the return or order. But the Allahabad High
Court held in Suraj Narain vs. Jhebu Lal : AIR 1944 Allahabad 114 held that
because an assessee has right to a copy of the order under the Income Tax
Manual, he has a right to inspect the order. It was then stated that the above
clarification was suggested that if copies are required to be issued under a
statute, rule or even a manual, a right to inspect must be implied. We find
that in K. Pedda Jangaiah vs. Mandal Rev Officer 1996 APHC 1006, (A.P.) 390 the Andhra Pradesh High Court also held that right to certified copy is
dependent on right to inspect. We may also refer to Order 11 Rule 15, Order 20 Rule 20, Order 41
Rule 36 of the Code of Civil Procedure . See also sec. 363(1), (2), (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure . We agree with the recommendation in para
35.17. The 69th Report then refers to 'confidential documents' and after
referring to the conflicting views of the Bombay, Calcutta and Allahabad
High Courts, it observed that to deny copy of a document for inspection on
the ground of confidential nature of the document is not correct. In para
35.22 it was rightly pointed out that keeping a document confidential from
others is different from keeping it confidential from the persons whom it
concerns or affects. The Commission, in para 32.25 also referred to
documents relating to affairs of the State which, in any event, the Court can
peruse. (Of course, the position is different under sec. 162 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973, as specifically provided in that Code.)

 Thus there may be public documents (say) like a birth register in a
Municipality which every person can inspect; an income tax return or order
which only the assessee concerned can inspect; and documents relating to
affairs of State which no one can be allowed to inspect. The 69th Report, in para 35.28, referred to the 14th Report of the Law
Commission, on the question of delay in obtaining secondary evidence of
public documents but felt that there is no other immediate solution possible. The 69th Report then recommended, in para 35.30 that the Explanation
now contained in sec. 76 be numbered as Explanation 1 and that new
Explanations 2 and 3 be added as follows: Explanation 3 refers to the clarification referred to above that a person who
has a right to a copy has a right to inspect but the idea is not clearly brought
out. The common law rule is also to be reflected. Instead, Explanation 3
should read as follows: We recommend insertion of Explanation 2 as per the 69th Report and
Explanation 3 as formulated by us in this section. Section 77 : In the 69th Report, it was pointed out (see para 35.32) that the use of
the word 'such' in sec. 77 referred to documents in relation to which there is
a 'right to inspect'. Now it will be subject to the amendment proposed to sec. 76 . In the said para, the 69th Report referred to a conflict of views
among the High Courts as to the admissibility of the certified copies where
the copy is issued to a person not entitled to inspect. The Commission
recommended in para 35.34, if a copy is "in fact" given it must be
admissible irrespective of the right. This was to be clarified (see para
35.41). The Commission felt in paras 35.35 to 35.40 that no special provision
need be made in respect of 'certified extracts' as the same was covered by
decisions of courts or special provisions of statutes. In so far as the clarification referred to above, the draft was not given
in the 69th Report. We would therefore recommend addition of the following
Explanation in sec. 77 . Section 78 : We accept the above recommendations. (5) As recommended in our discussion under sec. 79 , clause (2A)
 has to be inserted below clause (2) in 78, as follows: Section 79 : 76 and such certified copies can, under sec. 77 , be accepted in
 evidence without production of the original under sec. 77 . (b) In regard to the (b) category, the Law Commission said (see
 para 37.9) that the only question to be considered was the
 extension of the beneficial provisions of section 79 (presumption as to the genuineness of certified copies), to
 certified copies of such documents. The Commission
 recommended accordingly. We agree with this recommendation. Further, whenever, any document relating to the House or any
Committee thereof is required to be proved in a Court, the Court has to make
a request to the Speaker or Chairman of that House or Committee
mentioning the purpose why it is required and the date when it is required.
A form has been prescribed (see Shakdher and Kaul, Parliamentary
Procedure in India, pages 177 (and Lok Sabha Debates, 13.9.57, p 13760 to
13763). For the benefit of public and courts, we shall once again extract the
said format which is extracted in paras 37.14 (pp 475-476) of the 69th
Report. It reads as follows: (A)We recommend as follows: There must be a provision relating to the
presumption in regard to genuiness of certified copies of documents relating
to legislatures which are not published. These documents fall under section
78(2A) as proposed. (B) We recommend that section 79 be amended as follows: Section 80 : It will be noticed that this section is primarily intended to raise a
presumption in favour of genuineness of evidence given by a witness in a
'judicial proceeding or before any officer authorized by law to take such
evidence', or is a "statement or confession" by a "prisoner or accused
person", if the same was taken in accordance with law and signed as stated
in the section. The presumption is extended to the circumstances under
which it was taken. The word 'evidence' is defined in sec. 3 . The mode of recording
evidence in civil cases is found in Order 18 Rules 5-13, CPC , 1908 and in
criminal cases in Ch. XXIII sections 272-283 of Cr.P.C., 1973. Section 80 of the Evidence Act cannot apply to sec. 162 Cr.P.C. Statements recorded by
police. Statements recorded by Magistrates in Judicial proceedings are
admissible and the Magistrate need not be called a witness ( Modi Ganga vs.
State AIR 1981 SC 1165). Section 80 does not guarantee voluntariness of a
confession under sec. 24 . Irregularities in recording confession under sec.
164 Cr.P.C. may be cured by sec. 533 (now sec. 463 of the 1973 Act)
( Shanti vs. State AIR 1978 Orissa 19 (FB). In the 69th Report, it was pointed out (see para 38.5) that the
expression 'judicial proceeding' does not cover statements recorded by a
Magistrate under sec. 164 Cr.P.C. The statements are also not evidence and 401 hence do not perhaps come within the words "before any officer authorized
by law to record evidence", unless we broadly construe the above words by
merely referring to the qualification of the officer. The 69th Report
recommended that sec. 80 be amended to include a presumption of
genuineness of sec. 164 statements recorded by Magistrates. It was pointed out further after referring to conflicting views of High
Courts (see para 38.13) that if the above amendment is made, it will also
cover the cases of dying declarations recorded by Magistrates under sec. 164. As at present, such dying declarations are not covered by sec. 80 because they are not always made by prisoners or accused persons but by
victims of criminal offences. Further at that stage, the Magistrate can not be
said to acting in a judicial capacity. We agree with the above recommendation that in sec. 80 , after the
words 'taken in accordance with law', and before the words "and purporting
to be signed by any Judge", the following words be added: (para 38.16)

 "or to be a statement recorded by a Magistrate under section 164 of
 the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973". Section 81 : We agree with the 69th Report (see para 39.3) that the presumption in
respect of (1) London Gazette, (2) the Government Gazette of any Colony,
dependency or possession of the British Crown and a private Act of the UK
Parliament printed by the Queen's Printer must be confined to the period
before 15.8.1947. (see the recommendation in sec. 37 of the Act also). So far as newspapers and journals are concerned the presumption is
only about their genuineness but not about the truth of their contents (Bawa
Sarup Singh vs. The Crown: AIR 1925 Lah 299). The words 'proper custody' are explained in sec. 90 , Explanation. Judicial notice of notification of appointment of public officers
appearing in Gazettes is referred to in sec. 57 (cl.7). As to proof of
proclamations, orders in council etc. by production of Gazettes, these are
covered by sec. 78 . We shall refer to few recent cases after 1977. The Supreme Court held that the Gazette of Bombay Presidency, Vol.
III published in 1879 is admissible under sec. 35 read with sec. 81(Bala 403 Shankar Maha Shankar Bhattjee vs. Charity Commissioner AIR 1995 SC 175. Till a decision is published in Gazette, it may not travel beyond the
knowledge of its author and will remain cloistered ( Kashmiri Lal vs. State
of Punjab : AIR 1984 P&H 87. In R.S. Nayak vs. A.R. Antulay : AIR 1986 SC 2045, it was held that
there must be an assumption that whatever is published in the Government
owned paper correctly represents the actual state of affairs relating to
Government business until the same is successfully challenged and the real
state of affairs is shown to be different from what is stated in the
Government publication. In Laxmi Raj Shetty vs. State of Tamil Nadu AIR
1988 SC 1274 and S. Bangarappa vs. G.N. Hegade : 1992 Cr. LJ 3788
(Karn), it was held that the presumption of genuineness stated in sec. 81 to a
newspaper report cannot be treated as proof of facts reported there. The translated copy of a news item cannot be considered by the Court
as a document in the absence of the newspaper. ( Binod Kumar Jain vs.
Gauhati Municipal Corp. ) (AIR 1994 Gauhati 96). News item on Doordarshan and newspapers were held to be mere
hearsay and could not be relied upon: ( Nachhattar Singh vs. State of Punjab )
(1985 Crl LJ (NOC/115 (FB). We agree with the 69th Report, that sec. 81 should be amended as
follows:- While the above English Acts and the 5th Report required a provision
to make the entries 'admissible' and even the recommendation in para 39.8
of the 69th Report is only to make the entries admissible or relevant without
proof, we do not see why the 69th Report wanted sec. 81A in a chapter which 405 deals with 'presumption'. In fact, there is no recommendation that sec. 81A
must be introduced for purpose of raising a presumption of genuineness. We, therefore, feel that sec. 81A as proposed does not fit into the
scheme of the Act between sec. 81 and 82 . The next question is whether there is any need to have a provision
elsewhere in the Act making such entries admissible as recommended in the
5th Report and the 69th Report. We find that no special provision is
necessary to make entries in Birth register admissible in as much as such
entries are admissible under sec. 35 of the Act and that section has been
consistently applied by courts to such registers, as stated below. Now sec. 35 refers to 'relevancy of entry in public record made in
performance of duty'. In fact, Sarkar (15th Ed., 1999(p. 780) refers to
relevancy of these entries and refers to Brierley vs. Brierley 1918 p 257, State of Gujarat vs. Inayathusen Mohmadiya : 1996 Cr. LJ 3225 (Guj), Anita
vs. Atal Bihari: 1993 Crl LJ 549. It is not conclusive: P.C. Purushothama
vs. S. Perumal : AIR 1972 SC 608. In Bishwanath vs. Dulhin : AIR 1968 P 481, it was held that a
presumption of correctness also arises. See also Prakash Chandra vs. Smt.
Parmeshwar : AIR 1987 P&H 37. It is significant that in Muhammad vs. Sulekha 1981 Crl J (NOC)
(Ker), it was held that the certified copy of the entry itself is not sufficient to
establish the reliability of the contents of the register in all cases. In Dalim 406 vs. Nandarani : AIR 1970 Cal 292, the register was also treated as a public
document under sec. 77 . Extract under Madras Act 3/1899 was held admissible in Ramalinga
vs. Kotayya AIR 1913 Mad. 451. It is not necessary to multiply cases under other State Acts. Suffice it
to say that if the entries are admissible under sec. 35 , it is not necessary to
have another sec. 81A specifically concerning such registers. Having regard to the fact that the 69th Report has not suggested that
initially the Court 'shall' draw a presumption of genuineness of entries from
such Birth Register and having regard to the case law, we do not think it is
necessary to have a provision like sec. 81A. We do not, therefore, accept the
recommendation. Section 81A (as incorporated by Act 21/2000)
 The section 81A as incorporated by the Information and Technology
Act (Act 21/2000) deals with 'presumption' as to gazettes in electronic
forms. It reads as follows: This section is newly introduced in the year 2000 and does not require
any modification. Section 82 : In the 69th Report, it was pointed out sec. 86 of the Act speaks of relevancy
of maps. The words 'maps made for the purposes of any cause' are rather
vague but they mean, 'maps made for the purposes of any particular cause'
and in that event, the section does not apply. We would consider amending
the last part of sec. 83 by adding the words 'particular' before the word
'cause'. In addition, we accept the 69th Report that apart from 'maps or plans',
'charts' should also be covered by the presumption under sec. 83 . The revised sec. 83 , as proposed would read as follows: Section 84 : This section has to be read with sec. 38 which makes relevant the statements
of the laws and rulings contained in officially printed books of any country,
i.e. including India. Section 57 allows the Court to take 'judicial notice' of
the existence of all laws and statutes in India and in UK. Section 74 410 recognises the statutory records as public records while sec. 78 lays down
the method of proving the statutes passed by the legislature. This section
dispenses with proof of the genuineness of the officially printed books of
any country (including foreign countries) containing laws and reports of
decisions of courts. Their accuracy is to be preserved. As regards the books
containing authorized reports of decisions of the Courts in India, see Indian
Law Reports Act (18 of 1875). The relevancy of the decisions published
therein is governed by sec. 38 of the Evidence Act (see Sarkar, 15th Ed.,
1999, page 1232). (No doubt, there is no similar statute governing the
Supreme Court Reports but sec. 84 would certainly apply). In the 69th Report it was stated in para 39.18 that the words 'any
country' in sec. 84 includes India also. It was also stated that the section
does not require any amendment. We agree. Section 85 : Powers of Attorney are governed by the Powers of Attorney Act, 1882 .
Under sec. 57(6) of the Evidence Act, the Court is bound to take judicial 411 notice of all seals of the functionaries mentioned therein including the seal
of the Notary Public. Under the Notaries Act, 1952 , Notaries Public could
be appointed by the Central Government or the State Government for all
recognized notarial purposes. Section 85 applies to Notaries Public of
foreign countries also (see Jugraj vs. Jaswant : AIR 1971 SC 761 followed in
Abdul Jabbar vs. Second Addl. Judge AIR 1980 All. 369 and N&G Bank vs.
World Science News AIR 1976 Delhi 263. (Sarkar 15th Ed., 1999 page
1234). Notary Public is also mentioned in sec. 78 of the Evidence Act and sec. 33 of the Registration Act, 1908, and sec. 2(21) of the Stamp Act. There are some judgments after 1977 under this section but we do not
propose to refer to them because we are in agreement with the 69th Report
(see para 40.8) that no amendment of sec. 85 is necessary. Sec. 85A to 85C
 Sections 85A to 85C refer to presumptions of electronic records and
digital signatures and were introduced in the year 2000. Sections 85A, 85B,
85C use the words 'shall presume'. These sections require no amendment. Section 86 : It has been held that sec. 86 does not exclude other methods of proof. Section 14 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 lays down that where
a foreign judgment is relied upon, the production of the judgment duly
authenticated, is presumptive evidence that the Court which made it had
competent jurisdiction (Kassim vs. Isaf Md: ILR 29 Cal. 509). We agree with the 69th Report (see para 40.10) that no amendment is
necessary in sec. 86 . Section 87 : It may be noticed that clause (13) of sec. 57 lays down that in all the
cases referred to therein and also on all matters of public history, literature, 413 science or art, the Court may resort for its aid to appropriate books or
documents of reference. Section 36 declares the relevancy of statements of
facts in issue or relevant facts in published maps or charts generally offered
for public sale. This section refers to a presumption that it was written or
published by the person at the time and place, and by the person, as stated in
the section. It must be noted that sec. 87 raises only a presumption of genuineness
but not of accuracy. On the other hand, secs. 83 and 86 also speak of
accuracy. But, under sec. 114 , in cases falling under sec. 87 , accuracy may,
in some cases, be presumed. In the case of maps, charts or plans falling
under sec. 83 , published by Government, accuracy can also be presumed. In the 69th Report, it was suggested (see para 40.17) that two changes
are necessary - (1) add plans, (as in sec. 36 ); (2) that portion relating to
'statement of facts' must be expressed more clearly. Draft of the proposed
amendment was not given. The proposed section 87 would therefore be redrafted as follows: We recommend accordingly. Section 88 : Section 88 allows the Court to make a presumption as stated in the section.
But sec. 88 contains a bar to the making of any presumption as to the person
by whom the message was handed in for transmission or sent, when the
original has not been proved to be in the hand writing of the alleged sender
( Kishore vs. Ganesh : AIR 1954 SC 316) and in the absence of any evidence
that it was sent by him, his denial stands (ibid). Though there is no
presumption under sec. 88 as to the person who delivered the message for
transmission, such proof of authorship may be given by circumstantial
evidence e.g., by the internal evidence afforded by the contents of the
message in the context of the chain of other correspondence (Mobarak vs.
State: AIR 1957 SC 857). Sections 114(e) and sec. 16 are relevant in this
context. The form handed over into the post office by the sender is the
original: Henkel vs. Pape: LR 6 Ex. 7; R vs. Regan : 16 Cox CC 203.
Presumption as to date and hour of sending a telegram are the same as in the
case of letters (Hals, 3rd Ed. Vol. 15, para 73). (Sarkar, 15th Ed., page 1240). Proof of authorship can be established by circumstantial evidence.
(Mrs. Abba vs. Suresh 1984 AIR NOC 131 (Del). In the case of a post
office, there is a presumption that a letter properly directed and posted will
be delivered in due course (British And American Tel. Co. vs. Colson-LR 6
Ex.122). The presumption under this section could be rebutted by producing
messages actually received by the person who wants to rebut the
presumption ( Manchalal vs. Shah Manikchand : AIR 1988 Karn. 221. Section 62 , Expl. (2) and sec. 63(2) are relevant in the context of sec. 88.

 We agree with 69th Report (see para 40.22) that no amendment is
necessary in sec. 88 . Section 88A: The section contains an Explanation as to the meaning of the words
'addressee' and 'originator'. It does not require any amendment. Section 89 : The notice to produce referred to in the section has to be read in conjunction
with sec. 65(a) and sec. 66 . The presumption is of course, rebuttable, though
the Court is initially bound to draw it. The presumption does not extend to
the correctness of contents of the document. The section is founded on the maxim, 'omnia praesumuntur contra
spoliatoren'. It is based on the principle that nobody shall be allowed to take
advantage of his own wrong. A similar principle is laid down in several
English cases (Crisp vs. Anderson: 1 Stark 36; Tay ss 177, 148, where a
document requiring stamps is lost, or not produced upon notice, it will, in
the absence of evidence to the contrary, be presumed to have duly stamped;
but where it is shown to have been unstamped, it will be presumed to have
so continued until the contrary is proved: (Closmadeuc vs. Carrel 18 C.B.
36; Marine Investment Co. vs. Haviside: L.R.5 HL 624; see also Raja of
Bobbili vs. Inuganti : 26 I.A. 262 (P) and Ahmed Raza vs. Saiyid Abid : Once the plaintiff excuses himself from producing on the plea that the
document is not traceable or is lost, the question of giving notice for
production does not arise: Manilal vs. Surat Mun : AIR 1978 Guj 193. In the 69th Report, it was stated that the section does not require any
amendment. We agree. Section 90 : There are three illustrations under sec. 90 . In UP there were two amendments. One in sec. 90 where, after
renumbering the existing section as clause (1), reducing 30 years to 20 years
and clause (2) was added to sec. 90 and it referred to a certified copy of the
original which was produced, the original having been registered, and the
same presumption as to handwriting of the person, execution, attestation as
applicable to the original under sub-section (1) was applicable to the original
of the certified copy of the registered document. In addition, sec. 90A was added and clause (1) thereof refers to a
registered document or a duly certified copy thereof or any certified copy of
a document which is part of the record of a Court of Justice. Here, there is
no need that the original is to be 20 years old. Here when such copies are 419 produced, the court may presume that the original was executed by the
person by whom it purports to have been executed. There is no presumption
as to handwriting or as to attestation. Clause (2) of sec. 90A says that the
presumption under sec. 90A(1) shall not apply in respect of any document
which is the basis of a suit or of a defence or is relied upon in the plaint or
written statement. I(a) In the 69th Report, the reduction of the period from 30 years in sec. 90 to 20 years and the presumption introduced by adding clause (2) to sec. 90 in
respect of certified copies of registered documents 20 years old, was
recommended if the registration of the original was 20 years or more than 20
years by the date of production of the copy in the Court. We agree that an amendment in sec. 90 as done in UP should be
introduced. In England by sec. 4 of the Evidence Act, 1938, the period for
presumption of 'ancient documents' was reduced to 20 years. Initially, the
period was 40 years (see Gilbert, Evidence 1st Ed. p. 102). In R vs.
Farrington (1788) 2 T.R.466, it was reduced to 30 years and in 1938 to 20
years. The rule is based on difficulty of producing witnesses connected with
ancient documents. According to Halsbury's Laws of England, 4th Ed., (Vol.17, para 129)
such ancient documents prove themselves notwithstanding the fact that one
of the subscribing witnesses is alive. In as much section 90 uses the words 'may presume', it has been held
that in case the executant or attesting witnesses are alive and available, the
Court can insist on proof by witnesses rather than draw the presumption
under sec. 90 . Similarly, if the executant or attesting witness are dead, the
Court can consider whether the document can be proved by the procedure in sec. 69 before raising a presumption under sec. 90 ( Haradhan Mahatha vs.
Dukhu Mahatha : AIR 1993 Pat. 129). See also D. Ramanatha Gupta vs. S.
Razack AIR 1982 Karn. 314. If the document is not proved to be 30 years
old, the presumption cannot be drawn ( State of Karnataka vs. Veeranagouda : We shall briefly refer to the facts in Ram Jos' case (1980) decided by
the Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court. In that case, a certified copy of
a registered will was pressed in evidence and it was the basis of the suit.
The original document which was registered was more than 20 years old.
The document being a certified copy did not fall under sec. 90(1) but fell
under sec. 90(2) as amended in UP and was admissible for the purpose of
raising a presumption under that sub-section. But then it was argued that
sec. 90A was also applicable because sec. 90A was applicable to certified
copies whether they were copies of originals registered more than 20 years 423 old or not. If it could also fall under sec. 90A, then under sec. 90A(2) it
would not be admissible if the document was the basis of the suit or defence.
The Full Bench held that sec. 90 and sec. 90A, both as amended in UP were
independent of each other and if a certified copy of a registered document
(the original being 20 years old or more than 20 years old) was admissible
under sec. 90(2) and a Court could raise a presumption, the fact that it was
the basis of the suit or defence was immaterial. In other words, sec. 90A(2)
would be applicable only if the document was less than 20 years old or
rather sec. 90A(2) would not have any impact on sec. 90(2) . In para 41.28 of the 69th Report, reference was made to the
observations of the Commission in the 14th Report Vol.1, page 518 (para 9),
and first sub paragraph, and page 519, para 10. The 69th Report, as already stated, finally recommended (para 41.31)
that the existing provision of sec. 90 should be sub section (1) of sec. 90 and
that subsection (2) be added to sec. 90 as in UP so as to allow a presumption
to be raised in respect of certified copies of such documents. Now, if a document which in UP is more than 20 years old was
registered in accordance with the law relating to registration, the Registrar
would have made an endorsement on the document regarding the due
execution of the document by the executant at the time the document
purports to have been executed. If years later, before a suit or written
statement is filed, a party wants to rely on the document which is more than
20 years old by obtaining, even a recent certified copy thereof, then that
certified copy will reproduce the endorsement made by the Registrar and 424 that endorsement would raise a presumption under sec. 90(2) of the
'signature and every other part of such document which purports to be in the
handwriting of any particular person, is in that person's handwriting and in
the case of a document executed or attested, that it was duly executed and
attested'. Thus, a certified copy of an original 20 years or more than 20
years old would now fall only under sec. 90(2) and a presumption as to
execution, handwriting and attestation could all be made under sec. 90(2) . It
would not be hit by sec. 90A(2) which says that if the certified copy is the
basis of the suit, the presumption is not available. In fact, section 90A of UP was intended to cover cases of certified
copies of original documents which were registered and the execution of the
original was on a date less than 20 years by the date of production of the
certified copies in the Court. Here the presumption is restricted only to
'execution by the person' and the presumption is not available if the
document is the basis of the suit or defence. The 69th Report also recommended a provision like sec. 90A(1)(2) of
the UP amendment (see para 41.32 to 41.38) but with some slight changes
we shall now refer to them. The little modification was that with regard to certified copies
'judicial records' referred to in sec. 90A(1), the presumption should be
confined to (see para 41.38) (a) registered document, (b) documents
adjudged to be genuine in an earlier case. In our view while proposing section 90A, which corresponds to the
UP sec. 90A, we shall keep in mind (1) the point decided by the Allahabad
Full Bench in Ram Jos case AIR 1980 All 385 (FB) and the suggestion in
para 41.38 of the 69th Report, referred to above. Section 90A, under the UP
Act applies to "any registered document, or duly certified copy thereof or to
any certified copy of a document which is part of the record of a court of
justice". So far as the 'duly certified copy thereof 'is concerned it is the one
which is issued by the registration authority. So far as the 'any certified
copy of a document which is part of the record of a court' is concerned, if
the document filed into court was in itself a document in original which is
registered, the court would be giving a certified copy of an original
document which is registered and its execution by that person can be
presumed. So far as the other original documents are concerned, if the court
gives a certified copy its genuineness can be presumed only, if such
genuineness was adjudged in a previous case. This is because, it is customary for some parties to file a forged
document in (say) a proceeding under the Tenancy Laws, take a certified
copy from the Court, and file the copy in the Civil Court. Such certified
copies cannot raise a presumption of genuineness unless genuineness was
decided by the Tenancy Court. Section 90A of the UP Amendment refers to 'proper custody' and in
so far as the said words qualify 'registered document', there is good reason
but the 'proper custody' principle has been applied even to a 'duly certified
copy thereof or any certified copy of a document which is part of the record
of a Court of Justice'. This latter qualification is, in our view, not warranted 426 because the certified copy from the Registrar's office or from the court
records may even be a recent one obtained just before the present suit
 We accept these recommendations and suggestions. We propose
renumbering section 90 as section 90(1) and insert subsection (2) as done
under the UP Act, 1954 . We add a separate section 90A as under the UP Act of 1954. Section 90 applies to documents which are 20 years old or more.
Section 90A applies to certain documents less than 20 year's old. We recommend the following revised sec. 90 and 90A. Presumption as to certain documents 20 years old

 "90(1) Where any document, purporting or proved to be twenty years
 old, is produced from any custody which the Court in the particular
 case considers proper, the Court may presume that the signature and
 every other part of such document, which purports to be in the
 handwriting of any particular person, is in that person's handwriting,
 and, in the case of a document executed or attested, that it was duly
 executed and attested by the person by whom it purports to be
 executed or attested. (2) Where any such document as is referred to in subsection (1) was
 registered in accordance with the law relating to registration of
 documents and a duly certified copy thereof is produced, the Court
 may presume that the signature and every other part of such document
 which purports to be in the handwriting of any particular person, is in
 that person's handwriting and in the case of a document executed or
 attested, that it was duly executed and attested by the person by whom
 it purports to have been executed or attested. Explanation: Documents referred to in sub-section (1) are said to be in
 proper custody if they are in the place in which, and under the care of
 the person with whom they would naturally be, but no custody is
 improper if it is proved to have had a legitimate origin, or if the 427 circumstances of the particular case are such as to render such an
 origin probable. This explanation applies also to section 81 and clause (a) of section
 90A. Illustrations (a) A, has been in possession of landed property for a long
 time. He produced from his custody deeds relating to the
 land, showing him titles to it. The custody is proper. (b) A produces deeds relating to landed property of which he
 is the mortgagee. The mortgagor is in possession. The
 custody is proper. (c) A, a connection of B, produces deeds relating to lands in
 B's possession, which were deposited with him by B for
 safe custody. The custody is proper. Presumption as to certain documents less than 20 years old

 90A Where - (a) any document registered in accordance with the law relating to
 registration of documents is produced from any custody which
 the Court in the particular case considers proper, and which
 registered document is less than twenty years old; or (b) a duly certified copy of a document registered in accordance
 with the law relating to registration of documents, the original
 of which is less than twenty years old, is produced; or 428 (c) a duly certified copy of a document which is part of the record
 of a Court of justice, the original of which has been proved to
 be genuine in the earlier case and the original of which is less
 than twenty years old, is produced,

 the registered document mentioned in clause (a) or the originals of the
 documents referred to in clauses (b) or (c) may be presumed by the
 Court to have been executed by the person by whom it purports to
 have been executed: But it was stated that section 91 and the next section i.e. sec. 92 are
complementary to each other. In the discussion under sec. 92 , some
amendments were suggested (see paras 43.18 and 48.20). As the two sections are complementary, it would be necessary to refer
to sec. 91 and its main scheme. Section 91 reads as follows: It bears the
heading

 "Evidence of terms of contracts, grants and other dispositions of
 property reduced to the form of a document" Illustrations and their purport (a) If a contract be contained in several letters, all the letter in which it
 is contained must be proved (This illustrates the first Explanation). (b) If a contract is contained in a bill of exchange, the bill of exchange
 must be proved (This illustrates the main paragraph). (c) If a bill of exchange is drawn in a set of three, one only need to be
 proved (This illustrates the second Explanation). (d) A contract, in writing, with B, for the delivery of indigo upon
 certain terms. The contract mentions the fact that B had paid A the
 price of other indigo contracted for verbally on another occasion. Oral evidence is offered that no payment was made for the other
 indigo. The evidence is admissible (This illustrates the third
 Explanation). (e) A gives B a receipt for money paid by B. Oral evidence is offered
 for the payment. The evidence is admissible. (This also illustrates
 the third Explanation). This section refers to the 'primary evidence rule' and the 'secondary
evidence rule' and applies to two types of documents: In these cases, the primary document must be produced; or secondary
evidence of its contents may be adduced in cases in which secondary
evidence is admissible under the provisions of the Act ( sections 65 , 66 ). Apart from the two exceptions, Explanation 3 also provides for
another exception - where a document in writing is not of a fact in issue and
is merely used as evidence to prove some fact, oral evidence aliunde is 432 admissible such as where the payment of money may be proved by oral
evidence although a receipt was granted. There is a huge body of case law of the Privy Council, Supreme Court
and the High Courts. Sarkar (Evidence, 15th Ed., 1999) discusses the case
law from page 1267 to page 1305 and refers to the English cases also. The
author also refers to the case law subsequent to the 69th Report of the Law
Commission. We have examined the case law referred to in Sarkar and in
other treatises. Vepa Sarathi in his Evidence (5th Ed., 2002)(at p.299) has referred to
the Supreme Court judgments arising under sec. 91 and we shall just give a
list of these cases, those before and after 1977 but do not propose to discuss
the case law as in our opinion, sec. 91 does not require any amendment. The
cases decided by the Supreme Court may be stated as follows: Proviso (1) - Any fact may be proved which would invalidate any
document, or which would entitle any person to any decree or order
relating thereto; such as fraud, intimidation, illegality, want of due
execution, want of capacity in any contracting party, want or failure of
consideration, or mistake in fact or law. Proviso (2) - The existence of any separate oral agreement as to any
matter on which a document is silent, and which is not inconsistent
with its terms, may be proved. In considering whether or not this
proviso applies, the Court shall have regard to the degree of formality
of the document. Proviso (3) - The existence of any separate oral agreement,
constituting a condition precedent to the attaching of any obligation
under any such contract, grant or disposition of property, may be
proved. Proviso (4) - The existence of any distinct subsequent oral agreement
to rescind or modify any such contact, grant or disposition of
property, may be proved, except in cases in which such contract, grant
or disposition of property is by law required to be in writing, or has
been registered according to the law in force for the time being as to
the registration of documents. Proviso (5) - Any usage or custom by which incidents not expressly
 mentioned in any contract are usually annexed to contracts of that
 description, may be proved. Provided that the annexing of such incident would not be
 repugnant to, or inconsistent with, the express terms of the contract. Proviso (6) - Any fact may be proved which shows in what manner
 the language of a document is related to existing facts. (There are ten illustrations (a) to (j) below sec. 92 ). Under sec. 91 , when the terms of any transaction have been reduced to
writing, they must be proved by the production of the document unless
grounds are made out for reception of secondary evidence. In other words
'no substitution' of the terms of a transaction is permitted under sec. 91 .
Under sec. 92 , no variation of the terms shall be allowed. Thus sec. 92 is a
logical corollary to sec. 91 . The application of sec. 92 is confined to the parties to the document
unlike sec. 91 which is applicable to all persons whether they are parties to
the document or not. There is again vast case law under sec. 92 . Sarkar (Evidence, 15th Ed.,
1999) deals with sec. 92 from pages 1309 to 1405 (nearly 96 pages). There
are number of judgments of the Privy Council, Supreme Court and High
Court judgments on various aspects of sec. 92 . The 69th Report considered that the main part of the section requires
some re-drafting. It also dealt with the aspect as to the difference between
the earlier part and the latter part of the main section, namely that the earlier
part refers to 'contracts, grant or other disposition of property' which are
between one or more parties; and the prohibition that no evidence of any oral
agreement or statement at variance with the document refers to transactions,
between parties to any such instrument or their representative. One view is
that the latter part is also confined to bilateral documents and does not apply
to unilateral documents such as (i) confessional statement of the accused (ii)
statements of witnesses (iii) other court proceedings (apart from decrees);
and (iv) resolutions of companies when required to be in writing (see para
43.19 of 69th Report). (So far as variation of a decree is concerned, the 69th
Report stated in para 43.22 that this is a matter of procedure and not of
evidence. A decree cannot be varied by parties privately except through the
court. So far as executing Court is concerned, Order 21 Rule 2 of the Code
of Civil Procedure , 1908, states very clearly, the procedure for recognition
of variations. Hence, decrees need not be protected by sec. 92 ). So far as unilateral documents of the type referred to above , it is
obvious that sec. 92 does not apply and hence oral evidence to vary the
document is permissible. Such a view, according to the 69th Report, cannot
be accepted and may be corrected by stating that the prohibition against
adding oral evidence to vary a document should extend even to unilateral
documents. The 69th Report referred to conflicting views of various High Courts
and finally to the observations of the Supreme Court in Bai Hira Bai Devi
vs. Official Assignee, Bombay : AIR 1958 SC 448. In that case the Official
Assignee moved the Insolvency Court under sec. 55 of the Presidency
Towns Insolvency Act, for a declaration that a deed of gift executed by the
insolvent in favour of his wife and sons (appellants) was void, as one
without consideration. It was held that it was open to the appellants (the
wife and sons) to lead oral evidence to show that the transactions evidenced
by the deed was, in reality, not a 'gift' but a 'transfer for consideration' and
that as the dispute did not arise between parties to the transaction but arose
between the wife and sons of the transferor and a third party, (the Official
Assignee) oral evidence was admissible to show that the deed was not a gift
but one for consideration and therefore a transfer for consideration. In that
event, it would be a valid document which could not be avoided by the
Official Assignee. In that context, the Supreme Court said that the
prohibition in the latter part of sec. 92 was confined to issues between the
parties to the document or their representatives and not if the issue as to
varying the terms of the document arose between a party to the document
and a non-party. It also referred to sec. 99 of the Evidence Act which
expressly enables persons not parties to the document to give evidence
varying the terms of document. The 69th Report does not suggest that the effect of the above judgment
in Bai Hira Bai has to be corrected. It refers to that judgment only to show
that, according to the Supreme Court, both the first and latter part of sec. 92 apply to transactions between parties to the document. From that it follows
that sec. 92, as it stands now, does not apply to unilateral documents such as 438 (i) confessions of the accused (ii) statements of witnesses, and (iii) Court
proceedings (other than decrees or judgments), (iv) resolutions of companies
when required to be in writing. It is obvious that such documents, though unilateral, cannot be
allowed to be varied or modified by oral evidence. Sarkar points out (15th
Ed., 1999, pages 1312 and 1316) that for example, as the section now stands,
the facts stated in a 'deposition' can be allowed to be contradicted by oral
evidence because sec. 92 applies only as between parties to a document.
The author says that the 'rules as to admissibility of extrinsic evidence to
contradict depositions, appears to be otherwise in England. There, the same
rule of exclusion of extrinsic evidence applies to the statutory deposition of a
witness in a civil or criminal proceeding, and the statutory examination of a
prisoner, neither of which can be contradicted or varied by extrinsic
evidence (Phipson 11th Ed. p 788)". In the 15th Ed. of Phipson (see para
42.17) it is stated that the 'same rule applies to the statutory deposition of a
witness in a civil or criminal proceeding which cannot be contradicted, or
varied by extrinsic evidence. (Of course, a view was expressed that parol
evidence to add something to a deposition could be permissible) (see Leach
vs. Simpson: 5 M&W. 309); (Sidney Bolsom Investment Trust Ltd. vs. E.
Karmios & Co.Ltd. 1956(1) QB 529 (although it would not be possible to
give extrinsic evidence by way of addition or contradiction when the
deposition is used in the absence of the witness, since the statutory
conditions as to admissibility are not fulfilled). Some views are also
expressed in para 42.04 in regard to deposition that they could be varied by
leading oral evidence (Leach vs. Simpson: 5 M&W 309). (A) Therefore, in the light of the above discussion, the main part of sec. 92
requires (a) some redrafting so far as bilateral transactions are concerned and (b) provision to prohibit oral evidence to vary unilateral transactions are
concerned, must be inserted. This is precisely what was recommended in
para 43.18 and para 43.20 of the 69th Report. In the main part of sec. 92 , it was recommended, that it be split up as
follows into sec. 92(1)(a) and (b) in regard to documents 'between parties',
clause (a) referring to contract, grant or other disposition of property and
clause (b) referring to documents in which the matter required by law to be
reduced to the form of a document is recorded. Sec. 92(2) is to be added to
cover matters required to be reduced to the form of a document and not
constituting a transaction between two or more parties'. We recommend the format proposed in para 43.18 of the 69th Report
regarding the amendment in the opening paragraph of section 92 . We
further recommend that for exclusion of oral evidence in the case of certain
unilateral documents, besides the format of provision given in para 43.20 of
the 69th report, the following words should be added "such as confessions of
the accused, statements of witnesses, court proceedings other than
judgments, decrees or orders, resolution of a company required to be in
writing". But instead of bringing it in subsection (2) of section 92 as
proposed in the 69th report (para 43.20), we recommend that this should be
brought out in a new section 92A. We recommend the following draft of amendment in the opening
paragraph of section 92 and insertion of a new section 92A :- Exclusion of oral evidence in the case of certain unilateral
documents

92A. When any matter required by law to be reduced to the form of a
document, and not constituting a transaction between parties, such as
a confession of an accused, the statement of a witness, a court
proceeding (other than judgments, decree or order), a resolution of a
company required to be in writing, has been so reduced to writing and
proved according to section 91 , no evidence of any oral statement
shall be admitted for the purpose of contradicting, varying, adding to,
or subtracting from the contents of the document." (B) We shall next deal with the six provisos to sec. 92 . The 69th Report
divides the discussion here into (a) the first five provisos and (b) the sixth
proviso. For convenience, we shall follow the same method. proof of a fact which would invalidate any document, or which would entitle
any person to any decree or order relating thereto; such as fraud,
intimidation, illegality, want of execution, want of capacity and any
contracting party, want or failure of consideration, or mistake of law or fact.
Illustration (e) is in point. So far as mistakes are concerned, sec. 31 of the Specific Relief Act,
1877 or now sec. 26 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 also permits mistakes
to be corrected by way of 'rectification'. The proviso is, however, not
limited in its application to suits for rectification of instruments ( Mahendra
vs. Jogendra : 2 CWN 260; Rajaram vs. Manik: AIR 1952 Nag. 90). In fact,
mistake of fact can be pleaded in defence also. Unilateral mistake (not amounting to fraud, legal or equitable) is not a
ground for rectification and does not, therefore, if proved, entitle the party
alleging it to a decree or order rectifying or cancelling the document (United
State vs. Motor Trucks Ltd. 1924 A.C. 200). But when a mistake is
common to all parties, evidence would be admissible, under proviso (1), to
found a claim for the rectification of the document ( Janardan vs. Venkatesh : There are two illustrations below sec. 93 . This section does not affect any of the provisions of the Indian
Succession Act, 1925 as to construction of wills, contained in sections 74 to 111 of that Act. Section 93 refers to ambiguity or defect 'on its face'. This is known
as 'patent ambiguity' as distinct from 'latent ambiguity. Latent ambiguities
are referred to in sections 95 , 96 and 97 . Illustration (b) refers to a document the language of which is so vague
or defective on its face as to convey no meaning and illustration (b) refers to
inherent ambiguity leading to mere speculation as to intention. Extrinsic
evidence is not admissible to explain 'patent' ambiguity. Under sec. 29 of the Contract Act too, agreements, the meaning of
which is not certain or capable of being made certain, are void. In Keshavlal vs. Lalbhai AIR 1958 SC 512, it was held that if, on a
fair construction, the condition mentioned in the document appears to be
vague or uncertain, no evidence can be admitted to remove the said evidence
or ambiguity. In the 69th Report, it was stated (see para 44.21) that sec. 93 does not
require any change. We agree. Section 94 : This section does not refer to any patent or latent ambiguity. It says
that if the language is crystal clear, and applies correctly or definitely to
existing facts, no evidence can be allowed to say that the parties intended to
mean something else. We agree with para 44.3 of the 69th Report that sec. 94 does not
require any change. Section 95 : There is an illustration below sec. 95 . It reads as follows: This section refers to 'latent ambiguity' of a particular type as explained in sec. 93 . Sections 96 and 97 also deal with latent ambiguities. Section 95 has to be read with sec. 97 which refers to 'language', which applies to two
sets of facts. These three sections 95 , 96 and 97 are based on the maxim: 'Veritas
nominis tollit errorem demonstrationem: nihil facit error nominis cum de
corpore constat; falsa demonstratio non nocet cum de corpore constat' - A
false description does not vitiate a document. Errors in survey numbers can be disregarded by relying upon the
boundaries of the property covered by a document. In para 44.4 of the 69th Report, it was stated that this section does not
require any amendment. We agree. Section 96 : There are two illustrations below sec. 96 . This section also deals with latent ambiguities. This is called
'interpreting an equivocation'. Illustrations (a) and (b) of the section bring about the meaning of the
section. They are as follows: Questions have arisen whether (a) 'blank space in a document can be
filled by extrinsic evidence. Decided cases show that if the document is 450 incomplete and does not disclose its intention or is blank on essentials, no
extrinsic evidence is permissible (see Sarkar 15th Ed 1999 p. 1429). We agree with the 69th Report, para 44.6 that the section does not
require any amendment. Section 97 : The illustration below sec. 97 reads as follows: We agree with para 44.10 of the 69th Report that sec. 97 does not require any
amendment. Section 98 : Illustration below sec. 98 reads thus: There is an illustration below sec. 99 . It reads as follows: In the 69th Report, three aspects are considered and three amendments
suggested to sec. 99 . The first one is that the section enabling extrinsic
evidence must apply where both parties in a case are strangers to a document
or one party is a stranger. Secondly, the section permits evidence to 'vary'.
The word, 'contradict, add to or subtract', which are used in other sections
must also be added. Thirdly, so far as where third parties to the document
are involved, there must be an exception, as in England. The Commission
accepted the suggestion in Cross on Evidence, 1974, page 540, that
'contradiction by oral evidence should not be permitted, even between
strangers', if the matter is required by law to be reduced to writing'. We agree with the above proposals and revised draft from para 44.27
of the 69th Report with slight modification as follows:- In the 69th Report pointed that the words "Indian Succession Act, 1865 (10
of 1865)" be substituted by the words " Indian Succession Act, 1925 " We
agree. Sections 101 to 167 : Chapter IX (Of Witnesses) (sec 118 to 134); Chapter X (Of the examination
of witness) ( sec. 135 to 166 ); and Chapter XI (Of improper admission and
rejection of evidence) ( sec. 167 ). We shall take up section 101 in Chapter VII relating to Burden of
Proof. Section 101 : bears the heading 'Burden of Proof'. It reads as follows: There are two illustrations below sec. 101 . In the 69th Report, in Chapter 45, the Commission considered section
101 and came to the conclusion that no amendments are called for so far as sec. 101 is concerned (see para 45.18). But, the Commission referred to the broad principle in civil cases
relating to the burden of 'establishing a case' or the 'legal burden (or 455 persuasive burden', which never shifts and the 'evidentiary burden' which
shifts during the trial from one side to the other. In a criminal case, the
burden is always on the prosecution to prove that the accused is guilty,
though there may be special statutes requiring the accused to prove certain
facts whenever the prosecution has proved certain other facts. These principles being well known and basic, we do not propose to
refer to the case law relating to burden on the basis of the pleadings and the
evidential burden. We shall proceed to refer to the other sections in this
Chapter VII. We agree with the 69th Report that no amendment is necessary in this
section. Section 102 : "102. The burden of proof in a suit or proceeding lies on that person
 who would fail if no evidence at all were given on either side." There are two illustrations below sec. 102 . The section again lays down an elementary proposition and we agree
with 69th Report (see para 45.19) that sec. 102 does not require any
amendment. Section 103 : "103. The burden of proof as to any particular fact lies on that person
 who wishes the Court to believe in its existence, unless it is provided
 by any law that the proof of that fact shall lie on any particular
 person." There is one illustration but is designated (a). (There is no illustration (b).)
It states that if A alleges that B committed theft, A has to prove the fact.
But, if B raises a plea of alibi; he has to prove it. The section does not require any amendment. But in the illustration,
the brackets and letter "(a)" can be dropped. It is recommended
accordingly. Section 104 : "104. The burden of proving any fact necessary to be proved in order
 to enable any person to give evidence of any other fact is on the
 person who wishes to give such evidence." There are two illustrations (a) and (b) below sec. 104 . They read as
follows: In the 69th Report, in para 45.22, it was recommended that no change is
necessary in sec. 104 and we agree with that recommendation. Section 105 : "105. When a person is accused of any offence, the burden of proving
 the existence of circumstances bringing the case within any of the
 General Exception in the Indian Penal Code (XLV of 1860), or within
 any special exception or proviso contained in any other part of the
 same Code, or in any law defining the offence, is upon him, and the
 Court shall presume the absence of such circumstances." There are three illustrations below section 105 . They read as follows: The burden of proof is on A. (b) A, accused of murder, alleges that, by grave and sudden provocation,
he was deprived of the power of self-control. The burden of proof is on A. (c) Section 325 of the Indian Penal Code (XLV of 1860) provides that
whoever, except in the case provided for by sec. 335, voluntarily causes
grievous hurt, shall be subject to certain punishments. A is charged with voluntarily causing grievous hurt under sec. 325.
The burden of proving the circumstances bringing the case under sec. 335
lies on A". Case law lays down the following principles. (1) The law under sec. 105 settled by the decision of the Supreme
Court in Dahyabhai vs. State of Gujarat : AIR 1964 SC 1563. The decision
points out that the burden of proof is on the prosecution to prove the guilt of
the accused (Woolmington vs. D.P.P. 1935 AC 462); (2) But, where the
accused pleads any special defences open to him, the burden lies on the
accused and he can prove the defence by 'preponderance of probabilities' (as
in civil cases) and need not prove his defence beyond reasonable doubt; (3) 459 he can rely on oral or documentary evidence, presumption or admissions or
even on prosecution evidence if it satisfies the tests of a 'prudent man'; (4)
the evidence so placed by the accused even if it is not sufficient to discharge
the burden placed on him under sec. 105 , if it raises a reasonable doubt in
the mind of the Judge as regards one or other of the necessary ingredients of
the offence itself, it is sufficient for him. The proposition (4) was reiterated
in Yogendra Morarji vs. State of Gujarat : AIR 1980 SC 660 and in Periasami vs. State of T.N. : 1996(6) SCC 457 where the above rulings were
followed. While on the question of burden of proof in criminal matters, cases of
pleas of 'insanity' have received special consideration. In the 69th Report
(see paras 46.14 to 46.17) reference was made to McNaughten's case (1843)
10 cl. & Fn 200 and the McNaughten Rules which came to be formulated on
the basis of that case and from latter cases. While the English law is that the burden to prove insanity would
remain on the defence on basis of balance of probabilities, reference was
made in the 69th Report to the law in most States in the United States, to
place the burden on the prosecution to prove 'absence of insanity', quoting
Glueck, Mental disorder as a Defence in Criminal Law p.41. That was also
adopted in a draft Model Penal Code in 1948 (See Grunhut, p. 436). That
too is the rule on the Continent (See Peter Clark, 'The Insanity Defence in
Pennsylvania (Fall 1971) 45. Temple Law Quarterly, 63). It is stated (see
para 46.10) in the 69th Report that in one half of the States in USA, the
burden is placed on the prosecution to prove defendant's 'sanity', beyond
reasonable doubt, while the other half (including Pennsylvania), require the 460 defendant to prove 'insanity'. It is said the recent trend is in favour of the
former (Quoting, Weihofenon Mental Disorder as a Criminal Defence, 1954,
pp 212-13, 238 and McCormick, Evidence, sec. 321). Reference was made
to Davis vs. United States: (1959) US 469 & other cases and In re Winship
(1970) 397 US 358. In para 46.18, the 69th Report noticed that in Australia the burden of
proving insanity is on the accused and he can do so by establishing a balance
of probability and the view of the Australian High Court in Sodeman vs. R
(1936) 55. C.L.R. 192 (228) was affirmed by the Privy Council in R vs.
Sodeman 1936 (2) All ER 1138 (PC). English law continues also to be the same - see R vs. Carr-Briant: We may refer to more literature on the subject: (iii) T.H. Jones: 'Insanity and the Burden of Proof on the accused: A
 Human Rights Approach' in the book 'Proceedings of the First
 World Conference on New Trends in Criminal Investigation and
 Evidence (1997). The above articles are referred in the book on Evidence (Texts and
Materials) by Andrew Choo, 1998 (pp. 42-43). The author also states as follows: "The Supreme Court of Canada has
been confronted with the issue of whether the presumption of sanity
embodied in the Canadian Criminal Code violated the presumption of
innocence guaranteed in the Canadian Charter of Freedom. The majority of
the Supreme Court held that it did, but that the placing of the legal burden on
the accused constituted a reasonable limit within the meaning of sec. 1 of the
Charter." The author also states (p.43) that 'where an accused charged with the
murder raises the defence either of insanity or of diminished responsibility,
sec. 6 of the Criminal Procedure (Insanity) Act, 1964 of UK permits the
prosecutor to adduce evidence to prove the other evidence. In this situation
the legal burden of proof falls on the prosecutor. In a similar vein, sec. 4 of
the same Act allows the issue of unfitness to plead and stand trial to be
raised by the defence or by the prosecutor, and where raised by the
prosecutor, the legal burden of proving the issue falls on the prosecution. ( R
vs, Robertson ) 1968(1) WLR 1767. The author also refers to 'The Presumption of Innocence in English
Criminal Law' by A. Ashworth and M. Blake 1(1996) Criminal Law Review
306 (315). Phipson (1999, 15th Ed., para 4.07) says that where the accused raises
a plea of insanity in defence, the persuasive burden lies on him to prove
insanity. (refer to McNaughten's case, Woolmington case, Sodeman vs. R
and R v. Carr-Briant already referred to by us)

 The author says (para 4.08) that there are cases in which both insanity
and the defences such as diminished responsibility are raised (Bratty vs.
A.G. (Northern Ireland) 1963. A.C. 386 (Automatism). Thus when the
defendant raises the issue of either insanity or diminished responsibility on a
charge of murder, the prosecution is allowed to adduce evidence to prove the
other of those issues." ( R vs. Grant (1960) Crl.L. R 424. Whatever be the position elsewhere, the law in India continues to be
what the Supreme Court laid down in 1964 in Dahyabhai 's case and it
continues to be good law today as declared in Periasami vs. State of TN 1996(6) SCC 457. Dahyabhai was applied in State of HP vs. Gian Chand 2001(6) SCC 71 at p 83; Laxman vs. State of Karnataka . The 69th Report drafted a special provision in regard to insanity
defence (see para 46.35) not to reverse the law in Dahyabai but only to
reaffirm that the burden lies on the accused and he could discharge it "if
there is evidence of any fact creating a reasonable doubt about the sanity of
the accused". But, later in para 46.36, the Commission did not proceed
further as some of the then Members felt that even this limited relaxation
may affect the operation of sec. 105 in case of other defences. Having examined the matter in depth, we agree that it is not desirable
to make any relaxation so far as the defence of insanity is concerned and we
agree with the 69th Report that no amendment is called for. Section 106 : There are two illustrations below sec. 106 . These are as follows: The word 'especially' indicates that the person who has the
knowledge of a fact is expected by the law, to discharge the burden. The
Supreme Court cautioned in Shambu Nath vs. State of Ajmer : AIR 1956 SC
404 which was a case of an accused having travelled in second class in a
train without paying the fare that 'an illustration does not exhaust the full
content of the section which it illustrates but equally it can neither curtail nor
expand its ambit'. The Court pointed out that ill. (b) is a special situation 464 because railways will find it impossible where a passenger has started his
journey or what is his destination. The Supreme Court pointed out that this
section cannot be applied to an accused guilty of murder on the plea that if
he had murdered, he must know more. That would amount to first
presuming that he is the murderer. It must be a special case, the word
'especially' is important. The section has been considered by the Supreme
Court in a large number of cases after 1956, the latest being Vishal vs.
Veerasamy: 1991(2)SCC 375; Jawaharlal Vadi vs. State of J&K: 1993 (2)
SC 381; Balram vs. State of Bihar : 1997 (9) SCC 338; Sanjay Kumar Bajpai
vs. Union of India : 1997(10) SCC 312. The Privy Council pointed out in
Seniviratne vs. R : AIR 1938 PC 289 that the section does not cast the
burden of proving innocence on the accused. In England, quite recently, the right to 'silence' of the accused has
been restricted by sections 34, 36 and 37 of the Criminal Justice and Public
Order Act, 1994, whereby if the suspect or the accused does not, after
certain facts are proved, answer when he is reasonably expected to speak,
the Court may draw such inference from such failure as it may appear
reasonable. The judgment of the European Court in Murray vs. UK 1996
Vol. 22, EHRR 29, however, permitted such an inference only if the suspect
or accused, if he had been told of his right to the presence of a lawyer at the
time of interrogation. Or else, Art. 6 of the European Convention could be
said to have been violated. This led to insertion of such a requirement in
these three sections by sec. 58 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence
Act, 1999. In another case Condron vs. UK: (2001) 31 EHRR 1, in the year
2001 before the European Court, it re-affirmed this view but it referred to 465 the answer of the suspect/accused and to the advise of his lawyer. See also
Averill vs. UK (2001) 31 EHRR 839. A lawyer might advise his client to remain silent. Even if the lawyer's
advice was wrong, the accused would suffer. There is a lot of criticism of
this procedure in UK for requiring the accused and his lawyer to give
evidence. This could, in India violate the guarantee in Art. 20(3) of our
Constitution against self-incrimination. Recently, the Australian Law
Commission has refused to adopt the English amendments. All these aspects have been referred to in the Report given recently in
(our Report No. 180) on Right to Silence wherein it was recommended that
in our country, the right to silence cannot be diluted. The Irish Law Commission has recently given a Report [Report of the
Committee to Review the Offences Against the State Act, 1939-1988, May
2002] and chapter 8 thereof deals with the Right to Silence. After pointing
out various difficulties that are being faced by courts in Ireland, consequent
to dilution of the right to silence, the Commission also referred to the two
recent cases of the European Court in Condron v. UK (2001) 31 EHRR 1
and Averill v. UK (2001) 31 EHRR 839 and held that for want of
compliance by the police of the condition of informing the accused of his
right to call for a lawyer, the accused in the aforementioned cases have to be
acquitted. We agree with para 47.28 of the 69th Report that sec. 106 does not
require any amendment. Section 107 : This section is based upon the principle of the continuance of things in the
state in which they have once existed, as stated in sec. 114 , illustration (d).
As pointed in para 48.5 of the 69th Report and para 6.18 of Phipson (15th Ed.,
1999), in England, the law is the same but is not treated as a presumption of
'law'. The 69th Report also pointed out in para 48.6 and 48.7 that there is no
need to reduce the period. The longer the period, the lesser the strength of
the presumption. Though there is a presumption of continuance of life, the law ought
not to assume that which, in view of the usual duration of human life, is
practically impossible. (Spring vs. Moale: 92. Am Dec. 698; Taylors 2000,
Sarkar 15th Ed., 1999 page 1555). In the 69th Report, reference was made to
a suggestion in a judgment of the Mysore High Court in Shankarappa vs.
Shivarudrappa AIR 1963 Mys. 115 for deletion of sec. 107 in as much as in
an age of aeroplanes and sputniks, death can take place at an unknown place
and under unidentifiable circumstances. The Commission observed in para
48.9 that even so, it is difficult for ordinary men not to believe that a person
who was earlier alive is not alive. But in para 48.10, the Commission recommended addition of a
proviso giving a discretion to the Court where it appeared to the Court likely
that the person concerned was involved in an accident or calamity. The
proviso below sec. 107 as recommended in para 48.11 of the 69th Report
reads as follows: We may, in this context refer to the combined discussion on sec. 107 (Continuance of life within 30 years) and sec. 108 (presumption of death if a
person is not heard for seven years), in Sarkar 15th Ed., 1999, page 1555: the
learned author echoes the same idea propounded in the 69th Report: In fact, sec. 108 is also a proviso to sec. 107 . It has been held that it is
erroneous to seek to apply both sec. 107 and 108 to one and the same case,
in the same way as a person cannot, at the same time, both be alive and dead. Section 108 comes as a proviso to sec. 107 : To a case where the proviso
(i.e. sec. 108 ) is attached, sec. 107 can have no application (Sarojini vs.
Sivabandan: AIR 1956 T-C. 129). The Malaysian High Court has held that sec. 108 does not prevent the
Court from finding on circumstantial evidence, that the death of a person
occurred before the expiry of seven years from the date of disappearance
(Osman Bin Bachit, Re. 1997(4) Malayan LJ 445 (Melaka HC). Of course, when a person absconds from justice in order to evade trial
on a charge of murder, the presumption in sec. 108 (regarding death) does
not apply, as he would not naturally communicate with his relations ( East
Punjab vs. Bachan AIR 1957 Punjab 316). In the light of the above, we agree that a proviso in the manner
referred to in para 48.11 of the 69th Report as extracted above can be added
below sec. 107 as it now stands. Section 108 : The principle involved in this section is taken out from the one laid down in England in "In re Phene's Trust" (1869) LR 5 Ch. 139 and according to the
69th Report, (Para 49.5) it is traceable to a statement of law of the year 1603.
The period of seven years is also referred to in sec. 494. Indian Penal Code ,
in the Exception to section 27(h) of the Special Marriage Act, 1954 and section 13 (viii) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. In para 49.10, the Report
refers to English cases where a woman, in the honest belief that her husband
is dead, he not having been heard of for seven years, was held not guilty of
bigamy. The law could be the same in India for sec. 79 of the Indian Penal
Code also refers to the defence of mistake of fact or law or action in good
faith. The real controversy under sec. 108 is with regard to the "date of
death". The Privy Council in Lalchand vs. Mahant Rup Ram: AIR 1926
P.C. 4 stated, following the English case in 'In Re Phene's Trusts', referred
to above, that there is no presumption that death must be deemed to have
taken place on the date of expiry of the period of seven years referred to in
the section. The Supreme Court in Jaya Lakshmi Ammal (N) vs. R. Gopalal
Pathar : AIR 1995 SC 995 has also held that the question of whether a person
was alive or dead at a given date will be decided on the evidence available at 470 the date of the hearing. It would be advantageous to refer to the
observations of the Privy Council in Lalchand's case: The 69th Report suggested that the presumption in sec. 108 has not
been helpful and that in cases of remarriage relying on the presumption of
death by date of marriage, insurance claims made after seven years, and
testamentary succession, prejudice is caused to a party because he or she is
not able to prove the exact date of death (see para 49.18 and 49.19). The
Commission suggested that section 108 be redrafted in the manner stated in
para 49.20 by stating that (a) the burden of proving that he is alive after the
expiry of seven years - shifts to the person who affirms it and (b) the Court
shall, as respects the period after seven years, presume that he is dead. Now
so far as the first proposal in clause (a) mentioned above, it is nothing new 472 but only a clarification of what is already contained in sec. 108 , namely that
the burden shifts to the other party who states he is alive. But so far as
recommendation (b) above is concerned, it says the "the Court shall, as
respects such period (i.e. after seven years), presume that he was dead". The
Commission inserted the word 'and' between the two clauses. The question
then is about clause (b). We recommend that clause (b) as recommended should be modified
on the following lines: "if the said burden is not discharged, the Court shall,
as respects such period starting from the expiry of seven years, presume that
the person was dead." We shall give the draft of the provision afterwards. The reason for adding these words is as follows: Section 108 first
states that when it is proved that a person has not been heard of for seven
years by those who would have heard of him if had been alive, the burden
proving that he is alive i.e. after seven years, is shifted to the other party who
says he is alive. Once the evidentiary burden thus shifts to the opposite
party who contends that even after seven years, the person was alive, and
that person does not discharge that burden which has so shifted to him, the
Court should draw the presumption that the person is dead, after that period
expires. Presuming death after the expiry of seven years (if the person on
whom the burden has shifted does not prove that the person is alive after
seven years) does not in our view offend the principle laid down in In Re
Phene's Trusts: (1870) 5 Ch 139; (1861-1873) All ER 514. The principle laid down in that case that there is no presumption as to date of death was 473 with reference to the period within the seven years. This is clear from the
facts of that case as well as the proposition laid down. In that case, the
testator died in Jan 1861, leaving his estate to his nieces and nephews. One
nephew had not been heard of since August 1858 or seven months before the
testator's death (which takes us to June 1860) when he deserted from the US
Navy. A claim was made for his share of the estate on the presumption of
his death. But the Court would not presume that he had survived the
testator, as the period between disappearance and testator's death was small
and a presumption could have been drawn that he was alive by Jan. 1861
when the testator died. In that case, the seven year period would expire only
by 1867 and there could be a claim by the nephew's heirs thereafter
provided they contended that the nephew of the testator must be presumed to
have died by 1867 and called upon the opposite side to prove he was alive
after 1867, failing which he could be presumed dead by 1867. But, the
crucial point here is that the nephew could not have been presumed to have
died before Jan. 1861 (date of the death of testator), and such a contention, is
put forward by the opposite parties, to exclude the nephew's heirs, it would
not be acceptable to the Court. The heirs of the nephew could easily contend
that the presumption is that the nephew survived the testator who died in
1861. Steve Uglow (Evidence, Texts & Materials: 1996 page 699) observes

 "The Court did not apparently consider the strong factual inference
 that he had survived the testator". In fact, applying the principle contained in sec. 107 (that a person
shown to be alive within thirty years is presumed to be alive within that
period unless the contrary is proved), the court could have said that if the 474 nephew was alive immediately before June 1860, there would be a
presumption that he was alive at least in January 1861 when the testator died - and that he would have been entitled to a share which could have gone to
the nephew's heirs, by applying the presumption of death after seven years
and before suit (as in sec. 108 ). We shall once again refer to what was stated in Re Phene's Trusts: This applied to the opponents of the heirs of the nephew. But, it is not clear why there should not be a presumption that a
person living in June 1860 was living in Jan. 1861 unless the other party
proved that he died before Jan. 1861. Whatever be the decision on facts, the
fact remains that the passage in Phene's Trusts refers only to the
presumption of death within seven years. The case is not an authority for the
proposition that once the period of seven years is over death cannot be
presumed. The amendment proposed in the 69th Report does not clearly say that a
person must be presumed dead once the seven years have lapsed. In our 475 view, under sec. 108 if it is proved that a person has not been heard of for
seven years and if the opposite party does not show that the person was alive
after expiry of seven years, the person can be presumed to be dead after the
expiry of seven years. We are not stating that a person should be presumed
to have died on any particular date 'during the period of seven years.'

 We shall also examine the facts in Lalchand's case decided by the
Privy Council. In that case, a Mahant made various alienations, without
necessity, and the properties were sought to be recovered by his successor.
There were two stages of the litigation. The case came up to the Privy
Council from the second litigation started on 30.11.1916. The Mahant who
made the alienations had assumed office in 1880 and he is said to have made
over the Mutt to the plaintiff, (his chela) in 1892 and according to the
evidence of a co-chela, the Mahant died on 27.4.1892. The first litigation to
recover the properties from the alienee - limitation being 12 years from the
date of succession - was initiated on 16.4.1895. The plea that the Mahant
died on 27.4.1892 was rejected as the defendant adduced evidence that he
was seen alive in 1895, after the suit was filed on 16.4.95. The suit was
dismissed on 27.1.1896 as premature, since there was no proof that
succession opened in favour of the chela. The decree was confirmed in
appeal by the High Court on 30.11.1897. As the appeal was also dismissed,
it was assumed by the plaintiff, when he filed the second suit, that it must be
assumed that the Mahant did not die even by 30.11.1897. Otherwise, the
High Court could hold that pending appeal, the cause of action arose and it
could have given relief. That was the plantiff's assumption. (Of course, he
conveniently forgot that in the earlier suit it was found that the Mahant was
last seen in 1895 and seven years would have expired by 1902.) 476 The plaintiff waited for about 19 years more and filed the suits (which
went up in appeal to the Privy Council), contending that on 30.11.1897, the
Mahant was treated as alive by the High Court, that, as prescribed under sec.
108 , for seven years from 30.11.1897, the Mahant's whereabouts were not
known and that he must be deemed to have died by 30.11.1904 (an expiry of
seven years) and the present suits filed on 30.11.1916 were in time. The trial
Judge dismissed the suits as barred by time, being beyond 12 years from the
date when succession opened. But the High Court reversed the said decree
holding that it was for the defendants to prove that the Mahant was alive
once seven years had elapsed from the date of the earlier judgment of the
High Court on 30.11.1897 and granted mesne profits for three years from
30.11.1896, implying that the Mahant must have died by 1903. The High
Court held that the plea of the plaintiff in the earlier suit that the Mahant
died on 27.4.1892 was not accepted and that finding was binding on both
parties, that defendant could not say the Mahant died on 27.4.1892, and that
the plaintiff could not now be told in the second suit that in the earlier suit of
16.4.1895 he had pleaded that the Mahant died on 27.4.1892 that his suit
was barred. To dismiss the earlier suit as premature on the ground that there
was evidence that the Mahant was alive even after April 1895 and to dismiss
the present suit as time barred was something like blowing hot and cold.
But, surprisingly, the Privy Council held the suit was barred being beyond
12 years from 27.4.1892, the date pleaded by the plaintiff in the earlier suit
as the date of the Mahant's death, though that date was not accepted by the
trial court and High court, in the earlier litigation. It is in that context that
Phene's Trust case was referred and followed. On facts of the case, it will be noticed that the earlier suit was
dismissed as premature after disbelieving the plea of the plaintiff that the
Mahant died in 1892 but the latter suit was again dismissed by the Privy
Council as time barred because plaintiff pleaded in the earlier suit that the
Mahant died in 1892. The High Court held that once the plea of death of the
Mahant in 1892 was disbelieved in the earlier suit, that finding was binding
on the parties and the plaintiff could not, in the second suit, be non suited on
the basis of his plea in the earlier suit. To us, it appears that the reasoning of
the Privy Council does not appear to be correct. We shall give alternative
reasons for those given by the Privy Council for supporting the ultimate
judgment. But, whatever that be, the proposition laid down in Lalchand's
case is only a repetition of what was laid down in Re Phene's Trusts,
namely, that there can be no presumption of death on any particular date
'during the seven years'. In Lalchand's case, if the earlier suit was dismissed on the ground that
the Mahant was last seen in 1895, (after April) then a presumption of his
death arises by 1902 (after April) (i.e. after the High Court decision on
30.11.87 in the earlier suit) and the second suit was filed on 30.11.1916.
The plaintiff assumed however that the Mahant must be deemed to be alive
upto 30.11.1897, the appellate judgment in the earlier case. That assumption
was wrong. The crucial date is 1895 (after April) and seven years end by
1902 (after April). The plaintiff who filed the suit on 30.11.1916, should
have noticed that the Mahant must be presumed to have died by 1902 (after
April) but the suit was filed on 30.11.1916. The defendants could have
raised this plea. The plaintiff was obliged then to prove that, even after the
1902, he lived upto 30.11.1904. This, he has not proved and the suit was 478 liable to be dismissed. Thus, while the conclusion of the Privy Council, on
facts, may be correct, though for different reasons, they could not say that
Phene's Trusts case decided that, even after seven years expire, death could
not be presumed from the date of expiry of seven years. In other words, the principle in Phene's Trusts was that in the first
seven years of one's disappearance, one cannot say that the person must be
deemed to have died on any particular date within the period of seven years.
The principle is not that you cannot presume his death even after the expiry
of seven years and shift the burden to the opposite party that the person was
alive even after seven years. We find that the US Uniform Probate Code (1972) states (para 1-107)
(quoted in para 2531, page 605 of Vol. IX Wigmore, 1981) reads thus in
clause (3): This provision in the US Code puts the matter beyond doubt that death must
be presumed to have occurred at the end of the prescribed period, subject to
the same being disproved by the party who says he was alive after seven
years. The absence of presumption of death is related only during the 479 period prescribed and no doubt, if anybody wants to say that death occurred
during the prescribed period, he has to establish it. (American law relating
to insurance however creates special contract clauses and longer periods so
that a person does not deliberately go underground to enable his heirs at law
or nominees to claim the amount insured. Wigmore p. 613 para 2531 a). Wigmore (1981) says clearly (para 2531 page 610) that the rule of the
presumption extends merely to the fact of death from and after the end of the
period; it is not to be understood to specify anything time of death within
that period. Presumption before the end of the period has been confined to cases
of 'specific point' (para 2531(a)). See Dave vs. Briggs: (1878) 97 US 628. We are, therefore, convinced that from the date a person's
whereabouts are not known, as stated in sec. 108 , a presumption arises about
his death at the end of seven years and then, as provided in sec. 108 , after
seven years, the burden shifts to the party who wants to prove that he was
alive thereafter, to prove that fact. If that burden is not discharged, a
presumption of death on the expiry of seven years must follow. It must also
be made clear however that if a person wants to contend that a person whose
whereabouts are not known had died on any particular date within the seven
years, then, of course, as stated in Re Phene's Trusts and Lalchand's case,
the burden must be on him to prove that fact. We have already referred to the new sec. 108 as proposed in the 69th
Report and our suggestion to add some further words therein. In the light of 480 the above discussion, the proposed section requires another Explanation that
there is no presumption of death during the seven years. The format of section 108 proposed in the 69th report is being
modified in the draft recommended below. The proposed sec. 108 , in our
view should read as follows: Explanation:- If any question is raised that the man died on any
 particular date during the period of seven years aforesaid, the
 burden of proving that he died on such date during that period,
 shall be on the person who so affirms, and the presumption
 referred to in this section has no application. Section 108A: (as proposed in the 69th Report)
 This section relates to presumption in case of death of several persons
in a single catastrophe, like an accident, drowning, air-crash, battle, earth
quake or the like. This aspect is dealt with by courts and commentators as part of sec. 108. We agree that there should be a separate section like the proposed sec.
108A to deal with the presumption arising in such cases. The relevant presumption here is called the 'presumption of
survivorship' (Commorientes). When more than one person dies in
catastrophes like the ones mentioned above, it is difficult to prove who died
first. The order of death may be relevant in matters relating to succession. In India, there has been no presumption of survivorship arising from
age or sex, nor was there any legislative enactment (see K.S. Agha Mir
Mohamad vs. Mudassirshah, AIR 1944 PC 100). Section 21 of the Hindu
Succession Act, 1956 provided that until the contrary is proved, it shall be
presumed that the younger person survives the elder one, in such situations.
The section does not apply in relation to succession to persons other than
Hindus. Sec. 21 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 reads as follows: Section 21 applies to testamentary or intestate succession (In Re Mahabir
Singh: AIR 1963 Punjab 66). In England, sec. 184 of the Law of Property Act, 1925, reads as
follows, and it relates to title to property: The words 'subject to the order of the Court' refers to an order allowing
rebuttal (para 50.11 of 69th Report, footnote 5). Phipson says (15th Ed.,
1999, para 4.25, footnote): "See, however, sec. 46(3) of the Administration
of Estates Act, 1925, added by sec. 1(4) of the Intestates Estates Act, 1952
(while disposing of estate of intestate, where spouses die in circumstances
rendering it uncertain who survived the other, spouse treated as having
predeceased intestate.) This provision is fully quoted in para 50.12 of the
69th Report and reads as follows:- The principle appears to be that if an intestate (whether male or female) died
along with the spouse in such catastrophes, it shall be presumed that the
spouse other than the one whose succession is in question, has died earlier,
thereby permitting the heirs of the intestate alone to succeed to the intestate
and so that the property of the intestate does not go to the heirs of the other
spouse, who also died in the same catastrophe. In Hickman vs. Peacey: 1945 A.C. 314, the House of Lords held that
four persons who died in a bomb explosion must be held to have died
according to who was, by reason of his age, older to the other. The principle
was held applicable even to a 'common calamity'. There is an interesting discussion in the 69th Report (see para 50.19)
about what transpired in 1872 at the stage the Bill was prepared for the
purpose of the Evidence Act of 1872. It is pointed out in the general section,
which is now sec. 103 which was clause 95 of the Bill, contained an
illustration, which was dropped at the stage the Act was passed, and that
related to this very question. It was like this: 'A and B, husband and wife,
are both drowned in the same wreck. C is entitled to certain property if B
survived, while D is entitled to that property if A survives. If C claims the
property, he must prove the survival of A'. It appears that one Major Alfred
Wilkinson, offg. Dy. Commissioner, Lucknow, objected to the illustration
on good grounds: He pointed out that if D is in possession after the death of
A and B, D will win in a suit by A; likewise if C is in possession in a suit by
D, C will win. He said: The difficulty with sec. 103 is that it requires the person who asserts a fact to
prove it. But if it is impossible to ascertain who, in a case of a catastrophe
resulting in more than one death, died first,- whoever is the plaintiff will fail
because it is impossible for him to prove that the person to whom he would
succeed died first. The 69th Report therefore suggests that the rigour of sec.
103 can be reduced only if the statute provides for a presumption to be
raised as under section 184 of the Law of Property Act, 1925 in England,
along with the further provision referred to in sec. 46(3) of the
Administration of Estates Act, 1925 (brought in by the Intestates Estates
Act, 1952). It must be noted that while sec. 184 of the English Act raises a
presumption, sec. 46(3) of the other English Act deems the other spouse as
having pre deceased, and it does not raise any presumption of the other
spouse having pre deceased. The reason was that in most cases, wives are younger and under sec.
184, they will all be deemed to have survived. The husband and the
husband's property may not go to his heirs. This is how it was explained in
para 50.13 of the 69th Report. It was felt, in UK, it would help the families
of the wife, if she gets the whole and the entire property including the estate 485 of the husband would go to her heirs, after her death and that therefore it was
not just. Now sec. 184 of the Law of Property Act, 1925 (already extracted) is
simple and raises a presumption that the elder of the persons must be
deemed to have died first. So far as the modification of this rule in the case
of deaths of a husband and wife in the same catastrophe, with the view that
the legal heirs of one are not deprived of succession, it is provided that, in
the case of simultaneous death of husband and wife, it shall be deemed that
"the husband or wife (of the intestate) had not survived the intestate." In the 69th Report, it was explained in para 50.13, that in that event sec. 184
would not apply and the intestate succession to whose estate is in question,
must have died without a spouse (i.e. Section says other spouse has not
survived the intestate). In the 69th Report, the above principles relating to presumptions were
sought to be introduced by means of a new sec. 108A. We shall extract the
same but we have a small comment to make on the latter part of the
provision concerning death of husband and wife. If (say) the claim is made
by a person as the legal heir of the husband, the proposal - as under sec.
46(3) of the (UK) Administration of Estates Act, 1925 (as amended in 1952)
is that the succession must be reckoned as if the wife died earlier (or vice-
versa). But, in the above example, if the wife is also one of the heirs of the
husband, along with others who are claimants, should she be considered as
not entitled to a share and should her heirs be deprived of the right to claim
to her share? For example, under the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 , if a male dies,
intestate, the heirs in class I are his wife, mother, sons and daughters. Let us
assume that the male and his wife died in the same accident. Now the claim,
if it relates to the estate of the male, it is to be deemed (mind you, no
presumption is being raised here) that his wife predeceased him and she will
not get even her share along with other heirs. It is therefore logical to make
a further exception that if she is also a heir to the estate of the deceased
husband, then the fraction of the share that would have gone to her if she
survived the husband shall first devolve on her and to the extent of that
fraction, the further entitlement will be of her heirs. The reason is that when
by statute, in the case of an uncertainty, wants to introduce some certainty
and a deeming fiction not even raise a presumption - that one spouse died
earlier to the intestate, we cannot deprive that spouse of her share, and then
her heirs, if she was entitled to a share. That does not mean that the entire
property would go to the spouse other than the one whose estate is in
question. The 69th Report refers to an article in (Vol. 119) New Law Journal
(UK) and to another one (1962) Vol. 36, Australian Law Journal, p. 193. In USA, instead of an evidential rule of presumption, a rule for the
distribution of property is laid down by statute (see Vol IX Wigmore, para
2532(a), pages 622-623). This is contained in the Uniform Simultaneous
Deaths Act as adopted in 1940 and amended in 1953 by the National
Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws. A clear statement of
the plan and purpose of the Act and reasons for its adoption is given in the 487 Prefatory Note of the Commissioners. The text of the Act (as reproduced in
Wigmore pp 622-623) is as follows: Then we have sec. 2 of the US Act which prescribes rules as between
beneficiaries, sec. 3 which prescribes rules as to Joint Tenants or Tenants by
the Entirety. Section 4 deals with 'community property' of husband and
wife, sec. 5 deals with 'Insurance Policies'. Section 6 excepts cases of
special provisions in wills, living trusts, deeds, contracts of insurance. Section 4 divides the 'community property' of husband and wife who died in
a catastrophe between the heirs of the husband and heirs of the wife, in equal
status. The 69th Report proposed repeal of sec. 21 of the Hindu Succession
Act, 1956 and insertion of sec. 108A (see para 50.26) as follows: We agree with this recommendation with modifications and
recommend insertion of new section 108A as follows:- section (1) presumed to have survived intestate or
 the testator, being the younger of the two,
 then succession, whether intestate or under the testament shall,
 nevertheless have effect as respects the intestate or testator, as if
 the younger spouse has predeceased the intestate or the testator: Section 109 : The section is also based on the presumption of 'continuance' and is related
to illustration (d) of sec. 114 . The presumption as to continuance of a partnership was provided in sec. 256 of the Contract Act, 1872 as originally stood and that section has
now become sec. 47 of the Partnership Act, 1932. Similarly, there is a presumption of continuance of the relationship of
landlord and tenant. So is the case of the relationship of principal and agent. In the 69th
Report, in para 51.6, it was stated that this section does not call for any
changes. We agree. Section 110 : The section states that if a person is in possession and the question arises as
to title, the burden to start with, will be on the person who contends that the
person in possession is not the owner. In other words, possession affords
prima facie proof of ownership. There are some related aspects. Under the Limitation Act, 1963 , Art.
64 and 65 deal with suits for possession. Art. 65 deals with the opposite
situation as to how a person having title can lose it in favour of a trespasser
who is in possession adversely for twelve years. There is another aspect. If a person is in possession, be he the true
owner or a trespasser, and he is dispossessed by another person, he can,
without proving title seek a summary remedy for restoration of possession 492 under sec. 6 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, if such suit is filed within six
months of the dispossession. The law is also that a person in possession can defend his possession
against everybody except the real owner. If a person is dispossessed by the
real owner, he may not be able to recover possession under sec. 6 of the
Specific Relief Act, 1963, after the period of six months has elapsed ( Nair
Service Society vs. Alexander : AIR 1968 SC 1165. There is yet another
principle in regard to vacant lands that possession is to be deemed to be with
the real owner. If one trespasser is dispossessed, the first trespasser can get
back possession only on the basis of his prior possession. Section 145 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure is also relevant on the question of disputes as to
possession. In the 69th Report, there is some discussion of the related aspects and
it has been finally stated in para 52.1 that this section does not require any
change. We agree. Section 111 : There are two illustrations below this section. They read as follows. Section 111 is a general provision and is not confined to contracts. There is
a related provision in sec. 16 of the Indian Contract Act. Section 16 states in
sub section (3) that the provision of sec. 16 shall not affect the provision of sec. 111 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. The 69th Report considered (see paras 53.4, 53.5) various aspects and
came to the conclusion that there is no need to unify the two provisions.
One reason was that sec. 111 is general and was applicable to all
transactions while sec. 16 is confined to contracts. Section 111 placed the
burden of proof on the person who was in a position of confidence whereas sec. 16 of the Contract Act defined 'undue influence' and sub section (3)
thereof required that initially it must be established that the contract, on the
face of it or on the evidence adduced, was unconscionable, and only then the
burden would shift to the other side. The 69th Report stated in para 53.5 that sec. 111 does not call for any
amendment. We agree. Section 111A: Since 1984, terrorist acts have been on the increase and have reached their
zenith on 11th Sept., 2001. Thereafter, Parliament has passed the Prevention
of Terrorists Act, 2002 . In the circumstances, we do not find that the
presumption in sec. 111A needs any amendment. Section 112 : This section is based on the maxim pater est quem numtioe
demonstrant which means 'he is the father whom the marriage indicates'.
This section lays down a rule of 'conclusive proof' as to legitimacy of a
child born 496 (1) During the continuance of a valid marriage between the child's
 mother and any man, or

(2) If the child was born within 280 days after the dissolution of marriage,
 the mother remaining unmarried. The only exception provided in the section is where 'it can be shown
that the parties to the marriage had no access to each other at any time when
the child could have been begotten'. The presumption is rebuttable and can be displaced only by a strong
preponderance of evidence and not by a mere balance of probabilities
( Goutam Kundu vs. State of W.B .) (AIR 1993 SC 2295). See also S.P.S.
Balasubramanyam vs. Suruttayan: AIR 1997 SC 756. Section 112 has no application when maternity is in dispute and not
paternity (Nand vs. Gopal: AIR 1940 PC 93). Upon proof of a marriage on
a certain date, the Court may regard as proved the subsistence of a marriage
on a subsequent date unless and until it is disproved or else, in its discretion,
call for its proof (Ismail vs. Monin: AIR 1941 P.C. 11). If the people,
especially the relatives, treat and acknowledge a person as the legitimate son
of his father by forging a bond of matrimony, it is a strong piece of evidence
to hold that the person is a legitimate offspring of this father (K. Govinda
Raju vs. K. Muniswami Gounder: AIR 1997 SC 10; Mahabhat vs. Md.
Ibrahim: AIR 1929 PC 135. Unless absence of access is established, presumption of legitimacy
cannot be displaced ( Perumal vs. Ponnuswami AIR 1971 SC 2532 relying
on Venkateswarlu vs. Venkatanarayana : AIR 1954 SC 176 and
Ammathayee vs. Kumaresan : AIR 1967 SC 569. Access or non-access mean no more than existence or non existence
of opportunities for marital intercourse (Venkteswarlu vs. Venkata Narayana
AIR 1954 SC 176). The section requires the party disputing paternity to
prove non-access in order to dispel the presumption. Access does not mean
actual cohabitation ( Goutam Kundu vs. State of WB : AIR 1993 SC 2295). In Krishnayya vs. Mahipathi: 40 CWN 12 (PC), the Privy Council did
not consider whether on an issue of legitimacy, evidence of impotency could
be admitted. (The section as such does not permit such evidence). The
presumption is conclusive and can only be displaced by proof of non-access
at the relevant time. There must be positive proof of non-access.
(Venkateswarlu vs. Venkatnarayana : AIR 1954 SC 176); see also Kanta
Devi vs. Poshi Ram AIR 2001 SC 2226. The fact that the wife had a paramour ( G.R. Sane vs. D.S. Sonavane &
Co. AIR 1946 Bom 110) or that the husband had undergone vasectomy
operation (unless there is reliable evidence that the vasectomy operation was
successful) [Chandramathi vs. Pazhetti Balam : AIR 1982 Ker 68; Chirutha
Kutty vs. Subramaniam AIR 1987 Ker 5], is not suffient to rebut the
presumption. Nor is the serious illness of the husband sufficient ( Narendra
vs. Ram Gobind : ILR 29 Cal. 114 (PC). In Smt. Duktar Jahan vs. Mohammed Farooq : AIR 1987 SC 1049, it
was held that the fact that the child was born about seven months after the
marriage, could not lead to the conclusion that the child could have been
conceived before the date of consummation of the marriage. The Hindu Law and Mohammedan Law raise similar presumptions as
stated in the section, regarding legitimacy, but while English law gives
importance to the time of birth, Mohammedan law gives importance to the
time of conception. The policy of English law until 1949 was that neither the testimony,
nor the declaration, out of court, by parents were admissible to prove access
or non access during marriage for bastardising a child. The rule was
abolished in England by the Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act,
1949 and sec. 45(1) of the Matrimonial Cause Act, 1965 now provides: Having pointed out these aspects, the 69th Report refers to the need to
amend the words "or within two hundred eighty days of its dissolution" to be
enlarged to cover cases of birth 'within two hundred eighty days of its being
declared void or avoided". (see paras 54.29 to 54.37). Section 112 speaks of a 'valid marriage' and a person born (a) during
the continuance of a valid marriage or (b) within 280 days after 'its
dissolution', the mother remaining unmarried (i.e. remaining unmarried
during those 280 days). Then, unless 'non-access' is proved, the husband is
treated as the 'father' and as the section uses the word 'conclusive'. Except
'non-access', there is no other plea permissible by the husband. The 69th Report considered whether, apart from cases of voidable
marriages which are already included, marriages null and void should also
be included. In that behalf, it is necessary to note, refer to the changes in the Hindu
Marriage Act, 1955 . So far as the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 is concerned
(before the 1976 Amendment), it contained a provision in 1955, in the
context of 'legitimacy' as follows: Under the section, as it stood in 1955, a void marriage required parties to the
marriage under section 11 to file a petition in Court. ( Section 12 referred to
voidable marriages which may be annulled by a decree of nullity). In cases
under sec. 11 , where the marriage was void and where none files a petition,
the benefit of sec. 16 of the 1955 Act was not accruing to the child born out
of such a void marriage. Hence, in 1976 sec. 16 was amended to make legitimate such children
even if none filed a petition for declaring the marriage a nullity. After the 1976 Amendment to sec. 16 of the Hindu Marriage Act,
1955, it reads as follows: There is a similar provision in the Special Marriage Act ; and, even earlier, in sec. 21 of the Indian Divorce Act, 1869. The Supreme Court, in PEK Kalliani Amma vs. K. Devi : AIR 1996 SC
1963, in a judgment having far reaching effects and implications (see Mulla,
18th Ed., 2001, Vol. 2 p. 173) examined subsection (1) of sec. 16 and
observed that by virtue of the words 'notwithstanding that a marriage is null 503 and void under sec. 11 ', this section stands independent of sec. 11 . The
amended provision which intended the conferment of legitimacy on children
born of a void marriage, will operate despite the provisions in sec. 11 which
has the effect of nullifying only those marriages held after the Act came into
force and which are performed in contravention of sec. 5 . By virtue of the
legal fiction, children born of a void marriage would have to be treated as
legitimate for all purposes including succession to the property of their
parents. The net effect being that the benefit of legitimacy is conferred
upon any child born either before or after the date of amendment. That
would mean that even if a marriage had been contracted at the time when
there was a legislative bar to such a marriage, the offspring of such a
marriage would be treated as legitimate. Such a child would be entitled to
succeed to the property of his or her parents (ibid, Mulla, p. 174). Subsection (2) relates to children of a voidable marriage in respect of
which a decree of annulment may be granted by sec. 12 . Even when the
validity of the marriage is challenged by either party and still the marriage is
not annulled, it would be a void marriage, and the children of the parties to
such a marriage would undoubtedly be legitimate. If, on the other hand, the
marriage is annulled at the instance of either party, the children born of such
marriage are, by operation of subsection (2), to be deemed to be their
legitimate children for all interests and purposes, except that by virtue of
subsection (3) such children cannot claim any rights in or over property of
any person other than parents. (Mulla, ibid, p. 174). The Supreme Court stated that that law as it stood before the 1976
amendment to the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 was unsatisfactory. In the 504 earlier edition of Mulla, it was pointed out that a child born of a void
marriage would not get the protection of section, unless a decree was passed
by the Court at the instance of one of the parties. Now subsection (1) states,
after the 1976 Amendment, that in the case of a void marriage, the child
shall be legitimate (whether born before or after the 1976 Amendment), and

 "whether or not a decree of nullity is granted in respect of that
 marriage under this Act and whether or not the marriage is held void
 otherwise than on a petition under this Act." This new provision overrules the principle laid down in Thulasi Ammal vs.
Gowri Ammal AIR 1964 Mad 118 and other cases, where the Court held,
under the old sec. 16 , that unless a decree of nullity is passed the child
begotten or born before the decree cannot be treated as legitimate. Section
11 applies to marriages after the 1955 Act whereas section 12 applies
whether the marriage was solemnized before or after the commencement of
the 1955 Act. We may now summarise. (a) Firstly, going back to the 69th Report, it was stated, (see para 54.30)
that the section so far as 'paternity' is concerned, which referred to a 'Valid'
marriage, dissolved, must apply also to 'void' marriages, though the section
apparently covered voidable marriages. The defects in the old sec. 16 of the
Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 and in the old sec. 26 of the Special Marriage
Act, 1954 were referred to in that context. It was pointed out that sec. 21 of 505 the Indian Divorce Act, 1854 applied to children born before the decree and
such a policy must be reflected in the above Acts also (see para 54.31). (b) Secondly, it was stated in the 69th Report (see para 54.33) that there
was a doubt if a decree for nullity was different from one of dissolution, as
referred to in old sec. 16 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1955. (present in sec.
16 (2) after the 1976 Amendment). The doubt remains, it is said, even in
relation to other Acts. Further section 16(2) requires conception before a
decree to be proved first, before the deeming provision can apply. The position, it was stated, was different under the Evidence Act under which the date of conception need not be proved, and proof of the date
of birth is sufficient to legitimacy. (c) Thirdly, the 69th Report referred to void marriages. The 69th Report,
having stated that sec. 112 should apply to cases of void marriages also
under sec. 112 , both in the first and second parts of sec. 112 , by appropriate
amendment, the 69th Report formulated a draft of sec. 112 , as follows: One would wonder why in the opening part of sec. 112 after the words,
'valid marriage', the words 'void marriage' are not included in spite of the
recommendation that 'void' should be used in both parts. It will be noticed
that this was accomplished so far as the opening part was concerned, by the
Explanation which, for purposes of sec. 112 , deems a marriage valid, even if
it was void, where there are laws made legitimising children of such void
marriages. Obviously, 'legitimacy' of such children and right to deem a
man, a father or not, must have some nexus. That is why the Explanation
was added. In that event, once the Explanation is added like that, it does not
become necessary to add the words 'void marriages' in the opening part of sec. 112 because the Explanation deems them valid if there is a law
legitimizing children of such void marriage. In our view, with great respect,
this was the proper way to draft and bring 'void marriages' within the scope
of sec. 112 . Obviously, the Explanation covers void marriages under sec.
16(1) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (before and after the 1976
Amendment), and those under the Special Marriages Act, 1954 . The
Commission stated that there is already a similar provision in sec. 21 of the
Indian Divorce Act, 1869. Under the Explanation, such void marriage are to
be deemed 'valid' in the opening part of sec. 112 till annulled by Court.
Further, the word 'annulled' proposed to be added in the body of sec. 112 covers cases of void marriages while the words 'dissolved' or 'avoided' 507 refer to valid marriages avoided. We do not understand why both the words
'dissolved' or 'avoided' are both used in sec. 112 . In our view, it would be
better to use the words 'declared nullity' for marriages which are void and
use the words 'avoided by dissolution' for voidable marriages. In our view, sec. 112 and its proposed Explanation could be
 redrafted also (subject to some more additions as stated hereinafter)
 and also by redrafting the Explanation by highlighting the deeming of
 a void marriage as valid). We shall next deal with issue (B) as to whether grounds other than
'non-access' have to be introduced. (B) Non-access - whether any other exception should be added? Section 112 , as already noticed, uses the words, "conclusive proof" The principle is based on the common law rules of human conduct that
normally a man may cohabit with a woman before marriage and after the
woman becomes pregnant, he marries her. But, if he knows he is not the
father, he may not marry her at all. We do not therefore think that any
specific provision be made in the matter of a pregnant woman marrying
another person and the birth of a child thereafter.. Having dealt with the above type of case, we shall now take up the
new exceptions like (1) impotence or sterility (2) blood tests proving a man
is not the father and (3) DNA tests proving a man is not the father. (1) Impotency: In other words, the proof of legitimacy or illegitimacy can now be
established by preponderance of probabilities rather than beyond all
reasonable doubt. Further sec. 23 of the same Act authorizes the Court to
draw inference as appears proper in the circumstances where the person
concerned does not comply with the directions of the Court for blood tests. English law permits 'impotency' to be proved. (See Halsbury's Law
of England)(Vol. 1, 4th Ed., para 691) quoting Barnbury Peerage case 1(811)
1 Sim & St 153; Legge vs. Edmonds (1855) 25 L.J.Ch. 125. On facts, in W
vs. W : ( 1953)(2) All ER 1013 and Francis vs. Francis : 1959(3) All ER 206,
the husband's testimony that he was using contraceptives could not rebut the
presumption. In US too 'impotency' is a permissible plea. Case law of various
States is quoted in Wigmore Evidence, (Vol. IX, para 2527, at pp 585 to 589). Further in several States, the statutes specifically refer to 'impotency'
as a permissible ground. See sec. 621 of the California Evidence Code (as
amended in 1975) and the new sec. 621(as amended in 1984). In Sri Lanka, sec. 112 has been amended by making 'impotency' on
permissible plea. (See Sarkar, 15th Ed., 1999, page 1603, 1614). In India, under several marriage laws, 'impotency' is a valid ground
for avoiding marriage (see sec. 12(a) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. the
Supreme Court in Digvijay Singh vs. Pratap Kumari AIR 1970 SC 137 and
several High Courts have dealt with 'impotency' as a valid ground for
dissolution of marriage. O course, 'impotency' may be physical or may be a
mental-state vis-à-vis a particular person, who is either a husband or a wife.
The fact that 'impotency' is ground for divorce under our marriage laws is a
factor to be taken into account while deciding whether 'impotency' can be
an additional ground under our law. In our view, having regard to the law in several other countries and
also in Sri Lanka, it is time to include 'impotency' of the husband in sec. 112 but we are of the view that 'impotency' must be conclusively established,
i.e. beyond all reasonable doubts, by medical tests. Mere preponderance of
probabilities will not suffer. While 'non-access' can be proved by very
strong evidence, as decided by the Supreme Court in several cases, we are of
the view that the proof required to prove 'impotency' must be a conclusive
one, leaving no other choice to the Court. 2. Blood tests

 As regards blood groups, the 69th Report gives the following example
in para 54.50. As a scientific principle, a child will inherit the blood group
of one or other of his parents. If O is the blood group of the mother and A is
that of the child, a person with blood group B cannot be the father. But, if
the blood of the male in question is also A, like the child's, it is not possible 512 to say that the person is the father. This is the position in Europe and USA
in the states also. (see para 54.56 of the 69th Report). So far as blood tests are concerned, American statutes require that,
where more than one expert is examined there must be total unanimity. As
already stated, where the blood tests show on an analysis of blood groups,
that the husband is not the father, such a result is today accepted as
conclusive and that the husband is not the father. The exclusion test is
definite but the inclusive test, is equivocal, as stated earlier. The Supreme
Court, in Gautam Kundu vs. State of W.B. AIR 1993 SC 2295 has laid down
four conditions in the context of sec. 112 before blood test can be ordered.
They are as follows: (That is why sec. 23 of 1969 the English statute of 1969 permits the Court to
draw an adverse inference in civil cases, if a party refuses to give blood). The California Law & Evidence Code sec. 621 as amended (quoted in
Wigmore, 2000-2001 Suppl. Page 1278, para 2527 includes impotency and
sterility also and reads as follows: (West Suppl. 1984)

 "Sec. 621: (a) Except as provided in sub-division (b), the issue of a
 wife cohabiting with the husband, who is not impotent or sterile, is
 conclusively presumed to be a child of the marriage; (b) Notwithstanding the provision of subdivision (a), if the court
 finds that the conclusion of all experts, as disclosed by the evidence
 based upon blood tests performed pursuant to Uniform Act on Blood
 Tests to Determine Paternity are that the husband is not the father of
 the child, the question of paternity of the husband shall be resolved
 accordingly. (c) The notice of motion for blood tests under sub-division (b) may
 be raised by the husband not later than two years from the child's date
 of birth. (d) The notice of motion for blood tests under sub division (b) may
 be raised by the mother of the child not later than two years from the
 child's date of birth if the child's biological father has filed an
 affidavit with the Court acknowledging paternity of the child. (e) The provision of sub division (b) shall not apply to any case
 coming within the provisions of section 7005 of the Civil Code or to 514 any case in which the wife, with the consent of the husband,
 conceived by means of a surgical procedure. (f) The notice of motion for the blood test pursuant to sub division (b) shall be supported by a declaration under oath submitted by the
 moving party stating the factual basis for placing the issue of paternity
 before the Court. This requirement shall not apply to any case
 pending before the Court on September 30, 1980. (g) The provisions of sub division (b) shall not apply to any case
 which has reached final judgment of paternity on September 30,
 1980". Wigmore (Vol. IX, 1981 para 2527, pp 585-586) also refers to California
Civil Code para 7004 (as amended in 1975) ( It is not clear what is sec.
7005 referred to in sec. 621 quoted above). Sec. 7004 reads thus: (2) Before the child's birth, he and the child's natural mother have
 attempted to marry each other by a marriage solemnized in
 apparent compliance with law, although the attempted marriage
 is or could be declared invalid, and, (i) If the attempted marriage could be declared invalid only
 by a Court, the child is born during the attempted
 marriage, or within 300 days after its termination by
 death, annulment, declaration of invalidity, or divorce; or (ii) If the attempted marriage is invalid without a court order

 (3) After the child's birth he and the natural mother have married,
 or attempted to marry, each other by a marriage solemnized in
 apparent compliance with law, although the attempted marriage
 is or could be declared invalid, and (i) With his consent, he is named a child's father on the
 child's birth certificate, or (ii) He is obliged to support the child under a written
 voluntary promise or by court order. (4) He receives the child into his home and openly holds out the
 child as his natural child. (c) Except as provided in sec. 621 of the Evidence Code, a
 presumption under this section is a rebuttable presumption
 affecting the burden of proof and may be rebutted in an appropriate
 action only by clear and convincing evidence. If two or more
 presumptions arise under this section which conflict with each 516 other, the presumption which on the facts is founded on the
 weightier considerations of policy and logic controls. The
 presumption is rebutted by a court decree establishing paternity of
 the child in another man." Having regard to the above position so far as blood tests are
concerned, we are of the view that blood group tests yield a result with
certainty to say that a person is not the father, though they are not conclusive
to say that a person is a father. In the current state of science and the
position elsewhere in other countries, we are of the view that blood test
analysis of the mother and the man (taken with their consent) and that of the
child (taken with the court's permission) do not enable a Court to decide that
a person is the father. We are also of the view that, if there are more than
one tests conducted, the result must be unanimous. DNA Tests: or (ii) blood tests conducted with the consent of that man
 and his wife and in the case of the child, by
 permission of the Court, that that man is not the father
 of the child; or (iii) DNA genetic printing tests conducted with the
 consent of that man and in the case of the child, by
 permission of the Court, that that man is not the father
 of the child; and

 Provided that the Court is satisfied that the test under sub-
 clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) or sub-clause (iii) has been
 conducted in a scientific manner according to accepted
 procedures, and in the case of each of these sub-clauses (i) or (ii) or (iii) of clause (b), at least two tests have been conducted,
 and they resulted in an identical verdict that that man is not the
 father of the child. Provided further that where that man refuses to undergo the
 tests under sub clauses (i) or (ii) or (iii), he shall, without
 prejudice to the provisions of clause (a), be deemed to have
 waived his defence to any claim of paternity made against him. Explanation I: For the purpose of sub clause (iii) of clause (b), the
words 'DNA genetic printing tests' shall mean the tests conducted by
way of samples relatable to the husband and child and the words "DNA"
mean 'Deoxyribo-Nucleic Acid'. Explanation II: For the purposes of this section, the words 'valid
marriage' shall mean a void marriage till it is declared nullity or a
voidable marriage till it is avoided by dissolution, where, by any
enactment for the time being in force, it is provided that the children of 520 such marriages which are declared nullity or avoided by dissolution, shall
 nevertheless be legitimate." We recommend sec. 112 as above drafted be substituted. Section 113 : In other words, such notification cannot, in spite of sec. 113 , be
conclusive proof and the courts can inquire into the nature and lawfulness of
the cession. Thus, the Privy Council has practically held that the section is
ultra vires of the powers of the Governor-General. The question has now become academic as there is no longer any
British territory ( Maganbhai vs. Union of India : AIR 1969 SC 783) (As to
the Governor General in Council's power to legislate see, Alter Caufran vs.
Govt. of Bombay: ILR 18 Bom 636.)

Whittney Stokes had stated that the section should be repealed as an ultra-
vires provision (Anglo-Indian Codes Vol.II, p. 835) (quoted by Sarkar, 15th
Ed., 1999, page 1626). We agree with para 55.3 of the 69th Report that this section 113 be
deleted.