This order shall dispose of four bail petitions filed under Section 439 Cr.PC for grant of regular bail in Complaint No.15 of 2021

titled as State Versus Vinod Kumar & Ors. Registered on 12.05.2021 under Sections 132(1) (a) , (b) & (c) of Central Goods & Services Tax Act, 2017 and Punjab Goods & Services Tax Act, 2017 by Maninder Sharma

bearing CRM-M-24033-2021, Vinod Kumar bearing CRM-M-32902-

2021, Sunny Mehta bearing CRM-M-32903-3021 & Sandeep Singh

bearing CRM-M-36121-2021. 2. The brief facts of the case as culled out from the complaint are

as under:- 3 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 4# 5) Mr. Amarinder Singh,S/o Sh. Gurnam Singh H.No. 428, Uchha
 Vehra, GT road Khanna, Ludhiana 6) Mr. Sunny Mehta, S/o Sh. Kuldeep Mehta, H.No. C/18 St. No. 3 Jagat
 Colony Khanna, Ludhiana. 7) Mr. Sukhdev Singh S/o Sh. Kartar Singh, Shiva Tower Over Lock
 Road Near OBC Bank Ludhiana. The person wise details of tax evasion done through firms

registered in the name of members of this groups is as below:- 4 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 5#

which has now increased to Rs.131,96,00,000/-. Based on the detailed investigation conducted the complaint in

question came to be filed under Section 132(1) (a) , (b) & (c) of Central

Goods & Services Tax Act, 2017 and Punjab Goods & Services Tax Act,

2017 . 3. The Counsel for the petitioner Maninder Sharma (CRM-M- 24033-2021) while referring to the various provisions of the Act contends

that at best, the petitioner would be liable for punishment for fraudulently

availing ITC of Rs.3,32,17,761/-. This would amount to commission of a

bailable offence in terms of Section 132(5) of GST Act. In fact the

respondent arbitrarily has alleged wrong ITC in Universal Exports in a

mode and manner unknown to law with an intent to make the offence non

bailable. Had the respondent determined and alleged wrong availment of

ITC in two concerns in the mode and manner known to law i.e. on the basis

of form GSTR-2A and form GSTR-3B, the amount would either be

Rs.3,31,00,646/- as per form GSTR-2A and/ or Rs.3,32,17,761/- as per form

GSTR-3B. Till date no demand has been determined either under Section

73 and/ or 74 of the GST Act and thus it would be premature to allege that

there was a fraudulent availment of ITC of any amount by the petitioner. Further since the GST Act is a Special Act , the custody of the petitioner on

and after 12.5.2021 was neither under Section 167 Cr.PC nor under Section

309 of Cr.PC. Therefore, the detention of the petitioner was illegal and

contrary to law. It is lastly contended that the petitioner is in custody since

13.03.2021 and pre-charge evidence was still going on. As many as 66

witnesses were to be examined and since the maximum sentence prescribed

was 05 years, the further incarceration of the petitioner was not required as

 5 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 6#

he had already undergone almost 1/3rd of his sentence if he were to be

convicted. The Counsel for the petitioner-Vinod Kumar (CRM-M-32902-

2021) contends that all the three firms had been opened fraudulently in his

name by misusing his PAN number. The bank account number which was

uploaded on the GST portal does not belong to the petitioner. In the case of

a person who makes any transaction specific OTPs and PINs are generated

on the registered E-mail or mobile number of the concerned person but this

Data has not been made a part of the investigation by the respondent. Further, no offence was made out against the petitioner under Section 132 (a) (b) (c) of GST Act. In fact some unknown persons have misused the

provisions of the GST Act and got registered the firm in the name of the

petitioner in the year 2019 when the procedure to obtain the GST

Registration Certificate under the GST Act was not authentic or foolproof. Now, by inserting Clause 6-A in Section 25 of the GST Act some of the

deficiencies and shortcomings have been removed by the government. In

fact, the petitioner was a roadside soup vendor in Khanna, Punjab. It was

Sukhdev Singh and Harinder Singh who were the real culprits. Even

otherwise the investigation stands completed and no recovery has been

made from the petitioner. A similar prayer for bail has been made on

account of the length of custody as also stage of trial. The Counsel for the petitioner-Sunny Mehta (CRM-M-32903-

2021) contends that no show cause notice was issued by the respondent to

him till date. The petitioner's documents had been misused. In fact he is the

victim of fraud. The investigation stands completed and nothing was ever

recovered from the petitioner. He contends that in another complaint under

 6 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 7# Section 132 of the Act, the court has granted bail to Rajinder Bassi and

Ganga Ram (Annexures P-4 & P-7). He further contends that the

constitutional validity of Section 69 and 132 of the Act are under challenge

in a writ petition before this Court. The petitioner was arrested on

12.3.2021 and the present complaint had been filed on 12.5.2021. A

similar prayer for bail has been made on account of the length of custody as

also stage of trial. The Counsel for the petitioner Sandeep Singh bearing CRM- M-36121-2021 submits that the documents of the petitioner were misused

by a person named Satnam Singh @ Satta who is working as accountant. The petitioner had given his documents to the said Satnam Singh as he was

looking for a gold loan. In fact, the petitioner was working at a cloth shop

at a salary of Rs.7,000/- per month and had asked the Taxation Officer to

look into his background and make an inquiry about his credentials but the

officer had ignored the submissions of the petitioner. He further contends

that in the complaint it is not explained as to which firms out of 08 were

registered in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and, therefore, the complaint

was beyond jurisdiction. The complainant had further failed to prove as to

on what basis a conclusion had been reached that the petitioner had evaded

tax amounting to Rs.17,73,55,995/-. It is contended that no notice under

Section 70 of the GST Act was ever served upon the petitioner and he was

arrested straightaway. Similar prayer for bail has been made on account of

length of custody as also stage of trial. 4. Before proceeding further it would be apposite to examine the

law regarding grant of bail as has been enumerated by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court and the various High Courts from time to time and some of these

 7 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 8#

judgments have been enumerated herein below. 1. Sanjay Chandra versus CBI 2011(4) RCR (Criminal) 898: convicted persons should be held in custody pending trial to secure
 their attendance at the trial but in such cases, `necessity' is the
 operative test. In this country, it would be quite contrary to the concept
 of personal liberty enshrined in the Constitution that any person
 should be punished in respect of any matter, upon which, he has not
 been convicted or that in any circumstances, he should be deprived of
 his liberty upon only the belief that he will tamper with the witnesses
 if left at liberty, save in the most extraordinary circumstances. Apart
 from the question of prevention being the object of a refusal of
 bail, one must not lose sight of the fact that any imprisonment
 before conviction has a substantial punitive content and it would
 be improper for any Court to refuse bail as a mark of disapproval
 of former conduct whether the accused has been convicted for it
 or not or to refuse bail to an un-convicted person for the purpose
 of giving him a taste of imprisonment as a lesson. 15) In the instant case, as we have already noticed that the
 "pointing finger of accusation" against the appellants is `the
 seriousness of the charge'. The offences alleged are economic offences
 which has resulted in loss to the State exchequer. Though, they
 contend that there is possibility of the appellants tampering
 witnesses, they have not placed any material in support of the
 allegation. In our view, seriousness of the charge is, no doubt, one
 of the relevant considerations while considering bail applications

 8 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 9#

 but that is not the only test or the factor : The other factor that
 also requires to be taken note of is the punishment that could be
 imposed after trial and conviction, both under the Indian Penal
 Code and Prevention of Corruption Act. Otherwise, if the former
 is the only test, we would not be balancing the Constitutional
 Rights but rather "recalibration of the scales of justice." The
 provisions of Cr.P.C . confer discretionary jurisdiction on Criminal
 Courts to grant bail to accused pending trial or in appeal against
 convictions, since the jurisdiction is discretionary, it has to be
 exercised with great care and caution by balancing valuable right of
 liberty of an individual and the interest of the society in general. In our
 view, the reasoning adopted by the learned District Judge, which is
 affirmed by the High Court, in our opinion, a denial of the whole basis
 of our system of law and normal rule of bail system. It transcends
 respect for the requirement that a man shall be considered innocent
 until he is found guilty. If such power is recognized, then it may lead
 to chaotic situation and would jeopardize the personal liberty of an
 individual. This Court, in Kalyan Chandra Sarkar Vs. Rajesh Ranjan- 2005(1) RCR (Criminal) 703 : 2005 (1) Apex Criminal 307 : (2005) 2
 SCC 42, observed that "under the criminal laws of this country, a
 person accused of offences which are non-bailable, is liable to be
 detained in custody during the pendency of trial unless he is enlarged
 on bail in accordance with law. Such detention cannot be questioned
 as being violative of Article 21 of the Constitution, since the same is
 authorized by law. But even persons accused of non-bailable offences
 are entitled to bail if the Court concerned comes to the conclusion that
 the prosecution has failed to establish a prima facie case against him
 and/or if the Court is satisfied by reasons to be recorded that in spite
 of the existence of prima facie case, there is need to release such
 accused on bail, where fact situations require it to do so." 16) This Court, time and again, has stated that bail is the rule
 and committal to jail an exception. It is also observed that refusal of
 bail is a restriction on the personal liberty of the individual guaranteed
 under Article 21 of the Constitution. In the case of State of Rajasthan
 v. Balchand , (1977) 4 SCC 308, this Court opined: 9 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 10#

 witnesses and the like, by the petitioner who seeks enlargement
 on bail from the Court. We do not intend to be exhaustive but
 only illustrative. 3. It is true that the gravity of the offence involved is likely to
 induce the petitioner to avoid the course of justice and must
 weigh with us when considering the question of jail. So also the
 heinousness of the crime. Even so, the record of the petitioner
 in this case is that, while he has been on bail throughout in the
 trial court and he was released after the judgment of the High
 Court, there is nothing to suggest that he has abused the trust
 placed in him by the court; his social circumstances also are not
 so unfavourable in the sense of his being a desperate character
 or unsocial element who is likely to betray the confidence that
 the court may place in him to turn up to take justice at the hands
 of the court. He is stated to be a young man of 27 years with a
 family to maintain. The circumstances and the social milieu do
 not militate against the petitioner being granted bail at this
 stage. At the same time any possibility of the absconsion or
 evasion or other abuse can be taken care of by a direction that
 the petitioner will report himself before the police station at
 Baren once every fortnight." 17) In the case of Gudikanti Narasimhulu v. Public Prosecutor ,
 (1978) 1 SCC 240, V.R. Krishna Iyer, J., sitting as Chamber Judge,
 enunciated the principles of bail thus: Even so it is useful to notice the tart terms of Lord Camden that
 "the discretion of a Judge is the law of tyrants: it is always
 unknown, it is different in different men; it is casual, and
 depends upon constitution, temper and passion. In the best, it is
 oftentimes caprice; in the worst, it is every vice, folly and
 passion to which human nature is liable...." Perhaps, this is an overly simplistic statement and we must
 remember the constitutional focus in Articles 21 and 19 before

 10 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 11#

 following diffuse observations and practices in the English
 system. Even in England there is a growing awareness that the
 working of the bail system requires a second look from the
 point of view of correct legal criteria and sound principles, as
 has been pointed out by Dr Bottomley. 6. Let us have a glance at the pros and cons and the true
 principle around which other relevant factors must revolve.
 When the case is finally disposed of and a person is sentenced
 to incarceration, things stand on a different footing. We are
 concerned with the penultimate stage and the principal rule to
 guide release on bail should be to secure the presence of the
 applicant who seeks to be liberated, to take judgment and serve
 sentence in the event of the Court punishing him with
 imprisonment. In this perspective, relevance of considerations is
 regulated by their nexus with the likely absence of the applicant
 for fear of a severe sentence, if such be plausible in the case. As
 Erle. J. indicated, when the crime charged (of which a
 conviction has been sustained) is of the highest magnitude and
 the punishment of it assigned by law is of extreme severity, the
 Court may reasonably presume, some evidence warranting, that
 no amount of bail would secure the presence of the convict at
 the stage of judgment, should he be enlarged. Lord Campbell,
 C.J. concurred in this approach in that case and Coleridge J. set
 down the order of priorities as follows: 11 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 12# 7. It is thus obvious that the nature of the charge is the
 vital factor and the nature of the evidence also is pertinent. The
 punishment to which the party may be liable, if convicted or
 conviction is confirmed, also bears upon the issue. 8. Another relevant factor is as to whether the course of
 justice would be thwarted by him who seeks the benignant
 jurisdiction of the Court to be freed for the time being. 9. Thus the legal principles and practice validate the
 Court considering the likelihood of the applicant interfering
 with witnesses for the prosecution or otherwise polluting the
 process of justice. It is not only traditional but rational, in this
 context, to enquire into the antecedents of a man who is
 applying for bail to find whether he has a bad record -
 particularly a record which suggests that he is likely to commit
 serious offences while on bail. In regard to habituals, it is part
 of criminological history that a thoughtless bail order has
 enabled the bailee to exploit the opportunity to inflict further
 crimes on the members of society. Bail discretion, on the basis
 of evidence about the criminal record of a defendant is therefore
 not an exercise in irrelevance. 13. Viewed from this perspective, we gain a better
 insight into the rules of the game. When a person, charged with
 a grave offence, has been acquitted at a stage, has the
 intermediate acquittal pertinence to a bail plea when the appeal
 before this Court pends? Yes, it has. The panic which might
 prompt the accused to jump the gauntlet of justice is less,
 having enjoyed the confidence of the Court's verdict once.
 Concurrent holdings of guilt have the opposite effect. Again,
 the ground for denial of provisional release becomes weaker
 when the fact stares us in the face that a fair finding if that be so
 of innocence has been recorded by one Court. It may not be
 conclusive, for the judgment of acquittal may be ex facie
 wrong, the likelihood of desperate reprisal, if enlarged, may be
 a deterrent and his own safety may be more in prison than in the
 vengeful village where feuds have provoked the violent
 offence. It depends. Antecedents of the man and socio-
 geographical circumstances have a bearing only from this angle.
 Police exaggerations of prospective misconduct of the accused,

 12 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 13#

 if enlarged, must be soberly sized up lest danger of excesses
 and injustice creep subtly into the discretionary curial
 technique. Bad record and police prediction of criminal
 prospects to invalidate the bail plea are admissible in principle
 but shall not stampede the Court into a complacent refusal." 18) In Gurcharan Singh v. State (Delhi Admn.), (1978) 1 SCC
 118, this Court took the view: 13 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 14# Section 439(1) CrPC of the new Code. The overriding
 considerations in granting bail to which we adverted to earlier
 and which are common both in the case of Section 437(1) and Section 439(1) CrPC of the new Code are the nature and gravity
 of the circumstances in which the offence is committed; the
 position and the status of the accused with reference to the
 victim and the witnesses; the likelihood, of the accused fleeing
 from justice; of repeating the offence; of jeopardising his own
 life being faced with a grim prospect of possible conviction in
 the case; of tampering with witnesses; the history of the case as
 well as of its investigation and other relevant grounds which, in
 view of so many valuable factors, cannot be exhaustively set
 out." 19) In Babu Singh v. State of U.P. , (1978) 1 SCC 579, this
 Court opined: 14 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 15#

 process of justice. It is not only traditional but rational, in this
 context, to enquire into the antecedents of a man who is
 applying for bail to find whether he has a bad record--
 particularly a record which suggests that he is likely to commit
 serious offences while on bail. In regard to habituals, it is part of
 criminological history that a thoughtless bail order has enabled
 the bailee to exploit the opportunity to inflict further crimes on
 the members of society. Bail discretion, on the basis of evidence
 about the criminal record of a defendant, is therefore not an
 exercise in irrelevance. 17. The significance and sweep of Article 21 make the
 deprivation of liberty a matter of grave concern and permissible
 only when the law authorising it is reasonable, even-handed and
 geared to the goals of community good and State necessity spelt
 out in Article 19. Indeed, the considerations I have set out as
 criteria are germane to the constitutional proposition I have
 deduced. Reasonableness postulates intelligent care and
 predicates that deprivation of freedom by refusal of bail is not
 for punitive purpose but for the bi-focal interests of justice--to
 the individual involved and society affected. 18. We must weigh the contrary factors to answer the test
 of reasonableness, subject to the need for securing the presence
 of the bail applicant. It makes sense to assume that a man on
 bail has a better chance to prepare or present his case than one
 remanded in custody. And if public justice is to be promoted,
 mechanical detention should be demoted. In the United States,
 which has a constitutional perspective close to ours, the function
 of bail is limited, "community roots" of the applicant are
 stressed and, after the Vera Foundation's Manhattan Bail
 Project, monetary suretyship is losing ground. The considerable
 public expense in keeping in custody where no danger of
 disappearance or disturbance can arise, is not a negligible
 consideration. Equally important is the deplorable condition,
 verging on the inhuman, of our sub-jails, that the unrewarding
 cruelty and expensive custody of avoidable incarceration makes
 refusal of bail unreasonable and a policy favouring release justly
 sensible. 20. Viewed from this perspective, we gain a better insight

 15 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 16#

 into the rules of the game. When a person, charged with a grave
 offence, has been acquitted at a stage, has the intermediate
 acquittal pertinence to a bail plea when the appeal before this
 Court pends? Yes, it has. The panic which might prompt the
 accused to jump the gauntlet of justice is less, having enjoyed
 the confidence of the Court's verdict once. Concurrent holdings
 of guilt have the opposite effect. Again, the ground for denial of
 provisional release becomes weaker when the fact stares us in
 the face that a fair finding if that be so of innocence has been
 recorded by one Court. It may be conclusive, for the judgment
 of acquittal may be ex facie wrong, the likelihood of desperate
 reprisal, it enlarged, may be a deterrent and his own safety may
 be more in prison than in the vengeful village where feuds have
 provoked the violent offence. It depends. Antecedents of the
 man and socio-geographical circumstances have a bearing only
 from this angle. Police exaggerations of prospective misconduct
 of the accused, if enlarged, must be soberly sized up lest danger
 of excesses and injustice creep subtly into the discretionary
 curial technique. Bad record and police prediction of criminal
 prospects to invalidate the bail plea are admissible in principle
 but shall not stampede the Court into a complacent refusal." 20) In Moti Ram v. State of M.P. , (1978) 4 SCC 47, this Court,
 while discussing pre-trial detention, held: 21) The concept and philosophy of bail was discussed by this
 Court in Vaman Narain Ghiya v. State of Rajasthan , (2009) 2 SCC
 281, thus: 16 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 17#

 of Human Rights of 1948, to which India is a signatory, the
 concept of bail has found a place within the scope of human
 rights. The dictionary meaning of the expression "bail" denotes a
 security for appearance of a prisoner for his release.
 Etymologically, the word is derived from an old French verb
 "bailer" which means to "give" or "to deliver", although another
 view is that its derivation is from the Latin term "baiulare",
 meaning "to bear a burden". Bail is a conditional liberty. Stroud's
 Judicial Dictionary (4th Edn., 1971) spells out certain other
 details. It states: 17 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 18#

 from us, the more liberty we have. (See A.K. Gopalan v. State of
 Madras ) 8. The law of bail, like any other branch of law, has its
 own philosophy, and occupies an important place in the
 administration of justice and the concept of bail emerges from
 the conflict between the police power to restrict liberty of a man
 who is alleged to have committed a crime, and presumption of
 innocence in favour of the alleged criminal. An accused is not
 detained in custody with the object of punishing him on the
 assumption of his guilt." 22) More recently, in the case of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre
 v. State of Maharashtra , (2011) 1 SCC 694, this Court observed that
 "(j)ust as liberty is precious to an individual, so is the society's interest
 in maintenance of peace, law and order. Both are equally important."
 This Court further observed : This Court has taken the view that when there is a delay in the trial,
 bail should be granted to the accused [See Babba v. State of
 Maharashtra, (2005) 11 SCC 569, Vivek Kumar v. State of U.P.,
 ( 2000) 9 SCC 443, Mahesh Kumar Bhawsinghka v. State of Delhi ,
 (2000) 9 SCC 383]. 23) The principles, which the Court must consider while
 granting or declining bail, have been culled out by this Court in the
 case of Prahlad Singh Bhati v. NCT, Delhi , (2001) 4 SCC 280, thus: 24) In State of U.P. v. Amarmani Tripathi, (2005) 8 SCC 21,
 this Court held as under: 22. While a detailed examination of the evidence is to be
 avoided while considering the question of bail, to ensure that
 there is no prejudging and no prejudice, a brief examination to be
 satisfied about the existence or otherwise of a prima facie case is
 necessary." 25) Coming back to the facts of the present case, both the
 Courts have refused the request for grant of bail on two
 grounds :- The primary ground is that offence alleged against the
 accused persons is very serious involving deep rooted planning in
 which, huge financial loss is caused to the State exchequer ; the
 secondary ground is that the possibility of the accused persons
 tempering with the witnesses. In the present case, the charge is
 that of cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property,
 forgery for the purpose of cheating using as genuine a forged
 document. The punishment of the offence is punishment for a
 term which may extend to seven years. It is, no doubt, true that
 the nature of the charge may be relevant, but at the same time, the
 punishment to which the party may be liable, if convicted, also
 bears upon the issue. Therefore, in determining whether to grant
 bail, both the seriousness of the charge and the severity of the
 punishment should be taken into consideration. The grant or
 refusal to grant bail lies within the discretion of the Court. The
 grant or denial is regulated, to a large extent, by the facts and
 circumstances of each particular case. But at the same time, right
 to bail is not to be denied merely because of the sentiments of the
 community against the accused. The primary purposes of bail in a

 20 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 21#

 criminal case are to relieve the accused of imprisonment, to relieve the
 State of the burden of keeping him, pending the trial, and at the same
 time, to keep the accused constructively in the custody of the Court,
 whether before or after conviction, to assure that he will submit to the
 jurisdiction of the Court and be in attendance thereon whenever his
 presence is required. This Court in Gurcharan Singh and Ors. Vs.
 State , AIR 1978 Supreme Court 179 observed that two paramount
 considerations, while considering petition for grant of bail in non-
 bailable offence, apart from the seriousness of the offence, are the
 likelihood of the accused fleeing from justice and his tampering with
 the prosecution witnesses. Both of them relate to ensure of the fair
 trial of the case. Though, this aspect is dealt by the High Court in its
 impugned order, in our view, the same is not convincing. 26) When the undertrial prisoners are detained in jail
 custody to an indefinite period, Article 21 of the Constitution is
 violated. Every person, detained or arrested, is entitled to speedy
 trial, the question is : whether the same is possible in the present
 case. There are seventeen accused persons. Statement of the
 witnesses runs to several hundred pages and the documents on
 which reliance is placed by the prosecution, is voluminous. The
 trial may take considerable time and it looks to us that the
 appellants, who are in jail, have to remain in jail longer than the
 period of detention, had they been convicted. It is not in the
 interest of justice that accused should be in jail for an indefinite
 period. No doubt, the offence alleged against the appellants is a
 serious one in terms of alleged huge loss to the State exchequer,
 that, by itself, should not deter us from enlarging the appellants
 on bail when there is no serious contention of the respondent that
 the accused, if released on bail, would interfere with the trial or
 tamper with evidence. We do not see any good reason to detain
 the accused in custody, that too, after the completion of the
 investigation and filing of the charge-sheet. This Court, in the case
 of State of Kerala Vs. Raneef (2011) 1 SCC 784, has stated :- 21 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 22#

 the Constitution, which is the most basic of all the fundamental
 rights in our Constitution, not violated in such a case? Of course
 this is not the only factor, but it is certainly one of the important
 factors in deciding whether to grant bail. In the present case the
 respondent has already spent 66 days in custody (as stated in Para
 2 of his counter-affidavit), and we see no reason why he should
 be denied bail. A doctor incarcerated for a long period may end
 up like Dr. Manette in Charles Dicken's novel A Tale of Two
 Cities, who forgot his profession and even his name in the
 Bastille." In Dipak Shubhashchandra Mehta versus CBI and another ,

2012(1) RCR (Criminal) 870 it was held as under:- In Sharad T. Kabra versus Union of India 2017(4) RCR

(Criminal) 108 it was held as under:- " 3. The accused appellant is in custody for a period of over two
 years facing charges under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120B of
 the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short " IPC "). Though charge-sheet
 has been submitted as far back as in May, 2015, the trial has not
 commenced. Even charges have not been framed against the accused
 appellant. It is stated at the bar that there are total of 13 cases against
 the accused appellant [8 cases for the offence(s) under the IPC and 5
 cases for the offence(s) under the Prevention of Money Laundering
 Act, 2002 (for short "PMLA")]. 4. From the materials on record, it appears that in the cases
 registered under the PMLA the accused appellant has been granted
 bail. Learned counsel for the accused appellant has submitted that in
 respect of the cases involving offences under the IPC [in which
 Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is investigating] the accused
 appellant has either been granted bail or has not been arrested and the
 present is the only case in connection with which he is in detention. 5. Be that as it may, having regard to the period of custody
 suffered and the fact that the trial has not commenced we are of

 23 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 24#

 the view that the accused appellant should be released on bail. We
 order accordingly. Therefore, the appellant is ordered to be
 released on bail to the satisfaction of the learned Special Judicial
 Magistrate, CBI & Economic Offences, Indore (M.P.) in
 connection with Special Case No.02/2015 arising out of RC
 BD1/E/2014/0008. 6. At the same time, to take care of the apprehension expressed
 by the learned Solicitor General for India that the accused appellant
 may abscond like two other co-accused which apprehension is
 considered to be reasonable we direct that the learned trial Court will
 release the accused appellant on bail subject to such conditions
 including the condition requiring the accused appellant to report to the
 local police station at periodic intervals as may be considered
 appropriate and only after hearing the learned Public Prosecutor on the
 issue of conditions to be imposed for grant of bail. In P. Chidambaram versus Directorate of Enforcement 2020

AIR (Supreme Court) 1699 it was held as under:- We have taken note of the said decision since even though the
 consideration therein was made in the situation where an application for
 anticipatory bail under Section 438 was considered, the entire
 conspectus of the matter relating to bail has been noted by the
 Constitution Bench. 20. The learned senior counsel for the appellant has also placed
 reliance on the decision in the case of Sanjay Chandra vs. CBI , (2012) 1
 SCC 40 with specific reference to paragraph 39 which reads as
 hereunder: The said case was a case of financial irregularities and in the said
 circumstance this Court in addition to taking note of the deep-rooted
 planning in causing huge financial loss, the scope of consideration
 relating to bail has been taken into consideration in the background of
 the term of sentence being seven years if convicted and in that regard it

 27 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 28#

 has been held that in determining the grant or otherwise of bail, the
 seriousness of the charge and severity of the punishment should be
 taken into consideration. 21. Thus from cumulative perusal of the judgments cited on
 either side including the one rendered by the Constitution Bench of
 this Court, it could be deduced that the basic jurisprudence
 relating to bail remains the same inasmuch as the grant of bail is
 the rule and refusal is the exception so as to ensure that the accused
 has the opportunity of securing fair trial. However, while
 considering the same the gravity of the offence is an aspect which is
 required to be kept in view by the Court. The gravity for the said
 purpose will have to be gathered from the facts and circumstances
 arising in each case. Keeping in view the consequences that would
 befall on the society in cases of financial irregularities, it has been
 held that even economic offences would fall under the category of
 "grave offence" and in such circumstance while considering the
 application for bail in such matters, the Court will have to deal
 with the same, being sensitive to the nature of allegation made
 against the accused. One of the circumstances to consider the
 gravity of the offence is also the term of sentence that is prescribed
 for the offence the accused is alleged to have committed. Such
 consideration with regard to the gravity of offence is a factor which
 is in addition to the triple test or the tripod test that would be
 normally applied. In that regard what is also to be kept in
 perspective is that even if the allegation is one of grave economic
 offence, it is not a rule that bail should be denied in every case since
 there is no such bar created in the relevant enactment passed by
 the legislature nor does the bail jurisprudence provides so.
 Therefore, the underlining conclusion is that irrespective of the
 nature and gravity of charge, the precedent of another case alone
 will not be the basis for either grant or refusal of bail though it
 may have a bearing on principle. But ultimately the consideration
 will have to be on case to case basis on the facts involved therein
 and securing the presence of the accused to stand trial. 22. In the above circumstance it would be clear that even after
 concluding the triple test in favour of the appellant the learned Judge of
 the High Court was certainly justified in adverting to the issue relating

 28 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 29#

 to the gravity of the offence. However, we disapprove the manner in
 which the conclusions are recorded in paragraphs 57 to 62 wherein the
 observations are reflected to be in the nature of finding relating to the
 alleged offence. The learned senior counsel for the appellant with
 specific reference to certain observations contained in the above noted
 paragraphs has pointed out that the very contentions to that effect as
 contained in paragraphs 17, 20 and 24 of the counter affidavit has been
 incorporated as if, it is the findings of the Court. The learned Solicitor
 General while seeking to controvert such contention would however
 contend that in addition to the counter affidavit the respondent had also
 furnished the documents in a sealed cover which was taken note by the
 learned Judge and conclusion has been reached. 23. The question as to whether the Court could look into the
 documents while considering an application for bail had arisen for
 consideration in the very case between the parties herein in Criminal
 Appeal No.130/2019 wherein through the judgment dated 05.09.2019
 while considering the matter relating to the order dated 20.08.2019
 whereby the High Court had rejected the bail, this Court had held that it
 would be open for the Court to receive the materials/documents
 collected during the investigation and peruse the same to satisfy its
 conscience that the investigation is proceeding in the right lines and for
 the purpose of consideration of grant of bail/anticipatory bail etc. At
 the same time, this Court, had disapproved the manner in which the
 learned Judge of the High Court in the said case had verbatim quoted a
 note produced by the respondent. If that be the position, in the instant
 case, the learned Judge while adverting to the materials, ought not have
 recorded a finding based on the materials produced before him. While
 the learned Judge was empowered to look at the materials produced in
 a sealed cover to satisfy his judicial conscience, the learned Judge
 ought not to have recorded finding based on the materials produced in a
 sealed cover. Further while deciding the same case of the appellant in
 Crl. Appeal No.1340 of 2019, after holding so, this Court had
 consciously refrained from opening the sealed cover and perusing the
 documents lest some observations are made thereon after perusal of the
 same, which would prejudice the accused pre-trial. In that circumstance
 though it is held that it would be open for the Court to peruse the
 documents, it would be against the concept of fair trial if in every case

 29 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 30#

 the prosecution presents documents in sealed cover and the findings on
 the same are recorded as if the offence is committed and the same is
 treated as having a bearing for denial or grant of bail. 24. Having said so, in present circumstance we were not very much
 inclined to open the sealed cover although the materials in sealed cover
 was received from the respondent. However, since the learned Single
 Judge of the High Court had perused the documents in sealed cover and
 arrived at certain conclusion and since that order is under challenge, it
 had become imperative for us to also open the sealed cover and peruse
 the contents so as to satisfy ourselves to that extent. On perusal we
 have taken note that the statements of persons concerned have been
 recorded and the details collected have been collated. The recording of
 statements and the collation of material is in the nature of allegation
 against one of the co-accused Karti Chidambaram- son of appellant of
 opening shell companies and also purchasing benami properties in the
 name of relatives at various places in different countries. Except for
 recording the same, we do not wish to advert to the documents any
 further since ultimately, these are allegations which would have to be
 established in the trial wherein the accused/co-accused would have the
 opportunity of putting forth their case, if any, and an ultimate
 conclusion would be reached. Hence in our opinion, the finding
 recorded by the learned Judge of the High Court based on the material
 in sealed cover is not justified. 25. Therefore, at this stage while considering the bail
 application of the appellant herein what is to be taken note is that,
 at a stage when the appellant was before this Court in an
 application seeking for interim protection/anticipatory bail, this
 Court while considering the matter in Criminal Appeal
 No.1340/2019 had in that regard held that in a matter of present
 nature wherein grave economic offence is alleged, custodial
 interrogation as contended would be necessary and in that
 circumstance the anticipatory bail was rejected. Subsequently the
 appellant has been taken into custody and has been interrogated
 and for the said purpose the appellant was available in custody in
 this case from 16.10.2019 onwards. It is, however, contended on
 behalf of the respondent that the witnesses will have to be
 confronted and as such custody is required for that purpose. As

 30 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 31#

 noted, the appellant has not been named as one of the accused in
 the ECIR but the allegation while being made against the co-
 accused it is indicated the appellant who was the Finance Minister
 at that point, has aided the illegal transactions since one of the co-
 accused is the son of the appellant. In this context even if the
 statements on record and materials gathered are taken note, the
 complicity of the appellant will have to be established in the trial
 and if convicted, the appellant will undergo sentence. For the
 present, as taken note the anticipatory bail had been declined
 earlier and the appellant was available for custodial interrogation
 for more than 45 days. In addition to the custodial interrogation if
 further investigation is to be made, the appellant would be bound
 to participate in such investigation as is required by the
 respondent. Further it is noticed that one of the co-accused has
 been granted bail by the High Court while the other co-accused is
 enjoying interim protection from arrest. The appellant is aged
 about 74 years and as noted by the High Court itself in its order,
 the appellant has already suffered two bouts of illness during
 incarceration and was put on antibiotics and has been advised to
 take steroids of maximum strength. In that circumstance, the
 availability of the appellant for further investigation, interrogation
 and facing trial is not jeopardized and he is already held to be not a
 'flight risk' and there is no possibility of tampering the evidence or
 influencing\intimidating the witnesses. Taking these and all other
 facts and circumstances including the duration of custody into
 consideration the appellant in our considered view is entitled to be
 granted bail. It is made clear that the observations contained
 touching upon the merits either in the order of the High Court or
 in this order shall not be construed as an opinion expressed on
 merits and all contentions are left open to be considered during the
 course of trial. 26. For the reasons stated above, we pass the following order: iii) The passport ordered to be deposited by this Court in the CBI case shall remain in deposit and the appellant shall not leave the
 country without specific orders to be passed by the learned Special
 Judge. iv) The appellant shall make himself available for interrogation in
 the course of further investigation as and when required by the
 respondent. v) The appellant shall not tamper with the evidence or attempt to
 intimidate or influence the witnesses; vi) The appellant shall not give any press interviews nor make any
 public comment in connection with this case qua him or other co-
 accused. vii) There shall be no order as to costs. In Satender Kumar Antil versus Central Bureau of

Investigation and another , 2022 AIR (Supreme Court) 3386 it was held

as under:- Keeping in view the consequences that would befall on the society in
 cases of financial irregularities, it has been held that even economic
 offences would fall under the category of "grave offence" and in such
 circumstance while considering the application for bail in such
 matters, the Court will have to deal with the same, being sensitive to
 the nature of allegation made against the accused. One of the
 circumstances to consider the gravity of the offence is also the term of
 sentence that is prescribed for the offence the accused is alleged to
 have committed. Such consideration with regard to the gravity of
 offence is a factor which is in addition to the triple test or the tripod
 test that would be normally applied. In that regard what is also to be
 kept in perspective is that even if the allegation is one of grave
 economic offence, it is not a rule that bail should be denied in every
 case since there is no such bar created in the relevant enactment
 passed by the legislature nor does the bail jurisprudence provide so.
 Therefore, the underlining conclusion is that irrespective of the nature
 and gravity of charge, the precedent of another case alone will not be
 the basis for either grant or refusal of bail though it may have a
 bearing on principle. But ultimately the consideration will have to be
 on case-to-case basis on the facts involved therein and securing the
 presence of the accused to stand trial. Sanjay Chandra v. CBI (2012) 1 SCC 40: ROLE OF THE COURT 67. The rate of conviction in criminal cases in India is
 abysmally low. It appears to us that this factor weighs on the
 mind of the Court while deciding the bail applications in a
 negative sense. Courts tend to think that the possibility of a
 conviction being nearer to rarity, bail applications will have to be
 decided strictly, contrary to legal principles. We cannot mix up

 34 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 35#

 consideration of a bail application, which is not punitive in nature
 with that of a possible adjudication by way of trial. On the
 contrary, an ultimate acquittal with continued custody would be a
 case of grave injustice. 68. Criminal courts in general with the trial court in particular
 are the guardian angels of liberty. Liberty, as embedded in the
 Code, has to be preserved, protected, and enforced by the
 Criminal Courts. Any conscious failure by the Criminal Courts
 would constitute an affront to liberty. It is the pious duty of the
 Criminal Court to zealously guard and keep a consistent vision in
 safeguarding the constitutional values and ethos. A criminal court
 must uphold the constitutional thrust with responsibility
 mandated on them by acting akin to a high priest. This Court in Arnab Manoranjan Goswami v. State of Maharashtra , (2021) 2 SCC
 427, has observed that: (emphasis supplied) 69. We wish to note the existence of exclusive Acts in the form of

 36 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 37#

 Bail Acts prevailing in the United Kingdom and various States of
 USA. These Acts prescribe adequate guidelines both for investigating
 agencies and the courts. We shall now take note of Section 4(1) of the
 Bail Act of 1976 pertaining to United Kingdom: 70. Even other than the aforesaid provision, the enactment does
 take into consideration of the principles of law which we have
 discussed on the presumption of innocence and the grant of bail being
 a matter of right. 71. Uniformity and certainty in the decisions of the court are the
 foundations of judicial dispensation. Persons accused with same
 offense shall never be treated differently either by the same court or
 by the same or different courts. Such an action though by an exercise
 of discretion despite being a judicial one would be a grave affront to Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution of India. 72. The Bail Act of United Kingdom takes into consideration
 various factors. It is an attempt to have a comprehensive law dealing
 with bails by following a simple procedure. The Act takes into
 consideration clogging of the prisons with the undertrial prisoners,
 cases involving the issuance of warrants, granting of bail both before
 and after conviction, exercise of the power by the investigating agency
 and the court, violation of the bail conditions, execution of bond and
 sureties on the unassailable principle of presumption and right to get
 bail. Exceptions have been carved out as mentioned in Schedule I
 dealing with different contingencies and factors including the nature
 and continuity of offence. They also include Special Acts as well. We
 believe there is a pressing need for a similar enactment in our country.
 We do not wish to say anything beyond the observation made, except
 to call on the Government of India to consider the introduction of an
 Act specifically meant for granting of bail as done in various other
 countries like the United Kingdom. Our belief is also for the reason
 that the Code as it exists today is a continuation of the
 preindependence one with its modifications. We hope and trust that
 the Government of India would look into the suggestion made in right
 earnest". 73. In conclusion, we would like to issue certain directions. These
 directions are meant for the investigating agencies and also for the
 courts. Accordingly, we deem it appropriate to issue the following
 directions, which may be subject to State amendments.: 38 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 39# (i) While insisting upon sureties the mandate of Section 440 of the
 Code has to be kept in mind. (j) An exercise will have to be done in a similar manner to comply
 with the mandate of Section 436A of the Code both at the district
 judiciary level and the High Court as earlier directed by this Court in
 Bhim Singh (supra), followed by appropriate orders. (k) Bail applications ought to be disposed of within a period of two
 weeks except if the provisions mandate otherwise, with the exception
 being an intervening application. Applications for anticipatory bail
 are expected to be disposed of within a period of six weeks with the
 exception of any intervening application. (l) All State Governments, Union Territories and High Courts are
 directed to file affidavits/status reports within a period of four

 months. Various High Courts have considered the law relating to the

grant of bail in various cases and some of them have been enumerated

hereunder:- 39 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 40#

 under the petitioners and they were threatened and harassed to toe the
 line of the petitioners. However, whether the said threat can raise an
 apprehension that the petitioners are likely to influence the witnesses
 during the trial is an issue which has to be examined by this Court. It
 may be noted that the statements of these witnesses i.e. PW-1, PW-2
 and PW-6 were recorded by the CBI when the petitioners had not been
 arrested. Thus, it is apparent that the witnesses were harassed and
 threatened only till they were working under the petitioners.
 Thereafter there was no influence on the witnesses and they made their
 statements fearlessly before the CBI. Thus, the evidence on record
 that in the past witnesses were intimidated does not prima facie shows
 that there is any likelihood of threat to the prosecution witnesses. I
 find no merit in the contention of the learned counsel for the CBI that
 the mere presence of the petitioners at large would intimidate the
 witnesses. Further one co-accused who was actually found
 influencing the prosecution witness is not the petitioner before this
 Court. 16. As regards delay in trial, it may be noted that the charge sheet
 was filed on the 20th May, 2011 and thereafter twice supplementary
 charge sheets with list of witnesses and documents have been filed.
 After the charge sheet was filed, time was consumed in providing it in
 E-form with hyperlinking. After the scrutiny of the supplementary
 charge, the matter will now be listed for arguments on charge. Though
 the learned Trial Court has directed that the trial be conducted on day
 to day basis, however, in the main charge sheet itself 49 witnesses
 have been cited. Thereafter, further witnesses have been cited in the
 two supplementary charge sheets. Thus, the trial is likely to take time. 17. The petitioner Suresh Kalmadi has been in custody for over
 eight months and petitioner V.K. Verma for ten months. There is no
 allegation that the petitioners are of having committed economic
 offences which have resulted in loss to the State Exchequer by
 adopting the policy of single vendor and ensuring that the contract is
 awarded only to STL. Whether it was a case of exercise of discretion
 for ensuring the best quality or a case of culpability will be decided
 during the course of trial. There is no allegation of money trial to the
 petitioners. There is no evidence of the petitioners threatening the
 witnesses or interfering with evidence during investigation or trial.
 There is no allegation that any other FIR has been registered against

 40 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 41#

 the petitioners. In Anil Kumar versus State of Punjab 2013(3) RCR (Criminal)

854 it was held as under:- Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sanjay Chandra (supra) has held as under:- 11. I am conscious of the fact that serious
 allegations of connivance and causing financial loss to
 the State exchequer have been levelled against the
 petitioners. There are also allegations of dishonesty,
 forgery, cheating and charges under various Sections
 of IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act have been
 levelled. However, if the petitioners are allowed to be
 kept in judicial custody for indefinite period then Article 21 of the Constitution is violated. It is the
 fundamental right of every person in judicial custody
 for speedy trial. In the facts of the present case, it is to
 be seen whether keeping the petitioners in custody is
 justified specially when some of the persons who have
 been nominated during investigation are yet to be
 arrested and challan against them is to be presented
 on their joining investigation. with the evidence. I have considered this contention
 also. The entire case is based on the documentary
 evidence i.e. forged vouchers, bills and thereafter the
 payment to various contractors and others in
 connivance with the Government officials. This is not
 a case based on the oral testimony of individuals. No
 doubt the allegations against the petitioners are
 serious in terms of the alleged huge loss caused to the
 State exchequer, that by itself should not deter this
 Court from enlarging the accused on bail specially
 when they are already behind bars for about seven or
 more months. I do not see any good reason to continue
 the judicial custody of the petitioners that too after
 completion of investigation and submission of charge-
 sheets/supplementary charge-sheets. The conclusion of
 the trial will take long time and their presence in
 custody may not be necessary for further
 investigation. 13. In view of this, I am of the view that petitioners
 are entitled to grant of bail pending trial on stringent
 conditions in order to allay the apprehension of the
 investigating agency. It is not necessary to canvass and go
 into the details of various other issues canvassed by
 learned counsel for the parties and the cases relied upon
 by learned counsel for the petitioners in support of their
 contentions. I have not expressed any opinion on the merit
 of the case. In Giri Raj versus State of Haryana , 2019(1) RCR

(Criminal) 530 it was held as under:- (g) The powers of the Court of Session or the High Court to
 grant bail under Section 439(1) of Criminal Procedure Code,
 1973 are very wide and unrestricted. The restrictions mentioned
 in Section 437(1) do not apply to the special powers of the High
 Court or the Court of Session to grant bail under Section 439(1).
 Unlike under Section 437(1), there is no ban imposed under
 Section 439(1) against granting of bail by the High Court or the
 Court of Session to persons accused of an offence punishable
 with death or imprisonment for life. However while considering
 an application for ail under Section 439(1), the High Court or the
 Court of Sessions will have to exercise its judicial discretion also
 bearing in maind, among other things, the rationale behind the
 ban imposed under Section 437(1) against granting bail to
 persons accused of offences punishable with death or
 imprisonment for life. (h) There is no hard and fast rule and no inflexible principle
 governing the exercise of such discretion by the Courts. There
 cannot be an inexorable formula in the matter of granting bail.
 The facts and circumstances of each case will govern the exercise
 of judicial discretion in granting or refusing bail. The answer to
 the question whether to grant bail or not depends upon a variety
 of circumstances, the cumulative effect of which must enter into
 the judicial verdict. Any one single circumstance cannot be
 treated as of universal validity or as necessarily justifying the
 grant or refusal of bail. (i) While exercising the discretion to grant or refuse bail the
 Court will have to take into account various considerations like
 the nature and seriousness of the offence; the circumstances in
 which the offence was committed; the character of the evidence;
 the circumstances which are peculiar to the accused; a reasonable
 apprehension of witnesses being influenced and evidence being
 tampered with; the larger interest of the public or the State; the
 position and status of the accused with reference to the victim
 and the witness; the likelihood of the accused fleeing from
 justice; the likelihood of the accused repeating the offence; the
 history of the case as well as the stage of investigation etc. In

 46 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 47#

 view of so many variable factors the considerations which should
 weigh with the Court cannot be Exhaustively set out. However,
 the two paramount considerations are: (i) the likelihood of the
 accused fleeing from justice and (ii) the likelihood of the accused
 tampering with prosecution evidence. These two considerations
 in fact relate to ensuring a fair trial of the case in a Court of
 justice and hence it is essential that due and proper weight should
 be bestowed on these two factors. (j) While exercising the power under Section 437 of the
 Criminal Procedure Code in cases involving non-bailable
 offences except cases relating to offences punishable with death
 or imprisonment for life, judicial discretion would always be
 exercised by the Court in favour of granting bail subject to sub- section 3 of Section 437 with regard to imposition of conditions,
 if necessary. Unless exceptional circumstances are brought to the
 notice of the Court which might defeat proper investigation and a
 fair trial, the Court will not decline to grant bail to a person who
 is not accused of an offence punishable with death or
 imprisonment for life. (k) If investigation has not been completed and if the release
 of the accused on bail is likely to hamper the investigation, bail
 can be refused in order to ensure a proper and fair investigation. (l) If there are sufficient reasons to have a reasonable
 apprehension that the accused will flee from justice or will
 tamper with prosecution evidence he can be refused bail in order
 to ensure a fair trial of the case. (m) The Court may refuse bail if there are sufficient reasons to
 apprehend that the accused will repeat a serious offence if he is
 released on bail. (n) For the purpose of granting or refusing bail there is no
 classification of the offences except the ban under Section 437(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code against grant of bail in the case
 of offences punishable with death or life imprisonment. Hence
 there is no statutory support or justification for classifying
 offences into different categories such as economic offences and
 for refusing bail on the ground that the offence involved belongs

 47 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 48#

 to a particular category. When the Court has been granted
 discretion in the matter of granting bail and when there is no
 statute 13 of 15 prescribing a special treatment in the case of a
 particular offence the Court cannot classify the cases and say that
 in particular classes bail may be granted but not in others. Not
 only in the case of economic offences but also in the case of
 other offences the Court will have to consider the larger interest
 of the public or the State. Hence only the considerations which
 should normally weigh with the Court in the case of other non-
 bailable offences should apply in the case of economic offences
 also. It cannot be said that bail should invariably be refused in
 cases involving serious economic offences. (o) Law does not authorise or permit any discrimination
 between a foreign National and an Indian National in the matter
 of granting bail. What is permissible is that, considering the facts
 and circumstances of each case, the Court can impose different
 conditions which are necessary to ensure that the accused will be
 available for facing trial. It cannot be said that an accused will
 not be granted bail because he is a foreign national. 19. It has also been held in various judgment of Hon'ble
 the Apex Court as well as of this Court that criminal
 prosecution is not a proceeding for recovery of the dues of the
 investors but is meant for punishing the guilty. In case of
 economic offences, the object of criminal prosecution is to
 protect the investors and help them in recovery of the money.
 It can be a presumption but the detention of accused in the
 jail would not aid the recovery. It has also been held that the
 purpose is not to recover the amount but to punish the
 accused persons. 20. Hon'ble the Apex Court in Sanjay Chandra 's case (supra)
 has held in para Nos.27 and 28 as under :- In Dipak Shubhashchandra Mehta 's case (supra), Hon'ble the Apex
 Court while relying upon the judgment of Sanjay Chandra 's case (supra)
 allowed bail in case involving economic offences of huge magnitude. This Court in Anil Kumar 's case (supra) scanned various authorities on
 the issue and held in favour of accused for release on bail. 21. Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the present
 case and by considering that the offence is triable by Magistrate; the
 custody which is more than 11 months; even a single witness has not
 been examined; the delay is there on the part of the complainant
 himself as alternative remedy has already been availed and no
 useful purpose would be served by keeping the petitioner in
 custody, the present petition is allowed and petitioner, namely, Giri
 Raj is directed to be released on regular bail on his furnishing
 bail/surety bonds to the satisfaction of the trial Court. In Permanand versus State of Haryana (CRM-M-45975-

2021 decided on 22.11.2021) it was held as under:- In D.K. Shivakumar versus Directorate of Enforcement 2019 (4) JCC 4037:- In Surinder Pal Singh versus State of Punjab (CRM-M- 22982-2020 decided on 30.09.2020):- 10. Similarly, in the case of 'Mahesh Kumar Vs. Central Bureau
 of Investigation ' 2014(8) R.C.R. (Criminal) 1650, the Delhi High
 Court after considering the ratio of the Apex Court's decisions in
 cases of Sanjay Chandra and Dipak Shubhashchandra Mehta 's 9 of
 12 (Supra) granted bail to the accused persons, who were similarly
 accused of economic offences under various Sections of P.C.Act
 inspite of having found that there was good material against them
 by observing inter-alia - 11. The situation of the Petitioner clearly appears to be covered
 by the ratio of aforesaid decisions since admittedly the Challan has
 been submitted against him more than four months ago and there is
 no requirement for his further detention especially in view of the
 fact that he was taken into custody in the present case before he

 52 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 53#

 could be released on bail granted to him by the Himachal Pradesh
 High Court. Ld. State Counsel has nevertheless also contended
 that considering the nature of offences involved there is every
 likelihood that the Petitioner will abscond and flee from justice on
 account of which he should not be released on bail. This
 submission, however, does not appear to be substantiated
 considering the previous background of the Petitioner's arrest and
 implication in FIR No.161 dated 21.9.2018. It is a matter of record
 that he had previously been granted bail on 24.5.2019 by a
 Coordinate Bench of this Court in the said FIR registered against
 him. Thereafter he remained on bail and was also diligently
 attending the Trial Court as can be seen from the Zimni Order of
 the Court in the said case passed on 18.12.2019, a copy of which
 has been filed on behalf of Petitioner in this case on 24.9.2020.
 Perusal of the said Order passed by the Ld. Special Judge/P.C.Act,
 S.B.S. Nagar clearly goes to reveal that the Petitioner while on bail
 was physically present on that date with his counsel when partial
 examination of PW1 Manoj Kumar (who incidentally happens to
 be again the complainant in the present case) was recorded and
 then deferred at the instance of the prosecution side itself. The
 matter was thereafter adjourned to 20.2.2020 for the same purpose.
 However, the Petitioner was in the meantime arrested by the CBI
 on 3.1.2020 in connection with the case started against him in the
 State of Himachal Pradesh, in which he was ultimately granted bail
 on 11.3.2020, on which date, he was arrested in the present case
 on the strength of a Production Warrant while still in custody. It is
 therefore, clear that in spite of having been granted bail on
 24.5.2019 in FIR No.161 of 2018 of the same Police Station, the
 Petitioner had never misused his liberty and was diligent in
 attending the Court till 18.12.2019, after which he was arrested,
 and there is no material to indicate that he had tried to flee away. 12. Even the next submission raised on behalf of State to the
 fact that if released on bail he could tamper with the evidence also
 appears to be unfounded since the Petitioner is admittedly
 suspended from his post as Head Cashier in the concerned Bank,

 53 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 54#

 and is therefore, unable to have any access to the Bank record and
 documents, which would essentially constitute the evidence to
 conduct his prosecution, and this view was also taken by the
 Himachal Pradesh High Court in granting him bail in Para 9(d) of
 its relevant Order (Annexure P-4). 13. For the aforesaid reasons, this Court finds the Petitioner to be
 entitled to regular bail in the present case considering his long
 detention exceeding 6½ months, and the fact that Challan against
 him has been filed long ago. He is, therefore, ordered to be released
 on bail subject to imposition of appropriate terms and conditions to
 ensure his attendance, which are left to the discretion of the Ld.
 Trial Court/Duty Magistrate concerned. In Dr. Jogender Singh versus State of Haryana (CRM-M- 35475-2020 decided on 12.11.2020) it was held as under:- In Ram Pal versus State of Punjab (CRM-M-19812-2021 decided on 15.12.2021) it was held as under:- 6. Therefore, effectively, what has been held in the

aforementioned judgments is that it would be contrary to the concept of

personal liberty enshrined in the constitution that any person should be

punished in respect of any matter upon which he has not yet been convicted

or that in any circumstances he should be deprived of his liberty only upon

the belief that he will tamper with the witnesses/evidence, if granted bail

except in the most extraordinary circumstances. Undoubtedly, the

seriousness of the charges against the accused are no doubt one of the

relevant considerations while considering the bail application but it would

not be the only factor. The other relevant factor would be the sentence that

could be imposed upon the said accused after trial and conviction. If

seriousness of the charge was the only test then it would not be balancing

the constitutional rights. Further, while considering the grant of bail, the

triple/tripod test would also be a relevant consideration. The three factors

 57 of 59 ::: Downloaded on - 02-09-2022 04:11:47 ::: CRM-M-24033-2021(O&M) # 58#

as set out in the said test are:- (i) Whether the accused is a flight risk; (ii)

Whether the accused will tamper with the evidence, if granted bail & (iii)

whether the accused could influence the witnesses, if granted bail. 7. Since the grant or refusal of bail lies in the discretion of the

Court the discretion is to be exercised with regard to the facts and

circumstances of each case. However, bail is not to be denied to satisfy the

collective sentiments of a community or as a punitive measure. 8. Therefore, broadly speaking (subject to any statutory

restrictions contained in Special Acts) , in economic offences involving the IPC or Special Acts or cases triable by Magistrates once the investigation is

complete, final report/complaint filed and the triple test is satisfied then

denial of bail must be the exception rather than the rule. However, this

would not prevent the Court from granting bail even prior to the completion

of investigation if the facts so warrant. 9. Coming back to the facts of the present case, it may be

pertinent to mention here that the petitioners were arrested on 13.03.2021

and the complaint came to be filed on 12.05.2021. Therefore, as on date

they have undergone a total custody period of approximately 01 year and 06

months. The maximum sentence that could be awarded would be 05 years. As yet, even the charges have not been framed and as many as 66

prosecution witnesses are yet to be examined. Therefore, at any rate, the

trial cannot be concluded any time soon. Further no serious apprehension

has been expressed by the prosecution of the petitioners being flight risks,

or that they would tamper with the evidence or influence witnesses in case

bail was granted to them. Even otherwise the evidence is primarily

documentary in nature and in custody of the State. 10. In view of the aforementioned circumstances, the further

incarceration of the petitioners would be wholly unnecessary. Thus without

commenting on the merits of the case, the aforementioned petitions are

allowed and the petitioner- Maninder Sharma son of Sh. Satya Varat

Rattan (in CRM-M-24033-2021), petitioner-Vinod Kumar son of Sh. Om

Parkash (in CRM-M-32902-2021), Sunny Mehta son of Sh. Kuldeep

Mehta (in CRM-M-32903-2021) and Sandeep Singh son of Sh. Ikbal

Singh (in CRM-M-36121-2021) are ordered to be released on bail subject

to the satisfaction of the Trial Court, concerned which is at liberty to impose

any stringent conditions that it deems appropriate. 11. Further, the Petitioners are directed to surrender their passports

before the Trial Court or furnish an affidavit in case they do not possess

any passport. 12. If any attempt whatsoever is made by the petitioners and/or

his/their family members/friends to contact/threaten/intimidate any of the

witnesses of the case, the State/complainant shall be at liberty to move an

application for cancellation of bail granted vide this order. The petitions stand disposed of.