This appeal filed by the assessee is against the order of the
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-NFAC, Delhi [hereinafter
referred to as Ld. 'CIT(A)'] passed u/s 250 of the Income Tax Act, 1961
(hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') for AY 2019-20 dated 01.08.2024. 1.1 The Registry has informed that the appeal is barred by limitation
by 176 days whereas the Ld. AR submitted before us that there was a
delay of 207 days and the reason for the same is stated to be that the
appeal should have been filed on or before 30.09.2024 against the order
of the Ld. CIT(A) dated 01.08.2024 but has been filed on 25.04.2025
and there is a delay of 207 days in filing the appeal as Salim Abbasbhai
Lokhandwalla who used to look after the business of Sagar Industries
and being the key partner who lived at Howrah, the other partner,
Mustan Taher Abbasbhai staying in Mumbai, was admitted in Apollo
hospital from 02.08.2024 to 09.08.2024 and thereafter, he went to
 Page | 2
 ITA No.: 892/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2019-20
 Sagar Industries. Mumbai for better treatment at Saifee Hospital, Mumbai and was
advised for treatment for at least for three months and was further
advised for treatment up to April, 2025. Immediately after release from
Saifee Hospital, Mumbai, the main partner prepared the appeal papers
with the help of an Advocate. It was submitted that the delay of 207
days may be condoned and an affidavit in this regard has also been filed
along with the medical certificates. After perusing the same, we are
satisfied that the assessee had a reasonable and sufficient cause and
was prevented from filing the instant appeal within the statutory time
limit. We, therefore, condone the delay and admit the appeal for
adjudication. 2. The assessee is in appeal before the Tribunal raising the following
grounds of appeal: 3. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee had filed the return of
income for AY 2019-20 on 26.06.2019 showing total income of
₹1,95,780/- and the same was not scrutinised. Information was
received from the Insight portal of the Department on the basis of
information forwarded through REIC, which related with cases of
issuance of bogus sales invoices booked by CGST, Kolkata, and the case
of one M/s. Mega City Tradelink Pvt. Ltd. was also reported by DGGI,
 Page | 4
 ITA No.: 892/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2019-20
 Sagar Industries. Kolkata. The entity was found to have indulged in issuance of
fraudulent/fake GST invoices for passing irregular input tax credit to
other business entities and for which they had also availed and utilized
Input Tax Credit against fake invoices issued by others. The assessee
was found to be one of the beneficiaries of such bogus transactions;
accordingly, the assessment was reopened u/s 147 of the Act. The
assessee filed the return in response to the notice issued u/s 148 of the
Act showing the same total income of ₹1,95,780/- as was originally filed.
The statutory notices issued were complied with by the assessee,
however, no compliance was received from M/s. Mega City Tradelink
Pvt. Ltd. in response to the notices issued u/s 133(6) of the Act. The
Assessing Officer (hereinafter referred to as Ld. 'AO') made the addition
of ₹1,26,55,500/- for the alleged transactions from the paper entity with
no financial wealth which were used for providing accommodation
entries in the guise of invoices issued and which was alleged to be a
shell company which was not doing any business and had booked bills
without supply of any goods; the corresponding purchases booked by
the assessee were treated as bogus. The total income was assessed at
₹1,28,51,280/- vide order u/s 147 r.w.s. 144B of the Act. Aggrieved with
the assessment order, the assessee filed an appeal before the Ld. CIT(A)
who has dismissed the appeal of the assessee by holding as under: "4. The only issue involved in this case is addition of Rs. 1,26,55,500/- as
 bogus purchases. 4.1 As per the assessment order, there was information in possession of the
 department that the assessee had made purchases amounting to Rs.
 1,26,55,500/-from M/s. Mega City Tradelink P Ltd. during the F.Y. 2018-19
 relevant to the A.Y. 2019-20. From the investigation conducted, it is
 construed that M/s. Mega City Tradelink P Ltd is a paper entity with no
 financial worth, and is used for providing accommodation entries in the
 guise of invoice issuance. As the entity is a shell entity which is not doing
 any business and have booked bogus bills without supply of any goods, the
 Page | 5
 ITA No.: 892/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2019-20
 Sagar Industries. corresponding purchases booked by the subject assessee stands bogus. It
is concluded that the assessee has procured bogus bills from M/s. Mega
City Tradelink P Ltd. During the F.Y. 2018-19 relevant to the A.Y. 2019-20.
In absence of any information, claim of purchase of Rs. 1,26,55,500/- from
M/s. Megacity Tradelink P Ltd is decided to be treated as not genuine and
bogus and same is also added to the income declared by the assessee as
unexplained expenditure u/s. 69C r.w.s. 115 BBE of the Act . 4.2 During the course of appellate proceedings, it is submitted that the
purchases from Megacity Tradelink P Ltd. for the financial ended 31.3.2019
was Rs. 1,16,60,170/- and not Rs. 1,26,55,500/- as mentioned in the
assessment order under consideration. List of purchase and copy of ledger
of Megacity Tradelink P Ltd are attached. We made payments to the
suppliers by cheque / RTGS as will be found from the copy of bank
statement attached. Purchases were made against tax invoices supported
by E-way bill. Copy of invoices and e way bills are attached. We were not
aware that the supplier did not file their GST returns as such availing input
credit against genuine transactions the total purchases were wrongly added
to our income. 4.3.1 I have gone through the grounds of appeal, statement of facts,
assessment order and submissions of the appellant. In the submissions, the
appellant mentioned that during the course of assessment proceedings, the
assessee furnished various documents/information bill & payment details
of M/s. Megacity Tradelink P Ltd, copies of purchase bills with copy of ledger
account and other details and explanations from time to time. However, the
appellant failed to understand that the assessment order was passed by
the AO after verification & consideration of the information furnished during
assessment proceedings and that this appeal is filed against such order. I
have considered the assessment order and the submissions of the appellant
made before the AO. AO has added Rs. 1,26,55,500/- of the disputed
purchases, The Assessing Officer observed in the assessment order that
there was a report of investigation forwarded through REIC, related with
cases of issuance of bogus sales invoices booked by CGST, Kolkata and
case of M/s. Mega City Trade Link P Ltd. was reported by DGGI Kolkata
who was found indulging in issuance of fraudulent/fake GST invoices for
passing irregular input tax credit to other business entities and for doing
this they have also availed and utilized input tax credit (ITC) against fake
invoices issued by others. 4.3.2 The AO has passed the assessment order based on the information
received from the Investigation wing. It is also seen from the assessment
order that during the proceedings, an information u/s. 133(6) of the Act was
also called for from the seller M/s. Mega City Trade Link P Ltd. A reminder
 Page | 6
 ITA No.: 892/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2019-20
 Sagar Industries. letter was also issued to confirm the impugned transactions, but no
response was received from the party. The assessee has not submitted copy
of audit report and accounts, copy of bank book, cash book, purchase
register, sales register, stock register, details of opening confirmation of
parties, transportation details etc.

4.3.3 Moreover, the modus operandi adopted in this case all such
transactions are routed through the banking channel but not the genuine
business transactions. As the payment through banking channel does not
give certificate to the assessee that the transactions made by him were
genuine. It has been established that the above transactions has only been
carried out for the purpose of providing of accommodation entries to various
beneficiaries. The AO further mentioned that in sales invoice, it is noticed
that the term of delivery showing transport arranged by buyer and direct
delivery. These facts itself clear that there is no genuine transport of material
between the seller and buyer. On enquiry 133(6) of the IT Act , M/s. Mega
City Tradelink P Ltd has not responded to the notice till date. It is noticed
that on account of non-availability of the suppliers at the given address and
non-production of transportation bills, the AO added 100% bogus purchases
as unexplained expenditure under section 69C of the Act. Section 69C reads
as

 "Where in any financial year an assessee has incurred any
 expenditure and he offers no explanation about the source of such
 expenditure or part thereof, or the explanation, if any offered by him
 is not, in the opinion of the AO, satisfactory, the amount covered by
 such expenditure or part thereof, as the case may be, may be deemed
 to be the income of the assessee for such financial year. As can be seen from the provision for applying the section 69C what is
important is that there should be no explanation about the source of
expenditure or that the explanation offered is not found satisfactory. In other
words, the source of expenditure incurred for the expenditure in question
very important in section 69C . 4.3.4 It is seen that merely documenting transaction do not render them
genuine, more so in the face of overwhelming findings that they have been
and are established to be make-believe. A taxing authority has always to
give precedence of substance over form, and is not bound to recognize a
transaction merely because it may have been routed through a negotiable
instrument in a bank. In this case, the substance proves that the
transactions were bogus, and the form given to them was a receipt. Reliance
is placed on the judicial precedent of Karanpura Development Co. Ltd. Vs
CIT (SC ) 44 ITR 362. Page | 7
 ITA No.: 892/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2019-20
 Sagar Industries. 4.3.5 Further, considering the tax evasion in the instant case, it is pertinent
 to refer to ratio of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Rajendran Chingaravelu Vs. R.K. Mishra (320 ITR 1), in which the Hon'ble
 Apex Court noted with grave concerned the rampant circulation of
 unaccounted money destroying the economy of our country. Further, the
 ratio of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mc Dowell
 Vs CTO (154 ITR 148) is also relied upon. In this land mark decision, the
 Hon'ble Apex Court noted with concern the colourable devices of tax
 planning. Considering the gamut of issues dealt with in the assessment
 order with which the undersigned concurs, the decision of the assessing
 officer is upheld and all the grounds raised in this appeal are dismissed. 5. Lastly, the appellant craves his rights to add, amend or alter any of the
 grounds on or before the hearing. However, the appellant has not opted the
 option by him during appeal proceedings. Hence, this ground of appeal is
 dismissed. 6. In the result, the appeal is DISMISSED"." 4. Aggrieved with the order of the Ld. CIT(A), the assessee has filed
the appeal before the Tribunal. 5. Rival contentions were heard and the submissions made have
been examined., The Ld. AR stated that none had appeared before the
Ld. CIT(A) in response to the notice issued and only submissions were
filed. Our attention was drawn to page 8 of the assessment order and it
was submitted before the Ld. AO that the assessee had made purchases
against proper tax invoices along with e-way bills and had made
payments of ₹24.40 Lakh and ₹1,07,00,001/- through banking channel
and the assessee was not aware that the supplier did not file their GST
returns. It was also submitted before the Ld. AO that all the purchases
are free of delivery and they pay unloading charges. The total turnover
shown was ₹4,08,89,258/- for which an audit report and return of
income was filed but the Ld. AO could not find any such audit report
from CPC .02 portal. Our attention was also drawn to para 4.4 of the
assessment order that for lack of certain documents, the addition was
 Page | 8
 ITA No.: 892/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2019-20
 Sagar Industries. made. Before the Ld. CIT(A) also, proper compliance was not made and
the order was passed ex parte. It was stated that GST return filed by the
party was cancelled and the GSTR3B was not filed for the first quarter. 6. The Ld. DR submitted that the Ld. AO had computed not on the
basis of any hearsay but he had issued notice u/s 133(6) of the Act to
the party whose registration was cancelled, the assessee was confronted
and thereafter the addition was made. The assessee stated that the
stock register was produced. The assessee had relied upon the decision
of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of M/s. LGW Industries
Limited and Ors. vs. Union of India and Ors. in WPA No. 23512 of 2019
in support of the claim that the addition should not be made. However,
it was brought to the notice of the Ld. AR that the same related to
allowing input tax credit and the facts are different. It was submitted
that the decision was rendered in the context of use of ITC and the
findings do not pertain to genuineness of the transactions. It was stated
that the GST return of M/s. Mega City Tradelink Pvt. Ltd. was cancelled
suo moto but the date was not mentioned and the GSTR3B was not filed
for the first quarter. 7. We have considered the facts of the case, the submissions made
and the documents filed. The Ld. AR requested that the merely because
the registration of the party was cancelled, the same does not justify the
addition on account of bogus purchases and requested that since
proper compliance could not be made before the Ld. AO, another
opportunity may be provided as the required submission could not be
made either before the Ld. CIT(A) or before the Ld. AO. 8. Since there was no proper compliance before both the Ld. AO as
well as the Ld. CIT(A), in the interest of justice and fair play it was
 Page | 9
 ITA No.: 892/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2019-20
 Sagar Industries. considered by the Bench that the request of the assessee to set aside
the case before the Ld. AO may be allowed so that a proper opportunity
of being heard may be provided. Hence, after examining the facts of the
case, we deem it appropriate to set aside the order of the Ld. CIT(A) and
remit the matter back to the Ld. AO for making the reassessment de
novo. Needless to say, the assessee shall be given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard to make any further submission it wants to
make in support of its grounds of appeal and shall not seek unnecessary
adjournments. Accordingly, the grounds taken by the assessee in its
appeal are partly allowed for statistical purposes. 9. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is partly allowed for
statistical purposes. Order pronounced in the open Court on 18th March, 2026. 1. Sagar Industries, 190, Girish Ghosh Road, Belur, Howrah, West
 Bengal, 711202. 2. ITO, Ward-47(2), Kolkata. 3. CIT(A)-NFAC, Delhi. 4. CIT- 5. CIT(DR), Kolkata Benches, Kolkata. 6. Guard File. //True copy //
 By order

 Assistant Registrar
 ITAT, Kolkata Benches
 Kolkata