5See correspondence in Ministry of Law, Legal Affairs Department,
File No. 'I2(3)/62, J., which was forwarded to the Law Commission for its
consideration. Order V, rule 26A (New)

1_ This rule is new, and inserts an additional provision
dealing with service of summonses meant for defendants
residing outside India. There are two rules which exist
at present on the subject, namely, Order V, rule 25, under
which the summons can be sent by registered post direct
to the defendant (subject to the proviso relating to
Pakistan), and Order V, rule 26, under which, in certain
cases, the summonses can be sent to a Political Agent Or
court speciﬁed in the rule or in the notiﬁcation issued
thereunder. These provisions do not, however, provide for
cases where it is intended that the summons should be
served through diplomatic channels and sent to an officer
of the foreign country. A provision authorising such a
course has been suggested by the Government'. The provi-
sion, as drafted, is intended to implement this suggestion.
Reference may be made in this connection to the local
Amendments made in Order V, rule 26 by the High Courts
of Madras and Kerala, though they are not so comprehen-
sive as the proposed provision. 2. Certain points of detail" may be discussed. ing practice of sending summonses to the Political
Agent or courts (Order V, rule 26). (b) The transmission of documents under the new
rule, will be either through the External Affairs Minis-
try or in such other manner as the Central Government
may notify. (c) It is expected that the documents will be sent
in a language with which the authorities in the foreign
countries will be familiar, but it is considered un-
necessary to make such a provision in the Code of
Civil Procedure '''. 3. One point of importance may be noted. Order V, rule
26 authorises a presumption of service when the endorse-
ment by the court, etc., is to the effect that the summons
has been served on the defendant "in manner herein-
before directed". This seems to contemplate service in
accordance with the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code.
But, in respect of the proposed new rule, it is considered
sufficient to provide that a certiﬁcate of service by the
officer of the foreign country concerned shall be evidence
of service. It would not be convenient to adopt the provi-
sion in rule 26 in such cases. _'Suggestion in Ministry of Law, Department of Legal Affairs, Judicia
Section, File No. F. 12(3)/62, J., which is in substitution of the previous
suggestion under Order 5, rule 25, contained in File No. F. 17(5)/58, J. 'Those points arise from Ministry of Law, Legal Affairs Department, File
No. F. 12(3)/62, ]'.--noting as well as correspondence. This can be conveniently dealt with by rules made by the High Courts
for civil courts. Service in
foreign terri- tory through
Political Age- nt or Court. Service

through Bri- tish Resident
or Agent of
Government. Mode of
sending such
letter. 4. Order V, rule 26, as originally enacted in 1908, is
quoted below:-- lished or Qontinued in the exercise of any such
jurisdiction as aforesaid,

the summons may be sent to such Political Agent or Court,
by post or otherwise, for the purpose of being served upon
the defendant; and, if the Political Agent or Court returns
the summons with an endorsement signed by such Political
Agent or by the Judge or other oﬁicer of the Court that
the summons has been served on the defendant in manner
hereinjiefore directed, such endorsement shall be deemed
to be evidence of service.". 5. The Adaptation of Indian Laws Order, 1937 substitut-
ed "Provincial Government" in clause (b)--now State
Government. 6. The provisions corresponding to Order V, rule 26 in
the earlier Acts are quoted below:-- dant resides, the summons may be sent to such Resi-
dent or Agent, by post or otherwise, for the purpose of
being served upon the defendant; and if the Resident
or Agent returns the summons with an endorsement
under his hand that the summons has been served on
the defendant in manner hereinbefore directed, such
endorsement shall be conclusive evidence of the
service. 92. When a letter is so substituted for a summons.
it may be sent to the defendant by post or by a special
messenger selected by the Court, or in any other
manner which the Court thinks ﬁt; unless the defen-
dant has an agent empowered to accept service of sum-
mons, in which case the letter may be delivered or
sent to such agent.". Section 90 of Act 14 of 1882 (now Order V, We 35)

"90. If there be a British Resident 'or Agent of ;§'helf';'111Cg'=h
Government in or for the territory in which the defer}- British
dant resides, the summons may be Sent to Such ReS1£R€S1dent
dent or Agent, by post or otherwise for the pu1fp0Se 0 goeggélezft
being served upon the defendant; and If the Resldent 01" '
Agent returns the summons with an endorsement under
his hand that the summons has been served On the
defendant in manner hereinbefore directed, such _en-
dorsement shall be Conclusive evidence Of the Servlce. Section 90 of Act 14 of 1882 as amended by section 12 of
Act 7 of 1888 (now Order V, rule '26)

"90. If there is a British Resident or Agent, or a Service in
Superintendent appointed by the British Government, fg'°'gt','1r':";
or a Court established or continued by the authority Bﬁish REE-
of the Governor General in Council_, in or for the terri-- dent or
tory in which the defendant resides, the summons may Court-
be sent to such Resident, Agent, Superintpndent or
Court, by post or otherwise for the purpose of being
served upon the defendant; and if the Resident, Agent
or Superintendent or the Judge of the Court returns the
summons with an endorsement under his hand that the
summons has been served on the defendant in manner
hereinbefore directed, such endorsement shall be
evidence of the service". 7. The reason for the 1888 Amendment (Act 7 of 1888)
appears from the following remarks of the Select Com-
mittee, namely:-- The 1882 Act was revised and in the draft prepared in
1900 (which became the present Order V, rule 26), em-
phasis was laid on one ingredient, namely, that the offi-
cers and courts must be those who possess powers to
serve a summons in the foreign territories, and that the
summons should not be sent for service to an officer who
had no such power. 8.. As to service by the ordinary mode, Order V, rule 18
requires the serving ofﬁcer to make a return as to service
and the person identifying (if any).1

(D B")AS to Order 5, rule I8, see Nagendra v. Sambu, A.I.R. I923 Pat . 114 142 Without examining the' peon, or proving his report,
the report would not be evidence} An aﬂidavit of the
process-server would be evidence, but where a defendant
denies that he was absent from the house (service having
been effected by afﬁxture), the process-server should, it
has been held, be put in the witness box for cross-
examination." Order VI, rule 2
The rule has been slightly re-drafted, to provide that

, each allegation should be contained in a separate para- graph in the pleadings." Order VI, rule 14A (New) 1. This mainly carries out the recommendation made
in the Fourteenth Report}-5 and requires a party to ﬁle an
address for service ("registered address") at which ser-
vice may be effected on him. Some local Amendments
provide that such service should not be effected when a
pleader has been engaged (unless the court otherwise
directs)", or make an exception in respect of notices under
Order XXI, rule 227. It is considered unnecessary to adopt
them. . 2. The draft mainly follows the Calcutta, Amendment',
but amendments made by other High Courts have also
been considered in detail" and a few useful points added. The desirability of such a provision was stressed by
the Civil Justice Committee also." 'Sarad Prosad v. Krishna Dome, A.I.R. 1926 Cal. 539,540 (Cuming and
Chakravarti JJ.). (Case of service of notice under Order 21, rule 22.) '-'Basappa v. Hanxaji, A.I.R. 1936 Mad. 660, 661 (Wadsmorth I.). 3. It is considered that an express provision imposing
the penalty for failure to ﬁle such address is unneces-
sary'. But where the address ﬁled is not genuine, the
suit should be stayed (until the correct address is ﬁled)
or the defence struck off, as the case may be'. Necessary
provision is proposed. Order VI, rule 15

There is a recommendation in the Fourteenth Report2
to provide for veriﬁcation of a pleading on oath. (The
detailed provisions as to the person before whom the oath
should be taken are contained in local Amendments)". It is considered unnecessary to make' such a provision,
as it may not prove very useful in practice. Order VI, rule 16

Power to strike off matter which is "frivolous or
vexatious" or "an abuse of the process of the Court" has
been added, as in the Revised R.S.C.'. Order VI, rule 17 and amlendment beyond jurisdiction 1. The question whether a court can grant leave to
amend a plaint if the effect of the amendment would be
to take away the suit from the jurisdiction of the court
does not seem to admit of a deﬁnite answer. One view is,
that the court has such a power, and that if after the
amendment the court has no jurisdiction to try the suit
on the basis of the amended plaint, the plaint could be
returned to the plaintiff for presentation to the proper -court.'-"-7 2. A contrary view, however, has been taken in certain
cases,'-9 holding that the court cannot allow the amend-
ment. 3. A third possible view is that taken in a Nagpur case," 4. A clariﬁcation on the subject appears to be desirable.
Necessary amendmrent is proposed, wherunder the amend-
ment will be dealt with by the court, but it will then re-
turn the plaint for presentation to proper court. Order VI, rule 17 and Bombay amendment

The Bombay Amendment to Order VI, rule 17 provides
that (i) where the amendment of a plaint applied for is
a material one, the Court shall give notice to a defend-
ant who has not appeared, and (ii) where in the absence
of the defendant the Court grants any amendment in a
form materially different from that applied for, a copy of'-
the amended plaint shall be served on the defendant. It is considered that no such provision need be adopted. Order VII, rule 1

The Madras Amendment to Order VII, rule 1, to the
effect that the plaint should state the age of the minor,
has been considered. Such an amendment would not be
of much practical use for ordinary cases and has not
therefore been adopted}

'As to minor plaintiffs, see Order 32, rule 2. Order VII, rule 2

Under the Punjab Amendment, where the suit is for
movables in the possession of the defendants or for debts
whose value cannot be estimated, the plalnt shall state
approximately the amount or value. It is considered unnecessary to adopt such a provision. Order VII, rule 6 1. Where the ground of exemption from limitation is
not stated in the plaint, the question is whether it can be
raised later (without amendment). The Madras viewl-2-5
is that it cannot. But that High Court has also held, that
the ground of exemption need not be stated before the
occasion for claiming exemption arises'. 2. Another question is whether, when one ground is
stated, plaintiff can take another and consistent ground5. One View is that when one acknowledgment is plead-
ed, another cannot be set up'. This was the Calcutta view,
but in later cases of the same High Court, a liberal View
has been taken'. But the Madras View is, that a new
ground can be urged only after ameiidmentfl-"-1". The Bombay view is that another and consistent
ground can be set up". But can an inconsistent ground be pleaded? A clerical
errorin at Bombay judgment seems to have misled some
courts into thinking that even an . inconsistent plea can
be taken for claiming exemption from limitation". 'Ramaswami v. Anaiya, A.I.R. 1936 Mad. 545. 'PaIam' v. Sevugan, A.I.R. 1933 Mad. 395 (Cornis I.) (reviews the
casealaw). 3Makadeva v. Marulai, A.I.R. 1933 Mad. 674 (Walsh J.). 'Gopalaswami V. Naray n ' I.L.R. M d. ' . Mad. 65, 67 dissenting frgniwmgdlam Ho.vI.r?:z4v. it/!oh5a7r:ed' l}1lx1';R.(II99I%§
I.L.R. 34 Born. 540. 'See Parmeshri v. Fakiria, I.L.R. 2 Lah. I3 ; A.I.R. I922 Lah. 230. °3'ogeshwar v. Raj Narain (I904) I.L.R. C l.
C. J., Hill and Stevens II.) (Under bid se<:tioi'1I5o)a. 195, 201' (Madam

7See the Calcutta ca 3 d'scu d ' A..I.R. L h. _
Gangadhar v.Khaja Abddl, (Il9o9S)seI4mC.W.N. 3:2 a 23° Am 5" 3. A specific claim to exemption is, of course, unneces-
sary if the facts pleaded show the exemptionl. 4. Further, if the facts justifying exemption are patent
on the face of the record, they need not he pleaded? 5. The general rule is that the exemption must be
pleaded". 6. To summarise the position,---- (i) the strict provision embodied in Order VII,

rule 6 has been administered liberallygby most High
Courts (excepting, it would seem, the Madras High

Court); (ii) there is some confusion about whether the
extra grounds to be set up may be "consistent", or
may even be "inconsistent". 7. The adoption of the following proviso at the end of
the rule to clarify the position has been considered-- (The burden of proof regarding limitation is on the
plaintiff)'. It is, however, felt that no change is necessary in View
of the decisions of the majority of the High Courts. Order VII, rule 9 1. Under Order VII, rule 9, as it stands at present,
copies of the plaint are to be ﬁled on the admission of the
plaint. The Madras and Andhra Pradesh Amendments
provide that they should be ﬁled along with the plaint,'.
The Calcutta Amendment, Order VII, rule 9(1A) provides
that the copies should be ﬁled with the plaint, but the
Calcutta Amendment to Order VII, rule 11 gives power to
the court to grant further time. It is considered, that the
copies should be ﬁled within such time as the court may
fix or extend. - 2. It is also proposed to make it clear, that the plaintiff
should pay the court-fees and charges for the service oi
the summons within the time allowed by the court. C)'.
the Calcutta Amendment to Order VII, rule 9, on this
point. Necessary amendment has been proposed. 'See Raghunazh V. Syed Samad, (I908), 12 C.W.N. 617, followed in
A.I.R. 1959 Kerala 243. 2See Rustomji, Limitation (1958), page 25, bottom. 3Kalyan Mal v. Ahmad Uddin, A.I.R. 1934 P.C. 208,210. 'SriKr£sIma Roy v. Tinkan', A.I.R. I951 Cal . 198, 199. Order VII, rule 11 1. Order VII, rule 1l(c) provides that the plaint shall
be rejected where the relief claimed is properly valued
but the plaint is written upon paper insuiﬁciently stamped,
and the plaintiﬁ, on being required by the court to supply
the requisite stamp-paper within a time to be fixed by the
court, fails to do so. Some controversy seems to exist
on the question whether granting of time under this rule
is mandatory. One View is, that the matter falls Outside
section 149 and is entirely governed by Order VII, rule 11,
which is a special provision and, therefore, the party is
entitled to demand some time for making good the deﬁ-
ciencyl-2-3. In a Bombay case', both the provisions were
considered but the right to demand time was assumed'.
Another view is, that the grant of time is discretionary",
on the ground that the authority to grant time is in section
149 and not in Order VII, rule 11, which is a disabling
pI'0V1SlOn. 2. In a recent case', a single Judge of the Bombay High
Court, though stating there was much to be said in favour
of the latter view, had to take a different view because
of the High Court's own earlier decision. 3. The Madras High Court has made an express amend-
ment to this rule which, in substance, provides that the
granting of the time is a matter of discretion. The question
whether the Madras amendment should be adopted has

been considered, but it is felt unnecessary to insert any
such provision. Order VIII--Heading
This is consequential3-

Order VIII, rule 1 and obligatory written statement

A recommendation has been made in the Fourteenth
Report9 to the effect that the ﬁling of a written statement
must be made obligatory in all cases. After some consi- 1Radha Kanta v. Debendra Narayan, I.L.R. 49 Cal. 88 - A.I.R.

Cal. 506, 508. (Mookeriee and Cuming 11.). ° ' I9" 'Civil Justice Committee (1924-25) Report, page 39. 'See Allahabad, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Kerala Amend-
mems to Order 8, rule I.

'The Punjab Amendment ﬁxes IO days. 'Nagaraznam y.Kamalathammal, I.L.R. 194 Mad. 866 ;A.I.R. 1945
Mad. 299, 300 (King and Bell ]J.). 'Gopi Charan v. Ram Prasad, A.I.R. 195 All. 283, 284. rule 5 apply? The Calcutta View is, that Order VIII,
rule 5 does not apply where the defendant has not put
in any written statement at all, and further, that the
veriﬁcation of the plaint is not evidence on which a
suit should be decreed whether the defendant did or
did not appear'. According to the Calcutta view, rule
5 is merely "a rule of construction of the defendant's
pleading". (Woodroffe J.). This is also the Lahore
view." '

The Patna High Court has also held? that a mere
omission to ﬁle a written statement does not amount
to admission of the facts stated in the plaint. But the Bombay High Court has expressed em-
phatic dissent from the Calcutta view, and held' that
Order VIII, rule 5 which is similar in substance to
R.S.C., Order XIX, rule 13 covers also a case where the
defendant ﬁles no pleading. If there is no pleading of
the defendant, the court observed, obviously "it could
not contain any denial or non-admission. The Bombay High Court5 has also held, that failure
to ﬁle a written statement means that the defendant
admits the allegations in the plaint, but he is entitled
to appear and submit any argument open to him on
the plaint, for instance that the plaint discloses no
cause of action or that the claim is time--barred. (iii) Another question that has arisen is whether,
in case of failure to ﬁle a written statement, the court
can proceed ex parte. One View is that it can", while
the Bombay view is that an order that the suit should
proceed ex parte is not justiﬁed'. The Fourteenth Report3 contemplates that if the Writ- ten statement is not ﬁled by the date ﬁxed for the settle-
ment of issues, the matter may be dealt with ex parte. 3. Since most High Courts have held that failure to ﬁle --a written statement does not amount to admission of facts

13'. B. Ross and Co. v. C. R. Scriven (I916) I.L.R. 43 Cal. IOOI, IOI0 ; A.I.R. I917 Cal. 269 (Sanderson C. J., Woodrotfe and Mookerjee ]].). 'Narendra Singh v. C. M. King, A.I.R. I928 Lah . 769. rules 137 to 146 of the Rules of the Bombay High Court
(Original Side), 1957, pages 38-39. Those rules embody
many points which have been clariﬁed by case-law on the
corresponding rules in the' R.S.C. See (also Order VIII,
rules 13 to 22 inserted for Bombay City Civil Court. The provision that even after judgment in the suit is
given, the counter-claim can be proceeded with, has been
taken from the Revised R.S.C.". Counter-claim against a person who is not a party to.
the suit, has been excluded, to avoid complications. 'See the amendment proposed to Order 8, rule 10.
'I3th Report (Contract Act), page 33, para. 70.
3See notes under Order 8, rule I.

'See also the body of the Report. 335% notes to Order 8, rule I. 152 Order IX, rule 4

This is consequential'. Order IX, rule 5(1)

Order IX, rule 5(1) provides that where a plaintiff
fails to apply for a fresh summons (after the summons on
the defendant is returned unserved), the Court shall dis-
miss the suit (except in certain cases). The period pres-
cribed for the application for a fresh summons is three
months, at present. The original period was for one year,
but it was changed to three months by the Code of Civil
Procedure Amendment Act (24 of 1920). The period has
been changed into two months by local Amendments by
the High Courts of Bombay and Gujarat, and one month
in Kerala. The proposed amendment reduces it to two
rnonthsi'. Order IX, rule 6

The question whether the court should have power to
give a decree, if it thinks ﬁt, on the basis of a pleading
without formal evidence, Where the case proceeds ex parte,
has been considered. As pleadings are not required to be
on oath3, it has been considered unnecessary to make such
.a change. It has been held by the Supreme Court', that even
when the defendant against whom a case has proceeded ex
parte does not assign good cause for his previous non-
appearance, he has a right to participate from the stage at
which he appears. The decision of Wallace J. in the
Madras case5 was approved. The under-mentioned deci-
sions" may be seen as an illustration of the application of
the rule enunciated by the Supreme Court. It is con-
sidered unnecessary to make any provision codifying the
proposition laid down by the Supreme Court. 'See Order 9, rule 2 as proposed, and Order 7, rule 9 as proposed. 'The history of this rule and its scope are discussed in Shaw & Co. v. B
Shamaldas and C0,, A.I.R. 1954 Cal. 369, 37x. 3See the discussion relating to Order 6, rule I5. 'Sangram Sirzgh v. Election Tribunal, _'Kotah (1955) 2 S.C.R. I ; A.I.R
1955 S.C. 425, 43:, para. 28. ~"Venkatasubbz'ah v. Lakxhmz', A.I.R. 1925 Mad. 1274. 'Bindu Prasad v. United Bank, A.I.R. 1959 Pat. 152 5 Mahant Ramji

Das v. Bhupinder Singh, A.I.R. I962 Pun. 4.43 ; Kumara v. Thomas, A.I.R. 1961 Ker. 287. Order IX, rule 9

By a local Amendment in the Punjab the suits for re-
demption are excluded from the operation of Order IX,
rule 9. This would be the position even apart from the
amendmentl. It is considered unnecessary to adopt this
amendment. 1

Under the Calcutta Amendment copies of the applica-
tion under this rule have to be ﬁled along with the ap--
plication. This is a matter for the Civil rule and need not
be adopted. Order IX, rule 13 and "duly served" in article 164 of the Limitation Act, 1908 (now article 123 of the Limitation Act, 1963 ). The Calcutta High Court has amended Order V, rule 15
by adding a proviso to the effect that Where the adult male
member has an interest in the suit and such interest is
adverse to that of the defendant, a summons so served
shall be deemed for the purposes of the third column of article 164 not to have been duly served. The Orissa
High Court has made an amendment to Order IX, rule 13
to the effect that in such a case the summons shall not be
deemed to have been duly served within the meaning of
the rule (Order IX, rule 13). The question whether any
provision on the subject is needed has been considered, and
it is felt that no change need be made on this point. 1Sr1' Krishna Rice Mill: v. Rajagapaul, A.I.R. I958 Mad. 522.
'Rustomji, Limitation Act (1958), pages 957 and 958. The proviso thus empowers the Court to set aside an
ex parte decree in relation to a defendant who has not ac-
tually applied for such setting aside. The proviso was m-
serted in 1908, because, under section 108 of the 1882 Code,
there was a conﬂict of decisions' as to whether the decree
could be set aside only against the defendant who made
the application, or whether it could be set aside as a

whole? 2. One question that has arisen under the proviso is,
whether it authorises the setting aside of a decree when
the decree dismisses the suit in relation to a particular
defendant. A narrower View based on the word "against"
is, that such setting aside is not allowed3. But a Wider
view seems to have been taken in some decisions'-5. 3. Another point on which there is some doubt is, whe-
ther in relation to those defendants against whom the pro-
ceedings were not ex parte, the proviso applies. A query
on this point was raised by Mudholkar J. in one Nagpur
case", and though he thought it possible to decide the case
on some other ground, he observed, that he would have
been inclined to hold that the proviso should be conﬁned
to the "ex parte" decree to which alone the substantive
provision expressly relates. But in a Patna case7 a diﬁer-
ent view seems to have been expressed. (Under the old
Code sections 106 and 108, it had been held3 that the case
could not be re-opened with respect to a defendant against
whom a decree not ex parte was passed.) 4. It is considered unnecessary to encumber the rule
with any amendment on these points. 'The case-law under the old section will be found reviewed in Khagesh
' Chandra v. Chandra Kanta, A.I.R. I954 Assam I83, I86 (F.B.). _ "V_asant v. Tukaram, A.I.R. I960 Bom. 485 contains a good general
dlSCl1SSl0I1 of the proviso. 3Khagesh Chandra v. Chandra Kanta, A.I.R. 1954 As 8 EB,
(Sarju Prasad, CI. and Ram Labhaya 1., Deka J. dissentizfs I 3 ( )

'Ram Baran v. Bodh Ram, A.I.R. 1934 A11. 1051 (Kendall 1.). 5Buramal v. Har Kishan, (I902) I.L.R. 24 All. 383. (NIu:€1g1l'r£zarIJ?-c)z.¢7 v. Girdharz' Lal, A.I.R. I954 Nag. I25, 126

'Raghubar v. Ramasray, A.I.R. I924 Pat. 771, 772.
5Manoku v. Sitaram (1894), I.L.R. I8, Bom. 142. Order X, rule 2 1. It is considered, that at the ﬁrst hearing, it should be
obligatory on the court to examine such party or his
pleader, etc., who is present for elucidating the matters in
controversy, as the court may think ﬁt. 2. Necessary changes have been proposedl. Order XI, rule 6

It is considered that objections on the ground of privi-
lege should be speciﬁcally included in this rule and should
not be left to the residuary words "any other groundz".
Necessary change in the wording has been proposed3. Order XI, rule 14 1. Order XI, rule 14 provides that it shall be lawful for

the court "at any time during the pendency of any suit" 2. The question whether an express provision exclud-
ing production of documents regarding matters of State
should be inserted, has been considered, and the relevant
provision in the R.S.C. Revision" has been noted. It is
unnecessary to insert any such provision, there being no
controversy on the subject under this rule. The privilege
as to inspection can be claimed even after production'. Order XI, rule 15 1. Order XI, rule 15 entitles a party to give notice for
inspection, etc., of documents "to which a reference has

'See also the body of the Report. 'Cf. R.S.C. (Revision) I962, Order 26, rule 4. 'As to disallowing incriminating questions, see Meenakashi Sundaram
v. Radhakrishna, A.I.R. I960 Madras 184. 'Ram Ham' v. Niranjan, 5o C.W.N. 845. 5Srim'was v. Election Tribunal, Lucknow, A.I.R. 1955 All. 251. 2. But a contrary view has been taken in other cases.
According to this view, the list is a part of the plaint for
the purposes of this rule. This View has been taken by
Bombay, Madras and Lahore High Courts5-3-7-3. V In fact, in the Madras case there is an observation, that
probably one of the reasons for requiring the plaintiff to
furnish a list with the plaint was to enable the defendant
to apply for inspection. A clariﬁcation on the subject is proposed. Order XI, rule 19(2) 1. This rule, which confers power on the court to inspect
any document for which privilege is claimed, is to be read
as subject to the provisions of section 162 , Evidence Act, as
has been held by the Supreme Court9--1°-"-12. 2. The contrary view" is no longer good law, in view of
the Supreme Court's decision. _ 3. As to English law, see (a) section 28 , Crown Proceed-
ings Act, 1947; (b) old R.S.C., Order 31, rule 19A; 1Chandmull v. Dhanraj, A.I.R. I920 Cal. 416 (Greaves J.).
'Gapal v. Syed, A.I.R. 1944 Pat. I77. Nagf'Z\2f:.g;p14& BLl(';/gkjc-).l.td. v. Onama Glass Works, Ltd., A.I.R. 1938

Guh"aBKgyBfJ}1.)a.ri v. Arzm Caomar, I.L.R. (I953) 2 Cal. 309 (Das and

5Rzm11y1lv..\1'urhury (1894) I.L.R. 18 Born. 368.
'Khetsidax v. Narotzzmdax (I908) I.L.R. 32 Born. I52. 7Ramn1than v. An I ' I.L.R. M d. ' .I.R.
825, 826 (Curgenven J71)?" all 55 a 4" ' A I93I Mai

(obi:Z':)n,ki D1: v.K2:uh1lya Dzvi, A.I.R. 1943 Lab. 207,208 (Beckett 1.) 'State of Punjab v. Sodhi Sukhiev Singh (1961) 2 S.C.R. 37! ; A.I.R.
I961 S.C. 493, 513, para. 48. 228"°2S3:e (;1§>.).C?avernor-General-in-- Council v. Peer Mohd. A.I.R. I950 E.P.

"See also Brijnath Kedarnath v. State '(I957) Criminal Law Joumgl

:1 34 (Madhya Bharat). re in England on Crown privi- (There is vast literatu
to go into it for the present pur- loge, but it is unnecessary
pose.) 4. The rule is also subject to section 123, Indian Evi-
dence Actg. As to the meaning of the words "affairs of
State" in section 123, see the observations of the Supreme
Court", that they are identical with the words "matters of
State". a 5. It is considered, that the position on the subject, as
it has emerged from the decision of the Supreme Court,
should be codiﬁed. It will suffice if a proposition is insert-
ed to the effect that the rule does not apply to documents

relating to affairs of State. 6. Reference may be made to the express provision in section 94(3) , Criminal Procedure Code, on the subject. 7. Generally, as to procedure to be followed when the
Crown claims privilege, the under-mentioned cases may
be seen'-5. Order XII, rule 2

A recommendation has been made in the Fourteenth
Report", to empower the court to award penal costs against
a party unreasonably neglecting or refusing to admit docu-
ments. (Such costs will be in addition to the costs award- ed at present under this rule.)

After some consideration, it has been decided not to
make this change, as it is felt that the existing provision
is adequate. Order XII, rule 6 1. Certain local Amendments change this rule on two
points--- (i) They empower the court to pass a judgment
(on admission) of its own motion also', and (ii) they provide that on such judgment, etc., a
decree shall be drawn up. 'In re Grost-enar Hotei, London (N0. 2) (1964) 3 W.L.R. 992. 'Lakhu Ram v. Union of India, A.I.R. 1960 Pat. I92, 193 makes it clear
that it is subject to section 123 , Evidence Act. '

'A.I.R. 1961 S.C. 493, 503. 'Dir.-Eaz' v. Dominion of India, A.I.R. 1951 Born. 72 (ChagIa C. J.). ' . ' '(Miss) Rajul Raajibhai V. Provimial Gatemment, I.L.R. i950 Nag. 690; A.I.R. 1951 Nag. 212. 614th Report, Vol. 1, pages 316-317, para. 32. _

7Ur.der the existing law, this carrot be dcnc. /ibinash V. Surjya,
I.L.R. (1948) 1 Cal. 141. 145. - See", particularly, the Miadras Amendment made in
pursuance of the recommendation of the Civil Justice

Committeel. 2. It is considered that these changes are unnecessary.
Hence no amendment is proposed. Order XIII, rule 2

A provision has been added to exclude documents
produced for cross-examination, etc., Cf. Order VII, rule

18 (2). Order XIII, rule 5

The Bombay Amendment to Order XIII, rule 5 and
Order VII, rule 17 provides for ﬁling of translation of entries
in other languages. See also Madhya Pradesh and Punjab
Amendments to Order VII, rule 17; the latter provides for
transliteration also. This is a matter for Civil Rules, and need not be in-
corporated in the Code of Civil Procedure . Order XIII, rule 7

The Madras Amendment prohibiting return of a docu-
ment, etc., which has become void, has been noted. It is
considered that the provision in Order XIII, rule 9(1),
second proviso, should sutﬁce for normal cases. Order XIII, rule 9 1. Under Order XIII, rule 9(1), where a person who has
produced a document wants its return (before the suit
is disposed of), the court may allow such return under
the proviso, if he delivers to the proper officer a certiﬁed
copy, etc. Now, when the document was produced by a
witnes.-r, this rule creates difficulty, as he has also to
deliver a certiﬁed copy (and there' is no provision as to
re-imbursing him for its expenses). The Civil Justice
Committee3 suggested that the party exhibiting the docu-
ment should be required to pay the cost of preparing
the copy, etc. 2. The problem has been tackled in different ways by'
local Amendments. The Madras Amendment empowers
the court to require the party concerned to substitute a
certiﬁed copy within a certain time, failing which the
document is to be returned to the applicant. The Punjab
Amendment provides, that the cost shall be recoverable

1Civil Iustic: Committee (1924-25), Report, page 563; P3r3- 15;
bottom. 6 '3Cf. Civil Justice Committee (1924-25) Report, pages 564-565, para,
I . from the party concerned. The Madhya Pradesh Amend-
ment provides, that the court shall order the party con-
cerned to pay the' cost. 3. It is considered, that the best course would be . to
allow the witness himself the facility of putting in a sim-
ple copy; the copy can be compared, etc., and then the
original returned} Necessary change has been proposed. Order XIV, rule 1 (5) 1. The examination of the" parties which is referred to
in Order XIV, rule 1(5), appears to be the examnation
under Order X, rule 2. It is considered that this should
be made clear. Necessary change" has been proposed. 2. The framing of issues, it is felt, should take place
after hearing the parties or pleaders. A provision to that
effect has been added. Order XV, rule 2

Local Amendments made by Madras, Andhra Pradesh
and Kerala provide that whenever a judgment is pro-
nounced under Order XV, rule 2, a decree shall follow. It appears to be unnecessary to insert such an express
provision, in view of section 33. Order XVI, rule 1 1. This carries out the recommendation made in the
Fourteenth Report? The recommendation in the Four-
teenth Report is conﬁned to witnesses summoned through
court, but, in view of existing Order XVI, rule 1A, the
provision proposed can be applied to all witnesses. The
object is to lay down a procedure for ﬁling a list of wit-
nesses by the parties, and to provide that a person not
mentioned in the list shall not be produced as a witness
Without the permission of the Court. 2. In sub-rule (2), the' positive form has been consider-
ed preferable to the negative form--"No person shall be
permitted", etc. 3. The Fourteenth Report recommended a period of
30 days, but it is considered that a period of 10 days should
suffice. Order XVI, rule 1 and credibility

A recommendation has been made in the Fourteenth
Report3 to the effect that the credibility of a witness should

'Cf. Order 13, rule 5(3), as to account books.
'Nth R¢P01'fa VOL 1: P38'? 325» Para. 45 and page 328, para. 50.
'14th Report, Vol. 1, pages 327-328, para. 49. not be attacked on the ground that he 'has not been sum-
moned through the court. It is felt that it IS unnecessary to
insert such a provision. A rule as to the value of evidence
need not be inserted in the Civil Procedure Code. Order XVI, rule 1A

Since the provision regarding list of witnesses has
been transferred', consequential changes are proposed in
this rule. Order XVI, rule 2

Where a summons is served by a party, the expenses
of the witness should be paid to the witness by the party
or his agent, and need not be deposited in the court. The
change proposed is intended to make that clear. C3'. the
Calcutta Amendment to Order XVI. rules 2 and 8 and the
Madras Amendment, Order XVI, rule 2(4). Order XVI, rule 7A (New)

This rule as new, and has been inserted to facilitate
the service of summons by a party. It carries out the
recommendation made on the subject in the Fourteenth
Reportg, to the effect, that the Calcutta Amendment (under
which parties are in the ﬁrst instance responsible for
bringing Witnesses) may be adopted subject to the safe-
guard that the impartiality of a witness so brought should
not be suspected. Except in one respect, the proposed rule
follows the provisions of Order XVI, rule 7A, inserted by
the Calcutta Amendment. One importantdeparture from
the Calcutta Amendment may, however, be noted. Under
the Calcutta Amendment, under rule 7A(1), the court
"shall make over" the summons to the party applying
therefor, except where it appears to the court that the
summons should be served by the' court. Under the
Bombay and Gujarat Amendments, Order XVI, rule 1B, the
court may, on the application of any party, permit the
service of summons by that party. The discretion of the
court has been put more clearly in the Bombay Amend-
ment, which has been followed in the draft rule on this
point. See also the amendments made to Order XVI, rule 8
by the High Courts of Allahabad, Andhra Pradesh,
Kerala, Orissa, Madras, Patna and Rajasthan,

Order XVI, rule 8

This is consequential, and is intended to exclude a
summons handed over to parties for service3, from the
operation of the rule. Compare Order XVI, rule 8(1), as
amended by the" Calcutta High Court. - 'Sec Order 16, rule I (proposed). midd"lIe.j,fh Report, Vol. I, page 326, para. 48 and page 328, top, para. 49,

'See Order 16, rule 7-A proposed. Order XVI, rule 10 1. Where a summons is served by a party} the_ person
effecting service should, it is felt, always be examined by
the court under Order XVI, rule 10. That has been provid-
ed for in the proposed amendment. 2. It is considered, that ordinarily process fee" should
not be charged for the issue of a proclamation, warrant or
attachment under rule 10. These processes are necessita-
ted by reason of the disobedience of a witness to a law-
ful order of the court, and should be issued without

charging fees. Necessary change has been proposed. Order XVI, rule 12 1. Order XVI, rule 12 empowers the court to impose a
ﬁne upon a witness who has disobeyed a summons for
attendance in court. The wording used is, "The Court
may, where such person does not appear, etc.". Now, the
question has arisen whether, before the power under this
rule can be exercised, it is essential that the Court should
have issued a proclamation under Order XVI, rule 10 (2) or
a warrant under Order XVI, rule 10 (3) or an order of
attachment of property under Order XVI, rule 10 (3), latter
half. Conflicting opinions have been expressed on this
point, as follows'.- (i) One View is that, the ﬁne under rule 12 can-
not be imposed unless the property of the witness
has been attached?-3. According to this view, rules 11
and 12 have to be read together, and rule 12 deals
with the alternative situation to that dealt with in
rule 11. Since rule 11 applies only where there is an
attachment, rule 12 will also apply only where there
is attachment. A contrary view has, however, been
Expressed in an observation of the Lahore' High

our . (ii) Another View is, that no ﬁne can be imposed
unless and until there has been a proclamation which
has been disobeyed5. According to this View the words
"such person" in rule 12 refer to that person who is
described during the whole of rules 10 and 11. If a
proclamation is issued and the Witness fails to obey it
and fails to show that he did not receive notice, the
ﬁne may be imposed. This View seems to assume
that the words 'does not appear, or appears but fails,

'S66 Ordﬁr 16, rule 7A (proposed). mation. under sub-rule (2) of rule 10 or a warrant or
an attachment of property under sub-rule (3) of rule
10 should have been ordered before the_ﬁne. can be
imposed under rule 10. According to this view, the
words "such person" in rule 12 refer to sub-rules (2)

and (3) of rule 10. (iv) Another view is, that neither attachment nor
proclamation mentioned in rule 10(2) or (3) is neces-
sary, and that the words "such person" in rule 12 refer
to the person mentioned in rule 10(1), who has been
referred to ir all the subsequent provisions as "such

person"?-'°'. 2. On the language of the existing rule, there is much
to be said for each of these views. But there is no reason
Why a provision in the arnplest terms should not be made
so as to apply rule 12 in all cases where the witness fails
to comply with a summons. It may be noted, that the
object of the various processes in rules 10, 11 and 12 is to
compel the attendance of the witness. (See section 32 opening lines.) The basis of the jurisdiction is the dis-
obedience to the summons by the Witness. The word
"may" in sub-rules (2) and (3) of rule 10 shows that the
issue of a proclamation, etc., is discretionary. 3. It is, therefore, considered desirable to make the
position clear. At the same time, it is proposed that
where none of the three processes has been issued, notice
to show cause should be given to the person concerned,
before a ﬁne can be: imposeo. Order XVI, rule 16

Under the Punjab Amendment, where a presiding
ofﬁcer is absent, the next date of hearing can be intimated
by another Judge or by a court-oﬁ'icial nominated for the
purpose. The previous Punjab view was, that if the
Judge is absent, the Reader cannot ﬁx the date4-5-6,
(Where the Judge has authorised the Reader under the Local Civil Courts Act , it can be done, according to the
Madras High Court)'

'Hirdey Narain v. Emp., A.I.R. I929 All. 850,
'[n1'e Narasayya, I.L.R. 48 Mad. 941 ;A.I.R, 1925 Mad. I47 (D.B ). 3Ram:z'eo Prasad v. Stare, A.I.R. I951 All . 415 (D.B.). 1.). 'See Hukam Chand v. Mam' Shibrat Dar, A.I.R. I934 Lah. 934 (Hifton
'9» also Gz/lam Haidar v. Dfzrrm Iqbal Nath, A.I.'?. 1936 Lab, Icoo,
"See also Lalla Prasad v. Nand, I.L.R. 22 A11. 56 (RE). 7&2 S. M. Raja Goundar v. Sabapathi, A.I.R. 1952 Mad. 798. AM
It is considered unnecessary to adopt the Punjab

,Amendment, the matter being one of minute detail. Order XVI, rule 21 1. Order XVI, rule 21 provides that where any party to
a suit is required to give evidence or to produce a docu-
ment, the provisions as to witnesses shall apply to him so
far as they are applicable. The first point that has arisen
under this rule is as to the mal-practice of one party call-
ing the other party as a witness. This practice has been
condemned more than once by the Privy Council'-2. Not-
withstanding such condemnation, the practice appears to
persist3. 2. Another point is that this rule applies only where a
party is summoned at the instance of the other party' to
give evidence, etc. 3. The third point is the question of expenses incurred
by a party who appears as his own witness. Several High
Courts5 have inserted a provision to the effect, that when
a party to the suit gives evidence (on his own behalf), the
court may in its discretion permit him to include in the
costs of the suit a sum of money equal to the amount pay-
able for travelling and other expenses to other Witnesses
of similar standing. Without such a provision, the rule
does not seem to permit the award of travelling expenses
incurred by a party giving evidence on his own behalf". 4. All these points have been considered, but it is felt
that an express provision thereon is not necessary. (So far as the question of costs of party is concerned,
there is an elaborate discussion in the Report of the Civil
Justice Committee)". Order XVII, rule 2 and disposal on merits 1. Order XVII, rule 2 says that if on any day to which
the hearing of the suit is adjourned, the parties or any of
them fail to appear, the Court may proceed to dispose of
the suit in one of the modes directed in that behalf by

Iiazxunwar v. Chiranjit, I.L.R. 32 All. 104 (P.C.).
3Ki5hori La} v. Ch1'mm'Lal, I.L.R. 31 All. 116, 122 (P.C.).
) "See Pir Gouda v. Vishwanatlz, A.I.R. 1956 Born. 251 (Gaiendragadkar

I)'Kanm'ah Chetty and Co. v. Subba Ran, A.I.R. 1935 Mad. 244 (Beasley

'See Calcutta, Madras and Kerala Amendments to Order 16, rule 21. 'Kanm'ah Chetty and Co., v. Subba Rao, A.I.R. 1935 Mad. 244. 'Report of the Civil Justice Comm'tte - ,
«Chapter 44, para. I, middle, and subseqlucrlt paras 518' S19' 165 Order IX or make such other order as it thinks ﬁt. Thus,. the court may--- (i) act under Order IX, (but it is not bound to do
so, as has been stressed by the Supreme Court)1 ; (ii) grant further adjournment; or (iii) make such other order as it thinks ﬁt. 2. The words "such other order" have been interpreted
in a number of decisions, but there still remains some un-
certainty about their exact scope. Ordinarily, the court
would not, in the absence of a party, proceed to dispose of
the suit "on merits" under this rule. But there are
observations to the effectithat the words "such other order" 3. The matter has some practical importance as regards
the remedy available to the plaintiff or defendant aﬁfected
by the actual order passed under Order XVII, rule 2. 4. There is a decision in an earlier Madras case" to the
effect that when a plaintiff has closed his case and there
is evidence Which, if unrebutted, would prove his case, it
could hardly be deemed to be a judicial exercise of dis-
cretion to dismiss the suit for default; the defence evi-
dence should, it was held, have been recorded in plain-
tiﬂ"s absence, and the case disposed of on the merits. This
case does not seem to have been expressly over-ruled in
any of the later Madras cases. It follows a Bombay deci-
sion7. This decision was, however, referred to in the Full
Bench case of Pichammas and would seem to have been
impliedly over-ruled by that case, as the judgment of
Kumaraswami Sastri J. which was concurred in by

Sadasiva Aiyar J. in Pichammaﬂs case, holds that if the- matter is treated as falling outside Order IX, there would be
hardship to the parties because the remedies under Order
IX would not be available. (The actual facts in
Pichammcfs case were of the defendant's absence and of a

1Cf. A.I.R. 1955 S.C. 425, 433. (F B")Ba.salingappa v. Shidramappa, A.I.R. 1943 Born. 321, 324, right

'Rukam Shah v. Shankargauda A.I.R. B . 8 , 8 , ' h B -
mom CJ. and Wassoodew J.). ' 1941 Om 3 4 mg I ( ea" 5. Perhaps an approach to the matter would be clear,
if two situations are kept apart, namely, plantiff's absence
and defendant's absence. In the former case, a misunder-
standing of the law to the effect that the court is bound to
dismiss the suit causes hardship. In such a case, the posi-
tion is that- (i) an adjournment can be granted; (ii) a decision on the merits in the plaintiff's
favour could cause no grievance to any party. Ques-
tion of hardship will arise only if a decision on merits
is given against the plaintiff. In the case of the defendant's absence,-- (a) an adjournment can be granted, or (b) a decision subject to the setting aside proce- dure under Order IX, rule 13 would cause no grievance.
A decision strictly on the merits, in the sense that the

1Ellammal v.Karuppan, A.I.R. 1936 Mad. 625. 6. So far as the inter-relationship of rules 2 and 3 is
concerned, the matter can be dealt with separately'-.3. The
question now is of the exact scope and application of
rule 2. 7. Even in the case of the absence of the plaintiff,
where the suit is decreed, he would have no grievance. It
is only where the suit is dismissed, on the merits that he
may have a grievance because, as stressed by the Madras
High Court, the remedy under Order IX, rule 9 would be
lost. (To this extent, the Allahabad Amendment to
rule 2 is stringent as compared with the Madras view. On
the other hand, in cases where the Allahabad Amendment
results in a decree in favour of the plaintiff, it would be
beneﬁcial and acceptable even according to the Madras

view.) 8. In View of the obscurity of the present position, a
clariﬁcation is considered desirable. While a provision authorising the Court in every case
to dispose of the suit as if the parties had appeared may
be abused, there is no harm, it is felt, if a limited power
to do where the evidence of the defaulting party is sub-
stantially over be inserted, as in the Allahabad Amend-
ment. Necessary change is proposed. Order XVII, rule 2 and Allahabad Amendment

2 Under the Allahabad Amendment to Order XVII, rule (i) where a substantial portion of the evidence is
concluded, the court may (even if a party is absent)
dispose of the suit on merits. This was construed as
confined to cases where the party failing to appear has
ﬁntshed his evidence"; i (ii) if a pleader is present, then even if he is en-
gaged only for making an application, the party is
deemed to be present'; The first point has already been dealt with. As re-
gards the second, it has been observed by the Bombay

See amendment proposed to Order 17, rule 3.
3See also ihanda Singh v. Saddiq, A.I.R. 1924 Lahore 545. High Court', that the Allahabad Explanation to Order XVII,
rule 2 regarding pleaders may be said to have changed the
provisions of Order V, rule 1, in their application to Order
XVII, rule 2. In the absence of the Explanation regarding
pleaders, where a pleader is appearing only for applying
for adjournment, and withdraws after the adjournment is
refused, the case is one of the court proceeding ex parte'. Order XVII, rule, 3 1. This is intended to deﬁne clearly the scope of rule 3,
so as to state the action to be taken by the Court when- (i) the parties are present, and (ii) the parties are absent. Compare, Pichamma v. Sreeramuluf', which contains a
useful discussion on the subject. 2. The following discussion of the views of various High
Courts will show that at present opinion on the point is
not uniform:--- MADRAS.--The Court should, in a case where the
plaintif is absent, proceed under rule 2 and dismiss the suit
for default, so that the plaintiﬁ may have an opportunity
to apply under Order IX, rule 9 to set aside the dismissal'. BOMBAY.----The Court should proceed under rule 2 and
dismiss the suit for defau1t5, but if the evidence has been
closed it should proceed under rule 3 and deal with the
suit on the merits"-7. LAHORE.---Makes a distinction between cases where
there are no suiﬁcient materials on the record and cases
where there are such materials. In the former case, the
Court should proceed under rule 23, but in the latter case
it may proceed to decide the suit under this rule'. 1Basa1ingappa v. Shidrammappa A.I.R:943 Bom. 321, 324. 'Hab:'b Baksh v. jfohri Mal, A.I.R. 1928 All. 760. 'Pichamma v. Sreeramulu (I918) I.L.R. 41 Mad. 286 ;A.I.R. 1918
Mad. 143 (F.B.). 'Chandramathi v. Narayanswami, (I910) I.L.-R. 33 Mad. 241
Pichhamma v. Sreeramulu, (I918) I.L.R. 41 Mad. 286 ; A.I.R. 1918 Mad
I43, I47 (F.B.) 5 Elammal v.Ka1-uppan Chem', A.I.R. I936 Mad. 625;
Guru Santhayya v. Veerayya, A.I.R. 1952 Mad. 825. cular purpose. (b) Is conﬁned to cases where (b) Not conﬁned to non-appearance (as the
the parties or any of them language stands at present), and applies
fail to appear. where there is failure to do the act for

which time was granted. (c) Court can-- (c) Court may proceed to decide the suit
(1') proceed to dispose of forthwith. the suit in one of the
modes directed by
Order IX, or (ii) make such other order
as it thinks ﬁt. (:1) Object is to state the con- (d) Emphasis is on the court's power to

sequences of non-appear- proceed, so that non-performance of
ance. Emphasis is on the act in question need not interrupt
discretion of Court. the progress of the suit. 'Ganish Lal v. Debi Das, (1925) I.L.R. 47 All. 140, 146 ; A.I.R. 1925
All. 267 ; Ram Adhin v. Ram Bharose, (I925) I.L.R. 47 All. 181, I85 ;A.I.R.
1925 All. 182. But see Badam v. Nazhu, (I903) I.L.R. 25 All. 194
Gama Bibi v. Ghasita, (I912) I.L.R. 34 All. I23. pear that the hearing has been unduly prolonged the
Court or Judge may order that the party in default
pay to any other party the costs occasioned by the
undue prolongation.)". 1See Order 8, rule 6A (proposed). 'Cf. 14th Report, Vol. I, following paragraphs :-- (:1) pages 483-484, para. 20. (D page 484, para. 23, second sub-para. Other recommendations regarding costs contained at page 483,
para. 18, 3rd sub-para., page 483, para. 19, last sentence, and page 434_
para. 24 have been left for implementation by the High Courts,

Money
Orders. Interest. Order XXI, rule I 1. This is in implementation of the Fourteenth Report',
and also follows (in part) local Amendments. The obgect
is---- (i) to enable parties to remit money to court by
money order or through bank (see Fourteenth Report); (ii) to provide that payment to the decree-holder

outside court should be by money-order or through

bank or other mode of payment evidenced in writing
(see Fourteenth Report and Allahabad Amendment); (iii) to make it clear, that on an amount paid
into court or in accordance with the orders of the court,
interest shall cease to run from the date of the service
of notice. (See Bombay and Patna Amendments.) 2. A provision for notiﬁcation of the payment has been
added. It is considered, that even a payment under rule
1(1) (C) should be notiﬁed. 3. A special form of money order has been referred to
in the Explanation added by the Lahore High Court, and
the word "special" has also been used by the Patna High
Court, but this appears to be unnecessary. 4. The question whether the introduction of payment
by money order would increase the work of the courts
and create opportunities for fraud has been considered.
It is thought, that the experiment is worth trying, as has
been done by several High Courts. (See Local Amend-
ments made by the High Courts of Allahabad, Calcutta,
Madhya Pradesh, Patna, Orissa and Punjab). It is pre-
sumed, that no serious practical difﬁculties would arise. 5. As to sub-rule (4) dealing with interest, compare
local Amendments made by the High Courts of Bombay
and Patna and also Order XXIV, rule 3 and under-
mentioned decisions?-3-4. 6. The question whether the decree-holder, to whom
notice of payment made by the judgment-debtor is given,
should be allowed some time for coming into the Court and
receiving payment of the amount, has been considered with
reference to the point whether interest should be allowed
to run until such time expires. No such provision is, how-
ever, considered necessary. Order XXI, rule 2(1)

Under the Madras Amendment, any party to the suit
can certify and get recorded a payment or adjustment.
Further a person who has become a surety as well as the

114th Report, Vol. I, pages 443-444, paras. 25-28.
2Spec2'al L. A. Oﬂicer V. Ambalal,A.I.R. 1951 Born. 394. 3Vinayak v. Srikishan, A.I.R. I955 M.B. I26 . 'Alleppy, ezc. v. Pmmu, A.I.R. 1957 T. 241. legal representatives of the judgment-debtor are also
brought under this rule by the Madras Amendment. These
amendments have been considered, but it is felt that it is
unnecessary to adopt them. So far as sureties are con-
cerned, even now they fall under the rule'._ So far as
legal representatives are concerned, section 146 is adequate. No change is therefore proposed, on these points. Orde-r XXI, rule 2(1)--whz'ch decree: For the history of the provision, see the under-men-
tioned cases3-". 3. It is considered that the provision should apply to
all decrees. Necessary clariﬁcation is proposed. Order XXI, rule 2(2) New

The big question under Order XXI, rule 2, is whether
the provision prohibiting the recognition of an unrecorded

payment or adjustment requires to be made more liberal
or more rigid. The various possible approaches may be considered. (1) The ﬁrst is, that the mandatory provision has work-
ed hardshlp and should be removed. This has been done
in the Punjab by removing sub-rule (3); see the Punjab

1Tambz' v. Devi, I.L.R. 49 Mad. 325 ; Onkarmal v. Nritya, A.I.R. 1923 Cal. 313. 'Shaik Niamat v. Shaikh _7ah'I, A.I.R. 1928 Cal. 715 ; Elli: v.Kz'tter,
 46 Born. 226 ; A.I.R. I922 Bom. 380(2) (Mcleod C.J. and Shah

'Shadi v. Ra D'tz , A.I.R. I 6 I. h. 8 - D 'd . B I h b
I.L.R. I948 Nag?" 48:'>,aA.I.R. 194983 Nag. 3712 ' em as V dd 'sa e '

'The point is discussed in Mulla, C.P.C . (1953) at page 754.
'See Chawa Seetharamayya v.Kad1'yaIa, A.I.R. 1951 Mad. 853. °Narayanaswam1'v. Rangaswami, I.L.R. 49 Mad. 716 ; A.I.R.
Mad. 749. _'/Injaneyulu v. Rangacharyulu,
(reviews case-law). 9A.I.R. 1928 Cal. 715. 'A.I.R. 1926 Mad. 749. I926
A.I.R. I958 Andhra Pradesh 705 176 Relief of Indebtedness Act (7 of 1934), section 361-2._ It
has been expressly excluded in respect of proceedings
under the Bombay Agriculturist Debtors Relief Act (28
of 1947), which takes the place of section 71, Dekhan Agri-
culturists Relief Act'. It has also been held to be inappli-
cable to an inquiry under section 3 of the Madras Agricul-
turists Relief Act, 1938, since the court scaling down a debt
under that Act is not a "court executing a decree'''*. (2) The other approach is that hinted at by Shah J. in
a Bombay case'? He observed, that the wording of sub-
rule (3) is quite clear and admits no escape therefrom "on
such general considerations as have been referred to by
Heaton J. in Trimback v. Haris and accepted in Hansa v.
Bhawa "7. He observed further---- (3) The Fourteenth Report considered the matter in
detail", and took the view that a payment not made through
bank or by postal money order or evidenced in writing,
and an adjustment not made in writing, should not be
recognised by any court executing the decree. It referred
to the Allahabad Amendment in this context, and recom-
mended its adoption". (4) In the draft Report on Civil Procedure Code which
had been circulated, while requiring the payments to be
made in the manner suggested in the Fourteenth Report,
scope had been deliberately left for the recognition of other
payments if they were certiﬁed and recorded as at present. 'Dam Mal v. Todar, A.I.R. I938 Lah. 602. 'Murlz' Dhar v. Firm Basheshar Lal, I.L.R. I938 Lah . 264, A.I.R.
1938 Lab. 126, applying the Punjab Amendment to an original side decree
of the Calcutta High Court sent to Punjab. ments proved by documentary evidence, can be recognised,
but that too only if they are recorded. The condition of
recording is considered necessary even in the case of such
payments, etc., for the reason that otherwise there may be
room for fraud and forgery. Order XXI, rule 2 and limitation

The period of limitation for an application for certiﬁca-
tion of payment or adjustment is 30 days under the (New)_ Limitation Act, 1963 , article 125. Since the provision in
the Civil Procedure Code regarding certiﬁcation is now
proposed to be made more stringent than at present (by
requiring that the payment should be in the manner
provided in Order XXI, rule 1 as proposed to be amended
or that the adjustment should be proved by documentary
evidence), it is considered that a longer period should be
allowed. It is, accordingly, recommended that the period
should be increased to 90 daysl. The Fourteenth Report" Order XXI, rule 16

(1) The Calcutta Amendment which, While "02 dis'
pensing with notice, allows the execution to proceed', has
been considered. It 1S unnecessary to adopt this in the

Code'*. (2) The Bombay Amendment, providing that any pay-
ment, etc., not certiﬁed or recorded under Order XXI,' rule 2
shall not be recognised by the court hearing an application
under Order XXI, rule 16, appears to be unnecessary. That
is the position even apart from such amendment5. Order XXI, rule 16 and transferee court

As to whether the power under this rule can be exercised
by a court to which the decree may be transferred for
execution, the matter has been dealt with separately". Order XXI, rule 17 1. This -carries out the recommendation made in ?the
Fourteenth Report7-3. The object is to require the court
to allow a defect in an application for execution to be
remedied. (The existing rule leaves a discretion to the
court to reject the application, the amendment takes away
the discretion.) Detailed provisions have also been made
for cases where there is a dispute about the correctness of
the amount stated in the application. 2. In drafting the provision, assistance" has been taken
from the Calcutta Amendment. See also the amendments
made by Madras, Allahabad, Patna, etc., High Courts. 1T.Kzmhiraman v. Madhavan Nair, A.I.R. 1957 Mad. 761. An earlier
decision (A.I.R. 1948 Mad. 9) took a contrary view. 2B. K. Puttaramanialz v. H. I. E. 8)' Sons, A.I.R. I959 Mys. 94. 3Sa;'lendra v. Bank of Calcutta, A.I.R. 1948 Cal. 131, I32, para. 10
(Chakravarti and Ellis JJ.). 'The Calcutta Amendment follows the Report of the Civil Justice Com-
mittee (1925), page 405, para. 11. 5See Mulla, C.P.C . (1953), pages 759-760.
'See amendment proposed to section 42.
7Cf. r4th Report, Vol. I, page 445, paras. 30-3r. 'See also Civil Justice Committee (1924-25) Report, page 384: Par?" 13
and page 406, para. 12, 182 Order XXI, rule 22 1. Two recommendations relevant to Order XXI, rule 22
vvere made in the Fourteenth Report'--". At present, notice
is necessary if one year has elapsed from the date of the
decree. _The Fourteenth Report recommended substitution
of a period of tnvree years in its place. Further, it recom--
mended that the failure to issue the notice or to record
reasons for non-issue, etc., should not render the proceed-
ings void, unless substantial injury is caused. 2. A brief statement of theexisting position on these
points is given helow;-- ~ (i) Before 1914 there was a conflict of authority as
to whether omission to isue notice under rule 22
rendered the sale void or voidable. After the Privy
Council decision" holding that it is the notice which
confers juriscliction. all the High Courts (following
that decision) held. that in the absence of the notice,
the sale was void'-"'--"-7. The Madras High Court in
certain decisions regarded the sale as voidable and
distinguished the Privy Council decision on the ground
that that decision was given under the old Code. while
in the present Code, sub--rule (2) showed that the rule
could be relaxed? But this view was rejected in later
Madras cases9--1°. (ii) Amendments relaxing the rigour of this rule.
have been made by some of the High Courts. e.g.---
Allahabad; Calcutta----see the under-mentioned deci-
sions"; Andhra--similar to Madras Amendment;
Assam--similar to Calcutta Amendment; Kenda-
similar to Madras Amendment; Madms-----see the under- 1I4th Report, Vol. I, page 447, para. 34, middle and last portion. 3. After some Consicleration it has been decided that it
would not be proper to make an amendment relaxing the
rigour of this rule. The provision for notice being of an
essential character, the position laid down by the Privy
Council need not be disturbed. 4. As regards increase of the period, it is considered
sufficient to increase it to two years. Necessary change is proposed. Order XXI, rule 92 and Insolvency 1. The question whether the provisions of Order 21,
rule 22 should be applied to the Ofﬁcial Assignee or Oﬁicial
Reveiver in insolvency, where the judgment-debtor has
become insolvent. has been considered. The present posi-
tion is as folloWs:-- cial Assignee or Oﬂicial Receiver under the Insolvency
law was "a legal representative" Within the meaning
of section 248 of the old Code. In the old Code, how-
ever, there was no deﬁnition of the expression "legal
representative". In the present Code, there is a deﬁ-
nition which does not seem to include the Ofﬁcial
Assignee or Official Receiver in the insolvency3. In a
Calcutta case', it seems to have been assumed that
Order XXI, rule 22 applies to the Official Receiver in
insolvency. Corresponding English rule is Order XLII,
rule 23 (a), R.S.C., under which leave is necessary
Where any change has taken place "by death or other-
wise in the parties entitled or liable to execution". 1Bal Mukzznd v. Pzrthzra], A.I.R. I951 Pat . 333 ; Shyam v. Naurangi.
A.I.R._ 1946 Pat. 270; Ram Lal v. Ramia, A.I.R. 1947 Pat. 454; Raj Kishore v. Sulaafe, A.I.R. 1959 Pat. 89; see also A.I.R. 1961
Pat. 480, 508; .S'u/elzdeo v. Brahmdeo, A.I.R. 1957 Pat. 431;
Ram Saran v. Deo Ncmdcm, A.I.R. 1957 Pat. 433; A.I.R. I953
Orissa 296 (construing an amendment similar to Patna). 2RaghmztIz Das V. Sunder Das , 41 I.A. 2 I, 2 6 ' I.L.R. C 1.
82 ; A.I.R. 1914 PC. 129. 5 5 ' 42 3 72'

3That the old Code did not contain this deﬁnition has been noticed by
the Madras High Court in Kanchamalai v. Shalzaji I.L.R. 59 Mad. 461 ;
A.I.R. 1936 Mad. 205, 207 (F.B.). vency. 2. It seems advisable to adopt the Madras Amendment,
which seem to be supported by the following reasons. In the ﬁrst place, upon an order of adjudication, the
insolvent's property vests in' the Oﬂicial Assignee, and
therefore it would be unrealistic to proceed with the ex-
ecution without notice to him. In the second place, the
order of adjudication may affect the very operation of the
decree (in view of the doctrine of relation back and effect
of insolvency on antecedent transactions, particularly
fraudulent preferences). The issue of a notice would give
the Official Assignee an opportunity to raise these objec-
tions. Thirdly, such an amendment is in conformity with
the principle on which Order XXII, rule 10 is based, namely,
the procedure to be followed on devolution of interest
during pendency of the suit'. In fact, all further proceedings (for example, appeal
in execution), will have to be continued by the Oﬁicial

Assignee'~'. Necessary amendment is proposed. 3. The proposed amendment will be in addition to any
restrictions or formalities arising out of insolvency which
may be necessary under the insolvency law?'-4. 4. The Madras amendment was construed, in the
under-mentioned case5. Order XXI, rule 22A (Patna) 1. The Patna High Court has added rule 22A to the
effect that where property is sold in execution, the sale
shall not be set aside by reason only of death of the judg-
ment-debtor between the date of issue of sale proclama-
tion and date of sale, notwithstanding failure to substitute
legal representatives. But, if the legal representative is
prejudiced, the court may set aside the sale. 'See Mulla, Civil Procedure Codez(:9'5'3), page 962, bottom, and Mullna,'
Law of Insolvency in India (1958), page 690, para. 7oo. See also Ammam1a'

v. Ramakrishna Rao, I.L.R. 1949 Mad. 904 ; A.I.R. 1949 Mad. 886.
2Cf. Mum' Lal v. Bari Doab Bank Ltd., A.I.R. I936 Lah. 368. 2 a_4_ 2. On this point, see the under-mentioned case1- - 3. It is considered unnecessary to adopt the Patna Am-
endment. Order XXI, rule 24 (3)

Some High Courts have made local amendments, which
require that the day on or before which the process should
be returned should be speciﬁed"-7. It is considered unnecessary to adopt this amendment,
which is of a minor character. Order XXI, rule 26

A recommendation has been made in the Fourteenth
Report*'--9 to the effect that where a judgment-debtor applies
for stay of execution under this rule, the court shall require
him to furnish security or impose conditions under the
rule, before granting stay. This recommendation was made
in view of the feeling that the courts failed to discriminate
between honest and dishonest judgment-debtors and thus
failed to exercise properly the discretion left to them. It
is, however, considered that the existing provision should
continue, and that making it mandatory would cause hard-
ship. Hence no change is suggested. Order XXI, rule 29

Order XXI, rule 29 C.P.C . runs as follows:-- '/Ijab v. Han" Charan, A.I.R. 1945 Pat. I (F.B.) 'Ramlal V. Ramia, A.I.R. 1947 Pat. 454 (F.B.).
1 )°ICanchamalan v. Sahaji, A.I.R. 1936 Mad. 205 (F.B.) (reviews case-
aw . 'Marotirao v. Narayan, A.I.R. I948 Nag. 300.
'Rajlakshmi v. Banamali, A.I.R. 1955 Cal. 573. elled to satisfy the decree when it might be prove
that on balance he owed less than the decretal amount

(or even nothing at all'); (ii) prevent multiplicity of proceedings2; (iii) to provide for adjustment? (so that the successful plaintiff in a pending suit need
not take out execution). he words "decree oi such court" should
es where the decree is of some
cuted by the court in which 2. Therefore, 'I
be ampliﬁed to cover ca
other court, but is being; erze
the suit is pending. 3. At present there is a conflict of decisions on this point.
One View is, that a court to vvhich the decree of any other
court is transicrred, can act under this rule"--". 4. But another line of cases takes a narrower view"-7-3. 5. The wider View bases itself on the principle that the
transferee court becomes the "cou.rt" which passed the

decree, (section 37) and would, under section 42, become

clothed with the same powers". The narrower View justi-
fies itself on the language of the section, which requires
1dcnti';y of the court passing the decree and the court in

which the suit is pending. To clarify the position, necessary change is proposed,
adopting the wider view. 5. As to the converse question----whether the court in
whzch a Sutt as pendmg, can act even it the decree is trans-
ferred to another court, Bombay High Court has held that

it can". '_'Ut&§Zé§}}§}./37~;a}§1.-E1}; A.1.R.}g2s"c§1." 233, 2;;
'A/I2,-'1e:lz V. jﬂgezdaz, A.I.R. :92'? C11. 222, 224 (Page 1.). C] )'K.2rmam;mzl v. MurhuKumarswamz', A.I.R. 1936 Mad. 102, I03 (Beasley
'Kassamal v. Gapi (1888) I.L.R. 10 A11. 389, 393. _
"Szradkripa v. Camilla Union Bank Ltd., A.I.R. 1934 Cal. 4 (Jack and

V Nag. J}.). 'Inzyet v. Umrao, A.I.R. 1930 All. I2! (sulaiman Acting C. I. and

Kendall J.). 'M~:. Khemchand v. Rambabu, A.I.R. I958 M.P. I31, I32 . (Wal'k(e/{.2ia)r Singh v. Puran Singh, A.I.R. I930 Lab . 961, 968, right-hand'

'As to the general position, see Maharajah of Bobbili v. Narasa Raju,

A.I.R. 1916 P.C. I6. ,
"Narsidas v. Manhar Singh, A.I.R. I931 Born. 247, 249. Order XXI, rule 31 1. This carries out the recominen-'iation made in the=
Fourteenth Report'-'-'. In a decree for delivery of speciﬁc
movable property, the award of compensation in lieu of
de1iw_-r_v oi' prooerty is, at present, permissible where the
property oi" the judgment-debtor has been attached and the
attachrnent has continued for at least sin: months. The
amendrnent :;e':5.~:S to reduce this period to 3 months. ed unneccsssa1'jy' to give power to the
<;x months, as has been done in some 1 lOC'3;l .r'.\.me::~ut;ie:it:~:. Oirier ..'.<XI, rule 32

 
 
 

 

performanze of
ri_;_;n»;-:- or injanction, the
'' execiition by attachnient of the
 ." .=t--deb';or. Where the attachment
i1a~=:. (1 for one year, the property IT.-Fly he sold and
L'.OI':'lp"i1S'.i'L.:-:.r av-z9.i'd«2cl to '-Jzie c1;t-.-i'r-e~l_ioider. The aInend~
Ine3'1i;Sr3el~:s to 1'e<l11co this period. from one year to six
months. Order .«',}'.:J!' male 32 5) and roh.tbizor= i72'f'247:C€i071S
, .4 . 1. Vlietl'/:1*tlie Word "injunction" in Ord:-r XXL rule
2(5) is co72j."m.e:'Z to rnandato1'y injunctions is a matter on
x hi-2' 'h' ' ~ E ' lneen some controversy. The C'a1c'-.1tta view" 3. Other High Courts have held that this sub-rule is
conﬁned to Iiiend3.toi'v injunctions7--*'. A cfiarige in the
laiigtiagu does :;.>t appear to be necess:-ry in the present

114th R-sport, Vol. X, r-.i.;.r,c 455, para. 53. 'See also Civil Justice Committee (1924-25) RCI7(7rE, page 4071 para'
,5. 314th l~'.i=,p:.>rt, Vol. I, pegr: ,g<_<, para. 54. 'Sec also Report of the ('.i"..il Justice C<vznmi1tcc{1{2;'), page 407, para. 16,

'Sachi Pmxad v. Amar Natl: Roy, ]'.I..R. 46 Cal. 103 ;A.I.R.§_ 1919 Cal.
674 (Richardson J. But 't3cz1=:ucro1': J. withheld his concurrence in this
point). . 'See Hem Chandra v. Narendra Narlz, I.L.R. 61 Cal. 146 ; A.I.R. 1934,
Cal. 402, dissenting from Sachi Prasad 's case. 'Sce ca.-ac-law reviewed in Joseph v. -Makkaru, A.I.R. I960 'Ker.'127. 'Chinm.bha Chetty v. Chengalroya, A.I.R. I950 Mad . 237. position of the case-law. As has been observed the words
of sub-rule (5) are "opposite only to mandatory injunc-
tions and not to prohibitory injunctionsl". Order XXI, rule 37 1. A recommendation has been made in the Fourteenth
Report? to the effect, that the issue of notice to the judg--
ment-debtor before his arrest should be made discretionary,
as it was before the amendment of 1936. The Report ob-
served, that execution by arrest and detention was a very
effective and quick way of realisation of money, and that
the application to issue a notice in the ﬁrst instance de-
feated the very purpose of this mode of execution, by
enabling the judgment-debtor to abscond before the issue
of warrant. While it did not take the View that no notice
was necessary, it expressed the opinion that it should be
left to the discretion of the court whether to issue a notice
or not, because, if execution by arrest had to continue
and was to be of any value, it should not be compulsory
for the court to issue notice in every case3. 2. It is, however, considered, that having regard to the
fact that execution by way of arrest is a somewhat anti-
quated mode, it is not desirable to go back to the law
before the 1936 amendment. The change recommended,
"therefore, has not been carried out. Order XXI, rule 39 (5) 1. Local Amendments made in implementation of the
Report of the Civil Justice Committee' have omitted the'
words "in the civil prison" in sub-rule (5). Others----
Bombay, Madras and M.P.--are more elaborate. The
object in all cases is the same, namely, to provide that
sub-rule (5) will cover the costs incurred by decree-holder
for subsistence expenses and conveyance charges before
the period of actual detention. 2, As execution by arrest is now rare, it is considered
unnecessary to make any such change. Order XXI, rule 41

Order XXI, rule 41, at present empowers the Court (in
case of a money decree) to examine the judgment--debtor
in order to ﬁnd out whether any debts are owing to him
alndhwhat other property or means of satisfying the decree

e as. CJ)'Ramkr1's/ma v. Balm-d of 'Revenue, A.rI.R. I954 Nag. 245, 248 (Sinha

*x4th Report, Vol. I, page 448, para. 36. that the notice should be endorsed with a "penalty notice" 3, The Calcutta High Court has inserted a new order---
Order XXTA, and rule 11 of that Order contemplates the
enforcement of the "bond" against the custodian. 4. The Hirgh Courts of Madras, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala
and l\indh_va Pradesh have achieved the object by providing
»'or *.l'=.c taking of a bond, vide amendments made by those
l'-iigzh C~;_n_1rts to rule 43 of Order XXI. The High Court of Patna has inserted an elaborate
pi'€,':'.r'lil{>:'i»--1'Lll(-Z' 4.'-3A----which deals at length with the
subject. '

The High Court of Punjab has added rules 43A to
43D in Order XXI. 5. It is considered that it would be better if provision
is made making the custodian liable without the formality
of a bond. Section 145, however, does not appear to be
the proper place for this. As rule 43 of Order XXI deals
with the subject of attachment and the mode of effecting
it in the case of movable property, it would be more
coiivcnzicnt if the amendment is placed in proximity with
that rule 6. An elaborate provision dealing With the liability of
the custodian has been proposed, so as to----- (i) deal with the custodian's liability both to the
decree--holder and to the judgment-debtor, and also
to third parties who may be declared to be owners of
the property; _ (ii) make this liability enforceable in execution; (iii) deﬁne the limits of this liability by making
it dependent on his fault; (iv) allow appeal in respect of orders determining
liability in such proceedings. Order XXI, rule 42

Local Amendments made by certain High Courts make
provision [or pre-payments of expenses of watching corps.
This was also the recommendation made by the Civil
Justice Committee'. It is considered unnecessary to adopt
this minor amendment. H 'Civil Justice Committee 0924-25) Report, page 407, paragraph 19. Order XXI, rules 46A to 461 (New) 1. Tliese carrv out the recommendation made in the
Fourteenth Report'-3. The object is to make detailed pro-
visions -for procedure in gjamishee cases. They mainly
fOllu\V the Calcutta Amendments. Order XXI, rule 45A
et seq. C)'. also Order 45. R.S.C. 1883, which seems to con-
tinue after the 1932 Revision. 2. Rule 46A(3) is intended to make the provision corn- prehexisive 3. In rule 46F. it line'. been made clear that payment
by the garnishee will protect him in both the situations,
namelv. where the order of the court in the garmshee
p7'oceecl'n'(;';' is set aside. and where the decree under execu-
tion (on which the proceedings in garnishee were taken)
is set aside. On this: point, rule 46F of the Calcutta
Amendment merely provides for setting aside. etc., of "such
judgment", but the language of Order 45, rule 7, Rules of
the Supreme Court, is more elaborate. The latter has been

drawn upon. Order XXI, rule 48

The amendment is intended to make the provisions of
rule 4 applicable to persons who, though not servants of
the Government, are employees of Corporations engaged
in trade or industry and established by statute or Govern-
ment companies. For the purposes of rule 48 (attachment
of salaries) such persons should, it is considered, be treated
on the same footing as Government servants. In drafting the amendment, assistance has been taken
from section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, as amended in

1958. Order XXI, rule 48A 1. This is new, and is intended to lay down the pro-
cedure for attachment of private salaries. There is no
express provision in the Code on the subject, and up to
now, the attachment of private salaries was difficult,
because they were regarded as not attachable until they
actually became due at the encl of the month. Since, the
position is now being altered3. it is considered that a
speciﬁc provision should be inserted on the subject. instead
of leaving the attachement of such salaries to be dealt
with under Order XXI, rule 46, which deals with attach-
ment of debts and all movable property not in possession,

etc.

'x4th Report, Vol. 1, page 451, para. 45.
22'S3: also" Civil Justice Cnnnitte: (I924-25) Report, page 39;), para,
,.~;_'See the amendment proposed to section 60. 2. In drafting this provision, the language of Order XXI,
rule 48, dealing with salaries of _Government servants, etc..,
has been drawn upon, with suitable changes, and, parti-
cularlv, this important modiﬁcation, that the disbursing
officer" of the employer should be within the jurisdiction of

the court. 3. The present position would seem to be that such
salaries are "debts". 4. Whether the limitation as to the jurisdiction of the
court (namely, that the disbursing officer should be within
its local limits) should be removed has been considered.
While no such limit exists in the case of salaries of public
employees, it is felt that it should be there in the case of
private employees. The position of public employees is
different, because their scales of pay are laid down precisely
by a centralised authority, and the authority for drawing
pa is also in many cases issued from one source, so that
the likelihood of dispute or doubt is not great. In the case
of private employees, there is no such centralisation, and it
may be inconvenient if the employer (of a private em-
ployee) Whose ofﬁce is situated in one place, is required
to deal with a distant court under an attachment effected
by it. Order XXI, rule 50 (I)

The change in sub-rule (1) is purely verbal, being in-
tended to substitute the correct reference ( section 30 of
the Partnership Act) instead of the old section ( section
247 , Contract Act). Order XXI, rule 50 (2)

l. The expression "such liability is disputed" in Order
XXI, rule 50(2) had caused some controversy. But the
narrovver view, namely, that the person concerned could
only dispute the fact of his being a partner, was generally
preferred?-". 2. In a recent Supreme Court case*, it has now been
held that under this sub-rule, the person can only prove
that he 'was not a partner, and (in a proper case) that the
decree is the result of collusion, fraud or the like. He
pizligot re--open the whole question of the liability of the 3. Hence no clariﬁcation is now needed. 'See -1 't d ' V_ _ ' . AILR' I96:jSfx'I§VV:39CSl'e(Se1p[1ten1be£/3. Subba Rao v. Iviohd. Hussam Khan,
'See also discussion under Order 30, rule 8_ 3 d]_ScuSSs'i3§n4:\-1-R- 1956 Born. 513, 515 and A'.I;R. 1955 Mad. 154, for a good
0 ~ ' . '
I963(§?gb:43{M "5/'K'3"'e M115» (1964) I M.L.J. 92 (s.c.).; A-.I.R'* 193 Order XXI, rule 50 (2) "Court which passed" 3. The Civil Justice Committee7 also felt, that though
section 42 was widely expressed, yet, in View of the speciﬁc
language used in Order XXI, rule 50, it was doubtful
whether the powers under that rule could be exercised by
any executing court, and suggested' clariﬁcation. 4. It is, however, considered that these provisions should
remain only with the Court which passed the decree. That
Court would be in a better position to deal with such
applications. Necessary amendment" is proposed in section 42. Order XXI, rule 50 and joint family firms 1. A controversy exists as to whether Order XXI, rule
50 applies to joint family ﬁrms. One view is that it does
riot". The Calcutta High Court" expressed the same view
In one case. But, as, in a later decision", it has regarded; H)1Pulz'n v. Iswar, A.I.R. 1945, Cal. 303 (B. K. Mukherjea & Ellis
2Pottt'swamz' v. Sulaiman, A.I.R. 1942 Mad. 501.
3Sz'tal v. Robson and Ca., I.L.R. 43 A11. 394 ; A.I.R. 1921 A11. 199. 'Bombay Co. Ltd., v.Kahan, A.I.R. I931 Lah. 736 (Addison & Cold-
stream ]J.). 'Abdul v. Dhanpaz, A.I.R. I931 Lah . 507. '14th Report, Vol. 1, pages 437-438, paras. I4-I5. 7Civil Justice Committee (1924-25) Report, page 387, para. I5.
'See 3. 42 (as proposed). 'Matur£ v. Bhagaban, A.I.R. 1950 Orissa I89. 1°Motz' v. Chhajumal, A.I.R. 1942 Cal. 613. njamanad/tar v. iamuna Ram, A.I.R. 1944 Cal. 138 (Mitter and Blank . JJ-)- ' 194

'Order XXX, rule 1 as applicable to joint family ﬁrms, it is

likelv that it rnav regard Order XXI. rule 50 a? 51180 313911'
cable to them l'E"ll'1C question now 'arose. The Patna Hiifh
Court 1'e9"a'.'ds Order XXX, rule 1 as :ir3*>lic="r'o"n to joint
family ﬁrms'. and has observed that Order XXI, rule 50
should be read with Order XXX. 2. The Punish High Court" has held, that in view of

the ::.m-sndment to Order XXX made in Punjab. Order KPH,
rule 50 also applies in Punjab to joint family ﬁrms.
 It is however considered. that even if the provisions
gf -f_)~_~dg= XXX. are ma-tic azzzalicable to jioint i:"0':.lv ﬁ1m'33..
the p -.~s:?ons of '.')rder XXL rule 50 should not apply to
Sllfhﬂ firms. anti that this proposition should be enacted.
Necessary change is proposed. 4. It is considered unnecessary to make any other pro~
vision as regards the property against which decrees passed
against joint family firms may be executed. Order XXI, rule 53(1)

This follows local Amendments'. Where a decree is
sought to be executed by the attachment of another decree,
the procedure is that the court executing the principal
decree (the decree sought to be executed) sends a notice
to the court which passed the subordinate decree (i.e. the
decree to be attached), requesting the latter court to stay
execution of the subordinate decree until the decree-holder
or judgment-debtor in the principal decree applies to the
latter court to execute the subordinate decree. The amend-
ment seeks to provide, that the judgment-debtor in the
principal decree should obtain either the decree--hol:1er's
consent or the permission of the attaching court before
léie applies to the court for execution of the subordinate

ecree. A detailed provision to deal with the cases Where
execution of the subordinate decree has been transferred
to another court, has been made in the Madras Amend-
ment-'-". But, as no difficulty has been felt without it,
it has not been adopted. 'Alzk/1 Chzndra ii. Krishna Chandra, A.I.R. 1941 Pat. 596. 'Pwgiab National Bank v. Raj Mal, A.I.R. 1959 Pun. 362 (Falshaw and
Dua }].). 'See Order 30, rule 10 (proposed). 'Cf. Amendments made by High Courts of Calcutta, Madras, Nagpur
and Patna. 'Cf. Order 2r, rule 53(1)(c), Madras. 'See also Civil Justice Committee (I 925) Report, page 4o8, pan, 2:), 195 Order XXI, rule 53(6) 1. Where a decree is attached in execution of another
decree, then, so far as the decree-holder of the attached
degree 13 concerned, the attachment is complete and
effective as soon as notice to the court which is to execute
the attached decree is given. This notice 15 Ewen under
Order XXI, rule 53, sub-rule (1)1-

Eut, so far as the jud'§me.nt--debto"i' of the attached
decree is concerned the notice of the 'attachment has_to
be given to him; and unless Such notice is served upon him,
any pa'v'i'ri:%rit 'xiv hfzn to his jlldfffnent-CrC(.ltOi' would give
mm a proy;.e«~ (,lis(:h;L'ge. To 'Cl'!.l.~4 extent, the pi'ovision in
sub--r'ule (6) of rule is. as stated by C.J.-,_"a
statutory exception to the principle unueriyiiig section
64". has been explained in the Madras case, though
the general principle under section 64 is that after com-
pletion of the at't;.;hmciit, a dealing in regard to the attached
property is forbidden, it does not follow that persons
acting bona fide without notice should in no case be
protected. 2. Now, in place of the "notice" referred to in sub-rule
(6), or in addition to that, local Amendments made by
several High Courts have inserted "knowledge". See the
local Amendments made by the High Courts of Calcutta,
Assam, Allahabad and Punjab. Thus, notice of the order
through court is not necessary. It may be noted that a recommendation to this effect
was made by the Civil Justice Committee' also. '

An amendment on the subject is proposed. Order XXI, rule 54 (1)

A recommendation has been made in the Fourteenth
Report" to the effect, that under rule 54 an intimation
should be given to the judgment-debtor to attend the court
on a given date to take notice of further steps in the matter.
It is considered that a literal implementation of this recom-
mendation might cause practical difficulties. On the date
on which the attachment is issued under rule 54, the court
would not be in a position to fix all the future dates in
the various stages. Again, if a provision is inserted to
the effect that the judgment-debtor should attend at each
subsequent hearing and take notice from time to time of

'Mxhzdcv v. jarzak Singh, A.I.R. 1954 Born. 251, 253, left hand, para. 3,
last sub-para (Cnagla C. J. and Dixit I.). See also La/exhrnuzaraxinzlzam v,
Laksh.n£naras£m/mnz, I.L.R. 50 Mad. 677 ;A.I.R. 1927 Mad. 728. 'Mah1dev v. _7anak Singh, A.I.R. 1954 Born. 251, 253, para. 4. 'Lat:/bzinzrasirnhain v. Lakshminarasimham, I.L.R. 50 Mad. 677
A.I.R. 1927 Mad. 728. 'Civil Justice Committee (1924-25) Report, page 408, paras. 20-21.
'14th Report, Vol. I, page 448, para. 38. the various stages, that.als0 may fail in practice, because
of events (e.g., an application by a third party under rule 58) that often interrupt the progress of the proceedings.
Therefore, a provision in a modiﬁed form has been intro-
duced, to the effect, that the proclamation shall intimate
to him the date on which the terms of the proclamation
of the sale would be settled under rule 66._ This amend-
ment, while not obviating the necessity of giving notice to
the judgment--debtor at subsequent stages (where. such
notice is required by law), will save the time taken in the
issue of notice under rule 66. Order XXI, rule 54 (2)

The amendment to rule 54(2) provides that in the case
of a land situated in a village, a copy of the order should
be affixed in the oiﬁce of the village panchayat also. This
is intended to secure adequate publicity for the attachment. Order XXI, rule 54 (3)

Local Amendments made by several I-ligh Courts provide
that the attachment should be effective from the date of the
order, in the case of a transferee Without consideration.
The object of this amendment is to nullify any attempt by
a judgment-debtor to deal with his property between the
date of the order and the date of the actual attachment.
These amendments, in a way, constitute a qualiﬁcation to
the general rule laid down in section 64 and were made
in implementation of the recommendation of the Civil
Justice Committeel. It is, however, felt that the insertion
of such a provision would have the effect of making the
attachment operative at two different dates in relation to
two different classes of persons (transferees without con-
sideration and other transferees), and that there are no
strong reasons to justify such a special provision depart-
ing from the ordinary rule? as to the point of time at which
an attachment becomes effective. Order XXI, rule 57

Where an application for execution is dismissed either
by reason of the decree-holder's default or otherwise, the
question arises whether an attachment already effected
ceases or not. At present, the case where the decree-
holder's default entails dismissal of the application is
covered, but other cases are not. (In the former -case, the
cessation of the attachment is, at present, compulsory.)
Local Amendments3 to the rule seek to impose an obligation
on the court to direct in each case whether the attachment. 'Civil Justice Committee (1925) Report, page 39, pa,-a_ 24_
'On this point, see A.I.R. 1928, RC. 139. 'Cf. the Amendments made by High Courts of Calcutta, Madras
Nagpur, Patna, etc. 197 is to be regarded as continuing or not. This is intended to
avoid doubts which are felt sometimes as to whether the
dismissal was in fact for "default". The Calclltta and
Bombay Amendments are the most elaborate'. It is, how-
ever, considered unnecessary to adopt these amendments;
it is felt that where the execution application is dismissed
(for default), the attachment must cease. Order XXI, rule 57 and attachment before judgment

The question whether the provisions of Order XXI, rule
57 apply to an attachment before a judgment, is not. free
from doubt. Order XXI, rule 57 provides that where property has
beenattached in execution of a decree, but because of the
decree-holder's default the court is unable to proceed fur-
ther with the execution application, it can dismiss the
application, in which case "the attachment shall cease".
There is a conflict of decisions on the question whether this
rule applies to attachment before judgment. In View of
the words "attached in execution of a decree", it has been
move his property, etc., with a view to defeating, etc., execu-
tion application for default does not put an end to the
attachment before judgment". It is argued in support of
this view, that attachment before judgment is effected only
if the court is satisﬁed that the defendant intends to re-
move his property etc., with a View to defeating, etc, execu-
tion; hence it stands on different footing from attachments
after judgment'. On the other hand, some High Courts
have held the rule to be applicable to property attached
before judgment----at least where the attachment has been
followed by an application after the decree for bringing the
property to sale5. 'See Civil Justice Committee (1925) Report, page 409, para, 22,

'As to Calcutta Amendment, see Pashupati v. Dcba A.I.R. I951 S.C,
447-

As to Madras Amendment, see Subramaniam v. Sundaram, A.I.R. 1963 Mad. 217. 'Balm: Akhey Ram v. Basarzt Lal, I.L.R. 46 All. 894 ; A.I.R. 1924
A1]. 860, approved in Abdul Hamid v. Asghari Begum, I.L.R. (1953)
1 All. 654 ; A.I.R. 1953 All 173 (F.B.) ; Shibnazh Sing/z v. Shaikh Saber-
uddm, I.L.R. 56 Cal. 416 ; A.I.R. I929 Cal. 465, followed in Ayezali V.
Mkzhanandabarui, A.I.R. I949 Cal. 320 (Das Gupta _I.). 'See the exhaustive review case-law in Daztatraya V. Rambhaba A.I.R.
1952 B0m- 235, 238, 239, 240 ; paras. 8-16 (holding that rule 57 does not
apply to attachment before judgment) (Patel and Abby ankar ]].). °Venkata Rao v. Surya Rao, I.L.R. i9so M d. 2 - A,I_R,
M3d- 39; Meyyappa v. .Chidamb_a1.-am, I.L.R. 47 aMad. '4f3 ; A,II£_,]S£
1924 Mad. 484. (F.B.); Han v. Shrmzvat, I.L.R. 55 Bom. 693 ; A.I.R. I931
Bolt: §§\/Slgtdgavkar & Murphy JJ.) (held to be obiter in A,I.R. 198 A general rule applying provisions of the Code (appli-
cable to attachment made in execution) to attachments be-_
fore a judgment. is now proposed'. That will resolve this
conflict. Order XXI, rule 58 1. A person making a claim or objection to an attach-
ment need show. at present, merely possession of the pro-
perty. According to the recommendation made in the
Fourteenth Report'-' the inquiry must be full and cover
questions of ultimate right and title. To achieve that
object. cl7an;.3'e:; liave been proposed. 2. .L} : been raised whether, in vie'-.v of
the fact the wring under rule will now be re-
placed an inquiry in e3;<2c:/ttitm (under the proposed
scheme). it won'd not be advisable to make an express
provision as to whether questions of fraud, for example,
those uncler ;~;c.':ti0n 53 of the Transfer of Property Act ,
could be '.','~'.'A'.'1:";}":-,t'l'('3Cl in proceedings under rules 58 to 63. it is ccnsid:=rcd unnecess:=ary to make any such pro~
vision for this purpose only. 4. It is considered unnecessary to make an express pro-
vision as to vchether the proceedings under rule 58 et seq
and the decisizms given thereon will be binding as between
tho jvc<il_r_n,>ient»de?>tor and a third party claimant. The
an:;=.=.>c:~ to thrt question would depend on the question-
who are the: parties to the suit and what are the matters

raised '[i'1CI'tL-7113. 5. It is con;ide1'ed unnecessary to make a provision that
a third przrston who is affected by the attachment is not
bo"m/'Z to take proceedings under these rules and can file a

re_:ular- rmit. Tliat is the existing law, and that position
Will continue. Order XXI, rule 58 and limitation

l. \'a."n.en an objection or claim is dismissed after the
proceedings under rules 58 to 62, the suit. if any. by the
a5:_qt'ieved parity, can be filed under Order XXI. rule 63
within the period of 1 year". Since under the scheme of rules 58 to 63. as proposed,'
a full inquiry into title will be held, a suit would be barred" ed from one year to one hundred and eighty days in order
that the matter may not remain hanging tor long. This
change may also be carried out in article 98. Order XXI, rule 58 and co-an-t-fees

.: in 'er Ord:-r XXI, rule 
appealgblc as c'-'Psi e_;. the eppeals will all
fees. For the purpose of cotirt-fees, t'ncs.e ocd
be treated as orders under section 47. Necessary ~;ed;:c'5.ion
of court-ices should be granted by the State Go've:'nz:ioi'its
by l.'?:~:Jii'l:;' 21 notiﬁcation uncler the rele~::ant pray
the Court-fees Act 2.pp'icaL,le to the State. has been
<(i:on?Cin_ most States in respect of orders under section 47,

D V

 

 
 

 

Order XXI, rule 59

 

This deals with DCSlT';(¥i1s'<r'i'1F'I':'-. of ;:f3_ ~,ex_~r}E;iej iuciuiry
into objections. Following changes have been proposed:---- (ll Where rlmmovzible property is advertised for
sale. the court can, at present, postpone the sale pend-
ing investigation of a claim or objection to attachinent. A recomine:idat.ion was l"Il8.=ot:? in the Fourteenth
Report". that the sale should not be postponed, but the
court should have 3 discreti.-3:1 to direct that it =hall not be
conﬁrmed until decision of the claim or o'oje.:~ti:.>n. Tins has
been carried out, but with an impnrtaiit modification. E:<:i<t--
mg' power to postpone the sale is preserved (though the
Fourteenth Report contemplated its dtrletic-:1), .13 usctul in
certain cases. (2) A provision has been added to the effect that
where the sale has already taken place at the time of
the claim or objection, the claim or objection shall not
be entertained. This will resolve the conflict of deci-
sions on the questiontw' whether an objection can be
investigated in such cases. __._ _,.. ____,__.__»..-_. ....._. ,-_ _. .. .. __.__...,

'S23 Orizrrzr, rule 53, as proposed,

'huh Rzport. Vol. 1, page 453, para. 48, last sentence. As regards movables, the present position is retained. as under Order
zl, rule 77, the sale becomes absolute immediately. I

'See also the Civil Justice Committee (1925) Report, page 39;, para. 25_

'The answer is "No" according to some High Courts, s_ A_]R
1926 Cal. 468 and A.I.R. 1937 Cal. 390 ; A.I.R. 1942 Bom. 26386; A.I.R.
1953 MB. 264. For the contrary view, see A.I.R. 1958 Mysore I40 ; A.I.R.
1931 Mad. 782 ; A.I.R. I940 Nag. 7. ' Cf. the Allahabad Amendment inter ted in F" T rid' R -
Lat, A.I.R. 1939 All. 598. Pm . W" " ' ""' iv'-qG"'"' 200 (3) Instead of investigation, the word "adjudica-
tion" is used, as it is intended that the inquiry should
cover questions of title also. Order XXI, rule 59---Postponing conﬁrmation of the sale

In the draft Report circulated for comments, a provi-
sion had been proposed under which, while the conﬁrma-
tion of the sale itself could be postponed, the sale itself
was to be held. One of the comments received on the
draft Report was, that if the sale is held pending the in-
quiry, it may not fetch a satisfactory price. This has been

considered. But it is felt, that in order to save delay, the . power proposed should be given to the Court.
Order XXI, rule 59 (security)

A provision authorising the court to require security or
to impose other conditions has been added. The Calcutta
Amendment to Order XXI, rule 58 may be compared. Order XXI, rules 60, 61 and 62

The existing rules 60, 61 and 62 contain detailed provi-
sions as to the powers of the court. Since it is intended
that a full inquiry should now be held, these have not
been repeated in extenso. Order XXI, rule 63

Since the inquiry under these rules is intended to be
conclusive, the provisions of existing rule 63 which allow
a suit to be ﬁled to set aside the decisions passed in such
inquiries are not now needed, except in the cases where
the court refuses to adjudicate upon the claim on the
ground of delay, etc., or on the ground that it was ﬁled after
the sale was held. The operation of rule 63 should, in
effect, be conﬁned to such cases. A provision incorporat-
ing the substance of rule 63, conﬁned as above, is therefore
proposed. Order XXI, rule 66 1. A recommendation was made in the Fourteenth
Report', that to avoid the difficulties caused by mistakes in
the estimated value of the property as stated in the procla-
mation of sale, the rule should be amended on the lines of
the Patna Amendment, so as to provide (in effect) that
the court should state merely the estimated value, if any,
as given by the parties and insert a statement that it does
not vouch for the accuracy of either. It is considered, that
it would be sufficient to adopt the Calcutta Amendment
which is more simple. That is what has been proposed on

this point. 114th Report, Vol. 1, page 454, para. 50. 2. Since a proclamation under rule 54, as proposedl,
would have notiﬁed to the judgment-debtor the date on
which the terms of the proclamation of the sale are to be
settled, an amendment is proposed to rule 66 to the effect
that in such a case, a fresh notice of that date need not be
given to the judgment-debtor, unless the court otherwise
directs. Order XXI, rule 67

An amendment has been made by the High Court of
Madras to this rule, the object of which seems to be to em-
phasise that rule 67(1) and (2) deals mainly with the
mode of publication'-'. No such change appears to be necessary, in view of the
wording of the rule. Order XXI, rule 68

This is in implementation of the Fourteenth Report'-3.
The object is to reduce the interval between the proclama-
tion of sale and the actual sale. Order XXI, rule 69 1. Under rule 69 (2), a fresh proclamation of sale is
necessary where the sale is adjourned for a longer period
than 7 days. unless the judgment-debtor consents. As re-
gards this sub-rule. two changes have been proposed in the
Fourteenth Report'? -- (i) The period should be increased from 7 days to
30 days. (ii) the court should have power to dispense with
the consent of the judgment-debtor, where he has fail-
ed to attend in answer to the notice issued under Order
XXI, rule 66. 2. The object of the amendment on the ﬁrst point is to
dispense with the necessity of a fresh proclamation. In-
crease of the period will naturally reduce the number of
cases in which such proclamation will be required. Simi-
lar amendments have been made by the High Courts of
Bombay, Calcutta, Punjab, Madras and Andhra Pradesh

'See Order 21, rule 54, as proposed. 'See also discussion in Seshageri V. Valambal, A.I.R. 1952 Mad. 377: 514th Report, Vol. 1, page 456, para. 56. (all of which substitute 30 days). This has been adopted.
(The amendments by Allahabad and Patna substitute 14
days.) 3. As regards the second point, though such an amend-
ment has been made by the High Courts of Allahabad and
Patna, it is felt, that the. consent of the judgment-debtor
should not be dispensed with merely on the ground that
he has failed to appear in answer to the notice referred to.
He may be present at the time of adjournment and Would
like to be heard, and this opportunity need not be denied.
This recommendation of the Fourteenth Report has not
been carried out. Order XXI, rule 72

A recommendation has been made in the Fourteenth
Report1 to the effect, that a decree-holder should be allowed
to purchase property unless the court has prohibited him
from doing so'-'. The object of the recommendation was to
avoid the delay that is frequently caused when the Warrant
of sale is returned unexecuted in the absence of bidders. An
amendment carrying out this recommendation was propos-
ed in the draft Report which had been circulated. Com-
ments received thereon, however, emphasise the need for
the court being aware of any proposal by the decree-
holder to bid. There is considerable force in this ap-
proach, and a decision has been taken not to disturb the
existing rule. The recommendation has not, therefore,
been carried out. Order XXI, rule 72A (Bombay)

Order XXI, rule 72A has been added by the High Court
of Bombay to provide that if leave to bid is granted to a
mortgagee, then, as regards him, a reserve price shall be
ﬁxed, which shall not be less than the amount due as
principal, etc.

The history of this rule is this: 2. This raises an interesting question, namely, how far
a decree--holder, who is a purchaser and purchases with the
court's permission under rule 72. is bound to deposit 25 per
cent. _ 3. The matter may be considered under two situations.
The first is, where there is no question of rateable distri-
bution. In such a case it has been held that an express
order_ exempting the decree-holder from depositing 25 per
cent. 1S not necessary'. As has been pointed out5, in such
a case, to insist on his depositing the amount would be
meaningless. I28 1Vrajlal v. Venkataswamz', I.L.R. 52 Born. 459 ; A.I.R. 1928 Born. 123,

"See amendments made by the High Courts of Calcutta, Madras, Nagpur
and Patna. '

"Civil Justice Committee (1924-25) Report, page 410, para. 25. 'Nurdin V. Bulaqi A/Ial, A.I.R. I931 Lah. 78 (Tapp I.). 5Kanhaz'ya v. Sans Mal, A.I.R. I956 Raj. I8, 19 (Wanchoo C. .l_
and Dave I.) (reviews the case-law). 4. The next situation is, where there is a rateable dis-
tribution. Here the interests of the other decree-holders.
are involved; and therefore. even if the decree-holder is
the auction-purchaser, he should deposit the 25 per cent.
of the purchase-money. The Allahabad Amendment makes
an express provision on the subject. But, as has been
pointed out by the Madras High Courtl, even in such a
case the decree--holder cannot be compelled to bring into
the court the entire purchase price. Where the purchase
price is equal to or less than the decretal amount, the
decree-holder's right to set, oil is controlled only to this
extent, namely, that he is bound to bring into court such
sums 'alone as are due to those decree-holders Whose ap-
plications in execution were pending on the date of the
sale. _ Accordingly, in the Madras case, even the literal
wording of rule 199 of the Madras Civil Rules of Practice
was held not to come in the way of the right to set-off. That rule ran as follows:---- The court held, that to the extent to which rule 199 of
the Madras Civil Rules was inconsistent with the provi-
sions in the First Schedule, it was ultra vires under section
157 of the Civil Procedure Code which saved old rules only
to the extent to which they were consistent with the Code? 5. It would, thus, appear that how far the decree-holder
should be required to deposit the 25 per cent. is a matter
depending on-- (i) whether there is any likelihood of rateable
distribution, and (ii) what is the extent of that distribution. A categorical provision would not, therefore, be helpful. Order XXI, rule 89 1. The object of this amendment is to make it clear that
a person having an interest at the date of the application
can avail himself of this rule. Compare the discussion in
the Report of the Civil Justice Commitee-3. 1Murugappa v. Ramasami, A.I.R. 1935 Mad. 893, 894 (right-hand)

(Venkatasubba Rao ].). 2. The present View is, that such persons are not en-
otitledl-2-3-4-5. 3. See also amendments made by the High Courts of----
_(i) Madras", and (ii) Allahabad, and

the more speciﬁc amendments made by the High Courts
.of_ (iii) Nagpur7, (iv) Patna', and
(V) Lahore". The language of the Madhya Pradesh Amendment has
been adopted. 4. For a history of the rule, see the under-mentioned
case". Order XXI, rule 90

Subs.-~uZe (1).--The words "or purchaser" have been
added to make it clear that an auction-purchaser can also
apply. This will set at rest the conﬂict of decisions on the
subject". Order XXI, rule 90 and deposit

A recommendation has been made in the Fourteenth
Report" to the effect that a person applying to set aside the
sale 'under rule 90 should be required to deposit an amount

'Fatima-ul-Hasna v. Baldev, A.I.R. 1926 All. 204. The contrary View
had been taken in I.L.R. 34 All. 186. 2Pandur(mg V. Govind, (1916) I.L.R. 40 Born. 557. 3SaradaKrz'pa v. Harendra, I.L.R. 49 Cal. 454 ;A.I.R. 1922 Cal. 271.
As to the person purchasing before sale, see Goszo Behari v. Sankar Nath,
A.I.R. 1917 Cal. 281. 'Sundaram v. A/Iamsa, I.L.R. 44 Mad. 554 ; A.I.R. 1921 Mad. I57
(F.B.) (before Madras Amendment). 5De0patiKuer v. Mahabir, I.L.R. 25 Pat. 529; A.I.R. 1947 Pat, 293.

'Interpreted in Gutta Laleshminarasamma V. Yalamarti, A.I .R. 1943
Mad. 684 (Leach C. J. and Shahabuddin ].). 7Interpreted in Vithoba v. Mahadeo, A.I.R. 1948 Nag. 303. See also
_7uharmal v. Ramdas, A.I.R. 1937 Nag. 161 (Vivian Bose ].). 3Cf.Daopatz'Kuer v. Mahabir Prtzsad, I.L.R. 25 Pat. 529; I.L.R.
1947 Pat. 293. It is considered that the Allahabad Amendment should
be adopted. Necessary change is proposed. Order XXI, rule 90 and absence of attachment

The question whether absence of, or irregularity in
attachment is, a defect in the "publication or conduct of
the sale" has been discussed in several decisions3. At one
extreme is the View that attachment is not necessary at all
before sale': At the other extreme stands the View that
sale without attachment is VOid5. A third view is, that
attachment is an irregularity, but not in publishing or
conducting the sale. According to the fourth view, a sale
is not a nullity because of a defect in the attachment or

1Cf. Allahabad Amendment. 'I4th Report, Vol. I, pages 454-455, para. 51. Order XXII, rule 4 and ignorance of death

The question whether, where a plaintiff is ignorant of
the death of the defendant, delay in substitution of the
legal representative should be excused on that ground, has
arisen in several cases. Each case would seem to depend
on its facts7. No express provision is, therefore, consider-
ed necessary. Order XXII, rule 4-relaxation of

The question whether the court should have power to
grant exemption in respect of the requirement oof substi-
tution in a proper case has been considered. Local Amend-
ments giving such power have been made by the High

'Sce- (i) Arunachalam v. Veerappa, A.I.R. 1931 Mad. 656 (F.B.). (ii) Bharat v. Ashgar, I.L.R. 45 All. 148. (iii) _7ethmal v. Sakina, A.I.R. I961 Raj. 59. 'Mohammad Ham)' v. Ali, I.L.R. 55 All. 891 ;A.I.R. 1933 All. 783, 784
(F.B.). '"'Harz' v. Bulaqi, A.I.R. 1930 Lab. 20. 'Narayana v. Muthu, I.L.R. 50 Mad. 67 ,' A.I.R. 1926 Mad. 980, 983, 984. « -'Cf. A.I.R. 1963 A.P. 127. 'Kandaswami v.Kannappa, A.I.R. 1952 Mad. I86, I92, para. 21--holds
that C.P.C . is not a special law, dissenting from the Nagpur decision in Site

Ram v. Chum" Lal, I.L.R. 1944 Nag. 250. The: words "lawful agreement or compromise" in Order
XXIII, rule 3 have created some controversy as to whether
they exclude agreements which are voidable under section
19A oi the Contract Act . One view is, that such agree-
ments are not excluded. That View is based on the reason-
ing that the expression "lawful" excludes only two classes
of agreements----those which are "unlawful" and those
which are Void'--'-'-"'--*--"'--"--7--'°. But a contrary View has been taken in certain other
cases"'--"'--". The matter requires to be clariﬁed, and the wider View
of these words ate. the latter view, should, it is considered,
be incorporated. Necessary amendment is proposed. Order XXIII, rule 3 and the words "so far as relates to" used in Order XXIII, rule 3. The question that arises in
practice is, whether a decree which records the terms of a
compromise in respect of matters beyond the scope of the
suit is executable, or whether the terms of the decree re-
lating to matters outside the suit can be enforced (as a
contract) only by a separate suit"-'. It is not, however.
possible to resolve the conﬂict of decisions by verbal
changes; since the application of the rule may vary ac-
cording to the facts of each case. As a general amendment
is not thus possible, no change is considered necessary. 'Qadri fahan Began: V. Fazal Ahmad, A.I.R. 1928 1411.494 (sulainian
and Kendall 1].). 2Hu5saz'n Yar Bcg V. Radha Kislzan, I.L.R. 57 All. 426 ;A.I.R. 1955
All. 137. 3Ram Array v. Rameshwar, A.I.R. 1961 All. 529. 'W/estern Electric Co. Ltd. v. Kailash Chand, A.I.R. 1940 Born. 60
(Kania ].). 5Harbans Sing}; v. Bawa Singh, A.I.R. 1952 Cal. 72 (Sinha ].). tion of his partnership decided before other issues. [The
English rule is now replaced by Revised R.S-.C. (1962),
Order LXXXI, rule 4, sub-rules (2) to (5)l. Stated brieﬂy, the effect of the Bombay Amendment is,
that such person can have the question whether he was
a partner decided. If he is held to be a partner, that does
not preclude him from denying the ﬁrm's liability. If it
is held that he was not partner and not liable as such,
that does not preclude the plaintiff from otherwise serving
a summons on the defendant ﬁrm, etc., but in that event
the plaintiff shall be precluded from alleging the liability
of that person as a partner, in execution proceedings. 5. The Bombay Amendment was made in pursuance of
the suggestion of Shah J Shah J. held that the combined
effect of rules 3, 6 and 8 of Order XXX was, that persons
served as partners could raise only such defences as were
open to a partner, and could not have the issue as to
whether they were or were not partners tried in the suit
before the ﬁnal decree was passed. 1See International, etc. v. Mehta & Co.,I.L.R. 54 Cal. I057 ;A.I.R.
1927 Cal. 758, 760. 3N1rEJ1lal v. Baker fafer & Co., A.I.R. I940 Bom. 39o.
3A/"iv: Sivzgh v. Grurmin & Co., A.I.R. 1925 Born. 494, 496.
4(1925) 2 K.B. I27, I34 (C.A.). 5Rehm:m_Khan v. Bombay Iron Syndicate, A.I.R. 1953 Born. 23, 26
para. 14 (decided on 13-8-1951) (Shah ]_), 218 b'. A defence on the merits in execution cannot also be
taken by such persons. In Order XXI, rule 50, the expression
"such liability is disputed" has been construed in Bombay
to be conﬁned to liability as a partner. The Validity of
the decree qua the partnership property and qua the persons
mentioned in Order XXI, rule 50(1) (b) (c) cannot therefore
be effected or impaired in proceedings under rule 501-". The
point has now been decided by the Supreme Court'', which
has held that the person served under rule 50 can only
prove that he was not a partner and (in a proper case)
that the decision was the result of fraud, collusion or the
like. In View of this position, the Bombay Amendment ap-
pears to be worth adopting. Order XXX, rule 10 1. How far the word "person" in Order 30, rule 10,
applies to an undivided Hindu family is a question on
which there is some controversy. The Madras High Court'
has is one case held that it applies only to an individual.
In that case, the ﬁrm consisted of four minors consisting
of a joint undivided Hindu family, who were described as
"R.M.P.M. Chettiar ﬁrm", etc. The court stated, that the
whole of Order XXX was a reproduction of the rules in
Order XLVIIIA of the Rules of the Supreme Court, and
Order 30, rule 10 was based on Order 48A, rule 11 of the
English Rules, which had been held to apply only to a single
individual carrying on business under an assumed or trad-
ing name. The court also relied on the differences in langu-
age between rule 10 of Order XXX and rule 1, because
while the former spoke of "any two or more persons", the
latter spoke of "any person carrying on business". 2. On the other hand, some High Courts have taken the
view, that rule 10 applies to a number of individuals carry-
ing on business either under a ﬁrm name or under an
assumed name when these individuals do not in law
constitute a partnership resting on contract, provided the
suit is in respect of matters connected with the business
so carried on. Thus, the Calcutta High Court' has applied

'Marzdalsa v. M. Ramnarain Ltd., 7 A.I.R. 1959 Born. 529. 'Hirkzs/zandac v. Gulabdas, A.I.R. x956 Bom. 513, 514, 515 (Gajendra-
gadkar and Gokhale JJ.) (Calcutta cases also discussed and Das J's fudg-
ment in C. M. Shahani V. Havero Trading Co., 51 C.W.N. 488 agreed
with). 3Gambz'r Mal v.3'. K. _7ute Mills (I964) 1 M.L.J. 92 (S.C.),'A.I.R.
I964 S.C. 243 (Feb:-uazy). 'Chidambaram v. Nan'onaIC1'ty Bank, I.L.R. 1937 Mad. 28 ; A.I.R.
I936 Mad. 707. (Venkatasubba Rao and Venkataramana Rao ]].). 5_7amunadhar Pcddar Firm v. fiamunaram Bhakat, I.L.R. (1944) 2 Ca
131 A.I.R. 1944 Cal. 138 (R.C. Mitter and Blank IL). this rule to a joint Hindu family (dissenting"from the
Madras view) and held that the word "person must be
given the meaning assigned by the General Clauses Act ,
and should include any association or body of persons
whether incorporate or not. The object of rule 10, it was
stated, was to avoid hardship. Business may be carried
on by correspondence, and orders placed through post, and
goods may be supplied on credit on such orders. A pro-
ducer or merchant living in one part of the globe cannot
be expected to know or to make enquiries as to who is the
owner of the business that is being carried on in an assumed
name; in most cases he would only know the name of
the real owner only after he had brought his suit. (See
Order XXX, rule 6). If a decree obtained by such a mer-
chant in a suit instituted against the assumed name was to
be treated as void, it would open up a wide door to fraud,
and would sap the credit on which commercial dealings
largely rest. (It was pointed out, that in England there was
no concept of joint fami'ly ﬁrms). But in a later easel, the
Calcutta High Court seems to have taken a different view. 3. In an Allahabad case3, there are observations that
a joint family is a "person". But the actual question in
that case was whether there can be a partnership of a joint
Hindu family with itself, and in that context the court
observed, "The members of a joint Hindu family" are a
body of individuals who come under this deﬁnition of
"person" (in the General Clauses Act ). A partnership has
been held to be an "association" of persons3 under the
Excess Proﬁts Tax Act. The Patna High Court has taken
the wide View in a recent case'-5. So also have the
Kerala" and Orissa7 High Courts. 4. In the Punjab the matter has been dealt W1CI1 by
amending Order XXX, rule 1. The Punjab Amendment was
made under a Chief Court Notiﬁcation issued soon after the
1908 Code came into force. The provision as enacted by
the Legislature applied only to contractual partnerships".
The position under the Punjab Amendment has been
lucidly explained in the under-mentioned case''. As ex- '[4151 R. L. FactarTes v. Pxrshottamd ,
para. 27 (A. N. Ray J.) following (1947) Munshilal & Co. v. Modi Bras.,

51 C.W.N. 563 (S. R. Das ].). 2A/Iahabir v. Ram Kishan, A.I.R. 1936 All. 855, 856,
3.4. G. Pandu R10 v. Collector of Madras, A.I.R.I934 Mad, 1049

1aW)'R2=n2sh:o1r v.Ke3hab Prasad, A.I.R. 1962 Pat. 360 (discusses case-
5See also Alekh v. Krishna, A.I.R. 1941 Pat. 596 (Fazl Ali J.).
°Tul.vida5 v. Ebrahimjee, A.I.R. I960 Ker. 75. 7Hari Sharzkar v. General etc., A.I.R. I956 Orissa 186. 'See Atma Ram v. Umar Ali, A.I.R. I940 Lab . 256, 260. (Tek"Ig';1r;1né\lz£1)zl Gopal v. Firm Mehnga Mall, A.I.R. I940 Lah . 425, 426 220 plained there, in the Punjab, (i) a joint Hindu family ﬁrm
may sue in the ﬁrm name (if any); or (ii) all members
may sue joint in their individual names; or (iii) in certain
circumstances (e.g. where a contract is entered into with
the manager), he, as Karta, may sue in his own name-
alone. 5. As the controversy seems to survive even nowl, some
clariﬁcation appears to be desirable. As to position at Hindu law, see Mullaﬂ. It is considered that instead of making a separate rule,
the necessary provision should be added in rule 10. Hence the amendment. Order XXXII, rule 1

The proposed amendment is intended to make it clear
that the provisions of Order XXXII apply to all kinds of
suits including those in respect of which the age of majo-
rity is governed not by the Indian Majority Act but by the
personal law. The present position on the subject is not
clear as will be seen from the case-law by the discussion
that follows. Two courses are open for clarifying the
position-- (2') To provide that where the suit relates to any
matter in respect of which by virtue of section 2(a) of the Majority Act, the capacity of any person to act
is not governed by that Act, then Order XXXII shall
not apply to a suit by or against such person, provided
he is a major according to the law applicable to such: erned by the age given in the Majority Act . It is
considered for the purpose of procedure that there
should be a uniform rule and for that reason the second
course has been adopted. The present position is this. In suits falling under
personal law, the meaning of "minor" is governed by per-
sonal law, according to some High Courts. According to
the view the provision in section 2(a) of the Indian
Majority Act, 1875, which saves the capacity of any person
"to act" in matters of marriage, etc., applies to power to
sue also. The following cases3-"-"-" may be seen for the

lsleeﬂlthe ;;;..;;1 Qt; "a§sc}ussedT1?;Lé§f ')CrZzl;1z7."E'5*}4iz}}};,-2;,"Af ffE1'95c.
Ker. 2Mu1la, Hindu Law (1959), para. 251 (I) and 251 (7).
3Bai Shz'rz'nbaz' v.Kharshedjz', (I898) I.L.R. 22 Born. 430. 'Ahmed v. Bai Fatima, I.L.R. 55 Born. I60 ; A.I.R. I931 Born. 76-
(Magdavkar and Barlee II.) (suit for divonce by Muslim wife over 16). 5Fat1'ma v. Fazlali, A.I.R. 1928 Cal. 303. It is, however, considered that the power to demand
security should be there in every case Where the court
thinks ﬁt to require security, but the reasons should be

recorded. An amendment on those lines has, therefore,
been proposed. Order XXXII, rule 3

This carries out the recommendation made in the Four-
teenth Report? At present, where a guardian for the suit

'See (2') A.I.R. I925 Sind 95 and (if) (1898) I.L.R. 22 Bom. 431.
zlthapi v.Kaz'rhz'rapkz'l (1881) I.L.R. 3 Mad. 248. 754 " Abdul Aziz v. Pathumma, I.L.R. 1953 Mad. I18 ; A.I.R. 1952 Mad- 'Usman V.Khat00n, I.L.R. I7 Luck. 572 ; A.I.R. I942 Oudh 243. 394 5Najmrmz'xsa v. Sirajuddin, I.L.R. I7 Punjab 303 ; A.I.R. I94I Lah. 614th Report, Vol. I, page 349, para. 89.
714th Report, Vol. 1, page 353, para. 96 222 is to be appointed for the defendant, notice has to be issued
in all cases to the minor defendant. The amendment seeks
to alter this position by providing that the issue of the
notice will be discretionary. Compare Order XXXII, rule 4A (4) as inserted by the
Nagpur High Court, and the Punjab Amendment inserting

a proviso to the same effect. As will appear from a few recent decisions, the question
often arises whether a decree against a minor can be set
aside on the ground of the gross negligence of his guard-
ian. Most High Courts have answered the question in the
aﬁirmativel-2-3-4-5. The Bombay High Court has, however, taken the view,
that gross negligence of the guardian cannot be made the
basis of a suit to set aside the decree against a minor". As the matter is really one of substantive rights, it.
would not be proper to insert a provision on the subject
in this Code? If necessary, it can be considered when the Evidence Act is revised. Compare sections 42-44 of that
Act. Order XXXII, rule 4(3) 1. Punjab has amended this sub-rule to provide that

consent need not be express and can be presumed. In the absence of such a provision, the question may
arise whether consent should be express. One View is that
it should be express? Another is that it can be implied'?-1°-11. It appears to be desirable to clarify the position, and
to provide that it must be in writing, so as to avoid dis-
putes. Necessary amendment is proposed. 2. Generally as to mandatory character of this rule, see
the case cited below". 3. The Fourteenth Report" also took the view that the
consent should not be presumed. 'Mahesh v. Manindra, A.I.R. 1941 Cal. 401. 3Ganesan v. Subramanyan, A.I.R. 1958 Mad. I48. 'Narayanan v. Gopalan, A.I.R. 1960 Ker. 367. 'Murli Manohar v. Lachmanji, A.I.R. 1959 A11. 342. 5Iftkhar Hussain v. Beam Singh A.I.R. I946 Lah. 233 (F.B.). venient. The recommendation has not, therefore, been
carried out. 3. An amendment on the second point is proposed.
Order XXXII, rule 6

Under the amendment to Order XXXII, rule 6, made
by the Madras High Court, the Court has power to dis-
pense with security in cases where the next friend, etc., is
the manager of a joint Hindu family and the decree is in
the favour of the family. Under the amendment made by
the High Court of Kerala, a similar power is given where
the next friend, etc., happens to be the parent of the minor.
These amendments appear to contain useful provisions,
which are proposed to be embodied with small modiﬁ-
cations. Order XXXII, rule 7

A provision has been proposed to the effect that where
an application for the leave of the Court to a compromise,
etc., is made on behalf of a minor, certiﬁcate of the counsel
as well as an afﬁdavit of the next friend or guardian for
the suit should be required to the effect that the com-
promise, etc., is for the beneﬁt of the minor. Compare the
Madras Amendment, Order XXXII, rule 7(lA), under
which such a certiﬁcate is required in respect of an appli-
cation for leave to enter into an agreement or compromise
or withdrawal of a suit in pursuance of a compromise or
for taking any other action on behalf of a minor or another
person under disability. The proposed amendment has
suggested itself on a study of the Madras Amendment,
though it requires an affidavit of the next friend, etc., him-
self also. The Madras Amendment applies to "any other
action", but it is considered unnecessary to go to that
length? 114th Report, Vol. I, page 352, para. 95. 'See 2150 Order XXIII, rule I, as proposed to be amended. Order XXXII, rule 15

The Madras Amendment to Order XXXII, rule 15 exclu-
des the operation of rule 2A (security demanded from next
friend or guardian) in relation to persons of unsound
mind. etc. It is however, considered unnecessary, to have
any such provision. The question whether supervening insanity should be
dealt with has been considered. At present rule 2 does not
apply in such cases}

From the discussion in Annual Practice under Order
XVI. rule 17 and Order XVII, rule 4, it would appear that in
England the action must be carried on by the next
friend (who will usually be the receiver in lunacy). As such cases are not frequent, no amendment is sug-
gested. Order XXXII, rule 16

This amendment is intended to bring the rule in line
with the substantive provisions contained in sections 83 to
87B of the Code of Civil Precedure. Compare the amendment made by the High Court of
Andhra Pradesh. It is considered unnecessary to add any explanation
deﬁning expressions like "Ruler" etc., as these have been
already deﬁned in sections 83 to 87B. Order XXXIII and "pauper" A recommendation has been made in the Fourteenth
Report? to replace the word "pauper" by "poor person".
Since, however, the expression "pauper" has come to ac-
quire a special meaning in legal parlance and has become
familiar, it is considered unnecessary to disturb it. It is
used in English statutes also3. Order XXXIII, rule 1

A recommendation was made in the Four- Vteenth Report', to the effect, that the Ex- planation to Order XXXIII, rule 1 should be
amended soas to enable a person who is not entitled to
property 'worth rupees one thousand to sue as a pauper, or
"alternatively so as to deﬁne a pauper as a person who is
not possessed of sufficient means, other than the subject- J) 'Firm Dzokstran Das, v. Debi Sahai, A.I.R. 1936 Lab. 7, 8 (Backer
'14th Report, Vol. 1, page 598, para. I7 (6). posed to be raised to rupees one thousand; (ii) In considering the question of sufficient
means, the subject-matter of the suit (see Bombay
Amendment) and necessary wearing-apparel are
proposed to be excluded; (iii) The' question whether the date of presenta-
tion of the application or the date of its hearing
should be the relevant date for considering pauper-
ism, has been dealt with. The decisions on the subjectl-2-5 reveal a conﬂict
of views. A provision has, therefore, been inserted to
the effect that property acquired by the applicant
after presentation of the petition and before decision
of the application should be taken into consideration. The Madras Amendment to Order XXXIII, rule 1, Ex-
planation (iii) provides that Where a plaintiff sues in a re-
presentative capacity, the question of pauperism shall be
considered with reference to the means possessed by him
in such capacity. It is considered unnecessary to make
an express provision on the subject, though the correct
position is that reflected in the Madras Amendment. Order XXXIII, rule 3

Under the Allahabad Amendment, persons detained
in prison are' exempted from appearing personally for
presentation of a pauper application. It is, however,
considered unnecessary to adopt this amendment, as in its
absence no practical difficulties have been felt. Order XXXIII, rule 5 1. The Allahabad Amendment to Order XXXIII, rule
5 (a) adds the words "and the applicant on being required by
the court to make any amendment Within a time to be
ﬁxed by the court, fails to do so". It is considered un-
necessary to make an express provision on this point. 2. As regards suits barred by any law, the Madras High
Court has added a clause (d-1), under which the court
shall reject the application where the suit appears to be

 

'G. Muddappa v. G. Rudramma, I921 Madras 97.
2312' Bal Gauri v. Matt' Lal, A.I.R. 1923 Born. 247. 3I'r2z115h Chandra v. Municipal Corporation, Howrah, A.I.R. 1930 Cal.
147: 149- 226 barred by any law. As contrasted with this, the Allah-
abad High Court has inserted an Explanation to rule 5 to
the--effect that an application shall not be rejected under
clause (d) merely on the ground that the proposed suit
appears to be barred by any law. It may be noted, that
the existing language of rule 5(d)--"where his allegations
do not show a cause of action" has been interpreted wide-
ly by the courts} It is therefore considered unnecessary
to disturb the language of the rule. Order XXXIII, rule 6

The Madras Amendment to Order XXXIII, rule 6 expands
the scope of the rule so as to allow evidence to be taken
in respect of all the prohibitions speciﬁed in rule 5. This
has been considered, and the provisions of rule 7(1) and

rule 7(2) noted, whereunder the evidence is conﬁned to _

pauperism though the arguments are not so conﬁned? It
is considered unnecessary to adopt the Madras Amend-
ment, as such matter need not be raised by way of evi-
dence at this stage. Order XXXIII, rule 8 and interlocutory orders

VVhether a temporary injunction (or attachment
before judgment) can be issued during the pendency of
an application for permission to sue as a pauper is not free
from doubt. One View is that for the exercise of these
powers, the suit commences on presentation of the appli-
cation, while another View is that it commences only
when the application is granted. The under-mentioned
decisions3-4, take the ﬁrst view. Cases taking a contrary view are cited below" 2. The question whether a dismissal under Order IX,
rule 3 or Order IX, rule 5 should be expressly mentioned in
Order XXXIII, rule 11 has been considered. The Madras

1Mulla, Civil Procedure Code (1953), page 1065. 'Cf. Mulla, Civil Procedure Code, (1953), page 1068. 3Toza Ram, v. Dartu, A.I.R. 1943 Born. 143,144. 'Chamm Lal v. Shama, A.I.R. 1955 Nag. 259 (reviews case-law).
5Puma Chandra v. Tam Prasad, A.I.R. 1917 Cal. 852.
°Tkimayya v. Sadasivappa A.I.R. I952 Mysore, 76. Order XXXIII, rule 15 speaks of an order "refusing to
allow the applicant to sue as a pauper". Whether this
applies in cases where the application has been "rejected"
under rule 5 is a matter which is not free from difficulty.
It would sulﬁce to draw attention to only a few of the deci-
sions4-5-6. The language of the rule supports the inter-
pretation that it is conﬁned to "refusal" under rule 7, It
is considered unnecessary to disturb the language. Order XXXIII, rule 15A (New) 1. This is new. 2. Where the court rejects an application to sue as a
pauper under.Order XXXIII, rule 5 or refuses to allow a
person to sue as a pauper under rule 7, the question arises
whether the court is bound to give time to the pauper to
pay court-fees and (on such payment) to treat the plaint as
ﬁled on the day on which the application was ﬁled. 'Shiam Sundar Lal v. Savitri Kunwar, A.I.R. 1935 All. 723. (ii) Even before deciding whether to grant an
application or not, the court may at any time during
the pendency of the proceedings, treat the application
as a plaint and allow the applicant to pay the 're-
quisite court--fees and give up his request to be
allowed to sue as a pauper, as in the under-mentioned Privy Council case? (iii) Even if the court decides to reject the appli-
cation under Order XXXIII, rule 5 or refuses to allow
the applicant to sue as a pauper under Order XXXIII,
rule 7, it may treat the application as an unstamped
plaint, and either before or at the time of passing the
order, allow the applicant time under section 149 to pay
the requisite court--fees and upon such payment within
the time allowed, number and register the plaint. But in doing so the court should have regard to
the provisions of Order XXXIII, rule 15 and make the
payrqent of costs mentioned therein a condition prece-
dent. In all these cases, for the purposes of limitation
the suit will be deemed to have been instituted on the
day on which the application for leave to sue as a
pauper is made. (iv) But, once the court passes an order rejecting
the application under rule 5 or refuses to allow, etc.,
under rule 7, without keeping the application alive as
an unstamped plaint and Without granting the appli-
cant time to pay the requisite court-fees, the pro-
ceedings come to an end, and it has no power to do so
by a separate and subsequent order. In that situation
the only remedy of- the applicant is to ﬁle a regular
suit under Order XXXIII, rule 15, which suit must be

1 1Mahadev v. Bhikaji, A.I.R. 1943 Born. 292, 296, 297 (Broomﬁeld and
Lokur II.) (case-law reviewed). 1495-"-7-8. The practice was stated to have developed out'
of a feeling of charity towards bona fide pauper suitors,
and statutory support for this practice without ﬁrst paying
the costs of parties opposing the application was stated to be
lacking.''. The Madras practice has been followed in Andhra
Pradesh also". Allahabad.--The question has come up before the Alla-
habad High Court more than once in Full Bench decisions.
In an earlier Full Bench case", the following propositions
were laid down:-- 'Va'1717lz"zV WI7?ao v. Pran 7Lal,WA.I.R. 'Bom. 63. 3B;'sw1vz.-uh D1: v.KhjeeraIz' I.L.R. (1939) 2 Cal. 68; A.I.R. 1939 Cal" fee and treat the application as a plaint; (c) After rejecting the application, it cannot, by a
separate and subsequent order, allow payment under
section 149. . The court made a suggestion1 for amendment of the
rule in these words:-- The Court, however, also pointed out that under rule 15,
the' applicant could not be allowed to institute the suit
without payment of costs, and those provisions should not
be evaded. In a later Full Bench case2, it was held, that in
cases where the application was still pending or even at the
time of refusing to grant leave, the court could grant time
under section 149 to pay the court-fee, and if the court-fees
are paid within that time, the plaint would be deemed to
have been ﬁled on the date on which application to sue as
.a pauper was made. The Full Bench decision of 1936 was
reviewed in another case3, wherein the following proposi-
tions seem to have been laid doWn:-- of court-fees is made, it is the duty of the court to pass
a suitable order on the application, and if by mistake
or oversight it is not done, it can correct its error later
by reviewing the order. 'At page 589 of the A.I.R. 1936 A11. 584. for applying the provisions relating to suit by a pauper to
defence of a suit ﬁled against a pauper. This has been
carried out with the modiﬁcation that it will be conﬁned
to cases where a set-off, etc., is ﬁled. Compare the Bombay Amendment made in relation to
the City Civil Court. Order XXXIV, rule 15 1. Under the Allahabad Amendment, where a decree
orders payment of money and charges it on immovable
property on default of payment, the amount can be realised
by sale of that property in execution of that very decree. 2. The question whether a decree creating a charge can
be executed and the property sold in execution, or whether'
a separate suit is necessary, has been discussed in many
cases. On the one hand, if, after the decree creates a charge,
the elaborate procedure under Order XXXIII has to be
undergone, then the object of creating a charge will not
be easily carried out. On the other hand, the wide wording'
of rule 15 suggests, at ﬁrst sight, a contrary interpretation. 3. Two situations may be considered. One is, where the
decree directs sale or provides that the money charged shall
be recovered from the property. In such a case there is no
difﬁcultyﬂ But, regarding the second situation, namely,
where the decree does not so direct sale and recovery of'
money from the property, and merely creates a charge on
the property, the position is not very clear. The question,
of course, is mainly one of construction of the decree? But
still some uncertainty appears to exist. The question has mainly arisen Where the decree creates
a -charge, but is silent about its enforcement, that is it says
nothing further after declaring the charge. One approach
is, that if the decree is executable, then a separate suit is
not necessary"-7. Another approach is, that if the amount

1Sures'llVCV'V/zczrrzdrrcrz United 'ojTlndia,KA."I.'R. 196,1 Ca1.N$34, 536«

para. 9. 2Baljit Singh v. Munshee Lal, A.I.R. I959 All . 251. 3Teeka Ram v. Tara Chand, A.I.R. I954 Nag. 135, I40. 'See the discussion in Manindra v. Radha Syam, A.I.R. 1953 Cal. 676.

5As to charge of unpaid vendors see Gztrupadappa V. Basappa,A.I.R . 1940 Born. 276 (Kania J.). 4. Though the case--law does not reveal a direct conﬂtct,
the application of the principles laid down in the cases
gives rise to problems, and for that reason, the amendment
made by the Allahabad High Court seems to be worth
adopting. The effect of the amendment would be, that the
mere creation of a charge gives a right to sell the property
charged". Necessary change is proposed. Order XXXVII (summary procedure)

In the Fourteenth Report' recommendations have been
made for---- (a) simpliﬁcation of rules relating to summary
procedure on the lines of the Bombay Amendment, and (b) extension of summary procedure to subordinate
courts in important industrial and commercial towns
like Ahmedabad, Asansol, Kanpur and _Jamshedpur. Action under (a) above can be taken by the High Court
under section 128 (2) (a) and action under (b) above can
be taken by the State Government under Order XXXVII,
rule 1(b) as amended in 1956. It is considered unnecessary

to nlcifake any provision on these matters of detail in the Code
itse . Order XXXVIII, rule 8

. Verbal changes have been proposed in this rule on the
lines proposed to Order XXI, rule 58'. Order XXXVIII, rule 11A

This is new, and is intended to clarify the position as
to whether the provisions of Order XXI, rule 57 apply to
attachment before a judgment". The provision has been
framed in general terms, as it would not be appropriate
to apply the provisions of Order XXI, rule 57, only. Order XXXIX, rule 1

A recommendation was made in the Fourteenth Report7-8
to take away the power of courts to issue an injunction to

lgeezthzaltzzkrhsrhini v. Srini-uasa, A.I.R. 1958 Mad. 23.'

2Sudham0yee v._7essore etc. Co., A.I.R. 1945 Cal. 322 (B. K. Mukher-
iea and Akram _IJ.). (This was explained in the Calcutta case of 1953 on
the ground that there was no order for sale). 3Kaushalemlra v. Sen and Sanyal, A.I.R. 1953 All. 588 (D.B.).
414th Report, Vol. I, page 275, para. 22 read with para. 21. 5See Order 21, rule 58 as proposed. 3. There is a certain amount of controversy"-7 as to
whether a court to which a suit is transferred can punish
disobedience of an injunction issued by the predecessor
court. From the practical point of View it is advisable to
give this power to the transferee court, and that has been
made clear in that portion of the new rule which
corresponds to existing Order XXIX, rule 2(3). Order XXXIX, rule 8

The object of the amendment is to provide that orders
under rules 6 and 7 of Order XXXIX can be made without
notice in urgent cases. Cf, Order XXXIX, rule 3. At pre- 1A'svt'o v2t;'p1ic:»ati:ns for injuction by a person who was not a party to
the decree, see Daochandra v. Amalendu, A.I.R. 1958 Fat. 146. 'See Order 39, rule 2A, proposed, which covers the matter contained in
Order 39, rule 2(3) and (4). ' 3Shyam Sunlar v. Satchidananda, I.L.R. (1957) Cal. 315 ; A.I.R. 1955
Cal. 351. Also see A.I.R. 1934 Cal. 818. 'As to the Allahabad Amendment, see Balbhaddar v. Bala,A.I.vR. 1930
A11. 387, 388 and janak v.Kedar, A.I.R. 1941 A11. 140, 14x (cases before
the Amendment). 5See A.I.R. 1963 A.P. 136, 137 ; A.I.R. 1947 Mad. 98 ; Sitaram v. . Lachmi Narain, A.I.R. 1946 Pat. 47, 49; A.I.R. 1936 Pat. 23; Parma v. Seth
A.I.R. 1945 Nag. 134, A.I.R. 1955 Cal. 351.
6Mauna Guruswami v. Sheikh Mohaundi, A.I.R. 1923 Mad. 92. tation Act are made applicable to proceedings under
any enactment, this difficulty would not arise. In the
meanwhile, an amendment similar to Order XLI, rule 1
as made by Madras may be made. (ii) In the case of partition decrees, the decree con-
tains a number of "allotment papers" and the ﬁling of
these allotment papers put the appellant to heavy ex-
pense in obtaining copies. The Patna High Court has
provided that in appeals from ﬁnal decrees in partition
suits containing allotment papers, the appellate court
may accept copies of the decree containing only a por-
tion of the papers. This may be adopted by other High
Courts'. (iii) The requirement that a memorandum of

appeal should be accompanied by a copy of the judg-
ment of the lower court occasions extra expense when

'A.I.R. 1943 Born. I48. 'Tulsa v. Chiranjit, A.I.R. 1943 All. I.

3Bz'resswar v. Sudhamu, A.I.R. 1947, All. 157. 'Anandz' Lal v. Ram Swamp, I.L.R. 58 All. 495. 5Uru Kendappa v. Mallesappa, A.I.R. 1960 A. P. 79 (discusses case-law).
°I4th RCDOII, Vol. I, page 385, para. 2, second sub--para. 714th Report, Vol. I, page 386, para. 4-. two or three suits or appeals have been disposed of
by a single judgment. In such cases, though the decrees
are different, the judgment is the same and yet the
apellant is put to the expense of ﬁling more than
one copy of the same judgment. By an amendment
made by the Punjab High Court, this diﬂiculty has
been met by providing that when more cases than one
are disposed of by a single judgment, the appellate
court may dispense with the necessity of ﬁling more
than one copy. (iv) While ' the memorandum is required to set
forth the grounds of appeal, there is no provision cor-
responding to Order VII, rule 7 that it should state the
relief which the appellant seeks, though Order XLI, rule
35 requires that the appellate decree shall contain a
clear specification of the relief. It is sometimes diffi-
cult to know precisely what relief the appellant seeks.
Order LVIII, rule 3 of the R.S.C. requires that the notice
for appeal shall state the precise form of the order
which the appellant proposed to ask the court of appeal
to make. A similar provision may be made by amend-
ing Order XLI, rule 1'. 2. So far as the first point is concerned, no amendment
is necessary, since the new Limitation Act, 1963 , section
29 (2) practically applies all sections contained in Parts II
and III of that Act to appeals governed by special laws. The recommendation on the second point seems to be
a matter of detail, and could be carried out by the High
Courts if they so desire. The recommendation on the third point has been carried
out in the proposed amendment, which follows the amend-
ment in force in Punjab with shall modiﬁcations. As regards the recommendation on the fourth point, it
may be noted that the emphasis in the Report of the Ever-
shed Committee? was on the grounds of appeal and not so
much on the precise form of the order sought. At that
time, in the Rules of the Supreme Court as in force in
England, there was apparently no provision for statement
of the grounds and it was in that context that the recom-
mendation was made. It is considered unnecessary to add
a provision for stating the precise form of the order, as no
practical difficulty has been caused by its absence. 3. The question of condonation of delay is dealt with
separately". 'r4th Report, Vol. 1, pages 386,387, para. 
'Final Report of the Committee on Supreme Court Practice and Pro-
cedure (1953); Cmd. 8878, page 161, para. 503. 4. In the Report of the Law Commission on the Regis-
tration Act', a somewhat revised scheme in respect of
registration of decrees was suggested. Stated broadly, the
main feature Was, that when a plaint concerning immov-
able property is ﬁled, a copy thereof should be sent to
the registering ofﬁcer by the court, and when the decree
is passed in the suit, a copy of that also should be sent oy
the court. Consequentially, it was suggested that if there
was an appeal, a copy of the memorandum of appeal should
also be sent and so on. In this context, a recommendation
was made to the effect that a memorandum of appeal relat~
ing to immovable property should have annexed to it a
Schedule of immovable property. As the main scheme suggested in that Report has not
yet been implemented, this amendment suggested in the
Civil Procedure Code has not been carried out. Order XLI, rule 3A (New)

in the Fourteenth Reporti attention was drawn to the
practice which was reviously followed of admitting an
appeal subject to objections as to limitations being raised
at the time of hearing, where the memorandum of appeal
was accompanined by a petition seeking condonation of
delay under section 5 , Limitation Act. This practice has been
disapproved by the Privy Council, which has stressed the
expediency of adopting a procedure securing at the stage of
admission the ﬁnal determination (after due notice) of
question of limitation affecting the competence of the ap-
peal. Following this advice, the High Courts of Andhra
Pradesh, Bombay and Madras have made appropriate am-
endments to the rule, and the Fourteenth Report recom-
mended that the similar amendments be made by other High
Courts. The proposed amendment carries out this recommenda--
tion, and follows the Madras Amendment, Order 41, rule
1(3) with verbal modiﬁcations. The Bombay Amendment
is contained in Order XLI, rule 3A (Bombay). Order XLI, rule 5

An amendment has been proposed so as to empower
the appellate court to stay:---- (i) proceedings for ﬁnal decree; (ii) actual making of the ﬁnal decree. It is considered unnecessary to provide for stay of
execution of the ﬁnal decree, as such stay could be obtain-
ed in an appeal against the ﬁnal decree. 16th Report (Registration Act), pages 37, 38, para_ m3_

214th Report, Vol. I, pages 385 and 386, para. 3,

Appeals
relating to
immovab if: ther a stay order operates immediately or only when it is
communicated to the court or to the officer conducting the
sale, as the case may be. According to one View an order
takes effect immediatelyl-2. A contrary View is that an
order is in the nature of prohibitory order and becomes
effective only on communication"-". 2. The Calcutta decisions are not uniform? Mulla
prefers the view6 that the order should take eifect only
when it is communicated to the executing court. 3. It is, however, considered that ordinarily the order
should be effective immediately, and a provision to the
contrary may be abused by interested parties attempting
deliberately to delay transmission of the order from the
appellate court to the lower court. It is considered un-
necessary to make any amendment in the rule on this

point. Order XLI, rule 11 1. This carries out the recommendation made in the
Fourteenth Report'. The object is to provide that even
where the appellate court dismisses an appeal without
notice to the lower court, it shall deliver a formal judgment
and a decree shall be drawn up. 2. It appears to be unnecessary to impose this require-
ment where the appeal is dismissed for default under sub- rule (2). Order XLI, rule 11 and appeals under section £47

A recommendation was made in the Fourteenth Reports
to the effect that in the case of orders in execution of money-
decrees, restrictions should be placed on the right of 1/Karam Ali v. Rafa, A.I.R. 1949 Lab. 108, 113 (F.B.). 'Liakat Mian v. Padampad Singhania, A.I.R. 1951 Pat. 130 (Special

Bench). 3Venkatachelapati Ran v. Kameswaramma, A.I.R. I918 Mad. 391 (F.B.). 'Parsotam Saran v. Brahmanand, I.L.R. 50 All. 41 ; A.I.R. 1927 All.
401 (F.B.). 'Sec jatish Chandra v.KshirodeKumar, A.I.R. 1943 Cal. 319, 324.
°Mulla, Civil Procedure Code (I953), page 1190.
714th Report, Vol. I, page 388, para. 9. For uniformity, a general
amendment is proposed. '
314:1; Reoort, Vol. 1, page 442, para. 21. appeal by requiring the appellant judgment--debtor to de-
posit, or at least to give security for, the decretal amount,
as a condition precedent to the admission of the appeal.
The Report referred to the proposal of the Civil Justice
Committee1 to that effect, and recommended the accept-
ance of the proposal. The Civil Justice Committee had stated that after trial,
it was only just that such a protection should be given to
the successful decree-holder. It is, however, considered
that the imposition of such a rigid provision may cause
hardship. The change has not, therefore, been carried out. Order XLI, rule 14

A recommendation was made in the Fourteenth Report'
to the effect, that in the case of parties who had not appeared
in the court below and who had not ﬁled any address for
service, provision may be made to dispense with service
of notice of appeal. A somewhat similar recommendation
was made by the Civil Justice Committee" also, which
observed that the necessity of serving; each of those respon-
dents against whom the suit had proceeded ex parte, with
notice of appeal or of any interlocutory motion, led to an
unnecessary delay. It stated, that this was more specially
the case where the appellant had obtained an interim stay
of execution, as it would be easy for an ex parte defendant
to collude with the defendant-appellant and evade service
of notice. Amendments on these lines have been made by
the High Courts of Allahabad. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Cal-
cutta, Madhya Pradesh. Madras, Mysore and Punjab in
Order XLI, rule 14 and by Orissa and Patna by inserting
Order XLI, rule 14A. It is, however, felt that it is unneces-
sary to carry out the suggested change, as not much delay
is caused by the necessity of service of notice of appeal. Order XLI, rule 18

The Fourteenth Report recommended the adoption by
High Courts of some local Amendments'-5, whereunder, if on
the day of hearing of the appeal, it is found that the notice
to the respondent has not been served and the appellant fails

, to deposit the expenses of serving the notice again, the

court has power to order that the appeal be rejected. This
is a matter of detail which may be left to High Courts. 'Civil Justice Committee Report, page 4oI.
214th Report, Vol. 1, page 393, para. 21. Whether such party can be impleaded under the in-
herent power or whether a separate appeal can be ﬁled
against that respondent after obtaining leave of the Court
under section 5 . Limitation Act , are different matters. It is considered unnecessarv to make any amendment.
to cover such cases

Order XLI, rule 22

A suggestion has been made to the eﬁect that a respon-
dent should not be allowed to ﬁle a cross--objection in which
the appellant is not interested. While that would be the
ordinary rule'"'-'-'-'-", a rigid provision may not be den, rable,
because there may be cases where a diﬁerent rule might
have to be applied'''-"-'-'. The suggestion has not, therefore,
been carried out. 114th Report, Vol.1, page 393, para. 22.
'See also Order 41A, rule 2, inserted in Madras. Order XLI, rule 25

This carries out the recommendation made in the 14th
Report". The Ob]F;'Ct is to require the lower court (where
a case is remanded) to return the evidence within a period
ﬁxed by the appellate court. Order XLI, rule 26A (New)

This carries out the recommendation made in the 14m

Report'. The object is to require the appellate court,

while remanding a case, to ﬁx the date of hearing before
the lower court, so as to avoid the delay caused by issue of
notices by the lower court. Order XLI, rule 27

This carries out the recommendation made in the 14th

Report? The object is to provide that additional evidence

may be allowed by the appellate court if the evidence
could not be produced in the lower court because it was
not within the knowledge, etc., of the party seeking to
produce it now. See also Allahabad, Madras" and Patna Amendments. Order XLI, rule 30

This seeks to make certain amendments regarding
pronouncement of judgments, etc., of an appellate court, on
the lines of those proposed for trial courts". 114th Report, Vol. I, page 405, para. 46.
'As to inherent power of remand, see discussion in--
(z') A.I.R. 1931 Mad. 791 ; (ii) A.I.R. 1922 Mad. 505, 508, left 509 left 510 (F.B.). 3Ke*walram V. Mihifal, A.I.R. I960 All. 655. 'Veerbhadrappa V. Venkatappa, A.I.R. I961 A.P. 226. 2. As a new rule regarding breach of injunctions is being
inserted', a provision making orders punishing such breach
appealable is being inserted. 13. Clause (u)~--The change in clause (u) is consequen-
tia "'. Order XLIII, rule 1(m)

There are certain points on which there is some conﬂict

~or uncertainty as to clause (m) of Order 43, rule 1, which

allows an appeal from order "recording or refusing to
record an agreement, compromise or satisfaction". These
points are as follows:-- ing that if there was no contest, there would be no
materials before the court on which to come to a
decision. But the former View supports itself on the
ground that two Clhestions, namely (i) which order is
appealable, and (ii) whether the appeal is likely to
succeed, should be kept separate. (iii) Is the right of appeal Conﬁned to cases where
the order refusing to record the compromise was based
on the ground that the compromise was not valid in
law, or does it extend to cases where there is a dispute
about the factum of the cornnromise'? One View is,
that an order holding that no compromise has been
proved is not appealable', the reasoning being, that
Where the court refuses to record the compromise,
it is not an order "under rule 3", because that rule
presupposes the existence of an agreement, com-
promise or satisfaction. But in some cases", an appeal
on facts was allowed". It is, however, considered unnecessary to make any
amendment on these points in the rule, as it is felt that
the existing language, which is based on the wording of
'Order XXIII, rule 1, need not be disturbed

Order XLIII, rule 1(w) 1. Order XLIII, rule l(w) allows an appeal against
an order granting an application for review.
But Order XLVII, rule 7(1), last sentence, lays down the 'Mathura Prasad v. Parmanand,A.I.R. 1960 MP. 161 (reviews case-
law). *A.I.R. 1933 Cal. 94. 2. It may be noted that the High Courts of Calcutta,
Patna, Rangoon and Lahore and the Chief Court of Oudh
have taken the same view, so that an appeal lies only on
the grounds mentioned in hat rule'~'. 3. The Bombay I-ligh Court held in one case", that an
appeal is open against the order granting the review quite
irrespective of the limitation contained in rule 7. After
this decision, the Bombay High Court has deleted clause
(to) from rule, so that there is no appeal now', except on
the ground mentioned in Order XLVII, rule 7, 4. This is also the View of the Allahabad High Court5. This was the earlier Madras view also, but some doubt
has been thrown by observations in a later case". As Order XLVII, rule 7(1) is proposed to be modiﬁed
so as to allow appeal without restriction as to grounds7,
this controversy will not survive now. Order XLIV, rule 1 (2)

Order 44, rule 1(2) provides that an application by a-
pauper for leave to appeal as a pauper must be rejected
unless he can show that the decision is erroneous, etc. A
suggestion has been put forth that this provision is
unconstitutional under articles 13 and 14 (since no such
restriction is applicable to appeals by non-paupers). It is,
however, felt that the existing provision is prima facie
reasonable, as it is intended to prevent frivolous appeals.
by a pauper. It can be justiﬁed on the ground that a person
who has failed in one court should show a prtma facie case

1Fora review of case- w on this point, see M. Agaih v. M. Abdul Kareem,
A.I.R. 1961 A. P. 201 (F.B.). 'Sarajubala Guha v. Aswz'm'Kumar, I.L.R. (1946) 2 Cal. 527; A.I.R.
1946 Cal. 530 (F.B.) ; Sundar Mal v. Upendra Nath , (1915) 1 Pat. L.]. 193 3 35 I.C. 15 ; A. T. K., P. L. M. Mathu v. Lashrninarayan, (1928) I.L.R. 6 Rang. 254 3 Sikandar v. Baland (I927), I.L.R. 8 Lab. 617, A.I.R. 1927 Lah. 435 (2)
(Tek Chand ].). Bankey Behari v. Abdul Rahman, (1932) I.L.R. 7 Luck. 35o. 3Da5o vaKarbasappa, A.I.R. 1926 Born. 121. 'Kurwersi v. Pitamberdas, A.I.R. 1927 Born. 599 ;Shidramappa_ v. Guru-
shanzappa, A.I.R. 1929 Born. 183 ; Narayan v. Range, A.I.R. 1933 Bom. 183.
~"Al£ Akbar v.Khurshed Ali (I905) I.L.R. 27 All. 695 ; Murmu v.Kunja
Behari, (1922) I.L.R. 44 All. 605 3 A.I.R. 1922 A11. 206. °Ananthalakshmi v. Hindustan , etc., Trust Ltd., A.I.R. 1951 Mad. 927. 7See Order 47, rule 7 as proposed. before he can be permitted to appeal as a pauper. It need
not, therefore, be disturbed. Order XLIV, rule 1A (New)

This is new and is inserted to empower the court'to
grant time for payment of court-fees when the application
for appeal as a pauper has failedl. Order XLIV, rule 2

The changes are verbal, as a provision for defence of a
suit as a pauper is being added? As to ﬁling cross-objec-
tions, see Order XLI, rule 22(5). Revision and Stay of Execution

Detailed provisions regarding stay of execution by the
Revising Court were recommended 'in the Fourteenth
Report". No amendments have, however, been proposed
on these points, as it is considered that since revision is a
matter of discretion, a statutory provision is not required'. Order XLVII, rule 7

Order XLVII, rule 7(1) provides that any order granting
an application for review may be objected to on the ground
that the application was in contravention of the provisions
of rule 4, or after the expiration of the period of limitation
and Without suiﬁcient cause. The effect of this provision
as interpreted by the courts is, that it prevents the
appellant from objecting (to the order granting review)
on grounds other than those mentioned in rule 7, both in
a direct appeal from the order granting review and in an
appeal from the final decree that may be passed on review'.
It is considered, that this restriction is not called for.
Suitable modifications have, tlicrefore, been proposed to
remove it. Regarding the forms of summons to the defendant, a
recommendation was made in the Fourteenth Report" for
inserting a provision that if the written statement is not
presented within the speciﬁed time, the suit is liable to
be heard ex parte. This has not been carried out, as it is considered that
a provision of that character would not be appropriate. 'Compare Order 33, rule 15A (proposed).
2See Order 33, rule 17 (proposed). 314th Report, Vol. 1, page 420, para. 14.
'See also the body of the Report. 5For a history of the rule, see Sarju Bala v. A.K. Ghosh, A.I.R. 1946
Cal. 530 (F.B.). 614th Report, Vol. 1, page 302, para. II, read with page 301, para. 9. First Schedule, Appendix E, Form No. 16A

This is new and lays down a form of affidavit of assets: See also Form No. 11 as substituted by the former
Nagpur High Court, and compare existing Form No. 4. 1See amendment proposed to Order 21, rule 41. 'See Order 21, rule 54, as proposed to be amended. 3See Order 21, rule 66C 2 (proposed). 'Cf. 14th Report, Vol. 1, page 394, para. 23. 5See also Forms Nos. 6A, 6B (Appendix G) inserted by Madras. posed of _by a single judgment, only
one copy of the judgment of the
lower court to be sufficient for ﬁling
an appeal.]

Pages 386, 387, para. 6. (Precise order sought in appeal
stated.)

to be

Page 388, para. 9. (A brief judgment should be delivered
by subordinate appellate
when dismissing appeals under Order
41, rule 11, C.P.C .)

Page 390, para. 17. (Memorandum of appeal to be accompa- nied by certiﬁed copies of judgments
of both courts.)

Page 392, para. 16, last sub-para. (In admitting second appeals, the judge
should state the point or points of law
which arise for consideration.)

Page 392, para. 17. (Certified copies ofjudgments of both the
lower courts and a true translation of
the disputed document to be ﬁled with
the memorandum of appeal.)

..----44-__-_....-__.. --_"V ._... 'See Nate; on C'aases. courts, 251 Provision of the Civil Procedure

Code whereunder dealt
with'

Section 100. (Necessary action to be
separately.)

taken

Order XLI, rule I.

(Not carried out in View of the
new Limitation Act .)

Order XLI, rule 3A (New). (Carried out in substance.)

Order XLI, rule I.
(Not carried out.)

(Carried out.)

Order XLI, rule I.
(Not carried out.)

Order XLI, rule 11. (Carried out.)

Order XLI and second appeals. (Left for High Courts.)

Section IOO. (Not carried out.)

Order XLI and second appeals. (Left for High Courts.) 252 Page of Fourteenth Report, Provision of the Civil Procedure
Volume I Code whereunder dealt
with'
Page 393, para. 20. Please see under 14th Report,

(The addresses of the appellant and the res- pages 393-394.
pondent [0 be stated in the memoran- dum of appeal.)

Page 393, para. 21. Order XLI, rule 14. (No notice_of appeal necessary on per-- (Carried out.)
sons against whom proceedings were
ex parte in lower court.)

Page 393, para. 22. Order XLI, rule 18. [(1') Process fee to ,be paid with memo-1
randum of appeal ; otherwise ap- peal to be rejected ; (ii) Process fee to be refunded in case } (Left to High Courts.)
of summary dismissal; (iii) Process forms to be ﬁlled by
appellant.]

Pages 393-394, paras. 2o, 22, 23 and 24. Order XLI and ﬁrst appeals. (Memorandum of appeal to state appel- (Left to High Courts.)
lant's address for service; service of
notice to be permitted by registered
post ; contesting respondent to enter
appearance in appeal by ﬁling a memo- randum of appearance within a speciﬁed

period.)
Page 394, para. 23. First Schedule, Appendix G.
(Contesting respondent to intimate (Carried out.)

whether he wishes to defend, etc.)

Page 405, para. 45, second sub-para. Order XLI, rule 27.
(Scope of Order 41, rule 27 be expanded.) (Carried out.)

Page 405, para. 46. Order XLI, rule 23A. (Order 41, rule 23 be amended by em-- (Carried out in substance.)
powering the appellate court to remand
a case whenever it thinks it necessary
in the interest of justice.)

ages 405, 406, paragraph 47, earlier half. Order XLI, rule 25. (Remand order to ﬁx period for re-sub- (Carried out.)
mission of case.)

Page 406, para. 47, last sentence. .i Order XLI, rule 26A. (In the remand order, a date should be ( C arr'cr' out.)
ﬁxed tn which the parties should appear
beicrc the lovs er court to receive direc-
tions regardirg the suit.)

'See Notes on Clauses. Page of Fourteenth Report, Provision of the Civil Procedure
Volume I Code whereiriltider dealt
wit

Page 406, para. 48, second sub-paragraph. Section 98. ( Section 98 C.P.C. be amended to bring (Carried out in substance.)
it in line with clause 36 of Letters
Patent.)

Page 420, para. I4. Revision and stay of execution. (A provision be made limiting the powers (Not carried out.)
of the court to grant stay in revision
applications.)

Pages 422-423, paragraph 19 and also Section 115.
page 420, para. 13. (Recommendations for amending section (Carried out in substance.)
I15 C.P.C .)

Pages 437-438, paras. 14-15. Section 42. (Certain additional powers be conferred (Carried out in part.)
on the court to which a decree is
transferred for execution.)

Pages 439-440, para. 18. Section 47. (Provision for constructive res judicata in (Carried out.)
execution proceedings suggested.)

Page 441, paragraph 20, second sub-para. See under "Appeals against
orders under section 47 ". (No appeals against orders in execution
cases regarding payment of an amount
within the limits of the small cause
jurisdiction of the court executing the' (Not carried out.)
decree.)

Page 442, para. 21. Order XLI, rule II. (Admission of appeals against orders in (Not carried out.)

execution of money-decrees to be
made conditional on deposit of securi- ty.)

Pages 443-444, paras. 25 and 28. Order XXI, rules I and 2.
(Oral pleas of payment of the decretal (Carried out in substance and
amount to be excluded from recogni- rule made more stringent.)

tion by courts.)
Page 444, para. 27. Order XXI, rule I.
(Special form of money-orders for remit- ting decretal amounts.) (Not carried out.)
Page 44;, para. 28. Order XXI, rule 2. (No limitation for getting certiﬁcation of (Not carried out, but other modi-
payments made through a bank or a post ﬁcation proposed.)
office.)
Page 445, para. 29. Order XXI, rule II. (Modiﬁcation of the tabular form of (Not carried out.)
execution-application.)

'See Notes on Clauses. Page of Fourteenth Report, Provision of the Civil Procedure
Volume I Code whereunder dealt
with'
Page 445, para. 30. Order XXI, rule 17. (Courts not to reject execution--appiica- (Carried out.)

tion summarily for defects.)
Page 445, para. 31. Order XXI, rule I7. (Order of return of executiomapplication (Carried out.)
to be speciﬁc as to amount.)

Page 447, para. 34, middle. Order XXI, rule 22. (Increase of period under Order 21, rule (Carried out with modiﬁcation.)
22 to 3 years.)

Page 447, para. 34, last portion. Order XXI, rule 22. (Omission to issue notice under Order (Not carried out.)
21, rule 22 not to be fatal.)

Page 448, paragraph 36. Order XXI, rule 37. (Notice of arrest of judgment-debtor to (Not carried out.)
be discretionary.)

Page 448, paragraph 38. Order XXI, rules 54 and 66. (Change suggested regarding notice under (Carried out with modiﬁcation.)
Order 21, rule 66.)

Page 449, para. 40. Order XXI, rule 26. (Stay of execution proceedings under (Not carried out.)
Order 21, rule 26 should be conditional
on furnishing of security.)

Page 45c, paragraph 43, first sentence. Order XXXIX, rule 1. (No temporary injunction regarding stay (Not carried out.)
of execution sales.)

Page 451, para. 45. Order XXI, rule 46A et seq.
(New). (The issue of the existence of a gar.- (Carried out.)
nishee debt to be tried by the execut- ing court.)

Page 453, paragraph 48, last sentence. Order XXI, rule 59 (proposed). (Sate not to be postponed pending obiec- (Carried out with modiﬁcation.)
trons against attachment, but conﬁrma-
tion may be postponed.)

Page 453, para. 49 (portion concerning Order X«XI, rule 58 et seq.
Order 21, rule 58). (Inquiry under Order 21, rule 58 to be (Carried out in substance.)
e_la1b0)rate and to cover questions of '
tit e. ' See Notes on Clauses. Page of Fourteenth Report,
Volume I

Page 453, para. 49 (portion concerning
Order 21, rule 97). (Suits under Order 21. rule 103 to be
barred. Inquiry under rule 97 etseq. to be elaborate.)

Page 454, para. 50. (Estimate of the value of the property to
be sold need not be given by court,
etc.)

Pages 454~455, para. 51-

(Application to set aside execution sale
under rule 90 not to be entertained
~unless amount not exceeding 121; per
cent. of sale price deposited.)

Pages 454455. para. 51-

(Sale not to be set aside at the instance
of certain persons for defect in pro- clamation.)

Page 455, para. 53. (Period under Oizler 21, rule 31 to be
reduced.)

Page 455. para 54

(Period under Order 21, rule 32 to be
reduced.) *

Page 4551 para. 55-

(Period between the date of publication
of the proclamation of sale and actual
sale.)

Page 456, para. 56, first three lines on
the page. (Adiournrnent of a sale and fresh pro- clamation.)

Page 456, para. 57. (Bid at a court sale by the decree- holder.)
Page 476, last two paragraphs on the
page. (Notice under section 80 , C.P.C. to the
Government and under similar provi- sions to other bodies like railways and
the municipal committees,etc.,to be dis-
pensed with. But a provision for costs
where suit ﬁled without notice to be
made.) 255 Provision of the Civil Procedure
Code whereunder dealt
with'

Order XXI, rule 97 et seq. (Carried out in substance.)

Order XXI, rule 66. (Carried out in part.)

Order XXI, rule 90. (Not carried out.)
Order XXI, rule 90. (Carried out in a wider form.) i

Order XXI, rule 31. (Carried out in substance.)

Order XXI, rule 32. (Carried out.)

Order XXI, rule 68. (Carried out.)

Order XXI, rule 69. (Carried out in part.)

Order XXI, rule 72. (Not carried out.)

Section 80. (Carried out, but provision for
costs considered unnecessary.)

'See Notes on Clauses. Page of Fourteenth Report, Provision of the Civil Procedure
Volume I Code whereunder dealt
with'

Page 480, para. 11, third and fourth sub-1
paragraphs. Page 482, paragraphs I5 and I7
Pages 483-484, para. 20. Order XX-A (New). Page 484, para. 23, second sub-para. . (Carried out in substance.)

(Notice charges, expenses on witnesses
brought by summonses, inspection
charges and charges for obtaining copies
of decrees and judgments should be
allowed towards costs of the suit.)

Page 598, paragraph I7 (4). Order XXXIII, rule I.
(Deﬁnition of "pauper" to be amended.) (Carried out with modiﬁcation.)
Page 598, para. x7 (5). Order XXXIII, rule 17. ( Defence as a pauper be allowed.) (Carried out with modiﬁcation.)
Page 598, para. I7 (6). Order XXXIII. (Expression "pauper" to be replaced by (Not carried out.)
the expression "poor person".) . APPENDIX IV
SUMMARY or RECOMMENDATIONS IN RESPECT or OTHER ACTS 1. Suits' Valuation Act, 1887 Rules should be made by High Courts under section 9 of the Suits Valuation Act'. 2. Limitation Act , 1963 (i) The period of limitation under article 125 of
the Limitation Act, 1963 (application for certiﬁcation of
payment or adjustment, etc.), should be increased from
30 days to 90 days'. (ii) In article 98 of the Limitation Act, 1963 , the
portion relating to a suit under Order 21, rule 63 should
be suitably amended in view of the proposed amend-
ment to Order 21, rules 58 to 63, of the Civil Procedure

Code for expanding the scope of the inquiry under -- those rules'. (iii) Article 98 of the Limitation Act, 1963 should
be suitably altered by omitting the portion concerning
a suit to set aside the orders passed in proceedings

'See Notes on Clauses. 'See Appendix II, section 15 . 'See Appendix II, Order 21, rule 2. 'See Appendix II, Order 21, rule 58. under Order XXI, rules 97 to 102, Civil Procedure Code,
in view of the amendmentsproposed to those H1165 ffll" (ii) Similar action should be taken in respect of
appeals against orders under Order 21, rule 97 et seq
as proposed to be amended". 4. Indian Evidence Act, 1872 The question how far a decree against a minor can be
set aside on the ground of gross negligence of his guardian
may be considered, if necessary, when the Evidence Act is
revised'. 5. Law of Public Trusts

Certain points concerning public trusts, arising from
the recommendations of the Hindu Religious Endowments
Commission, may be considered when the law of Public
Trusts is revised-". 'See Appendix II, Order 21, rule 97. zSee Appendix II, Order 21, rule 58. 3See Appendix 11, Order 21, rule 97. 'See Appendix II, Order 32, rule 3. 'See Appendix II, section 92. NOTE BY SHRI S. K. HIRANANDANI

I regret I am unable to agree with the conclusion of
the majority of the Members that the rule-making power
should continue to vest in the High Courts._ In my Oplnlon
the consideration of uniformity is an over-riding considera-
tion which should outweigh all other considerations. It
was with a View to achieving such uniformity that the
power to make rules under the Companies Act which under
the Act of 1913 vested in the High Courts (S€Ct101'1 246) W35
under the new Act of 1956 conferred on the Supreme Court
(section 643). The same consideration weighed with us
while, making our report on the law of insolvency. In that
report we have recommended that the rule-making power
under the new law should vest in the Supreme Court. 2. Article 44 of the Constitution contemplates a uniform
civil Code applicable throughout the territories of India.
If we are not able to achieve uniformity in our procedural
laws, it is difﬁcult to see how we can achieve such uni-
formity in our substantive laws. Since Independence the
policy has been to integrate laws and make them appli-
cable to the whole of India. Consistent with this policy
the case for a uniform Civil Procedure Code is fairly
strong. 3. The main justiﬁcation for vesting the power of
making rules in the High Courts is to provide for local
conditions. Tremendous changes have taken place in the
country in the political, social, economic and other spheres
since the Code was passed in 1908, particularly during the
post-independence period. All these changes have mini-
mised if not altogether eliminated local variations. Except
perhaps in some minor matters, for which adequate
provision can be made without affecting the general uni-
formity of the Code, I can hardly conceive of any local
conditions which require a different law of civil procedure
for different areas. There is thus little justiﬁcation for
continuing the power of High Courts to modify the rules
contained in the ﬁrst schedule to the Code on the ground
of local needs. 4. During_ more than half a century that the Code of
Civil Procedure , 1908 has been in force, High Courts have
made numerous amendments which have virtually disin-
tegrated the Code. For example, in Order V which deals
with a comparatively minor matter of the manner of
service of summons, High Courts have made as many as
40 amendments. In Order XXI, the number of amend-
ments made by the High Courts of Allahabad, Bombay,
Calcutta, Madras, Madhya Pradesh, Patna and Punjab 258 259 have reached the colossal ﬁgure of about 200. Vvfe have
analysed and classified all these amendments and have
recommended the incorporation in the Code of many of
them which are of a general character and which we think
should apply to the whole of India. It is hoped that after
the Code is revised in the manner proposed by us, it will
be a neat and comprehensive piece of legislation applicable
to the whole of India. If the High Courts are again per-
mitted to make amendments in the rules contained in the
first schedule, the code is likely to revert back to the
chaotic condition in which we ﬁnd it at present. I will
give one illustration of how the uniformity of the Code
may in some vital matters be affected if the High Courts
continue to exercise the power to amend the rules in the
schedule. We have proposed a radical change in Order
XXI, Rules_58 and 63. We have recommended that where
a claim is ﬁled under Rule 58 the executing Court should
have full power to decide the claim and that no suit should
lie. It is possible that some of the High Courts may not
agree with our View and would like to retain the existing
rules. Such High Courts would be free to amend
Rules 58 and 63 and restore the position which
obtains at present. The result will be that while in State
A a suit will not lie under Rule 63, it will lie in State B.
Obviously, this will not be a satisfactory state of affairs.
A more serious anomaly is also likely to arise. Supposing
a Court in State A transfers a decree passed by it to a
Court in State B for execution. In such a case both the
Courts would be competent to execute the decree (section 38) but the transferee Court would execute it in such
manner as may be prescribed by rules in force in the State
in which the transferee Court is situate (section 40). Now
if a property is attached by the Court in State A and a claim
is filed in respect thereof, the claimant cannot ﬁle a suit
if the Court rejects the claim. But if a property is attached
by the transferee Court in State B, such a suit would lie.
Thus, in the execution of the same decree, two different
laws would be applicable. 5. In order to achieve uniformity, the draft report on the Code of Civil Procedure circulated by us to State
Governments, High Courts, etc., proposed the setting up
of an all-India committee consisting of Judges and lawyers.
Excepting the High Courts of Bombay and Madras, no
other High Court has raised any objection to the proposal.
The proposal was approved in principle by majority in the
Conference of Chief Justices of High Courts held in 1962.
The conference merely suggested certain changes in the
composition of the proposed all-India committee. 6. In order that the proposed all-India Committee should
be able to act efficiently and expeditiously, it should be
small and compact committee. I suggest that the committee
may consist of the following persons: India. In my opinion, no useful purpose would be served by
giving representation on the committee to the subordinate
judiciary. Nor do I think that it is necessary to include
in the committee an advocate from each" State. We have
now in the All-India Bar Council a representative body'
of the Bar. The selection of the advocates on the proposed
all--India committee should be left to that body. 7. In order to provide for local conditions which is the
main argument against an all-India committee, the com-
mittee may be empowered to make rules for a particular
State or States only, where local conditions warrant such
a course. 8. If for any reason the idea of an a1l--India committee
is not accepted I would suggest another method of achiev-
ing uniformity. Let the rules continue to be made by the
High Courts, but they should be subject to the approval
of the Supreme Court. It is true that the rules made by
High Courts under clauses (2) and (3) of article 227 require

the approval of the Governor. I am not sure if the rules '

contemplated by that article are intended to be of the same
nature as those contained in the ﬁrst schedule to the Code
of Civil Procedure . But assuming that this is so, I see no

constitutional objection to a law made by Parliament with \

reference to the entry 'Civil Procedure' in the Concurrent
List providing that the rules made by the High Courts in
exercise of the power conferred upon them by that law
should be subject to the approval of the Supreme Court. 13th December, 1964. S. K. Hiranandani. CMGIP Minto RdND----~TSWg---105M of Law (5:76)--22-9-65-2,200.