CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE NAVNEET KUMAR -------- For the Petitioner : Mr. Lalit Yadav, Advocate
For the State : Mr. Shailendra Kr. Tiwari, APP -------- Order No.02 : Dated: 25thJanuary, 2022
 The case was heard through video conferencing. None of the
parties found any flaws with audibility/visibility during the course
of hearing the matter. Heard the parties. The petitioner is an accused in connection with Deoghar
(Cyber) P.S. Case No. 86 of 2021, registered under sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120 (B) of IPC and 66(B), 66(C), 66(D), 84 (C) of IT Act,
pending in the Court of learned Additional Session Judge-II cum
Special Judge, Cyber Crime, Deoghar. Learned defense counsel appearing for the petitioner has
submitted that the allegations against the petitioner is that he is
alleged to have involved along with other miscreants in the
commission of cybercrime by cheating the innocent people by
impersonating themselves as bank officials and E-wallet Customer
Care representatives are involved in committing fraud and cheating
by withdrawing money through online transactions. Further, it has
been submitted that not a single victim has come forward to support
the case of the prosecution in order to identify as to who has been
cheated and victim of cybercrime alleged to have been committed
by the petitioner. It has been submitted that the petitioner has been
implicated in the case on the disclosure of Jagdish Yadav. It has also been submitted that no incriminating articles have
been recovered from the possession of the petitioner, except 2
 mobiles along with 4 sims to connect his involvement in the
commission of the offence. Further, it has been submitted that the petitioner is in jail since
21.09.2021 and the petitioner has no criminal antecedent as stated in
para 11 of the bail application. It has been pointed out that the
charge sheet has been submitted in this case and possibility of
tampering the evidence in future is very remote. On the other hand, learned A.P.P. appearing for the State is
opposed the prayer for bail of the petitioner. Having taken into consideration the submissions of the parties
under the facts and circumstances of the case, on furnishing bail
bonds of Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Thousand) by the
petitioner(s) with two sureties of like amount each to the
satisfaction of learned Additional Session Judge-II cum Special
Judge, Cyber Crime, Deoghar in connection with Deoghar (Cyber)
P.S. Case No. 86 of 2021, the petitioner, above named, is directed to
be released on bail, subject to the conditions that an undertaking
supported by affidavit shall be furnished to the concerned court on
behalf of the petitioner consisting of the declarations that he will
cooperate in the trial and he will appear before the court as and
when required, further a copy of his Aadhar Card, residential
address and mobile number shall also be submitted to the concerned
court and he will not change the same without informing the court
and further he will not tamper the evidences in this case, inter alia,
either by inducement, promise or any threatening to the witnesses
and he will not commit such offence during the pendency of this
case along with other conditions as laid down under Section 439 of
Cr.P.C. (Navneet Kumar, J.)
MM