K.K. Gupta, A.M. 1. These appeals have been filed by the Department raising common issue for all the assessment years on the basis of CIT(A)'s order having allowed framing of the assessment under Section 143(3)/147 of the Act which grounds have been narrated hereinafter. We are taking these appeals together for the sake of convenience and gravity inasmuch as arising out of a common order of the learned CIT(A). 2. The learned Departmental Representative submitted that the learned CIT(A)-II, Patna, was not right in holding that the basic primes on which the assessment had been reopened in the aforesaid assessment years, i.e., the filing of case RC 55(A)/96-Patna against the assessee was non-existent. The CIT(A) had stated that since the name of the appellant did not figure as co-accused in the charge-sheet filed by the CBI in the above case the registration of case No. RC 55(A)/96-Patna cannot be the basis for initiation of proceedings under Section 147 of the Act. It is submitted that at the time of initiation of proceedings under Section 147, the AO had in his possession information about filing of an FIR against the assessee and its sister concern on the grounds of criminal connivance in drawing fake bills of supply to the AHD, Government of Bihar. The AO also had information regarding the payment made to the assessee in relation to this specific FIR in case No. RC 55(A)/96-Patna lodged against the assessee. Thus, the basis of initiation of proceedings under Section 147 was valid since filing of the FIR gave a valid reason to believe that the assessee had claimed false purchases and transportation, expenses against its receipt from the AHD, Government of Bihar. The income-tax proceedings are separate proceedings from the criminal proceedings launched by the CBI and once they are validly initiated they have a separate existence of their own irrespective of the findings made in the criminal charge-sheet of the CBI. As such it cannot be said that the basis of initiation of proceedings under Section 147 was non-existent at the time of initiation. 3. The learned Departmental Representative further argued that the learned CIT(A) had misdirected himself in holding that the Dy. CIT has nowhere given any specific finding in the assessment order relating to bogus supply and that no specific instances of inflating expenses or purchases were detected by the AO. It is apparent from the discussion in the assessment order itself that the assessee did not make any compliance with terms of notice under Section 142(1), did not file any details of purchases and other expenses and did not file any supporting bills or vouchers or books of account. Thus, the stand of the CIT(A) that the AO has nowhere given any specific finding about inflating expenses or purchases is not borne out from the record. It is clear from the assessment order itself that the assessee had not been able to substantiate any of the expenses or purchases claimed in its P&L a/c filed with the return. 4. The learned counsel for the assessee submitted that the learned CIT(A) had gone through the detailed order of the learned AO and considered the facts and circumstances of the case leading to his finding that the assessments which have been reopened on the basis of RC 55(A)/96-Patna against the assessee-appellant was non-existent. Materials available on record show that the name of the appellant does not figure as co-accused in the charge-sheet filed by the CBI in the above case. Therefore, there was no basis for proceedings under Section 147. No specific instances of inflating expenses or purchases had been detected by the AO. The AO had simply complied with the provisions of Section 145(1) estimating the GP at 20 per cent of the declared sales. The learned CIT(A) observed that proceedings under Section 147 cannot be initiated for applying a higher rate of GP than that disclosed by the assessee. Furthermore, the learned counsel made us go through the order of the AO wherein he pointed to the various submissions and counter-submissions which can be presumed to be groping in the dark and trying to unearth something which may not be there. He has tried to justify his rejection of profit declared by the assessee on whims and fancies which he concluded on his own were there, but at the same time not informed for initiation of proceedings under Section 147. The learned counsel relied on the findings of the learned CIT(A) that no estimation of GP on the sales which remained the same is not within the proceedings under Section 147. Disallowance of expenses and unexplained cash credit can also not be considered as adequate ground for initiation of proceedings under Section 147. 5. We have considered the submissions of the parties before us. We have also gone through the orders of the lower authorities carefully and on perusal thereof we find that the AO has not done his job in accordance with law. The facts and circumstances leading to initiation of proceedings have not been brought out in the manner which could find favour with the CIT(A). The CIT(A) has given a very well reasoned order setting aside the orders of the AO for all these years, in view of the fact that the assessee was never a party in filing of case RC 55(A)/96-Patna and the Department has in its own pleadings submitted that the income-tax proceedings are separate proceedings from the criminal proceedings lodged by the CBI and once they were validly initiated they have a separate existence on their own irrespective of the findings made in the criminal charge-sheet of the CBI. Here is a case wherein the AO has not arrived at any basis where proceedings under Section 147 were rightly cancelled by the CIT(A). In our view the basis of initiation of proceedings under Section 147 was not there as rightly held by the CIT(A). Therefore, we do not have any hesitation in dismissing the appeals filed by the Department. 6. In the result, all these appeals filed by the Department are dismissed. Dr. R.K. Yadav, J.M.: While adjudicating the appeals, the CIT(A) came to the conclusion that conditions precedent for assumption of jurisdiction under the provisions of Section 147 of the IT Act, 1961 (in short the Act), were not satisfied in these cases. Accordingly, initiation of proceedings under the provisions of Section 147 of the Act was held to be bad in law. In view of these facts it becomes incumbent on this Tribunal to articulate as to whether standards of initiation of proceedings under the provisions of Section 147 of the Act existed or not. For an answer to this proposition the provisions of Section 147 of the Act are to be taken into account, The provisions of Section 147 of the Act empower the AO to reassess any income chargeable to tax, which escaped assessment by reason of failure (amongst other grounds) on the part of the assessee to declare fully and truly all material facts for his assessment for any assessment year. Non-disclosure of material facts by the assessee becomes relevant when an assessment made under Sub- section (3) of Section 143 of the Act or Section 147 is sought to be reopened after expiry of 4 years from the end of the relevant assessment year. The words "escaped assessment" used in the provisions of Section 147 of the Act, are apt to cover the case of discovery of a mistake in the assessment caused either by an erroneous construction or the transaction or due to its non-consideration, or caused by a mistake of law applicable to such transfer or transaction even when there has been a complete disclosure of all relevant facts upon which a correct assessment could have been passed. 2. Essential requirement for initiating reassessment proceedings under Section 147 r/w Section 148 of the Act is that the AO must have reason to believe that any income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year. Second limb of the requirement is that the AO shall record his reasons before issuing notice as contemplated by the provisions of Sub-section (2) of Section 148 of the Act. The requirement necessarily postulates that the AO must record his reasons in writing as to why he holds an opinion or belief that income has escaped assessment. In case an AO holds an opinion that on account of nondisclosure of material facts fully and truly, income has escaped assessment, he must disclose as to by what process or reasoning he holds such belief that nondisclosure of material facts fully and truly resulted in escapement of income from being assessed. 3. Where the AO has a cause or justification to think that income had escaped assessment he can be said to have reason to believe that such income has escaped assessment. The words "reason to believe" cannot mean that the AO should have finally ascertained the facts by legal evidence. These words only mean that on examination of facts from experienced eye of an officer well equipped to interpret the suspicious circumstances, the officer in the matter is of reasonable belief as to existence or non-existence of a fact or situation, in the light of those circumstances. On such examination of facts, if the officer feels satisfied that taxable income has escaped assessment, the officer is said to have reason to believe that such income has escaped assessment, A belief, though justified for the purpose of initiation of proceedings under Section 147 of the Act, should not be tested on the standards for final adjudication in the matter. Law to this effect was laid in Praful Chunnilal Patel v. M.J. Makwana, Asstt. CIT (1999) 236 ITR 832 (Guj), wherein the AO had over-looked something at the first assessment as a result of which taxable income has escaped assessment that could itself provide a cause or justification for a belief to the AO that such income had escaped assessment and in the case the AO was held to be ex facie justified in initiating the proceedings on such basis. 4. Now it will be taken into consideration as to whether there were reasons to believe with the AO to proceed with the reassessment under the provisions of Section 147 of the Act. He takes into consideration that as per the returns filed for the asst. yr. 1989-90, the assessee has shown to have received a total payment of Rs. 79,98,500 against sales, whereas the purchases and freight expenses have been claimed at Rs. 5,95,84,554 and Rs. 5,80,594 respectively. He also takes into consideration that the case was registered against the assessee wherein it was alleged that fraudulent withdrawals were made by the assessee-firm from AHD, Government of Bihar, without actual supply. He details that the case was registered as bearing RC No. 55(A)/96-Patna. He was also not oblivious of the fact that the partners of the assessee-firm are Sandeep Malik and Kamal Malik who are family members of Shri Vijay Malik. It also haunted in his mind that Shri Vijay Malik and his concern known as M/s Malik Enterprises were prominent accused persons in the case filed by the CBI relating to misappropriation of funds from AHD, Government of Bihar. He took into consideration that case RC No. 32(A)/96-Patna was registered on the count that M/s Malik Enterprises had withdrawn funds from AHD, Government of Bihar, and purchases claimed by it for the financial year 1995-96 were found to be bogus. The parties from whom purchases were claimed to have been made admitted to have given an accommodation entry for purchases against commission. Contents of FIRs sounded in the mind of the AO and on the basis of the facts revealed on inquiry, he formed an opinion that the assessee-firm had withdrawn money-from AHD, Government of Bihar, against little or no supply. He quotes the example that in the asst. yr. 1989-90 the assessee had shown to have received a total payment of Rs. 79,98,500 from AHD, Government of Bihar and claimed expenses on purchases and freight to the tune of Rs. 59,58,454 and Rs. 5,80,594 respectively, to bring it over the record the process of his reasoning as to how he holds a belief that non-disclosure of material facts fully and truly had resulted into escapement of income from being assessed. 5. Surprisingly, this transparency in the action of the AO was misconceived by the CIT(A). Contents of FIR, which provided momentum to the AO to generate the process of his reasoning, had not at all weighed upon the CIT(A). He was of the view that the name of the assessee-firm does not figure in the charge-sheet of case No. RC 55(A)/96-Patna, He seems to have proceeded with the process of weighing the standards of reopening of an assessment with the standards which are to be applied at the time of final adjudication. He was oblivious of the fact that when a case is registered against the assessee with allegations that fraudulent withdrawals were made by it, without making any supply to a Government Department, it is a situation or circumstance which surcharges the atmosphere. Common populace take such situation with anxiety and look for the result of the investigation and in many cases the result of the trial. Such instances have a bearing in the mind of the public and they form an opinion about the instances, the person involved in the act and the surrounding circumstances. The AO, being a responsible public servant, was under an obligation to take note of such situations, which persuaded him to form a belief, as done in the case. When process of law was in momentum, it ignited the thoughts of the AO to consider as to whether the facts regarding income chargeable to tax were disclosed fully and truly by the assessee. In making a chain of events he went through the contents of the FIRs registered, noted the payments received by the assessee-firm and the expenses claimed by it in asst. yr. 1988-89. All these facts and circumstances led him to form an opinion that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment on account of failure of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts for its assessment for asst. yr. 1989-90. This satisfaction of the AO was not denounced by the CIT(A). He was led astray by the facts that on conclusion of investigation, name of the assessee-firm was not there in the charge-sheet filed in RC 55(A)/96-Patna. He remained oblivious of the fact that the names of the partners of the assessee-firm were there in the charge-sheet filed in respect of RC No, 45(A)/96-Patna. Therefore, it sounds that the decision of the CIT(A) is devoid of merits. 6. While rejecting the process of assessment, the CIT(A) commented on the method of computation of income adopted by the AO. If the CIT(A) would have proceeded a step ahead and then discarded the final income, this process would have been in accordance with the legal norms, but rejecting the case at this very threshold of reopening under the provisions of Section 147 of the Act, he cites example from the final outcome. This makes it clear that he was assessing the standard to be applied for reopening on the standard of final adjudication of an assessment process. It resulted into miscarriage of justice. 7. In view of the foregoing reasons I would conclude that there were reasons with the AO to reopen the assessment and the first appellate authority had gone wrong in cancelling the assessments made for the asst. yrs. 1987-88, 1988-89, 1989-90, 1990-91 and 1991-92. REFERENCE UNDER SECTION 255(4) OF THE IT ACT, 1961 
 

Dr. R.K. Yadav, J.M.: Question for reference: K.K. Gupta, AM.: M.A. Bakshi, Vice President (As Third Member): 5. Doranda Police Station, Ranchi, Bihar, had earlier registered a case vide FIR No. 080, dt. 10th March, 1996, which was taken over by the CBI. The FIR was registered by the CBI for commission of offences punishable under Section 409 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 472 / 474 / 120B IPC and Section 13(2) r/w Section 13(1)(c) and (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . This FIR is numbered as RC 55(A)/96-Patna, dt. 17th April, 1996. The following persons are described as accused in the said FIR : 6. On investigation by the CBI, it transpired that the supplies made by some concerns of Malik family to the AHD were bogus. The AO received information that in regard to one of the concerns of Malik family, namely, M/s Malik Enterprises, the CBI has found bogus supplies made to AHD in asst. yr. 1995-96 and the parties from whom purchases were claimed to have been made admitted to have given accommodation entries of purchases against commission to the said Malik Enterprises. On the basis of the public interest litigation, directions of the Hon'ble Patna High Court, registration of FIR No. 55(A)/96-Patna against various persons including all the suppliers of AHD, Government of Bihar, information about bogus supplies by some of the members of Malik family and the accommodation entries of purchases having been given on payment of commission, to the sister concern of the assessee, viz., Malik Enterprises, the AO initiated proceedings under Section 147 purportedly on the belief that income of the assessee assessable for asst. yrs. 1987-88 to 1991-92 had escaped assessment. The reasons recorded by the AO for reopening of the assessment have been reproduced by the learned JM in his order and, therefore, it may not be necessary to reproduce the same. The AO issued notices under Section 148 for the respective assessment years on 10th Feb., 1998, which were served on the assessee on 2nd March, 1998. The assessee asked the AO to give reasons for reopening of the assessments for the respective assessment years. The assessee was asked to file the return of income after which the reasons for reopening of the assessee would be communicated to it by the AO. The assessee informed the AO that the return originally filed may be treated in response to the notice under Section 148 and again demanded the reasons for reopening of the assessment. After some correspondence between the AO and the assessee, it is not disputed that the reasons for reopening the assessment as recorded by the AO were communicated to the assessee. The assessee was asked to produce the books of account and other documents for the purpose of assessing the escaped income. On the failure of the assessee to produce the books of account and other relevant material, the AO proceeded to make the assessments on estimate basis by applying a profit rate of 20 per cent on supplies and by making disallowance of some of the expenditure. 7. The assessee appealed to the CIT(A) against the decision of the AO. The CIT(A), Central-II, Patna, vide consolidated order dt. 1st Feb., 2001, held that the basic premises on which the AO had reopened the assessments is the FIR filed by CBI, viz., RC 55(A)/96-Patna in which the name of the assessee does not figure as co-accused. He has, accordingly, held that proceedings under Section 147 are without jurisdiction. The CIT(A) has also pointed out in the impugned order that the AO has not recorded any finding about the bogus purchases/supplies and withdrawal of money from the AHD for such supplies by the assessee. 8. The Revenue appealed against the order of the CIT(A) to the Tribunal. Whereas the learned AM has agreed with the view expressed by the CIT(A) that the reopening of assessments for the respective assessment years is without jurisdiction, the learned JM has held that the reopening of assessments made by the AO is in accordance with law. There is no opinion expressed by the learned Members about the merits of the assessments as the CIT(A) had also refrained from giving his opinion on merits in the light of his quashing orders of reassessments on legal grounds. 9. The learned counsel for the assessee has filed an application before me pointing out that as per the order of the Tribunal in the case of Hindustan Livestock Agency, Delhi (a sister concern of the assessee), the AO was on election duty to Kerda between 7th April, 2001 and 15th May, 2001. This appeal has been signed by the same AO on 20th April, 2001. According to the learned representative of the assessee, when the AO was not available in Patna and was away on election duty, how he could have signed the memo of appeal in the case of the respondent on 20th April, 2001, at Patna. 10. This objection has not been taken by the assessee before the Division Bench and is not the subject-matter of difference of opinion before me. Since the Third Member has limited jurisdiction in regard to the point of difference, I refrain from giving any opinion about the claim made by the assessee's learned representative before me for the first time. 11. As is evident from the facts stated above, the whole issue revolves around the validity of reopening of assessments for the respective assessment years. There seems to be a doubt about the absence of the name of the respondent in the FIR No. RC 55(A)/96-Patna expressed by the CIT(A). The AO as well as the learned JM have specifically pointed out that the assessee is co-accused in FIR No. RC 55(A)/96-Patna. The CIT(A) has recorded a finding to the contrary. I have reproduced the names of the accused mentioned in FIR No. RC 55(A)/ 96-Patna, in para 5 above. It is evident from the names of the accused that whereas no specific name of the suppliers has been mentioned in the said FIR, all the concerned firms who made supplies to AHD, Government of Bihar during the period 1980 to 1990 are referred to as the co-accused in FIR No. RC 55(A)/96-Patna, dt. 17th April, 1996. Since the respondent-firm has admittedly made supplies to AHD during the relevant period, it was wrong on the part of the CIT(A) to hold that the assessee was not one of the co-accused in the FIR , referred to above . Apart from the above, there is no dispute on facts. During the course of hearing of this appeal, on my enquiry, the following information was disclosed in writing and I consider the same as relevant. That there was a CBI search and seizure operation in the premises of the respondent on 6th July, 1997 and again in July, 1998. What documents were seized during the course of such search and seizure operation by the CBI is not borne out from the records. The reopening of assessment was initiated on 10th Feb., 1998. With these facts in mind, I proceed to consider as to whether the AO was justified to reopen the assessments for the respective assessment years on the basis of the information available to him on the date of recording the reasons for reopening such assessments. 12. Section 147 enables the AO to reopen an assessment after the expiry of four years if the AO has reason to believe that by reason of omission or failure on the part of the assessee, the income assessable to tax has escaped assessment. It is well-settled principle of law that the AO should have material on the basis of which he could form a bona fide belief that the income assessable to tax has escaped assessment for the relevant assessment years. Before embarking upon the task of scrutiny of reasons for reassessment, it would be necessary to refer to some relevant decisions of the Supreme Court and the Calcutta High Court in regard to the meaning of the words "reasons to believe" for the purpose of reopening of assessments. 13. In the case of Johri Lal (HUF) v. CIT (1973) 83 ITR 439 (SC), their Lordships of the Supreme Court held as under : 14. In the case of ITO v. Lakhmani Mewal Das (1976) 103 ITR 437 (SC), their Lordships of the Supreme Court held as under : 15. In the case of CIT v. T.S. PL. P. Chidambaram Chettiar (1971) 80 ITR 467 (SC), their Lordships of the Supreme Court held as under : 16. In the case of H.A. Nanji & Co. v. ITO (1979) 120 ITR 593 (Cal), their Lordships of the Calcutta High Court held as under : 17. In the case of Sheo Nath Singh v. AAC (1971) 82 ITR 147 (SC), their Lordships of the Supreme Court held as under : 18. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sri Krishna (P) Ltd. v. ITO (1996) 221 ITR 538 (SC) held as under : 19. In the case of Raymond Woollen Mills Ltd. v. ITO (1999) 236 ITR 34 (SC), their Lordships of the Supreme Court held as under : 20. In the case of S. Narayanappa v. CIT (1967) 63 ITR 219 (SC) at p. 222, it was held as under : 21. In the case of Ganga Saran & Sons (P) Ltd. v. ITO (1981) 130 ITR 1 (SC) at p. 11, their Lordships of the Supreme Court held as under : 22. In the case of Phool Chand Bajrang Lal v. ITO (1993) 203 ITR 456 (SC) at p. 477, their Lordships of the Supreme Court held as under : It was further held at p. 478 of 203 ITR by the Hon'ble Supreme Court : 23. The legal principles that emerge from the aforementioned decisions may be summarised as under : 24. On the analysis of the above legal principles, it emerges that whereas the 'reason to believe' cannot be equated with the 'reason to suspect', it is equally not necessary that there should be ample evidence on record to establish the actual escapement of income so as to form a reasonable belief that the income of the assessee has escaped assessment. One has to keep in mind the distinction between suspicion and belief and between belief and conclusive finding based on evidence. The 'belief' falls in between the suspicion and conclusive finding based on evidence. In order to determine as to whether the AO had a bona fide belief about the escapement of income of the assessee, it has to be considered as to whether the facts and circumstances justify the formation of the belief in contrast to suspicion, There has to be some material on record on the basis of which the AO formed a bona fide belief that the income of the assessee has escaped assessment. In other words, the material on the basis of which belief is formed must be in the nature of prima facie evidence, direct or circumstantial, giving rise to belief in the mind of the AO about the escapement of income. Testing the facts and circumstances of this case in the light of the aforementioned principles of law, one will necessarily have to consider the reasons recorded by the AO for reopening of the assessments. The reasons recorded for asst. yr. 1988-89 have been quoted by the learned JM in his order. At this stage these may be reproduced hereunder for the sake of ready reference : 25. The reasons for other assessment years are more or less same. Question before me is as to whether on the basis of facts of this case the AO had reason to believe that the income of the assessee had escaped assessment. It is not disputed that in the year 1996, the cases relating to misappropriation of funds from Animal Husbandry Department, Government of Bihar, came to the fore and many FIRs alleging fraudulent withdrawals against bogus and forged vouchers and receipt of money without supply were registered by the CBI in regard to the payments made from various treasuries and AHD of Government of Bihar. A public interest litigation had been filed in the High Court of Patna and the Hon'ble High Court had issued directions to the CBI and the IT Department to initiate action as may be considered fit. The direction of the Patna High Court was confirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the judgment dt. 19th March, 1996, in SLP No. 58(A)/1996. The directions of the Hon'ble High Court have been reproduced by me in para 4 of this order. In pursuance of the directions of the Hon'ble High Court, CBI had registered a case against various officers of the AHD and all concerned firms which had made supplies to AHD during the period 1980 to 1990. The assessee being one of the suppliers it is futile to dispute that the assessee-firm was one of the accused in FIR No. 55(A)/96. The payments received by the assessee from AHD in asst. yrs. 1987-88 to 1991-92 are as under : The appellant-firm is one of the concerns of Malik family. In respect of Malik Enterprises and Hindustan Livestock Agency, Delhi, not only material was collected by the CBI about the fraudulent withdrawals from AHD, Government of Bihar, but partners of the firm had also accepted that they were involved in the fraudulent withdrawals. Some parties had also certified that Malik Enterprises, one of the concerns of the Malik family, had paid commission for getting bogus bills for the purchase of goods purportedly supplied to AHD, Government of Bihar. The question for consideration is as to whether in this background any person could have a reasonable belief that assessee, a concern of Malik family, was also involved in withdrawal of money from AHD against little supplies or no supplies. I have referred to various decisions of the Supreme Court wherein it has been specifically laid down that the power to reopen an assessment by the AO is subject to the condition that he has reasons to believe that the income has escaped assessment. It is also established from judicial principles laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court referred to elsewhere in this order that the formation of belief need not necessarily result into reassessment. The material sufficient for formation of the belief need not be sufficient for making the assessment/reassessment. The AO should not act arbitrarily, nor should he pretend of having a reasonable belief for reopening of an assessment, Reopening is also not valid if there is no live link or nexus between the material relied upon and the perception of the belief. 26. In this case, the fodder scam had become well known not only in the State of Bihar but because of its publicity all over India. The Hon'ble High Court had also admitted the public interest litigation and directed the CBI and the IT Department to investigate and initiate such action as may be considered fit. There was evidence on record to establish the involvement of members of the Malik family in the scam. The assessee had withdrawn substantial amount from AHD, Government of Bihar. When all the concerned officers of the AHD have been booked for fraud in regard to the payments made for bogus supplies or little supplies, when the Hon'ble High Court had directed the CBI and the IT Department to take action against the officers and the suppliers, when the members of the Malik family had admitted to be involved for the fraudulent withdrawals, when some of the parties had confirmed that they had accommodated one of the concerns of Malik family of giving bogus bills on payment of commission, was it reasonable for the AO to believe that the assessee, one of the concerns of the Malik family, would not have indulged in any such fraudulent withdrawals for no supply or little supplies to the AHD, Government of Bihar. In my considered view, it would not have been reasonable for the AO to believe that the assessee was an exception to the fraudulent withdrawals from AHD, Government of Bihar. In the light of large scale fraud detected in the Department of Animal Husbandry, Government of Bihar, the belief of the AO that the assessee had inflated purchases and expenses was a reasonable belief of a prudent person on the facts and in the circumstances of this case. 27. As has been laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in several cases referred to elsewhere in this order, the material on the basis of which a reasonable belief is formed that income has escaped assessment need not necessarily result into assessment/reassessment. The material available at the time of formation of belief may not be sufficient for making the reassessment. But one has to consider as to whether the said material was sufficient for formation of the belief, the belief of an honest person. As pointed out earlier, the provisions of Section 147 require that the AO should have reason to believe that any income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment. The word 'reason' in the phrase 'reason to believe' would mean cause or justification. If the AO has a cause to think or suppose that income had escaped assessment he can be said to have reason to believe that such income had escaped assessment. The reason to believe cannot mean that the AO should have finally ascertained the facts by legal evidence. The justification for his belief is not to be adjudged from the standard of proof required for coming to a final decision. A belief though justified for the purpose of initiation of the proceedings under Section 147 , may ultimately stand altered after the hearing and while reaching the final conclusion on the basis of intervening scrutiny. At that stage where he finds cause or justification to believe that such income has escaped assessment, the AO is not required to base his belief on any final adjudication of the matter. In my considered view, on the facts of this case, any reasonable person would believe that the assessee-firm, a unit of Malik group, would not be an exception to the fraudulent withdrawals from the AHD, Government of Bihar. As pointed out earlier, validity of initiation of proceedings is dependent on the formation of the belief. It gives the AO the right to reopen a completed assessment. The provisions of the IT Act clearly provide the procedure for making the reassessment after the initiation has validly been made. Provisions of Section 143(2) and (3) are applicable in respect of making a reassessment after having been validly initiated. Even where proceedings are reopened validly, the assessee is given an opportunity to establish that there has been no escapement, as perceived by the AO. In this case also after the proceedings were initiated by the AO, it was open to the assessee to establish by necessary evidence that the perception of the ITO about the escapement of income on the basis of the information available with him was incorrect and/or that in any case the assessee had not inflated the purchases or expenses or made withdrawals from AHD, Government of Bihar, without supplies. That could be done by production of evidence of purchases, expenses and supplies to the Department. So, it is not that when the proceedings are validly initiated, the assessee loses the right of defence. It is in the light of this position of law, one has to consider the validity of the initiation of proceedings for reopening of an assessment. One may not be confused to test the basis for reopening with the final outcome of reassessment on the basis of the material on which the AO formed the belief that income had escaped assessment. 28. Taking the totality of the facts and circumstances of this case into consideration, in the light of the legal principles laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court referred to elsewhere in this order, I am of the considered view that the AO was justified in forming the belief that the income of the assessee had escaped assessment for the respective assessment years. The CIT(A) has quashed the reassessments on the legal ground and has not deliberated upon the merits of assessments. The learned Members of the Division Bench have also decided the legal issue only. My jurisdiction being limited to the point of difference between the Members, I have expressed the opinion about the validity of the initiation of the proceedings only and not about the merits of the addition. My conclusion is that on the basis of circumstantial evidence available with the AO at the time of initiation of proceedings, any reasonable person would believe that the income of the assessee in regard to supplies to AHD, Government of Bihar, had escaped assessment for the respective assessment years especially when there was no material on record to suggest that the assessee-firm would be an exception to the general trend of withdrawals from the said Department. I, therefore, agree with the conclusion of the learned JM that the reopening of assessment for the respective assessment years has validly been initiated. 29. The records may be placed before the Division Bench for announcing the majority judgment. By the Bench: 2. The learned Third Member has agreed with the order of learned JM that the reopening of assessment for the respective assessment years has validly been initiated. Therefore, in accordance with the majority view, the issue is decided in favour of the Revenue and the appeals of the Revenue are allowed.