PER: VIKRAM SINGH YADAV, A.M.

 These are two appeals filed by the Revenue against the respective orders
of ld. CIT(A)-4, Jaipur dated 29.03.2019 in respect of aforesaid assessees for
A.Y 2015-16. Since the common issues are involved, both these appeals were
heard together and are being disposed off by this consolidated order. ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur ITA No. 780/JP/2019 2. With the consent of both the parties, the case of assessee, Shri Prakash
Chand Sharma in ITA No. 780/JP/2019 for A.Y 2015-16 is taken as the lead case
for the purposes of present discussion wherein the Revenue has taken the
following grounds of appeal:- ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur 3. The first ground of appeal taken by the Revenue relates to challenging the
findings of the ld CIT(A) that the additions were made by the Assessing officer
without reference to incriminating evidence/material while passing the order
under section 143(3) r/w 153 A of the Act and thus allowing the legal ground
taken by the assessee challenging the order so passed by the Assessing officer. 4. In this regard, briefly stated, the facts of the case are that the assessee
filed his return of income u/s 139(1) of the Act on 30.08.2015 declaring total
income of Rs. 23,78,450/-. Thereafter, a search and seizure action u/s 132 was
carried out in case of Prakash Deep Finance Group on 04.03.2017 to which the
assessee belongs. Pursuant to the search and seizure action, the Assessing
Officer issued notice u/s 153A of the Act on 13.09.2017 and in response to the
said notice, the assessee e-filed his return of income on 03.10.2017 declaring
total income of Rs. 23,78,450/- as declared in the return of income originally filed u/s 139(1) of the Act. Thereafter, notice u/s 143(2) of the Act as well as notices u/s 142(1) of the Act were issued and the Assessing Officer disallowed the long
term capital gains exemption amounting to Rs. 3,60,05,017/- claimed by the
assessee u/s 10(38) of the Act and the said amount was brought to tax as
undisclosed income through bogus long term capital gains u/s 68 of the Act.
Further, commission amounting to Rs. 7,20,100/- was brought to tax as
unexplained expenditure for taking the said accommodation entry. Accordingly,
the assessment u/s 143(3) read with section 153A was completed at
Rs. 3,91,03,570/- as against the returned income of Rs. 23,78,450/-. 5. Being aggrieved, the assessee challenged the action of the Assessing
Officer before the ld. CIT(A) and raised a legal objection that the addition made
by the AO by denying the claim of exemption of long term capital gains u/s
10(38) of the Act was without reference to any incriminating material found
during the course of search for the assessment year under consideration in 4 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur respect of which the assessment already stood concluded. The ld. CIT(A)
allowed the legal contention so raised by the assessee and held that there is no
incriminating material found during the course of search in the case of assessee
relating to disallowance of claim u/s 10(38) of the Act. Against the said findings
of the ld. CIT(A), the Revenue is now in appeal before us. 6. During the course of hearing, the ld. CIT/DR submitted that as per the
provisions of Section 132 r.w.s 153 A of the Act , the AO is bound to issue the
notice for initiation of proceedings U/s 153 A of the Act to assess or reassess the
total income of six assessment years immediately preceding the assessment
year, relevant to the previous year in which such search is conducted or
requisition is made. The ld. CIT/DR has thus contended that the proceeding U/s
153A are mandatory in nature and there is no escapement of the assessment or
reassessment proceedings pursuant to the search and seizure action U/s 132 of
the Act. It was submitted that there is no prejudice caused to the assessee if the
AO made the addition U/s 68 of the Act in the proceeding U/s 153A based on the
information received from Investigation Wing basis survey and search operations
disclosing the fact that the long term capital gains shown by the assessee is
nothing but accommodation entry provided by syndicates and entry providers
through trading of shares in penny stock companies when it was open to the AO
to initiate the proceeding U/s 147/148 of the Act at that point of time but due to
the mandatory nature of the provisions of Section 153A of the Act, the AO has
proceeded in accordance with the provisions of law. It was further submitted
that the script of M/s Misika Finance and Trading Company and assessee were
banned from accessing the security market and buying, selling in securities vide
SEBI order dated 17.05.2015 which lead to suspicion on bogus claim of LTCG
hence the same tantamount to incriminating evidence and where the AO has
relied on the same while framing the assessment, the same needs to be upheld.
It was further submitted by the ld. CIT/DR that in case of Meeta Gutgutia, 5 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur though SLP of the Department has been dismissed by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court, however, merely dismissal of the SLP cannot be read as affirmation of the
view taken by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court. It was further submitted that there
are two subsequent SLPs which have been admitted by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court on similar matters and therefore, the Department is not accepting the
position taken in case of Meeta Gutgutia and other decisions cited by the ld. AR.
He has accordingly relied upon the order and the findings of the Assessing
officer. 7. On the other hand, ld. AR has submitted that the assessee is engaged in
the business of financing and is also a director in two finance companies namely
Shubhdeep Finance Co. Pvt. Ltd. and Prakash Deep Finance Co. Ltd. He filed his
return of income 30.08.2015 declaring income of Rs. 23,78,450/- after claiming
exemption of Rs. 3,60,05,017/- u/s 10(38) of IT Act, 1961 . A search was carried
out on assessee on 04.03.2017. After search, in response to notice u/s 153A,
assessee again filed the return of income on 03.10.2017 at the same income. In
course of assessment proceedings, the assessee submitted that in search, no
incriminating documents relating to any undisclosed income was found and
therefore, no addition can be made. The AO did not accept the assessee's
contentions and made an addition of Rs. 3,60,05,017/- by treating long term
capital gain as income from undisclosed sources and Rs. 7,20,100/- on account
of alleged unexplained expenditure for acquiring such accommodation entry. On
appeal, the ld. CIT(A) observed that the disallowance of claim made u/s 10(38) is not relatable to any incriminating seized material found during the course of
search. For the assessment year under consideration, the assessment stood
completed at the time of search and there was no time left to issue notice u/s
143(2). In case of completed assessment, the law permits to make additions only
on the basis of incriminating seized material found & seized during the course of
search. For this purpose he relied on various case laws reproduced at Pg 34 to 6 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur 42 of the appellate order. He further stated that statement of assessee recorded
u/s 132(4) or statement of third party recorded u/s 131 or u/s 132(4) of the Act
is not considered as incriminating material. For this purpose, he placed reliance
on the decisions of Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court in case of Mantri Share Brokers
Pvt. Ltd. reported in 96 Taxmann.com 279 affirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court and Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of Harjeev Agarwal reported in 70
Taxmann.com 95. Accordingly, the ld CIT(A) held that as there is no
incriminating material found during the search carried on the assessee relating to
the disallowance of claim u/s 10(38) of the Act, the legal ground of the assessee
was held tenable and was decided in favour of the assessee. 8. It was submitted by the ld AR that as the assessee filed his original return
on 30.08.2015, the time limit for service of notice u/s 143(2) was upto
30.09.2016. No notice was however issued to the assessee before this date.
Thus, the assessment proceedings for the year under consideration were not
pending on the date of search. In search, no incriminating material relating to
the year under consideration was found to allege that the assessee had
undisclosed income from any source which is routed through alleged
accommodation entry. Section 153A empowers the AO to issue notice to a
person who is searched u/s 132 to file return in respect of six assessment years
preceding the assessment year in which search is conducted and to assess or
reassess the total income of these years notwithstanding anything contained in
section 139, 147 and other related sections. Thus, the assessment u/s 153A are
not de novo assessments since the purpose of making the reassessment under
section 153A is to bring to tax, hitherto undisclosed income unearthed during the
course of the search. It is for this reason that the second proviso to section
153A(1) provides only for the abatement of the pending assessments. This is
done to ensure that the regular assessment proceedings under the normal
provisions and the assessment proceedings under section 153A are not 7 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur conducted simultaneously since that would result in redundancy. Therefore,
already completed assessments do not abate and they shall hold the field. It can
be interfered by the AO while making the assessment u/s 153A only if some
incriminating material is unearthed during the course of search or requisition of
documents or undisclosed income or property is declared in the course of search
which were not produced or not already disclosed or made known in the course
of original assessment. Thus, when no incriminating material for the year under
consideration in respect of a particular issue is found, addition made by the AO in
assessment proceedings u/s 153A is illegal and bad in law. For this purpose,
reliance is placed on the followed cases:- As per section 153A of the Act, once a search and seizure action is carried out,
the AO has to assess or reassess the total income of the assessee in respect of
six years immediately preceding the assessment year relevant to the previous
year in which a search is conducted or requisition is made. In case the
assessment is pending on the date of search, the same shall be abated as per
proviso to section 153A(1) of the Act and the AO is free to assess the income of
the assessee as regular assessment. However, in case of completed assessment
and not abated due to initiation of search u/s 132 or making of requisition u/s
132A, the AO has to reassess the total income of the assessee and therefore, the
assessment already completed can be tinkered with or disturbed where any
incriminating material is found and seized during the course of search or
requisition as case may be, indicating undisclosed income of the assessee.
Therefore, the scope and jurisdiction of the AO to reassess the total income of
the assessee u/s 153A is limited only to the extent of the income disclosed by the
incriminating material found and seized during the search and seizure action in
case of the assessee. Therefore, what is the relevant to determine in the instant
case is whether any incriminating material/evidence was found during the course
of search in the case of the assessee and basis which the additions have been
made by the Assessing officer. 10. The ld CIT/DR has referred to the information received by the AO from
Investigation Wing basis survey and search operations disclosing the fact that
the long term capital gains shown by the assessee is nothing but accommodation
entry provided by syndicates and entry providers through trading of shares in
penny stock companies. In this regard, we find that the AO has referred to
statement of Shri Sanjay Vora recorded on 8.04.2015 during the course of survey
in case of M/s Anand Rathi Shares and Stock Brokers Ltd and statement of Shri 9 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur

Deepak Patwari recorded u/s 131 on 22.07.2013. These statements were thus
recorded by the Investigation Wing Calcutta much prior to the date of search in
case of assessee on 4.03.2017 and were thus available with the Assessing officer
prior to the date of search. To our mind, these statements may be considered as
relevant piece of evidence but at the same time, these statements have been
recorded in case of search and survey operations in other cases and not in the
case of the assessee and in any case, these statements alone without any
corroborative evidence cannot be regarded as incriminating material unearthed
during the course of search and seizure u/s 132 of the Act in case of the
assessee. Similar view has been taken by the Coordinate Bench in case of
M/s Kota Dall Mill vs DCIT (ITA No. 997 to 1002/JP/2018 & 1119/JP/2018
dated 31.12.2018) wherein it was held as under: 11. The ld CIT/DR has further referred to SEBI order dated 17.05.2015
wherein the script of M/s Misika Finance and Trading Company and various
persons including the assessee were banned from accessing the security market
and in buying and selling of securities. We find that the aforesaid SEBI order
dated 17.05.2015 was again available with the AO prior to the search in case of
the assessee and following the aforesaid reasoning may be considered as a
relevant evidence but cannot be regarded as incriminating material unearthed
during the course of search and seizure u/s 132 in case of the assessee which
were conducted on 4.03.2017. 12. We therefore find that the Assessing Officer has reassessed the income of
the assessee by disallowing the long term capital gains exemption claimed u/s
10(38) without making any reference to any incriminating material found during
the course of search. There is no finding of the Assessing officer or any other
material brought on record that these transactions of sale of shares were
concealed and not reported to the Revenue while filing the original return of
income on 30.08.2015 for the impugned assessment year. Once these
transactions were reported in the return of income furnished before the date of
search, the said transactions were duly disclosed to the department and thus, 11 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur doesn't represent any undisclosed transactions so as to constitute incriminating
material found during the course of search in case of the assessee. Therefore,
the addition made by the AO by disallowing the claim of exemption u/s 10(38) and reassessment completed u/s 153A is undisputedly not based on any
incriminating material found or seized during the course of search and seizure
action u/s 132 of the Act. 13. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of CIT v. Kabul Chawla (supra)
while considering an identical issue has held as under:- iv. Although Section 153 A does not say that additions should be strictly made
 on the basis of evidence found in the course of the search, or other post-
 search material or information available with the AO which can be related to
 the evidence found, it does not mean that the assessment "can be arbitrary
 or made without any relevance or nexus with the seized material. Obviously
 an assessment has to be made under this Section only on the basis of
 seized material." ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma , Jaipur

 v. In absence of any incriminating material, the completed assessment can be
 reiterated and the abated assessment or reassessment can be made. The
 word 'assess' in Section 153 A is relatable to abated proceedings (i.e. those
 pending on the date of search) and the word 'reassess' to completed
 assessment proceedings. vi. Insofar as pending assessments are concerned, the jurisdiction to make the
 original assessment and the assessment under Section 153A merges into
 one. Only one assessment shall be made separately for each AY on the
 basis of the findings of the search and any other material existing or
 brought on the record of the AO. vii. Completed assessments can be interfered with by the AO while making the
 assessment under Section 153 A only on the basis of some incriminating
 material unearthed during the course of search or requisition of documents
 or undisclosed income or property discovered in the course of search which
 were not produced or not already disclosed or made known in the course of
 original assessment. 39. The question framed by the Court is answered in favour of the Assessee and
against the Revenue." 14. A similar view has been taken by the Hon'ble Jurisdiction High Court
in case of Jai Steel India v ACIT (supra) as held in para 22 to 30 as under:- ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur

 Though such a claim by the assessee for the first time under Section 153A of
 the Act is not completed, the case in hand, has to be considered at best
 similar to a case where in spite of a search and/or requisition, nothing
 incriminating is found. In such a case though Section 153A of the Act would
 be triggered and assessment or reassessment to ascertain the total income
 of the person is required to be done, however, the same would in that case not result in any addition and the assessments passed earlier may have to be
 reiterated. 23. The reliance placed by the counsel for the appellant on the case of Anil
Kumar Bhatia (supra) also does not help the case of the assessee. The relevant
extract of the said judgment reads as under:-- The reason is not far to seek. Under Section 153A , there is no room for
multiple assessment orders in respect of any of the six assessment years
under consideration. That is because the Assessing Officer has to determine
not merely the undisclosed income of the assessee, but also the 'total
income' of the assessee in whose case a search or requisition has been
initiated. Obviously there cannot be several orders for the same assessment
year determining the total income of the assessee. In order to ensure this
state of affairs namely, that in respect of the six assessment years preceding
the assessment year relevant to the year in which the search took place
there is only one determination of the total income, it has been provided in
the second proviso of sub-Section (1) of Section 153A that any proceedings
for assessment or reassessment of the assessee which are pending on the
date of initiation of the search or making requisition "shall abate". Once
those proceedings abate, the decks are cleared, for the Assessing Officer to
pass assessment orders for each of those six years determining the total
income of the assessee which would include both the income declared in the
returns, if any, furnished by the assessee as well as the undisclosed income,
if any, unearthed during the search or requisition. The position thus
emerging is that the search is initiated or requisition is made, they will abate
making way for the Assessing Officer to determine the total income of the
assessee in which the undisclosed income would also be included, but in case
where the assessment or reassessment proceedings have already been
completed and assessment orders have been passed determining the
assessee's total income and such orders subsisting at the time when the
search or the requisition is made, there is no question of any abatement
since no proceedings are pending. In this latter situation, the Assessing
Officer will reopen the assessments or reassessments already made (without
having the need to follow the strict provisions or complying with the strict
conditions of Sections 147 , 148 and 151 ) and determine the total income of
the assessee. Such determination in the orders passed under Section 153A would be similar to the orders passed in any reassessment, where the total
income determined in the original assessment order and the income that
escaped assessment are clubbed together and assessed as the total 15 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur income. In such a case, to reiterate, there is no question of any abatement
 of the earlier proceedings for the simple reason that no proceedings for
 assessment or reassessment were pending since they had already
 culminated in assessment or reassessment orders when the search was
 initiated or the requisition was made." (Emphasis supplied) 24. The said judgment also in no uncertain terms holds that the reassessment of
the total income of the completed assessments have to be made taking note of
the undisclosed income, if any, unearthed during the search and the income that
escaped assessments are required to be clubbed together with the total income
determined in the original assessment and assessed as the total income. The
observations made in the judgment contrasting the provisions of determination
of undisclosed income under Chapter XIVB with determination of total income
under Sections 153A to 153C of the Act have to be read in the context of second
proviso only, which deals with the pending assessment/reassessment
proceedings. The further observations made in the context of de novo
assessment proceedings also have to be read in context that irrespective of the
fact whether any incriminating material is found during the course of search, the
notice and consequential assessment under Section 153A have to be undertaken. 25. The argument of the learned counsel that the AO is also free to disturb
income, expenditure or deduction de hors the incriminating material, while
making assessment under Section 153A of the Act is also not borne out from the
scheme of the said provision which as noticed above is essentially in context of
search and/or requisition. The provisions of Sections 153A to 153C cannot be
interpreted to be a further innings for the AO and/or assessee beyond provisions
of Sections 139 (return of income), 139(5) (revised return of income), 147
(income escaping assessment) and 263 (revision of orders) of the Act. 26. The plea raised on behalf of the assessee that as the first proviso provides
for assessment or reassessment of the total income in respect of each
assessment year falling within the six assessment years, is merely reading the
said provision in isolation and not in the context of the entire section. The words
'assess' or 'reassess' have been used at more than one place in the Section and a
harmonious construction of the entire provision would lead to an irresistible
conclusion that the word 'assess' has been used in the context of an abated
proceedings and reassess has been used for completed assessment proceedings,
which would not abate as they are not pending on the date of initiation of the
search or making of requisition and which would also necessarily support the
interpretation that for the completed assessments, the same can be tinkered only
based on the incriminating material found during the course of search or
requisition of documents. 27. The Allahabad High Court in Smt. Shaila Agarwal 's (supra) has held as
under:-- 28. It has been observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in K.P.
Varghese v. ITO [1981] 131 ITR 597/7 Taxman 13 that "it is well recognized rule
of construction that a statutory provision must be so construed, if possible that
absurdity and mischief may be avoided." 29. The argument of the counsel for the appellant if taken to its logical end
would mean that even in cases where the appeal arising out of the completed
assessment has been decided by the CIT(A), ITAT and the High Court, on a
notice issued under Section 153A of the Act, the AO would have power to undo
what has been concluded up to the High Court. Any interpretation which leads to
such conclusion has to be repelled and/or avoided as held by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of K.P. Varghese (supra). 30. Consequently, it is held that it is not open for the assessee to seek deduction
or claim expenditure which has not been claimed in the original assessment,
which assessment already stands completed, only because a assessment under Section 153A of the Act in pursuance of search or requisition is required to be
made." ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur 15. In light of above discussions and in the entirety of facts and circumstances
of the case where the reassessment is completed u/s 153A without any reference
to the incriminating material found during the course of search, following the
binding precedents as cited above including that of the Jurisdictional High Court,
the addition made by the AO by disallowing the claim of exemption u/s 10(38) is
not sustainable in the eyes of law. We accordingly affirm the findings of the ld
CIT(A) who has rightly appreciated the facts of the present case and has followed
the legal proposition so laid down by the various Courts and as followed
consistently by various Benches including the Jaipur Benches of the Tribunal. In
the result, the ground of appeal so taken by the Revenue is hereby dismissed. 16. Now, coming to other grounds of appeal no. 2 - 8 raised by the Revenue.
All these grounds of appeal effectively relates to addition of Rs. 3,60,05,017/-
made u/s 68 on account of bogus LTCG made by the AO by denial of claim of
exemption under section 10(38) in respect of sale of shares of Mishka Finance &
Trading Ltd and the consequential addition of Rs. 7,20,100/- u/s 69C made by
the AO on account of unexplained commission expenditure for taking bogus
accommodation entry in the form of LTCG and both of which have been deleted
by the ld CIT(A). 17. The relevant facts are as follows. The assessee is an individual and derives
his income from salary, house property and other sources. Besides this, he has
shown long term capital gain of Rs.3,60,05,017/- on sale of Shares of Mishka
Finance & Trading Ltd and Rs.1,84,233/- in respect of other securities and
claimed exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act. The assessee had applied for 12,500
shares of M/s Pyramid Trading and Finance Ltd. of face value of Rs.10/- per
share at a premium of Rs.75/- per share. Thereafter, the name of company was
changed to M/s Mishka Finance and Trading Ltd. and accordingly on 20.11.2012,
these shares were credited in the demat account in the name of M/s Mishka 18 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur

Finance and Trading Ltd. In Feb.2013 , the company announced bonus of 7
shares for every 1 shares and accordingly, 87,500 bonus shares were credited in
the demat account on 15.02.2013. Subsequently on 18.01.2014, the face value
of Rs.10 per share was split into Rs.1 per share and accordingly, 10,00,000
shares were credited in the demat account of assessee. Out of the above shares,
during the year under consideration, the assessee sold 7,75,000 shares of M/s
Mishka Finance and Trading Ltd. for Rs.3,65,20,671/- through M/s Sharekhan
Ltd., a registered broker with Bombay Stock Exchange in different lots on which
STT was paid and claimed exemption u/s 10(38) in respect of gain on sale of
these shares. 18. The AO observed that searches have been conducted by the Investigation
Wing of the Department at various places throughout the country. During the
searches & as per the information made public by the SEBI, it is discovered that
various syndicates have arranged accommodation entry of bogus LTCG, bogus
STCG, bogus long/ short term capital loss through trading of shares of penny
stocks. The modus operandi found is that the investors/beneficiaries hold these
shares for one year or so & then sell it to one of the shell private limited
companies of the operator. These facts were confirmed by the stakeholders viz.
operators/ syndicate members/ brokers who were providing accommodation
entries in statements recorded u/s 133A / 132 of the IT Act. It has been
manifestly accepted by them that such penny stock companies are the conduit
for converting untaxed money brought on record by paying no taxes in the garb
of exempted income. It is further detected that M/s Mishka Finance & Trading
Ltd. (scrip code-512191) is a penny stock listed company. The assessee bought
these shares at a meagre price. The price of the shares kept rising throughout
the period when the shares were held by the assessee. The share price
movement & the profit earned by the beneficiaries were beyond human
probabilities. The AO, thereafter, at pages 4 to 15 discussed the financial results 19 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur and held that the rise in the price could not be related to the fundamentals. On
pages 16 to 41, he gave the trend of the share price. On pages 42 to 62, he
referred to the statement of Sh. Sanjay Vora & Sh. Deepak Patwari recorded
during survey operation carried out in case of M/s Anand Rathi Shares & Stock
Brokers Ltd. Kolkata wherein they accepted the actual fact of these transactions.
Thereafter, on pages 67 to 69, he discussed the modus operandi. The AO further
observed that SEBI has suspended this particular scrip from trading in BSE/NSE
w.e.f. 17.04.2015. Accordingly, he issued show cause dated 08.10.2018. In
response to same, the assessee filed the reply dated 17.10.2018 which is
reproduced at page 77 & 78 of the order. The AO, however, rejected the various
contentions of assessee for the reasons stated at pages 79 to 83 of the order
and relied on various case laws reproduced at Pg 84 to 90 of the order.
Accordingly, he treated capital gain of Rs.3,60,05,017/- on sale of shares as
assessee's undisclosed income and taxed u/s 115BBE of the Act. The AO further
observed that the assessee has paid commission @ 2% of share capital of M/s
Mishka Finance & Trading Ltd amounting to Rs.7,20,100/- and accordingly he
made addition of the same by treating such amount as unexplained expenditure u/s 69C . 19. The assessee challenged the action of the AO before the ld CIT(A). The
Ld. CIT(A) observed that the assessee has filed all the possible documentary
evidence relating to purchase and sale of the stock on which LTCG was earned.
The AO has based denial of exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act on the basis of
statement of entry operator and information received from the investigation
wing. However, in the statement of entry operator, no question was ever put
regarding transaction through the companies through which alleged cash of
assessee was routed. The assessee proved the oral statement to be incorrect by
filing various documents. AO did not prove the documentary evidence to be
untrue/ bogus/ no genuine. The AO has discussed the abnormal rise in the share 20 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur price of penny stock without any under lying fundamentals. The Coordinate
Bench in case of Mukta Gupta Vs. ITO (ITA 2766/Del/2018 order dt. 26.11.2015)
have held that capital gain cannot be treated as bogus solely on the basis that
the price of the shares has risen manifold and the reason for astronomical rise is
not related to any fundamentals of market. If the transactions are duly proved by
trading from stock exchange and the documentation is proper, the gain cannot
be assessed as unexplained credit. The SEBI banned the trading in shares of
Mishka Finance in the interim order but in the final order passed by SEBI said
interim ban was lifted and the script and associated persons were exonerated.
The statement alone cannot be treated as incriminating material for the purpose
of making addition for assessment completed u/s 143(3) . The statement of
witness cannot be sole basis of the assessment without giving an opportunity of
cross examination and consequently it is a serious flaw which renders the order a
nullity. Thereafter, based on aforesaid reasoning and findings and after relying
on the various case laws referred at Pg 55-63 of his order, ld. CIT(A) held that
the action of AO in denying the claim of exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act is not
tenable and hence, the same was directed to be deleted. Further, since the
commission is based on estimated addition of alleged bogus LTCG now treated
as genuine, amount of commission was also directed to be deleted. Against the
said findings, the Revenue is now in appeal before us. 20. During the course of hearing, the ld. DR submitted that the AO has
discussed all the relevant facts in the assessment order as well as the modus
operandi of various entry providers as detected by the Department during the
investigation carried out by the Directorate of Investigation, Kolkata, Delhi etc.
Thus it comes to the light that large scale manipulation has been done in the
market price of shares of certain companies listed on Bombay Stock Exchange by
a group of persons working as syndicate for the purpose of providing entries of
tax exempt bogus Long Term Capital Gains to large number of beneficiaries in 21 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur lieu of unaccounted cash. Thus, in order to convert black money into white
without payment of income-tax, a large number of persons are availing
accommodation entries of bogus Long Term Capital Gains. The ld. CIT D/R has
submitted that the AO has discussed each and every aspect of the modus
operandi of the entry providers under which the beneficiaries are asked to buy
some shares of pre-determined penny stock company controlled by them at a
very nominal price mostly off-line through preferential allotment. The
beneficiaries hold the shares for one year to avail the Long Term Capital Gain
exemption under section 10(38) of the IT Act. In the meantime, the operators
rig the price of stock and gradually raise its price many times from 500 to 1000
times. This is done through low volume transaction indulged in by the dummies
of the operators at a pre-determined price. Thus the ld. D/R has submitted that
the AO after discussing the modus operandi of the operators minutely, has found
the assessee is one of the beneficiaries of availing the accommodation entries of
bogus Long Term Capital Gain as the assessee has purchased shares of M/s.
Pyramid Trading and Finance Ltd on 18.09.2012 which is an off market
transaction not through the recognized Stock Exchange and the name of the said
company was thereafter changed to M/s Mishka Finance and Trading Ltd. The
assessee thereafter sold 7,75,000 shares of M/s Mishka Finance and Trading ltd.
for a consideration of Rs. 3,65,20,671/- as against the purchase consideration of
Rs. 10,62,500/-. Thus there is a stiff rise in the price of the shares at the time of
sale as against the acquisition cost which clearly shows that the transaction is
not genuine but it is a bogus transaction of accommodation entries of Long Term
Capital Gain. The ld. D/R has submitted that the transaction through banking
channel is not sacrosanct to hold that the transaction is genuine when all other
surrounding circumstances indicate that the assessee has obtained
accommodation entries of bogus Capital Gain in respect of penny stock. Thus the
AO has clearly brought out the case of accommodation entries of bogus Long
Term Capital Gain. He has relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court 22 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma , Jaipur

in case of Sumati Dayal vs. CIT as well as in case of Durga Prasad More. The ld.
CIT D/R has also relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of Suman Poddar vs. ITO , 112 taxmann.com 329 (Delhi). The ld. CIT D/R has
submitted that the Hon'ble High Court has confirmed the decision of the Tribunal
whereby the Long Term Capital Gains claimed by the assessee in respect of
purchase and sale of penny stock were treated as bogus transactions being
accommodation entries. It was also pointed out that the SLP filed by the
assessee against the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has been
dismissed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in 112 taxmann.com 330 (SC). 21. Per contra, the ld. AR submitted that the addition has been made by the
AO on the basis of statement of certain persons recorded in the survey
conducted by the Investigation Wing Kolkata on M/s Anand Rathi Shares and
Stock Brokers Limited, order of SEBI whereby it restrained 129 entities including
M/s Mishka Finance and Trading Ltd. and its promoters from accessing the
securities market and prohibiting them from buying, selling or dealing in
securities, either directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever, till further
directions and the rise in price of shares not related to the fundamentals of
company. 22. It was submitted that during the assessment proceedings, the AO has
referred to the statement of Deepak Patwari and Sanjay Vora which is
reproduced as such at page 42-62 of the assessment order. From the statement
of Shri Sanjay Vora recorded during the course of survey u/s 133A by
DDIT(Inv.), Kolkata, it is noted that he is regional director, East Zone of M/s
Anand Rathi Shares and Stock Brokers Ltd. since 2007. While replying to
Question No. 45, he has categorically denied of being part of the bogus LTCG
syndicate. Again while replying to Question No. 62, he stated that he strongly
deny receiving any commission apart from brokerage earned which is duly 23 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur reflected in the books of accounts. Thus from the statement of Sanjay Vora it is
clear that he has no role in accommodation entry provider syndicate. It is further
submitted that assessee is not having any transaction with M/s Anand Rathi
Shares and Stock Brokers Ltd. in whatsoever manner. Assessee has entered into
transaction with Share Khan Limited. Thus, no adverse inference can be drawn
against the assessee on the basis of statement of Shri Sanjay Vora with regard
to LTCG earned by assessee. Regarding statement of Deepak Patwari, while
replying to question number 8 and 9, he has listed 14 companies which are
controlled and managed by him but name of M/s Mishka Finance and Trading
Limited formerly known as Pyramid Trading and Finance Limited is not appearing
in the said list. It is submitted that both these persons in the statement recorded
have not provided client list or name/address or contact number to whom they
have provided accommodation entry in the form of bogus LTCG. The assessee
has not entered into any transaction whatsoever with these persons. Therefore,
no adverse inference can be drawn against the assessee on the basis of
statement of these persons. Otherwise also neither any transaction has been
carried out by the assessee through these brokers nor these persons have stated
that they have done any transaction in the shares of M/s Mishka Finance and
Trading Ltd. for the assessee. 23. It was further submitted that the SEBI has conducted an examination into
the dealings in the scrip of M/s Mishka Finance and Trading Ltd. on BSE Limited
during the period from February 14, 2013 to December 31, 2014 as there was
huge rise in the price of the scrip. After preliminary examination, SEBI passed an
interim ex-parte order dated April 17, 2015 and restrained 129 entities including
Mishka and its promoters and directors from accessing the securities market and
further prohibited them from buying, selling or dealing in securities, either
directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever till further directions.
Subsequently SEBI vide order dated dt. 05.10.2017 after detailed enquiries found 24 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur that there is no adverse material against 104 entities mentioned at S. No. 1-104
in Table No. 2 of order with respect to their role in the price manipulation / prima
facie violations for which interim order dated April 17, 2015 was passed and thus
revoked the restrained order with reference to these entities. At Table No. 2,
Page No. 6 of the order, the name of assessee is appearing. This proves beyond
doubt that the assessee is a genuine investor in the script of M/s Mishka Finance
and Trading Ltd. 24. It was further submitted that the AO has referred to the financials of
M/s Pyramid Trading and Finance Ltd. at Pg 4 to 6 of the assessment order.
From the same, it can be noted that during FY 2012-13 when assessee
purchased the shares, the turnover of co. was Rs.16.45 cr. and profit before tax
was Rs.17 lacs. In FY 2014-15, it increased to Rs.27.11 cr. and profit before tax
at Rs.59 lacs. Again in FY 2015-16, the turnover was Rs.18.38 cr. and PBT was
Rs.23 lacs. The share price of the company as mentioned at Pg 16 to 40 of the
assessment order shows that during the month of Dec, 2013 to 15.01.2014, it
ranged between Rs.177 to Rs.327 per share of Rs.10 each but after it split into
Rs.1 per share, the share price from 16.01.2014 to 30.12.2014 ranged between
Rs.30 to Rs.56 per share. Thus, the shares were traded in the stock exchange for
more than 1 year @ Rs.18 per share to Rs.56 per share. Thus, not only the
turnover of company has increased during the period when assessee sold the
shares but also shares of the company was quoted in stock exchange at a
constant rate almost for a year. The assessee has provided all the supporting
evidences in respect of purchase of shares till the same are sold and therefore, it
is incorrect on part of AO to allege that rise in the price of shares is not related
to the fundamentals of company though the same is not a criteria to judge the
share price of a company. ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur 25. It was further submitted that the various observations and the conclusions
drawn by the AO in the assessment order are based on suspicion, surmises and
hearsay. It is trite law that suspicion however strong cannot partake the
character of legal evidence ( Lal Chand Bhagat Ambika Ram Vs. CIT 37 ITR 288
SC). The suspicion or presumption, however strong it may appear to be to true,
needs to be corroborated by some evidence to establish a link that the assessee
has brought back his unaccounted income in form of LTCG. In this connection,
reference can be made to the judgment of Special Bench of Mumbai, ITAT in
case of GTC Industries Vs. ACIT 164 ITD 1. Further, reliance was placed on the
following decisions: 26. The ld. AR further submitted that the decision relied upon by the ld.
CIT/DR in case of Suman Poddar vs. ITO (supra) is not applicable in the facts of
the assessee's case as in the said case it was a finding of fact by the Tribunal 26 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur holding that the assessee has failed to produce any evidence of actual sale
except the Contract Notes issued by the share broker whereas in the case of the
assessee, the assessee produced all the documentary evidences right from
allotment of shares, holding in Demat account, payment of purchase
consideration, contract notes as well as receipt of the sale consideration through
banking channel, thus the said decision cannot be applied in the present case. On the other hand, the decisions of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in case
of CIT vs. Smt. Pooja Agarwal in DBIT Appeal No. 209/2018 dated 24.07.2018 as
well as PCIT vs. Shri Pramod Jain & Others in DBIT Appeal No. 385/2011 dated
11.09.2011 are binding precedents on this issue and supports the case of the
assessee and which has been rightly followed by the ld CIT(A). The ld. AR has
accordingly supported the findings of the ld. CIT (A). 27. We have considered the rival submissions as well as the relevant material
on record. The AO has doubted the transactions of purchase and sale of shares
by the assessee of M/s. Mishka Finance and Trading Ltd based on the
investigation carried out by the Investigation Wing Kolkata wherein certain
persons were found indulged in providing accommodation entries, inter-alia
bogus Long Term Capital Gains which is claimed as exempt under section 10(38) of the IT Act by the beneficiaries in order to facilitate the beneficiaries to convert
their black money into white without paying Income-tax. The AO has narrated
the modus operandi of various entry providers which is a general statement so
far as the indulgence of certain persons in providing the accommodation entry of
bogus long term capital gains as well as other transactions. However, in the said
narration of modus operandi, there is nothing against the particular transaction
of purchase and sale of shares by the assessee. The AO has specifically
mentioned that during the course of enquiry in certain cases, it has come to light
that large scale manipulation has been done in the market price of shares of
certain companies listed on Stock Exchange by a group of persons working as a 27 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur syndicate for the purpose of providing entry of tax exempt bogus long term
capital gains to large number of beneficiaries in lieu of unaccounted cash. These
observations of the AO in the assessment order cannot constitute any tangible
material or evidence to show that the transaction of the assessee is bogus being
an accommodation entry. The AO has discussed the modus operandi of entry
providers on the issue but has not made any reference of any material or
documentary evidence which reveals that the assessee has indulged in availing
the accommodation entry of bogus long term capital gain. There is no dispute
that once the assessee has claimed the long term capital gain from purchase and
sale of shares which is exempt under section 10(38) of the Act, the primary onus
is on the assessee to substantiate his claim by producing the supporting
evidence. We find that the assessee had applied for 12,500 shares of M/s
Pyramid Trading and Finance Ltd. of face value of Rs.10/- per share at a
premium of Rs.75/- per share. The payment was made by account payee cheque
bearing no. 397519 dated 18.09.2012 drawn on SBBJ, M.I, Road, Jaipur. The
shares were thereafter allotted by the company on 24.09.2012 and necessary
regulatory filings in terms of Form 2 along with Board's resolution have been
placed on record. Thereafter, the name of company was changed to M/s Mishka
Finance and Trading Ltd. and on 20.11.2012, these shares were credited in the
demat account of the assessee in the name of M/s Mishka Finance and Trading
Ltd. Thus it is clear that 12,500 shares were acquired by the assessee on
18.09.2012 and were credited in the demat account of the assessee. The AO has
not disputed that subsequently in Feb.2013, the company announced bonus of 7
shares for every 1 shares and accordingly, 87,500 bonus shares were credited in
the demat account of the assessee on 15.02.2013. Subsequently, on 18.01.2014,
the face value of Rs.10 per share was split into Rs.1 per share and accordingly,
10,00,000 shares were credited in the demat account of assessee. Once the
shares are dematerialized and credited in the demat account of the assessee, the
holding of the shares by the assessee cannot be disputed. It is also not in 28 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur dispute that out of 10,00,000 shares held in the Demat account of the assessee,
the assessee sold 7,75,000 shares for Rs.3,65,20,671/- in different lots on which
STT is paid and claimed exemption u/s 10(38) in respect of gain on sale of these
shares. The AO has treated the transaction of sale of 7,75,000/- shares as bogus
being accommodation entry but has not doubted the holding of the shares by the
assessee to the tune of 10,00,000/- shares in the Demat account of the
assessee. Once the assessee has produced all the supporting evidences which
include allotment of shares, bank statement showing the payment of purchase
consideration, Demat account showing holding of shares in Demat form, sale of
the shares through Stock Exchange which are also reflected in the Demat
account of the assessee and receipt of the sale consideration in the bank account
of the assessee as it is evident from the bank account statement of the assessee,
then in the absence of any contrary material or evidence brought on record by
the AO, the transaction of purchase and sale of the shares in question cannot be
held as bogus merely on the basis of the investigation carried out by the
Department in some other cases where some persons were found indulged in
providing accommodation entry. The AO in the entire assessment order has not
made reference to single documentary evidence which can be said to be an
incriminating material against the assessee to show that the assessee has availed
accommodation entry of bogus Long Term Capital Gain. Therefore, the mere
suspicion cannot be a ground for treating the transaction as bogus in the
absence of any evidence or material on record. 28. The ld. D/R has relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in
case of Suman Poddar vs. ITO (supra) wherein the Hon'ble High Court has
confirmed the finding of the Tribunal and finally observed in para 8 as under :- Thus it is clear that in the said case, the Tribunal's finding is based on the fact
that no evidence of actual sale except the contract notes issued by the share
broker was produced by the assessee. In those facts, the Hon'ble High Court
has held that no question of law arises in the said case. On the contrary, in the
case in hand the assessee produced all the relevant documentary evidence to
establish the genuineness of the transaction. Even if the AO doubted the
transaction, then to establish that the transaction is bogus, the AO is required to
produce the contrary material evidence so that the evidence produced by the
assessee can be controverted. In the absence of such contrary material or
evidence brought on record by the AO and the evidence produced by the
assessee is otherwise independently verifiable being the documents in the shape
of bank statements, Demat account, contract notes reflecting the transaction
executed on the stock exchange for which the assessee has no control or say,
therefore, the said evidence cannot be manipulated by the assessee. Once the
evidence produced by the assessee is not prepared or beyond the scope of any
manipulation by the assessee, then the assessee has discharged his onus to
prove the transaction of purchase and sale of shares and consequential capital
gains. Thus the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court will not help the case of the
department. 29. The ld. CIT (A) has decided this issue after discussing all the relevant facts
as well as the decisions on this point in paras 7 to 9 as under :- ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur 5. That the Ld. AO also discussed in length the general modus operandi of
capital gain extracted from the report. 7.2 I have perused the written submissions submitted by the Ld. A/R and
the order of AO. I have also gone through various judgments cited by the Ld.
A/R and those contained in the order of AO. I have also gone through the
APB from page 1 to 55. After careful perusal of Ld. AO order and submissions I am not in
agreement with the conclusion drawn by the Ld. AO for the following reasons: Thereafter the AO did not prove the documentary evidence to be untrue/
bogus/ non genuine. The AO never confronted the documentary evidence to
the person whose oral statement was recorded & relied upon. Therefore the
oral statement losses their evidentiary value in light of the documentary
evidence placed by appellant. Even the oral statement is general and does not
pin point or mention appellant name anywhere. Neither does it mention
anywhere that cash from appellant was received & it was same cash which was
routed back to the appellant bank account. Considering the above
documentary evdences clearly out weight the oral evidences relied upon. 7.5 Further the AO has discussed the abnormal rise in the share price of the
penny stock without any under lying fundamentals. Recently Hon'ble ITAT
Delhi in the case of Mukta Gupta Vs. ITO , ITA 2766/ DEL/2018 order
dated 26-11-2018 have held that Capital gains cannot be treated as bogus-
solely on the basis that the price of the shares has risen manifold and the
reason for astronomical rise is not related to any fundamentals of market. If
the transactions are duly proved by trading from stock exchange and the
documentation is proper, the gains cannot be assessed as unexplained credit
or as unexplained money. It was further observed by the Hon'ble ITAT Delhi
that nowhere it has been found that assessee was in any manner found to be
beneficiary of any accommodation entry under any inquiry or investigation. ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur

Once all these transactions are duly proved by trading from stock exchange,
then to hold the sale of shares as unexplained credit or as unexplained money
cannot be upheld. It was also pointed out that though the SEBI banned the trading in the
share of Miskha finance in the interim order but in the final order passed by
the SEBI said interim ban was lifted and the script and associated persons
were exonerated. The final order of the SEBI is placed on the record by the
learned A/R.

7.6 The relevant para of SEBI Report are para 9 & 10. In these para the SEBI
has especially exonerated Smt. Kalawati Sharma (appellant) & Shri Prakash
Chand Sharma. The relevant para is reproduced herein as under: 7.7 Further, in the detailed submission made by the Ld. A/R it has
vehemently argued that the settled position of law is that addition cannot be
made simply on the basis of statement, in this case the statement of 3rd
person. The same has to be substantiated and corroborated either by
enquiries or by linking it with tangible material/ evidence. 8. I am in agreement with the Ld. A/R that it is a settled law that
statement alone cannot be treated as incriminating material for the purposes
of making addition for assessment completed u/s 143(3) . It has been held in
many judgments that mere statement u/s 132(4) or u/s 131 is not sufficient
to make an addition. A statement made must be relatable to some
incriminating material or the statement must be made relatable to material
by subsequent inquiry/investigations. Hon'ble high Court of Rajasthan in the case of Mantri Share Brokers Pvt. Ltd. (96
taxmann.com 279) have held as under: Section 69B of the Income-tax Act, 1961 - Undisclosed
 investments (Burden of proof) - Whether where except statement
 of director of assessee-company offering additional income during
 survey in his premises, there was no other material either in form
 of cash, bullion, jewellery or document or in any other form to
 conclude that statement made was supported by some
 documentary evldence, sald sum could not be added in hands of 35 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur assessee as undisclosed investments - Held, yes [Paras 10-11] [In
 favour of assessee]

Para 10 & 11 of the order is as under It would not be out of place to mention that this order of Hon'ble
Rajasthan High Court has been confirmed by Hon'ble Supreme Court also. Further, Hon'ble Delhi High court in case of Harjeev Agarwal (70
Taxmann.com 95) held thus: 8.3 Therefore, the statement of witness cannot be sole basis of the
assessment without given an opportunity of cross examination and
consequently it is a serious flaw which renders the order a nullity. The
Mumbai Special of the Tribunal in case of GTC Industries vs. ACIT (supra)
had the occasion to conslder the addition made by the AO on the basis of
suspicion and suiiiiises and observed in para 46 as under:- 8.4 The issue of penny stock and consequent additions made has elaborately
dealt with by Hon'ble High Court of Rajasthan and also Hon'ble ITAT Jaipur. Both
jurisdictional High Court and tribunal have given judgments directly on the issue,
gist of some of which is as under 8.5 On further appeal by the department to the High Court, the court by
referring to the decision of Pooja Agarwal held that no substantial question of
law arise in this case. (ii) CIT vs. Smt. Pooja Agrawal DBIT Appeal No. 385/2011 dated
11.09.2017 (Raj)(HC)

In this decision, the Hon'ble High Court approved the following finding of the
ITAT reproduced at Para 12 of the order: CIT Vs. Smt. Sumitra Devi (2014) 102 DTR 0342 (Raj.)

 In this case, assessee had shown LTCG from the sale of shares and
 same was claimed as exempt u/s 10(38) . AO observed that
 companies, whose shares were allegedly dealt with, were not very
 well known and it was entirely unlikely that there was a huge rise
 in prices of their shares in a very short span of time. AO treated
 huge rise in price as manipulation by stock broker and made
 additions in income of assessee towards transactions of purchase
 and sale of shares and undisclosed commission pald in cash.ClT(A)
 observed that shares were sold by assessee for conslderation
 through named stock broker and appellant furnished all the 45 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur evldence like broker's note, contract note, extract of cash book,
balance-sheet, share certificate etc. to establish the genuineness of
transactions. The AO failed to bring any evldence in rebuttal nor
was it proved that documents produced by assessee were false,
fabricated or fictitious. ITAT upheld the order of CIT(A) that AO
proceeded only on presumptions and was not justified in making
additions u/s 68 of the Act. Held, findings of AO were based on
presumptions rather than on cogent proof. CIT(A) and TAT found
that the AO failed to show that the material documents placed on
record by assessee like broker's note, contract note, relevant
extract of cash book, copies of share certificate, de-mat statement
etc. were false, fabricated or fictitious. The appellate authorities
have rightly observed that the facts as noticed by the AO, like the
notice u/s 136 to the company having been returned unserved;
delayed payment to the brokers; and de-materialisation of shares
just before the sale would lead to suspicion and call for detailed
examination and verification but then, for these facts alone, the
transaction could not be rejected altogether, particularly in
absence of any cogent evldence to the contrary. The findings as
recorded by the appellate authorities, after thorough conslderation
of material on record that the transaction of purchase and sale of
shares could not be treated as non-genuine was justified. No
substantial question of law worth conslderation in present case.
The findings as concurrently recorded by the CIT(A) and the ITAT,
that addition under Section 68 of the Act was not sustainable,
remain essentially in the realm of appreciation of evldence. The
Appellate Authorities have returned the finding of fact in favour of
the assessee after due appreciation of evldence on record, on
relevant conslderations, and on sound reasoning. The finding 46 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur neither appears suffering from any perversity nor is of such nature
 that cannot be reached at all. Hence, no substantial question of
 law is involved in this appeal. Shri Meghraj Singh Shekhawat vs. DCIT (2017) 443 & 444/JP/2017 (JP) order
dated 7-03-2018

 Brief facts are that the assessee is an indivldual and engaged in
 the business of retail sale of IMFL/Beer. During the assessment
 proceeding the AO noted that the assessee has shown long term
 capital gain of Rs. 1,32,56,113/-which is claimed as exempt u/s
 10(38) of the Act on sale of shares of M/s Rutron International
 Ltd. The AO received information from Investigation Wing, Kolkata
 that during the search conducted u/s 132 of the Act on
 12.04.2015 at the business premises of one Shri Anil Agarwal
 Group it was found that Shri Anil Agarwal is one of the promoters
 of M/s Rutron International Ltd. The shares were sold by the
 assessee from his D-mat account through the broker M/s
 AnandRathi Share and Stock Brokers Ltd. and therefore, the
 assessee denied any involvement of availing the bogus of long
 term capital gain. Consequently the AO made an addition of Rs.
 1,32,56,113/- to the total income of the assessee u/s 68 of the
 Act. The Ld. AR has submitted that the assessee was allotted
 3,50,000/- equity shares by M/s Rutron International Ltd. on
 01.03.2012 vlde allotment letter dated 08.03.2012. The shares
 were allotted by the company at face value of Rs. 10/- each
 without charging any premium under preferential issue. The
 assessee pald the purchase conslderation/ share application
 money vlde cheque on 29.02.2012 the payment made by the 47 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur assessee is duly reflected in the bank statement of the assessee.
 The shares were dematerialized on 18.06.2012 and thereafter the
 shares were sold from 13.03.2013 onwards on various dates
 through M/s Anand Rathi Shares & Stock Brokers Ltd. The
 assessee has produced all the relevant evldence to show the
 allotment of shares, payment of conslderation through cheque at
 the time of allotment of shares dematerialization of the shares
 and thereafter, sale of shares from the D-mat account. The
 Assessing Officer has not produced any material or record to
 controvert the evldence produce by the assessee. Consldering all
 these facts the Hon'ble ITAT held that the order of the Assessing
 Officer treating the long term capital gainas bogus and
 consequential addition made to the total income of the assessee
 is not sustainable & deleted the same. Shri Vivek Agarwal vs. ITO (2017) 292/JP/2017 (ITAT Jaipur) Order dt.
6/4/18

 The brief facts of the case are that the assessee is an Indivldual &
 has claimed exempt income of Rs. 4,78,38,157/- under the head
 Long Term Capital Gains on account of shares. The AO while
 passing the assessment order under section 143(3) has held that
 the long term capital gains claimed by the assessee is bogus as
 the assessee has arranged the accommodation entries from the
 persons who are engaged in provlding bogus accommodation
 entries of capital gains. The Hon'ble ITAT held that the facts of
 the present case acquiring of shares of M/s. Parldhi Properties
 Ltd. under private placement directly from the company and
 subsequently on merger of the sald company with M/s. Luminaire 48 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur

 Technologies Ltd. the shares of the new entity were allotted to
 the assessee which were duly dematerialized and then sold from
 the Demat account are ldentical to the case of ShriPramod Jain &
 Others vs. DCIT & others. In view of the finding of the Coordinate
 Bench on the ldentical issue, it was found that when the payment
 of purchase conslderation pald through cheque directly to the
 company and the subsequent merger of the company as per the
 scheme of merger approved by the High Court, then the
 transaction and sale of shares in question cannot be held as
 bogus. The AO has passed the impugned order on the basis of the
 statement of Shri Deepak Patwari which is ldentical as in the case
 of Shri Pramod Jain & others vs. DCIT . Accordingly, following the
 order of the Coordinate Bench of this Tribunal, we hold that the
 addition made by the AO is merely based on suspicion and
 surmises without any cogent material to controvert the evldence
 filed by the assessee insupportthe claim. Further, the AO has
 also failed to establish that the assessee has brought back his
 unaccounted income in the shape of long term capital gain.
 Hence we delete the addition made by the AO on this account. Shri Purushotam Soni vs. ITO (2017) 288/JP/2017 (ITAT Jaipur) Order
dt.6/4/18

 The facts of this case are that assessee claimed long term capital
 gain on sale of shares of Luminare Technology Limited. The AO on
 the basis of the information received from investigation wing
 treated the same as bogus & made the addition. The CIT(A)
 confirmed the same. On further appeal, the Hon'ble ITAT by
 following the decision of Pramod Kumar Jain & others vs. DCIT 49 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma , Jaipur ITA No. 368/JP/2017 as well as in the case of Meghraj Singh Shekhawat vs. DCIT 443 & 444/JP/2017 allowed the appeal of the
 assessee. Mahesh Kumar Bald vs. ACIT, ITA No. 1236/Ko1/2017 dt 18.08.2017
(Cal.)(Trib.)

The finding of Hon'ble ITAT in Para 6 is reproduced as under: Further, in the instant case, we note that the assessee satisfies the necessary
ingredients and conditions as so specified in section 10(38) of the Act, in terms
of transfer of long term capital asset by way of sale of equity shares on which
STT has been paid, he shall therefore be eligible for exemption on whole of the
income so realized as the provisions talks about any income arising from 53 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur transfer of such long term capital asset which shall be exempt from tax. We
 accordingly donot see any infirmity or illegality in the said findings of the ld
 CIT(A). 31. Further, the Mumbai Benches of the Tribunal in case of Vijayrattan
 Balkrishan Mittal vs. DCIT (supra) has again discussed this issue in
 threadbare in para 7 to 37 as under :- AO observed that the persons listed above in the notice have purchased the
 shares of PAL and are exit providers and entry operator and are in the business
 of providing accommodation entries and relied upon their statements viz. Anil
 Khemka, Sanjoy Dey & Mandar Naik (director of Saraf Equity). The relevant
 observations in the assessment order reads as under: - Para 9: "Further, a SEBI order has been passed in the case of Pine
 Animation Ltd order vide dated 08.05.2015 which directs that the
 trading in the securities of shall be suspended till further
 directions...........The shares are sold by the beneficiaries have been
 purchased by paper/ bogus entities (e)it providers). Para 11.3: ......to prove genuineness, proof of physical transfer of shares,
 reasons to trade off-market when options to online market trading
 through demat account were available, trading pattern of market
 transactions for the last three years, have not been submitted to this
 office Submissions on above: 16. The learned Counsel further narrated that the allegation of AO in para 11.3 that
proof of physical transfer of shares, reasons for off market trading and trading pattern
of market transactions for the last three years have not been submitted is also
unfounded and contrary to the facts. The assessee during course of assessment
submitted complete documents of preferential allotment of shares and trading in shares
of seven years vide its reply dated 23.11.17. There was no physical transfer of shares
during the year under appeal except one in which company has bought back shares of
Sundram investment for Rs. 5,257/-. Therefore, observations regarding off market
trading are absolutely wrong and contrary to the facts. 17. Ld Counsel for the assessee explained the process at Stock Exchange Network, which

is filed in the shape of note as under: - 18. Further, the learned Counsel stated that the assessee has sold these shares through
his broker Geojit who is registered broker of Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), National
Stock Exchange (NSE) and other exchanges. The broker Geojit is an old and reputed
share broker and is in this business for years. The assessee is dealing with it for more
than 10 years and sold equity shares of PAL on BSE platform through his regular broker
Geojit and delivered the shares from his demat account and received sale proceeds
directly in his designated bank account as explained in the facts of the case. STT,
brokerage, Stamp duty, SEBI and other charges were duly paid on transactions done on
BSE platform. The AO has accepted all the documents filed by the assessee without any
doubt on its authenticity or genuineness. The relevant documents and evidence of these
transactions are also submitted before us. The broker Geojit also does not know to
whom the shares were sold. Only SEBI or stock exchange knows who bought these
shares and these authorities do not supply such information unless called by
Government Authority. Therefore, the assessee or his broker did not have any record or 59 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur knowledge of the purchasers at the time of sale. However, during the course of
investigation by SEBI, the information was supplied by BSE to the assessee in the form of
a CD to offer his reply on the ex-parte order issued by SEBI on 08.05.2015. From the CD,
the assessee came to know that his shares of PAL were bought by 50 buyers through
multiple brokers. The delivery of shares is given to Geojit by the assessee from his
demat account. Copy of demat statement is already filed in assessee paper book before
us. The broker in turn transfers the shares to BSE Clearing account. The sale proceeds of
sale of shares is settled by exchange settlement system and directly credited to broker's
bank accounts by the BSE and the assessee received payment from Geojit i.e. directly
into his designated hank account. Copy of bank statement is filed in assessee's paper
book (APB). 19. Further, the assessee has no connection or nexus with the buyers as also the
activities of the buyers. Even if the buyers are doubtful or of suspicious character that
does not affect the transactions of sale of shares by the assessee through proper
channel i.e. on the recognized stock exchange through the registered broker and
payments were received. He argued that during search itself and in the course of
investigation the department had made exhaustive survey and enquiry for these
transactions from Geojit and other brokers and nothing incriminating was found against
the assessee. The details, documents and third party evidences supporting the sale
transactions and payments received have been filed by the assessee. The transactions
were done at prices prevailing on the date of transaction and STT was paid on such
transactions cleared through exchange clearance system. 20. The learned Counsel further referred to SEBI Investigation in case of PAL. It was
argued that in case of PAL, the whole time member of SEBI the market regulator, on a
preliminary report of its surveillance department has passed ad interim exparte order
no. WTM/RKA/ISD/36/2015 dated 08.05.2015 against PAL and 177 entities including
assessee. However, despite no charge against the assessee, the whole time member of
the SEBI confirmed the ex-parte order vide passing Confirmatory order no.
WTM/RKA/ISD/61/2016 dated 02.06.2016. The assessee went in appeal before the
Securities Appellate Tribunal against the confirmatory order of the SEBI. While the
assessee's appeal with SAT was at hearing stage, the investigation department of the
SEBI completed investigation in PAL and passed final order vide order no.
SEBI/WTM/MPB/EFDI-DRA-III/28/09/2017 dated 19.09.2017. Relevant para no.9, 10,
and 11 of SEBI order are reproduced herein below: 21. Thus, the SEBI's final order dated 19.09.2017 clearly came to the conclusion that
SEBI's investigation did not find any adverse evidence against the 114 entities including
the assessee and given finding that the assessee has no connection/nexus with PAL or
its promoters/directors or promoters related entities nor any role in price manipulation,
volume manipulation in the script of PAL. No violation of provisions of SEBI Act , SCRA,
PFUTP regulation's, etc. were observed in respect of 114 entities (including the
assessee). The list of 114 entities referred in the SEBI Order also includes following
alleged exit providers discussed in show cause notice and referred to in the assessment
order as under: - 22. These alleged exit providers were also exonerated by the SEBI Order and the
remaining alleged exit providers viz. 1) Dwarkapuri Constructions P Ltd., 2) Olympia
Sales Agencies P Ltd. and 3) Particle Industries P Ltd. were neither referred in the SEBI
ex-parte order dated 08.05.201 5 nor in the final order dated 19.09.2017 which goes to
prove that neither the assessee nor the exit providers alleged by the AO were involved
in any arrangement or accommodation and hence , allegations of AO are wrong and
without any evidence. Copies of SEBI ad-interim ex-parte order dated 08.05.2015,
confirmatory order dated 02.06.2016 and final order dated 19.09.2017 are enclosed at
pages 217-277 of APB. Subsequently, the SAT disposed-off the appeal of the assessee as
infructuous and passed order accordingly vide order no. nil dated 26.09.2017. Copy
enclosed at pages 278-283 of APB. 23. In view of the above the assessee has been exonerated by SEBI in the case of PAL
stating that he had no nexus/ connection or collusion with the company, its directors, or
promoters and was not involved in price manipulation & volume manipulation, etc.
Further, the alleged exit providers for the script have not played any role in assessee's
transactions in the script as he has neither taken any accommodation nor entry or exit
from any of the alleged parties. 24. On the other hand, the learned CIT DR Shri Manjunatha Swami, argued that the
entire transaction is bogus. He stated that he is relying on the elaborate order written
by the AO and that of the CIT(A). 25. We have noted that PAL made a preferential allotment of equity shares in the year
2013. The assessee on application for shares was allotted the same at Rs. 10 per share.
The company had split the face value of its shares in 2013. Due to this, assessee
received 15,00,000 shares against 1,50,000 shares allotted earlier. The assessee
acquired the shares on the basis of guidance from his father and friends. The purchase
and sale of shares was neither pre-planned nor under any arrangement with the
company or any party related to it. The allotment of shares by PAL was made after
obtaining prior approval of BSE as per SEBI Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements
Regulation, 2009. We noted from the facts that as per the financials provided in the
assessment order, it can be seen that the company had incurred a loss in FY 11-12 of Rs.
7 lakhs and has earned profit of 16 lakhs in FY 12-13. The fact that PAL was turned from
loss making to profit earning itself demonstrates the fact that there was potential in PAL
due to which the assessee purchased the shares. Further, the turnover, in the FY 2013-
14 increased by 10 times as compared to the preceding previous FY and increase in the 62 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur net profit after tax was almost around 4 times than that of the net profit recorded in the
year of purchase. Moreover, the prices of the company were almost constant for a year.
When the assessee thought that the prices had reached its peak, he slowly sold all the
shares in a time span of 3 months. To prove the genuineness of the transactions, the
assessee provided all the supporting evidences like, share application form, bank
statement highlighting the transactions, contract notes, broker's ledger, demat
statement Form 10DB, SEBI's final order, SAT Order, etc. 26. However, the AO made addition under section 68 of the Act and CIT(A) confirmed
the addition by ignoring all the facts and evidences and without providing any proof of
assessee's involvement in the manipulation of price or volume of the shares of the
company or pointing out any defect or deficiency in the process of transactions or its
eligibility to deduction u/s 10(38) of the Act. We noted that the AO in his Assessment
Order in para 7 and 8 has exhaustively mentioned in detail the financials of PAL,
preferential allotment of shares, price of PAL, Exit providers, etc. Following paras have
been ditto /copied from SEBI ad-interim ex-parte order dated 08.05.2015. Although
after Investigation, SEBI in its final order exonerated the assessee and the alleged exit
providers but the AO failed to consider the SEBI final order in the assessment order. It
means that the AO and CIT(A) also relied on the order of SEBI dated 08.05.2015 mainly
for drawing inferences and deciding the issue on the basis of conjunctures and surmises
and not on evidences. 27. In view of the above, we noted that it is SEBI who monitors and regulates the stock
exchanges & stock market and when their investigation did not reveal any price or
volume manipulation by the assessee and these transactions are in the normal course
through proper & legal channels. Then the allegations of the IT Department fall flat and
denial of deduction u/s 10(38) of the Act is arbitrary and addition of sale proceeds of
shares of PAL u/s 68 is against the provisions of Act. The assessee in his reply dated
20.11.2017 submitted to the AO that the allegations mentioned in paras of show cause
notice are based entirely on SEBI ad-interim ex-parte order dated 08.05.2015 which was
reversed after detailed investigation wherein SEBI has exonerated the assessee of all the
allegations without any qualification. A copy of SEBI Final order dated 19.09.2017 was
also enclosed with the APB. But the AO has failed to refer to assessee's submissions and
SEBI's final order dated 19.09.2017 in the assessment order inspite of the fact that
assessee's submissions and SEBIs final order were already on its record thereby
contravening the principles of natural justice. ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur 28. We also noted that as per provisions of section 68 of the Act, where any sum is
found credited in the books in any previous year and assessee offers no explanation
about the nature and source thereof or the explanation offered is not satisfactory to the
AO, the sum credited may be charged to tax under Sec. 68 of the Act. The assessee is
required to prove: (i) the identity of the creditor (ii) Source of the credit and (iii)
genuineness of the transaction to the satisfaction of the AO. To prove the identity of the
creditor, the nature of transactions, source of payments and the genuineness of the
transactions of sale of shares of PAL, the assessee has submitted following documents/
evidences: - ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur f) SEBI's final order dt. 19.09.2017 relating to PAL is enclosed. SEBI
 after detailed investigation into the transactions in the shares of
 these companies held that the parties to the investigation including
 assessee and alleged exit providers are having no nexus or
 connection with the company, their directors, promoters etc. and
 there is no price or volume manipulation in these scripts. This also
 explains the genuineness of the transactions and discards the
 theory of manipulation or accommodation to take tax advantage
 illegally. 29. We have also noted the facts further that the assessee has received total amount of
Rs. 14,16,80,449/- on account of sale of shares of PAL during the year, in the account
with Axis Bank from Geojit, registered broker of BSE with whom the assessee is dealing
from last more than 10 years. The assessee has been regular investor in shares &
securities and his portfolio comprises of various shares and the aggregate value of
investments for 5 years have been as under: - Copies of Balance Sheet of the assessee for the above mentioned years showing the
investments made in shares were submitted to the AO vide submission dated 15.03.17
as well as before CIT(A) and even now before us. This adds to the bonafide of the
assessee's transactions. In view of the above facts and circumstances of the case, we
have to go through the expression of "nature and source" and has to understand the
requirement of identification of the source and its genuineness. Sec. 68 of the Act places
the burden of proof on the tax payer, to explain the nature of source of any credit but
not the source of the source. Hence when an assessee gives evidences of identity of the
payer, source of the credit, evidences of the transactions to prove the genuineness, the
assessee is said to have discharged his initial burden. In view of the above, we are of the
view that the assessee has explained and submitted evidences to prove identity, nature
and source of the cash credit on account of sale proceeds credited / received in the
bank account of the assessee and also furnished all evidences comprising contract
notes, brokers, banking details in support of the genuineness of the transactions. The
AO has not pointed out any deficiency in the documents or inherent weakness in the 65 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur explanation or doubted genuineness of the transactions for want of any evidence. The
AO did not produce any evidence whatsoever to prove the allegation that unaccounted
money changed hands between the assessee and the broker or any other person
including the alleged exit provider nor proved that the assessee has taken any type of
accommodation from any person or so called exit providers to introduce unaccounted
money into books by way of LTCG. With the purchase and sale transactions of shares of
PAL are proved genuine by third parry evidences - bank, broker; DP-demat account, and
in the absence of any material to prove cash changing hands in the transaction, the
addition made by the AO under section 68 of the Act, by treating the sale consideration
as unexplained, sham, non-genuine is baseless. The addition under section 68 of the Act
made merely of the basis of suspicion, presumptions and probability of preponderance
without any direct evidence to prove the transactions as non-genuine or sham or
demonstrating appellant's involvement in any kind of manipulation is illegal and cannot
sustain. The findings of investigation & modus operandi in other cases narrated by the
AO and also CIT(A) nowhere prove any connection with the assessee nor the assessee's
involvement or connection or collusion with the brokers, exit providers, accommodation
providers or companies or directions etc. For making the addition, it is necessary to
bring on record evidence to establish ingenuity in transactions or any connection of the
assessee or its transaction with any of the alleged parties. The assessee has discharged
his onus by establishing the identity of the payer, source of the credit and genuineness
of the transactions. 30. We noted that the learned CIT Departmental Representative also relied on the
decision of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court, Nagpur Bench in the case of Sanjay
Bimalchand Jain vs. Pr. CIT (2018) 89 taxmann.com 196 (Bom), wherein the decision on
the impugned issue was discussed. Hon'ble High Court has considered the facts of Sanjay Bimaichand Jain supra from where we find that (i ) in that case , the broker
company through which the shares were sold did not respond to AO's letter regarding
the names and address and bank account of the person who purchased the shares sold
by the assessee (ii) Moreover, at the time of acquisition of shares of both the companies
by the assessee, the payments were made in cash (iii) The address of both the
companies were interestingly the same (iv) The authorized signatory at both the
companies were also the same person (v) The purchase of shares of both the companies
was done by that assessee through broker, GSSL and the address of the said broker was 66 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur incidentally the address of the two companies. Based on these crucial facts, the Hon'ble
Bombay High Court rendered the decision in favour of the revenue. None of these
factors were present in the facts of the assessee before us. Hence it could be safely
concluded that the decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court supra is factually
distinguishable. 31. Now we will discuss the modus operandi, preponderance of probability and human
behavior. We noted that the AO as well as CIT(A) have rejected all evidences filed by the
assessee by referring to 'Modus Operandi" of persons for earning long term capital gains
which is exempt from Income tax under section 10(38) of the Act. All these observations
are general in nature and are applied across the board to all including the assessee.
Specific evidences produced by the assessee are not controverted by the revenue
authorities. No evidence collected by the AO from third parties is confronted to
assessee. No opportunity of cross-examination of persons, on whose statements the
revenue relies to make the addition, it provided to the assessee. The addition is made
based on a general report from the investigation wing. 32. The issue for consideration before us is whether in such cases, the legal evidence
produced by the assessee has to guide our decision in the matter or the general
observations based on statements, probabilities, human behavior and discovery of the
modus operandi adopted in earning alleged bogus LTCG and STCG, that have surfaced
during investigations, should guide the authorities in arriving at a conclusion as to
whether the claim is genuine or not. An alleged scam might have taken place on LTCG
etc. But it has to be established in each case, by the parry alleging so, that this assessee
in question was part of this scam. The chain of events and the live link of the assessee's
action giving his involvement in the scam should be established. The allegation implies
that cash was paid by the assessee and in return the assessee received LTCG, which is
exempt from income tax, by way of cheque through banking channels. This allegation
that cash had changed hands has to be proved with evidence, by the revenue. Evidence
gathered by the Director Investigation's office by way of statements recorded etc. has to
also be brought on recording each case, when such a statement, evidence etc. is relied
upon by the revenue to make any additions. Opportunity of cross examination has to be
provided to the assessee, if the AO relies on any statements or third party as evidence
to make an addition. If any material or evidence is sought to be relied upon by the AO,
he has to confront the assessee with such material. The claim of the assessee cannot be 67 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur rejected based on mere conjectures unverified by evidence under the pretentious garb
of preponderance of human probabilities and theory of human behavior by the
department. 33. It is well settled that evidence collected from third parties cannot be used against an
assessee unless this evidence is put before him and he is given an opportunity to
controvert the evidence. In this case, the AO relies only on a report as the basis for the
addition. The evidence based on which the DDIT report is prepared is not brought on
record by the AO nor is it put before the assessee. The submissions of the assessee that
he is just an investor and as he received some tips and he chose to invest based on
these market tips and had taken a calculated risk and had gained in the process and that
he is not party to the scam etc., has to be controverted by the revenue with evidence
when a person claims that he has done these transactions in a bona fide manner, one
cannot reject this submission based on surmises and conjectures. As the report of
investigation wing suggests, there are many beneficiaries of LTCG. Each case has to be
assessed based on principles of legal import laid down by the Courts of law. 34. In our view, just the modus operandi, generalisation, preponderance of human
probabilities cannot be the only basis for rejecting the claim of the assessee. Unless
specific evidence is brought on record to controvert the validity and correctness of the
documentary evidences produced, the same cannot be rejected by the assessee. The
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Omar Salay Mohamed Sait v. CIT [1959] 37 ITR 151
(SC) had held that no addition can be made on the basis of surmises, suspicion and
conjectures. In the case of CIT v. Daulat Ram Rawatmull [1973] 87 ITR 349 (SC) (SC) the
Hon'ble Supreme Court held that, the onus to prove that the apparent is not real is on
the party who claims it to be so. The burden of proving a transaction to be bogus has to
be strictly discharged by adducing legal evidences, which would directly prove the fact
of bogusness or establish circumstance unerringly and reasonably raising interference to
that effect. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Umacharan Shaw & Bros. v. CIT
(1959) [1959] 37 ITR 271 (SC) held that suspicion however strong, cannot take the place
of evidence. In this connection we refer to the general view on the topic of conveyance
of immovable properties. The rates/sale prices are at variance with the circle rates fixed
by the Registration authorities of the Government in most cases and the general
impression is that cash would have changed hands. The courts have laid down that 68 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur judicial notice of such notorious facts cannot be taken based on generalisation. Courts
of law are bound to go by evidence. 35. But in the present case, we noted that the assessing officer has been guided by the
report of the investigation wing prepared with respect to bogus capital gains
transactions. The assessing officer has not brought out any part of the investigation
wing report in which the assessee has been investigated and /or found to be a pan of
any arrangement for the purpose of generating bogus long term capital gains. Nothing
has been brought on record to show that the persons investigated, including entry
operators or stock brokers, have named that the assessee was in collusion with them. In
absence of such findings how is it possible to link their wrong doings with the assessee.
In fact, the investigation wing is a separate department which has not been assigned
assessment work and has been delegated the work of only making Investigation. The Act has vested widest powers on this wing. It is the duty of the investigation wing to
conduct proper and detailed inquiry in any matter where there is allegation of tax
evasion and after making proper inquiry and collecting proper evidences the matter
would be sent to the assessment wing to assess the income as per law. We find no such
action executed by investigation wing against the assessee. In absence of any findings
specifically against the assessee in the investigation wing report, the assessee cannot be
held to be guilty or linked to the wrong acts of the persons investigated. In this case, the
AO at best could have considered the investigation report as a starting point of
Investigation. The report only Informed the AO that some persons may have misused
the scrip: for the purpose of collusive transactions. The AO was duty bound to make
inquiry from all concerned parties relating to the transactions and then to collect
evidences that the transaction entered into by the assessee was also a collusive
transaction. However, the AO has not brought on record any evidence to prove that the
transactions entered by the assessee which are otherwise supported by proper third
party documents are collusive transactions. 36. The Hon'ble Supreme Court way back in the case of Lalchand Bhagat Ambica Ram v.
CIT [1959] 37 ITR 288 (SC) held that assessment could not be based on background of
suspicion and in absence of any evidence to support the same. The Hon'ble Court held: 37. The observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court are equally applicable to the case of the
assessee. The AO and CIT(A) both, having failed to bring on record any material to prove
that the transactions of the assessee were collusive transactions could not have rejected
the evidences submitted by the assessee. In fact, in this case nothing has been found
against the assessee with aid of any direct evidences or material against the assessee
despite the matter being investigated by various wings of the Income Tax Department
and hence under these circumstances nothing can be implicated against the assessee. In
view of the above, the findings / allegations of the AO and CIT(A) are baseless, without
any evidence, contrary to the facts and circumstances of the case and provisions of the
Act. Hence, we delete the addition made by the AO by setting aside the order of ld.
CIT(A) based upon such findings. This common issue as regards to addition under
section 68 of surplus arising out of sale of shares of listed companies and consequent
addition under section 69C on the presumption that commission at the rate of 3% was 70 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur paid is hereby deleted. Accordingly, this common and interconnected issue of the four
 assessee's appeals is allowed. 38. Similarly, common and inter-connected issues in the cases of Vijay Ratan Balkrishan
 Mittal in ITA Nos. 3427- 3429/Mum/2019 for AYs 2012-13 to 2014-15, Mahendra B
 Mittal (HUF) in ITA No. 3426/Mum/2019 for AY 2013-14, Pooja Mahendra Mittal in ITA
 Nos. 3311-3314/Mum/2019 for AYs 2012-13 to 2015-16 & Mahendra B Mittal in ITA
 Nos. 3264 & 3265/Mum/2019, 3247/Mum/2019 AY 2012-13, 2014-15 & 2013-14
 respectively, hence, taking consistent view in these appeals also, we allow the same." 32. In the aforesaid decision, it has been held that where SEBI who monitors and
regulates the stock exchanges & stock market in its investigation did not reveal any
price or volume manipulation by the assessee and these transactions are in the normal
course through proper & legal channels, then the allegations of the IT Department fall
flat and denial of deduction u/s 10(38) of the Act is arbitrary and addition of sale
proceeds of shares of PAL u/s 68 is against the provisions of Act. In the case in hand,
the AO made a reference to the SEBI interim order dated 17.04.2015 wherein the
company, its promoters/directors and shareholders including the assessee were
restricted from accessing the securities market, however, we find that in the
subsequent order dated 5.10.2017, the SEBI has noted that there are no adverse
findings against 104 entities including the assessee with respect to their role in the price
manipulation/prima facie violation for which interim order was passed and therefore,
directions issued against them were revoked. Therefore, the SEBI order shall have no
bearing in judging the genuineness of the transaction undertaken by the assessee or for
that matter, the price and realization on sale of shares so undertaken by the assessee
through the stock exchange. Further, it has been held in the aforesaid case that the
findings of investigation & modus operandi in other cases narrated by the AO and also
CIT(A) nowhere prove any connection with the assessee nor the assessee's involvement
or connection or collusion with the brokers, exit providers, accommodation providers or
companies or directions etc and for making the addition, it is necessary to bring on
record evidence to establish ingenuity in transactions or any connection of the assessee
or its transaction with any of the alleged parties. In the instant case as well, as we have
discussed earlier, there is no finding which proves assessee's connection, involvement 71 ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur or collusion with so called accommodation entry providers. Further in the aforesaid
case, the issue as to whether the legal evidence produced by the assessee has to guide
our decision in the matter or the general observations based on statements,
probabilities, human behavior and discovery of the modus operandi adopted in earning
alleged bogus LTCG and STCG, that have surfaced during investigations, should guide
the authorities in arriving at a conclusion as to whether the claim is genuine or not has
been discussed at length. And referring to legal proposition laid down by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court that the burden of proving a transaction to be bogus has to be strictly
discharged by adducing legal evidence held that the modus operandi, generalisation,
preponderance of human probabilities cannot be the only basis for rejecting the claim of
the assessee unless specific evidence is brought on record to controvert the validity and
correctness of the documentary evidences produced, the same cannot be rejected. We
are in agreement with the said view and in the instant case, we find that evidence
produced by the assessee in support of his claim of purchase and sale of shares on the
stock exchange have not been refuted by any adverse findings or material which could
demonstrate involvement of the assessee or collusion with so called accommodation
entry providers to obtain bogus LTCG as so alleged by the authorities below. 33. In light of above discussions and in the entirety of facts and circumstances
of the case, we are of the considered view that the assessee has discharged the
necessary onus cast on him in terms of claim of exemption of long term capital
gains u/s 10(38) of the Act by establishing the genuineness of transaction of
purchase and sale of shares and satisfying the requisite conditions specified
therein and the gains so arising on sale of shares therefore has been rightly
claimed as exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act. Accordingly, in the facts and
circumstances of the case, we do not find any error or illegality in the impugned
order of the ld. CIT(Appeals) who has rightly allowed the said claim of the
assessee and the same is hereby affirmed. In the result, the grounds of appeal
so taken by the Revenue are dismissed. 34. In the result, the appeal of the Revenue is dismissed. ITA No. 780 & 781-2019 DCIT, Jaipur vs. Prakash Chand Sharma & Smt. Kalawati Sharma, Jaipur ITA No. 781/JP/19 35. Both the parties fairly submitted that the facts and circumstances of the
case are exactly identical as in ITA No. 780/JP/19 and similar contentions raised
therein may be considered. Therefore, considering the admitted position that
there are no changes in the facts and circumstances, our findings and directions
contained in ITA No. 780/JP/19 shall apply mutatis mutandis to this appeal
matter and the appeal of the Revenue is dismissed. In the result, both the appeals filed by the Revenue are dismissed. Order pronounced in the open Court on 18/11/2020. vkns'k dh izfrfyfi vxzfs 'kr@Copy of the order forwarded to: