The Issue 1. Grievance in this application is against unscientific and illegal

mining by M/s Star Mines, Saharanpur, obstructing the flow of Yamuna

River in Village Belgarh, U.P (it was later stated by the parties that the said

village falls on the side of Haryana on the bank of Yamuna river). It is stated

that fifteen Pokland machines are working day and night causing damage

to the environment, including air pollution. Though lease for mining for the

area in Saharanpur District in UP, the lessee is undertaking illegal mining

in Village Belgarh in Haryana also. Procedural History 2. Vide order dated 27.10.2021, a factual and action taken report was

sought from a joint Committee of Haryana State PCB, UPPCB, SEIAA, UP,

SEIAA, Haryana, District Magistrate, Yamuna Nagar and District

Magistrate, Saharanpur, U.P. The joint Committee gave its report dated

26.05.2022 inter-alia to the effect that boundary of the State was not

clearly demarcated so as to identify the site of illegal mining. Vide order

dated 12.08.2022, the report was held to be unsatisfactory and incomplete. The Tribunal directed the Chief Secretaries of Haryana and UP to take

remedial action, including action against erring officers in failing to give

complete information and also to provide complete information. Notice was

also issued notice to the Project Proponent (PP) - M/s Star Mines,

Saharanpur. 3. In pursuance of above, response was filed by the PP and States of

UP and Haryana. The applicant filed email dated 12.10.2022 reiterating

the allegation of illegal mining. The Tribunal considered the matter vide

order dated 25.1.2023. Stand of the parties was noted as follows: 4. The stand of PP is that it has not done any illegal mining and

 in any case action has already been taken against it in pursuance of

 earlier orders. Matter is also pending in appeals against orders of

 this Tribunal. Thus, present application is not maintainable. In any

 case, there is no violation for which any further order may be called

 for. Stand of State of UP 5. Stand of State of UP in its report dated 12.9.2022 is that since

 consents have not been taken by the PP, there is no illegal mining 2 on UP side of Yamuna for which mining lease has been granted. Illegal mining is being reportedly done in Haryana. Relevant part of

the report is reproduced below:- 6- As per the report of the Tehsildar Chhachhrauli,
 Yamuna Nagar, Haryana. It seems that the Illegal
 mining seems to be taking place in the village
 Belgarh which is located in the State of Haryana.
 Village Belgarh and Village Koliwala, which are
 adjacent to the border of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh,
 currently have mining leases in operation and many
 stone crushers have been established in the said
 area. But no mining work has been done by M/s Star
 Mines outside its sanctioned area towards Belgarh.
 Belgarh falls in west direction and village Bartha
 Korsi falls in east direction. 7- As far as the change in the flow of the river is
 concerned, no change in the flow of the river has been
 found during the on-site inspection, as per the
 individual report submitted by the team members
 consisting of officers of Uttar Pradesh. It was also
 informed by the local people that the river has been
 flowing at this place since many years. Therefore, in view of the above, illegal mining in the area
adjoining the border in the Uttar Pradesh has not been found
nor has any fact been found that the district officials of the
district Saharanpur are guilty for the same. This Action taken
report is submitting after approval of Chief Secretary,
Government of Uttar Pradesh." Stand of State of Haryana 6. Mines and Geology Department, Haryana has filed its reply

dated 21.01.2023 to the effect that due to excessive flow of the river,

facts could not be verified. Illegal mining was reported at the border

of Haryana and U.P. in the middle of river Yamuna. FIR for theft has

been lodged. Action has been initiated against the IO for failing to

take remedial actions. Relevant part of the report is reproduced

below:- On account of illegal mining identified in Khasra No.
 19//20 and 201/13 of village Bailgarh, action was
 taken by registering an FIR No. 163 dated 03 June
 2021 under section 379 of IPC and section 21(4) (A) of
 Mines and Mineral Development & Regulations Act,
 1957 at Police Station Partap Nagar, Yamuna Nagar.
 The matter in said FIR is under investigation. Copy of
 FIR No. 163 dated 03 June 2021 is enclosed herewith
 as Annexure R/1. The area of these Khasra numbers is adjacent
 to the contract/leased area of the contractor 4 of Uttar Pradesh State, i.e., M/s Star Minerals.
 The google image showing distance between
 illegal mined site in question (Khasra
 No.19//20 and 20//13) and the contract area of
 M/s Star Minerals is 300 mtr. In the latest
 report dated 11 October 2022, the Deputy
 Commissioner, Yamuna Nagar, has reported
 that as per report dated 10 October 2022 of
 Superintendent of Police, Yamuna Nagar, an
 inquiry was conducted by DSP, Bilaspur
 regarding the said FIR No. 163 dated 03 June
 2021. As per report of DSP, Bilaspur's (report
 No. 1090 dated 07 October 2022) disciplinary
 action has been recommended against the
 Investigation Officer of the case namely ASI
 Sh. Shamsher Singh No. 410, Yamuna Nagar
 for lapse in conducting due and proper
 investigation in the matter. Accordingly, a
 departmental inquiry has been marked to DSP,
 Radaur against the said ASI, Sh. Shamsher
 Singh No. 410. In addition, to expedite the
 investigation, a Special Investigation Team (SIT)
 comprising of DSP, Bilaspur and SHO, Pratap
 Nagar has been now constituted by the
 Supeiintendent of Police, Yamuna Nagar on
 10.10.20222 (copy enclosed). The direction has
 been issued for expeditious investigation and
 taking the action to its logical & legal end. 7. That further as per report received from HSPCB
 vide letter dated 17 January 2023, no complaint
 had been received in the past regarding illegal
 mining in respect of Khasra No. 19//20 and
 20//13 (where the illegal mining had happened as
 per the complaint) by M/s Star Minerals. It has also
 been reported that HSPCB had not granted
 CTE/CTO to any unit for doing mining in Khasra No.
 191/20 and 20//13 situated at Village -- Bailgarh,
 District - Yamuna Nagar. M/s Star Minerals has been
 allotted the mining quarry by the Mining Department
 of Government of Uttar Pradesh. Illegal mining has
 been confirmed in Para No.3 of the Report of
 Joint Committee but it is also mentioned that
 due to the flow of water in the River, the
 quantum of mining undertaken could not be
 ascertained. Thus, it is difficult to assess the
 Environmental Compensation in the absence of
 quantum of mining. To summarise, investigation in FIR No. 163 dated 03
 June 2021 should have been taken to its logical end but
 it could not be done. On account of this lapse, a
 departmental inquiry is being conducted against the
 Inquiry Officer of the case, i.e., ASI, Sh. Shamsher
 Singh No. 410. Further, to expedite the investigation in
 the case, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of DSP,
 Bilaspur and SHO, Pratap Nagar has been constituted 5 by the Superintendent of Police, Yamuna Nagar. The
 direction has been issued for expeditious investigation
 and taking the action to its logical end." 7. The Tribunal held that since mining was on inter state border,

procedure laid down under Enforcing & Monitoring Guidelines for Sand

Mining (EMGSM) issued by MoEF&CC in January, 2020 was required to

be followed which had not been followed. The Tribunal constituted a ten

Member joint Committee headed by an Officer of the rank of Joint

Secretary, nominated by Secretary, Ministry of Jal Shakti, GoI, with four

nominees each of Haryana and UP Governments - representing Irrigation

Departments, Revenue Departments nominated by the District Magistrates

Saharanpur and Yamunanagar, Member Secretaries of HSPCB and UPPCB

and SEIAAs of two States and one nominee of IIT, Roorkee. The Committee

was to undertake "visit to the site, get the area demarcated to ascertain the

area where mining is allowed and where it is actually taking place and give

a report within one month. Demarcation may specify the inter-state

Borders. The Committee may also give its opinion whether and to what

extent mining in the area is desirable without damage to the environment

and if so, subject to what conditions. In this connection, the Committee

may also consider Section 32 of the Water (Prevention and Control of

Pollution) Act, 1974 and the River Ganga (Rejuvenation, Protection and

Management) Authorities Order, 2016. It may also be examined whether

drone mapping and CCTV cameras can be helpful tools for monitoring and

whether there should be State level Surveillance/monitoring team in view

of difficulties faced by local level teams in such matters. The Committee

will be at liberty to take assistance from any other

Expert/Institution/Department/individual and interact with stakeholders

in the area." Consideration today and further order 8. In pursuance of above, Committee has filed its report dated

07.04.2023 after undertaking visit to the site. The Committee has found

that as per Replenishment Study, quantity for mining could be

700626 m3 with 1.95 meter height and expected life of mine could be

1.35 years. In fact, mining has already been done up to a depth of 3

meters for annual production of 756000 cubic meters and maximum

period of 1.35 years is over. Thus, no further mining can be done

without fresh appraisal as per law. Relevant extracts from the report of

the Committee are as follows:- 2020. Pre monsoon and post monsoon Replenishment
 Study approved by District Level Committee was
 submitted to Mining Department, U.P. The said study
 also covered the mining area allotted to M/s Star Mines,
 village Bartha Korsi, Gata No.1, Behat, Saharanpur. As
 per Replenishment Study report pre monsoon
 reserve quantity of RBM is 173732 m3 and post
 monsoon reserve is 874358 m3 , hence
 replenishment quantity is 700626 m3, 1.95 meter
 height and expected life of mine 1.35 years has
 been assessed (Annexure A-14). (ii) M/s Star Mines, Gata No.1, Yamuna River, Village
 Bartha Korsi, Tehsil Behat, District Saharanpur,
 was permitted mining up to a depth of 3 meters for
 annual production of 756000 cubic meters. 6.3 Other measures being enforced to minimise
 environmental impact due to mining activities are as
 under:- mined bed level at any point in time with proper bench
 formation. (ii) As per the River Ganga (Rejuvenation protection and
 Management) Authorities Order, 2016, in River Yamuna 7 minimum 10 cumecs of Ecological flow is being
 discharged for Hathnikund Barrage throughout the year
 and monitored strictly by the Irrigation & Water
 Resources Department, Govt of Haryana (Annexure A- 15). (iii) Demarcation of boundaries for regulating grant of sand
 mining lease (a) There are provisions for notifying the geo-coordinates of
 all boundary pillars of the mining. (b) In this area, UP Minor Mineral Regulations are being
 followed. As result of practice, now the mining areas are
 firstly demarcated and e-tenders are published with
 details of boundary pillars geo-coordinates. (iv) Environmental Compensation imposed on leasing of
 minor minerals in any area to cover the restoration cost
 of environment and to compensate the victims

 There is a provision for execution of mining lease deed
 only after demarcation under rule-17 of the Mining lease
 Approval Rules, 1963. Compensations are imposed on
 observed faults as per provisions of UP Minor Minerals
 (Concession) Rules, 2021. (v) Mining in all blocks is under taken as per provisions of
 the EIA Notification, 2006, and the Sustainable Sand
 Mining Management Guidelines, 2016

 As per Rule 35(4) of the UP Minor Minerals (Concession)
 Rules, 1963 and the ETA Notification, 2006, mining
 activity can be started only after obtaining Environment
 Clearance. According to the Sustainable Sand
 Management Guidelines, 2016 issued by MOEF&CC,
 riverine mining is restricted during the monsoon season.
 Thus, mining work is not permitted in the State during
 July-September of each year. (vi) No sand mining is permitted without due compliance of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and
 the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 as
 well as regulations governing clearances by the State
 Ground Water Authority

 Rule- 42(h)(1) of the UPMMCR, 1963 envisages that no
 mining in the river bed is permitted beyond a depth of 3 m
 or water level whichever is less. The conditions stipulated
 in the Environmental Clearances certificate issued by
 SEIAA, UP along with the permissions granted under the Air
 Act & the Water Act , and Ground Water NOC from State
 Ground Water Authority, are monitored regularly for strict
 compliance. 6.4 The Joint Committee finds the present mechanism robust for grant
 of Environmental Clearances to mining projects/activities by the
 concerned regulatory authorities notified by MoEF&CC from time
 to time followed by permissions under the Air Act, 1981 and the 8 Water Act, 1974 by the respective SPCBs, which collectively
 acknowledges all environmental concerns including the extent of
 mining to be allowed in the area. The Committee is of the view to
 continue with the same, subject to strict adherence to the
 Enforcement & Monitoring Guidelines for Sand Mining-2020
 published by MoEF&CC, and also to reinforce the compliance
 monitoring of EC conditions. 6.5 As a general principle, mining of the material, which has been
 recently brought by the flowing river water and which is
 replenished every year; can only be permitted so that the
 hydrological regimes are maintained. The present practice is to
 identify such areas and permit mining as per the prevailing
 notifications. 7. Whether drone mapping and CCTV cameras can be
 helpful tools for monitoring and whether there should be
 state level surveillance, monitoring team in view of
 difficulties faced by local level teams in such matters

7.1 Present monitoring mechanism in the State of Haryana (i) Presently, seven check posts have been installed
 throughout the major routes of district Yamuna Nagar to
 strictly monitor the transportation of illegally mined
 minerals. Officials of mining and police department check
 the e-way bill of each vehicle. Since September 2022, 255
 (till Feb 28, 2023) Number of vehicles involved in illegal
 transportation and illegal mining have been caught in
 District Yamuna Nagar. (ii) Further, independent teams of mining and police
 department also keep regular check on illegal mining
 through surprise visits either during day or night time.
 Regular monthly meeting of District Level Task force
 Committee headed by chairman cum Deputy Commissioner,
 Yamuna Nagar, is held to review the status of legal mines
 and illegal mining in district Yamuna Nagar. Last such
 meeting was held on 14.02.2023. The proceeding of the
 meeting are forwarded to the Director Mines & Geology,
 Haryana which are later reviewed in State Level Task Force
 Committee (SLTF) meeting held under the Chairmanship of
 Chief Secretary, Government of Haryana (Annexure A-16). 7.2 Present monitoring mechanism in the State of UP (i) Status of CCTV Cameras installation at mining points to
 verify the amount of sand extracted and materials
 transported (a) Rule-36(2) of Uttar Pradesh Minor Mineral Regulations,
 1963 provides that the mining lease holder whose mining
 lease area is more than 5 hectares, shall construct check-
 post/gate and install 4 CCTV cameras capable of
 recording at 3600 visibility at his own expense for
 monitoring under the supervision of the D.M. 9 (b) The same is also controlled by Central Command
 Surveillance Centre located in Head Quarters, Lucknow. (ii) Status of regular patrolling by the Police to inspect mining
 operations

 For effective control over illegal mining and transportation
 of minerals, local task force comprising of District Revenue
 Department, District Mining Department and Police level
 officers act as task force and constantly monitored. (iii) Setting up of dedicated institutional mechanism for
 monitoring of conditions of Environmental Clearance as
 granted under EIA Notification, 2006 in respect of sand
 and gravel mining

 Under the supervision of the DMs, the conditions of the
 Environmental Clearance Certificate are complied with
 by the PCBs/ Departmental officers. (iv) Control of Mines and Transportation using latest
 technology (a) The Department has established a Command Centre at
 the Directorate of Geology and Mines at Lucknow from
 where they operate the Integrated Mines Surveillance
 System for the entire State. (b) Artificial Intelligence based Software and taking the help
 of Drones and Cloud Services for monitoring mining
 activity in the State are used for control of illegal acts by
 violators. (c) Drone Video-graphy/coverage are done in sensitive
 districts. (d) CCTV Cameras and check-gates and RED tags are used
 to monitor the movement of vehicles. person for up to 2 years if found guilty of illegal
 mining/illegal transportation. (b) The Rules have been amended to allow storage of
 minerals only beyond 5 km radius from the river bed in
 order to prevent illegal mining from river bed under the
 excuse/name of storage. (c) Vehicle Tracking System to check the misuse of Transport
 Pass and Overloading has been introduced and under
 full scale implementation. (d) Any new areas identified are based on survey conducted
 according to Sustainable Mining Guidelines, Mineral
 Exploration and then included in the DSR. (e) Instead of Physical Mineral Dispatch Permits, electronic
 permits (called MM11) with security features have been
 introduced which are controlled by OTP validation from
 online servers. (f) In District Saharanpur i.e. Biharigarh, Shahjahanpur
 and Deoband Presently three Check Gates have been
 implemented to control illegal transportation. ISTP (Inter
 State transport Permits) have been implemented to
 validate the legality of cross border transportation. (g) From April, 2022 to 13th March, 2023, 410 vehicles
 involved in illegal transportation have been caught
 through UP mines digital support system electronic check
 gates and revenue collected from seized vehicle is
 1,41,18,820/- S. No. No: of vehicle Revenue Collected Complaint/FIR
 seized Other from Vehicle
 than DSS seized other than
 electronic DSS electronic
 check gates check gates 1. 477 2,88,87,000/- 17 (h) For control of illegal mining arid transportation, District
 Task Force has been constituted comprising District
 Magistrate, SSP, DFO, SDM, C.O., RTO and Mines
 Officers (Annexure (i) Under the supervision of SDM, Behat and Circle Officer,
 Police, Behat, Saharanpur continuous monitoring of the
 illegal mining and regular action is being taken Four
 check post has been installed in Tehsil Behat and 01
 Section PAC, Civil Police and Revenue officials are
 deputed on these check posts (Annexure A-18). 7.3 Monitoring through drones having high resolution
 cameras can definitely help in surveillance/monitoring.
 Registration Numbers of machinery/vehicles involved in
 illegal mining/illegal transportation of mineral can be
 easily traced by high resolution cameras along with the
 site. This activity can further be productive by installation
 of CCTV's in highly sensitive areas which are prone to
 illegal mining. The Drones and CCTV's are not only helpful
 to the mining department but would also be fruitful to the
 revenue department as well as police department &
 irrigation department." 9. There are two aspects of the report. First is mining by the PP

individually as per replenishment potential. Second is with regard to 11 measures to be followed for monitoring mining and vehicles for

transportation. 10. We have heard learned Counsel for the appearing parties. There is

no objection from any party to act upon the report. Accordingly, we accept

the same. 11. We notice that as per mining lease dated 26.03.2021, mining was

permitted for five years at the rate of quantity beyond replenishable

material and without replenishable study against the Sand Mining

Guidelines. As per EC the sanctioned lease area is 36 hectares, without

any study whether mining could be allowed in area to that extent, having

regard to the potential of replenishment of such area. Since the joint

Committee has found that in excess of replenishable potential for mining,

mining has already been completed, accepting the report, we prohibit

further mining, without fresh appraisal as per law. Thus, further mining

has to be discontinued. We have noted from the report that vide letter dated

14.11.2022, State PCB has levied compensation for the past violations for

the period 04.04.2021 to 30.06.2021 for 84 days. This order will not

prevent fixing accountability of the PP for past illegal mining, in accordance

with law. 12. Second aspect is measures to be adopted for monitoring the vehicles

and the mining. Recommendations in the report are accepted. The same

be duly followed. The application stand disposed of accordingly. A copy of this order be forwarded to Secretary, Ministry of Jal Shakti,

GoI, Chief Secretaries, Haryana and UP Governments, Member Secretaries

of HSPCB and UPPCB, SEIAAs of Haryana and UP, IIT, Roorkee and 12 District Magistrates and SSPs, Saharanpur and Yamunanagar by e-mail

for compliance. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP

 Sudhir Agarwal, JM

 Dr. A. Senthil Vel, EM
May 8, 2023
Original Application No. 268/2021
SN 13