% 08.05.2024 1. Pursuant to previous directions passed by this Court, SI Sudeep
 Kumar is present from PS Bindapur, Delhi. 2. A report has been submitted to the effect that on a visit to the
 given address of Mr. Madan Lal S/o Sh. Harpool at R/o B-98, Block-
 C, Pratap Garden, Bindapur, Uttam Nagar, Delhi, the said house was
 found locked. 3. It manifest that the inquiries have been conducted in a very
 lackadaisical manner and no statement has been recorded as to who is
 the owner or occupant of the said house. Although, it is stated that the
 said house has been lying locked for 3-4 years, the images of the said
 house produced with the report evidently show that it is a newly
 constructed house, which is probably connected with supply of
 electricity and water, and would be liable to house tax too. No effort
 has made to trail the amount of compensation deposited in the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 10/05/2024 at 00:42:56
 respective bank accounts of the claimants/parents of the deceased viz.,
 respondent no. 1 and 2 either. However, no inquiries have been
 conducted from the concerned quarters. The physical report placed on
 the record be digitized by the Registry and be placed on the record of
 this matter. 4. Anyhow, the only aspect worth consideration in the report is
 that one mobile number (9582907543) in the name of Shivangi, who
 is stated to be the daughter of respondents No. 1 and 2, has been found
 to be functional, but it is reported that she did not co-operated andc
 provide her address. It is, however, not fathomable that the police was
 not able to locate her address. The SHO, PS Bindapur is directed to
 register an FIR and investigate the matter in accordance with law. The
 status report be filed before the next date of hearing i.e. 31.07.2024 on
 which date the IO/SHO shall appear in person on the next date of
 hearing. 5. In the meanwhile, the SHO shall ensure that fresh Inquiries are
 conducted and the whereabouts of respondents No. 1 and 2 be
 ascertained through their daughter apart from making enquiries from
 the concerned quarters. Inquiries be also made from the learned
 counsel for such claimants i.e., respondent no. 1 and 2 in this writ
 petition who are the parents of the deceased. Let the status report be
 filed within six weeks from today. 6. Mr. Vivek Kumar Tandon, learned counsel is appearing for
 DSLSA, Rouse Avenue, New Delhi. Let a copy of the present
 petition be supplied to him with direction to file an affidavit or a short
 so as to reply as to in what manner the identity of the parties to the
 compromise, which was effected before the National Lok Adalat,
 organised by DSLSA at Dwarka Courts Complex, New Delhi,

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 10/05/2024 at 00:42:56
 culminating in the impugned award dated 11.12.2021, was
 established. 7. In the interregnum, considering that apparently a fraud has been
 played upon the learned Tribunal/Presiding Officer, Lok Adalat Court,
 with or without, connivance of the counsel(s) for the claimants and
 assuming that the insurer too must have done some field survey into
 the matter, let notice of the present petition be issued to respondent
 No.3/M/s. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd., so as to
 show cause as to why they should not be called upon to pay
 compensation of at least 75% of the amount awarded to the petitioner.
 For eliciting the response of respondent No.3, let this matter be listed
 for hearing on 29.05.2024. Notice be issued through a special
 messenger by the Registry within ten days from today along with
 a copy of this order. 8. A copy of this order be sent to the concerned SHO for necessary
 information and compliance. DHARMESH SHARMA, J. MAY 08, 2024
 sp

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 10/05/2024 at 00:42:57