Prathiba M. Singh, J. 1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode.
 Background 2. The present case relates to an alleged fake encounter by the Special Cell
 of the Delhi Police that took place on the night of 5th May, 2006, where five
 members of the Ayub/Aslam gang died and the 6th member is stated to have
 escaped into the darkness. It is averred that the gang was involved in more
 than 70 cases of murder, attempt to murder, dacoity, robbery, rape etc. The
 name of the five members are Ayub, Sanjay, Shehzad/Babu, Aslam and
 Manoj. Brief Facts 3. The present petition has been filed by the Petitioner-Kiran Singh, father
 of Late Manoj, who lost his life in the alleged fake encounter. According to
 the petition, the deceased Manoj used to run a provision store called M K
 Provisions Store which is now being run by the Petitioner. It is claimed that
 he did not have prior criminal antecedents. He was made accused in two FIRs
 i.e., FIR No.70/2002 PS Farsh Bazar u/s 397 / 34 IPC and FIR No.160/2002
 PS Shahdara u/s 395 / 34 IPC. According to the petition, in both these cases he
 was acquitted. 4. The deceased Manoj who was a resident of Meerut, was 31 years of age
 in the year 2006 and is now survived by his wife and two daughters as also
 his parents. It is stated that his wife had abandoned the family sometime in
 the year 2008 and his two daughters have been brought up by their paternal
 grandparents i.e., dada (Petitioner in the present case) and dadi. Both the
 daughters are studying - one is pursuing B.A. and the other one is in 10th
 standard. The Petitioner and his wife who are also parents of the deceased, are
 also more than 75 years of age. The affidavit in support of the writ petition
 has thus been sworn by Mr. Virender Singh, who is the son of Mr. Kiran
 Singh. 5. Therefore, the Petitioner in the present case seeks directions to
 Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 to give concurrence for an impartial CBI inquiry
 into the alleged killings, and give compensation of Rs. 5 lakhs to the legal
 heirs of all the deceased gang members including the legal heirs of Mr.
 Praveen, who is stated to be missing. The compensation be given with interest
 @18% from 17th April, 2014.The Respondents in the present case are as
 under: 6. Immediately after the alleged encounter on 5th May, 2006, a complaint - Crime No.189/2006 P.S.-Khajoori Khas was filed on 6th May, 2006 u/s
 186 / 353 / 307 / 34 IPC and Sections 25 / 27 / 54-59 Arms Act by Manoj Dixit,
 Insp. Spl. Cell/NDR. Proceedings before the NHRC 7. As per the petition, complaints were filed before the NHRC sometime
 in May or June, 2006, by the family members of some of the deceased, namely
 Sanjay Kumar and Aslam, claiming that they have been taken away from their
 respective houses by the Police and subsequently killed in the fake encounter.
 The NHRC then, vide its order dated 14th June, 2006 directed the
 Commissioner of Police to take action in terms of its guidelines dated 2nd
 December, 2003. Pursuant thereto, a notice was sent to the Commissioner of
 Police, Delhi on 15th June, 2006. A reply to the said notice was received by
 the NHRC on 22nd February, 2007 from the ACP- Vigilance, Delhi Police.
 With the said reply, a report of the DCP, Special Cell, Delhi dated 6th May,
 2006 was attached, as per which it was claimed that certain secret information
 was received on 5th May, 2006 at 08:00 P.M. and a secret raiding team of
 police officials was organized. Around 10:45 P.M. a Tata Sumo with six Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 3 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 occupants was intercepted. It was claimed that the occupants of the said
 vehicle fired at the police and the police had returned the fire. According to
 the police, five persons, who were initially injured and, thereafter died, were
 involved in more than 70 cases. Aslam, who was one of the occupants, was
 alleged to have been involved in 20 cases i.e., cases of murder, attempt of
 murder, rape, dacoity, robbery, etc. The allegations made by Aslam's father
 were denied by the police. The NHRC was not satisfied with the reply as it
 felt that the guidelines dated 2nd December, 2003 given by the Commission
 had not been complied with and further directions were issued for submitting
 a Magisterial Inquiry Report. 8. A response was then received by the NHRC from the Additional DCP
 of Delhi Police dated 24th December, 2007 wherein it was stated that in the
 FIR No.189/06 PS Khajuri Khas, registered - post the encounter, a final report
 dated 16th October, 2007 was prepared. The said report had been filed by the
 S.H.O, Khajoori Khas, North East District, Delhi describing the details of the
 encounter including the site plan, the location of the hand grenades, pistols
 and the bodies of the deceased gang members. The NHRC in its order dated
 25th February, 2008 considered the said report and was of the opinion that no
 Magisterial Inquiry was held in this alleged encounter case and sought an
 explanation from the Commissioner of Police. 9. On 27th January, 2010, the NHRC directed the clubbing of the cases
 relating to the above stated persons, who died in the alleged encounter. On 1st
 April, 2010, the NHRC directed the Investigation Division to consider the
 post-mortem report, ballistic reports and statements recorded by the police
 and submit a report. The NHRC then notes in its proceedings on 3rd June,
 2010 that various records including charge sheet, post mortem report, ballistic Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 4 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 report, statements recorded by the police etc., were not forwarded to it.
 Accordingly, it issued notice to the DCP to remain present before it. 10. Pursuant to the said order, the concerned documents were submitted by
 the Delhi Police, which revealed to the NHRC that no Magisterial inquiry was
 held on the instructions of the Hon'ble Lt. Governor and no forensic evidence
 was filed. The NHRC then, vide its order dated 15th July, 2010, directed as
 under: 11. As can be seen from the above order, the NHRC directed the District
 Magistrate, North East to examine all the documents and witnesses, and
 conduct an inquiry into the incident. The Lieutenant Governor on 7th
 September, 2010 considered the reference of the National Human Rights
 Commission for a magisterial inquiry, where the family members of the
 deceased as also the doctor who conducted the autopsy are examined. The
 Hon'ble Lt. Governor thereafter appointed the Divisional Commissioner,
 Delhi who is also the Principal Secretary (Revenue)/District Magistrate
 (hereinafter referred as 'DM') to conduct the magisterial inquiry and directed
 the Commissioner of Police to extend full cooperation with respect to
 providing documents and any other information. 12. The inquiry which was to be conducted by the District Magistrate
 consumed considerable time. On 5th January, 2011, the Commission was
 informed that the DM, Delhi has been entrusted with the magisterial inquiry
 and a report of the said inquiry was directed to be submitted by 16th February,
 2011. Subsequent to this, as per the NHRC orders, various issues were raised
 by the DM with respect to compliance by the witnesses and the difficulties
 faced in collecting the documents that were to be received from the Special
 Cell of the Delhi Police. 13. Finally, on 2nd November, 2011 and 7th March, 2012, summons were
 issued to the DM, Delhi to appear before the Commission and explain the
 reasons why the inquiry was not completed. The DM finally concluded the
 Inquiry and submitted report dated 29th June, 2012. Report of the Divisional Commissioner/ Principal Secretary, Revenue/
 District Magistrate 14. The Report of the DM dated 29th June, 2012, considered the statements
 of the relatives of the deceased, response of the officials, response of the raid
 team, response of the police officers of the District North East and P.S.
 Khajuri Khas, response of the Meerut Police and response of the Medical
 Officer who conducted the post- mortem. 15. The Commissioner thereafter observed that the details of the informer
 were not disclosed, cotton swab samples weren't taken from the hands of the
 deceased, bodies of the deceased had blunt force injuries and there were
 repeated statements of the relatives of the deceased, that they met the police
 officials, however the same were denied. The DM thereafter came to a
 conclusion that there is ample doubt on the genuineness of the encounter by
 the Special Cell, Delhi Police and recommended a CBI inquiry. The
 concluding observations of the DM's report are extracted below: There are substantial evidences against the story of real
 police encounter put forth by the Special Cell of the
 Delhi Police particularly in view of the following:- As reasonable suspicion on the story of the special cell
 of Delhi Police has been established, it would be in the
 fitness of things if the case is entrusted to CBI, under
 Delhi special police establishment act for thorough
 investigation. The role of the District Police, North East District
 especially the I.O. Sh Satender Pal Singh Tomar, the
 SHO, Sh. M. S. Shekhawat and the then A.C.P. Gokul
 Puri, Sh. R. P. Gautam has been clearly established to
 be full of premeditated intent to just corroborate the
 story of the special cell of the Delhi Police with no effort
 on their part to unearth the truth. Non investigation of
 the vehicle used in the offence, not sending the Bullet
 Proof Jackets for forensic examination etc. were fatal
 injuries inflicted by the investigating team on the whole
 truth finding exercise. Therefore, these officers are
 liable for criminal prosecution." 16. On 26th September, 2012, as per the NHRC proceedings it is recorded
 that the DM conducted the inquiry and recommended vide report dated 29th
 June, 2012, that a CBI inquiry be conducted. The Commission accepted this
 recommendation and asked the Ministry of Home Affairs to issue appropriate
 directions. Relevant portion of the said order is set out below: Action on the Divisional Commissioner's (DM) report by the Hon'ble Lt.
 Governor 17. The Hon'ble Lt. Governor considered two reports - the first report of
 the police dated 16th October 2007 and the DM's report dated 29th June 2012,
 and observed that there were a lot of lacunae and inconsistencies in the
 statements of the relatives of the deceased. Also, the fact that the inquiry was
 conducted more than 4 years after the event, the Hon'ble LG was of the
 opinion that there is lack of corroboration and therefore did not recommend a
 CBI inquiry. However, appreciation was accorded to the effort of the DM in
 conducting a detailed inquiry even though it was conducted 4 years after the
 incident. The conclusion in the Hon'ble Lt Governor's decision dated 31st
 December, 2012, is extracted below: However, if we look into the report annexed to the
 Police Commissioner's letter, we find that Smt. Prabha
 Devi, wife of Sanjay, had complained to NHRC, SC/ST
 Commission and Hon'ble Supreme Court a few days
 after the encounter. In her complaint, she made
 allegation that her husband Sanjay was taken away by
 a Constable on 05.05.2006 at 7:30 PM. In this
 complaint, she has not mentioned that it was Shri
 Praveen Kumar who took away her husband. It appears
 that she has changed her statement before the Enquiry
 Officer that her husband was taken by Shri Praveen
 Kumar and thereby introduced the informer theory.
 Since she gave a statement a few: days after the
 encounter in which she did not mention the name of Shri
 Praveen Kumar, however, after almost 5 years of the;
 incident, she decided to mention the name of Shri
 Praveen Kumar, it is difficult to establish that the second
 statement given 5 years after the incident is: more
 authentic. In the report given by the Enquiry Officer, it
 has been mentioned that there were rumours /
 statements by various people creating an impression
 that the death occurred due to encounter involving Delhi
 Police. It cannot be ruled out that the witness, who has
 suffered the loss of her husband, would be influenced by
 the statements of various people and, therefore, come to
 a conclusion that Shri Praveen Kumar, who is still
 untraceable, was the culprit and the informer of the
 police. In my opinion, the statement given by her just
 after the incident carries more weight and is more
 reliable than the subsequent statement given before the
 Enquiry Officer after 5 years of the incident, which
 appears to be an afterthought. The report forwarded by the Commissioner of Police
 (page-11 to 13) has clearly brought out glaring
 contradictions in the statements of other complainants.
 It establishes that the family members have changed
 their statements over a period of time, and, therefore,
 reliance on them cannot be foolproof. The matter was Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 13 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 also taken to the Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad
 through a Habeas corpus petition filed by Smt. Mahesh
 Devi regarding missing of her son Shri Praveen on the
 grounds' that Meerut Police and Delhi Police had
 picked up her son Praveen on 05.05.2006 at about 1:00
 PM. The petition was dismissed by the Hon'ble High
 Court on 12.09.2006. The Enquiry Officer's reliance on the informer theory is
 not sustainable in view of glaring contradictions in the
 statements of various relatives of the deceased.
 The Enquiry Officer has expressed dissatisfaction
 caused by the stereotype responses of the officials of the
 Special Cell. He has observed that responses of all team
 members are purely mechanical and fixed without any
 individual differences. He has also observed that
 surprisingly no police official was injured during the
 encounter. Quote - He has further observed that - "It is very surprising that
 there were firings allegedly for more than 20 minutes
 between the gang and the police team, 5 members of the
 gang got injured critically but no vehicle, no police
 personnel sustained any bullet injury and even the scene
 also did not had any bullet hit marks except for the few
 bullet hit marks exactly at the Bullet Proof Jacket of the
 two members of the alleged raid team and the same was
 also not sent for forensic examination for establishing
 the injury marks to be result of aimed fire from short
 distance or from long distance and the angle of hit by
 projectile." The observation of the Enquiry Officer that the
 responses of the Special Cell officers were stereotyped,
 only corroborates the fact that the police officials were
 narrating a sequence of events in a manner which was
 based on the occurrence of events and was, therefore,
 consistent. Another issue cited by the Enquiry Officer for creating
 a reasonable doubt on the intention of the Special Cell
 of the Delhi Police to catch the gang members alive
 relates to non-deployment towards Khadar side. The
 explanation of the police that the police team was
 deployed on the road as their intention was to intercept
 the gangsters and apprehend them and it was only when
 gangsters got down from the vehicle and started firing
 at the police team and moved towards Khadar side that
 the police team also moved towards Khadar side. It is
 always possible in hind sight to come to certain
 conclusions. I am inclined to accept the view of the
 police that since they did not have any intention to fire
 at the deceased as they only wanted to intercept and
 apprehend the gangsters, they did not feel the need of
 deploying police on the Khadar side. A perusal of the police report also establishes that the
 deceased had criminal background. The report states
 that the gang had been involved in 741 cases of murder,
 attempt to murder, robbery, dacoity, assault on police
 personnel. Arms Act and Gangs Act of UP and Delhi.
 The list of FIRs lodged by the police has also been
 clearly stated. This clearly establishes that deceased
 were dreaded criminals and the police tried .to strike
 and apprehend them. Therefore, it is not an
 unreasonable, assumption that the police, having got
 information of the movement of the gang, made the
 sincere effort to apprehend them and subsequent firing
 and death of the deceased were not premeditated acts. The Enquiry Officer has pointed out that - "Cotton swab
 samples were not taken from the hand of all deceased Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 15 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 for forensic examination. The reason for that has not
 been clearly spelt out." A perusal of the report clearly
 establishes that cotton swab samples were taken from
 the hands of Sanjay, Manoj and Ayub. The result of
 forensics certifies the presence of gun powder residue in
 the swabs. The failure to take the cotton swab samples
 from the hands of other two deceased does not take the
 fact away that forensic report clearly establishes
 presence of gun powder residue in the cotton swab
 samples of other deceased. The Ballistic report
 submitted by FSL, Rohini shows that fired cartridges,
 which were recovered from the spot, matched with the
 weapons recovered from the possession of the deceased
 persons. The police report also establishes that police
 officers were wearing Bullet Proof Jackets and two
 police officers were hit on the bullet proof vests worn by
 them and there could have been casualties if all the
 police officials were not wearing bullet proof vests." xxx

 In view of the inconsistencies in the statements of
 relatives of the deceased, the track record of the
 deceased establishing that they were dreaded criminals
 and the lacunas mentioned in my observations above, I
 am constrained to recommend that a case for order of
 inquiry by the CBl does not appear to be justified. It is
 proposed that the MHA may be informed that the need
 for granting permission to a further inquiry by CBl is
 not called for." 18. Thus, after considering the detailed report submitted by the DM, the
 Hon'ble Lt. Governor arrived at the following conclusions in his decision
 dated 31st December, 2012: 19. Thus, the Hon'ble LG was of the opinion that further inquiry by the
 CBI was not required. This decision of the Hon'ble LG was approved by the
 Ministry of Home Affairs on 22nd February 2013.
 Consideration of the DM's report and the decisions of the Hon'ble LG and
 the MHA, by the NHRC 20. On 29th May, 2013, the Commission considered the report dated 6th
 May, 2006, by DCP Special Cell, Delhi and report dated 29th June, 2012 of
 the District Magistrate which was forwarded on 18th December, 2018 to the
 Delhi Police by the Home Department of the GNCTD. 21. After a perusal of the said reports, the Commission observed that there
 were 47 police personnel out of which 2 were inspectors, 12 sub-inspectors, Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 17 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 6 ASI and remaining were Head Constable and Constables. It was further
 recorded that the police might have tampered with the evidence as the
 fingerprints on the weapons were not taken to match. Moreover, there was a
 specific complaint about picking up of Praveen and Pinku from their residence
 on 5th May, 2006. The Commission also observed that the DM recorded the
 statements of police personnel and the medical officer who stated that there
 were three injuries by a blunt force object on the deceased Sanjay. The
 relevant portion of the order dated 29th May, 2013 has been extracted below
 for perusal: There is no mention of recovery of empty cartridges in
 any of the documents forwarded to the Commission. The
 report from the DCP, Vigilance, does not indicate
 recovery of empty cartridges, which was prepared after
 three months from the date of occurrence and, therefore,
 the story pleaded by the police about the firing is false
 and belies the story. If 47 persons were there, there was
 darkness and when a signal was given to them from a
 distance to stop the vehicle, how the person in the car
 could have seen the said signal. It is not said that the
 signal was given with the aid of a battery or torch 'or
 red light. Only two persons were in the uniform and,
 therefore, the victims could not have identified from a
 distance that they are the police personnel. The police
 has come out with the version that the bullet fired by one
 pf the victims hit the bulletproof jackets of ACP Sanjeev
 Yadav and Inspector S.K. Giri. No other police
 personnel got injured. There is no report from the expert
 to indicate that there were bullet marks on the Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 19 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 bulletproof jackets. In the absence of such evidence, the
 say of the police cannot be accepted." 22. The NHRC therefore arrived at the following conclusions: • It is further observed that the police officials are not telling the truth
 as there was no gunshot residue in the hands of the two out of three
 persons who used their weapons; • The Commission, therefore, came at a conclusion that this is a case of
 fake encounter. 23. After, analysing the report of the DM, the NHRC felt that since the
 police had not disclosed the correct facts. It issued notice to the Secretary,
 MHA as to why, in these facts, monetary relief should not be recommended
 for payment to the next of kin. The observation of the Commission in its order
 dated 29th May 2013, is set out below: 24. The MHA thereafter on 7th November, 2013, observed that all the
 deceased persons are involved in more than 74 criminal cases and that the
 Delhi Police have proved that the encounter is genuine. Moreover, providing
 relief to the next of kin of such dreaded criminals would amount to providing
 incentives for such criminal activities. The relevant portion has been extracted
 below: 25. Finally, the Commission vide its order dated 5th February, 2014,
 observed that the MHA has not given any justification as to why monetary
 relief ought not to be given. The NHRC expressed surprise and as to how the
 MHA considered the encounter to be authentic. The Commission also
 questioned the MHA as to how monetary compensation will act as an
 incentive to the criminals. The Commission then directed payments of sum of
 Rs.5 lakhs to the next of kin of Ayoob, Babu, Sanjay, Aslam and Manoj. The
 said order dated 5th February, 2014 is relevant and is set out below: 26. In the present petition the stand of the Petitioner is that no CBI inquiry
 has been conducted till date and neither compensation has been given to the
 legal heirs of the deceased person, as directed by the NHRC vide its order
 dated 5th February, 2014. The prayers in the petition read as under: 27. On 30th October, 2015 notice was issued and accepted by Respondent
 No.2 and Respondent No.3. However, Respondent No.1 i.e., NHRC was not
 issued notice. On 4th November, 2015, after considering that the presence of
 Govt of NCT of Delhi would be proper and necessary to adjudicate the present
 petition, Govt of NCT of Delhi was impleaded as Respondent No.4. 28. On 20th September, 2018, ld. Counsel for Respondent No.2 stated on
 instructions that the Ministry of Home Affairs do not oppose an investigation
 by the CBI. The counsel for Respondent No.2 further stated that the Ministry Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 24 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 of Home Affairs itself recommended a CBI inquiry be conducted. The
 relevant portion of the said order is extracted below: 29. The above statement of the ld. Counsel for Respondent No.2 was then
 sought to be withdrawn on 19th September, 2024, by highlighting an affidavit
 which was filed by the MHA on 30th November, 2015 as per which a CBI
 inquiry is not required in the present matter as all the deceased persons were
 involved in more than 70 cases. The ld. Counsel also submitted that the above
 stated submission was not upon instructions of the MHA and that ld. Counsel
 has made a wrong submission. 30. Meanwhile an SLP bearing no. 12350/2022 was moved by the
 Petitioner before the Hon'ble Supreme Court initially for hearing the matter.
 The Supreme Court vide order dated 2nd January, 2023 observed that since the
 matter is being considered by High Court, the Hon'ble Court would not like
 to intervene and the matter be disposed of in accordance with law in a time
 bound manner. The relevant portion of the Hon'ble Supreme Court order is
 extracted below: 31. Thereafter, on 10th April, 2023, an application for early hearing of the
 matter was again listed before the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court again
 reiterated the direction to decide the matter expeditiously in accordance with
 law. Thereafter, on 8th July, 2024, submissions commenced in the matter
 before the present bench. Submissions 32. Submissions on behalf of the Petitioner have been addressed by ld.
 counsel Mr. Saurabh Prakash: According to ld. counsel, police official who was appearing before
 the Magistrate did not place true facts and mislead the court.
 vi. It is also argued that as recorded on 4th April, 2009, the Police took
 a position before the Magistrate that NHRC has finally disposed of
 the matter. Thereafter, however, the Magistrate directed the letter of
 the Hon'ble LG to be placed on record, vide order dated 27th
 October, 2009. Finally, on 25th March, 2010, the Magistrate put the
 following questions to the Police Official - Inspector Manoj Dixit: vii. In the meantime, the NHRC also passed its order dated 15th July,
 2010 giving scalding findings against the Police and directing an
 inquiry by the District Magistrate, North East Delhi. The DM's
 report is thereafter placed by the ld. Counsel and various findings
 are highlighted therein; viii. The conclusion of the Magistrate is at page 125 which clearly
 records that the Magistrate was of the opinion that there is a
 sufficient doubt about the genuineness of the encounter. Various
 observations were also made by the Magistrate in respect of the
 delay in conduct of the inquiry. The Magistrate also came to the
 conclusion that the Police was not clearly coming out with the true
 facts and the officials of the Delhi Police were liable for criminal
 prosecution. Some of the observations made by the Magistrate were
 that the entire incident was itself puzzling as there was no injury to
 the Police personnel. The bulletproof jackets which are claimed to
 have suffered bullets from the firing by the deceased were also not
 submitted for forensic examination. Inspector Manoj Dixit
 thereafter furnished his reply to the queries put by the Magistrate
 on 27th August, 2012. The same are set out below: ix. The NHRC, vide its report and order dated 26th September, 2012
 directed that the matter ought to be referred to the CBI for proper
 and impartial investigation. x. However, despite this position, the Commissioner of Police, on 3rd
 November, 2012 recommends that the matter deserves to be closed.
 The relevant portion of the order passed by the extant
 Commissioner at that time is extracted below: xi. Ld. Counsel points that the Commissioner proceeds on the basis that
 the deceased were dangerous criminals. xii.Subsequent, to the report of the Commissioner directing closure, the
 National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) again considered the
 matter. In its order dated 29th May, 2013, the NHRC records that
 initially it had directed the CBI to urgently conduct an inquiry into
 the incident and Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) was also asked
 to issue appropriate directions to the CBI. At that stage, the NHRC
 was expecting the GNCTD to give its consent to the inquiry,
 however, it noted that the Government did not express desire to get
 the matter inquired by the CBI. It expressed surprise on the said Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 32 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 issue as there was according to the NHRC ample material on record
 on the basis of which it could be said that the encounter by the
 Special Cell of the Delhi Police was fake. The relevant paragraphs
 of the NHRC's observations reads as under: xiii. The NHRC then analysed the various physical injuries suffered
 by the deceased in terms of the post mortem report which was
 accepted by the doctor (Dr. M.K. Aggarwal) whose statement was
 recorded. The NHRC also analysed other aspects, for which the
 Delhi Police did not have sufficient proof, relating to the presence
 of 47 police personnels with weapons despite which one gang
 member escaped, the aspect is as to whether the vehicle Tata Sumo
 was itself planted, no evidence of shooting by the accused, no marks
 or impression on the bulletproof jackets. After considering these Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 33 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 facts, the NHRC came to the conclusion that the police was not
 revealing the truth and a declaration was given that it is a case of
 fake encounter. The relevant paragraph of the order dated 29th May,
 2013 is set out below: xiv. As can be seen from the above order after concluding that the
 entire incidence is a fake encounter the NHRC issued a notice to the
 Secretary, MHA as to why monetary relief ought not to be granted to
 the deceased after some proceedings, the NHRC vide its order dated
 5th February, 2014 awarded compensation of Rs.5 lakhs to the next of
 kin. The relevant portion of the said order is set out below: Neither has the Delhi Police answered any of the
 points raised by the Commission. It is a travesty,
 therefore, for the Delhi Police and the Ministry of
 Home Affairs to claim that it has been proven that
 the encounter was genuine. The other claim made by the Ministry of Home
 Affairs is that the persons who were killed had
 serious criminal records. The Commission reminds
 the Ministry that, under the law, criminals cannot
 be summarily executed. It was for the police to
 establish that these men were killed in the exercise
 of the right of self-defense. This they failed to do. The Ministry-has put forward the absurd argument
 that "providing relief to the next of kin of such
 dreaded criminals would amount to providing
 incentive for such criminal activities and send a
 wrong signal". The Commission reminds the
 Ministry that the only criminal activity that has
 been plausibly established in this case is the
 murder of five men by policemen appointed to
 uphold the law, not to break it. Secondly, the relief being provided, as the Ministry
 acknowledges, is to the next of kin of men who were
 killed. The Commission fails to understand how
 this would be an incentive to criminals. If the relief
 is an incentive, from the Ministry's argument it
 would follow that more criminals would allow
 themselves to be executed by the police, in the hope
 that their families might receive some relief
 thereafter. The Commission is therefore unable to accept the
 specious arguments put forward by the Ministry of
 Home Affairs. It maintains that a grievous
 violation of human rights was committed, for which
 the Government of India should make reparations.
 It therefore recommends that Rs. 5 lakhs each be
 paid to the next of kin of the late Ayub, Babu,
 Sanjay, Aslam and Manoj. Proof of payment will be expected by the 17th April,
 2014." xv. Ld. Counsel for the Petitioner submits that even this amount has not
 been paid till date. He makes reference to Section 18 of the
 Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 as per which the steps
 prescribed during and after inquiry to be taken by the NHRC are set
 out. He relies upon an extract from the website which is titled as
 "from the editor's desk" which would show that the NHRC is Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 37 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 functioning with various challenges. Thus, the final prayer on behalf
 of the Petitioner is two-pronged: 33. Submissions on behalf of the Ministry of Home Affairs: 34. Thus, the MHA's position is that it supports the Delhi Police, however,
 on a query it has been clearly submitted that the NHRC's order dated 29th
 May, 2013 has not been challenged either by the MHA or by the Delhi Police.
 Submissions on behalf of Delhi Police 35. Submissions on behalf of Mr. Dayan Krishnan, ld. Senior Counsel
 appearing on behalf of Respondent No.3-Delhi Police, are as under: ii. It is highlighted by ld. Senior Counsel that in the final order of the
 NHRC, though reluctantly, the NHRC has not directed a CBI
 inquiry. In earlier orders it sought to do so. The NHRC having itself
 not found it favorable in the final order to direct a CBI inquiry, the
 question of issuance of consent does not arise in the present case.
 iii. It is further highlighted that under Section 18 of the Protection of
 Human Rights Act, if the NHRC issues a direction which is not
 complied with, the NHRC is fully empowered to approach the
 Supreme Court or the High Court for appropriate directions, orders
 or even writ petitions. iv. Ld. Senior Counsel states that it is common knowledge that the
 NHRC does approach Courts seeking such directions whereas none
 has been sought in the present case. Under Section 12(a) , the NHRC
 has vast powers which include inquiry suo-moto into any complaint
 or any incident, intervening in any proceedings involving violation
 of human rights and various other powers listed from (a) to (j) of Section 10 , which shows that the powers of the NHRC are vast and
 wide. v. Since the NHRC exercises powers like a Civil Court under Section
 13 , what is important is the operative portion of the NHRC order and
 not any other observations which may have been made in an order.
 The NHRC's directions were duly complied with and two levels of
 considerations were awarded to this incident, which are as under: 36. Therefore, on both occasions, there has been adequate consideration,
 which has been afforded to the incident and to the observations of the NHRC. vi. After these two levels of consideration were done, while NHRC
 expressed its disappointment, it merely awarded compensation of
 Rs. 5 lakhs each. Thus, even a petition by the NHRC would not be
 liable in this case as the final order does not contemplate a CBI
 inquiry. vii.It is conceded that neither the Delhi Police nor the Union of India
 had challenged the award of compensation in the present case.
 Since, the NHRC itself has stated that no CBI inquiry is to be held.
 The prayer for referring to the CBI or giving consent for referring
 to the CBI does not arise. viii. The NHRC has neither sought any reference to the CBI nor has
 sought enforcement of the order of compensation which has been
 passed. ix. Mr. Krishnan, ld. Sr. Counsel points out that under Section 13(i)(e) ,
 the NHRC has powers to issue commissions like Civil Courts. He
 gave reference to the DM for submitting a report was therefore in
 the nature of an order under Section 13(i)(e) . The said report having
 been submitted by the DM could only be a fact-finding report
 insofar as the NHRC is concerned. The DM's report does not have
 any binding force on the NHRC and neither could the DM have
 given any conclusions or findings. x. Thereafter, the report of the Commissioner of Police dated 3rd
 November, 2012, in fact, sets out the entire incident which has taken
 place and concludes that the Commission is fully satisfied with the
 bona fides of the police action and that the matter deserved to be
 closed. In the background of this report, the recovery of a substantial
 quantum of weapons is recorded. The dismissal of the habeas corpus
 petition has been noted as also the magisterial inquiry which was
 conducted four years after the incident and the report was submitted
 two years after the said inquiry. xi. The Police had, in fact, filed its incident report before the NHRC
 vide its communication dated 6th May, 2006 wherein details have
 been given as to the manner in which the incident took place. In the
 said report, the total number of cases which were pending against
 various members of the Aslam Gang have been recorded which
 would show that there are four cases of murder, 11 cases of attempt
 to murder, 14 dacoits, 17 robbery, 3 NDPS Act, 3 housebreaking
 and theft cases and 18 under the Arms Act . This, in fact, justified
 the attempt by the Police to nab the accused as they were well Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 42 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 armed. The NHRC, after the incident report had on 29th May, 2013
 asked the MHA to reconsider the decision as to why monetary relief
 should not be awarded. xii.Mr. Dayan Krishnan, ld. Sr. Counsel has highlighted that there is no
 inadvertence in the grounds or in the prayer filed by the Petitioner
 setting aside the impugned order, wherein the prayer is sought by
 the Petitioner. In fact a perusal of grounds also reveal that the same
 proceed on the presumption that the direction for CBI inquiry has
 been approved by the NHRC which it has not. He further submits that if the Petitioner was aggrieved by the
 impugned order of the NHRC, the prayer ought to have been for
 setting it aside and for seeking a proper inquiry. The NHRC has not
 recommended any inquiry under Section 18B. In fact, initially the
 NHRC gave a prima facie view pursuant to which various
 authorities including the Delhi Police, the Chief Secretary, GNCTD,
 the Lieutenant Governor and the MHA have looked into the matter.
 xiii. The NHRC thereafter considered the stand of the MHA. In the
 impugned order, the NHRC expresses displeasure against the stand
 of the authorities but does not in fact disagree with the same. It
 changed its recommendation from initial prima facie
 recommendations and thus there is no order for an inquiry as on
 today. The NHRC is not exercising powers under Section 156(3) of
 the Cr.P.C. and since there are factual aspects involved, the same
 ought not to be gone into in writ jurisdiction. The perusal of the
 Chief Secretary's opinion at Page 325 would show that the authority
 has actually considered in detail various facts and has also given the Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 43 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 reasoning as to why no inquiry would be required. Reliance is
 placed upon the report of the Inquiry Officer, which records the fact
 that there were 74 cases pending against the deceased persons.
 xiv. Further, it is noted that the doctor's report confirms that there
 was gun powder on some of the hands of the deceased. The doctor's
 report also shows that the deceased were walking on uneven terrain
 while simultaneously shooting at the Police. Three Police Officials
 who were wearing bulletproof vests were hit on the said vests and
 there was a possibility of police officials themselves succumbing if
 they were not wearing the said vests. xv. The Chief Secretary also notes that the deceased were part of a
 gang and there were several FIRs against the said deceased persons.
 Under Section 18 , the NHRC is duly empowered to either: 37. The closure of the case could have been challenged which has not been
 challenged by the Petitioner. The Petitioner's version of facts cannot be
 accepted in writ jurisdiction. The inquiry having been done by the NHRC, it
 was an independent inquiry, which ought not to be faulted. 38. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, ld. Sr. Counsel was trying to contrast the
 observations of the NHRC in the initial order dated 29th May, 2013 and in the
 final order. In the initial order, the NHRC clearly observes that there is
 difficulty in accepting the case of the Police that it was a fake encounter. The
 reply to the reconsideration letter was given by the Delhi Police on 7th
 November, 2013. The same is duly considered and thereafter the NHRC has Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 44 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 changed its recommendation. In the said letter, the stand of the Delhi Police
 is that it was a genuine encounter. Once the NHRC accepted that there was
 to be no CBI inquiry, the said aspect having not been challenged it has attained
 finality. 39. Moreover, the NHRC itself is of the opinion that under Section
 13(1)(e) , it had directed the District Magistrate, North East Delhi to conduct
 an inquiry and an independent agency having looked into the whole matter,
 no useful purpose is served if the CBI investigation is directed at this stage. 40. The impugned order dated 5th February, 2014 is then referred to, in
 order to argue that the proceedings have attained finality and only
 compensation has been awarded. Under such circumstances, the Petitioner
 lacks any standing to seek at this stage any inquiry let alone a CBI. 41. Rejoinder submissions made by the Petitioner: 42. Reliance is also placed upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in
 PUCL v. State of Maharashtra, 2014 (10) SCC 635 which prescribes the
 procedure for holding inquiry. Paragraph 31 is relied upon.
 Analysis and Findings 43. As can be seen from the above narration and events, the NHRC though
 initially directed a CBI inquiry into the matter, thereafter, however, finally
 vide order dated 5th February, 2014, directed payment of compensation of Rs.5
 lakhs each to the next of kin of the deceased. 44. There can be no doubt that the allegation of a fake encounter is a very
 serious allegation. The incident in the present case took place in 2006, almost
 20 years ago. Several complaints came to be filed before the NHRC, which
 led to multiple authorities looking into the matter. The DM initially found
 various lacunae in the investigation conducted by the police and
 recommended a CBI inquiry, which was accepted by the NHRC in its order
 dated 26th December, 2012. 45. However, thereafter, the DM's report which was conducted, was put up
 before the Hon'ble Lt. Governor. The reasoning given in the decision taken
 by the Hon'ble Lt. Governor on 31st December, 2012 has been considered by
 the Court. The said decision has looked into the assessment in the report by
 the Delhi Police as also the DM's Inquiry and has not accepted the report of
 the Magisterial Inquiry based upon the evidence including the contradictions
 in the statements of the family members, forensic evidence, ballistic reports
 etc. There can be no doubt that the NHRC is duly empowered under the Act
 to direct the proper inquiry into the matter whenever it finds that there is Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 47 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 severe abrogation of human rights. Specifically, certain guidelines have been
 issued by the NHRC to be followed in the police encounter as set out in the
 communication written by the then Chairman Justice M.N. Venkatachaliah on
 29th March, 1997 along with revised guidelines of 2nd December, 2003. The
 said guidelines are detailed in nature and have been reiterated from time to
 time including certain recommendations made on 12th May, 2010. 46. As per the scheme of NHRC Act, the NHRC has both suo motu power
 to initiate inquiries and also to inquire into complaints or petitions filed before
 it. Section 12 of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 (hereinafter 'HR
 Act') sets out in detail the functions of the Commission. Section 13 also vests
 in the NHRC power of a Civil Court while conducting inquiries. Section 14 empowers the NHRC to utilize services of any officer or investigation agency
 of the Central or State Government for the purpose of conducting
 investigation. The relevant sections are extracted hereinbelow: [(c) visit, notwithstanding anything contained in
 any other law for the time being in force, any jail or
 other institution under the control of the State Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 48 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 Government, where persons are detained or lodged for
 purposes of treatment, reformation or protection, for the
 study of the living conditions of the inmates thereof and
 make recommendations thereon to the Government;] (d) review the safeguards provided by or under the
 Constitution or any law for the time being in force for
 the protection of human rights and recommend
 measures for their effective implementation; (e) review the factors, including acts of terrorism,
 that inhibit the enjoyment of human rights and
 recommend appropriate remedial measures; (f) study treaties and other international instruments
 on human rights and make recommendations for their
 effective implementation; (g) undertake and promote research in the field of
 human rights; (h) spread human rights literacy among various
 sections of society and promote awareness of the
 safeguards available for the protection of these rights
 through publications, the media, seminars and other
 available means; (i) encourage the efforts of non-governmental
 organisations and institutions working in the field of
 human rights; (j) such other functions as it may consider necessary
 for the promotion of human rights." Section 13 . Powers relating to inquiries

 (1) The Commission shall, while inquiring into
 complaints under this Act, have all the powers of a civil
 court trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure ,
 1908 (5 of 1908), and in particular in respect of the
 following matters, namely:-- [(6) Where the Commission considers it necessary or
 expedient so to do, it may, by order, transfer any
 complaint filed or pending before it to the State
 Commission of the State from which the complaint
 arises, for disposal in accordance with the provisions of
 this Act: section (6) shall be dealt with and disposed of by the
 State Commission as if it were a complaint initially filed
 before it.] Section 14 . Investigation
 "(1) The Commission may, for the purpose of
 conducting any investigation pertaining to the inquiry,
 utilise the services of any officer or investigation agency
 of the Central Government or any State Government
 with the concurrence of the Central Government or the
 State Government, as the case may be. (2) For the purpose of investigating into any matter
 pertaining to the inquiry, any officer or agency whose
 services are utilised under sub-section (1) may, subject
 to the direction and control of the Commission,-- (a) summon and enforce the attendance of any person
 and examine him; (b) require the discovery and production of any
 document; and (c) requisition any public record or copy thereof from
 any office. (3) The provisions of section 15 shall apply in relation
 to any statement made by a person before any officer or
 agency whose services are utilised under sub- section (1) as they apply in relation to any statement
 made by a person in the course of giving evidence before
 the Commission. (4) The officer or agency whose services are utilised
 under sub-section (1) shall investigate into any matter
 pertaining to the inquiry and submit a report thereon to
 the Commission within such period as may be specified
 by the Commission in this behalf. (5) The Commission shall satisfy itself about the
 correctness of the facts stated and the conclusion, if any,
 arrived at in the report submitted to it under sub-
 section (4) and for this purpose the Commission may
 make such inquiry (including the examination of the
 person or persons who conducted or assisted in the
 investigation) as it thinks fit." 47. NHRC can also seek information and reports from the Central
 Government or State Government under Section 17 for inquiry of complaints. Section 18 was amended in 2006 and provides that the NHRC can recommend
 payment of compensation or damages, as also can direct proceedings for
 prosecution and other action as it may deem fit against the public servant. The
 NHRC can also recommend grant of interim relief. It can also approach the
 Supreme Court or High Court for such action as may be necessary including Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 52 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 issuance of writs. Any inquiry conducted by the NHRC can also be presented
 as part of a report and the said report along with its recommendation can be
 sent to the concerned government authority. The NHRC can also publish the
 said report along with its recommendation. 48. The powers of the NHRC have also been considered by various High
 Courts. In State of U.P. and 2 Others v. NHRC and 3 Others., 2016 SCC
 OnLine All 239, the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court considered
 the scheme of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 and in particular use
 of the expression 'recommend' under Section 18 of the Protection of Human
 Rights Act, 1993. The Court observed as under: Governed as we are by the rule of law and by the
 fundamental norms of the protection of life and liberty
 and human dignity under a constitutional order, it will
 not be open to the State Government to disregard the
 view of the Commission. The Commission has directed
 the State Government to report compliance. The State
 Government is at liberty to challenge the order of the
 Commission on merits since no appeal is provided by
 the Act. But it cannot in the absence of the order being
 set aside, modified or reviewed disregard the order at
 its own discretion. While a challenge to the order of the Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 54 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 Commission is available in exercise of the power of
 judicial review, the State Government subject to this
 right, is duty bound to comply with the order. Otherwise,
 the purpose of enacting the legislation would be
 defeated. The provisions of the Act which have been
 made to enforce the constitutional protection of life and
 liberty by enabling the Commission to grant
 compensation for violations of human rights would be
 rendered nugatory. A construction which will produce
 that result cannot be adopted and must be rejected." 49. In the said case, there was custodial death of an under-trial prisoner,
 which had taken place in the custody of the District Jail, Muzaffarnagar,
 wherein the NHRC had directed payment of Rs.2 lakhs as compensation. The
 stand of the government, that the NHRC can only ask compliance of its order,
 was held to be contrary to law and was rejected by the Court. Thus, it was
 held by the Allahabad High Court that the recommendations of the NHRC
 would be binding on the government otherwise it would dilute the efficacy of
 the Commission and defeat the statutory object underlying the constitution of
 such a body. 50. A Full bench of the Madras High Court in Abdul Sathar v. Principal
 Secretary to the Government in W.P.No.41791/2006 was resolving issues
 raised by two conflicting single judge decisions. The question raised was
 whether recommendations made by the Human Rights Commission are
 merely recommendatory or fully enforceable and binding. The Full Bench of
 the Madras High Court considered the earlier Division Bench decisions in
 W.P.No.25614/2010 titled Sankar v. The Member, State Human Rights
 Commission , Tamil Nadu and W.P.No.47861/2006 titled T. Loganathan v.
 State Human Rights Commission where the Division Bench had directed the Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 55 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 government to implement recommendations of the State Human Rights
 Commission. The Court observed that no purpose would be served if the
 Commission needs to engage other agencies of the State in adversarial
 litigation to secure enforcement of its recommendation. 51. The full bench came to a conclusion that there was no conflict of views
 between the Division bench judgments rather there is a conflict of view in the
 decisions of two single judges namely: - 52. In Rajesh Das (supra) after comparing the similar provisions of the H.R. Act and Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 , (hereinafter 'C.I. Act') the
 Court came at a conclusion that the recommendations made by the Human
 Rights Commission are recommendatory in nature. The said conclusion was
 based on the Statement of Objects and Reasons of H.R. Act, wherein the Court
 observed that the Commission will be a fact-finding body with powers to
 conduct inquiry into the complaints of violation of human rights. The Court,
 thereafter came to a conclusion that the reports/recommendations to the
 Government are not binding in nature since the provisions of H.R. Act are
 pari materia to the provisions of the C.I. Act, and therefore the
 recommendations of Human Rights Commission cannot be enforced. 53. However, in T. Vijayakumar (Supra), the ld. Single Judge relied on the
 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, in D.K. Basu v. State of West
 Bengal (1997) 1 SCC 416, where the Court relied upon Article 9(5) of the
 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966, which states that Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 56 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 any victim of unlawful arrest or detention shall have enforceable rights of
 compensation. The Supreme Court observed that unconstitutional deprivation
 of fundamental right to life and liberty, protection of which is guaranteed
 under the Constitution is based on strict liability, and to the operation of
 private law for damages for tortuous acts of the public servants. The relevant
 portions of the Supreme Court judgment are extracted hereinbelow: 44. The claim in public law for compensation for
 unconstitutional deprivation of fundamental right to life
 and liberty, the protection of which is guaranteed under
 the Constitution, is a claim based on strict liability and
 is in addition to the claim available in private law for
 damages for tortious acts of the public servants. Public
 law proceedings serve a different purpose than the
 private law proceedings. Award of compensation for
 established infringement of the indefeasible rights
 guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution is a
 remedy available in public law since the purpose of
 public law is not only to civilise public power but also
 to assure the citizens that they live under a legal system
 wherein their rights and interests shall be protected and
 preserved. Grant of compensation in proceedings under Article 32 or Article 226 of the Constitution of India for
 the established violation of the fundamental rights
 guaranteed under Article 21 , is an exercise of the courts
 under the public law jurisdiction for penalising the
 wrongdoer and fixing the liability for the public wrong
 on the State which failed in the discharge of its public
 duty to protect the fundamental rights of the citizen. 45. The old doctrine of only relegating the aggrieved to
 the remedies available in civil law limits the role of the
 courts too much, as the protector and custodian of the
 indefeasible rights of the citizens. The courts have the
 obligation to satisfy the social aspirations of the citizens
 because the courts and the law are for the people and Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 58 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 expected to respond to their aspirations. A court of law
 cannot close its consciousness and aliveness to stark
 realities. Mere punishment of the offender cannot give
 much solace to the family of the victim -- civil action for
 damages is a long drawn and a cumbersome judicial
 process. Monetary compensation for redressal by the
 court finding the infringement of the indefeasible right
 to life of the citizen is, therefore, useful and at time
 perhaps the only effective remedy to apply balm to the
 wounds of the family members of the deceased victim,
 who may have been the breadwinner of the family.
 ....... 54. Thus, to sum up, it is now a well-accepted
 proposition in most of the jurisdictions, that monetary
 or pecuniary compensation is an appropriate and
 indeed an effective and sometimes perhaps the only
 suitable remedy for redressal of
 the established infringement of the fundamental right to
 life of a citizen by the public servants and the State is
 vicariously liable for their acts. The claim of the citizen
 is based on the principle of strict liability to which the
 defence of sovereign immunity is not available and the
 citizen must receive the amount of compensation from
 the State, which shall have the right to be indemnified
 by the wrongdoer. In the assessment of compensation,
 the emphasis has to be on the compensatory and not on
 punitive element. The objective is to apply balm to the
 wounds and not to punish the transgressor or the
 offender, as awarding appropriate punishment for the
 offence (irrespective of compensation) must be left to the
 criminal courts in which the offender is prosecuted,
 which the State, in law, is duty bound to do. The award
 of compensation in the public law jurisdiction is also
 without prejudice to any other action like civil suit for
 damages which is lawfully available to the victim or the
 heirs of the deceased victim with respect to the same
 matter for the tortious act committed by the
 functionaries of the State. The quantum of compensation Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 59 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 will, of course, depend upon the peculiar facts of each
 case and no strait-jacket formula can be evolved in that
 behalf. The relief to redress the wrong for
 the established invasion of the fundamental rights of the
 citizen, under the public law jurisdiction is, thus, in
 addition to the traditional remedies and not in
 derogation of them. The amount of compensation as
 awarded by the Court and paid by the State to redress
 the wrong done, may in a given case, be adjusted against
 any amount which may be awarded to the claimant by
 way of damages in a civil suit." 54. After perusing the above stated decisions, the Full Bench was of the
 opinion that the said divergent views expressed by two Single Bench judges
 presented conflict of views but not the Division Bench judgments. Thereafter,
 the Full Bench came to the following conclusions. Therefore, the recommendation of the H.R. Commission
 under Section 18 is an adjudicatory order which is
 legally and immediately enforceable. If the concerned
 Government or authority fails to implement the
 recommendation of the Commission within the time
 stipulated under Section 18(e) of the Act, the
 Commission can approach the Constitutional Court
 under Section 18(b) of the Act for enforcement by
 seeking issuance of appropriate Writ/order/direction.
 We having held the recommendation to be binding,
 axiomatically, sanctus and sacrosanct public duty is
 imposed on the concerned Government or authority to
 implement the recommendation. It is also clarified that
 if the Commission is the petitioner before the
 Constitutional Court under Section 18(b) of the Act, it
 shall not be open to the concerned Government or
 authority to oppose the petition for implementation of its
 recommendation, unless the concerned Government or
 authority files a petition seeking judicial review of the
 Commission's recommendation, provided that the
 concerned Government or authority has expressed their
 intention to seek judicial review to the Commission's
 recommendation in terms of Section 18(e) of the Act. (ii) Whether the State has any discretion to
 avoid implementation of the decision made by
 the State Human Rights Commission and if so,
 under what circumstances? Ans: As our answer is in the affirmative in respect of the
 first point of Reference, the same holds good for this
 point of Reference as well. We having held that the
 recommendation is binding, the State has no discretion
 to avoid implementation of the recommendation and in Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 63 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 case the State is aggrieved, it can only resort to legal
 remedy seeking judicial review of the recommendation
 of the Commission. (iii) Whether the State Human Rights
 Commission, while exercising powers under
 sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) of clause (a) of Section
 18 of the Protection of Human Rights Act,
 1993, could straight away issue orders for
 recovery of the compensation amount directed
 to be paid by the State to the victims of
 violation of human rights under sub-clause (i)
 of clause (a) of Section 18 of that enactment,
 from the Officers of the State who have been
 found to be responsible for causing such
 violation? Ans: Yes, as we have held that the recommendation of
 the Commission under Section 18 is binding and
 enforceable, the Commission can order recovery of the
 compensation from the State and payable to the victims
 of the violation of human rights under Sub Clause (a)(i)
 of Section 18 of the Act and the State in turn could
 recover the compensation paid, from the Officers of the
 State who have been found to be responsible for causing
 human rights violation. However, we clarify that before
 effecting recovery from the Officer of the State, the
 Officer concerned shall be issued with a show cause
 notice seeking his explanation only on the aspect of
 quantum of compensation recoverable from him and not
 on the aspect whether he was responsible for causing
 human rights violation. '(iv) Whether initiation of appropriate
 disciplinary proceedings against the Officers
 of the State under the relevant service rules, if
 it is so empowered, is the only permissible
 mode for recovery of the compensation amount
 directed to be paid by the State to the victims
 of violation of human rights under sub- clause(i) of clause(a) of Section 18 of the Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 64 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 , from
 the Officers of the State who have been found
 to be responsible for causing such violation?'
 Ans: As far as the initiation of disciplinary proceedings
 under the relevant Service Rules is concerned, for
 recovery of compensation, mere show cause notice is
 sufficient in regard to the quantum of compensation
 recommended and to be recovered from the
 Officers/employees of the concerned Government.
 However, in regard to imposition of penalty as a
 consequence of a delinquent official being found guilty
 of the violation, a limited departmental enquiry may be
 conducted only to ascertain the extent of culpability of
 the Official concerned in causing violation in order to
 formulate an opinion of the punishing Authority as to the
 proportionality of the punishment to be imposed on the
 official concerned. This procedure may be followed only
 in cases where the disciplinary authority/punishing
 authority comes to the conclusion on the basis of the
 inquiry proceedings and the recommendations of the
 Commission that the delinquent official is required to be
 visited with any of the major penalties enumerated in the
 relevant Service Regulations. As far as imposition of minor penalty is concerned, a
 mere show cause notice is fair enough, as the existing
 Service Rules of all services specifically contemplate
 only show cause notice in any minor penalty
 proceedings. (v) Whether Officers of the State who have
 been found to be responsible by the State
 Human Rights Commission for causing
 violation of human rights under Section 18 of
 the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, are
 entitled to impeach such orders passed by the
 Commission in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution and if so, at what stage and
 to which extent? Ans: As we have held that the recommendation of the
 Commission under Section 18 of the Act is binding and
 enforceable, the Officers/employees of the State who
 have been found responsible for causing violation of
 human rights by the Commission, are entitled to assail
 such orders passed by the Commission by taking
 recourse to remedies of judicial review provided under
 the Constitution of India. It is open to the aggrieved
 officers/employees to approach the competent Court to
 challenge the findings as well as recommendations of
 the Commission." 55. In Chhattisgarh Electricity Board v. Chhattisgarh Human Rights
 Commission , 2017 SCC OnLine Chh 1415 the State Human Rights
 Commission had directed the payment of compensation of Rs.6.22 lakhs
 under Section 18 of the Act. Chhattisgarh High Court followed the decision
 in Rajesh Das (Supra) to hold that under Section 18 , the State Human Rights
 Commission's powers are only recommendatory in nature. 56. A similar view was taken by Chhattisgarh Human Rights Commission
 in Dr. Girdhari Lal Chandarka v. State of Chhattisgarh , 2021 SCC On Line
 Chh 2706 where the ld. Single Judge again followed the decision in Rajesh
 Das (supra) and the ld. Single Judge had set aside the compensation awarded
 by the State Human Rights Commission. It is to be noted that in Abdul Sattar (Supra) decision, Rajesh Das (Supra) case was considered by the Full Bench
 of Madras High Court and the Full Bench held that recommendation would
 be binding in nature. Thus, the decision in Rajesh Das (Supra) stands
 overruled. 57. A perusal of the above decisions would show that the Full Bench of
 Madras High Court was rightly of the opinion that the recommendations of Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 66 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 the Human Rights Commissions either at the State level or National level
 would be binding in nature and if the Government is aggrieved by any of the
 recommendations made by the Human Rights Commission, it can seek
 judicial review of the same. The Court also observed that if the
 recommendations of the Commission are to be treated only
 'recommendatory' in nature and the implementation of the same is left to
 depend upon the discretionary response of the concerned Government or
 Authority, such expression would be stripped off its natural meaning and lose
 its relevance in the context. The Court further went on to interpret the
 intention of the legislature behind creating the HR Act and observed that if
 the intention was only to make it a recommendatory body then, the provisions
 would have been drafted more clearly and lucidly, giving expression to the
 intendment of the framers. Thus, both Allahabad High Court and Madras High
 Court have taken a view that the recommendations of the NHRC would be
 binding in nature. The Delhi Police has, however, argued that the government,
 can differ with the NHRC recommendations, and the same would not be
 binding. 58. The above exercise of analyzing various decisions has been undertaken
 by the Court as counsels have argued vehemently on the question as to
 whether the decision of the State or National Human Rights Commissions
 would be binding. The conflicting rulings also presented a divergence of
 opinion amongst various High Courts which could further confound the
 issues. 59. After having considered the reasoning in both the Allahabad High
 Court and Madras High Court judgments, this Court fully agrees with the
 reasoning in the said two decisions - whether in the case of compensation or Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 67 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 in the case of inquiry being directed. The purpose of the Human Rights Act and the reasons for its enactment would be nullified if the Commissions are
 rendered powerless and are held to be mere recommendatory bodies. The
 recommendations are binding in nature. The concerned authority/government,
 however, is not without remedy and can always seek judicial review of the
 recommendations. Any view to the contrary, that the Human Rights
 Commissions can only make recommendations, which are not binding, would
 render the said Commissions completely toothless and nullify the object of
 India ratifying the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Court does
 not agree with the stand of the Delhi Police that in each and every case, the
 NHRC ought to be forced to approach the Court for implementation of its own
 decisions. The NHRC is not meant to become a litigant before Courts. 60. In the opinion of this Court, human rights are not ordinary rights. These
 rights are integral to Article 21 which recognizes the Right to Life.
 Commissions under the Human rights Act are meant to look into any
 infractions and exercise powers under the Act. Reports and Recommendations
 of Human Rights Commissions need to be treated with seriousness and not
 rendered edentulous or pointless. If Governments are aggrieved, they are free
 to challenge the orders of State Commissions and NHRC. But such inquiries
 and reports cannot be simply ignored. Human Rights Commissions are not to
 be 'toothless tigers' but have to be 'fierce defenders' safeguarding the most
 basic right of humans i.e., the right to live without fear and to live with dignity. 61. The above reasoning does not, in any manner, contradict the findings
 of the Supreme Court in N.C. Dhoundial v. Union of India (2004) 2 SCC
 579 which observed that the Commission does not have unlimited jurisdiction
 and is bound by the duties and functions as defined in the Act and should Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 68 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 necessarily act within the parameters prescribed by the Act. The
 Commissions, while making recommendations, are thus bound to act within
 the powers conferred under the Act. 62. For the purpose of the present case, on facts, it deserves to be noted that
 though initially the NHRC had directed a CBI inquiry into the matter, but vide
 the final order dated 5th February, 2014, the NHRC did not reiterate the said
 direction and accepted the decision of the Hon'ble LG. The NHRC may have
 proceeded under a wrong impression on the basis of the extant legal position
 at the relevant point in time. However, this Court has, independently
 considered the matter and the prayers in the writ petition. The broad two
 prayers are for directions to order a CBI inquiry and also payment of
 compensation. Reliefs sought in the writ petition are as under: 63. The Delhi Police has placed on record a detailed list of all FIRs, which
 were registered against the accused in different cases and also showing inter
 se link between the accused persons. The said charts are reproduced herein
 below: 64. A perusal of the above charts would show that there were multiple cases
 pending against all the deceased and the allegation of the Delhi Police that
 they had criminal antecedents cannot be brushed aside. 65. The NHRC's proposal for conducting of a CBI inquiry was examined
 at various levels - by the Delhi Police, by the Hon'ble LG and the MHA,
 which in its letter dated 7th November, 2013 had communicated that the
 reports received by it had shown that the deceased have involvement in more
 than 74 cases including murder, attempt to murder, dacoity, rape, robbery,
 attack on police party etc., as extracted above and that the Delhi Police had
 acted upon in a bona fide manner during the concerned incident. The same is
 fully captured in the letter dated 7th November 2013, written by MHA to
 NHRC. Relevant extract of the said letter is set out herein below: Conclusion 66. The Court, after having analyzed the report of the Magisterial Inquiry
 and consideration accorded to the same by the Hon'ble Lt. Governor, is of the
 opinion that an Inquiry by CBI is not warranted in the present case. The
 decision of the Hon'ble Lt. Governor after considering both the Police report
 and the Report by the DM is a clearly sustainable view, that has been taken.
 The Hon'ble LG in the consideration noted on 31 st December, 2012, arrived
 at the conclusion that the clear intention of the police was to strike and
 apprehend the persons who were together and had criminal antecedents. Thus,
 the Court does not wish to substitute its own opinion. 67. The final direction of the NHRC is for payment of Rs.5 lakhs as
 compensation, which decision has not been challenged by the MHA for all
 these years. Having held that the recommendations of the Human Rights
 Commission would be binding in nature, this Court is of the opinion that the
 compensation, as awarded, deserves to be paid. The deceased has two Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 75 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51 daughters, both of whom are studying. They have been brought up by their
 paternal grand-parents i.e., dada and dadi. 68. Since there was no challenge to the direction given by the NHRC,
 which in the opinion of this Court, is binding on the government, it is directed
 that the compensation shall be released by the MHA for a sum of Rs.5 lakhs
 along with simple interest @ 18% within a period of three months. In addition,
 despite recommendations of the NHRC more than a decade ago on 5th
 February, 2014, the amount has not been paid. Accordingly, litigation costs
 of Rs.1 lakh are also awarded to the Petitioners. Let the bank account details
 of the Petitioner be furnished to the Registrar General within two weeks. The
 amount awarded by the NHRC along with costs be deposited by the MHA
 with the Registrar General of this Court by 30th April, 2025. 69. List before the Registrar General on 14th February, 2025. 70. The petition is allowed and disposed of in the above terms. 71. List for compliance on 9th May, 2025. PRATHIBA M. SINGH
 JUDGE

 AMIT SHARMA
 JUDGE
 JANUARY 28, 2025/ dk/ks Signature Not Verified W.P.(CRL) 2475/2015 Page 76 of 76 Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR Signing Date:28.01.2025 20:01:51