CORAM: HON'BLEMR. JUSTICE SUJIT NARAYAN PRASAD ------- For the Petitioner : Mr.Jitendra Shankar Singh, Advocate
 Mrs. Shabina Parween, Advocate
For Opp. Party-E.D. : Mr.Amit Kumar Das, Advocate
 Mr. Saurav Kumar, Advocate
 Mr. Varun Girdhar, Advocate
 Mr. Manmohit Bhalla, Advocate ------ C.A.V. on:12.11.2025 Pronounced on: 26/11/2025

Prayer 1. The instant application has been filed under

Sections 483 and 484 of the B.N.S.S., 2023 praying for

grant of bail in connection with ECIR Case No.06 of 2023,

arising out of ECIR/RNZO/25/2023, dated 26.06.2023

registered for the alleged offence under Sections 3 and 4 of

the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, now

pending in the Court of learned A.J.C.-I-cum-Special

Judge, P.M.L.A. at Ranchi. Prosecution case/Facts 2. The brief facts of the case are that an ECIR bearing

No. 06/2023 was recorded on 26.06.2023, on the basis of

Sadar P.S. case No. 272 of 2023 dated 01.06.2023, for the

offence registered under Sections 465, 467, 466, 469, 471, 1 [2025:JHHC:35721]

379, 420 and 474 of the Indian Penal Code against the

petitioner. 3. The complainant Mr. Manoj Kumar has stated that the

petitioner (Ex Revenue Sub Inspector) was having illegal

possession of 17 original registers (Panji-II) out of which

several were tampered, along with several property deeds

which were the official documents. 4. It is further alleged that the registers seized from the

possession of the petitioner is a property as per the

definition provided u/s 2 (1)(v) of PMLA, 2002 as it is

involved/used in the commission of Scheduled offence and

the said registers contained references to several properties

which have been acquired in illegal manner including the

reference of properties admeasuring 8.86 acres at Shanti

Nagar, Bargain, Bariyatu Road, (near Lalu Khatal), illegally

acquired and possessed by the co-accused Hemant Soren. 5. It is further alleged that on 21.10.2022, searches were

conducted U/s 17 of PMLA Act, 2002 and on 13.04.2023 at

several premises including two premises under use and

occupation of Bhanu Pratap Prasad (the Petitioner), at Road

No.7, Hill View Road, Bariyatu, Ranchi, Jharkhand and at

Jhulan Singh Chowk, Simdega, Jharkhand. In course of

searches 11 trunks of voluminous property documents

including following 17 original registers (Panji 2) were 2 [2025:JHHC:35721]

seized from the possession of Bhanu Pratap Prasad which

were concealed and secreted by him at his home. 6. It is further stated that documents/registers volume was

examined and explanation U/s 50 of PML Act, 2002 was

sought from the accused Bhanu Pratap Prasad, which

further led to the identification of tampering in the said

original registers aimed at extending illegal benefits to other

persons. It is further stated and alleged that during

searches dated 13.04.2023 in ECIR/RNZO/18/2022,

handwritten diaries were also seized from the possession of

other persons namely Md. Saddam Hussain, Imtiaz Ahmed

and others, who were his associates. In the said diaries,

cash payments to the petitioner were also mentioned by his

associates. 7. It is further alleged that there are the cash transaction

details in respect of a property admeasuring 4.83 acres,

situated at Plot No. 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 38, 72 and 73,

Khata No. 53, Mauja- Gari, Bargain Anchal, Ranchi for

which 2 fake deeds, one of year 1940 and other of year

1974 was prepared by the associates of Bhanu Pratap

Prasad (Petitioner). It is further stated that Rs.20 Lakhs has

been accounted on the Page which has been shown in the

Prosecution Complaint on Page No. 11. It is further also

stated that cash payments of Rs.2 Lakhs to the petitioner

have also been made. It is further stated that the accused 3 [2025:JHHC:35721]

petitioner was a member of syndicate which was involved in

acquiring lands by fraudulent means which included

tampering with original government registers, falsification

of government records and manufacturing fake documents.

It is further stated that Bhanu Pratap was directly involved

in hatching conspiracy with other persons to acquire and

dispose properties in illegal manner and accomplice to

several persons including the accused namely Hemant

Soren. This very fact is corroborated from the seizure of an

image recovered from his mobile phone which contains the

details of a cluster of landed properties, situated adjacently

on 12 plots at Bargain Anchal, total area of which is around

8.86 acres. The property was acquired in an illegal and

unauthorized manner by the accused person Hemant Soren

and he has been in continuous possession of this property

since 2010-11. 8. It is further alleged that the accused Bhanu Pratap

Prasad had physically inspected the above land on two

occasions, that is first in the month of December 2020

(evident from WhatsApp chat between Bhanu Pratap

Prasad and Sailesh Kumar, Circle Officer posted in 2020 at

Bargain Anchal), and second in the month of January,

2023 (evident from the imaged dated 21.01.2023 recovered

from the mobile phone of Bhanu Pratap Prasad) and after

inspecting it he had also made certain noting in the said 4 [2025:JHHC:35721]

list in his own handwriting. That image of the Simdega and

another search was conducted at rental residential places

situated at Road No.7, Hill View Road, Bariatu, Ranchi. 9. After investigation the Enforcement Directorate has

filed prosecution complaint No. 06 of 2023 against the

petitioner and others under sections 45 r/w 44 Prevention

of Money Laundering Act, 2002 , for alleged offence under sections 3 and 4 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act,

2002. 10. The Petitioner was initially arrested on 14.04.2023

in a connected matter arising out of ECIR/RNZO/18/2022

and was subsequently produced and arrested in the

present ECIR on 03.02.2024. 11. Thereafter the petitioner had preferred a Misc. Cri.

Application being MCA 1069 of 2025 before Spl. Judge PML

Cases, Ranchi for his bail but the same was rejected vide

order dated 15.07.2025, hence the present application has

been filed. Arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the
petitioner: 12. Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has

taken the following grounds that: - [2025:JHHC:35721] (ii) The petitioner joined his services as a Rajaswa

 Karamchari in the year 1990 in the District of Gumla

 and time-to-time he has been transferred from one

 Circle Office to another Circle Office in the different

 districts and lastly in the month of February 2019

 petitioner joined as a Revenue Sub-Inspector in

 Circle Office, Bargain, Ranchi and only because he

 was posted in the Bargain Circle office he has been

 made accused in the instant case, however he has

 committed no offence as alleged in the instant case. (iii) It is stated that in the month of May 2020 there was

 an incident of theft which took place in the office of

 Circle Officer, Bargain, Ranchi and in this regard one

 F.I.R. bearing No. Sadar P.S. Case No.185/2020

 corresponding to G.R. case no-1533/2020 was

 registered under Section 461 and 379 of the Indian

 Penal Code and which is pending before the court of

 Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ranchi. In that

 theft incident many articles including documents

 were stolen and later on by the order of the Ld. Court

 those items were released in favour of the Circle

 Officer, Bargain, Ranchi. (iv) It is stated that a search was conducted on

 13.04.2023 at the residential premises of the

 petitioner at Jhoolan Singh Chowk, Simdega and 6 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 another search was conducted at rental residential

 places situated at Road No.7, Hill View Road,

 Bariatu, Ranchi. (v) It is further stated that during search of the

 residential premises of the petitioner at Jhoolan

 Singh Chowk, Simdega an amount to the tune of Rs.

 3,97,800/-and one gold chain worth of Rs. 77,000/-

 as per bill dated 03.04.2023, two mobile sets with Sim No.8084164626 and Sim No.8789563290, 6 Pass Books and 4 cheque books were seized and

 apart from that no any other incriminating

 documents and articles were seized and same seizure

 is also subject matter of ECIR case No. 01 of 2023

 arising out of ECIR/RNZO/18/2022, dated

 21.10.2022. (vi) It is stated that during search of rental residential

 places situated at Road No.7, Hill View Road,

 Bariatu, Ranchi some registers in total number 17,

 some loose papers, stuffed in 11 trunks and one H.P.

 Laptop has been seized, however no any

 incriminating documents has been recovered from

 the rental house. and the documents which was

 seized from the petitioner's house had been kept due

 to security reason not for any other malicious act and

 the said seizure is the subject matter of ECIR case 7 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 No. 01 of 2023 arising out of ECIR/RNZO/18/2022,

 dated 21.10.2022 also. (vii) When the on-line mutation process and issuance of

 rent receipt process were started in the Session

 2015-16, the sale deeds were used to be uploaded by

 the petitioner on the website of revenue department.

 When the Revenue Karamchari, Revenue Sub

 Inspector and Circle Inspector used to visit on the

 land for which the applicant applies for mutation

 then a copy of the sale deed used to be procured from

 the petitioner for the conveniences and also at the

 same time it is down loaded by the petitioner and the

 hard copies of the those sale deeds were seized which

 were kept in the rental premises in a general mode.

 These documents do not have any legal importance.

 When the searches were conducted then the

 Enforcement Department seized those documents

 and kept those documents in 11 trunks which were

 brought by the officials of Enforcement Department. (viii) It is stated that the articles and documents seized

 during search at rental premises of the petitioner at

 Ranchi are not incriminating in nature. The

 petitioner's laptop which was seized during search on

 13.04.2023 does not contain any incriminating data. (ix) It is stated that the petitioner's mother namely Smt. 8 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 Gaumati Devi aged about 87 years resides with the

 family of the petitioner at Simdega. The mother of the

 petitioner is suffering from various old aged diseases

 and she needs expertized treatment and it is always

 presumed that any un-to-do happenings may happen

 with regard to her health and for the purpose of her

 treatment a handsome amount was used to be kept

 in the house for the urgent medical aid to her. Due to

 this reason an amount to the tune of Rs.3,97,800/-

 were kept in the ancestral house at Simdega for the

 treatment of the mother of the petitioner and for

 other house hold expenses. (x) It is further stated that wife of the petitioner namely

 Smt. Nutan Kumari is a trained teacher and

 employed in S.S. Girls High School, Simdega since

 2019 prior to joining as a trained teacher in this

 school, she was a teacher in Kasturba Gandhi Balika

 Awasiya Vidyalaya, Thethaitangar, Simdega. The wife

 of the petitioner has got independent source of

 income from her salary and hence recovery of gold

 chain worth of Rs. 77,000/- is normal in nature. (xi) The passbooks, cheque books which have been

 recovered either from the parental house of the

 petitioner or from his rental house are belonging

 either to the petitioner or his wife or his other family 9 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 members, however from perusal of the said accounts

 no suspicious transaction has been found. (xii) The petitioner has been arrested by the Enforcement

 Directorate on 13.04.2023 in connection with ECIR

 No. 01/2023 though the recovery of the alleged

 incriminating articles in the said case is identical as

 seized in the instant case. (xiii) The petitioner has not acquired any movable or

 immovable property from the proceeds of crime under Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002 which is

 evident from the documents and the circumstances

 of the instant case. (xiv) In the instant case, even if the allegations levelled

 against the petitioner in the Prosecution Complaint

 are accepted at its face value and in their entirety;

 prima facie, the same do not make out a case under Section 3 , punishable under Section 4 of the

 Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, in as

 much as, such allegations fall short of the essential

 ingredients for offence of money-laundering under Section 3 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,

 2002. (xv) The prosecution case is totally based on statements

 recorded u/s 50 Prevention of Money Laundering Act,

 2002 which is not supported by any corroborative 10 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 admissible evidence on record. (xvi) The petitioner has committed no offence and no

 proceeds of crime as defined under PMLA has either

 been generated by him or has been received by him

 at any point of time. The entire case of the

 prosecution is based on presumption and

 assumption without any evidence and hence it can

 safely be said that the petitioner is an innocent. A

 close examination of the working and financial

 background of the petitioner will clearly demonstrate

 that the story manufactured by the prosecution

 pertaining to "proceeds of crime" is false, legally

 unsustainable and cannot be relied upon.

(xvii) That it is stated that the Hon'ble Apex court held that

 the "proceeds of crime" being the core of the

 ingredients constituting the offence of money

 laundering, that expression needs to be construed

 strictly. In that, all properties recovered or attached

 by the investigating agency in connection with the

 criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence under

 the general law cannot be regarded as proceeds of

 crime. There may be cases where the property

 involved in the commission of scheduled offence

 attached by the investigating agency dealing with

 that offence cannot be wholly or partly regarded as 11 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 proceeds of crime within the meaning of Section

 2(1)(w) of Act 2002. (xviii) It is contended that it is only such property which is

 derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, as a result

 of criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence can

 be regarded as proceeds of crime. The authorities

 under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 cannot resort to action against any person for money-

 laundering on an assumption that the property

 recovered by them must be proceeds of crime and

 that a scheduled offence has been committed, unless

 the same is registered with the jurisdictional police or

 pending inquiry by way of complaint before the

 competent forum. (xix) The petitioner has been made victim of

 circumstances and has falsely been implicated in the

 instant case without any cogent and reliable

 evidences as against him. (xx) It is stated that the petitioner has been remanded in

 the instant case on 03.02.2024 and since then he is

 languishing in jail custody i.e., for about more than 1

 year 09 months. (xxi) It is stated that other several co-accused persons

 have been granted bail either by this Hon'ble court or

 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court the details are as 12 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 follows: 13. Learned counsel for the petitioner, based upon the

aforesaid grounds, has submitted that the learned Spl.

Judge considering the prayer for bail ought to have taken

into consideration all these aspects of the matter both legal

and factual but having not done so, serious error has been

committed. 14. Further submission has been made in the aforesaid

view of the matter as per the ground agitated that it is a fit

case where the petitioner is to be given the privilege of bail.

Argument advanced by the learned counsel for the
respondent/Directorate of Enforcement 15. Per contra, Mr. Amit Kumar Das, learned counsel for

the Enforcement Directorate, has vehemently opposed the

prayer for bail by taking the following grounds: The petitioner fails to satisfy the mandatory twin

 conditions for bail stipulated under Section 45 of the

 Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA),

 and granting him bail would severely prejudice the

 ongoing investigation and the cause of justice. (iii) It has been contended that the investigation has

 conclusively established that the petitioner was not a

 passive bystander but an active and pivotal

 conspirator in a large-scale, organized land-grabbing

 syndicate. (iv) The act of illegally removing and concealing these

 crucial government documents at his private

 residence is prima facie evidence of his criminal intent

 to tamper with, manipulate, and conceal evidence. The

 investigation has confirmed that these very registers,

 seized from his illegal custody, were indeed falsified

 and tampered with to create fraudulent land titles. (v) It has been contended that the present petitioner, has

 misused his position and worked together with the

 members of the land mafia. His illegal actions include 14 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 hiding official land records at his private residence

 changing land entries to benefit others. (vi) The explanations given by the petitioner about the

 seized materials are false. Handwritten diaries seized

 from the co-accused shows entries of cash payments

 made to the petitioner in connection with fraudulent

 acquisition of a 4.83-acre property and also payment

 of Rs. 2,00,000/ to the petitioner. (vii) WhatsApp chats recovered from another co-accused

 shows transaction of Rs. 5 Lakhs to the petitioner for

 his role in the same 4.83-acre land fraud. Also cash

 amounting to Rs. 3,97,800/- and a gold chain seized

 from his premises which shows his established role as

 a beneficiary of illicit cash payments from the

 syndicate. (viii) Thus, the petitioner was knowingly a party and

 actually involved with the other accomplices in activity

 connected with the proceeds of crime. Thus, the

 petitioner is guilty of the offence of money laundering

 as defined under section 3 of PMLA, 2002, punishable

 under section 4 of PMLA, 2002. (ix) The instant prosecution complaint is backed by

 documentary evidences and incriminating seizure

 which are further corroborated from other accused or 15 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 witnesses during their statements under Section 50 of

 PMLA, 2002. (x) The petitioner's claims are merely an attempt to

 conceal his involvement in illegal activities related to

 assisting his accomplices in fraudulently acquiring

 properties. 16. Learned counsel for the Opp. Party-ED, based upon

the aforesaid grounds, has submitted that it is not a fit

case for grant of regular bail in favour of the petitioner.

Analysis 17. Heard the learned counsel for the parties and

perused the documents available on record. 18. This Court before appreciating the argument

advanced on behalf of the parties, deems it fit and proper to

discuss herein some of the provision of law as contained

under the PML Act, 2002 (Act 2002) with its object and

intent as also the legal proposition as settled by the Hon'ble

Apex Court in various judgments. 19. The Act 2002 was enacted to address the urgent

need to have a comprehensive legislation inter alia for

preventing money-laundering, attachment of proceeds of

crime, adjudication and confiscation thereof including

vesting of it in the Central Government, setting up of

agencies and mechanisms for coordinating measures for

combating money-laundering and also to prosecute the 16 [2025:JHHC:35721]

persons indulging in the process or activity connected with

the proceeds of crime. 20. It is evident that the Act 2002 was enacted in order

to answer the urgent requirement to have a comprehensive

legislation inter alia for preventing money-laundering,

attachment of proceeds of crime, adjudication and

confiscation thereof for combating money-laundering and

also to prosecute the persons indulging in the process or

activity connected with the proceeds of crime. 21. The objective of the PMLA is to prevent money

laundering which has posed a serious threat not only to the

financial systems of the country but also to its integrity and

sovereignty. The offence of money laundering is a very

serious offence which is committed by an individual with a

deliberate desire and the motive to enhance his gains,

disregarding the interest of the nation and the society as a

whole, and such offence by no stretch of imagination can

be regarded as an offence of trivial nature. The stringent

provisions have been made in the Act to combat the

menace of money laundering. 22. It needs to refer herein the definition of "proceeds of

crime" as provided under Section 2(1)(u) of the Act, 2002

which reads as under: - 23. It is evident from the aforesaid provision by which

the "proceeds of crime" means any property derived or

obtained, directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of

criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence or the value

of any such property or where such property is taken or

held outside the country, then the property equivalent in

value held within the country or abroad. 24. In the explanation, it has been referred that for the

removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that "proceeds of

crime" include property not only derived or obtained from

the scheduled offence but also any property which may

directly or indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of

any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled offence. 25. It is, thus, evident that the reason for giving

explanation under Section 2(1)(u) is by way of clarification

to the effect that whether as per the substantive provision

of Section 2(1)(u) , the property derived or obtained, directly

or indirectly, by any person as a result of criminal activity 18 [2025:JHHC:35721]

relating to a scheduled offence or the value of any such

property or where such property is taken or held outside

the country then the property equivalent in value held

within the country but by way of explanation the proceeds

of crime has been given broader implication by including

property not only derived or obtained from the scheduled

offence but also any property which may directly or

indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of any criminal

activity relatable to the scheduled offence. 26. Further, the "property" has been defined under Section 2(1)(v) which means any property or assets of every

description, whether corporeal or incorporeal, movable or

immovable, tangible or intangible and includes deeds and

instruments evidencing title to, or interest in, such property

or assets, wherever located. 27. The schedule has been defined under Section 2(1)(x) which means schedule to the Prevention of Money

Laundering Act, 2002 . 28. It is evident that the "scheduled offence" means the

offences specified under Part A of the Schedule; or the

offences specified under Part B of the Schedule if the total

value involved in such offences is [one crore rupees] or

more; or the offences specified under Part C of the

Schedule. 19 [2025:JHHC:35721] 29. The offence of money laundering has been defined

under Section 3 of the Act, 2002 which reads as under: - laundering if such person is found to have directly or
 indirectly attempted to indulge or knowingly assisted
 or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in one
 or more of the following processes or activities
 connected with proceeds of crime, namely:-- 30. It is evident from the aforesaid provision that

"offence of money-laundering" means whosoever directly or

indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or

knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any process 20 [2025:JHHC:35721]

or activity connected with the proceeds of crime including

its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and

projecting or claiming it as untainted property shall be

guilty of offence of money-laundering. 31. It is further evident that the process or activity

connected with proceeds of crime is a continuing activity

and continues till such time a person is directly or

indirectly enjoying the proceeds of crime by its concealment

or possession or acquisition or use or projecting it as

untainted property or claiming it as untainted property in

any manner whatsoever. 32. The punishment for money laundering has been

provided under Section 4 of the Act, 2002. 33. Section 50 of the Act, 2002 confers power upon the

authorities regarding summons, production of documents

and to give evidence. 34. The various provisions of the Act, 2002 along with

interpretation of the definition of "proceeds of crime" has

been dealt with by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Ors. Vs. Union of India

and Ors. , reported in (2022) SCC OnLine SC 929 wherein

the Bench comprising of three Hon'ble Judges of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court have decided the issue by taking

into consideration the object and intent of the Act, 2002. 21 [2025:JHHC:35721] 35. The predicate offence has been considered in the

aforesaid judgment wherein by taking into consideration

the explanation as inserted by way of Act 23 of 2019 under

the definition of the "proceeds of crime" as contained under Section 2(1)(u) , whereby and whereunder, it has been

clarified for the purpose of removal of doubts that, the

"proceeds of crime" include property not only derived or

obtained from the scheduled offence but also any property

which may directly or indirectly be derived or obtained as a

result of any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled

offence, meaning thereby, the words "any property which

may directly or indirectly be derived or obtained as a result

of any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled offence" 36. So far as the purport of Section 45(1)(i) &(ii) is

concerned, the aforesaid provision starts from the non-

obstante clause that notwithstanding anything contained in

the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, no person accused

of an offence under this Act shall be released on bail or on

his own bond unless- (i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to

oppose the application for such release; and (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the application, the

court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for 22 [2025:JHHC:35721]

believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is

not likely to commit any offence while on bail. 37. Sub-section (2) thereof puts limitation on granting

bail specific in sub-section (1) in addition to the limitations

under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 or any other

law for the time being in force on granting of bail. 38. The explanation is also there as under sub-section

(2) thereof which is for the purpose of removal of doubts, a

clarification has been inserted that the expression "Offences

to be cognizable and non-bailable" shall mean and shall be

deemed to have always meant that all offences under this

Act shall be cognizable offences and non-bailable offences

notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, and, accordingly, the

officers authorised under this Act are empowered to arrest

an accused without warrant, subject to the fulfillment of

conditions under section 19 and subject to the conditions

enshrined under this section 39. The fact about the implication of Section 45 has

been interpreted by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Vijay

Madanlal Choudhary and Ors. Vs. Union of India and

Ors. (supra) at paragraphs-285,286 and 316. For ready

reference, the said paragraphs are being referred as under:- [2025:JHHC:35721] 40. Subsequently, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Tarun Kumar vs. Assistant Director Directorate of

Enforcement , (2023) SCC OnLine SC 1486 by taking into

consideration the law laid down by the Larger Bench of the

Hon'ble Apex Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and

Ors. Vs. Union of India and Ors. (supra), it has been laid

down that since the conditions specified under Section 45 are mandatory, they need to be complied with. The Court is

required to be satisfied that there are reasonable grounds

for believing that the accused is not guilty of such offence

and he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. 41. It has further been observed that as per the

statutory presumption permitted under Section 24 of the

Act, the Court or the Authority is entitled to presume

unless the contrary is proved, that in any proceedings

relating to proceeds of crime under the Act, in the case of a

person charged with the offence of money laundering under Section 3 , such proceeds of crime are involved in money

laundering. Such conditions enumerated in Section 45 of

PML Act will have to be complied with even in respect of an

application for bail made under Section 439 Cr. P.C. in view

of the overriding effect given to the PML Act over the other

law for the time being in force, under Section 71 of the PML

Act. For ready reference, paragraph-17 of the said

judgment reads as under:- 25 42. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the said judgment has

further laid down that the twin conditions as to fulfill the

requirement of Section 45 of the Act, 2002 before granting

the benefit of bail is to be adhered to which has been dealt

with by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Vijay Madanlal

Choudhary and Ors. Vs. Union of India and

Ors. (supra)wherein it has been observed that the accused

is not guilty of the offence and is not likely to commit any

offence while on bail. 43. In the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court

in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Ors. Vs. Union of

India and Ors. (supra) as under paragraph-284, it has

been held that the Authority under the 2002 Act, is to 26 [2025:JHHC:35721]

prosecute a person for offence of money-laundering only if

it has reason to believe, which is required to be recorded in

writing that the person is in possession of "proceeds of

crime". Only if that belief is further supported by tangible

and credible evidence indicative of involvement of the

person concerned in any process or activity connected with

the proceeds of crime, action under the Act can be taken

forward for attachment and confiscation of proceeds of

crime and until vesting thereof in the Central Government,

such process initiated would be a standalone process. 44. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Gautam

Kundu vs. Directorate of Enforcement (Prevention of

Money-Laundering Act), Government of India through

Manoj Kumar, Assistant Director, Eastern Region,

reported in (2015) 16 SCC 1 has been pleased to hold at

paragraph -30 that the conditions specified under Section

45 of PMLA are mandatory and need to be complied with,

which is further strengthened by the provisions of Section

65 and also Section 71 of PMLA. 45. Section 65 requires that the provisions of Cr.P.C .

shall apply insofar as they are not inconsistent with the

provisions of this Act and Section 71 provides that the

provisions of PMLA shall have overriding effect

notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained

in any other law for the time being in force. PMLA has an 27 [2025:JHHC:35721]

overriding effect and the provisions of Cr.P.C . would apply

only if they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this

Act. 46. Therefore, the conditions enumerated in Section 45 of PMLA will have to be complied with even in respect of an

application for bail made under Section 439 Cr.P.C. That

coupled with the provisions of Section 24 provides that

unless the contrary is proved, the authority or the Court

shall presume that proceeds of crime are involved in

money-laundering and the burden to prove that the

proceeds of crime are not involved, lies on the petitioner. 47. It needs to refer herein that while dealing with bail

applications under UAP Act 1967, the Hon'ble Apex Court

recently in the case of Gurwinder Singh Vs. State of

Punjab and Anr. , reported in (2024) SCC OnLine SC 109,

has observed that the conventional idea in bail

jurisprudence vis-à-vis ordinary penal offences that the

discretion of Courts must tilt in favour of the oft-quoted

phrase - 'bail is the rule, jail is the exception' - unless

circumstances justify otherwise - does not find any place

while dealing with bail applications under UAP Act and the

'exercise' of the general power to grant bail under the UAP

Act is severely restrictive in scope. For ready reference,

relevant paragraph of the said judgment is being referred as

under: 28 à-vis ordinary penal offences that the discretion of
 Courts must tilt in favour of the oft-quoted phrase -
 'bail is the rule, jail is the exception' - unless
 circumstances justify otherwise - does not find any
 place while dealing with bail applications under UAP
 Act . The 'exercise' of the general power to grant bail
 under the UAP Act is severely restrictive in scope. The
 form of the words used in proviso to Section 43D (5)-
 'shall not be released' in contrast with the form of the
 words as found in Section 437(1) CrPC - 'may be
 released' - suggests the intention of the Legislature to
 make bail, the exception and jail, the rule." 48. The reason for making reference of this judgment is

that in the case of Satender Kumar Antil vs. CBI and

Anr. , (2022) 10 SCC 51, the UAPA has also been brought

under the purview of category 'c' which also includes

offence under PML Act 2002, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

the bail has been directed to be granted if the investigation

is complete but the Hon'ble Apex Court in Gurwinder

Singh vs. State of Punjab and Anr. (supra) has taken the

view by making note that the penal offences as enshrined

under the provision of UAPA are also under category 'c'

making reference that jail is the rule and bail is the

exception. 49. Adverting to the factual aspect of the case it is

evident that the investigation in the instant case was

initiated based on FIR No. 272/23 dated 01.06 2023,

registered at P.S. Sadar, Ranchi, against the petitioner and 29 [2025:JHHC:35721]

others for scheduled offences under Sections 420 , 467 , and 476 of the IPC. This FIR was a direct consequence of

information shared by the Directorate of Enforcement (ED)

with the State Government under Section 66(2) of the

PMLA, after the syndicate's operations were first unearthed

during a separate PMLA investigation

(ECIR/RNZO/18/2022) into the fraudulent acquisition of

Army land in Morabadi. 50. It has been alleged that a multi-layered syndicate

involving government officials, private individuals, and

intermediaries. The key members include the petitioner

Bhanu Pratap Prasad (ex-Revenue Sub-Inspector), Manoj

Kumar Yadav (Clerk, LRDC Office); Afshar Ali, Md. Saddam

Hussain, Shekhar Prasad Mahto Shekhar Kushwaha, Bipin

Kumar Singh, and Priya Ranjan Sahay. 51. It has been alleged that the syndicate employed a

sophisticated modus operandi. They would identify prime

properties, especially restricted tribal (Bhuinhari) lands,

and then manufacture antedated fake deeds to create a

fraudulent ownership trail. This was achieved by procuring

original blank pages stolen from old registers at the

Registrar of Assurances, Kolkata, and these forged deeds

were then planted back into the official volumes.

Subsequently, with the active connivance of the petitioner

Bhanu Pratap Prasad (petitioner), corresponding fraudulent 30 [2025:JHHC:35721]

entries were made in the local land records in Ranchi,

including the original revenue registers (पंजीII), to reflect the

forged ownership and illegally change the land's character,

making it saleable. 52. The Petitioner was initially arrested on 14.04.2023

in a connected matter arising out of ECIR/RNZO/18/2022

and was subsequently produced and arrested in the

present ECIR on 03.02.2024. Pursuant to the investigation,

one main Prosecution Complaint and two Supplementary

Prosecution Complaints have been filed before the Learned

Special Court (PMLA), Kanchi, detailing the layered roles

and interlinkages of members of the land-grabbing

syndicate. The Learned Special Court has duly taken

cognizance of the offence under Section 3 read with Section

4 of the PMLA against all accused persons named therein. 53. Now coming to the grounds as has been raised on

behalf of the learned counsel for the petitioner that even if

the entire ECIR will be taken into consideration, no offence

will be said to be committed so as to attract the ingredients

of Sections 3 & 4 of the P.M.L. Act, 2002. Further ground

has been taken that the allegation against the petitioner

pertains to his purported assistance to other accused

individuals. Further, the prolonged custody of petitioner

since 03.02.2024 has also been raised. 31 [2025:JHHC:35721] 54. While on the other hand, Mr. Amit Kumar Das,

learned counsel appearing for the respondent-E.D. has

submitted that there are ample materials surfaced in

course of inquiry, based upon which, the prosecution

complaint was submitted and, hence, it cannot be said that

there is no legal evidence. It has further been contended

that it is settled proposition of law which has been settled

by the Hon'ble Apex Court that the long incarceration (1

year 9 months) or delay in trial alone cannot be ground to

release the petitioner on bail, rather in case of scheduled

offences/special offences the seriousness of the matter and

the societal impact should be taken into consideration by

the Court concerned while enlarging the petitioner on bail. 55. This Court, in order to appreciate the rival

submissions, is of the view that material available on record

upon which the reliance has been placed on behalf of both

the parties, needs to be referred herein so as to come to the

conclusion as to whether the parameter as fixed under Section 45 of the PML Act 2002 is being fulfilled in order to

reach to the conclusion that it is a fit case where regular

bail is to be granted or not. 56. The relevant paragraphs of supplementary

prosecution complaint dated 07.06.2024 which has been

submitted against the other co-accused persons and 32 [2025:JHHC:35721]

appended as Annexure -2 to this petition are being referred

as under: - The above image shows the account of cash
maintained by the accused persons namely Md.
Saddam Hussain, Afshar Ali and others in respect of
the property admeasuring 4.83 acres, situated at Plot
No. 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 38, 72 and 73, Khata 53,
Mauja Gari, Baragain Anchal, Ranchi for which two
fake deeds, 3954 of the year 1974 and other of the
year 2376 of the year 1940 were prepared by accused
persons namely Md. Saddam Hussain, Afshar Ali and
others who are the associates of Bhanu Pratap
Prasad. It is evident from the accounts (highlighted in
red box) that Rs. 20,00,000/- has been accounted for
something which has been written as 'Two pieces'. In
addition to this, 1974 and 1940 has been written on
the paper. Two pieces represent two fake deeds and
1974 and 1940 represent the year of which, fake
deeds were made by the accused persons. In addition
to this, a cash payment of Rs. 2 lacs to Bhanu Pratap
Prasad has also been highlighted. On the top of the
note, Khata 53, Mauja Gari 4.83 Cheshire Home Road 34 [2025:JHHC:35721]

is written which represents the area and the location
of the land. 3.6The above-stated facts were confronted with
Bhanu Pratap Prasad initially on 23.04.2023. and
again on 10.02.2024 (RUD No-34 of PC dated
30.03.2024). during his statement under section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 wherein he admitted about his
involvement with other accused persons namely
Afshar Ali, Saddam Hussain, Md. Irshad, Bipin
Singh. 3.8During investigation, it was also revealed that the
accused Bhanu Pratap Prasad was also party with
Hemant Soren in activities of acquiring and
possessing a piece of land in a concealed manner,
having an area of around 8.86 acres. An image of a
report was recovered from the mobile phone of
Bhanu Pratap Prasad regarding verification of the
said 8.86 acres of land in which certain hand written
notes in respect of a cluster of landed properties,
situated adjacently on 12 plots at Baragain Anchal,
the total area of which is around 8.86 acres were
written by him. It revealed that the said property
was acquired in illegal and concealed possession of
the accused Hemant Soren since. Background of the information shared under section 66(2) of the PMLA, 2002 to the Chief
Secretary, Govt. of Jharkhand

In one of the investigation under
ECIR/RNZO/18/2022, conducted by the Directorate
of Enforcement, searches were conducted at several
premises including the premises of accused person
namely Bhanu Pratap Prasad, Md. Saddam Hussain,
Afshar Ali and others on 13.04.2023. The search
was conducted in a matter of fraudulent acquisition
of a defence possessed land by a group of persons on
the basis of fake deed. During searches, several
incriminating documents and original government 35 [2025:JHHC:35721]

records were recovered and seized from the premises
of Bhanu Pratap Prasad, which were found falsified
and tampered in order to acquire as well as assist
other persons to acquire landed properties in illegal
manner. Bhanu Pratap Prasad and six other
members of the above stated syndicate including
Afshar Ali and Md. Saddam Hussain were arrested
on 14.04.2023 under section 19 of PMLA for being
involved in the above forgeries which have resulted
in the generation of proceeds of crime. Bhanu Pratap Prasad being a government servant
(Revenue Sub-Inspector, Baragain) was part of a
syndicate that was habitually involved in illegal
activities pertaining to forgeries and tampering with
government records aimed at acquiring landed
properties. As such, the information with respect to
Bhanu Pratap Prasad and the documents seized
from his possession was shared with the Chief
Secretary, Govt. of Jharkhand under section 66(2) of
the PMLA, 2002. On the basis of said information,
the FIR was lodged by the Sadar P.S. The
information shared under section 66(2) of PMLA,
2002 is an integral part of the FIR 272/2023 On the
basis of the FIR no. 272/2023, the
ECIRRNZO/25/2023 was recorded for further
investigation under PMLA, 2002. Investigation under PMLA, 2002 in ECIR: 4.83 acres property, situated at Cheshire Home
Road, Mauja Gari, Ranchi was also identified to be
acquired by the accused persons including Afshar
Ali, Md. Saddam Hussain and others in connivance
with Bhanu Pratap Prasad. Fake deeds, diaries
having hand written cash details were also seized
from possession of Md. Saddam Hussain, Imtiyaz 37 [2025:JHHC:35721]

Ahmed (an accomplice of Afhsar Ali and Saddam
Hussain). These entries contained huge cash
payments including compensatory payment to
Bhanu Pratap Prasad in relation of the above stated
4.83-acre property. --- 9.10 Investigation revealed that the above stated
8.86 acres property was in concealed possession and
use of Hemant Soren and the said Bhanu Pratap
Prasad was assisting him in acquisition of the said
property. ---- 9.21 From the various documents gathered during
the course of investigation, it has been established
that Bhanu Pratap Prasad was member of the
syndicate comprising of the accused persons namely
Afshar Ali, Md. Saddam Hussain, Md. Irshad, Bipin
Singh and others who were involved in acquiring
landed properties by creating fake deeds. Bhanu
Pratap Prasad also assisted several persons
including Hemant Soren in acquiring properties in
concealed and fraudulent manner. The recovery of
the verification report of the said 8.86 acres property
for benefit of the accused person Hemant Soren, the
recovery of the brown-coloured file containing 44
pages exclusively related to said 8.86 acres property
in possession of Hemant Soren (on which CMO
Urgent Pintu was written) establish the assistance
provided by Bhanu Pratap Prasad to Hemant Soren
in fraudulently acquiring the said 8.86 acres
property. Involvement of the accused persons in acquiring
property admeasuring 4.83 acres at Mouza Gari,
Chesire Home Road, Ranchi, illegally by way of
manufacturing fake deeds, in connivance with the
accused Bhanu Pratap Prasad. Investigation reveals that the syndicate used to
identify vacant land parcels in Ranchi, where no
activity was done. In addition to this the accused 38 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 persons namely Afshar Ali, Priya Ranjan Sahay and
 others largely targeted tribal lands whose sale
 purchase were restricted under CNT Act . Then, they
 used to make antedated fake deeds either to change
 the nature of the property (making them general
 lands) or to create fictitious owners. Later with the
 assistance of officials of Cicle offices, the original
 records were falsified so that the land could be
 acquired by them. In addition, the above 8.86 acres
 of property as discussed above, the accused persons
 namely Md. Saddam Hussain, Afshar Ali, Priya
 Ranjan Sahay and others are also involved with
 Bhanu Pratap Prasad in forgery with respect to
 property admeasuring 4.83 acres situated at Mauja
 Gari, Khata no. 53, at Plot No. 31. 32, 33, 35, 36,
 38, 72 and 73, Baragain Anchal, Ranchi. The land
 was identified by Priya Ranjan Sahay, Md. Saddam
 Hussain, Shekhar Kushwaha and Bipin Singh. For
 this property, two fake deeds, deed no. 2376 of the
 year 1940 and other 3954 of the year 1974 were
 prepared by Saddam Hussain, Md. Afshar Ali and
 others. Deed no. 2376 of 1940 was written by
 Makbul Ansari and the deed no. 3954 of 1974 was
 written by Md. Alauddin, by the involvement of the
 accused Md. Irshad, who used to work with Makbul
 Ansari and Md. Alauddin. The said Mabul Ansari
 and Md. Alauddin are now deceased. This fact has
 been admitted by the accused person Md. Irsad in
 his statement dated 24.04.2024 recorded u/s 50 of
 PMLA, 2002. 57. From the material available on record and also from

counter affidavit prima facie it appears that the petitioner

alleged to misused his official position as a Revenue Sub-

Inspector and custodian of sensitive government records to

facilitate a massive land scam and he provided the 39 [2025:JHHC:35721]

syndicate with illegal access to original land records and

personally carried out or facilitated their forgery and

manipulation, thereby enabling the fraudulent acquisition

of high-value properties. 58. It has come on record that petitioner's had kept 17

original government registers (पं जी II) and 11 trunks of

official documents at his private rented residence for

security reasons, however, as a public servant, the

petitioner was legally and duty-bound to maintain the

custody and sanctity of these records within the designated

government office. 59. It has been revealed in the investigation that the

primary role of the petitioner was to facilitate the

generation of massive proceeds of crime for the main

beneficiaries like Hemant Soren and other syndicate

members, and further there is direct and corroborative

evidence of him receiving illicit payments for his illegal acts. 60. Further it has come in the investigation that

handwritten diaries seized from co-accused Md. Saddam

Hussain, which contain explicit entries of cash payments

made to "Bhanu" in connection with the fraudulent

acquisition of a 4.83-acre property. One entry specifically

notes a payment to "Bhanu Rsiad" (Bhanu Prasad the

present petitioner). Further, WhatsApp chats recovered

from another co-accused, which show a transaction list 40 [2025:JHHC:35721]

where an entry "Bhanu 5" represents a payment of 25

Lakhs to the petitioner for his role in the same 4.83-acre

land fraud. 61. Thus, admittedly the 17 original tampered registers

and 11 trunks of documents seized from personal custody

of the petitioner. Further, Forged Sale Deeds (eg. Deed No.

3954 of 1974, Deed No. 3985 of 1940) created and used by

the syndicate of which petitioner was a pivotal member.

Handwritten diaries and WhatsApp chats of co-accused

persons evidencing cash payments to the petitioner. 62. Thus, during searches conducted on April 13, 2023,

at the petitioner's rented residence, a huge cache of official

documents was seized, including 11 trunks of voluminous

property documents and 17 original government land

revenue registers (पंजी II). The petitioner had illegally

removed these critical records from the Circle Office and

kept them at his private residence, an act indicative of a

intent of the petitioner to tamper with evidence.

Examination of these seized registers revealed widespread

tampering, falsification, and forgery, where names of

original landowners were erased or overwritten to illegally

insert new names, thereby unlawfully changing the nature

of lands to extend undue benefits to members of the

syndicate and other influential individuals. 41 [2025:JHHC:35721] 63. Thus, prima facie the petitioner's argument that no

offence under Section 3 of the PMLA is made out is legally

flawed. Further, the offence of money laundering explicitly

includes any person who "knowingly assists or knowingly is

a party or is actually involved in any process or activity

connected with proceeds of crime including its

concealment, possession, acquisition or use, therefore, the

contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner is not

tenable herein. 64. The learned counsel for the petitioner has further

contended that case rests solely on the confessional

statements under Section 50 of the PMLA and as such it is

not admissible as evidence against the petitioner. 65. In the aforesaid context it needs to refer herein that

the three Judges Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the

case of Rohit Tandon vs. Directorate of Enforcement ,

(2018) 11 SCC 46 has held that the statements of

witnesses recorded by Prosecution-ED are admissible in

evidence, in view of Section 50 . Such statements may make

out a formidable case about the involvement of the accused

in the commission of the offence of money laundering. 66. It is evident that the instant case, is supported by a

wealth of independent and corroborative evidence,

including Physical Evidence as the 17 original tampered

registers and 11 trunks of documents seized from the 42 [2025:JHHC:35721]

personal custody of the petitioner and further Forged Sale

Deeds created and used by the syndicate of which he was

alleged to be a pivotal member. Further Handwritten diaries

and WhatsApp chats of co-accused persons evidencing

cash payments to the petitioner. 67. The investigation revealed that the petitioner, a

public servant, was a key member of this land-grabbing

syndicate. During searches conducted on April 13, 2023, at

the petitioner's rented residence, a huge cache of official

documents was seized, including 11 trunks of voluminous

property documents and 17 original government land

revenue registers (पंजी II). The petitioner had illegally

removed these critical records from the Circle Office and

concealed them at his private residence, an act indicative of

a clear intent to tamper with evidence. Examination of

these seized registers revealed widespread tampering,

falsification, and forgery, where names of original

landowners were erased or overwritten to illegally insert

new names, thereby unlawfully changing the nature of

lands to extend undue benefits to members of the syndicate

and other influential individuals. 68. Thus, the contention of learned counsel for the

petitioner that the instant case rests solely on the

statements recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA is not

tenable rather the instant case is supported by a strong 43 [2025:JHHC:35721]

and coherent body of evidence drawn from multiple

independent sources, which together establish the

petitioner's active and knowing involvement in the offence

of money laundering. 69. Thus, from aforesaid imputation and discussion

prima-facie it appears that the involvement of present

petitioner in alleged crime cannot be denied. 70. Further, it requires to refer herein that the burden

of proof is on the petitioner until the contrary is proved, the

same is observed in various judicial pronouncements and

upheld in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra). Further in Rohit Tandon v. Directorate of Enforcement ,

(2018) 11 SCC 46, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has also

observed that the provisions of section 24 of the PMLA

provide that unless the contrary is proved, the authority or

the Court shall presume that proceeds of crime are involved

in money laundering and the burden to prove that the

proceeds of crime are not involved, lies on the appellant. 71. Further, the offence of money laundering as

contemplated in Section 3 of the PMLA has been elaborately

dealt with by the three Judge Bench in Vijay Madanlal

Choudhary (supra), in which it has been observed that Section 3 has a wider reach. The offence as defined

captures every process and activity in dealing with the

proceeds of crime, directly or indirectly, and is not limited 44 [2025:JHHC:35721]

to the happening of the final act of integration of tainted

property in the formal economy to constitute an act of

money laundering. Of course, the authority of the

Authorised Officer under the Act to prosecute any person

for the offence of money laundering gets triggered only if

there exist proceeds of crime within the meaning of Section

2(1)(u) of the Act and further it is involved in any process or

activity. 72. Further, it is settled proposition of law that if a

person who is unconnected with the scheduled offence,

knowingly assists the concealment of the proceeds of crime

or knowingly assists the use of proceeds of crime , in that

case , he can be held guilty of committing an offence under Section 3 of the PMLA. Therefore, it is not necessary that a

person against whom the offence under Section 3 of the

PMLA is alleged must have been shown as the accused in

the scheduled offence. 73. Herein the 17 seized original government registers

are the primary incriminating evidence in this case, as the

investigation has established that these records were

illegally removed from the government office, concealed by

the petitioner, and were subsequently tampered with to

create fraudulent land titles. The explanation that these

crucial government records were kept at his rental house

for a security reason is a self-serving afterthought, 45 [2025:JHHC:35721]

unsubstantiated by any official order or logical reasoning.

The very act of illegally removing and concealing these

registers proves the petitioner's malicious intent and his

active role in the criminal conspiracy. 74. Thus, this Court, after taking note of the settled

legal proposition, is of view that the contention of the

learned counsel for the petitioner is not tenable in the eye

of law. 75. Thus, from the aforesaid deduction, the involvement

of the present petitioner in the alleged crime, prima-facie

appears to be true. 76. So far as the issue of grant of bail under Section 45 of the Act, 2002 is concerned, as has been referred

hereinabove, the judgment rendered in Vijay Madanlal

Choudhary and Ors. Vs. Union of India and Ors. (supra),

it has been held therein by making observation that

whatever form the relief is couched including the nature of

proceedings, be it under Section 438 of the 1973 Code or

439 for that matter, by invoking the jurisdiction of the

Constitutional Court, the underlying principles and rigors

of Section 45 of the 2002 must come into play and without

exception ought to be reckoned to uphold the objectives of

the 2002 Act, which is a special legislation providing for

stringent regulatory measures for combating the menace of

money-laundering. 46 [2025:JHHC:35721] 77. Therefore, the conditions enumerated in Section 45 of P.M.L.A. will have to be complied with even in respect of

an application for bail made under Section 439 Cr.P.C.

That coupled with the provisions of Section 24 provides

that unless the contrary is proved, the authority or the

Court shall presume that proceeds of crime are involved in

money laundering and the burden to prove that the

proceeds of crime are not involved, lies on the appellant. 78. Further, it is evident from the judicial

pronouncement as discussed above that in order to

constitute any property as proceeds of crime, it must be

derived or obtained directly or indirectly by any person as a

result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence.

The explanation clarifies that the proceeds of crime include

property, not only derived or obtained from scheduled

offence but also any property which may directly or

indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of any criminal

activity relatable to the scheduled offence. Section 2(1)(u) also clarifies that even the value of any such property will

also be the proceeds of crime and in the instant case from

perusal of paragraph of the prosecution complaint it is

evident that the petitioner is not only involved rather his

involvement is direct in procuring the proceeds of crime by

way of connivance with the other accused persons. 47 [2025:JHHC:35721] 79. In the instant case the investigation under PMLA

was initiated only after the registration of a predicate

offence, ie, FIR No. 272/23, which includes offences of

cheating and forgery under Sections 420 and 467 of the

IPC. Therefore, it cannot be stated that action was taken

on an "assumption" rather the 'proceeds of crime in the

instant case have been clearly identified as the high-value

properties illegally acquired through forgery and further

from record it is evident that the illicit cash payments

(bribes) received by the petitioner for his role in "knowingly

assisting in the criminal activities that generated these

proceeds, therefore the aforesaid properties and illicit gains

are thus squarely covered by the definition under Section

2(1)(u) of the PMLA. 80. Thus, on the basis of the discussion made

hereinabove the contention of the learned counsel for the

petitioner that even if the entire ECIR will be taken into

consideration, no offence will be said to be committed so as

to attract the ingredients of Sections 3 & 4 of the P.M.L.

Act, 2002, is totally misplaced in the light of accusation as

mention in prosecution complaint. 81. So far as the issue of period of custody as agitated

by learned counsel for the petitioner is concerned, it is

settled proposition of law which has been settled by the

Hon'ble Apex Court that the long incarceration (herein 48 [2025:JHHC:35721]

about 21 month) or delay in trial alone cannot be ground to

release the petitioner on bail, rather in case of scheduled

offences/special offences the seriousness of the matter and

the societal impact should be taken in to consideration by

the Court concerned while enlarging the petitioner on bail. 82. At this juncture, the learned counsel for ED has

submitted at Bar that all endeavour will be taken to

expedite the trial and now the ED has taken his all

endeavour to examine the further witnesses and there is

likelihood that witnesses will be examined and they will try

to examine remaining witnesses expeditiously. 83. This Court is conscious with the fact that personal

liberty is utmost requirement to maintain the individuality

of the person concerned but at the same time it is equally

settled that the balance between personal liberty and

societal impact of the alleged offence should be taken care

of by the Court concerned. 84. Further, the Hon'ble Apex Court while dealing with

the offences under UAP Act 1967, in the case of Gurwinder

Singh v. State of Punjab (supra) and taking in to

consideration the ratio of judgment of Union of India vs.

K.A. Najeeb , (2021) 3 SCC 713 has observed that mere

delay in trial pertaining to grave offences as one involved in

the instant case cannot be used as a ground to grant bail, 49 [2025:JHHC:35721]

for ready reference the relevant paragraph is being quoted

as under: 85. Thus, on the basis of the aforesaid settled position

of law it is evident that mere delay in trial pertaining to

grave offences as one involved in the instant case cannot be

used as a ground to grant bail. 86. Admittedly, the petitioner has been in judicial

custody since February, 2024 but the said incarceration,

under the aforesaid circumstances, does not entitle the

petitioner to bail. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Tarun

Kumar v. Directorate of Enforcement,2023 SCC OnLine

SC 1486, has authoritatively held that while the period of

custody may be a relevant factor, it cannot by itself override

the gravity of the offence, the seriousness of allegations or

the statutory twin conditions under Section 45 of the Act

2002. 50 [2025:JHHC:35721] 87. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan ,

(2004) 7 SCC 528, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that

the mere period of incarceration is not a sufficient ground

for bail when the gravity of the offence is severe and there

are allegations of tampering. 88. Similarly, in Satyendar Kumar Jain v.

Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 317,

the Hon'ble Apex Court refused bail despite protracted

proceedings. 89. It requires to refer herein that respondent ED has

specifically express serious apprehension in the Counter

affidavit at para 50 that, if petitioner enlarged on bail, he

may misuse his liberty to derail the ongoing trial averred,

for ready reference the aforesaid paragraph is being quoted

as under: 90. Thus, given the grave nature of the allegations and

the strict statutory framework governing bail under the

PMLA, no ground exists for the petitioner to claim the

benefit of bail either on merits or on account of delay. The

gravity of the offence, misuse of a high public office, and

the serious allegations of facilitating the laundering of

proceeds of crime continue to justify the petitioner's

custody under the strict rigours of Section 45 of the Act

2002. Issue of parity 91. It has been contended that other several co-

accused persons namely Md. Irshad, Bipin Kumar Singh

and Priya Ranjan Sahayhave been granted bail either by

this Court or by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, therefore the

present petitioner is also eligible for such liberty. 92. Per contra the learned counsel for ED has stated

that the petitioner's plea for bail on the grounds of parity is

wholly misplaced and untenable because the role of the

petitioner is entirely distinct and far more egregious than

that of the other co-accused who have been granted bail. 93. Now coming to the ground of parity as raised by the

learned counsel for the petitioner, the law is well settled

that the principle of parity is to be applied if the case on

fact is exactly similar then only the principle of parity in the 52 [2025:JHHC:35721]

matter of passing order is to be passed but if there is

difference in between the facts then the principle of parity is

not to be applied. 94. It is further settled connotation of law that Court

cannot exercise its powers in a capricious manner and has

to consider the totality of circumstances before granting

bail and by only simple saying that another accused has

been granted bail is not sufficient to determine whether a

case for grant of bail on the basis of parity has been

established. Reference in this regard may be made to the

judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Ramesh

Bhavan Rathod vs. Vishanbhai Hirabhai Makwana

&Anr. , (2021) 6 SCC 230, wherein, it has been held as

under: 95. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Tarun Kumar Vs.

Assistant Director Directorate of Enforcement (supra)

wherein at paragraph-18, it has been held that parity is not

the law and while applying the principle of parity, the Court

is required to focus upon the role attached to the accused

whose application is under consideration. 96. Now, this Court is adverting to the facts of instant

case to decide the issue of parity in the backdrop of

aforesaid settled legal ratio and as such thinks it fit to

discuss herein distinguishable facts in the case of present

petitioner to that of the case of co-accused persons who

have been granted bail. 97. This Court, in order to verify the issue of principle of

parity, has gone through the order by which, co-accused

have been enlarged on the bail and found that the

distinguishing factors are: [2025:JHHC:35721] (iii) The gravity of an offence committed by a

 custodian of public records is of a significantly higher

 degree, therefore, he cannot claim parity with private

 individuals who were part of the syndicate. 98. Thus, from the aforesaid, the role of present

petitioner/ accused is comparable to that of the co-accused

who has been granted bail. In the present case, the

petitioner's role is fundamentally different and far more

serious. Unlike the co-accused individuals such as Md.

Irshad, Bipin Kumar Singh, and Priya Ranjan Sahay who

are private persons, the petitioner was a public servant

holding the post of Revenue Sub-Inspector, entrusted with

the custody of sensitive land records. He grossly misused

his official position and violated the public trust. It has

been alleged that he was the central figure in the

conspiracy, playing a key role in providing illegal access to

official land records (Register-II), which enabled the

syndicate to carry out large-scale land fraud, including the

illegal acquisition of the 8.86-acre and 4.83-acre parcels of

land. Prima facie it appears that he knowingly facilitated

the alteration of Register-II to change the classification of a

restricted property and accepted bribes for doing so. His

actions were not incidental; therefore, his role cannot be

equated with that of the other co-accused, and the claim of

parity is without any merit. 56 [2025:JHHC:35721] 99. Herein the petitioner systematically misused his

official position as a Revenue Sub-Inspector and custodian

of sensitive government records to facilitate a massive land

scam and prima facie it appears that he provided the

syndicate with illegal access to original land records and

personally carried out or facilitated their forgery and

manipulation, thereby enabling the fraudulent acquisition

of high-value properties. 100. Further, it requires to refer herein that the Money

Laundering is an economic offence and economic offences

come under the grave offences, as has been held by the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Y. S Jagan Mohan

Reddy Vs. C. B. I., reported in (2013) 7 SCC 439. For

ready reference, the relevant paragraph of the aforesaid

judgment is being quoted as under: 101. Similarly, the Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Nimgadda Prasad Vs. C.B.I. , reported in (2013) 7 SCC

466 has reiterated the same view in paragraph-23 to 25,

which reads as under: 57 An economic offence is committed with cool calculation
and deliberate design with an eye on personal profit
regardless of the consequence to the community. A
disregard for the interest of the community can be
manifested only at the cost of forfeiting the trust and
faith of the community in the system to administer
justice in an even-handed manner without fear of
criticism from the quarters which view white-collar
crimes with a permissive eye unmindful of the damage
done to the national economy and national interest." 24. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind
the nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in
support thereof, the severity of the punishment which
conviction will entail, the character of the accused,
circumstances which are peculiar to the accused,
reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the
accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the
witnesses being tampered with, the larger interests
ofthe public/State and other similar considerations. It
has also to be kept in mind that for the purpose of
granting bail, the legislature has used the words
"reasonable grounds for believing" instead of "the
evidence" which means the court dealing with the 58 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 grant of bail can only satisfy itself as to whether there
 is a genuine case against the accused and that the
 prosecution will be able to produce prima facie
 evidence in support of the charge. It is not expected, at
 this stage, to have the evidence establishing the guilt of
 the accused beyond reasonable doubt. 25. Economic offences constitute a class apart and
 need to be visited with a different approach in the
 matter of bail. The economic offence having deeprooted
 conspiracies and involving huge loss of public funds
 needs to be viewed seriously and considered as a grave
 offence affecting the economy of the country as a whole
 and thereby posing serious threat to the financial
 health of the country." 102. It is, thus, evident from the discussion made

hereinabove that so far as the case of the present petitioner

is concerned, the twin condition as provided under Section

45(1) of the Act, 2002 is not being fulfilled so as to grant

the privilege of bail to the present petitioner. 103. For the foregoing reasons, having regard to the facts

and circumstances, as have been analyzed hereinabove and

further taking into consideration that the petitioner

systematically misused his official position as a Revenue

Sub-Inspector and custodian of sensitive government

records to facilitate a massive land scam and further the

cash payments (bribes) received by the petitioner for his

role in knowingly assisting in the criminal activities that

generated these proceeds, the applicant/petitioner failed to

make out a case for exercise of power to grant bail and 59 [2025:JHHC:35721]

 considering the facts and parameters, this Court therefore

 does not find any exceptional ground to exercise its

 discretionary jurisdiction to grant bail. 104. Therefore, this Court is of the view that the bail

 application is liable to be rejected. 105. Accordingly, based upon the aforesaid discussion,

 this Court is of the view that the instant application is fit to

 be dismissed and as such, stands dismissed. 106. The observation/finding, as recorded hereinabove,

 is only for the purpose of consideration of issue of bail. The

 same will not prejudice the issue on merit in course of trial. 107. Pending interlocutory application(s), if any, also

 stands disposed of. (Sujit Narayan Prasad J.)

26/11/2025
Nibha/A.F.R.

Uploaded on: 29.11.2025 60