---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Date of Order: 26.10.2021 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

S.K. SAHOO, J. The petitioner Satyam Pradhan has filed this application

 under section 439 of Cr.P.C. for grant of bail in connection Lalbag P.S.

 Case No. 321 of 2020 corresponding to G.R. Case No. 1591 of 2020

 pending in the Court of learned S.D.J.M. (Sadar), Cuttack in which

 charge sheet has been submitted under sections 420 , 406 , 409 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 379 , 120-B , 34 of the Indian Penal Code. // 2 //

 The petitioner moved an application for bail in the Court of

learned Sessions Judge, Cuttack, which was rejected vide order dated

05.05.2021. 2. The factual matrix of the case, in hand, is that one Ayan

Saha Ray, Area Manager of India Infoline Finance Limited (hereafter in

short 'IIFL') attached to the Branch Office, Nayasarak, Cuttack lodged a

written report before the Inspector in-charge of Lalbag Police Station,

Cuttack on 29th December 2020 to take stern action against the

delinquent employees/culprits, namely, Satyam Pradhan (petitioner),

the Branch Manager of IIFL, Nayasarak Branch (hereafter in short

'Company'), Lala Amrut Sagar Ray, Nilima Lenka and Kabi Prasad

Pradhan, who were involved in the incident of staged dacoity that

occurred on 19.11.2020 at the Company as strong suspicion emerged

during the internal investigation/inquiry and audit as regard to their

involvement for the act of omission and commission of theft, forgery,

criminal breach of trust, wrongful gain and wrongful loss, criminal

conspiracy and other allied offences of the Indian Penal Code . After a

complete and careful investigation by the authority, it came to the

notice that while the aforesaid persons were being employed, they were

in the habit of doing all the misdeeds causing loss to the Company and

in order to cover up their misdeeds and divert the attention of the

higher officials of the Company, they in connivance with some

customers and outsiders entered into a criminal conspiracy as the

required number of packets were not available in the vault and staged Page 2 of 24 // 3 //

an incident of dacoity that occurred on 19.11.2020 to show looting of

756 packets (out of this four packets have been retrieved from the

auction Hub vide GL.10371281, GL.10558199, GL11101977,

GL11860874 with total weight of 32.3 gms.) of gold ornaments

weighing 33.71 kgs. from the total collateral security of 39.01 kgs

contained in 1133 packets and took away whatever packets were

available in the vault and cash of Rs.4.40 lakhs. It is further stated in

the F.I.R. that audit was conducted on the packets, which were left

back in the Company and it was found that in GL12285023, one item

(chain of 20 gms.) was missing and the packet was also tampered and

also another two packets bearing GL11724412 and GL16209898 were

found tampered. The internal investigation and audit of the IIFL showed

that accused Lala Amrut Sagar Ray and Ms. Nilima Lenka (gold

appraisers), who were the custodians of the gold ornaments by abusing

their position in the Company have committed a host of illegal activities

beyond their jurisdiction. It is also alleged that the above accused

persons in connivance with the petitioner and accused Kabi Prasad

Pradhan (gold appraiser) siphoned off the money, which were received

from the customers towards the closure of their loan accounts and

there was a deliberate omission on the part of the above employees

while making their entries in the system. In the F.I.R., the informant

has mentioned the details of some customers, whose loan accounts

have been closed, but still active in the system wherein loan closure

amount has not been entered have been mentioned in a tabular form, Page 3 of 24 // 4 //

which is as follows : It is also alleged in the F.I.R. that the aforementioned

accused persons have also taken away the gold ornaments from the

vaults and again re-pledged in the Company in the name of some other

customers by creating fake loan accounts to show artificial growth in

business, which is stated in the following tabular form: During course of investigation, it transpired that IIFL was

having one branch located at Nayasarak under Lalbag Police Station. On

19.11.2020 at about 9.58 a.m., while four employees of the Company,

namely, Mr. Kabi Prasad Pradhan, Nilima Lenka, Lala Amrut Sagar Ray

and D. Rajesh were opening their gold loan branch office along with

their security guard Basant Kumar Behera and housekeeping staff

Meena Behera, all on a sudden four unknown robbers whose faces were

covered with mask, entered inside the Company and forcefully closed

the collapsible gate and shutter of the Company from inside. After

entering inside the Company, the robbers took aside their staff namely

Nilima Lenka and Lala Amrut Sagar Ray at gun point and physically

assaulted them by means of kick and back push. When Nilima Lenka

tried to hide the vault room keys, one of the robbers pressed her face

and dragged her towards vault room wall. Another office staff namely

Kabi Prasad Pradhan, D. Rajesh, security guard Basant Kumar Behera

and house keeper Meena Behera were forcibly locked inside the toilet of

the Company by the robbers. Thereafter, the robbers took Nilima Lenka

and Lala Amrut Sagar Ray at gunpoint and forcibly made them open the Page 6 of 24 // 7 //

vault room and the vault using keys which were kept by them

separately for security purpose. Eventually within ten minutes of

operation and taking the gold ornaments and cash in a bag from the

Company, the robbers disappeared from the spot availing their bikes

after snatching away the mobile handsets of all the Company staff as

noted above and locked the entrance shutter of the office from outside.

In this connection basing on the written report of Sri Tapas Ranjan

Swain, Territory Manager of IIFL, Lalbag P.S. Case No.294 dated

19.11.2020 under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act was registered and investigation commenced.

After the commencement of the investigation, the authorities of IIFL

made discrete enquiry into the lapses incurred during the process and

made an audit of their Company and they could able to reach at a

conclusion regarding the crime involving huge cash and gold. After

thorough assessment, the Area Manager of IIFL (informant of this case)

lodged the F.I.R highlighting all relevant points of their loss and the

crime which occurred in the Company. Investigation further transpired that, prime accused Lala

Amrut Sagar Ray was working in IIFL since 2011 as gold appraiser

along with his staff Nilima Lenka, Kabi Prasad Prachan, D. Rash, Basant

Kumar Behera, Meena Behera and others. Since three to four years

back, he started misappropriation of the mortgaged gold of general

public at the Company and he had put some of such gold in

Manappuram Finance gold loan branches. By pledging gold in another Page 7 of 24 // 8 //

company of B.K. Road Branch initially through his brother and later by

Pitambar Sahoo at Choudhury Bazar branch, he had taken huge amount

of loan for his personal gain and also some gold had been sold in the

local market. All the employees except new entrants like D. Rajesh,

security guard and housekeeping staff Mina Behera of the Company,

hatched criminal conspiracy to cover up their misdeeds and Lala took

the lead. On such backdrop, as the misappropriation became huge and

the accused Lala Amrut Sagar Ray was not in a position to manage the

audit of his company, he choreographed a plan with Ranjan Kumar

Behera, Nilima Lenka and others to arrange a team to manage the

misappropriation done by him. Ranjan Behera, who is a religious

ideologue of accused Lala Amrut Sagar Ray arranged four of his

supporters, namely, accused Raj Kishore Sahoo, Pabitra Kumar Behera,

Prakash Kumar Sahoo and Santosh Bhoi and they executed the dacoity

from the Company in respect of gold and cash from the vault of the

Company kept in polythene packet having IIFL label mark on the point

of toy gun. Some of the dacoity gold with IIFL label packets (Polythene

Bags) and cash were seized from the exclusive possession of accused

persons in presence of local witnesses during investigation of Lalbag PS

Case No.294/2020. The investigation revealed that Company is manned by one

Branch Manager and some gold appraisers, valuers and others. In the

higher hierarchy, it is controlled by one territory manager and above

him remains one Area Manager, who looks into the normal functioning Page 8 of 24 // 9 //

of the institution. Though some works were getting done in the

Company on offline mode and some registers and records are

maintained in the Company, but it was running almost in online mode.

It was a loan giving institution against deposit of gold and taking

interest from the public. When the customers moves to the Company,

he has to contact the Customer Care Executive and later he is to be

handled by one appraiser/valuer and later if loan is done by the

customer, his photograph is to be taken, mobile numbers are shared

and the photograph of ornaments are also taken and the entire things

are transmitted to the Head Office by the Branch Manager and sanction

is granted to the loan and cash is disbursed to the customer. The vault

of the Company is maintained by two employees and its key is rotated

among them in every two weeks. All security gadgets had been

installed in the Company like CCTV collapsible at audit mechanism etc.

During investigation, it was found that the employees of the said

Company could able to breach all the security aspects on one pretext or

the other. Nobody could observe the deficit in the surveillance system

and the employees of the said Company could able to think the

Company to be their parental and personal property and made access

to the vault frequently and siphoned everything from the vault which

were pledged in the Company. First they breached the security of the

vault by complaining the opening of the vault manually instead of the

OTP messages and the company authorities agreed to the same and

manual operation started and by that the employees could be able to Page 9 of 24 // 10 //

frequently enter into and out from the vault. Later the kingpin Lala

Amrut Sagar Ray managed the vaults himself and all the employees

supported him. Though rotation of the key was found on record but

physically Lala and Nilima handled everything personally. This gave

more scope to the accused persons to take out the pledged gold from

the vault to outside. The petitioner as the Branch Manager of the

Company did not concentrate on the official functions of the Company

and he relied on accused Lala Amrut Sagar Ray. The petitioner Branch

Manager had not only failed to discharge his official duty but being

gained over by Lala Amrut Sager Ray, he supported the accused

persons. Nilima Lenka was also aware of everything what was going on

in the Company but she was taking her own share and remained silent

and similar things happened to all other staff except the house keeper,

sweeper, guard and newly appointed D. Rajesh. These employees

hatched criminal conspiracy and siphoned off the pledged gold from the

vault of the Company. Lala could be able to manage the Company by

committing theft from the vault and pledged the same in the Company

in the name of some other staff and close friends and shown the

company more number of loan accounts and shown good business.

First, he did the same for the IIFL Company to show business and later

when nobody could notice the same, he started pledging the gold in

other branches with the help of his old customers and opened accounts

at other branches. As gold appraisers, all the employees had the

responsibility to strengthen business of the company and when Lala Page 10 of 24 // 11 //

managed to open new accounts, nobody opposed him. Though there

was a strong audit system in the company, nobody recognized the

loopholes in the process and the illegal people became more

strengthened and later they started pledging the gold of the Company

in other branches and as Lala was working at Manappuram Finance

earlier and his brother was also at Manappuram Finance, B.K. Road

Branch earlier, he started committing theft of the pledged gold from the

vault of the Company and pledged it at Manappuram Finance Ltd., B.K.

Road branch and took loan against each gold loan and thereby earned

huge money in the process. He also transferred huge quantity to other

staff of the Company and that to his associates against whom, he

pledged loan. He could cunningly manage the photograph and phone

number of the customers and diverted the same in his favour. One

Ranjan Behera of Bilahat, a close friend of accused Lala was acting as

his guru and used to help him during his problems. At times, he also

managed the audit team with the help of Ranjan Behera. When his

brother Lala Ranjan Ray got transferred from the Manappuram Finance

Ltd., B.K. Road Branch, Lala approached the new Branch Manager

Pitambar Sahoo in the pretext of making new loans and business for his

branch and convinced him to help in this unlawful act and Pitambar

Sahoo also helped him and both of them conspired together, pledged

the loan committing theft from the Company. Even Pitambar Sahoo also

pledged the loan in favour of his mother and brother. In this process,

huge EMI for loan was to be paid every month and when it became Page 11 of 24 // 12 //

difficult for the management of the Company and being scared to be

caught during the audit, accused Lala had got no option but to contact

Ranjan Behera to come out from this. They both i.e. Lala and Ranjan

and one Raj Kishore Sahoo, Harmohan Das conspired together in a

feast made at Baideswar temple at Choudwar and there they decided to

commit dacoity in the Company and to show the misappropriated gold

to have been taken away by the dacoits. Lala also moved to Bilahat

area and interacted with other stake holders of the dacoity team and

choreographed the plan. In that plan, the dacoits again congregated at

the 'Nanda' factory of Ranjan Behera at Bilahat in the evening hours of

18.11.2020 and got prepared. Ranjan gave his bike to Raj Kishore and

Pabitra brought his bike and they both tampered the number plates of

their bikes using black tapes and contacted each other and confirmed it

to Lala. On getting the confirmation, Lala had taken huge quantity of

gold from the vault much earlier to the occurrence and kept it at

another place in anticipation of dacoity as he was aware that others

would be benefited in the process and he might not get anything after

dacoity. As per their planning, accused Lala asked them to come to

Cuttack and provide them a plastic gun and the team of four persons,

namely, Raj Kishore Sahoo, Pabitra Kumar Behera, Prakash Kumar

Sahoo and Bapi @ Santosh Bhoi reached at Cuttack and committed the

crime in two bikes being on masks and also departed from Cuttack.

Ranjan Behera, who was the mastermind of the dacoity, was waiting

nearby and assured all others to come to their help in case of any kind Page 12 of 24 // 13 //

of necessity. Later everyone took their small share and deposited the

lion's share with Ranjan Behera. Later these robbed booties were

recovered from each of the dacoits during investigation of Lalbag P.S.

Case No.294 of 2020 and also during interrogation, they disclosed

about the earlier misappropriation. On that aspect, investigation

focused the entire things which come to light. In course of committing

criminal breach of trust in the Company, the employees of the company

associated themselves with the accused persons, namely, Lalit Kumar

Soni, Saroj Kumar Prusty, Harmohan Das, Debasis Hazra, Nilamani

Saha, Pitambar Sahoo and others. It was also established that accused

Lala Amrut Sagar Ray and Nilima Lenka had taken the ornaments from

active accounts of the Company and those were pledged at

Manappuram Finance by security guard, housekeeping staff, their

friends and relatives. The accused employees of the Company

committed the crime in the following manner i.e. (i) ornaments were

handed over to customers and the amount received from customers for

closure of their gold loan accounts were misused by them without

closing the loan account in the system and the amount misappropriated

by the accused employees; (ii) ornaments from the packets were used

for new loans whenever unable to achieve the target. Partly ornaments

were also taken from the existing packets by tampering and re-pledging

in the Company in the name of different customers; (iii) ornaments

were taken from the existing packets by tampering and re-pledging in

other branches like Manappuram Finance Ltd in the name of different Page 13 of 24 // 14 //

customers to achieve the target of business in the Company; (iv)

Keeping empty gold pouches instead of actual packets with ornaments

in tray for tallying the accounts of packets at the time of audit. Accused

Lala Amrut Sagar Ray misused the auditor login ID and password and

he himself punched/updated the tare weights of packets which were not

available in the vault by using auditor TAB when the auditor went out

for lunch. The procedure of creation of OTP for opening of vault was not

in operational since January 2020. The petitioner being the Branch

Manager was not holding the vault key except four times in a year and

both vault keys and vault operated by the accused Lala Amrut Sagar

Ray, Nilima Lenka and they did not allow any other staff to operate the

vault. All loan related activities were handled by them without allowing

other staff in the Company. An internal audit of the said Company was

conducted after the incident and the auditor submitted a report making

observations as mentioned above. On completion of investigation, the

Investigating Officer submitted preliminary charge sheet against the

petitioner and others under sections 420 , 406 , 409 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 379 , 120-B / 34 of the Indian Penal Code keeping the

investigation open. 4. Mr. Asok Mohanty, learned Senior Advocate appearing for

the petitioner contended that the petitioner was the Branch Manager of

the Company and he is in judicial custody since 16.12.2020 and the

offences under which charge sheet has been submitted are all triable by

Magistrate. The main allegations are against co-accused Lala Amrut Page 14 of 24 // 15 //

Sagar Ray and Nilima Lenka, who were processing all the

documentation work relating to grant of gold loan of the customers and

the petitioner had a very limited role in the entire transaction as after

the loan was finalized, photograph of the customer was taken, his

mobile number as well as the photographs of the ornaments along with

the report of the appraiser/valuer were transmitted to the Head Office

by the Branch Manager (petitioner) and sanction was granted to the

loan from the Head Office and thereafter cash is disbursed to the

customer. It is further argued that similar accusation of

misappropriation and cheating etc. was leveled by one Alok Sahoo

against the petitioner by presenting an F.I.R. in connection with Lalbag

P.S. Case No. 311 of 2020 registered under sections 420 / 409 / 408 / 403 / 120-B / 34 of the Indian Penal Code and the petitioner has

already been released on bail in that case by this Court in BLAPL No.

441 of 2021 as per order dated 24.06.2021. It is further contended that

the prosecution case itself is that when the misappropriation became

huge and accused Lala Amrut Sagar Ray was not in a position to

manage the audit of the company, he planned out in connivance with

other co-accused persons to commit dacoity in respect of the gold and

cash from the vault of the Company and the same was executed

successfully in which the petitioner has got no role to play. It is further

contended that though in the charge sheet, it is mentioned that the

petitioner was aware of the activities going on in the Company by the

co-accused Lala Amrut Sagar Ray as well as Nilima Lenka and that he Page 15 of 24 // 16 //

had failed to discharge his official duty, but there is no clinching

materials on record to show that the petitioner had connived with those

co-accused persons in the misappropriation of ornaments of the

customers pledged in the Company to avail gold loan and therefore, the

bail application may be favourably considered particularly when

preliminary charge sheet has already been submitted and all the

relevant documents have already been seized and there is no chance of

absconding of the petitioner. 5. Mr. Soubhagya Ketan Nayak, learned Addl. Government

Advocate for the State being ably assisted by Mr. Tapas Kumar

Praharaj, learned Standing Counsel submitted that the statements of

Ayan Saha Ray, the informant and the Area Manager, Tapas Ranjan

Pradhan indicated that after the audit was conducted in the Company,

number of illegalities committed by the co-accused persons Lala Amrut

Sagar Ray and Nilima Lenka in connivance with the petitioner came to

fore. The petitioner and those two accused persons have also siphoned

off the money received from the customers towards closure of their

loan accounts. Statements of witnesses Preeti Swarup Lenka and Manu

Kumari Sahoo were placed to substantiate the accusation of

misappropriation against the petitioner and the two co-accused

persons. Some other statements were also placed to highlight the

involvement of the petitioner in the alleged crime. It is contended that

without the connivance and active participation of the petitioner, the

misappropriation would not have been possible and when the Page 16 of 24 // 17 //

investigation is still under progress and final charge sheet is yet to be

submitted and huge gold ornaments and cash have been siphoned off,

the petitioner should not be released on bail. 6. Mr. Asit Kumar Choudhury, learned counsel appearing for

the IIFL also opposed the prayer for bail and submitted that the

petitioner was appointed as Branch Manager in the Company since 2016

and he has committed the economic fraud in association with other co-

accused persons and thereby innocent customers have been cheated.

Even though the customers paid back their loan dues, but NOCs were

not issued in spite of their repeated approach to the petitioner in that

respect and the petitioner was not taking any effective steps to meet

the grievances of the customers as he was hand in glove with the co-

accused persons in committing the offences. The petitioner was

supposed to supervise the duties performed by the gold appraisers, the

functioning of CCTV, but deliberately he did not discharge his duty as

per the policy/guidelines of the Company for which the Company

sustained huge financial loss and reputation of the Company in the eyes

of public was at stake. It is argued that the petitioner being an

economic offender, committed the offences keeping an eye on his

personal profit regardless to the consequence to the society and

therefore, he should not be released on bail particularly when there is

chance of tampering with the evidence. Reliance was placed on the

decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the cases of State of

Gujarat -Vrs.- Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal and others reported in Page 17 of 24 // 18 //

(1987) 2 Supreme Court Cases 364, Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy -Vrs.- CBI reported in (2013) 7 Supreme Court Cases 439 and

of this Court in the case of Aswini Kumar Patra -Vrs.- Republic of

India reported in (2021) 84 Orissa Criminal Reports 1. 7. Adverting to the contentions raised by the learned counsel

for the respective parties and on perusal of the case records, it appears

that witness Preeti Swarup Lenka, who was a customer of the Company

has stated that on 07.09.2020 he had taken Rs.1,22,000/- from the

Company after mortgaging gold ornaments weighing about 370 grams.

Within two months, he deposited Rs.1,29,000/- at the Company

including interest amounting to Rs.7,000/- and took back his mortgaged

gold ornaments, but he was not given NOC pertaining to his loan closure

on different pleas. On several attempts, when he failed to get the NOC,

he requested petitioner, but in vain. He further stated that after receipt

of one SMS from IIFL to pay the interest dues, he came to know that

the money deposited by him has been misappropriated by the present

petitioner in connivance with the accused Lala Amrut Sagar Ray and

Nilima Lenka after hatching criminal conspiracy and they committed lot

of illegal activities like cheating, fraud etc. The mobile phone of the

witness Preeti Swarup Lenka and the relevant screen shots were seized

under proper seizure list. Another witness Manu Kumari Sahoo who was a customer

of the Company has stated that she had taken Rs.35,000/- from the

Company and took back her mortgaged gold chain, but she was not Page 18 of 24 // 19 //

given NOC pertaining to her loan closure on different pleas. On several

attempts, when she failed to get the NOC, she contacted the petitioner,

but in vain and subsequently, she came to know that the petitioner and

other employees after hatching criminal conspiracy have committed lot

of illegal activities like cheating, fraud etc. in the IIFL. Independent witnesses, namely, Santosh Kumar Sahoo and

Sumit Dutta have stated regarding the involvement of the petitioner

along with Nilima Lenka, Lala Amruta Sagar Ray, Harmohan Das,

Ranjan Kumar Behera, Debasis Hazra, Saroj Kumar Prusty, Lalit Kumar

Soni, Nilamani Saha, Pitambar Sahoo and others in this case. The said

witnesses have also stated regarding cheating of number of fake gold

loan accounts in the name of Lalit Sony, Soroj Kumar Prusty and others

and misappropriated huge amount of money. Another witness, namely, Alok Sahu who was a customer of

the Company has stated that though he has cleared the loan amount

after making due payment but he received SMS from IIFL in connection

with the loan account to pay interest and he forwarded the said SMS to

the petitioner, who assured to look into the matter and later on he

came to know that though he cleared his loan amount after making due

payment, his loan account was not closed in the system and the

petitioner along with the gold appraisers had misappropriated such

amount. The screen shots of such SMS received by the witness Alok

Sahoo and his mobile handset were seized as per seizure list. The witness Anisha Khatoon and her husband Iftekhar Alam Page 19 of 24 // 20 //

also well proved the allegation against the petitioner and the gold

appraisers, namely, Lala Amrun Sagar Ray and Nilima. The husband of

the witness had been to the Company and there he came to know that

out of his mortgaged gold ornaments at the Company, one bracelet was

illegally brought out by the petitioner, Lala Amrut Sagar Ray and Nilima

Lenka and another gold loan account was created in the name of one

Manoj Jee without the knowledge of his wife. The borrower copy issued

by the Company dated 07.02.2020 in favour of the witness Anisha

Khatoon vide GL. No. 13683170 was seized as per seizure list. The witness, namely, Satya Prakash Lenka, the brother of

Preety Swarup Lenka, had mortgaged gold ornament with the Company

and though he cleared the entire loan amount and he was not provided

with NOC. On being asked, the petitioner and other gold appraisers took

several pleas like failure of net/disorder of printer etc. When his brother

received SMS from IIFL to pay the interest dues, then they came to

know that the loan amount cleared by them has been misappropriated

by the petitioner and his staff. The investigation further revealed that huge amount has

been transferred by Lala Amrut Sagar Ray from his account at

Choudhury Bazar ICICI branch A/c. No.149501501633 to the account of

the petitioner through IMPS on different dates. During further

investigation, it was also ascertained that a sum of Rs.22,000/- has

been transferred from the ICICI Company, CDA Branch, Cuttack

bearing A/c. No.243501501323 for the period from 31.12.2018 to Page 20 of 24 // 21 //

03.08.2018 to the account of the petitioner on different dates. 8. Economic offences are always considered as grave offences

as it involves deep rooted conspiracy and huge loss of public fund. Such

offences are committed with cool calculation and deliberate design

solely with an eye on personal profit regardless of the consequence to

the community. In such type of offences, while granting bail, the Court

has to keep in mind, inter alia, the larger interest of public and State.

The nature and seriousness of an economic offence and its impact on

the society are always important considerations in such a case and

those aspects must squarely be dealt with by the Court while passing

an order on bail applications. (Ref: Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal

(supra), Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy (supra) and Aswini Kumar Patra

(supra)). It is the settled law that detailed examination of evidence

and elaborate discussion on merits of the case should not be

undertaken while adjudicating a bail application. The nature of

accusation, the severity of punishment in case of conviction, the nature

of supporting evidence, the criminal antecedents of the accused, if any,

reasonable apprehension of tampering with the witnesses, apprehension

of threat to the witnesses, reasonable possibility of securing the

presence of the accused at the time of trial and above all the larger

interests of the public and State are required to be taken note of by the

Court while granting bail. 9. The materials on record indicate that the petitioner while Page 21 of 24 // 22 //

working as Branch Manager of the Company has failed to discharge his

official duties properly and the guidelines as per the branch manual

issued by the IIFL was not followed at the time of sanction of gold loan

in favour of the customers. The petitioner was supposed to perform the

duties such as safe custody of vault keys, jewellery and cash,

supervise the duties performed by GA and CCE, release of jewellery in

case of repayment of loan, maintenance of vault cash registers and

cash denomination registers, perform surprise cash verification, ensure

branch security systems operational. He was to report the issue, if any

and ensure that there is no breach of security protocols, conduct

customer point verification for more than two lakhs to five lakhs, report

any irregularity of serious nature to the Area and Territory Manager,

test security alarm system on a fortnightly basis and submit the report

to the Area Manager. He was also responsible for adhering to high

ethical standards and complying with all the laid down processes/

policies of IIFL, KYC adherence, correct valuation and maintenance of

100% process compliance at the branch. He was also responsible for

maintaining and displaying of statutory abstracts and registers as per

guidelines and compliance requirements and also responsible for

maintaining quality portfolio by tracking and controlling the threshold

IRR and prompt resolution of queries and complaints pre and post loan

disbursal. The materials on record further indicate that the petitioner

being gained over by the co-accused Lala Amrut Sagar Ray and Nilima Page 22 of 24 // 23 //

Lenka was neither taking any action against them nor stopping the

illegal activities going on in his branch. The petitioner allowed both the

vault keys and vault to be operated by the aforesaid two co-accused

persons. Even after receiving the amount from the customers for

closure of their gold loan accounts, the amounts were misappropriated

and loan accounts were not closed. The ornaments were taken out by

tampering the packets and those were re-pledged in Nayasarak Branch

in the names of different customers and in some cases the ornaments

were pledged in other branches like Manappuram Finance Ltd. and

empty gold pouches were kept instead of actual packets of gold

ornaments. The statements of the witnesses and documents seized

during the course of investigation prima facie make out the offences

alleged against the petitioner and the entire activities seems to have

been carried out in a very calculated and organized manner for which

the Company not only suffered huge financial loss but the reputation of

the Company was also affected in the eyes of public. There are

materials to show that huge amount of money was transferred from the

account of the co-accused Lala Amrut Sagar Ray to the account of the

petitioner. In view of the post which the petitioner was holding at the

relevant point of time in the Company and the duties assigned to him

as a Branch Manager, I am of the prima facie view that the entire illegal

activities committed by the co-accused persons could not have been

possible without the active connivance with the petitioner. 10. In view of the foregoing discussions, the oral and Page 23 of 24 // 24 //

documentary evidence available on record, the nature and gravity of

accusation, the manner in which the crime has been committed in a

pre-planned and organized manner and thereby the Company has

suffered huge financial loss and innocent customers were cheated and

since the petitioner seems to have played a pivotal role in the

commission of offences alleged as per the charge sheet, at this stage

when investigation is still under progress and there is reasonable

apprehension of tampering with the evidence, in the larger interest of

public and State, I am not inclined to release the petitioner on bail. Accordingly, the bail application sans merit and hence,

stands rejected. ................................ S.K. Sahoo
 Judge
Orissa High Court, Cuttack
The 26th October 2021/PKSahoo Page 24 of 24