% 14.10.2024 1. The writ petitioner is aggrieved by the order dated 15 February
 2023 in terms of which its registration under the Central Goods and
 Services Tax Act, 2017 1 has come to be canceled with retrospective
 effect from 16 July 2021. 2. The record would reflect that the aforesaid order was preceded
 by a Show Cause Notice 2 dated 28 October 2022 and where the
 following allegations were leveled: - You are hereby directed to furnish a reply to the notice within
 seven working days from the date of service of this notice. Act 2 SCN W.P.(C) 8000/2024 Page 1 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 14:36:10
 You are hereby directed to appear before the undersigned on
 04/11/2022 at 11:00

 If you fail to furnish a reply within the stipulated date or fail to
 appear for personal hearing on the appointed date and time, the
 case will be decided ex parte on the basis of available records and
 on merits . Please note that your registration stands suspended with effect from
 28/10/2022" 3. The petitioner contends that in response to the aforesaid notice,
 a reply dated 20 December 2022 was duly submitted for the
 consideration of the respondents. The final order, however, proceeds
 on the basis that no reply to the SCN had at all been submitted. 4. The order also appears to suffer from apparent mistakes and
 inherent contradictions since in the opening lines of the final order
 itself, the respondent authority refers to reply dated 22 November
 2022 and which perhaps appears to be an inadvertent and incorrect
 reference to the reply which had been submitted and was dated 20
 December 2022. 5. Quite apart from the aforesaid, we find merit in the challenge
 which stands raised to the final order with learned counsel drawing
 our attention to Section 29 of the Act and which encapsulates the
 grounds which may warrant cancellation or suspension of registration.
 That provision reads as follows: - The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 14:36:10 (b) there is any change in the constitution of the business; or

 [(c) the taxable person is no longer liable to be registered under Section 22 or Section 24 or intends to optout of the registration
 voluntarily made under sub-section (3) of Section 25 ]: section (3) of Section 25 has not commenced business within six
 months from the date of registration; or (e) registration has been obtained by means of fraud, wilful
 misstatement or suppression of facts: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 14:36:11
 Act, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be a cancellation of
 registration under this Act. (5) Every registered person whose registration is cancelled shall
 pay an amount, by way of debit in the electronic credit ledger or
 electronic cash ledger, equivalent to the credit of input tax in
 respect of inputs held in stock and inputs contained in semi-
 finished or finished goods held in stock or capital goods or plant
 and machinery on the day immediately preceding the date of such
 cancellation or the output tax payable on such goods, whichever is
 higher, calculated in such manner as may be prescribed: 6. As we view the SCN, it becomes apparent that only allegation
 which was leveled was of a perceived mismatch in GSTR-1 and
 GSTR-3B of INR 38,38,453.48/-. That notice did not allude to any of
 the circumstances which are spoken of in Section 29 of the Act. 7. We also find merit in the submission of writ petitioner and who
 draws our attention to the original SCN to contend that the same had
 embodied no indication of the respondents proposing to cancel
 registration from a retrospective date. 8. We note that while dealing with an identical challenge, we had
 in Riddhi Siddhi Enterprises vs. Commissioner of Goods and
 Services Tax (CGST), South Delhi & Anr. 3 held as follows:- 3. Petitioner was in the business of services involving repair,
 alterations, additions, replacements, renovation, maintenance
 or remodelling of the building covered above, General
 construction services of harbours, waterways, dams, water
 mains and lines, irrigation and other waterworks, General
 construction services of long-distance underground/ overland/
 submarine pipelines, communication and electric power lines
 (cables); pumping stations and related works; transformer
 stations and related works, General construction services of
 local water & sewage pipelines, electricity and communication
 cables & related works, Installation, assembly and erection
 services of other prefabricated structures and constructions and
 possessed a GST registration. 4. A show cause notice was issued to the petitioner on W.P.(C) 8000/2024 Page 5 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 14:36:11
 07.04.2022 Though the notice does not specify any cogent
 reason, there is an observation in the notice stating failure to
 furnish returns for a continuous period of six months. The
 show cause notice requires the petitioner to appear before the
 undersigned i.e. authority issuing the notice. Notice does not
 give the name of the officer or place or time where the
 petitioner has to appear. 5. Further the order dated 13.07.2022 passed on the show
 cause notice does not give any reasons for cancellation of the
 registration. It, however, states that the registration is liable to
 be cancelled for the following reason "whereas no reply to
 notice to show cause has been submitted''. However, the said
 order in itself is contradictory, the order states "reference to
 your reply dated 16.04.2022 in response to the notice to show
 cause dated 07.04.2022" and the reason stated for cancellation
 is "whereas no reply to notice to show cause has been
 submitted''. The order further states that effective date of
 cancellation of registration is 01.07.2017 i.e. retrospective
 date. 6. Neither the show cause notice, nor the order spell out the
 reasons for retrospective cancellation. In fact, in our view,
 order dated 13.07.2022 does not qualify as an order of
 cancellation of registration. 7. As per the petitioner, the said order reflected that the GST of
 the Petitioner stands cancelled from 01.07.2017 even though
 returns thereafter have been filed by the Petitioner. 8. We notice that the show cause notice as well as the
 impugned order of cancellation, are themselves vitiated on
 account of lack of reason and clarity. The appeal has been
 dismissed solely on the ground of limitation. Since the very
 foundation of entire proceedings i.e. show cause notice and the
 order of cancellation are vitiated, we are of the view that no
 purpose would be served in relegating the petitioner to the
 stage of an appeal. 9. In terms of Section 29(2) of the Central Goods and Services
 Tax Act, 2017, the proper officer may cancel the GST
 registration of a person from such date including any
 retrospective date, as he may deem fit if the circumstances set
 out in the said sub-section are satisfied. The registration cannot
 be cancelled with retrospective effect mechanically. It can be
 cancelled only if the proper officer deems it fit to do so. Such
 satisfaction cannot be subjective but must be based on some
 objective criteria. Merely, because a taxpayer has not filed the
 returns for some period does not mean that the taxpayer's
 registration is required to be cancelled with retrospective date
 also covering the period when the returns were filed and the W.P.(C) 8000/2024 Page 6 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 14:36:11
 taxpayer was compliant. 10. It is important to note that,
 according to the respondent, one of the consequences for
 cancelling a tax payer's registration with retrospective effect is
 that the taxpayer's customers are denied the input tax credit
 availed in respect of the supplies made by the tax payer during
 such period. Although, we do not consider it apposite to
 examine this aspect but assuming that the respondent's
 contention in this regard is correct, it would follow that the
 proper officer is also required to consider this aspect while
 passing any order for cancellation of GST registration with
 retrospective effect. Thus, a taxpayer's registration can be
 cancelled with retrospective effect only where such
 consequences are intended and are warranted. 11. The show cause notice does not even state that the
 registration is liable to be cancelled from a retrospective date. 12. The petition is allowed. The impugned show cause notice
 dated 07.04.2022, order of cancellation dated 13.07.2022 and
 the order in appeal dated 29.12.2023 are accordingly set aside.
 GST registration of the petitioner is restored, subject to
 petitioner filing requisite returns upto date. 13. It is clarified that since the petitioner could not have filed
 the return after the GST registration was suspended, there shall
 be no liability to pay any penalty or fine for delayed filing.
 However, this would only apply in case petitioner files an
 affidavit of undertaking that petitioner has not carried out any
 business or raised invoices or taken any Input Tax Credit after
 the registration was suspended with effect from 07.04.2022
 i.e., the date of suspension of the registration. 14. Respondent would be at liberty to initiate appropriate
 proceedings in accordance with law after giving a proper show
 cause notice containing complete details, if so advised. Further
 this order would not preclude the respondent from initiating
 any steps in accordance with law, if it is found that the
 petitioner had violated any provisions of the Act. 15. Petition is disposed of in the above terms." 7. We further take note of the judgment in Delhi Polymers vs
 Commissioner, Trade and Taxes & Anr.5 wherein the following was
 observed:- 3. Petitioner was engaged in the business of Sanitary ware
 Products & Accessories i.e., Baths, Shower, Washbasins, Seats
 and Cover etc. and possessed GST registration. 4. Show Cause Notice dated 04.09.2021 was issued to the
 Petitioner seeking to cancel its registration. However, the
 Show Cause Notice also does not put the petitioner to notice
 that the registration is liable to be cancelled retrospectively.
 Accordingly, the petitioner had no opportunity to even object
 to the retrospective cancellation of the registration. 5. Further, the impugned order dated 15.12.2021 passed on the
 Show Cause Notice dated 04.09.2021 does not give any
 reasons for cancellation. It, however, states that the registration
 is liable to be cancelled for the following reason "whereas no
 reply to the show cause notice has been submitted". However,
 the said order in itself is contradictory. The order states
 "reference to your reply dated 15.12.2021 in response to the
 notice to show cause dated 04.09.2021" and the reason stated
 for the cancellation is "whereas no reply to notice show cause
 has been submitted". The order further states that effective date
 of cancellation of registration is 01.07.2017 i.e., a retrospective
 date. 6. Neither the show cause notice, nor the order spell out the
 reasons for retrospective cancellation. In fact, in our view,
 order dated 15.12.2021 does not qualify as an order of
 cancellation of registration. On one hand, it states that the
 registration is liable to be cancelled and on the other, in the
 column at the bottom there are no dues stated to be due against
 the petitioner and the table shows nil demand. 7. Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits that the said
 order reflected that the GST registration of petitioner stands
 cancelled from 01.07.2017 even though returns thereafter have
 been filed by the Petitioner. 8. He further submits that the petitioner is no longer interested
 in continuing the business and the business has been
 discontinued. 9. In terms of Section 29(2) of the Act, the proper officer may
 cancel the GST registration of a person from such date
 including any retrospective date, as he may deem fit if the
 circumstances set out in the said sub-section are satisfied. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 14:36:11
 Registration cannot be cancelled with retrospective effect
 mechanically. It can be cancelled only if the proper officer
 deems it fit to do so. Such satisfaction cannot be subjective but
 must be based on some objective criteria. Merely, because a
 taxpayer has not filed the returns for some period does not
 mean that the taxpayer's registration is required to be cancelled
 with retrospective date also covering the period when the
 returns were filed and the taxpayer was compliant. 10. It is important to note that, according to the respondent,
 one of the consequences for cancelling a tax payer's
 registration with retrospective effect is that the taxpayer's
 customers are denied the input tax credit availed in respect of
 the supplies made by the tax payer during such period.
 Although, we do not consider it apposite to examine this aspect
 but assuming that the respondent's contention in required to
 consider this aspect while passing any order for cancellation of
 GST registration with retrospective effect. Thus, a taxpayer's
 registration can be cancelled with retrospective effect only
 where such consequences are intended and are warranted. 11. It may be further noted that both the Petitioners and the
 department want cancellation of the GST registration of the
 Petitioner, though for a different reason. 12. In view of the fact that Petitioner does not seek to carry on
 business or continue the registration, the impugned order dated
 15.12.2021 is modified to the limited extent that registration
 shall now be treated as cancelled with effect from 04.09.2021
 i.e., the date when the Show Cause Notice was issued. 13. It is clarified that Respondents are also not precluded from
 taking any steps for recovery of any tax, penalty or interest that
 may be due in respect of the subject firm in accordance with
 law. 14. Petition is accordingly disposed of in the above terms." 8. In view of the aforesaid and in light of an abject failure on the part of
 the authority to assign even rudimentary reasons for a retroactive
 cancellation, we find ourselves unable to sustain the order impugned." Accordingly, and for all the aforesaid reasons, we find ourselves
 unable to sustain the impugned order. 9. The writ petition is accordingly allowed. The order dated 15
 February 2023 is hereby quashed. 10. We however leave it open to the respondents to draw W.P.(C) 8000/2024 Page 9 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 14:36:11
 proceedings afresh, if circumstances so warrant and are otherwise
 permissible in law. All rights and contentions of respective parties, in
 such an eventuality, are kept open. YASHWANT VARMA, J

 RAVINDER DUDEJA, J
 OCTOBER 14, 2024/neha W.P.(C) 8000/2024 Page 10 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/11/2024 at 14:36:11