The instant complaint has been filed under Section-47(i) & (ii) of the Consumer Protection Act 2019 by Meenu Khare and Smt. Suman Srivastava against the opposite parties ICICI Bank Limited and another with the following prayers:- That this Hon'ble Commission may kindly be gracious to direct the ICICI Bank to reverse the banking loan of Rs.7,00,000/- as deposited illegally by the ICICI Bank in the banking account of complainants without permission and knowledge. That this Hon'ble Commission may kindly be pleased to order the ICICI Bank to reverse all the charges, instalments and other fee as charged by the ICICI Bank from the complainants. Further this Hon'ble Commission also be pleased to declare contract of loan as illegal and Unfair Contract which puts the complainants to disadvantage and to unreasonable charge, obligations or conditions. That the ICICI Bank may kindly be directed to recover the illegally withdrawn money from the imposter to whom the bank officials transferred funds without the knowledge of complainant. That this Hon'ble Commission may kindly be pleased to order the opposite parties to pay to the complainants a sum of Rs.50,00,000/- as compensation on account of mental tension and agony as inflicted by the negligent act of opposite parties and also on account of Unfair Contract. That this Hon'ble Commission may kindly be pleased to direct the opposite parties to pay to the complainants a sum of Rs.5,00,000/- on account of cost of suit and other miscellaneous expenses. That any other relief deemed fit and appropriate under the facts and circumstances of the case may also be awarded to the complainants against the opposite parties." Facts of the case stated in brief are that the complainant No.01 hold a saving bank account No. SB-628101501043 at Hazratganj Branch of ICICI Bank, Lucknow and it was linked to Mobile No. 9415390900 which was used by the complainant and her 80 years old mother. The complainant No.2 is the mother of complainant No.01. The said account is in joint name of both the complainants. The mode

 

of operation of the said account is "either or survivor". On 21-06-2021 some imposter ranged up on complainant's mobile and requested to provide OTP for updation of KYC in the bank account. The complainant No.1 inadvertently left her mobile at home and her old mother picked up the mobile call of imposter and provided the OTP which she received through the message. As soon as the OTP was provided to imposter the complainant received SMS on mobile alerting deduction of Rs.2,00,000/- and Rs.1,98,000/- from the bank account of the complainants. Before this illegal withdrawal of money the complainants had in their account balance of Rs.1,02,551/-. The complainants were shocked to receive message of withdrawal of Rs.2,00,000/- and Rs.1,98,000/- which amount stand more than the available balance in the account. The complainant no.1 immediately called up the customer care of bank on 21-06-2021 and besides this the complainants also sent SMS to ICICI bankrequesting the bank for blocking of account and payment. It has been stated by the complainants in their complaint that in response to the SMS the complainants duly got acknowledgement of bank.The complainant was informed by bank officials that before illegal transfer of money, the bank had sanctioned and disbursed a personal loan of Rs.7,00,000/- in the saving bank account of complainants and out of the said bank loan a sum of Rs.3,98,000/- stood illegally transferred. The complainants expressed their deep anguish on unauthorized disbursal of loan and further illegal withdrawal of money by imposter in connivance with bank employee. The complainant never sought personal loan from the opposite parties at any point of time nor applied for personal loan or signed any loan document. Besides this the complainant never gave any document to the bank for processing loan. It has been further alleged by the complainants in their complaint that the complainant through SMS blocked her account at 5.37 p.m. on 21-06-2021 and received the acknowledgement at 5.38 PM but regretfully despite that the bank transferred a sum of Rs.1,98,000/- and Rs.2,00,000/- at 6:01:44 PM on the same day i.e. money transferred even after blocking of bank account. Upon enquiry from the bank the employees of the bank furnished to the complainants

 

 

 
	  

 

the documents of personal loan agreement and on perusal of which following shocking facts came to light which process prima facie connivance of the bank employees with the imposter. It has been stated by the complainants in their complaint that the opposite parties no. 1 and 2 in utter disregard to their own conditions without acceptance of provisional approval and without submission and verification of income proof, KYC and other required documents the opposite parties with ulterior motive sanctioned and disbursed personal loan forcefully. In the complaint the complainants have stated that under the heading 'Disclaimer' in the email dated 21-06-2021 it is mentioned that "the customer is eligible for the above mentioned loan amount and tenure if the customer does not have any other existing housing loan with ICICI bank or any other banker financial institution." In this respect the complainant at that time had already running a housing loan with the ICICI Bank and EMI for said loan used to get cleared through ECS from the same banking account. The complainant after knowing all the details duly lodged an FIR at P.S. Kaiserbagh Lucknow regarding illegal sanction of loan and illegal withdrawal of amount from her banking account. Till date the investigating officer did nothing and the matter is lying in cold storage. The complainant also lodged written representations to the opposite parties but without conducting any enquiry the opposite parties closed the matter. The complainant also alleged in her complaint that as per the prevalent norms under internet banking, funds cannot be transferred to third party unless and until third party is registered or added in the banking account of complainant for the transfer of funds. Besides this funds can be transferred only after 6 hours after the registration. The entire sequence of events show deep connivance of employees of opposite parties with the imposter. The entire money is illegally transferred from the banking account of complainant to the banking account of third party through IMPS and NEFT. The opposite parties despite knowing fraudulent transfer of money from the banking

 
	  

 

account of complainant had miserably failed to take up the matter with bank in which the funds were transferred in the banking account of imposter. The deafening silence of banking officials of opposite parties in this respect speaks volume about the connivance of banking officials of ICICI Bank. Now the employees of opposite parties are threatening the complainant to either pay the entire loan else recovery proceedings be initiated against the complainant. It has been further stated by the complainant in her complaint that on 25-08-2021 the opposite parties in pursuance of recovery of loan had deducted, without permission from the banking account of complainant, a sum of Rs.4,00,000/- on account of recovery of loan. The complainants have filed the affidavit in support of the      complaint alongwith the following annexures. Annexure-1 - Copy of the printout of alert message of online payment of Rs.2,00,000/-. Annexure-2 - Copy of the printout of alert message of online payment of Rs.1,98,000/-. Annexure-3 - Copy of the printout of SMS message requesting the bank for blocking of account and payment. Annexure-4 - Copy of the printout of SMS acknowledging initiation of blocking of account. Annexue-5 - Copy of the printout of SMS message as received from ICICI Bank. Annexure-6 - Copy of the documents of personal loan agreement as furnished by the bank. Annexure-7 - Copy of the email dated 21-06-2021 received from ICICI Bank. Annexure-8 & 9 - Copy of the housing loan letter alongwith ECS deduction as depicted in pass book. Annexure-10 - Copy of an FIR. Annexure-11 - Copy of reply of ICICI Bank regarding closure of enquiry. Annexure-12 - Copy of SMS received from the ICICI Bank. Annexure-13 - Copy of mail as written by the complainant. The opposite party ICICI Bank Limited has filed the written statement against the complaint and denied the allegations made by the complainants in their complaint. It has been stated by the opposite party in its written statement that the complainants seems to be defrauded by unknown person by sharing their confidential information on the phone call. The complainants have admitted in the complaint that they had received a phone call on the pretext of KYC updation in her account and believing the call to be genuine, complainant no.2 who is also a joint account holder in the saving account, revealed confidential credentials of the account, resulting in the alleged fraud.  As such complainants are responsible for their own mistakes and misusing the process of law to cover up their alleged loss. It has been further stated by the opposite party in its written statement that as per records available with Bank the complainants have availed personal loan vide Loan Number LPLUC for an amount of Rs.7,00,000/- from the opposite parties through the mode of Internet banking. The said transaction was also duly verified through an OTP sent to the registered mobile umber of the complainant. On verification of aforesaid credentials, the loan got disbursed in the complainant's savings account  and also Email alert regarding the disbursement of loan of Rs.7,00,000/- in the saving account of the complainant was also sent to the complainant on 21-06-2021 at 5.21 PM at their registered email id. Thereafter on the same day at 5.23 PM an online payment of Rs.2,00,000/- and at 5.25 PM another online payment of Rs.1,98,000/- was done from the account of the complainant. The aforesaid two transactions were done through NEFT and IMPS. For online transactions through aforesaid methods, login ID, password and One-Time Password (OTP) are mandatory requirements. The complainants had already admitted in the complaint that OTP was provided by the complainant to an imposter and during interaction with bank's investigation officials, complainant no.2 had confirmed to have received a call on the pretext of KYC update in her account, who is a joint account holder she had shared her PAN Card number, USER ID, OTP alongwith grid value from debit card, to the fraudster, post which :7: debit transactions happened from her account and a loan was also obtained in her account using Internet banking and GCA. There is absolutely no deficiency in service on the part of the opposite parties and in fact the opposite parties have provided most efficient and diligent services to the complainants although the said services are not involved in the matter in dispute. Therefore, the complaint is liable to be dismissed as against the opposite parties. The complaint case is not maintainable before this Commission as the value of services involved in the matter is of Rs.7,00,000/- which is beyond the pecuniary jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Commission and liable to be dismissed on this ground only. It has further been stated in the written statement that the complaint case is also not maintainable before this Commission for unfair contract with complainant as none of the elements of unfair contract as defined under Section 2(46) of The Consumer Protection Act, 2019 are either present nor the same has been established in the complaint case.  The complaint is misconceived and baseless and is devoid of merits, consequently is liable to be rejected with costs and the complainants are not entitled for any of the relief. In support of the written statement the opposite parties have filed the following documents as annexures. Annexure No.01 - Photocopy of print out details of all the alert messages sent by the bank on the registered mobile number of complainant no.1. Annexure No.02 - Photocopy of account statement of complainants. Annexure No.03 - RBI circular dated 06-12-2019 on NEFT transactions. Annexure No. 04 - Photocopy of RBI Guidelines. The complainants have filed the evidence on affidavit and we have also perused the evidence. We have heard Sri Muzeeb Effendi, learned Counsel for the complainants and Smt. Suchita Singh, learned Counsel for the opposite party ICICI Bank as well as complainant Meenu Khare, who is present in person and perused the entire records very carefully. It has been argued by the learned Counsel for the complainant no.1 that some imposter in collusion with the employees of the bank called up between 5 PM to 5.30 PM on complainant's mobile and requested to provide OTP for updation of KYV in the bank account. On that day the complainant no.1 inadvertently left her mobile at home. The mother of the complainant, who is 80 years of age picked up the mobile call of imposter and provided the OTP which was received through message. The complainant received SMS on mobile alerting deductions of Rs.2,00,000/- and Rs.1,98,000/- from her account just after providing the OTP to imposter. A sum of Rs.1,02,551/- was the balance amount in her account just before the illegal withdrawal of the aforesaid two transactions. The texts of the two alter messages received by the complainant are as under :- Learned Counsel for the complainants has submitted that in response to the SMS for blocking the banking account, the complainants duly got acknowledgement of bank at 5.38 PM on 21-06-2021 by SMS. The text of the SMS received from the bank is as follows:- Even after sending the SMS message for blocking of the account by the complainant  at 5:37 PM and the acknowledge has been sent by the bank to the complainant at 5:38 PM, the bank employee in collusion with the imposter has illegally transferred Rs.2,00,000/- and Rs.1,98,000/- at 06:01:44 PM. Thereafter the complainant contacted on Customer Care Number and it was informed by bank officials that before illegal transfer of money, the bank had sanctioned and disbursed a personal loan of Rs.7,00,000/- in the saving bank account of complainants and out of said bank loan a sum of Rs.3,98,000/- stood illegally transferred. It has been argued by the learned Counsel for the complainant that the complainant has never sought personal loan from the opposite parties at any point of time. The complainant has neither enquired about personal loan nor applied for loan or signed any loan document. Besides this the complainant has never given any document to the bank for processing personal loan. It has been stated by the learned Counsel for the complainant that the bank employees in collusion with the imposter illegally withdrawn the money from the account of the complainant. The complainant upon further enquiry from the bank the employees of the bank furnished the documents of 'Personal Loan Agreement' to the complainant and on perusal of which following facts came to light which proves prima facie connivance of bank employees with the imposter. The entire personal loan application form and credit facility application form and other documents contained no signature of the complainants. Most of the columns and fields of loan application form and credit facility application form are left blank whereas at the top of the application form it is clearly mentioned 'all fields are mandatory'. The loan application form and credit facility application form is attached with 'Smart Banking' 9 tips, under which the opposite parties have warned customer not to sign on any blank loan document/form but in utter disregard to this fact the employees of opposite parties approved, sanctioned and disbursed personal loan on the basis of 80% blank and unfilled loan application. In an email dated 21-06-2021 vide which the bank has provided loan details and it has been mentioned under 'Disclaimer' heading as follows:- In this respect the complainant at that time had already running a housing loan with the ICICI bank and EMI for said loan used to get cleared through ECS from the same banking account. Thereafter the complainant lodged an FIR at P.S. Kaiserbagh, Lucknow regarding illegal sanction of loan and illegal withdrawal of amount from her banking account. Till date the investigating officer did nothing and the matter is lying in the cold storage. It has been contended by the learned Counsel for the complainants that the complainant has also lodged written representations to the opposite parties for conducting enquiry against the officials of the bank but the opposite parties without conducting any enquiry just closed the matter on following ground:- Learned Counsel for the complainants has further contended that as per the prevalent norms under internet banking, funds cannot be transferred to third party unless and until third party is registered or added in the banking account of complainant for the transfer of funds. Besides this funds can be transferred only after 6 hours after the registration. In this respect how some third party gained access to the banking account of the complainant for the transfer of funds. The entire sequence of events show deep connivance of employees of opposite party with the imposter. It has been argued by the learned Counsel for the complainant that the entire money is illegally transferred from the banking account of the complainant to the banking account of third party through IMPS and NEFT. The opposite parties despite knowing fraudulent transfer of money from the banking account of complainant had miserably failed to take up the matter with the bank in which the funds were transferred in the banking account of imposter. The deafening silence of banking officials of opposite parties in this respect speaks volume about the connivance of banking officials of ICICI Bank. The employees of the opposite parties are threatening the complainant to either pay the entire loan else recovery proceedings be initiated against the complainant. Besides this the opposite parties are also threatening to ruin the CIBIL record of complainant forever in which eventuality the complainant shall never be entitled to any credit from any bank in future. It has been contended by the learned Counsel for the complainants that on 25-08-2021 the opposite parties in pursuance of recovery of loan had deducted without permission from the banking account of complainant a sum of Rs.4,00,000/- on account of recovery of loan. In this respect the complainant on 03-10-2021 had written a mail but that mail too failed to elicit any response from the opposite parties. It has been further contended by the learned Counsel for the complainant that the opposite parties have entered in unfair contract with the complainant thereby imposing on the consumer unreasonable charge, obligation and conditions which puts consumer to disadvantage. The opposite parties have entered into unfair agreement which causes significant change in the right of consumer. The approval, sanction and disbursal of loan without the knowledge, consent and permission of complainants has put the complainants to unreasonable charge, obligation and conditions. It seems the employees of the opposite parties in connivance with imposter have weaved entire sequence of illegal withdrawal and sanction of loan with which the complainants has :13: nothing to do with. It is the duty of the ICICI Bank to keep the privacy and safety of account data but leakage of details of account to some imposter and third party, clearly show the negligence attitude of opposite parties bank against its customers. Learned Counsel for the opposite party ICICI Bank has argued that the complainants seems to be defrauded by unknown person by sharing their confidential information on the phone call. As such the complainants are responsible for their own mistakes and misusing the process of law to cover up their alleged loss. It has been further argued by the learned Counsel for the opposite party that as per the records available with Bank the complainants have availed personal loan for an amount of Rs.7,00,000/- from the opposite party through the mode of internet banking. We are not convinced with this argument of the learned Counsel for the opposite party bank. The complainant has never sought personal loan from the opposite party bank at any point of time. Neither the complainants ever enquired about personal loan nor applied for loan nor signed any loan documents. The complainants have never given any documents to the bank for processing loan. The documents furnished by the bank prima facie proves that the personal loan has been processed by the bank employees in collusion with the imposter without knowledge of the complainants. The personal loan application form and credit facility application form shows that there is no signature of the complainants. The E-mail message dated 21-06-2021 sent by the bank to the complainant clearly indicates that the Customer is eligible for the above mentioned loan amount and tenure only if the Customer does not have any other existing housing loan with ICICI Bank, or any other bank or financial institution. In this regard the complainant has confirmed that she had already availed housing loan from the opposite party and still she is paying the EMI of housing loan then why the bank has ignored this very important :14: fact and sanctioned the personal loan to the complainant ignoring the housing loan is running in the name of the complainant. It is argued by the learned Counsel for the opposite party that after receipt of complaint by the complainant on 21-06-2022 and on 22-06-2022 detail investigation was done by the opposite party and as per the investigation done by the bank, internet banking user ID was revealed by customer with imposter and internet banking password was generated. Debit transaction of Rs.2,00,000/- was made at 5.23 PM and another debit transaction of Rs.1,98,000/- was made at 5.25 PM. We are not convinced with this argument of the learned Counsel for the opposite party that the complainant has made the above two transaction by using internet banking. On perusal of the documents available on record Annexure-1 we find that Rs.2,00,000/- has been transferred in the account of SRIVASTAVA ON 21-06-2021 at 17.23 hours. Further the documents available on record Annexure-2 shows that Rs.1,98,000/- has been transferred in the account of SUMAN on 21-06-2021 at 17.25 hours. The name of the complainant no.2 is SUMAN SRIVASTAVA and the money has been deposited in the account of SRIVASTAVA AND SUMAN. It can be well established that the bank employees in collusion with the imposer had fraudulently opened two accounts in the bank in the name of SRIVASTAVA and SUMAN using documents of Suman Srivastava, complainant no.2. It cannot be ignored that the employees of the bank in collusion with the imposter manage to create the Beneficiary account in the name of SRIVASTAVA and SUMAN with the account of complainants and generated fake OTP to transfer the money from the account of the complainants to the accounts of SRIVASTAVA and SUMAN. It has been further argued by the learned Counsel for the opposite party that after lodging of complaint by the complainant with the bank, detailed investigation was done by the opposite party and after thorough investigation the opposite party :15: concluded that admittedly the complainant shared the user id, password and OTP alters which are confidential details and in such situation bank is not liable to compensate the customer. We are not convinced with this argument of the learned Counsel for the opposite party. Annexure No. A-1 submitted by the opposite party is reproduced below for scrutiny. Mobile No.
			
			 
			 

                 MSG TEXT
			
			 
			 

SMS Date time
			
		
		 
			 
			 

919415390900
			
			 
			 

Dear Customer, XXXXXX is the OTP to complete fund transfer of Rs.1,95,000/-. OTPs are SECRET. DO NOT disclose it to anyone. ICICI Bank NEVER asks for OTP. 6/21/2021

			 

5:29:37 PM
			
		
		 
			 
			 

919415390900
			
			 
			 

Dear Customer, XXXXXX is the OTP to complete fund transfer of Rs.1,95,000/-. OTPs are SECRET. DO NOT disclose it to anyone. ICICI Bank NEVER asks for OTP. 6/21/2021 5:26:07 PM
			
		
		 
			 
			 

919415390900
			
			 
			 

Dear Customer, XXXXXX is the OTP to complete fund transfer of Rs.1,98,000/-. OTPs are SECRET. DO NOT disclose it to anyone. ICICI Bank NEVER asks for OTP. 6/21/2021 5:24:02 PM
			
		
		 
			 
			 

919415390900
			
			 
			 

Dear Customer, XXXXXX is the OTP to complete fund transfer of Rs.2,00,000/-. OTPs are SECRET. DO NOT disclose it to anyone. ICICI Bank NEVER asks for OTP. 6/21/2021 5:22:36 PM
			
		
		 
			 
			 

919415390900
			
			 
			 

Dear Customer, XXXXXX is the OTP for your request initiated through ICICI Bank Internet Banking. OTPs are SECRET. DO NOT disclose it to anyone. ICICI Bank NEVER asks for OTP. 6/21/2021 17:18
			
		
		 
			 
			 

919415390900
			
			 
			 

Dear Customer, 761942 is the OTP to register SUMAN as a Payee. OTPs are SECRET. DO NOT disclose it to anyone. ICICI Bank NEVER asks for OTP. 6/21/2021 5:16:09 PM :16: 919415390900
			
			 
			 

Dear Customer, 149075 is the OTP to register SRIVASTAVA AS A Payee. OTPs are SECRET. DO NOT disclose it to anyone. ICICI Bank NEVER asks for OTP. 6/21/2021 5:14:06 PM
			
		
		 
			 
			 

919415390900
			
			 
			 

Dear Customer, 237818 is the OTP to register SUMAN as a Payee. OTPs are SECRET. DO NOT disclose it to anyone. ICICI Bank NEVER asks for OTP. 6/21/2021 5:11:20 PM
			
		
		 
			 
			 

919415390900
			
			 
			 

Dear Customer, 223436 is the OTP to generate ICICI Bank Internet Banking Password. OTPs are SECRET. DO NOT disclose it to anyone. ICICI Bank NEVER asks for OTP. 6/21/2021 5:02:55 PM
			
		
	

 

 

 

The above mentioned details show that from 05.02 PM till 05.29 PM i.e. just in 27 minutes 09 times saving bank account  through internet banking has been used for generating OTPs to generate ICICI Bank Internet Banking Password, to register SUMAN as a Payee, to register SRIVASTAVA as a Payee, again to register SUMAN as a Payee, to complete fund transfer of Rs.2,00,000/-, to complete fund transfer of Rs.1,98,000/-, to complete fund transfer of Rs.1,95,000/- and again to complete fund transfer of Rs.1,95,000/-. It cannot be believed that a saving bank account holder like the complainant can operate her account through internet banking by generating ICICI Bank Internet Banking Password at 5.02 PM and thereafter operating internet banking nine times till 5.29 PM. i.e in 27 minutes. A normal account holder who is not an expert in the field of using internet banking and normally using the internet banking very frequently can operate internet banking nine time just in 27 minutes. A person who is not using the internet banking regularly may takes 5 to 6 minutes to complete his single transaction in internet right from opening the internet banking account till completing the transaction. In making all these transactions the bank employees must have been involved with the imposter. The record further shows that Rs.7,00,000/- has been transferred by the opposite party bank in the saving account of the complainant on 21-06-2021 at 5.21 PM. Annexure No.1 of complaint and thereafter just within two minutes i.e. at 5.23 PM Rs.2,00,000/- as per transferred and again two minutes i.e.at 5.25 PM another payment of Rs.1,98,000/-has been transferred. It cannot be believed that these two transactions have been made by the complainant as the complainant does not have the knowledge at that time that the opposite party bank has sanctioned any personal loan in her name and has been credited Rs.7,00,000/- in her saving bank account. The complainant got the knowledge of these two withdrawal transactions when she received message of transaction alert at 5.23 PM on 21-06-2021. It has been further argued by the learned Counsel for the opposite party Bank that the system of opposite party bank is foolproof and there is no possibility of connivance of staff of bank in such online transactions. We are not convinced with this argument of learned Counsel for the opposite party as it is crystal clear that some bank employees are definitely involved in committing fraud with the complainant and there is every possibility of connivance of staff of bank with the imposter in opening the two fake accounts in the name of SUMAN and SRIVASTAVA by using or tempering the documents such as Aadhar Card, PAN Card etc. of complainant no.2, whose name is SUMAN SRIVASTAVA i.e. the mother of complainant no.01 available with the opposite party bank and further transferring the huge amount of Rs.2,00,000/- and Rs.1,98,000/-on line just within four minutes in collusion with the imposter. Before coming to any conclusion it is necessary for us to make a mentioned about the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India regarding Customer Protection - Limiting Liability of Customers in Unauthorised Electronic Banking Transactions. RBI/2017-18/15 

DBR.No.Leg.BC.78/09.07.005/2017-18

 

July 6, 2017

 

                        All Scheduled Commercial Banks (including RRBs) 

                        All Small Finance Banks and Payments Banks

 

                        Dear Sir/ Madam,

 

                        Customer Protection - Limiting Liability of Customers in              Unauthorised Electronic Banking Transactions

 

                        Please refer to our circular DBOD.Leg.BC.86/09.07.007/2001-02                  dated April 8, 2002 regarding reversal of erroneous debits arising                  from fraudulent or other transactions. 2. With the increased thrust on financial inclusion and customer                    protection and considering the recent surge in customer                                    grievances relating to unauthorised transactions resulting in debits                  to their accounts/ cards, the criteria for determining the customer                         liability in these circumstances have been reviewed. The revised                  directions in this regard are set out below. Strengthening of systems and procedures 3. Broadly, the electronic banking transactions can be divided into                two categories: 4. The systems and procedures in banks must be designed to                       make customers feel safe about carrying out electronic banking               transactions. To achieve this, banks must put in place: 8. Overall liability of the customer in third party breaches, as                           detailed in paragraph 6 (ii) and paragraph 7 (ii) above, where the                      deficiency lies neither with the bank nor with the customer but lies                     elsewhere in the system, is summarised in the Table 2: Yours faithfully,

 

                        (PrakashBaliarsingh) 

                        Chief General Manager

 

We have perused the circular issued by the RBI with regard to Customer Protection - Limiting Liability of Customers in Unauthorised Electronic Banking Transactions. The RBI Circular on the point of Zero Liability of a Customer says that a customer's entitlement to zero liability shall arise where the unauthorised transaction occurs due to contributory fraud/negligence/deficiency on the part of the bank (irrespective of whether or not the transaction is reported by the customer). Further the RBI Circular on the point of Zero Liability of a Customer says that the Third party breach where the deficiency lies neither with the bank nor with the customer but lies elsewhere in the system, and the customer notifies the bank within three working days of receiving the communication from the bank regarding the unauthorised transaction. Further the burden of proving customer liability in case of unauthorised electronic banking transactions shall lie on the bank. In the instant case as soon as the complainant received SMS on mobile alerting deduction of Rs.2,00,000/- and Rs.1,98,000/- from her account,  she immediately called up the customer case of ICICI Bank at sharp 5.30 PM on 21-06-2021 and besides this the :24: complainant also sent SMS to ICICI Bank at sharp 5.37 PM on 21-06-2021 for block of account and payment and she got acknowledgement of bank at 5.38 PM on 21-06-2021 in the form of SMS. As such the complainant's case is fully covered with the Zero Liability as per the RBI Circular. The documents show that on 21-06-2021 OTP for creating the beneficiary as SUMAN has been generated at 5.11 PM and further OTP for creating the beneficiary as SRIVASTAVA has been generated on the same day at 5.14 PM and further OTP for creating the beneficiary as SUMAN has been generated at 5.16 PM and thereafter Rs.2,00,000/- has been transferred in the account of SRIVASTAVA at 5.23 PM by generating OTP at 5.22 PM and immediately thereafter Rs.1,98,000/- has been transferred in the account of SUMAN at 5.25 PM by generating OTP at 5.24 PM. It is very much surprising to note that as to on what circumstances these two transactions have been allowed by the opposite party ICICI bank within 09 minutes of making beneficiary as SRIVASTAVA AND SUMAN, as the Banks generally takes 30 minutes to 4 hours for authenticating beneficiary details. During this cooling period in the bank, the funds will not be transferred resulting in payment delays. Once the beneficiary is activated, the funds are transferred to the specified account. The customer can transfer funds to the payee only after a 30 minutes cooling period. This shows that these two transactions have been done by the employees of the bank in connivance with the imposter and the bank is fully responsible for these transactions. It cannot be ruled out that the employees of the bank in connivance with the imposter must have hacked the registered mobile number of the complainant as well as the account of the complainant for few minutes i.e. from 05.02 PM till 5.29 PM for filling up the Personal Loan Application Form online on 21-06-2021 at 17:20:20 hours, Credit Facility Application Form  on 21-06-2021 at 17:20:29 hours and Key Fact Statement and Most Important Information form on 21-06-2021 at 17:20:29 hours, transferring Rs.7,00,000/- in the account of the complainant on :25: 21-06-2021 at 5.21 PM. Before filling up online these application forms the bank employees in connivance with the imposter created the beneficiary as SRIVASTAVA in the account of the complainant on 21-06-2021 by generating OTP at 5.14 PM and thereafter created the beneficiary as SUMAN in the account of the complainant on 21-06-2021 by generating OTP at 5.16 PM, transferred Rs.7,00,000/- in the account of the complainant on 21-06-2021 at 5.21 PM and thereafter Rs.2,00,000/- has been transferred in the account of SRIVASTAVA at 5.23 PM by generating OTP at 5.22 PM and immediately thereafter Rs.1,98,000/- has been transferred in the account of SUMAN at 5.25 PM by generating OTP at 5.24 PM. It cannot be believed that a person who is using internet banking very frequently can do all these transactions within 23 minutes. All these transactions shows that it has been done fraudulently by the employees of the opposite party bank in connivance with the imposter without the knowledge and consent of the complainant. Having heard the arguments of learned Counsel for the complainants as well as learned Counsel for the opposite party  ICICI Bank and after considering the facts and circumstances of the case as well as material available on record we are of the considered opinion that the opposite party bank has committed deficiency in service and the  submission of learned Counsel for the complainants appears to be justified and the complainants are entitled to get the reliefs claimed in the complaint as well as cost of the case. We are also in agreement that the contract of personal loan is illegal and it is an unfair contract as there is no signature in any of the personal loan documents of the complainant and most of the columns and fields of loan application form as well as credit facility application form are left blank. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the positive opinion that the argument of the learned Counsel for the complainants has force and the complaint of the complainants is liable to be allowed with cost. We must observe that the Investigating Officer has also failed to discharge his burden and even not bothered to comply the orders passed by this Court time to time. His act is also not fair or cooperative with the complainant. ORDER

 

The complaint is allowed with the following directions:- Let copy of this order be made available to the parties as per rules. The Stenographer is requested to upload this order on the website of this Commission at the earliest.