1. This writ petition is filed, seeking to have the orders passed by the 2nd respondent -disciplinary authority in compulsorily retiring the petitioner from service, vide proceedings dated 15-4-1999, as confirmed by the 1st respondent-appellate authority, vide proceedings dated 23-8-1999, quashed. 2. Brief facts, to the extent necessary, are that the petitioner joined the service of the respondent - bank on 06-01-1977. While he was working as a clerk, at the Kothapeta branch of the respondent bank, he was served charge sheet, dated 13-06-1998, by the disciplinary authority, on 27-06-1998, for gross misconduct of "doing acts prejudicial to the interest of the bank" under Clause 19.5(j) of the bipartite settlement. The petitioner was asked to submit his written statement of defence within 15 days. The petitioner, vide letter dated 03-09-1998, sought for certain documents, receipt of which was acknowledged by the 2nd respondent on 06-09-1998. The petitioner was informed, vide letter dated 4-9-1998, that since he had failed to submit his explanation, the disciplinary authority had ordered for an enquiry and that an enquiry officer was being appointed. Petitioner would contend that since, along with the charge sheet, no list of documents and witnesses was supplied, to enable him to submit his reply to the charge sheet, the action of the respondents in appointing an enquiry officer was illegal. On being advised, to obtain the documents he had sought for from the enquiry officer, the petitioner in his letter dated 12-10-1998 is said to have pointed out the lapses on the part of the respondents in not furnishing him the list of documents. In response thereto the 2nd respondent informed him, vide letter dated 14-10-1998, that an enquiry had already been ordered on 3-09-1998 and the same had been communicated to the petitioner on 04-09-1998. Petitioner would contend that he is entitled, as of right, to have the list of documents and list of witnesses forwarded along with the charge sheet to enable him to prepare for his defence and to submit his written statement of defence and that non-supply thereof would render the charge sheet vague and incomplete thereby denying reasonable opportunity of defending himself. 3. The 3rd respondent, vide letter dated 03-10-1998, informed the petitioner that the first date of enquiry had been fixed on 26-10-1998 and that, in accordance with Clause 19.12(a) of the bipartite settlement, the petitioner should participate in the enquiry along with his defence representative. The petitioner is said to have participated in the enquiry on 26-10-1998 along with his defence representative and to have informed the 3rd respondent that he had not yet submitted his reply to the chargesheet, inasmuch as the list of documents and witnesses had not been furnished to him. The management representative, vide letter dated 26-10-1998, supplied the list of documents and witnesses along with copies of documents which formed part of the enquiry. The petitioner's defence representative requested the 3rd respondent to adjourn the enquiry to a later date to enable them to go through the documents and prepare for their defence and for effective cross-examination of the management witness. The 3rd respondent, without accepting the petitioner's request, is said to have proceeded further in the matter and to have ordered the management representative to lead his evidence. Petitioner would contend that the enquiry officer should have adjourned the enquiry, by giving him three clear days time, to prepare himself and to verify the documents furnished to him at the commencement of the enquiry held on 26-10-1998. Petitioner would submit that the examination in chief, of the sole witness on behalf of the management, was completed on 26-10-1998 and, after repeated requests, the proceedings were adjourned to the next day i.e., 27-10-1998. Petitioner would attribute bias to the enquiry officer. Petitioner would rely on A. Sadanand v. Syndicate Bank . During the course of enquiry the bank examined Sri S.V.H.V. Sharma, the vigilance Officer, who conducted the preliminary investigation in the matter, as their sole witness who deposed at length about the allegations made in the charge sheetand marked all management documents. Petitioner would contend that the investigation officer is not a material witness and that no case can be decided on the basis of his evidence alone, inasmuch as he has no personal knowledge of the matter in issue and that he merely collects all information from the documents and witnesses he had examined which cannot be treated as direct evidence. Petitioner would contend that, in his case, no direct witness was examined. Petitioner would submit that when the investigating officer himself appeared as a witness during the enquiry, to explain certain points, refusal by the enquiry officer to permit the petitioner to inspect the preliminary enquiry report was in violation of the rules of natural justice, as he was denied reasonable opportunity of defending himself. Reliance is placed on State of Assam v. Mahendra Kumar Das in this regard. 3-A. The 2nd respondent disciplinary authority, vide letter dated 04-03-1999, forwarded to the petitioner a copy of the enquiry officer's report dated 30-01-1999 wherein the petitioner was held guilty of the charges. The petitioner, vide letter dated 18-03-1999, submitted his objections to the enquiry officer's report. According to the petitioner the 2nd respondent, without considering the objections raised by him, concurred with the enquiry officer's report, and held that the enquiry officer had given the petitioner reasonable opportunity and had followed the prescribed procedure in consonance with principles of natural justice. The petitioner was issued show cause notice, dated 27-03-1999, proposing to impose punishment of compulsory retirement. Thereafter a personal hearing was afforded and the petitioner, along with his defence representative, appeared before the disciplinary authority on 06-04-1999. The 2nd respondent passed final orders, vide proceedings dated 10-04-1999, confirming the punishment of compulsory retirement. 4. The petitioner preferred an appeal, to the General Manager (Personnel) - appellate authority, vide letter dated 01-06-1999. The petitioner was informed, vide letter dated 09-06-1999, to appear before the General Manager (Personnel) on 03-07-1999 for personal hearing. The petitioner, vide letter dated 21 -06-1999, requested the Chairman & Managing Director to change the appellate authority as he was the person who had issued the charge sheet when he was the disciplinary authority. Consequent thereto, the petitioner was asked to appear before the changed appellate authority i.e., General Manager (Planning and Development) and accordingly the petitioner appeared before the 1st respondent on 03-07-1999. The 1" respondent, vide proceedings dated 23-08-1999, dismissed the petitioner's appeal, concurred with the decision of the 2nd respondent and confirmed the order of compulsory retirement from service. Petitioner would contend that the action of the 2nd respondent was premeditated inasmuch as the bank had already issued circular dated 22-7-1999 informing all the branches about his compulsory retirement from service. 5. In the counter affidavit, filed on behalf of respondents 1 to 3, it is stated that since the petitioner is a workman he has an effective and efficacious alternative remedy under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act . Respondents, while denying that the appellate authority had dismissed the petitioner's appeal in a cryptic manner, would state that the 1S| respondent, vide proceedings dated 23-08-1999, had considered all the petitioner's contentions judiciously, found no extenuating circumstances warranting reconsideration of the order of the disciplinary authority, had assessed the punishment awarded by the disciplinary authority and found it to be proportionate to the gravity of misconduct and had thereafter, while dismissing the appeal, confirmed the punishment awarded. With regard to the earlier service record of the petitioner, it is stated that an unblemished record does not entitle the petitioner to commit fraud or to claim immunity against being punished. It is stated that despite being given 15 days time, to give reply to the charge sheet, the petitioner did not respond thereto before 12-07-1998, but later on 24-07-1998 had sought 30 days time to submit his reply to the charge sheet. Even within this extended period of 30 days, the petitioner did not furnish his reply to the charge sheet and, instead, on 02-09-1998 had sought for a list of documents and witnesses. Respondents would allege that this request, for being supplied the list of witnesses and documents, was dilatory, that diversionary tactics had been adopted by the petitioner and that, in the absence of an explanation to the charge sheet, the disciplinary authority had decided, vide letter dated 04-09-1998, to hold an enquiry. Respondents would state that the petitioner's letter dated 03-09-1998, seeking a list of documents and witnesses, was received after the decision had been taken by the disciplinary authority on 04-09-1998 to order for a domestic enquiry and as such the petitioner was advised accordingly by the disciplinary authority. It is stated that the petitioner had renewed his request for being issued a list of documents, vide letter dated 12-10-1998, and he was advised, vide letter dated 14-10-1998, to attend the enquiry and obtain the list of witnesses and documents. It is stated that the petitioner was provided all the required material in the first sitting of the enquiry itself on 26-10-1998 and that no prejudice had been caused to the petitioner in this regard. Respondents would contend that ordering of an enquiry is not an end but a means for reaching the end and the disciplinary authority had no option but to order for the domestic enquiry, to ascertain the truth of the allegations levelled in the charge sheet, in the absence of petitioner's written reply. It is stated that the enquiry officer had provided ample opportunity to the petitioner to defend his case and that the opportunity given to him by the enquiry officer was availed by the petitioner who participated during the enquiry and defended his case effectively. It is contended that, even before the enquiry officer, the petitioner had not stated as to how prejudice had been caused to him in this regard. Respondents would deny the allegations of mala fides and bias against the enquiry officer and the disciplinary authority. They would state that they had waited for nearly two months, after the charge sheet was issued, for the petitioner to submit his reply thereto and it is only thereafter that the disciplinary authority had ordered for an enquiry. Respondents would state that the petitioner, having failed to submit his explanation to the charge sheet cannot contend, more so in the absence of any specific provision in this regard, that failure to furnish the list of witnesses and documents, prior to the commencement of the enquiry, had caused him prejudice and had denied him the opportunity of submitting his reply to the charge sheet. Respondents would contend that the petitioner had participated in the enquiry, had availed the opportunity afforded to him, had cross-examined the management witness at length and had adduced evidence in his defence. It is stated that the 3rd respondent informed the petitioner, vide letter dated 03-10-1998, that the enquiry was fixed on 26-10-1998. On 26-10-1998 the petitioner is said to have appeared before the enquiry officer, along with his defence representative, and to have stated that he understood the contents of the charge sheet and the procedure for conducting the enquiry. On being asked as to whether he admitted or denied the charges, the petitioner stated that the charge sheet was vague, that the list of witnesses was not furnished to him, and that appointment of the enquiry officer was hasty and manifested prejudice. It is stated that the management witness was examined in the forenoon and was exposed for cross-examination in the post lunch session of 26-10-1998. The petitioner and his defence representative requested that the enquiry proceedings be adjourned to enable them to have an opportunity to go through the documents and that a copy of the investigation report be furnished. The enquiry officer held that the petitioner's request for a copy of the investigation report was uncalled for since the management witness had deposed on the basis of the documents in the enquiry. With regard to the petitioner's request to be provided an opportunity to go through the documents, the enquiry officer adjourned the enquiry to the next day to enable the petitioner to come prepared. On 27-10-1998 the petitioner commenced cross-examination of the management witness and concluded the examination raising 22 cross-examination questions in the forenoon itself and the management had closed their evidence thereafter. The petitioner sought an adjournment to adduce evidence in his defence. His request was acceded to and the enquiry date was fixed for 16-11-1998 to enable the petitioner to come prepared for leading his evidence. The petitioner is said to have examined himself in his defence and to have closed his side of the enquiry. Respondents would contend that non-furnishing of a reply to the charge sheet did not preclude the enquiry officer from commencing the enquiry on 26-10-1998. Respondents would deny that adequate opportunity was not given to the petitioner to defend himself or that the enquiry was an empty formality. Respondents would state that the petitioner was given nearly 20 days to lead evidence in his defence and that the very commencement of the enquiry on 26-10-1998, and its adjournment to 16-11-1998, was only after adequate notice was given to the petitioner. Allegations of bias and mala fides are denied. Respondents would state that the rules do not mandate adjournment of three clear days and the petitioner's contention to the contrary was erroneous. Respondents would contend that since the investigating officer's report had not been relied upon, in the enquiry, failure to furnish the petitioner a copy thereof would not amount to denial of reasonable opportunity more so when the Investigating Officer had himself appeared before the enquiry officer as a management witness and was subjected to cross-examination by the petitioner/ his defence representative. Respondents would rely on Narayan Dattatraya Ramteerthakhar v. State of Maharashtra in this regard. It is stated that, on conclusion of the domestic enquiry on 16-11-1998, both the parties were asked to submit their written briefs within 15 days, and they had submitted their written briefs on 23-11-1998. The enquiry officer submitted his report to the disciplinary authority on 30-01-1999 holding that the charges levelled against the petitioner, of acting prejudicial to the interest of the bank, vide Clause 19.5 (j) of the bipartite settlement, had been established, and a copy thereof was forwarded to the petitioner under cover of letter dated 04-03-1999 asking him to make his submissions, if any, on the findings within 15 days of receipt of the letter. The defence representative, on behalf of the petitioner, furnished submissions on the findings of the enquiry officer, in his letter dated 18-03-1999. It is stated that the disciplinary authority disagreed with the petitioner's contention that the findings of the enquiry officer were perverse and was not based on evidence. The disciplinary authority agreed with the findings of the enquiry officer and held the petitioner guilty of the charges levelled against him and, vide order dated 27-03-1999, dealt with the various contentions raised by the petitioner, considered the gravity of the misconduct and then proposed imposition of punishment of compulsory retirement from service. The petitioner was permitted to make oral submissions in this regard on 06-04-1999. Respondents would state that, on 06-04-1999, the petitioner along with his defence representative appeared before the disciplinary authority and made oral submissions, and thereafter the disciplinary authority, in his proceedings dated 10-04-1999, confirmed the proposed punishment taking into account various aspects brought out by the petitioner during the personal hearing. The disciplinary authority observed that the matter raised by the petitioner had already been dealt with earlier by the enquiry officer, in the enquiry, and by the disciplinary authority at the stage of proposing the punishment. The petitioner's grievance regarding inadequate opportunity was rejected by the disciplinary authority. Respondents would state that each and every General Manager, individually, at the head office is empowered by the Chairman and Managing Director to be the appellate authority and hear and dispose of appeals against original orders passed by the disciplinary authority, in respect of workmen staff, as per Clause 19.14 of the bipartite settlement. It is stated that the petitioner's appeal submitted to the General Manager (P) was disposed of, after the personal hearing, on 03-07-1999. It is stated that the appellate authority, in his order dated 23-08-1999, had assigned reasons as to why he was concurring with the decision of the disciplinary authority in confirming the punishment already awarded. While dismissing the appeal the appellate authority dealt with the contentions raised by the petitioner and the submissions made by him during the personal hearing held on 03-07-1999. Respondents would deny the contention that the appellate authority had passed the order without considering any of the facts mentioned by the petitioner during the personal hearing. Respondents also deny that the appellate authority had passed a cryptic order without application of mind. It is stated that the bank, in its circular dated 22-07-1999, gave details of employees who had been dismissed/ terminated/discharged and compulsorily retired from service during the period 01-03-1999 to 30-04-1999 and since the petitioner was compulsorily retired from service, with effect from 23-04-1999, this circular only took note of this factual position. Respondents would state that the enquiry officer's report and the order of the disciplinary authority were in conformity with the rules, procedure and principles of natural justice and were passed with due application of mind. 6. In his reply affidavit, the petitioner would state that the punishment imposed by the respondents is required to be set aside on the ground that the findings recorded by the enquiry officer are based on no evidence. Petitioner denies that the alternative remedy is effective and efficacious and would submit that mere existence of an alternative remedy is not a bar for exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Petitioner would state that the sole witness examined on behalf of the management was the investigating officer and his entire deposition was false. Petitioner would refer to the admission of the investigating officer that he did not contact the Branch Manager and did not obtain any kind of statement from him. Petitioner would state that though this fact was brought to the notice of the 1st respondent in his appeal, the said contention was not considered and that the order of the appellate authority is not a speaking order. Petitioner would rely on State of Uttar Pradesh v. Shatrughan Lal . Petitioner would state that, even in the absence of any specific rules, principles of natural justice would require that a list of documents and witnesses be provided to the delinquent employee. Petitioner would contend that where an investigating officer is cited as a witness, the delinquent employee has the right to have a copy of the investigating officer's report to cross-examine him and failure to provide a copy thereof had resulted in denial of reasonable opportunity. 7. Petitioner would seek to have the disciplinary proceedings, culminating in the order of punishment of compulsory retirement, quashed on the following grounds: i. (x) by a representative of a registered trade union or bank employees of which he is a member on the date first notified for the commencement of the enquiry. (y) where the employee is not a member of any trade union of bank employees on which aforesaid date, by a representative of a registered trade union of employees of the bank in which he is employed: 13. It is also necessary to take note of the charges levelled against the petitioner and the basis on which the enquiry officer held him guilty of the charges. 14. The allegations levelled against the petitioner were that: 15. The charge sheet also takes note of the fact the petitioner was subsequently transferred to Kothapatnam branch on 17-06-1997, that pursuant to a reminder, from the Bank of Baroda, the Manager of Gotlagattu branch informed the petitioner, vide letter dated 15/19-07-1997, that on receiving the telegram from the Bank of Baroda, Ongole on 08-05-1997, enquiring about the fate of the cheque for Rs. 13.000/-, the then Manager had enquired from the petitioner about the missing cheque and that the petitioner had informed him that no such cover/instrument had been received and on the basis of the petitioner's statement, the Bank of Baroda was informed accordingly. After enquiry with the postal authorities, the Bank of Baroda had informed the Gotlagattu branch of the respondent bank that it was the petitioner who had acknowledged having received the envelope sent by registered post on 31 -03-1997. The petitioner, vide letter dated 20-08-1997, informed that it may be a fact that the said registered cover was received by him, but its contents were not known to him since the cover was handed over to the Manager intact without opening. The petitioner also informed that he had issued a blank signed cheque to M/s. Chunduri Chit Funds (Pvt) Ltd and promised to settle the matter by remitting Rs. 13.500/- to the credit of his S.B. account and requested the branch Manager to inform him as to how to resolve the issue if the cheque was not traced and as to whether a duplicate cheque could be issued or payment made by debiting his S.B. account. On 15-01-1998, the petitioner remitted Rs. 13,625/- to the Gotlagattu branch to settle his dues under the said cheque along with interest for remitting the amount to the Bank of Baroda. 16. In the charge sheet issued to him, the petitioner was informed that the circumstances mentioned below amounted to gross misconduct under Clause 19.5(j) of the Bipartite Settlement: 17. The petitioner was informed that the aforesaid circumstances indicated that, with the fraudulent intention of deriving undue/ unlawful pecuniary benefit for himself, the petitioner had caused destruction/non-delivery of the said cheque issued by him and that these acts constitute gross misconduct under Clause 19.5(j) of the Bipartite Settlement. The petitioner was charged of having committed acts of gross misconduct of "doing acts prejudicial to the interest of the Bank" under Clause 19.5(j) of the Bipartite Settlement, 18. The enquiry officer analyzed the evidence and recorded his findings as under: 19. With regard to the first contention, relating to failure on the part of the management to enclose the list of documents, and the list of witnesses, to the charge sheet resulting in the petitioner being deprived of the opportunity to effectively prepare his defence and to submit his written statement and reply to the charge sheet, it is necessary to note that the bipartite settlement, which governs the procedure for conducting disciplinary proceedings against award staff of banks, does not specifically require the bank management to furnish these documents along with the charge sheet. The contention, however, is that failure to furnish these documents is in violation of principles of natural justice. From the facts stated above, it is clear that while the petitioner was issued a charge sheet on 13-06-1998 calling upon him to submit his reply thereto within fifteen days, (which period ended by 12-07-1998), the petitioner did not furnish his reply to the charge sheet within the said period and it was on 24-07-1998 that he sought 30 days time to give his reply to the charge sheet. Even within this extended period of 30 days the petitioner did not submit his reply and instead, vide letter dated 03-09-1998, sought for the list of documents and witnesses. Even before this letter dated 03-09-1998 was received the disciplinary authority, vide letter dated 04-09-1998, had decided to hold an enquiry. It is only after a decision had been taken and the letter dated 04-09-1998 had been addressed to the petitioner did the respondents receive a copy of the petitioner's letter, dated 03-09-1998 on 06-09-1998. On the petitioner renewing his request, vide letter dated 12-10-1998, the respondent advised him, vide letter dated 14-09-1998, to attend the enquiry and obtain the list of witnesses and documents. The petitioner was provided all the required material at the first sitting of the enquiry held on 26-10-1998. 20. The grievance, if any, which the petitioner could have had is only in not being able to submit an effective reply, to the charge sheet, for these documents were furnished to him at the first sitting of the enquiry itself. It is well settled that while it may be desirable to call for an explanation to the charge sheet, from the delinquent employee, there is no principle which compels such a course to be adopted as calling for an explanation can only be with a view to making the enquiry unnecessary, if the explanation is found to be satisfactory. Failure to call for an explanation to the charge sheet and proceeding with the enquiry instead cannot be held to be in violation of principles of natural justice. 21. In Firestone Tyre and Rubber Company, Ltd. v. Their Workmen 1967 (2) LLJ 715 (SC), the Supreme Curt held thus: 22. In Superintendent, Kaliyar Estate v. O. Kuriakko 1971 (1) LLJ 83, it has been held thus: 23. In Motor Industries Co. Ltd v. D. Adinarayanappa 1978 (1) LLJ 443 (Karnataka), the Karnataka High Court held thus: 24. Since failure to provide an opportunity to the delinquent employee, to submit his explanation to the charge sheet, does not vitiate the disciplinary proceedings, failure to furnish the list of documents along with the charge sheet, even if it is assumed that the petitioner was deprived of the opportunity to submit an effective reply to the charge sheet, cannot be said to vitiate the enquiry proceedings. BURDEN TO ESTABLISH PREJUDICE CAUSED, IN NOT GRANTING ADEQUATE TIME TO PERUSE THE DOCUMENTS SUPPLIED, IS ON THE DELINQUENT EMPLOYEE: 25. With regard to the contention that the time granted for perusal of the list of documents and witnesses, was grossly insufficient, resulting in the petitioner being denied reasonable opportunity of cross-examining the management witness, it is necessary to note that, after the examination-in-chief of the management witness, at the petitioner's request the matter was adjourned to the next day for his cross-examination. The matter was thereafter adjourned to 16-11-1998 for the defence evidence. 26. A perusal of the enquiry proceedings would reveal that the petitioner, and his defence representative, had cross-examined the management witness at length and had put 22 cross-examination questions to the management witness. Except to contend that the time granted, for perusal of the list of documents and witnesses, was grossly insufficient, nothing else has been stated by the petitioner as to how he was prejudiced thereby and what more could have been elicited in cross-examination, of the management witness, if he had been granted further time. In the absence of any period being prescribed, under the bipartite settlement, for perusal of the documents, the question as to whether the time granted was sufficient or insufficient would depend on the facts and circumstances of each case and the eventual test would be as to whether the delinquent employee had been prejudiced in not being granted more time. 27. In State Bank of Patiala v. S.K. Sharma , Rule 68(b)(iii) of the State Bank of Patiala (Officers) Service Regulations required copies of the statements of witnesses, if any recorded earlier, to be supplied to the delinquent employee not later than three days before the commencement of examination of witnesses by the inquiring authority. In the said case, on the very date on which the copies of statements of witnesses were furnished, the enquiry proceedings commenced. In this context, the Supreme Court held thus: 28. Since the effect of not granting more than a day's time, to enable the petitioner to effectively cross-examine the management witness, must be examined on the touchstone of prejudice and since it is for the delinquent employee to show how he was prejudiced in this regard and as the petitioner has neither established prejudice nor has he stated as to what more could have been elicited by him in cross-examining the management witness this contention, of inadequate time being granted to peruse the documents resulting in the petitioner not being able to effectively cross-examine the management witness, must also be rejected. NOT FURNISHING A COPY OF THE PRELIMINARY ENQUIRY REPORT, IF NOT RELIED UPON IN THE DEPARTMENTAL ENQUIRY, IS NOT FATAL: 29. With regard to the contention, that failure to supply a copy of the preliminary investigation report is fatal to the domestic enquiry, where the preliminary investigating officer was alone examined as the management witness, it is necessary to note that the preliminary investigation report was neither relied upon nor did it form part of the evidence adduced on behalf of the management. The investigating officer was examined as a witness and all the documents, on which reliance was placed by the management to substantiate the charges, were marked as exhibits. It is these documents which, alone, formed the basis on which the enquiry officer held the petitioner guilty of the charges. Since the preliminary investigation report was neither relied upon nor marked as an exhibit in the domestic enquiry, failure to furnish a copy of the preliminary investigation report to the petitioner, merely because the preliminary investigating officer was examined as the sole management witness in the departmental enquiry, would not vitiate the departmental enquiry proceedings. 30. In M.K. Das (2 supra), the Supreme Court held thus: 31. In Prafulla Chandra Behera (5 supra), a Division Bench of Orissa High Court held thus: 32. It is necessary to note that in Prafulla Chandra Behera (5 supra) the earlier judgments of the Apex court, in M.K. Das (2 supra), was not noticed. 33. In Narayan Dattatraya Ramteerthakhar (3 supra), the Supreme Court held thus: 34. In A. Sadanand (1 supra), this Court held thus: 35. It is necessary to note that in A. Sadanand (1 supra), the judgment of the Apex Court in M. K. Das (2 supra) and Narayan Dattatraya Ramteerthakhar (3 supra) was not noticed. 36. In Shatrughan Lal (4 supra), the Supreme Court held thus: 37. The two Judge Bench of the Supreme Court, in Shatrughan Lal (4 supra) did not notice its earlier three Judge bench judgment in M.K. Das (2 supra). CONFLICT IN JUDICIAL DICTA OF TWO JUDGMENTS OF THE SUPREME COURT: THE JUDGMENT OF A LARGER BENCH IS BINDING ON THE HIGH COURT: 38. As held in Mattulal v. Radhelal , State of U.P. v. Ram Chandra Trivedi , Union of India v. Haghubir Singh (Constitution Bench) and Chandra Prakash v. State of U.P. , in the case of a clear conflict in the judicial dicta of two judgments of the Supreme Court, the High Court would be bound by the judgment of a larger bench as compared to a bench with lesser number of judges. 39. In Mattulal, the Supreme Court noticing the contrary views taken by a bench of four judges of the Supreme Court in T.B. Sarvate v. Nemichand 1966 MPLJ 26 (SC) and Smt. Kamala Soni v. Rup Lal Mehara 1969 NSC 186 (SC), a bench of three judges, held that since the earlier judgment of a bench of four judges of the Supreme Court in T.B. Sarvate was not noticed by the subsequent three judge bench of the Supreme Court in Smt. Kamala Soni, the decision in T.B. Sarvate (23 supra) must be followed as against the decision in Smt. Kamala Soni (24 supra) as the former was a decision of a larger bench. 40. In Ram Chandra Trivedi (20 supra), the Supreme Court held thus: 41. In Raghubir Singh (21 supra), the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court held thus: 42. Following the judgment in Raghubir Singh (21 supra), the Supreme Court in Chandra Prakash (22 supra), held thus: 43. In view of the authoritative pronouncement of the Supreme Court in the aforesaid judgments, the pronouncement of law by a Division Bench of the Supreme Court is binding on a Division of the same or smaller number of judges. In cases where the High Court finds any conflict in the views expressed by larger and smaller benches of the Supreme Court, it cannot disregard the views expressed by the larger bench of the Supreme Court and must follow the law laid down therein and not what has been laid down by a Division Bench consisting of lesser number of judges, more so when the earlier larger bench judgment was not brought to the notice of the subsequent smaller bench of the Supreme Court. 44. In view of the law laid down in M.K. Das (2 supra), failure to furnish a copy of the preliminary investigation report, when the said report does not form part of the enquiry proceedings nor was it relied upon by the respondent management, is of no consequence. Since it is well settled that a preliminary enquiry has nothing to do with the enquiry conducted after the issue of charge sheet and, after a full fledged enquiry is held the preliminary enquiry loses its importance, failure to furnish a copy of the preliminary investigation report, merely on the ground that the investigation officer is examined as a witness, is of no consequence. FAILURE TO EXAMINE AN IMPORTANT WITNESS DOES NOT VITIATE DEPARTMENTAL ENQUIRY PROCEEDINGS: 45. The next contention urged by the petitioner is that the respondent management had failed to examine the material witness in this case i.e., the erstwhile branch manager and that failure to examine this witness vitiated the departmental enquiry. It is necessary to note that, while the respondent bank had not produced the erstwhile branch manager as a witness, neither the delinquent employee nor his defence representative had requested the enquiry officer to summon the erstwhile branch manager as their witness or as an independent witness in the enquiry. 46. It is well settled that the Enquiry Officer, holding a domestic enquiry, cannot take any effective steps to compel attendance of witnesses and consequently cannot be said to have caused any procedural irregularity in not causing production of witnesses. ( Tata Oil Mills Company Ltd. v. the Workmen ; Shambunath Goyal v. Bank of Saroda ). Since the Enquiry Officer has no power, as a court, to summon witnesses, just as the Bank produces its witnesses, the charge sheeted employee has to take steps to produce his witnesses. The Enquiry Officer has neither the power to produce nor compel the Bank to produce witnesses for being cross-examined by the charge sheeted employee. ( Tata Engineering & Locomotive Company Ltd. v. S.C. Prasad (1969) 2 SCC 372). Nothing prevented the petitioner from producing the branch manager as a witness in his defence. The mere fact that the branch manager was not examined as a witness, cannot automatically lead to the conclusion that the enquiry proceedings are vitiated. 47. In Nellimerla Jute Mills v. Labour Court 1981 (2) ALT 455 (D.B.), the Division bench of this Court held thus: 48. Learned Counsel for the petitioner would however place reliance on N. Subrahmanyam (supra) and Habeeb Mohammad v. State of Hyderabad . 49. In Habeeb Mohammad, the Supreme Court held thus: 50. While failure to examine a material witness may vitiate criminal proceedings, as held in Habeeb Mohammed , non-examination of a witness in the departmental enquiry, more so when the delinquent employee had not sought for such witness being examined, would be of no consequence and the validity of the enquiry and the punishment imposed, on the delinquent employee by the disciplinary authority, must be examined on the basis of the evidence adduced in departmental enquiry. As long as the evidence, to establish the charge, is found to be reasonable no interference is called for. 51. In N. Subrahmanyam (6 supra), this Court held thus: 52. In N. Subrahmanyam (6 supra), this Court applied the law laid down in Habeeb Mohammed (29 supra) to departmental enquiries also. It is necessary to note that in N. Subrahmanyam (6 supra), the earlier judgments of the Supreme Court in Tata Oil Mills (25 supra) and Narayana Dattatraya Ramtheerthakar (3 supra) were not noticed nor was the Division bench Judgment of this Court in Nellimerla Jute Mills (28 supra) brought to its notice. In view of the law laid down by the Apex Court in Tata Oil Mills (25 supra) and Narayana Dattatraya Ramtheerthakar (3 supra) and the Division Bench of this Court in Nellimerla Jute Mills (28 supra), it must necessarily be held that failure to examine the branch manager would not, by itself, vitiate the departmental enquiry. 53. As noted earlier, Habeeb Mohammed (29 supra) related to examination of a witness in criminal proceedings and not in a departmental enquiry. It is well settled that while the degree of proof in criminal proceedings is proof beyond reasonable doubt, the degree of proof in departmental enquiries is preponderance of probabilities. Strict rules of evidence, which apply to a criminal trial, do not apply to departmental enquiries. 54. In Cholan Roadways Ltd v. G. Thirugnanasambandam (supra), the Supreme Court held thus: 55. In Lalit Popli (14 supra), the Supreme Court held thus: 56. As such even in the absence of the branch manager being examined, the enquiry officer, on the basis of the evidence on record, was entitled to conclude that the delinquent employee was guilty of the charges levelled against him. MALICE: HIGH DEGREE OF PROOF REQUIRED TO ESTABLISH THE PLEA: PERSON AGAINST WHOM SUCH ALLEGATIONS ARE MADE MUST BE IMPLEADED AS A PARTY EO-NOMINE: 57. The plea of malice and bias must also be rejected. The petitioner has chosen not to implead the disciplinary authority or the enquiry officer as party eo-nomine. It is settled law that the person against whom malice or bias is alleged should be impleaded as a party respondent to the proceedings, given an opportunity to meet the allegations and in his absence no enquiry over the allegations should be made. ( State of Bihar v. P.P. Sharma ). Even otherwise, except a bare allegation that the enquiry officer and the disciplinary authority are biased and had acted mala fide, no material particulars have been furnished by the petitioner to substantiate the said allegations. It is well settled that the burden of establishing mala fides is very heavy on the person who alleges it. Allegations of mala fides are often more easily made than proved and the very seriousness of such allegations demands proof of a high order of credibility ( E.P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu ). 58. In Tara Chand Khatri v. Municipal Corporation of Delhi the Supreme Court held thus: 59. Issuance of the Circular dated 22-07-1999 by the respondent bank cannot be said to be actuated with malice and bias. The disciplinary authority, vide proceedings dated 10-04-1999, a copy of which was communicated to the petitioner on 15-04-1999, imposed on him the punishment of compulsory retirement from service. While it is true that the petitioner's appeal was pending before the 1st respondent on 22-07-1999, the fact remains that the order of compulsory retirement became effective from 15-04-1999, the date on which the order of punishment was communicated to the petitioner. Pendency of appeal did not alter the situation. Since the bank, in its circular dated 22-07-1999 furnished information to its branches regarding all employees who were terminated from service during the period 01-03-1999 to 30-04-1999 and since the petitioner's services were also terminated during this period, his name was also included in the list of persons mentioned in the circular. 60. The contention that the disciplinary authority and the enquiry officer had acted mala fide and that the disciplinary proceedings are vitiated by bias must therefore be rejected. ELABORATE REASONS NEED NOT BE ASSIGNED BY THE APPELLATE AUTHORITY WHILE CONFIRMING THE ORDER OF PUNISHMENT OR BY THE DISCIPLINARY AUTHORITY WHEN HE AGREES WITH THE FINDINGS OF THE ENQUIRY OFFICER: 61. The contention that the order of the disciplinary authority and the appellate authority suffer from non-application of mind, cannot also be accepted. 62. In Tara Chand Khatri (32 supra), the Supreme Court held thus: 63. In Ram Kumar v. State of Haryana , the Supreme Court held thus: 64. In S.N. Mukherjee v. Union of India , the Supreme Court held thus: 65. It is well settled that where the disciplinary authority agrees with the findings of the enquiry officer, the appellate authority agrees with the conclusions of the disciplinary authority and the findings of the enquiry officer, it is wholly unnecessary for the disciplinary authority or the appellate authority to pass an elaborate order. The order of the disciplinary authority and the appellate authority, in the case on hand, are speaking orders. There is no substance in the contention that the order of the disciplinary authority and the appellate authority suffer from non-application of mind or are bereft of reasons. NO EVIDENCE/PERVERSE FINDINGS: 66. Now the contention that the findings of the enquiry officer holding the petitioner guilty of the charges are based on no evidence and are perverse. It is well settled that while this Court, in exercise of its Certiorari jurisdiction, would not sit in appeal and substitute its views for that of the disciplinary authority or the enquiry officer, nor would it, normally, examine the adequacy or sufficiency of the evidence adduced in a departmental enquiry, where the findings of the enquiry officer are based on no evidence and are perverse, interference of this Court, in exercise of its Certiorari jurisdiction, would undoubtedly be justified. 67. In Lalit Popli (14 supra), the Supreme Court held thus: 68. In H.C. Goel (7 supra); the Supreme Court held thus: 69. In Mohan Chandra Kalita (8 supra), the Supreme Court held thus: 70. In M/s. Bareilly Electricity Supply Co. Ltd. (9 supra), the Supreme Court held: 71. In N. Venkatarama Naidu(11 supra), this Court held: 72. The question which, therefore, requires examination is as to whether the findings of the enquiry officer are based on no evidence and whether they are perverse for it is only if it is so held would interference of this Court, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, be justified. 73. Sri J. Sudheer, learned Counsel for the petitioner, would submit that the evidence recorded by the enquiry officer, that the petitioner had, with a fraudulent intention of deriving undue/unlawful benefit for himself, caused destruction/non-delivery of the said cheque issued by him, is a finding based on no evidence and is perverse. Learned Counsel would submit that while the other charges relating to use of withdrawal slips pertaining to a closed SB account and issuing the cheque without maintaining necessary balance in his savings bank account are, at best, minor violations, the substantial charge is of destruction/non-delivery of the cheque forwarded to the branch for collection by Bank of Baroda and inasmuch as there was no evidence on record to substantiate this charge, the findings recorded by the enquiry officer, that the petitioner had caused destruction/ non-delivery of the said cheque issued by him earlier, is based on surmises and conjectures, is based on no evidence and is perverse. Learned Counsel would submit that once this charge is held not to be established, there is no justification for the disciplinary authority to impose on the petitioner the major penalty of compulsory retirement from service and consequently the order of punishment is also liable to be set aside. 74. To examine this contention, it is necessary to take note of certain undisputed facts: 75. Before the enquiry officer, the petitioner contended that both cheque No. 698834 and the missing cheque No. 698839 formed part of the same cheque book relating to S.B. account No. 71 of Sri Y. Thirupathi Reddy and that cheque No. 698834 for Rs. 28,100/- issued by the petitioner (MEX 2 ), was passed by the Manager. According to the petitioner, the Manager had full knowledge of the fact that these cheques were issued by the petitioner and therefore the charge of pilferage of cheques was without basis. According to the petitioner, cheque No. 698834 and 698839 were passed for payment by two different branch Managers and since the unused cheque leaves lying with the branch had been utilized by him and his correct S.B. account was reflected on the cheque, the petitioner could not be accused of having pilfered the cheque leaves. 76. ln his letter dated 28-10-1997 (MEX24), addressed to the Manager of Gotlagattu branch, the petitioner stated that it may be a fact that the registered cover might have been received by him but the contents thereof were not known to him because he had not seen so particularly and that the cover was handed over to the Manager intact without opening because Manager was not in the branch at the time of the postman's visit to the branch, but the petitioner was aware that he would return after some time. The petitioner also stated that he stood as a guarantor to one of his close friends and that the said chit fund company, besides getting execution of the guarantee bond, had also obtained one signed blank cheque as a guarantee and, without prior intimation and notice, the chit fund company had presented the cheque by filling up the cheque to the extent of dues of that particular chit for which the petitioner had stood as a guarantor and had presented it for collection through their bankers, Bank of Baroda, Ongole under OBC 1596 dated 17-03-1997. The petitioner stated that he had visited the chit fund company as well as the Bank of Baroda, Ongole branch, had enquired with them and came to know that the proceeds of the cheque amount for Rs. 13,000/- was earmarked for two vouchers prepared for adjustment of chit dues of his friend for which he stood as a guarantor and this was the main reason why he had not maintained sufficient balance in his S.B. account after issue of that cheque as he was not aware about their presenting the cheque and these facts could be got verified from the records of M/s. Chunduri Chit Funds (Pvt) Limited, Ongole. The petitioner expressed his concern both to his prestige and to the reputation of the institution and informed the Branch Manager of his total cooperation in resolving the matter and that he was going to credit Rs. 13,500/- to his S.B. account within a few days. Prior to this letter the petitioner was informed, vide letter dated 25-07-1997 (MEX 23), that on receiving a telegram from Bank of Baroda, Ongole on 08.05.1997, when the Manager had enquired about the matter, the petitioner had informed him that he had not received such a cover/ instrument and basing on the information given by the petitioner, the branch Manager had informed Bank of Baroda, Ongole on 09-05-1997 that they had not received the said OBG, the Bank of Baroda had enquired with the postal authorities and sent xerox copy of the acknowledgment given by the Branch on 31 -03-1997 of having received the registered post cover. The said acknowledgment was given by the petitioner as the Manager had gone to remit income tax on that day. On verification by the Gotlagutta branch it was found that the cheque was not debited to the petitioner's account as there was insufficient balance from 15-03-1997 till date i.e., on 25-07-1997. Before the appellate authority, the petitioner contended that he had kept all registered posts/ordinary post covers on the Manager's table without opening the cover as per the practice of the Bank. 77. The prevaricating stand of the petitioner, from time to time, with regard to receipt of the registered post cover containing OBC No. 1596 dated 17-03-1997, must be taken note of. While the petitioner initially denied having received the cover/instrument, (which resulted in the then Manager informing the Bank of Baroda accordingly), subsequently when a xerox copy of the postal acknowledgment containing his signature was forwarded to the Branch, and on enquiry, the petitioner stated that it may be a fact that he may have received the cover but the contents thereof were not known to him since he had not seen the cover and had handed it over to the Manager intact without opening. The petitioner again changed his stand and stated before the Appellate authority that he had merely kept the cover on the Manager's table. These varying statements of the petitioner would belie his earlier statement that he had handed over the cover intact to the Manager. 78. Sri Rami Reddy, learned Counsel, appearing for the respondent Bank, would refer to Ex.MEX 27 i.e., the letter addressed by the petitioner on 28-11-1997, to the chit fund company, asking them to confirm the balance amount due. In the very same letter, the petitioner stated that he was sending a cheque for Rs. 25,000/-, that as per the agreement Sri K. Chalapathi Rao had told him that he would present one cheque after the other because cash was not received by the petitioner and that he would give it within one week. The petitioner informed that the Bank was going to send Rs. 14,000/- D.D. to the chit fund and requested the chit fund to confirm the balance. This Rs. 14,000/- demand draft represented the Rs. 13,000/- cheque issued earlier along with interest and other charges. Learned Counsel would submit that this letter is itself proof that it was the petitioner who had borrowed money from the chit fund company and that his contention, of being a mere guarantor, to have issued a blank cheque which was later filled up and encashed by the chit fund company, were all concocted only to wriggle out of the charges alleged against him. 79. The very fact that the branch manager had addressed a letter to M/s. Bank of Baroda on 09-05-1997 informing that the cheque was not received by the branch would itself show that the branch manager had not received the cheque. The only person who stood to gain, by not forwarding the cheque, on its receipt to the accounts department of the Gotlagattu branch of the respondent bank, was the petitioner, for if the cheque had been presented for collection on that day it would have been dishonoured for want of sufficient balance in his S.B. Account. While it is true that strict rules of evidence are not applicable to domestic enquiries, and the degree of proof required is preponderance of probabilities and not proof beyond reasonable doubt, even under the Section 106 of the Evidence Act, where any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person the burden of proving that fact lies on him. Having admitted, albeit belatedly, that he had received the registered letter containing the cheque on 31-03-1997, the burden of proof was on the petitioner to establish that he had handed over the registered cover intact to the branch manager, without opening it. In this context, it is useful to refer to Canara Bank (12 supra), wherein the Allahabad High Court held thus: The Labour Court has itself held that the procedure of enquiry was fair but the findings of the Enquiry Officer are perverse. This conclusion arrived at by the Labour Court is without any basis and without any material on record and is based on misconception of law applicable to the departmental enquiries. It appears that there was clear misconception in the mind of Labour Court in respect of standard of proof in departmental enquiry and burden of proof. As stated above the standard of proof in criminal trial and departmental enquiry is different. The burden of proof lies on those who fail if evidence is not led. In the instant case once charged, it was for the delinquent employee to prove that he was not guilty of misconduct but he miserably failed to do so. 80. The petitioner failed to discharge his burden to establish that he had handed over the registered letter intact to the branch manager. He had changed his stand before the appellate authority and had stated that he had placed the registered letter on the table of the branch manager. On the other hand, the letter addressed by the branch manager to M/s. Bank of Baroda, on 09-05-1997, informing them that the cheque had not been received at the branch, would itself show that the branch manager had not received the said cheque. 81. While it is true that the branch manager was not examined as a witness, it is clear from the evidence on record that a letter was addressed by him to Bank of Baroda on 09-05-1997. It is well settled that there is no prohibition, in departmental enquiry proceedings, from taking into consideration such evidence. 82. In State of Haryana v. Rattan Singh , failure on the part of a conductor of the Haryana State Road Transport Corporation to collect bus fares from 11 passengers and consequent termination of his service was questioned on the ground that none of the passengers had been examined in the domestic enquiry. In this context, the Supreme Court held thus: 83. In J.D. Jain v. The Management of State Bank of India , based on a verbal complaint from a savings bank account holder that, while he had withdrawn Rs. 500/-, a debit entry of Rs. 1,500/- was shown in his pass book, disciplinary proceedings were initiated against the cashier to whom the said customer had given authorisation. On the basis of the verbal complaint of the customer, a charge sheet was issued against the cashier. The customer was not examined in the domestic enquiry. However, the officers to whom the customer had made the complaint were examined. Consequent upon his termination from service, the cashier approached the Industrial Tribunal and the Tribunal recorded a finding that failure to examine the complainant vitiated the enquiry proceedings and that hearsay evidence was not permissible. The Supreme Court held that strict rules of evidence were not applicable to domestic enquires and relying on its earlier judgment in Rattan Singh (35 supra) held thus: 84. Since the petitioner failed to discharge his burden of establishing that he had handed over the registered cover, containing the cheque, intact to the branch manager and it is not in dispute that the petitioner had received the cheque and it was he alone who had been benefited by non-presentation of cheque for payment, (since there was insufficient balance in his S.B. Account to ensure that the cheque was honoured when it was presented for payment), the findings of the enquiry officer that the petitioner had caused non-delivery of the said cheque issued by him is a reasonable inference drawn from the evidence on record and cannot be said to be a finding based on surmises and conjectures/no evidence or to be perverse. As a result this charge must also be held to have been rightly established. EVEN IF SOME OF THE SEVERAL CHARGES ARE HELD ESTABLISHED-NO INTERFERENCE IS CALLED FOR IN PROCEEDINGS UNDER ARTICLE 226 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA: 85. Even otherwise, it is not in dispute that the petitioner had issued the cheque belonging to another S.B. account No. 71 which was closed and that he had issued the cheque without sufficient balance, in his savings bank account. It is well settled that even if some of the several charges, levelled against the delinquent employee, are held to have been established this Court, in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, would not interfere, if the punishment imposed is one which could have been imposed on the charges held established. 86. In State of Orissa v. Bidyabhushan , the Supreme Court held thus: 87. In Railway Board v. Niranjan Singh , the Supreme Court held thus: 88. It is well settled that it is not for this Court in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, to sit in appeal over the decision of the disciplinary authority with regard to the punishment to be imposed for the misconduct held proved. The nature of punishment to be imposed, for proved misconduct, is in the employer's realm and it is only if the punishment is one which could not have been imposed at all or is one which shocks its conscience, would this Court, in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, interfere. Since the charges levelled against the petitioner, have been held to have been proved/established, on the evidence on record, I see no reason to exercise discretion, under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, and interfere with the quantum of punishment. 89. The writ petition fails and is accordingly dismissed. However, in the circumstances, without costs.