PIO & Chief General; Manager
 (Planning development &
 Corporate services),
 Bank of Maharashtra,
 Lokmangal
 1501, Shivaji Nagar,
 Pune-411005

RTI application filed on : 05-01-2011
PIO replied on : 14-01-2010
First Appeal filed on : 18-04-2011
First Appellate Authority order of : 07-05-2011
Second Appeal received on : 29-06-2011

Q. Information sought Reply of PIO
No. 1. The procedure for opening a new Information provided. savings bank account and current As regards the document to be submitted as per KYC
 account with your bank/ branches. norm, the same is attached herewith,Annexture-1
 Procedure regarding linking of internet
 banking, phone banking, ATM and
 Credit card facilities to such accounts
 and documents obtained under KYC. 2. * The requisite documents sought The information regarding requisite documents sought
 from customers at the time of opening from at the time of opening of such a/cs for complying
 of such accounts for complying with with KYC
 KYC norms prescribed by RBI. given in point 1. 3. * System for Monitoring of such In -reply- to -point no- 3, we inform you that all the new
 newly opened bank accounts accounts are monitored on continuous basis and
 (savings/current) opened with your transactions which give rise to suspicion are further
 Bank/ branches during initial period as scrutinized and reported to FIU-IND if found to be of
 per RBI guidelines Suspicious nature. . - 4. * What are the norms for dormant and 4. Regarding point no 4, we inform you that All those
 the procedure for activating such bank accounts which have not been operated for two years, are
 accounts which are dormant? categorised as 0inoperative account". Further, for the
 Procedure for activation and purpose of classifying an account as inoperative, both the Page 1 of 7 authorization before any operations are types of transactions i.e. debit as well as credit
 being allowed. transactions induced at the instance of customers as well
 as third party is considered. The segregation of the inoperative accounts is from the
 point of view of reducing risk of frauds etc in such
 accounts. Any transactions in inoperative account will be
 made by maker and checked by checker i.e. it wiii' be
 necessarily routed through two employees of the Bank. - 5. What is the procedure for availing of 5."As"téards poinV5 the piocedure for avafling of internet
 internet/phone banking etc. facilities? banking/ phone banking/etc, has been provided on our
 Documents sought for from the Bank's website. Please find the
 customers. The documents supplied to
 the customers in turn by the bank
 (BOM), before availing of such
 facility. 6. Guidelines issued by the bank as Regarding point 6,the guidelines issued by the Bank as
 regards to use of internet Banking, regards to use
 phone banking, ATM and credit card internet banking, ohone banking, ATM'& Credi1 cards
 facilities by the customers and copies facilities , please find the annexture-3 in relation to the
 thereof. same. 7. System of uploading the customers 7. !n r-p o ct no 7, we inform you that Bank has its Core
 and copies thereof. Banking appllcation running in all the branches and
 customer's data at the time of opening the account and
 any transaction related to the custmers accounts are done
 through the CBS application. The customers' data, is
 stored in Bank's data center in a secured environment. 8. * safety measures taken by bank to Regarding point 8, the customers Database being the most
 protect/prevent sharing of the data criticai information is never disclosed with outsiders.
 base of its customers with However, NDA (NonDisclosure Agreement) is signed
 outsiders/vendors so as to protect its with the vendors working on the Bank's Systems in order
 own interest and that of its customers. to assure the non disclosure of the customers data. 9. * It is learnt that the official website of 9. In reply to point 9, regarding the change. of official web
 Bank was changed in the past- reasons site, we inform you that you have raised certain queries &
 thereof & made statements which do not fall under the purview of
 details thereof. Date from which the the definition of 'information' under RTI Act, 2005 website was changed? Whether all
 accounts holders customers were
 intimated in these regard- details
 thereof. Copies of both the websites be
 furnished. 10. Measures taken by the bank to protect 10. Regarding point no 10, Bank has taken the following
 the customers interest from internet measures to protect the customers interest from internet
 banking Frauds/ Phishing activities, Banking frauds etc.
 etc. a) Internet Banking Start-up kit includes instructions
 regarding precautions to be taken while using the Internet
 Banking facility. b) Bank has secured its Internet Banking Website by
 providing the Secured ------ - Socket Layer (SSL)
 protocol. The same could be identified by having the
 "https" in the URL. Bank is also repeatedly advising
 customers through various communication, channels to
 type in the URL as https://www.mahaconnect.in Page 2 of 7 c) In the Internet Banking website once the user logs in,
 there is a continuous message scrolling that indicates
 clearly that such fraudulent 11. * Details of internet Banking Frauds ii. In reply to point no 11, the details of the frauds / phone
 under Phishing/ Phone banking and banking & credit card frauds are as follows: 12. Details of staff accountability fixed in ii. In reply to point no 11, the details of the frauds / phone
 such cases for any staff lapses, as also banking & credit card frauds are as follows: 13. * The details of measures taken by the 13.ln reply to point 13, the details of measures taken by
 bank (BOM) to strengthen its own the bank to strenghthen its own internal control system to
 internal control system to prevent prevent recurrence of such instances in future are as
 recurrence of such instances in future. follows: Monthly Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration
 Testing of the Internet Banking System is being done. c) The One Time Password for addition of the Beneficiary
 through Internet Banking has been implemented. And
 fund transfer facility is available only to the registered
 beneficiaries through the OTP. 14. * When the last Risk Based internal 14.As regards point no 14, we inform you that RBIA of
 Audit (RBIA) of Mavipeth Branch Navi Peth Branch was conducted on 18/11/2010.
 was conducted? Copy of the report. Regarding copy of the report & compliance furnished by
 Copy of compliance furnished by the branch, we inform you that the information sought for has
 branch. no relationship with any public activity or interest &
 hence we can not provide the same. 15. * Copy of last system Audit Report of 15.In point no 15, you have sought the last system audit
 Bank Of Maharashtra and copy of report of bank of Maharashtra & copy of compliance
 Compliance furnished to audit furnished to audit committee of the board & Board's
 committee of the Board. Board's observation in this regard, we inform you that the
 observation in this regard. Copy of information includes the commercial.. confidence of the
 compliance furnished to the board. Bank and also the 16. Copy of citizen's charter issued by 16.As regards point no 16, we inform you that the
 Bank of Maharashtra as per RBI citizen's charter is available on our bank's websité
 guidelines. bmaharashtra.co.in. However a copy of the same is
 attached herewith for your perusal. Annexture-4 17. * Copy of standard procedure code & Regarding point 17,as the standard procedure & ethics is
 ethics issued by the bank of the part of citizen's charter & the same is provided under
 Maharashtra as per RBI guidelines. point no 16. 18. * Is there any "compensation policy" point 18, we inform you that Bank has 'compensation
 to compensate the customer in case of policy'
 fraud? Copy thereof. been displayed on its website. However a copy of the
 same is
 .Annexture-5 19. Information about 3 bank accounts of 19.ln reply to point 19 to 21, we inform you that the
 Shukla Das, shekhar Das and Nilesh information sought for is personal information of third
 Dandekar. party which has no relationship with any public activity or
 interest and it would cause unwarranted invasion of
 Name SB A/c Branc Amt. privacy of the individual & as such exempt under sectior1
 of h sipho 8(1) U) of the Act, moreover Bank has to maintain secrecy
 benefic ned about the accounts of its constituents. -- KYC and relied upon, as prescribed by the scope of RTI Act . Moreover, we inform you that there
 RBI at the time of opening of these is no such "Money Mule" account with Bank.
 accounts at respective branches. 21. * similar details viz. account opening
 form and KYC documents in respect
 of introducers of these accounts . 22. * Copies of the account statements of 22.As regards point no 24. we inform you that there are 5
 all the above mentioned money mule instances happened during June / July 2010. the
 accounts from date of opening to information regarding the victims & their account details
 freezing of accounts. can not be provided as the information would impede the
 process of investigation or apprehension or prosecution of
 offenders & as such exempt under section 8 (1) (h) of the
 Act. However, regarding Phishing of your account, bank
 vide its letter dated 14/01/2011 has made correspondence
 with you, a copy of the same is attached
 herewith.Annexture- 7. 23. * System for monitoring of such 23. In reply to point 25 & 26, copy of reporting of frauds
 "Money Mules Accounts" as per RBI to RBF & internal investigation report, we inform you that
 guidelines. the information is confidential report of Bank & hence we
 can not -provide the-same-Moreover -the- information
 sought for has no relationship with any public activity or
 interest. 24. * Number of such phishing instances No staff fraud was found. happened during June/july 2010. Name of the victims, accounts details,
 details of Mule accounts. Date on
 which the first complaint was received
 at BOM Hqrs. Steps/ Measures taken
 by BOM to alert other customers in
 this regard to protect their interest. 25. * Copy of statement/return of As regards point• no 25, we inform you that you have
 reporting of fraud to RBI, DBS, CO, sought certain opinion which does not fall under the
 Mumbai and copy of communications definition of 'information' under RTI Act .
 received from RBI, DBS, CO ,
 Mumbai and copy of communications
 received from RBI in this regard
 follow up action. 26. * Copy of the internal investigation 26, Regarding point no 29, as the matter is under process. report and observation made by TOP
 Management- copies thereof. 27. * The action taken by the bank Does not arise. officials/authorities for non adherence
 of KYC guidelines as well as internal
 guidelines thus helping / abatement in
 perpetration of this particular fraud. 28. Whether the bank is aware that the Regarding point no 31, we inform you that Bank is having
 captioned Fraud also falls under the well defined staff accountability examination policy' to
 provisions of preventions of Money deal with misconduct.
 Laundering Act-2002? Yes or No. 29. * If yes whether the bank has reported In respect of point no 32, regarding the measures taken to
 the requisites details to Financial address' Operational Risk" as per operational risk
 Intelligence Unit New Delhi under management policy, the information technology
 AMI guidelines? If yes , copy of department would assess the IT Environment Risk and IT
 communication sent to FUI-ND operation and Product Risk and submit a Half Yearly Page 5 of 7 report to the ORMD. This would cover losses on account
 of technological issues, operational breakdowns, system
 downtimes, ATM downtimes and nranr9''minn error with
 impact on loss of business I income, repair & recovery
 cost, the efficacy and appropriateness of disaster recovery
 plans etc. 30. If No, reasons thereof? Any action WAs regards point no 33, relating to expenditure incurred
 contemplated against delinquent on lawyers & police authorities in connection with the
 officials? Details thereof. particular case, we inform you that the information sought
 for is not avaHable with us in the format as you sought. 31. Whether there is any system of fixing 31.Regarcfrg joint no 34, we inform you that Bank has
 of any accountability in such cases? taken immediate steps iti inform and guide and assist you
 Details thereof. to tile the FIR with the polite station. Bank has also
 extended all the necessary co-operation by analyzhg and
 providing the required information to the police
 authorities. The matter is being investigated by the police
 authorities. 32. Copy of risk management policy of the -32. In point no. 35 as ho: information sought for, question
 bank. Measure taken to address of
 "operational risk". Details thereof. information does not arise. 33. Details of expenditure incurred on 33.As regards point rio 36, we inform you that Bank has
 lawyers and police authorities in extended all the necessary cooperation by analyzing and
 connection with this particular fraud, providing the required information àf the Suspects to the
 including Air Fare and expenses on Police authorities and the matter is being 'vestigated by
 litigation , lawyers fees etc. vis a vis the Police Authorities.
 final outcome. 34. * Current status of the investigation / 34. In resect of point no 37 regarding the Log-in and time
 proceedings of internet Banking fraud details of IP addresses and places from which your current
 in my above. Mentioned current a/c was siphoned, the information can not be provided as
 account. the information would impede the process of investigation
 or apprehension or prosecution of offenders & as such
 exempt under section 8 (1) (h) of the Act, 35. * Future course of action contemplated 35. In reply to point no. 38, we inform you that no such
 against these fraudulent advertisement was published in local news paper.
 accountholders for recovery of the
 amount involved. 36. * Efforts made by the bank to trace the 36. Regarding point flO; 39, measure taken by Bank to
 whereabouts of Mr. nilesh dandelar, strengthening the security of IT system, we inform that the
 Nafasopara, Thane, who has been the One Time Password for addition of the Beneficiary
 customer of BOM and one of the through Internet Banking has been implemented. And
 beneficiary of this fraud. fund transfer faciiity is available only to the registered
 beneficiaries through the OTP. 37. * date of log-in & time details of IP 37.As regards to point no 40, please find the photocopy of
 addresses and places from which my your internet banking application form Annexture-8
 current acc. No. 20076502628
 maintained at your Navi Peth branch,
 Pune was accessed on 20-07-2010 and
 21-07-2010 and an amount of rs. 92,000/- was siphoned off. 38. Details of any adv. Given by the bank
 in the local newspaper for generating Page 6 of 7 further public awareness amongst
 customers about such fraudulent
 activities- copies thereof. 38. * after reporting of such internet
 banking frauds , any further measure
 taken bank in this regard to strengthen
 the security of IT system . details
 thereof. 40. * Kindly arrange to forward me a
 photocopy of my internet banking
 application. Grounds for the First Appeal: