1. Heard Sri Vishal Tandon, learned counsel for the petitioner, Sri Sanjeev Singh, learned Additional Advocate General, assisted by Sri Surya Bhan Singh, learned Standing Counsel for the State respondents and Sri Ram Bahadur Singh, learned counsel for the respondent no.7. 2. The present petition has been filed by the petitioner, Smt. Shahin Begum (as petition on behalf of other petitioner nos.2 to 10 has already been withdrawn), challenging the order of respondent no.6, dated 10.01.2019, cancelling the fair price shop dealership of the petitioner and the order of the respondent no.3, dated 02.09.2019, dismissing the appeal filed by her. 3. It is contended by the counsel for the petitioner that the Food Commissioner, U.P. Lucknow, issued a communication dated 21.08.2018 to the District Supply Officers of 43 districts including Ghaziabad, annexing distribution of list of essential commodities by various fair price shop dealers, which showed that one Aadhaar Card was used for withdrawal of rations to various cardholders. On the aforesaid communication an exparte enquiry was conducted on 27.08.2018, by the Supply Inspector, and a First Information Report was lodged against the petitioner and 21 others, on 28.08.2018, in Police Station Khoda, District Ghaziabad, under Section 66 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 read with Sections 3 / 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, as Case Crime No.0639 of 2018. The respondent no.6 by the order dated 31.08.2018, suspended the fair price shop dealership of the petitioner on the allegation that black marketing was done by withdrawing essential commodities against 697 cardholders by using three Aadhaar Cards bearing nos. 631611332364, 337984158743 and 351348884560, and the petitioner was directed to submit her explanation. 4. The petitioner submitted her reply on 30.10.2018, denying any enquiry by the Supply Inspector on 27.08.2018. No spot inspection of shop was ever made, nor did any officer contact her on phone. The stock was never checked by the Inspector. It was further stated in her reply that, she has been regularly distributing essential commodities to the valid cardholders through E-PoS device after due Aadhaar verification. In the month of July, 2018, as some error was found in authentication of thumb impression of the cardholders in the E-PoS device by showing Not Found, it was sent for correction to the authorized vendor for two days, after which, necessary authentication was carried out. It was further contended that the distribution list sent by the NIC appears to be due to some technical glitch. Moreover, the fact that the alleged 697 cardholders have not received their ration was not verified by the respondent authorities, even though, the petitioner had filed affidavits of 162 cardholders stating that they had no grievance against the petitioner and that they have been regularly receiving essential commodities from her. 5. The respondent no.6, by the order dated 10.01.2019, cancelled the fair price shop dealership of the petitioner. The appeal filed by the petitioner was also dismissed by the order of the respondent no.3, dated 02.09.2019. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner further contended that the E-PoS machine does not have any mechanism wherein a fair price shop agent can access Aadhaar database of the beneficiaries on the server of the NIC to change Aadhaar Numbers and commit any manipulation. The alleged report of the NIC was never served upon the petitioner. The E-PoS machine is so calibrated that it cannot accept multiple thumb impression. The E-PoS machine is deposited with the District Supply Officer from the 1st to 5th day of each month for checking and servicing, therefore, no manipulation is possible at the end of the fair price shop dealer. 7. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that the order of respondent no.6, is based on presumption that, as on one Aadhaar number, ration has been withdrawn for multiple cardholders, therefore, the petitioner has committed black marketing. The petitioner has been held guilty because an FIR under Section 3 / 7 of Essential Commodities Act, 1955 was registered against her. In respect of his contention, he has relied upon a Full Bench judgment of this Court in the case of Bajrangi Tiwari vs. The Commissioner Devi Patan Mandal Gonda , 2025 (7) ADJ 585 (LB), wherein in it has been observed as under in paragraph 9:- 8. Learned counsel for the petitioner has further relied upon two judgments of Coordinate Benches of this Court in the case of Amit Kumar vs. State of U.P. and others , Writ-C No.2029 of 2022, decided on 11.09.2024 and M/s Sajid vs. State of U.P. and others , Writ-C No.38609 of 2019, decided on 10.06.2025, which have been upheld by the Honble Supreme Court, dismissing Special Leave Petition filed by subsequent allottees. In the aforesaid judgments of this Court the order of cancellation of fair price shop dealership has been set aside on the ground that no preliminary enquiry has been conducted by the authorities before suspension/cancellation of fair price shop as contemplated under the Government Order dated 05.08.2019 and that merely on registration of criminal case, fair price shop dealership cannot be cancelled as held by the Full Bench in the judgment of Bajrangi Tiwari (supra). 9. The counsel for the petitioner has further relied upon judgment of this Court passed by Coordinate Bench in the case of M/s Sanjay Kumar vs. State of U.P. and others , Writ-C no.34215 of 2019, decided on11.12.2024, in which this Court has allowed the writ petition setting aside the order of cancellation of fair price shop dealership, holding that in the absence of a technical analysis report it cannot be held that the petitioner therein was involved in manipulation of the E-PoS machine. Relevant extracts from the aforesaid judgment are as follows:- 10. Learned Additional Advocate General, on the other hand, has defended the order of respondent no.6 and 3, dated 10.01.2019 and 02.09.2019, respectively, stating that under the U.P. Essential Commodities (Regulation of Sale and Distribution Control) Order, 2016, which governs the subject matter of dispute, an agreement signed between the parties i.e. licencee and the State Government, partakes the nature of statutory contract, where the licencee conduct activity on behalf of the State distributing foodgrains and in return is entitled to commission and it is clearly a contract of agency as known in law. He further argues that the enquiry as required to be held against the licencee for suspension or cancellation is akin to a disciplinary enquiry which is against a government servant. In support of his contention, he has relied upon a Division Bench judgment of this Court in the case of Shankar Prasad vs. State of U.P. and others being Misc. Single No.32679 of 2019, decided on 08.12.2021. In the aforesaid judgment a question was referred to the Larger Bench, as to, what are the parameters of principles of natural justice to be followed in enquiries conducted by licencing authority on complaints of irregularity in distribution of essential commodities. The said question was answered by the Division Bench of this Court as under:- 11. It has been further argued that, non-adherence of the provisions of preliminary enquiry envisaged in the Govt. Order dated 05.08.2019, cannot vitiate the order under challenge, as the said Govt. order is prospective to the cancellation of fair price shop dealership of the petitioner, by the order dated 10.01.2019. On this argument, learned Additional Advocate General tried to persuade the Court that the judgment of the Coordinate Benches in the cases of Amit Kumar (supra) and M/s Sajid (supra), did not support the claim of the petitioner. It was contended that the judgment in the case of M/s Sajid (supra) decided a bunch of writ petition by the order dated 10.06.2025, including Writ-C No.5595 of 2020, which was challenged by one Mohd. Rizwan Ali, a subsequent allottee, before Honble Supreme Court, in Special Leave Petition (Civil) Diary No.50142 of 2025, in which operation of the impugned order has been stayed, therefore, the judgment of Coordinate Bench in the aforesaid case has no binding precedent. 12. Learned Additional Advocate General further drew attention of the Court to the reply submitted by the petitioner to the show cause notice where she has claimed that her E-PoS machine was sent for correction for two days to a vendor. However, in the appeal filed by her before respondent no.3, she has made a categorical statement that her E-PoS machine was never given to anyone, nor was it tampered, as such, all allegations are incorrect. The aforesaid discrepancy also shows that the conduct of the petitioner in distribution of the essential commodities was not fair. 13. Learned Additional Advocate General has repelled the contention of the petitioner that her fair price shop agreement has been cancelled due to registration of a criminal case against her. He contended that, the criminal prosecution of the petitioner had been initiated under Section 66 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Sections 3 / 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. Whereas, the cancellation of fair price shop dealership has been undertaken under the Control Order, 2016. The learned Additional Advocate General drew attention of the Court towards the averments in the explanation of the petitioner dated 30.10.2018, where it has been admitted that, the E-PoS machine was given to a recognized vendor for two days for repair. However, there is nothing on record to show that who was the vendor who repaired the E-PoS device and when this repair work was carried out. 14. Answering to the argument of the petitioners counsel that in the absence of any technical analysis report, the implication of the petitioner for manipulation in the E-PoS machine is not justified, the learned Additional Advocate General has placed before the Court a judgment of a Coordinate Bench of this Court in the case of Awadhesh Kumar vs. State of U.P. and others , 2022 (3) ADJ 53, in which this Court after conducting a detailed enquiry and witnessing the Power Point Presentation before the Court, has recorded that the dealer of fair price shop had access to modify/alter the Aadhaar number during the entire day time when E-PoS machine was in a dynamic mode. However, it became irreversible and could not be changed after the final authentication was done in the evening. The observations of the Court in the aforesaid judgment are extracted below:- 15. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record and judgments cited by the parties. 16. The impugned order of the respondent no.6 dated 10.01.2019 shows that petitioners fair price shop dealership was suspended for black marketing by resorting to manipulation in the E-PoS device through which three Aadhaar card numbers were used to withdraw essential commodities in respect of 697 registered cardholders. On discovery of the said fact by the NIC in 43 districts an enquiry was conducted and First Information Reports were registered against the fair price shop dealers and other government officials involved in the aforesaid scam. Pursuant to the show cause notice issued to the petitioner no valid explanation could be submitted by her as to how only three Aadhaar numbers were registered for withdrawal of ration to 697 cardholders. The allegation of technical glitch in the server of the NIC has not been satisfactorily explained. In the enquiry conducted by the Coordinate Bench of this Court on the same issue relating to a different district for the same period i.e. July, 2018, it was discovered that the feeding in the E-PoS machine could be done throughout the day when machine was in the dynamic mode wherein system operator could enter details and edit the same, number of times till it was finally locked during the evening hours. The learned Single Judge has found that when this scam was unearthed it was a period when the manual process of distribution of essential commodities was in transition phase for the use of E-PoS machine. Taking advantage of the fact that all the ration cardholders attached to a particular dealer/shop was not feeded and seeded and the process was underway, while the distribution of essential commodities continued, interpolation was made by the dealer in the details by using one or two Aadhaar numbers, and ration for multiple cardholders were withdrawn. 17. Relying upon the judgments in the cases of Amit Kumar (supra) and M/s Sajid (supra), learned counsel for the petitioner has stated that, the said cases also related for the same period and in the aforesaid cases also, cancellation of dealership was on the basis of NIC report, therefore, the benefit granted by this Court, should be extended to the petitioner. The perusal of aforesaid judgments shows that the writ petitions were allowed on two counts, firstly, that the preliminary enquiry had to be conducted as contemplated in the Government Order dated 05.08.2019, before taking any action for cancellation of the fair price shop dealership of the petitioner and registration of First Information Report against the petitioner could not form the basis for cancellation of a fair price shop dealership. 18. The Learned Single Judge while allowing the aforesaid writ petitions, namely, Amit Kumar (supra) and M/s Sajid (supra), did not consider the fact that the Government Order dated 05.08.2019, came subsequent to the cancellation of fair price shop dealership of the petitioner, and in the case in hand registering of a criminal case is not the ground for cancellation of fair price shop dealership, therefore the ratio of the Full Bench judgment of Bajrangi Tiwari (supra), has no application. In view of the aforesaid distinction, the petitioner is not entitled for the benefit of the aforesaid judgments. It has been held by the Honble Supreme Court in the case of Bhavnagar University vs. Paltina Sugar Mill (P) Ltd. (2003) 2 SCC 111 that a little difference in facts or even one additional fact may make a lot of difference in the precedential value of a decision. 19. Leaned counsel for the petitioner, relying upon the judgment in the case of M/s Sanjay Kumar (supra), argued that, in the case of the petitioner also no technical analysis report was called for and, therefore, it cannot be presumed that she was involved in the manipulation of E-PoS machine. The perusal of aforesaid judgment shows that it was delivered on 11.12.2024, however, the findings of the earlier judgment of the Coordinate Bench of this Court, in the case of Awadhesh Kumar (supra), recording the advantage available to the fair price shop dealer to manipulate in the E-PoS machine was not considered. The findings of this Court in the case of Awadhesh Kumar (supra) have not been disputed by the counsel for the petitioner. The observations recorded by the High Court which are records of court are correct and cannot be contradicted. The principle is well settled that statements of fact as to what transpired at the hearing, recorded in the judgment of the court, are conclusive of the facts so stated and no one can contradict such statements by affidavit or other evidence, as held by the Honble Supreme Court in the case of State of Maharashtra vs. Ramdas Shrinivas Nayak , (1982) 2 SCC 463. The said ratio has been recently reiterated by the Honble Supreme Court in the case of Savita vs. Satyabhan Dixit, Special Leave to Appeal (C) No.31322 of 2025, decided on 07.11.2025. 20. In view of the aforesaid discussion, it is evident that use of three Aadhaar cards to withdraw ration of 697 cardholders has not been reasonably explained by the petitioner. There is nothing on record to show that 162 affidavits filed by the petitioner, accepting receipt of essential commodities from her, are from 697 cardholders, whose ration has been withdrawn by resorting to interpolation. Even though, 162 cardholders accept receipt of ration regularly, petitioner cannot be obliterated from showing that, the use of three Aadhaar Card numbers for 697 cardholders was not her own volition. In absence of any specific pleadings alleging mala fides against the Officers of the State Government, by name, the argument of the learned counsel for the Petitioner that, Official of the department have committed gross irregularities and in order to save their skin, they are placing burden upon the petitioner by lodging false FIR and resorting to cancellation of licence, falls flat. 21. The writ petition being devoid of merit is, accordingly, dismissed. (Arun Kumar,J.)
 

 
November 21, 2025
 
Ashok Kr.