12/14, Room No. A.11, Chandra Niwas
Bora Bazar, Mumbai
 And

 Customs Appeal No. 41786 of 2014

(Both arising out of Order in Original No. 26/2014 dated 28.3.2014 passed by the
Commissioner of Customs, Tuticorin)

Shri K.S. Murugan Appellant
26-C, 1/B, Kamaraj Nagar
Tuticorin - 628 008. Shri K.S. Murugan, Party-in-Person for Appeal No. C/41786/2014
Smt. Anandalakshmi Ganeshram, Auth. Representative for Revenue

CORAM

Hon'ble Shri M. Ajit Kumar, Member (Technical)
Hon'ble Shri Ajayan T.V., Member (Judicial)

 FINAL ORDER NOS. 41444 & 41445/2025

 Date of Hearing : 07.07.2025
 Date of Decision: 09.12.2025

Per M. Ajit Kumar,

 These appeals are filed against Order in Original No. 26/2014

dated 38.03.2014 passed by the Commissioner of Customs, Tuticorin

(impugned order). 2. Brief facts are that it is the allegation of the department that M/s.

Suvidh Overseas a firm purportedly owned by one Shri Sunil Sukhdev

Chavan and it was found to be a bogus firm with wrong addresses

declared. During the investigation, it was found that M/s. Suvidh

Overseas had tampered 4 DFRC licenses issued for the import of 'cotton

printed fabrics' as if they were issued for the import of 'polyester

fabrics'. They bought these licenses from the firms for which the DGFT

had issued licenses in lieu of export of cotton printed fabrics through

Nhava Sheva Port. On further inquiries it was found that the license

holders sold their licenses to others and it became evident that they

were exporting cotton and polyester fabrics through Nhava Sheva Port

and were getting DFRC licenses in return from DGFT for import of the

respective items. On the basis of the facts and statements recorded

from various persons, DRI issued Show Cause Notice dated 21.06.2007

to confiscate the goods cleared using fraudulent DFRCs and for

imposition of fine on Suvidh Overseas etc. Another Show Cause Notice

dated 19.12.2008 was issued to demand customs duty for goods which

were cleared using DFRCs along with interest and for imposing penalty

on the noticees including Shri K.S. Murugan, the Customs Broker. After

due process of law, the Ld. Commissioner confirmed the demands

proposed in the Show Cause Notice and imposed a penalty. He also

confiscated the goods as proposed and imposed penalties on the

noticees including Shri K.S. Murugan the appellant herein. A

corrigendum dated 2.5.2014 was issued by the Ld. Commissioner to

amend the order to read as equal penalty to be imposed under sec.

114A of the Customs Act, 1962. Aggrieved by the said order, the

department has filed Appeal No. C/41728/2014 to enhance the penalty

imposed under sec. 114A to that of equal to the customs duty levied. 3 Shri K.S. Murugan has filed Appeal No. C/41786/2014 against

imposition of penalty of Rs. One lakh each on 3 counts under sec.

112(a) and (b) of the Customs Act, 1962 . 3. None appeared for M/s. Suvidh Overseas. Shri K.S. Murugan

appeared in-person. Smt. Anandalakshmi Ganeshram, Authorized

Representative (A.R.), appeared for the Revenue.

3.1 Shri K.S. Murugan stated that he is the Managing Partner of M/s.

Green Port Shipping Agencies which acted as a Custom House Agent /

Customs Broker (CHA/ CB) in Tuticorin for a firm by name M/s. Suvidh

Overseas, Mumbai owned by one Shri. Sunil Sukhdev Chavan, for the

clearance of Polyester fabrics. He stated that the offence in this case

pertains to Shri Deepak Bajaj who procured and forged the 4 DFRC's

for the clearance in the name of M/s. Suvidh overseas by creating a

bogus person in the name of Sunil Chavan; arranged TRA' s for the

said clearance; stored the imported goods at the godown and diverted

the goods into local market. There is no allegation that he as CHA/CB

had aided and abetted Shri. Deepak Bajaj in these core activities which

led to confiscation of goods. The appellant CHA/CB had merely handled

the clearance and transportation work in Tuticorin. As per the

provisions of Notification No.46/2002- Customs, and Circulars issued

thereunder, the Duty-Free Replenishment Certificates (DFRCS) were

registered and verified at JNCH (Nhava Sheva) by the authorities, and

TRAS (Telegraphic Release Advices) were officially transmitted and

issued by Customs after verification of authenticity of the licenses. He

hence acted under the authority and belief that TRA cleared by

Customs was valid. There is no findings in the impugned order that he

is involved in forgery/tampering of DFRC Licences. 4 3.2 Smt. Anandalakshmi Ganeshram, Ld. A.R. submitted on behalsf

of revenue that the M/s. Suvidh Overseas has not filed an appeal

against the impugned order nor appeared for any of the hearings, and

hence does not appear to be interested in participating in the

proceedings. Hence the departments appeal may be decided. In the

case of the appellant Shri K.S. Murugan, she took us through paras 34

and 34.1 of the impugned order, which she said captured the essence

of the charges against the appellant and are very serious. She hence

prayed that the appeal may be rejected. 4. We have perused the appeals and connected written submissions

and have heard the rival parties. The issues are:- After Customs clearance, goods were transported to Shri Deepak

Bajaj's warehouse in Bhiwandi as per his instructions. It was stated in

a letter from M/s Suvidh Overseas, provided by Shri Murugan, that

clearance bills should be paid via cheque or demand draft; however,

investigations revealed no regular banking transactions associated with

these clearances. Shri Murugan stated that he had received Rs. 23

lakhs in cash, with Rs. 14 lakhs still outstanding. Of the Rs. 23 lakhs

paid, Rs. 10 lakhs was received at Shri Bajaj's office, and Rs. 13 lakhs

was deposited in Shri Murugan's bank account in Mumbai by Shri

Deepak Bajaj. Although five cheques were provided by M/s Suvidh 6 Overseas, Shri Murugan never deposited them into the CHA's

company's bank account. Inquiries conducted by department officers

with the relevant bank revealed that Account No. 921 with M/s Shramik

Sahakari Bank Ltd, Vashi, New Mumbai, actually belonged to M/s Keyur

Impex, not M/s Suvidh Overseas. Based on Shri Murugan's deposition,

he had harboured doubts regarding the authenticity of the advance

license holder, which is why he requested to visit M/s Suvidh Overseas

and meet Sunil Chavan. Nonetheless, it did not deter him from doing

business with the said concern nor did he feel it fit to verify the address

of M/s Suvidh nor notify Customs authorities about his concerns

regarding the legitimacy of the advance licenses. Despite having staff

based in Mumbai, he did not find it necessary verify M/s Suvidh

Overseas' address or confirm the contact details of the proprietor or

office. The firms Proprietor never visited Tuticorin, nor were their

representatives present during the examination and clearance of goods

at Tuticorin port. Instead, Shri Deepak Bajaj and his employee, Shri

Ramesh Daswani, visited Tuticorin and met Shri Murugan concerning

the clearance of goods for M/s Suvidh Overseas. Shri Murugan also

arranged hotel accommodations for Shri Deepak Bajaj and Shri

Ramesh Daswani under fictitious names during their stay in Tuticorin. 7. Per contra the appellant Shri Murugan has stated that: 8. The presumption of innocence is a background assumption of our

legal system. We find that nothing is brought out in the impugned order

which shows that the appellant has knowingly aided, abetted and

colluded with Deepak Bajaj in the use of forged DFRC licence for

monetary consideration or that there was a common design. When the

charge is of Shri Murugan having knowingly done a blameworthy act,

then knowledge about indulgence in either an illegal act or a legal act

by illegal means must be proved by the department. Secondly if the 8 act is allegedly done along with another person, then there should be

proved that there was a meeting of minds for agreeing to do or causing

a blameworthy act to be done. Simply meeting individuals, accepting

money into bank accounts, not depositing cheques received with the

bank, interacting with an importer's intermediary, receiving and

passing on documents to an intermediary, or shipping goods according

to the intermediary's instructions etc does not amount to evidence that

Shri Murugan aided, abetted, or conspired with Shri Bajaj in any illegal

activity. Findings merely based on assumptions and presumptions, is

not sustainable in the eye of law. 9. It is perhaps for this reason that the SCN only seeks to limit the

charge against Shri Murugan for violating the provisions of the CHALR

2004, as detailed in Rule 13a, d and e. 10. Whether the actions of a CHA for violation of the CHALR can be

taken under the Customs Act 1962 was examined by a Coordinate

Bench of this Tribunal in M/s. Meticulous Forwarders Vs

Commissioner of Customs [FINAL ORDER NOS. 40725 &

40726/2025, Dated: 14.07.2025], speaking through one of us [M Ajit

Kumar, Member (Technical)]. The Bench held: Hence a penalty under the Customs Act 1962 cannot be sustained for

an alleged breach of the provisions of CHALR 2004 by the CHA/ CB and

the impugned order in as much as it relates to the appellant merits to

be set aside. 11. Once the penalty against Shri Murugan is found not sustainable

and is set aside, the appeal of revenue against the impugned order in

order to enhance the penalty imposed under sec. 114A equal to the

customs duty levied and interest payable, does not survive. 12. We hence set aside the portion of the impugned order that

relates to the appellant Shri Murugan and answer the appeal in his

favour. The appeal filed by revenue consequently fails and is rejected.

The appellant Shri Murugan is eligible for consequential relief as per

law. Both the appeals are disposed of accordingly. (Order pronounced in open court on 09.12.2025)

(AJAYAN T.V.) (M. AJIT KUMAR)
Member (Judicial) Member (Technical)

Rex