(Per Hon'ble Dr. Justice Shameem Akther)

 Smt. Vasamsetti Vineela Rani, the petitioner, has filed this

Habeas Corpus petition on behalf of her husband, Rishabh Upadhyay

@ Chandan, S/o. Krishna Chandra Upadhyay, the detenu,

challenging the detention order vide No.02/PD-CELL/CYB/2022,

dated 21.01.2022, passed by the respondent No.2, whereby, the

detenu was detained under Section 3(2) of the Telangana Preventive

Detention Act, 1986 (Act 1 of 1986), and the consequential

confirmation order vide G.O.Rt.No.847, General Administration (Spl.

(Law & Order)) Department, Government of Telangana, dated

13.04.2022, passed by the Chief Secretary to Government, General

Administration (Spl. (Law & Order)) Department, Government of

Telangana. 2. Heard the learned counsel for petitioner, learned Assistant

Government Pleader for Home representing the learned Additional

Advocate General appearing for the respondents and perused the

record. 3. The case of the petitioner is that out of nine criminal cases

registered against the detenu in the year 2021, basing on four
 Dr.SA, J & JS, J 2 W.P.No.14419 of 2022 crimes viz., Crime Nos.213 of 2021, 218 of 2021 and 247 of 2021 of

Raidurgam Police Station and Crime No. 501 of 2021 of Madhapur

Police Station of Cyberabad Commissionerate, the respondent No.2

passed the impugned detention order, dated 21.01.2022. According

to respondent No.2, the detenu is a 'Cyber Crime Offender', as he

has been engaging himself in cheating innocent job seekers under

the guise of providing job visas abroad and linking their bank

account credentials to fake websites developed by him for online

payment gateway and collecting money from innocent people luring

with supplying of groceries at cheaper rates through his fake website

in an organized way in the limits of Cyberabad Police

Commissionerate and thereby, creating large scale fear and

insecurity among the public, which are prejudicial to the

maintenance of public order. Subsequently, the impugned detention

order was confirmed by the Government, vide G.O.Rt.No.847, dated

13.04.2022. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner would contend that the

impugned detention order has been passed in a mechanical manner

and without application of mind. Already criminal law was set into

motion against the detenu. The detenu was granted

statutory/conditional bail by the Courts concerned in all the four (4)

crimes relied upon by the detaining authority. But he was again sent
 Dr.SA, J & JS, J 3 W.P.No.14419 of 2022 to jail by invoking the draconian preventive detention law on the

apprehension that free movement of the detenu is not safe to the

society, as there is imminent possibility of the detenu indulging in

similar offences, in a manner prejudicial to maintenance of public

order, which is unjustified. The alleged crimes do not add up to

"disturbing the public order" and they are confined within the ambit

and scope of the word "law and order". Since the offences alleged

are under the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act

(for short, ' IT Act '), the detenu can certainly be tried and convicted

under the penal code and the said special law. Thus, there was no

need for the detaining authority to invoke the draconian preventive

detention law against the detenu. Hence, the impugned orders

tantamount to colourable exercise of power. The impugned orders

are legally unsustainable and ultimately, prayed to allow the Writ

Petition, as prayed for. 5. On the other hand, the learned Assistant Government Pleader

for Home appearing for the respondents supported the impugned

orders and submitted that the detenu is a 'Cyber Crime Offender'.

He has been engaging himself in cheating innocent job seekers under

the guise of providing job visas abroad and linking their bank account

credentials to fake websites developed by him for online payment

gateway and collecting money from innocent people luring with
 Dr.SA, J & JS, J 4 W.P.No.14419 of 2022 supplying of groceries at cheaper rates through his fake website in

an organized way in the limits of Cyberabad Police Commissionerate

and thereby, creating large scale fear and insecurity among the

public, which are prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.

Since the detenu was granted statutory/conditional bail in all the four

(4) crimes relied upon by the detaining authority, the apprehension

of the detaining authority that free movement of the detenu is not

safe to the society as there is imminent possibility of the detenu

indulging in similar offences, is not misconceived. The series of

crimes allegedly committed by the detenu were sufficient to cause a

feeling of insecurity in the minds of the people at large. Since the

modus of committing the crimes was cheating innocent job seekers

and collecting money from innocent people luring with supplying of

groceries at cheaper rates through his fake website in an organized

way, it has created sufficient panic in the minds of the general public.

Therefore, the detaining authority was legally justified in passing the

impugned detention order. Further, the Advisory Board rendered its

opinion that there is sufficient cause for detention of the detenu and

on considering the same along with the entire material, the

Government confirmed the impugned detention order vide

G.O.Rt.No.847, dated 13.04.2022. All the mandatory requirements

were strictly followed by the detaining authority while passing the
 Dr.SA, J & JS, J 5 W.P.No.14419 of 2022 impugned detention order. The impugned orders are legally

sustainable and ultimately, prayed to dismiss the Writ Petition. 6. In view of the submissions made by both the sides, the point

that arises for determination in this Writ Petition is: POINT: 7. In catena of cases, the Hon'ble Supreme Court had clearly

opined that there is a vast difference between "law and order" and

"public order". The offences committed against a particular

individual fall within the ambit of "law and order" and when the

public at large is adversely affected by the criminal activities of a

person, such activities of that person are said to disturb the public

order. Moreover, individual cases can be dealt with by the criminal

justice system. Therefore, there is no need for the detaining

authority to invoke the draconian preventive detention laws against

an individual. Hence, according to the Hon'ble Apex Court, the
 Dr.SA, J & JS, J 6 W.P.No.14419 of 2022 detaining authority should be wary of invoking the immense power

under the Act. 8. In Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar1 , the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has, in fact, deprecated the invoking of the

preventive law in order to tackle a law and order problem. It was

observed that every breach of public peace and every violation of law

may create a 'law and order' problem, but does not necessarily

create a problem of 'public order'. The distinction has to be borne in

mind in view of what has been stated in the grounds of detention. 9. In Kanu Biswas v. State of West Bengal2 , the Hon'ble Apex

Court, while discussing the meaning of word 'public order,' held that

the question whether a man has only committed a breach of 'law and

order' or has acted in a manner likely to cause a disturbance of the

'public order', is a question of degree and extent of the reach of the

act upon the Society. 10. In the present case, the detaining authority, basing on four

crimes indicated above, has passed the impugned detention order,

dated 21.01.2022. We shall present them in a tabular form the date

of occurrence, the date of registration of FIR, the offence complained 1 AIR 1966 SC 740 2 (1972) 3 SCC 831
 Dr.SA, J & JS, J 7 W.P.No.14419 of 2022 of and its nature, such as bailable/non-bailable or cognizable/non-

cognizable. Date of
 Date of
 Crime No. registration Offences Nature
 Occurrence
 of FIR Section 419 of
 IPC and Sections 66C & 66D of IT Act - 11. As seen from the material placed on record, the crimes relied

upon by the detaining authority for preventively detaining the detenu
 Dr.SA, J & JS, J 8 W.P.No.14419 of 2022 relate to cheating by personation, cheating and identity theft. The

detenu was arrested on 07.07.2021 in Crime No.218 of 2021 of

Raidurgam Police Station and remanded to judicial custody and his

arrest was regularized through P.T. warrants in Crime No.501 of 2021

of Madhapur Police Station and Crime Nos.213 and 247 of 2021 of

Raidurgam Police Station. Subsequently, in Crime No.218 of 2021 of

Raidurgam Police Station and Crime No. 501 of 2021 of Madhapur

Police Station, the first two bail applications moved by the detenu

were dismissed and in the third bail application, he was granted

statutory bail on certain conditions. In Crime Nos.213 and 247 of

2021 of Raidurgam Police Station, the first bail application moved by

the detenu was dismissed and in the second bail application, the

detenu was granted bail on certain conditions. The conditional order

of bails restricts the movement of the detenu and requires him to

appear before the officer concerned periodically and the detenu would

be under the surveillance of the police and the Court. Under these

circumstances, the apprehension of the detaining authority that since

the detenu was released on bail, there is imminent possibility of his

involving in similar offences unless he is prevented from doing so by

an appropriate order of detention, is highly misplaced. It is the

bounden duty of the Police to inform the learned Public Prosecutor

about the conduct of the detenu and to hand over the entire case

record available against the detenu. The police are supposed to be
 Dr.SA, J & JS, J 9 W.P.No.14419 of 2022 vigilant in collecting the whole data against the detenu and furnish

the same to the Public Prosecutor/Additional Public Prosecutor to

defeat the bail application/s of the detenu. Further, in the instant

case, since the detenu was granted statutory/conditional bail in all the

four crimes relied upon by the detaining authority, if it is found that

the detenu had violated the bail conditions or involved in further

crimes, the prosecution can apprise the same to the Courts concerned

and seek cancellation of bail. Moreover, criminal law was already set

into motion against the detenu. Since the detenu has allegedly

committed offences punishable under the Indian Penal Code and the

I.T. Act, the said crimes can be effectively dealt with under the

provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the said special law and there

was no need for the detaining authority to invoke draconian

preventive detention laws. The offences allegedly committed by the

detenu in all the four crimes relied upon by the detaining authority do

not fall within the ambit of the words "public order" or "disturbance of

public order". Instead, they fall within the scope of the word "law and

order". Hence, there was no need for the detaining authority to pass

the impugned detention orders. The detaining authority cannot be

permitted to subvert, supplant or substitute the punitive law of land,

by ready resort to preventive detention. Dr.SA, J & JS, J 10 W.P.No.14419 of 2022 12. For the foregoing reasons, the impugned orders are legally

unsustainable and are liable to be set aside. 13. In the result, the Writ Petition is allowed. The impugned

detention order vide No.02/PD-CELL/CYB/2022, dated 21.01.2022,

passed by the respondent No.2, and the consequential confirmation

order vide G.O.Rt.No.847, General Administration (Spl. (Law &

Order)) Department, dated 13.04.2022, passed by the Chief

Secretary to Government, General Administration (Spl. (Law &

Order)) Department, Government of Telangana, are hereby set

aside. The respondents are directed to set the detenu, namely

Rishabh Upadhyay @ Chandan, S/o. Krishna Chandra Upadhyay, at

liberty forthwith, if he is no longer required in any other criminal

case. Miscellaneous Petitions, if any, pending in this Writ Petition

shall stand closed. There shall be no order as to costs. ______________________
 Dr. SHAMEEM AKTHER, J

 __________________
 JUVVADI SRIDEVI, J
Date: 26-04-2022
MD