> 

 

Title: Further discussion on the Interim Budget (General) for the year 2009-10; Demands for Grants on Account in respect of Interim Budget (General) for 2009-10 and Supplementary Demands for Grants in respect of Budget (General) for 2008-09. *m01 

  

  

MR. CHAIRMAN: The House will now take up General Discussion on Interim General Budget for the year 2009-2010, discussion and voting on Demands for Grants on Account (General) for the year 2009-2010 and discussion and voting on Supplementary Demands for Grants (General) for the year 2008-2009. Hon. Members present in the House whose cut motions to the Demands for Grants on Account have been circulated may, if they desire to move their cut motions, send slips to the Table within 15 minutes indicating both the name of the Ministry and the serial number of the cut motions they would like to move.  Only those cut motions will be treated as moved. A list showing the serial numbers of cut motions treated as moved will be put up on the Notice Board shortly thereafter. In case, any Member finds any discrepancy in the list, he may kindly bring it to the notice of the Officer at the Table immediately. Motions moved : There is price rise, महंगाईा कांग्रेस पार्टी का स्लोगन था, कांग्रेस का हाथ आम आदमी के साथ। लेकिन आम आदमी को धोखा दिया, किसान को धोखा दिया, छठे पे कमीशन में जवान को धोखा दिया और नौजवान को धोखा दिया। किसान, जवान और नौजवान कांग्रेस के मिसरूल में बेहाल हो रहे हैं। Let us see the inflation, the price rise in the last five years. In 2004, people were getting rice at the rate of Rs. 16 per kilogram and now it is Rs. 36. Dal was sold at Rs. 30 per kilogram, which is now costing Rs. 52. They used to get any cooking oil for Rs. 50 a litre, and now its price is Rs. 70. The same thing is with respect to wheat. दाल-रोटी के दाम डबल हो गये। What is the answer for this price rise in this Budget? The Government is saying that inflation is coming down to less than 4 per cent. It is 3.7 per cent as per the Wholesale Price Index. I want to ask a direct question to the hon. Leader of the House. What about inflation of food prices? It is still hovering at 11.7 per cent. Why is it hovering at 11.7 per cent? What is the Government doing? Why did the Government do nothing in the last five years about managing the price line, pegging the price line of essential commodities which are the succour of the common man? What happens to the aam admi?[S37]  

          There is a huge agrarian crisis in the country. When I say agrarian crisis, I want to say with the help of the records that farmers are committing suicides in huge numbers. In the last 12 years, 1,90,753 farmers have committed suicides in the country. The year 2004 onwards, year after year, 18,241 farmers, 17,131 farmers, 17,060 farmers have committed suicides. Where have these suicides taken place? They took place in the State of Maharashtra which is under the leadership of Congress Party. In the last 50 days, 47 suicides took place only in Vidarbha. They took place in the State of Andhra Pradesh which is under the leadership of Congress Party. They took place in Uttar Pradesh, especially in Bundelkhand region. This Government gave a debt waiver package last year. We know the results. Nothing has changed. Dr. Swaminathan has given a very clear recommendation. Hon. Leader of the House knows about it. Dr. Swaminathan said that credit facilities, affordable credit, remunerative prices to the farm produce, power and irrigation, farm inputs at subsidised rates are very important. We have been pleading, we have been urging the Union Government that the interest rate on farm loans should be slashed to four per cent. That is recommended in the Dr. Swaminathan Committee’s Report. This Government appointed that Committee to go into the agrarian crisis. That was one of his important recommendations. But even today the nationalised banks are giving farm loans at the rate of seven per cent. Our Government in Karnataka, headed by the hon. Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa has brought it down to three per cent. Another Government of ours, in Madhya Pradesh under the leadership of Shri Shivraj Singh Chauhan has slashed the interest rate on farm loans to four per cent. I do not understand what this Government is doing about it apart from shedding crocodile tears about the plight of the farmers. I do not understand what the Union Government, which talks about Aam Aadmi today, which talked about Garibi Hatao years back, is doing about it. What about the rising unemployment during these times of recession? About a year ago, in 2008 when we raised this subject in this august House, the Prime Minister and the then Finance Minister said, “Do not worry! The Indian economy is decoupled with the world economy especially vis-à-vis the subprime crisis of the US”. They also assured the hon. House that our economy is insulated, that our fundamentals are strong, and that we need not worry. We were told that everything was hunky-dory. But what has happened, Sir? In the last three months, in every sector - garments, IT, BT, construction workers, textiles, manufacturing, automobiles - there have been shut downs, there have been lay offs, and they are working with 10 to 20 per cent of their capacity. According to a moderate estimate, more than five million jobs have been lost in the last three months; and there is a possibility of two crore people losing their jobs. In textiles alone seven lakh jobs have been lost.[KMR38]  

  
 

          What is the solution in this Interim Budget?  Hon. Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, Shri Pranab da  had said that it is only a Vote on Account, do not have any hope. Then also, we would not have excused him, we would not have excused the Government, the country would not have forgiven them.  But they would have understood.  But they came out with an Interim Budget, which is much more than a Vote on Account. What is that they have given? I want to go into some of the important things.  If at all, the UPA brought back the entire economy from 1991-1998 mess under  Dr. Manmohan Singh and Shri Chidambaram, and suddenly, the Indian economy started blooming and blossoming, there were three important reasons.  Firstly, investment in infrastructure – Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, Golden Quadrilateral, housing, more than 70 lakh houses being constructed, the communication revolution,  Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, there was useful investment, useful expenditure with a great return not only to the society but to the industry.  But in the last five years, actually the Government’s expenditure has increased by 30 per cent, unproductive expenditure; the revenues had dipped by 10 per cent.  Usually the Congress party speaks, the UPA Chairperson also speaks very high about the NREGP.  Today morning also, the concerned hon. Minister has stated as to how successful NREGP is. I want to submit before you this.  What is the Central allocation for the NREGP? For the 2006-07 Revised Estimates (RE), the Central allocation was Rs.11,300 crore; number of districts – 200; and per district allocation – Rs.56.5 crore. In 2007-09 RE, the Central allocation – Rs.12,000 crore; number of districts under NREGP – 330; and per district allocation was slid  down to Rs.36.4 crore.  In 2008-09, the  Central allocation – Rs.16,000 crore; number of districts under NREGP – 596, that is, all the rural districts in the country; and per district allocation – Rs.26.8 crore.  That is, from 2006-07, from Rs.56.5 crore, it has come down to Rs.26.8 crore.  This is what has happened to the NREGP.  This is the flag ship programme – Bharat Nirman.  This is one of the charters of NCMP. Regarding the unutilised funds under Rural Employment Programmes, all of us know that there are five programmes for rural employment – SGSY, SGRY, IAY, NREGA, PMGS.   I am directly putting forth to the hon. Minister – I do not want to make any wild allegations – and I expect and request, through your kind self, Sir, that the Government will give answers to these questions, to the entire country. [s39]  The allocation under RE during 2006-07 for SGSY is Rs.1200 crore and the unspent balance as on 31st December 2006 is Rs.558 crore. For SGRY, the RE allocation during 2006-07 is Rs.3000 crore and the unspent balance as on 31st December 2006 is Rs.1352 crore. For IAY, during 2006-07, the allocation was Rs.2920 crore and the unspent balance is Rs.1334 crore. For NREGA, Rs. 11300 crore was allocated and the unspent balance was Rs.4479 crore. For PMGSY, the RE allocation during 2006-07 was Rs.5476 crore and the unspent balance was Rs.2556 crore. So, out of the total allocations of Rs.23896 crore, the unspent balance was Rs.10278 crore. This is there in the 29th Report of the Standing Committee on Rural Development on Demands for Grants of 2007-08. What about the flagship programmes, what about the investment in infrastructure and what about the capital asset formation?  Why is there this lacuna? Whom are they hoodwinking? Actually one of the charters of the Budget as well as NCMP, says this and I will read it out for the benefit of Shri Pranab Mukherjee. It says: Sir, it is my duty because it is for the last time I have stood from my  present constituency as it has become reserved in the delimitation exercise.  There is a public sector company called Hindustan Photo Films at Ooty.  This is a pride of Asia.  This is only one kind of company in the public sector in the whole of South-East Asia.  It produces x-ray films, it produces films for CAT scan, it produces films for MRIs and also black and white  photographic films. Unfortunately, it has become sick because of reasons beyond its control. Now, the Government has formulated a revival plan for it and also it is coming before the Board for revival next week.  The total cost of revival is Rs.300 crore and cash outflow is only Rs.150 crore.  So, I would request the hon. Finance Minister to see that this proposal is pushed through at the earliest. Before I conclude, I have a wish list for the hon. Finance Minister.  He said that he was going to give another stimulus package if it was necessary.  But I would also like him to consider reducing the LPG prices by another Rs.25 and also try to reduce the service tax from 12 per cent to 8 per cent so that the prices will come down. Thank you, Sir.  I would like to support this Budget wholeheartedly and I say that it is an aam aadmi Budget and could be presented only by such an experienced and knowledgeable Finance Minister like Pranabda. SHRI RUPCHAND PAL ( HOOGHLY ): Sir, the people had reasonable expectations from the hon. Finance Minister who is coming back to this particular responsibility.  It is a welcome step by the Government that in this crisis he will be right person to address the burning problems of millions of our countrymen. We understand that he has to work within the limitations of the constitutional framework, particularly, the convention. There is no denying that it is a Vote on Account.  But in the same Government, in its Railway Budget, the Railway Minister presented what goes far beyond Vote on Account.   But the Finance Minister tried to present as if he cannot do much because it is only a Vote on Account.  But he has mentioned that these are extraordinary times and extraordinary times require warrant, extraordinary measures.  He could have also done something reasonable what was possible within the limitation, though he cannot tinker with the revenue nor with the expenditure in a big way, he could have given the indications because the crisis is unfolding itself.  He has admitted that. We are yet to know what is going to happen. How deep the effect and impact is going to be on the livelihood of our aam aadmi.  But we are disappointed.  We are disappointed because of what he could have done even in such a situation, what is being done and what has been done in the past. It is said that the whole world is searching for alternati[r49] ves. The Latin American countries, to some extent, to a large extent rather, have been able to save themselves from this global financial meltdown and its impact.  That has been possible because of their alternative measures.  We have been insisting that tying up with a wrong model for a country like India with more than one billion people, with 78 per cent of our people having a daily income of less than Rs. 20 as per a Government appointed Committee report would not be correct.  According to an estimate, about half the population is living below poverty line.  There is malnutrition of children as per HDI Index. We are below even our neighbouring countries like Sri Lanka, Bangladesh etc. on certain scores.  Daily, there are reports that – even after the measures initiated by the Government – suicides are taking place not only by the farmers but even by the workers not only in the unorganised sector but even in the organised sector, in the export-oriented units.  We were discussing the other day that about more than 71 workers engaged in the diamond industry have committed suicide.  This is only tip of the iceberg.  We do not know what is happening to the industrial workers, organised sector, unorganised sector.  I am constrained to comment that the Government seems to be very insensitive.  It is because, only a few hours back, we had been asking the Labour Minister what concrete steps he proposes to take.  You are thinking of bailing out, Stimulus Package I, Stimulus Package II, liquidity crunch, monetary measures, lending rate cuts, and all these things.  But what do you propose to do about the workers themselves?  It is because the employers are never passing the benefits they are having from the Government to the workers. This is the reality.  Even the Minister admitted that what has come out in the sample study does not reflect enormity of the situation.  No one knows what is going to happen next year.  It is because, everyone has the apprehension that next year it may be more severe.  In such a situation, we had expected that the Government should have taken some concrete steps for job creation. The Government has one important scheme, that is the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.  We had been very eager, when we have been supporting this Government, to find the Bill enacted; and it was done.  We thank the Government for that.  It is doing well.  Maybe here and there, there are some lapses in the delivery system; there are very many other obstacles.  Sometimes the fund is not available.  But still it has been rightly mentioned in the speech that several crores of jobs have been created as a result of this Scheme.  We had demanded.  Even today we have demanded as to why do you not extend this for the urban poor also. You have been saying that for the unorganised sector we have some social security schemes, although you have not provided any fund at all which has been demanded.  For that, there was a voting also here.  We opposed that.  You did not accept the most important recommendation of the Standing Committee to provide adequate fund. Instead of taking some concrete steps to alleviate the sufferings of the people, you have reduced the allocation for agriculture virtually in rural development.  We do not quarrel even if you provide some more money for the Defence.  But, we know this Rs. 1,41,000 crore, most of it, is committed because of the 126 aircraft.[RP50]  

          When we were demanding the discussion on the 123 Agreement with the US Nuclear Deal, we had commented that it was nothing to do with energy; it was only a strategic alliance; and for 126 multi-mode aircraft you had committed 10 billion dollars.  For Israel, the largest buyer is India, and Israel is using the money that they are earning by selling all these weapons to India to suppress the just aspirations of the Palestinian people.  The whole world is looking at us and wondering what is happening to India, which has been upholding the cause of the downtrodden, the freedom struggle and the Palestinian’s cause; they are virtually supporting Israel by buying weapons worth nine billion dollars. We have our own infrastructure nationally.  We have our domestic infrastructure.  I can cite one example that in my State there is an industry called ‘Dunlop India Limited’.  It was covered by the rules of Defence of India.  It had provided aero cover but important items for the Defence industry. During the Kargil war, the unit was under suspension of work, that is, lock-out.  The then Prime Minister, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee made a request to the then Chief Minister of West Bengal, Jyoti Babu, and said that we badly need tyres for our Air Force.  Then, we had requested the starving workers that let the Company be opened and requested them to collaborate and cooperate so that the Defence people and Air Force people could take out the tyres which were very much needed for Kargil war. The starving had cooperated with tears in their eyes, and they had welcomed the Air Force Officers who had gone there to take those tyres. We had written to the Government to do something for these starving workers. Dunlop India Limited had an excellent infrastructure, which used to produce several items, not only tyres but several items for the Defence needs.   What had happened?  Till now, this Company is under suspension of work.  A new promoter has come, he is not making even the due payment to the workers and the workers are starving.  I have given only one example as to how job creation can be done in several ways. The Government must spend money for creating infrastructure and also on social sector.  It is true that there are 37 infrastructure projects. … (Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS                (SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL): We have allocated Rs. 70,000 crore. … (Interruptions) SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : I fully agree with you but more can be done.  Our country is not small country of Europe; take Iceland which vanishes from the map of the world by one stroke. We are India. … (Interruptions) SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL :  The Plan is for twenty lakh thousands crores of rupees.  … (Interruptions) SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : I know but you are emphasizing on the PPP model.  What is the PPP model?  How has it come?  What is the history? What is the genesis? The private sector people are day in and day out saying that they need more liquidity, more credit, more cut in the lending rate.  They will be collaborating. Nowhere has it happened. Simple Keynesian philosophy which saved the world after the post Great Depression was the Government’s usual spending philosophy.  Do not care about the fiscal deficit. This is no time for fiscal fundamentalism.  Even in America, whose model we are trying to pursue, George Bush has left a deficit of one trillion dollars for the next Government.  I had asked one question to our previous Finance Minister.  In such a situation, when the fiscal deficit target becomes a meaningless target, why do you not review and amend the FRBM Act which is standing in the way of the States to do something for their people?[H51] He said : “It is not wise to do that.”  Now, the GDP is 6 per cent.  Next year, the situation would be more critical. The situation would be worse than now. Now, he says that the GDP would be 5.6 per cent next year. That means, there would be less  expenses. What is their stimulus package in the given situation?  It is less than one per cent of our GDP.  Take the case of China, which is almost of the equal size as of India.  They have seven per cent of GDP for two consecutive years, and they have given the stimulus packages/bailout packages  worth 586 billion dollars.  But what is our Government doing? Our people are suffering.  Our agriculture sector is suffering and our social sector is suffering like anything. But the hon. Finance Minister is speaking about Vote on Account, its Conventions etc. whereas the same Conventions of the Vote on Account are not being listened to by their own Minister of Railways!  The Railway Minister is announcing new lines, new trains, and so many things with just General Elections in mind!  But the same Finance Minister of the same UPA Government is saying: “No, we cannot do it; we cannot do anything because of revenue expenditure, balance etc.”  

          Sir, in the same Government there are two faces, two philosophies working, which show that there is a total confusion. The Government does not know what to do.  It is totally directionless. As long as we had been supporting them, we tried to put them on track by advising them: “Do not recklessly go for deregulation, do not pass the Banking Deregulation Act,  do not do hike in the FDI in the insurance sector, do not put the precious savings out of the people pension fund in the capital market, and do not go for full convertibility.”  It all worked also. The Prime Minster, while speaking in Washington, quoted without making any reference that this was the Left’s demand.  We know, what our job is.  It is to put the Government on the right track. Right now also, we are  doing the same thing  although we are on the opposite side now.  We do not agree with them. They are so obsessed with reforms, reforms and reforms.  They had initiated all these bad measures, and we have been following their footsteps instead of searching for an alternative. Now, about the job creation, safety net,  Government spending, there is no obsession. There are FRBM guidelines.  We had stated that the Government should reconsider.  The flagship projection has nominally increased, although they have decreased it in respect of Agriculture, NREGA, rural development and many other social welfare schemes. In such a situation, if the Government spends on education, on healthcare, it will greatly help the whole country.  The Knowledge Commission had recommended that if we have to make, right to education for the children, compulsory,  we would have to keep a large budget on this.  In this regard, another Committee was also set up. I think, it was the Kapil Sibal Committee or something like that.  That Committee had also recommended  Rs. 1,51,000 crore on education. In the NCMP also, the UPA had committed to the nation six per cent of the GDP on education.  But it is not even one per cent.  Similarly, the UPA had committed  two to three per cent of the GDP on healthcare.  But it is very negligible spent so far.  Half of our children are dying because of malnutrition. Seventy per cent of the rural mothers are suffering maternity-related  deaths.  But it seems, we are not ashamed. We are not ashamed!  In such a situation what do we find? Take, for example, PDS. About the agricultural production, food grains, the Government is saying that the granaries.  It is okay. [r52]   

            
 

          Granaries are full. It is all right. What has happened to your PDS system? There is 73 per cent cut in the APL. We have told the Government and the Planning Commission. What has happened to your parameters of BPL? It is a strange definition that most of the poor people are not covered by this BPL parameter. But we have set up another Committee. We have set up committees after committees but the poor people cannot be identified. They say, no, prices are coming down. Inflation rate has come down. It is 3.93 per cent. What a good job they have done? It is all WPI-related inflation. It has nothing to do with CPI, Consumer Price Index. In the Wholesale Price Index, the price of primary articles is only 22 per cent and the price of food articles is only 15 per cent. That also is because the fuel prices internationally have come down. So, the WPI has come down. Services sector is not accounted for in the WPI calculation. I have told the Government so many times about all these things. You go to the market. Inflation has come down. What is the price of a kilo of rice at Delhi? It is Rs.21 which is a man’s earning after eight or 10 hours of work. One kilo of rice is Rs.21 at Delhi. They say that they cannot feel. One eminent Economist, your Government’s Economist, the Chief Statistician, Dr. Pranab Sen has commented about this. What he has said: “Deflationary indications are very much there in the Indian situation.” What is deflation? Inflation will come down. It will come to zero. Investment is declining. Demand is declining. That is what is happening in Japan. That is what is happening in US. That is what is happening in the U.K. Do not take pride that inflation has come down. It is going to lead to deflationary situation. In such a situation, we need to facilitate demand creation. There is a very interesting story about Keynes. Keynes said: “If there is no job, tell the people to dig the earth and tell the same people to fill the earth.” That is job creation. We have the infrastructure. If you are wanting in housing, do this. You are daily sermonising that the bank should cut down. The State Bank of India has come down with eight per cent interest rate on house loan and all these things. Why do you not go in for massive construction of houses for the poor? What should you do? Wherever you touch, there is corruption. Take DDA, there is corruption. Where will you go? I do not know how this Government will save the Satyam’s case. Their Chief Minister is involved. We have demanded a discussion. It is yet to be allowed. I do not know what will happen. But the Government’s spending is really required in the social sector and also in the infrastructure sector. Now, I am coming to the States. With the FRBM, the States have demanded an additional Rs.20,000 crore. I am not speaking of any particular State. The States are really in serious difficulties. With the FRBM Act, the Finance Commission has made certain recommendations, and they cannot spend any more nor do they have the resources. In such a situation like this, the Government should have come. Now, a very interesting position is that the Government has been waxing eloquence on the Nuclear Deal. Earlier, during the NDA’s time and also now in their time, in different segments of the atomic energy sector, research and other things, we do find that the allocation is less. What is an interesting story? They are so much interested in nuclear energy. I know at best you can go from three per cent to five per cent. That is a different story. What is the allocation of fund for the Uranium Corporation? Actually, what has happened is that the Government has failed to address the severe situation that the people are facing today?[m53]  

          In such a situation, the Government should have taken measures. I am giving you an example of ICDS, which is related to health care.  There is a directive of the Supreme Court that there should be universalisation of ICDS, but the Government is talking of Rs. 6,000 crore or so and hovering around the same figure. In some cases, they have reduced and in some cases, they have kept the same amount. How can they meet this serious, grave situation? The workers seek relief. There are seven lakh textile workers who are afflicted and they are not in only Tiruppur but various other areas also. There are workers in the field of textile, garments, gems and jewellery, leather and construction who have been affected. There has been a sharp fall in the prices of produces like cotton, rubber and coffee. In such a situation, the Government has no concrete measure to protect the farmers. There have been deaths of the heroes. The farmers are heroes and the heroes are dying and committing suicide. There is no case for heroes for this Government. Plan expenditure has actually been less than 5 per cent of GDP. I had spoken about PPP model. There may be a shortfall of Rs. 60,000 crore in the revenue. I know that in an Interim Budget and a measure like Vote-on-Account, there is no scope for new revenue measures to be initiated, but what is happening to this country? The other day from that side someone had raised the issue that there was a news item that Indians have more than $ 1,400 billion stashed in the Swiss Bank. Is there any dearth of capital that you need capital inflow, that you need FDI? Is there no cap? There is backdoor entry of FDI! Dollars 1,400 billion have been stashed by Indians. Even today, there is a news item that under US Pressure Swiss Bank, UBS is agreeing to expose the names and details of the American fraudsters who had stashed the money and put it in UBS Bank. The same thing was revealed by the Germans a few months back that Indians are amongst the richest people of the world. The number of dollar-billionaires is increasing and there is a growth of 14 per cent of such people in this country. What is happening to the end use? They are having deregulation. GDRs are there. They are taking external commercial borrowings. What is the end use? The money was put in the share market, capital market and there took place insider-trading. The other day in Rajya Sabha, big names had come who are engaged in insider-trading, not only Satyam. Today, there is a news item that in the IPO scam, out of 40 lakh of Demat Accounts, more than six lakh accounts could not be traced. The Government is going to enjoy God sent Rs. 9,000 crore. Whose money is this? There is no trace. There is an amount involved of Rs. 9,000 crore in only one IPO scam. What have the banks done? What about the KYC norms? Nothing happens in the case of Raju and other big names. The UK’s Nobel Research Group has said that more than 500 such Indian companies are there who have been found engaged in falsification of accounts, siphoning of funds, insider-trading and violations of all laws of this country.[S54]  

          What has the inspector -- and not the CPI (M) or any of the Left Parties -- who was engaged for the inquiry into the Harshad Mehta case commented? Mr. Pal has commented that only 25 per cent of the profit by the Indian corporate sector is shown to the IT. What has happened that they have been making so much of comments about you? As regards the Satyam case, one Ms. Padmaja had detected diversion of funds and Income-Tax evasion in 2002, and she was transferred. How can they allow a discussion on Satyam to take place? It is because their Chief Minister is involved; they have their problem; they had the 2002 history; and both of them have a problem. Therefore, we are just not allowed to discuss Satyam, the largest corporate fraud in this country. It was a multi-dimensional fraud where all regulatory agencies and all Government agencies -- this way or that way -- were involved in it. I think that the Government owes it to the nation in such a situation. They may make tall claims, but they have nothing to do with the real achievements be it in respect of the farmers; be it in respect of the common people; be it in respect of the industrial workers; and be it in respect of the unorganised sector. We came to know about the recent exposure in the defence sector by the Naval Chief. I was trying to find out as to what was the allocation for the port for the container service. I do not know whether he should have made such public statement or not, but that is a different story. I am commenting on it only because it has become public now. He had said that : “Americans have insisted that they will be given the responsibility of checking our containers.” It will be affecting our own sovereignty, and not only in respect of trade. Secondly, if we do not take adequate and early measures, then nuclear weapons can also be smuggled through defective containers, which are there. I am just concluding by saying that the Government owes it to the nation. They should have given the indications to the new Government that will come after long four months. The people are suffering every hour. They cannot wait any more. The Government should have taken up more provision for job creation without caring for fiscal deficit; more allocation for rural development; more allocation for ICDS; more allocation for the social sector; more allocation for the small and medium industries; and more relief to the workers. The stimulus should not have been confined to the employers only who are enjoying all the benefits during the good days or during the favourable economic situation. The ILO Report says that the wage increase was only 1.7 per cent when the global growth was 4 per cent. It was far less than that in India. What does growth mean? What have people got to do with it? One Cabinet Minister once commented, and he had the courage to say that : “The benefit of growth is never reaching the common man.” So, instead of being obsessed with so-called growth or hype for growth, you should do something concrete for millions of our common people and the aam aadmi. [r55]    They were basking in the glory of “India Shining”. Remember, they were taught an appropriate lesson. If you also bask in the glory of seven to eight per cent growth rate, you also will not come back. They are not coming back anyway. The third force will be coming to power, of course with the support of some of your partners, and that will lead the country. The third force will provide real relief to the suffering masses. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN ( BALASORE ): I hope, in the name of keeping the communal forces away, you will not support the Congress again. … (Interruptions) SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : We will not support you. … (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Your Party will not support us. That means, you will again go back to them. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : No, crosstalk please. …( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : यादव जी, आप शुरू करिये। ...( व्यवधान) श्री राम कृपाल यादव ( पटना ): सभापति जी, आज जो सदन में 2009-2010 के अन्तरिम बजट प्रस्तुत किया गया है, मैं उसके समर्थन में खड़ा हूं।...( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय: दूसरे जो माननीय सदस्य अपनी रिटिन स्पीच ले करना चाहते हैं, वे ले कर सकते हैं। आप बोलिये। श्री राम कृपाल यादव : यू.पी.ए. सरकार का यह पांचवें वर्ष का अन्तिम बजट है और मैं समझता हूं कि विगत पांच वर्षों में माननीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री मनमोहन सिंह जी के कुशल नेतृत्व में देश में विकास के लिए, देश के आम लोगों के लिए बहुत सारे कार्य किये गये हैं और जो देश की बेसिक समस्या है, मूलभूत समस्या है, उसकी तरफ ज्यादा ध्यान दिया गया है, उसकी तरफ ज्यादा राशि भी आबंटित की गई है। बेसिक समस्या हमारी है, भारत जैसा गरीब देश है, मगर यहां बरोजगारी भी है, यहां पर अशिक्षा भी है, कई ऐसी समस्याएं आती हैं, किसानों की समस्या है, मजदूरों की समस्या है, नौजवानों की समस्या है, इन समस्याओं के निदान के लिए सरकार ने बहुत मुस्तैदी से काम किया है और उसका प्रतिफल नजर आ रहा है। बेसिक समस्याओं में घर की समस्या है, स्वास्थ्य की समस्या है, शिक्षा की समस्या है, किसानों की समस्या है, इन तमाम समस्याओं पर यू.पी.ए. सरकार ने बहुत ध्यान देने का काम किया है और बहुत सारा आबंटन करके उनकी समस्याओं को कम करने की कोशिश की है, ऐतिहासिक सफलता इस सरकार ने प्राप्त की है और लोगों की आशा के अनुकूल काम किया है। मुझे भरोसा है कि आने वाले चुनाव के बीच में जब हम लोग जा रहे हैं तो इस चुनाव में भी जनता का आशीर्वाद, मैंडेट हमें मिलेगा और पुनः यू.पी.ए. सरकार सत्ता में आयेगी, चाहे प्रतिपक्ष में बैठे हुए लोग कितने भी मुंगेरी लाल का सपना देखें, उनका सपना कभी पूरा होने वाला नहीं है। पूरे जोर से मैं यह कहता हूं कि निश्चित तौर पर आने वाली सरकार यू.पी.ए. की ही होगी और मजबूती के साथ हम लोग वापस आएंगे। यह हमारा विश्वास है, क्योंकि, हमने जनता के लिए काम किया है, अवाम के लिए काम किया है, गरीबों के लिए काम किया है, इसलिए कि उनके दुख और दर्द को हमने समझा है। हिन्दुस्तान की आजादी को 60 वर्ष हो गये, इस दौरान बहुत सारे लोगों ने बहुत कुछ सपने दिखाये।[R56]    आजादी के बाद मैं दावे के साथ कह सकता हूं कि पिछले पांच वर्षों का जो कार्यकाल था, वह निश्चित तौर पर आम लोगों के लिए, गरीबों के लिए, किसानों और मजदूरों के लिए था और उनके लिए हम लोगों ने काम किया है, इसलिए मुझे भरोसा है।  हिंदुस्तान की आजादी के 61 वर्ष हो चुके हैं, पहली बार यूपीए सरकार का संकल्प था - भारत निर्माण।  भारत निर्माण के लिए इस अंतरिम बजट में 40,900 करोड़ रूपए का प्रावधान किया है।  मैं समझता हूं कि यह राशि इस सरकार की दिशा और दशा तय करती है क्योंकि इतनी बड़ी राशि हम भारत निर्माण के लिए आवंटित कर रहे हैं, जिसमें शिक्षा भी है, बिजली भी है, पानी भी है, शौचालय भी है, किसानों के हित की बात की है, तो निश्चित तौर पर यह दशा, दिशा और दृष्टि भी तय कर रही है।  हमारा कमिटमेंट इस देश की आवाम के लिए, गरीबों के लिए और मजदूरों के लिए है और उसी कमिटमेंट के अनुसार हमने पिछले वर्षों में काम किया।  आज भी हम अंतरिम बजट के माध्यम से उनके लिए बाकी के जो बचे हुए कार्य हैं, उनको करना चाहते हैं।  हमारा स्पष्ट दृष्टिकोण झलक रहा है।  यूपीए सरकार का जो कामन मिनिमम प्रोग्राम था, उसके अनुसार जो कमिटमेंट था, उसी के अनुसार हम काम कर रहे हैं। महोदय, एक बहुत बड़ा उपहार मिला।  70 हजार करोड़ रूपए एकमुश्त किसानों की राहत के लिए यूपीए सरकार ने माफ किए।  उसके परिणाम सामने आए हैं। सरकार ने बहुत बड़ा कदम उठाया है।  जो किसान आत्महत्या के लिए मजबूर थे, परेशानी में थे, उनको राहत देने का काम किया। हम यह नहीं कहते कि 70 हजार करोड़ रूपए देकर, ऋण माफ करके हमने उनकी सारी समस्याओं का निदान कर दिया। मैं इस बात को नहीं मानता। आज भी उनकी तरफ ध्यान देने की आवश्यकता है। हमने किसानों को राहत देने के लिए बहुत बड़ा स्टेप उठाया है। इसके परिणाम सामने आए हैं, इससे बहुत सारे किसानों को राहत मिली है। महोदय, इस देश की जो 75 प्रतिशत आबादी है, उस आबादी के प्रति, आजादी के बाद हम उस हद तक नहीं जा सके हैं, जितना जाना चाहिए।  हमारा देश किसानों का देश है।  हमारी जो इकॉनामी है, जो आर्थिक मजबूती है, वह किसानों पर निर्भर करती है। यूपीए सरकार ने उनकी तरफ ध्यान देते हुए बहुत महत्वपूर्ण कदम उठाया है, जैसा कि मैंने कहा कि 70 हजार करोड़ रूपए ऋण की माफी हुयी।  जो ब्याज की दर थी, उसमें भी हमने कटौती की है। हमने ब्याज की दर 7 प्रतिशत कर दी है, मगर वह नाकाफी है।  पहले के जमाने में कार लेने के लिए, मकान बनाने के लिए बड़े-बड़े उद्योगपतियों के ऋण की दर और गरीबों व किसानों के लिए ऋण की दर आप देख लीजिए। हमारी सरकार ने एहसास किया और सचमुच में गरीबों और किसानों के प्रति हमारी जो फीलिंग है, इस स्टेप को उठाकर हमने उसे दर्शाया है, इसलिए हमने उनकी ब्याज दर को कम किया।  यह कदम स्वागतयोग्य है। मैं समझता हूं कि इसमें और भी कमी करने की जरूरत है। महोदय, राष्ट्रीय कृषि आयोग के माननीय अध्यक्ष जी ने अनुशंसा की। उन्होंने कहा कि इसे चार प्रतिशत करना होगा, तब हम आम किसानों को राहत दे सकते हैं।  मगर हम उसे चार प्रतिशत नहीं कर सके।  मुझे ऐसा भरोसा था और विगत दिनों में देश की आवाम और सदन भी एहसास कर रही थी, हम लोगों ने विचार रखा था, खास तौर पर मैं और मेरी पार्टी हमेशा सदन में मामले को उठाती रही है कि ब्याज की दर में कटौती करिए, तभी आप किसानों को पूरी तौर पर राहत दे सकते हैं। मुझे भरोसा था कि इस बार कुछ होगा मगर नहीं हो पाया। यदि किसानों के लिए ब्याज की दर 4 प्रतिशत उपलब्ध हो जाती तो मैं समझता हूं कि बड़ी राहत मिलती। आज किसानों का उत्साह घट रहा है, खेत के प्रति किसानों का उतना रुझान नहीं रहा है। राष्ट्रीय उत्पादन पर असर पड़ रहा है। यदि हम किसानों को राहत नहीं देंगे, उनकी लागत पूंजी भी वापिस नहीं आएगी तो किसान काम क्यों करेंगे। उन्हें अपनी पूंजी लगाकर, अपना श्रम लगाकर, खून-पसीना लगाकर दर-दर भटकना पड़ रहा है, लेकिन उन्हें दो वक्त की रोटी नहीं मिल पा रही है। इस देश में गरीब किसानों की संख्या अधिक है। उनमें उत्साह नहीं है, उनके उत्साह को बढ़ाना पड़ेगा और उनकी उत्पादन क्षमता को बढ़ाना पड़ेगा। यहां इतनी ज्यादा आबादी है, हमारे पास भूभाग भी बहुत बड़ा है, लेकिन हम जो उत्पादन कर रहे हैं, उससे हमारा काम नहीं चल रहा है, हमें बाहर से अनाज मंगवाना पड़ रहा है। यह शुभ संकेत नहीं है। आज लोग गांवों से पलायन करके शहरों में जाने का काम कर रहे हैं। आप विगत दस-बीस साल के आंकड़े देख लीजिए। आप बहुत पुराने राजनेता हैं, एक प्रदेश के मुख्य मंत्री और मंत्री रहे हैं और आज माननीय सदस्य हैं। आपको बहुत अनुभव है। आप खुद अहसास करेंगे कि शहरीकरण इसलिए हो रहा है क्योंकि गांवों में लोगों को रोजगार नहीं मिल रहे हैं। गांवों की बेसिक समस्याओं की ओर हमारा ध्यान नहीं जा रहा है। यदि गांवों में अच्छी शिक्षा नहीं मिलेगी, अच्छा हैल्थ सैंटर नहीं मिलेगा, अच्छा अस्पताल नहीं मिलेगा, पीने के लिए शुद्ध पानी नहीं मिलेगा, बिजली नहीं मिलेगी तो स्वाभाविक है कि हमारा ध्यान गांवों से हटकर शहरों की ओर जाएगा। दूसरी बड़ी बात यह है कि हम जो उत्पादन कर रहे हैं, यदि हमें उसकी कीमत नहीं मिलेगी तो हमारा सर्वाइवल कैसे होगा। इसलिए किसानों के प्रति विशेष तौर पर हमारा ध्यान जाना चाहिए। हालांकि यूपीए सरकार ने इन सब चीजों की तरफ ध्यान दिया है। इस इंटरिम बजट में भी प्रावधान किए गए हैं, शिक्षा के लिए राशि बढ़ाई गई है। जनता कई तरह की समस्याओं से जूझ रही है। हमारी आबादी एक अरब से अधिक है। हमने उनकी तरफ ध्यान देने का काम किया है, लेकिन वह नाकाफी है। इसलिए गांवों के प्रति आकर्षण बढ़ाना पड़ेगा, हजारों, करोड़ों हाथों को काम देना पड़ेगा। मैं निवेदन करूंगा कि सरकार निश्चित तौर पर इस बारे में गौर करे। उन्हें कम से कम उनकी लागत पूंजी ही मिल जाए। जब तक देश की ग्रामीण अर्थव्यवस्था ठीक नहीं होगी, तब तक देश की आर्थिक अर्थव्यवस्था ठीक नहीं होगी। माननीय मंत्री जी, आप भी पुराने अनुभवी हैं। आपको इस पर गौर करना पड़ेगा, रिसर्च करनी पड़ेगी, पहल करनी पड़ेगी। महोदय, मैं आपको पूरे देश की बाढ़ की समस्या के बारे में बताना चाहता हूं, खास तौर पर हमारा प्रदेश बाढ़ की समस्या से न जाने कितने वर्षों से जूझ रहा है। इस बार बाढ़ से जो त्रासदी हुई, कोसी का इलाका, जो 7-8 डिस्ट्रिक्ट प्रभावित हुए हैं, वे पूरी तरह ध्वस्त हो गए, इसे पूरा देश और दुनिया जानती है। देश की जनता ने मदद भी की। हर प्रदेश के मुख्य मंत्रियों, हर प्रदेश के व्यापारियों आदि सबने मदद की है, यहां तक कि केन्द्र सरकार ने लगभग डेढ़ हजार करोड़ रुपये देने का काम किया। मैं नहीं मानता कि डेढ़ हजार करोड़ रुपये में सब कुछ ठीक-ठाक हो जाएगा, लेकिन एकमुश्त पैसा दिया गया और राष्ट्रीय आपदा घोषित करने का काम भी किया गया। मुझे लग रहा था कि इस बार के बजट में राष्ट्रीय आपदा के नाम पर बिहार को कुछ और राशि भी आवंटित की जाएगी, मगर निराशा हाथ लगी। वहां के हालात में थोड़ी-बहुत राहत देने के लिए डेढ़ हजार करोड़ रुपये का जो आवंटन किया गया है, उस पैसे की मौनीटरिंग भी नहीं हो रही है। [N57]  वैसे राज्य सरकार अपनी डफली बजा रही है, गाल बजा रही है और केन्द्र सरकार पर आरोप मढ़ने का काम कर रही है। मैंने आज एक अनस्टार्ड क्वैश्चन किया था, जिसके जवाब में आया है कि वहां की सरकार ने इफ्रास्ट्रक्चर के लिए किस-किस स्तर पर, कहां-कहां और कितनी राशि देनी है, उसके लिए जो डीपीआर बननी चाहिए, वह नहीं बनायी। यह जवाब मुझे अपने अनस्टार्ड क्वैश्चन से मिला है। वहां जो पैसा दिया गया है, उसका भी कोई हिसाब-किताब नहीं है। अभी लोक सभा के चुनाव  होने वाले हैं। बिहार में एनडीए की सरकार है। अपना माइलेज देने के लिए, जनता को धोखा देने के लिए भारत सरकार की सभी योजनाओं पर वहां के मुख्यमंत्री अपना नाम टिका रहे हैं। सब जगह उनका नाम है। यहां तक कि भारत सरकार ने जो पैसा दिया है, उससे वह विज्ञापन भी छपवा रहे हैं। वह एक अलग बात है। सभापति महोदय, कोसी के इलाके में अभूतपूर्व नुकसान हुआ है, जिसे मैं बयान नहीं कर सकता। सुनामी से ज्यादा वहां की स्थिति खराब रही है। हम खुद वहां गये थे। लगभग सब डिस्ट्रिक्ट्स में अपने नेता लालू प्रसाद जी, जो माननीय रेल मंत्री हैं, उनके साथ मुझे घूमने का मौका मिला है। वैसे भी हम वहां गये थे।  वहां बहुत बुरी स्थिति है। आज भी हजारों ऐसे परिवार हैं, जो बाढ़ से घिरे हुए हैं। सरकार दावा कर रही है कि वहां बांध बन गया, सब कुछ ठीक हो गया और न जाने क्या-क्या कह रही है। टैन्टों में जो लोग बसे हुए थे, उनको उन्होंने भगा दिया और कहा कि हम राहत पैकेज चला रहे हैं। पता नहीं वे क्या कर रहे हैं और क्या नहीं कर रहे हैं। उन्होंने कहा कि सारे बच्चों के लिए पढ़ने की व्यवस्था कर दी, लेकिन कुछ पता नहीं। इंदिरा आवास के तहत भारत सरकार ने, ग्रामीण विकास मंत्रालय ने स्पेशल पैकेज दिया, लेकिन उस पैसे का भी उपयोग नहीं हुआ। आज भी लोग खुले आकाश के नीचे ठुठरते हुए, अब कुछ गर्मी आ गयी है, लेकिन पूरी सर्दियों में  उन्होंने अपने बच्चों के साथ कैसे जीवन बिताया, उसकी वेदना मैं यहां बयान नहीं कर सकता। आप खुद उसका अहसास कर सकते हैं। वहां आज यह हालत है। वहां विकास की रट लगायी जा रही है, एक नारा दिया जा रहा है, ढोल बजाया जा रहा है। वहां की सरकार अपनी वाह-वाही लूटने का काम कर रही है। विज्ञापनों का दौर चल रहा है, शिलान्यास का दौर चल रहा है। माल महाराज का, मिर्जा खेले होली, यानी भारत सरकार  की राशि और राज्य सरकार अपना बोर्ड लगा रही है। वह अलग बात है। मैं यह निवेदन करना चाहूंगा कि  बाढ़ से बिहार के लगभग 21 जिले प्रभावित हुए हैं। वे बाढ़ से हर साल प्रभावित होते हैं, लेकिन इसके स्थायी समाधान के लिए कोई ठोस उपाय नहीं किये गये। हमें ऐसा लगता है कि यदि  सरकार वहां 21 जिलों के बाढ़ पीड़ितों के लिए, लाखों लोगों के जीवन को बचाने के लिए, वहां की आर्थिक स्थिति को मजबूत करने के लिए, इफ्रास्ट्रक्चर के लिए स्थायी समाधान करती, तो निश्चित  तौर पर एक बड़ा काम होता। वहां बिजली का उत्पादन हो सकता है, इसके लिए नेपाल से ट्रीट्री करने की आवश्यकता है।  कुछ स्टेट्स में कदम उठाये गये हैं। वहां सिंचाई विभाग ने कुछ राशि आवंटित की है और दफ्तर भी खोल दिये गये हैं। डीपीआर बनाने की बात भी कही जा रही है, मगर उस पर आगे कोई कार्रवाई नहीं हुई। अभी पिछले दिनों माननीय विदेश मंत्री और प्रधान मंत्री जी की पहल पर नेपाल सरकार से कुछ बातें हुई हैं। इसके लिए मैं उनको धन्यवाद ज्ञापित करना चाहता हूं, मगर उसके ठोस  नतीजे अभी तक सामने नहीं आये हैं। महोदय, मैं आपके माध्यम द्वारा सरकार से हाथ जोड़कर विनती करता हूं कि वहां की दशा को देखिये और उसे सुधारिए।  बाढ़ के लिए कोई स्थायी समाधान निकालिए। ये समाधान सिर्फ कोसी के लिए ही नहीं, बल्कि पूरे देश के लिए निकालने का काम करिये, तो आपका बहुत उपकार होगा, क्योंकि  वहां हालत बहुत खराब है।...( व्यवधान) सभापति जी, आप घंटी बजा रहे हैं। मैं अपनी पार्टी से बोलने वाला पहला वक्ता हूं। ...( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय :   आपको बोलते हुए 25 मिनट हो गये हैं। …( व्यवधान) श्री राम कृपाल यादव :   सभापति जी, आप हमारी भावनाओं को सुनिए। ...( व्यवधान) वैसे भी बजट पर यह हमारा अंतिम भाषण है। ...( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय :  सब लोगों का अंतिम भाषण है।  आप बोलिये। …( व्यवधान) श्री राम कृपाल यादव :   सभापति महोदय, मैं समझता हूं कि आप मुझे बोलने का थोड़ा समय देंगे। बाढ़ से फसल की भी बर्बादी होती है। अभी निर्णय हुआ कि फसल की बर्बादी के बाद फसल बीमा योजना लागू होगी, लेकिन एक जगह भी  फसल बीमा योजना का पैसा नहीं मिला। अगर एक जगह भी उसका पैसा मिला होता, तो मैं समझता कि गरीबों को कुछ राहत मिली। वहां लोगों की सब फसलें नष्ट हो गयी हैं। फसल बीमा योजना के तहत भारत सरकार राज्य सरकार को  पैसा देती है, लेकिन उसकी मौनीटरिंग नहीं करती। हमारा कहना है कि उसकी मौनीटरिंग करने की आवश्यकता है, राज्य सरकार पर अंकुश लगाने की जरूरत है। आप पैसा देकर निश्चिंत हो जाते हैं और कहते हैं कि संघीय व्यवस्था है इसलिए हस्तक्षेप नहीं किया जाना चाहिए। मैं यह सब मानता हूं, मगर आप आम लोगों के लिए, गरीबों के लिए जो पैसा दे रहे हैं, उस पर आप कुछ नियंत्रण रखिए, मौनीटरिंग करने का काम कीजिए कि जिस मंशा से आपने पैसा दिया, उसका उपयोग हो रहा है या नहीं। मैं मांग करता हूं कि अविलंब जिन किसानों की फसल बाढ़ के इस घोर संकट में नष्ट हो गयी है, उन्हें आप राहत देने के लिए तुंत फसल बीमा योजना के तहत राशि आवंटित कराइये।[MSOffice58]  

          महोदय, इसके स्थायी समाधान के लिए कोई ठोस उपाय निकालिए।  आजादी के 60 वर्ष बीत गए, आज भी गांवों में शुद्ध पेयजल नहीं मिला है। वैसे तो प्रधानमंत्री जी ने बहुत बढ़िया काम किया है, इसके लिए मैं उनका आभार व्यक्त करना चाहूंगा कि उन्होंने एक बड़ी योजना -राजीव गांधी ग्रामीण पेयजल योजना -चालू की है, जिसके अंतर्गत राशि भी बढ़ी है। आज भी बिहार जेसे प्रदेश हैं जहां अशुद्ध पेयजल मिल रहा है। आजाद किस बात की? महात्मा गांधी जी और न जाने कितने लोगों ने आजादी के लिए शहादत दी, उन्होंने सपने में भी यह नहीं सोचा होगा कि हम तो शहादत दे रहे हैं, लेकिन लोगों को आजादी के 60 वर्षों में शुद्ध पेयजल भी नहीं मिलेगा। आज गांवों में बड़े पैमाने पर अशुद्ध जल मिल रहा है।  7400 करोड़ रूपए की राशि इस अंतरिम बजट में इसके लिए आंवटित की गयी है, लेकिन वह नाकाफी है। शुद्ध पेयजल की व्यवस्था कीजिए। सारी बीमारियों की जड़ तो अशुद्ध जल है। शहरों की बात अलग है, लेकिन गांवों में भी शुद्ध पेयजल नहीं मिल रहा है। इससे ज्यादा दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण बात और कोई नहीं होगी। मैं निवेदन करूंगा कि हमें निश्चित रूप से इसके लिए पहल करनी चाहिए क्योंकि यह हमारा बेसिक दायित्व बनता है। हम सरकार में है, हम जनता के प्रतिनिधि हैं, इसलिए हम कम से कम इन लोगों को शुद्ध पेयजल तो मुहैया कराएं।  आज भी वही कुएं का सड़ा हुआ पानी लोगों को पीना पड़ता है। मैं समझता हूं कि बिहार जैसी खराब हालत आपके गृह प्रदेश उड़ीसा की भी है, लेकिन आप बोलते नहीं हैं। अब तो आप और भी नहीं बोल पाएंगे। हम समझते हैं कि हमारी पीड़ा से कम पीड़ा आपको नहीं होगी, सदन इसका एहसास करता है। आम आदमी जिसके बल पर हम चुनकर यहां आते हैं, उसको अगर पीने के लिए शुद्ध पानी भी हम नहीं दे पा रहे हैं तो हमारे लिए सब कुछ बेकार है। इसलिए इस पर ध्यान देने की आवश्यकता है। सरकार ने स्पेशल इकोनॉमिक जोन बनाया है। स्पेशल इकोनॉमिक जोन बनने चाहिए, मॉल बनने चाहिए, मगर उद्योग भी लगने चाहिए। मगर आप उसमें दस से पंद्रह प्रतिशत उस जमीन का अधिग्रहण कर रहे हैं जिसमें उपज होती है, सोना पैदा होता है। क्या किसी लेबोरेटरी में गेहूं उपजाया जा सकता है? 15.58 hrs. 

(Shri Devendra Prasad Yadav in the Chair) 

क्या आप किसी लेबोरेटरी में चावल उपजा सकते हैं, सब्जी उपजा सकते हैं।  यह केवल लोगों की भूख ही नहीं मिटाती है, हमारी अर्थव्यवस्था पर भी इसका असर आता है। स्पेशल इकोनॉमिक जोन के माध्यम से आप जमीन अधिग्रहण कर रहे हैं, राष्ट्रीय उत्पादन क्षमता घट रही है।...( व्यवधान)लक्ष्मण सिंह जी मैं आपको कुछ नहीं कह रहा हूं। आप तो मेरे मित्र हैं, शुभचिंतक हैं। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि स्पेशल इकोनॉमिक जोन के लिए ऐसी उपजाऊ जमीन का अधिग्रहण न करें जिससे अर्थव्यवस्था पर और किसानों के पेट पर लात पड़े। करना है तो कीजिए, हजारों हेक्टेअर बंजर जमीन है, उस पर आप स्पेशल इकोनॉमिक जोन बनाइए, आपको कौन रोक रहा है। उपजाऊ जमीन का अधिग्रहण करके बड़े-बड़े व्यापारियों और पूंजीपतियों को दे देंगे तो काम गड़बड़ हो जाएगा। इसलिए मैं समझता हूं कि  हमारी जो राष्ट्रीय उत्पादन क्षमता है, उसको प्रभावित न करें।  इसके लिए आप बंजर जमीन का उपयोग करें, सिंचित जमीन का उपयोग न करें। मैं ज्यादा समय नहीं लूंगा।[R59]  

 16.00 hrs.[R60]  

अगर उत्पादन शक्ति नहीं बढ़ेगी, तो हमें आयातित अनाज पर निर्भर रहना पड़ेगा। इसलिए मेरा आपसे निवेदन है कि देश की कृषि व्यवस्था को ध्यान में सेज़ पर फिर से विचार करें, क्योंकि इसके खिलाफ पश्चिम बंगाल में, हरियाणा आदि राज्यों में काफी आंदोलन हुआ है। लोगों ने इसके विरोध में गोलियां भी खाई हैं। जब लोगों की रोजी-रोटी चली जाएगी तो वे फिर मजबूर होकर सड़क पर उतरेंगे ही। यह ठीक है कि इससे बेरोजगारी दूर होगी, लेकिन उससे ज्यादा किसानों में बेरोजगारी हो जाएगी, जहां तक आपकी पहुंच नहीं है। इसलिए इस नीति में थोड़ी-बहुत कटौती करनी चाहिए। अब मैं एफडीआई के बारे में कुछ कहना चाहता हूं। आजकल रिटेल क्षेत्र में बड़ी-बड़ी कम्पनीज जैसे रिलायंस है, वे आ रही हैं। वे अपनी दुकानें खोलकर आलू, प्याज और हरी सब्जियां आकर्षक पैकिंग में बेच रही हैं। इससे यह हो रहा है कि दो रुपए की चीज दस रुपए में मिल रही है। इन बड़े-बड़े व्यापारियों और पूंजीपतियों के कारण छोटे-छोटे व्यापारियों को नुकसान हो रहा है और उनका शोषण हो रहा है। आज इस वजह से गांव और शहरों के छोटे व्यापारी बेकार हो रहे हैं। उपभोक्ताओं को भी ज्यादा कीमत देनी पड़ रही है, क्योंकि वे भी इन छोटे व्यापारियों पर निर्भर थे, जिनकी दुकानदारी अब बंद हो रही है। ठीक है नई आर्थिक नीति बनाई गई है, लेकिन आप ऐसी नीति न बनाएं जिससे आम जनता का और छोटे व्यापारियों का शोषण न हो। इसलिए मेरा निवेदन है कि आप विदेशी कम्पनीज और निजी कम्पनीज को इस सेक्टर में काम करने की इजाजत न दें, क्योंकि यह देश के लिए हितकर नहीं है। आप गांव में जाएं, जो बेकार नहीं हैं, वे लोग इसी छोटे-मोटे काम में लगे हुए हैं, लेकिन बड़ी कम्पनीज के इस क्षेत्र में आने से वे लोग बेकार हो रहे हैं। इसलिए एफडीआई पालिसी में संशोधन करके ऐसे लोगों को बचाया जाए, वरना देश के सामने बड़ा संकट पैदा हो जाएगा। राष्ट्रीय ग्रामीण स्वास्थ्य मिशन की चर्चा मैं करना चाहूंगा। इसके तहत आपने काफी पैसा दिया है, लगभग 12,500 करोड़ रुपए इस अंतरिम बजट में आपने रखे हैं। लेकिन क्या स्वास्थ्य क्षेत्र की दशा सुधरी है, यह भी देखना चाहिए। ठीक बात है कि आप हर क्षेत्र में पर्याप्त पैसा दे रहे हैं। लेकिन गांवों में स्वास्थ्य की हालत काफी खराब है। वहां के प्राथमिक चिकित्सा केन्द्रों में डाक्टर्स नहीं हैं, कोई जाना नहीं चाहता इसलिए इस चीज को आप इंश्योर कराएं कि डाक्टर्स की टीम वहां जाए। गांवों के बच्चों के स्वास्थ्य पर ही हमारे देश का भविष्य है, लेकिन आज गांवों के छोटे-छोटे बच्चे विभिन्न रोगों से पीड़ित हैं। उनकी केयर करने वाला कोई नहीं है। आपने जो इस मद में धनराशि आबंटित की है, ग्रामीण क्षेत्र में स्वास्थ्य की स्थिति को देखते हुए वह नाकाफी है। देश आजाद हुए 60 साल हो गए हैं, लेकिन गांवों में स्वास्थ्य के क्षेत्र में ज्यादा सुधार नहीं हुआ है। यह भी ठीक बात है कि आपने बहुत काम किया है। केन्द्र सरकार ने गांवों में एक्सरे और एम्बुलेंस देने की व्यवस्था की है, लेकिन यह आज भी नाकाफी है। जब तक गांव के किसानों को, मजदूरों स्वास्थ्य सुविधा नहीं मिलेगी, उनका स्वास्थ्य ठीक नहीं होगा, देश का कैसे हो सकता है इसलिए इस पर विशेष ध्यान देने की जरूरत है। सभापति महोदय : माननीय सदस्य, कृपया अपना भाषण समाप्त करें। श्री राम कृपाल यादव : मैं एक-दो बातें और कहकर अपनी बात खत्म करूंगा। यूपीए सरकार द्वारा राष्ट्रीय ग्रामीण रोजगार गारंटी स्कीम को लागू करना देश में एक ड्रास्टिक चेंज है। इस योजना को संवैधानिक अधिकार भी दिया गया है और इस सरकार ने यह एक बहुत बड़ा काम किया है। हम भी काम के अधिकार का नारा लगाया करते थे और वह लोगों को मिल गया है। सरकार की मंशा है कि गरीबों को साल में कम से कम 100 दिन रोजगार दें और काम नहीं तो पैसा दें। इस बारे में मैं अपने राज्य बिहार की बात करना चाहूंगा। केन्द्र से भेजे गए पैसे का इस योजना के तहत बिहार में दुरुपयोग हो रहा है। आम आदमी के नाम पर ठेकेदार मशीनों से काम ले रहे हैं। इसलिए वहां इस चीज की आप मानिटरिंग कराएं, क्योंकि आपका पैसा बिचौलियों के पास जा रहा है, वास्तविक जनता के पास नहीं पहुंच रहा है। मैं मंत्री जी से कहना चाहूंगा कि आपने बहुत सारी राशि विभिन्न मदों के लिए आबंटित की है। जैसे शिक्षा के लिए काफी पैसा दिया है। सर्व शिक्षा अभियान के तहत देश में शिक्षा क्षेत्र में काफी अच्छा काम हुआ है।[R61]  हर जगह स्कूल आपने बनवा दिये। आपने देश की जनता पर बहुत बड़ा उपकार किया है। जब तक गांव समुचित ढंग से सुरक्षित नहीं रहेंगे, उनका समुचित विकास नहीं होगा, तब तक पूरे देश का विकास नहीं हो सकता है। यूपीए सरकार का मैं पुनः आभार व्यक्त करना चाहता हूं और साथ ही हम आभार व्यक्त करना चाहते हैं माननीय प्रधान मंत्री श्री मनमोहन सिंह जी का, जिनके कुशल नेतृत्व में यह सब काम हुआ। हम आभार व्यक्त करना चाहते हैं अपने नेता रेल मंत्री माननीय लालू प्रसाद जी का, जिन्होंने रेल के कार्यों में ड्रास्टिक चेंज किया, बहुत बड़ा परिवर्तन किया और वे देश के लिए पथ-प्रदर्शक का काम कर रहे हैं। यह मेरा विश्वास है कि जनता यूपीए सरकार को अपना समर्थन देगी और ये जो इंडिया शाइनिंग वाले लोग हैं इन्हें जनता दुबारा यहां नहीं आने देगी क्योंकि इन लोगों ने जनता की भावनाओं के विपरीत काम किया था। ये राम के नाम पर सत्ता में आना चाहते हैं, इन्हें जनता राम के नाम पर सत्ता में आने नहीं देगी। अंतरिम बजट का समर्थन करते हुए, सभापति जी, हम आपको भी धन्यवाद ज्ञापित करते हैं। आपने पिछले पांच सालों में सभापति पद की गरिमा को बढ़ाया है। माननीय स्पीकर साहब ने तो देश और दुनिया में गरिमा बढ़ाई ही है और उनकी एक अहम भूमिका रही है। आपने इतना समय दिया, हम आपका आभार व्यक्त करते हैं तथा विश्वास करते हैं कि माननीय मंत्री जी निश्चित तौर पर, हमारे विचारों के अनुरूप, इस देश को आगे बढ़ाने में सहायक भूमिका अदा करेंगे। जिन चीजों में पैसा कम गया है, निश्चित तौर पर उसको पूरा करने का काम करेंगे। *SHRI BRAHMANANDA PANDA ( JAGATSINGHPUR ): The Interim Budget provides for Rs. 9,53,231 crore of expenditure of which Plan expenditure accounts for Rs. 2,85,149 crore and non-Plan expenditure is Rs. 6,68,082 crores.  Shri Pranab Babu has left the successor regime to formulate the regular budget and also the challenge of mobilizing the resources.  I will come to this aspect again before I conclude.  But why the Government opted for a bland Vote on Account? is it propriety, apprehensions or determination to deny the fellow travelers any sco[U62] pe for armtwisting? I do not know.  It may be "one" or "all." But the fact remains that the Finance Minister in-charge has impressed his colleagues with "realistic reasons." This is Shri Pranab Mukherjee's fourth Budget.  One may say so. The Budget of 1982-83 was his first Budget. A lot has changed since then. The economy has grown manifold, to two trillion dollars and politically there has been a very dramatic change. Yet one is reminded of "continuity of reforms." It was in early eighties that dismantling industrial licencing was first proposed. The 1982-83 Budget freed foreign investment when it allowed Non-Resident Indians to acquire upto forty per cent shareholding in companies. His colleague, the present Commerce and Industry Minister, has dramatically forwarded it and announced the equation of FDI and portfolio management. I do not know how far one can go. But when Shri Mukherjee said that an additional plan expenditure of 0.5 per cent to one per cent of the GDP need to be considered in the regular Budget, one may allege that he has threatened to burden the next Government to inherit a painful legacy. The fiscal deficit which measures the Centre's Gross borrowings is projected by the Government's Economic Advisory Body at eight per cent of the Gross Domestic Product. The Finance Ministry has initially pegged it at 2.5 per cent, excluding oil bonds meant to run refineries for selling fuels at below cost and other so-called off-balance sheet items. As a result the next Government which will take charge after general elections will have limited room to ramp up expenditure without causing structural harm to the economy. The tax collection has contracted by thirteen per cent in October; fifteen per cent in November; and twenty-five per cent in December over the previous twelve months. According to the data on the website of Comptroller and Auditor General, the net tax revenue in the third quarter ended December, contracted by a little more than one-fifth to Rs. 1.07 trillion compared with the same period of 2007-08. What is the fiscal deficit of the Union Government of India today? The fiscal deficit, including the off-balance sheet items, such as the oil bonds in 2006-07 was 4.4 per cent of the GDP. It has pegged the deficit at Rs. 1.33 trillion for the fiscal 2009. You do not show subsidies paid out to fertilizers and public sector oil companies in the Budget. However, experts are of the opinion that these off-balance sheet items need to be included in the definition of "fiscal deficit" to present an accurate picture of the Government's finances. Despite the sticky nature of some of its expenditure, there was a consensus among political parties in 2003 to move towards stabilising the Government's balance sheet by laying out a roadmap through the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, the FRBM Act. On 29th February, 2008, the then Finance Minister had announced that the UPA Government would not be able to meet the FRBM roadmap targets of erasing its revenue deficit by 31st March, 2009, on account of "conscious shift in expenditure in favour of health, education and social sector." [MSOffice63]  

 The only cuts in governmental spending have come in the form of reduced capital expenditure. This is not a good sign.   Today, revenue and fiscal deficits are estimated at four per cent and 5.5 per cent of the GDP respectively.  Should we presume that FRBM Act has been given a quiet burial?  Industrial growth in the current year is likely to be around 4.5 per cent.  To maintain high growth rate and provide employment, it should be seven to eight per cent, but that is not the case.  The Government is aware that five lakh jobs were lost in three months between October and December. In a county of India’s size with a fragile economy, the number of those without work and those loosing work is very large. Economic conditions elsewhere are no better.   China has recorded three times more unemployment among rural migrants at 20 million.  But this will give no solace to our people. The Government has failed to speed up work. In 2008-09, the Government had to raise either through loans or printing notes – Rs. 3,26,000 crore to meet the deficit.  In 2009-10, that figure has gone up to Rs. 3,32,000.  As rupee value declines or the debt burden mounts, the Aam Aadmi is adversely affected. The UPA Government had pledged `gainful employment’. What have we today? Sacking and layoffs as firms and factories try to stay afloat!  The 100 days 

of employment to the rural poor has turned out to be a cruel joke.  It has not stopped migration at all nor has provided productive employment in rural areas. Job generating infrastructure projects have been ignored.   Why were there no attempts to improve delivery mechanism when one knew that public expenditure on so-called flagship programmes was tardy?  We need these answers. I am of the opinion that at times extraordinary circumstances do call for ordinary responses.  Think of the ordinary as old grandmother says, `to protect  your prestige, you have to protect your family silver first’. Unfortunately, the interim budget does not provide indications that the UPA will meet to these challenges if it were to come to power again. Fiscal prudence is the need of the hour.  But the interim budget falls short on that count. I would draw the attention of this House relating to the state of affairs of State finances.  It is in the news again.   But after almost seven odd years of tranquillity, State deficits are set to reappear.  The growth in States’ tax revenues and resources are slowing down. The Union Government is not in a position to feed the States even.  Expenditures are expected to continue. By one estimate, a 4 per cent shortfall in their budgeted revenue for 2008-09 is likely to wipe out the surpluses accumulated by the States.  In 2007-08, 28 States had a revenue surplus of Rs. 22,000 crore, a remarkable turnaround from a deficit of Rs. 63,400 crore barely four years earlier in 2003-04.  But these years are anomalous compared with the trend.  2006-07 was the first year since 1987-88 that States witnessed a revenue surplus. The problem today is, on the revenue side, slower economic growth is going to result in lower VAT contribution.  VAT contributes nearly 42 per cent to the States’ tax. States’ excise, stamp and registration duties together account for around 17 per cent of revenue. This will also be hit. On the expenditure  side, the Sixth Pay Commission Award is to add 0.5 per cent of GDP to the fiscal deficit figures.  This may be much less compared to the situation that prevailed when the Fifth Pay Commission Award was implemented. But what complicates things is that when combined with heavy expenditure by the Centre, slow economic growth and higher salaries will make the combined fiscal deficit figure touch the 10 per cent of GDP mark. That is very alarming. Therefore, following the familiar storyline about a hand rocking the Indian growth cradle leaves several questions unanswered. First, why did not fiscal consolidation take place in good years? Second, high growth resulted from cheap capital. Once interest rates were hiked and growth slowed, before September 2008, why were not pre-emptive measures introduced to handle job losses instead of waiting for scary figures of 5 to 10 million job losses to surface? Third, why did one has to wait for identification of BPL households? Now, the Planning Commission will set up the Unique Identification Authority for subsidised public delivery. When will it come? On account of votes, the Vote-on-Account recognises utility of the NREGA, SSA, MDMS, JNURRM, Bharat Nirman and farmers’ debt relief. These are the six slogans which are being touted. There is  no doubt about it. But it seems the Government has run out of options and has mentioned about propriety and tradition. Yet, I would say the economy is in a crisis that warrants a much bolder effort and it is truly difficult to get away from the feeling. The interim exercise has turned out to be a wasted opportunity. So, we have  heard so much during the Budget Speech from the wise man from the East. He had placed a Budget, the last Budget, not this Interim Budget, in 1984. We went for the elections. The country went for the elections in December, 1984. Again, Shri Pranab Mukherjee has placed a Budget, though it is an Interim Budget, just before the election. But there is a great difference. Now, I would conclude by saying that a wise man from the East has wasted an opportunity, an opportunity to lift this country from morass, to lift this country to greater heights, to lift this country to greater economic position. With these words, I conclude. SHRI SURAVARAM SUDHAKAR REDDY ( NALGONDA ):  Sir, at the very outset, I would like to say that I feel the Interim Budget presented by the hon. Finance Minister Shri Pranab Mukherjee is a big disappointment for us. This is the biggest deficit Budget. A sum of Rs.3,30,000 deficit is shown. I think never in the history of India such a big deficit was shown in the Budget. It is going to be six per cent this year. My colleagues who spoke earlier have spoken in detail about some of the failures of the Government during this period. The Government has claimed that most of the promises made through the Common Minimum Programme have been fulfilled. It is not true. The UPA Government has failed to fulfill the promises. This is a very unfortunate situation. So, Shri Pranab Mukherjee, not only while presenting the Budget but also even while replying to the President’s Address, was explaining the victories of the UPA Government for the last four-and-a-half years.[R64]  

          The Government claims that 62 lakh houses have been constructed, pension amount has been increased, longstanding problems of farmers have been solved, loan waiver has been granted, the Right to Information Act has been passed etc. It is true that some of these good flagship schemes and projects have been launched by the Government. But with the continuous demand of the Left Parties, they had to accept some of these programmes and get them implemented. … (Interruptions) We do take the credit, but at the same time, I would like to say that some of these schemes are not very successful. Though the National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme is extended to all the districts of the country, even according to the Ministry of Rural Development, only 45 days of work could be given to the rural labour in this country last year. The promise that half the wage would be given, if employment could not be provided within 15 days of request, has not been fulfilled in most of the places including my constituency. Though the request for employment is made, employment has not been provided and the allowance, that is, 50 per cent of the wage, which is to be provided, that also has not been given. Sir, five years back, the NDA Government also claimed that India is shining. Though not exactly the same words, but while hearing the Budget Speech of Shri Pranab Mukherjee, I was remembering the ‘India Shining’ slogan of the NDA which was rejected and that is why they were defeated and sent to sit in the Opposition. More or less it is the same type of claim that the UPA Government is making in this Budget. I would like to accuse this Government that they failed to implement the Common Minimum Programme. They betrayed the Common Minimum Programme and the biggest betrayal is towards the farmers, towards the agricultural labourers and, above all, the women of this country. There is no need to spend even a single pie for the Women’s Reservation Bill to be passed. For the last several years it has been pending and now it is there in the Rajya Sabha where it has been introduced. But I am sure it is not going to come to the Lok Sabha. Before every election, these types of promises are being made. There are other schemes which have been introduced, but they are not successfully implemented. Sir, though the Government agreed that there is some impact of the global recession, they are not ready to accept the seriousness of the impact. Already 12,000 to 15,000 workers and employees have lost their jobs. The steps taken by the Government and the proposed schemes are not going to help in generation of employment. Whatever safety measures that have been taken, they have been taken because of the relentless battle waged by the Left Parties both inside the Parliament and outside against the FDIs and FIIs to be brought into India. But in spite of this, the recession is having its impact on the Indian economy. We could save only the financial and banking institutions because we could prevent the foreign investment in a big scale in our country.[R65]  Otherwise, our banks would have also collapsed like house of cards in the way the US and European banks collapsed. [r66]           Our economy is mostly affected because our exports are more or less stagnated now. Unfortunately, most of our exports, most of our economy is linked with the United States of America.  Undoubtedly, that is one of the biggest economies in the world, but I believe that putting all the eggs in one basket was not a wise thing.  We should have tried the diversification of our exports to various other countries, particularly, to developing countries. Because of the tie-up with  the USA as there is a collapse of the US economy, we are also suffering.  Now, even at this late hour we should try to find out the other alternatives for the exports to the developing countries. In our country, many enterprises are closed, particularly, the IT industry is in very serious crisis.  But I do not find much of the proposals to fight back this type of impact on the economic recession and on unemployment.  Today morning, we had a very interesting discussion on the unemployment of the working class in the country.  The hon. Labour Minister was here to explain what steps the Government has taken.  But these are same routine type of schemes that have been implemented in this country.  He narrated all these things and said this is the thing that we are going to solve the problem of recession.  It is not going to solve.  It is a very gloomy situation around and by jugglery of words and numbers the unemployment is not going to be reduced in the country. Sir, I would like to say that even in the Budget it was very clear that the Government is not ready to tax the rich who benefited wonderfully because of the schemes of the Government in the last few years.  Rich is becoming richer.  There are four Indians in the top ten richest persons in the world. But there are more than 30 crores of people below the poverty line.  What is it we are doing about this? Deficit Budget is going to bring more inflation. Mr. Chairperson, I would like to remind one thing that most of us, the Members of Parliament – Ruling Party and the Opposition, I am sure might have received several letters about the so-called Indians’ deposit in the Swiss banks. It is supposed to be Rs.1,456 billion. I could not find in the online the so-called report of the banking association of Switzerland giving the details which country has deposited how much of money.  This is not the country’s money, this is the individuals who deposited.  It comes to approximately Rs.72,00,000 crore. If it is true, this is the bigger amount deposited than all the countries put together in the Swiss banks.  If it is not true, I will be happy.  Let the Finance Minister deny it.  If it is true, bring back that money.  That is the money of the Indians.  The people who are evading the taxes, the people who made black money, they go to Swiss banks… (Interruptions) Yes, the Bofors money is also accused of being put in the Swiss banks.  But it could be never proved. I was told that the Swiss banks agreed to give only the details of the countries and not the names.  But according to the international agreements if the Government of India asks for the details of the individuals who deposited this money, they have to provide.  I demand that the Government of India should take immediate steps to bring this money back. Sir, the hon. Finance Minister, in his reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address, has also said that the Government is committed to the public sector.[r67]    What is happening to the various public sector industries?  In Hindustan Cables Ltd., one of the biggest industries in the country, there are no salaries given for the last ten months.  I was told that the Cabinet approved to give four months’ salaries for them but still they will be continuing without salaries for the next few months.  They have not been paid for the last ten months. In HMT Bearings at Hyderabad, which was earlier known as Indo Nippon, which is one of the very good companies, there are no salaries given for the last several months.  There is HMT, which is supposed to be the mother of Indian industries, there the revival package is a miserable failure.  It is lopsided.  It is about to be closed.  I feel that there is a conspiracy to close this and handover to private people.  Including HMT, there are many other public sector industries where there is no wage revision for the last 15 years.  Many talented people have gone out in search of the job.  Those people who are above 40 years cannot find a job now; so they are continuing with one of the lowest salaries in the country.  Is it the commitment to public sector? The Visakhapatnam Steel Plant workers, traveling all the way, they came here yesterday.  They held a demonstration before the Parliament.  They have not come for increase in the wages.  They are not asking for their wage revision. They are asking for the 14 captive iron ore mines.  For the several decades, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant is again and again asking but no captive mines are given to them.  But the industries which were started only last year, I would say not even six months back, one steel plant in Andhra Pradesh, which is supposed to be an industry belonging to the son of the Chief Minister, they got captive coal-mines taking back the captive coal-mines given to Genco.  Genco was asked to give a letter that they do not need those coal-mines. How is it that you are committing to the public sector industries?  Is it the way the public sector is to be saved? There are traditional industries in our country like bidi, coir, jute cashew, textiles, handloom, fisheries; they are all in crisis.  What is the allotment made for the revival of these industries? They are all getting sick.  These are the employment-oriented industries, labour-oriented industries.  They are in serious crisis.  No effort is being made.  Now the industries are given money.  For example, rubber industry is in serious crisis because the Government gives subsidies to those who would like to import rubber from other countries at cheaper price. The Indian rubber manufacturing is going to be in serious crisis.  Is it the way, the industries of India can be saved? Just today, I have seen in one of the newspapers that Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission has sanctioned Rs. 1400 for 16 cities to purchases the buses. There are several towns, cities without proper drinking water, without proper drainage system.  No roads are there.  Now, in the name of helping the motor industry, for luxury buses to be purchased, Rs. 1400 crore are you paying in the name of Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission?  Is it the way the Indian industries are to be saved?  You could have provided this much amount for the unorganized sector. Last year, in December, we in this Parliament passed a historic Bill, the Unorganised Workers Bill.   But no amount of money is provided as a corpus fund for the social security for the 40 crore people.  Wherefrom the money comes? You just want to abide only by introducing a Bill.  It will be only a statement.  It will be a goodwill statement but it is not going to be an Act without proper amount of money to be paid. I would like to say that the so-called credit to Kisans is not being implemented. Though it is a good loan waiver, yet it did not help the Kisans very much. [RP68]          Sir, I come from the State of Andhra Pradesh where agriculture is in serious crisis.  Agricultural crisis is pooh-poohed by the hon. Finance Minister saying that in the last four years, there is four per cent growth in GDP, and 20 million food grains are produced in the country more than previously. Food grains are excellent but I would like to ask the Finance Minister to see the other details.  The per capita consumption of food grains by the Indians has been reduced.  If we have got so much of food grains, why is the per capita consumption of food grains getting reduced?  There is something wrong with the distribution system.  The public distribution system is to be further strengthened.  The prices of food grains have gone up.  Many people are unable to purchase food grains.  In India, only one-third of our agriculture is irrigated.  The main infrastructure for agriculture is irrigation. For that, not much money has been allotted. If we could achieve self-reliance in food grains with irrigation in one-third of agriculture, definitely our country can achieve much more. If the irrigation facilities can be provided to our kisans and remunerative prices for their food grains can be given to them, India can become a world power by achieving higher food grains, by giving food grains to all the Indians, and also India can export not by becoming a strategic partner with the United States of America.  On this issue, Shri Pranab Babu was telling that India did not bow or did not deviate from the Non-Aligned Foreign Policy. What has happened to the Iranian gas pipeline?  Condoleezza Rice, when she came to India, said that as we do not want this gas pipeline through Afghanistan, we do not want to have any contact with Iran, and, therefore, you stop it. Sir, there is no mention about this gas pipeline in the Budget speech.  We could have certainly come out of the electricity crisis if the Iranian gas was provided to us.  It was supposed to be one of the cheapest. The strategic partnership with the United States of America has started even before signing the Indo-US nuclear deal.  They decide as to who should be the Ministers in the Indian Cabinet. You can claim that our country is an independent country.  Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar’s head has rolled from the post of Petroleum Minister because the United States of America did not like the method of his understanding and his attempt for an MoU with the Iranian petroleum companies for the gas pipeline.  This is what we accused and we still accuse.  This is not going to help India; this is not going to help our country to become self-reliant or following Non-Aligned Foreign Policy. Sir, I would like to conclude my speech by talking about two more important issues. I would like to say that the allocation for Defence Budget has been increased.  Shri Pranab Mukherjee was telling that in the fight against terrorism, we need more allocation.  I agree that we do need more allocation but the Government of India miserably failed to control terrorism which is coming from outside and within the country.  Here I would like to say that the Government of India should take note of the comments made by the Supreme Court on Salva Judum.  I am raising this issue because Salva Judum is an extra constitutional authority; a civilian section is being armed, financed by the Government of India finances.  The Government is trying to put them against naxalites in the name of one group of tribals fighting against another. Are we going to allow the type of private army to come up?  Is it the way the Government is going to stop terrorism?  Naxalism is a socio-economic issue.  [H69]  The Government has to solve the problem of poverty to finish Naxalism in this country.  But the Government is considering this problem as a law and order problem, which is not going to help. Sir, the Right to Education Bill is pending for a long time.  Only yesterday, we passed the Central Universities Bill. There is a Bill, which has been passed by the Rajaba Sabha about SC&ST reservations.  Actually, it is not about reservation, it is about de-reservation  in 48 educational institutions.  It is a shame that the SC and ST people would not be allowed to enter into these so-called institutes of excellence.  What a shame for the Government to bring such a Bill? I demand that it should be scrapped and withdrawn. Sir, regarding the corporate sector, there is a miserable failure on the part of the Regulators.  Satyam Computers scam is a shameful thing for the whole country.  Now, the FIIs are afraid  of coming to this country. Sir, our friend, Shri Ananth Kumarji is not present in the House, but I was told  that while making his speech, he said: “Because, the UPA Government failed, the alternative is coming in the shape of the NDA.”  He  was telling that a good leader, a strong front and a strong party is going to help the country.  I would like to say that yes, there is a failure on the part of the Congress, and I am sure that this is the last Budget the Congress is proposing for this period. But  at the same time, the BJP is also not going to come.  He named Shri Advaniji, the Prime Minister-in-waiting. He has to wait eternally.      I am sure, he is not going to become the Prime Minister.  But I would like to ask the other partners of the NDA whether they agree with the new proposal of the BJP of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya once again?  As long as  Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji was the Prime Minister of this country and  the leader of the BJP,  this slogan was kept aside.  Now, again, they are raising it because they are not having confidence that they can fight politics on the question of economics, on the question of social issues.  Once again, they are trying to divide the country on communal lines, and they are desparate to come back to power… (Interruptions) Mr. Satpathyji, if you  are not believing it, you have to say that  you do not subscribe for this wrong Temple policy, which is being brought by them... (Interruptions) Sir, in Pakistan today, there is a news that the North-Western Frontier Province has been captured by Talibans. But in this country itself, in Mangalore, we have seen the Hindu talibanisation  by some hooligans taking the  control of the law and order in their hands.  They say that they respect the women, but they insulted the women, physically assaulted the women there.  This type oftalibanisation  should not be  allowed to happen.  I wish that the Bhartiya Janata Party should dissociate from these types of things, disband these types of organizations. They should come out of the communal politics. Then, only they can play a proper role in the Indian politics. Sir, with these few words, I would like to say that the Interim Budget is disappointing.  It is helping only the rich; and it is not helping, in any way, the Indian poor, whose life is becoming miserable because of the globalization and because of the international recession. PROF. M. RAMADASS ( PONDICHERRY ): Sir, on behalf of the Pattali Makkal Katchi and its founder President, Dr. Ayya,  I rise to support the Interim Budget presented by the hon. Finance Minister to this august House. While commending on this Interim Budget, one should understand the nature of a full-fledged Budget and the nature of an Interim Budget.  The Government of the UPA is completing its five year term, and it cannot take far-reaching policy implications so that they could be included in the Interim Budget.[r70]  

          The Interim Budget is basically a document requesting the approval of the Parliament to spend a certain sum of money for the next four months. When the next Government comes, it would have the full liberty to implement a number of permanent programmes. So, one has to understand this difference. Now, keeping this difference in mind, I feel that this Interim Budget of the UPA Government contains all the essential characteristics or the sound fundamentals of an Interim Budget, and I join other Members in supporting this Interim Budget submitted by the Government. But at the same time when we look into the Budget we find that there is a review of the work carried out by this Government in the last five years and in that context, this Interim Budget becomes the sixth Budget of the UPA Government. It goes to the credit of this Government that it could successively and successfully present six Budgets to the Parliament. The credit in a large measure must go to the UPA Chairperson Madam Sonia ji, hon. Dr. Manmohan Singh, an internationally renowned economist, Mr. P. Chidambaram, who presented five successive Budgets, and also the present Finance Minister. Therefore, they all deserve our appreciation for successfully presenting these six Budgets. Now, when I take the earlier Budgets and also the Interim Budget, I cannot but record my sense of appreciation for the good work that has been initiated by all these Budgets. I see in the functioning of UPA Government, a professional approach, an approach providing for accountability, transparency and also social justice. Nobody can deny that. Even an adverse commentator against the Government would admit that it was this UPA Government that could provide a framework for bringing both economic growth and social justice to the people. Now, look at the performance of the UPA Government through these 5-6 Budgets. It is only this Government which created a tradition of presenting an Outcome Budget, a Budget which details not only the expenditure and revenue of the Government but also presents what has happened to the impact of the expenditure that has been incurred in terms of the achievements in physical quantities. So, the presentation of an Outcome Budget has been one of the salient and welcome features of the UPA Government and it is so accountable that every year it has presented an Action Taken Report. These are the announcements made in the first Budget. When the next Budget comes, it says that on these announcements that we have made, on these Policy pronouncements that we have made, these are the actions that have been taken. It is just to assess and evaluate the performance of the Government in terms of the budgetary proposals. Not only that, it was only this Government which presented a Gender Budget wherein we are asking for 33 per cent reservation for women. But here is a Government which has prepared a Gender Budget in each Department. How much of money are you spending? I am spending Rs.100. Out of this Rs.100, so much is earmarked for the development of women and for the development of children. Therefore, a gender budgeting has also been presented by the Government. That is another important innovation that this Government has brought. It is this Government which has brought the Fiscal Responsibility and Business Management Act, and it has scrupulously adhered to the targets set by the FRBM Act. 16.54 hrs. 

                             (Shrimati Krishna Tirath in the Chair) 

          That is why, over the last four to five years, it was able to reduce the revenue deficit considerably and also the fiscal deficit. But for this year alone, every year the target fixed has been fulfilled by the Government and the Government was nearly approaching to the level of eradicating the revenue deficit and making it to zero. But for the interim happenings in the international arena, perhaps, the Government would have achieved those targets also.[m71]  So, taking all this into account, I find that this Government was able to make a kind of innovative approach to budget-making and also accountability to the people. Madam, today the fundamentals of the Indian economy are very strong as the earlier Finance Minister used to say that ‘today, we have a robust economy.’ In the last four to five years, our growth rate has been hovering between 8.5 per cent and 9.5 per cent. Today, because of the world recession and because of the developments outside the country, we find stagnation, there is slowing of growth, but even here, one has to admit that if the fundamentals of Indian economy had not been strong, if the banking system in the Indian economy had not been strong, perhaps India would have slipped further down to a growth rate between 3 per cent and 3.5 per cent. When the whole of world economy is growing between 4 per cent and 4.2 per cent, Indian economy is able to maintain even today a growth rate of 7.2 per cent in spite of the world or global recession. The most important factor for this is that we have been able to develop a good banking system which did not crush with the developments in the banking system elsewhere in the world. That was because we have created the public sector banking system here and not the private sector banking system which permitted all kinds of loans, all kinds of advances to people, which resulted in a crash. The world situation, the world recession had two implications for us. One is that the international borrowing or international flow of funds to Indian economy was coming down. As a result, the investible resources within the country have come down. Therefore, we are not able to undertake investment opportunities and investment potential is declining because of the shrinking of resources from other countries. Secondly, the banking system is not able to cope with this increasing demand for finances or the investment funds for the country, but by using our monetary policy, the RBI has used its instruments of Statutory Liquidity Ratio and Cash Reserve Ratio very ably had been able to manage the liquidity situation. This Budget also, through its fiscal instruments, has been able to do some kind of stimulus to the economy by spending, deficit spending on the Indian economy. This is not something new which the people were saying about. Even in 1929 when the whole world economy was facing depression, it was John Lord Maynar Keynes, the greatest economist of the 20th century in the world, who propounded the concept of ‘Pump Priming’. When the purchasing power in the hands of the people was not there and the economy was facing unemployment, there was surplus stock and the people were pouring the surplus stock into the sea because the people did not have the purchasing power. Therefore, he urged upon the Governments of those days to pump more money into the economy through fiscal policies. It was only from there onward that all the Governments all over the world subsequently adopted the public spending spree and public spending scheme. That is also what Barack Obama has done last week and we have done this in the Interim Budget. We are giving lot of purchasing power in the hands of the people and the banking system has been asked to increase the liquidity size in the economy because the economy, at this point of time, should not suffer a liquidity crunch. Agriculture is developing now. Industrial sector is suffering and there should be no reversal of growth process to less than seven per cent. Therefore, it is the duty of any elected Government to increase the liquidity in the economy. This is what precisely the Government of India has done through its able monetary policy as well as fiscal policy. The Interim Budget is only an extension of that imaginative fiscal policy and that is why, it has provided for various schemes under which a large amount of money is pumped into the Indian economy. Perhaps when the same Government comes next time after May elections, they will be able to bring more growth impulses into the economy.[S72]  

 17.00 hrs. [r73]  

Therefore, the Interim Budget is prepared today in the context of an extraordinary situation of stagnation and growth, and thanks to the efforts of the Prime Minister -- who himself happens to be an expert in economics and a person who has understood the reality of the Indian economic situation -- who was able to act then and there and was able to bring the economy on a stable path. This is the credit of the Prime Minister of this country. Another important achievement of this Government in the last five years is that the Government does not believe only in the dictum of economic growth. Mere economic growth is not going to percolate down the benefits to the people at the lower level. India is a very vast country with large diversities and diverse people including rich people, middle-class people, lower-class people, downtrodden people, and when you initiate the process of growth and capitalistic framework, then there is no guarantee that the income generated through the factor incomes like wages, interests, profits and other sources of income will normally go to the poor people. Therefore, the inequalities in the distribution of income are an inevitability in any democratic capitalist society, and this has happened in the case of the Indian economy also. But this UPA Government felt that this kind of an … (Interruptions) SHRI C.K. CHANDRAPPAN ( TRICHUR ): It is a socialist economy. … (Interruptions) PROF. M. RAMADASS : No, it is a mixed economy where we have taken privatization also as a course of development. Mere privatization and mere development of the private sector will bring only growth in the economy, but at the same time we should take into account the social net aspects of the people. The society must develop, and the people at the lower-level must also develop. For that purpose, the Government has taken the maxim that the economic growth with social justice should be the best order of growth, and that has been completely realized by the Prime Minister and Madam Sonia Gandhi. Hence, they have taken a lot of measures. It may be true that here and there some measures have not been done, and some problems do exist. I do agree that some problems in the industries exist and some problems in the agriculture exist, but all these problems cannot vanish or cannot be banished from the country by a magic wand. The Budget is not a magic wand. It is only  growth that has to bring a lot of improvement in the economy. We must keep this factor in mind. Can anyone say -- when we take the social justice aspect -- that this Government has not done anything towards improving the social conditions of the people? Let us take the example of Minorities. It was this Government which brought the Minorities Development Corporation; it was this Government which introduced 15-Point programme for the development of Minorities; and it was this Government which appointed a separate Minister for the Minorities. Is it not going to improve the social conditions of these people? Let us take the example of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) who constitute about 50 per cent of the population. They have not been taken care of by any Government so far. The Mandal Commission said that : “Implement 27 per cent reservation in education and job.” Though it was done in the case of jobs, but it was left out in the case of education. Today, it is only the UPA Government, which has brought a Bill in the Parliament providing for 27 per cent reservation to OBCs in higher education institutions. Now, it has to be seen as to what kind of social transformation it will bring in the next 10 years, and hon. Members like Shri Chandrappan should be there to see the kind of vertical mobility that it is going to come to the people of OBCs category in this country. … (Interruptions) Let us not laugh. We have experienced the benefit of it in Tamil Nadu. Today, in Tamil Nadu, many people have become doctors; many people have become lawyers; and many people have risen in the social ladder because of that policy of reservation. … (Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF OVERSEAS INDIAN AFFAIRS AND MINISTER OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI VAYALAR RAVI): They are brilliant doctors and brilliant lawyers. PROF. M. RAMADASS : Yes, they are brilliant doctors, who can be rated as one of the best in the world today. One of the important achievements of this country is that India has produced the third-largest reservoir of technical and scientific manpower in the world. Out of every three scientists, one is an Indian, and out of every three Indians, one is an OBC person. It means that the OBCs have produced the best talented people even for the world. It is because of the reservation policies adopted at the State-level. Today, the Central Government is joining in the efforts of the State Government by providing this.[r74]  

You take the example of tribals, the people who have been neglected, the people who have not been solicited so far. It is this Government which got a historic legislation passed conferring on them the rights to their own property in the forests. Is it not going to change the complexion of the society there? If we had not done anything there, they would be languishing without any source to live upon. Therefore, the tribals have been taken care of. You take the case of SC/ST students. Today they have been provided reservation in the All India Medical Entrance Examination. This is something that has not been brought about so far. This is a step that has been taken by the UPA Government. Especially our Health Minister has taken this historic step of including SCs and STs in the reservation policy in medical colleges. Is it not going to benefit the social movement and the movement on education ladder of the people? It is a question of ensuring social justice. Take the case of NREGA. Many people have commented on that. But we are seeing the magic results of this National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) in our State. Every household is now assured of Rs.8,000 per annum, Rs.8,000 directly going to the people.  The Government has not only implemented the programme, it has put in place a large number of safeguards. The safeguards are so many that nobody can misuse the funds under the programme so easily as in the case of other programmes. The thinkers of the world and the sociologists say that this is one of the largest programmes that have been implemented by any country in the world. So, India is ahead of many other countries in the implementation of this. Is it not going to increase the purchasing power of the people? It is an act of levelling up the people. That is an instance of social justice. You take the Bill brought in for the benefit of unorganised sector workers in the country. A Bill for their social security has been brought by the UPA Government. Ninety-two per cent of the workers in the economy today … 

MADAM CHAIRMAN : Prof. Ramadass, conclude now. PROF. M. RAMADASS : Madam, I will take only five minutes more. Perhaps this is my last speech in the Parliament. You should be able to hear. THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS                (SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL): You should say, the Fourteenth Lok Sabha. PROF. M. RAMADASS : Yes, the Fourteenth Lok Sabha. MADAM CHAIRMAN : Why are you saying the last? PROF. M. RAMADASS : Yes, Madam. I think you should be a little liberal to me. MADAM CHAIRMAN : Conclude within two minutes. You give all your points. SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL : He is making a good speech. MADAM CHAIRMAN : He is congratulating the UPA Government. SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL : Otherwise also, he is giving good reasons. PROF. M. RAMADASS : I am making an evaluation of what the Government has done. If anyone says what I am saying is not true, I am prepared for a debate outside. Anyone can come in the open and we can have a debate. SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY : That the people will decide. MADAM CHAIRMAN : No interruption please. PROF. M. RAMADASS : People have already decided who are to be decimated; who are to be kept out of Parliament; who should be honoured in the Parliament. The people have already decided that. The UPA is going to come back to power with 300 seats. If you have a diary to write today, do note it down. It is going to come back again. … (Interruptions) Madam, I do not want to enter into a dialogue. MADAM CHAIRMAN : You just address the Chair. PROF. M. RAMADASS : Yes, Madam. The Unorganised Sector Workers Bill is a historic legislation providing social security to 92 per cent of the people in the working sector. The National Rural Health Programme is again an important measure in terms of providing social justice. The loan waiver scheme, the education scheme, all these things are designed to improve social justice. What I wish to reiterate is that the Government has not been preoccupied only with the question of economic growth. It has also done equally well in the sphere of improving social justice. That is one of the important achievements of this UPA Government, which no one can deny. Many people here, many gloomy prophets, forecasted that the Indian economy is having a skyrocketing of inflation; that inflation is not going to be controlled; that there will be two-digit and three-digit inflation and all that. But what has happened? After it reached a peak of 13.2 per cent, this Government, through its judicious monetary and fiscal policies, was able to bring inflation down to 5.2 per cent.[KMR75]    This will even be reduced in due course of time and price stability is going to be the hallmark. It is likely to be in the range of three to four per cent.  Therefore, all the gloomy forecast of these people have been nullified and falsified. There was a talk about the public sector today.  I feel that the  public sector of India today is the pride of the nation and a large number of public sector undertakings which were making losses have now become profit-making enterprises today, thanks to the policies taken by the  Government. Therefore, there are many things to be said about the Interim Budget but at the same time,  I would like to tell the Government that the job losses caused by the recession in the IT industry is an important area where we have to do a lot because many of our boys and girls who have gone to the USA  and other countries are coming back to India and they would find it difficult to find a job here.  Hence, we should devote separate attention on this. People were talking about poverty, unemployment, illiteracy, low health, etc. which are all fundamental issues and that cannot be solved now.  One important approach that the Government has to adopt is that all these schemes relating  to these fundamental issues must be entrusted to the States and the local bodies.  Only they are the best instruments for achieving successes in these areas. If we have to do that, we have to improve the Centre-State financial relations. This is one area where the Government should keep its view to perform when it comes back to power in the next year. The Government will have to do two or three things in the matter of Centre-State relations.  Today, through the Finance Commission’s recommendations, 30 per cent of the total assigned revenue goes to the States.  This is not adequate. Even for a State like Tamil Nadu which implements a lot of welfare schemes for the people is getting only 5.038 per cent of the total kitty, which is just not sufficient to make all the developmental and non-developmental expenditure.  Therefore, instead  of keeping all the resources here, devolve the resources.  I would feel that at least the 13th Finance Commission which is working on the devolution of resources must be advised by the Government that 40 per cent of the combined total revenue of the Central Government must be given to the States. Secondly, the service tax. I think, the Parliament has brought the 88th amendment to transfer the resources generated through the service tax. The Government of India is imposing taxes on 101 services  and they all come directly from the States.  Our understanding is, through the 88th amendment, these revenues must go back to the States but it is not happening.  Therefore, I would appeal to the Government of India that the entire revenue of service taxes must be devolved to the respective States. Then, regarding the Centrally-sponsored schemes, the Government is giving only 50 per cent of the expenditure and the remaining 50 per cent comes from the States, which is imposing a heavy financial burden.  Therefore, I would feel, for all the Central sector schemes, 100 per cent assistance should be given by the Government. Lastly, with regard to my Union Territory, the hon. Finance Minister is there, I would say that the Union Territory of Pondicherry  is facing acute financial crisis because it is not entitled to any transfer of resources from the Finance Commission on the ground that it is only a Union Territory.  We  are not entitled  even to get grant for local bodies because Union Territory of Pondicherry is not covered either by the Finance Commission constituted under the Constitution or by the Finance Commission constituted by the Union Home Ministry.  We are neither  here nor there as a result we do not get any money from the Government  of India for local bodies. Therefore, I would request the Government of India to take this as a term of reference for the 13th Finance Commission and include the Union Territory of Pondicherry and treat that as a State because we have an elected Government and that Government is headed by a Congress Chief Minister.  He is finding it difficult and therefore, the Government of India should be able to do this. With these few words, I commend  this Interim Budget as one of the best efforts of the UPA Government and I hope that this UPA Government by telling all its achievements to people, will come back to power with a resounding success.  Somebody said that the Third Force would come.  I would say that the Third Force is a non-starter.  There is nothing like a Third Force in India. Wherever they had talked about it, it has become a non-starter. SHRI P.S. GADHAVI ( KUTCH ): I rise to express my views on the Interim Budget. In this budget, there is no relief for households, no tax cuts for industries. Everyone is asking what aam admi is going to get from this Budget. I see nothing for them. What the UPA Government has done for improvement of living standards of common man over the period of four years is known to all. The prices of all commodities have increased manifold than what it was during the NDA regime. How can the Government give relief in taxes? They know that the fiscal deficit is 5.5 of 2009-10 GDP and the Government is taking shelter and blaming the global meltdown. So, it is rightly said by the hon. Leader of the Opposition that it is indeed a farewell budget and it does provide ample justification for the people and it would give farewell to the Congress Party. Fiscal deficit figures are unrealistic and it would be much more. It is claimed by the Government that they have made higher allocations in various sectors – Rs.1,41,703 crore for defence, taking into consideration Mumbai terror attack, but I am sorry to say this. Why has the situation arisen like that?  It does not reflect the failure of the UPA Government. Hon. Finance Minister has allocated Rs.40,900 crore for Bharat Nirman and Rs.30,100 crore for NREGS and for many other social sectors like SSA, ICD, etc. 

          Here I would like to submit that the Government requires to pay more attention on implementation and monitoring of these schemes; otherwise, the real benefit of these schemes does not reach the aam admi. Due to wrong policies of the UPA Government, the reduction in growth has translated very sharply and directly into employment sector, especially in labour intensive export sector, IT sector, construction and others. Farmers are also not in a position to get remunerative prices. In many places we have seen that many farmers are committing suicide. On the other hand, aam aadmi also does not get his daily requirements of food, accommodation, etc. He is not getting his requirements. So, farmers on the one hand, are not getting their remunerative prices and the aam aadmi for his daily consumption, is also not getting things at affordable prices. In one village, one person asked another: “What is an Interim Budget?” Another replied: “It is a Budget presented by an Interim Government.” Then, the first person asked: “What is an Interim Government?” The next person replied: “The Interim Government means that the Government does not know whether it will come back after the next elections or not.”  [p76]  

 MADAM CHAIRMAN : Who are these persons? SHRI P.S. GADHAVI : This is an Interim Budget and therefore, this is an ‘Interim Government’ and it does not know whether it is going to come or not.… (Interruptions) SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL : I hope, being in the Parliament for so long he would know as to what an Interim Budget is.… (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN: He is only giving his views 

SHRI P.S. GADHAVI : Madam, though the UPA Government talks of aam  aadmi but in fact it does not care for the aam aadmi  and, therefore, the fate of the next election is apparent. Our IT sector was developed very well but today the same is suffering heavily due to the global melt down and also due to the big Satyam scam.  Our technologists fear retrenchment of their jobs.  With regard to a fall in IT export, what measures the Government is going to take?  Government should specify the remedial measures which it is going to take in this regard. Madam, as per the Report on Effect of Economic Slowdown on employment in India, about half a million workers have lost their jobs during October-December 2008.  The most affected sectors were Gems and Jewellery, Transport and Automobiles where the employment has declined by 8.58 per cent to 4.03 per cent and 2.42 per cent respectively during the period October-December 2008 that is during the regime of this Government. It has been claimed by the UPA Government that in this Budget there has been a substantial increase in subsidy to social sectors.  The important question is whether the poor aadmi has been benefited by this subsidy or not.  Has he got food, power, healthcare or not? The answer comes in negative because more than 27 per cent of the population of our country lives below poverty line.    I would like to know whether the Government has taken measures to distribute the entitled subsidy directly to the targeted beneficiaries since the subsidies are regressive and not progressive.  Subsidy on petroleum products and fertilizers has gone mostly to the overseas suppliers. I would also like the hon. Finance Minister to explain to the House that when the revenue collection is falling due to the industrial slow down and also due to reckless spending and inaccurate accounting in Budget, how this Government is going to improve fiscal deficit which is going up to 13 per cent if the deficit of States were to be added to that of the Union Budget.  Madam, the truth about the deficit, therefore, is that it is designed to serve political objectives, not economic one.  It is, therefore, hard to argue that the deficit translates into the stimulus for the troubled sectors. It is good to double the expenditure under NREGS. My friends have talked about doubling the expenditure under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme but how this can improve the more troubled sectors of industry.  I would request the hon. Minister to explain as to how our troubled sectors of industry could be bailed out… (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN:  All the time you have been asking from the Minister.  You may give your suggestions also. SHRI P.S. GADHAVI : I would like to invite the hon. Finance Minister’s attention to the outstanding Central Sales Tax compensation to the Government of Gujarat.… (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN: He is asking everything from the Minister.  I want him to give his suggestions also. SHRI P.S. GADHAVI : I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to the Central Sales Tax compensation to the Government of Gujarat.[R77]  

          Madam, as regards outstanding central compensation yet to be received from the Government of India, the total compensation claimed by the Government of Gujarat from the Government of India in 2007-08 was Rs.764.06 crore, out of this compensation, the Government of India has given Rs.338.14 crore and compensation yet to be received from the Government of India for the year 2007-08 is Rs.425.92 crore and for the year 2008-09, the total compensation yet to be received from the Government of India up to 31st May, 2008 is Rs.571.15 crore.  So, they are not giving all these dues to the State of Gujarat and they are expecting the State to carry out all the schemes.    These dues were to be phased out.  This amount was to be compensated to the Government of Gujarat.  They are not giving so much of dues for the last two years. So, I would request the hon. Minister to look into this.  I oppose this Interim Budget. SHRI VIJAY BAHUGUNA ( TEHRI GARHWAL ): Madam, I express my gratitude to you for giving me an opportunity to speak on the Interim Budget for the year 2009-10. In the last 5 years of the UPA governance, the country has witnessed an unprecedented economic growth and prosperity. Under the dynamic leadership of hon. Prime Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh and the UPA Chairperson, Shrimati Sonia Gandhi, the focus of all programmes and policies was the upliftment of the common man.  I would congratulate the Government for adhering to and following a very healthy parliamentary precedent and practice of not coming out with any major policy decision in this budget as we are on the verge of elections and it would be the prerogative of the new Government which is likely to be installed in the next few months. Madam, in a nutshell the highlights of economic growth were,  in spite of the global recession, we maintained a growth rate of over 7 per cent.  Loans for farmers for more than Rs. 65,000 crore were wiped out.  The interest rate which is charged is only seven per cent and the levy price both for wheat and paddy has been nearly doubled. With regard to education, the outlay for higher education has been increased by 300 per cent.  Emphasis was given on quality education, and to improve literacy, 15 new central universities and six  new IITs were set up. For the minorities, a 15-point programme was initiated.  There is a flow of funds for the welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, women and children. As a result of the efficient fiscal reforms and controls by the Government and the Reserve Bank of India, the inflation has come down from 13 per cent to less than four per cent.  An outstanding feet of this Government has been the Nuclear Deal without signing the CTBT and ending our nuclear isolation of the last three decades. Madam, for growth and prosperity, it is very necessary that we have peace, unity and tranquility.  Communalism, casteism and regionalism are the antithesis of our freedom movement struggle and of our basic Constitution.  It is unfortunate that for petty electoral gains people are resorting to fanning communal hatred amongst the people.  The UPA has succeeded in curbing such elements. Under the Representation of People Act if a candidate commits a corrupt act under Section 123 on the ground of religion, he is disqualified.  Now, a time has come when we have to legislate that political parties which are spreading hatred and appeal on caste and communal lines, are also banned if our democracy has to survive and thrive. Madam, I would appeal to the Government to give special attention and provide economic upliftment to the people living in the border districts of our country.  In this context, I would like to draw the attention of the Government that like JURM, we must have a scheme for the upliftment of the hill districts and border districts because our neighbouring countries should not get an opportunity of exploiting the unemployed youth and create tension in the country. [R78]  I would also like to make a request to the Government that, for a coordinated and planned development of the entire Himalayan Region, we should set up a Himalayan Development Board under the Chairmanship of the Prime Minister so that the people living in the remote areas of the Himalayan Region get the benefit of economic growth and prosperity. Madam, in this Budget, we have taken care of all sections of the society and tried to take the entire country move ahead.  If a doctor is giving good medicines, then no sane man will change his doctor.  If a lawyer is giving good performance, no sane man will change his lawyer.  Shrimati Sonia Gandhi is a person who is pleading for the downtrodden and welfare of the ‘aam admi’ minorities and other backward classes and in Dr. Manmohan Singh, we have a doctor who knows the right prescription for the people of this country and I am quite confident that, in the coming elections, the people of this country will take the same sane decision and not change the leadership of Shrimati Sonia Gandhi and our eminent Dr. Manmohan Singh who has done tremendous work in bringing about quality change in the economy and welfare of this country. श्री रामदास आठवले ( पंढरपुर ) :  सभापति महोदया, आज अंतरिम बजट पर चर्चा हो रही है। मेरा सुझाव है कि कोई भी सरकार हो, उसे पूरा बजट पेश करना चाहिये। क्योंकि चुनाव आ रहे हैं, इसलिये अंतरिम बजट पेश किया गया है। इस तरह पिछली बार भी अंतरिम बजट पेश किया गया था। सभापति महोदया, मैं डा. मनमोहन सिंह का आभार प्रकट करना चाहता हूं कि पिछले पांच सालों में कई मुद्दों पर विरोध होते हुये भी उन्होंने देश की प्रगति और उसकी इकोनोमी की डेवलेपमेंट करने के लिये जो भी काम करना था, उन्होंने किया। अभी उनकी बाईपास सर्जरी हुई है, उनके शीघ्र अच्छा होने की कामना करता हूं। अगले चुनाव अप्रैल-मई में होने वाले हैं और यह सरकार दुबारा आयेगी। एन.डी.ए. कितनी कोशिश कर ले, श्री आडवाणी जी  का प्रधानमंत्री का सपना पूरा नहीं होगा, वे प्रधानमंत्री नहीं बन सकते हैं। पिछली बार हमारे कम्युनिस्ट दोस्तों का एग्रीमेंट था और संमर्थन देते रहे हैं, चाहे कुछ बातों पर विरोध था। इस बार भी हमारे कम्युनिस्ट भाई - सीपीएम, सीपीआई,आरएसपी. फारवर्ड ब्लाक जो सैकुलर विचारधारा के लोग हैं, हमारा साथ देंगे। वैसे ऐसा मौका आयेगा कि उनकी सपोर्ट के बिना हम सरकार बनायेंगे लेकिन अगर ऐसा वक्त आया तो वे हमें सपोर्ट करेंगे...( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदया :  अंतरिम बजट में भी वे हमारे साथ हैं। श्री रामदास आठवले :  इसलिये मैं बता रहा था कि 14वीं लोक सभा का यह अंतिंम सत्र है लेकिन हमारे लिये नहीं है क्योंकि मैं इस बार फिर से चुनकर आऊंगा। जब इन्दिरा जी प्रधानमंत्री थीं, उस समय एस.सी.एस.टी. के लिए स्पेशल कंपोनैंट प्लान लेकर आयी थीं और उनके विकास के लिये प्लान बनाया गया था। पोपुलेशन के हिसाब से बजट एलोकेशन करने का काम सरकार का है लेकिन प्राब्लम यह है कि प्लान और नॉन-प्लान में 25 प्रतिशत बजट बीपीएल के लिये करना है। मेरी सूचना है कि अगर बीपीएल के लोगों को ऊपर उठाना है तो देहात में रहने वाले बीपीएल लोगों के लिये बजट का प्लान और नॉन-प्लान का 25 प्रतिशत पैसा एलोकेट होना चाहिये, यह मेरी मांग है। इसके लिये बीपीएल लोगों का री-सर्वे करना चाहिये क्योंकि सही मायने में जो बीपीएल के लोग हैं, उनका ही री-सर्वे कराने की आवश्यकता है।[s79]  

          शैडय़ूल कास्ट और शैडय़ूल ट्राइब को प्राइवेट सेक्टर में आरक्षण देने के लिए आपने भी बहुत बार मांग की है और हमने भी बहुत बार मांग की है। सरकार के कॉमन मिनिमम प्रोग्राम में यह मुद्दा होने के बावजूद भी अभी तक प्राइवेट सेक्टर में एससी,एसटी को आरक्षण देने का निर्णय नहीं हुआ है और वह भी करने की आवश्यकता थी। इसके साथ ही मेरी यह भी मांग है कि मुस्लिम कम्युनिटी के लिए 10 परसेंट आरक्षण रखने की आवश्यकता है। अपने देश की घुमन्तु कम्युनिटी को भी 10 परसेंट आरक्षण देने की आवश्यकता है। महिलाओं के आरक्षण बिल को जल्दी पास होना चाहिए था, लेकिन अभी वह पास नहीं है। अगली बार हमें ही यह करना है और इससे महिलाओं को आरक्षण मिलेगा। मेरी मांग यह है कि शैडय़ूल कास्ट और शैडय़ूल ट्राइब के लिए मंत्रिमंडल में भी आरक्षण रखने की आवश्यकता है क्योंकि इसमें अपने लोग बहुत कम होते हैं। मेरा यह सोचना है कि मंत्रिमंडल, राज्यसभा और विधान परिषदों में भी आरक्षण होना चाहिए। महोदया, हमारी यह मांग है कि इकॉनामिक बैक वर्ड क्लॉस के लोगों के लिए 20 परसेंट आरक्षण होना चाहिए। आरक्षण के मुद्दे पर बहुत बड़ा विवाद भी है। मेरी मांग यह भी है कि जो ब्राह्मण कम्युनिटी है और जो दूसरी कम्युनिटी हैं, जिन्हें बिल्कुल आरक्षण नहीं मिलता है, ऐसे लोगों को भी 20 परसेंट आरक्षण देना चाहिए। इस समाज में भी बैक वर्ड क्लॉस के लोगों की संख्या है। इसलिए संविधान में संशोधन करके इनको भी 20 परसेंट आरक्षण देना चाहिए। सुप्रीम कोर्ट का यह मत है कि आरक्षण 50 परसेंट से आगे नहीं जाना चाहिए, लेकिन पार्लियामेंट का मत यह है कि हर बैक वर्ड क्लास की कौम को आरक्षण का फायदा मिलना चाहिए। इसलिए माननीय प्रणव दा मैं आपको भी यह बताना चाहता हूँ कि जो जातियां आरक्षण के दायरे में नहीं आती हैं, ऊपर वाली जातियों को भी अगर आप 20 परसेंट आरक्षण देते हैं तो इकॉनामिक बैक वर्ड क्लास के लोगों की संख्या और भी कम हो सकती है। इस काम को करने की आवश्यकता है। महोदया, मेरी दूसरी मांग यह है कि बाबा साहेब अंबेडकर जी ने इस देश का संविधान लिखा है और बाबा साहेब अंबेडकर जी के बारे में बहुत सारे लोग डिस्कस भी करते हैं, लेकिन बाबा साहेब अंबेडकर जी ने संविधान में सोशल एंड इकॉनामिक इक्वलिटी की बात बतायी थी। आज भी देश में कास्टिज्म है और देश में इकॉनामिक इक्वलिटि नहीं है। देश में इकॉनामिक इक्वलिटि और सोशल इक्वलिटि आने के लिए भी काम करना चाहिए और उसके साथ-साथ बाबा साहेब अंबेडकर जी का जो मैमोरियल है क्षेत्र भूमि मुंबई में है, दीक्षा भूमि नागपुर में है और 26 अलीपुर रोड यहाँ जो दिल्ली में है, इन सबके लिए 200 करोड़ रूपए का प्रावधान करने की आवश्यकता है। यह मेरी मांग है। हमारे देश में मुंबई, दिल्ली, कलकत्ता, चेन्नई, बंगलौर, लखनऊ, हर शहर में स्लम में रहने वाले लोगों की संख्या बहुत ज्यादा है। स्लम में रहने वाले लोगों को पक्का मकान मिलना चाहिए। अगर उनको पक्का मकान मिलेगा तो अपनी सरकार भी पक्की बन सकती है। सभापति महोदया : धन्यवाद, रामदास अठावले जी। श्री रामदास आठवले :  इसलिए स्लम वालों को भी अच्छी मदद देने की आवश्यकता है। हमारे देश में बेरोजगार लोगों की संख्या बहुत ज्यादा है। जब तक उन्हें रोजगार नहीं मिलता है तब तक उनको हर महीने तीन हजार रूपए बेरोजगारी भत्ता देना चाहिए। एज पर कांस्टीटय़ूशन सरकार की यह जिम्मेदारी  हर आदमी को रोटी, कपड़ा और मकान मिलना चाहिए। मैं सरकार से यह अनुरोध करता हूँ कि आप अपनी पूरी ताकत से काम कीजिए। मेरी पार्टी आपके साथ रहेगी। भारतीय जनता पार्टी वालों को केवल सपना देखने दीजिए और मुझे इस बात की बहुत ज्यादा खुशी है कि इन्होंने श्री आड़वाणी जी का नाम आगे बढ़ाया है। इन आडवाणी जी ने बाबरी मस्जिद को गिराया है। राम रथ यात्रा निकालकर आपने इस देश के टुकड़े करने का प्रयत्न किया है इसलिए आडवाणी जी कभी प्रधानमंत्री नहीं बन सकते हैं। हमारे लिए यह बहुत ठीक है कि आप आडवाणी जी का नाम आगे लाये हैं। हम आपसे यह अपील करते हैं कि हम सब लोग मिलकर देश को एक साथ रखेंगे। हमारी पार्टी चाहे अलग-अलग ही क्यों न हों, लेकिन देश एक साथ रहना चाहिए। हिन्दू हो या मुसलमान हो, दलित हो या और कोई अल्पसंख्यक हो, हम सब लोगों को एकसाथ आगे बढ़ने की आवश्यकता है। हम सब आगे बढ़ते रहेंगे और देश को मजबूत करेंगे। हम लोकतंत्र को मजबूत करेंगे। आज माननीय स्पीकर साहब ने यह बोला है कि जो ज्यादा हंगामा करते हैं वे चुनकर नहीं आएंगे। मैं यह बताता हूँ कि मैं चुनकर आऊंगा। यह बात सही है कि मैनें बहुत बार हंगामा किया है, लेकिन हमने लोगों इश्यू पर हंगामा किया है। हम माननीय स्पीकर साहब की भी रेस्पेक्ट करते हैं कि उन्होंने हमको रेस्पेक्ट दिया है। मैं हंगामा करने के बाद भी चुनकर आने वाला हूँ और आप चुनकर आइए, सब लोग चुनकर आइए। सभापति महोदया : तथागत सत्पथी जी आप बोलिये। श्री रामदास आठवले : हमारी सरकार दोबार आयेगी और हम दुबारा अच्छा बजट देंगे। हम आपके उड़ीसा के लिए भी अच्छा बजट देंगे, लेकिन आप लोग उधर मत रहिये। सभापति महोदया : रामदास अठावले जी, कृप्या आप बैठ जाइए। आपने बहुत सारी अच्छी बातें कही हैं। श्री रामदास आठवले : आपकी विचारधारा समाजवादी थी, लेकिन आप बीजेपी के साथ क्यों हैं? हमारे मन में आपके लिए बहुत आदर है। आपने बहुत अच्छा काम किया है, लेकिन वहां जाने के बाद थोड़ा गड़बड़ हो गया है। सभापति महोदया : कुछ भी रिकार्ड में नहीं आएगा। मैं दूसरा नाम बता चुकी हूँ।[r80]  

 श्री रामदास आठवले : आप लोग समाजवादी विचारधारा के हैं, तो आप बीजेपी के साथ क्यों हैं? आपको इधर आना चाहिए। आपने बहुत अच्छे काम किए हैं, लेकिन वहां जाकर थोड़ी गड़बड़ी हो गई है।...( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदया : रामदास आठवले जी, आपका अब कुछ भी रिकार्ड में नहीं जाएगा। ...( व्यवधान) * 

* Not recorded 

 

SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY ( DHENKANAL ): Respected Madam Chairperson, at the outset, I wish to thank you for giving me this opportunity and I do not wish to take too much valuable time of this House.    I have just a few points to show or to showcase how careless, uncaring and how haphazard this Budget has been. Madam, it is a known fact that by the single name that the major Party of the UPA, the Congress swears, viz., Mahatma Mohan Das Karamchand Gandhi’s name. His call was to look at this country in a very microscopic manner. He wanted the people in-charge of governance to look at this country at the level of the panchayats.  But our mania to follow the Americans, to idealize them and love everything that they are rejecting has made us an impractical country where we are forgetting what our forefathers have taught us. Madam, I will just touch a few points and I am sure that as a sensible representative of the people of this very city of Delhi, you will also be bound to agree with me. Let us take for instance the per capita income.  In India, it is Rs. 38,000, on the other hand, the loan, as we have learnt lately, availed by this country, by 2010, that means, by next year, the per capita loan availed by this Government will be Rs. 30,000.  This same amount in 2003 was Rs. 15,000 and in seven year, this has doubled to Rs. 30,000. So, a common person - whether it is the Chairperson or it is a big industrialist, or it is the small, poor or backward farm labourer -- there is an equal distribution Rs. 30,000. When the per capita income is Rs. 38,000, it means you will work ten months’ hard labour. It will be like rigorous imprisonment to repay the loan, which will not be repayable because by the time you repay your Rs. 30,000, a Government like this would have taken another Rs. 60,000 loan on your head.    Therefore, it is time that we actually decide what we want to do with the economy and with the people of this country.  What is the point and why is this false bravado of claiming achievements in projects like the National Rural Health Mission, the Mid-Day-Meal Scheme, the NREGA, Swajaldhara and all the so-called infrastructure construction, the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, these islands of prosperity that you are creating for industrialists and big businessmen?  Where is the help in building this nation when you are trampling the poor and the real aam aadmi? Madam, I will give you one more example.  In this Budget under the Defence Head, this Government has sanctioned Rs. 1,41,700 crore.  But what does history tell us for the past consecutive years?  The Government, including this Government, for the past five years, has not been able to properly make our Armed Forces combat and be ready as per international standards.  Therefore, what happens is that every year we find that the Ministry of Defence is compelled to return funds because those funds have been lying unspent.[a81]           It is because those funds have been lying unspent. So, when you are giving them such huge amounts and they are not even able to develop an LCA or a proper Armoured Vehicle or a Tank or our own weapon, we have to buy, we have to import AK 47 and AK 56 rifles.  It is a pity because we are not giving them the free hand to acquire and to become modern. Therefore, I personally feel that it is a criminal waste to get this kind of huge amounts of money just locked up and unspent and force the poor people of this country to pay back loans for which they have absolutely not done any  mistake. Madam, this Budget presented by the hon. Foreign Minister and Finance Minister is a cruel joke on this nation because the Finance Minister becomes the Home Minister, the Home Minister has to go somewhere else. The Prime Minister has gone somewhere else. Then, somebody else does the Prime Minister’s job. The Prime Minister acting and in waiting is not allowed.… (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN : Is it part of the Interim Budget? SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY : Madam, I am not disrespectful to anybody. The Prime Minister in waiting Shri Pranab Mukherjee is a very respectable, a very veteran and probably a true leader of this country. But, unfortunately, we see that such senior leaders have been slighted as the whole nation saw what happened on the 26th January. Anyway, we feel sad because a senior, a most respectable person is treated like this. No matter where we sit in the House, he is a great man who looks at everybody equally. He is probably one of the few people in this Government who knows how to speak to his colleagues with respect and with folded hands. Always, you will notice in his speech that he uses the words “I humbly submit” which, I find, missing in most people. I praise him for that. But we feel sad the way he is slighted and the way he is  treated by his own Party. He should be deserving to be the Prime Minister. But, unfortunately, that is not the way the mechanism works in his Party. He is, after all, not fit to be liked by people. But I would like to bring to your notice that issues such as drinking water, health, roads and rural connectivity, energy – all these issues, as a blanket measure, have been ignored in this Budget. The amount of money sanctioned for these projects have been very much paltry. Let us take, for example, the loan waiver. I will just give you one more example and then I will wind up.  It is a very sad way in which the Loan Waiver Scheme has been implemented in this country. Mostly, cooperative loans have been availed by either political goons at the rural level or real farmers, real indigent people. Now, the real, sincere worker has tried to repay some part of the loan. He might or she might have succeeded or failed. They have made an effort. But  the goons, the people with connections, people who have access to officers, bureaucrats, police and politicians have completely stopped repayment. They have not paid a single paisa. This Loan Waiver Scheme is a joke on the whole nation. In this Loan Waiver Scheme, those who have not paid a single paisa have benefited but those who have actually toiled hard and worked hard have not benefited. It is a very funny thing. Lastly, I would say that in major parts of this country, unless you have access to urban areas, unless you have friends or relatives, there is no medical help available in the rural parts of India today. No doctors are willing to go to the rural areas. No nurse is available, no compounder is available. No medicines are available. There is nothing. The NRHM is only creating buildings or fixed assets. But the software, the doctors, the medicines and other things are not available in this country. So, let us be conscious that when we are planning for this country, when we are going to face the people again, that we have this Parliament or this Government for the past five years which has not done anything worth the salt that the people have given them. With these words, I conclude. डॉ. सत्यनारायण जटिया ( उज्जैन ): माननीय सभापति जी, बजट और अ[r82] न्तरिम बजट, अन्तरिम बजट कुछ नहीं होता है, बजट ही होता है और उसे बजट की तरह प्रस्तुत किया गया है। बजट की जो विशेषता होनी चाहिए एक निरन्तरता की, कंटीन्युटी की, भविष्य की रचना की, चुनावी वर्ष होने के कारण उन सारी बातों को पूरा नहीं किया जा सका है। इसलिए इस बजट के बारे में बाकी लोगों की जो राय है, वह है, किन्तु जो लिखा गया है, उसमें 'प्रणब दा का बजट' लिखा गया है। मैं आपको बताता हूं कि राष्ट्रीय सहारा, अपने 17 फरवरी के अंक में लिखता है कि- “सप्रति सरकार की अब तक की उपलब्धियों का महिमामंडन कर एवं औद्योगिक नीतियों का अनछुआ रहना और चुनाव की दृष्टि से संवेदनशील क्षेत्रों के लिए आबंटन आदि, बस थोड़े शब्दों में यही प्रणब मुखर्जी के शब्दों का सार है। उद्योग जगत सहित आर्थिक विशेषज्ञ यदि इस पर निराशा प्रकट कर रहे हैं, तो इसमें अस्वाभाविक कुछ नहीं है। आखिर मंदी से छटपटाते देश के लिए एक-एक दिन कीमती है और हम नीतिगत घोषणाओं की जिम्मेदारी अगली सरकार पर लाद दें, इसका क्या तुक है।” 

  

          महोदय, वास्तव में बजट को जानने वाले लोग कितने हैं। बजट का प्रभाव जिन लोगों पर होता है, उसके बारे में यदि हम चिन्ता करें, तो निश्चित रूप से इस देश का भला होगा। देश की आबादी का बहुत बड़ा हिस्सा बेरोजगारी से, गरीबी से और असहायता से जूझ रहा है और उसे पता नहीं है कि वह क्या करे। प्रो. अमर्त्यसेन की, 'सामाजिक न्याय की मांग' विषय पर  एक पुस्तक मुझे अभी-अभी प्राप्त हुई है। उसमें पृष्ठ 46 पर लिखा है कि- “ हमारे देश के वंचित वर्ग की घोर दरिद्रता के बारे में अपेक्षाकृत कम राजनैतिक चर्चा तथा उसकी मूक स्वीकार्यता पर मुझे आश्चर्य होता है। राजनैतिक हितों का अम्बार लगाकर भारतीय समाज के वंचित वर्ग की भीषण व सतत तंगहाली को मात्र तात्कालिक मुद्दों पर आसान बयानबाजी के जरिए दूर करने की कवायद से सरकार पर इस बात के लिए दबाव कम हो जाता है कि वह भारत में विद्यमान अतिघोर एवं सतत अन्याय को अत्यावश्यक तत्परता के साथ दूर करे।” 

  

          महोदय, यह भाषण का हिस्सा है। यह देश का किस्सा है। क्या बदला जब मानवता की पीर वही, तकदीर वही। यह नहीं कह रहे हैं कि कुछ हुआ नहीं है, परन्तु जहां होना चाहिए, वहां उतना नहीं दिखाई दे रहा है, जितना कि दिखाई देना चाहिए। गांव, गरीब और किसान, कौन बनाता है हिन्दुस्तान, भारत का मजदूर किसान। अब गांव की दशा क्या है, गांव की दशा गांव जैसी है। असुविधाग्रस्त समुदाय जहां पर भी रह रहा है, जहां पहुंच नहीं है, जहां सड़क अभी भी नहीं पहुंची है, क्योंकि माननीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी के नेतृत्व में प्रधान मंत्री ग्रामीण सड़क योजना के तहत 25 दिसम्बर, 2000 को गांवों की सड़कें बनाने का काम प्रारम्भ हुआ था और तब से सड़कें बननी शुरू हुईं। उन सड़कों का बनना धीमा हो गया है। उनकी क्वालिटी और गुणवत्ता के बारे में भी कुछ कहा नहीं जा सकता। हम इस मामले में लक्ष्य से तो पीछे हैं ही। इस प्रकार से जब तक गांवों की हालत दयनीय रहने वाली है, तब तक हिन्दुस्तान समृद्ध नहीं होगा। [r83]   [r84]  क्योंकि, गांव में किसान रहता है, गांव में देश की आबादी का एक बहुत बड़ा हिस्सा रहता है, जो खेती पर निर्भर है और खेती के बारे में हम ऊपरी, सतही प्रबन्ध करते जाते हैं। कर्जा माफ, कर्जा क्यों हो गया, आगे न हो, नहीं तो ठीक है, अच्छी लोकप्रिय घोषणा है। यह हमारे देश की एक विडम्बना कहनी चाहिए कि हम जिन बातों को देश में हो ही जाना चाहिए था, उसके बाद में आश्वासन देकर चुनावों में जाते रहते हैं। सड़क, बिजली, पानी, शिक्षा, स्वास्थ्य, चिकित्सा, कमजोर वर्ग, गंदी बस्ती, इन्हों बातों को बार-बार दोहराते हैं। मैं उसका कोई राजनीतीकरण नहीं कर रहा हूं। गरीबी को हटाओ, जोर लगाओ, और हटाओ, भूल जाओ। ...( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : पर आप अपनी बात कहिये कि इस बजट पर आपको क्या कहना है। डॉ. सत्यनारायण जटिया : मैं कह रहा हूं, मैं पहुंच रहा हूं, मेरे भाषण का केवल एक सार है कि समाज के गरीब आदमी को सामर्थ्य दे दें, भारत सामर्थ्यवान बन जायेगा, इसलिए सामर्थ्य को लाने का बार-बार तकाजा यहां हम करते रहते हैं, किन्तु यह तो सरकार का काम है, जो भी सरकार होगी, उसको करना है और उसके लिए जो-जो उपाय हमें प्रभावी रूप से करने चाहिए, उसे प्रभावी उपाय के रूप में यदि हम नहीं करेंगे तो इन बातों को दोहराते जाना पड़ेगा। ठीक है, गरीबी नहीं हटी, नहीं हटी, हटाने की कोशिश जारी है और आगे की क्या तैयारी है। मैं कुछ बोलता नहीं, जो कुछ है, उसी को कहने की कोशिश करूंगा, क्योंकि, जिस तरह से यह कहा गया है, एक विश्लेषण और मेरे ध्यान में आ गया। सरकार ने अन्तरिम बजट में कुछ खास नहीं किया है, ये समीक्षा करने वाले लोग हैं, बजट के द्वारा सरकार अपनी छवि सुधारने की कोशिश कर रही है। स्पष्टतः सरकार ने अपने नकारात्मक पक्ष को छिपाने की कोशिश की है, जिससे यह साफ जाहिर होता है कि यह चुनावी बजट है। जिस ग्रोथ की सरकार बात कर रही है, उसका सूक्ष्म रूप से अध्ययन करने की जरूरत है। 8.6 फीसदी ग्रोथ की जो बात हो रही है, उसमें सरकार ने ऐसे आंकड़ों में उलझाकर पेश किया है, अपने अन्तरिम बजट में सरकार यह कह रही है कि उसने मुद्रास्फीति को कंट्रोल में रखा है, लेकिन यदि मुद्रास्फीति पिछले वर्षों की याद करें तो 10 फीसदी से ज्यादा थी, इसलिए यह कहना कि हमने मुद्रास्फीति को कंट्रोल कर लिया, गलत होगा। दरअसल मुद्रास्फीति की दर और बाकी की बातें तो अन्य-अन्य क्षेत्रों पर निर्भर करती हैं। दूसरी बात का विश्लेषण करते हुए उसने कहा कि सरकार इस अन्तरिम बजट में जिस ग्रोथ की बात कर रही है, उससे अमीरी गरीबी की खाई और गहरी हुई है। अब यह गरीब गरीब, अमीर अमीर, अमीर ज्यादा अमीर हो जायेगा तो गरीब नीचे जायेगा। जो गरीब है, उसको जो जरूरी जीवन के लिए आवश्यक वस्तुं हैं, उसको हम कैसे मुहैया करा रहे हैं? जो हमारा सिस्टम है, जिसको हम कहते हैं कि लोगों को राशन की दुकानों से राशन पहुंचाने के लिए वही एक सिस्टम है। परन्तु इस सारे सिस्टम में जो कुछ मुश्किलें हैं, उनको दूर करने के उपाय हमें करने होंगे। हम लगातार उस परम्परा को ही जारी रखना चाहते हैं , उसको बदलने की कोई कोशिश ही नहीं कर रहा है। उसने कहा कि ये जो पी.डी.एस. सिस्टम वाली दुकानें हैं, इनको हम बराबर रखेंगे। पी.डी.एस. सिस्टम के अलावा भी कुछ और हो सकता है क्या? किस तरह से हम उस गरीब को पी.डी.एस. सिस्टम पर आदमी क्यों जाता है, इसलिए कि उसके पास खरीद की क्षमता नहीं है, जिसकी खरीद की क्षमता नहीं है, उसका अर्थ है कि उसको रोजगार ठीक प्रकार का नहीं है। जब उसका रोजगार ठीक प्रकार का नहीं है तो इसका अर्थ यह है कि उसके परिवार का गुजारा बहुत मुश्किल से होता है...( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : आप यह नहीं बता पा रहे हैं, अगर इस अन्तरिम बजट पर अपनी बात सरकार से कुछ कहना चाहते हैं तो सरकार की जो कमियां हैं, वह बताइये। आपने बहुत टाइम ले लिया। डॉ. सत्यनारायण जटिया : आपके सुझाव के लिए बहुत धन्यवाद। मैंने टाइम नहीं लिया है, मैंने तो अभी शुरूआत की है। मुझे यह पता है कि ये जो आंकड़े हैं, ये आंकड़े गरीब आदमी नहीं समझ रहा है, उसकी गिनती ज्यादा से ज्यादा हजार तक जाती है, लाख तक बहुत मुश्किल से समझते हैं, करोड़ और अरब-खरब, बाकी की बातें तो बहुत मुश्किल लगेंगी, इसलिए यह बजट केवल बजट है तो यदि उसको सार्थक, साकार नहीं करने के उपाय हम करेंगे तो निश्चित रूप से यह किताबों की बातें हैं। यदि सार्थक नहीं हुआ तो स्याही के दम पर। ये लफ्जों की उलझन, ये गिनती के हौवे, 

          अगर समझ गये तो जरा हमें भी बता दीजिए, 

          सिरा ढूंढता हूं, जिंदगी का, 

          अगर पता हो तो मुझे भी बता दीजिए।[R85]  
 

  18.00 hrs.  

उसको और ज्यादा कुछ नहीं चाहिए।  गरीब आदमी को सौ दिन के रोजगार की गारंटी है, इसमें क्या गारंटी है?  उस गारंटी रोजगार में जो शर्तें रखी गयी हैं, उन शतों के अंतर्गत तो वह काम ही नहीं कर पा रहा है, इसलिए ऐसी शर्तों का कोई मतलब ही नहीं है। सभापति महोदया : सत्य नारायण जी, मैं आपको रोकना चाहूंगी। It is six o’clock.  There are four more speakers to speak on the General Budget.  If the House agrees, the time of the House can be extended by half an hour. SEVERAL HON. MEMBERS: Yes. MADAM CHAIRMAN: The time of the House is extended by half an hour. जटिया जी, आपका समय समाप्त हो गया है, आप जल्दी कंक्ल्यूड कर लें। डॉ. सत्यनारायण जटिया : गांव के विकास के लिए जो जरूरी बातें है, उनको करने का उपाय तेजी से करना चाहिए।  बहुत-बहुत बड़ी योजनाओं के बारे में आप बात कह रहे हैं, इतने हजार करोड़, उतने हजार करोड़, आप उन करोड़्स को गांव तक मोड़ दीजिए।  गांव में ऐसा प्रबंध करिए कि उससे शिक्षा का प्रबंध हो जाए, उनको शिक्षा प्राप्त करने का अवसर मिल जाए। सर्व शिक्षा अभियान चलाया जरूर गया है, परंतु सर्व शिक्षा अभियान में जो खामियां हैं, उनको दूर करने के लिए हमें उपाय करने चाहिए। गरीब का बच्चा स्कूल में जाए, इसका प्रबंध करने के लिए, अगर उसके मां-बाप को रोजगार की गारंटी हो जाएगी, तो जरूर उसको इसका लाभ मिलेगा।  किसान को खुशहाल करने के संबंध में मैं कहना चाहूंगा कि आज निश्चित रूप से खेत और उसका रकबा कम होता जा रहा है, क्योंकि खेत कोई ऐसी चीज नहीं है, जो हमेशा बढ़ जाएगी, परिवार के बढ़ जाने से खेत का बटवारा हो जाता है और रकबा कम हो जाता है।  वह गुणवत्ता की खेती कर सके और इतनी खेती कर सके, जिससे उसको अपने गुजारे लायक खर्च करने का मौका हो। खेती के लिए, खाद के लिए, बीज के लिए, उसे गुणवत्ता के बीज मिलें और किसान का कर्ज माफ करने का अवसर फिर न आए, आप इस तरह से उपाय करें। आप आज हजारों करोड़ रूपए के कर्ज माफ करने की बात कह रहे हैं, यदि पहले हम उस पैसे को उसकी खुशहाली में लगा देते, तो शायद यह कर्ज नहीं होता।  इसे अब भी कर सकते हैं। किसान के बारे में सोचने की आवश्यकता है।  जहां तक रोजगार और श्रम की बात है, निश्चित रूप से श्रम की स्थितियां हमारे देश में कमजोर होती चली जा रही हैं और रोजगार के अवसर कम होते जा रहे हैं।  मंदी का वातावरण है, ऐसा कहा जा रहा है। हमारा देश तो कभी पूंजीवादी देश नहीं रहा, हम तो कौशल के वैश्वीकरण के प्रमुख देश रहे हैं। आज पूंजी का वैश्वीकरण हो रहा है। हम स्किल ग्लोबलाइजेशन के माध्यम से, स्किल को ज्यादा प्रोत्साहन करके, अनुकूल परिस्थितियां पैदा करें।  जो गरीब आदमी गांव के अंदर काम करता था, यदि फैक्ट्रियां उस काम को करना शुरू कर दें, तो उसके रोजगार के अवसर जाते रहेंगे, इसलिए उसको रोजगार के विकल्प के लिए प्रशिक्षण का कार्यक्रम होना चाहिए।  यदि हम प्रशिक्षण देकर अन्य रोजगारों के बारे में उनको तैयार कर सकें, तो निश्चित रूप से यह सब के लिए ठीक होगा। इफ्रास्ट्रक्चर के संबंध में आपने देखा होगा कि पिछले कुछ समय में सीमेंट और स्टील के दाम ज्यादा बढ़ गए थे।  इस कारण इफ्रास्ट्रक्चर को खड़ा करने के लिए स्वर्णिम चतुर्भज योजना, उत्तर-दक्षिण, पूर्व-पश्चिम कोरीडोर की बात आयी।   इन सारी बातों को लागू करने का काम हो सकता था।  बिजली की हमारे यहां कमी है, यह बहुत बड़ी मुश्किल है।  बिजली की कमी की योजनाओं को किस तरह से हम पूरा कर सकें, अगर बिजली की कमी रहेगी, तो हमारा देश आगे नहीं बढ़ सकता है, क्योंकि उस पर उद्योग, कृषि और बहुत सारी चीजें निर्भर रहती हैं। पानी के संबंध में कहना चाहूंगा कि पानी को किस तरह से हम बचा सकते हैं, पानी को किस तरह से हम रोक सकते हैं?  सड़कों को जोड़ने की बात चल रही है, प्रधानमंत्री सड़क योजना से गांव को जोड़ने के लिए, स्वर्णिम चतुर्भुज और बाकी की योजनाओं से शहर की सड़कों को जोड़ने के लिए, उसी प्रकार से यदि नदी के पानी को हम एकसाथ मिलाने का काम करें, तो निश्चित रूप से बाढ़ और सूखे के संकट से सारा देश बार-बार गरीब होता जाता है, वह संकट दूर हो जाएगा।  मुझे उम्मीद है कि हम सारी बातों को करने में समर्थ होंगे। इसलिए हमारा सबसे बड़ा ध्यान गांव, गरीब और किसान की ओर जाना चाहिए, उस भूखे इंसान की ओर जाना चाहिए, जो रोजी-रोटी की तलाश कर रहा है। मुझे विश्वास है कि बाकी सब बातों से बात नहीं बनेगी, क्योंकि “ बुलंद वादों की बस्तियां लेकर हम क्या करेंगे, हमें हमारी जमीन दे दो, आसमां लेकर क्या करेंगे?” 

          इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ मैं अपनी बात को समाप्त करता हूं, 

  
 

 

SHRI R.L. JALAPPA ( CHIKBALLAPUR ): Madam Chairman, at the outset, I welcome the Budget and I support the Budget. I am thankful to the Government for having paid Rs. 65,000 crore to farmers who were defaulters[RP86] .   But where is the guarantee that these defaulters will not become defaulters once again?  I would like to know the action that is being proposed to be taken by the Government to prevent them from becoming defaulters once again.  This matter has to be looked into by the Government. The cost of cultivation is going high.  The farmers also want that their children must be educated and become Engineers or Doctors, and the standard of living of the farmers also has gone up. The cost of fertilizers has gone up. There is no guarantee for them to get good yield for their crops which they have sown.   There is no guarantee of rains and no guarantee of water. Even now, 70 per cent of our land is cultivated under dry land cultivation.  Such is the situation now.  So, we are not sure that they will not become defaulters once again. Madam, in 1983 I was the Minister for Cooperation in Karnataka.  I tried this.  I had waived all the interest outstanding of the farmers on the condition that they would pay their overdue.  Most of them paid their overdue.  I was very happy thinking that they would never become defaulters, but within another three years they became defaulters once again because they could not get good yield for their crops due to drought and other conditions.   I would request the Government to lower the interest rate on their loan to three per cent so that the farmers can meet their cost of cultivation.  Also their children should get free education.  Whenever the children of the farmers are given loans for higher studies, only three per cent interest should be charged on their loans. Madam, it is already more than 60 years since we got our Independence. What is that we have done to interlink rivers?  Unfortunately, for the last one or two years we have forgotten to talk about interlinking of rivers.  A lot of water is going waste into the sea, and we have to utilize this water.  Otherwise, we will continue to have drought conditions for ever.  This is important. Madam, I am happy that the hon. Finance Minister, Shri Pranab Mukherjee lauded the farmers, thanked the farmers for having given a plenty of food grains to the country.  Yes, it is true but what is it you are giving to them in return?  The Government must be grateful to them. So, the Government must arrange water to their land, provide them cheaper credit and also look after their children. Secondly, what is the position in respect of electricity today?  We are unable to give even eight hours continuous power supply in a day to those people who have sunk bore wells. Sometimes, the prices of vegetables go up, tomato is sold at Rs. 50 per kilo gram, and onion is sold at Rs. 40/- or so.  The farmers cannot grow these vegetables using the water which is available in his bore well because of lack of electricity.  So, the Government must ensure that the farmers are provided eight hours continuous power supply in a day with sufficient voltage. This has to be done at the earliest. What is happening now?  In many parts in my State, also in Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu, one has to dig one thousand feet to get the water. That water, which contains a lot of fluoride contents, is neither useful to farmers for cultivating their crops nor that water can be used for drinking.  So, immediately the water bodies have to be repaired.  They have been repairing the water bodies, restoring the water bodies, desilting, and all these things. Now, where is the rain to store water in the water bodies? There is no good rainfall. What is it that we are doing?  [H87]  Now, we have to take tree plantation aggressively or else, we would be ruined within 10 years. Madam, the Government should not feel contented that they are having sufficient food grains now. Firstly, we must see that these water bodies are repaired and aggressive afforestation is taken up. Now, roads are being  constructed under the PMGSY. But these roads will not serve even for two years because they are using only 20 MM of hot mix gravel, which is meant only for  light weight vehicles carrying  vegetables, fertilisers etc., to the markets.  The lorries carrying about  15 to 20 tonnes of produces on the road, would be ruining these roads. Madam, the NREGP is a very good scheme.  But in most of the Districts of my State, it is of no use to us.  The wages must be increased to Rs. 125 /- per day. MADAM CHAIRMAN : Jalappaji, if it is written speech, you may lay it on the Table of the House.  It will be treated as laid on the Table. SHRI R.L. JALAPPA : Madam, it is not a written speech.  I have hardly taken three to four minutes.  I seldom speak.  I was waiting  all these time to speak on the Interim Budget. Within two-three minutes, I would conclude. MADAM CHAIRMAN: Okay, please carry on. SHRI R.L. JALAPPA : Madam, these roads,  which are being formulated  or repaired, should have a minimum 30 MM of hot mix gravel, otherwise these roads would not be useful. Finally, I would request the hon. Finance Minister that the Government should charge only three per cent of interest on the loans given to the farmers.  About education loans, no interest should be charged in respect of the farmers’ children. For others also, they should charge only three per cent as interest component. In regard to loan giving, the banks are teasing too much to the borrowers.  I am saying so because I am running  educational  institutions and I know what is going on in the banks in regard to provision of loans. So, I would request that this aspect should be looked into by the hon. Finance Minister. With these few words, I support this Interim-Budget. SHRI BIKRAM KESHARI DEO ( KALAHANDI ): Madam, Chairman, at the outset, I would not support the Interim Budget because it has been seen that it is just an election announcement.  It goes like an election announcement because elections are on the anvil, and  we would again have to go to the people to get a mandate. Probably, the Members within this side, would sit on other side of the House after the next elections, and we hope that the Interim Budget is just a stopgap arrangement for the Government to run, for the services to be rendered till the new Government comes.  So, it is a Kamchalau Budget. Madam, I would like to say that this Government has failed in all fields.  Take the case  of NREGA programme.  They say that they have made a lot of success here. It is a good announcement and it is a very good programme.  But the point is that it has not been implemented properly. The State, which are not ruled by the Congress party,  are being neglected by the Centre.  My District has not got the last two installments of the NREGA till date. SHRI RAMDAS ATHAWALE : Next time, we would give you. SHRI BIKRAM KESHARI DEO : We want them now. It is because, the people have started migrating to  different industrial places in different States. Therefore,  when you are making the Act like the NREGA or the NRHM, you have to get  radical reforms and radical legislations to make  it a success.  When you do not have the radical reforms, how would you make it a successful programme? There are so many lacunae in the NREGA programme and the National Rural Health Mission.  These are just announcements.  People have been waiting to get the benefits of these programmes, which are not reaching them.  Therefore, to make the benefits reach them, we have to have radical reforms. For all this to happen, the Government has to have the will to do it. Madam, I remember, on the floor of this House itself, the hon. Minister of Health had announced  that the Medical Council of India would be looked into and reviwed and the reforms  would be made so that the doctors, after getting the degrees,  wouldl serve for a minimum of three years in the rural areas. But where has that announcement gone?[r88]   Today, you will see that in the KBK districts of Orissa, nearly 60 per cent of the doctors are not there. So, we have to depend upon the quacks or we have to depend upon the hospitals in other States. Therefore, it is creating a lot of hardship to the people. Then, this Government is very famous for going back on its words. When the recent floods took place in Orissa, they promised us Rs.500 crore. The Central Team visited Orissa six months after the floods. We have been given only around Rs.200 crore and we have to get Rs.300 crore more. They have an announcement that they have a Budget provision for flood management of Rs.15,000 crore with the Central Government but we have not got even a single paisa from that money, from that Rs.15,000 crore for the State of Orissa. Therefore, I would request the hon. Finance Minister, who is in-charge of finance today that you please adhere to the request of the Orissa Government for the management of floods. We are a neighbouring State of West Bengal and West Bengal has also been affected by floods. But today we have not got any money. We have got only Rs.250 crore and we have submitted the utilisation certificate. Then, in regard to the banking sector, we talk so much about the farmers. I was hearing the Treasury Bench Members speaking also. You might have waived the loans of the farmers. Waiving of the loan is a welcome measure. But why did that occasion come when you had to waive the loan of the farmers? It is because the farmers have become actually poor. In the last 60 years, we never had any programme directed at their improvement or for their economic upliftment. We just call the farmers heroes today. Everybody calls them heroes because they have given their life and blood for the country and they have helped in succeeding two Green Revolutions. Two Green Revolutions have become successful because of them. But today when the farmers clamour or when the farmers shout for their rights, you do not give it to them. They say we want agricultural loan from the banks at the rate of 3-4 per cent interest rate. The Farmers’ Federation of India has put this issue in front of the UPA Government but they gave no effect to that. Then, regarding fertilizer subsidy, it is seen that you give the fertiliser subsidy to the manufacturing units. But if         that subsidy could be channellised to the farmers in some form or the other, then the farmers would benefit and he could get a remunerative price. We are demanding a Minimum Support Price of Rs.1000 per quintal for rice. But we got Rs.900. Why? Why is this step-motherly treatment to the paddy growing farmers, who comprise most of the States of South-Eastern India? Why is this step-motherly treatment to the paddy growers? Why more to the wheat growers only? I had always spoken that agriculture credit should be reduced to four per cent or three per cent. Then, the farmer will have something to fall back upon. Today, the farmer does not have a father or a mother. He only has the Government at his disposal to bail him out during the problem. Regarding energy security, it is good that you have signed the Nuclear Deal. We hope that after a couple of years, there will be energy security but by the time the demand for electricity increases, the demand for energy would have doubled. It would have doubled. So, what do you do there? How much money have you given for extracting methane gas from coal? How much hydro electricity projects have you identified to generate power? You have been able to generate only 7,000 MW in these four years. It is only 7,000 MW. Is it sufficient for the country? You require minimum a lakh of megawatts by 2020 if you want to be a developed country. Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan is going fine. We have more money for that but the teachers, who have been employed there, are not being employed on a regular basis. Only under the EGS, Education Guarantee Scheme, the teachers are employed who just get a very minimal amount of money. Here, I would like to suggest that the Sarva Shiksha Abihyan children, who are mainly of very, very poor children, should be given enough protein diet so that their growth can be healthy. In regard to Olympic sports, I congratulate all the three Olympians who got us some medals of some repute this time. We congratulate Mr. Abinav Bhindra and the wrestlers and boxers. But India has got the potentiality in the villages. It is only in the urban areas that the athletes are getting a chance to show their talent but there is lot of talent in the villages, which could be harnessed. These rural talents should be harnessed. Today, I am saying about Marathon.[m89]   Countries like Ethiopia which are poorer than India are getting gold medals. In India, a poor boy in the hill everyday goes five kilometres to fetch water and firewood for his family. He also does a record more than for survival. So, if this boy is tapped properly, he can become a future gold medallist for the country. At last, I would like to say that whatever the Government has done during its tenure, they have tried their best, but the coalition, which they had, was a motley coalition. I presume that they could have given us a better Government. They should have followed how Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee led NDA Government, which opened up the rural areas. During that period, it was the rural sector which got the maximum attention compared to other areas. An innovative scheme known as Provision of Urban Amenities in the Rural Areas has only got a budget of about Rs. 2 crore in the last Finance Minister’s budget provisions. Allocation to this scheme should be enhanced and the rural areas should be our targeted thrust areas because 60 per cent of the population live in the rural areas. DR. THOKCHOM MEINYA ( INNER MANIPUR ): Madam, I rise to support the Interim Budget for 2009-2010 which has been commended by the hon. Finance Minister. Since the time is very short, I would like rather to make an analysis of how the Interim Budget has come in this particular Session. You know that we have in our front, elections to next Lok Sabha as the term of the UPA Government will be over in a few months. That is why, the Interim Budget was presented. This is purely for seeking Vote-on-Account to run the Government, rather to meet the expenditure during the coming four months of the next financial year. When I look at the Budget Speech of the hon. Finance Minister as a student of Mathematics, I find a very interesting case. Our hon. Minister is also here. We have got as many as 69 paragraphs in the speech. Six plus nine makes 15 and this is the 15th Session of the 14th Lok Sabha. If you further add one and five, it comes to six and this is the 6th Budget of the present UPA Government. It is a very interesting fact. I think, our friends in the Ministry have done proper arithmetic to make it look so nice. I congratulate them for this. Coming to the contents of the Interim Budget, very humbly I would say that I do not agree with whatever has been said by the hon. Members on the other side of the House. We have seen that you have already agreed on so many novel ideas, our Mission programmes of the UPA Government. For the first time, our economy has sustained a growth of over 9 per cent per annum for three consecutive years. This has to be respected. Madam, we may recall that hon. President in her Address has mentioned आम आदमी को क्या मिले। This is all for aam admi. It also reminds us of the words of the Father of the Nation that India lives in villages. So, we have a number of programmes meant for rural areas. I will not enumerate all those programmes but they are being followed vigorously. The only thing which we can suggest to the Government – of course, every Government has its own limitations -  is about the delivery mechanism. Since India is a vast country and is a union of States and States are being run by different political parties, different political set-ups, there may be lapses here and there, but even then a Mission remains a Mission. Take the example of National Rural Employment Guarantee Act . It is doing fine in many areas and we are very happy that a family in the rural India is given a minimum of Rs. 10,000 a year for their sustenance.[S90]  

          Perhaps, all of you are aware that the global meltdown did not affect the Indian economy because our economy is rural-based. Hence, it has nothing to do with the economic experts. Our agriculturists and farmers toil very hard on their own without any scientific support or otherwise, but they still show us our food security. These are the things that we have come across. Now, I would like to mention a very sensitive issue. I come from a part of a country, which is a border-area. We have got so many border-areas rather they are quite challenged and disturbing areas, which do not have enough revenue resources. Therefore, they actually live on the grants given by the Central Government, and whatever money is given by the Central Government is huge. Let me also mention that those rich States after getting their plan money, share the money with our developments. Once the development money reaches the States, then we have to look into the particular fact that the money is properly utilised. This point is very very important.      Therefore, we require peace in those areas for this purpose and in many of these border-areas, which they call disturbed areas like Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir. They are special category States where we have got many problems. Therefore, I urge upon the Union Government, particularly, the Ministry of Home and the Ministry of Finance to be more liberal in dealing with these States in terms of financial help. At the same time, they have to help to look into tackling the problems faced by these States in a holistic manner, so that the recent happenings in Manipur do not recur. A SDO along with an official and a driver were kidnapped at the gate of the district HQ, and on 13th of this month they were found murdered in an isolated place. We do not know who has done it. The State is facing a lot of problems. Now, Imphal is under full curfew because of this murder. In this context, I would like to request the Union Government to kindly help the State Government to come out of these difficulties so that these killings of innocent people, without any reason, should not recur in the future. With these few words, I support the Interim Budget and wish that the UPA Government comes back to power in the next election. MADAM CHAIRMAN: Thank you. Now, the last speaker for the today is Shri S. K. Bwiswmuthiary. Please keep the time limit in mind while making your speech. SHRI SANSUMA KHUNGGUR BWISWMUTHIARY ( KOKRAJHAR ): Thank you, Madam Chairperson. I am grateful to you for giving me an opportunity to speak on the Interim Budget for 2009-2010. But I must be frank in expressing my opinion about this Budget. I am not at all happy about this Budget. I may be happy for the broad-base policy and approaches adopted for the whole nation, but at the same time I am extremely sorry to apprise you of the fact that no concrete and effective policy measures have been found or have been mentioned in this particular Budget for the overall development of the backward regions of the country, particularly, with special mention to my Bodoland Territory. I would like to appeal to the Government of India, through you, that no discriminatory policy should be adopted against the tribal people, and against the backward people of the whole country. I would like to appeal to the Government of India to take appropriate steps to provide minimum of Rs. 500 crore per annum to the Bodoland Territorial Council Administration for augmenting overall socio-economic educational development of the people living within my Bodoland Territory. Here, I am extremely sorry to remind the Government of India of the fact that on 16 January 2006 the present hon. Prime Minister of India, Dr. Manmohan Singh, had visited a place called Salakati in Kokrajhar district in order to lay the foundation stone of one power plant project of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC).[r91]   He had assured us of a minimum allocation of Rs.500 crore for the next five years. But today I have come to know that in this Budget only Rs.50 crore has been earmarked for the Bodoland Territory. This is a matter of serious concern and great regret. I, therefore, would like to appeal to the Government of India to correct this policy decision. We should be given at least Rs.500 crore per year for the development of entire Bodoland Territory in all spheres. Over the last five years we have been given Rs.500 crore. These Rs.500 crore are nothing because over the last 60 years after Independence my Bodoland Territory has been discriminated against in all spheres. Nothing was done. My Bodoland Territory is adjacent to the International Border with Bhutan. This Indo-Bhutan border area is very backward and neglected. So, I strongly urge upon the Government of India that a minimum of Rs.500 crore per annum should be given to the Bodoland area. Over and above, in order to develop my area in the sphere of education, the Central Government should set up a Central University called Bodoland Central University there. There should be another Central Agricultural University for Bodoland Area. There should be at least one IIT; one IIM; minimum ten numbers of Polytechnic Institutes; minimum ten numbers of ITIs; minimum one AIIMS model institute; and one medical college. The present Central Institute of Technology should be upgraded to a full-fledged Central University. There should be one Bodoland Institute of Textile and Fashion Technology. There should be  a premier educational institution for the development of the Bodoland area. There should be at least one domestic airport in the Bodoland area.        I have been crying hoarse for years to get a domestic airport there but nothing has been done so far. Between Guwahati and Bagdogra there is not a single airport. Because of that we have been facing a lot of trouble in coming here. This is very unfortunate. The flood and river erosion problems of Assam have become perennial problems. These problems should be considered by the Government of India as national problems and effective policy measures should be adopted to tackle these natural calamities. Madam, there is no industry in my Bodoland Territory except one refinery called Bongaigaon refinery. The Government of India should take some concrete policy measures to industrialise our Bodoland territory so that the unemployed people can be given job opportunities. In terms of population we are around 30 lakh people. We have been given an inadequate amount of Central fund. This is very unfortunate. A great injustice has been meted out to the people of Bodoland Territory. Madam, I would like to lay the rest of my speech on the Table. * There should be one Bodoland Medical College; one Bodoland Institute of Information Technology; one Nurse and Paramedics Training Institute. I would like to draw the attention of the Union Government to a very long-pending matter of serious public importance. It pertains to the manifold tragic problems and difficulties being faced by a huge number of Bodo medium schools in Lower Primary, Upper Primary (Middle English), and High Schools both within and outside Bodoland Territory, for not having been provincialised by the State Government of Assam due to lack of resources over the past few decades. The total number of Lower Primary, Upper Primary and High Schools stands at 1000, 500 and 500 respectively. I, therefore, urge upon the Government of India to take appropriate steps to help provide a minimum of Rs.200 crore per annum to the Bodoland Territory Council Government and the State Government of Assam in order to help facilitate the process of pronvincialising the aforesaid languishing schools at the earliest.* 

  

MADAM CHAIRMAN : The discussion will continue on Tuesday on this Interim Budget. The House now stand adjourned to meet on 24th February 2009 at 11.00 a.m. 

 18.35 hrs. The Lok Sabha then adjourned till Eleven of the Clock 

on Tuesday, February 24, 2009/Phalguna 5, 1930 (Saka) 

  

   

 

  

 
 

 

*…* This part of the speech was laid on the Table 

 

 

 

B1cd 

 [S1] 

 

 

Fld.. by c1 [r2] 

 

 

cd by d [R3] 

 

 

 [p4]Fld by e1 

 

 

 [N5]cd by f 

  

 

 

 Cd by g1 [MSOffice6] 

 

 

cd. by h1 [R7] 

 

 

cd. bvy j [R8] 

 

 

Fld by k1 [R9] 

 

 

fld [r10] 

 

 

Followed by   M1 [MSOffice11] 

 

 

cd. by n 

 [s12] 

 

 

Cd by o1 [R13] 

 

 

cd. by r1 [RP14] 

 

 

Ctd by u1.e [r15] 

 

 

Ctd. By u1 [m16] 

 

 

Contd by W [S17] 

 

 

Fd by x [s18] 

 

 

Fld Y [p19] 

 

 

cd. by ‘z’ [R20] 

 

 

 [BS21](cd. by a2) 

 

 

Shi Santosh Gangwar cd. [s22] 

 

 

Fd. by b2 

 [s23] 

 

 

Fd. By c2 [U24] 

 

 

D2cd 

 [S25] 

 

 

 [r26](Cd. by Shri Santosh Gangwar) 

  

 

 

 [r27](Cd. by e2) 

 

 

Cd by f2 [R28] 

 

 

Tripathy cd [R29] 

 

 

Cd byg2 [R30] 

 

 

 [N31]cd by h2 

  

 

 

 Cd by j2 [MSOffice32] 

 

 

 [R33]cd. by k2.h 

 

 

Sh. santosh gangwar cd. [R34] 

 

 

CONTD BY  [r35]m2.e 

 

 

Ctd. By n2 [m36] 

 

 

Contd by O2 [S37] 

 

 

 [KMR38]Cd by p2 

 

 

Cd by q2 [s39] 

 

 

 [p40]Cd R2 

 

 

cd. by ‘s2’ [R41] 

 

 

cd. by t2 [R42] 

 

 

Contd. By u2. [R43] 

 

 

cd. by w2 [U44] 

 

 

Contd. By  Y2   [MSOffice45] 

 

 

cd. by a3.e [a46] 

 

 

 [R47](Cd,. by a3) 

 

 

 [r48]prabhu ctd 

 

 

 [r49]ctd by b3 

 

 

cd. by c3 [RP50] 

 

 

cd. by d3 [H51] 

 

 

Contd by e3.e [r52] 

 

 

Ctd. By f3 [m53] 

 

 

Contd by G3 

 

 

 [r55]cd.. by h3 

 

 

cd b [R56]y j3 

 

 

 [N57]cd by l3 

  

 

 

 Cd by m3 [MSOffice58] 

 

 

cd. by n3.h 

 [R59] 

 

 

Sh. ram kripal yadav cd. cd. by o3 [R61] 

 

 

cd. by p3 [U62] 

 

 

Contd. By   q3 [MSOffice63] 

 

 

Cd by s3 [R64] 

 

 

 [R65](Cd. by t3) 

 

 

 [r66]reddy ctd 

 

 

 [r67]ctd by u3 

 

 

cd. by w3 [RP68] 

 

 

 [H69]cd. by x3 

 

 

Contd by y3.e [r70] 

 

 

Ctd. By z3 [m71] 

 

 

Contd by A4 [S72] 

 

 

 [r73]Prof. Ramadoss cd.. cd.. by b4 [r74] 

 

 

Cd by c4 [KMR75] 

 

 

Fld E4 [p76] 

 

 

cd. by ‘f4’ [R77] 

 

 

cd. by g4 [R78] 

 

 

cd. by h4 

 [s79] 

 

 

Fd. By j4 [r80] 

 

 

cd. by k4.e [a81] 

 

 

 [r82](Cd. by Shri Satya Narayan Jatia) 

  

 

 

 [r83] 

 

 

 [r84](Cd. by m4) 

  

 

 

cd by n4 [R85] 

 

 

cd. by o4 [RP86] 

 

 

 [H87]cd. by p4 

 

 

Conrtd by q4 [r88] 

 

 

Ctd. By r4 [m89] 

 

 

Contd by S4 [S90] 

 

 

cd.. by t4 [r91]