DATE : 2nd DECEMBER, 2021
PER COURT :- 2. Mr. Khandare, learned Advocate for the petitioner submits that

pursuant to e-tender notice No.6/202/2021 published by Municipal

Council, Kallamb, District Osmanabad, the petitioner had attempted to

upload the tender form, but was unsuccessful, as the system did not accept

the same and the message on the portal showed "error." Further, no One

Time Password (OTP) was generated though several attempts were made

to submit the form. The petitioner has deposited an amount of

Rs. 97,402/- and Rs. 2,42,698/-against tender fees, as EMD for two tenders ::: Uploaded on - 04/12/2021 ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2021 23:35:22 ::: 2 WP-2578-21.odt

and the amount was duly received by the Municipal Council. 3. The petitioner made complaint to the Chief Officer of the Municipal

Council that the petitioner could not submit its tender due to technical

error, displayed on the portal and as such time may be extended. The

complaint was also made to the Collector to that effect. It shows that three

tenders were received and they were opened on 24-10-2020. According to

learned counsel for the petitioner, it was malafide act on the part of

respondent No.1 in not extending the time. The learned counsel further

submits that because of the technical glitches, if participant in the tender

process is not in a position to tender the bid for no fault on his part, under

such case, time ought to have been extended to enable the tenderer to fill-

up the tender. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner placed reliance on the Judgment

of this Court in the case of Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Private Limited

Versus State of Maharashtra, reported in Laws (Bom)-2017-9-309. The

learned counsel for petitioner further submits that one Mr. Shridatta

Trimbake is working as Head of the Computer Section of Municipal

Council, Kallamb. He has taken digital signature of Ashok Kaleshwar

Fartade, working as Accountant in the Municipal Council. The digital

signature of Shri Phartade was used for publishing tender. Mr Phartade has

made complaint on 26-10-2020 to the Chief Officer that Mr. Shridatta

Trimbake has prepared digital signature for setting password / OTP and he

did not return the key to him and without his consent key was used for ::: Uploaded on - 04/12/2021 ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2021 23:35:22 ::: 3 WP-2578-21.odt

tender process. This shows malafides. The learned counsel further submits

that after reaching the stage of Bill of Quantity (BOQ), the error displayed

on the screen ("Bidder BOQ-1 status does not comply") and a window for

submission of password was also opened on the screen, however, such

password/OTP was never generated. The tender process is tainted with

malafide and fraud. 5. Mr. Kulkarni, learned counsel for respondent No. 1 - Municipal

Council submits that the Computer Engineer has set digital signature of the

Accountant by virtue of the order of the Chief Officer to float a tender.

The petitioner cannot take undue advantage of the same. 6. Upon receiving the complaint of the petitioner, the Collector Office,

Osmanabad sought clarification from National Informatics Center (NIC) i.e

Agency for conducting the tender process. National Informatics Center

under its communication dated 09-11-2020 clarified that bids cannot be

hidden on the portal. The learned Advocate further submits that entire

process has been properly followed. On the same day, three tenderers have

submitted their tenders and they have not faced any technical error. 7. We have considered the submissions. 8. The fact remains that till last date of filing of the tender, the

petitioner could not upload the tender. The petitioner made complaint that

because of the technical problem, the tender form of the petitioner is not

accepted on-line and he requested for extension of time. It would appear ::: Uploaded on - 04/12/2021 ::: Downloaded on - 04/12/2021 23:35:22 ::: 4 WP-2578-21.odt

that on the same day three tenderers filled in their tenders and they did not

face any technical glitches. The time stipulation for the tender will have to

be abided by. The other persons filling in the tender did not come across

any technical glitches. Only petitioner could not fill up the tender, it would

be inappropriate to extend the time, more particularly when fault does not

lay with respondent. In the case of Shapoorji Pallonji (Supra) the facts were

different. The petitioners therein relied upon a screenshot on the bid

screen, confirming such uploading on the date of submission to

demonstrate that their envelope Nos 1 and 2 were duly uploaded on the

scheduled date and before the scheduled time prescribed. It is in those

facts, the Division Bench of this Court had directed to accept the tender of

the petitioners therein. In the present case, admittedly, the petitioner could

not upload his tender may be for one or the reasons, but not on account of

the fault of respondent No. 1. In the circumstances the petitioner cannot

claim extension of time as of right to upload the tender. 9. There is another facet of the case. The work order is already issued

in favour of respondent No. 2 on or about 1 st February, 2021. More than

half of the period under work order is already over. It would also not be

expedient to stall the work at this stage. Considering all these aspects of the

matter, no case for interference is made out. Writ Petition is disposed of.

No costs.