Background: Investigation resulted into arrest of the two accused persons, namely,
Shashank Jadon & Manoj Kumar, who are accused no. 1 & 2 respectively,
before this Court. 6. Shashank Jadon is also a young engineer from the prestigious Delhi
College of Engineering. Manoj Kumar is working as a driver currently.
Shashank Jadon is in custody since the time of his arrest while Manoj Kumar
was admitted to bail by the Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad. 7. "As you sow, so shall you reap". Your deeds return to reward or
haunt you. Shashank Jadon chose the path of crime to earn quick money
instead of relying upon his impressive qualification. He was able to evade the
investigation agencies for more than two years. However, as they say, the
fates always find their way. A detailed analysis of registration numbers of
white colour cars make Honda Accord by DSP Deepak, a brilliant officer of
CBI, led him to the culprits finally. Investigation by the CBI: 8. CBI had registered the FIR in this case on 14.06.2016. They came
across a registration No. UP-14AB-2200 during investigation. This number
had been assigned to a white colour car make Honda Accord. Since this
number was very similar to the number UP-14BA-2300, investigation was
conducted to ascertain the identity of its owner. This led the CBI to Shashank
Jadon, who was arrested on 01.06.2017. He disclosed about the involvement
of co-accused Manoj Kumar @ Thekedar @ Mistri. On the basis of his
disclosure, accused Manoj Kumar was arrested on 02.06.2017. 9. Both Shashank Jadon & Manoj Kumar also disclosed about the
involvement of a third person, namely, Pankaj Kumar @ Pankaj Raghav. CBI
found out that Pankaj Kumar @ Pankaj Raghav had expired already on
25.10.2016. 10. Investigation revealed that the accused Shashank Jadon had opened
a real estate office in the name of M/s Infraguru Developers in partnership
with one Mohit Joon in August, 2014. He suffered heavy losses in this
business and was under debt. 11. Co-accused Pankaj Kumar (since expired) was a friend of Shashank
Jadon. Their fathers used to work together for Railways. He suggested to
Shashank Jadon that they may rob a new Fortuner car and sell it to one Satpal
Bhati, who used to deal in stolen vehicles, to earn easy money. 12. Shashank Jadon liked the proposal of Pankaj Kumar, who
suggested that for carrying out the robbery of Fortuner car they may use his
licensed .32 bore revolver and the robbery shall be committed on national
highway. They involved the accused Manoj Kumar also in their plan. 13. All the three above-named accused persons met on 12.04.2015 at
Bypass Police Post, Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad and conspired the robbery of a
new Fortuner car. It was planned that the white colour Honda Accord car of
accused Shashank Jadon shall be used in committing the robbery. Pankaj
Kumar shall arrange for two fire arms, i.e. his own licensed .32 bore revolver
and one more weapon, which will be used for committing the robbery. 14. Pursuant to this conspiracy, accused Shashank Jadon visited a car
accessory vendor near his house at Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad, U.P. and ordered
for preparation of one pair each of two fake number plates. The first number
was UP-14BA-2300 for Honda Accord car and another number was
UP-16CJ-0032 for the Fortuner car that was to be robbed. The fake number CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 5/184 plate of Honda Accord car was got made so it becomes easy to conceal
identity of the car. 15. It was also decided amongst the accused persons that after robbing
the vehicle at gun point, Shashank Jadon will go back to his home in his
Honda Accord car while Pankaj Kumar and Manoj Kumar will go to
Sikandrabad, Bulandshaher with the robbed car for delivering it to Satpal
Bhati. 16. On 13.04.2015, accused Shashank Jadon picked up Manoj Kumar
and Pankaj Kumar in his Honda Accord car. Pankaj was carrying one licensed
.32 bore revolver and one countrymade pistol. They moved towards Noida &
contacted Satpal Bhati, who refused to join them. Pankaj handed over the .32
bore revolver (hereinafter also referred as 'weapon of offence') to Shashank
Jadon and countrymade pistol to Manoj Kumar. At about 11:00AM, they
reached near Yamuna Banks, behind Amity University, Noida, where accused
Manoj Kumar changed the number plate of Honda Accord car from
UP-14AB-2200 to UP-14BA-2300. 17. The accused persons located a new Fortuner car of Ankit Chauhan
at about 3:00 PM. This Car was located by them in front of the office of
Accenture at Sector 135, Noida. Ankit Chauhan had gone to that office along
with his friend Gagan Dudhoriya to meet Amisha Chauhan, his newly
wedded wife. Amisha Chauhan used to work in the Accenture Office. 18. The three accused persons waited for Ankit Chauhan to come out
of Accenture Office. Ankit Chauhan and Gagan Dudhoriya came out at about CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 6/184 4:00PM and left in the Fortuner car for the house of Ankit Chauhan, which
was located at Pratiek Visteria, Sector 76, Noida, U.P. 19. The Honda Accord car was being driven by Pankaj Kumar.
Shashank Jadon was sitting on left front side and Manoj Kumar was sitting on
the left side of the rear seat. They followed the Fortuner car of Ankit
Chauhan. When the Fortuner car reached near Barola Byepass, Sector-50,
Noida, at about 4:15PM, it was overtaken by the Honda Accord car. Accused
Shashank Jadon and Manoj Kumar came out of the said Car. They brandished
the fire arms that they were carrying. They shouted at Ankit Chauhan
signalling him to stop the vehicle and hand over the keys to them. Accused
Shashank Jadon also fired four bullets from .32 bore revolver aiming towards
the Fortuner car. Ankit Chauhan turned the car left and attempted to escape
but the car hit a tree and stopped. At this point, accused Shashank Jadon went
near the Fortuner car, opened the driver's gate and tried to open the seat belt
of Ankit Chauhan, who by then was bleeding profusely after suffering gun
shot injuries. Shashank Jadon could not open the seat belt, panicked on
realising that he may be caught and fled away alongwith the other co-accused
persons. 20. One of the four bullets fired by Shashank Jadon was aimed at
Gagan Dudhoriya also, who was sitting on the left front seat of the Fortuner
car. Gagan Dudhoriya ducked immediately and the bullet had hit the upper
part of the left front seat. 21. Gagan Dudhoria immediately took Ankit Chauhan to hospital but
Ankit Chauhan did not survive unfortunately. 22. CBI examined all the relevant witnesses during investigation. The
exhibits collected from the place of incident, the hospital and during recovery
proceedings carried out on the basis of disclosure statements of the accused
persons, were sent to CFSL. These exhibits included the bullets recovered
from the Fortuner car & body of Ankit Chauhan, empty cartridges, pieces of
broken glasses collected from the Fortuner car and the ground, the blood
soaked & normal soil, the revolver used in committing the crime and the
clothes worn by the accused Shashank on the day of incident. 23. CFSL report confirmed that the bullets recovered from the spot &
from body of Ankit Chauhan, had been fired from a single .32 bore revolver
bearing no. FG-11567, belonging to the accused Pankaj Kumar (since
expired). The handwriting on the sale letter of Honda Accord car and in the
register recovered from Shan Malik, the car accessories vendor, was also sent
to CFSL which opined that the questioned handwriting was of accused
Shashank Jadon. Chargesheet and Pre-trial Proceedings: 24. CBI filed the chargesheet on completion of investigation for the
offences punishable u/Sec. 302, 307, 398 & 201 IPC r/w Sec. 120-B IPC and Sec. 25 & 27 of the Arms Act, 1959. The chargesheet was filed before the
Judicial Magistrate First Class, Noida, U.P. who took cognizance of the
offence. Section 207 Cr.P.C. was complied and the matter was committed to
the Court of Ld. Special Judge (CBI), Ghaziabad, for trial. 25. The trial was transferred to Delhi by the directions of Hon'ble
Supreme Court vide Order dated 02.08.2019 and was assigned to this Court. 26. When the file was received in this Court, charge had already been
framed and some of the witnesses had already been examined. The charge
was framed by the Court of Ld. Special Judge (PC Act) (CBI), Ghaziabad
vide Order dated 31.01.2019. The Ld. Special Judge held vide the said Order
that a prima facie case for the offences punishable u/Sec. 120B r/w
302/307/398/201 IPC with substantive offences thereof and the offences
punishable u/Sec. 25 & 27 of the Arms Act was made out against the accused
Shashank Jadon, while offences punishable u/Sec. 120B r/w 302/34, 307/34,
398 & 201 IPC with substantive offences thereof were made out against
accused Manoj Kumar. 27. Charge was framed against the accused persons accordingly to
which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 28. When the chargesheet against accused Shashank Jadon & Manoj
Kumar was filed by the CBI, one more co-accused, namely, Satpal Bhati, was
in their custody. CBI suspected that he was the kingpin of entire conspiracy.
Permission was sought by the CBI to continue investigation against him
u/Sec. 173(8) Cr.P.C . and later, a supplementary report was filed in the form
of closure qua him. Satpal Bhati was included in the array of witnesses vide
this report on the premise that he was approached by the accused persons
alongwith Pankaj Kumar (deceased) with request to arrange a robbed vehicle
to steal another one, but he had refused. This report was accepted by my Ld.
Predecessor Court vide Order dated 03.10.2020. Prosecution's Evidence: 29. The prosecution examined total 57 witnesses in support of its case.
The details of these witnesses are as below:- 30.1. D-1 FIR bearing No. Ex.PW47/1 This document
 RC-03(S)/2016/SC reflects contents -III/ND dated of the first
 14.06.2016, information that
 registered by the was given to the
 CBI Police. a brown colour Ex.PW2/1 were found on the
 envelope. respectively person of Ankit
 Chauhan. It also CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 25/184 mentions about
 the cause of
 death. Fortuner Car of photographs Fortuner car of
 Ankit Chauhan, which are part Ankit Chauhan. which consist of a of Ex.PW32/B The photographs
 letter dated (Colly) were reflect bullet
 30.03.2017 sent to earlier marks on the
 the CBI by the separately front wind shield,
 Manager of marked as steering wheel
 Insurance Mark PW5/1 and front
 Company, and the (Colly)] passenger sheet. Authority (Motor (documents) was assigned to
 Vehicles), white Honda
 Ghaziabad along (Photocopy of Accord car. This
 with the Election ID vehicle was
 documents Card of registered in the
 pertaining to Harpreet name of Radhika
 registration of Singh, Enterprises on
 UP-14AB-2200. annexed with 15.12.2005 and
 documents, is was transferred to
 also separately Sh. Anil Singh on
 exhibited as 21.07.2012. CFSL-2017/F-786. in this case was a
 fire arm. The
 report also opined
 that two bullets
 recovered from
 the place of
 incident and body
 of the deceased
 Ankit Chauhan
 had been fired
 from this CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 43/184 revolver. Report
 also opined that
 the four empty
 cartridges,
 recovered at the
 instance of
 accused
 Shashank Jadon,
 too were fired
 from this
 revolver. dated 20.07.2023 18.06.2007. This
 addressed to this pistol was sold
 Court. and again .22
 bore revolver
 bearing serial no. 045100685 was
 registered against
 this license on
 22.04.2010. The
 said revolver was
 also sold as per
 information
 provided to the
 office of District
 Magistrate and
 another .32 bore
 revolver bearing
 serial No.
 FG11567
 (weapon of
 offence) was
 registered against CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 50/184 this license on
 17.06.2014
 which was sold
 out to Deepak
 Aggarwal on
 12.10.2015 and
 was accordingly
 registered against
 his license. A .32
 bore revolver
 bearing no. 1621
 was registered
 against the
 license of
 accused Pankaj
 Kumar (since
 deceased) on
 29.02.2016. dated 14.06.2017. pertaining to the
 patient who
 visited the clinic
 of Dr. Vishal
 Chug on
 19.05.2017, were CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 51/184 seized vide this
 memo. No. 8882922154. (Colly) reflects the calls
 made from
 mobile no. 8882922154
 from 01.04.2015
 to 13.04.2015. 31. Following documents were put to the witnesses of prosecution by
the accused persons during their cross-examination: 32.1. -- Site plan of the Ex.D-1 This site plan
 place of offence describes the place
 prepared by the where the victim was
 Police at PS shot dead. 33. On completion of prosecution evidence all the incriminating
circumstances were put to the accused persons u/Sec. 313 Cr.P.C . 33.1. Accused Shashank Jadon denied all the incriminating
circumstances against him and stated that he had been falsely implicated by
the CBI at the instance of Mohit Joon and his cousin Jasbir Singh, with whom
he was having a financial dispute. He stated that Jasbir Singh used to threaten
to implicate him in false criminal cases. Jasbir Singh even made him speak to
a CBI officer in the year 2016 stating that if he did not pay the dues of Mohit
Joon, a false case shall be registered against him. It was also stated by accused
Shashank Jadon that he was not present at the place of incident and the IO
Inspector Deepak was well aware about it, still he conducted a biased
investigation and implicated him falsely in this case. Accused denied having
acquaintance with Pankaj. 33.2. Accused Manoj Kumar also denied all the incriminating
circumstances against him. He denied that he was not familiar with co-
accused Shashank Jadon or Pankaj (since expired) and stated that he was
falsely implicated in this case. 33.3. Both the accused persons expressed their willingness to lead
evidence in their defence, however defence evidence was led only by accused
Shashank Jadon. Accused Manoj Kumar did not lead any evidence in his
defence despite opportunity. Defence Evidence: 34. Accused Shashank Jadon examined following ten witnesses in
support of his defence: 2016 i.e. financial year 2014-15. The
 said ITR was also produced by him. 34.9. DW-9 D.R. Handa He is the handwriting expert who
 stepped in the witness box at the
 instance of accused Shashank Jadon. 34.10. DW-10 Adarsh Mishra He is the ballistic expert who stepped
 in the witness box at the instance of
 accused Shashank Jadon. 35. The accused Shashank Jadon also sought permission to appear as a
witness u/Sec. 315 Cr.P.C . which was allowed. He was examined as DW-11.
He only proved certified copy of the writ petition filed by the father of Ankit
Chauhan before the Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad, however, his cross- examination was carried out by prosecution in detail which will be referred in
the latter part of the judgment while giving reasons for the decision. 36. The following documents were relied upon by the accused no.1 in
his defence: 37.1. -- Bail application Ex.DW11/P-1 The contents of
 dated 07.11.2017 this bail
 moved by accused application
 Shashank Jadon reflect that no
 before the Special plea regarding
 Judge CBI, forging of
 Ghaziabad documents in the
 office of CBI
 when the accued
 was in their
 custody, was
 taken before the
 Court. 38. The following articles were relied upon by the prosecution:- Final Arguments: These circumstances, it was contended, included preparation of crime,
ownership, possession & use of Honda Accord car, recovery & use of fake
number plates, recovery & ownership of the weapon of offence, recovery of
the empty cartridges connected to the weapon of offence, motive & conduct
of accused persons post incident, minute details disclosed by PW-5 soon after CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 81/184 the incident, like, the shooter having a tattoo on his hand, the TIP conducted
by the City Magistrate, Ghaziabad and the expert's reports. 40.1. Ld. Sr. PP contended that all the aforementioned circumstances
proved by the prosecution were corroborative to the testimony of sole eye
witness i.e. PW-5. Hence, the case was proved beyond reasonable doubts and
the accused persons were liable to be convicted of the offences charged, in
view of overwhelming evidence available against them. 41. Ld. Defence Counsel for accused Shashank Jadon contended that
there were several contradictions and inconsistencies in the testimony of sole
eye witness. The investigation done by the CBI was completely different
from the investigation done by the Noida Police. The statement of PW-5,
which was recorded by the Noida Police u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C ., was the 'golden
period' statement which was fundamentally different from the statement
recorded by the CBI. The theory of robbery was introduced by the CBI at a
later stage and they also brought another theory of financial constraint in
order to establish motive against the accused Shashank Jadon. Ld. Counsel
for accused Shashank Jadon further contended that the various witnesses
produced by the CBI had turned hostile which was sufficient to suggest that
accused was made a scapegoat. Ld. Counsel also challenged the expert's
opinion relied upon by the CBI on various grounds and contended that neither
the testimony of eye witness nor the circumstantial evidence produced by the
CBI were reliable. 42. Ld. Counsel for the accused Manoj Kumar contended that none of
the witness of prosecution had stated anything against him. The TIP of Manoj
Kumar was also doubtful and he was therefore entitled to acquittal. 43. Ld. Sr. PP for the CBI vehemently opposed the contentions of Ld.
Defence Counsels during rebuttal arguments and stated that experts
examined by the CBI were independent witnesses who had no interest in the
fate of the case and therefore their testimony could not be brushed aside
lightly. 44. The detailed arguments of each of the party shall be referred while
discussing reasons for the judgment. The above paragraphs give just a brief
overview of the arguments advanced before the Court. 45. Ld. Sr. PP of CBI relied upon the following judgments in
support of his contentions: 2023 INSC 738. 2024 INSC 13. 2024 INSC 772. 2025 INSC 499. 2024 INSC 905. 2023 INSC 957. AIR 2010 SC 2352. 1998(2) SCC 192. (x) Bhima Razu Prasad v. State Rep. by Deputy Superintendent of
 Police, CBI/SPE/ACU-II 10 ( xi) Shamu Balu Chaugule v. State of Maharashtra11 46. Ld. Counsel for the accused no. 1 relied upon the following
judgments in support of his contentions: ( i) Madhu v. State of Kerala12 ( ii) Savita @ Babbal v. State of Delhi 13 ( iii) Pappu @ Gulshan v. State of Haryana14 ( iv) Kanhaiya v. State 15 ( v) Kalyan and others v. State of U.P.16 ( vi) Riaz Ali v. State (Govt. of NCT) Delhi 17 (vii) Mathura Yadav alias Mathura Mahato and others v. State of
 Bihar 18 (viii) Vijayan alias Rajan v. State of Kerala19 ( ix) Shaikh Umar Ahmed Shaikh and another v. State of
 Maharashtra20 (x) Mahavir Singh v. State of Madhya Pradesh21 (xi) Shaukat v. State22 (xii) Dashrath v. State23 (xiii) Raj Kumar @ Raju v. State (NCT of Delhi)24 (xiv) Naresh Kumar @ Raju & Ors. v. State of Delhi25 ( xv) State of Maharashtra v. Syed Umar Abbas & Ors.26 10 AIR OnLine 2021 SC 155. AIR 1976 SC 557. AIR 2012 SC 664. 2011 [3] JCC 1687. 2016 [1] JCC 213. 2015 [2] JCC 859. 2001 CRI. L. J. 4677. 2012 [2] JCC 1092. AIR 2002 SC 2707. AIR 1999 SC 1086. AIR 1998 SC 1922. (2016) 10 SCC 220. 2016 [1] JCC 169. 2016 AD (Delhi) 775. 2017 [2] JCC 929. 2017 [1] JCC 461. 2016 [2] JCC 1423. (xvi) Kalimullah v. State27
 (xvii) Pankaj v. State of Rajasthan28
 (xviii)Ravi @ Ravichandran v. State Rep. By Inspector of Police29
 (xix) State of Haryana v. Ram Singh30
 ( xx) Kattavellai @ Devakar v. State of Tamilnadu31 (xxi) Kalpnath Rai v. State (through CBI)32
 (xxii) Suresh Kalmadi v. CBI33 47. Ld. Counsel for the accused no. 1 also relied upon the Modi's
Textbook of Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 66 th ed., by referring to
the literature on DNA Profiling published therein. 48. Written arguments were also filed on behalf of accused no.1 twice.
Accused no. 2 filed the written arguments too. The same are perused. 49. I have considered the rival contentions and perused the entire
record. Analysis of Evidence and Reasons for Decision: 50. Accused persons have been charged in this case for murder, attempt
to murder, attempt to robbery, possession & use of fire arms, destruction of
evidence and conspiracy. The question before this Court is if the prosecution
has been able to bring home the guilt of both the accused persons by leading
cogent and reliable evidence. 2017 X AD (Delhi) 524. (2016) 16 SCC 192. Appeal (Crl.) 636 of 2007 decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India on 27.04.2007. AIR 2002 SC 620. 2025 INSC 845. (1997) 8 SCC 732. 2015 : DHC : 4624. 51. PW-5 (Gagan Dudhoriya) is the star witness of the prosecution. He
is the sole eye witness of the incident of murder, attempt to murder and
attempt to robbery that had occurred allegedly on 13.04.2015 at Sector 50,
Barola Byepass, Noida, U.P. 52. PW-5 deposed in the Court about the incident and supported the
case of the prosecution in entirety. He gave graphic details of the entire
incident step by step. His testimony is the most important part of the entire
evidence on record and therefore is being reiterated verbatim in the
forthcoming paragraphs. 53. PW-5 deposed about the events that preceded the incident of
murder and attempt to robbery, in the following words: - 54. The chilling details of murder and attempt to robbery were
described by him in the following words:- 55. The events post incident were also disclosed by PW-5. He deposed
regarding those events as follows:- 56. PW-5 also identified both the accused persons in the Court. He
deposed that accused Shashank Jadon was the person who had fired the gun
shots and accused Manoj Kumar was his associate. He also identified the
vehicle i.e. Honda Accord car in which the accused persons had followed the
vehicle of the victim. The said Honda Accord car is Ex.P-1. The weapon of
offence (Ex.P-3) too was identified by PW-5. 57. PW-5 was cross-examined in detail by the accused persons. Ld.
Counsels for the accused persons contended that PW-5 was not a reliable
witness. His testimony was full of contradictions, improvements and
omissions. It was contended that the testimony of PW-5 was contrary to the
medical evidence, forensic evidence, CCTV footage, site plan, statements
u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C . recorded during the golden period of investigation,
insurance report of the surveyor of the Fortuner car that belonged to the
victim and the statements of PW-53, PW-57, PW-11, DW-1 and DW-7. Ld.
Counsel relied upon the decision in Madhu v. State of Kerala (supra) and
contented that in view of the inconsistencies, testimony of PW-5 cannot be
relied upon. He further placed reliance upon Pappu @ Gulshan v. State of
Haryana (supra) and contended that in case of a highly doubtful version of the CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 89/184 events given by an eye witness, his testimony cannot be relied upon for
convicting the accused. Ld. Counsel also relied upon the decision of Hon'ble
High Court of Delhi in Kanhaiya v. State (supra) to contend that the testimony
of sole eye witness should be accepted with caution and after testing on the
touch stone of evidence tendered by the other witnesses. Reliance was further
placed upon the decisions in Kalyan and others v. State of U.P. (supra),
Mahavir Singh v. State of Madhya Pradesh ( supra), Riaz Ali v. State (Govt. of
NCT) Delhi ( supra) & Pankaj v. State of Rajasthan (supra) in support of the
aforementioned arguments. 58. Ld. Sr. PP for the CBI, in rebuttal, contended that the ocular
evidence of an eye witness cannot be tested in a straight jacket formula and
minor contradictions & improvements are not sufficient to discredit an
otherwise trustworthy witness. Ld. Sr. PP for the CBI relied upon the decision
of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Harendra Rai v. The State of Bihar & Ors. (supra) in support of his contentions. 59. Before dealing with the respective contentions of the parties, it is
necessary to discuss the law related to appreciation of the ocular evidence. 60. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Balu Sudam Khalde and Anr. v. State
of Maharashtra34 held as below in para no. 25:- 61. In Somjeet Mallick v. State of Jharkhand & Ors. (supra), the
Hon'ble Apex Court held as below with respect to the FIR:- 62. In Birbal Nath v. The State of Rajasthan & Ors. (supra) while
discussing the value of a statement u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C ., the Hon'ble Apex
Court held as under:- under Section 145 of the Evidence Act and therefore can be
 used to cross examine a witness. But this is only for a limited
 purpose, to "contradict" such a witness. Even if the defence is
 successful in contradicting a witness, it would not always
 mean that the contradiction in her two statements would result
 in totally discrediting this witness. It is here that we feel that
 the learned judges of the High Court have gone wrong..... 21. In Tahsildar Singh v. State of U.P. , AIR 1959 SC 1012,
 it was held that to contradict a witness would mean to
 "discredit" a witness. Therefore, unless and until the former
 statement of this witness is capable of "discrediting" a
 witness, it would have little relevance. A mere variation in the
 two statements would not be enough to discredit a witness. This has been followed consistently by this Court in its later
 judgment, including Rammi (supra). Moreover, in this case
 the High Court lost sight of other more relevant factors such
 as the witness being an injured eye witness." 63. The law related to appreciation of ocular testimony of an eye
witness, relevancy of FIR and the statements recorded during the
investigation u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C . is thus well settled. Minor inconsistencies
and improvements in the testimony are to be neglected and cannot be made
the ground to discredit the testimony of an otherwise reliable witness. In case
the testimony of a sole eye witness is trustworthy and his presence on the spot
is natural, Court may rely even upon the sole testimony of such a witness to
convict the accused. Looking for corroboration to the ocular testimony of a
sole eye witness is a rule of prudence and not the rule of law. Hence, in case CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 94/184 prudence so requires, corroboration shall be looked for but if the witness is
creditworthy, his sole testimony can be the basis of conviction. 64. It is already observed that PW-5 described the incident before this
Court in great details, explaining it step by step with graphic description. He
also identified both the accused persons in the Court. 65. It is now to be seen if inconsistencies and contradictions in the
testimony of PW-5, as pointed out by Ld. Defence Counsels, are so
significant as to discredit his version. 66. The first portion from the testimony of PW-5, highlighted by the
Ld. Defence Counsels for showing contradictions, is as below:- 66.1. It was firstly contended that PW-5, without looking at the tail of the
Car parked behind the Fortuner car, had assumed that it was a Honda Accord
car. Such assumption of PW-5 cannot be given any credit because PW-5 was
not familiar with the cars and did not even know how to drive. It was also
contended that the version of PW-5 was completely an after thought because
he did not state anything regarding the aforesaid facts to the police in his
statement recorded u/ Sec.161 Cr.P.C. on 14.04.2015 and 02.05.2015. These
statements are already Ex.PX and Ex.PY. 66.2. It is not sufficient to say that PW-5 did not understand about the
make and model of cars just because he did not know how to drive. PW-5
categorically deposed in his testimony that the car following them was a
Honda Accord car. Make of the car was described by him in the FIR itself.
The FIR Ex.PW47/1 had been registered on the basis of a complaint of the
father of Ankit Chauhan however it was based upon the information given by
PW-5. PW-5 had described the car in his statement Ex.PX also. No
suggestion in his cross-examination was given to PW-5 by any of the accused
persons regarding his understanding about the make & model of the cars. The
Court therefore cannot assume that PW-5 was not capable of guessing the
make of a car by merely looking at its front side just because he did not know
driving. This argument raised on behalf of accused persons is devoid of
merits in my considered opinion. 66.3. No questions were put to PW-5 in his cross-examination regarding
the person allegedly seen by him sitting in the Honda Accord car with a tatoo
on his left arm except a suggestion that the said person had stepped down
from the car at the office of Accenture at about 3.57.05 PM. PW-5 was not CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 96/184 confronted with his statement Ex.PX or Ex.PY regarding this improvement.
The statements Ex.PX and Ex.PY were recorded by PW-53, who is Inspector
Manoj Kumar, the first IO of this case from the U.P. Police. No questions
were put to him also in his cross-examination, regarding the contended
improvements in respect of events preceding the incident of murder and
attempt of robbery. It is the settled law that the statement recorded u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C . can be used only to confront a witness and not otherwise. A
contradiction or improvement in the testimony of the witness and his earlier
statement u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C . could only be proved by bringing the
contradiction or improvement into the notice of witness and the Police officer
who recorded the statement. In this case, the alleged contradictions or
improvements with respect to the events preceding the incident were not put
either to PW-5 or to PW-53. Hence, such contradictions or improvements
were not proved on behalf of the accused persons as per law. Therefore, the
contention regarding contradiction or improvement is baseless and cannot be
considered to discredit the testimony of PW-5. 66.4. The second contention was that as per PW-5 he had seen a person
sitting on the front passenger seat of the Honda Accord car with his arm
resting on the open window and that person had two tattoos on his left arm. In
case this statement of PW-5 is taken as correct, the case of the prosecution
would fall flat because the accused no. 1, on whose arm two tattoos were
found inscribed when he was made to uncover his left arm by the Court on
12.02.2021 during the recording of the testimony of PW-5, had got those
tattoos in the year 2016, as was proved by DW-1 and DW-7. This showed that
Shashank Jadon did not have tattoos on his left hand in the year 2015 and CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 97/184 therefore he could not be the person who was allegedly sitting on the left front
seat of the Honda Accord car. Ld. Defence Counsel also contended that
though PW-7 had deposed that the accused Shashank Jadon had two tattoos
on his left hand however his testimony was silent about the date on which
Shashank Jadon had got those tattoos made and therefore prosecution was
unable to prove that he had got the tattoos before 13.04.2015, i.e. the date of
incident. 66.5. It is necessary to look at the testimony of DW-1, DW-7 and PW-7 in
order to appreciate this contention raised by Ld. Defence Counsel. 66.6. DW-1 deposed that he had inscribed the tattoo on the hand of the
accused Shashank Jadon in the year 2016. The said tattoo consisted of the
word 'Kshatriya' and it was written in the mix font of Hindi and English
transcripts. DW-1 deposed that since very few people used to get this kind of
tattoo made, he had remembered about the accused Shashank Jadon
specifically and thus was able to depose in the Court. 66.7. DW-7 deposed that he and accused Shashank Jadon were friends.
They had some common friends and they used to meet at Snookers' Club at
Pratap Vihar, Ghaziabad. He also deposed that he and accused Shashank
Jadon had got the tattoos inscribed on their body probably in
November/December, 2016. He also deposed that along with them their
friend Meetu had also got the tattoo of a star inscribed on his hand. During
cross-examination, DW-7 deposed that the actual name of Meetu was
probably Shashank Garg. 66.8. Shashank Garg, a friend of accused Shashank Jadon, was examined
by the CBI as PW-7. He deposed in the Court that he had met the accused
Shashank Jadon at Santosh Medical Chowk, Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad on one
day in the year 2015 and had lent him a sum of Rs.500/-. He also deposed that
one Pankaj was a friend of accused Shashank Jadon. This witness was
declared hostile by the CBI and was cross-examined at length. During his
cross-examination by the prosecution, he admitted that he had a tattoo on his
left hand. This witness was also cross-examined by the accused Shashank
Jadon and Manoj Kumar during which he deposed that he was aware about
the tattoo on the hand of Shashank Jadon because he himself, accused
Shashank Jadon and one Pankaj (since deceased) had got the same made on
their hands from a professional tattoo maker, who had been called by the
accused Shashank Jadon at the Snooker's Club. He deposed that Pankaj also
had a tattoo on his left arm and he had met Pankaj for the first time when
Pankaj had come to get the tattoo made. He thereafter met Pankaj a couple of
more times but not after that night of the year 2015, when he had come at
Santosh Medical College with accused Shashank Jadon, where PW-7 had lent
a sum of Rs.500/-. PW-7 was not confronted or further questioned by the
accused persons with regard to his aforesaid testimony on the point of
inscription of tattoo as well on the point of death of Pankaj and their last
meeting in the year 2015 when PW-7 had lent a sum of Rs.500/- to the
accused Shashank Jadon. 66.9. It is clear from the testimony of PW-7 that accused Shashank Jadon,
PW-7 himself and one Pankaj (who had already expired), had got the tattoos
inscribed on their left arms before that day in the year 2015 when PW-7 had CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 99/184 lent a sum of Rs.500/- to the accused Shashank Jadon. This statement of
PW-7, which has gone unrebutted and unchallenged, is contrary to the
testimony of DW-1 and DW-7 on two points, firstly, on the point of year in or
before which the accused no. 1 had got the tattoo inscribed on his left arm and
secondly, on the point of identity of Pankaj. 66.10. DW-7 claimed that the third person who had got the tattoo
inscribed on his left arm along with PW-7 and accused no. 1 was him.
However, that Pankaj whom PW-7 had described in his cross-examination,
had already expired as per his testimony and he was not confronted on this
aspect by the accused persons. There were further no questions with respect
to the claim of PW-7 that he had not met Pankaj after that night of the year
2015 on which he had lent a sum of Rs.500/- to Shashank Jadon, meaning
thereby, that the tattoo had been got inscribed before that night. This belies
the testimony of DW-1 & DW-7 and shows that their testimony was an after-
thought and was procured by the accused Shashank Jadon in order to built his
defence. DW-1 and DW-7 are not creditworthy witnesses for the reasons
aforesaid and their testimony to the effect that the accused Shashank Jadon
did not have a tattoo on his left arm before the year 2016, cannot be relied
upon. The contention of Ld. Defence Counsel with respect to the date of
making of the tattoo is also therefore baseless. 66.11. The third contention that was raised with respect to aforesaid
testimony of PW-5 is that it was contrary to the scrutiny report of CCTV
footage of the Accenture Office relied upon by the prosecution, which is
Ex.PW57/5. It was contended that as per testimony of PW-5, the person
sitting on the front left seat of the Honda Accord car was seen by him and as CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 100/184 per case of the prosecution this person was Shashank Jadon. Ld. Counsel
contended that such a story put forth by the prosecution was not trustworthy
and believable. It was rather self-contradictory. It was contended that as per
scrutiny report Ex.PW57/5, the suspect had come out from the left side
passenger seat of the Honda Accord car at 15:57:05 and the Car moved ahead. The prosecution however did not bring any evidence on record to show that
the said Honda Accord car, after moving ahead, again followed the Fortuner
car belonging to the victim and the suspect had got into the said car once
again. It is contended by the Ld. Defence Counsel that the self-contradictory
story put forth by the prosecution was harmful to its case. The prosecution
had not been able to discharge the burden of proof laid upon it and the
accused is therefore entitled to be acquitted. Ld. Counsel relied upon the
decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in Riaz Ali v. State (Govt. of NCT) Delhi
(Supra ) to contend that the burden of proof laid upon the prosecution could
not be shifted upon the accused under any circumstances. 66.12. It is necessary to reiterate the contents of the scrutiny report
Ex.PW57/5 in order to appreciate this contention raised by the Ld. Defence
Counsel. The scrutiny report Ex.PW57/5 is D-60 and it reads as below:- turn and stopped on the
 opposite side. 13. - - 15:59:13 15:59:23 Fortuner visible leaving
 from there. 14. 15:59:29 15:59:35 - - Fortuner visible leaving
 from there. 15. - - 15:59:56 16:00:24 Suspect visible looking for
 his Honda Accord which is
 visible parked on the
 opposite side in OUT
 camera. 16. 16:00:44 - - - Suspect visible running. 17. 16:00:50 16:01:01 - - Accord which is parked on
 opposite side, started. 66.13. Scrutiny report was exhibited in the Court after playing the CCTV
footage. The CCTV footage was also exhibited as Ex.PW50/1. I have seen the
CCTV footage again while examining the scrutiny report for the purpose of
writing this judgment. The scrutiny report was not only identified by the IO of
this case, who is PW-57, but part of it was also proved through PW-50 Ms.
Amisha, wife of the Victim, who was working in the office of Accenture and
to whom the Victim had gone to meet along with PW-5 on the fateful day. 66.14. PW-50 had identified the Victim and PW-5 Gagan Dudhoriya from
the CCTV footage. She deposed that the location seen in the CCTV footage
was of the area outside the office of Accenture, Noida. She also deposed that
the two persons who were seen walking in the CCTV footage from 15:01:40
to 15:01:47 were the Victim Ankit Chauhan (her husband) and his friend
Gagan Dudhoriya (PW-5). She also identified Victim Ankit Chauhan and
PW-5 from the video footage between 15:50:05 and 15:50:19. During this
interval, the Victim and PW-5 were seen walking out of the Accenture Noida
Office Campus. PW-50 had further identified the Fortuner car belonging to CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 103/184 the Victim, that was seen going from the Accenture Noida Office Campus
between 15:59:15 to 15:59:20. 66.15. The testimony of PW-50 and its corresponding corroboration from
the CCTV footage Ex.PW50/1 establishes presence of the Victim and PW-5
outside the Accenture Noida Office Campus. It also establishes that they had
moved from the said office in the white colour Fortuner car which was
identified by PW-5 as Ex.P-2. The scrutiny report shows that this Car had
come to the Accenture Noida Office Campus between the time interval of
14:59:43 to 14:59:47. It also establishes that Victim and Gagan Dudhoriya
had spent about 50 minutes in the office of Accenture Noida and they took
about 10 minutes to leave the site after coming out from the office of
Accenture. While they are seen coming out during the time interval of
15:50:01 to 15:50:23, the Fortuner car was seen leaving the office in the Out
Gate Camera between 15:59:13 and 15:59:23 and from the In Gate Camera
between 15:59:29 and 15:59:35. 66.16. The Honda Accord car is also visible around the Accenture Office
from 14:29:19 to 14:51:10 at different time intervals, moving around slowly.
The Honda Accord car is again seen between the time interval of 15:56:29 to
15:56:37 and one person from the left front side of the Car is seen coming out
at 15:57:05 to 15:57:14. This person leaves the Car and the Car moves ahead.
This person is again seen coming from the direction from which the Fortuner
car had moved to the main road, between 15:59:56 to 16:00:24. It is seen in
the Out Gate camera. This person is seen looking for something and he is
again visible at 16:00:44 in the In Gate Camera. This time he is seen running,
and noticing him running, the Honda Accord car starts from the opposite side CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 104/184 of the road. It is further seen in the CCTV footage that after the Honda Accord
car had left at 15:56:37, it was seen in the In Gate Camera on the opposite
road at 15:57:17 and it had stopped on the opposite road at 15:57:38. After the
Honda Accord car moves from the opposite road, it is seen in the Out Camera,
going in the direction in which Fortuner car had left, at about 04:02:49. This
movement of the Car is not shown in the Scrutiny report however it is visible
in the CCTV footage Ex.PW50/1. The same Honda Accord car is again seen
in the In Gate Camera at about 04:02:55 going at a very fast speed. 66.17. This sequence of events visible in the CCTV footage suggest that
after taking the U-turn, the Honda Accord car moved in the direction in which
the Fortuner car belonging to the Victim had gone. The person who had come
out of the Honda Accord car from the left side front seat, had gone out of the
frame of In Camera while he was running, and seeing whom the Honda
Accord car had started. Hence, it is possible that the said person again got
inside the Honda Accord car when the Car was out of the frame of In Gate
Camera due to which he has not been seen getting into the Car. The sequence
of events seen from the CCTV footage are in corroboration to the testimony
of PW-50 (wife of the victim) and PW-5 (the sole eye witness). 66.18. PW-5 had deposed that when he and Ankit came out of Accenture
Office and went to their Car, they saw that their passage had been blocked by
a Honda Accord car which was parked behind their Car. Hence, they decided
to smoke a cigarette and moved thereafter. This portion of the testimony of
PW-5 is in complete corroboration to the sequence of events seen in the
CCTV footage which suggest that the Fortuner car had left from the
Accenture Office after about 10 minutes of the time when the victim & PW-5 CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 105/184 were seen going out of the Accenture Office and towards their car. The lapse
of 10 minutes is explained by the witness in his testimony properly. The
witness had also deposed that after smoking the cigarette, when they again
reached at their car, the Honda Accord car had already left. This fact is also
corroborated from the sequence of events seen in the CCTV footage which
shows the Honda Accord car leaving at the time interval of 15:56:29 to
15:56:37 i.e. after about six minutes of the time interval when the Victim and
PW-5 were seen approaching their Fortuner car. The testimony of PW-5 is
thus not contradictory to the CCTV footage but rather is in corroboration.
This increases the trustworthiness of PW-5 because now it is not only his
ocular testimony but also the CCTV footage which corroborates his
testimony. 66.19. No questions regarding the genuinity of CCTV footage were raised
during the trial. The CCTV footage was handed over to the U.P. Police by
PW-49 who also appeared in the witness box and had proved the hard disk
and the certificate u/Sec. 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, which are
Ex.PW48/1 (Colly) and Ex. PW48/2 respectively. There were handed over by
PW-49 to the CBI as per his testimony. PW-49 was not cross-examined by
either of the accused persons. The CCTV footage and the hard disk handed
over by PW-49 was examined by PW-55, expert from CFSL, who proved his
report as Ex.PW55/1. He states that he had made a clone of the hard disk Q-2
and the clone was forwarded to the CBI for the purpose of investigation. The
report also suggests that the seals on the hard disk were found intact and the
hard disk Q-2, of which clone was made, was not found damaged. 66.20. In view of above, it is clear that the first portion regarding which
contentions of improvement and contradictions have been raised on behalf of
the defence is not at all contradictory. It is rather corroborated from the other
material on record. It does not impeach but establish the creditworthiness of
PW-5 and suggest that he is a reliable witness. 67. The second portion of the testimony of PW-5 stated to be full of
contradictions and improvements, reads as below:- 67.1. Ld. Defence counsel firstly contended that the aforesaid portion of
the testimony of PW-5 was contrary to the testimony of PW-11. The
following portion of the testimony of PW-11 was picked up by the Ld.
Defence Counsel to demonstrate contradictions:- 67.2. It was contended by Ld. Defence Counsel that PW-11, who is
cousin of Victim Ankit Chauhan, had not deposed anything about the
stopping of the Car by the assailants through hand gesture or asking of the Car
keys. 67.3. This contention of Ld. Defence Counsel does not deserve attention,
firstly, because it is a hyper-technical contention and secondly, because it
attempts to confront the testimony of an eye witness with the testimony of a
person to whom the incident was being simultaneously described on the
phone. Whatever has been deposed by PW-5 is something that was happening
in front of his eyes. Hence, he was able to see every gesture and every
movement that had occurred in front of him. PW-11, on the other hand, was
informed about the incident by the Victim himself. The Victim had called up
PW-11 when he noticed that a Honda Accord car was following him. In the
meanwhile, this Honda Accord car overtook the Car of the Victim. As per
testimony of PW-5, the assailants came out of their Car and fired the gun shot.
The first gun shot had hit the Victim on his left elbow. Hence, while talking to

PW-11 the Victim could only say "भैया इन्होने तो गोली चला दी". Phone of
the Victim fell down at this moment and thereafter there was no response
from him. It is unexpected that at a moment when the Victim was being shot CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 108/184 at, he will describe the entire incident in detail on a mobile phone call to his
cousin. Each of the event that forms part of the incident of course did not
happen in intervals with sufficient time gap in between that would have given
a chance to the Victim to explain everything in greater details. It happened
very swiftly and the Victim faced repeated gun shots one after the other,
including the fatal shot. To expect that he should have described everything to
his brother at such a moment is bizarre. Just because the entire incident was
not described to PW-11 on the phone call, is not the sufficient reason to doubt
the testimony of PW-5,who otherwise is a creditworthy witness. 67.4. The second contention is that the site plan of the place of incident
was prepared by the IO of Noida Police i.e. PW-53 on the day immediately
after the day of incident i.e. on 14.04.2015 as per information given by PW-5.
This document was deliberately concealed by the CBI and it was brought on
record on the application moved by the accused Shashank Jadon. This site
plan is Ex.D-1. The purpose of IO to conceal the site plan was to avoid
contradictions in the testimony of PW-5, who had said in his testimony that
the Fortuner car was overtaken by the Honda Accord car from the left side,
but in the site plan it was shown that the Fortuner car was overtaken from the
right side. It was contended that site plan was prepared by the Noida Police
during the golden period of investigation and it is contradictory to the
statement of PW-5 thereby suggesting that PW-5 had improved upon his
testimony. 67.5. The chargesheet in this case was filed in the year 2017. PW-5 was
examined in the Court for the first time on 12.02.2021 i.e. after a period of
almost four years. The incident had occurred on 13.04.2015 i.e. almost two CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 109/184 years before the chargesheet was filed. The site plan Ex.D-1, which was
brought on record on the application of the accused no.1, was not filed along
with the charge-sheet in the year 2017. The evidence of PW-5 was not on
record by that date and therefore the contention of Ld. Defence Counsel that
the site plan was not filed in order to avoid contradictions in the testimony of
PW-5 is too far fetched. IO obviously cannot be said to be aware of what the
witness was going to speak in the dock at the stage of recording of his
testimony. Hence, it cannot be said that the site plan prepared by U.P. Police
was not filed by the IO in order to avoid contradictions in the testimony of
PW-5. The contention is baseless and without merits. 67.6. It is the settled law that minor contradictions in the testimony of a
witness are bound to occur due to lapse of time and perceptions created in the
mind of the witness at the time of incident. The fact that the site plan Ex.D-1
reflects that the Fortuner car was overtaken from the right side, while PW-5
deposed that it was overtaken from the left side, is of no consequence. Such
contradictions in the statement of PW-5 are minor and do not go to the root of
the matter. The contradiction is of such a nature that was bound to occur due
to a long lapse of time. No weightage can be attached to such a contradiction
and it is not sufficient to doubt the testimony of an otherwise creditworthy
witness. 67.7. Ld. Defence Counsel thirdly contended that PW-5 had improved
upon his testimony, also with regard to the attempt to snatch away the
Fortuner car. It is contended that the theory of an attempt to snatch away the
Fortuner car was an after thought as this fact was neither mentioned in the CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 110/184 FIR nor in the statement of PW-5 recorded by the UP Police u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C . which are Ex.PX and Ex.PY respectively. 67.8. Ld. Defence Counsel also referred to para no. 17 of Ex.DW11/1,
which is the writ petition that was filed by the complainant (father of the
Victim) before the Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad, for getting the
investigation transferred to CBI. The relevant portion of this petition reads as
below:- 67.9. Ld. Counsel also referred to the evidence of PW-53 in this regard. It
was recorded on 09.05.2024. The relevant portion of the evidence reads as
below:- 67.10. Ld. Defence counsel further referred to the following portion of the
Order of this Court, that was passed on 23.05.2025:- 67.11. It was contended by Ld. Defence Counsel that all the aforesaid
material showed that there were no allegations with respect to robbery in the
beginning and these allegations were made up by the CBI in order to impute
motive upon the accused persons to commit the crime. 67.12. The aforesaid contentions of Ld. Defence Counsel cannot be
appreciated by giving a plain meaning to whatever is written on the record.
This Court cannot lose sight of the fact that the incident had occurred on
13.04.2015 and investigation of this case was assigned to the CBI by the
Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad after almost an year because the U.P. Police
was unable to trace the culprits. The directions to transfer the case to CBI
came after the complainant, who is father of the Victim, had filed a writ
petition before the Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad. The said writ petition is
Ex.DW11/1. It is clear on a reading of this writ petition that initially it was
believed that the murder of the Victim was a pre-planned one, because no
articles including the Fortuner car were looted and the assailants had fled
away from the spot after firing the gun shots. PW-5 himself had been put
under the cloud of doubts which is apparent from a reading of the writ petition
Ex.DW11/1. Father of the Victim had stated as below in para no. 13, 16 & 20
of the writ petition:- 67.13. Respondent No. 9 referred in the aforesaid petition is the wife of
victim Ankit Chauhan, who was examined by the CBI as PW-50. 67.14. The contents of the writ petition suggest that the incident was being
investigated by the UP Police from the angle of it being a pre-planned murder
and not from the angle of robbery. PW-5 was also being put in the dock and
angle of robbery was being brushed aside. 67.15. When PW-5 was confronted by the Ld. Defense Counsels on this
aspect. He deposed that he had informed the Noida Police about the assailants
signaling the Car to stop. PW-53, the first IO from the UP Police, however
denied that such an information was given to him by PW-5. The
circumstances described in the paragraph above however suggest that the
version of PW-5 is true. The theory of robbery was being brushed aside
because the assailants did not take away any valuable article including the
Fortuner car. PW-5 therefore may not have been believed even if he had
disclosed about the signals having been given by the assailants to stop the car CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 113/184 and therefore this fact may not have been recorded in his statement also. It
appears that for this reason only PW-5 may not have informed the CBI about
the angle of robbery till solving of the case and arrest of the accused persons.
The omissions in the previous statements of PW-5 on the aspect of robbery
are therefore explicable when these are considered in light of the
circumstances under which investigation was being carried out. The angle of
robbery came to the fore after the arrest of accused persons. The stand of
PW-5 stood vindicated at that stage. Before that, not only was he undergoing
the trauma of incident but also the trauma of being one of the suspects
himself. 67.16. CBI had examined PW-51 to prove that the accused persons
actually wanted to rob the Fortuner car and that is why the alleged offences
were committed by them. PW-51 was first arrested by the CBI in this case as
a co-accused, however, later a closure report was filed qua him which was
accepted by the Court and PW-51 was included into the array of witnesses
instead. 67.17. PW-51 categorically deposed in his examination-in-chief that in
the first week of April, 2015, Shashank Jadon and Manoj Kumar had
approached him along with Pankaj Thakur. They were seeking help from
PW-51 for arranging a stolen car. PW-51, initially during his examination-in-
chief, deposed that the aforesaid three persons did not inform him the reason
why they needed an old car. However, when he was confronted with his
statement u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C ., which is Ex.PW51/1, he deposed that co-
accused Pankaj Kumar @ Pankaj Thakur (since deceased) had requested him
to arrange a car because he wanted to use the same for committing theft / CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 114/184 robbery of another car. This witness identified the accused Shashank Jadon
and Manoj Kumar in the Court and deposed that these two accused persons
had approached him along with Pankaj Thakur @ Pankaj Kumar. 67.18. PW-51 was cross-examined at length on behalf of both the accused
persons. Not a single question was however put to him with respect to his
statement u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C . The said statement was not even used by the
defence to confront the witness. The defence instead used the statement
u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C . which is Mark PW51/A. The witness denied the
suggestion that he was deposing falsely at the instance of CBI in exchange of
the promise made by the CBI to file a closure report against him. Despite a
lengthy cross-examination, nothing fruitful could be brought out by the
defence in its favour. The testimony of PW-51 proves that the alleged
offences were committed by the accused persons with an aim to commit
robbery of the Fortuner car. Since the angle of robbery was accepted by the
investigating agency only after arrest of the accused persons, it was being
brushed aside earlier and PW-5 was rather being put under the cloud of
suspicion, it becomes clear why there is an omission in this regard in the
previous statements of PW-5. It is to be kept in mind here that PW-5 was not
the writer of the statement Ex.PX and Ex.PY and he categorically stated
before the Court that he had informed the UP Police that the assailants had
signaled the Fortuner car being driven by the Victim, to stop. The prime
reason why investigation was transferred to the CBI, was that the various
angles through which the case was being investigated by the U.P. Police, were
not leading the investigation anywhere. This obviously was because the angle
of robbery, which was the actual reason for committing the crime, was being CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 115/184 brushed aside and statements of witnesses were being tailormade
accordingly. One of the glaring example of tailormade statements is with
respect to the Fortuner car, which shall be discussed in detail in the latter part
of this judgment, while appreciating the testimony of PW-53. 67.19. For reasons aforesaid, I am of the considered view that there are no
contradictions or improvements in the testimony of PW-5 on the aforesaid
account as well. His testimony is trustworthy. His presence at the spot is
natural because he was accompanying Ankit Chauhan at the time of incident.
His presence has been proved by the prosecution sufficiently through the
CCTV footage and the testimony of PW-50 Smt. Amisha Chauhan. PW-5 is a
natural witness and himself a Victim before whom his friend was shot dead.
PW-5 himself faced death threat from very close and his testimony before the
Court cannot be brushed aside lightly. 68. The third and fourth contradictions that were highlighted by the
defence in the testimony of PW-5, are with respect to the following portions:- 68.1. It was contended by Ld. Defence Counsels that the aforesaid
statement of PW-5 was completely contradictory to the medical evidence
because as per the postmortem report Ex.PW2K/1, there was a blackening CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 116/184 around the gun shot entry wound on the left elbow of the deceased Victim. It
was contended that a bullet that had hit the victim after piercing through the
front windscreen of Fortuner car and was fired from a little distance (at least
from the distance equivalent to the bonnet of Fortuner car), will not cause any
blackening. It was because once the bullet would hit the screen of the Car,
entire soot would get deposited on the windscreen itself and shall not reach
the body, hence, question of blackening of wound shall not arise. Ld. Defence
Counsel contended that in this case, PW-2, the Doctor who had conducted the
postmortem, had categorically opined that the injury found on the elbow of
the deceased victim was caused by a gunshot and had blackening on its
corners. Such an opinion of the medical expert suggested that the narration of
events by PW-5 was not truthful because had the bullet been fired from a
distance equivalent to the length of bonnet of Fortuner car and had reached
the body of the Victim after piercing through the windscreen of the Car, it
would not have caused blackening of the wound. Ld. Defence Counsel relied
upon the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Pankaj v. State of Rajasthan
(Supra) in support of this contention. The following paragraphs from the said
decision were referred by the Ld. Counsel:- ..... 22. Admittedly, there is variance in the statements of PW8
 and PW6 with regard to the distance between the deceased
 and the appellant-accused as stated above. In this fact
 situation, it is imperative to quote the "Phenomena observed
 in Firearm Injuries or Short Holes on Clothing", from Modi's
 Jurisprudence C (24th Edn.) which is as under: scorching/singeing 5-8 cm generally. Rifles - within about 15-20 cm
 generally. Shotguns - may show evidence
 of scorching up to 30-10 cm. 2. Smoke/powder Rifles generally up to about 30
 marks cm (blackening) and about 100
 cm (powder residues). Handguns up to about 60 cm. 3. Tattooing Handguns up to about 60
 cmanojm. Rifles up to 75 cm generally. Shotguns up to 100-300 m CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 118/184 (may be found after careful
 search at higher range). In a case where death is due to injuries or wounds caused by a
 lethal weapon, it is always the duty of the prosecution to prove
 by expert evidence that it was likely or at least possible for the
 injuries to have been caused with the weapon with which and
 in the manner in which they are alleged to have been caused.
 In the case on hand, the contradiction i.e. the distance of fire is
 material and in our considered opinion, it would not be
 appropriate to convict the appellant-accused by ignoring such
 an important aspect." 68.2. Ld. Defence Counsels further contended that the testimony of
PW-5 was also contradictory to the photographs of the Fortuner car taken by
the insurance surveyor, which were Mark PW5/1 (colly). These photographs
showed that the steering wheel was damaged from the left side. Hence, the
bullet could not have travelled from the front windshield of the car. It was
also contended that as per report of insurance surveyor, which is Ex.PW32/B
(colly), it was mentioned that no repair was done in the front left seat of the
Fortuner car. It means that there was no damage in the front left seat which
was impossible had the bullet really struck on that seat. 68.3. Ld. Defence Counsels moreover contended that the testimony of
PW-5 regarding firing of the bullet at him was contradictory to the testimony
of PW-53. The said portion of the statement of PW-53 which is stated to be
contradictory to the testimony of PW-5 reads as below:- 68.4. Ld. Defence Counsels referred to the seizure memo Ex.PW-11/B
(D-4) which mentions as below:- It was contended that the seizure memo nowhere mentioned that the
bullet was recovered from the seat. 68.5. Ld. Defence Counsels also contended that the testimony of PW-5
was contradictory to his own earlier statement u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C . recorded by
the Noida Police because he did not state anything about firing of the bullet
upon him as per the said statement. Ld. Counsel moreover pointed out to the
following portion of Ex.DW11/1 and contended that this portion was
contrary to the statement of PW-5: 68.6. In order to appreciate the argument regarding medical evidence, it
is necessary to first note down the injuries reflected in the postmortem report
Ex.PW2K/1. The injuries are noted as below:- 68.7. The postmortem report opined that cause of death of Victim Ankit
Chauhan was coma due to lower brain and spinal cord injury as a result of
antemortem injuries. The antemortem injuries have already been noted in the
above paragraph. 68.8. PW-2, who is maker of the postmortem report, was examined in the
Court. He reiterated contents of the postmortem report during his
examination-in-chief and deposed that the injury No. 5 was connected to the
injury no. 1. He also deposed that injury no. 2, 3 & 4 were connected and
blackening was possible at injury no.1 because of injury no.5 and at injury no.
2 because of injury no. 3. He deposed that injury no. 1 & 2 were not due to the
entry of gun shots. He also deposed that the five injuries found on the person
of Victim were caused due to two bullets that had hit him on the different
body parts and one of the bullets, related to injury no. 5, was recovered from
the body of the Victim during the postmortem. 68.9. It is therefore clear from the testimony of PW-2 that two bullets had
hit the Victim. One of the bullet had hit him on his neck and another bullet had
hit him below his elbow, as is clear from injury no. 3 & 5. 68.10. This statement of PW-2 corroborates that testimony of PW-5 who
had categorically deposed in his statement that two bullets had hit the Victim
Ankit Chauhan. PW-5 deposed that total four bullets were fired. The first CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 121/184 bullet was fired by the assailants at the front windscreen of the Fortuner car.
This bullet had smashed the front screen of the car and had hit the Victim on
the left arm elbow. The second bullet was fired at the driver side window pane
of the Fortuner car. This bullet had smashed the window pane but did not hit
anyone. This second bullet that had smashed the driver side window pane of
the car seems to be the one that had also hit the steering wheel of the Fortuner
car at the left side and thereafter had broken into pieces. The testimony of
PW-53 sufficiently proves that broken pieces of bullet were found lying in the
Fortuner car. The third bullet was also fired, as per the testimony of PW-5,
from the driver side window pane of the Fortuner car. This third bullet,
according to PW-5, had hit the Victim on his neck. It is to be kept in mind that
this third bullet was fired after the driver side window pane of the Fortuner
car had already got smashed. Further, this bullet was fired from a more closer
range then the first bullet that had hit the Victim on his left elbow. It is this
third bullet which was recovered from the body of the deceased Ankit
Chauhan. The fourth bullet, according to PW-5, was fired at him from the
window pane of driver's side. He ducked down due to which the bullet did not
hit him and struck the front passanger seat of the car. The assailants had
panicked by then and could not untie the seat belt of the Victim due to which
they had to leave the spot without taking the Fortuner car along. This fourth
bullet was indeed found from the front passenger seat of the Fortuner car. The
bullet found from the front seat of Fortuner car cannot be the first bullet that
was fired, because the first bullet had entered into the body of the Victim and
thus was likely to have blood traces. No blood traces however were found on
the bullet recovered from the left front seat. 68.11. The aforesaid account of the gun shots fired by the assailants
completely matches the postmortem report as well as recoveries made from
the spot. There is lack of clarity only with respect to the first bullet that had hit
the deceased Ankit Chauhan in his elbow. PW-57 (IO of CBI) had deposed
that broken pieces found in the Fortuner car were of two bullets but this fact is
not confirmed in any of the FSL reports. Since broken pieces could be of two
bullets, Court cannot doubt the case of prosecution only because of lack of
clarity regarding the first bullet. The postmortem report has confirmed that
two gun shots had hit Ankit Chauhan and one bullet was recovered from his
body, which corroborates the testimony of PW-5 and lends credibility to it. 68.12. The question regarding blackening of the wounds was also put by
the defence to PW-2 during his cross-examination. PW-2 had deposed at that
time that he did not have the expertise to speak about the distance upto which
blackening of the wound was likely to be caused by a gun shot. He had also
deposed that such an opinion could have been given only by a ballistic expert.
CBI had examined a ballistic expert also, who is PW-15, however no question
regarding blackening of the wounds and the likely distance between the
assailants and the Victim was put to PW-15 by either of the accused persons
during his cross-examination. The defence rather produced its own ballistic
expert who was examined in the Court as DW-10. He had proved his report
Ex.DW10/1 and stated during his cross-examination that the opinion given
by him in his report was based upon the general questions which were
referred to him by the accused Shashank Jadon. He deposed that the issues
like distance from which the bullet was fired, bore of the weapon, nature of
the bullet, body part at which bullet had hit, distance between the weapon and CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 123/184 the person and number of persons who had fired the bullet etc. cannot be
answered without examining the weapon, the victim's body and the scene of
crime. He admitted that he had not visited the scene of crime and his report
was of a general nature. 68.13. It is clear from the testimony of PW-2, PW-15 and DW-10 that no
definitive opinion was brought forth before this Court that would suggest that
blackening of the wound was not at all possible if the gun shot was fired from
a distance equivalent to the length of bonnet of the Fortuner car and the bullet
had first passed through the window pane of the Car. The observations of
Hon'ble apex Court in para no. 20 & 22 of the judgment in Pankaj v. State of
Rajasthan (Supra) cannot be relied upon as a precedent in this case because
those observations pertain to the facts and circumstances of the said case. The
statement of ballistic expert suggested that it was not completely impossible
to have blackening of wound in a case situation faced by this Court. PW-2
categorically deposed about the blackening of wounds. A perusal of the
postmortem report Ex.PW2K/1 shows that while the gun shot injury on the
left elbow of the victim had blackening only on its corners, the gun shot
injury on his neck had blackening all over. This difference is also apparent in
the description of injuries by PW-2 in his statement recorded before the
Court. Such a description of the injury again corroborates the testimony of
PW-5 only, because it shows that the bullet which had hit the Victim at his
neck was fired from a distance nearer than the distance from which the bullet
hitting the elbow was fired. PW-5 had categorically deposed that bullet
hitting the elbow was fired from front side of the Car while the bullet hitting
the neck was fired from the window pane of the driver's side. 68.14. The testimony of PW-5 is also in complete consonance with the
photographs of the Fortuner car. These photographs were initially marked as
Mark PW5/1 (Colly), but later, when the insurance surveyor was called in the
witness box as PW-32, the photographs were exhibited along with the report
of the surveyor as Ex.PW32/B (Colly). These photographs suggest a bullet
mark on the front window pane of the Fortner car towards the driver's side.
The steering wheel of the Fortuner car also bears bullet marks on the left side.
The driver side window pane of the Fortuner car seems smashed too. The
front passenger seat of the Car is found torn, which suggests that bullet had
struck it. 68.15. PW-53 had deposed that the bullet was found lying on the front
passenger seat of the Fortuner car while PW-5 deposed that it had struck the
front passenger seat. The photographs on record corroborate the testimony of
PW-5 and not PW-53. This suggests that PW-53 had carried out a shoddy
investigation. In such circumstances, contradictions in the testimony of PW-5
and PW-53 cannot be used to disbelieve PW-5, who is the eye witness of the
incident. The material proved on record shows that the testimony of PW-5 is
trustworthy. The material also points out how non-seriously the investigation
of this case was handled by PW-53, who was the first IO of this case from the
U.P. Police. 68.16. Page no. 22 of the report of insurance surveyor which is
Ex.PW32/B (colly) was referred by the Ld. Defence Counsel in order to
support his contention regarding the contradictions. The said page reflects
that Fortuner car was handed over by the insurance surveyor to the customer CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 125/184 without repairing due to pending documents, on 11.05.2015. This report
nowhere states that no repair was done on the front passenger seat of the
Fortuner car. Even otherwise, there is no requirement of referring to this
report because from the photographs which are part of the report, it is clear
that the front passenger seat of the Fortuner car was cut open and hence the
question of assuming that there was no damage in the front passenger seat of
the Car does not arise, merely because there is no mention of repair of the said
seat at page no. 22 of the report. 68.17. So far the contents of Ex.DW11/1 are concerned, the same cannot
be used to discredit the testimony of PW-5. It is reiterated that the said
petition was filed by father of the Victim before the Hon'ble High Court of
Allahabad when the UP Police was not able to trace the assailants. In that
petition, suspicion was raised even upon PW-5. Considering the background
in which the petition was filed, it can be safely assumed that it was likely that
father of the Victim was not believing PW-5 initially and what was written by
him in his petition was based upon his perception of the events and the CCTV
Footage that has been referred in para no. 15 of the writ petition. 68.18. In my considered opinion, for the reasons aforesaid, the testimony
of PW-5 is more reliable than the testimony of PW-53. Hence, no weightage
can be attached to the contradictions highlighted by the defence in the
testimony of these two witnesses. There is further no contradiction in the
testimony of PW-5 and it is corroborated by the medical evidence &
photographs of the Fortuner car. 69. The fifth contradiction pointed out in the testimony of PW-5 is
from the portion that reads as below:- 69.1. Ld. Defence counsel contended that above said portion of the
testimony of PW-5 was contradictory to the testimony of PW-53 & PW-57.
PW-53 is the first IO of this case from the U.P. Police. PW-57 is the IO of CBI
who had filed the chargesheet. 69.2. The following portion of the testimony of PW-53 was referred in
order to demonstrate contradiction:- 69.3. The portion referred from the testimony of PW-57 for highlighting
the contradiction, is as below:- 69.4. This Court has already observed that the approach of PW-53 in
investigating this case was lackadaisical. PW-57, on the other hand, was able
to explain why he did not cite the police official who had guarded the
Fortuner car, as a witness. His explanation was that because PW-53 was the
first IO of the case and he had been cited as a witness, there was no
requirement of citing any other police official as witness. 69.5. The testimony of PW-53, that Fortuner car was lifted from the spot
of incident and brought to the Police Station on the next day of incident, does
not seem probable from the material that has been proved on record by the
prosecution. The testimony of PW-5 that the Fortuner car was used by him to
take the Victim to the hospital with the help of a passerby is more natural and
probable. The Victim was shot dead at Barola bye-pass during the broad day
light and there is no contradictory theory on record how he was taken to the
hospital from the scene of crime. The hospital of course was at quite a
distance from the scene of crime as can be verified from the site plan Ex.D-1.
In such a situation, it is certain that the witness was taken to the hospital in
some vehicle. There is nothing on record to suggest that an ambulance had
picked up the Victim from the spot and had taken him to the hospital. There is
further nothing on record to suggest that a different vehicle was used to take CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 128/184 the Victim to the hospital. The Victim was driving the Fortuner car when the
incident happened and hence it was the first and very natural choice for the
first responder to take the Victim to the hospital using that vehicle. The
testimony of PW-5 on this aspect appears natural as well as probable. The
presence of PW-5 on the place of incident has already been sufficiently
established from the material proved on record by the prosecution including
the testimony of PW-50 and the CCTV Footage. In such a case, it is natural
that PW-5 himself was the first responder to the incident and had taken the
Victim to the hospital. The testimony of PW-5 that he had taken the Victim to
the hospital in the Fortuner car that was driven by a passerby is credible and
cannot be brushed aside lightly merely on the basis of a statement of PW-53
whose role in the investigation has not been upto the mark. In my considered
opinion, the contradiction highlighted by Ld. Defence Counsel cannot be
attached such a significance as to disbelieve an otherwise creditworthy
witness i.e. PW-5. 69.6. The testimony of PW-5 is also believable for a second reason,
which is, corrobation. His testimony is being corroborated from the report of
surveyor which is Ex.PW32/B (colly). In the letter dated 28.04.2016 which is
at page no. 64 of Ex.PW32/B (colly), it is reflected that after the incident the
Fortuner car (Ex.P-2) remained parked in the hospital. This letter is of a date
prior to the arrest of accused persons and therefore could not have been tailor
made to suit the line of investigation that was undertaken by the CBI. Hence,
this document is believable. It shows that PW-53 indeed had recorded the
circumstances in a way that he thought will suit his line of investigation, and
not what had actually happened. 69.7. Ld. Defence Counsel contended that PW-5 had disclosed to the
Noida Police on 14.04.2015 as per Ex.PX that when the assailants had started
firing the gun shot, he opened window of the Car and had fallen out. PW-53
confirmed during his evidence in the Court that PW-5 had informed him
about the same. Ld. Counsel further contended that the aforesaid statement of
PW-5 given to the police is probable because in the site plan Ex.D-1, which
was prepared by the Noida Police, the places from where the gun shots were
fired by the assailants are not indicated. It is because PW-5 had not seen the
incident as he had fallen out of the car. Ld. Counsel contended that when
PW-5 was confronted with his statement Ex.PX he stated that he did not tell
the Noida Police that he had fallen out of the Car. However, the contradiction
was sufficiently proved by defence by examining PW-53 on the aforesaid
aspect and bringing on record the site plan Ex.D-1 highlighting the
discrepancies. 69.8. In my considered view, the abovesaid argument of Ld. Defence
Counsel is again baseless and without merits. PW-5 categorically deposed in
his examination-in-chief that the assailants had fired a gun shot at him but he
had ducked down due to which the bullet had struck the front passenger seat
of the Car. A bullet indeed was recovered from the front passenger seat of the
Fortuner car. This bullet actually struck the front seat, as is clear from the
photographs Ex.PW32/B (Colly), already discussed hereinabove. The
statement of PW-5 in such a scenario seems more probable. Further, if PW-5
had really fallen out and had not seen the place from where gun shots were
fired, he would not have noticed the physical & facial features of the
assailants as well. This assumption however is contrary to the record because CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 130/184 in his statement Ex.PY, PW-5 has categorically stated that the person who had
fired the gun shots was having a tattoo on his hand. This statement was given
during the golden period of investigation at a time when police was having no
clue about the assailants. PW-5 had also helped the U.P. Police to make a
sketch of the assailant, who had fired the gun shots, as is the admitted case of
the prosecution and the defence. PW-1 has also deposed that PW-5 had told
them that one of the assailants was fair and having a tatoo. All this suggest
that PW-5 had noted the features of the assailants and had given various clues
to the Police. Since the material proved on record reflects that the version of
PW-5 is more probable then the version of PW-53, the statement of PW-53
cannot be used to disbelieve PW-5 who is an eye witness of the incident.
Further, glaring examples of laxity of PW-53 in bringing the correct facts on
record have already been highlighted hereinabove and give additional
reasons to this Court to not discredit PW-5 on the basis of the testimony of
PW-53. 69.9. Ld. Defence Counsel further raised issues, like, PW-5 had not
stated that the person who had fired the shot had a tattoo or that he was the
same person who was sitting in the left seat of the Car parked behind the
Fortuner car or that the Honda Accord car parked behind the Fortuner car was
the same car that had followed the Fortuner car. These contentions of Ld.
Defence Counsel are again without merits because PW-5 has identified both
the accused persons in the Court. He also identified the Honda Accord car that
had followed the Fortuner car on the date of the incident. His testimony to this
effect could not be impeached by the defence during his cross-examination
and hence, is believable. 70. The last contradiction that was pointed out by the Ld. Defence
Counsel is with respect to the identification of both the accused persons by
PW-5 in the Court. It was contended that the PW-5 had identified the accused
persons in the Court because he was tutored to do so by the CBI. It was
contended that sketch of the suspect made on the basis of inputs given by
PW-5 was quite different from the features of the accused persons before the
Court. PW-5 had described the features of only one assailant to the police and
TIP of the accused persons conducted by the CBI was defective for various
reasons. It was contended that, firstly, the consent of accused persons was not
taken before conducting the TIP. Secondly, it was contended, that the TIP was
conducted after keeping the accused persons in police custody for a fairly
long period of about 8 days. The accused persons were shown to the PW-5
inside the Court Room because accused Shashank Jadon was not produced
before the Court in a muffled face while muffle of accused Manoj Kumar was
removed in the Court. Ld. Counsel for accused Shashank Jadon also
contended that photograph and personal details of this accused were
telecasted on National News Channel Aaj Tak on 02.06.2017 at about
8:00PM, more than a month before conducting his TIP on 06.07.2017. 70.1. I have perused the cross-examination of PW-5 to appreciate the
aforementioned contentions. It was suggested to PW-5 that he had seen the
accused Shashank Jadon on the News Channel Aaj Tak in the programme
titled as 'PCR' relayed on 02.06.2017. The said suggestion was however
denied by PW-5 categorically. On denial of suggestion, no further questions
were put to PW-5 on the aforesaid aspect. Moreoever, PW-5 was not
questioned if he had seen the accused persons in the Court during their police CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 132/184 custody remand. PW-5 had categorically denied that the accused persons
were shown to him by the Police in the office of CBI during their PC remand. 70.2. It is now to be seen if the contentions regarding TIP raised by the
accused persons are borne out from the record. The accused Shashank Jadon
was arrested by the CBI on 01.06.2017 while the accused Manoj Kumar was
arrested on 02.06.2017. The record received from the Ld. Magistrate Court at
Ghaziabad reflects that the IO Insp. Deepak, in his application Ex.PW57/D-2
for sending the accused Shashank Jadon to judicial custody, moved on
02.06.2017, had prayed to the Court that the said accused be kept in muffled
face. Similar prayer is found mentioned with respect to both the accused
persons in the second application moved on 02.06.2017 itself for seeking
police custody remand. This second appliction was taken up on 03.06.2017.
The accused persons were taken in police custody from 03.06.2017 to
08.06.2017 and again from 08.06.2017 to 11.06.2017. The Orders dated
03.06.2017 and 08.06.2017 vide which police custody was granted, are part
of the Court record. In none of these Orders there is a mention of the fact that
PW-5 was present in the Court. The accused persons were being represented
by a lawyer before the Ld. Trial Court at Ghaziabad. No objections were
raised by the lawyers of accused persons regarding their production in non-
muffled face or regarding showing them to PW-5 in the Court. Remand sheet
dated 02.06.2017, which is Ex.PW57/D-3, shows that the accused persons
were produced in muffled face because it mentions the word 'Baparda' on the
top. 70.3. The contention of the accused persons that they were shown to the
PW-5 while they were in Police Custody is also without merits. While CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 133/184 granting PC remand, the Ld. Special Judicial Magistrate (CBI), Ghaziabad
had allowed the Advocates of the accused persons to remain present at a
distance of about 100 meter in the office of CBI during their interrogation. It
is not clear if such a liberty was availed by the Advocates of the accused
persons. However, the Orders granting the PC remand do not mention if any
objection regarding the conduct of the IO in showing the accused persons to
PW-5 in the office of CBI was raised by the Advocate of either of the accused
persons on 03.06.2017 or 08.06.2017. The application dated 15.06.2017
moved by the IO Inspector Deepak from CBI, for extension of Judicial
Custody remand of the accused Shashank Jadon, also shows that the IO had
requested the Court to keep the accused in muffled face. 70.4. The accused persons contended that their consent was not taken
before conducting the TIP however there is no mention in the TIP
proceedings that when the TIP began they objected to the same on the ground
that they had already been shown to the witness by the CBI. 70.5. It is therefore clear from the above material on record that the
ground of having been produced in non-muffled face taken by the accused
persons is an afterthought and without merits. 70.6. The accused Shashank Jadon, in order to prove his defence
regarding his production in non-muffled face, had also examined DW-6, an
official of Dasna Jail. His testimony however could not prove that the
accused was not directed to be kept in muffled face at all. DW-6, during his
cross-examination, categorically deposed that the custody warrants of
accused Shashank Jadon for June, 2017 were not available in their record and CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 134/184 the same were filed before the Court on issuance of production warrants. In
such a scenario, the testimony of DW-6 that their record did not indicate if
accused Shashank Jadon was to be kept in a muffled face, became immaterial.
His testimony further lost significance in view of the record available in the
file received from the Ld. Committal Court, Ghaziabad, indicating that the
accused Shashank Jadon was indeed kept in muffled face. 70.7. For the reasons aforesaid, I am of the considered view that the
testimony of PW-5 regarding identity of the accused persons is also not
doubtful. It is rather creditworthy and reliable. The accused persons were
identified by PW-5 in the witness box and his testimony on this aspect could
not be impeached by way of cross-examination. 71. PW-5 being an eye witness, his testimony is sufficient to decide the
present case. He is a reliable witness and his creditworthiness could not be
impeached. However, in this case there is even other material available on
record which corroborates the ocular testimony of PW-5. This material is in
the form of circumstantial evidence which connects the accused persons to
the incident. 72. Ld. Sr. PP for the CBI referred to the various relevant
circumstances during his arguments, like, preparation of crime by the accused
persons, ownership of the Honda Accord car & its re-sale, motive to commit
the crime, recoveries made at the instance of the accused persons and the post
incident conduct of accused persons, to contend that the testimony of PW-5
stood perfectly corroborated. 73. Ld. Defence Counsel however contended that none of the
aforementioned circumstances were proved on record by the prosecution
because there were material contradictions in the testimonies of the witnesses
who were brought in the witness box to prove the said circumstances. 74. In order to appreciate the contentions raised by Ld. Sr. PP and the
Ld. Defence Counsel, I shall now discuss the various circumstances that were
sought to be proved by the prosecution for connecting the accused persons to
the alleged crime. 75. The first of these circumstances is preparation of crime by the
accused persons. 76. It is the case of prosecution that the accused persons had
approached PW-51 (Satpal Bhati) to seek his help in arranging a stolen
vehicle which they may be able to use to rob another vehicle. It is further the
case of prosecution that on being unsuccessful to arrange a robbed vehicle
through PW-51, the accused Shashank Jadon and his associates i.e. Pankaj
and Manoj had decided to use the Honda Accord car of accused Shashank
Jadon by putting a fake number plate over it to conceal its identity. The
prosecution has alleged that the accused Shashank Jadon went to the car
accessories shop being run by PW-41 (Shaan Malik) and got prepared two
fake number plates from the said shop, one for Honda Accord car and another
for a Fortuner car that was to be robbed. He had made entries of these two
numbers in his own handwriting in a register maintained by PW-41. 77. The prosecution had examined the aforesaid two persons as
witnesses. They supported the case of prosecution after initially attempting to CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 136/184 wriggle out of their statements recorded by the Ld. Magistrate u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C . On being confronted with their respective statements, they admitted
the contents of the same and deposed in favour of prosecution. 78. PW-51 deposed that the accused Shashank Jadon had met him in
the first week of April, 2015 along with co- accused Pankaj Thakur and
Manoj Kumar. The accused Shashank Jadon and Manoj Kumar were
identified by PW-51 in the Court also. PW-51 deposed that Pankaj Thakur
had given him a call expressing his willingness to meet and thereafter had
come along with the accused Shashank Jadon and Manoj Kumar at his work
place. PW-51 categorically deposed that Pankaj had requested him to arrange
a robbed/stolen vehicle because he wanted to use that vehicle for robbing
another car. He was cross-examined in detail by the accused persons during
which it was suggested to him that the accused Shashank Jadon and Manoj
Kumar had never met him. He denied the said suggestion however. No
questions were put to him with respect to his statement recorded u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C . He was confronted with his statement u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C . however. On
denial of suggestion that he had never met the accused Shashank Jadon or
Manoj Kumar, no further cross-examination of PW-51 was done by the
accused persons on that aspect. 79. Both the accused persons, in their respective statements recorded
u/Sec. 313 Cr.P.C ., had stated that they had no acquaintance with PW-51 and
had never gone to meet him. 80. Ld. Defence Counsels assailed the testimony of PW-51 on various
grounds. Ld. Counsels contended that the testimony of PW-51 was self- contradictory because he had deposed that accused Pankaj Thakur @ Pankaj
Kumar (since deceased) had given him a call in the first week of April, 2015
before meeting him, however, the call detail records of the mobile number of
the deceased accused Pankaj Kumar, placed on record by the prosecution, do
not suggest that any call was ever made to PW-51 by Pankaj Thakur. The call
detail records of mobile no. 9910614458, imputed to Pankaj Thakur, are
Ex.PW57/D1 (Colly). Ld. Counsels contended that PW-51 is a tutored
witness of the CBI. He was first arrested as an accused in the present case but,
later on, a closure repot was filed against him in exchange of his statement
u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C . supporting the case of the prosecution. It was further
contended by the Ld. Defence Counsels that PW-51 did not identify the
accused Pankaj Thakur from the photo identification memo Ex.PW45/1. Ld.
Counsel also contended that PW-51 had denied many portions of his
statement recorded u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C ., which is Mark PW51/A. These
portions relate to the knowledge of PW-51 regarding the business affairs and
loan liability of accused Shashank Jadon. 81. The contentions raised by Ld. Defence Counsels have been
analyzed by me from the record and the same are found to be baseless, for the
following reasons:- CAF and call detail records of mobile number 9910614458 are also a part of
Ex.PW57/D1 (Colly), as per which the mobile no. 9910614458 was allotted
to one Bhushan S/o Sripal, who is also the father of Late Pankaj Thakur.
Similarly, CAF & call detail records of PW-51 (Satpal Bhati) were filed in the
Court by the prosecution on the request of accued Shashank Jadon & he
himself had got those exhibtied as Ex.PW57/D6 (Colly). An analysis of the
call detail records Ex.PW57/D1 (Colly) & Ex.PW57/D6 (Colly) shows that
multiple calls were exchanged between the accused Shashank Jadon and
PW-51 Satpal on 16.04.2015, 20.04.2015, 23.04.2015 and 29.04.2015. A call
has also been exchanged between Satpal Bhati and the mobile number
allotted to Bhushan on 19.04.2015. Furthermore, there are calls exchanged
between the mobile number of accused Shashank Jadon and Bhushan S/o
Sripal on 14.04.2015, 17.04.2015, 27.04.2015 and 28.04.2015. Ld.
Prosecutor for CBI had also drawn my attention towards the medical
documents of accused Pankaj Kumar (since deceased) which are Ex.PW20/A
(Colly). The phone number of Pankaj Kumar is reflected in these documents
as 9650167933. The call detail record Ex.PW57/D1 (Colly) reflects that calls
were exchanged between the accused Shashank Jadon and the aforesaid
number on 05.04.2015, 06.04.2015 and 13.04.2015. It is established from CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 140/184 these call detail records that the accused Shashank Jadon, PW-51 Satpal Bhati
and deceased Pankaj Thakur knew each other. This belies the claim of the
accused Shashank Jadon that he did not know PW-51 at all and he was not
well familiar with Pankaj Thakur also. The call detail records of PW-51 do
not establish any call between the phone numbers connected to Pankaj
Thakur and PW-51 before 13.04.2015, however, it does not lead to clear
assumption that there was no exchange of calls between the two of them. I say
so because it is possible that accused Pankaj Thakur had some other phone
number also which was used to contact PW-51. This witness had appeared in
the witness box and was cross-examined by the accused persons in detail.
Nothing fruitful could be extracted by the accused persons in their favour
during the cross-examination of PW-51. This witness had identified both the
accused persons in the Court. The accused persons claimed that he was
deposing in favour of CBI in exchange of a closure report and that they had
no acquaintance with him, but their claim regarding acquaintance stood
belied from the phone calls. 81.3. Lack of identification of Pankaj Thakur from Ex.PW45/1 is
immaterial because Pankaj Thakur is not on trial in this case and other two
accused persons were categorically identified by PW-51 in the Court. 81.4. The contention that PW-51 had improved upon his statement
recorded u/Sec. 161 Cr.P.C . is also of no use because these improvements
pertain to the knowledge of PW-51 regarding the business and loan of
accused Shashank Jadon and not to the portion related to the visit of accused
persons in the first week of April, 2015. Acquaintance between PW-51 and CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 141/184 Shashank Jadon stood sufficiently established from the call detail records
Ex.PW57/D-1 (Colly) & PW57/D-6 (Colly). 82. The testimony of PW-51 is reliable and there is no reason before
this Court to doubt his creditworthiness merely for the reason that he was
earlier implicated as a co-accused. Of course, the Court is required to
approach his testimony with circumspection, which has been done and it is
found that PW-51 indeed was in touch with at least the accused Shashank
Jadon, as can be seen from call detail record which was brought on record by
the accused Shashank Jadon himself. 83. The aforesaid material proved by the prosecution establishes that
the accused persons had approached PW-51 for seeking his help in arranging
a stolen vehicle that would be used by them for robbing a new vehicle. Hence,
before committing the crime, the accused persons had done the preparation,
which circumstance certainly goes against them and strengthens the case of
the prosecution. 84. The second witness pertaining to preparation of crime is PW-41,
who categorically deposed before the Court that he was approached by the
accused Shashank Jadon for making two number plates and the numbers of
these two number plates were written by accused Shashank Jadon in his own
handwriting in the register maintained by PW-41 at his shop. The said page of
the register is Ex.PW16/B. The accused Shashank Jadon admitted his
handwriting at Q-1 on Ex.PW16/B. The contents of Q-1 read as follows: 85. It is the defence of the accused Shashank Jadon that he was made to
write these two vehicle numbers at Q-1 by the CBI when he was in Police
custody. The accused stated in his statement recorded u/Sec. 313 Cr.P.C . that
he was tortured by the CBI while in Police custody and he was forced to
create the document Ex.PW16/B which was later falsely imputed upon him. 86. Ld. Sr. PP for the CBI heavily relied upon the testimony of PW-41
and contended that the contents of Q-1 on Ex.PW16/B not only clearly point
towards the intent of the accused persons to rob a Fortuner car, but also
connect them to the fake number plate that was used in commission of crime. 87. Ld. Defence Counsel however contended that PW-41 was not a
reliable witness. He is rather an interested and a planted witness because if
fake number plates were actually prepared by him, he should have been made
an accused by the CBI which was not done. Ld. Counsel also pointed out that
as per the investigation report dated 02.06.2017, pertaining to accused
Shashank Jadon, which is Ex.PW57/3, the accused had disclosed about the
number plates on 02.06.2017 itself but the register was seized on 10.06.2017
and not till 08.06.2017 when the accused was in the first Police custody of the
CBI. Ld. Counsel contended that delay in seizing the register on the part of
CBI suggests that this piece of evidence was manufactured by the CBI and
imputed upon the accused. Ld. Counsel also pointed out to the cross-
examination of PW-41 and deposed that when the entry at point no. 3 of
Ex.PW16/B was shown to him, he stated that he did not know in whose
handwriting the point no. 3 was written. Ld. Counsel contended that point no.
3 was also written by the accused Shashank Jadon himself as was proved by
DW-10 too. If PW-41 had really remembered about the handwriting of CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 143/184 accused Shashank Jadon, he would have identified the handwriting at point
no. 3 also. It was also contended that the alleged fake number plate of the
Honda Accord car was never shown to PW-41 by the CBI during the trial. 88. Question regarding delay in seizing the register Ex.PW16/B was
put to PW-57 during his cross-examination and he had deposed that the delay
might have happened because PW-41 may have sought time to search the
register. This explanation of PW-57 is plausible. Merely because PW-41 was
not booked by the Police for preparing a number plate without checking the
RC, it cannot be said that his testimony is not truthful especially when the
accused himself admitted his handwriting at Q-1 of Ex.PW16/B. 89. The only defence of the accused Shashank Jadon is that he was
made to write these two numbers when he was in Police custody. The accused
has pleaded that he was tortured when he was in Police custody and his
medical examination was not conducted as per rules. The accused has also
pleaded that he had informed his Lawyer about all the aforesaid facts and the
Lawyer had mentioned about these in the bail application. 90. The record reflects that the aforesaid defence of accused Shashank
Jadon is baseless. This accused had himself appeared in the witness box as
DW-11 and he was cross-examined by the prosecution in detail. He was made
to go through the bail applications filed on his behalf, which are
Ex.DW11/P-1 and Ex.DW11/P-2. He admitted that none of the two
applications mentioned anything about his alleged torture in the police
custody. He admitted that the bail applications were filed after he had
received copy of the chargesheet. It is clear from this portion of the testimony CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 144/184 of accused Shashank Jadon that copy of the chargesheet had been received by
him before filing of the bail applications and thus he certainly was aware of
the documents that were proposed to be used against him by the CBI during
the trial. He did not disclose to the Court at the earliest possible stage that the
CBI had manufactured the documents against him. 91. The submission of accused Shashank Jadon that his medical
examination was not conducted as per rules is also belied from the documents
available on record which show that he was produced for medical
examination on 02.06.2017 at the beginning of Police custody and on
08.06.2017 at the end of the first Police custody. No injuries were found on
the person of accused Shashank Jadon during either of these medical
examinations. There is further nothing on record which suggest that when the
accused was sent to judicial custody on 11.06.2017, after expiry of his second
Police custody remand, any fresh injuries of torture were found on his person.
It is also worthwhile to note that whenever the accused Shashank Jadon was
produced before the Court for extension of Police custody remand, a Lawyer
was present before the Court on his behalf and Lawyer was even permitted to
remain present in the Police Station during the Police Custody Remand. None
of the bail applications moved by the accused Shashank Jadon soon after
receiving the copy of chargesheet mention about his torture and forgery of
documents. All of these suggest that the defence of the accused is an after
thought. 92. No reason has been imputed as to why PW-41 will depose falsely
against the accused Shashank Jadon. The testimony of PW-41 is reliable
especially when considered in light of the admission of accused Shashank CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 145/184 Jadon that the handwriting at Q-1 is his handwriting. There is no reason for
this Court to not accept the testimony of PW-41 against the accused persons.
The testimony of PW-41 again establishes beyond reasonable doubt that the
accused persons had done preparation to conceal their identity before
committing the crime and this circumstance certainly strengthens the case of
the prosecution further. 93. The second circumstance that has been relied upon by the
prosecution to prove its case against the accused persons is ownership of the
Honda Accord car. It is the case of prosecution that the Honda Accord car was
registered in the name of PW-3 Anil Kumar in the year 2012 and he had sold
it to PW-4 Gaurav Gandhi. PW-4 then sold this vehicle to the accused
Shashank Jadon in June, 2013. The accused Shashank Jadon sold this vehicle
further to PW-9 (Rambhool Chauhan) on 27.11.2015, after commission of the
offence. 94. The Defence attacked upon the testimony of PW-3, PW-4 and PW-9
on the ground that the chain through which vehicle is alleged to have reached
to accused Shashank Jadon was not proved by the prosecution. Ld. Defence
Counsel contended that the vehicle was first registered in the name of
Radhika Enterprises in the year 2005 through one Nidhi Garg. It was
thereafter sold to PW-30 (Harpreet Singh) as per the case of prosecution.
PW-30 had purchased this car from Hyundai showroom but no document in
this regard was produced by the prosecution. Ld. Defence Counsel also
contended that the sale documents Ex.PW4/1 and Ex.PW4/2, in favour of
accused Shashank Jadon, were incomplete and no Form 29 and Form 30 was
proved on record suggesting thereby that the car was actually never sold to CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 146/184 the accused Shashank Jadon. Ld. Counsel also contended that there were
major differences in the documents of sale executed by PW-4 in favour of
PW-3 and the accused Shashank Jadon because the documents of PW-3 did
not bear his photograph while the photograph was pasted on the documents
pertaining to the accused Shashank Jadon. Ld. Defence Counsel contended
that this suggested that the documents were carefully prepared in the office of
CBI to implicate the accused Shashank Jadon in this case. The sale of vehicle
to PW-9 was also denied on behalf of accused Shashank Jadon and it was
contended that the documents of sale in favour of PW-9 were also prepared
by the CBI during his Police custody remand. Ld. Defence Counsel further
referred to the cross-examination of PW-9 and contended that the person
through whom PW-9 had allegedly purchased the vehicle from Shashank
Jadon, was working with PW-9 at Sector-63 as per his own testimony. Ld.
Counsel pointed out that PW-9 had also stated that the said person, namely,
Sanjay was also familiar with the accused Shashank Jadon because he was
running his business from the same premises where the accused Shashank
Jadon also had his business office located. Ld. Counsel contended that the
accused Shashank Jadon did not have his office at Sector-63 and hence the
testimony of PW-9 regarding familiarity between Sanjay and Shashank Jadon
was unbelievable and unreliable. 95. The contentions of Ld. Defence Counsel does not hold ground for
various reasons. The first and foremost is that the accused Shashank Jadon
himself admitted his signature on the delivery receipt Ex.PW4/2 at point B.
He also admitted his handwriting and signature on the sale letter Ex.PW9/A
thereby suggesting his involvement in purchasing and re-selling of the Honda CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 147/184 Accord car bearing No. UP-14AB-2200. The only defence that has been
taken by accused Shashank Jadon is that he was made to sign on Ex.PW4/2
and write Ex.PW9/A when he was in the police custody. A similar plea of the
accused with respect to Ex.PW16/B has already been rejected. This plea also
deserves rejection for the reasons already discussed qua Ex.PW16/B. 96. The prosecution has proved chain of custody by producing PW-30
and PW-4. Otherwise also, PW-3 (Anil) was the registered owner of Honda
Accord car as per RC Ex.PW3/3 (also Ex.PW40/C). He appeared in the
witness box and deposed that he had resold the car to PW-4, who also
deposed to the same effect. Nothing fruitful could be extracted by the defence
during their cross-examination except a few technical objections related to
format of delivery receipt and the maintaining of record. Even if PW-4 was
unable to produce the entire record that he maintained in his office, he
categorically proved the sale documents in favour of accused Shashank Jadon
as Ex.PW4/1 and Ex.PW4/2. Accused admitted his handwriting and his
signature on these documents. He also admitted his photograph. All this
establish that he had purchased a white colour Honda Accord car bearing no.
UP-14AB-2200 in June, 2013. 97. The sale of aforesaid car to PW-9 Rambhool Chauhan also stood
proved beyond reasonable doubt because the accused Shashank Jadon
admitted his handwriting and signature on Ex.PW9/A and could not establish
his defence regarding his handwriting on the aforesaid document on the
preponderance of probability. The car was recovered from PW-9 as is
established vide Ex.PW9/B. The car was handed over to the Special Task
Force, Noida by the father of PW-9. Ex.PW9/B suggests that the Honda CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 148/184 Accord car bearing no. UP-14AB-2200 was in the custody of PW-9 at the
time of its production before Special Task Force on 02.06.2017, after arrest of
accused Shashank Jadon. 98. The contention of defence regarding Sanjay, the third person who
allegedly had got the deal done between the accused Shashank Jadon &
PW-9, is also baseless because PW-9 deposed about Sector - 63 only with
respect to the office of himself & Sanjay where they were employed. He
categorically stated that Sanjay used to run a business from the premises
where business office of accused Shashank Jadon was also located. 99. The testimony of PW-3, PW-4 and PW-9 establish beyond
reasonable doubt that the car make Honda Accord bearing No.
UP-14AB-2200 was in custody of accused Shashank Jadon on the date of
commission of offence because he had purchased it in June, 2013 and had
sold it after the incident. Hence, it was for the accused Shashank Jadon to
explain how his car was used in commission of the alleged offence on
13.04.2015. In order to prove his innocence, the burden to prove that he had
no control over his car on 13.04.2015, lay upon the accused Shashank Jadon
which he has failed to discharge. The prosecution has been able to establish
the circumstance regarding ownership of the Honda Accord car in its favour
and against the accused persons. 100. The third circumstance that connects the accused persons with the
offence in question is the weapon of offence. 101. It is the case of prosecution that the weapon of offence Ex.P-3
belonged to the accused Pankaj Kumar @ Pankaj Thakur @ Pankaj Raghav CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 149/184 and he had given the said weapon i.e. a .32 bore revolver to the accused
Shashank Jadon. The prosecution had examined PW-28, PW-33, PW-45 and
PW-52 to prove its case in respect of the above facts. 102. PW-28 (Vir Singh), is the clerk from the office of District
Magistrate, Ghaziabad. He proved that an Arms license had been issued in
favour of Pankaj Kumar by the office of District Magistrate, Ghaziabad on
12.02.2007. He further deposed that the weapon of offence was registered
against the above said Arms license on 17.06.2014 and it was later sold to one
Deepak Aggarwal on 12.10.2015. This witness was not cross-examined by
either of the accused person. 103. PW-33 (Deepak Aggarwal), to whom the weapon of offence was
sold in October, 2015, deposed that it was purchased by him through Baba
Gun House in the year 2015. He identified the sale letter, which is
Ex.PW33/C. The rough sketch of the weapon of offence (.32 bore revolver)
was also identified by him. PW-33 deposed that he had purchased the said .32
bore revolver bearing No. FG-11567 for a consideration of Rs.65,000/-. 104. PW-45 is the father of deceased Pankaj Kumar who was the owner
of the weapon of offence. He admitted in his examination that his son was
having an Arms license but deposed that he was not aware about the nature of
weapon that his son used to carry against the said license. 105. PW-52 is Sumit Garg, the owner of Baba Gun House. He also
deposed that he had sold a .32 bore revolver bearing no. FG-11567 and
cartridges for the same to the accused Pankaj Kumar. He further deposed that
the said revolver, which is Ex.P-3, was sold by Pankaj Kumar to PW-33 CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 150/184 Deepak Aggarwal through him. This witness had also appeared before the Ld.
Magistrate at the stage of investigation and his statement u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C .
was recorded at that time. He had deposed vide that statement that the sale
consideration in the sum of Rs.35,000/- was paid by him to the accused
Shashank Jadon on the asking of Pankaj Kumar. He had also deposed that
Shashank Jadon used to visit his shop often with Pankaj. The said statement
of PW-52 is Ex.PW52/5. PW-52 however resiled from the aforesaid portion
of his statement Ex.PW52/5 while deposing before the Court and stated that
he was pressurized by the IO to take the name of accused Shashank Jadon. 106. PW-52 was cross-examined by the Ld. Prosecutor in detail during
which he admitted that he did not inform either the Magistrate or any senior
officer of CBI regarding the alleged threat given to him by the IO. He also
deposed that he was not contacted by the CBI at all after the recording of his
statement u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C . was over and he was contacted only when he
was to appear before this Court to depose. He further deposed that when he
had come to the Court to testify, the IO had asked him to depose only in the
fashion he had told him to. During his cross-examination by Ld. Counsel for
the accused no. 1, he stated that when IO asked him to depose before the
Court in the similar fashion as he had been asked to, he denied and told the IO
that he will speak the truth only. 107. Ld. Defence Counsel assailed the testimony of all the
aforementioned witnesses and contended that statement of none of the
aforesaid witnesses was sufficient to connect the accused Shashank Jadon to
the weapon of offence. 108. It shall be relevant to first refer to the case laws laying down the
jurisprudence related to significance of a statement u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C . It is
necessary to reiterate the law related to this because the testimony of PW-52
is required to be appreciated in light of the legal principles related to
importance of a statement recorded u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C . 109. The question regarding to the weight to be attached to a statement
u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C . during appreciation of evidence had arisen before the
Hon'ble Higher Courts in a plethora of cases. One of the latest amongst those
is the decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in Vijaya Singh and Anr. v. State of
Uttarakhand (Supra), wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court had observed as
below:- The Court also recognized that the need for recording the
 statement of a witness under Section 164 CrPC arises when
 the witness appears to be connected to the accused and is
 prone to changing his version at a later stage due to influence.
 The relevant para reads thus: 28. Considering the conceptual requirement of recording a
 statement before a Judicial Magistrate during the course of
 investigation and the utility thereof, as prescribed in Section
 157 of Evidence Act, it could be observed that a statement
 under Section 164, although not a substantive piece of
 evidence, not only meets the test of relevancy but could also be
 used for the purposes of contradiction and corroboration. A
 statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC serves a special
 purpose in a criminal investigation as a greater amount of
 credibility is attached to it for being recorded by a Judicial
 Magistrate and not by the Investigating Officer. A statement
 under Section 164 CrPC is not subjected to the constraints
 attached with a statement under Section 161 CrPC and the
 vigour of Section 162 CrPC does not apply to a statement
 under Section 164 CrPC. Therefore, it must be considered on a
 better footing. However, relevancy, admissibility and
 reliability are distinct concepts in the realm of the law of
 evidence. Thus, the weight to be attached to such a statement
 (reliability thereof) is to be determined by the Court on a case-
 to-case basis and the same would depend to some extent upon CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 153/184 whether the witness has remained true to the statement or has
 resiled from it, but it would not be a conclusive factor. For,
 even if a witness has retracted from a statement, such
 retraction could be a result of manipulation and the Court has
 to examine the circumstances in which the statement was
 recorded, the reasons stated by the witness for retracting from
 the statement etc. Ultimately, what counts is whether the Court
 believes a statement to be true, and the ultimate test of
 reliability happens during the trial upon a calculated balancing
 of conflicting versions in light of the other evidence on record.
 ...... 31. Having said so, we deem it fit to observe that a
 statement under Section 164 CrPC cannot be discarded at the
 drop of a hat and on a mere statement of the witness that it was
 not recorded correctly. For, a judicial satisfaction of the
 Magistrate, to the effect that the statement being recorded is
 the correct version of the facts stated by the witness, forms part
 of every such statement and a higher burden must be placed
 upon the witness to retract from the same. To permit retraction
 by a witness from a signed statement recorded before the
 Magistrate on flimsy grounds or on mere assertions would
 effectively negate the difference between a statement recorded
 by the police officer and that recorded by the Judicial
 Magistrate. In the present matter, there is no reasonable ground
 to reject the statements recorded under Section 164 CrPC and
 reliance has correctly been placed upon the said statements by
 the courts below." 110. The law related to appreciation of the statement u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C .
is thus well settled. The statement having been recorded before a Magistrate
has to be given due weightage and the accused will be required to show that it
indeed was obtained by force. 111. In this case, PW-52 attempted to resile from his statement
Ex.PW52/5 on the ground that he was threatened by the IO. He admitted CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 154/184 during his cross-examination by the CBI that he did not inform the Ld.
Magistrate or any other Senior Officer of CBI or any Court till date about the
same, despite having no pressure from the CBI after recording of his
statement. He also admitted that when his statement was recorded by the Ld.
Magistrate, he was alone with the Ld. Magistrate in his Chamber. This shows
that the witness had sufficient opportunity to inform the Ld. Magistrate if he
was really threatened. The witness did not inform any other senior officer of
CBI also at any point of time later. Such a conduct of the witness clearly
suggests that he may have been tutored due to which he resiled from his
previous statement recorded by the Magistrate. When the witness was asked
to identify the person who had taken Rs.35,000/- from his shop according to
his examination-in-chief, he pointed out towards a constable of CBI and also
towards accused Shashank Jadon saying that it could be either of them. The
witness also stated in his cross-examination by the defence that when he was
asked by the IO to speak lie in the Court he refused. Such a conduct of the
witness clearly shows that he had no fear of CBI or even the law. The plea of
pressure taken by him for resiling from his statement Ex.PW52/5 is therefore
baseless and has no value in the eyes of law. The statement Ex.PW52/5 was
given by the witness to the Magistrate. It is an admissible piece of evidence
against the accused and in favour of the prosecution. 112. The statement Ex.PW52/5 clearly suggests that the accused
Shashank Jadon, though was not the owner of the weapon of offence, but was
connected to it. The sale consideration of this revolver was collected by him
from the shop of PW-52. The eye witness i.e. PW-5 also deposed in the Court
that the accused Shashank Jadon had fired at the Victim Ankit Chauhan on CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 155/184 13.04.2015 using the revolver Ex.P-3. This proved use & possession of the
weapon of offence by the accused Shashank Jadon. Sanction to prosecute
Shashank Jadon for the use & possession of Ex.P-3 was given by PW-54. 113. In such a scenario, there is no reason for this Court to not connect
the accused Shashank Jadon to the weapon of offence. The connection of
accused Shashank Jadon to the weapon of offence further strengthens the
case of the prosecution. 114. The next circumstance relied upon by the prosecution to prove its
case against the accused persons is the motive to commit the crime. 115. It is the case of prosecution that the accused Shashank Jadon
wanted to rob a Fortuner car because he had suffered losses in his business
and he needed money to recover from those losses. The prosecution
examined PW-46 Mohit Joon to prove the same. 116. PW-46 deposed that he was the business partner of accused
Shashank Jadon and they had invested in a project named 'Palm Olympia.'
He deposed that he had invested Rs.35,00,000/- in the said project and
identical amount was invested by the accused Shashank Jadon. They earned
profit out of the said project and he had received a total sum of Rs.52,00,000/-
including his investment of Rs.35,00,000/- towards his share of the profit. He
admitted that the accused Shashank Jadon also had received an identical
amount from the aforesaid investment. PW-46 further deposed that in
February, 2015 the accused Shashank Jadon decided to enter into a
construction business and they were trying to arrange investors. However, in
March/April 2015, he was informed that the investors were not interested in CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 156/184 their upcoming projects. Hence, the accused Shashank Jadon had taken a loan
of Rs.1.5 crores from him & his cousin in April, 2015. He referred to the
documents related to the said loan which are Mark PW46/1 to Mark PW46/6.
PW-46 also deposed that the said loan was not repaid by the accused due to
which he and his cousin Jasbir Singh, had filed cases u/Sec. 138 NI Act which
were decided in their favour. 117. The accused Shashank Jadon did not cross-examine PW-46 on the
point of Court decisions against him in cases u/Sec. 138 NI Act . The
testimony of PW-46 proves that soon after the alleged incident dated
13.04.2015, the accused Shashank Jadon had taken a heavy loan in the sum of
Rs.1.5 crores on 25.04.2015. This requirement arose because the investors
had refused to invest in the project of construction that the accused wanted to
start. PW-46 was not cross-examined by the accused on this aspect either. The
testimony of PW-46 clearly suggests that the accused Shashank Jadon was in
need of money to run his business in the month of March/April, 2015. 118. The accused sought to prove that he had sufficient money to run
the business and was not required to rob a vehicle for the same. For this
purpose, he had summoned his income tax return for the financial year 2014-
2015 from the income tax department. The return was produced before the
Court by DW-8 Yuvraj Anand who proved the same as Ex.DW8/1. 119. I have perused the said return which shows that the accused had
claimed to have had a gross income of Rs.6,35,255/- in the financial year
2014-2015. The own defence of accused no.1 therefore belies his claim that
he had sufficient income from the business and was not in need of money. 120. In my considered opinion, prosecution has proved the financial
need of accused Shashank Jadon also in its favour and this circumstance
again certainly strengthens the case of the prosecution. 121. The prosecution has further relied upon the post incident conduct of
the accused persons in visiting the house of PW-42 & PW-44 for changing the
clothes soon after the incident and attempting to get the tattoo removed in the
year 2017 when Shashank got a whiff that he was being followed by the CBI,
in order to avoid detection. 122. The prosecution examined PW-42 and PW-44 to prove the conduct
of the accused Shashank Jadon and Manoj Kumar post incident. It is the case
of prosecution that these two accused persons along with the deceased
accused Pankaj Kumar had gone to the house of PW-42 and PW-44, who are
husband and wife, soon after the incident. The accused Shashank Jadon was
having blood stains on his hands and clothes. He had changed his Jeans in the
house of PW-42 and had taken it away. 123. PW-42 deposed in the Court that on 13.04.2015 Pankaj and
accused Manoj (identified in the Court) had visited his house. Pankaj had told
him that he had got injury in his leg and asked for his pant so that he could
change his lower. PW-42 gave his Pyjama to Pankaj and when Pankaj was
changing he noticed that there was no injury on his leg. PW-42 thereafter
questioned Pankaj, who then informed him that he had fired a gunshot at
someone by mistake. PW-42 further deposed that Manoj was also
accompanying Pankaj and was looking confused. 124. PW-44 deposed on the similar lines as her husband but did not
identify accused Manoj also. 125. Both these witnesses were declared hostile by the prosecution and
were confronted with their statements recorded u/Sec. 164 Cr.P.C . which are
Ex.PW42/A and Ex.PW44/1 respectively. They had deposed before the Ld.
Magistrate that on 13.04.2015 at about 5:00 PM to 5:30 PM, Pankaj, accused
Shashank and one more person who was being referred as Thekedar had
come to their house. There were blood stains on the hands and jeans of
Shashank. PW-42 had given his Pyjama to Shashank for changing into it.
Shashank had also washed his hands in the washbasin and had informed that
he had fired a gunshot by mistake. These two witnesses had further disclosed
to the Magistrate that Pankaj had taken out four empty cartridges from his
gun and handed those over to the accused Shashank Jadon for throwing away. 126. Both these witnesses resiled from their aforesaid statements on the
ground that they were threatened by the IO but when they were cross-
examined by the Ld. Sr. PP for the CBI, they deposed that they did not make
any complaint in this regard either to the Ld. Magistrate or to the Court or to
any senior officer of CBI ever. 127. The plea taken by PW-42 and PW-44 is similar to the plea taken
by PW-52 that has already been rejected for the reasons stated hereinabove.
The plea of PW-42 and PW-44 also deserves rejection for the same reasons.
There is nothing on record to suggest that PW-57 (IO) had any personal
enmity with the accused persons due to which they were falsely implicated by
him. No questions regarding pressurizing of the witnesses were put to PW-57 CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 159/184 during his cross-examination. PW-42 identified accused Manoj Kumar in the
Court but PW-44, who was examined on a different day, refused to identify
even the said accused. This shows how clearly and cleverly the witnesses
were manipulated to make them resile from their earlier statements. 128. It is established from the testimony of PW-42 and PW-44 that the
accused persons had visited them on 13.04.2015 soon after the incident.
Accused Shashank Jadon was having blood stains on his hands and clothes.
He had changed his jeans and had washed his hands. The accused persons had
also planned to dispose off the four empty cartridges. These proved facts
reflecting the post incident conduct of the accused persons clearly connect
both the accused persons to the alleged incident and establish the case of the
prosecution against them. 129. The attempt of accused Shashank Jadon in getting his tattoo
removed in May 2017, by when apparently CBI had got a clue about his
involvement in the incident, also goes against him and in favour of
prosecution. This is an additional circumstance which strengthens the case of
the prosecution and corroborates the testimony of PW-5, who is the sole eye
witness. 130. The prosecution had examined two witnesses i.e. PW-37 and
PW-38, in order to prove that the accused Shashank Jadon had attempted to
get his tattoo removed. PW-37 did not depose anything material that goes in
favour of the prosecution. The prescription proved by PW-37 shows that one
Vikas Singh had visited the clinic of PW-37 in May, 2017 for getting the CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 160/184 tattoo removed. Prosecution could not connect this prescription slip with the
accused Shashank Jadon however. 131. PW-38 also did not identify the accused Shashank Jadon in the
Court. However, he proved the prescription slip that shows that one Shashank
Singh had visited his clinic on 19.05.2017. The said person had revealed his
mobile number as 9649344999. The prosecution could not connect the
prescription slip with the accused Shashank Jadon directly because PW-38
did not identify him in the witness box, however the tattoo on the left forearm
of accused Shashank Jadon was identified by PW-38 from the photograph
that he had taken using his mobile phone and had handed over to the CBI.
PW-38 admitted that the photograph handed over by him exactly matched the
tattoo on the left forearm of accused Shashank Jadon and it indeed was the
same tattoo that was shown to him for removal. 132. Ld. Defence Counsel contended that the testimony of PW-38 did
not prove anything, firstly, because the person approaching PW-38 was
Shashank Singh and not Shashank Jadon and, secondly, because the person
who had handed over the prescription Ex.PW38/A to the IO was not
examined by the prosecution. 133. In my considered view, the contentions of Ld. Defence Counsel are
baseless because the Doctor who had prepared the prescription Ex.PW38/A
had himself appeared in the witness box and identified the said slip. The mere
fact that name on the slip was recorded as Shashank Singh and not Shashank
Jadon, rather goes in favour of the prosecution because it reflects that the
accused Shashank Jadon was trying to get the tattoo removed stealthily CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 161/184 thereby suggesting his complacency in the alleged incident. The tattoo on the
left forearm of accused Shashank Jadon exactly matched the tattoo reflected
in the photograph Ex.PW38/E (Colly). DW-1, own witness of Shashank
Jadon, had deposed that very few people used to get that kind of tatoo. PW-14
& PW-36, who are friends of accused Shashank Jadon, did not support the
case of prosecution but their testimony is sufficient to establish the presence
of Shashank Jadon in Jaipur in the year 2017 as they deposed that they had
met him there. All of this, including the similar name, cannot be a mere co-
incidence especially when seen in light of the other clinching evidence
available on record against the accused Shashank Jadon reflecting his
connection with the alleged incident. 134. In my considered opinion, even the post incident conduct of both
the accused persons is a circumstance that strengthens the case of the
prosecution and corroborates the testimony of eye witness (PW-5) reflecting
involvement of both the accused persons in committing the murder of Victim
Ankit Chauhan while attempting to commit robbery of the Fortuner car. 135. Ld. Defence Counsel, apart from rebutting the testimony of eye
witness and the circumstances that were relied upon by the prosecution, also
alleged that the investigation conducted by the CBI was faulty. He contended
that the arrest memo Ex.PW40/D was a fabricated document because the
accused Shashank Jadon was actually arrested from Jaipur and not in the
office of CBI. This argument of defence helps the prosecution only because it
again increases the probability of presence of accused Shashank Jadon in
Jaipur in May, 2017 before he was arrested on 01.06.2017. 136. Be that as it may, Ld. Counsel also contended that the car key
allegedly recovered from the house of the accused Shashank Jadon was not
connected with the Honda Accord car Ex.P-1 because it was never shown to
PW-31 (Arvind Singh) who had carried out mechanical inspection of the said
car and had proved his report Ex.PW31/A. Ld. Counsel also contended that
conduct of the IO (PW-57) in picking and choosing evidence as per his own
whims and fancies without bringing on record all the collected material
shows that the investigation done by him was biased. 137. Such arguments advanced by the defence are without merits in my
considered opinion. It is the settled law that lapses in the investigation cannot
be used to discredit the testimony of an otherwise reliable witness and are not
fatal to the case of the prosecution until those go to the root of the matter. In
this case the sole eye witness of the prosecution has stood the test of cross-
examination and was found to be reliable. His testimony is corroborated from
the other evidence led by the prosecution and gets strengthened further. There
is no reason for this Court to disbelieve the testimony of PW-5 and the other
evidence led by the prosecution on the ground that there were lapses in the
investigation. 138. The testimony of PW-5 is also corroborated from the Call Detail
Records of his mobile and the mobile of Victim Ankit Chauhan relied upon
by the prosecution. The said call detail records are Ex.PW24/D (Colly) and
Ex.PW26/D (Colly). These records suggest frequent exchange of phone calls
between Gagan and Prateek Gupta, who is PW-13, from 04:12:13 PM to
04:14:56 PM i.e. around the time of incident. Similarly, multiple frequent
calls were exchanged between the phone number of Victim Ankit Chauhan, CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 163/184 Prateek and Naresh Chauhan, who is PW-11, from 4:12 PM till about 4:30
PM and finally a PCR call at 100 number was made from the mobile phone of
Victim Ankit Chauhan at 4:31 PM. This time corresponds to the time of
incident and supports the testimony of PW-5 that when he and Ankit Chauhan
realized that they were being followed by a Honda Accord car, they had
immediately informed their friends and relatives and had noted down the
number of the car. It also corroborates the presence of PW-5 on the scene of
crime. 139. The last instance that is relied upon by the prosecution is regarding
the recoveries made at the instance of the accused persons. 140. It is the case of the prosecution that the following recoveries were
made: They were cross-examined in detail on behalf of the accused persons and no
such fact could be brought out in their cross-examination which makes the
recovery doubtful. In fact, so far PW-40 is concerned, only a suggestion was
given to him on behalf of accused Manoj stating that no recovery was
effected, which he denied. Apart from that, no cross-examination of PW-40
was done on behalf of the accused Manoj by his counsel. The disclosure
statement Ex.PW57/1 clearly reflects that the accused Manoj Kumar had
disclosed that the number plates used in commission of crime were available
at his house. He had also disclosed that he could point out the place and get
the number plates recovered. When the police team reached at his house, the
accused Manoj Kumar on his own took out the number plates from the vacant
upper portion of a toilet located on the first floor of his house. It was so
reflected in Ex.PW40/F (Colly) regarding which no questions were put to
Inspector Sachin Kumar. 145. The defence had sought to dispute the recovery of fake number
plates on the ground that the independent witness Javed Ali was not traceable
which shows that no such person had joined the recovery. This person Javed
was picked up by PW-57 from the local Police station of the area where house
of accused Manoj Kumar was located, as deposed by PW-57 himself during CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 168/184 his examination-in-chief. He joined the proceedings after which CBI team
had prepared the recovery memo and Javed Ali had signed on the recovery
memo. The police team at that time was having accused Manoj Kumar in
their custody and in such a scenario it obviously was not expected from them
that they would first go and verify the address of Javed Ali. Witness was
summoned in the year 2024 i.e. almost six to seven years after recovery. He
had gone missing by then, but fault for the same cannot be put upon the
prosecution. PW-40 deposed about recovery in detail and nothing significant
could be extracted in his cross-examination by the defence. Hence, Court has
no reason to doubt the recovery made at the instance of accused Manoj
Kumar. 146. The number plates recovered at the instance of accused Manoj
Kumar are an important piece of evidence. The number reflected on these
plates is the same which was used on the Honda Accord car Ex.P-1 on the
date of commission of crime. It is not the case of the accused Manoj Kumar
that the number plates were in his possession because he had a car registered
with that number. The burden therefore lay upon him to prove why he was
having number plates of a number that had not been allotted to any of the car
belonging to him. Prosecution has proved by examining PW-12 Sh. Sachin
Kumar that the registration number UP-14BA-2300 had been allotted to a car
make Mahindra Scorpio Grey colour belonging to him. It is not the case of
either of the accused person that they had any connection with PW-12 or the
car make Mahindra Scorpio. The recovery of number plate with
UP-14BA-2300 inscribed upon it, from the possession of accused Manoj
Kumar, therefore does not make any sense and it leads to only one CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 169/184 inescapable conclusion i.e. the said number plate was the one which was used
on the Honda Accord car on the date of alleged incident, when seen in the
light of the testimony of PW-5 (the eye witness who has identified accused
Manoj Kumar in the Court), PW-42 & PW-44 (the husband and wife) who
have deposed that accused Manoj Kumar had come to their house on
13.04.2015 along with accused Shashank Jadon soon after the incident and
PW-51 who deposed that in the first week of April, 2015 accused Manoj
Kumar had visited him along with accused Shashank Jadon and a request for
arranging a robbed vehicle was made to him because the accused persons
wanted to rob another vehicle. 147. In such a scenario mere non-identification of number plate by
PW-41 is not a sufficient reason to say that the number plates recovered from
the house of accused Manoj Kumar cannot be connected with the alleged
incident. 148. The disclosure of places which were visited by the accused persons
and recovery of jeans, shoes and key of the Honda Accord car are
inconsequential. It is because none of this material could be directly
connected with the commission of offence and hence does not aid the
prosecution. The shoes were never sent to the FSL. No blood was found on
the jeans. The key was not connected to the Honda Accord car Ex.P-1 and
mere showing of places that the accused persons had visited on the date of
incident is of no value in the eyes of law without corroboration. Hence, I am
not going into the question if recovery of these materials / information at the
instance of accused Shashank Jadon or Manoj Kumar were as per law or not.
Non-matching of location of Cell ID chart & routes taken by the accused CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 170/184 persons is also immaterial because Cell ID chart was never produced &
proved as per law and routes allegedly disclosed by the accused persons
cannot be considered. 149. The recovery of cartridges at the instance of accused Shashank
Jadon however is an important fact and it is to be seen if the prosecution has
been able to establish it beyond reasonable doubt. This recovery was made on
08.06.2017 in the presence of independent witness PW-43 (Piyush Nigam).
PW-43 categorically deposed about the recovery in his examination-in-chief.
He also identified the four cartridges which were recovered and are Ex.P-8.
PW-43 was cross-examined at length by the accused Shashank Jadon but
nothing material could come out in his cross-examination. 150. The aforesaid recovery has been challenged by the defence on the
ground that on 08.06.2017, the accused was produced before the Court for
extension of Police custody remand and hence recovery could not have been
made on that day. It was contended that as per the testimony of PW-43, the
recovery was made till about 5:00 PM after which the CBI team had left him
at his office at about 5:30 PM. It was contended that if this statement of
PW-43 was to be taken as correct, it would not have been possible to produce
the accused Shashank Jadon in the Court for extension of his custody remand
on time. 151. The defence further examined DW-2 (Sakshi Jadon) & DW-3
(Amita Chaudhary @ Uma) in favour of their contention that no recovery was
made on 08.06.2017. 152. DW-2 deposed that in June, 2017 Police had visited their house in
the first week twice. They were in Police uniform. First time they had visited
with her brother i.e. accused Shashank Jadon and second time they came on
their own and went to the roof of their house. The testimony of DW-2
establishes that there were visits of the investigating agency in her house in
June, 2017. She however faultered crucially in her statement when she stated
that police officials were in uniform. It is a known fact that CBI officials do
not have a prescribed uniform. Her testimony that police went on to the roof
top of their house on 08.06.2017 is clinching and establishes that in fact some
recoveries were made from the terrace of the house. The testimony of DW-2
to the effect that the police had visited their house without the company of her
brother seems to be an afterthought especially when seen in the light of her
statement that the police was in uniform. It suggests that DW-2 actually had
not witnessed the visit of the police to her house and was deposing in the
Court, may be, only to save her brother. 153. Similarly, DW-3 deposed that she was living on rent in the house
of the accused Shashank Jadon for about 12 years and in the month of June,
2017 keys of the house were not sought from her by the CBI. However,
during her cross-examination by the Ld. Prosecutor, she deposed that she was
not aware of the rent amount that used to be paid to the father of accused
Shashank Jadon and stated that rent used to be paid by her husband. This
appears unbelievable specially if seen in light of her statement that she stayed
in the house as tenant for about 12 years. DW-3 also seems to be an implanted
witness for the reasons aforesaid and her testimony cannot be believed. 154. PW-57 specifically deposed in his examination that when they
went for recovery in the house of accused Shashank Jadon, his house was
lying locked and keys were taken from the tenant who was a female. Since the
recovery team did not have a lady officer, the said female was not made a
witness to the recovery proceedings. Such an explanation given by PW-57 is
plausible and believable. 155. The memo Ex.PW57/2 reflects that the accused had disclosed that
the empty cartridges were lying hidden in his house and as per Ex.PW43/5
(Colly) these cartridges were recovered at the instance of accused Shashank
Jadon, who himself took these out from the drum lying on the terrace of his
house. This recovery was made in the presence of two independent witnesses
one of whom was examined as PW-43, as already discussed hereinabove.
PW-43 is a Government official who joined the recovery proceedings on the
request of CBI and had no reason to depose falsely in the Court. 156. The defence also sought to dispute the recovery made on
08.06.2017 on the ground that the accused Shashank Jadon was produced in
the Court for extension of his police custody remand on that day and hence,
recovery after the lunch time was not possible. This contention falls flat if
read in light of the Order extending Police custody remand, which is dated
08.06.2017. It is clear from a reading of the Order that the accused was in
Police custody till 6:00 PM on 08.06.2017 and his Police custody was
extended from 08.06.2017 (6:00 PM) to 11.06.2017 (6:00 PM). It means that
the accused was produced in the Court around 6:00 PM. This fact is
completely in corroboration to the testimony of PW-43, who had deposed that
CBI team had left from the house of accused Shashank Jadon at about 5:00 CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 173/184 PM after making the recovery and he was dropped by the team in his office at
about 5:30 PM. The accused Shashank Jadon was produced in the Local
Court in Ghaziabad where his house is also located and hence it was possible
for the CBI to reach the Court by 6:00 PM for extension of Police custody
remand after dropping PW-43 to his office. There is no reason therefore to
doubt the recovery made at the instance of accused Shashank Jadon on
08.06.2017 on this ground also. 157. Accused Shashank Jadon had suggested to PW-57 during his cross-
examination that bullets recovered from the Fortuner car and body of the
deceased Victim were replaced by PW-57 with the bullets fired from the
alleged weapon of offence after its recovery on 06.06.2017. This suggestion
was denied by PW-57 categorically. The suggestion is per se bizarre
especially when considered in light of the FSL reports which are Ex.PW17/A
and Ex.PW15/A. These two reports clearly suggest that two bullets which
were examined in the CFSL were forwarded to them on 21.02.2017. This is
much prior to the arrest of accused Shashank Jadon and recovery of the
weapon of offence. 158. Ld. Defence Counsel also attempted to show doubtful conduct of
the prosecution qua his application for carbon dating test of the cartridges.
The said application of accused Shashank Jadon was dismissed by the Ld.
Court at Ghaziabad vide Order dated 18.09.2018 on the ground that it was
pre-mature. The accused Shashank Jadon however did not move that
application again at the appropriate stage of DE. Hence, this contention of
defence also does not hold ground. 159. The defence has not been able to prove implanting of the empty
cartridges for the reasons aforesaid. On the other hand, the prosecution has
been able to prove that recovery of empty cartridges was effected at the
instance of accused Shashank Jadon, beyond reasonable doubt. 160. The law relating to admissibility of recovery and application of Section 27 Indian Evidence Act is already well settled. The Hon'ble Privy
Council in Pulukuri Kottayya and Ors. v. King Emperor 35 had held as below
regarding application of Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act: The explanation to the section is not relevant. S. 27 , which is not artistically worded, provides an exception to
 the prohibition imposed by the preceding section and enables
 certain statements made by a person in police custody to be
 proved. The condition necessary to bring the section into 35 1946 SCC OnLine PC 47 CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 175/184 operation is that the discovery of a fact in consequence of
 information received from a person accused of any offence in
 the custody of a Police officer must be deposed to, and
 thereupon so much of the information as relates distinctly to the
 fact thereby discovered may be proved. The section seems to be
 based on the view that if a fact is actually discovered in
 consequence of information given, some guarantee is afforded
 thereby that the information was true, and accordingly can be
 safely allowed to be given in evidence; but clearly the extent of
 the information admissible must depend on the exact nature of
 the fact discovered to which such information is required to
 relate. Normally the section is brought into operation when a
 person in police custody produces from some place of
 concealment some object, such as a dead body, a weapon, or
 ornaments, said to be connected with the crime of which the
 informant is accused. Mr. Megaw, for the Crown, has argued
 that in such a case the "fact discovered" is the physical object
 produced, and that any information which relates distinctly to
 that object can be proved. Upon this view information given by
 a person that the body produced is that of a person murdered by
 him, that the weapon produced is the one used by him in the
 commission of a murder, or that the ornaments produced were
 stolen in a dacoity would all be admissible. If this be the effect
 of S. 27 , little substance would remain in the ban imposed by
 the two preceding sections on confessions made to the police,
 or by persons in police custody. That ban was presumably
 inspired by the fear of the legislature that a person under police
 influence might be induced to confess by the exercise of undue
 pressure. But if all that is required to lift the ban be the
 inclusion in the confession of information, relating to an object
 subsequently produced, it seems reasonable to suppose that the
 pursuasive powers of the police will prove equal to the
 occasion, and that in practice the ban will lose its effect. On
 normal principles of construction their Lordships think that the
 proviso to S. 26 , added by S. 27 , should not be held to nullify
 the substance of the section. In their Lordships' view it is
 fallacious to treat the "fact discovered" within the section as
 equivalent to the object produced; the fact discovered embraces CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 176/184 the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge
 of the accused as to this, and the information given must relate
 distinctly to this fact. Information as to past user, or the past
 history, of the object produced is not related to its discovery in
 the setting in which it is discovered. Information supplied by a
 person in custody that "I will produce a knife concealed in the
 roof of my house" does not lead to the discovery of a knife;
 knives were discovered many years ago. It leads to the
 discovery of the fact that a knife is concealed in the house of the
 informant to his knowledge, and if the knife is proved to have
 been used in the commission of the offence, the fact discovered
 is very relevant. But if to the statement the words be added
 "with which I stabbed A" these words are inadmissible since
 they do not relate to the discovery of the knife in the house of
 the informant." (Emphasis supplied) 161. The law laid down by Hon'ble Privy Council in Palakudi (supra)
has been followed time and again by the Hon'ble Higher Courts in various
judgments. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Raja Khan v. State of Chattisgarh 36
had observed as below:- Inayatullah v. State of Maharashtra [(1976) 1 SCC
 828]. The words "so much of such information" as
 relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, are
 very important and the whole force of the section
 concentrates on them. Clearly the extent of the
 information admissible must depend on the exact
 nature of the fact discovered to which such
 information is required to relate. The ban as
 imposed by the preceding sections was CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 178/184 presumably inspired by the fear of the Legislature
 that a person under police influence might be
 induced to confess by the exercise of undue
 pressure. If all that is required to lift the ban be the
 inclusion in the confession of information relating
 to an object subsequently produced, it seems
 reasonable to suppose that the persuasive powers
 of the police will prove equal to the occasion, and
 that in practice the ban will lose its effect. The
 object of the provision i.e. Section 27 was to
 provide for the admission of evidence which but
 for the existence of the section could not in
 consequence of the preceding sections, be
 admitted in evidence. It would appear that under Section 27 as it stands in order to render the
 evidence leading to discovery of any fact
 admissible, the information must come from any
 accused in custody of the police. The requirement
 of police custody is productive of extremely
 anomalous results and may lead to the exclusion of
 much valuable evidence in cases where a person,
 who is subsequently taken in to custody and
 becomes an accused, after committing a crime
 meets a police officer or voluntarily goes to him or
 to the police station and states the circumstances of
 the crime which lead to the discovery of the dead
 body, weapon or any other material fact, in
 consequence of the information thus received from
 him. This information which is otherwise
 admissible becomes inadmissible under Section 27 if the information did not come from a person in
 the custody of a police officer or did come from a
 person not in the custody of a police officer. The
 statement which is admissible under Section 27 is
 the one which is the information leading to
 discovery. Thus, what is admissible being the
 information, the same has to be proved and not the
 opinion formed on it by the police officer. In other CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 179/184 words, the exact information given by the accused
 while in custody which led to recovery of the
 articles has to be proved. It is, therefore, necessary
 for the benefit of both the accused and prosecution
 that information given should be recorded and
 proved and if not so recorded, the exact
 information must be adduced through evidence. The basic idea embedded in Section 27 of the
 Evidence Act is the doctrine of confirmation by
 subsequent events. The doctrine is founded on the
 principle that if any fact is discovered as a search
 made on the strength of any information obtained
 from a prisoner, such a discovery is a guarantee
 that the information supplied by the prisoner is
 true. The information might be confessional or
 non-inculpatory in nature but if it results in
 discovery of a fact, it becomes a reliable
 information. It is now well settled that recovery of
 an object is not discovery of fact envisaged in the
 section. Decision of Privy Council in Palukuri
 Kotayya v. Emperor [AIR (1947) PC 67], is the
 most quoted authority of supporting the
 interpretation that the "fact discovered" envisaged
 in the section embraces the place from which the
 object was produced, the knowledge of the
 accused as to it, but the information given must
 relate distinctly to that effect. [See State of
 Maharashtra v. Dam Gopinath Shirde and Ors,
 (2000) 6 SCC 269]. No doubt, the information
 permitted to be admitted in evidence is confined to
 that portion of the information which "distinctly
 relates to the fact thereby discovered". But the
 information to get admissibility need not be so
 truncated as to make it insensible or
 incomprehensible. The extent of information
 admitted should be consistent with
 understandability. Mere statement that the accused
 led the police and the witnesses to the place where CBI v. Shashank Jadon & Anr. Page 180/184 he had concealed the articles is not indicative of
 the information given." (Emphasis supplied) 162. In the present case recovery has been made as per law laid down
by the Hon'ble Privy Council and the Hon'ble Apex Court. The recoveries
were made in the presence of independent witnesses who have been
examined in the Court. The recoveries were further made pursuant to the
disclosure statements of the accused persons which too have been proved on
record. The independent witnesses have deposed in the Court that the accused
persons had made disclosure even in their presence also and had taken out the
incriminating material from the places at which those were hidden by them,
on their own. Such a recovery is admissible against the accused persons and is
an incriminating circumstance which establishes the case of prosecution. 163. The cartridges (Ex.P-8) recovered at the instance of accused
Shashank Jadon were connected to the weapon of offence which is Ex.P-3. It
is clear from the report of FSL (Ex.PW15/C). This report also refers to the
weapon of offence and opines that it was a Fire Arm defined in the Arms Act,
1959 . The result of examination as per report reads as below:- Revolver (marked W/1) contained in Parcel No. A-1 in
 question. (iv) No opinion could be possible on the very small pieces of
 fired bullet's contained in Parcel No. 1, received earlier in case
 CFSL-2017/F-206, due to lack of sufficient identifiable marks
 on them." 164. In my considered opinion the recovery having been proved by the
prosecution and connected to the weapon of offence, it further strengthens the
case of the prosecution and corroborates the testimony of sole eye witness. 165. The prosecution has also established that an Arm was in possession
of accused Manoj Kumar too, at the time of commission of offence but he did
not fire it. The testimony of PW-5 establishes this beyond reasonable doubt.
This Arm was never recovered which leads to inference that the accused
persons had altered the evidence. The fact that the accused persons were
laced with Arms & had fired, itself reflects that they intended to use the Arms
if there was a resistance. Their conduct thus reflects common intention also. 166. From the material on record, the prosecution has been able to
establish as below, beyond reasonable doubt: Decision: 167. In view of the aforesaid facts established on record, the accused
persons are convicted as below:-