(Cause-title taken from Case Information System)
For Petitioner : Mr. Dhiraj Kumar Wankhede,
 Advocate
For Respondent UOI : Mr. Tushar Dhar Diwan, Adv.
For Respondent-State : Mr. Upasana Mehata, Dy. G.A.
For Respondent No. 7 : Mr. Anumeh Shrivastava, Advocate

 Hon'ble Shri Arvind Kumar Verma
 Order on Board
23/06/2025 1. The present petition has been filed by the petitioners with the
 following relief(s):- 2. By filing the present petition, the petitioners are challenging the
 illegal and unauthorized action on the part of respondents No. 5 to 7,
 whereby multiple personal loans of exorbitant amount (Rs.
 33,04,663) have been sanctioned in the name of petitioner without
 receiving any application from the petitioner themselves.
 Respondents No.8 & 9 are the Direct Selling Agents of some of the
 Banks and multiple personal loans were approved and sanctioned
 by the Banks in the name of petitioner via single OTP with the help
 of private respondents. The private respondents committed fraud
 upon the petitioner by convincing the petitioner to invest 50% of loan
 amount in their personal bank accounts and promised to provide
 high rate of interest /returns. 3. The challenge is also made against the manner in which the Banks
 have sanctioned the personal loan of the petitioner in gross
 violations of the notification, guideline, and circular issued by the
 Reserve Bank of India (hereinafter referred as 'RBI') titled 'Reset of
 Floating Interest Rate on Equated Monthly Installments (EMI) based
 Personal Loans dated 18.08.2023, Guidelines on Fair Practices
 Code for Lenders dated 05.05.2003 and recent Master Circular on
 Management of Advances dated 01.04.2025 respectively. The
 detailed advisory and caution regarding sanctioning of personal 4 loans has been provided by RBI to all the Scheduled Commercial
 Banks. Regional Rural Banks, Primary Co-operative Banks, State
 Co-operative Banks, and Non-Banking Financial Companies
 (including Housing Finance Companies). However, without following
 the guidelines, notifications, and the circulars the Banks have
 sanctioned multiple personal loans of exorbitant amount on single
 OTP without any application from petitioner and after disbursement
 of sanctioned loan, 50% of amount is transferred to another bank
 account with the help of private respondents and the officers of
 Banks. 4. It is admitted fact that the petitioner is members of Schedule Tribe
 and residents of tribal areas such as Kanker and some of the victims
 are Teachers and Assistant Professors in their respective Schools
 and Colleges and they have intentionally targeted the victims from
 tribal areas owing to the fact that they have no knowledge of banking
 and finance. The collusion between the banks and private
 respondents is evident from the fact that the 4-5 personal loans
 sanctioned in the name of the victims and same were disbursed at
 once within a time frame of 24 hours, even though the One Time
 Password (OTPs) were fraudulently obtained days/weeks before the
 date of disbursement. Immediately upon realizing the fraud, the
 petitioner approached the police authorities lodged FIR bearing
 Crime No.50/2025 in Police Station Kotwali, District Raipur for the
 offence under Sections 318(4) and 3(5) of Bhartiya Nyaya Sanhita,
 2023 and another FIR dated 08.04.2025 bearing Crime No.
 103/2025 was registered in Police Station Kanker, District Kanker
 for the offence under Section 420, 34, and Section 120-B of Indian
 Penal Code, 1860. 5. Learned counsel for the petitioners submits that the petitioner has
 already moved the applications before the Banking Ombudsman,
 which are pending consideration. He further submits that the
 petitioner is the victim as the loan has been taken at the instance of
 the petitioner, however he is having no knowledge about the said
 loan. It has been contended that the petitioner is a low paid
 employees and he is facing hardship due to the aforesaid act of the 5 Banking employees as well as Companies. In the present petition,
 the petitioner is seeking only a direction to the Banking Ombudsman
 to decide the matter in accordance with law. 6. Considering the matter in its entirety, this Court is of the opinion that
 since the remedy available to the petitioner to file appropriate
 applications before the Banking Ombudsman, at this stage, it would
 be appropriate that a direction be given to the petitioner to pursue
 their remedy before the Banking Ombudsman and the concerned
 Banking Ombudsman, who is in receipt the copies of the complaints
 on 15.05.2025 is directed to consider the case of the petitioner and
 to pass appropriate orders while considering the matter on merits in
 accordance with law. 7. In that view of the matter, the petitioner is directed to file appropriate
 application for grant of interim relief before respondent No.4 i.e.
 Banking Ombudsman Reserve Bank of India, Regional Office
 Raipur, Subhashish Parisar, Satya Prem Vihar, Mahadev Ghat
 Road, Sunder Nagar, District - Raipur, Chhattisgarh within a period
 of 15 days and, in turn the Banking Ombudsman concerned is
 directed to consider the said application and to pass appropriate
 orders in accordance with law within a period of 30 days from the
 date of filing of the application by the petitioner. 8. Till the application for interim relief is decided by the Banking
 Ombudsman, the Bank authorities are directed not to take any
 coercive steps against the petitioner. 9. With the aforesaid observation/direction, instant petition stands
 disposed rights and contentions of the parties are left open. Sd/- (Arvind Kumar Verma)
 Judge

Jyoti