The petitioner who was posted as Branch Manager in the Central Cooperative Bank,
Ratia, Fatehabad, apprehending arrest in the FIR captioned above, has come up before this
Court under Section 438 CrPC seeking anticipatory bail. 2. Vide order dated 13.10.2023, this Court has granted interim bail to the petitioner,
subject to compliance of conditions which is continuing till date. 3. The facts of the case have been taken from the reply dated 08.11.2023 which read as
follows: It is further alleged that loans were found distributed by the Managers of
 different Banks, after taking sanction from Headquarter, in violation of
 terms and condition. It is also found during the said enquiry that non
 agriculture loans were distributed by showing agriculture purpose by
 making mortgage deeds and loans were also found distributed on basis of
 suspicious bill by showing them genuine as such matter regarding tax
 evasion was also reported by the District Taxation Officer, Fatehabad vide
 its letter bearing Endstt. No. 736-737 dated 24.08.2018. It is further alleged that in most of the cases, loans amounts were found
 to be misused by the loanees, in connivance with Branch Manager and
 officials/officers of the banks, in collusion with each other, have
 distributed loan to cheat the banks. So, it is requested that action be
 taken against the persons, who were found guilty in the enquiry report,
 including Bank Managers, Development Officers, the then Loan Section
 Incharge & General Managers, outsiders (who appeared on behalf of
 Banks, in Tehsil, at the time of execution of mortgage-deeds), laonees
 (who misused loan amounts) and other persons in whose accounts
 amounts were transferred from loan amounts, illegally. Hence, a case FIR
 No. 113 dated 04.03.2019 u/s 420 , 466 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 120-B IPC and 9,
 13(1)(d) r/w 13(2) PC Act PS, City Fatehabad has been registered against
 the petitioner and other co-accused persons. 3. That it is also pertinent to mention here that the State Govt.
 transferred the above said case FIR to State Vigilance Bureau, Haryana,
 Panchkula (now Anti Corruption Bureau, Haryana Panchkula) vide memo
 No. 65/08/2018-5 Vigi.(I) dated 30.10.2019 and the same received in the
 office of Superintendent of Police, State Vigilance Bureau, Hisar Range
 Hisar vide Endstt. no. 17900/1-3/SVB(H) dated 11-11-2019 as such now
 the investigation of the above said case is being conducted by Anti
 Corruption Bureau (ACB). Hisar Range, Hisar. 4. That during the course of investigation it is found that the
 petitioner was posted as Branch Manager, The Fatehabad Central Co-
 operative Bank, Ratia, Fatehabad recommended applications of loanee
 for sanction of loan before Sh. Narsi Ram, the then General Manager,
 Central Co-operative Bank, Fatehabad and got sanction the same without
 prior appraisal of Loan Appraisal Committee. Furthermore, records of
 those loans were not maintained by him at the Headquarter being Branch
 Manager, The Fatehabad Central Co-operative Bank, Ratia, Fatehabad as
 such the petitioner and other co-accused intentionally disobeyed the rule
 regulation and guidelines regarding sanction of loan of the loanees and
 thereby illegally and fraudulently obtained bribe of Rs. 50,00,000/- from
 the loanees in collusion with co- accused Gagandeep Grover s/o Sh.
 Kirshan Kumar R/o Ratia and Narsi Ram. The translated copies of
 statement of loanees u/s 161 Crpc are annexed as Annexures R-1 to R- 8." 4. The petitioner seeks bail on the ground that he was neither a sanctioning authority nor
forwarding authority. 5. The State submits that the petitioner is not entitled to bail because his case is at par with
the co-accused namely Mohinder Singh Bhadu and Jagdish Prashad whose bail have been
dismissed by this Court in CRM-M-11912 of 2023 and CRM-M-12359 of 2023. 6. This Court has dismissed the bail petition of co-accused Mohinder Singh Bhadu and
Jagdish Prashad who had allegations of receipt of bribe of Rs.42,00,000/- and Rs.55,00,000/-,
respectively. While dismissing the bail petition, this Court had given the following reasoning
which reads as under: "7. The allegations against the petitioners are that they took illegally
 benefits by distributing the people money to those people who were not
 entitled to receive the agricultural loans. By this way, they not only helped
 some of those people to convert their illegal and black money into white
 but also deprived the genuine farmers from getting such loans. The stand
 of the petitioners are that no loss has been caused and colaterals were
 taken is meaningless. The loans were to be distributed only for
 agricultural purposes and within the jurisdiction. However, the evidence
 points out towards that the petitioners intentionally gave it to non-
 deserving people because in return they received money. Another
 argument that 80% of the loan has been repaid is inconsequential. This
 Court is not concerned with recovery of loan but with the malicious intent
 with which with the petitioners were working. The petitioner-Mahender
 Singh Bhadu was posted as Manager in Central Co-operative Bank as well
 as Loan Sanction Officer. Similarly, petitioner- Jagdish Parshad was also
 posted as Manager and both of them wrongly recommended the loans to
 those people who were not deserving and also beyond their jurisdiction.
 The custodial interrogation of the petitioners would be required to know
 the involvement of other officials to unearth the scam." 7. I have heard counsel for the parties and have gone through the pleadings, and its
analysis will lead to the following outcome: 8. In paragraph 4 of the reply filed by the concerned DySP, it has been mentioned that the
petitioner Gopi Chand was posted as Branch Manager and he had recommended applications
for sanction of loan before Narsi Ram, the then General Manager, Central Cooperative Bank and
got sanction loan without appraisal of Loan Appraisal Committee. In addition to that, he did not
maintain the record at Fatehabad and intentionally disobeyed the rules and regulations. The
petitioner was posted as the Branch Manager, and the co-accused, whose bails were dismissed,
namely Mahender Singh Bhadu was posted as Manager as well as Loan Sanction Officer. All
these had similar roles, i.e., identification of right persons, and verifying that loans were
properly utilized. 9. State has referred to statements of persons who substantiate their allegations.
Statement of Pargat Singh is annexed at R-1 wherein he has stated that he in 2016, alongwith his
brother had purchased land in a village and for this, they wanted loan for domestic need. For
this, they had met one Gagandeep who had told them that he will get their loan sanctioned
from Cooperative Bank and for that they will have to spend money. On enquiry, the said
Advocate Gagandeep told them that he will have to pay money up to the top level and he will
get their loan sanctioned. After that, they agreed to pay and Gagandeep told them that he has
got a loan of Rs.9.50 lacs sanctioned in their favour and for this he had to put his signatures on
empty withdrawal forms in the office of the Branch Manager, Gopi Chand, the petitioner.
Through these signed empty forms and one cheque of Rs.70,000/- was signed by Gagandeep
and Rs. 25,000- in cash and in all he grabbed Rs.3,50,000/-. There are similar statements of
Parmal Singh, Gurmail Singh, Gurlal Singh, Jaspal Singh, Darshan Singh, Gurdeep Singh and
Lakhvinder Singh. An analysis of the submissions and these statements point out towards the
petitioner's involvement. Thus, the Investigator has collected sufficient primafacie evidence
against the petitioner. In para 6 of the reply filed by the DySP, it has been mentioned that the
petitioner had received a bribe of Rs. 50,00,000/- from the loanees. 10. Given the nature of allegations, custodial interrogation is required. An analysis of the
allegations and evidence collected does not warrant the grant of bail to the petitioner. 11. In Sumitha Pradeep v Arun Kumar CK , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1529, Supreme Court holds,
 [16]. ... We have noticed one common argument being canvassed that no
 custodial interrogation is required and, therefore, anticipatory bail may be
 granted. There appears to be a serious misconception of law that if no
 case for custodial interrogation is made out by the prosecution, then that
 alone would be a good ground to grant anticipatory bail. Custodial
 interrogation can be one of the relevant aspects to be considered along
 with other grounds while deciding an application seeking anticipatory bail.
 There may be many cases in which the custodial interrogation of the
 accused may not be required, but that does not mean that the prima facie
 case against the accused should be anticipatory bail. The first and

 4 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 20-01-2024 06:47:20 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:007227

CRM-M No.52062 of 2023 (O&M) -5- 2024:PHHC: 5 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 20-01-2024 06:47:20 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:007227

CRM-M No.52062 of 2023 (O&M) -6- 2024:PHHC: Therefore, a delicate balance is required to be established between the
 two rights - safeguarding the personal liberty of an individual and the
 societal interest. It cannot be said that refusal to grant anticipatory bail
 would amount to denial of the rights conferred upon the appellant under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 17. In Central Bureau of Investigation v. Santosh Karnani, Cr.A 1148 of 2023, dated 17-04-
2023, Supreme Court, in an FIR registered under sections under Sections 7 , 13(1) and 13(2) of
the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, holds,

 [24]. The time−tested principles are that no straitjacket formula can be
 applied for grant or refusal of anticipatory bail. The judicial discretion of
 the Court shall be guided by various relevant factors and largely it will
 depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case. The Court must
 draw a delicate balance between liberty of an individual as guaranteed
 under Article 21 of the Constitution and the need for a fair and free
 investigation, which must be taken to its logical conclusion. Arrest has
 devastating and irreversible social stigma, humiliation, insult, mental pain
 and other fearful consequences. Regardless thereto, when the Court, on
 consideration of material information gathered by the Investigating
 Agency, is prima facie satisfied that there is something more than a mere
 needle of suspicion against the accused, it cannot jeopardise the
 investigation, more so when the allegations are grave in nature. [31]. The nature and gravity of the alleged offence should have been kept
 in mind by the High Court. Corruption poses a serious threat to our society
 and must be dealt with iron hands. It not only leads to abysmal loss to the
 public exchequer but also tramples good governance. The common man
 stands deprived of the benefits percolating under social welfare schemes
 and is the worst hit. It is aptly said, "Corruption is a tree whose branches
 are of an unmeasurable length; they spread everywhere; and the dew that
 drops from thence, Hath infected some chairs and stools of authority."
 Hence, the need to be extra conscious. 18. In the background of the allegations and in the light of the judicial precedents mentioned
above, also in the facts and circumstances peculiar to this case, the petitioner fails to make a
case for anticipatory bail. 19. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the case's
merits, neither the court taking up regular bail nor the trial Court shall advert to these
comments. Petition dismissed. Interim orders, if any, stand vacated. All pending applications, if any, also
stand disposed.