This matter came up for hearing on 23.07.2008 pursuant to Commission's
hearing notice dated 09.06.2008. Appellant was present in person, while the
respondents were represented by Ms.Jyoti Jindgar, D.G.M. and Shri Aman Jain,
A.G.M. 2. Through the RTI-application dated 06.12.2007, appellant had made the
following queries:- 2. What are the measures initiated by SEBI based on the
 recommendations of JPC to prevent reoccurrence of such scam in Future? 3. Please provide the Chronological list of measures taken along with
 date of their effectiveness, if any." 3. CPIO provided the reply to the appellant through a communication dated
07.01.2008 drawing his attention to two websites namely www.finmin.nic.in and
www.sebi.gov.in. Besides, this CPIO also informed the appellant that one item
of query i.e. regarding Harshad Mehta scam could not be immediately provided
as information had to be collected from other sources. 4. Items of information requested by the appellant are discussed below:- 5. Appellate Authority noted that SEBI had already passed orders against
various entities involved in the market scams and all these orders had been
uploaded on SEBI's website at www.sebi.gov.in. 6. According to the Appellate Authority, the information requested by the
appellant was voluminous, collecting and collating which would involve a
substantial drain on the resources of the public authority. This would inevitably
attract Section 7(9) of the RTI Act. He especially highlighted that the format in
which the appellant wanted the information was not in which this information
was uploaded onto the website. This was, according to the AA, an added factor
contributing to the complexity of the information requested, besides its range and
volume. He surmised that SEBI had brought this information into the public
domain through the website as mandated under Section 4(1) of the RTI Act. 7. During hearing appellant submitted that the above direction of the
Appellate Authority was like telling the appellant that 'if he wished to have any
specific information contained in a large book, he should read the whole book'.
According to him, the website was vast in range and scope. To expect an
ordinary citizen to surf through the entire website to glean the information which
he wanted was to expect in him capacities which were beyond him as a private
citizen. He demanded that the public authority should be directed to clearly
indicate to him where from the entire website would he be able to locate the
information which he had requested through his RTI application. 8. The respondents' representative made the point, that as stated by the
Appellate Authority in his order, SEBI had brought all information related to
these scams into the public domain through the website and the appellant was
informed about it. The information as requested by the appellant has been
uploaded onto the website over a considerable length of time, at regular intervals.
They further submitted that there were nine Action Taken Reports till December,
2007, which had all been uploaded on the website and that each such Report ran
into more than one hundred and fifty pages. It was too much on the part of the
appellant to expect SEBI to mount a research project to collect this entire range
of voluminous information from the 1990s till today, collated in the format Page 2 of 4 appellant wants it and then hand it over to him on a platter. In fact, if it was the
desire of the appellant to do research into the scams and their aftermath he was
welcome to do so, but he should not expect a public authority to carry out these
researches for his convenience and then to provide him the solutions. 9. Respondents, however, suggested that appellant may carry out his own
research about the information already available on the website, the links for
which respondents would happily provide to the appellant. In fact, a list of such
links was handed over to the appellant by the respondents during the hearing at
the Commission. They urged the appellant to use these links to narrow down the
search on the website. Should the appellant still need some help from the
respondents about locating any information of specific nature, they would be
glad to provide it to him. 10. Respondents highlighted the fact that there were serious ramifications to
the type of demand for information which the appellant was making. They
reiterated that it was not possible for them to provide information to the appellant
directly except to inform him about where in the public domain he could access
the information which he wished to have. They argued that the purpose of Section 4(1) of the RTI Act, i.e. to bring all information into the public domain
so that the there shall be no need to take recourse to RTI Act ⎯ will be defeated
if they are required to keep giving out to individual applicants the same
information they would have already brought into public domain through
websites. They cited the bar under Section 7(9) of the RTI Act for disclosing this
type of voluminous and complex information. Decision: 11. This matter was discussed at some detail at the Commission's hearing.
Both sides made their points clearly, elaborately and persuasively. 12. I find merit in the submission of the respondents on two counts. First,
they have already brought this information into the public domain through the
websites and Second, the range and the volume of the information is so large that
it would be impossible to supply it to the appellant without incurring heavy and
unacceptable cost. 13. It is true that given the volume and the complexity of the information
requested by the appellant, it would be impossible to locate and collate it without
substantial research effort. A public authority cannot be obliged to engage in it
for the benefit of an applicant, who may not be the only and, the last such
applicant. Many more would want to have this privilege which doubtless would
lessen the applicant's research burden while increasing it for the public authority. 14. Considering the fact that the information requested is unarguably in the
public domain and that its range and volume is such that it would attract
provisions of Section 7(9) of the Act, it is not possible to authorize its disclosure
in the form in which the appellant had requested. 15. It is directed that there shall be no disclosure liability for this item of
information. However, if after the effort put in by the appellant to decipher and
locate the information, he still needs some help about certain specific items, he
may take advantage of the respondents' offer to help him with it. Queries at Sl.Nos.2 and 3: 16. It is the respondents' case that both these items of the information were
contained in the sizeable range of information uploaded onto the website by
SEBI. They expressed their inability to search out this information for all these
previous years, format it for the appellant's convenience and then provide it to
him. Respondents repeated their point that the research which was required to
collect and collate this range of information cannot be imposed on the public
authority by the appellant in the guise of seeking information under the RTI Act . 17. The appellant repeated the point that it was obligatory for the public
authority to provide this information to him. Respondents have a different view
of their obligation. Decision: 18. The contention of the respondents has substance. It is not open to
appellant to saddle a public authority with elaborate queries about past actions,
response to which could not be given without the public authority straining itself
to wade through large volumes of information and data. Section 7(9) clearly
forbids this form of disclosure. 19. In view of the above, I find myself unable to authorize disclosure of this
information. 20. The appeal is disposed of with these directions. 21. Copy of this decision be sent to the parties. Sd/- ( A.N. TIWARI )
 INFORMATION COMMISSIONER Page 4 of 4