% 29.05.2023

 The present LPA arises out of an order dated 01.09.2022 passed by
 the learned Single Judge in W.P.(C) No. 5380/2022. The facts of the case reveal that the Respondent before this Court has
 preferred a writ petition praying for the following reliefs: The relief clause reveals that the writ petitioner was aggrieved by the
 RBI Circular dated 01.07.2016 which empowers the bank to declare the writ
 petitioner as fraud. While the matter was pending before the learned Single
 Judge, the One Time Settlement proposal of the writ petitioner was accepted
 by the bank and, in those circumstances, the following order has been passed
 by the learned Single Judge: 3. In light of the stand taken by Respondent No. 2-Bank, it
 emerges as follows: (a) Canara Bank has not initiated any
 criminal action for proceedings against the Petitioners; (b)
 There is an OTS between the parties; and (c) The OTS amount
 has been received by Canara Bank and commercial liabilities
 thus, stand settled. 4. Clause 7 of the afore-noted OTS settlement provides that the
 parties have agreed to withdraw pending litigation against
 each other. It is thus, clear that intention is to put quietus to the
 legal proceedings. As regards classification of Petitioner's
 account as 'Fraud', Respondent No. 2-Bank has expressed its
 inability to withdraw the action, merely because there is no
 enabling provision in the RBI Master Direction on Frauds. 5. In absence of any serious contest to petition, in light of the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/10/2023 at 23:48:23
 affidavit filed by Respondent No. 2-Bank, the OTS settlement
 between the parties and no criminal action stated to be pending
 against the Petitioner, the Court is inclined to allow the petition
 and accordingly, the impugned action of Respondent No. 2-
 Bank qua declaration of Petitioners‟ account as „Fraud‟ is
 quashed. 6. With the above directions, the present petition is disposed
 of." The order passed by the learned Single Judge reveals that the learned
 Single Judge has arrived at a conclusion keeping in view the One Time
 Settlement between the parties has been arrived at, no criminal action has
 been initiated against the writ petitioner, the declaration of petitioner's
 account as fraud, deserves to be set aside and it has been done accordingly. Learned Counsel for the bank has vehemently argued before this
 Court that so far as declaration of an account as fraud is concerned, the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has passed an order in State Bank of India and
 Others v. Rajesh Agarwal and Others , 2023 SCC OnLine 342. The order
 passed by the Supreme Court in concluding paragraph No. 87 reads as
 under: The order of the Single Judge on the basis that since no criminal
 action has been initiated against the writ petitioner and therefore the
 declaration of account the Petitioner as fraud has to be set aside. In the
 considered opinion of this Court, so far as the declaration of petitioner's
 account as fraud is concerned, the same has to be governed by the orders
 passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and, therefore, the LPA stands
 disposed of in terms of the order passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. SATISH CHANDRA SHARMA, CJ

 SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J
 MAY 29, 2023
 N.Khanna

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/10/2023 at 23:48:23