The present complaint alleges deficiency against opposite party no.1 Bank of Maharashtra having been negligent and deficient in taking care of the handling a sum of Rs.27 crores entrusted to the opposite party bank in the shape of fixed deposits due to non-observance of the KYC norms by the opposite party bank resulting in siphoning of the entire funds through a fake current account.  The contention of the complainant is that the amount was transferred by the complainant from its accounts directly to the bank for investing into fixed deposits that was confirmed by the bank.  The remittances were made to the Inter Branch Fund Transfer Account of opposite party no.1 and instructions were issued by the complainant for deposit of the same in fixed deposits.  Later on, it was found that a fake account was opened in the name of the complainant by some fraudsters and it is allegedly involving the officials of opposite party no.1, hence criminal proceedings have also been initiated that are pending but the present complaint has been filed praying for refund of Rs.27 crores invested by the complainant together with maturity amount of the fixed deposit receipts and further award of 18% interest on the entire amount together with a compensation of Rs.5 crores and costs of Rs.50 lacs for the litigation expenses. 2.      It is alleged that the complainant being a society and non-profit organization registered under the Societies Registration Act with the exemption under the Income Tax Act , was established in the year 2006 and was later on also granted a corpus fund from the Government as well to the tune of Rs.65 crores.  A sum of Rs.69.22 crores was also contributed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, U.S.A. as well as from other sources.  The complainant holds funds as a trustee for the projects undertaken by it and for carrying out its activities which are charitable in nature and the donations as well as interest on the corpus funds are utilized for the purpose for which the society has been established.  In order to secure the donations and their effective utilization, the funds are invested for which several financial institutions banks make efforts and accordingly, in furtherance of the policy of investing surplus funds by way of term deposits, a decision was taken to invest a sum of Rs.27 crores with the OP no.1 bank. 3.      It is alleged that one Mr. Devendra Suresh Bhogale, representing himself to be the manager of OP-1, approached the complainant soliciting fixed deposits for the investments, the remittance was made on 20.09.2013 of a sum of Rs.5 crores from the City Bank Account, Connaught Place, New Delhi of the complainant to the Non-Customer Inter Branch Fund Transfer Account no. 20071000009 through RTGS with a clear instruction for investment in fixed deposits in favour of the complainant.  The second remittance of Rs.6 crores was made on 26.09.2013 through the same method of RTGS.  The third remittance was made on 30.10.2013 for a sum of Rs.4 crores through NEFT to a current account no. 60146702654 with the opposite party no.1 with a specific instruction to invest the same in a fixed deposit.  A sum of Rs.12 crores was remitted in the same current account by NEFT for the same purpose.  This current account was later on found to be a fake account opened in the name of the complainant by fraudsters and of course, sanctioned by OP-1 officials. 4.      The complainant had no clue about this fake transaction through the current account as they were paid interest through a bank demand draft dated 28.04.2014 for Rs.1785206/-.  One of the fixed deposits of Rs.4 crores had matured and therefore, it was renewed on 30.04.2014 for a further period of one year.  The complainant was given to believe through the said Mr. Devendra Suresh Bhogale about the confirmation and existence of the said fixed deposits to the tune of Rs.27 crores. 5.      It appears that there were several such transactions which came to the knowledge of the Economic Offences Wing of the Police and one Mr. Prabhakar Loke, Senior Inspector informed the complainant to be alert about their deposits as the police had received information related to the funds being siphoned by the fraudsters.  The complainant thereafter, immediately contacted the bank for confirmation of their deposits but to their shock, they were informed by Mrs. Prema Venkat, Sr. Branch Manager of the Bank that their signatures did not match with the signatures on the Account Opening Form (AOF) of the current account and therefore, they were declined the information sought with regard to the balance confirmation of the fixed deposits.  The complainant was later on informed that the fixed deposit receipts in possession of the complainant were fabricated. 6.      The bank set out for a preliminary investigation in the matter and a report was submitted on 11.07.2014 that there were serious errors committed in the opening of the fake current account.  The complainant, on 12.07.2014, issued instructions to opposite party no.2 to close all its fixed deposits and remit the funds deposited by the complainant in the above transactions to the tune of Rs.27 crores. 7.      On the failure of the OP-1 to remit the funds as requested, the complainant, on 28.07.2014, lodged a written complaint before the Economic Offences Wing, Mumbai Police, coupled with similar complaints with the Central Bureau of Investigation, Bank Securities & Fraud Cell, Mumbai on the basis of which FIR No.407 of 2014 was registered at Economic Offences Wing, Mumbai Police.  Thereafter, correspondences ensued between the complainant and the bank and the bank denied to take any responsibility for the same.  The complainant called upon the bank to supply it with the documents relating to the current fake account but having failed to respond, the complainant persuaded the bank that was ultimately refused on 31.10.2015 whereafter, the present complaint was filed. 8.      It may be mentioned that in the meantime, a chargesheet was filed by the Mumbai Police, Economic Offences Wing before the concerned Metropolitan Magistrate in the FIR referred to above where alongwith Mr. Devendra Suresh Bhogale, Ms. Amruta Mathews, Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil, Mr. Arun Kumar and Mr. Vimal Barot were charged for having opened the fake current account in the name of the complainant and siphoning of the funds from the same. 9.      The allegation of the complainant is that it is the bank which facilitated the opening of the fake current account without any knowledge of the complainant of the papers that contained fake signatures and identification papers.  As such, the absence of due care or may be possible involvement of the bank officials, funds of Rs.27 crores deposited by the complainant were allowed to be siphoned of by the bank and its deficiency is squared by the bank which failed to carry out the procedure of the KYC norms that has resulted in the perpetration of the fraud and the siphoning of the funds attributable clearly to the deficiencies of the bank. 10.    For this, heavy reliance has been placed by the learned counsel for the complainant on the internal report about the irregularities submitted by the Chief Manager of the Malad Branch of the opposite party bank to the Zonal Manager. 11.    Learned counsel has also relied heavily on the KYC norms prescribed for the opening of bank accounts, more particularly, customer identification process which is one of the main ingredients to be taken care of at the time of opening of the bank account.  It is urged that the current account through which these fake transactions have been carried out to siphon of the money of the complainant, was opened on the basis of fake documents without following the norms and without any verification from the complainant.  The fraudsters involved in it, had produced the said fake documents that ought to have been verified by the bank and its officials but they failed to do so which is evident from the facts on record as well as from the report dated 11.07.2014. 12.    It is also submitted that chargesheet filed by the police also clearly indicates this lapse and negligence and therefore, the bank was liable to remit the entire amount which they had illegally withheld for the last almost more than ten years. 13.    Mr. Sisodia, while advancing his submissions and taking the Bench through various documents in support of his arguments, has also filed a written synopsis dated 21.05.2019, followed by another written synopsis filed on 07.03.2023 and finally, a note of the submissions that was tendered at the time of the conclusion of the arguments on 30.05.2024. 14.    Mr. B.P. Singh, learned counsel for the bank, has opposed the contentions tooth and nail, contended that the entire contribution of any such negligence lay on the complainant who transacted their own account through Mr. Devendra Suresh Bhogale and the other fraudsters with which the bank had no concern.  They were neither the employees of the bank nor any employees of the bank are involved in the transactions nor is there any evidence to that effect.  The complainants themselves had allowed the fraudsters to deal in this opening of the account and there is neither any negligence or any material available on record so as to establish any attributable fault on the part of the bank in the siphoning of the funds. 15.    Mr. B.P. Singh has raised two preliminary objections and has referred to IA No.18013 of 2018 filed on behalf of the bank praying that the complaint should be dismissed firstly because the transaction as alleged, is a business to business transaction and is not a business to consumer transaction, hence, the same being for commercial purpose, the complainant does not fall within the definition of the word 'consumer'.  The second ground taken is that the complainants have come up alleging fraud having been played with the opening of a current account which involved persons who acted on behalf of the complainants.  It is therefore, submitted that this investigation of fraud cannot be a matter of investigation and analysis by this Commission under the Consumer Protection Act .  It is urged that this highly disputable questions of fact as to how this fraud was committed, or as to who committed it, would need leading of evidence and therefore, the complainants are at liberty to file a civil suit to establish such allegations.  Consequently, a consumer complaint should not be entertained and should be dismissed. 16.    On the merits of the matter, Mr. B.P. Singh, Advocate submitted that no official of the bank was involved in it, nor any vicarious liability can be fixed on the bank as it was the complainant who came forward and made investments through people of dubious character who may be responsible for having siphoned the funds but the bank cannot be charged with or held guilty of any such negligence as there is not even an iota of involvement of the bank so as to give rise to any deficiency for being adjudicated by this forum.  It is urged that the bank itself has been victimized and put to a loss hence, the allegations made against the bank are unfounded and without any basis for holding and establishing any deficiency in service. 17.    Mr. B.P. Singh has invited the attention of the bench to the written submissions filed by him in two compilations alongwith judgments filed on 25.09.2023 and then at the time of the closure of the arguments on 30.05.2024. 18.    Even though written submissions have been submitted on three occasions on behalf of the complainant as mentioned above, the latest submissions raised are as follows: 11. It is submitted that the written submissions made by the Complainant on 07.03.2023 as well as the summary of arguments as per the order sheet of 01.03.2024 are not being repeated for the sake of brevity but the same may be taken as part of present note of submissions. Hence, the present complaint be allowed with direction to the opposite party bank to refund the sum of Rs.27 Crores With interest due thereon and costs. 12. List of judgments relied upon: 19.    Learned counsel for the opposite party has also filed his written arguments as noted above and apart from the merits, the main contention is with regard to the maintainability of the complaint for which the written notes on the arguments advanced are extracted herein below: That the present complaint deserves to be dismissed in view of the fact that the all the 4 fixed deposit receipts filed by Complainant are forged and fabricated to the knowledge of the Complainant. (refer to para 23 of complaint & page 333 of Final Report under section 173 CrPC) and certain other documents. No prayer can be granted by court/tribunal on the basis of forged and fabricated FD receipts. It is submitted that the complainant be directed to approach Civil Court or any other Forum as the questions arising for decision in the light of the pleadings of the parties requires a detailed and complicated investigation into facts which is not capable of being undertaken in a summary and speedy manner as provided under section 13 (3- A) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 as held in a catena of judgments by the Hon'ble Commission and the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Refer judgment in M/s Safe Home Developers and Contractors Vs. Samata Sahakari Bank Ltd. New Link Road, Oshiwara Branch; 2012 SCC online NCDRC 742 passed by the Hon'ble Commission and the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. Muni Mahesh Patel: 2006 (7) SCC 655 annexed with the Written Synopsis for the IA No. 18013/2018 filed by OP. 2. Complainant is not a "Consumer" hence no relief can be granted by the Hon'ble Commission. That the Complainant is not a "Consumer" under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 as the Current Account No 60146702654 that is held by the OP Bank is not an account held by the the Complainant although the Account is in the name of the Complainant, however the registered address is of Mumbai which is not the Complainant who has office in Delhi therefore the Current Account No 60146702654 is not of the present Complainant. That it is the case of the Complainant that the Current Account No 60146702654 is fake current account and therefore he himself states that it is not the Complainant's account. The fact is that the said Current Account was never operated by the Complainant nor the Complainant had any control over the said account. That the Complainant calls the Current Account No 60146702654 as fake from which account Mr Bhogle siphoned of the funds, thus it is established that account is not of the complainant and in that situation he is not a consumer of Bank availing the services of the bank. That the FDs that were to be opened upon transfer of monies by the Complainant could be done only after filing up the requisite FD opening form, and thus the stand of the Complainant that monies were transferred through RTGS to the said fake Current Account with the instructions that FD was to be opened which had to be done by the account holder which was not the Complainant and instead it was Harsha Bhogle and Co. the fraudsters who were the actual owners of the said Current Account opened in the name of the Complainant. Hence the Complainant cannot be said to be a "consumer" of the OP Bank therefore the complaint is not maintainable and ought to be dismissed on this count alone. 3. Monies transferred to the Current Account No 60146702654 (fake account) were on the instructions of Harsha Bhogle and Co. That the monies were transferred to the said Current Account by the Complainant on the instructions of the said Harsha Bhogle and Co. where the OP Bank had no role to play in the monies deposited by the Complainant to the said Current Account therefore the OP Bank cannot be held liable for any monies transferred to the said Current Account. 4. Judgements filed by the Complainant have fixed liability of the bank on the basis of vicarious liability as an employee of the Bank was involved in the Fraud which is not the case here hence no liability can be fixed on the OPs

 

 

 

Refer MDCC Bank Ltd. Vs ICICI Bank & MTDC vs Dena Bank annexed with the Written Synopsis on behalf of the Complainant. That in Final Report u/s 173 CrPC at page 365 Vol. II 5. Complainant has utilised the services of the OP Bank for commercial purposes and therefore is not a consumer hence the Complainant deserves to be dismissed

 

 

 

That the Complainant by seeking to open FDs has used the services of the OP Bank for commercial purposes and which is not 'exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood, by means of self-employment the present Complaint deserves to be dismissed. Commercial purpose as held by the Supreme Court in Shrikant G Mantri case at para 41 has been stated to be something about earning profit, which by investing in FDs with a Bank is a obvious sequel. That in the case of MTDC vs Dena Bank cited by the Complainant although tacitly accepts at para 6 that opening of FD will a commercial purpose but does not accept the argument that it is commercial purposes stating that if a Government Corporation or Undertaking has surplus funds and invests them with a Bank is different from business activities such as manufacturing, trading or rendering services is obviously not in consonance with the statutory provisions under section 2(7) of Consumer Protection Act, 2019. 6. Complaint is time barred

 

 

 

That at para 59 the complainant claims that the cause of action arose on 05.07.2014 when the complainant first time visited OP Is office in Mumbai. It is submitted that the cause of action for calculating the time limit has to be cause of action first arose ie. When the complainant transferred through RTGS to account held by the OPI which has to be on 21.09.2013 on the Complaint's own statement at para 29 (pg 15) of Complaint it is stated that "Moreover, the transfer of Rs. 5 crores to the fake current account on 21.09.2013 ie. after a day of remittance of the said amount to the intermediary account of OP I was also in violation of RTGS Regulations, 2013 which mandate that funds should be transferred to the beneficiary's account within 30 minutes of receipt of payment, and a case transfer to the beneficiary's account is not possible funds have to be returned to the originating member within one hour of receipt of payment." That to say, when the Rs. 5 crores, sent by the Complainant did not go into the actual account, as desired by the Complainant then the alarm bells should have begun to ring, which has to be the cause of action for calculating the limitation as provided in section 69 of the Consumer Protection Act. 2019. 20.    Certain preliminary facts need to be noted before entering into the merits as stated hereinabove.  The complaint was admitted on 26.07.2016 with notice to the bank to file its response. The reply/written version was filed alongwith IA/12507/2016 requesting for condoning the delay of 114 days in filing of the written version.  This Commission, rejected the said request on 05.01.2017 against which the bank went up in appeal before the Apex Court that was allowed on 24.03.2017 and the written version was directed to be accepted on payment of Rs.50000/- as cost.  Accordingly, the written version was taken on record and the complainant filed rejoinder to the same.  The parties exchanged their affidavits of evidence and also their written submissions noted hereinabove. 21.    The bank also moved IA/18013/2016 raising the issue of maintainability of the complaint.  This application dated 05.09.2018, has yet not been disposed of and since the issues raised therein relate directly to the merits of the matter as well, the said application is also being dealt with finally in respect whereof, arguments have been advanced. 22.    There is one more fact which needs mention as urged on behalf of the complainant regarding similar such matters having been dealt with by this Commission, and the complaints having been allowed regarding deficiencies against banks and financial institutions at the behest of complainants who had made similar investments and also at the behest of the present complainant.  The decisions rendered by this Commission and relied upon by the learned counsel for the complainants, are ( i) CC/259/2014 Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation vs. Dena Bank & Ors. decided on 03.06.2016; ( ii) CC/947/2015 Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority vs. Dena Bank & Ors. also decided on 03.06.2016; ( iii) CC/1363/2015 Mumbai District Central Cooperative Bank Ltd. Vs. ICICI Bank Ltd. decided on 21.03.2018; (iv) CC/759/2016 PHFI Vs. Dena Bank decided on 01.06.2023 and ( v) CC/1185/2016 PHFI Vs. Central Bank of India decided on 16.05.2024.  In all these five cases, similar nature of deficiencies were alleged and the complaints were allowed where also the same preliminary objections had been raised by the learned counsel for the banks and the financial institutions. It is also relevant to point out that the involvement of Mr. Devendra Suresh Bhogale was also found in the case of Mumbai District Cooperative Bank (supra) alongwith Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil who are also mentioned as accused involved in the present case where a chargesheet has been filed. 23.    Two of these complaints namely CC/759/2016 against Dena Bank and CC/1185/2016 against the Central Bank of India were complaints of a similar nature filed by the present complainant itself.  The complaints have been allowed with a direction to refund the entire siphoned amount. 24.    There is a third complaint filed on behalf of the complainant namely CC/1024/2016 which is pending adjudication and it is informed that it is in the process of hearing. 25.    It is in the said background that the preliminary objections coupled with the main argument advanced on behalf of the bank has to be considered. 26.    Coming to the preliminary objections raised by the learned counsel for the bank, all instructions of the complainant society, its functions as well as its transactions are stated clearly in the complaint as well as the written submissions and have been noted hereinabove.  The question as to whether the investments made are of a commercial nature or not, has been canvassed on the same level in the decisions of this Commission regarding similar disputes raised and decided in the five complaints as indicated above.  Two of these complaints were filed by the complainant, against two different banks namely Dena Bank and Central Bank of India being CC No.759 and 1185 of 2016 that were allowed on 01.06.2023 and 16.05.2024 respectively.  The aforesaid two judgments are available and have been cited where the same argument was considered and it was held that the complainants have not invested into a commercial venture for a commercial purpose and the investments are short terms investments for securing the safe deposit of the money of the society. They have been held to be 'business to consumer' transactions.  The reasons given in the aforesaid judgments and the conclusions drawn are based on logic and sound legal principles and there is no reason to differ from the same.  The orders of this Commission holding that the transactions are not commercial, therefore, can be safely applied on the facts of the present case as well, where also the investments were made in fixed deposits for a short tenure and any proceed thereof, are to be applied for the benefit of the projects of the society by the complainant which is a charitable institution.  The complainant is not earning any profit for itself and consequently, this is not a case where any inference of a commercial purpose can be drawn on the facts regarding the status of the complainant and the transactions carried out by it.  The second objection is that the complainant should be relegated to a civil suit.  This issue has also been raised and thrashed out in the decisions relied on by the learned counsel for the complainant and referred to hereinabove.  Relying on judgments and also on the various provisions, it was held in CC/759/2016 as follows: 27.    Considering the aforesaid decision which has been reiterated in CC/1185/2016, decided on 16.05.2024 (supra), there is no reason to take a different view from that taken therein.  The said decision has also taken notice of the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of City Union Bank Ltd. v. R. Chandramohan , (2023) 7 SCC 775.  The opinion of the Commission is recorded in paragraph 13 which is extracted hereinbelow: 28.    The issue of limitation was upheld in the same order: 29.    Consequently, the complainant for all the reasons given above is a consumer and the facts which are on record are sufficient to assess and decide the issue of deficiency as raised in the present case in the light of the observations indicated hereinabove. The issue of limitation  also stands answered in favour of the complainants, in as much as the discovery of the alleged fraud was made in 2013-2014, whereafter the internal enquiry report of the Bank dated 11.07.2014 also disclosed the alleged deficiencies. This was followed by a written complaint on 28.07.20214.  The ultimate refusal to indemnify came from the Bank on 31.10.2015. Thus, this continuity of events as well as the refusal of the Bank as noted above gave rise to the cause of action of filing of this complaint which was done well within two years of limitation. Consequently, all the preliminary objections raised by Mr. Singh, in view of the discussions and the reasons given hereinabove are rejected. 30.    Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and having considered their submissions and upon having perused the records, the main contest on merits raised by the complainant is based on the allegation of lack of due care and deficiency by not observing the KYC norms that need to be followed according to the learned counsel for the complainant.  For this, learned counsel for the complainant has invited the attention of the bench to the KYC norms that have been promulgated by the Reserve Bank of India through its circular dated 01.07.2013 that has been filed on record.  Reliance is also placed on the KYC norms which were existing and were re-promulgated by the opposite party bank itself in terms of the earlier RBI directory dated 16.08.2002 that were approved by the Board in its Meeting dated 04.03.2005.  A copy of this guidelines referring to the earlier norms and its future implementation according to the Reserve Bank of India guidelines has also been filed on record.  The four relevant ingredients required for framing the KYC policies as mentioned therein require the following four key elements: 31.    Learned counsel urged that out of these, customer acceptance policy and the parameters for the customer identification procedure and its requirements require that the Bank should proceed on receipt of satisfactory evidence of the identification of the intermediaries and all the persons on whose behalf they are acting and also obtain details of the nature of the trust or any other arrangement in place.  The legal status of the person and its identity should be verified through proper and relevant documents and also verify the status of the person purporting to be acting on behalf of the person opening an account.  Sufficient identification data to verify the identity of the customer, the address/location and the recent photograph should also be necessarily taken.  The data obtained should be reliable and should be independent source of documents so that due diligence is observed based on the risk profile of the customer in compliance of the extant guidelines in place. 32.    Learned counsel submits that these RBI guidelines as well as the norms which were existing were violated by the bank itself. It is the Bank that facilitated the opening of a fake current account in the name of the complainant which was neither opened on the basis of correct documents and the account was allowed to be operated whimsically for which learned counsel has relied upon the report dated 11.07.2014 of the Chief Manager of OP-1 bank, submitted to the Zonal Manager, and is extracted hereinbelow: Company Executive/Head  Finance/Treasurer/Autho rised Signatory
			
			 
			 

Mr. Amit Ramjilal Chaturvedi (CIF-40086800146) 10 Address as per KYC form
			
			 
			 

401, 4th Floor, Hari Harshad, Bhat Wadi, Versova, Andheri West. Nr. Bakery, Budha Gally, Mumbai 400061, Maharashtra, India 11 Documents Submitted for the society 12 Memorandum of Association

			 

 
			
			 
			 
				 Signed in original by above three signatories alongwith stamp of the society on each page
				 Total 19 pages, of which page no. 9 missing 13 Chapter 1: General Provisions
			
			 
			 
				 Signed in original by above three signatories along with stamp of the society on each page
				 Total 6 pages 14 Resolution of the Society
			
			 
			 
				 On the letterhead of the Company
				 Signed in original by above three signatories 15 Pan Card
			
			 
			 
				 Photocopy of the Pancard
				 Signed by all above three signatories of the society alongwith stamp of the society
				 No official from Branch has verified the photocopy from original as well as online. Certificate of Registration
			
			 
			 
				 Photocopy of the certificate of registration bearing no. S-54840 of 2006 dated 8 Feb, 2006
				 Above Mumbai address (row no. 4) of the society mentioned on the certificate
				 Certificate issued by Registrar of societies, Govt of NCT of Delhi, Delhi
				 Signed in original by above three signatories alongwith stamp of society. No official from Branch has verified the photocopy from original 17 Electricity Bill
			
			 
			 
				 Photocopy of Electricity Bill of Aug-13 of Reliance Energy
				 Above address(row no.4) of the society mentioned on the bill
				 Signed in original by above three signatories alongwith stamp of society. No official from Branch has verified the photocopy from original 18 Documents submitted for Prof. Kolli Srinath Reddy Venkata Raghunatha 19 Pan Card

			 

 

			 

 
			
			 
			 
				 Self attested Photocopy of Pan Card
				 No official from Branch has verified the photocopy from original as well as online. Pass Port
			
			 
			 
				 Self attested Photocopy of Passport with above address (row no.6) 
				 No official from Branch has verified the photocopy from original 21 Documents submitted for Mr. Narayan Pramatha Chatterjee 22 Driving License
			
			 
			 
				 Self attested Photocopy of Driving License with above address (row no.8)
				 No official from Branch has verified the photocopy from original 23 Pan Card
			
			 
			 
				 Self attested Photocopy of Pan Card
				 No official from Branch has verified the photocopy from original as well as online. Documents submitted for Mr. Amit Ramjilal Chaturvedi 25 Pan Card

			 

 
			
			 
			 
				 Self attested Photocopy of Pan Card
				 No official from Branch has verified the photocopy from original as well as online 26 Electricity Bill
			
			 
			 
				 Self attested Photocopy of Electricity Bill of June-13 of Reliance Energy with above address (row no 10)
				 No official from Branch has verified the photocopy from original 27 Supervisory staff present on 21.09.2013
			
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

Name
			
			 
			 

PF No.
			
			 
			 

Designation
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

Sudhakar Sonkusale
			
			 
			 

10225
			
			 
			 

Chief Manager
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

V. Prema
			
			 
			 

13657
			
			 
			 

Senior Manager
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

Jyoti Badkar
			
			 
			 

19722
			
			 
			 

Senior Manager
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

Sunila Budhkar
			
			 
			 

15126
			
			 
			 

Special Asst. Regarding Account Opening
			
			 
			 
				 No authorized official verified any of the documents submitted by account holder from originals
				 Current account opening form is not signed by authorized official
				 Risk classification is not done by authorized official
				 Letter of Thanks / Letter for confirmation not sent to customer
				 Name of the operator and signature who has opened the current account is not available on the account opening form
				 Name/signature of the authorized official, who has authorized the account opening transactions, is not available on account opening form
				 Eleven figures for generation of Q are written on the first 206 page of account opening form. As informed by Branch Head (offg), CIF was opened by Ms Mugdha Date-operator (PF no.16510) and account was opened by Ms Anushree Kharkar-operator (PF no. 15802)
				 Who has authorized Account open Q and other O of transactions of account opening could not be ascertained from any report 29 Account opening day credit
			
			 
			 
				 Account is opened with cash deposit of Rs 5000/- On account opening day, Rs 5.00 Crore was credited from account no.20071000009, which is intermediary account maintained at Branch in the name of Bank of Maharashtra
				 This amount of Rs.5.00 Crore was received on 20.09 2013 in the intermediary account from RTGS of CITI Bank, (UTR Nо. СІТІН 13263403088) 30 About FDR
			
			 
			 
				 FDR of Rs. 50.00 Lakhs was done on 23.09.2013 for one year (FDR no. 60146843039)
				 Loan against Deposit of Rs.37.50 Lakhs was avalled on 25.09.2013 against above FDR of Rs. 50.00 Lakhs. Present outstanding is Rs.40.50 Lakhs
				 Thereafter several transactions (credit/debit) were done in the said account. On 12.11.2013, FDR of Rs.6.00 Crore was done (FDR no.60152362517) from the amount of Rs. 12.00 Crore raceived on the same day in the said account. Loan against Deposit of Rs.4.50 Crore was availed on 13.11.2013 against FDR of Rs.6.00 Crore. Both Loan and FD was closed on 09.01.2014
				 Information is not available whether permission was obtained from TIBD to do FDR more than Rs.5.00 Cr. About other transactions of Current Account
			
			 
			 
				 Various amounts were credited in the account through RTGS/NEFT only
				 Summation of Credit transactions is Rs.144.97 Crore from 21.09.2013 to 02.07.2014, which includes FDR proceeds and LAD amount. Sender party includes Public Health Foundation of India, Marketplace Technologies Pvt. Ltd., MTDC Ltd., Mahatma Phule Backward Class Dev. Corp., A.P.M.C. Mumbai, Hero Motocorp Ltd., Naarad Media Pvt. Ltd., Gajgamini Merchandise Pvt. Ltd., Siri Fort Inst, Mumbai Metroolitan Region Dev. Auth. Etc.
				 Various amount were debited in the account and amount send by RTGS/NEFT and Demand Draft only
				 Summation of Debit transactions is Rs. 144.94 Crore from 21.09.2013 to 02.07.2014, which includes FDR and LAD amount
				 Receiving party includes Jyoti Enterprises, Showman Hospitality Pvt. Ltd., Integration Technology Pvt. Ltd. Showman International, Showman Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd and others. No cash transactions done in the account except A/c opening deposit of Rs 5000/- and Rs 200/- deposited on 23.09.2013 to maintain minimum balance 32 General
			
			 
			 
				 All transactions in the current account were done by Mr. Amit Chaturvedi, as he is authorized signatory as resolution of the society. Personalized cheque books were delivered from Branch twice. It was not sent through post to the address of the society 33 Additional information
			
			 
			 
				 On 05.07.14, five fixed deposit receipts amounting 10 Rs.27.00 Crore were presented for payment by Mr. Amit Chaturvedi, who is different from the one at the time of account opening These fixed deposit receipts was not issued by the Branch. However two of them are having similar account number, which is issued by us to the society and these originals are in our custody. Branch has obtained photocopies of the FDR as well as Pan Card and Election Card of second Amit Chaturvedi
				 As informed by Branch Head (offg), Police from Eco Offence Wing had visited Branch on 03.07.14 and enquired about some transactions of the account
				 Official from Dena Bank has also visited our Branch for enquiring the transactions 34 Information to be called from PMO for account opening day transactions
			
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

CIF
			
			 
			 

Maker

			 

(PF)
			
			 
			 

Checker

			 

(PF)
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 

40066854794
			
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 

40086766602
			
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 

40086796626
			
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 

40086801322
			
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 

40086800146
			
			 
			 

 
			
			 
			 

 
			
		
		 
			 
			 

ACCOUNT NO. 60146702654 33.    Learned counsel submits that this entire report clearly reflects on the internal deficient functioning of the bank and he has invited the attention of the bench to item no.28 of the said report regarding the lapses in account opening.  He further submits that the said fake account has been transacted with credits amounting to Rs.144.97 crores which includes a variety of amounts and proceeds from sources with which the complainant is nowhere concerned.  The complainant had transferred through RTGS and NEFT only a total of Rs.27 crores and therefore, it is not understood as to how the bank allowed other different transactions worth more than Rs.144 crores which obviously were fake transactions, neither authorized by the Complainant nor operated by it.  The contention is that this could not have been done without either the involvement of a bank official or their negligence and lack of attention who did not take due care to verify the correctness of the status of the KYC documents and allowed the account to be opened with huge transactions unconcerned with the complainant that had been discovered by the bank itself. 34.    Mr. Sisodia, learned senior counsel submits that this is the first evidence of deficiency which is the foundation of this complaint. Secondly, THE fraud which has been committed, is also complained of by the bank itself and therefore, this may be a matter of criminal investigation which is going on where the chargesheet also reflects on the negligence part.  He however, submits that the civil liability of the bank arising out of negligence and the vicarious liability on account of the loss suffered by the complainant, is the scope of consideration in this complaint. 35.    He therefore, submits that the facts which stand undisputed namely the receipt of the amount of Rs.27 crores through RTGS and NEFT from the complainant and its investment into fixed deposit, being siphoned off by the fraudsters, establishes that the deficiency was on account of non-observance of due diligence by the bank. 36.    The fact remains that the investment by the complainants remained undisputed.  There is no complaint of the bank nor is it their case that the complainant or its officials were involved in these dubious transactions even though it has been orally argued by the learned counsel for the opposite party that this possibility cannot be ruled out.  Simply on a mere suspicious or doubtful argument, there is nothing on record to indicate that there was any deliberate contribution of the complainant towards the opening of a fake account and the siphoning of the money.  Nonetheless it was the duty and legal obligation of the Bank to take due care for verifying documents before allowing the opening of the current account found to be fake. The complainants are not even the accused in the case where the chargesheet has been filed. 37.  It is therefore, submitted that the complainants cannot be non-suited for having offered their money as investment and their request to refund the same.  The amount deposited by the complainant therefore, is admitted to the opposite parties and in the absence of any proof of deficiency on the part of the complainant, the opposite parties cannot get over their obligations, responsibilities and liabilities to repay the amount to the complainant. 38.    The moot question is of the process of the opening of the alleged current account based on the documents which the Bank alleges to have been tendered by the Complainant. The said documents that have been relied upon by the Bank have been denied by the complainant. It is these very documents which were made subject matter of investigation by the Bank itself. The same is highlighted at item no. 28 of the report dated 11.07.2014 extracted hereinabove. The said report has been replied to by the Bank in paragraph 31 of their written version stating that the preliminary investigation report is a personal observation of the investigating officer. This reply in the written version is absolutely unconvincing, in as much as, the report categorically states that no verification of the said documents by any authorised official by comparing it with the originals was made. It has also been observed in the report that current account opening form has not been signed by any authorised official. The name of the operator and the signature of the person who has opened the account are not available in the account opening form. The date of opening of the account and then a transaction of a huge amount of Rs.144 crores that are admittedly not in connection with the complainant's deposits, further confirms the fact that the complainant had nowhere authorised said transactions to be carried out or the Complainants were in any way connected with the transactions of the said current account. Thus, no confirmation of the KYC documents as per the norms prescribed of the RBI as well as the conduct of the officials of the Bank clearly points out towards the preponderant probability of deficiency and negligence on the part of the Bank in allowing the opening of a fake current account and then its operations in a dubious manner about which the complainants came to know as indicated hereinabove later on. It is not the case of the Bank that any official or representative of the complainant was involved in it. If Mr. Devendra Suresh Bhogale had attempted such fraud or was responsible for the same, which is prima facie evident from the investigation carried out by the police, then such negligence or default cannot be attributed to the complainant and rather it is the officials of the Bank who allowed this illegality to perpetuate  without taking diligent steps to check these transactions including the opening of a fake current account. Needless to mention that Mr. Bhogale, is the same person who was found to be involved in other cases that have been cited on behalf of the learned counsel for the complainant. Nonetheless, the Bank itself on its own ought to have independently taken all precautionary steps for proper verification in respect of the high risk bank transactions, where the complainant had requested for fixed deposits worth Rs.27 crores. The handling procedure as prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India and as explained above was not carried out nor any explanation has been given as to why the customer identification procedure and the customer identification requirements were not observed strictly as per norms. 39.    This is further confirmed by the allegation made in the First Information Report dated 26.07.2014 by the Bank itself that it is the non-observance of KYC norms that led to the intervention by a fraudster which is not denied by the  Bank. The contention of Mr. Singh is that the Bank has been the victim of the said fraud. This argument is only about the consequences that resulted due to a fraud. The foundation of the commission of this fraud was the deficient conduct of the Bank in not scrutinising the KYC papers in accordance with the prescribed norms. The duty and obligation to take due care has been breached and violated by the Bank. The question as to whether the fraud was committed by an outsider or not may be examined in the criminal case but the fact remains that the complainant's genuine deposits of Rs.27 crores were siphoned off  due to the negligence  of the Bank officials by not observing KYC norms that is clearly established.  The complainant's counsel has therefore rightly relied on the orders of this Commission in the case of Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation Vs. Dena Bank (Supra ), Public Health Foundation of India Vs. Central Bank of India (Supra) and Public Health Foundation of India Vs. Punjab & Sind Bank (Supra). The ratio of the said orders of this Commission are clearly applicable on the facts of the present case as well. 40.    The fact of the deficiency relating to the opening of the account and also the fake migration of the deposits made by the complainant through that account could have been prevented by taking appropriate steps and applying the checks regarding KYC norms, when the said current account was allowed to be opened and transacted. Even assuming for the sake of argument that Mr. Bhogale had given any instruction for the said transfer, there is no evidence that the complainant had authorised Mr. Bhogale for the opening of a fake current account or providing any KYC norms through him. 41.    The Bank has nowhere disputed the receipt of Rs.27 crores by them from the complainant, consequently the Bank was clearly deficient in not verifying the customer identity and information from the complainants or by adopting measures that were required to be observed by the them, hence the Bank is clearly liable for the acts and omissions of its employees directly as well as vicariously. The misappropriation and embezzlement is only a consequence of this deficient functioning of the Bank and the defence taken by it is unacceptable. It has been held by the Apex Court in Canara Bank Vs. Canara Sales Corporation , ( 1987) 2 SCC 666 and Pradeep Kumar Vs. Post Master General , (2022) 6 SSC 351 that vicarious liability for the act of the employees of an organisation is made out. The recent decision of the Apex Court in the case of Leelawati Devi & Anr. Vs. District Cooperative Bank Limited, Civil Appeal No. 6564 of 2023  dated 15.04.2024,  has also reiterated the same position. 42.    In view of the aforesaid discussions, reasons and the authorities that support the contention of the complainant, the complaint is allowed to the extent of refund. The amount of Rs.27 crores with interest @ 9% per annum from the date of respective deposits till the date of refund shall be remitted to the Complainant by the Opposite Parties within a period of 2 months from the date of this order after adjusting any such amount which may have been paid as interest on the deposits made by the complainants. .........................J A. P. SAHI PRESIDENT