R.F. Nariman, J. 1. This case arises out of a First Information Report

 (hereinafter referred to as “FIR”) that was lodged on 22.12.2009.

 The FIR is by one Nitinbhai Mangubhai Patel, Power-of-Attorney

 holder of Ramanbhai Bhagubhai Patel and Shankarbhai

 Bhagubhai Patel, who are allegedly residing at “UK or USA”. The

 gravamen of the complaint made in the FIR is that one Vinubhai

 Haribhai Malaviya is blackmailing these two gentlemen with

 respect to agricultural land which is just outside the city of Surat,

 Gujarat and which admeasures about 8296 square meters. The Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by R NATARAJAN Date: 2019.10.16 16:27:33 IST Reason: FIR alleges that Ramanbhai Patel and Shankarbhai Patel are 1 absolute and independent owners of this land, having obtained it

from one Bhikhabhai Khushalbhai and his wife Bhikiben

Bhikhabhai in the year 1975. The FIR then narrates that because

of a recent price-hike of lands in the city of Surat, the heirs of

Bhikhabhai and Bhikiben together with Vinubhai Haribhai

Malaviya and Manubhai Kurjibhai Malaviya have hatched a

conspiracy in collusion with each other, and published a public

notice under the caption “Beware of Land-grabbers” in a local

newspaper on 07.06.2008. Sometime thereafter, Vinubhai

Haribhai Malaviya then contacted an intermediary, who in turn

contacted Nitinbhai Patel (who lodged the FIR), whereby,

according to Nitinbhai Patel, Vinubhai Malaviya demanded an

amount of Rs. 2.5 crores in order to “settle” disputes in respect of

this land. It is alleged in the said FIR that apart from attempting

to extort money from the said Nitinbhai Patel, the heirs of

Bhikhabhai and Bhikiben together with Vinubhai Haribhai

Malaviya and Manubhai Kurjibhai Malaviya have used a fake and

bogus ‘Satakhat’ and Power-of-Attorney in respect of the said

land, and had tried to grab this land from its lawful owners

Ramanbhai and Shankarbhai Patel. 2 2. The background to the FIR is the fact that one

Khushalbhai was the original tenant of agricultural land, bearing

Revenue Survey No.342, admeasuring 2 Acres, 2 Gunthas,

situated at Puna (Mauje), Choriyasi (Tal), District Surat.

Khushalbhai died, after which his son Bhikhabhai became tenant

in his place. Bhikhabhai in turn died on 23.12.1984 and his wife

Bhikiben died on 18.12.1999. A public notice dated 07.06.2008

was issued in ‘Gujarat Mitra’ and ‘Gujarat Darpan Dainik’ by the

heirs of Bhikhabhai, stating that Ramanbhai and Shankarbhai

Patel are land-grabbers, and are attempting to create third-party

rights in the said property. This led to the legal heirs of

Bhikhabhai, through their Power-of-Attorney holder, applying on

12.06.2008 to the Collector, Nanpura (Surat), to cancel revenue

entries that were made way back in 1976. 3. Pursuant to the filing of the FIR, investigation was

conducted by the police, which resulted in a charge-sheet dated

22.04.2010 being submitted to the Judicial Magistrate (First

Class), Surat. On 23.04.2010, the said Magistrate took

cognizance and issued summons to the accused regarding

offences under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 384 and 511 of 3 the Indian Penal Code , 1860 (hereinafter referred to as “ IPC ”).

Pursuant to the summons, the accused appeared before the said

Magistrate. On 10.06.2011, an application (Exhibit 28) was filed

by Accused No.1 Vinubhai Haribhai Malaviya for further

investigation under Section 173(8) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “ CrPC ”) and another

application (Exhibit 29) for discharge. Likewise, on 14.06.2011,

applications for further investigation (Exhibit 31) and for

discharge (Exhibit 32) were filed by accused 2 to 6. By an order

dated 24.08.2011, the Magistrate dismissed the applications that

were filed for further investigation (i.e. Exhibits 28 and 31),

stating that the facts sought to be placed by the applicants were

in the nature of evidence of the defence that would be taken in

the trial. Likewise, on 21.10.2011 the learned Magistrate also

rejected the discharge applications that were made (i.e. Exhibits

29 and 32). 4. Meanwhile, on 26.07.2011, Criminal Miscellaneous

Application No.816 of 2011 was moved by Vinubhai Haribhai

Malaviya and the other accused to register an FIR, or for the

Magistrate to order investigation under Section 156(3) of the 4 CrPC into the facts stated in their applications. This was rejected

by the learned Magistrate by an order dated 09.09.2011. 5. Separate criminal revision applications were filed before

the Sessions Court, Surat, being Revision Application Nos. 376

and 346 of 2011, insofar as the dismissal by the learned

Magistrate of further investigation and the order rejecting

registration of the FIR were concerned. Both these revision

applications were decided by the learned Second Additional

Sessions Judge, Surat by a common order dated 10.01.2012. By

this order, the learned Second Additional Sessions Judge went

into details of facts that were alleged in the application under Section 173(8) and found that a case had been made out for

further investigation. Accordingly, he held: 6. Pursuant to this order, the investigation was handed over

to Investigating Officer R.A. Munshi (hereinafter referred to as

“IO Munshi”) on 06.03.2012, who then submitted two further

investigation reports – one within three days, dated 09.03.2012

and a second one dated 10.04.2012, in which the IO Munshi

went into the facts mentioned in the 173(8) applications that were

filed. On 13.06.2012, the original accused withdrew Special

Criminal Application No.727 of 2012 filed in the High Court,

which was filed challenging the order by which the learned

Revisional Court had confirmed the order rejecting the discharge

applications, with liberty to move an appropriate application for

discharge before the Magistrate. The High Court heard Criminal

Revision Application No.44 of 2012 together with Criminal

Miscellaneous Application No.1746 of 2012, and arrived at the

conclusion that, as a matter of law, the Magistrate does not

possess any power to order further investigation after a charge-

sheet is filed and cognizance is taken. The High Court further

castigated IO Munshi, holding that the furnishing of interim 6 investigation reports, not through a special public prosecutor and

not to the Magistrate, but to the Additional Sessions Judge

himself smacks of mala fides, as if IO Munshi wanted to oblige

and/or favour the accused persons. The High Court further found

that the two interim investigation reports virtually acquitted the

accused persons, and therefore, the High Court set aside the

judgment of the learned Second Additional Sessions Judge

dated 10.01.2012, and consequently, the two further interim

investigation reports. So far as Criminal Revision Application

No.346 of 2011 (which was disposed of by the learned Second

Additional Sessions Judge without considering merits, in light of

its order in Criminal Revision Application No.376 of 2011) was

concerned, the High court remanded the same for fresh

consideration to the learned Second Additional Sessions Judge,

who would then decide as to whether an FIR should be

registered, insofar as the allegations contained in the

applications for further investigation are concerned. Pursuant to

the aforesaid remand, by judgment dated 23.04.2016, the

learned Additional Sessions Judge has rejected the application

under Section 156(3) of the CrPC on merits, against which

Special Criminal Application No.3085 of 2016 has been filed and 7 is awaiting disposal. Several other proceedings that are pending

between the parties have been pointed out to us, with which we

have no immediate concern in this case. 7. Shri Dushyant Dave, learned Senior Advocate, appearing

on behalf of the Appellants, has forcefully argued, placing

reliance on a number of provisions of the CrPC , and a number of

our judgments, that the High Court was wholly incorrect as a

matter of law, in holding that post-cognizance a Magistrate would

have no power to order further investigation into an offence. He

read out in great detail the FIR dated 22.12.2009, the contents of

the charge-sheet dated 22.04.2010, and relied heavily on a

communication made by the Commissioner of Revenue, Gujarat

to the Collector, Surat dated 15.03.2011. According to him, the

contents of this communication would show that there is no

doubt that further investigation ought to have been carried out on

the facts of this case, in that, a huge fraud had been perpetrated

on his clients by land-grabbing mafia, and it would be a travesty

of justice if the learned Second Additional Sessions Judge’s

judgment dated 10.01.2012 was not upheld. According to him,

the High Court judgment was greatly influenced by the fact that: 8 8. On the other hand, Shri Basant and Shri Navare, learned

Senior Advocates appearing on behalf of the respondents,

supported the judgment of the trial court and the High Court,

stating that there is no doubt that without filing a cross-FIR, what

was sought to be adduced is evidence which may perhaps

amount to a defence in the trial to be conducted, which would be

impermissible. They emphasised that at no stage had an

application been moved to quash the proceedings, and

obviously, a belated application made more than a year after

cognizance had been taken, to obtain by way of further

investigation facts which were wholly divorced from the FIR

would be wholly outside the Magistrate’s power under Section

173(8) of the CrPC. They relied upon several judgments, and 9 particularly recent judgments of this Court, in order to show that

post-cognizance and particularly after summons is issued to the

accused, and the accused appears pursuant to such summons,

the Magistrate has no suo motu power, nor can he be moved by

the accused, for further investigation at this stage of the

proceedings. 9. The question of law that therefore arises in this case is

whether, after a charge-sheet is filed by the police, the

Magistrate has the power to order further investigation, and if so,

up to what stage of a criminal proceeding. 10. The CrPC is neatly divided into 37 Chapters. In this case

we are concerned with Chapters XII to XVII. Chapter XII is titled

“Information to the Police and their Powers to Investigate”.

Chapter XIII has as its title “Jurisdiction of the Criminal Courts in

Inquiries and Trials”. Chapter XIV speaks of “Conditions

Requisite for Initiation of Proceedings”. Chapter XV then speaks

of “Complaints to Magistrates”. Chapter XVI is headed

“Commencement of Proceedings before Magistrates” and

Chapter XVII is headed “The Charge”. Chapters XVIII to XXI are

“Trials before a Court of Session”; “Trial of Warrant-Cases by 10 Magistrates”; “Trials of Summons-Cases by Magistrates”; and

Summary Trials”, respectively. 11. The relevant sections of the CrPC with which we are

concerned are as follows: xxx xxx xxx

 (3) Any Magistrate empowered under Section 190 may
 order such an investigation as above-mentioned.

 xxx xxx xxx 173. Report of police officer on completion of
 investigation.- xxx xxx xxx

 (8) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude
 further investigation in respect of an offence after a
 report under sub-section (2) has been forwarded to the
 Magistrate and, where upon such investigation, the
 officer in charge of the police station obtains further
 evidence, oral or documentary, he shall forward to the
 Magistrate a further report or reports regarding such
 evidence in the form prescribed; and the provisions of
 sub-sections (2) to (6) shall, as far as may be, apply in
 relation to such report or reports as they apply in
 relation to a report forwarded under sub-section (2). 11 xxx xxx xxx 190. Cognizance of offences by Magistrates.- (1)
Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, any Magistrate
of the first class, and any Magistrate of the second class
specially empowered in this behalf under sub-section
(2), may take cognizance of any offence – (a) upon receiving a complaint of facts which constitute
 such offence; (b) upon a police report of such facts; (c) upon information received from any person other
 than a police officer, or upon his own knowledge,
 that such offence has been committed. (2) The Chief Judicial Magistrate may empower any
 Magistrate of the second class to take cognizance
 under sub-section (1) of such offences as are within
 his competence to inquire into or try. xxx xxx xxx 200. Examination of complainant.- A Magistrate
taking cognizance of an offence on complaint shall
examine upon oath the complainant and the witnesses
present, if any, and the substance of such examination
shall be reduced to writing and shall be signed by the
complainant and the witnesses, and also by the
Magistrate: Provided further that if the Magistrate makes over the
case to another Magistrate under Section 192 after 12 examining the complainant and the witnesses, the latter
Magistrate need not re-examine them. xxx xxx xxx 202. Postponement of issue of process.– (1) Any
Magistrate, on receipt of a complaint of an offence of
which he is authorised to take cognizance or which has
been made over to him under Section 192 , may, if he
thinks fit, [and shall, in a case where the accused is
residing at a place beyond the area in which he
exercises his jurisdiction] postpone the issue of
process against the accused, and either inquire into the
case himself or direct an investigation to be made by a
police officer or by such other person as he thinks fit, for
the purpose of deciding whether or not there is
sufficient ground for proceeding: xxx xxx xxx 204. Issue of process.– (1) If in the opinion of a
 Magistrate taking cognizance of an offence there is
 sufficient ground for proceeding, and the case appears
 to be – (a) a summons-case, he shall issue his summons for
 the attendance of the accused, or (b) a warrant-case, he may issue a warrant, or, if he
 thinks fit, a summon, for causing the accused to be
 brought or to appear at a certain time before such
 other Magistrate or (if he has no jurisdiction himself)
 some other Magistrate having jurisdiction.

 (2) No summons or warrant shall be issued against the
 accused under sub-section (1) until a list of the
 prosecution witnesses has been filed. (3) In a proceeding instituted upon a complaint made in
 writing, every summons or warrant issued under sub-
 section (1) shall be accompanied by a copy of such
 complaint. (4) When by any law for the time being in force any
 process-fees or other fees are payable, no process
 shall be issued until the fees are paid and, if such fees
 are not paid within a reasonable time, the Magistrate
 may dismiss the complaint. (5) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the
 provisions of section 87 .” 12. As the Chapter headings themselves show, there is a

neat distinction between the powers of the police to investigate 14 and jurisdiction of the criminal courts in inquiries - followed by the

procedure once the trial itself begins. Section 156 deals with a

police officer’s power to investigate “cognizable cases”. A

“cognizable case” is defined under Section 2(c) of the CrPC as

follows: 13. The statutory scheme contained in the CrPC therefore

puts “inquiry” and “trial” in water-tight compartments, as the very 15 definition of “inquiry” demonstrates. “Investigation” is for the

purpose of collecting evidence by a police officer, and otherwise

by any person authorised by a Magistrate in this behalf, and also

pertains to a stage before the trial commences. Investigation

which ultimately leads to a police report under the CrPC is an

investigation conducted by the police, and may be ordered in an

inquiry made by the Magistrate himself in “complaint” cases. 14. The erstwhile Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 did not

contain a provision by which the police were empowered to

conduct a further investigation in respect of an offence after a

police report under Section 173 has been forwarded to the

Magistrate. The Forty-First Law Commission Report (The Code

of Criminal Procedure , 1898) forwarded to the Ministry of Law in

September 1969 (hereinafter referred to as the “Law

Commission Report”), therefore, recommended the addition of

sub-section (7) to Section 173 as it stood under the Code of

Criminal Procedure , 1898 for the following reasons: 15. What is interesting to note is that the narrow view of some

of the High Courts had placed a hindrance in the way of the

investigating agency, which can be very unfair to the prosecution

as well as the accused. 16. Article 21 of the Constitution of India makes it clear that

the procedure in criminal trials must, after the seminal decision in Mrs. Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India & Anr. (1978) 1 SCC

248, be “right, just and fair and not arbitrary, fanciful or

oppressive” (see paragraph 7 therein). Equally, in Commissioner of Police, Delhi v. Registrar, Delhi High Court, New Delhi (1996) 6 SCC 323, it was stated that Article 21 enshrines and guarantees the precious right of life and personal

liberty to a person which can only be deprived on following the 17 procedure established by law in a fair trial which assures the

safety of the accused. The assurance of a fair trial is stated to be

the first imperative of the dispensation of justice (see paragraph

16 therein). 17. It is clear that a fair trial must kick off only after an

investigation is itself fair and just. The ultimate aim of all

investigation and inquiry, whether by the police or by the

Magistrate, is to ensure that those who have actually committed

a crime are correctly booked, and those who have not are not

arraigned to stand trial. That this is the minimal procedural

requirement that is the fundamental requirement of Article 21 of

the Constitution of India cannot be doubted. It is the hovering

omnipresence of Article 21 over the CrPC that must needs

inform the interpretation of all the provisions of the CrPC , so as

to ensure that Article 21 is followed both in letter and in spirit. 18. Pooja Pal v. UOI (2016) 3 SCC 135 is an important

judgment which speaks of the fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution in the context of the goal of “speedy trial”

being tempered by “fair trial”. The Court put it thus: 18 19. With the introduction of Section 173(8) in the CrPC , the

police department has been armed with the power to further

investigate an offence even after a police report has been

forwarded to the Magistrate. Quite obviously, this power

continues until the trial can be said to commence in a criminal

case. The vexed question before us is as to whether the

Magistrate can order further investigation after a police report

has been forwarded to him under Section 173 . 20 20. It is interesting to note that even under the Code of

Criminal Procedure , 1898, in Kamlapati Trivedi v. State of

West Bengal (1980) 2 SCC 91, this Court held as follows: 51. The appropriate course has to be decided upon
 after a consideration of the report and the application of
 the mind of the Magistrate to the contents thereof. But 21 then the problem to be solved is whether the order
 passed by the Magistrate pertains to his executive or
 judicial capacity. In my opinion, the only order which
 can be regarded as having been passed by the
 Magistrate in his capacity as the supervisory authority in
 relation to the investigation carried out by the police is
 the one covered by the course 2(a). The order passed
 by the Magistrate in each of the other two courses, that
 is, (1) and (2)(b), follows a conclusion of the
 investigation and is a judicial order determining the
 rights of the parties (the State on the one hand and the
 accused on the other) after the application of his mind.
 And if that be so, the order passed by the Magistrate in
 the proceeding before us must be characterised as a
 judicial act and therefore as one performed in his
 capacity as a Court.” 21. What is recognised by this decision is that in the

circumstance that the Magistrate does not agree with the police

report, he may order further investigation - which is done in his

capacity as a supervisory authority in relation to investigation

carried out by the police. 22. Indeed, Section 156(3) has remained unchanged even

after the advent of the CrPC of 1973. Thus, in State of Bihar v.

J.A.C. Saldhana and Ors. (1980) 1 SCC 554, this Court held: 23. It is thus clear that the Magistrate’s power under Section

156(3) of the CrPC is very wide, for it is this judicial authority that

must be satisfied that a proper investigation by the police takes

place. To ensure that a “proper investigation” takes place in the

sense of a fair and just investigation by the police - which such

Magistrate is to supervise - Article 21 of the Constitution of India

mandates that all powers necessary, which may also be

incidental or implied, are available to the Magistrate to ensure a

proper investigation which, without doubt, would include the

ordering of further investigation after a report is received by him

under Section 173(2) ; and which power would continue to enure 25 in such Magistrate at all stages of the criminal proceedings until

the trial itself commences. Indeed, even textually, the

“investigation” referred to in Section 156(1) of the CrPC would,

as per the definition of “investigation” under Section 2(h) , include

all proceedings for collection of evidence conducted by a police

officer; which would undoubtedly include proceedings by way of

further investigation under Section 173(8) of the CrPC. 24. However, Shri Basant relied strongly on a Three Judge

Bench judgment in Devarapalli Lakshminarayana Reddy &

Ors. v. V. Narayana Reddy & Ors. (1976) 3 SCC 252. This

judgment, while deciding whether the first proviso to Section 202

(1) of the CrPC was attracted on the facts of that case, held: 25. Whereas it is true that Section 156(3) remains unchanged

even after the 1973 Code has been brought into force, yet the

1973 Code has one very important addition, namely, Section

173(8) , which did not exist under the 1898 Code. As we have

noticed earlier in this judgment, Section 2(h) of the 1973 Criminal

Procedure Code defines “investigation” in the same terms as the 27 earlier definition contained in Section 2(l) of the 1898 Criminal

Procedure Code with this difference – that “investigation” after

the 1973 Code has come into force will now include all the

proceedings under the CrPC for collection of evidence conducted

by a police officer. “All” would clearly include proceedings under Section 173(8) as well. Thus, when Section 156(3) states that a

Magistrate empowered under Section 190 may order “such an

investigation”, such Magistrate may also order further

investigation under Section 173(8) , regard being had to the

definition of “investigation” contained in Section 2(h) . 26. Section 2(h) is not noticed by the aforesaid judgment at

all, resulting in the erroneous finding in law that the power under Section 156(3) can only be exercised at the pre-cognizance

stage. The “investigation” spoken of in Section 156(3) would

embrace the entire process, which begins with the collection of

evidence and continues until charges are framed by the Court, at

which stage the trial can be said to have begun. For these

reasons, the statement of the law contained in paragraph 17 in Devarapalli Lakshminarayana Reddy (supra) cannot be relied

upon. 28 27. Ram Lal Narang v. State (Delhi Administration ) (1979)

2 SCC 322, is an early judgment which deals with the power

contained in Section 173(8) after a charge-sheet is filed. This

Court adverted to the Law Commission Report and to a number

of judgments which recognised the right of the police to make

repeated investigations under the Code of Criminal Procedure ,

1898. It then quoted the early Supreme Court judgment in H.N.

Rishbud v. State of Delhi AIR 1955 SC 196 case as follows: Commissioner of Police and Anr. (1985) 2 SCC 357, in which

this Court stated that a Magistrate, in dealing with a report from

the police under Section 173 , can adopt one of three courses -

(1) he may accept the report and drop the proceedings; or (2) he

may disagree with the report, take cognizance of the offence and

issue process; or (3) he may direct further investigation to be

made by the police under Section 156(3) . The Court then went

on to hold that where objections have been furnished by the

complainant, i.e. the Union Public Service Commission, against

the closure report of the police, the Magistrate could, in exercise 32 of powers under Section 173(8) of the CrPC, direct the CBI to

further investigate the case and collect further evidence keeping

in view the objections raised by the complainant (see paragraph

13 therein). 29. Hasanbhai Valibhai Qureshi v. State of Gujarat and

Ors. (2004) 5 SCC 347 is an important judgment which deals

with the necessity for further investigation being balanced with

the delaying of a criminal proceeding. If there is a necessity for

further investigation when fresh facts come to light, then the

interest of justice is paramount and trumps the need to avoid any

delay being caused to the proceeding. The Court therefore held: 30. In Hemant Dhasmana v. CBI and Anr. (2007) 1 SCC

 536, this Court followed Papaiah (supra) and held: State of Karnataka and Ors. (2012) 7 SCC 407 (at paragraph 58). 34 powers to interfere therewith because the further
investigation would only be for the ends of justice. After
the further investigation, the authority conducting such
investigation can either reach the same conclusion and
reiterate it or it can reach a different conclusion. During
such extended investigation, the officers can either act
on the same materials or on other materials which may
come to their notice. It is for the investigating agency to
exercise its power when it is put back on that track. If
they come to the same conclusion, it is of added
advantage to the persons against whom the allegations
were made, and if the allegations are found false again
the complainant would be in trouble. So from any point
of view the Special Judge's direction would be of
advantage for the ends of justice. It is too premature for
the High Court to predict that the investigating officer
would not be able to collect any further material at all.
That is an area which should have been left to the
investigating officer to survey and recheck. 17. In Bhagwant Singh v. Commr. of Police [(1985) 2
SCC 537 : 1985 SCC (Cri) 267] a three-Judge Bench of
this Court has said, though in a slightly different context,
that three options are open to the court on receipt of a
report under Section 173(2) of the Code, when such
report states that no offence has been committed by the
persons accused in the complaint. They are: (SCC p.
542, para 4)

(1) The court may accept the report and drop the
proceedings; or

(2) the court may disagree with the report and take
cognizance of the offence and issue process if it takes
the view that there is sufficient ground for proceeding
further; or

(3) the court may direct further investigation to be made
by the police. 35 18. Another three-Judge Bench in India Carat (P)
Ltd. v. State of Karnataka [(1989) 2 SCC 132 : 1989
SCC (Cri) 306] has stated thus: (SCC pp. 139-40, para 16)

“16. The position is, therefore, now well settled that
upon receipt of a police report under Section 173(2) a
Magistrate is entitled to take cognizance of an offence
under Section 190(1)(b) of the Code even if the police
report is to the effect that no case is made out against
the accused. The Magistrate can take into account the
statements of the witnesses examined by the police
during the investigation and take cognizance of the
offence complained of and order the issue of process to
the accused. Section 190(1)(b) does not lay down that a
Magistrate can take cognizance of an offence only if the
investigating officer gives an opinion that the
investigation has made out a case against the accused.
The Magistrate can ignore the conclusion arrived at by
the investigating officer and independently apply his
mind to the facts emerging from the investigation and
take cognizance of the case, if he thinks fit, in exercise
of his powers under Section 190(1)(b) and direct the
issue of process to the accused.” 19. In Union Public Service Commission v. S.
Papaiah [(1997) 7 SCC 614 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 1112] a
two-Judge Bench considered the scope of Section
173(8) of the Code in extenso. Dr. A.S. Anand, J. (as
the learned Chief Justice then was) after extracting Section 173(8) of the Code has observed thus: (SCC
pp. 620-21, para 13)

“The Magistrate could, thus in exercise of the powers
under Section 173(8) CrPC direct the CBI to ‘further
investigate’ the case and collect further evidence
keeping in view the objections raised by the appellant to
the investigation and the ‘new’ report to be submitted by
the investigating officer would be governed by sub-
sections (2) to (6) of Section 173 CrPC.”” 36 31. In Samaj Parivartan Samudaya (supra), a Three Judge

Bench of this Court, while dealing with illegal mining in Andhra

Pradesh and Karnataka, issued directions to the CBI to

investigate the entire matter (despite private complaints already

pending and being investigated by one or other competent Court

or investigation agency), as a Central Empowered Committee

Report disclosed fresh facts as to illegal mining in these States.

In a review of the machinery of criminal investigations under the CrPC , this Court held: xxx xxx xxx 37 29. While the trial court does not have inherent powers
like those of the High Court under Section 482 CrPC or
the Supreme Court under Article 136 of the Constitution
of India, such that it may order for complete
reinvestigation or fresh investigation of a case before it,
however, it has substantial powers in exercise of
discretionary jurisdiction under Sections 311 and 391 CrPC. In cases where cognizance has been taken and
where a substantial portion of investigation/trial has
already been completed and where a direction for
further examination would have the effect of delaying
the trial, if the trial court is of the opinion that the case
has been made out for alteration of charge, etc. it may
exercise such powers without directing further
investigation. (Ref. Sasi Thomas v. State [(2006) 12
SCC 421 : (2007) 2 SCC (Cri) 72] .) 30. Still in another case, taking the aid of the doctrine of
implied power, this Court has also stated that an
express grant of statutory power carries with it, by
necessary implication, the authority to use all
reasonable means to make such statutory power
effective. Therefore, absence of statutory provision
empowering the Magistrate to direct registration of an
FIR would not be of any consequence and the
Magistrate would nevertheless be competent to direct
registration of an FIR. (Ref. Sakiri Vasu v. State of
U.P. [(2008) 2 SCC 409 : (2008) 1 SCC (Cri) 440] ) 31. Thus, CrPC leaves clear scope for conducting of
further inquiry and filing of a supplementary charge-
sheet, if necessary, with such additional facts and
evidence as may be collected by the investigating
officer in terms of sub-sections (2) to (6) of Section 173 CrPC to the court. To put it aptly, further investigation
by the investigating agency, after presentation of a
challan (charge-sheet in terms of Section 173 CrPC) is
permissible in any case impliedly but in no event is
impermissible. xxx xxx xxx 38 37. We may notice that the investigation of a case or
 filing of charge-sheet in a case does not by itself bring
 the absolute end to exercise of power by the
 investigating agency or by the court. Sometimes and
 particularly in the matters of the present kind, the
 investigating agency has to keep its options open to
 continue with the investigation, as certain other relevant
 facts, incriminating materials and even persons, other
 than the persons stated in the FIR as accused, might be
 involved in the commission of the crime. The basic
 purpose of an investigation is to bring out the truth by
 conducting fair and proper investigation, in accordance
 with law and ensure that the guilty are punished.” 32. In Gulzar Ahmed Azmi v. Union of India and Ors. (2012) 10 SCC 731, this Court, while rejecting an argument that

further investigation by the police should be entrusted with a

supernumerary body created under the head of a retired

Supreme Court Judge along with other officers and experts, held

that if further investigation is sought under Section 173(8) of

CrPC, the same can always be effected even after the filing of

the final report. 33. We now come to the decision in Vinay Tyagi v. Irshad

Ali and Ors. (2013) 5 SCC 762. This is another case that arose

out of a CBI report to the Magistrate, which requested for closure

of the case against the accused. The judgment of the Court first

discussed in detail how the criminal investigative machinery is 39 set into motion right until the stage at which the trial begins. The

Court then held: The Court held that when a report is filed before a
 Magistrate, he may either (i) accept the report and take
 cognizance of the offences and issue process; or (ii)
 may disagree with the report and drop the proceedings;
 or (iii) may direct further investigation under Section
 156(3) and require the police to make a further report. 40 33. This judgment, thus, clearly shows that the Court of
Magistrate has a clear power to direct further
investigation when a report is filed under Section 173(2) and may also exercise such powers with the aid of Section 156(3) of the Code. The lurking doubt, if any,
that remained in giving wider interpretation to Section
173(8) was removed and controversy put to an end by
the judgment of this Court in Hemant
Dhasmana v. CBI [(2001) 7 SCC 536: 2001 SCC (Cri)
1280] where the Court held that although the said
section does not, in specific terms, mention the power
of the court to order further investigation, the power of
the police to conduct further investigation envisaged
therein can be triggered into motion at the instance of
the court. When any such order is passed by the court,
which has the jurisdiction to do so, then such order
should not even be interfered with in exercise of a
higher court's revisional jurisdiction. Such orders would
normally be of an advantage to achieve the ends of
justice. It was clarified, without ambiguity, that the
Magistrate, in exercise of powers under Section 173(8) of the Code can direct CBI to further investigate the
case and collect further evidence keeping in view the
objections raised by the appellant to the investigation
and the new report to be submitted by the investigating
officer, would be governed by sub-section (2) to sub-
section (6) of Section 173 of the Code. There is no
occasion for the Court to interpret Section 173(8) of the
Code restrictively. After filing of the final report, the
learned Magistrate can also take cognizance on the
basis of the material placed on record by the
investigating agency and it is permissible for him to
direct further investigation. Conduct of proper and fair
investigation is the hallmark of any criminal
investigation. 34. In support of these principles reference can be
made to the judgments of this Court in UPSC v. S.
Papaiah [(1997) 7 SCC 614: 1997 SCC (Cri)
1112], State of Orissa v. Mahima [(2007) 15 SCC 580: 35. We may also notice here that in S. Papaiah [(1997)
7 SCC 614: 1997 SCC (Cri) 1112] , the Magistrate had
rejected an application for reinvestigation filed by the
applicant primarily on the ground that it had no power to
review the order passed earlier. This Court held that it
was not a case of review of an order, but was a case of
further investigation as contemplated under Section 173 of the Code. It permitted further investigation and
directed the report to be filed. 36. Interestingly and more particularly for answering the
question of legal academia that we are dealing with, it
may be noticed that this Court, while pronouncing its
judgment in Hemant Dhasmana v. CBI [(2001) 7 SCC
536 : 2001 SCC (Cri) 1280] has specifically referred to
the judgments S. Papaiah [(1997) 7 SCC 614: 1997
SCC (Cri) 1112] and Bhagwant Singh v. Commr. of
Police [Bhagwant Singh v. Commr. of Police, (1985) 2
SCC 537: 1985 SCC (Cri) 267] . While relying upon the
three-Judge Bench judgment of Bhagwant
Singh [Bhagwant Singh v. Commr. of Police , (1985) 2
SCC 537: 1985 SCC (Cri) 267] , which appears to be a
foundational view for development of law in relation to Section 173 of the Code, the Court held that the
Magistrate could pass an order for further investigation.
The principal question in that case was whether the
Magistrate could drop the proceedings after filing of a
report under Section 173(2) , without notice to the
complainant, but in para 4 of the judgment, the three-
Judge Bench dealt with the powers of the Magistrate as
enshrined in Section 173 of the Code…”

“37. In some judgments of this Court, a view has been
advanced, [amongst others in Reeta Nag v. State of
W.B. [Reeta Nag v. State of W.B., (2009) 9 SCC 129 : 38. However, having given our considered thought to
the principles stated in these judgments, we are of the
view that the Magistrate before whom a report under Section 173(2) of the Code is filed, is empowered in law
to direct “further investigation” and require the police to
submit a further or a supplementary report. A three- Judge Bench of this Court in Bhagwant
Singh [Bhagwant Singh v. Commr. of Police , (1985) 2
SCC 537 : 1985 SCC (Cri) 267] has, in no uncertain
terms, stated that principle, as aforenoticed. 39. The contrary view taken by the Court in Reeta
Nag [Reeta Nag v. State of W.B. , (2009) 9 SCC 129 : of Police, (1985) 2 SCC 537 : 1985 SCC (Cri) 267] , are
thus squarely in line with the doctrine of precedent. To
some extent, the view expressed in Reeta Nag [Reeta
Nag v. State of W.B. , (2009) 9 SCC 129 : (2009) 3 SCC
(Cri) 1051] , Ram Naresh [Ram Naresh Prasad v. State
of Jharkhand, (2009) 11 SCC 299 : (2009) 3 SCC (Cri)
1336. Ed.: Ram Naresh case does not seem to indicate
that the Magistrate cannot suo motu direct further
investigation: rather it seems to indicate that the
Magistrate in fact can do so.] and Randhir
Singh [Randhir Singh Rana v. State (Delhi Admn.),
(1997) 1 SCC 361] , besides being different on facts,
would have to be examined in light of the principle of
stare decisis. 40. Having analysed the provisions of the Code and the
various judgments as aforeindicated, we would state
the following conclusions in regard to the powers of a
Magistrate in terms of Section 173(2) read with Section
173(8) and Section 156(3) of the Code: Judge Bench and thus in conformity with the doctrine of
precedent. 44 40.4. Neither the scheme of the Code nor any specific
provision therein bars exercise of such jurisdiction by
the Magistrate. The language of Section 173(2) cannot
be construed so restrictively as to deprive the
Magistrate of such powers particularly in face of the
provisions of Section 156(3) and the language of Section 173(8) itself. In fact, such power would have to
be read into the language of Section 173(8) .

40.5. The Code is a procedural document, thus, it must
receive a construction which would advance the cause
of justice and legislative object sought to be achieved. It
does not stand to reason that the legislature provided
power of further investigation to the police even after
filing a report, but intended to curtail the power of the
court to the extent that even where the facts of the case
and the ends of justice demand, the court can still not
direct the investigating agency to conduct further
investigation which it could do on its own. 40.6. It has been a procedure of propriety that the
police has to seek permission of the court to continue
“further investigation” and file supplementary charge-
sheet. This approach has been approved by this Court
in a number of judgments. This as such would support
the view that we are taking in the present case.”

xxx xxx xxx 48. What ultimately is the aim or significance of the
expression “fair and proper investigation” in criminal
jurisprudence? It has a twin purpose: Firstly, the
investigation must be unbiased, honest, just and in
accordance with law; secondly, the entire emphasis on
a fair investigation has to be to bring out the truth of the
case before the court of competent jurisdiction. Once
these twin paradigms of fair investigation are satisfied,
there will be the least requirement for the court of law to
interfere with the investigation, much less quash the
same, or transfer it to another agency. Bringing out the
truth by fair and investigative means in accordance with 45 law would essentially repel the very basis of an unfair,
tainted investigation or cases of false implication. Thus,
it is inevitable for a court of law to pass a specific order
as to the fate of the investigation, which in its opinion is
unfair, tainted and in violation of the settled principles of
investigative canons. 49. Now, we may examine another significant aspect
which is how the provisions of Section 173(8) have
been understood and applied by the courts and
investigating agencies. It is true that though there is no
specific requirement in the provisions of Section 173(8) of the Code to conduct “further investigation” or file
supplementary report with the leave of the court, the
investigating agencies have not only understood but
also adopted it as a legal practice to seek permission of
the courts to conduct “further investigation” and file
“supplementary report” with the leave of the court. The
courts, in some of the decisions, have also taken a
similar view. The requirement of seeking prior leave of
the court to conduct “further investigation” and/or to file
a “supplementary report” will have to be read into, and
is a necessary implication of the provisions of Section
173(8) of the Code. The doctrine of contemporanea
expositio will fully come to the aid of such interpretation
as the matters which are understood and implemented
for a long time, and such practice that is supported by
law should be accepted as part of the interpretative
process. 50. Such a view can be supported from two different
points of view: firstly, through the doctrine of precedent,
as aforenoticed, since quite often the courts have taken
such a view, and, secondly, the investigating agencies
which have also so understood and applied the
principle. The matters which are understood and
implemented as a legal practice and are not opposed to
the basic rule of law would be good practice and such
interpretation would be permissible with the aid of
doctrine of contemporanea expositio. Even otherwise,
to seek such leave of the court would meet the ends of 46 justice and also provide adequate safeguard against a
suspect/accused. 51. We have already noticed that there is no specific
embargo upon the power of the learned Magistrate to
direct “further investigation” on presentation of a report
in terms of Section 173(2) of the Code. Any other
approach or interpretation would be in contradiction to
the very language of Section 173(8) and the scheme of
the Code for giving precedence to proper administration
of criminal justice. The settled principles of criminal
jurisprudence would support such approach, particularly
when in terms of Section 190 of the Code, the
Magistrate is the competent authority to take
cognizance of an offence. It is the Magistrate who has
to decide whether on the basis of the record and
documents produced, an offence is made out or not,
and if made out, what course of law should be adopted
in relation to committal of the case to the court of
competent jurisdiction or to proceed with the trial
himself. In other words, it is the judicial conscience of
the Magistrate which has to be satisfied with reference
to the record and the documents placed before him by
the investigating agency, in coming to the appropriate
conclusion in consonance with the principles of law. It
will be a travesty of justice, if the court cannot be
permitted to direct “further investigation” to clear its
doubt and to order the investigating agency to further
substantiate its charge-sheet. The satisfaction of the
learned Magistrate is a condition precedent to
commencement of further proceedings before the court
of competent jurisdiction. Whether the Magistrate
should direct “further investigation” or not is again a
matter which will depend upon the facts of a given case.
The learned Magistrate or the higher court of competent
jurisdiction would direct “further investigation” or
“reinvestigation” as the case may be, on the facts of a
given case. Where the Magistrate can only direct further
investigation, the courts of higher jurisdiction can direct
further, reinvestigation or even investigation de novo
depending on the facts of a given case. It will be the 47 specific order of the court that would determine the
 nature of investigation. In this regard, we may refer to
 the observations made by this Court
 in Sivanmoorthy v. State [(2010) 12 SCC 29: (2011) 1
 SCC (Cri) 295].” 34. A Bench of 5 learned Judges of this Court in Hardeep

Singh v. State of Punjab and Ors. (2014) 3 SCC 92 was faced

with a question regarding the circumstances under which the

power under Section 319 of the Code could be exercised to add

a person as being accused of a criminal offence. In the course of

a learned judgment answering the aforesaid question, this Court

first adverted to the constitutional mandate under Article 21 of

the Constitution as follows: (ii) In cases of trials of warrant cases by Magistrates if
 the cases are instituted upon police reports the trials
 shall be treated to have commenced when charges are
 framed under Section 240 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973 while in trials of warrant cases by
 Magistrates when cases are instituted otherwise than
 on police report such trials shall be treated to have
 commenced when charges are framed against the
 accused concerned under Section 246 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973. (iii) In cases of trials of summons cases by Magistrates
 the trials would be considered to have commenced
 when the accused who appear or are brought before
 the Magistrate are asked under Section 251 whether
 they plead guilty or have any defence to make.”

 (emphasis supplied) 49 The Court then concluded: 35. Paragraph 39 of the judgment then referred to the

“inquiry” stage of a criminal case as follows: 36. Despite the aforesaid judgments, some discordant notes

were sounded in three recent judgments. In Amrutbhai

Shambubhai Patel v. Sumanbhai Kantibai Patel (2017) 4 SCC

177, on the facts in that case , the Appellant/Informant therein

sought a direction under Section 173(8) from the Trial Court for

further investigation by the police long after charges were framed

against the Respondents at the culminating stages of the trial.

The Court in its ultimate conclusion was correct, in that, once the

trial begins with the framing of charges, the stage of investigation

or inquiry into the offence is over, as a result of which no further

investigation into the offence should be ordered. But instead of

resting its judgment on this simple fact, this Court from

paragraphs 29 to 34 resuscitated some of the earlier judgments 51 of this Court, in which a view was taken that no further

investigation could be ordered by the Magistrate in cases where,

after cognizance is taken, the accused had appeared in

pursuance of process being issued. In particular, Devarapalli

Lakshminarayana Reddy (supra) was strongly relied upon by

the Court. We have already seen how this judgment was

rendered without adverting to the definition of “investigation” in Section 2(h) of the CrPC, and cannot therefore be relied upon as

laying down the law on this aspect correctly. The Court therefore

concluded: Additionally had it been the intention of the legislature to 53 invest such a power, in our estimate, Section 173(8) CrPC would have been worded accordingly to
 accommodate and ordain the same having regard to
 the backdrop of the incorporation thereof. In a way, in
 view of the three options open to the Magistrate, after a
 report is submitted by the police on completion of the
 investigation, as has been amongst authoritatively
 enumerated in Bhagwant Singh [Bhagwant
 Singh v. Commr. of Police , (1985) 2 SCC 537 : 1985
 SCC (Cri) 267] , the Magistrate, in both the
 contingencies, namely; when he takes cognizance of
 the offence or discharges the accused, would be
 committed to a course, whereafter though the
 investigating agency may for good reasons inform him
 and seek his permission to conduct further
 investigation, he suo motu cannot embark upon such a
 step or take that initiative on the request or prayer made
 by the complainant/informant. Not only such power to
 the Magistrate to direct further investigation suo motu or
 on the request or prayer of the complainant/informant
 after cognizance is taken and the accused person
 appears, pursuant to the process, issued or is
 discharged is incompatible with the statutory design and
 dispensation, it would even otherwise render the
 provisions of Sections 311 and 319 CrPC, whereunder
 any witness can be summoned by a court and a person
 can be issued notice to stand trial at any stage, in a way
 redundant. Axiomatically, thus the impugned decision
 annulling the direction of the learned Magistrate for
 further investigation is unexceptional and does not merit
 any interference. Even otherwise on facts, having
 regard to the progression of the developments in the
 trial, and more particularly, the delay on the part of the
 informant in making the request for further investigation,
 it was otherwise not entertainable as has been rightly
 held by the High Court.” 37. This judgment was followed in a recent Division Bench

judgment of this Court in Athul Rao v. State of Karnataka and 54 Anr. (2018) 14 SCC 298 at paragraph 8. In Bikash Ranjan Rout

v. State through the Secretary (Home), Government of NCT

of Delhi (2019) 5 SCC 542, after referring to a number of

decisions this Court concluded as follows: 38. There is no good reason given by the Court in these

decisions as to why a Magistrate’s powers to order further 57 investigation would suddenly cease upon process being issued,

and an accused appearing before the Magistrate, while

concomitantly, the power of the police to further investigate the

offence continues right till the stage the trial commences. Such a

view would not accord with the earlier judgments of this Court, in

particular, Sakiri (supra), Samaj Parivartan Samudaya (supra), Vinay Tyagi (supra), and Hardeep Singh (supra); Hardeep

Singh (supra) having clearly held that a criminal trial does not

begin after cognizance is taken, but only after charges are

framed. What is not given any importance at all in the recent

judgments of this Court is Article 21 of the Constitution and the

fact that the Article demands no less than a fair and just

investigation. To say that a fair and just investigation would lead

to the conclusion that the police retain the power, subject, of

course, to the Magistrate’s nod under Section 173(8) to further

investigate an offence till charges are framed, but that the

supervisory jurisdiction of the Magistrate suddenly ceases mid-

way through the pre-trial proceedings, would amount to a

travesty of justice, as certain cases may cry out for further

investigation so that an innocent person is not wrongly arraigned

as an accused or that a prima facie guilty person is not so left 58 out. There is no warrant for such a narrow and restrictive view of

the powers of the Magistrate, particularly when such powers are

traceable to Section 156(3) read with Section 156(1) , Section

2(h) , and Section 173(8) of the CrPC, as has been noticed

hereinabove, and would be available at all stages of the progress

of a criminal case before the trial actually commences. It would

also be in the interest of justice that this power be exercised suo

motu by the Magistrate himself, depending on the facts of each

case. Whether further investigation should or should not be

ordered is within the discretion of the learned Magistrate who will

exercise such discretion on the facts of each case and in

accordance with law. If, for example, fresh facts come to light

which would lead to inculpating or exculpating certain persons,

arriving at the truth and doing substantial justice in a criminal

case are more important than avoiding further delay being

caused in concluding the criminal proceeding, as was held in Hasanbhai Valibhai Qureshi (supra). Therefore, to the extent

that the judgments in Amrutbhai Shambubhai Patel (supra), Athul Rao (supra) and Bikash Ranjan Rout (supra) have held

to the contrary, they stand overruled. Needless to add, Randhir

Singh Rana v. State (Delhi Administration ) ( 1997) 1 SCC 361 59 and Reeta Nag v. State of West Bengal and Ors. (2009) 9

SCC 129 also stand overruled. 39. We now come to certain other judgments that were cited

before us. King Emperor v. Khwaja Nazir Ahmad AIR 1945 PC

18, was strongly relied upon by Shri Basant for the proposition

that unlike superior Courts, Magistrates did not possess any

inherent power under the CrPC . Since we have grounded the

power of the Magistrate to order further investigation until

charges are framed under Section 156(3) read with Section

173(8) of the CrPC, no question as to a Magistrate exercising

any inherent power under the CrPC would arise in this case. 40. Union of India and Anr. v. W.N Chadha (1993) Supp. 4

SCC 260, is a judgment which states that the accused has no

right to participate in the investigation till process is issued to

him, provided there is strict compliance of the requirements of

fair investigation Likewise, the judgments in Smt. Nagawwa v.

Veeranna Shivalongappa Konjalgi & Ors. ( 1976) 3 SCC 736,

Prabha Mathur and Anr. v. Pramod Aggarwal & Ors. , ( 2008) 9

SCC 469, Narender G. Goel v. State of Maharashtra ( 2009) 6

SCC 65 and Dinubhai Bhogabhai Solanki v. State of Gujarat 60 & Ors. (2014) 4 SCC 626, which state that the accused has no

right to be heard at the stage of investigation, has very little to do

with the precise question before us. All these judgments are,

therefore, distinguishable. Further, Babubhai v. State of

Gujarat & Ors. (2010) 12 SCC 254, is a judgment which

distinguishes between further investigation and re-investigation,

and holds that a superior court may, in order to prevent

miscarriage of criminal justice if it considers necessary, direct

investigation de novo, whereas a Magistrate’s power is limited to

ordering further investigation. Since the present case is not

concerned with re-investigation, this judgment also cannot take

us much further. Likewise, Romila Thapar v. Union of India ,

(2018) 10 SCC 753, held that an accused cannot ask to change

an investigating agency, or to require that an investigation be

done in a particular manner, including asking for a court-

monitored investigation. This judgment also is far removed from

the question that has been decided by us in the facts of this

case. 41. When we come to the facts of this case, it is clear that the

FIR dated 22.12.2009 is concerned with two criminal acts, 61 namely, the preparing of fake and bogus ‘Satakhat’ and Power-

of-Attorney in respect of the agricultural land in question, and the

demanding of an amount of Rs. 2.5 crores as an attempt to

extort money by the accused persons. The facts that are alleged

in the application for further investigation are facts which pertain

to revenue entries having been made in favour of Ramanbhai

Bhagubhai Patel and Shankarbhai Bhagubhai Patel, and how

their claim over the same land is false and bogus. Shri Basant is,

therefore, right in submitting that the facts alleged in the

applications for further investigation are really in the nature of a

cross-FIR which has never been registered. In fact, the

communication of the Commissioner of Revenue, Gujarat dated

15.03.2011 to the Collector, Surat - so strongly relied upon by

Shri Dushyant Dave - bears this out. In this communication, the

learned Commissioner doubts that a particular order dated

14.04.1976 passed by a revenue authority ever existed, and that

by making an application in the name of the long since deceased

Bhikhabhai Khushalbhai in 2010, for getting a copy of Form No.3

would, prima facie, amount to a criminal offence. Further, the

learned Commissioner goes on to state that Bhikiben

(Bhikhabhai’s widow), who had passed away in December 1999, 62 could not possibly have made an application in the year 2000;

which shows that her signature is also prima facie forged.

Further, the said Ramanbhai and Shankarbhai Patel are at

present 48 and 53 years old, and if they could be said to be in

possession of the said agricultural land since 1934, they could be

said to be in possession at a time when they were not yet born.

Further, since these two gentlemen were abroad from the very

beginning, it is stated that they could not possibly be farmers

cultivating agricultural land. For these, and various other

reasons, the Commissioner concluded: 15.03.2011, we direct that the police register an FIR based on

this letter within a period of one week from the date of this

judgment. This FIR is to be enquired into by a senior police

officer designated by the concerned Commissioner of Police,

who is to furnish a police report pursuant to investigation within a

period of three months from the date on which such officer is

appointed to undertake such investigation. If such police report

results in a prima facie case being made out, and if the Judicial

Magistrate takes cognizance of such charge-sheet, charges will

then be framed and trial held. In the meanwhile, the trial in FIR

dated 22.12.2009, which has been stayed by this Court by an

order dated 24.04.2019, will not be commenced until the police

report is submitted in the FIR to be lodged by the police pursuant

to this judgment. The learned Magistrate may then decide, in the

event that cognizance is taken of the police report in the FIR to 65 be filed, as to whether a joint-trial should take place, or whether

separate trials be conducted one after the other pursuant to both

the FIRs. 45. With these observations, these appeals are disposed of. …………………………J.
 (R.F. Nariman)

 …………………………J.
 (Surya Kant)

 …………………………J.
New Delhi (V. Ramasubramanian)
October 16, 2019. 66