1.	This bunch of bail applications arises out of three first information reports, which are: (i) FIR /Case Crime No. 203 of 2023, dated 04.05.2023, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC, Police Station Noida Sector-20, District Gautam Buddh Nagar (ii) FIR/Case Crime No. 248 of 2023, dated 01.06.2023, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC, Police Station Noida Sector-20, District Gautam Buddh Nagar, and (iii) FIR/Case Crime No. 255 of 2023, dated 08.06.2003, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 120B IPC, Noida Sector-20, District Gautam Buddh Nagar. 2.	As per prosecution version in FIR/Case Crime No. 203/2023, dated 04.05.2023 under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC, Police Station Noida Sector-20, District Gautam Buddh Nagar, the informant Saurabh Dwivedi is a journalist and works as an Editor of the Lallantop internet news portal and India Today Hindi Magazine. He came across two GST registrations viz. 03AUSPD7067N1Z3 and 27AUSPD7067N1ZT obtained in the State of Punjab and Maharashtra respectively w.e.f. 20.03.2023. These have been applied on informant's PAN AUSPD7067N (Exhibit 1) and bear his name, Saurabh Dwivedi as legal name of the business entity. The details of both the registrations from GST portal are enclosed as Exhibit 2 to the complaint. The registered address mentioned for the given two registrations are as under - (a) 03AUSPD7067N1Z3 having registered address as 787, Ground Floor, Railway Office, ATI Road, Ludhiana, Punjab, 141008, (b) 27AUSPD7067N1ZT having registered address as 172, Sau Alakatal Uttamrao Nikalaje Path, Solapur, Solapur, Maharashtra, 413003. These have not been obtained with his consensus and he is totally unaware of the person who applied for these registrations and whose contact details are updated in these GST registrations. It is also mentioned that the two registrations are already authenticated for Aadhaar verification whereas as on date no email ID and mobile number is linked with his Aadhaar. Copy of Aadhaar Card along with screenshot showing the absence of any email ID or mobile number in Aadhaar details is enclosed as Exhibit. Further it has been learnt that similar registration has been applied in the UT of Delhi, however, the same got rejected by the GST authorities. The acknowledgement number generated after filing of GST registration application is AA070323054161Q. Hence, the FIR has been lodged. 3.	As per prosecution version in FIR/Case Crime No. 248/2023, dated 01.06.2023 under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC, Police Station Noida Sector-20, Gautam Buddh Nagar, the informant - Sumit Yadav came to know about registration of fake firm, Yadav Traders, against his PAN Card No. AHFPX9874Q and the address is recorded as Ground Floor JL No. 219 Khatian No. 2275 dag no. 1835, Sahibganj Road, near Sahibganj, High School, Kharimala, Khagrabari Cooch behar West Bengal - 736101. Said Firm is got registered fallaciously against informant's PAN Card AHFPX9874Q. It has been registered illegally by some unknown miscreants. Informant has mentioned his permanent address as K-11 Gyan Sarowar Colony, Ramghat Road, Aligarh, and present address as J-41, Senior Citizen Society, Greater Noida. Thus, the FIR has been lodged. 4.	As per prosecution version in FIR/Case Crime No. 255/2023, dated 08.06.2023 under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B IPC, Police Station Noida Sector-20, Gautam Buddh Nagar, the informant - Arvind Kumar Yadav, on being known about arrest of some persons who illegally got GST registration using PAN Card of the persons, checked on GSTSEARCH.in and found that three fake GST Numbers detailed in the FIR bearing: (1) GST No. 24ABBP43323J12N, (2) GST No. 24ABBPY43323J2ZM and (3) GST No. 06ABBPY3323J12L have been obtained by someone, whereas he or his family member never obtained any GST Number and has no concern with the firms. He has stated that his documents have been misused. Hence, the FIR has been lodged. 5.	Learned counsel for the applicants while placing the facts in the case of Tushar Gupta, submits that the applicant - Tushar Gupta is innocent and is not named in the FIR. 6.	He further submits that the applicant is Director in two companies, namely, M/s Albatross Parcel Express Private Limited and M/s Delco Express Private Limited having its registered office at 4B/33, 1st Floor, Tilak Nagar, New Delhi. He further submits that allegation against the applicant in the FIR is of engaging in fraudulent availment of Input Tax Credit1 in his aforesaid companies on the strength of invoices of fake/non-existent firms which have taken under registration under the provisions of the GST Act/Rules made thereunder. It has also been alleged that there was no supply of any goods/services as mentioned in the said invoices and thus, the ITC which has passed on through such mere paper invoices, is ineligible/fraudulently availed. 7.	Thus, for the offence under the GST Act, where provisions of the CGST Act are applicable, the proceedings have been drawn against the applicant in which he was arrested on 08.06.2023 and later on has been released on bail by order dated 04.08.2023 passed by Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Patiala House Court, New Delhi. 8. 	He further submits that from the investigation, the name of only firm, which has been alleged to be fake/non-existent, is mentioned as M/s AJK Enterprises having GSTIN 06BAFPK2706P1ZJ (wrongly written as M/s AKJ Enterprises in chargesheet). There is no mention of any other firm, which is alleged to be fake/non-existence. There is nothing against the applicant regarding connectivity with the aforesaid fake firms. Therefore, no offence has been committed by the applicant. 9. 	He further submits that the name of the applicant does not find place anywhere neither in the confessional statements of any co-accused nor in any other statements. 10. 	Learned counsel Mr. Harish Yadav, while placing the fact on behalf of the applicant - Gurmeet Singh Batra alias Sahil2 in Case Crime No. 203 of 2023, submits that the applicant - Gurmeet Singh Batra is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. He was working in a private company in New Delhi and was a friend of co-accused Gaurav Singhal. He had gone to meet him in the weekend when he was arrested on 11.06.2023. There is no evidence against the applicant showing his involvement in the aforesaid offence. In the confessional statements of co-accused persons also, no role has been attributed to the applicant. 11. 	Learned counsel for the applicants herein has further submitted several other contentions as raised and discussed by respective learned counsel appearing for the applicants in the case of Kanika Dhingra in Cri. Misc. Bail Application No. 25547 of 2024 decided on 02.09.2024 as well as another bunch of bail applications i.e. Cri. Misc. Bail Application No.53010 of 2023, Rajiv Jindal v. State of U.P. , decided on 31.08.2024. 12.	Learned counsel further submits that the applicant - Tushar Gupta has been arrested on 09.04.2024 and applicant Gurmeet Singh Batra alias Sahil has been arrested on 11.06.2023, without there being any credible evidence against them. 13.	The Investigating Officer has falsely implicated the applicants in the present case, without there being any credible evidence against them. Neither any collusion of applicants was found with any of the fake firm nor disclosed any proof of forging or creating any such document. It is only money transaction from one account to another which has been taken into consideration for implicating the applicants in the present case. 14.	From the aforesaid facts, it cannot be said that the applicants can be charged of criminal conspiracy under Section 120-B IPC as there is no direct evidence to establish conspiracy and there being no agreement or connection with fake GST firms. In support of his submissions, learned counsel for the applicants has placed reliance on a judgement of the Supreme Court in the case of Maghavendra Pratap Singh @ Pankaj Singh v. State of Chhattisgarh3 . 15.	Learned counsel for the applicants submits that the applicants are innocent and have been falsely implicated in the present and in case they are released on bail, they will not misuse the liberty of bail and will cooperate in the trial by all means. Lastly, it is submitted that there is no chance of applicants fleeing away from judicial process or tampering with the witnesses. 16.	Sri Manish Goel, learned Additional Advocate General assisted by Sri Amit Singh Chauhan, AGA-I, Sri Nitesh Srivastava, learned AGA and Sri Mayank Awasthi, learned Brief Holder, appearing for the State submits that nucleus of the entire issue is that there is a Press Reporter. He says that his PAN Card was misused and on the basis of his PAN Card two Firms were registered. Thus, offence under the provisions of IPC stands committed. Applicants have committed offence of separate nature, so GST Rule will not apply, but it will not take them out of the offence that has been committed under Indian Penal Code , 18604. 17.	Elaborating the points, learned Additional Advocate General has placed following arguments: 18.	Learned counsel for the State has also detailed the material collected during investigation to prove the involvement of the applicants in the present case. He drew attention of the Court to various C.D. Parchas to strengthen his submissions. Details regarding applicants are mentioned in CD Parcha Nos.14, 15, 53 as well as quoted in paragraph 109 of the order dated 31.08.2024 passed by this Court in Cri. Misc. Bail Application No.53010 of 2023. 19.	While assisting the Court, Mr. Rishi Kumar, learned Additional Chief Standing Counsel submits that the present case begins with lodging of FIR by Saurabh Dwivedi, wherein allegations for fake GST registration applied in his name with PAN No. AUSPD7067N by anonymous person and got two GST firms registered, thus, the entire case begins with fake GST registration using PAN Card and Aadhaar Card of the informant. During the investigation it was found that larger nexus works for having benefit of input tax credit. The offence has been committed in an organized and synchronized manner, wherein fake and bogus invoices have been created to cover the money trail and goods supply as well as money transactions are there with forged firms. Establishing the entire chain, the accused persons have been found connected with each other and in one or the other way they have been benefited by fake GST registration shown by using PAN Card and Aadhaar Card of the informant. 20.	The backbone of goods and services regime is input tax credit. Under the GST regime, ITC follows supply chain not only intrastate but also interstate supply. 21.	It has been established through investigation that crime has been committed by the accused persons by making fraudulent firm by using PAN Card and Aadhaar Card, Mobile Number for creating fake firms and through fake invoices, they breached supply chain of ITC and got benefit through fake gains which have been created by them. Thus, in so many words, the said case is started with registration of fake firms using PAN Card and Aadhaar Card of the informant for consequential benefits of claiming ITC. Thus, it cannot be said that the proceedings have to be initiated against the applicants under the special Act i.e. Goods and Services Tax Act , where the proper procedure has been laid down and FIR could not have been registered. 22.	The next finding in the case of recovery and use of fake PAN Cards has to be understood by analysing the purpose of issuing a PAN Card. The PAN card is issued to keep a track of financial activity of a person and a PAN is integral for all forms of payments. A PAN Card number is located to a needful and contains information such as Aadhaar number, date of birth and address. Similar is the use of Aadhaar Card which is now linked with the account of individual in favour of whom it has been issued. The PAN Card contains details of Aadhaar also. The PAN Card can be used for availing utility connections like electricity, telephone, LPG and internet. Under GST, a registered taxable person is required to issue an invoice containing all relevant information, such as the GSTIN, tax divergence and so on. If a taxpayer issues an invoice that is missing critical information, the invoice may be considered a fake GST invoice. Thus, by forging fake GST number using PAN Card of the informant fake GST invoices have been created for financial benefit, thus, the very basis of the present case is forgery done by the accused persons, on the basis of which financial gains in terms of ITC have been availed by them. 23.	The learned Additional Chief Standing Counsel, in order to show how use of PAN Card in such a manner, is detrimental not only to the interest of the person whose PAN Card has been used but is also detrimental in national interest, has relied upon a judgement of Bombay High Court in the case of UTI Infrastructure Technology and Services Limited v. Extra Tech World and Ors.17, wherein the Court has observed thus: 24.	Thus, the offence in the present case is affecting the interest of public at large. 25.	I have considered the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. 26.	Nowadays, money laundering has become a frequent feature and if there is evidence that the recipient attempted to conceal source of funds or participated in transferring the money in ways that suggests intentional wrong doing, thus, create circumstantial evidence as in the present case to hold them involved in the criminal activity. 27.	As regards the submissions regarding no credible evidence that the applicants have conspired, planned or plotted, in any manner, and the same has been done with intention of achieving some gain, thus, it is an organized crime where the money trail is involved. 28.	Money trail/ financial transaction and the records that have been traced to track the flow of funds, detect illegal activity which can be analyzed from the bank account of the applicants wherein it is not clear as to from where such huge amount of money came into accounts of the alleged accused persons and have been deposited in other accounts. The Investigating Officer has, while submitting the charge sheet, found unusual and unexplained transactions which indicate some illegal activity as showing involvement of the applicants in the criminal offence. 29.	It is also clear that the illegal profits as made by the fake GST firms registered on the basis of PAN and Aadhaar Cards of the informant, were made to appear legitimate by moving money / funds to the Bank accounts of others, may be company or firm or relatives' accounts. 30.	The intention of all the accused of having transactions with fake GST firms, was for claiming input tax credit. For the purposes, fake invoices are created for purchase of goods, a group of firms engaged in fictitious transactions and no actual goods or services are exchanged but ITC is claimed multiple times. 31.	Fraudsters, like all the alleged accused in the present case set up companies only on paper to generate fake transactions and claim ITC. Such companies are abandoned or shutdown after a short period. 32.	GST Department has blown a whistle to report the fraudulent activities like fake invoicing or ITC theft, thus, giving opportunity to the Investigating Agency to trace the conspiracy as planned which was the outcome of fake GST firm registered on the basis of Aadhaar and PAN cards of others as in the present case. 33.	The principal of "bail is the rule, jail is the exception" is a fundamental concept in criminal law, where the criminal justice system recognizes the importance of personal liberty and the presumption of innocence until proven guilty. This principal emphasizes that an accused should ordinarily be granted bail unless there are compelling reasons to detain him in custody. But there are exceptions to the aforesaid principal. While, the general rule favours granting bail, there are several exceptions where courts may deny bail due to specific circumstances. These exceptions are based on factors that indicate a potential risk to society, the judicial process, or the investigation. Some points that should be kept in mind while granting bail are; the nature and gravity of the offence, likelihood of flight risk, risk of tampering with the evidence of witnesses, repeated offenders or habitual criminals, danger to society or the victim, possibility of committing another offence while on bail, interference with justice, specific statutory provisions like the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 , Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA), lastly economic offence and white collar crimes. 34.	The present case relates to economic offences. Such offence like large scale fraud, money laundering and corruption, are often viewed seriously because they affect the economic fabric of the society. The Courts may deny bail in such cases especially if the accused holds a position of influence or power. In the present case, money trail of crores, which affects the society at large scale, is involved which started from registration of fake firms by using Aadhaar and PAN Cards of the informant who had not applied for such registration. 35.	The Apex Court in the case of Manish Sisodia v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1393, has discussed about the constitutional mandate which is higher law and accordingly it is the basic right of person charged of offence and not convicted be ensured and given a speedy trial, thus, where the trial is not proceeding for the reasons not attributed to the accused, the Court unless there are good reasons may well be guided by exercising power to grant bail. This would be true, the trial would take years. 36.	From the report also it is clear that the discharge application of one of the accused has been rejected and it shows that the charges are proved and once on the basis of material collected chargesheet has been submitted, discharge is rejected, the case of bail is not made out in economic offence where money trail of crores has been found which is a result of registration of fake firms. Offence under the IPC is made out and such accused cannot be dealt with easy hands. The applicants are also chargesheeted hence to be dealt with the same rod. In the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2013) 7 SCC 439, the Supreme Court has held thus: 37.	The Apex Court in the case of Nimmagadda Prasad v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2013) 7 SCC 466 has formulated some important factors to be taken into consideration while considering bail applications. Relevant paragraph of the said judgement is quoted herein below: 38.	Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Directorate of Enforcement v. M. Gopal Reddy and another , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1862 has held that in the economic offences which are having great impact on the society, the court must be slow in exercising discretion under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. 39. In the case of Tahir Hussain v. The Assistant Director Enforcement Directorate18 , the Court has observed that the accused Tahir Hussain was involved in the acts of cheating/ falsification/ forgery of documents which resulted in fraudulent removal of money from the accounts of the three companies (M/s SEAPL, ECPL and EGSPL). On the directions and instructions of Tahir Hussain, huge amount of money was withdrawn from the accounts of the said three companies by way of transfer of funds to entry operators and bogus companies. Tahir Hussain was ultimate beneficiary of the laundered money which he used for fulfilment of ulterior motives. Fake and bogus invoices were created to cover the money trail. 40.	The same situation is there in the facts of this case where the crime has started with registration of fake GST firms by using Aadhaar and PAN Card of the informant which amounts to forgery, therefore, offence under the relevant sections is made out and these offences have been properly investigated by the Investigating Officer after lodging of FIRs. The evidences have been collected from the GST Department also. 41.	While considering an appeal against the bail cancellation order, the Apex Court in the case of Gurcharan Singh v. State (Delhi Administration )19, has held that there cannot be an inexorable formula in the matter of granting bail. Paragraph-29 of the said judgement is thus: 42.	The Apex Court in the case of Prahlad Singh Bhati v. NCT, Delhi and another20, has held that while granting bail, the court has to keep in mind nature of accusations, nature of evidence in support thereof, severity of punishment which conviction will entail, the character, behaviour, means and standing of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with, larger interest of the public or State and similar other considerations. Relevant paragraph no. 8 of the said judgement is reproduced hereunder: 43.	Law on consideration of the Court to grant or refusal of bail has been settled by the Apex Court in a catena of decisions. In the case of Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan21 , the Supreme Court has held that the court granting bail should exercise its discretion in a judicious manner and not as a matter of course. Paragraph-11 of the said judgement is being quoted below: 44.	In the case of State of U.P. Through CBI v. Amarmani Tripathi24, the Supreme Court has formulated eight points for consideration of bail application. It would be apposite to quote the relevant paragraph no. 18 of the said judgement: 45.	The Apex Court has, in the case of P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement25 , held that precedent of another case alone will not be the basis for either grant or refusal of bail though it may have bearing on principle and the consideration will have to be on case-to-case basis on facts involved therein and securing the presence of the accused to stand trial. Paragraph-23 of the said judgement reads thus: 46.	Recently the Apex Court in the case of Satendra Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and another26, has outlined the considerations by the Court in the matter of grant or refusal of bail. 47. 	In the matter of other accused persons, this Court has rejected the bail applications vide judgement dated 31.08.2024 passed in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 53010 of 202327, and order dated 02.09.2024 passed in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 25547 of 202428. 48.	Having gone through the submissions of learned counsel for the parties, nature of accusation of offence, role of the applicants as well as reasons given in judgements passed in Bail Application Nos. 53010 of 2023 and 25547 of 2024, I do not find it a fit case for granting bail. 49.	In view of the above, the bail application nos. 35927 of 2024, 35961 of 2024, 35970 of 2024 preferred by the applicant - Tushar Gupta and bail application no. 28655 of 2024 filed by Gurmeet Singh Batra alias Sahil, are rejected. Order Date :-27.09.2024 
 
Jitendra