% 29.08.2025 1. These are all identical matters and are being disposed of by a common
 judgment. For the sake of brevity, the facts in ARB.P. 731/2024 are
 reproduced below. 2. As per the petitioner, the respondent applied for and was sanctioned a
 loan of Rs. 25,12,958/- by the petitioner pursuant to execution of a Loan
 Agreement on 10.08.2022. However, from October 2022 onwards, the
 respondent failed to honour the repayment obligations under the Loan
 Agreement and thereby committed default. Despite repeated requests and
 reminders made by the petitioner between November 2022 and January
 2024 for regularisation of the loan account, the respondent failed to make
 payments, leading to continuation of the default. 3. The arbitration clause is Clause 14 of the Loan Agreement which
 reads as under: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/09/2025 at 22:16:01
 these presents or in any way touching or concerning the same or as
 to constructions, meaning or effect thereof or as to the right,
 obligations and liabilities of the parties hereunder shall be referred
 to and settled by arbitration, to be held in accordance with the
 provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or any
 statutory amendments thereof, of a sole arbitrator to be nominated
 by the Lender, and in the event of death, unwillingness, refusal,
 neglect, inability or incapability of a person so appointed to act as
 an arbitrator, the Lender may appoint a new arbitrator to be a sole
 arbitrator. The arbitrator shall not be required to give any reasons
 for the award and the award of the arbitrator shall be final and
 binding on all parties concerned. The arbitration proceedings shall
 be held Mumbai/Delhi. (ii) Notwithstanding anything to the
 contrary contained herein, any dispute, controversy or claim
 arising out of or relating to this contract, including its construction,
 meaning, scope or validity thereof, shall be resolved and settled by
 arbitration under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (as
 amended) which may be administered electronically under Online
 Dispute Resolution (ODR), in accordance with its Dispute
 Resolution Rules ("Rules"). ............. (iv) The parties agree that the aforesaid proceedings shall be
 carried out by a sole arbitrator appointed under the Rules. The
 juridical seat of arbitration shall be Delhi/Mumbai, India and the
 aforesaid proceedings shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction
 of the competent courts in Delhi/Mumbai, India. The language of

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/09/2025 at 22:16:01
 arbitration shall be English. The law governing the arbitration
 proceedings shall be Indian law. The decision of the arbitrator
 shall be final and binding on the parties." 4. Since there were disputes between the parties, the petitioner invoked
 arbitration vide legal notice dated 07.02.2024. Thereafter, the present
 petition has been filed. 5. Learned counsel for the respondents, submit that in the present case,
 the Loan Agreement(s) were never signed by the respondents. In fact, the
 respondent(s) had never even applied for a loan. It is his submission that a
 company by the name of M/s Ashtavinayak Investments procured the
 respondents' signatures by fraud and thereafter used the same for applying
 for a loan with the petitioner. 6. It is further contended that the loan amount, though credited in the
 account of the respondent(s) on the same date, was immediately withdrawn
 by M/s Ashtavinayak Investments on the strength of a cheque which too had
 been fraudulently obtained from the respondent(s). Learned counsel for the
 respondent(s) points out that the Economic Offences Wing has already
 registered an FIR in this regard, and a chargesheet has been filed implicating
 not only the officers of M/s Ashtavinayak Investments but also certain
 officers of the petitioner. 7. Without prejudice to his rights and contentions, learned counsel for
 the respondent(s), fairly submits that the aforesaid allegations are issues
 which require detailed examination and adjudication, which can only be
 undertaken in arbitration. He further relies on the judgment of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in Goqii Technologies Private Limited v. Sokrati
 Technologies Private Limited (2025) 2 SCC 192, more particularly on paras

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/09/2025 at 22:16:01
 20 and 21, which read as under: 21. Before we conclude, we must clarify that the limited
 jurisdiction of the referral courts under Section 11 must not be
 misused by parties in order to force other parties to the arbitration
 agreement to participate in a time consuming and costly
 arbitration process. This is possible in instances, including but not
 limited to, where the claimant canvasses the adjudication of non-
 existent and mala fide claims through arbitration." 8. Mr. Sharma, learned counsel for the petitioner, without admitting that
 there is any fraud or malafide in the entire transaction, on instructions, states
 that in the first instance, the petitioner shall pay the cost of arbitration,
 subject to an affidavit being filed by the respondents that in case the
 Arbitrator decides in favour of the petitioner, the respondent(s) shall pay its
 proportionate share of expenses forthwith. 9. The same is acceptable to the learned counsel for the respondent(s). 10. For the said reasons, the petitions are allowed and disposed of with
 the following directions: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/09/2025 at 22:16:01 ii) The arbitration will be held under the aegis and rules of the Delhi
 International Arbitration Centre, Delhi High Court, Sher Shah
 Road, New Delhi (hereinafter, referred to as the 'DIAC'). iii) The remuneration of the learned Arbitrator shall be in terms of
 DIAC (Administrative Cost and Arbitrators' Fees) Rules, 2018
 and each petition will be considered a separate reference. iv) The learned Arbitrator is requested to furnish a declaration in
 terms of Section 12 of the Act prior to entering into the reference. v) It is made clear that all the rights and contentions of the parties,
 including as to the arbitrability of any of the claim, defence
 including fraud or any other preliminary objection, as well as
 claims/counter-claims and merits of the dispute, allegations of
 fraud of either of the parties, are left open for adjudication by the
 learned Arbitrator. vi) The parties shall approach the learned Arbitrator within two weeks
 from today. 11. In the first instance, the fee of the Arbitrator shall be paid by the
 petitioner, subject to an affidavit being filed by the respondent(s) as
 indicated above in para 8. 12. Nothing said in the order will be construed as adjudication on the
 merits by the Arbitrator, and he shall decide the matter without being
 influenced by any observations made. JASMEET SINGH, J
 AUGUST 29, 2025/DM

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/09/2025 at 22:16:01