Petitioner seeks regular bail under section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik

Suraksha Sanhita, 2023. 2. Petitioner is the fifth accused in ECIR No.06 of 2024 of the

Enforcement Directorate, Kochi. He along with other accused were alleged to

have committed offences punishable under sections 3 and 4 of the

Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (for short ' PML Act '). 3. According to the prosecution, various Chinese loan applications

were circulated on social media platforms, which were not listed in the Play

Store or App Store, as they were non-compliant with the existing Laws and

Regulations. These illegal loan applications were advertised and contacted

with probable customers directly through WhatsApp and after the applications

were installed, the accused took control of crucial data through the Android

mobile phones including the ID, precise location through GPS, contacts,

photographs, files, e-mails, ST cards etc., which were later used for extorting

money. The prosecution also alleges that proceeds of crime generated

through the above method were subsequently layered by using mule bank B.A. No.7278/25 3 2025:KER:49922

accounts arranged by the petitioner and other accused which were debited to

payment aggregators who had collected funds from various merchants. A

portion of the proceeds of crime were routed through bank accounts of shell

entities in India and the aggregated proceeds of crime were remitted outside

India through normal banking channels showing fake import of software,

analysis of which revealed that there were credits from various dummy

entities and debits to the tune of Rs.121 Crores. Petitioner had arranged 289

bank accounts in the name of individuals and shell business entities in return

for financial remuneration from cyber fraudsters. 4. Sri. Lijin Thamban, the learned counsel for the petitioner contended

that the entire prosecution allegations are false and the petitioner is innocent.

According to the learned counsel, the petitioner had seen an advertisement

on social media that certain bank accounts were required for a game

application and unaware about the intricacies involved, he supplied his bank

account details, which cannot be termed as an offence to attract the

provisions of PML Act . It was also submitted that petitioner has no

connection with the offences alleged and he has been made a scapegoat

without arresting the real culprits involved in the crime. Learned counsel

submitted that the interrogation of the petitioner has been completed and

considering the long period of detention already undergone by the petitioner,

further detention ought not to be permitted. 2025:KER:49922 5. Sri. Jaishankar V.Nair, the learned Standing Counsel for the

respondent on the other hand submitted that petitioner's involvement in the

crime has already been identified and he had provided several mule bank

accounts to the cyber fraudsters for the purpose of layering and also to

commit the fraud. It was further revealed that petitioner had arranged 289

bank accounts to the fraudsters, the details of which have been specifically

mentioned in the objection filed by the respondents. It was further submitted

that the economic offences like the crimes under the PML Act ought to be

viewed differently as there is a deep rooted conspiracy involving huge loss of

public funds and therefore petitioner ought not to be released on bail. 6. I have considered the rival contentions. 7. Petitioner is alleged to have enabled various Chinese loan Apps to

be circulated on various social media platforms and mule bank accounts were

opened. Thereafter, the public were defrauded. The investigation has

revealed that the petitioner had approached Sri. Nitin Varghese to arrange

different bank accounts and offered Rs.5,000/- per bank account on the basis

of which 154 bank accounts were opened in different banks like Punjab

National Bank, Canara Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank etc., and

thereafter the details of bank accounts provided by the said Nitin Varghese

were digitally submitted by the petitioner, who also managed to arrange

another 290 bank accounts and forwarded the details to a lady by name B.A. No.7278/25 5 2025:KER:49922

Leema, who had contacted him online. These bank account details supplied

by the petitioner were utilized for operating the instant illegitimate loan apps

and cheated the public of large amounts of money. 8. The investigation has also revealed that the proceeds of crime

collected by the accused from the victims of online platforms were collected in

the mule accounts and the amounts were routed through those bank

accounts and ultimately they were parked in different companies which were

only shell companies. Petitioner is alleged to have arranged the mule

accounts, in which the proceeds of crime generated from the scheduled

offence were collected and parked and thereafter diverted to different bank

accounts maintained outside India. 9. The investigation conducted so far revealed that mule accounts were

opened within Kerala with the assistance of persons including the petitioner.

Debits from such accounts were made to a third party and its trail has also

been identified, indicating that an amount of Rs.121 Crores were collected

from the victims through exploitation of online platforms which were ultimately

transferred to four foreign wallets situated outside India. During investigation,

the role of the petitioner has been identified and he is alleged to have been

involved in the acquisition of the proceeds of crime by providing as many as

289 mule bank accounts to the cyber fraudsters through two ladies by name

Smt.Leema and Smt.Angel through their WhatsApp number. Investigation B.A. No.7278/25 6 2025:KER:49922

has also revealed that petitioner had arranged crypto accounts on a platform

by the name WazirX and he was actively involved in remitting proceeds of

crime to the tune of Rs.3.47 Crores outside India to four foreign crypto wallets

and he received a remuneration of Rs.2 Crores in his bank accounts

maintained with the IDBI, Kotak Mahindra Bank and Bank of Baroda and out

of that amount, he distributed Rs.30 lakhs to different persons who had

arranged such bank accounts. 10. The above details brought out during investigation clearly indicate

the involvement of the petitioner as well as his active connection with the

acquisition of proceeds of crime. The materials collected by the respondents

indicate the involvement of the petitioner in the offence under section 3 r/w section 4 of the PML Act. As petitioner's involvement is quite evident, the

rigour under section 45 of the PML Act will apply. In the absence of any

material before this Court to come to the conclusion that petitioner is not

guilty of the offences alleged, I am of the view that petitioner cannot be

released on bail. Accordingly this bail application is dismissed. Sd/- BECHU KURIAN THOMAS
 JUDGE
vps B.A. No.7278/25 7 2025:KER:49922

 APPENDIX OF BAIL APPL. 7278/2025

PETITIONER ANNEXURES

Annexure-Al TRUE COPY OF THE COUNTER AFFIDAVIT FILED BY
 THE RESPONDENT IN F. NO. ECIR/KCZO/06/2024

Annexure-A2 CERTIFIED COPY OF THE ORDER DATED 11.04.2025
 IN CRL.M.P 54/2025 OF THE SPECIAL COURT FOR
 PMLA CASES, ERNAKULAM