S.B. SINHA, J. Leave granted. 1. These two appeals involving similar questions of law and fact were

taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common

judgment. 1 2. Nirmal Singh Kahlon, Appellant in appeals arising out of SLP (C)

Nos. 24777-24778 of 2005 was the Rural Development and Panchayats

Minister in the Government of Punjab while the three appellants in appeals

arising out of SLP (C)Nos. 25226-25227 of 2005 were working as Deputy

Directors in the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats,

Government of Punjab at the relevant time. 3. The State of Punjab had enacted the Punjab Panchayati Raj Act, 1994 . 4. An advertisement for recruitment of 190 Panchayat Secretaries was

issued in the year 1992 for which written test was held in the year 1994 ;

however, the posts could not be filled. In the meantime 545 Panchayat

Secretaries were appointed on ad hoc basis by the State. 5. One of the applicants, who applied for the post in response to the

advertisement of 190 posts, challenged the said ad hoc appointments by way

of a writ petition which was marked as C.W.P. No.9835 of 1996, titled Palvinder Singh v. State of Punjab , which was disposed of by a Division

Bench of the Court on 20th September, 1996 by directing inter alia the 2 completion of the selection process as well as for available posts with the

department. Selection against 190 posts of Panchayat Secretaries, for which

written test had already been held was to be finalized on or before 20th

November, 1996. 6. Two more advertisements were issued; first on 17/18th September,

1996 for filling up 700 posts and second on 14th October, 1996 for filling

up 800 posts of Panchayat Secretaries respectively. Another advertisement was issued on 19th September, 1998 inviting

applications from the female candidates also for the post of Panchayat

Secretaries. In response to the abovementioned advertisements over 1.5 lacs

applications were received, the processing job whereof was handed over to

a Delhi based computer firm. Result of the written test was declared on or

about 14th October, 2000 in which 3286 candidates were declared

successful. They were called for interview. 3 However, no further action appears to have been taken pursuant

thereto or in furtherance thereof. Another writ petition was filed in the High

Court of Punjab and Haryana which was marked as CWP No.11912 of

2000, titled Harmesh Singh and others v. State of Punjab and others . By

an order dated 30th August, 2001, selection for the post of Panchayat

Secretaries was directed to be completed within one month. The said order

was not interfered with by this Court in a Special Leave Petition filed by the

State which was marked Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 15843 of 2001

by an order dated 24th September, 2001. Interviews of the eligible

candidates were held thereafter and 908 candidates were selected. 7. In or about March, 2002 a change in the State Government took

place. The Congress Party came into power after election. The new

Government made an attempt to reinstate the Panchayat Patwaris whose

services had been terminated by the previous Government pursuant to the

orders of the High Court. 8. Selection of the said 908 candidates was the subject matter of another

writ petition which was marked as CWP No.5283 of 2003 entitled Veero

Devi v. State of Punjab and others . In the said writ petition the Court 4 formed a prima facie opinion that irregularities in the selection process had

been committed. By an order dated 3rd April, 2002, the High Court issued

the following directions :- The nature of litigation, therefore, was changed from private interest

litigation to public interest litigation. 9. In terms of the said order an enquiry was made by one Shri P. Ram,

the then Financial Commissioner, Rural Development and Panchayat

Department. He was of the opinion that the entire selection process was 5 required to be set aside. A recommendation was made that an investigation

into the whole affair be made by the Vigilance Department.

10 Pursuant thereto a first information report was lodged by the

Vigilance Department on 14th June, 2002 against several persons including

appellant, Nirmal Singh Kahlon, for alleged commission of offences under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 120(B) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 13(1) (d)(e) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , the material

portion whereof reads as under :- 11. A charge sheet was filed against Nirmal Singh Kahlon and J.P. Singla

(appellant No. 1 in Civil Appeals arising out of SLP (C) Nos. 25226-25227

of 2005), Ex. Deputy Director of Rural Development and Panchayats.

Appellant Nos. 2 and 3 in Civil Appeals arising out of SLP (C) 25226-

25227 of 2005 were shown as the witnesses in the said report. 12. It appears somewhat strange that despite the same a statement was

made before the Court on behalf of the State of Punjab on 1st November, 7 2002 that the investigation was proposed to be handed over to the Central

Bureau of Investigation. 13. On or about 16th November, 2002 Secretary to the Government of

Punjab, Department of Rural Development issued a letter addressed to the

Chief Secretary to the Government of Punjab, opining that the case should

be investigated by the Crime Branch of the State Police. 14. In view of the aforementioned report the High Court, by an order

dated 31st October, 2002, directed the Additional Advocate General to

obtain instructions as to what action the Government has been

contemplating on the enquiry report. It was observed :- 15. On 1st November, 2002 the State Government made a statement that a

decision had been taken to handover the investigation in regard to the

scandal involving selection of Panchayat Secretaries to the Central Bureau

of Investigation and also to take action against the officers named in the

enquiry report. Selection of the candidates, however, was cancelled by State

Government by its order dated 10th December, 2002. 16. The Central Bureau of Investigation, however, expressed its inability

to take up investigation opining that the same may be conducted by the

State Vigilance Department. One of the grounds on which the said stand

was taken was lack of man power as also infra structure. An affidavit to that effect was to be filed on or before 13th November,

2002 and the matter was adjourned to 15th November, 2002. On that date a

prayer was made for some more time to file a comprehensive affidavit. The

writ petition was listed before the High Court on 10th February, 2003 on

which date it noticed the decision of the State Government to handover the

investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation. The State took some

adjournments. Proceedings sheet of the High Court dated 25th April, 2003

reads as under :- 9 17. Despite the same no notification was issued by the State of Punjab

handing over the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation.

Proceedings sheet dated 30th April, 2003 inter alia reads :- 18. On or about 2nd May, 2003 the State Government issued a

Notification in terms of Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment

Act, 1946 (for short the `Act'), the relevant portion whereof reads as

under:- " And whereas during the course of
 arguments, after considering the reply of the CBI
 and the arguments of the Standing Counsel for the
 CBI on 31.4.2003, Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana
 High Court directed the State Government to issue
 necessary Notification well before the next date of
 hearing i.e. 7.5.2003 to enable the CBI to take into
 hands the investigation of the recruitment of 909
 Panchayat Secretaries. 11 Now, therefore, in pursuance of the
 provisions of Section 6 of the Delhi Special
 Policed Establishment Act, 1946 (Central Act 25
 of 1946) and all others powers enabling him in this
 behalf, the Government of Punjab is pleased to
 accord his consent to the extension of powers and
 jurisdiction of the members of the Delhi Special
 Police Establishment to the whole of the State of
 Punjab for investigating into the alleged scandal of
 selection of 909 Panchayat Secretaries made in the
 year 1996 to 2001 in the Department of Rural
 Development and Panchayats under the relevant
 provisions of the law and any other offence in
 relation to or in connection with the said alleged
 scandal of appointments committed in the course
 of the same transaction or arising out of the said
 matter." 19. In view of the aforementioned Notification the High Court by its

order dated 7th May, 2003 directed :- " Having regard to the peculiar facts
 and circumstances of the instant case, it was the
 court which took a view earlier that mater is such,
 which requires, in the interest of justice,
 investigation by the Central Bureau of
 Investigation and then the State of Punjab came to
 nearly agreeing to the observations made by the
 court, though after sometime the Court noticed
 some dilly dallying on the part of the State
 Government but ultimately it decided to hand over
 the investigation to the C.B.I. We reiterate that in
 the peculiar facts and circumstances investigation
 by Central Bureau of Investigation appears to be
 not only just and proper but a necessity. 12 Accordingly, we hope and trust that the Central
 Bureau of Investigation will do its best to
 investigate and book the real culprits. We respect
 that Central Bureau of Investigation will do its
 investigation within a reasonable time though we
 appreciate the limited resources, which it is
 having. We are sure that if the Director of Central
 Bureau of Investigation moves the Government of
 India to provide more funds and/or offices, it will
 consider the request, if so made, objectively and
 suitable decision will be taken by the Government
 of India." 20. The Central Bureau of Investigation, however, informed the High

Court on 13th August, 2003 that a special team had been sent for a

meaningful investigation in respect of the allegations, and the same had

proceeded to a considerable length. The Central Bureau of Investigation

thereafter registered a first information report on 26th June, 2003 21. Appellants filed applications which were marked as CM Nos. 6907 -

6908 of 2005 and 18993-18994 for recalling of the orders dated 30th April,

2003 and 7th May, 2003; the prayers made wherein read as under :- By reason of the impugned judgment dated 4th October, 2005, the said

applications have been dismissed. 22. This Court on 12th December, 2005 while issuing notice passed the

following interim order :- " The C.B.I. may continue with the
 investigation, but the final report shall not be filed
 till the next date of hearing" 23. Mr. P.P. Rao and Mr. Raju Ramachandran, learned senior counsel,

appearing on behalf of the appellants, would submit :- 10) The High Court committed a serious error in opining that the first

 information report has been lodged only for the purpose of further

 investigation arising out of the first information report lodged by

 the Vigilance Department. 11) The Investigating Officer appointed by the Central Bureau of

 Investigation being not superior in the rank to the police officers

 of the State Government who had investigated and submitted the

 report on 19th September, 2002, Section 36 of the Code

 whereupon reliance has been placed by the State is inapplicable

 inasmuch the expression `superior police officer' would mean an

 officer superior in the same hierarchy i.e. in the State Police and

 not an officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation. 12) The Notification issued by the State permitting investigation by

 the Central Bureau of Investigation into the offence pursuant to

 the order of the High Court must be held to be illegal as the High

 Court, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the

 Constitution of India could not have issued such a direction. In

 any event the finding of the High Court that there was no direction 17 to Central Bureau of Investigation to take over investigation is

 contrary to the record of the case, as such a direction had been

 issued by the High Court on 7th May, 2003, on the basis of which

 first information had been lodged by the Central Bureau of

 Investigation as per the order of the High Court. 13) The High Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of

 the Constitution of India in a public interest litigation or otherwise

 cannot issue such a direction particularly when the jurisdiction to

 monitor an investigation comes to an end when a charge sheet is

 filed in view of the decisions of this Court in Vineet Narain v.

 Union of India , [ (1998) 1 SCC 226 ]. ; State of Bihar v. P.P.

 Sharma , [ 1992 Sup. (1) SCC 222 ] ; Union of India v. Sushil

 Kumar Modi , [ (1998) 8 SCC 661 ] ; Rajiv Ranjan Singh `Lalan'

 v. Union of India , [ (2006) 6 SCC 613 ] ; Rajesh v. Ramdeo,

 [ (2001) 10 SCC 759 ] and Sasi Thomas v. State, [ (2006) 12

 SCC 421 ] ; the High Court having no constitutional power in this

 behalf which is vested only in the Court of Magistrate. 14) Appellant Nos. 2 and 3 in appeals arising out of SLP (Civil) Nos. 25226 - 25227 of 2005, having been cited witnesses could not

 have been made accused which is violative of Article 20 of the

 Constitution of India. 18 24. Mr. Ravi Shankar Prasad, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf

of the State of Punjab, supported the contentions of Mr. Rao. 25. Mr. P.P. Malhotra, learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing

for the Central Bureau of Investigation, on the other hand, would submit :- 26. A criminal proceeding is initiated on the basis of lodged F.I.R.

Commencement of investigation in the matter may be preceded by a

preliminary inquiry. The term `investigation' has been defined in Section 2(h) of the Code

to include all the proceedings under the Code for collection of evidence

conducted by a police officer or by any person (other than a Magistrate)

who is authorized by a Magistrate in this behalf. `Officer in charge of a police station' is defined in Section 2(o) of the

Code to mean `officer in charge of a police station' includes, when the

officer in charge of the police station is absent from the station-house or

unable from illness or other cause to perform his duties, the police officer

present at the station - house who is next in rank to such officer and is 20 above the rank of constable or, when, the State Government so directs, any

other police officer so present. Both the definitions are inclusive ones. They have expansive

meaning. The interpretation clause thus must receive a liberal

interpretation. 27. In terms of Section 3 of the Police Act, 1861, the State has the

ultimate say in the matter of superintendence of investigation. Section 36 of

the Code must be read harmoniously with the said provision. Therefore,

when Section 36 of the Code uses the words `in rank', it should be given a

purposive construction. Although a plain reading of the aforementioned

provision appears to be containing three ingredients, namely, (i) the

investigation must be carried out by an Officer in charge; (ii) which may be

supervised by an Officer superior in rank; and (iii) in respect of a local area

to which they are appointed, but in the context of the power of the State vis-

`-vis the provisions of Act, the same, in our opinion, deserves a wider

application. 21 An accused is entitled to a fair investigation. Fair investigation and

fair trial are concomitant to preservation of fundamental right of an accused

under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. But the State has a larger

obligation i.e. to maintain law and order, public order and preservation of

peace and harmony in the society. A victim of a crime, thus, is equally

entitled to a fair investigation. 28. When serious allegations were made against a former Minister of the

State, save and except the cases of political revenge amounting to malice, it

is for the State to entrust one or the other agency for the purpose of

investigating into the matter. 29. The State for achieving the said object at any point of time may

consider handing over of investigation to any other agency including a

central agency which has acquired specialization in such cases. In that backdrop, it is necessary to examine the rival contentions

raised before us. 22 30. Lodging of a First Information Report by CBI is governed by a

manual. It may hold a preliminary inquiry; it has been given the said power

in Chapter VI of the CBI Manual. A prima facie case may be held to have

been established only on completion of a preliminary enquiry. Whether the First Information Report lodged by the Vigilance

Department of the State and the one lodged by the CBI related to the same

cause of action is the question? 31. We would proceed on the basis that on the self same cause of action,

two First Information Reports would not be maintainable. A bare perusal of

the First Information Report dated 14.6.2002 lodged at the instance of the

Vigilance Officer shows that the same was general in nature. One of the

several allegations contained therein referred to was that irregularities have

been committed in the matter of recruitment of Panchayat Secretaries. No

detail, however, was furnished. All the persons involved were not named.

What types of irregularities have been committed were not stated. 32. The High Court while entertaining the writ petition formed a prima

facie opinion as regards the systematic commission of fraud. While

dismissing the writ petition filed by the selected candidates, it initiated a suo 23 motu public interest litigation. It was entitled to do so. The nature of

jurisdiction exercised by the High Court, as is well known, in a private

interest litigation and in a public interest litigation is different. Whereas in

the latter it is inquisitorial in nature, in the former it is adversorial. In a

public interest litigation, the court need not strictly follow the ordinary

procedure. It may not only appoint committees but also issue directions

upon the State from time to time. {See Indian Bank vs. Godhara Nagrik Co- op. Credit Society Ltd. & Anr. [2008 (7) SCALE 363] and Raju Ramsing

Vasave v. Mahesh Deorao Bhavpurkar and others , [2008 (12) SCALE

252]. 33. The process began by calling for a report from a responsible officer of

the State. The Financial Commissioner submitted a report. The High Court

in its order dated 31.10.2002, as noticed heretobefore, gave two options to

the State. The State itself came out with the suggestion that it would like to

get the scam investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation.

Indisputably, the Central Bureau of Investigation had shown an initial

reluctance to take over the investigation in view of lack of infrastructure but

the records of the High Court reveal that at a later stage it had shown

interest in the matter. However, in view of the dilly dallying tactics adopted 24 by the State in issuing appropriate notification in terms of Section 6 of the

Act, the High Court expected the State to issue a notification at an early

date, by an order dated 30.4.2003. The State concededly exercised the said

power. 34. In an ordinary case, we might have accepted the submission of Mr.

Rao that the High Court should not direct Central Bureau of Investigation to

investigate into a particular offence. The offence, however, is not ordinary

in nature. It involved investigation into the allegations of commission of

fraud in a systematic manner. It had a wide ramification as a former

Minister of the State is said to be involved. 35. This Court in Vineet Narain (supra) held: In P.P. Sharma, IAS and another (supra) this Court held: 33. The above order was brought to the notice of
 the Patna High Court but the High Court refused
 to be persuaded to adopt the same course. We are
 of the considered view that at a stage when the
 police report under Section 173 CrPC has been
 forwarded to the Magistrate after completion of
 the investigation and the material collected by the
 Investigating Officer is under the gaze of judicial
 scrutiny, the High Court would do well to
 discipline itself not to undertake quashing
 proceedings at that stage in exercise of its inherent
 jurisdiction. We could have set aside the High
 Court judgment on this ground alone but elaborate
 argument having been addressed by the learned
 counsel for the parties we thought it proper to deal
 with all the aspects of the case." In Sushil Kumar Modi , (supra), it was opined :- [See also Rajiv Ranjan Singh `Lalan' and Sasi Thomas (supra) ]. 36. The question as to whether the Court can order C.B.I. to investigate a

cognizable offence in a State without the consent of the State Government

stands referred to a larger Bench in State of W.B. v. Committee for

Protection of Democratic Rights W.B. and others, [(2006) 12 SCC 534], but

then concededly the law as it stands recognizes such a power in the High

Court. 37. It was not a case where investigation could be carried out in a slip-

shod manner. The first FIR was lodged on 14.06.2002 as against

individuals. It referred to the acts of omissions and commissions of the

accused named therein. During his tenure as a former Minister,

recruitments of various posts of Tax Collectors, Patwaris, Peons, Clerks 28 were allegedly made by him by illegal means i.e. by taking heavy amount of

money as bribe. Even those who were not eligible were allegedly selected.

Allegations were also made in regard to filling up of the backlog vacancies

in handicap category of Gram Sewaks. Appellant is said to have accepted

heavy amount as bribe for transfers, appointments and promotions and, thus,

accumulated movable and immovable assets which were said to be

disproportionate to his known sources of income. 38. The High Court, however, was concerned only with appointment of

Panchayat Secretaries. Public interest litigation was confined to such

appointments only. In regard thereto, the only allegation which was made

was that he got his favourites appointed who did not fulfill the

qualifications, such as, under-aged person, person possessing less

qualification, wherefor allegedly marks on the answer sheets were tempered

and candidature of suitable candidates was ignored. 39. The Finance Commissioner, of course, had submitted a report earlier,

i.e., on 4.09.2001. It refers to a large number of irregularities which were

found out by the Committee. According to the Committee, not only 29 criminal action should be initiated but also departmental action should be

taken against a large number of officers. 40. The second FIR lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI),

however, was on a wider canvass. It was lodged after holding a detailed

preliminary inquiry. CBI collected a large number of materials. It had also

recorded the statements of a large number of persons. Whereas the first FIR

dated 14.06.2002, thus, contained the misdeeds of individuals, the second

one depicts a crime committed in course of selection process of Panchayat

Secretaries involving a large number of officers. The High Court was not concerned with individual acts. It was

concerned with a scam involving appointment of Panchayat Secretaries. 41. The second FIR dated 26.06.2003 enumerates as many as fifteen

categories of irregularities committed by various persons involved in the

said selection process. Responsibility has not only been fixed upon the

appellant but also upon Shri Mandeep Singh, Shri C.L. Premmy, Shri J.S.

Kesar, Shri Joginder Singh as also the then Additional Deputy

Commissioners of Bhatinda, Ropar and Muktsar. The number of accused 30 who were involved as per preliminary report of the CBI were as many as

fourteen. The first FIR pointed out offences under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 120B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 13(1)(d)(e) and 13(2) of the

Prevention of Corruption Act but no allegation of conspiracy was made. In

the second FIR dated 26.06.2003, the persons involved were not only the

then Minister but also the then Director, the then Division Deputy Director,

the then Deputy Directors, the then Additional Deputy Commissioners, the

then Block Development Officers, etc. 42. It is in the aforementioned factual backdrop the order of the High

Court dated 31.10.2002 assumes significance. By reason of the said order,

the State Government was given two options, viz.: 43. It is in the aforementioned situation the State Government had taken a

decision to hand over the investigation of the scandal involving selection of

Panchayat Secretaries to the CBI. 44. An offence committed by an individual or two and an offence

disclosed in a scandal involving a large number of officers from the lowest

category to the highest category is distinct and different. In the first FIR

although the provision of Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code was

mentioned, no allegation of conspiracy had been made. As indicated

hereinbefore, it centered round a large number of acts of omissions and

commissions on the part of the appellant Kahlon alone, as would be evident

from the following: 45. In the aforementioned circumstances, the decision of this Court in Ram Lal Narang v. State (Delhi Administration ) [(1979) 2 SCC 322]

assumes significance. This Court therein was concerned with two FIRs; 32 both lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation. The first one contained

allegations against two persons, viz., Malik and Mehra under Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code read with Sections 406 and 420 thereof wherein

the CBI filed a chargesheet. Later on, however, some subsequent events

emerged resulting in lodging the FIR not only against Malik and Mehra but

also against Narang and his two brothers. This Court opined: 46. It may be true that in both the FIRs Kahlon was named. He was

considered to be the prime accused. But, it is one thing to say that he acted

in his individual capacity and it is another thing to say that he conspired 34 with a large number of persons to facilitate commission of crime by him as a

result whereof all of them had made unlawful gains. 47. Even in Ram Lal Narang (supra), we have seen that two of the

accused, viz., Mehra and Malik, were common. When two conspiracies are

alleged; one is larger than the other, there may be some common factors but

the nature of offence would differ. An offence committed would not be

judged by mere mentioning of the sections but the mode and manner in

which the same was committed as also the nature thereof. 48. Strong reliance has been placed by Mr. Rao on T.T. Antony (supra)

and Kari Choudhary (supra). In T.T. Antony (supra), the first FIR was lodged in 1994; another FIR

was lodged three years thereafter on the self-same cause of action. Ram Lal

Narang (supra) in the said fact-situation was distinguished on facts, opining: In Kari Choudhary (supra), the mother-in-law of the deceased Sugnia

Devi lodged an FIR that some persons from outside had entered into her

bedroom and murdered her by strangulation. During the process of

investigation, it was found that the murder took place in a manner totally

different from the version furnished in the FIR. According to the

investigating officer, the murder was committed pursuant to a conspiracy

hatched by her mother-in-law and her other daughters-in-law. A final report

was sent. However, another FIR was lodged. The first FIR was lodged on

27.06.1988 and the second FIR was lodged in 30.11.1988. The validity of

the first FIR was in question. In that case, another chargesheet was filed on

31.03.2000. This Court held: Kari Choudhary (supra) should be read with Ram Lal Narang (supra). In State of A.P. v. A.S. Peter [(2008) 2 SCC 383], this Court held: 17. It is not a case where investigation was carried
 out in relation to a separate conspiracy. As
 allegations had been made against the officer of a
 local police station in regard to the mode and
 manner in which investigation was carried out, a
 further investigation was directed. The court was
 informed thereabout. Although, no express
 permission was granted, but evidently, such a
 permission was granted by necessary implication
 as further proceeding was stayed by the learned
 Magistrate. It is also not a case where two charge-
 sheets were filed before two different courts. The
 court designated to deal with the matters wherein
 investigation had been carried out by CID, is
 located at Chittoor. It is in the aforementioned
 situation, the Sessions Judge transferred the case
 pending in the Tirupati Court to the Designated
 Court at Chittoor. Cognizance of further offence
 had also been taken by the Chittoor Court." 49. The instant case, in our opinion, stands on a better footing vis-`-vis Ram Lal Narang (supra) in the sense that whereas the first FIR did not make

any allegation as regards existence of a conspiracy, the second FIR did. The

canvass of two FIRs is absolutely different. The numbers of accused in both

the FIRs are also different. 50. We must also bear in mind the distinction between crime committed

by an individual or a group of persons vis-`-vis a scam which means "to get 38 money or property from, another, under false pretences, by gaining the

confidence of the victim, also includes; swindle; defraud". [See Advanced

Law Lexicon, 3rd edition, 2005, page 4237] 51. We may also notice that in H.N. Rishbud and Inder Singh v. The State

of Delhi [1955 (1) SCR 1150] the appellant Rishbud was an Assistant

Development Officer and another appellant Inder Singh was the Assistant

Project Section Officer. A number of criminal proceedings were pending

against them. The cases against them were that they along with some others

entered into criminal conspiracies to obtain for themselves or for others iron

and steel materials in the name of certain bogus firms and that they actually

obtained quota certificates, on the strength of which some of the members

of the conspiracy took delivery of quantities of iron and steel from the

stock-holders of those articles. They were prosecuted under Sections 120B and 420 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 7 of the Essential Supplies

(Temporary Powers) Act, 1947. The public servants were also charged with Section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947. Whereas investigations in respect of Section 5(2) of the Prevention of

Corruption Act were required to be made by a police officer not below the 39 rank of a Deputy Superintendent of Police without the order of a Magistrate

of the First Class, investigations under other provisions were not. Therein,

the FIRs were lodged in April and June, 1949 but permission for

investigation as against the public servants by a police officer below the

rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police was given in March and April,

1951. The question which arose for consideration therein was whether the

chargesheets filed in those cases were illegal. This Court examined the

scheme of the Code to hold :- 52. Yet again, in Upkar Singh v. Ved Prakash and Others [(2004) 13 SCC

292], a Three-Judge Bench of this Court held: 53. If, in a situation of this nature, lodging of the second FIR was not

impermissible in law, the main plank of submission of Mr. Rao that whereas

in terms of Section 173(8) of the Code of Criminal Procedure further

investigation is permissible, re-investigation is not, takes a back seat. 54. The question can be considered from another angle. If the State has

the ultimate supervisory jurisdiction over an investigation for an offence

and if it intends to hand over a further investigation even after filing of the

chargesheet, it may do so. However, it appears from the records that those

officers including the Chief Secretary who were dealing with the public

interest litigation were not aware that the chargesheet had been filed in the

earlier case. The State Government and the High Court had proceeded on

the basis that the investigation was to be handed over to the CBI. The High

Court came to know thereof only when an application for modification was

filed by the appellants therein. It may be true that the High Court proceeded

on the basis that although the CBI had lodged the FIR, the same would be

deemed to have been lodged only for the purpose of carrying out further 42 investigation, but, in our opinion, for the views we have taken, its

conclusions are correct. 55. The High Court in this case was not monitoring any investigation. It

only desired that the investigation should be carried out by an independent

agency. Its anxiety, as is evident from the order dated 3.04.2002, was to see

that the officers of the State do not get away. If that be so, the submission

of Mr. Rao that the monitoring of an investigation comes to an end after the

chargesheet is filed, as has been held by this Court in Vineet Narain (supra)

and M.C. Mehta (Taj Corridor Scam) v. Union of India and Others [(2007)

1 SCC 110], loses all significance. 56. Moreover, it was not a case where the High Court had assumed a

jurisdiction in regard to the same offence in respect whereof the Special

Judge had taken cognizance pursuant to the chargesheet filed. The

chargesheet was not filed in the FIR which was lodged on the intervention

of the High Court. 43 As the offences were distinct and different, the High Court never

assumed the jurisdiction of the Special Judge to direct reinvestigation as

was urged or otherwise. 57. The Act is a special statute. By reason of the said enactment, the CBI

was constituted. In relation to the matter which were to come within the

purview thereof, the CBI could exercise its jurisdiction. The law and order,

however, being a State subject, the CBI derives jurisdiction only when a

consent therefor is given by the statute. It is, however, now beyond any

controversy that the High Court and this Court also direct investigation by

the CBI. Our attention has been drawn to the provisions of the CBI Manual,

from a perusal whereof it appears that the Director, CBI exercises his power

of superintendence in respect of the matters enumerated in Chapter VI of the

CBI Manual which includes reference by the State and/ or reference by the

High Courts and this Court as also the registration thereof. The reference

thereof may be received from the following: The CBI Manual having been framed by the Union of India,

evidently, it has accepted that reference for investigation to the CBI may be

made either by this Court or by the High Court. 58. Thus, even assuming that reference had been made by the State

Government at the instance of the High Court, the same by itself would not

render the investigation carried out by it to be wholly illegal and without

jurisdiction as assuming that the reference had been made by the High Court

in exercise of its power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India in a

public interest litigation, the same would also be valid. 59. The second FIR, in our opinion, would be maintainable not only

because there were different versions but when new discovery is made on

factual foundations. Discoveries may be made by the police authorities at a

subsequent stage. Discovery about a larger conspiracy can also surface in

another proceeding, as for example, in a case of this nature. If the police

authorities did not make a fair investigation and left out conspiracy aspect

of the matter from the purview of its investigation, in our opinion, as and 45 when the same surfaced, it was open to the State and/ or the High Court to

direct investigation in respect of an offence which is distinct and separate

from the one for which the FIR had already been lodged. 60. An order of further investigation in terms of Section 173 (8) of the

Code by the State in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 36 thereof

stands on a different footing. The power of the investigating officer to make

further investigation in exercise of its statutory jurisdiction under Section

173(8) of the Code and at the instance of the State having regard to Section

36 thereof read with Section 3 of the Police Act, 1861 should be considered

in different contexts. Section 173(8) of the Code is an enabling provision.

Only when cognizance of an offence is taken, the learned Magistrate may

have some say. But, the restriction imposed by judicial legislation is merely

for the purpose of upholding the independence and impartiality of the

judiciary. It is one thing to say that the court will have supervisory

jurisdiction to ensure a fair investigation, as has been observed by a Bench

of this Court in Sakiri Vasu v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others [(2008) 2

SCC 409], correctness whereof is open to question, but it is another thing to

say that the investigating officer will have no jurisdiction whatsoever to 46 make any further investigation without the express permission of the

Magistrate. The ratio laid down in A.S. Peter (supra) (wherein one of us was a

member), to which reliance has been placed by Mr. Rao should be

considered from that angle. 61. Contention raised that the investigating officer appointed by the CBI

would not be a superior officer in rank to the police officer of the State

Government in terms of Section 36 of the Code of Criminal Procedure may

not detain us in view of our findings aforementioned. We may, however, observe that the State as in terms of the provisions

of the Code and the Act exercises two different and distinct jurisdictions.

The power of supervision over investigation vested in the State in terms of Section 3 of the Police Act, 1861 is absolute. It may in a given case having

regard to the nature and complexity of the offence may also direct that

further investigation in the matter may be carried out by a central agency.

The State in terms of the special statute, viz., the Act can always request the

CBI to make an investigation / further investigation. The said power of the 47 State is wholly unrestricted by Section 36 of the Act or otherwise. As a

logical corollary if while making preliminary inquiry pursuant to the

notification issued by the State in terms of Section 6 of the Act, the CBI

comes to know of commission of other and further offence involving a

larger conspiracy which required prosecution against a large number of

persons who had not been proceeded against at all by the local police

officers, we are of the opinion that even lodging of second FIR would not be

a bar. 62. If lodging of the second FIR is legally permissible, only because the

same has been done at the instance of the High Court could not lead this

Court to arrive at a conclusion that its direction in that behalf was wholly

without jurisdiction. It will bear repetition to state that law as it stands

permits the High Court and this Court to direct investigation made by the

CBI. As indicated hereinbefore, it is also recognised by the Central

Government, as would appear from the provisions of the CBI Manual

referred to hereinbefore. 63. We must, however, not lose sight of the fact that before the High

Court it was the State Government who stated that it would like to get the 48 scam investigated by the CBI. The direction was issued only in view of the

said offer and not de'hors the same. 64. For the reasons aforementioned, we do not find any merit in these

appeals. We would, however, in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, like to issue some directions. In view of the fact that a chargesheet has been filed on the basis of the

first FIR and it is stated that two witnesses had also been examined, we

would direct the learned Trial Judge to segregate that portion of the trial

which has any bearing with the scam relating to the appointment of the

Panchayat Secretaries. Appellants, in the other appeals, who had been cited

as witnesses therein should not be allowed to be examined except with their

consent. All the materials collected by the investigating officer pertaining

to the said scam shall be transferred to the Court of Sub-Judge dealing with

the CBI matters forthwith so as to enable it to hear that part of the case

either independently or together with the chargesheet which may be

submitted by the CBI before it. These directions are issued for doing 49 complete justice to the parties and in terms of the decision of this Court in Divine Retreat Centre v. State of Kerala and Others [(2008) 3 SCC 542],

whereupon Mr. Rao himself placed strong reliance. 65. As the investigation is complete, the CBI may file chargesheet before

a court having appropriate jurisdiction. 66. The appeals are dismissed with aforementioned directions. ...............................J.
 [S.B. Sinha]

 ................................J.
 [Aftab Alam]
New Delhi; October 22, 2008 50