This criminal revision petition is filed

challenging the judgment and order of conviction

dated 20.09.2006 passed by the II Addl. Civil Judge

(Jr.Dn.) and JMFC, Bhadravathi in CC No.5151/2002

confirmed by the Presiding Officer, Fast Track Court,

Bhadravathi in Crl. Appeal No.96/2006 whereby the

revision petitioners were found guilty of the offence

under Section 380 of IPC and sentenced them to

undergo RI for two years. 2. The brief facts of the case are as under: 3. After hearing the prosecutor and the

defence counsel the trial Court framed the charges for

the offences under Sections 380 and 411 of IPC

against the accused, the accused pleaded not guilty

for the aforesaid offences. 4. Prosecution examined PWs.1 to 10, marked

Exs.P1 to 11 and MOs. 1 to 14 to substantiate the

charges leveled against the petitioners and other

accused. 5. Considering the evidence of prosecution

witnesses and relying on Ex.P3-Mahazar and seizure

of stationary articles, the trial Court found the

petitioners guilty of the offence under Section 380 IPC. Aggrieved by the order of conviction and 5 sentence, the petitioners filed a Criminal appeal

No.96/2006 before the Sessions Judge, Fast Track

Court, Bhadravathi. The learned Sessions Judge

confirmed the judgment of the trial Court. Therefore

the petitioners filed this revision petition challenging

their conviction for the offence under Section 380 of

IPC. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioners

submitted that the complaint filed by PW1 is against

the unknown offenders and subsequently on

10.08.2002 the police have apprehended the

petitioners at 2.15 a.m. and seized MOs.1 to 14 under

the cover of Mahazar attested by PWs.4 and 5. In

order to prove the seizer of MOs.1 to 14 from the

possession of petitioners the prosecution examined

PWs.4, 5, 8 and 10. Out of them PWs.4 and 5 are the

panch witnesses, PW8 is Head Constable of OTPS,

Bhadravathi, PW10 is the Police Sub Inspector Old

Town Police Station. During trial, PWs.4 and 5 who 6 acted as panch witnesses did not support to the

prosecution case. PWs.8 and 10 are admittedly police

officers. The trial Court found discrepancy in the

evidence of PWs.8 and 10 and some material aspects

about the arrest and the seizure of the articles.

However, the trial Court and the appellate Court

found the discrepancy pointed by the defence are

minor in nature and they cannot discredited the

evidence of PWs.8 and 10 and relying on the evidence

of PWs.8 and 10, the trial Court as well as the

appellate Court found the petitioners guilty of the

offence under Section 380 IPC and sentenced them to

undergo RI for a period of 2 years. 7. PWs.4 and 5 who were independent

witnesses acted as panchs at the time of

apprehension of A1 and A2 and seizure of MOs.1 to

14 stated in their evidence that, on 9.8.02 at about

2.30 p.m. when they were standing near Ruby Store

at Chitradurga, the police called them to assist in 7 drawing the Mahazar at that time police seized two

boxes under Ex.P3-Mahazar, but they do not know

from whom those two boxes were seized and the

contents of the said boxes. The trial Court and

appellate Court observed that PWs.4 and 5 did not see

the accused and the contents of the boxes seized. The

very presence of PWs.4 and 5 at the time of

preparation of Ex.P3-mahazar was accepted and

relying on the evidence of the panch witnesses and

evidence of PWs.8 and 10, the trial Court convicted

the petitioners. 8. Ex.P1-complaint is lodged by PW.1 against

the unknown offenders and ten days after the incident

the police apprehended the accused and said to have

been seized MOs.1 to 14 under the cover of Ex.P3-

Mahazar attested by PWs.3 and 4. At this stage it is

relevant to note the ingredients of Section 380 of IPC

which reads thus: 9. Thus, the above section indicates the

offence of theft should have committed in the

building, tent or vessel which is used as a human

dwelling or used for the custody of the property.

Admittedly there are no eyewitness to the incident.

PW1 or PW3 have not stated anything about the

presence and participation of the petitioners in the

crime. The prosecution attempted to prove the

offence under Section 380 of IPC by producing the

evidence of PWs.3, 4, 5, 8 and 10 alleging that PWs.8

and 10 apprehended the petitioners when they were

in possession of two boxes. Admittedly, the offence 9 took place on the intervening night i.e. on

28/29.07.2002. It is highly improbable for the

persons who committed the offence of theft in the

building and carrying the same for about 10 days and

moving on the road. PWs.4 and 5 who are

independent witnesses examined by the prosecution

stated that, they have not seen the petitioners at the

time of seizure of the two boxes. They have clearly

stated in their evidence that, they do not know from

whom the two boxes were seized by the police and

also they do not see contents of the boxes said to have

been seized by the police. Therefore, the trial Court

and the appellate Court are not justified in relying the

evidence of PWs.4 and 5 on the ground that they

identified their signatures in Ex.P3-Mahazar. PW1 in

his evidence has stated that, he has produced the

invoices of the articles purchased and kept by him in

the shop and they were before the police but the said

invoices were not marked. Even at the time of 10 evidence, PW1 had not seen the articles kept inside

the boxes. Learned counsel for the petitioners

submitted that, PW3 who opened the rolling shutter

was suspected in this case and he was apprehended

later at the instance of PW1 he was let of and the

police filed a false case against the petitioners though

nothing was seized from them. 10. When there is no direct evidence to prove

that the accused are responsible for the theft in the

shop of PW1, the ingredients of Section 380 are not

proved at the most the petitioners convicted for the

offence under Section 411 of IPC for possession of

stolen property. The prosecution failed to prove that

the accused are having possession of the stolen

property knowing fully well that the property is stolen

property. The trial Court and the learned Sessions

Judge convicted the accused for the offence under Section 380 IPC without any evidence. The

prosecution could not have even proved the offence 11 under Section 411 of IPC by producing acceptable and

convincing evidence. The evidence of PWs.4 and 5

who are the independent witnesses state that, they

did not know from whom the two boxes were seized by

the police. The prosecution has not made out any

case for the offence under Section 411 of IPC against

the petitioners. MOs.1 to 14 said to have been seized

by the police from the possession of petitioners 1 and

2 are available any where and there are no specific

identification marks to show that they belong to PW1.

PW1 has not produced any kind of invoices to prove

that MOs.1 to 14 kept in the shop were stolen by

some body. Considering the entire evidence on record

particularly the evidence of PWs.4 and 5 who are the

independent witnesses to the incident, this Court is of

the view that, the prosecution failed to establish the

offence under Section 380 of IPC against the

petitioners. Consequently the judgment and order of 12 conviction passed by the trial Court, confirmed by the

Sessions Court, is hereby set aside. Criminal Revision Petition is allowed. Sd/- JUDGE

Sbs*