1. The present application is filed seeking regular bail in FIR
 No. 351/2024 dated 20.08.2024, registered at Police Station
 Special Cell, for offences under Sections 316(2)/318(4)/61(2)/3(5)
 of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 ('BNS') and Section 71 of
 the Information Technology Act, 2000 (' IT Act '). 2. Briefly stated, the present FIR was registered on a
 complaint made by one Vijay Singh alleging that he came across
 various videos of Youtubers promoting a mobile application-
 HIBOX. The said app was represented to provide opportunities to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:13.12.2025 BAIL APPLN. 3122/2025 Page 1 of 9 21:05:22 purchase several mystery boxes ranging from ₹300/- to ₹1 lakh,
 and if the purchaser was not satisfied with the items, the box
 could be sold back to HIBOX with a guaranteed interest of 1%
 on the sale. Allegedly, the amount of sale and interest was to be
 put on hold for 24 hours and it was guaranteed by the social
 media influencers that investors will get 1% daily profits to 90%
 monthly interest by investing in the HIBOX application. Lured
 by the prospect of such returns, the complainant invested
 ₹6,95,800/- between April, 2024 and 03.08.2024, and the
 payments were routed through Sutrulla Xpress Pvt. Ltd. OPC
 (the applicant is a Director in the said company). At the end of
 July, 2024, HIBOX allegedly launched several new schemes with
 inflated monthly profits, whereafter the application stopped
 withdrawal of any money. 3. When the grievance was intimated to HIBOX employees,
 they chalked the delay to be on account of TDS issues as well as
 some issues in server. Pursuant to registration of the FIR, the
 complainant further provided a list of 28 other victims.
 Furthermore, 500 complaints have been received at the office of
 IFSO/ Special Cell, Dwarka from other districts in this regard
 and it claimed that there are about 20000 victims all over India in
 this scam. 4. During investigation, it was found that the rent agreement
 of the office of HIBOX was executed between HIBOX / Sutrulla
 Xpress Private Ltd OPC and Incuspaze, and the applicant had
 submitted his KYC documents to execute the rend agreement on Signature Not Verifiedbehalf of HIBOX. It was also found that all the bank accounts of Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:13.12.2025 BAIL APPLN. 3122/2025 Page 2 of 9 21:05:22 HIBOX were registered in the name of Sutrulla Xpress Private
 Ltd OPC and the applicant was an authorised signatory in the
 same. Virtual accounts opened with Easebuzz and PhonePe
 Payment Gateway in the name of Sutrulla Xpress Private Ltd
 OPC and the applicant had submitted his KYC documents for the
 same. 5. It was also found that an amount of ₹28 lakhs
 approximately was transferred from the bank account of HIBOX
 to the bank account registered in the name of the applicant.
 Money was siphoned from the bank accounts of HIBOX to
 multiple bank accounts and withdrawn in cash. 6. Applicant was arrested on 24.08.2024 and is in custody
 since then. 7. The learned senior counsel for the applicant submits that
 the applicant is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the
 present case. 8. She submits that the applicant is not the beneficiary of the
 cheated amount and he had no knowledge of the alleged
 transactions in the account. She submits that the applicant is a
 victim himself as he had merely signed the bank account opening
 forms as directed by the accused Anil K Joseph and given the
 accounts of his company to the main accused persons under the
 mistaken belief that his company will ultimately be bought by the
 other accused. 9. She submits that as per the record, the mobile number
 mentioned in the bank account statement is not that of the Signature Not Verifiedapplicant and admittedly, he made no inducements to either the Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:13.12.2025 BAIL APPLN. 3122/2025 Page 3 of 9 21:05:22 victims or the Youtubers for investing or promoting HIBOX. She
 submits that the influencers were recruited by the accused Dhoni
 and the kingpin of the entire scam was the accused Sparsh
 instead. 10. She submits that substantial refunds have been made to the
 victims and the bank accounts of the company have also been
 frozen. She submits that the applicant had duly joined and
 cooperated with the investigation. She submits that the applicant
 has been in custody since 24.09.2024 and he cannot be made to
 suffer the entire period of trial in custody. She stresses that the
 charge sheet filed by the prosecution is incomplete as the same
 mentions that the investigation is still ongoing. 11. She further submits that the applicant has already been
 enlarged in a similar case related to HIBOX by the Faridabad
 Court on account of the aforesaid factors, and he is entitled to
 relief in the present case as well. 12. Per contra, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for
 the State opposes the grant of bail to the applicant. He submits
 that multiple victims have been duped in the present case and
 specific allegations have been levelled against the applicant in
 regard to his complicity in the offence. He further submits that it
 has not been denied that the applicant is the signatory in the
 concerned accounts. 13. I have heard the counsel and perused the record. 14. It is settled law that the Court, while considering the
 application for grant of bail, has to keep certain factors in mind, Signature Not Verifiedsuch as, whether there is a prima facie case or reasonable ground Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:13.12.2025 BAIL APPLN. 3122/2025 Page 4 of 9 21:05:22 to believe that the accused has committed the offence;
 circumstances which are peculiar to the accused; likelihood of
 the offence being repeated; the nature and gravity of the
 accusation; severity of the punishment in the event of conviction;
 the danger of the accused absconding or fleeing if released on
 bail; reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being threatened;
 etc. 15. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused persons in
 connivance with each other sought to dupe thousands of innocent
 victims through social media influencers into investing in
 HIBOX Application on the assurance of high returns, and
 thereafter stopped withdrawal of money from the App. 16. The applicant is alleged to have been part of the
 conspiracy and he is a Director of the company in whose bank
 accounts the cheated sum was received. It is also stressed that the
 applicant is the authorised signatory of the concerned accounts
 and some amount was siphoned off in the applicant's savings
 account as well. 17. It is argued on behalf of the applicant that he was not
 operating the concerned bank accounts and he had merely opened
 the bank accounts at the instance of the accused Anil. It is
 stressed that the mobile number in the account statement is not
 that of the applicant. The counsel for the applicant has also taken
 this Court through the statements of some of the influencers to
 emphasise that they were not engaged by the applicant. 18. While the defence of the applicant and his involvement in Signature Not Verifiedthe crime would be tested during the trial, it is undisputed that Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:13.12.2025 BAIL APPLN. 3122/2025 Page 5 of 9 21:05:22 compelled by the arguments of the applicant in regard to him
 having no knowledge of the transactions as his number is not
 reflected on the account statement, the learned JFMC, Faridabad
 has already admitted the applicant on bail on 13.03.2025 in FIR
 No. 125/2024 which was registered at PS Cyber Crime, NIT,
 Faridabad, on a complaint by one of the investors in relation to
 HIBOX. 19. The delay in trial is also a relevant aspect which requires
 consideration. Pertinently, the applicant is charge sheeted for a
 number of offences, including Section 318(4) of the BNS, which
 carries the maximum punishment of seven years. The applicant
 has already spent more than fourteen months in custody.
 Although the chargesheet has been filed, admittedly, the
 investigation is still underway. In such circumstances,
 considering the huge number of victims and extent of the scam, it
 appears unlikely that a timely trial will be possible. 20. While it cannot be denied that the offence alleged against
 the applicant is serious in nature, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the
 case of Javed Gulam Nabi Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra and
 Another : Crl.A.2787/2024 had reiterated that bail cannot be
 withheld as a punishment and observed as under: 21. The object of jail is to secure the appearance of the
 accused during the trial. The object is neither punitive nor
 preventive and the deprivation of liberty has been considered as a
 punishment. 22. It is stated that the applicant has an old and ailing mother
 to take care of. The applicant is also stated to have joined
 investigation prior to arrest and he is unlikely to abscond. 23. Although it is well-settled that economic offences of such
 a magnitude are a class apart, however, considering the delay in
 trial as well as bail granted by the Faridabad Court, this Court is
 of the opinion that the applicant has made out a prima facie case
 for grant of bail. 24. However, appropriate conditions ought to be imposed to
 allay any apprehension of the applicant evading trial or
 intimidating the witnesses. 25. The applicant is, therefore, directed to be released on bail
 (if not in custody in any other case) on furnishing a personal
 bond for a sum of ₹1,00,000/- with two sureties of the like
 amount, subject to the satisfaction of the learned Trial Court, on
 the following conditions: 26. In the event of there being any FIR/ DD entry / complaint
 lodged against the applicant, it would be open to the respondent
 to seek redressal by filing an application seeking cancellation of
 bail. 27. It is clarified that any observations made in the present
 order are for the purpose of deciding the present bail application
 and should not influence the outcome of the trial and also not be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:13.12.2025 BAIL APPLN. 3122/2025 Page 8 of 9 21:05:22 taken as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 28. The bail application is allowed in the aforementioned
 terms. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 DECEMBER 12, 2025
 "SS"