1. The petitioner incarcerated in the FIR captioned above had come up before this
Court under Section 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, [BNSS], seeking
regular bail. 2. In paragraph 18 of the bail petition, the accused declares that he has no criminal
antecedents. 3. The facts and allegations are taken from the translated copy of the FIR attached to
the bail petition, which reads as follows: 4. The petitioner's counsel argued that petitioner has not been named in the FIR and
he has been implicated on the disclosure statement of co-accused. He further states that
the petitioner is in custody since 23.05.2024 and no other case is pending against him.
Counsel further prays for bail by imposing any stringent conditions and contends that
further pre-trial incarceration would cause an irreversible injustice to the petitioner and
their family. 5. The State's counsel opposes bail and refers to the reply. 6. It would be appropriate to refer to the following portions of the reply, which read
as follows: REASONING: 7. Petitioner has cheated the complainant and there is direct evidence against the
petitioner, therefore he is not entitled to bail. 8. The petitioner took advantage of the breaches, vulnerabilities, and weaknesses in
the system that the Executive has put in place. Further, the lack of enforcement and
absence of meritocracy boldened the petitioner and the gang members to dupe the simple
and gullible people. 9. A perusal of the bail petition and the documents attached primafacie points
towards the petitioner's involvement and does not make out a case for bail. 10. Given the above, the petitioner is not entitled to bail. The impact of crime would
not justify bail. Any further discussions will likely prejudice the petitioner; this court
refrains from doing so. 11. The petitioner's custody of around 09 months cannot be termed prolonged, given
the minimum sentence prescribed for the offense. 12. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
case's merits nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 13. Petition dismissed. All pending applications, if any, are disposed of. (ANOOP CHITKARA)
 JUDGE
15.02.2025
anju rani

Whether speaking/reasoned: Yes
Whether reportable: No. 4 4 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 19-02-2025 23:37:03 :::