1. Whether reporters of local newspapers be
allowed to see the judgment? 2.     
To be referred to the Reporter or not? JUSTICE J.D. KAPOOR, PRESIDENT (ORAL) 

 

  

 

 Complainant
No.1 was formed in the year 1954 as a Private Limited Company. Complainant No.2 Shri P.C. Bhandari and Smt.
Kamla Bhandari are respectively the Managing Director and Director of the
complainant No.1. The complainants were
engaged in the export of certain varieties of canvass goods but in view of the
advanced age of the Directors, the complainants drastically cut down the pace
of their business activity. In the year
1976 the complainants started investing in Unit Scheme 64, generally known as
U.S. 64 believing it to be a safe investment and over the years gradually
purchased 1,26,251 units reposing complete faith in the popular belief,
fostered by the Government, that the investment in Unit Trust was not only a
safe but also the most beneficial investment. 2. In May 2001 the complainants applied
for redemption of all their units before the target date i.e. 31-5-2001 and
consequently passed a resolution dated 21-5-2001 to that effect. The complainants submitted the application
forms duly furnished with all the required information in the office of OP No.2
on 28-05-2001 together with all unit certificates. The entries made in the application form were
closely checked by the receiving official and likewise the unit certificates
were also examined closely and their numbers tallied and everything was found
in order, the official concerned accepted them and issued a receipt. 3. However,
the complainants were taken completely by surprise when all the unit
certificates submitted in four sets were returned by OP No.2 in the second week
of June, 2001 under a covering letter dated 11.6..2001 which stated that the
complainants service request for repurchase could not be carried out as the
Resolution passed by them to repurchase was required. In the letter the
complainants were asked to resubmit the papers after 30.6.2001 on account of
bank closing of US-64 scheme. (A true copy of aforesaid letter dated
11.6.2001 is Annexure-2. Complainant has
prayed for the following reliefs:- 4. According to the
complainants, they are entitled for redemption of the units at May,2001 rate as
the total value whereof is Rs.11,92,000/-. 5. While justifying its
action in not redeeming the units on 25.5.2001 at the rate of Rs.14.15 per
units, the OPs have come up with following version:- 6. In support of his contention that
redemption of the units purchased by the company is to be made by production of
resolution to be passed by the company, the counsel for the OP cited the case
Dale & Cartrington Invt Pvt Ltd. 2005(1)SCC 212. The observations made by
the Supreme Court on the point in question is as under:- 7. While
refuting the contention of the counsel for the OPs that the certificates were
not redeemed in the absence of resolution the complainant has relied upon the document
Annexure-II whereby they have submitted the Unit Certificates for repurchase
duly signed and witnessed with the request to issue the cheque in favour of
Indian Overseas Bank Account No. 972 in the name of the company and not in the
name of a particular director and this would have completely ruled out the
possibility of any act on the part of the Director to redeem the money of the
company in her favour by clandestine manner. The account number referred was the account of the company and complainant
No.2 Shri P.C. Bhandari, the Managing Director of the company. 8. From the record it appears that
resolution was passed by the company a day before the application was made for
redemption. It does not mean that
complainants could not have obtained the redemption value at the relevant time. Even if the resolution would not have been
filed along with the redemption application, the complainants had asked for the
cheque to be issued in favour of the company and not in favour of the applying
director. 9. In our view the OP is raising a feeble
defence particularly in view of the closure of its business in the month of
June and smearing of its reputation on account of unearthing a huge scam with
which the consumers were not concerned at all. Such consumers are only concerned with the repurchase of the units at
the redemption value prevalent at the relevant time. All subsequent and supervening actions were
irrelevant. Consumer is also not
concerned with the mismanagement, embezzlement of the fund of the company. If the company exists it cannot escape from
the liability of redeeming the units as per existing laws. 10. In our view the moment the OP had
received application for redemption of the units in favour of the company by
way of issuing cheque the OP should have been redeemed it at the value
prevalent in the month of May. 11. The contention of the counsel for the OP
that special re-purchase scheme of August 2001 stipulated Rs. 10/- for 3000
units cannot come to the rescue of the OP as the application for redemption was
made in May, 2001 and therefore any event that took place thereafter except the
closure of the business in the month of June cannot operate adversely to the
interest of the consumer. 12. However, in view of the peculiar
circumstances of the case that the application was made in the month of May
whereas the resolution was furnished in the month of July coupled with the
circumstance of statutory closure of the business of the OPs in the month of
June and there being no market value due to the financial scam that came to
light in the month of July which landed the company in the financial morass and
found it difficult to come out of it for long we partly allow the complaint by
directing the OP to redeem the purchased units at a value of Rs. 10/- or the
value of the bonds already issued by the OP, whichever is higher. 13. Complaint is disposed of
in aforesaid terms. 14. A copy of this order as
per the statutory requirements, be forwarded to the parties free of charge and
thereafter the file be consigned to Record Room. 15. Announced on the 2nd May,
2006. (Justice J.D. Kapoor)

 

President

 

  

 

  

 

(Rumnita Mittal)

 

 
Member

 

jj