d) Name, parentage and : i) Vikas Arora @ Babbu S/o
 address of the accused Sh. Nathu Ram R/o 5-F/41A,
 persons NIT, Faridabad (Haryana). ii) Vicky Arora S/o Late Sh. Ram Chandra Arora R/o 5- 1. The complainant herein is Sh. Ritesh Chowhan, an
Authorized Signatory of M/s Shoppers Stop Ltd. (Arcelia Store),
Select City Walk Mall, Saket, New Delhi, who submitted a
written complaint dated 19.03.2009 to the Police Station Saket,
New Delhi, alleging therein certain offences of cheating,
conspiracy etc. caused by the accused persons while shopping at
the outlet/store of the complainant. In the said complaint, the
complainant averred that two customers, namely, Mr. Mahinder
Ram and Ms. Pushpa Rani carrying Amex Credit Cards bearing
Nos. 3770 4133 5162 011 and 3770 4144 9560 001 respectively
had visited the aforesaid Arcelia Store at Select City Walk Mall,
Saket, New Delhi on 28.02.2009 and carried out shopping to the
tune of Rs.2,77,696/- (Rupees Two Lakh Seventy Seven
Thousand Six Hundred Ninety Six Only). The transactions were
done by way of three separate swipes of the credit card for
Rs.21,785+Rs.1,15,911+Rs.1,40,000/- at the said Arcelia Store.
Since the transactions carried considerable amount, the address
proof, identity proof and contact numbers of the aforesaid
customers were retained for future reference. On being doubtful,
the officials at Arcelia Store called the concerned bank, namely,
Amex Bank for the payments and also cross-checked whether the State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . credit cards were genuine or not. The bank duly entertained the
enquiry and responded to the effect that the credit cards used
were forged. The customer care executive at the said bank also
connected the officials of Arcelia Store to one Mr. Suresh Chand
Sharma (Fraud Credit Card Division), Amex Bank, who also
confirmed them that the credit cards were fake. The complainant
further averred that they had honoured the aforesaid customers
after swipe of the cards on the EDC Machine and after getting
approval of the payments. The complainant sought registration
of the case against Mr. Mahinder Ram and Ms. Pushpa Rani for
committing fraud and cheating at their outlet/store. 2. After receipt of the aforesaid complaint of the
complainant, the police machinery came into swing and the
matter was investigated. During investigation, it was found that
one mobile number 9210855643, which was given by the
aforesaid two customers who carried out the forged transactions,
belonged to accused Vicky Arora, a resident of Faridabad
(Haryana). It was also found that the photograph on the identity
card of Mr. Mahinder Ram was of accused Vikas Arora, another
resident of Faridabad (Haryana), which was submitted to
Shoppers Stop and Gizmo Retail Shops. Further, the photograph
on the identity card of Mr. Parveen Kataria was that of accused
Vicky Arora, another resident of Faridabad (Haryana). 3. Persistent and utmost efforts were made by the police
machinery to apprehend accused Vikas Arora and Vicky Arora.
Thereafter, on 23.05.2010, they both surrendered before the State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . investigating officer (IO) at Saket Police Station, where they
were arrested. Both these accused persons admitted to have
purchased articles by fake credit cards. They also disclosed that
accused Vipin Pahwa had provided them the fake credit cards
along with fake identity proofs and they had affixed their
photographs on the fake credit cards. Accused Vipin Pahwa also
used to depute ladies along with accused Vikas Arora and Vicky
Arora, so that they are not suspected by the shopkeepers.
Accused Vikas Arora and Vicky Arora used to approach the
shopkeepers at odd hours and pressurize them on the pretext of
huge purchases. After the credit card did not generate the charge
slip on first swipe, they used to manually enter some digits on the
EDC Machine on the pretext of entering security codes. On their
manual entry of some digits, the EDC Machine used to dispense
the charge slip, which was in fact a normal printout only in off-
line mode i.e. without being connected to the bank. Thus, the
accused persons impersonated themselves to be Mr. Mahinder
Ram along with their associate Ms. Pushpa Rani and dishonestly
induced the salesmen of Arcelia Store, Shoppers Stop Ltd. and
Gizmos Outlet, both at Select City Walk Mall, Saket, New Delhi
on 28.02.2009 and 03.03.2009 respectively. 4. The charge sheet was filed qua accused Vikas Arora and
Vicky Arora, as accused Vipin Pahwa was absconding at that
moment. Vide order dated 21.04.2016, accused Vipin Pahwa was
declared proclaimed absconder and supplementary charge sheet
was filed qua him in the instant case. On 28.07.2017, accused
Vipin Pahwa was produced in police custody vide a Kalandra

State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors. under Section 41(1)(c) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(hereinafter "the Code") and sent to JC. CHARGE 5. Vide order dated 16.09.2013, charge for the offences
punishable under Sections 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 34 of the Indian
Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as "the IPC ") was
framed against accused Vikas Arora and Vicky Arora, who
pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 6. Consequent upon arrest of the remaining accused i.e. Vipin
Pahwa, who was absconding while the charge sheet was filed, on
11.05.2018, an amended charge for the offences punishable under Sections 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120B / 34 IPC was framed against
all the three accused persons, who pleaded not guilty and claimed
trial. ADMISSION/DENIAL OF DOCUMENTS 7. Vide order dated 03.07.2017, in compliance to the
provisions of Section 294 of the Code, accused Vikas Arora and
Vicky Arora were called upon to admit or deny the genuineness
of FSL Report No. FSL.2010/D-2804 dated 27.07.2012 vide Ex
A1. EVIDENCE OF THE PROSECUTION 8. Prosecution has examined seventeen witnesses i.e. PW1
Sh. Ritesh Chauhan, PW2 Sh. Avin Khanna, PW3 Sh. Mukesh
State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors. Gupta, PW4 Sh. Ashish Madan, PW5 Sh. Harpal Yadav, PW6 Sh.
Rajesh Bhatia, PW7 Sh. Devender Vaidya, PW8 Sh. Chander
Shekhar, PW9 Sh. Israr Babu, PW10 HC Naresh Kumar, PW11
Sh. Mahesh Wadhwa, PW12 Sh. Gagan Singh, PW13 Smt.
Pushpa Manidarshan, PW14 SI Bharat Lal, PW15 Inspector
Praveen Kumar, PW16 Sh. Surender Kumar and PW17 Sh.
Mayur. 9. PW1 Sh. Ritesh Chauhan deposed that in 2009, he was
working with Shopper's Stop Select City Walk Saket as a Retails
Operation Manager. He further deposed that on 28.02.2009, two
persons, namely, Mahender Ram and Pushpa Rani visited their
Shopper's Stop store at Select City Walk Mall and made three
transactions through two different credit cards. The total amount
transacted through these credit cards was around Rs.2,77,000/-.
As the transacted amount was huge, they asked for the identity
card from the said customers. Since they had provided the
identity cards, the transactions were honoured. As that day was
Saturday, the officials of the aforesaid outlet could not get any
confirmation from the bank. On Monday, their accounts
department checked the transactions from the bank and it was
found that both the cards used for the transactions were bogus.
Thereafter, the matter was enquired from American Express
Card, Fraud Division and it was again confirmed that the card
used for the transactions was a bogus. Thereafter, PW1 lodged a
formal complaint (Ex PW1/A) with the police. The witness was
cross-examined by the Ld. Defence Counsel. 10. PW2 Sh. Avin Khanna deposed that in 2009, he was the State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . Operations Manager of Gizmos from Audio Voice, which was
having a shop at Select City Walk, Saket. In March 2009, two
cards were swiped in their shop and certain purchases were
made. They had purchased a Nokia Mobile Phone, Sony LCD
and Sony Vio Laptop through the credit cards. They took the
mobile phone and the officials of the aforesaid outlet held back
the LCD and Laptop, as it was a big transaction and the outlet
officials wanted bank confirmation. On next day, the bank
informed that the transaction was fraudulent one. The outlet
officials tried to call the customers on the numbers provided but
they did not turn up and neither they paid for the mobile they had
purchased. Even after several reminders, they did not turn up.
Subsequently, the mobile phones were reported switched off.
The outlet officials sent a representative to the address provided
on the I-Card of the customer but that turned out to be an empty
plot with no inhabitation. Subsequently, a complaint (Ex PW2/A)
was filed on behalf of the aforesaid outlet at Police Station Saket
along with the copy of the invoice, copy of the transaction slip
and copy of the I-Card provided by the customer. The witness
was cross-examined by the Ld. Defence Counsel. 11. PW3 Sh. Mukesh Gupta deposed that he had been working
as Area Sales Manager with M/s Sports Station India Pvt. Ltd.
Their company had one Levis Store at Select City Mall, Saket in
2009, where Varun Sharma was working as a Manager. On
18.03.2009, Mr. Varun Sharma was found absent from the office
and as per rules he had to serve resignation letter with one month
notice period in their company. When they had made enquiry
about Mr. Varun and enquiry regarding the stock audit, they State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . found shortage of the products of around Rs.2,00,000/- (approx.).
During the course of the above said period, they also came to
know from the American Express Bank that fraud of
Rs.2,73,000/- had been done in their above mentioned store by
using the fake credit card. The transaction of Rs.84,817/- was
done between 10:30 pm to 11:30 pm on 08.01.2009 by using fake
credit card. Other transaction of Rs.96,000/- was done on
24.09.2009 at about 11:35 pm and another transaction of
Rs.81,273/- was done at about 11:37 pm by using fake credit
cards. PW3 further deposed that there was possibility of
involvement of Store Manager i.e. Mr. Varun Sharma and the
above said transaction was done by using fake IDs and fake
photographs of the people. PW3 was inquired by the police and
his statement was recorded. 12. PW4 Sh. Ashish Madan is the official from American
Express Banking Corporation, Gurugram (Haryana). He replied
to the query made by the IO vide communication dated
25.06.2010 (Ex PW4/A). The witness was cross-examined by
the Ld. Defence Counsel. 13. PW5 Sh. Harpal Yadav deposed that in 2009, he was
running a shop at Sector 22, Faridabad in the name and style of
Music Planet. He deposed that a customer, namely, Pawan was
frequent visitors of his shop. PW5 further deposed that he did
not remember the exact date and month but it was year 2009
when Pawan had visited his shop and showed his willingness to
sell his mobile phone, Make Nokia, as he was in urgent need of
the money. He was carrying bill of his mobile phone also. The

State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . friend of PW5 i.e. Devender Vaidya had purchased the said
mobile phone from Pawan for an amount of Rs.20,000/-. The
receipt of the mobile phone, which was handed over by Pawan to
Devender Vaidya is Ex PW 5/A. The IMEI number of the above
said mobile phone was mentioned in the receipt. PW5 further
deposed that he did not remember, if Pawan was accompanied by
his two friends also. PW5 correctly identified the mobile phone,
Make Nokia-N-85 bearing IMEI No. 356376020133298, which
had been purchased by Sh. Devender Vaidya from Pawan. Since
PW5 did not support the case of the prosecution, he was cross-
examined by Ld. APP for State. 14. PW6 Sh. Rajesh Bhatia deposed that in the month of Feb-
March 2010, he had exchanged his mobile phone, Make
Samsung with his friend Sh. Devender Vaidya in lieu of his
mobile phone, Make Nokia-85. Sh. Devender Vaidya was also
having valid bill of his Nokia mobile phone. PW6 had been
using SIM card issued on his identity, bearing No. 9811204390
on the above said Nokia-85 mobile phone. The receipt of the
above said Nokia-85 was handed over by PW6 to police along
with the mobile phone. PW6 correctly identified the mobile
phone, Make Nokia-N-85 bearing IMEI No. 356376020133298
as the same phone which he had exchanged with Sh. Devender
Vaidya. The witness was cross-examined by the Ld. Defence
Counsel. 15. PW7 Sh. Devender Vaidya deposed that in the month of
June, 2009, he had purchased a mobile phone, Make Nokia N-85
in the shop of Sh. Harpal Yadav at Sector-22, Shiv Colony,

State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors. Faridabad. PW7 went to the shop of Harpal Yadav, where one
person was sitting and was willing to sell his above mentioned
mobile phone and he was also having a valid bill of the said
mobile phone with him. PW7 purchased the above said mobile
phone for the sum of Rs. 20,000/- from the person who was
sitting in the shop of Harpal Yadav. That person also handed over
receipt of the mobile phone to PW7. Later on, PW7 exchanged
the above said mobile phone with his friend Rajesh Bhatia in lieu
of his mobile phone, Make Samsung. PW7 did not remember, if
the person, who was sitting in the shop of Harpal Yadav was also
accompanied by his two associates. PW7 correctly identified the
mobile phone, Make Nokia-N-85 bearing IMEI No.
356376020133298 as the same phone which he had purchased
from a person in the shop of Harpal Yadav. Since PW7 did not
support the case of the prosecution, he was cross-examined by
Ld. APP for State. He was cross-examined on behalf of accused
Vipin Pahwa. 16. PW8 Sh. Chander Shekhar is the Nodal Officer from
Bharti Airtel Ltd., who proved the Customer Application Form
(CAF) of Vickey Kumar vide Ex PW8/A and deposed that mobile
No. 9871172643 was issued in his name. The witness was duly
cross-examined by the Ld. Defence Counsel. 17. PW9 Sh. Israr Babu is the Alternate Nodal Officer from
Vodafone Mobile Services Ltd., who proved the Customer
Application Form (CAF) of Sh. Rajesh Kumar vide Ex PW9/A
and deposed that mobile No. 9811204390 was issued in his State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . name. 18. PW10 is HC Naresh Kumar, who proved the registration of
the present FIR on 27.04.2009 vide Ex PW10/A. 19. PW11 Sh. Mahesh Wadhwa deposed that in 2010, he
purchased a laptop, Make Sony Vaio, from a person, namely, Sh.
Vipin Pahwa for a consideration of Rs.50,000/- in cash and in
lieu of the articles purchased by him from his shop (gift gallery).
Sh. Vipin Pahwa also handed over the bill of the said laptop to
PW11. In 2010, two police officials came at the shop of PW11
situated at Faridabad. They inquired about the said laptop and
called PW11 at the police station with the said laptop for inquiry
about an e-mail sent through the said laptop. Thereafter, PW11
visited Police Station Saket with the said laptop. His uncle,
namely, Sh. Arun also accompanied him. PW11 produced the
said laptop and its bill to the police officials. The police officials
told PW11 that the said laptop was a stolen property. PW11 tried
to convince them that he had purchased the said laptop from a
person, namely, Vipin Pahwa. PW11 also produced Guarantee
Card of the said laptop before the police officials. Police officials
seized the said laptop and its bill vide seizure memo (Ex PW
11/A). The witness correctly identified the laptop, Make Sony
Vaio, and stated that the same was purchased by him from Vipin
Pahwa. On being shown the original bill of the said laptop, the
witness stated that the said bill was handed over to the IO by him
and the IO seized the same. PW11 further deposed that one
person accompanied accused Vipin Pahwa at the time of sale of State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . the said laptop. PW11 denied the suggestion that accused Vicky
had accompanied accused Vipin Pahwa at the time of sale of the
laptop. Since PW11 did not support the case of the prosecution,
he was cross-examined by the Ld. APP for State. In his
examination-in-chief which was further recorded on 20.03.2019,
PW11 did not identify accused Vipin Pahwa. The witness was
further cross-examined by the Ld. APP for State. He was also
cross-examined by the Ld. Defence Counsel on behalf of accused
Vipin Pahwa. 20. PW12 Sh. Gagan Singh deposed that in 2010, he was
working as Store Manager at Gizmos Audio Voice Store, F-31,
Select City Mall, Saket, New Delhi. On 03.03.2009, two persons
came at the said store and purchased two mobile phones, Make
Sony Vio and Nokia. The consideration/amount of the said
mobile phones was Rs.64,500/-. They produced a credit card for
the payment of the said mobile phone. PW12 swapped the said
credit card and gave the receipt i.e. the customer copy to them.
One merchant copy was retained by PW12 and he returned the
said card to the said persons. The said two persons left the store
along with the said mobile phones. They signed the merchant
copy on behalf of Pushpa Rani. After one month, the police
officials came at the said store and inquired the matter from
PW12 and he narrated the above said facts to the police officials.
PW12 handed over the retail Invoice No. 289 dated 03.03.2009
and merchant copy ROC Nos. 463549 and 463550 dated
03.03.2009 to the police officials. The police officials seized the
said documents. PW12 did not identify the aforesaid accused
persons in the court. Since PW12 did not support the case of the State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . prosecution, he was cross-examined by Ld. APP for State. He
was also cross-examined by the Ld. Defence Counsel. 21. PW13 Smt. Pushpa Manidarshan deposed that in 2010, she
was working as Unit Account Head at Shoppers Stop showroom,
Select City Mall, Saket, New Delhi. The police officials came at
the said showroom and inquired the matter regarding the
transactions of swapping of fake card. After checking the records,
PW13 handed over the charge-slips and copy of DL of the card
holder to the IO, who seized these documents. PW13 correctly
identified the copy of the DL as handed over to the IO. She
deposed that the photo appearing in the copy of the DL had come
to the said showroom and made the transactions. She also
correctly identified the charge-slips. PW13 further deposed that
she was not present at the counter when the person had made the
transactions and signed the slips. She was cross-examined by the
Ld. Defence Counsel. 22. PW14 SI Bharat Lal deposed that on 23.05.2010, he was
present at PS Saket. In the evening, two persons came at the PS
and produced themselves before SI Praveen. SI Praveen
interrogated them. On inquiry, their names were revealed as
Vicky Arora and Vikas Arora. SI Praveen arrested both the
accused persons in the present case vide memos Ex PW 14/A and
Ex PW 14/B respectively. Their personal search was also
conducted vide memos Ex PW 14/C and Ex PW 14/D
respectively. IO also recorded disclosure statement of both the
accused vide Ex PW 14E and Ex PW 14/F. The witness correctly
identified both accused persons, namely, Vicky Arora and Vikas

State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors. Arora. On 25.05.2010, SI Praveen interrogated both the accused
persons at PS in the presence of PW14. SI Praveen recorded
their supplementary disclosure statement vide Ex PW 14/G and
Ex PW 14/H respectively. On 26.05.2010, PW14 along with SI
Praveen and other staff member took accused Vicky Arora to
NIT, Faridabad, Haryana. Accused Vicky Arora had disclosed
that he had sold one LED TV and one laptop to a person, namely,
Mahesh, who was running a gift-shop at NIT, Faridabad.
Thereafter, accused Vicky Arora took them to the said gift-shop
and pointed out towards a person, namely, Mahesh, who was
present there. Thereafter, SI Praveen interrogated Mahesh who
told them that accused Vicky Arora along with his associate had
sold laptop to him and he further told that they had not sold any
LED TV to accused Vicky Arora. Thereafter, Mahesh produced
the said laptop, Make Sony Vivo and also produced the bill of the
said laptop, which was given by accused Vicky Arora to him.
Mahesh told them that he did not know whether the said laptop
was stolen one or not. Thereafter, SI Praveen seized the said
laptop and the said bill vide seizure memo Ex PW 11/A.
Thereafter, SI Praveen recorded statement of Mahesh. The bill of
the said laptop is Ex PX2. Thereafter, accused Vicky Arora took
them to the house of a person, namely, Raiesh R/o NIT,
Faridatbad. SI Praveen interrogated Rajesh, who told that
accused Vicky Arora along with his associates had sold a mobile
phone, Make Nokia N-85 to him and he produced the said mobile
phone before them. Thereafter, SI Praveen seized the said mobile
phone vide seizure memo Ex PW 6/A. The bill of the said mobile
phone, which was produced by Rajesh, was shown to PW14, who State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . stated that the said mobile bill was produced by Rajesh. The
original bill is Ex PW 5/A. SI Praveen recorded the statement of
Rajesh. Thereafter, accused Vicky Arora took them to his house
situated at NIT, Faridabad, where he produced a mobile phone,
Make Nokia before them, which was kept in an Almirah in his
house. The accused had disclosed that the said mobile phone was
purchased from Select City Mall by way of cheating the
shopkeeper. Thereafter, IO seized the said mobile phone vide
seizure memo Ex PW 14/I. Thereafter, they returned to the PS
along with the case properties and accused Vicky Arora. The case
properties were deposited in Malkhana and accused Vicky Arora
was sent to lockup after his medical examination. IO SI Praveen
recorded the statement of PW14. On 17.06.2010, Ms. Pushpa
Mani, Accounts Manager, came at PS and she produced a copy of
the DL (she did not remember the name of the person) and
original charge-slip before the IO. IO seized the said documents
vide seizure memo Ex PW 12/A. IO recorded the statement of
Ms. Pushpa Mani, Accounts Manager. The said documents were
shown to the witness, who correctly identified them. The copy of
the DL is Mark PX1 and the charge-slips are Ex PW 12/B to Ex
PW 12/D. The Manager of the store in question had also
produced a charge-slip before the IO, who seized the same vide
seizure memo already Ex PW 12/A. The charge-slips were shown
to the witness, who correctly identified them. The said charge-
slips are already Ex PW 12/B and Ex PW 12/C. IO recorded the
statement of the aforesaid Manager as well as of PW14. The
witness correctly identified the laptop, Make Sony Vivo along
with the charger in a bag as produced by Mahesh. He also State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . correctly identified the mobile phone, Make Nokia N 85 as
produced by Rajesh. He also correctly identified the mobile
phone, Make Nokia 7610 and stated that the same was produced
by accused Vicky Arora from his house. The witness was duly
cross-examined by the Ld. Defence Counsel. 23. PW15 Inspector Praveen Kumar deposed that in March,
2009, three separate complaints of Shopper Stop, Gizmos and
Levis Show Rooms situated at Select City Mall Complex, Saket
were marked to him for investigation. In these complaints, it was
claimed that some accused persons have cheated them by way of
using fake and bogus Debit & Credit Cards and by submitting
fake IDs. During inquiry of the said complaints, it was found
that the same group of accused persons was involved in all the
said transactions. As such, after taking permission from the DCP
concerned, the present FIR was got registered by PW15, after
endorsing upon the complaint (Ex PW1/A) given by Shopper
Stop, which is Ex PW 15/A. The other complaint made by
Gizmos is Ex PW2/B. The complaint made by Levis Show
Room (M/s Sports Station India Pvt. Ltd.) is Ex PW 15/B.
During investigation, PW15 sent notices to American Express
Bank regarding the manner in which the said transactions took
place and consequently, reply was received, which was placed on
file vide Ex PW4/A. On electronic surveillance and local
inquiries, it was revealed that alleged transactions in various
Showrooms were made by accused persons, namely, Vicky Arora
and Vikas Arora. Efforts were made to make them join the
investigation. Finally, on 23.05.2010, both the aforesaid accused
persons surrendered at PS Saket, who were interrogated and State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . arrested. Their arrest papers and disclosure statements were
prepared vide Ex PW 14/A to Ex PW14/F. On 25.05.2010,
supplementary disclosure statements of both the accused persons
were also recorded vide Ex PW14/G and Ex PW14/H. The
specimen handwritings and signatures of both the accused
persons were also obtained after permission from the Court vide
application Ex PW 15/C. On 26.05.2010, during police custody
remand of accused Vicky, on his pointing out as per his
disclosure statement, a Sony Vio Laptop was recovered from one
Mahesh Wadhwa in Faridabad, Haryana. The said Laptop was
procured by the accused persons from E-Zone, Laxmi Nagar,
Delhi, as per the original Bill submitted by Mahesh Wadhwa.
The said Laptop along with the bill was seized vide Seizure
Memo Ex PW11/A. PW15 correctly identified both the accused
persons i.e. Vicky Arora and Vikas Arora. On 26.05.2010, PW15
also recovered one mobile phone, Make Nokia 7610 at the
instance of accused Vicky from his house, which he himself took
out and handed over to him. The same was taken into police
possession vide memo Ex PW 14/I. This mobile was purchased
from Center Stage Mall, Noida using fake IDs and bank card.
PW15 also recovered one mobile N-85 along with the original
bill issued from Gizmo, Saket from one Rajesh Kumar R/o
Faridabad vide memo Ex PW 6/A. During the course of
investigation, PW15 obtained original charge-slips and copy of
ID signed by the accused persons from Shoppers Stop on
17.06.2010 and from Gizmo on 24.06.2010, which were
produced before PW15 by Smt. Puspamani and Sh. Gagan,
Managers of above Showrooms respectively. The same were State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . respectively seized. Thereafter, the exhibits along with the
specimen signatures of the accused persons were sent to the FSL
for expert opinion. PW15 further deposed that during the course
of investigation, he recorded the statement of witnesses and
initial charge sheet was filed by him and thereafter, part of the
investigation was completed. The witness was duly cross-
examined by the Ld. Defence Counsel. 24. PW16 is Sh. Surender Kumar, Nodal Officer, Bharti Airtel
Ltd., New Delhi, who proved the Customer Application Form
(CAF) pertaining to mobile number 9871172643 in the name of
Vickey Kumar R/o H. No. F-42-A, NIT, Faridabad, vide Ex PW
16/A. The witness was duly cross-examined by the Ld. Defence
Counsel. 25. PW17 is Sh. Mayur, who deposed that he was working as
Store Manager at Big Bazar, V-3S Mall, Nirman Vihar since
2018. He deposed that E-Zone Home Solutions Retail (India)
Ltd. at V3S East Center had shifted its business in the name and
style of Big Bazar. He deposed that the summoned record i.e.
cash memo bearing No. T-15/3459 dated 15.04.2009 was not
available with Big Bazaar and, therefore, he could not produce
the same. STATEMENT / DEFENCE OF THE ACCUSED PERSONS 26. In their statements recorded under Section 313 of the
Code, all the three accused persons denied the entire evidence
against them. They stated that they are innocent and have been State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . falsely implicated in this case. All the three accused except
accused Vipin Pahwa opted to lead evidence in their defence.
However, the accused persons did not lead any evidence in their
defence and opportunity to lead the same was closed vide order
dated 18.07.2022. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 27. The record has been thoroughly and carefully perused.
The respective submissions of Sh. Naresh Choudhary, Ld.
Assistant Public Prosecutor for State, Sh. Naveen Kumar; Ld.
Counsel for accused Vikas Arora and Vicky Arora and Sh. Rahul
Sharma and Sh. Vishal, Ld. Counsels for accused Vipin Pahwa
have been considered. 28. The accused persons have been charged under Sections
419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120B / 34 . It is alleged that on 28.02.2009,
at Arcelia Store and Shoppers Stop and on 03.03.2009, at Gizmos
Outlet, the accused persons in furtherance of their common
intention along with an untraced associate Pushpa Rani,
impersonated to be Mahinder Ram and dishonestly induced the
sales persons to deliver goods by using fake credit cards by
producing fake identity proofs and fake signatures with the
intention to use them as a genuine and therefore, they are
punishable under Sections 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120B / 34 . 29. Sections 415 IPC (which defines cheating), 416 IPC (which defines cheating by personation), 419 IPC (which
prescribes the punishment for commission of cheating by State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . personation) and 420 IPC (which prescribes punishment for
commission of cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of
property) are reproduced below: Explanation - A dishonest concealment of facts is a deception
 within the meaning of this section. 416. Cheating by personation - A person is said to "cheat by
 personation" if he cheats by pretending to be some other
 person, or by knowingly substituting one person for another, or
 representing that he or any other person is a person other than
 he or such other person really is. Explanation - The offence is committed whether the individual
 personated is a real or imaginary person." 419. Punishment for cheating by personation - Whoever
 cheats by personation shall be punished with imprisonment of
 either description for a term which may extend to three years,
 or with fine, or with both. 420. Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of
 property - Whoever cheats and thereby dishonestly induces
 the person deceived to deliver any property to any person, or
 to make, alter or destroy the whole or any part of a valuable
 security, or anything which is signed or sealed, and which is
 capable of being converted into a valuable security, shall be
 punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
 which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to
 fine." 30. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mohammed Ibrahim and
others vs. State of Bihar and another [(2009) 8 SCC 751] has
observed the following relating to the offence of cheating: To constitute an offence under section 420 , there should not
 only be cheating, but as a consequence of such cheating, the
 accused should have dishonestly induced the person deceived (i) to deliver any property to any person, or (ii) to make, alter
 or destroy wholly or in part a valuable security (or anything
 signed or sealed and which is capable of being converted into
 a valuable security)." 31. Section 467 IPC provides that whoever forges a document
which purports to be a valuable security, shall be punished with
imprisonment for life or with imprisonment of either description
for a term which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable
to fine. Section 478 IPC provides that whoever commits forgery,
intending that the document or electronic record shall be used for
the purpose of cheating, shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to 7 years, and
shall also be liable to fine. Section 471 IPC provides that
whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any
document which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged
document, shall be punished in the same manner as if he had
forged such document. Section 470 IPC defines a forged
document as a false document made by forgery. The condition
precedent for an offence under Sections 467 , 468 and 471 IPC is State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . forgery. The condition precedent for forgery is making a false
document. 32. The term "forgery" is defined in Section 463 IPC. Section
463 IPC is re-produced below: 33. Section 464 IPC defines "making a false document" and is
reproduced below: to sign, seal, execute or alter a document or an electronic
 record or to affix his digital signature on any electronic record
 knowing that such person by reason of unsoundness of mind or
 intoxication cannot, or that by reason of deception practised
 upon him, he does not know the contents of the document or
 electronic record or the nature of the alteration. Explanation 1 - A man's signature of his own name may
 amount to forgery. Explanation 2 - The making of a false document in the name
 of a fictitious person, intending it to be believed that the
 document was made by a real person, or in the name of a
 deceased person, intending it to be believed that the document
 was made by the person in his lifetime, may amount to
 forgery." 34. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Mohammed
Ibrahim and others vs. State of Bihar and another [Supra Para
37] has held the following with respect to making of a false
document: else or authorised by someone else; or (ii) he altered or
 tampered a document; or (iii) he obtained a document by
 practicing deception, or from a person not in control of his
 senses." 35. Having discussed the Sections of the IPC applicable in
deciding the instant case, the next part of the judgment discusses
whether the prosecution has been able to prove the commission
of the offences charged against the accused persons beyond
reasonable doubt. 36. There are various deficiencies in the prosecution's case
which are listed below: PW1 has admitted that the sale transaction at Shoppers'
 Stop did not happen in his presence. Therefore, the
 complainant PW1 is not an eyewitness and he could not
 identify the accused persons as those who had visited the
 shop and furnished fake ID cards. b) Secondly, PW2 Avin Khanna filed the complaint
 (Ex. PW2/A) with respect to the fake transaction made by
 the accused persons in Gizmos shop. He, similar to PW1,
 admitted that the transaction did not happen in his
 presence. He deposed that Mr. Gagan was the showroom
 manager who had attended to the customers including the
 accused persons. Therefore, PW2 is not an eyewitness and
 he could not identify the accused persons as those who had State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . visited the Gizmos shop and furnished fake ID cards.
 Further, PW2 in his complaint (Ex. PW2/A) stated that the
 customer was contacted on the numbers provided by them
 and they received the call and stated that they will make
 payment in cash. However, the IO has not contacted the
 subscribers of the said numbers and recorded their
 statements. No explanation has been given in this regard. c) Thirdly, PW3 Mukesh Gupta (the then Area Sales
 Manager in M/s Sports Station India Private Limited)
 deposed that his company was running a Levis Store and
 one Varun Sharma was working as a Manager. On
 18.03.2009, said Varun was found absent from the office
 and on inquiry, shortage of products of approximately 2
 lakhs was found. Further, fake credit card transactions of
 Rs. 2,73,000 was found. He deposed that Manager Varun
 could have been responsible for the fraud. The prosecution
 has not been able to establish the nexus between the instant
 complaint and the accused persons. d) Fourthly, PW5 Harpal Yadav deposed that he was
 running a shop by the name Music Planet in 2009 and a
 customer Pawan was a frequent visitor at his shop. In
 2009, said Pawan expressed his willingness to sell his
 mobile phone make Nokia as he was in urgent need of
 money. PW5 Harpal's friend purchased the phone from
 said Pawan for an amount of Rs. 20,000. He could not
 remember whether said Pawan was accompanied by two of
 his friends. PW5 Harpal denied that said PW7 Devender

State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors. Vaidya had purchased the phone from Vicky Arora and
 Vipin Pahwa who had visited the shop with Pawan.
 Similarly, PW7 Devender Vaidya also denied that the
 person who sold the phone (i.e. Pawan) was accompanied
 by two associates. He also denied that he had purchased
 the phone from accused Vicky Arora and Vipin Pahwa who
 had visited the shop with Pawan. PW7 further deposed on
 20.03.2019 that he does not know accused Vipin Pahwa
 and his statement on record was not read over to him by
 the IO. PW5 and PW7 were not cross-examined by the
 accused persons. Therefore, PW5 Harpal and PW7 did not
 depose anything with respect to the accused persons as
 they did not depose that the accused persons sold the
 phone to PW7 Devender Vaidya. As per their deposition,
 the sale was done by one Pawan which has no bearing on
 the present case. Similarly, PW6 Rajesh did not depose
 anything incriminating qua the accused persons. Therefore,
 the prosecution has not established that the accused
 persons possessed the stolen mobile phone which they sold
 to PW7 Devender Vaidya. e) Fifthly, the Nokia mobile phone was further
 exchanged with PW6 Rajesh by the above Devender
 Vaidya in lieu of PW6 Rajesh's phone i.e. Nokia-85.
 Whilst the phone was seized at Faridabad, the witness
 deposed that the seizure memo was prepared and signed at
 Saket. Therefore, the seizure was also not done as per
 procedure laid down in law. State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . f) Sixthly, PW11 Mahesh Wadhwa deposed that in
 2010, he had purchased a laptop, Make Sony Vaio from a
 person, namely, one Vipin Pahwa for a consideration of
 Rs. 50,000 in cash and in lieu of articles purchased by him
 from his shop (gift gallery). He also deposed that one
 person accompanied said Vipin Pahwa at the time of sale
 of laptop. He did not identify accused Vicky as the person
 who had accompanied said Vipin. Further, on 20.03.2019,
 the witness PW11 Mahesh denied to identify accused
 Vipin. The Ld. APP for State was granted permission to
 cross-examine the witness, however, PW11 neither
 identified accused Vipin nor identified accused Vicky. g) Seventhly, PW12 Gagan Singh (the then store
 manager at Gizmos Audio Video Store) deposed that two
 persons came to the store and purchased two mobile
 phones, one Sony Vaio and another Nokia for a
 consideration of Rs. 64,500. The merchant copy of the
 invoice was signed on behalf of one Pushpa Rani.
 However, PW12 Gagan did not identify the accused
 persons as those persons who came to the store to purchase
 the said phones. During cross-examination by the Ld. APP
 for State, he denied that the merchant copies of the
 invoices were signed by accused Vicky on behalf of
 Pushpa Rani and Mahender Ram. In his cross-examination
 by the Ld. Counsel for accused persons, PW12 stated that
 the police never recorded his statement nor joined the shop
 staff who were present on the date of the incident in the
 shop. State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . h) Eighthly, PW13 Pushpa Manidarshan (the then unit
 account head at Shoppers Stop showroom) deposed that
 she handed over the charge slips and DL of the card holder
 to the IO which was seized vide seizure memo Ex.
 PW12/A. She also deposed that she was not present at the
 counter at the time when the transactions were made and
 slips were signed. Therefore, PW13 is not an eyewitness in
 this matter. i) Ninthly, PW14 SI Bharat Lal deposed that on
 26.05.2020, he along with SI Praveen and other staff
 member took accused Vicky Arora to NIT, Faridabad,
 Haryana. He further deposed that the accused Vicky Arora
 took them to the gift shop which was run by PW11 Mahesh
 and disclosed that he sold the stolen laptop to said PW.
 PW14 deposed that the laptop was seized vide Ex.
 PW11/A and then statement of PW11 Mahesh was
 recorded. However, to the contrary, PW Mahesh deposed
 that he along with his uncle went to the PS and handed
 over the laptop to the IO which was seized vide Ex.
 PW11/A. It is further deposed by PW14 SI Bharat Lal that
 then the accused Vicky took them to PW6 Rajesh who
 produced the stolen mobile phone which was seized vide
 memo Ex. PW6/A. To the contrary, PW6 deposed that the
 phone was seized in Saket and not in Faridabad. PW15
 Inspector Praveen Kumar also admitted that he cannot say
 whether he made any DD entry of arrival and departure
 regarding visiting Faridabad. The Hon'ble Delhi High

State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors. Court has held in Rattan Lal vs. State [1987 (2) Crimes
 29] that if the investigating agency deliberately ignores to
 comply with the provisions of the Act, the Courts will have
 to approach their action with reservations. The matter has
 to be viewed with suspicion if the provisions of law are not
 strictly complied with and the least that can be said is that
 it is so done with an oblique motive. This failure to bring
 on record, the DD entries creates a reasonable doubt in the
 prosecution version and attributes oblique motive on the
 part of the prosecution. In this background, the veracity of
 the seizure by the IO is itself questionable. j) Tenthly, it is further deposed by PW14 that after the
 recovery from Mahesh and Rajesh, accused Vicky took
 them to his residence where he produced mobile phone
 make Nokia from his almirah. There are no witnesses to
 the recovery. No family member has been cited as a
 witness to the recovery of the mobile phone from the house
 of the accused. PW14 could not even provide the names of
 the other two constables who were present along with him
 and SI Parveen when they went to Faridabad with the
 accused Vicky. PW14 admitted that the area around the
 shop where recovery was done is thickly populated and
 people were available there. He further deposed that public
 persons were requested to join the proceedings but they
 refused. The non-joining of the public witness creates
 doubt on the story of the prosecution, as held in Pawan
 Kumar vs. Delhi Administration , 1987 CC 585, Delhi
 High Court. Also, no reason as to why no public witness State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . could be found has been put forth by the prosecution. In State of Punjab vs. Gurdyal Singh [1992 (1) RCR (DB)
 646], it was held by the Hon'ble Court that where the IO
 has failed to even note down the names and addresses of
 the persons, who have refused to join a public witnesses,
 coupled with the fact that no action was taken against
 them, the case is rendered doubtful. Moreover, illustration (g) appended to Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act,
 1872 provides that the Court may presume that evidence
 which could be and is not produced would, if produced, be
 unfavourable to the person who holds its. The recovery
 was done at a crowded place in the day time and therefore,
 the argument that no public persons were present appears
 to not be acceptable. All the witnesses examined are police
 witnesses. This casts a doubt about the sincere efforts
 made by the IO to join independent witnesses. k) Eleventhly, PW15 Inspector Praveen Kumar
 deposed that on electronic surveillance and local inquiries,
 it was revealed that alleged transactions in various
 showrooms were made by accused persons, namely, Vicky
 Arora and Vikas Arora. However, the IO has not disclosed
 the nature of said local inquiries and has not been able to
 produce even a single witness who has identified the
 accused persons as those who had committed the offence. l) Finally, the fake credit cards were issued in the name
 of Aslam Khan, Mahender Ram, Pushpa Rani and Neelam
 Nayar. The IO for reasons best known to him did not State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . approach the issuing banks i.e. American Express and
 ICICI Bank to trace the details of said persons. Neither has
 the IO verified the DLs of Mahender Ram and Praveen
 Kataria which were furnished to the shopkeepers while
 making the purchase. 37. There is no evidence at all against the accused Vipin
Pahwa and Vikas Arora. The only incriminating evidence
available against the accused Vicky Arora is that the FSL Report
is Ex. A-1 where it has concluded that the specimen signatures of
accused Vicky Arora matches with the signature on the payment
slip at Gizmos. Additionally, PW8 Chander Shekhar, Nodal
Officer, Bharti Airtel Limited placed on record the customer
application form pertaining to mobile no. 9871172643 and stated
that the subscriber of the said number was one Vickey Kumar. It
is pertinent to note that the said address on the application form
is identical to the address disclosed by accused Vicky Arora.
However, in view of the fact that none of the many prosecution
witnesses have identified the accused persons as the persons who
visited the shops and dishonestly induced them to sell products
on the basis of fake credit cards, it is the considered opinion of
this Court that accused Vicky Arora cannot be convicted solely
on the basis of a FSL Report which does not establish the case of
the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt. The recovery made
allegedly on the disclosure of accused Vicky is not supported by
requisite DD entries or public witnesses. The involvement of the
accused persons has not been established by the testimonies of
PWs. The investigation has been conducted in a shoddy manner State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors . and the depositions do not credibly support the prosecution
version. The above said factors undoubtedly attune to the benefit
of the accused persons. 38. In view of the above discussion, accused Vikas Arora,
Vicky Arora and Vipin Pahwa are acquitted of the offences
punishable under Sections 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120B / 34 IPC. 39. In compliance to Section 437A CrPC, the accused persons
are directed to furnish bail bond. 40. File be consigned to Record Room. Dictated and announced in open Court on 11.12.2023. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate
 South District, Saket Courts, New Delhi
 11.12.2023 State vs. Vikas Arora @ Babbu & Ors .