1. This Appeal, under Section 57(1) of Information Technology Act, 2000,

 read with Rule 3(1) of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Rules,

 2000, has been filed by Vodafone Idea Limited, Appellant, against

 Krishan Lal Nain, Designated Partner, Kaytele Infracon LLP, and one

 other, against Impugned Judgment, of Learned Adjudicatory

 Authority, State of Rajasthan, Jaipur, dated 06.09.2021, passed in

 Cyber Complaint No.1 of 2020, with a prayer for allowing this appeal

 and setting aside Impugned Judgment. 2. In brief, the memo of appeal contends, that the complaint was filed

 before Learned Adjudicatory Authority, by Shri Krishan Lal Nain S/o

 Shri Bhiya Ram Nain, Designated Partner Kaytele Infracon LLP, Head

 Office at C-28, Keshav Nagar, Civil Lines, Jaipur, against Telephone

 Service Provider, Vodafone Idea Limited, earlier known as Vodafone

 Mobile Service Limited, for damages in the tune of Rs. 34,50,000/-

 (Rupees Thirty Four Lakhs Fifty Thousand only) under Section 43A of IT

 Act, 2000 as amended by Act of 2008, read with Information

 Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and

 Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules, 2011, for a cause of 3 action, alleged to have arisen on 01.06.2017, with this contention that

 the complainant is designated Partner in Kaytele Infracon LLP, having

 its Head Office at C-28, Keshav Nagar, Civil Lines, Jaipur, which has an

 OD Account bearing No. 0373651100003605 with IDBI Bank Limited,

 for Net Banking and the said account was linked with his mobile

 number 9413377307, issued by Respondent No.1 and this number

 was erstwhile with previous Telephone Service Provider, and was

 subsequently, ported out in year 2012, to Respondent - Vodafone Idea

 Limited. The SIM issued by Vodafone Idea Limited bore No.

 404602747239710 and the same was being used by the Complainant,

 in his Apple Mobile Handset bearing IMEI No. 13540004996840. 3. That on 25.05.2017, the Complainant was not able to have a call by its

 mobile number at around 7.20 P.M. and it was also not able to receive

 any call on above cell phone, because of non-activity of Network on

 account of SIM having become non-operational. On 26.05.2017

 Complainant visited the nearby Vodafone Store near Junction Bus

 Stand, Hanumangarh, at about 1.30 P.M and made a complaint with

 regard to this non-operational Network. The Store Employee told the

 Complainant that the SIM had got corrupted and asked to apply again.

 The Complainant after completing all formalities, got another SIM

 bearing No. 404602787975142. But it was also not operational. On the 4 same day, in the evening, the Complainant informed about non-

 operational and non-functional status by this new SIM, to the Store

 Employee, wherein, assurance about activation was given. But it was

 not active till next date. Again, an approach to above Vodafone Store

 was made. On 30.05.2017, Complainant visited Vodafone Store at

 Ajmer Road, Jaipur and made the similar request for activation of

 above SIM. Then after, it could be got activated at about 12 Noon, on

 31.05.2017. 4. On 01.06.2017 morning, Complainant's son Akshay Nain, who too is a

 Designated Partner in above LLP, visited IDBI Bank Limited, where he

 came to know about series of withdrawals, between 25.05.2017 to

 29.5.2017, during non-operational status of SIM, amounting to

 syphoning of Rs.68,50,000/- (Rupees Sixty Eight Lakhs Thousand Only)

 from OD Account of Kaytele Infracon LLP. This was instantly

 complained with no such transaction by above firm. A request by

 Letter, dated 01.06.2017, having the mention of above fraudulent

 transaction, was made to Manager of IDBI Bank Limited,

 Hanumangarh, and Bank Statement, dated 01.06.2017 revealed, the

 details of above fraudulent transactions, having withdrawn and

 transferred in six series, given in above chart. It came to knowledge

 that somebody had hacked the Net Banking of the Complainant, and 5 after having OTP on the Registered Mobile Number 9413377307, had

 effected those fraudulent transactions. 5. A complaint, at Police Station, was got registered as Cyber Crime No.

 13 of 02.06.2017 and during investigation, it came to notice that old

 SIM of Mobile connection, was replaced with new SIM, on 25.05.2017,

 from Vodafone Store at Alwar, Rajasthan, by some Bhanu Pratap S/o

 of Vishwanath R/o Faizabad, by way of a fake driving Licence and

 forged Election Commission's Identity Card to the Customer Care

 Executive of Vodafone, and without verifying the same with the

 original CAF form, this duplicate SIM was got issued and activated,

 resulting this fraudulent transaction, totalling about Rs. 68,50,000/-

 (Rs. Sixty Eight Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only). And this entire fraud was

 outcome of above act of conspiracy and duplicate SIM card. After

 investigation, Charge Sheet No. 3 dated 07.12.2017, was got filed

 against accused Manish Mittal, Ashok Singh Chandel, Shailendra Singh

 Thakur and Rakesh Ashok Patil, wherein, other accused persons were

 also got arrested. During the course of Trial, the money syphoned, by

 way fraudulent transaction in question, was recovered as Rs.

 11,00,000/- (Rupees Eleven Lakhs Only) from Manish Mittal, Rs.

 10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs Only) from Shailendra Singh Thakur,

 Rs. 16,44,000/- (Rupees Sixteen Lakhs Forty Four Thousand Only) from 6 Premcand Babu, Rs.2,14,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Fourteen Thousand

 Only) and Rs.14,30,000/- (Rupees Fourteen Lakhs Thirty Thousand

 Only), two bank drafts with a return of Rs. 6,56,000/- (Rupees Six

 Lakhs Fifty Six Thousand Only) by Premchand Babu. The accused

 Rakesh Ashok Patil was also deposited Rs. 19,50,000/- (Rupees

 Nineteen Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only) but it was subsequently

 withdrawn after the dismissal of Bail Application. Rs.5,00,000/-

 (Rupees Five Lakhs Only) were said to be syphoned by one Vishal

 Singh, but that is yet to be recovered. Hence, a total of Rs.44,00,000/-

 (Rupees Forty Four Lakhs only) has been recovered from a Sum Total

 syphoned amount of Rs. 68,50,000/- (Rupees Sixty Eight Lakhs Fifty

 Thousand Only) resulting a balance of Rs. 24,50,000/- (Rupee Twenty

 Four Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only), yet not recovered. 6. This unauthorised fraudulent syphoning of money was owing to

 undeniable direct nexus between blocking of SIM card of the

 Complainant, and issuance and use of duplicate SIM card by the

 fraudster, with unauthorised financial transactions from the account

 of Complainant, and it was the negligence of Telecom Service Provider -Vodafone, in issuing duplicate SIM to a fake person, without following

 the procedure laid down by Government of India. The guidelines,

 relating to proper and effective subscriber verification, was also not 7 taken in account. SIM card is with sensitive personal data of its user,

 with financial and personal information, and there are clear

 guidelines, issued by DOT, regarding issuance of SIM card, as well as

 duplicate SIM Card. The IT Act and Rules made therein, are also with a

 relief forum, in case of those fraudsters syphoning money by Cyber

 Fraud. 7. Hence, this complaint with above prayer. Wherein, reply was filed by

 Telecom Service Provider with specific contention that there was no

 nexus in between Telecom Service Provider and alleged fraudsters.

 The present Complaint is not maintainable, as the Complainant has

 neither approached the forum with correct fact. It has not suffered

 any loss as such, without there being any loss, he is not liable to

 prosecute against the answering Respondent. This Telecom Service

 Provider had committed no irregularity, or is neither involved in the

 commission of this alleged occurrence. The present Complaint is not

 maintainable, without being impleaded, the Bank of the Complainant,

 as necessary Party. Complainant and the Bank have their own

 relationship, and without being shown as to whether any loss has

 been suffered by the Complainant, or there was no involvement of the

 Bank or the Complainant himself in the commission of offence, the

 present Complaint cannot be held maintainable. There is a 8 contributory fraud/negligence, deficiency on the part of Bank,

irrespective of whether or not the transaction is reported by the

customer. Third party breach were deficiency lien, neither with the

Bank, nor with the customer, but lies elsewhere in the system, and the

customer notifies the Bank within three working days of the receiving

of the communication from bank regarding the fraudulent transaction.

The money has been deducted from the Bank Account of the

Complainant and the role of the Telecom Service Provider, at max,

was limited to delivery of message on the mobile phone, while the

Banking Account are being operated by using user ID and Password or

through Banking application, which are neither known to the Telecom

Servicer Provider, nor it is responsible, nor it carried, nor able to know.

Hence, the OTP are information for transaction which used to be

delivered on the email ID of the person user, is also an alternative

mode for making information. But in present case, no such precaution

was there. Moreso, the Complainant is the individual person. But the

account is being said to be of limited liability partnership, which is

entirely a different personality, under Limited Liability Partnership Act,

2008 . The Complainant has filed the present Complaint in his own

personal individual capacity. Whereas, the account from which the

fraud transaction happened, was in the name of Kaytele Infracon LLP 9 and further the mobile connection was taken, in the capacity of

 executive on behalf of Sunlight Computer and therefore, the

 Complaint could be filed in the capacity of executive of Sunlight

 Computer. Accordingly, the present Complaint is suffering from non-

 joinder/ mis-rejoinder of necessary party. The Complainant has no

 locus to file i.e., the present case in his personal capacity, for the fraud

 transaction, which happened from the account of LLP firm. There is

 alternative efficacious remedy available to Complainant. Hence, this

 Complaint was not maintainable. The jurisdiction of the Adjudicatory

 Authority was also not there, because the subscriber's verification,

 while activating SIM, falls within the jurisdiction of Department of

 Telecommunications (DoT), Government of India, and the DoT is the

 appropriate authority to decide and adjudicate upon the issue on

 failure in the verification and imposing consequential Penalties. 8. As per settled proposition of law, the Sensitive Personal Data is also

 not with Telecom Service Provider, nor the issuing of duplicate SIM

 card, or its activation, comes within the purview of Information

 Technology Act . Section 43 and 43A of Information Technology Act,

 2000, does not include this act of issuing of duplicate SIM, by a

 Telecom Service Provider. The Sensitive Personal Data, Reasonable

 Security Practices, and Procedure of such Sensitive Personal Data, or 10 information under the Rule of 2011, is also not attracted in present

 case. Hence, the prayer was to dismiss the Complaint. 9. The Adjudicatory Authority, after hearing both side, passed the

 Impugned Order, whereby the award of Rs. 27,53,183/- (Rupees

 Twenty Seven Lakhs Fifty Three Thousand One Hundred and Eighty

 Three Only) has been made against Telecom Service Provider,

 Vodafone Idea Limited, present Appellant, within a month of

 Judgment, in the account of Complainant, with 10% cumulative

 interest, over above amount, with a specific mention of non-

 realisation of Rs. 24,50,000/- (Rupees Twenty Four Lakhs and Fifty

 Thousand Only), after deducting Rs. 44,00,000/- (Rupees Forty Four

 Lakhs Only) from total amount of Rs. 68,50,000/- (Rupees Sixty Eight

 Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only). The amount of fee paid for this

 adjudication in the tune of Rs.72,000/- (Rupees Seventy Two

 Thousand Only) and the interest accrued from the due, till order, in

 the tune of Rs. 2,31,183/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Thirty One Thousand

 One Hundred Eighty Three Only) and against this judgment, present

 appeal. 10. To make and precise and the arguments, advance by Learned Senior

 Counsel, Mr Meet Malhotra as well as Learned Mr Vakul Sharma, it 11 had been fairly admitted that the liability of Telecom Service Provider

 vis-à-vis jurisdiction u/s 43 and 43A of Information Technology Act,

 2000, the issuance of duplicate SIM card, and the security practices for

 issuing and activating the same etc., etc., which were the legal

 objections made before Learned Adjudicatory Authority has been

 settled by this Tribunal, in many previously decided Appeals

 mentioned below : 11. Hence, those propositions are settled one, as precedent. Hence, they

 need not to be further reiterated and written in present Appeal. 12. But, the main point which makes the present Appeal different with

 those decided Appeals, is that this Complaint has been filed by a

 designated Partner in its own name for the account, being maintained

 by LLP Partnership firm, and as per LLP Partnership Act, 2008 , Sections

 3 , 4 , 5 and 14 , the LLP Partnership is a distinct juristic Personality, other

 than its Partners. And this has been propounded by Hon'ble Mumbai

 High Court in 2016 SCC Online Bombay 1404, Wind World (India)

 Limited, a Company incorporated under the laws of India and having 13 its registered office at Wind World Tower, Veera Industrial Estate,

 Veera Desai Road, Andheri (West), Mumbai and Another Versus

 Enercon GmbH, a Company duly incorporated and existing under the

 laws of Germany and having its registered office at Dreekamp 5,

 D26605, Aurich, Germany and Another as well as by Hon'ble Apex

 Court in Dhanasingh Prabhu Versus Chandrasekar and Another (2025)

 10 SCC 1996. 13. Hence, the present Complaint was not maintainable and it was raised

 before Learned Adjudicatory Authority. But it was not taken in the

 note, nor discussed in the Judgment. 14. The other is the liability of the Bank, wherein, account was being

 operated and from where no OTP was generated, as per Call Detail

 Record, summoned on the instance of Appellant, for perusal by this

 Appellate Tribunal. Hence, Telecom Service Provider was with no

 liability. 15. From the very perusal of those two judgments, it is apparent that

 those two judgments have been on the facts, which are entirely

 different, from the present one. The Bombay High Court Judgment, is

 with regard to arbitration proceeding, wherein, liability for the fault of

 one partner was imposed on other Partner, in accordance with the old

 provision of Indian Partnership Act , wherein Partners were 14 responsible for the liabilities of Partnership firm, as well as misconduct

 of their partners. And it was observed that in LLP partnership firm

 registered under 2008 Act, the situation is entirely different. The

 designate Partner of any LLP firm are distinct than the firm itself and

 they will be with limited liability, agreed by them towards the

 misconduct of any other designate Partner or Firm i.e., the situation or

 matter in issue, in present Appeal, was not even in ratio decendi or

 stare decises of above proposition of law. 16. The Judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court is also with regard to liability in

 Criminal Jurisdiction u/s 138 of NI Act, with regard to dishonour of a

 cheque, issued for and on behalf of a LLP firm, and subsequently,

 dishonoured. Hence, the designate partner, being of independent

 capacity than the LLP firm, having notice if not Director or acting for

 that firm, will not be treated as a notice to that LLP firm. Hence, the

 entire aspect in above judgment, is also not in consonance with

 present fact in issue. 17. In present case, no doubt, the Judgment of Learned Adjudicatory

 Authority is cryptic, with no specific mention in the correct name of

 the Complainant. Whereas, the Complaint itself is with a very precise

 mention that Complainant is a designate Partner of Limited

 Partnership Firm, having its account in above Bank. And this was the 15 fraudulent transfer and syphoning of money from the account of that

 firm. The signature of the designate Partner at every page of the

 Complaint, is with a specific mention of firm Kaytele Infracon

 Company and the signature is in authority of designate Partner.

 Hence, in all form and favour, the Complaint, was for and on behalf of

 LLP firm, and the award of compensation was to be in that account of

 LLP firm itself. Hence, it can never be held that this designate Partner

 was with no authority to file this Complaint, for and on behalf of

 above LLP firm. Hence, this argument is not supported with the fact of

 present Complaint, as well as Appeal. 18. So far as Bank is concerned, though there is not a party to whom or

 against whom, adjudicatory order was passed, but it was a party in the

 array of party and notices to it was issued, its version was also heard.

 Hence, the nexus and the activation of SIM card issued, by way of

 documents, not in consonance with the CAF form, previously filed at

 the time of taking of SIM card, was there and activation too was

 made, resulting this fraudulent transactions. Hence, in view of the

 settled proposition of law written and propounded in those previously

 decided cases, the Appellant-Telecom Service Provider has been

 rightly ordered to make the payment of those remaining syphoned

 amount. 19. So far as interest is concerned, this Tribunal, in many previously

 decided cases, have held, that in present fiscal scenario and

 commercial transactions, the award of simple interest @9% per

 annum from pendente lite, till actual payment is right, just and fair

 interest to be awarded, other than the cumulative interest of 10%, as

 has been awarded by Learned Adjudicatory Authority. Hence, for this

 point only, the Judgment is to be intervened and for others, the

 Appeal merits to be dismissed. 20. Appeal is being disposed of with an amendment in the operative

 portion of Impugned Judgment with regard to interest. The

 operational order is being amended as below: Formal decree/order be got made by office, accordingly. (Justice Ram Krishna Gautam)
 Member
02.12.2025
/NC/