These petitions are heard and disposed of together for the

sake of convenience. 2. The facts of the case and the background in which

these petitions are filed are said to be as follows: It is at this point of time that a criminal complaint dated

16.12.2016 is said to have been filed by Vector alleging

offences punishable under Sections 109 , 120B , 406 , 108A , 420 and 409 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, (Hereinafter referred to

as 'the IPC ', for brevity) before the I Additional Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate, Bangalore. The petitioner was said to

have been arrayed as accused no.5 therein. And pursuant to a

search warrant issued by the court, the Bangalore police are

said to have visited the office of SCB at Mumbai, where the

shares were kept in custody and had seized the same, as on

21.12.2016. It is in the above background that the first of these

petitions is filed. 3. The second of these petitions is filed by the Chief

Executive Officer of SCB, Mumbai, also being aggrieved by

the registration of the FIR by the Indira Nagar Police,

Bangalore, at the instance of Vector. It is seen that the

petitioner herein and two other officers of SCB are named as

Accused no. 1 to 3 in the said complaint. 4. The learned Senior Advocate, Shri K.G. Raghavan,

appearing for the counsel for the petitioner, in the first of these

petitions would seek to point out at the outset that the complaint

by Vector is a brazen attempt to nullify the express findings of

a learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court, in Notice of

Motion 1399/2011 in Suit no. 988/2011, dated 31.7.2011. And

it is an order which has been confirmed in appeal by a Division

Bench of the said court, in Appeal no.662/2015, dated

9.12.2016. It is close on the heels of that final order by the

Bombay High Court - confirming the right of the petitioner to

the shares in question, that the criminal case filed on 12 16.12.2016, has been instituted, while grossly suppressing the

prolonged proceedings before the Bombay High Court. It is

hence emphasized that the mala fides on the part of Vector is

writ large. It is pointed out that the signatory to the complaint, who

represented Vector before the Bombay High Court had been

hauled up for gross violation of an undertaking given to that

court and had been mulcted with a fine of Rs.1 lakh. Shri Raghavan seeks to highlight the speed at which the

criminal proceedings have progressed. It is stated that

immediately on registration of the FIR, the same has been

transferred to the Criminal Investigation Department as on

17.12.2016 and an Investigation Officer, respondent no.1

herein, had been named on 19.12.2016. On the very date of

appointment, he has filed an application under Section 93 read

with Section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973

(hereinafter referred to as 'the Cr.P.C .', for brevity) before the 13 Court of I ACMM, Bangalore, seeking permission to search the

premises of SCB, Mumbai. It is asserted that it is evident that

the application has been filed without even a cursory

investigation. It is further pointed out that the search warrant only

authorized search of the premises and not seizure of any

property, and that in fact there were no details provided of the

property to be seized. This, it is asserted, is in complete

violation of Section 99 CrPC. It is contended that the search

and seizure carried out on the premises of SCB, Mumbai as on

21.12.2016 is hence illegal. It is contended that the mala fides on the part of Vector

in filing the criminal case is also apparent from the

circumstance that the allegations which form the basis of the

complaint are significantly not stated by Vector in the pending

suit before the Bombay High Court. It is also pointed out that it is indeed odd and unusual that

the complainant and his counsel had accompanied the

investigating officer to Mumbai and were even said to be

present at the time of search and seizure. Shri Raghavan seeks to highlight the following material

suppression of facts in the complaint by Vector. Not only has the complainant suppressed the series of

orders of the Bombay High court, but also the primary

circumstance that the complainant has received the entire sale

consideration of Rs. 32.52 crore from the petitioner through

Corsair and that the beneficial ownership in the shares had

passed on to the petitioner as early as in the year 2007. Vector's agreement to sell the shares is recorded in a

letter dated 12.5.2007 and on receipt of the sale consideration

which is admitted, there is no further right in Vector over the

shares in question. The obligation and responsibility of

obtaining any permission from any authority, for the transfer is

with the petitioner and is at the risk of the petitioner. 15 That the terms of the above said agreement clearly

indicates that Vector was placing the shares in escrow,

unconditionally and irrevocably with SCB. These terms had

come in for scrutiny by the Bombay High Court and are

categorically found in favour of the petitioner. The gross suppression of the several orders and

proceedings before the Bombay High Court, particularly an

order which pointedly states that Vector shall not obstruct the

transfer of the shares to the petitioner, which has been blatantly

violated by seeking to file the criminal case and having had the

shares seized is a clear abuse of process of law. Vector has thus

achieved by recourse to this devious measure what had been

denied on a close scrutiny of the respective rights and

obligations of the parties in civil proceedings. The findings recorded by the Bombay High Court

operates as issue estoppel against Vector. It is contended that the Bombay High Court has already

arrived at the following findings of fact, namely : 16 In furtherance of the said agreement, Vector is said to

have given a letter dated 12.5.2007 to Corsair with a copy

endorsed to the petitioner stating that they are in the process of

acquiring 13,455 equity shares of the Bank and that they had

agreed to deposit the shares, to be acquired by them, with SCB

in an Escrow account. This letter was said to specifically refer

to the above Escrow agreement dated 12.5.2007, entered into

between Katra, Corsair and SCBM. It also is said to have

indicates that Vector was fully aware of the terms and

conditions of the Escrow agreement dated 12.5.2007 as could

be discerned from the different clauses of the Escrow

agreement dated 12.05.2007 referred to therein. In para 2 of the above letter, Vector is said to have stated

that they have agreed to transfer the shares to entities

designated by Corsair. 13,455 shares of the Bank came to be transferred to Vector

pursuant to which they deposited with SCB, India the original 19 share certificates along with share transfer forms duly signed by

them. It is stated that on 15.5.2007, SCBM, as the escrow agent

paid the entire sale consideration for 13455 shares to Vector.

Since RBI permission was awaited, transfer of shares was not

effected in favour of Corsair's designated nominees. Corsair in

turn nominated Starship Equity Holdings Ltd., (Hereinafter

referred to as 'Starship' for brevity) as the purchaser of these

shares. It is stated that on 27.4.2011, Vector claimed that it has

terminated the agreement and filed a suit OS No.104/2011

before the Bombay High Court against SCB, SCBM and others

including Corsair and Starship, inter alia, for return of the

13455 shares of the Tamil Nadu Mercantile Bank. Shri Holla

would reiterate the sequence of proceeding before the Bombay

High Court as already stated. It is contended that it is subsequent to the dismissal of the

appeal and with the malafide intention of overcoming the order

of the Bombay High Court, on 16.12.2016, Vector filed a false

police complaint with Indiranagar police station. Hence, he

submits that the complaint is a totally motivated one and the

filing of the suit before the Bombay High Court and the orders

of the Bombay High Court have been totally suppressed in the

said complaint. Further, the complaint taken as a whole does not make

out any offence. The complaint is a total abuse of the process

of court. The Bank is shown to be represented by the CEO. In

fact, the present CEO took charge as CEO only in the year

2016, whereas the transaction relates to the period 2007. It is his further contention that the matter is essentially of

a civil nature. The Bombay High Court having already passed

an order specifically holding that the sale of the shares is

complete and that Vector has no power to terminate the sale or

seek return of the shares. When the matter is seized of by the 21 Bombay High Court, the filing of the complaint is a total abuse

of process of the court. The First Information Report at Annexure A of the

petition indicates that the date of offence is 15.5.2007. The

complaint is filed after a lapse of over 9 ½ years. It is asserted

that on this ground alone, the complaint is liable to be quashed

in view of the judgement of the Supreme Court reported in the

case of Kishan Singh (D) through L.Rs. vs. Gurpal Singh, AIR

2010 SC 3624 (para 21 to 24), wherein the Supreme Court has

held that an FIR filed after a lapse of 6 years of the alleged

offence was liable to be quashed and was quashed by the

Supreme Court on the ground of delay. A comparison of the Complaint with the Plaint filed in

the Bombay High Court, clearly indicates that the allegations in

the complaint are totally different from the allegations made in

the plaint before the Bombay High Court, thereby clearly

indicating that the allegations in the complaint are wholly false.

In fact, the plaint is verified by Vector. Further the interim 22 application filed along with the suit is supported by an affidavit

of Vector, which sets out the very statements made in the plaint,

a perusal of which bears out that there was no allegation of

cheating, breach of trust etc., which have been made in the

complaint. The suit was filed in the year 2011. Having

received the entire sale consideration for the shares and sold the

shares and having failed in their attempt before the Bombay

High Court, both before the single judge as well as the Division

Bench to get back the shares, a mala fide complaint has been

lodged making totally false and reckless allegations. The

complaint alleges that the offence of cheating, breach of trust

has taken place in the year 2007. That is after a lapse of nearly

10 years. On the ground of delay alone, the FIR is liable to be

quashed. That apart, the allegations in the complaint do not

make out any offence at all. If, RBI approval is not obtained

(which was to be after the completion of the sale and only for

transfer of shares), the same does not amount to cheating or

breach of Trust. At any rate as on date, in view of the change in 23 Regulations, RBI permission is not even needed now. The Apex

Court has, commencing with the case of State of Haryana and

others vs. ch. Bhajan Lal and others (AIR 1992 SCC 604), held

that if the complaint, on the face of it does not disclose any

offence, the complaint is liable to be quashed. It is contended that the Supreme Court has time and

again held that criminal proceedings to avail civil remedies and

attempts to convert civil disputes into criminal case have to be

deprecated. Reliance is placed on the following authorities:- The Apex court has also held that when there is no mens

rea, complaint of cheating is liable to be quashed. (See: V.P.

Shrivastava vs. Indian explosives Limited and others 2010 (10)

SCC 361 and Ajay Mitra vs. State of M.P. and others 2003 (3)

SCC 11 - Para 16 to 20)

 The gist of the complaint is that though Vector has

received the entire sale consideration in respect of the shares in

question, it now believes that the shares have been acquired by

SCB and that Enforcement Directorate has initiated

proceedings. This, it is contended, is also false. SCB is not the

purchaser of the shares in question, nor has the Enforcement

Directorate ever alleged the same in its show cause notice dated

17.12.2014. After filing of the suit, having failed in their attempt to

get the shares, one Gokul Patnaik, who is one of the associates

of Katra and Vector is said to have written to RBI alleging that

there is allegedly a violation of Foreign Exchange Management 25 Act (FEMA) as can be seen from paragraph 2 of the letter dated

16.03.2011 of RBI to the Enforcement Directorate. Based on

the said letter of RBI, which was issued way back in the year

2011, ED issued show cause notice to SB dated 17th December

2014, to which a suitable reply is said to have been sent by

SCB, subsequent to which the Enforcement Directorate has not

taken any steps, showing thereby that the Enforcement

Directorate has accepted the position that there is no case of

violation of FEMA. The very fact that after ad interim order

was refused by the Bombay High Court and after 2 years after

the letter of the RBI, the ED issued show cause notice and that

too at the behest of Gokul Patnaik, an associate of Vector,

Vector and their associates are trying various means to get back

the shares which have been sold and in respect of which they

have admittedly received the entire sale consideration.

 It is contended that Vector has played fraud. Had it

mentioned about the suit before the Bombay High Court and

the orders of the Bombay High Court, the Magistrate would 26 definitely not have issued search warrant. Vector was held

guilty of contempt of court by the Division Bench of the

Bombay High Court and fined on the ground that it has tried to

mislead the court. The present complaint is a motivated one,

and an attempt to try to convert a civil dispute into a criminal

case. In fact after receiving the entire sale consideration and

transferring the shares by issuing blank share transfer forms and

categorically stating that on receipt or its nominees, Vector is

now trying to resile from its obligations, which conduct has

been frowned upon by the Bombay High Court. Having failed

to get the shares by the initiation of the suit and the interim

application before the Bombay High Court, the present

complaint has been filed and the shares have been got seized

through a devious method of false complaint and a search

warrant. Hence, he contends that the entire action is a total

abuse of process of court and is liable to be quashed. 27 6. Shri Sajan Poovayya, Senior Advocate, appearing for

the counsel for respondent no. 3 would contend and add to the

background facts thus. That one MGM Maran and B

Ramachandra Adityan had acquired the exclusive rights to sell

the 95,418 shares constituting 33.6% shares of Tamilnad

Mercantile Bank Limited from Sterling Group consisting of

Hemangiri Finance and Leasing Private Ltd., Mrinalini Leasing

and Finance Private Ltd., Mansiri Investment and Leasing

Private Ltd., and Hi-Tech Traders Private Ltd., under

agreement dated 10.03.2006. Mr. MGM Maran and Mr.B Ramachandra Adityan also

entered into an agreement dated 02/03/2006 with M/s. Katra

Holding Private Limited and granted them exclusive rights to

sell and place 95,418 shares of Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Ltd. Katra Holding Private Ltd., offered to sell the third

Respondent Company, 13,455 equity shares of TMB

constituting 4.73% of its total shareholding for Rs.24,170/- per 28 share totaling to approximately Rs.32.52 crore and gave the

third Respondent company physical possession of the share

certificates on 03/04/2007. Standard Chartered Bank (SCB), accused Nos.1 to 3 in

FIR 418/2016 had hatched a plan in criminal conspiracy with

Corsair Investments LLC to illegally acquire 40% shares of

TMB by circumventing Indian laws and foreign investment

regulation in the month of January 2007 itself. The same

indicates that SCB in an investor in Corsair, Accused No.4 in

FIR 418/2016, and controls Corsair and is using Corsair as a

Special Purpose Vehicle, to acquire majority stake in TMB by

circumventing Indian laws. In furtherance of the conspiracy by Corsair Investments

LLC and SCB to purchase the shares of TMB, Corsair

Investments LLC proposed to constitute an escrow and

complete the sale transaction with Standard Chartered Bank. 29 Accordingly, Standard Chartered Bank, Mauritius and

Corsair Investments LLC, Katra Holdings Ltd., and others

constituted an escrow under an agreement dated 12/05/2007

under which an escrow with Standard Chartered Bank,

Mauritius in the name of Project Windmill Escrow was

constituted and Standard Chartered Bank - Securities Service,

Mumbai was appointed as the sub-agent of Standard Chartered

Bank, Mauritius. Under the escrow agreement, Corsair Investments LLC

would identify prospective buyers for the TMB shares, which

would be placed in compliance with Indian laws and the sale

would be complete only upon receipt of relevant RBI approval

in case of a non-Indian entities. The third Respondent Company's 13,455 shares of TMB

were spread over 52 share certificates. Corsair Investments LLC asked the third Respondent

Company to deposit its 13,455 shares in TMB in the escrow

created with Standard Chartered Bank, Mauritius and Standard

Chartered Bank - Securities Service, Mumbai for safe custody

until completion of sale and they exchanged correspondence to

this effect. The correspondence dated 12.05.2007 (wrongly

shown as 12.05.2006) between the third Respondent Company

and Corsair Investments LLC. The second paragraph of Annexure R5 at page 83

stipulates that the sale and transfer of shares is subject to receipt

of applicable approvals under Indian laws including approval of

RBI. Subsequently the duly constituted escrow, Standard

Chartered Bank, Mauritius and Standard Chartered Bank -

Securities Service, Mumbai wrote to TMB on May 12, 2007

asking them to register the third Respondent Company's 13,455

shares of TMB spread over 52 share certificates in the name of 31 the third Respondent Company and return the same to the

escrow for safe custody. Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Ltd., conducted a Board

Meeting on 13.05.2007 and approved the third Respondent

Company as a shareholder and cancelled the 52 shares

certificates and issued 6 new share certificates in the name of

the third Respondent Company bearing certificate numbers

37903 to 37908 and bearing Folio No. 32987 consisting of

13,455 shares of TMB. By this the third Respondent Company

was registered as a shareholder of TMB and the title of the said

shares absolutely vested with the third Respondent Company. The 6 new Share Certificates were, on the instructions of

the third Respondent - Company, given by TMB to Standard

Chartered Bank, Mauritius and Standard Chartered Bank-

Securities Service, Mumbai for safe custody. TMB through

their letter dated 13.05.2007, deposited the 6 new share 32 certificates with Standard Chartered Bank-Securities Service,

Mumbai for safe custody. The third Respondent Company received into its account

No. 009010200029111 with Axis Bank, MG Road, Branch,

Bangalore, a sum of Rs.32.53 crore. Thus the crime alleged

against the Petitioner by third Respondent Company was

brought into effect by the petitioner, on receipt of money into

the account of the third respondent - Company in Bangalore. The third Respondent Company was informed by Corsair

Investments LLC that the said money was alleged sale

consideration for purchase of shares by Starship Equity

Holdings Ltd., the petitioner herein. The third Respondent Company kept asking Corsair

Investments LLC to furnish the Foreign Inward Remittance

Certificate (FIRC) for the amount remitted into its account so 33 that the said sum could be accounted and not shown as a

liability in its books of accounts. It is claimed that inspite of repeated follow-up, the third

respondent - Company did not receive the FIRC and its account

statement depicted that the monies it had received had come

from Project Windmill Escrow Account and not from either the

Petitioner or Corsair Investment LLC. Standard Chartered

Bank sent the third Respondent Company a letter dated

04.07.2008 and attached a FIRC dated 23.05.2007. The said

FIRC stated that the money was paid by the escrow account on

behalf of Starship Equity Holdings Ltd., to the third Respondent

Company as advance sale consideration. As the FIRC was not proper and since RBI approval was

not provided to complete the sale, even after a year, the third

Respondent Company issued a legal notice dated 19.02.2010

after several follow ups and terminated the sale and asked

Corsair Investment LLC, SCB and Starship Equity Holdings 34 Ltd., to take back the money and give back its 13,455 equity

shares. It is contended that after sending the legal notice, the

third respondent - Company also asked its banker, Axis Bank to

run a tracer on the remittance of Rs. 32.53 crore that it had

received and it came to know that the money deposited on

behalf of Starship Equity Holdings Limited was actually done

by pledging TMB shares owner by third Respondent Company

illegally by Corsair Investments LLC, Standard Chartered Bank

and Starship Equity Holdings Limited and raising a loan over

the same in Mauritius in the escrow account and sending the

said money to it as sale consideration. None of this had RBI

approval. This tracer information depicts that on the date of

remittance of Rs.32.53 crore i.e. 15.05.2007 into the account of

third Respondent Company, Starship Equity Holdings Ltd., had 35 not deposited any money into the Project Windmill escrow

account nor was it part of the escrow account. It is contended that the money received by the third

Respondent Company was illegal, without its knowledge and

violated Indian laws and hence could not be accounted by it and

became a liability in its hands, causing it wrongful loss and

hardship. The tracer also showed that the bank account of

Starship Equity Holdings Ltd., never even existed on the date of

remittance with Standard Chartered Bank, nor was it a part of

the escrow and the money was paid by Standard Chartered

Bank on the security of the third Respondent Company's TMB

shares, without its knowledge, illegally by violating Indian

laws. It is stated that the respondent herein came to know that

the instruction to remit money of Rs.32.53 crore into the

account of the third Respondent Company herein in Bangalore

came from Corsair Capital on 14.05.2007. (Corsair Capital is 36 controlled by SCB which is evident from Annexure - R3

paragraph no. 1 at page 20). It is further urged that in the account statement of Project

Windmill Escrow account in SCB Mauritius at Annexure R13

at page 103 the fourth entry from the bottom for USD

7,945,320.23 on 14.05.2007 amounting to Rs. 32.53 crore

bearing TT number 0T00010705140021 is seen to be debited

from the escrow account. This is the same TT number

mentioned in 4th row from bottom of FIRC at Annexure R10 at

page 96. Thus from the account statement at Annexure R13 at

page 103 it is prima facie evident that Starship Equity Holdings

Ltd., did not provide the funds for acquisition of the shares and

it was provided by SCB making the FIRC at Annexure R10 at

page 96 a forged and fabricated document. The said remittance

by SCB is also in violation of and in criminal breach of trust of

second paragraph of Annexure R4 at page 83 and clause 37 2.3.1(i) of Annexure R4 at page 31 and clause 4.2 of Annexure

R4 at page 33. Thus, the tracer run by Axis Bank at page 98 of

Annexure R11 which states that banking relationship as per

KYC from date of remittance of the amount of Rs. 32.53 crore

i.e. 14.05.2007 by SCB Project Wildmill Escrow account into

the account of third Respondent Company in Axis Bank,

Bangalore till date of the tracer i.e. 15.03.2011 is 3.8 years is

prima facie correct. Hence, it is contended that the account statement of

Project Windmill Escrow account is SCB Mauritius at

Annexure R13 at page 123 discloses the first entry from the top

for USD 1,796,307.00 is on 11.07.2008. The said entry depicts

that a credit for the said amount has been made by Starship

Equity Holdings Ltd., for the first time into the escrow account. 38 Thus the tracer run by Axis Bank at page 99 of Annexure

R11 which states that banking relationship as per KYC from

date of remittance of the amount by Starship equity Holdings

Ltd., into the escrow account i.e. 11.07.2008 till date of the

tracer i.e. 15.03.2011 is 2.7 years is prima facie true and

correct. This tracer information depicts that on the date of

remittance of Rs.32.53 crore i.e. 15.05.2007 into the account of

third Respondent Company, Starship Equity Holdings Ltd., had

not deposited any money into the escrow account nor was it

part of the escrow account and thus the money did not come

from Starship Equity Holdings Ltd., SCB, Corsair and Starship

Equity Holdings Ltd., conspired to issue a forged and fabricated

FIRC at Annexure R10 at page 96. Pursuant to the above the third Respondent instituted

O.S. 988/2011 against Standard Chartered Bank and others

before the Bombay High Court and sought for return of their

TMB shares and called upon Standard Chartered Bank to take

back the money. It is urged that inspite of not having RBI approval for

pledging the shares or acquiring the TMB shares, Starship

Equity Holdings Ltd., by cheating the third Respondent wrote

to RBI asking for transfer of shares in its name and RBI

through its letter dated 19.05.2010, rejected the share transfer

and also recognised the illegality done by Starship Equity

Holdings Ltd., in criminal conspiracy with Standard Chartered

Bank and Corsair Investments LLC and wrote to Enforcement

Directorate to investigate the matter. It is contended that the Enforcement Directorate

commenced investigation under FEMA for violation of

provisions of FEMA and RBI guidelines and personally

summoned the directors of the third Respondent Company on

15.02.2012 and 24.02.2012 and recorded their statement. Based on the same the Enforcement Directorate filed a

complaint against TMB and Standard Chartered Bank under

FEMA with the Special Director of ED and the Special Director 40 has started adjudication proceedings on the basis of the same

has issued adjudication notice dated 17.12.2014. It is urged that in the said adjudication notice the ED has

specifically highlighted pleading of the third Respondent's

TMB shares without RBI approval by Standard Chartered Bank

and the Petitioner herein and thereby prima-facie stating that

the said remittance made to the third Respondent is illegal. The

said act of the Petitioner and Standard Chartered Bank has

caused wrongful loss to the Respondent herein. The ED has

also held in the said notice that the escrow created by SCB is

illegal and without RBI approval. Pursuant to the above, the Enforcement Directorate has

also notified the Registrar of Companies vide its letter dated

19.11.2016 cautioning the general public not to deal with shares

which are the subject matter of its adjudication notice dated

17.12.2014. In the light of the above Shri Poovayya seeks dismissal

of the petitions. 7. By way of reply, Shri K. G. Raghavan on behalf of

Starship would contend that in the course of their arguments,

Respondent No.3 has stated that they came to know about the

alleged fraud when they had received the KYC details from

their bankers Axis Bank Ltd., when they had run the tracer.

These details as per the documents filed would show that it was

known to the Respondent No.3 on 15.03.2011 and the suit

No.O.S.988/2011 has been filed by Respondent No.3 on

22.03.2011. None of these details find a place in the pleadings

before the Bombay High Court. Further, these allegations are

not even a part of the impugned complaint filed by the

complainant before this Court. All these arguments are made

for the first time at the bar and this clearly demonstrates that the

argument of the complainant is baseless and an after-thought. 42 That in so far as the contention with reference to the RBI

guidelines etc., which was urged on behalf of Vector is

concerned it is pointed out that under the Banking Regulation

Act, 1949 (BR Act ), the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had

issued guidelines vide a circular dated 3.2.2004 where

"acknowledgement from the RBI" was required for acquisition

of 5% or more shares of a Scheduled Bank by an individual or

group. Further, this requirement does not affect or apply to the

petitioner, since the suit shares acquired by each of the accused

is not above 5%. Further, that various proceedings were filed by the

shareholders of TMB, pursuant to which the RBI investigated

the issue of whether the consolidated holding of TMB shares by

the complainant along with a group of 17 other entities, as a

'group', was over 5% and in view of the same would the

'group' require an 'acknowledgement' under the BR Act . In this regard, vide and an order dated 31.03.2011, the

RBI held that the complainant along with 17 others formed a 43 part of a 'group' and declined to acknowledge their holding of

over 5% of the shares of TMB and therefore directed the

complainant to divest and bring their holding below 5%. Therefore, by this order, the RBI had recognised the

ownership of the shares and had directed the complainant and

17 others to divest as they were held to be a 'group'. However,

this order of the RBI had not been filed by either of the parties

in the present proceedings and it is undisputedly not been

challenged by anyone, including the complainant and hence has

attained finality. Hence, by transferring the shares to Starship,

Vector would only be complying with the orders of the RBI. In so far as the apprehension of proceedings that are

claimed, to which the said respondent no.3 could be exposed to

at the behest of the Enforcement Directorate, it is pointed out

that the Complainant was never an addressee to the notices

issued by the Directorate of Enforcement (ED notice).

Therefore, it was unclear as to how the complainant got the 44 possession of certain documents. the complainant has also not

been able to explain to this court as to how he had come in

possession of the documents pertaining to the ED notices, all of

which have not even been addressed to them. Further, the

shares of the third respondent is not the subject matter of the

ED's notice and the ED has not found the third respondent to be

at fault. Further, the complainant has no liability in respect of the

shares as the beneficial ownership has passed on to the

petitioner and the petitioner at its own risk and cost, deals with

the shares. This aspect has been dealt with in detail by the

learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court in his order

dated 31.07.2015. Even though the ED notice is of the year 2014, no

adverse finding has been recorded by ED till date. It is the

stand of Respondent No.3 that it fears consequence on account

of the violation of foreign exchange loss at the hands of the ED

is a mere surmise. It is hence emphasized that whatever may be the position

with respect to RBI and ED, it is clear that these facts do not

attract either cheating or criminal misappropriation. The

violation of the provision of foreign exchange loss and or the BR Act does not attract any of the offences under the Indian

Penal Code as the instance of the complainant who has not

suffered any injury. 8. Shri Udaya Holla by way of reply, on behalf of SCB

would in response to the contention that SCB planned a

criminal conspiracy with Corsair to illegally acquire 40% of the

shares of TMB, submits that the contention is wholly false and

that Vector has not produced any material to show that SCB

was the acquirer of the shares. Per contra, the very documents

produced by Vector shows that the purchaser was starship and

not SCB. Further, in paragraph 2 of the letter dated 12.05.2007

written by Vector to Corsair and a copy to SCB specifically

states that Vector has agreed to transfer the shares to entities to 46 be designated by Corsair. When that was the position, to whom

the shares are to be sold is of no concern to Vector and even

assuming, whilst categorically denying that the shares are sold

to SCB, it cannot tantamount to criminal conspiracy or

cheating. To the further contention that Annexure R3 to the

objections is an inter-office memo of SCB which indicates that

SCB is the investor in Corsair, the reply of the learned Senior

Advocate is that a perusal of the said letter does not indicate

that SCB is an investor in Corsair. Per contra, it merely states

that SCB has the option to acquire 4.95% of the equity shares of

TMB, which is well within 5% cap and that too on receiving an

opinion from counsel that the structure would not violate any of

the Indian laws and would not jeopardize the interest of Corsair.

This very inter office memo clearly indicates that SCB had

absolutely no intention to violate RBI norms, which is the

present allegation, falsely made by Vector in the complaint. 47 As far as the contention that the crime alleged against

Corsair/Starship was brought about on receipt of money into the

account of Vector, it is the reply of the learned Senior counsel

that the said contention is inane and without any sequitur. The

receipt of money by Vector is an admitted fact and if Vector has

received the money as per the terms of the Agreement between

Vector and Corsair, it is not understood as to how a crime is

committed. Moreover, admittedly, the money was received in

the year 2007 and the complaint is filed in the year 2016.

Therefore, on the ground of delay itself, the complaint is liable

to be quashed. Further, in paragraph 20 of the written

submissions it is stated that FIRC was not proper, since RBI

approval had not been provided for completion of the sale and

therefore Vector issued legal notice dated 19.2.2010. This

contention, it is urged, is wholly fallacious. The issued FIRC

was proper and legal. At any rate, even if it is not legal, it is for

the RBI to initiate steps and the same does not tantamount to

cheating vector in any way. Further, this also indicates that 48 Vector was aware of the FIRC even as early as 2010 or even

prior thereto and yet kept quiet for over six years thereafter.

Therefore, the complaint is belated and is even liable to be

quashed. To the contention that the shares of the TMB were

pledged with SCB which was illegal, it is the reply of the

learned Senior Advocate that there was no pledge of the shares

as alleged. It was only held in Escrow as seen from the very

documents produced by Vector. As seen from the very letter of

Vector to Corsair dated 12th May 2007, on receipt of the entire

amount, the title to the shares automatically got transferred to

the designated transferee (namely Starship). Therefore, even if

there was a pledge it would not tantamount to any offence. Insofar as the contention that payment consideration of

Rs.32.53 crore was received by Vector, not from Starship, it is

the reply of the learned Senior Advocate that the statement

made by Vector and inferences drawn therefrom by Vector are

entirely incorrect. Assuming however, without admitting that 49 the consideration amount of Rs.32.53 crore was not paid by

Starship to Vector, the same could not tantamount to criminal

conspiracy or an attempt to cheat Vector. This is evident from

the fact that in paragraph 2 of the letter dated 12.05.2007

written by Vector to Corsair, and a copy to SCB specifically

states that Vector. When that be so, to whom the shares are to

be sold is of no concern to Vector or who was to make payment

therefor. To the further contention that Vector filed the suit

O.S.No.988/2011 pursuant to what is stated in the earlier

paragraphs of the written submissions, it is the reply of the

learned Senior Advocate to the effect that this is a clear

admission on the part of the Vector, that it knew about the letter

inter office memo of SCB dated 22.01.2007, about remittance

of the money into Vector's account, etc., even before filing of

the suit O.S.No.988/2011 which was filed on 23.03.2011. Yet

at that point of time and till the complaint was filed, i.e., after a

lapse of five years after the suit, according to Vector, no 50 criminal offence was committed by SCB and it is obvious that

only after having failed in the suit as well as in the appeal filed

before the Bombay High Court to secure the share certificates,

with mala fide intention of securing the share certificate, the

present complaint was filed, making false allegations. Insofar as the contention that Enforcement Directorate

(ED) has initiated proceedings against SCB for violation of Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) and RBI

guidelines, it is the reply of the learned Senior Advocate that

these allegations of violation of FEMA and RBI Guidelines are

wholly and patently false. The proceedings were initiated by

ED at the best of one Gokul Patnaik, who is acting in concert

with Vector, as can be seen from paragraph 2 of the letter dated

16.03.2011 of RBI to ED. After a lapse of more than 2 ½ years,

ED issued a show cause notice dated 17.12.2014 to which a

suitable reply has been sent by SCB and thereafter the ED has

not taken any steps, showing thereby that there was no violation

of FEMA and the reply of SCB was found to be satisfactory by 51 the ED. Assuming without admitting, that there is any violation

under FEMA or the RBI Guidelines, the same cannot

tantamount to any criminal offence against Vector and Vector

will not have any cause of action to file the complaint. 9. In the light of the above rival contentions and on a

closer perusal of the voluminous material produced by the

parties and the involved contentions of the parties, it may not be

possible to stop short of the findings of fact that have been

arrived at by the Bombay High Court in the course of

interlocutory proceedings. The said findings can only be

construed as prima facie findings and the civil suit in which

those findings are arrived at is pending and the trial is yet to

commence. Vector is accused of suppression of facts and of having

filed the impugned complaint without reference to the long

drawn out proceedings before the Bombay High Court and the

adverse orders it had suffered before that Court. It is equally 52 found that the role played by SCB was also not fully disclosed

before the Bombay High court and it cannot also be claimed

that its role was as a mere banker acting as an escrow agent in

the transaction. This is evident from an inter-office

memorandum of SCB seeking approval to further its

commitment to Corsair by an additional 2 million US dollars

increasing its interest to US $ 77 million. The following excerpts from the above said

Memorandum dated 22.1.2007, is revealing: xxxx 53 "Corasir has been mandated to place 40% of the equity

shares of TMB with reputable foreign investors who are limited

partners of Corsair (including the Soros funds, Swiss

Respondent, Winterthur Insurance, GE Pension Fund and the

Kuwait Investment Authority). With Indian regulations

prohibiting a single foreign shareholder from owning more

than a 5% stake in a domestic bank, this investment would not

be made directly by Corsair III but rather by each investor

setting up an SPV to make its investment in TMB. Each

investor would act independently of each other as prescribed by

the Indian regulations with Corsair management administering

the group of independent investors." xxx

 "30% that Corsair will place is currently held by a single

shareholder, which the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) finds

objectionable and has required to be divested. The RBI has

indicated that none of this block of 30% shares may be

purchased by another bank (precluding SCB from buying from 54 this block). Corsair has been seeking ways of allowing SCB to

participate in this investment using another 104 stake that is

not subject to this regulatory prescription. Such a stake of 105

(the "10% Block") was brought on third January 2007 by a

group of local Indian investors known to Corsair. The

purchase was financed by a secured loan made by SCB in India

to the Indian investors. SCB will acquire its stake in TMB from

these shares which Corsair has an option over. The remaining

10% (50%-30%-10%) is currently held by a group of

independent, reputable and friendly investors in New York." This veiled transaction for, and on behalf of SCB,

through Corsair Investments further being screened from the

scrutiny of regulators is evident from the following clause in an

agreement dated 12.5.2007, styled as an Escrow and

Transaction Settlement Agreement, which reads as follows : Under the said agreement, the following clause would

indicate that an escrow account had also been opened for

depositing of share sale consideration as well as other monies

by the purchasing entities: And further SCB, Mumbai, was to act as a sub-agent of

SCB, Mauritius, in terms of the following clause under the

agreement : 400 001 (hereinafter referred to as "SCB India",
 which expression shall mean and include only its
 operations, assets and business in India and unless
 it is repugnant to the context or meaning thereof,
 be deemed to mean and include its successors and
 permitted assigns) as its sub Agent under the terms
 of this Agreement and has instructed SCB India to
 open the following accounts: It is seen that Vector had been called upon by Corsair to

deposit 13455 shares of TMB in escrow, created with SCB,

Mumbai for safe keeping until completion of the sale as is

evident from the exchange of correspondence. It is also seen

that it was subject to receipt of approvals under the Indian law. SCB has then called upon TMB by a letter dated

12.5.2007 to register the 13455 shares of TMB in the name of

Vector. TMB is seen to have accordingly conducted a Board

Meeting on 13.5.2007 and approved Vector as a share holder

and had cancelled the earlier share certificates and is seen to

have issued fresh share certificates in the name of Vector.

Hence the title had vested with Vector in respect of the said

shares. TMB has also intimated RBI to the effect that Vector

had been registered as its share holder, as follows : 60 13.5.2007 to consider changes in the organizational structure

of the Bank. The subject matter regarding registration of the

proposed transfer of 95418 shares as mentioned above was also

placed before the Board after a thorough scrutiny of the

documents from all aspects by the Company Secretary of the

Bank. Even though the said Board meeting was convened at a

shorter notice, all the Directors of the Bank were present in the

meeting. A copy of the agenda tabled in the meeting is enclosed

as Annexure-1. 7. Thereafter the Board considered the matter and after

detailed deliberations, an unanimous resolution was passed to

approve the registration of transfer of 95418 shares of the Bank 62 as per particulars furnished in Paragraphs 3 and 4 above. An

extract of the minutes of the Board meeting with regard to the

above agenda is enclosed as Annexure-2. The share

certificates after registration of transfer of 95418 shares of the

Bank were delivered to the Standard Chartered Bank, Mumbai

who had been acting as an Escrow Agent and who had lodged

the said shares with the Bank." The said share certificates had been thereafter deposited

with SCB, Mumbai, for safe custody. Vector is said to have received Rs.32.53 crore into its

account with Axis Bank, Bangalore and it was said to have

been informed that the same was the sale consideration for the

purchase of shares by the petitioner Starship. In this regard

Vector is said to have made repeated requests to furnish the

Foreign Inward Remittance Certificate ( FIRC) for the amount

remitted into its account so that the sum could be accounted for.

It is claimed that the same was not furnished, the account 63 statement is said to have depicted that the money it had

received came from Project Windmill Escrow Account and not

from either the petitioner or Corsair. It is claimed that it is only

on 4.7.2008 that SCB had by its letter of that date, enclosed an

FIRC dated 23.5.2007. The said FIRC indicated that the

money was paid by the escrow account on behalf of Starship to

Vector, as advance sale consideration. It is said that it is in this

background, in the light of the improper FIRC and in view of

the RBI approval not having been received even after one year,

Vector is said to have terminated the agreement of sale and

called upon Corsair and Starship to take back the sale

consideration and return the Shares. After having issued the legal notice, Vector is said to

have requested its bank, Axis bank to run a tracer on the

remittance of Rs.32.53 crore that it had received. It was then

said to have discovered that the money deposited on behalf of

Starship was by recourse to a pledge of the TMB shares

belonging to Vector, and on a surreptitious arrangement 64 between Corsair, SCB and Starship and by raising a loan over

the same in Mauritius in the escrow account and sending the

money to Vector as the sale consideration. It is the assertion of

Vector that the said arrangement did not have the RBI approval. It is further pointed out that from the information

provided by its banker as at Annexure R-11 pages 98 and 99 of

the Statement of objections would indicate that as on the date of

remittance of Rs.32.53 crore, namely 15.5.2007, into the

account of Vector, Starship had not deposited any money into

Project Windmill escrow account nor was it a part of the escrow

account. It is therefore contended that the money received by

Vector was illegal and it would appear that Vector has been

unwittingly made to seem to have violated the law as the money

cannot be legitimately accounted for and can only be treated as

a liability in its hands. The information also indicated that the

bank account of Starship never even existed on the date of the

remittance with SCB, nor was it part of the escrow and this 65 would unerringly establish that the money was paid by SCB on

the security of the TMB shares belonging to Vector- without its

knowledge, and in violation of the law in India. Further, a question does arise as to whether SCB would

really be construed as an impartial escrow agent as sought to be

projected in the light of the following authorities:- Further, at Page 29 Para 39, it is noted that, when an

instrument is delivered as an escrow, it cannot take effect as a

deed pending the performance of the condition subject to which

it was so delivered, and if that condition is not performed the

writing remains entirely inoperative. If, therefore, an

instrument delivered as an escrow comes, pending the

performance of the condition and without the consent, fault, or 67 negligence of the party who so delivered it, into the possession

of the party intended to benefit, it has no effect either in his

hands or in the hands of any purchaser from him; for until

fulfillment of the condition it is not, and never has been, the

deed of the party who so delivered it. When an instrument has

been delivered as an escrow to await the performance of some

condition, it takes effect as a deed (without any further

delivery) immediately the condition is fulfilled, and the rule is

that its delivery as a deed will relate back to the time of its

delivery as an escrow but only for such purposes as are

necessary to give efficacy to the transaction. It may be seen from the third paragraph above of the

section, it would appear that, delivery of the document or

property was endorsed to take effect on a condition being

complied with; for evidence may be given of such agreement,

which would constitute a condition precedent on which the

performance of the written contract has to depend. The above

paragraph 3 of Section 46 of the NI Act, and Section 92 of the

Evidence Act are clear on the point and support the view above

indicated. In fact there is no difference in substance between

this section and proviso (3) of Section 92 of the Evidence Act,

1872. The Supreme Court in the case of Siddhivinayak Realities

(P) Ltd. vs. Tulip Hospitality Services Ltd. and others , (2007)4

SCC 612, has defined as to what would be "Escrow" and has

stated as follows: This is further fortified by the account statement of

Project Windmill Escrow account in SCB, Mauritius, the first 70 entry is on 11.7.2008. This would indicate that a credit for the

first time is made by Starship in to the account. It is therefore inexplicable that inspite of not having RBI

approval for pledging the shares or acquiring the TMB Shares,

Starship had addressed the RBI seeking transfer of shares in its

name and the RBI through its letter dated 19.5.2010, Annexure

R-14, has rejected the share transfer and also recognized the

illegality committed by Starship in active connivance with SCB

and Corsair and has addressed the Enforcement Directorate to

investigate the matter. (Annexure - R15)

 In this regard, the ED is said to have summoned the

directors of Vector and recorded their statements. It is further

found that the ED has filed a complaint against TMB and SCB

under FEMA with the Special Director, ED, who has issued

notice dated 17.12.2014. (Annexure R-16) 71 Though it is indicated that the said regulatory bodies

have not chosen to take any further action, it is also not evident

that the proceedings have been closed. It is also pertinent to note that the learned single judge of

the Bombay High Court in his detailed order dated 31.7.2015

has proceeded on the basis of the suits being in respect of the

respective ownership of the shares of TMB and the purported

termination of the agreement and Vector seeking return of the

shares and its claim for damages. It is this which has prompted the learned judge to observe

thus : But however, in the light of Vector, whether

mischievously or on a genuine latent discovery of an irregular

transaction, claiming that it was kept in the dark about SCB,

London, had, in agreement with Corsair, planned to acquire

40% of the total equity of TMB, which is said to be expressly

prohibited under Indian law and by the RBI. And that in

furtherance of the criminal conspiracy, Corsair having

approached Vector with the offer of buying the shares of TMB

and having obtained custody from it and having it placed with

its nominee, SCB, Mumbai, in escrow, falsely with criminal 73 intent that it would be kept in SCB, Mumbai, till the completion

of the sale for safe custody. Further, that Corsair, SCB , London, SCB, Mauritius and

SCB, Mumbai having entered into an escrow agreement with

Katra Holdings Private limited, dated 12.5.2007, and that under

the agreement Corsair was required to find buyers who could

each acquire less than 5% equity shares from out of the shares

deposited by Vector and Katra in SCB, Mumbai. And whether

Corsair and SCB, Mauritius had represented to Vector that the

buyers found would have RBI approval and that the sale

transaction would be closed only upon the buyer of the shares

having RBI approval. And in the light of the details furnished

above whether the money paid to Vector as the sale

consideration , without indicating the name of the purchaser or

the RBI approval. And as alleged by the Complainant , whether

the very shares were pledged by SCB in association with

Corsair in raising the sale amount that was remitted to the

account of Vector. And thereby leaving it exposed to action for 74 violation of the law, are the possible aspects that may be the

subject matter of the criminal complaint. It would not be

prudent for this court at this stage to pronounce on the

correctness or the truth or falsity of these allegations on a prima

facie test of perusal of documents and on the basis of assertions

by the parties. It would appear that the search and seizure carried out

pursuant to the complaint and warrant issued by the court below

does appear to be carried with considerable expedition and in a

slick manner, which is unusual for an agency which is normally

seen to respond laconically. But that by itself would not vitiate

the criminal proceedings. It is also to be kept in view that Vector cannot have

possession of the shares without the refund of the money

received by it as the purported sale consideration and of course

subject to the civil proceedings pending before the Bombay

High Court. The present criminal petitions however, do not make out

a case for this court's interference in the impugned complaint

and are dismissed. The shares in the custody of the court below

however, shall remain in its custody either till the culmination

of the proceedings before the Bombay High court or the

proceedings before itself, whichever is earlier. Sd/- JUDGE

KS*