IA 7103/2018 (u/O 39 R 1 & 2 CPC 1. In the present application filed under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2 CPC , the
plaintiffs have sought appropriate ex parte injunction to restrain the
defendants from seeking to enforce against the plaintiff any obligation under
the Deed of Guarantee dated 16.05.2013 pending disposal of the present suit. CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 1 2. This suit is filed by the plaintiffs seeking a decree of declaration
declaring that the Corporate Guarantee dated 16.05.2013 issued by plaintiff
No. 1 is vitiated by fraud or misrepresentation including under Sections 17 , 18 , 142 , 143 of the Contract Act, 1872 and is therefore invalid in law and
that the plaintiff is entitled to consequential reliefs. A decree is also sought in
favour of plaintiff No. 1 against defendants No. 1 to 8, 10, 12 for specified
amounts as detailed below:- 4. Plaintiff No. 1 is said to be owned and controlled by the Qatar
Investment Authority, (a Government of Qatar Entity), which is said to be
one of the largest investors in the world. Plaintiff No. 2 is the subsidiary of
plaintiff No.1 and was incorporated by plaintiff No. 1 to serve as a special
purpose vehicle for the plaintiff‟s investment in the company called Bush
Foods Overseas Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as „Bush Foods‟). It is
stated that Bush Foods was incorporated in July 2005 by Mr.Virkaran
Awasty and his wife, namely, Mrs.Ritika Awasty. Its main business was

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 2
 trading in rice, both domestic and exports. In March 2011, two Mauritius
based indirect subsidiaries of Standard Chartered Bank, U.K. invested in
Bush Foods by subscribing to its shares and compulsory convertible
debentures stock. They came to hold 29% equity in Bush Foods with the
balance shareholding then remaining with the promoters, namely, by
Mr.Virkaran Awasty and Mrs.Ritika Awasty. 5. In September 2012, the plaintiff was approached to invest in the said
Bush Foods. After conducting due diligence, a transaction was closed on
28.03.2013. Plaintiff No. 2 was incorporated and acquired 69.5 % equity
shares in Bush Foods. The Mauritius based Standard Chartered Bank
subsidiaries and investor Mrs. Ritika Awasty exited Bush Food. Balance
30.5% shares remained with Mr.Virkaran Awasty. 6. As there was a change in the shareholding in Bush Foods, it required a
no objection from defendants No. 1 to 7, 10, 11 who are the members of the
Consortium of banks led by Bank of India (hereinafter referred to as
„Consortium‟) who had granted credit facilities to Bush Foods. Each of the
banks had given an NOC upon the condition that plaintiff No. 1 furnishes a
Corporate Guarantee securitizing 70% of the loans availed by Bush Foods
from the said Consortium. A meeting was held with the Consortium
Members at Oberoi Hotel in Delhi on 11.03.2013 which was attended by the
Consortium Members and ING Vysya Bank. The Banks are said to have
painted a rosy picture to the plaintiff stating that they have good relations
with Bush Foods. It was never pointed out or indicated that Bush Foods was
in fact desperately struggling to meet its loan repayment obligations and was
regularly defaulting in its interest paying obligation. Time and again banks
had warned Bush Foods for the delays and defaults and that its debts was

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 3
 likely to be declared as non-performing assets under the SARFAESI Act .
All these facts were deliberately hidden by the Consortium from the plaintiff.
On the contrary false assurances were held out to the plaintiff. The transaction with Bush Foods was closed on 28.03.2013. A
Corporate Guarantee was furnished by plaintiff in favour of the Consortium
Members on 16.05.2013 as per their stipulation. 7. On paper Bush Foods was a financially healthy and profit making
company with annual gross revenue of Rs.1,267 crores and having a rice and
paddy inventory worth about Rs.1000 crores which was hypothecated with
the banks who had on the strength of this hypothecation loaned a huge
amount to the Company. 8. After acquiring majority shareholdings in Bush Foods, the
management and business operation remained with Mr.Virkaran Awasty
who was CEO and MD. Subsequently, statutory auditors Deloitte gave a
disclaimed audit report stating that an attempt for physical verification of the
rice and paddy inventory could not be finalized. It was pointed out that Bush
Foods had converted its inventory from bags to metric tonnes claiming each
bag as weighing 75 kgs. whereas the purchase invoices ranged from 50-65
kg per bag. This itself had an adverse impact of Rs.164.73 crores from the
claimed inventory. On account of the disclosure of Deloitte and its inability
to complete the stock taking of the inventory, an independent quantity
surveyor, namely, Dr. Amin Controllers Pvt. Ltd. was roped in to audit and
verify the physical stock of rice and paddy in three warehouses-Shahabad,
Murthal and Panipat as well as at the plant at Silos at Sonepat. Shocking
state of affairs was discovered in the inspection. Large number of bags were
filled with plant sweepage and/or rice husk. Further, bags were stacked to

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 4
 give a false impression that the warehouses were full at maximum quantity
whereas this was only a window dressing. Bags were stacked against the
windows and against the entrance to visually give a false impression of full
warehouses. Some warehouses were said to be under fumigation but in fact
they were found to be empty. A final audit was completed. It was ultimately
found that Shahabad, Murthal and Panipat warehouses had a total of
1160.603 MT of rice and 3091.806 MT of paddy as against 2,46,000 MT as
claimed by Bush Foods in November 2013. At all material times, Bush Foods certified its inventory of paddy and
rice to be worth somewhere around Rs.1,000 crores. In reality, the inventory
of Bush Foods was not even worth Rs. 20 crores. 9. Clearly, it was a case of fraud and cheating being played on the
plaintiff by misleading the plaintiff about the value of the stock. This
fraud/misrepresentation rendered the entire investment of the plaintiff a total
waste and further exposing plaintiff No. 1 to huge liability under the
Corporate Guarantee. The plaintiff filed a criminal complaint before the
Economic Offences Wing (EoW), Mandir Marg, New Delhi on 06.01.2014
and an FIR was registered on 03.12.2014. EoW filed a charge sheet on
08.08.2016 in the court of ACMM, Saket Court against Mr.Virkaran Awasty
in respect of offences under Sections 409 , 420 , 468 , 471 , 477A and 120 B IPC, 1860. The court has taken cognizance of the offences. 10. In the absence of the necessary inventory, on the strength of which the
Bush Foods had taken a credit of over Rs.700 crores, the Company
inevitably slid into insolvency. Vide order dated 10.02.2016 passed by this
court, the Official Liquidator was appointed as the Provisional Liquidator.
This court also directed the SFIO to carry out an investigation in the

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 5
 accounts of Bush Foods. SFIO has filed its interim report but the final report
is awaited. 11. The plaintiff states that on humanitarian consideration and in order to
meet the salary dues of Bush Foods‟ employees, the plaintiff injected funds
to the tune of USD 162,00 and subsequently, another sum of USD 1,038,000
into Bush Foods. 12. Keeping in view the acts of Mr. Virkaran Awasty, he was removed
from the post of MD and CEO. 13. The shocking fact was that the bank consortium, namely, Bank of
India, Allahabad Bank, Bank of Baroda, Central Bank of India, PNB, EXIM
Bank and Standard Chartered Bank had executed a joint deed of
hypothecation on the stocks of Bush Foods. The Consortium was joined by
two banks, namely, HSBC and DBS. A sanctioned credit limit of about Rs.
650 crores was granted by the banks to Bush Foods based on this make
belief inventories. It is stated that the banks were so grossly negligent that
they failed to keep a track of the inventory of rice and paddy which was
hypothecated to them. 14. The Consortium Banks instead of pursuing the remedy against the
hypothecated assets of the Bush Foods sought to invoke the Corporate
Guarantee given by the plaintiff. The plaintiff has paid a total of Rs. 442.68
crores to various banks/defendants. However, despite having paid the said
amount, the Consortium Banks are said to have initiated proceedings against
the plaintiff and Bush Foods/Mr.Virkaran Awasty before DRT seeking sums
outside the Corporate Guarantee along with interest @ 14.8%. A Total of
Rs.282.28 crores are being sought from the plaintiff despite the large
payments made by the plaintiff. It is pleaded that the amounts claimed by the

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 6
 consortium banks are outside the Corporate Guarantee and not the liability of
the plaintiff. 15. It is further stated that on account of the fraud played by Bush Foods
on the plaintiff, the plaintiff engaged a professional business agency called
GPW having its offices in London and Dubai to gather and present evidence
relating to the fraud committed on it. Hassad Netherlands B.V. was
permitted to take copies of physical and electronic records of Bush Foods for
the purposes of enquiry. Other experts were also roped in. The analysis of
the experts, it is pleaded, conclusively establish that the bank consortium had
great difficulties with the Bush Foods Account but they concealed the same
wrongfully and induced the plaintiff to furnish the guarantee. It is pleaded
that as per the correspondence of the banks, Bush Food was supposed to
have a turnover of Rs.1200 crores per annum and was also reporting each
month to the banks that it was sitting on an inventory of stock of about
Rs.1,000 crores. Banks were lending money under the structure where they
were required to meet, consult and discuss the performance of the Borrower.
Despite grave infirmities in the financial and assets structure of the Bush
Foods, the banks continued to blindly give loan to the said company and
falsely represented to the plaintiff that they had good relations with Bush
Foods. Hence, it is pleaded that the banks are liable to return the money
realized under the Corporate Guarantee on account of negligence, deceit,
fraud and misrepresentation. 16. The grounds on which the relief is sought are as follows:- 17. Hence, the present suit. 18. The some of the defendants have filed written statement. An
application under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC seeking dismissal of the suit on the
ground that this court has no jurisdiction to adjudicate the suit has also been
filed. It has been stated by the said defendants that this court does not have
jurisdiction to adjudicate the present suit. Reliance is placed on the
judgments of the Supreme Court in the cases of United Bank of India,
Calcutta vs. Abhijit Tea Co. Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. , AIR 2000 SC 2957 and

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 8
 Radnik Exports vs. Standard Chartered bank, 211 (2014) DLT 436. It is
also pleaded on merits that there is no prima facie case of any fraud against
the answering defendants. It is pleaded that execution of the corporate
guarantee was not dependent upon any representation made by the said
defendants but was based on proper due diligence done by the plaintiffs. It is
also pleaded that share purchase agreement dated 09.03.2013 was executed
before the meeting with the consortium on 11.03.2013. It is further stated
that several due diligence report were prepared by KPMG, Khaitan & Co.,
PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt. Ltd. Earnest and Young etc. before the
plaintiff took steps to invest in Bush Foods. It is stated that defendants were
not aware about the prevailing situation when the meeting took place on
11.03.2013 and hence, there is no concealment of fact or fraud by the
defendants. It is also stated that in the chargesheet filed by the Economic
Offence Wing against Bush Foods, there is no adverse finding against the
answering defendants. 19. I have heard learned counsel for the parties. 20. Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff has reiterated the submissions
made in the plaint pointing out that the defendant Banks have played a fraud
on the plaintiff. They were fully aware of the financial weakness of Bush
Foods but in the meeting that was held with the bankers on 11.03.2013 vital
information was illegally and fraudulently suppressed from the plaintiff. On
the contrary, a completely rosy picture was given misleading the plaintiff
and causing loss and damages to the plaintiff. The entire investment of the
plaintiff of USD 120.34 million has been completely wiped out. It has been
pointed out that the plaintiff made investments on 28.03.2013. Pursuant to
the report of Dr.Amin Controllers Pvt. Ltd. and Deloitte, Mr.Awasty was

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 9
 removed as CEO on 27.11.2013. Hence, within 7 to 8 months, the plaintiff
discovered that the inventories claimed were virtually non-existent. By
January 2014 i.e. in about 8 months from the date of issuing Corporate
Guarantee, the banks started issuing call notice on the Corporate Guarantee.
The plaintiff being a responsible Company has honored the Corporate Bank
Guarantee and paid the entire dues of the banks totaling Rs.442 crores yet
the banks are arm twisting the plaintiff demanding another amount of Rs.282
crores which is beyond the terms of the Corporate Guarantee. In any case on
account of the fraud and misrepresentation now discovered by the plaintiff,
the plaintiff seeks recovery of its dues/losses from the banks. 21. Learned counsel appearing for the consortium/defendants submits that
this court does not have the jurisdiction to entertain the present suit. It is
pleaded that it is the DRT which is the appropriate forum to adjudicate upon
the defence if any raised by the guarantor, namely, the plaintiff. He relies
upon the following judgments: - 23. I may only note that this matter has been heard extensively on two
dates. Parties have filed their written submissions. 24. The essential argument raised by the defendants is about the
jurisdiction of this court. Section 18 of the Recovery of Debts and
Bankruptcy Act, 1993(in short the 'RDB Act') reads as follows:- Nor can his claim by way of independent suit in a court having
 jurisdiction, be transferred to a tribunal against his wishes." 27. In Nahar Industrial Enterprises Limited vs. Hong Kong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation (supra) the Supreme Court held as
follows:- 110. It must be remembered that the jurisdiction of a civil court
 is plenary in nature. Unless the same is ousted, expressly or by
 necessary implication, it will have jurisdiction to try all types of
 suits. 28. It follows from the above judgments that a civil court would have
jurisdiction to try a suit filed by the debtor. Jurisdiction of the civil court was
ousted under the provisions of sections 16 and 17 of the RDB Act only for
such suit which relates application from the banks and financial institutions
for recovery of their debts. 29. I may however note that there are two other judgments of the Supreme
Courts where the court has take a view that if in such a suit filed by the
borrower the issues are inextricably linked with the case of the bank filed
before the DRT the suit can be transferred to be adjudicated upon by the
tribunal. 30. The Supreme Court in United Bank of India, Calcutta vs. Abhijit Tea
Co.Pvt . Ltd. and Ors. (supra) was dealing with a case where a suit was
pending filed by the bank in the High Court prior to enactment of RDB Act.
The debtor company had also filed a suit for specific performance, perpetual
and mandatory injunction raising common issues between the parties which
was pending in the High Court. The Supreme Court held that the pleas raised
by the debtor company were inextricably connected with the amount claimed
by the bank. Holding that the suit of the debtor was in subsistence a counter

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 16
 claim under section 19(8) of the DRT Act the Court directed the suit to be
tried before the DRT. 31. In State Bank of India vs. Ranjan Chemicals Ltd. and Anr. (supra)
the Supreme Court was again dealing with a case where the High Court had
refused to transfer the suit for being tried jointly with the application of the
bank before DRT Patna. The Bank had sought transfer on the basis that the
suit was in the nature of counter claim to its claim and arose out of the same
cause of action. The Supreme Court held that the two claims are inextricably
interlinked. The counter-claims arising out of the said claim arose from
transaction between the bank and the company. The court was of the view
that a joint trial could be ordered. It was ordered accordingly. 32. In Bank of Rajasthan Limited vs. VCK Shares and Stock Broking
Services Limited , (2015) 13 SCC 635 the Supreme Court noted the above
views of different benches of the Supreme Court and directed that the matter
may be referred to a larger bench. The Supreme Court held as follows:- 33. I was informed at the Bar that the aforesaid matter is pending
adjudication before a larger bench of the Supreme Court. 34. I may only note that in none of the aforesaid judgments of the
Supreme Court, any of the Courts has held that a Civil Court would not have
jurisdiction to entertain a suit filed by a debtor against the financial
institutions. The Supreme Court in Nahar Industrial Enterprises Limited
vs. Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation (supra) has
categorically held that a civil suit would lie by a borrower against the
Financial Institution keeping in view the provisions of the DRT Act . The
aforesaid view has been reaffirmed by the Supreme Court recently in Robust
Hotels Private Limited and Others vs. EIH Limited and Others, (2017) 1
SCC 622 where the Supreme Court held as follows:- 35. The facts of the present case would show that it cannot be said that the
disputes which have been raised in the present suit are inextricably linked
with the claims arising out of the applications filed by the consortium banks
before the DRT. The consortium banks have already received a total sum of

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 18
 Rs.442.68 crores from the plaintiff. It appears that there are still some
disputes with the consortium banks claiming additional amounts pursuant to
corporate guarantee signed by the plaintiff on 16.5.2013. In the present suit the plaintiff has sought a declaration declaring that
the corporate guarantee is vitiated by fraud and misrepresentation on account
of the various facts which have been explained above. The plaintiffs claim
that consortium banks have misled the plaintiffs into entering the transaction.
The consortium banks were fully aware that the Bush Foods was in dire
financial problems and repeatedly defaulting in payment of its dues to the
consortium banks. This fact was never revealed to the plaintiffs in the
meeting that was held on 11.03.2013. On the contrary the consortium banks
deliberately painted a rosy picture about the financial health of Bush Foods
and misled the plaintiffs. It is further pleaded that the stock of Bush Foods
was hypothecated to the consortium banks on the basis of which credit
facility has been granted to Bush Foods. It is pleaded that the consortium
banks were grossly negligent in keeping a track on the physical inventory of
the hypothecated stock of goods of Bush Foods when the banks should have
been diligent about the same. Stock of Bush Foods on paper when
transactions took place was worth about Rs.1,000/- crores. When actual
physical inventory was prepared by the specialist, the actual inventory turned
out to worth about Rs.20 crores only. Hence, the relief sought of declaration
that the corporate guarantee is vitiated by fraud and misrepresentation. The
plaintiffs also seek to recover damages/dues from the consortium banks. Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff has clarified that no counter
claim has been filed by the plaintiff before the DRT. It is stated that in the
reply filed to the applications filed by the consortium banks a clear averment

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 19
 has been made that the plaintiff would be seeking its remedy against the
banks in appropriate civil proceedings. Hence, the issue before DRT is whether the plaintiff has paid its dues
pursuant to the Guarantee dated 16.5.2013. In the present suit the issue is
whether the Guarantee is vitiated by fraud and misrepresentation. If so, what
relief is the plaintiff entitled to. Hence, it cannot be said that the issues
involved here are inextricably linked with the proceedings pending before
the DRT. 36. Keeping in view the above facts and legal position, in my opinion, the
present suit would be maintainable. 37. I may now see whether an interim order is to be passed in favour of
the plaintiffs. Some of the facts in this case are very striking. The plaintiffs
have made an investment on 28.3.2013 of USD 120.34 million and have
issued the corporate guarantee on 16.5.2013. On 27.11.2013 on receipt of
reports from Dr.Amin Controllers Private Limited and the audit report of
Deloitte, Mr.Virkaran Awasty was changed as CEO of Bush Food. From
January 2014 onwards, namely, in around 9 months the consortium banks
began issuing call notices on the corporate guarantee which have been duly
paid. Pursuant to the call notices the plaintiff has paid total of Rs.442 crores
to the consortium banks. Hence, in a short span of barely nine months the
plaintiffs have lost out the entire investment of Rs.120.34 million US Dollars
i.e. about Rs.800 crores plus a sum of Rs.442 crores paid on invocation of
the corporate guarantee by the consortium banks for no fault of the plaintiffs. 38. Firstly, one cannot help noticing that the consortium banks had given
loans to „Bush Foods‟ of over Rs.700 crores on the charge of an inventory of
rice and paddy which was supposed to be worth about Rs.1,000 crores. After

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 20
 taking over Bush Foods when a physical verification was got carried out by
the plaintiff company through international experts Dr.Amin Controller
Private Limited it transpired that the total worth of the inventory was not
even worth Rs.20 crores. Prima facie it appears that the consortium banks
have been grossly negligent in keeping a tab on the physical inventory of
paddy and rice hypothecated to them and they have for unknown reasons
readily believed the account of Bush Foods to conclude the stock of goods
was worth Rs.1,000 crores. Of course, a full picture will emerge only after
trial. The banks have given about Rs.700 crores credit limit to Bush Foods.
Inevitably the Bush Foods went into insolvency and the provisional OL was
appointed by this court on 10.2.2016. 39. Secondly, strong allegations have been made in the plaint about a
meeting held with the consortium banks on 11.3.2013 which was also
attended by ING Vyasya Bank where the bankers have painted a rosy picture
to the plaintiff. It was not pointed out as is evident from the documents that
Bush Foods was struggling to meet its loan demand/payment and was
regularly defaulting. It has been pleaded that the banks and its officials are
guilty of fraud and misrepresentation under sections 17 and 18 of the Indian
Contract Act and that the corporate guarantee as void. I may look at the
minutes of the meeting that was held on 11.03.2013, relevant portion of
which reads as follows: Regarding Exim Bank's query on investment, Mr. Khalid
 clarified that Hassad Foods Netherlands, an SPV of Hassad
 foods will acquire 70% stake in Bush Foods Overseas Pvt. Ltd. Mr. Sood informed that as far as Bank of India & consortium
 member banks are concerned, we have full faith in Mr.Vir

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 22
 Karan Awasty and with Hassad Foods investing in the
 company, financial position of Bush Foods Overseas Pvt. Ltd.
 will become strong. Consortium informed that they have good
 relationship with Bush Foods and assured that they will
 continue their support to Hassad Foods and Bush Foods." (emphasis added) 40. It is clear from the above minutes that the banks have clearly held out
to the plaintiffs that satisfactory relationship with Bush Foods exists for over
six years. They have also held out that they have full faith in Mr.Virkaran
Awasty. The actual facts on that date was totally different. Bush Foods was a
defaulter in its repayments and was actually struggling to stay afloat. Prima
facie there is merit in the plea of the plaintiff that the bankers painted a rosy
picture to the plaintiff about the financial health of Bush Foods and induced
the plaintiffs to go ahead with the transactions. No doubt the plaintiffs
has not relied upon only the defendant for its due diligence. 41. Thirdly, some of the facts are quite glaring. The transaction has been
finally closed on 28.03.2013. The corporate guarantee was furnished in
favour of the consortium members on 16.05.2013. Within six months,
namely in January, 2014 the consortium banks issued a call notice on the
corporate guarantee. The plaintiffs paid a sum of Rs.442 crores to the
consortium bankers. Hence, within eight-nine months of taking over Bush
Foods, the plaintiffs have lost Rs.442 plus about Rs.800 crores of investment
in a dead company i.e. about Rs.1242 crores. Prima facie it appears that the
plaintiffs have been cheated. 42. I also cannot help noticing the bona fide conduct of the plaintiffs. The
plaintiffs have without any litigation paid a sum of Rs.442 crores to the
consortium bankers pursuant to the demand of the banks. However, the

CS (COMM.) 9/2018 Page 23
 consortium feels that this amount does not discharge the plaintiffs.
Proceedings are pending before the DRT for recovery of Rs.282 crores
claimed by the consortium banks. 43. The plaintiffs have made out a prima facie case. Balance of
convenience is also in favour of the plaintiffs and against the defendants.
Hence, an interim order is passed restraining the consortium
banks/defendants from using any coercive methods against the plaintiffs for
recovery of its alleged dues. 44. In the course of arguments I was informed that the petitions filed by
the consortium banks before the DRT are pending at the final stage of
arguments. In case DRT were to pass recovery certificate in favour of the
banks and against the plaintiffs the banks would be free to approach this
court seeking appropriate orders for protection of their interest as per law. 45. As far as the issue of conflict of opinion between the civil court and
DRT is concerned, at present there is no such conflict arising. This court
need not to go into this aspect at this stage. I may only note that the Supreme
Court in the case of Nahar Industrial Enterprises Ltd. v. Hong Kong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation (supra) had noted the view expressed by the
Division Bench of this court in Cofex Exports Ltd. v. Canara Bank , AIR
1997 Del 355. The view was noted as follows: 37. One of the questions which would arise, thus, for our
 consideration is whether having regard to the amendment of Section 19 by reason of Act 1 of 2000 and Act 30 of 2004
 empowering the Tribunal to determine a claim of setoff and/or
 counterclaim, and whether Cofex Exports Ltd. [AIR 1997 Del
 355] is still good law." I may only note that the Supreme Court in the said judgment concluded
that the tribunal is not a civil court. 46. Application stands disposed of as above.