Index to the Judgment
 FACTUAL BACKDROP ...........................................................................3
 The Murder on 07.12.2024 .................................................................................. 3
 The Invocation of MCOCA ................................................................................ 6
 Uncovering the Role of Petitioners in the Organised Crime Syndicate &
 Their Arrest ........................................................................................................... 6
 The Controversy of Re-Arrest ............................................................................ 8
 THE RIVAL CONTENTIONS ........................................................... 17
 On behalf of the Petitioners .............................................................................. 17
 On behalf of the State ........................................................................................ 19
 ANALYSIS & FINDINGS .................................................................... 22
 The Alleged Absence of New Material at the Time of Re-Arrest ................ 22
 Furnishing of Grounds of Arrest to the Petitioners ...................................... 25
 Whether Re-Arrest is Permissible After Declaration of Initial Arrest as
 Non-Est due to Procedural Irregularity? ......................................................... 27
 Conclusion ........................................................................................................... 34

 DR. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J 1. The petitioners, by way of this writ petition, seek a declaration
 that their arrest dated 10.06.2025 - in relation to FIR No. 629/2024,
 dated 07.12.2024, registered at Police Station Farsh Bazar, Delhi and
 currently being investigated by the Special Cell - was unlawful and
 unconstitutional; a direction for their immediate release from custody
 in the said FIR; and a declaration that the judicial remand orders
 dated 11.06.2025 and 16.06.2025, passed by the learned Vacation
 Judges, Patiala House Courts, as well as all subsequent proceedings,
 are null and void in law. The petitioners also challenge and pray for
 the setting aside of the order dated 04.07.2025 passed by the learned Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 2 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 ASJ-03/Special Judge, Patiala House Courts, New Delhi, which
 upheld the legality of their re-arrest. 2. The central issue that falls for consideration is whether the re-
 arrest of the petitioners - after their earlier arrest in the same FIR was
 held to be non-est in the eyes of law by the learned ASJ on the
 ground of non-supply of grounds of arrest - can now be sustained in
 view of fresh material and compliance with procedural safeguards. FACTUAL BACKDROP

 The Murder on 07.12.2024 3. The present case unfolds an incident that took place on
 07.12.2024, which set in motion the events culminating in the present
 petition. On that morning, at around 08:25 AM, one Sumit Kumar
 Nahata was returning home on his Scooty along with his friend, Sunil
 Jain, after their routine walk at Yamuna Sports Complex. As they
 halted at the red light near Vishwas Nagar, two unidentified
 individuals on a blue-coloured TVS Apache motorcycle allegedly
 drove up beside them and, without warning, opened fire, discharging
 about 5 to 6 rounds at Sunil Jain. The assailants immediately fled the
 scene. Sunil Jain was rushed to Max Hospital, Patparganj, where he
 was declared brought dead. Based on the statement of Sumit Kumar
 Nahata, the present FIR i.e. FIR No. 629/2024 was registered at
 Police Station Farsh Bazar, Delhi for offences punishable under
 Sections 103/3(5) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 [hereafter
 „BNS‟] read with Sections 25 / 27 of the Arms Act, 1959. The Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 3 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 investigation was thereafter entrusted to the Special Cell (NDR),
 marking the beginning of a case that has since taken several complex
 and controversial turns. 4. As the investigation progressed, scrutiny of CCTV footage and
 witness statements led to the identification of the alleged shooters as
 Naveen Kasana and Mukesh Kumar @ Sachin @ Golu. Both
 individuals were found to have a long and serious criminal history,
 i.e., Naveen Kumar with nearly 15 prior cases and Mukesh @ Golu
 being involved in around 16 criminal cases pertaining to dacoity,
 robbery, attempted murder, abduction, etc. In light of the gravity and
 complexity of the case, the investigation was formally transferred to
 the Counter Intelligence Cell of the Special Cell, Delhi Police, by
 order dated 31.12.2024. Section 61(2) of the BNS was also added in
 this case. 5. However, what began as a targeted shooting soon appeared to
 be part of a larger web of gang rivalry and vengeance. As revealed
 during investigation, the murder of Sunil Jain was allegedly a case of
 mistaken identity. It was discovered that a few weeks prior, on the
 day of Deepawali in 2024, two individuals, i.e., Akash Sharma @
 Chotu and Rishabh were allegedly killed by one Sonu @ Matka and a
 CCL. Akash and Rishabh were close kin of Yogesh Sharma @ Yogi,
 a figure allegedly involved in illegal gambling operations in North-
 East Delhi along with Nitin Jain @ Susu. Both Yogesh and Nitin
 were reportedly backed by the Hasim @ Baba gang. Seeking revenge
 for the murders of his brother and son, Yogesh Sharma, along with Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 4 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 Nitin Jain and the said gang, had allegedly conspired to eliminate the
 assailants. With the CCL in protective custody and Sonu @ Matka
 untraceable, the alleged shooters instead targeted Virat Sharma, the
 father of CCL. However, due to a confusion arising from the striking
 similarity in make, model, and colour of scooters, Sunil Jain, an
 innocent man, was tragically gunned down in place of the intended
 target. 6. The investigation took another turn with the interceptions of
 certain mobile communications between January-February 2025.
 These intercepted calls revealed that someone was not only assisting
 the absconding accused Mukesh @ Golu in evading arrest, but was
 also actively engaged in discussions about orchestrating future
 criminal acts. One of the voices in the intercepted calls was
 confirmed to be that of Mukesh @ Golu. To uncover the identity of
 the second caller, the recharge history of the associated mobile
 number was traced, which led them to a retail shop in Delhi. CCTV
 footage from the shop showed a man, later identified as Shahnawaz
 Khan of Dilshad Garden, purchasing the recharge. Upon
 examination, Shahnawaz disclosed that he had done so at the
 direction of one Sub-Inspector Sukhbir of Delhi Police. He further
 identified the voices in the intercepted calls as belonging to Sukhbir
 and Mukesh @ Golu. It was then revealed during the course of
 investigation that Sub-Inspector Sukhbir, had allegedly introduced
 the two shooters, Mukesh @ Golu and Naveen Kasana, to each other
 prior to the commission of the murder. Eventually, on 15.02.2025, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 5 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 Sukhbir was apprehended while travelling in his vehicle, and
 following interrogation and evaluation of the evidence collected, he
 was formally arrested the next day. The Invocation of MCOCA 7. As the investigation deepened, it was revealed that the
 shooting incident, and related events under investigation, were not
 isolated acts of violence but formed part of a larger chain of criminal
 activities orchestrated by a syndicate allegedly led by Anwar Khan @
 Chacha and Sabir Chaudhary. In view of the same, Sections 3 and 4 of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 [hereafter
 „MCOCA‟] were invoked in the present case on 21.04.2025, and the
 investigation was accordingly transferred from the Counter
 Intelligence Cell to the New Delhi Range of the Special Cell.
 Consequent upon the addition of MCOCA charges, the case was
 committed to the court of the learned ASJ-03, Patiala House Courts,
 New Delhi, the designated court for MCOCA trials. Uncovering the Role of Petitioners in the Organised Crime Syndicate
 & Their Arrest 8. Eventually, it came to light that the present petitioners - Hasim
 Baba @ Asim, Sameer @ Baba, Anwar Khan @ Chacha, and Zoya
 Khan - were the peripheral figures who sat at the helm of the
 organized crime syndicate itself. Following the revelations regarding
 their alleged role in the organised crime syndicate, the four
 petitioners were interrogated inside Tihar Jail with prior permission Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 6 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 of the Court. Based on what the investigating agency claimed to be
 sufficient evidence of their involvement in organised criminal
 activities, all four were formally arrested in the present case on
 12.05.2025. The next day, the police sought seven days of custody
 remand before the learned ASJ, Patiala House Courts. 9. However, notably, the learned ASJ declined the request on
 13.05.2025, observing that the due process of law had not been
 followed during the petitioners‟ arrest in jail. It was observed that the
 investigating agency had failed to communicate the gist of the
 material forming the grounds for arrest to the accused, as legally
 mandated. Consequently, the Court declared the arrest of all four
 petitioners as non-est, ordering their release in the present case, while
 also granting liberty to the State to undertake appropriate legal steps
 in accordance with law. The relevant portion of the order dated
 13.05.2025 is set out below: Permitting this would amount to licensing honoring of law in
 letter only without respect for spirit and purpose of law.
 14.1 It was pointed out by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that
 there are statements of public witnesses including statement
 under Section 183 of BNSS. Said statements are in fact part of
 the record, however, same in itself is not sufficient. As per the
 established position of law noted above, gist of the material on
 the basis of which the investigating agency believed that
 Grounds of Arrest existed is to be conveyed but same is amiss
 in the present matter. Therefore, as sequel to above discussion,
 it is held that arrest of above four accused is not proper and not
 in terms of law. Hence, it is held to be non-est. Accused are
 directed to be released from custody in this case. It is clarified
 that since the arrest is held to be non-est on technical ground,
 State has liberty to complete the process as per law. 15. Application disposed of accordingly." The Controversy of Re-Arrest 10. The investigating agency returned to Court on 15.05.2025,
 seeking further interrogation and re-arrest of the petitioners, after
 complying with all procedural safeguards. It was submitted that the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 8 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 earlier order dated 13.05.2025 had not restrained them from
 proceeding afresh and that the nature of offences, i.e. punishable even
 with death, clearly necessitated their arrest. The matter was heard in
 detail, and by order dated 09.06.2025, the learned ASJ permitted the
 interrogation of the petitioners within jail premises in accordance
 with the applicable rules. As to the question of re-arrest, the Court
 carefully clarified that it was not within its legal mandate to grant
 advance permission for arrest. The Court observed that it is for the
 investigating agency to decide whether arrest is warranted, and the
 Court‟s role to assess the legality of such arrest would arise only once
 it is effected. The Court observed that any pre-emptive judicial
 sanction would amount to placing the cart before the horse and would
 be impermissible under law. The relevant portion of order dated
 09.06.2025 reads as under: 11. All four petitioners were rearrested in the present case on
 10.06.2025. This time, more detailed and written grounds of arrest
 were furnished to the petitioners. Following their arrest, they were
 brought to the Patiala House Court and produced before the learned
 Vacation Judge. An application for seeking 10 days of police custody Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 10 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 remand was also filed by the State, which was opposed by the learned
 defence counsels. Taking cognizance of the circumstances, the
 learned Vacation Judge, by order dated 11.06.2025, directed the
 investigating agency to place on record a synopsis of fresh evidence
 gathered post the earlier judicial order dated 13.05.2025, and to
 demonstrate the legal permissibility of the petitioners‟ rearrest. The
 petitioners were initially remanded to judicial custody till 16.06.2025,
 and on that date, their custody was further extended, with the matter
 posted before the learned ASJ for 01.07.2025. 12. Subsequently, after hearing arguments on the legality of the
 rearrest, the learned ASJ passed the impugned order dated
 04.07.2025, holding that the re-arrest of the petitioners in FIR No.
 629/2024 was lawful and within the four corners of the applicable
 legal framework. The relevant observations of the learned ASJ in the
 impugned order dated 04.07.2025, which have been assailed by the
 petitioners, are set out below: 22. Further, in the case titled as Prahald Singh Bhati v NCT
 of Delhi, Appeal (crl.) 324 of 2001, it has been held as under: 23. It was also argued on behalf of accused that if after
 declaring the arrest of the accused persons as illegal, there
 subsequent arrest is approved, it will amount to rendering the
 law laid down by the Hon'ble Constitutional Courts as
 infractuous. This argument cannot be accepted for the reason
 that the purpose of procedural safeguards incorporated in
 statutes are required to be strictly observed in terms of law laid
 down by Hon'ble Constitutional Courts, it can never mean to
 permit or allow accused to have an advantage of lapse or
 inefficiency on the part of an officer of prosecuting agency. 23.1 In the case titled as Vicky Bharat Kalyani v The State of
 Maharashtra & Anr. Writ Petition No.5254 of 2024, it was
 argued that it has been referred to the Larger Bench and
 therefore, cannot be relied upon. Para no. 66 of said judgment
 deals with terms of reference to Larger Bench, however,
 perusal of these questions/points raised in such reference to
 Larger Bench are in respect of application of Section 50 of
 erstwhile Cr.PC , whereas, the question and the observation in
 the earlier paragraph are in respect of the post non- compliance Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 15 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 of Section 50 Cr.PC in terms of not providing grounds of arrest
 to accused. 23.2 It was also argued that the reliance by the prosecution is
 such which amounts to noting the contentions of government
 Reader and they do not assume the status of law. However, a
 clear observation has been made in para no. 58 of the above
 judgment that any embargo or bar upon re-arrest could be
 pointed out and the court agreed with the contention that there
 is no bar for rearrest the person who are released for non-
 furnishing the grounds of arrest in writing. It is further held
 that if accused are released on the grounds of not supplying the
 grounds of arrest leading to violation of provisions of Cr.PC would amount to infringing their constitutional right under Article 21 of Constitution of India, thereafter, if grounds of
 arrest are supplied to them, they cannot have any grievance. It
 is further apposite and germane to have reference to para no.57
 of the said judgment and same is reproduced hereinunder: 24. The purpose behind the procedural safeguards and direction
 of Hon'ble Constitutional Courts to ensure that Grounds of
 Arrest to be provided to accused in writing is to ensure that
 accused is being clearly informed as to why he/she has been
 arrested and also to ensure that accused are in position to
 defend themselves since very beginning. The purpose of such
 safeguard can never been to let an accused go scot free for
 procedural lapses. It is trite law that procedure is handmaid of
 justice and the contention of the prosecution and Ld. Defence
 Counsel are required to be evaluated in this background." THE RIVAL CONTENTIONS

 On behalf of the Petitioners 13. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners contend that
 the arrest and subsequent judicial custody of the petitioners is illegal,
 being in violation of mandatory procedural safeguards enshrined in
 law. It is submitted that the first arrest of the petitioners was
 effectuated without supplying the grounds of arrest to the petitioners.
 The arrest memos were prepared in a cavalier and manipulative
 manner, reflecting a serious abuse of power by the police authorities.
 Reliance is placed on the decisions of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Pankaj Bansal v. Union of India : ( 2024) 7 SCC 576, Prabir
 Purkayastha v. State (NCT of Delhi ): (2024) 8 SCC 254, and
 Vihaan Kumar v. State of Haryana & Anr.: (2025) 5 SCC 799, to
 submit that the statutory requirements governing arrest are not mere Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 17 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 formalities and must be scrupulously followed. The learned counsel
 emphasise that the learned ASJ, by order dated 13.05.2025, had
 categorically held that the arrest of the petitioners was non-est.
 Further, vide order dated 09.06.2025, the same Court declined to
 grant permission to re-arrest the petitioners. Despite these binding
 orders, the police proceeded to re-arrest the petitioners on 10.06.2025
 without seeking appropriate legal recourse, thereby acting in
 contravention of law. 14. It is contended by the learned counsel that there exists no
 statutory provision authorising re-arrest in such circumstances,
 particularly when the initial arrest has been declared non-est and such
 declaration has not been set aside by any superior court since the
 State chose not to challenge the said order. The learned counsel
 further argue that the subsequent application for police custody
 remand, moved before the learned Vacation Judge on 11.06.2025,
 was completely silent on the earlier judicial findings, and reflects
 deliberate suppression of material facts by the investigating agency.
 It is urged that the police sought to bypass the judicial process by
 presenting the same relief before a different forum without disclosing
 that similar relief had already been declined twice by the learned
 ASJ. 15. Further, the learned counsel contend that the judicial orders
 dated 11.06.2025 and 16.06.2025 remanding the petitioners to
 judicial custody suffer from a legal infirmity as they were passed
 without adjudicating on the legality of the arrest, which is a serious Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 18 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 omission especially in view of the prior orders holding the arrest to
 be non-est. It is further contended that there was no fresh evidence or
 development justifying re-arrest or remand of the petitioners, and the
 reliance placed by the State on the judgments of the Bombay High
 Court and Kerala High Court is misplaced. It is argued that the
 Bombay High Court, in Vicky Bharat Kalyani v. State of
 Maharashtra & Anr : 2025 SCC OnLine Bom 193, did not lay down
 a conclusive ratio on the issue of re-arrest, as the matter was referred
 to a larger Bench. It is also stated that the Kerala High Court‟s
 decision in Babu M. v State of Kerala & Anr. : W.P. (CRL.)
 240/2025 too, does not articulate any settled procedure for re-arrest in
 such circumstances and the said order is also under challenge before
 the Hon‟ble Supreme Court. 16. It is argued on behalf of the petitioners that allowing such a
 course of action would set a dangerous precedent, which would
 enable the investigating agencies to circumvent the judicial findings
 which are against them simply by serving fresh grounds of arrest and
 re-arresting an accused. Accordingly, it is prayed that the impugned
 orders dated 11.06.2025, 16.06.2025, and 04.07.2025 be set aside, as
 the same are contrary to law. On behalf of the State 17. The learned Additional Standing Counsel (ASC) appearing for
 the State contends that the arrest of the petitioners on 10.06.2025 was
 lawful and in strict compliance with procedural safeguards. It is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 19 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 submitted that the earlier order dated 13.05.2025, which held the
 arrest of the petitioners as non-est, was passed solely on the ground
 of procedural irregularity, i.e., non-supply of proper written grounds
 of arrest, and not on any substantive finding that there was
 insufficient material to justify arrest. In fact, the Court, in the said
 order, had clarified that the State was at liberty to complete the
 process afresh in accordance with law. It is argued that the petitioners
 were never released on bail; rather, they were released solely because
 their initial arrest was declared non-est due to technical non-
 compliance. Therefore, the present case is not one where the State
 was required to seek cancellation of bail. 18. It is submitted that after securing liberty to interrogate the
 accused persons in judicial custody, the Investigating Agency, upon
 re-evaluating the material on record and after ensuring full procedural
 compliance, re-arrested the petitioners on 10.06.2025 and produced
 them before the competent Court the very next day. It is further
 contended that the decision to arrest or re-arrest is purely within the
 domain of the investigating agency; and in the present case, sufficient
 material exists to justify the arrest, and all the procedural safeguards
 under law have also been followed. 19. The learned ASC submits that the judgments relied upon by
 the petitioners do not bar the re-arrest of a person whose initial arrest
 has been declared illegal. On the contrary, the observations of the
 High Courts of Bombay and Kerala indicate that re-arrest is
 permissible under law once procedural deficiencies in the initial Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 20 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 arrest are rectified. The Bombay High Court, in Vicky Bharat
 Kalyani v. State of Maharashtra & Anr (supra) while considering a
 similar issue, has held that there is no bar to re-arrest an individual
 whose earlier arrest has been declared illegal on grounds of
 procedural error. It is further contended that though in this decision,
 some questions were referred to a Larger Bench, the portion relevant
 to post- non-compliance re-arrest stands independently supported by
 reasoning in the said decision . Similarly, the Kerala High Court in Babu M. v State of Kerala & Anr. (supra) has clarified that its
 finding on the illegality of arrest would not prevent the investigating
 agency from re-arresting the accused, provided such arrest is in
 accordance with law. As for the decision of Hon‟ble Supreme Court
 in Vihaan Kumar v. State of Haryana & Anr. (supra), it is pointed
 out that the judgment merely deals with the illegality of the arrest
 being violative of Article 22 of the Constitution of India and does not
 address the question of re-arrest at all. Therefore, it has no bearing on
 the issue involved in the present case. 20. It is contended by the learned ASC for the State that the object
 of procedural safeguards, such as furnishing written grounds of
 arrest, is to ensure that the accused is aware of the basis of his arrest
 so that he may prepare his defence. However, these safeguards are
 not intended to create a situation where an accused can avoid arrest
 altogether due to inadvertent lapses, particularly when such lapses
 have been cured. A contrary interpretation would not only defeat the
 ends of justice but also reduce the investigative process to a nullity. Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 21 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 In this regard, reliance is also placed on decision in Rakesh Kumar
 Paul v. State of Assam : (2017) 15 SCC 67 wherein the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court, while declaring the petitioner to be entitled to default
 bail due to non-filing of chargesheet within the prescribed time
 period, had clarified that the same would not prohibit the arrest or re-
 arrest of the petitioner on cogent grounds in respect of the subject
 charge. 21. Accordingly, it is argued that the re-arrest of the petitioners on
 10.06.2025, having been affected after complying with all statutory
 requirements and procedural safeguards, cannot be said to be illegal
 or an abuse of process. 22. This Court has heard arguments addressed on behalf of the
 petitioners as well as the State, and has carefully perused the material
 placed on record by either side. ANALYSIS & FINDINGS

 The Alleged Absence of New Material at the Time of Re-Arrest 23. One of the central contentions raised on behalf of the
 petitioners is that the investigating agency could not have unearthed
 or collected any new incriminating material between 13.05.2025 i.e.,
 the date on which the learned ASJ declared their initial arrest as
 illegal, and 15.05.2025, when the police moved an application
 seeking permission for their re-arrest. It was contended that within
 such a short span of less than 48 hours, the police could not have
 possibly gathered any fresh evidence that could justify a second Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 22 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 arrest. Attention was also invited to the proceedings before the
 learned Vacation Judge on 11.06.2025, wherein the Court had sought
 a specific explanation from the police as to what additional material
 had come to light post-13.05.2025 to warrant the re-arrest. 24. Insofar as this contention is concerned, in this Court‟s
 considered opinion, the aforesaid argument proceeds on an incorrect
 premise and an incorrect reading of the order dated 13.05.2025. It
 appears to proceed on the assumption that the arrest of the petitioners
 was declared illegal due to insufficiency of the material in possession
 of the investigating agency as on that date. However, a bare reading
 of the said order reveals that the learned ASJ had not undertaken any
 assessment whatsoever of the adequacy, sufficiency, or probative
 value of the material or evidence collected by the investigating
 agency against the petitioners. The order dated 13.05.2025 confined
 itself solely to the issue of procedural compliance with the
 constitutional and statutory safeguards governing arrest. Specifically,
 the Court found that the petitioners had not been supplied with
 adequate and meaningful written grounds of arrest as mandated by
 the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in a catena of decisions. 25. It is manifest from the said order that what the learned ASJ
 found deficient was the form and content of the written grounds of
 arrest actually handed over to the petitioners, which comprised
 merely a six-line description devoid of any factual allegations, case-
 specific details, or articulation of the evidence linking the petitioners
 to the offence. Such non-compliance rendered the arrest of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 23 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 petitioners non-est. However, the learned ASJ did not enter upon any
 determination as to whether or not the police actually possessed
 sufficient material to justify the arrest of the petitioners. That
 question remained unaddressed and untouched. Therefore, it is
 evident from a bare perusal of the said order that the same did not
 address, nor was it called upon to assess, the sufficiency or relevance
 of the evidence collected by the police. Furthermore, it cannot also be
 said that the order dated 13.05.2025 having declared the first arrest
 non-est on procedural grounds, operated as a bar to future arrest
 based on the material already in possession of the police, so long as
 the arrest was now carried out in accordance with law, as the same
 was clarified by the learned ASJ itself in the last line of order which
 read as follows: 26. It is, therefore, incorrect to argue that the re-arrest could only
 be justified on the basis of discovery of new material after
 13.05.2025. Accordingly, the argument of the learned counsel for the
 petitioners that the re-arrest was impermissible in the absence of new
 material is unmerited. 27. It is to be reiterated that the learned ASJ had not even applied
 its mind to the sufficiency of evidence incriminating in nature or even
 its existence on merit while passing the order declaring the arrest
 being non-est and had gone a step further to clarify that the order Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 24 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 declaring the arrest non-est was being passed solely on technical
 ground and the same order implied that the investigating agency was
 at liberty to complete the process as per law. Therefore it meant that
 after the procedural lapse of non providing the grounds of arrest was
 rectified, there would have been no bar to arrest the accused persons. Furnishing of Grounds of Arrest to the Petitioners 28. A key issue in the present matter also relates to compliance
 with the requirement of furnishing grounds of arrest, both at the time
 of the first arrest and upon the subsequent re-arrest of the petitioners. 29. It is undisputed that during the initial arrest, the petitioners
 were not provided with detailed written grounds of arrest. This
 formed the basis for the order dated 13.05.2025, whereby the learned
 ASJ declared the arrest as non-est, holding that such non-compliance
 violated the petitioners‟ fundamental rights and the settled law laid
 down in decisions such as Prabir Purkayastha v. State (NCT of
 Delhi ): 2024 INSC 414. That order attained finality, as it was not
 challenged by the State. 30. However, at the time of the re-arrest on 10.06.2025, this Court
 finds that detailed grounds of arrest were furnished to each of the
 petitioners, which have been placed on record before this Court by
 the State alongwith the Status Report. These grounds specifically
 outline the alleged roles of the petitioners in the organised crime
 syndicate and the specific allegations against them for commission of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 25 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 alleged offences. The extract of grounds of arrest, supplied to one of
 the petitioner, i.e. petitioner no. 1, is set out below for reference: Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 26 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 31. Therefore, at the time of re-arrest, the mandatory requirements
 of law, as interpreted by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, were prima
 facie complied with. Thus, this Court is of the considered view that
 the defect which had vitiated the initial arrest was not repeated during
 the re-arrest, and the requirement of informing the accused of the
 grounds of arrest in writing was duly fulfilled. Whether Re-Arrest is Permissible After Declaration of Initial Arrest as
 Non-Est due to Procedural Irregularity? 32. The essential question that now falls for determination is
 whether an accused person, whose arrest has previously been
 declared non-est or illegal on procedural grounds, can be lawfully re-
 arrested after compliance with the requisite legal formalities. 33. The petitioners have argued that such a re-arrest is
 impermissible, arbitrary, and violative of Article 21 of the
 Constitution. They rely on the judgment in Vihaan Kumar v. State of
 Haryana & Anr. (supra), urging that once an arrest is invalidated due
 to violation of procedural safeguards, the police cannot affect a fresh
 arrest in the same FIR. According to the petitioners, the appropriate
 course for the police would have been to seek cooperation for
 investigation rather than proceed with re-arrest. On the other hand,
 the State has contended that there is no statutory or constitutional bar
 on re-arresting a person whose earlier arrest was invalidated for non-
 compliance with procedural mandates. The State contends that once
 the procedural irregularity has been cured - as it was in the present Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 27 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 case by furnishing detailed written grounds of arrest - there is no
 legal impediment to a lawful re-arrest. 34. This Court finds merit in the State‟s argument. Clearly, the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 as well as the Bharatiya Nagarik
 Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, does not contain any provision that either
 expressly prohibits or bars re-arrest of an individual in such
 circumstances. Moreover, to accept the proposition advanced by the
 petitioners would be to grant complete immunity to an accused from
 any future arrest, even in cases involving serious offences, merely
 because the initial arrest was vitiated by a procedural lapse, however,
 sufficient incriminating material is found against him, qua the same
 offence, later. 35. This Court is of the considered view that a lapse or omission
 on the part of the investigating agency, whether inadvertent or
 deliberate, cannot and should not result in a blanket immunity to the
 accused against any future arrest in the same case. To hold otherwise
 would amount to laying down a precedent which, in the long run,
 may prove perilous to the administration of criminal justice. It would
 essentially mean that a serious offender may escape the process of
 law solely on account of a procedural lapse committed by the
 investigating agency, even if sufficient material exists justifying his
 arrest. 36. This issue also raises a more complex question: what happens
 when the arrest of an accused in a serious offence is declared illegal Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 28 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 or non-est purely on technical grounds? Can the State, after rectifying
 the procedural irregularity, not arrest the said accused again, even if
 cogent grounds exist? The learned counsel for the petitioners
 contended that once the arrest is held to be non-est, the petitioners
 cannot be re-arrested. This Court is unable to accept such a
 proposition of law. Let us test this argument in a hypothetical but
 plausible situation: suppose a police officer, either due to oversight or
 deliberately, does not communicate the grounds of arrest in writing,
 and therefore the arrest is declared illegal by the Court, however, at
 the same time clarifying that such declaration was solely on technical
 ground and the investigating agency was at liberty to rectify such
 lapse, it would necessarily lead to a conclusion that there was no
 immunity or bar in future to arrest the accused qua the same offence.
 Assume further that the case in question involves grave allegations -
 say, charges of organized crime, murders, etc. Should the procedural
 lapse committed by one officer, however serious, be allowed to
 permanently shield the accused from arrest, even after the defect has
 been remedied? The answer, in this Court‟s view, must be in the
 negative. 37. This question assumes even greater significance in the context
 of the present case, where the petitioners are not first-time offenders
 but individuals with a long list of criminal antecedents. As per the
 material placed on record, some of the petitioners are involved in as
 many as 10, 15, or even 26 criminal cases, including offences such as
 robbery, extortion, attempt to murder, and even murder. The Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 29 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 provisions of MCOCA have been invoked in this case, and the
 prosecution‟s allegations, at least prima facie point towards the
 existence of a structured organised criminal syndicate. In such a
 context, the argument that an illegal or non-est arrest should
 completely shield the accused persons from future arrest, after
 complying with all procedural safeguards, cannot be accepted by this
 Court. 38. The view that re-arrest is not impermissible in such
 circumstances has also received judicial recognition. In Kavita
 Manikikar of Mumbai v. CBI: 2018 SCC OnLine Bom 1095, the
 Bombay High Court held that while the initial arrest of the petitioner
 therein was declared illegal due to violation of Section 46(4) of
 Cr.P.C. (arrest of a woman after sunset), it was clarified that the
 police was not barred from affecting a subsequent arrest after
 rectifying the procedural irregularity. The relevant observations in
 this regard are as under: 39. Similarly, in Vicky Bharat Kalyani v. State of Maharashtra (supra), the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court clearly
 observed in paragraph 58 of the judgment that there was no legal bar
 on re-arresting an accused who had been released earlier due to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 30 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 failure to furnish written grounds of arrest. Though the Division
 Bench referred six questions, including the issue of re-arrest, to a
 Larger Bench, it nevertheless recorded a clear and reasoned view in
 favour of permissibility of re-arrest in paragraph 58, and no contrary
 opinion was expressed anywhere in the said judgment . The relevant
 observations in this regard are as under: (Emphasis added) 40. On the other hand, reliance on decision in Vihaan Kumar v.
 State of Haryana & Anr. (supra) can be of no help to the petitioners,
 inasmuch as the said judgment does not decide the question of
 whether re-arrest is legally permissible after an initial arrest is
 declared illegal. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in that case expressly
 noted that it was not necessary to adjudicate on that issue in the given
 set of facts of that case. Thus, no proposition of law was laid down in
 the said decision on the permissibility of re-arrest. The relevant
 observations in this regard are as under: 41. However, this Court‟s attention was drawn to the judgment of Rakesh Kumar Paul v. State of Assam (supra) by the State wherein
 while releasing the petitioner on default bail, on the ground that
 chargesheet had not been filed within a period of 60 days, the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court had clarified that the release of petitioner
 shall not prohibit or otherwise prevent the arrest or rearrest of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL) 2045/2025 32 of 34 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:15.07.2025 20:22:42 petitioner on cogent grounds in respect of the subject charge. The
 relevant observations in this regard are as under: on the facts and in the circumstances of this case. The Trial
 Judge should release the petitioner on "default bail" on such
 terms and conditions as may be reasonable. However, we make
 it clear that this does not prohibit or otherwise prevent the
 arrest or re-arrest of the petitioner on cogent grounds in respect
 of the subject charge and upon arrest or re-arrest, the petitioner
 is entitled to petition for grant of regular bail which application
 should be considered on its own merit. We also make it clear
 that this will not impact on the arrest of the petitioner in any
 other case." 42. Thus, in the considered view of this Court, there is merit in the
 argument advanced on behalf of the State that when an accused is
 released or his arrest is declared illegal solely on technical or
 procedural grounds - such as in the cases of Rakesh Kumar Paul v.
 State of Assam (supra), Kavita Manikikar v. CBI (supra), or Vicky
 Bharat Kalyani v. State of Maharashtra (supra) - the State cannot
 be precluded from taking steps to re-arrest such a person, provided
 the subsequent arrest is affected strictly in accordance with the
 procedure established by law. The mere fact that the earlier arrest
 was vitiated on account of procedural lapses does not, by itself, create
 any blanket immunity from future arrest, especially where the
 investigating agency continues to be in possession of material
 implicating the accused and there has been no adjudication on the
 merits of such material by the court declaring the arrest illegal. 43. In view of the foregoing discussion, this Court finds that the
 initial arrest of the petitioners was declared non-est solely due to non-
 furnishing of written grounds of arrest and not due to insufficiency of
 material against them. Further, detailed and sufficient grounds of
 arrest were furnished to the petitioners at the time of re-arrest on
 10.06.2025. This Court also concludes that there is no statutory or
 judicial bar on re-arrest of an accused after curing the procedural
 defects of a prior illegal arrest; and that the judicial precedents,
 including those of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court and Bombay High
 Court (as discussed above) support the proposition that a subsequent
 arrest is permissible in law, provided procedural safeguards are
 followed. 44. The orders impugned in this petition are upheld, and the
 petition is accordingly dismissed. Pending applications are also
 disposed of. 45. It is however clarified that the observations made in this
 judgment are solely for the purpose of deciding present petition, and
 the same shall have no bearing on the merits of the case. 46. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith.