This is an appeal filed against the order dated 24-04-2025
passed by National Faceless Appeal Centre (NFAC), Delhi for
assessment year 2017-18. 2. The grounds of appeal are as under:- 3. The assessee is an individual and carrying out the
business as agent of Indian Railway for ticket booking, air ticket
booking and allied services like hotel booking in the name of New
Nobel Tours and Travels. The assessee filed return of income for
assessment year 2017-18 on 30-10-2017 declaring income at Rs.
5,04,200/-. The case of the assessee was selected for scrutiny.
The statutory notices were issued to examine the source of cash
deposits of Rs. 1,44,50,000/- made in bank accounts with HDFC
bank, Kotak Mahindra bank and ICICI bank during
demonetization period. The assessee filed details along with list
of regular customers, month-wise cash deposits and withdrawals
from the relevant assessment year, credit note, register, cash
book etc. The Assessing Officer rejected the explanation of the 2 I.T.A No. 945/Ahd/2025 Mohsin Iliyas Jaliyawala, A.Y. 2017-18

assessee and concluded that no satisfactory explanation
regarding availability of cash in hand described by the assessee
as well as there was no details of creditors till 10-11-2016 filed
by the assessee and the overall monthly receipts for the
immediately preceding year was around Rs. 2,00,000/- per
month immediately preceding year and amount of Rs. 1.25 lacs
per moth business in the financial year 2014-15. The Assessing
Officer made addition of Rs. 1,45,50,000/- u/s 69 as
unexplained cash. 4. The assessee filed appeal before the CIT(A). The CIT(A)
dismissed the appeal of the assessee. 5. The ld. A.R. submitted that it is not correct on part of
CIT(A) to observe in para 5.8 of the impugned order that there
was no evidence on record that Shri Rajaiwala had made the
cash deposits in to the assessee's bank account. The Ld. A.R.
submits that voluminous documents were furnished as noted on
page 17 to 19 of the appellate order with documentary evidence
by way of certificates and bank slips of the bankers. The CIT(A)
has not disputed the findings of the investigation carried out by
the GST authorities that the said Mr. Rajaiwala had created
several bogus firms in the name of family members, friends etc.
for carrying out bogus billing activities and the assessee's
business concern figured at Sr. No.70. The CIT(A) has also
completely ignored the arrest memorandum issued by GST
Authorities in case of Shri Rajaiwala and other criminal
proceedings initiated against him. The CIT(A) has committed a
grave error in holding that Shri Chirag Solanki was authorized to
deposit cash in assessee's bank account No. 1318 with HDFC
Bank. During the course of appellate proceedings, the hearing 3 I.T.A No. 945/Ahd/2025 Mohsin Iliyas Jaliyawala, A.Y. 2017-18

through video conference took place on 02.04.2025 during the
course of hearing, the assessee was asked to furnish certain
documents/evidence, in spite of the same already on record
along with the submissions uploaded on IT Portal. Hence, in
order to comply with the said direction, the Ld. A.R. submitted
that the entire bone of contention of the assessee has been that
his accountant-cum tax consultant Shri Rajaiwala had misused
the documents of the assessee such as PAN, Aadhar Card and
other KYC documents etc. and committed fraud with GST
department so that the cash deposits made in various bank
accounts did not belong to him nor he has received any
advantage or benefit therefrom so that all those cash deposits
should be held as belonging to Shri Rajaiwala and the impugned
addition should be deleted. In order to support the aforesaid
contention, the assessee has uploaded various
documents/evidence/orders/criminal complaints etc. It was
contended by the Ld. A.R. that Shri Tahir Mehmood Rajaiwala
was searched by GST Department under the relevant provisions
of Gujarat GST Act on 07.07.2022 on the ground of bogus input
tax credit. Thereafter, the GST Department through Sales Tax
Officer-2 Unit-6, Ahmedabad had filed criminal complaint before
the Addl. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Ahmedabad being file
No. ACST/U-6/Tahir/2022-23 and even the authorization was
issued by Addl. Commissioner of Sales Tax, Enforcement,
Ahmedabad on 14.07.2022 for the reason that he was found
involved in issuing invoices or bills without supply of goods or
services or both. The perusal of the criminal complaint filed by
the GST Authority clearly establish that said Rajaiwala was
managing various bogus firms/entities in the name of his family,
members, relatives, clients and other persons for carrying out
bogus billing activities (para-3.1.2 of complaint). The modus 4 I.T.A No. 945/Ahd/2025 Mohsin Iliyas Jaliyawala, A.Y. 2017-18

operandi adopted by said Rajaiwala has been described in detail
in para-4 of the complaint and para-5 contains the list of the
parties through which the said modus operandi was carried out
by him. Out of the list of 96 parties/entities, the name of the
present assessee appears at sr.no.70 with the trade name of
"New Noble Tours and Travels" and input credit passed on of Rs.
3.5 Cr. In other words, even GST authority have confirmed by
para-5 of this complaint that said Rajaiwala had carried out the
said fraudulent activities in the name of the present assessee
and his trade name. The perusal of para-6 at page-13 of the
complaint also mentioned, inter-alia that said Rajaiwala had
floated, managed and operated several entities and issued fake
invoices in order to pass on fraudulent ITC. The para-6.6 also in
no unclear terms has stated that "the accused has gained and
retained monetary benefit by executing the modus operandi and
carrying out billing activities in all above mentioned firms. The
assessee has also produced the bank pay-in slip and other
record of the bank to prove that the handwritings and other
details were not made by the assessee. The assessee had also
filed FIR against said Rajaiwala before Navrangpura Police
Station Ahmedabad with a copy to various Govt. functionaries.
The assessee has stated the relevant facts in detail in this regard
which may be referred to. The statement of the assessee was
recorded by the GST authorities on 19.07.2022 during the
course of search at his premises wherein the appellant had also
clarified the matter. It may be noted that the GST authority has
thereafter not issued any notice or taken any action against the
present assessee in view of the fraud committed by Shri
Rajaiwala and the present assessee was not involved in any such
fraudulent activity. The assessee had made complaint to various
higher authorities such as Chief Minister, Police Department, 5 I.T.A No. 945/Ahd/2025 Mohsin Iliyas Jaliyawala, A.Y. 2017-18

Addl. Chief Secretary Home Department and others. The
assessee had also filed with CIT(A) duly sworn affidavit dtd.
04.09.2024 once again confirming the modus operandi of Shri
Rajaiwala and further stating that the assessee was not involved
in any such activity and therefore the cash deposited by said
Shri Rajaiwala did not belong to him. The assessee had also
explained that looking to the nature and magnitude of the
business carried on by the assessee - mainly Air & Railway
Ticket booking, it was not possible to him such a huge business
and that too without corresponding the invoices issued by
Railway and Air Authority. The assessee has uploaded a detailed
rejoinder to the remand report furnished by AO and denied
various erroneous and unwarranted observations/averments
made by AO in his report. Therefore, the same should not be
relied upon. The AO has not made any further inquiry in this
regard nor any material has been brought on record to disprove
the explanation given by the assessee with evidence that the
impugned cash deposits did not belong to him but it was part of
the fraud committed by Shri Rajaiwala. In short, the assessee
had discharged the primary onus which was on it by offering
explanation, and the said explanation has not been found to be
incorrect or false in any manner. The grievance made by the
Assessing Officer that complete details and addresses of the
depositors were not furnished has been categorically claimed to
be incorrect in light of facts which have come on record. The Ld.
A.R. submits that since the impugned cash deposits in bank
accounts did not belong to him, the condition precedent for
invoking the provisions of sec.69/69A are not satisfied in as
much as the assessee has not been found to be owner of the
impugned cash deposits in said bank accounts so that the 6 I.T.A No. 945/Ahd/2025 Mohsin Iliyas Jaliyawala, A.Y. 2017-18

impugned addition is liable to be deleted. The ld. A.R. relied
upon the following decision: 3,19,563/- out of gross receipts of Rs. 24,52,327/- i.e. more
than 13%. The assessee has given the cash book as well as
registers, details of expenses incurred and it categorically
mentions that the opening cash in hand was less than 4 lacs
and cash received on 31-10-2016 was less than 40 lacs out of
which Rs. 37,45,910/- was deposited in banks. Thus, there
was no evidence of creditors till that date of 10-11-2016. Thus,
the Assessing Officer has rightly made the addition. The
contention of the ld. A.R. submitted that the assessee's CA
Rajaiwala has misused his bank account by giving fraudulent
GST credit appears to be not justified by observing the cash in
hand as per the records produced by the assessee himself before
both the authorities. Thus, the CIT(A) has rightly confirmed the
addition. There is no need to interfere with the findings of the
CIT(A). Hence, the appeal of the assessee is dismissed. 8. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 16-03-2026

 Sd/- Sd/-