: 2. The Police Inspector and Special

Investigating Agency Officer, Special Investigating

Team, CID, Carlton House, Bengaluru, had filed the

Final Report against the accused Prajwal Revanna for

committing the alleged offences punishable under

Secs. 376(2)(n), 376(2)(k), 354(A), 354(B), 354(C), 506,

201 of IPC and Sec.66(E) of Information Technology Act

2008.  CHAPTER-I: ALLEGATIONS AGAINST THE
 ACCUSED 3. The brief facts leading to the genesis of the

case is that a criminal law set into motion on the basis

of a complaint filed by the victim on 05.05.2024,

wherein she had contended that she was working as a

maid servant and also a labourer in the Farm House

situated at Moole Kalenahalli village in Survey No.91/2

and 91/3 of Gannikada Farm House, Holenarasipura

Taluk. It is her contention that during the period of

2019 to 2024, the accused Prajwal Revanna was the 7 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Member of Parliament from Hassan Lok-Sabha

Constituency and particularly in 2021 Covid Lock-

down period he used to visit the Farm House at

Gannikada and he use to stay there. The complainant

had submitted that prior to 2021 Covid Lock-down on

one afternoon; the accused had called the victim to his

room when she was cleaning another room in the first

floor of the Farm House at Gannikada by directing her

to bring a tumbler of drinking water. When she had

brought the same and placed inside his room, the

accused had closed the door and latched it from inside

and when she requested him to open the door, he had

not headed to her request and had stated that nothing

will happen and insisted her to remove her blouse.

Further she has narrated that inspite of her

continuous pleading, he had opened her blouse and

had molested and disrobed her and even he had

behaved in vulgar manner by recording the same in his

mobile phone. Inspite of her request, he had pushed 8 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 her on to the bed and had forcible sexual intercourse

with her. Due to fear and also by considering the

political flout which the family of accused had, the

complainant had not revealed about the same. Further

it is submitted that after the said incident, the victim

who was working in the Farm House was requested by

the mother of the accused Smt.Bhavani Revanna, to

clean the house situated at No.83, 'Shiva Smitha',

Ranoji Rao Road, Basavanagudi, Bengaluru and as

such the victim along with CW.9 Smt.Shobha and her

sister CW.21 Smt.Shyamala were directed to join

together and clean the same. Even when they had went

to the said house at Bengaluru, the accused Prajwal

Revanna was present and when she was cleaning the

house, he had called her to his bed room which was on

the third floor of the building and had directed her to

collect the clothes for washing. When the victim had

reluctantly entered his room, he had once again closed

the room latched it from inside and insisted her to 9 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 remove her clothes, even though the victim had begged

him, he had not acceded to her request and had

forcible sexual intercourse with her. Immediately after

the incident, she had not narrated the same to any

other persons for the aforesaid reasons. Further she

has narrated that even the second incident was

recorded by him through a Mobile Phone which he was

holding at the time of committing the offence. 4. The complainant has further narrated that

after the aforesaid incidents, once again he had asked

her to bring drinking water to his room on Gannikada

Farm House and when she had taken the drinking

water, he behaved in a similar manner, however she

had escaped from his clutches. The complainant has

further narrated that since the accused was a powerful

person and was holding a high post in the society and

as he was a people's representative by becoming a

Member of Parliament and also by considering the

reputation of their family, was afraid to lodge the 10 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 complaint. As such, she has decided to quit the work

and later on she had quit the job by assigning some

reasons. It has been narrated that off late during the

Parliamentary elections in the year 2024, the victim

was requested to hide herself by one Sathish Babanna

who was known to them by contending that her name

had surfaced in a criminal case and the Police were on

search and on that premises she was taken to the

house of Smt.Bhavani Revannna and later on she was

taken to a Farm House at Hunsur and was kept in

captive. However, she had escaped from there and had

reached the house of one Smt.Pallavi at Hunsur and

had intimated to her family members. Only then she

came to know that certain videos involving her had

become viral in the media and the same was also

brought to the notice of her family members. As her

family members had supported her, she had garnered

courage to lodge the complaint. As such, she had

visited Bengaluru along with her son-in-law PW.3 11 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Devaraju and since she was illiterate person, she had

dictated the contents of the complaint to him who had

reduced the same into writing and later on the same

came to be filed before the concerned Police. 5. On the basis of registration of the complaint,

the FIR was registered in Crime No.2/2024 for the

aforesaid offences. During the course of investigation,

the Investigating Officer had recorded the statement of

witnesses and also the statement of victim under Sec.161 of Cr.P.C., and further statements came to be

recorded under Sec.164(5) of Cr.P.C., before the

learned Magistrate. During the course of investigation,

the victim had agreed to show the place of incident and

as such the Investigating Officer along with

independent witnesses had visited the Farm House at

Gannikada and had drawn the Mahazar and thereafter

she had shown the place of alleged incident that had

taken place at Basavanagudi and even at that place a

mahazar came to be drawn in presence of the 12 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 independent witnesses and also in presence of FSL

team. At the time of drawing the mahazar at

Basavanagudi, the FSL Team had noticed some stains

on the bed in the room of accused Prajwal Revanna on

the third floor of the building and the upper portion of

the mattress were recovered under the mahazar as per

the request of the FSL team. Thereafter, the

Investigating Agency had proceeded to Gannikada

Farm House along with the FSL Team and had

searched the labour quarters. In the second room of

the labour quarters certain materials belonging to

women were found, out of which totally 11 articles

including a hair sample came to be recovered by

Investigating Agency with the help of the FSL Team

under a detailed mahazar. The recovered articles were

all sent to FSL, Madivala, Bengaluru, for the purpose of

scientific examination. During the course of the

aforesaid incidents, the accused Prajwal Revanna was

not in the country and he had left the country 13 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 immediately on conclusion of the Parliamentary

elections and an attempt was made by the

Investigating Agency to issue a Red Corner Notice. The

Investigating Agency had also sought the assistance of

Central Agency i.e., CBI and also Minister of External

Affairs to initiate necessary process for cancellation of

his Diplomat Passport through which he had traveled

abroad. However, during the midst of the same, the

accused Prajwal Revanna had returned back to the

country in the wee hours of night on 31.05.2024 and

he was arrested in another connected case i.e., Crime

No.107/2024 at Kempegowda International Airport,

Bengaluru by Special Investigating Team, CID,

Bengaluru. 6. The accused Prajwal Revanna was taken into

Police custody for the purpose of investigation in the

above case and he was subjected to medical

examination. The victim was also subjected to medical

examination as contemplated under Sec.53(a) of 14 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Cr.P.C . The blood samples of the victim were collected

in accordance with law and the accused was also

medically examined by a Board of Doctors which was

constituted by the State Government at Sri Atal Bihari

Vajpayee Research and Medical Institute (Bowring

Hospital), Bengaluru on 15.06.2024. The Board of

Medical Officers had carried out the medical

examination and even various photographs were taken

during the course of medical examination by expert

Photographers of FSL, Madivala, Bengaluru. On

completion of the medical examination, the

Investigating Officer had collected the voice samples of

the accused and also that of the victim through a

Mahazar in presence of independent panch witnesses

and the voice samples which were collected were sent

to FSL along with videos and photographs which had

become viral and also which were recovered from the

Samsung Galaxy J4 Mobile Phone of PW.10 Karthik

Gowda. It is relevant to note that the aforesaid 15 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Samsung Galaxy J4 Mobile Phone was recovered by

the Investigating Officer i.e., PW.24 Smt.Suma Rani in

connected case i.e., Crime No.107/2024 and by

obtaining necessary permission from the jurisdictional

Magistrate, the recovered Mobile Phone was secured in

the above case by drawing a mahazar in presence of

the independent panch witnesses. Thereafter, the

extracted data along with the mobile phone were sent

to FSL for the purpose of identification and also

photographs which were obtained at the time of

medical examination were also sent to the FSL for the

purpose of identification of the accused. The FSL had

furnished an opinion opining that the videos and

photographs which were found were not marked and

also the voice samples which were collected by the

Investigating Agency had matched with the voice which

were heard in the short videos which indicated of

ravishing the victim. On completion of the

investigation, the Investigating Officer had collected 16 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 necessary materials and had found that the allegations

which were alleged against the accused for the

aforesaid offences were all proved and accordingly

necessary charge-sheet came to be filed. 7. On receipt of the charge-sheet, the

committal court i.e., the learned 42nd Addl. Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate at Bengaluru had taken

necessary cognizance of the aforesaid offences and

since the offences alleged were under Sec.376 of IPC,

which is exclusively triable by the Sessions Court, the

learned committal court had thought it fit to commit

the above case to this Court. It is relevant to note that

the accused Prajwal Revanna at the time of committal

proceedings was secured under body warrant as he

was in judicial custody in Crime No.107/2024. 8. This Court had received the records along

with the committal materials on 30.12.2024 and

immediately thereafter necessary steps were taken to 17 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 secure the accused persons before this court. On

04.01.2025, the accused had appeared before this

Court and he was represented by his Counsel.

Thereafter, the case records indicates that the accused

had sought for an adjournment on the ground that

certain documents in digital form were not furnished to

him and hence they were intending to challenge the

committal order passed under Sec.207 of Cr.P.C. The

Court had granted ample opportunity and of late the

Criminal Petition which was filed by the accused in

Crl.Petition No.206/2022 before the Hon'ble High

Court of Karnataka came to be disposed off wherein

the Hon'ble High Court by its kind orders had only

permitted the accused to view/inspect the digital

records in the court since the same pertained to some

other person and question of privacy was involved in

that. The records indicate that the accused had filed

application under Sec.227 of Cr.P.C., seeking for

discharge. After hearing both the parties ostensibly on 18 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the discharge application, this Court had found

necessary materials to frame charges against the

accused person and accordingly the discharge

application came to be dismissed on 03.04.2025.

  CHAPTER-II: CHARGE FRAMED AGAINST THE
 ACCUSED 9. On the very same day, the charge came to be

framed against the accused person which is as follows; 10. The accused had pleaded not guilty and had

claimed to be tried. The submission came to be

recorded and the trial came to be fixed.

  CHAPTER-III: EVIDENCE BY THE PROSECUTION
 AND DEFENCE: 11. The prosecution in order to prove their case,

had examined totally 26 witnesses as PW.1 to 26 and

Ex. P1 to Ex. P180, MO.1 to 9 and Ex. D1 and 2 were

marked. The brief description of the witnesses who are

examined on behalf of the prosecution are as follows; 12. PW.1 is the victim and she has deposed that

about 8 years back she was offered to work as labourer

in the Farm House belonging to Smt.Bhavani Revanna

who is none other than the mother of accused Prajwal

Revanna through one Babanna, who was the relative of

Bhavani Revanna. Further it is her evidence that

negotiations had taken place with respect to her salary

and finally it was agreed that she would receive

Rs.10,000/- per month and 20 Kgs of rice per month

and they had also collected Rs.50,000/- to work as

labourer along with her husband Dakshinachari and

started to reside in the Farm House at Gannikada. She

has deposed that the Farm House was being visited by 25 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the family members of Bhavani Revanna and at times

Prajwal Revanna was staying in the said house along

with his brother Sooraj Revanna. Further she has

deposed that during the Lock-down time, accused had

misbehaved with her in Gannikada Farm House and

on a particular day at 03.00 p.m., when she was

cleaning the house, he had directed her to bring

drinking water to his room and when she has brought

the same, he had closed the door, latched it and had

forcible sexual intercourse with her by behaving

inappropriately. It is her evidence that though she had

pleaded with him to leave her, he had not shown any

mercy and he had also fingered her private parts and

had recorded the entire incident in his mobile phone

and had threatened to send the same to her son CW.8

Raju. It is her evidence that she was not in a position

to narrate the incident to any person since the

reputation of her daughters was at stake and also their

economic condition was not good enough to challenge 26 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the accused person. The witness has also deposed that

after sometime Smt.Bhavani Revanna had taken them

to clean their house at Basavanagudi, Bengaluru,

along with her sisters Smt.Shyamala and CW.9

Smt.Shobha and Smt.Lakshmamma, wherein they had

stayed for about 3 days and on the third day the

accused had called her to his room in the third floor

and when she entered the room to collect the clothes

for washing, he had again closed the door and had

forced upon her. She has deposed that though she had

pleaded him not to do vulgar acts as she was having

grandchildren, he did not listen to her and had

ravished her. She has deposed that she did not explain

the incident to any person and she kept quite though

her sisters enquired about the same. Thereafter, again

in the Farm House at Gannikada, Prajwal Revanna had

called her to his bed room and had misbehaved with

her and later on she thought it fit to quit the job and

accordingly she visited Bhavani Revanna's house and 27 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 made some excuses and returned back to her village,

however she had not collected her clothes and articles

from the labour quarters. It is her evidence that during

the last MP Elections, Babanna had come near her

house and stated that she has to stay in the house of

Bhavani Revanna for some time and thereafter she was

dropped on the day of election and once again

Babanna had stated that a case was registered against

her and later on she was taken to a safe place and

further Bhavani Revanna had scolded her for returning

back to village on the day of elections and later on she

was kept in some sort of confinement in a Farm House

near Hunsur, from where she had escaped and had

reached Gurupura and from there she reached Hunsur

in an Auto-rickshaw and had reached the house of her

relative Smt.Pallavi and there she called her daughter

CW.26 Varalakshmi and her daughter narrated about

the obscene videos being circulated and after that she

came to Bengaluru along with PW.3 Devaraju and had 28 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 lodged a complaint which was drafted by Devaraju as

per her narration at Ex.P1. She has also deposed about

giving subsequent voluntary statements and also of

affixing her signatures to the mahazars of Ex. P2 to 4

and also, she had identified the saree which she was

wearing on the day of incident at Gannikada, which

was marked at MO.1. The witness has also deposed

about the recovery mahazar as per Ex. P5 and has

identified the other articles i.e., MO.2 to 7 which were

sarees, green colored blouse and also other articles.

During the course of cross-examination, it was

suggested that she had joined the work about 8 years

back and it was specifically suggested that during the

year 2014-15 she was working in the Farm House.

The witness was feigned her ignorance and has also

deposed that she does not know whether the Farm

House belongs to Mr.Prakash. It was also suggested to

her that H.D.Revanna had never purchased the Farm

House nor it belonged to him, for which the witness 29 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 has deposed that it was through Babanna she came in

contact with Bhavani Revanna and had negotiated for

the salary. Apart from the blanket denial, nothing

much was elicited from her. 13. PW.2 Raju is the son of victim and he has

deposed that his parents had worked at Gannikada

Farm House about 7 to 8 years back and after that

they had returned back to Hebballa village and he had

stopped attending the school. It is his evidence that

during the time of MP Election, Sathish Babanna had

come to his house and was conversing with their

parents and later on he has directed his mother to

come with him and she went reluctantly. Further he

has stated that Sathish Babanna had stated that he

was taking his mother at the instance of Bhavani

Revanna and had assured that nothing will happen.

After about 2 days, he had called upon Sathish

Babanna on his mobile number, however he had stated

that he should call only in case of emergency. 30 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Thereafter, his mother was dropped back on the day of

MP Election and at that time he had heard from his

mother and sister that she would be caught by the

Police. Again, after two days, his neighbour had called

him and stated that some Police had come near their

house and immediately he had intimated to Sathish

Babanna and also to his sister Varalakshmi by stating

that his mother should not get into the hands of Police.

He has further deposed that he had contacted Sathish

Babanna and later on that day at night he had taken

his mother in a motor bike. After about two days, one

of his neighbour Yeshwanth had enquired about his

mother and also stated of forcible sexual intercourse

committed on her by accused Prajwal Revanna and

later on the same day evening his brother-in-law

CW.25 Rangaswamy had also enquired about the video

which was being circulated and after that he went to

K.R.Nagar along with his brother Devaraju and

consulted other family members, Abhi, Mahendra, 31 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Narayanachar and Devaraj. Devaraj had stated that

the video of his mother was being circulated in the

media and it depicted that his mother was holding the

feet of accused Prajwal Revanna and pleading for

mercy. They had discussed about the issue with

themselves and found that the statement of Sathish

Babanna to take his mother on some other pretext was

not having any nexus and accordingly they had drafted

a complaint and waited for his mother till evening and

later on they had lodged a complaint before the

K.R.Nagara Police. He has further deposed that after

two days, Smt.Pallavi who is the resident of Hunsur

had informed about his mother visiting her house in a

panic ridden condition to his sister Varalakshmi and

after that he had visited the house of Pallavi along with

his brother-in-law and later on they came to Bengaluru

and had lodged the complaint. During the course of

cross-examination, he has specifically deposed that he

had joined the school at Gannikada when his parents 32 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 had joined for work in the year 2017 and later on, he

had dropped out from the school. However, he has

denied the suggestion that he had not seen Prajwal

Revanna in the Farm House and he had voluntarily

stated that the accused Prajwal Revanna use to visit

the Farm House. Apart from denying the evidence

which the witness has led in his chief-examination,

nothing much was elicited from him. 14. PW.3 Devaraju is none other than the son-

in-law of the victim and he has deposed that on

30.04.2024, he had returned to Hebballa at

K.R.Nagara Taluk along with Rangaswamy and

Mahendra and he had noticed that his mother-in-law

was present and had enquired with his wife

Varalakshmi in this regard and he was intimated that

Sathish Babanna had taken her. Further he has

deposed that on the next day he had been to

Holenarasipura to collect his Bike from where he had

parked and when they were reaching Holenarasipura, 33 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Rangaswamy had received a telephonic call from one

Prathap of Hassan and stated of spreading of video and

on opening the same, they had seen a video wherein

his mother-in-law was subjected to forcible sexual

intercourse even though she was pleading to leave her.

After that he had enquired with Raju about his mother,

for which he had feigned his ignorance and he had

discussed in the house with respect to the video and

on the next day they had consulted CW.23

Narayanachar who was the elder member of the family

and even at that time CW.2 Raju had insisted for

lodging a missing complaint and accordingly he had

drafted a complaint as per his say on 02.05.2024 they

had visited K.R.Nagara Police Station and had lodged a

complaint. He has deposed that subsequently on

04.05.2024 at about 12.00 p.m., Raju had called him

through phone and had stated that his mother was in

the house of Smt.Pallavi at Hunsur and immediately

they reached the said place and came to know that 34 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Prajwal Revanna had removed the clothes of his

mother-in-law while she was working at Gannikada

house and also at Basavanagudi house and had raped

her. He has deposed of visiting SIT office at Bengaluru,

wherein they were requested to come on the next day

and he had accompanied her whenever she has visited

the SIT Office and they had also lodged a complaint

which he had drafted as per the say of victim at Ex.P1.

During the course of cross-examination nothing much

was elicited from him. 15. PW.4 Smt.Shyamala is the sister of victim

and has deposed that Sathish Babanna who was the

relative of Bhavani Revanna had joined them to work

at Gannikada Farm House and he had also negotiated

their salary and other remuneration at the time of

joining. It is her evidence that about 3 years back she

was sent to a Farm House at Kamenahalli with her

husband and children and prior to that for about 3

years she had worked along with her husband at 35 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Gannikada Farm House and at that time even her

sister, the victim, was also working with her husband

and they were staying in the labour room which was

provided to them. Further she has deposed that about

3 years back she was called to the house of Revanna at

Basavanagudi and she was accompanied by her sister,

the victim, Smt.Shobha and two other persons to clean

the house and on the third day the victim after

completing her work in the upstairs was looking dull

and on enquiring her she had stated to have head ache

and was weeping silently by stating that they cannot

do anything, after that they had returned back to their

respective places and the victim had returned to

Gannikada Farm House. She has further deposed that

about one year back during the Parliament election,

the elder brother of Bhavani Revanna had died and

certain obsequies ceremony were performed in her

house at Saligrama and she was also called to do some

household work. On that night when they were in the 36 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 room of Smt.Bhavani Revanna at the second floor of

the building, Sathish Babanna had brought her sister

to that house and later on she was brought to the room

of Bhavani Revanna and on seeing her she had started

to scold her by stating that why she came back when

she was placed in a safe place and later on her sister

went with Sathish Babanna, Mani and Ajith. It is her

evidence that she came to know that some incident

wherein her sister was ravished by Prajwal Revanna

which was also being spoken in the village and then

she realized the reason for keeping dull by her sister at

Basavanagudi house and after that she had also left

the job in the Farm House of accused person. During

the course of cross-examination, it was suggested that

Mr.Revanna was not owning any Farm at Gannikada

and it belonged to one Prakash. Further it was

suggested that she had returned to work at

Kamenahalli from 2018, for which she feigned her

ignorance with respect to the year and she has deposed 37 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 that she worked for about 9 years out of which she had

worked for about 3 years at Gannikada Farm House.

Further it is elucidated from her that there were 5

rooms in the Gannikada Farm House and initially her

family and victim's family were working in the

Gannikada Farm House. It was also suggested to the

witness that apart from their two families, other

workers were also residing in the said room, which was

denied by the witness. It is her evidence that when

they had joined the work at Gannikada Farm House,

the eldest daughter was 12 years and others daughters

were aged 10 years and 9 years. It was also suggested

to her that she had got her children admitted to school

when she was working at Kamenahalli, the witness has

deposed that she had got them admitted to school

when they were working at Gannikada Farm House, for

that it was further suggested that Gannikada had a

Government School. Further it was suggested that

three workers by name Shobha, Lakshmi and another 38 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 person were working in the house of Holenarasipura

and she had denied the suggestion that they were only

called to the house of Holenarasipura along with her

sister. Apart from that, nothing much has been elicited

from her. 16. PW.5 Vanishree Rathod is the mahazar

witness for the Mahazar which was drawn on

09.05.2024 and she has deposed of visiting the SIT

Office at about 10.30 a.m., and later on the victim has

also arrived to the SIT Office and stated that she has

shown the place of incident at Gannikada and as such

they left to Gannikada Farm House and reached it by

04.00 p.m. She has also deposed the manner in which

the mahazar was conducted and has stated that the

victim had pointed out to a building and stated that

there was a RCC building at that time and on its first

floor she was ravished and, in that place, a new

building was constructed. It is her evidence that in that

place Mahazar was drawn as per Ex. P2, for which she 39 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 had affixed her signature. During the course of cross-

examination it was suggested to her that the victim

had shown the Gannikada Farm House and they had

not entered any other building. However, the witness

has also deposed that they sat in front of a building

wherein the victim had shown the place and no

seizures were made at that time. Subsequently, the

witness was recalled once again and the entire

evidence tendered by her during her chief-examination

was denied by the defence. 17. PW.6 Lingamurthy K.C., is also a mahazar

witness and he has deposed that on 10.05.2024 he had

visited the CID Office at about 12.00 p.m., and had

met the Investigating Officer and later on at about

04.00 p.m., the victim had arrived to the office and had

narrated that she was able to show the house at

Basavanagudi where she was subjected to rape and

after that they had reached the house at Basavanagudi

at about 05.00 p.m., and at that time two workers by 40 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 name Harish and Manikanta were present and

Investigating Officer has read-over the contents of the

notice and also after entering the house, victim had

identified a room on the third floor of the building and

had shown the place where she was raped. He has also

deposed about verifying the colour of the wall, flooring

and it was reduced into writing and the contents were

read-over and he has affixed his signature to the

mahazar at Ex. P3. It is his evidence that at that time

FSL persons were also present and they had

scientifically examined the room and found some

stains on the bed and accordingly they had cut down

the upper portion of the bed and it was kept in a sealed

bag and again the seizure proceedings were reduced

into writing as per the recovery mahazar at Ex.P4 and

he had identified the upper portion of the bed which

was marked as MO.1 and also he has deposed about

producing the sketch as per Ex.P12. During the course

of cross-examination, he has deposed that at the time 41 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of obtaining the upper portion of the bed cover, the

workers of the house were present and they had given

consent to collect the same. Subsequently, the witness

was recalled and he was once again subjected to cross-

examination. During the course of further cross-

examination, he was questioned about carrying any kit

and printer with him, for that he has deposed that

Police were carrying printer when they had visited the

house at Basavanagudi along with the persons of FSL

Team. Further he has denied the suggestion that he

has affixed the signature to the mahazar in the SIT

Office itself. 18. PW.7 Smt.Madhura is another mahazar

witness, who was present at the time of recovering the

materials which was produced by the victim and

accordingly she has deposed that on 23.05.2024, she

has visited the SIT Office, wherein the victim had

produced the clothes which she was wearing at the

time of incident of rape at Basavanagudi and the said 42 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 materials were recovered by drawing a mahazar as per

Ex.P13 and the photographs were identified by her as

per Ex.P14 to 17 and also the yellow coloured saree

and green coloured blouse were identified by her as

MO.2 and 3. During the course of cross-examination, it

was questioned to her that whether the victim had

narrated the date of incident of rape, for which she has

answered in the negative and also she was also

questioned that whether the Investigating Officer had

enquired anything from the victim when she had

produced saree and blouse, the witness had deposed

that the Investigating Officer had not enquired

anything nor the victim had stated that the clothes

were washed at the time of its production. The witness

was once again recalled and subjected to further cross-

examination and it was suggested that on that day no

recovery was made with respect to yellow coloured

saree and green coloured blouse. 19. PW.8 T.N.Ravi is the Senior Assistant at

BESCOM, Bengaluru and he has deposed that on

28.05.2024 he had visited the SIT Office and he was

requested to be a mahazar witness and accordingly

they had visited Gannikada had about 06.00 p.m., in

the evening and the Investigating Officer had called the

caretaker and appraised him about the investigation

and also shown the search warrant and as such they

have left inside the Farm House by one Mr.Rakesh,

who was the caretaker and they had commenced the

search from the houses which were reserved for

labourers and totally there were 5 separate rooms and

in the first room some labourers were residing and as

they have mentioned that the articles belonged to

them, they have not recovered anything and in the

second room they had collected the clothes belonged to

ladies and also accompanied the FSL Team and on

examination they had found some stains over the

clothes by using some type of torch and had recovered 44 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 10 clothes out of which there were 4 sarees, 5

petticoats, 1 blouse and one hair sample. He has

deposed about visiting the other labour quarters also

and after that they had visited the main Farm House

building and later on a mahazar as per Ex. P19 was

drawn, for which he had affixed his signature at the

place itself. He has also identified the photographs

which were taken out at that point of time i.e., Ex. P20

to 34. He has also identified the articles which were

recovered as MO.4 to 6 and MO.7 and also hair sample

as MO.8. During the course of cross-examination, he

has deposed that the SIT had shown the contents of

the Kit which were carried by the FSL to the caretaker

of the Farm House. Apart from the Kit, the SIT Team

had carried a Camera to video graph the proceedings.

Further it was suggested that all the 5 labour rooms

were occupied by the workers. Further it was

suggested that all the rooms were kept under lock and

it was also suggested that SIT had checked all the 45 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 rooms, for which the witness has admitted. It was also

suggested to him that the witness was standing near

the door of the second room and the same was video

graphed and the proceedings had taken place inside

the room. The witness had deposed that the clothes

and hair samples were enclosed in an envelope. The

witness has admitted that he has not narrated in his

statement that the clothes were collected in different

envelope. Apart from that, nothing much was elicited

from him. 20. PW.9 Smt.Lakshmi K.S., is another mahazar

witness who has deposed that on 15.06.2024, she had

visited the SIT Office along with CW.31

Smt.Madhumathi and there she was requested to

accompany the Investigating Officer to the house which

was shown by the accused and accordingly they had

reached the house at Basavanagudi which was

situated in Ranoji Rao Road at about 05.40 p.m., and

the accused himself has lead them to third floor of the 46 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 building and he had shown the room which was

consisting of a round shaped cot and it did not had a

upper layer on it and in his presence the mahazar was

drawn as per Ex.P36, for which she has affixed her

signature and she has also identified the photographs

as per Ex.P37 to 39. During the course of cross-

examination, it has been denied that the accused had

not taken them to the house at Basavanagudi nor any

mahazar was drawn. 21. PW.10 Karthik.N was the Driver of the

accused and has deposed that initially he had applied

for job at KMF and had met H.D.Revanna who was the

President and at that time he had suggested to him

that since no vacancy were available he could have join

them as Driver and accordingly he had worked for

Revanna for about one year and thereafter he had

worked for Bhavani Revanna for about one year and it

is his evidence that he had worked as Driver with

Sooraj Revanna for about 2 years and after that he had 47 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 worked with the present accused Prajwal Revanna. It is

his evidence that in the year 2019, Prajwal Revanna

was elected as Member of Parliament and at that time

he was drawing a salary of Rs.21,600/- per month

from the Deputy Commissioner's Office at Hassan and

the accused used to call him on his mobile or send

message if his presence was required and he has

narrated his Mobile Numbers and has deposed that the

accused had a mobile phone which was having its last

5 digits as 44484 and another phone ending with

mobile No.5657. He has specifically deposed that

accused Prajwal Revanna was having house at

Holenarasipura, Gannikada and also at Basavanagudi.

It is his evidence that in the year 2019 when they use

to travel to Bengaluru, the accused use to watch

photos and videographs in his mobile phone and he

use to hide the same when he turned towards him and

he was shocked to notice that accused was watching

nude photographs and videos of women. Further he 48 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 has deposed that one day the accused had left his

mobile phone in the car and went inside the house of

his girlfriend by name Ekta Rathod and out of curiosity

he has browsed the mobile phone as he knew the

password which was 8055 and when he has opened

the same, he found sexually explicit videos of accused

with JDS Party workers, maid servants etc., and it had

contained more than 2000 photographs of women and

about 40 to 50 videos of nearly 30 to 40 women. He

has also deposed that he had intimated the same and

shown the videos to Bhavani Revanna as he had copied

it to his mobile phone. It is his evidence that the

accused use to send them out from the house on one

or the other pretext when he wanted to meet any

persons and has deposed that one of the videos

pertained to the victim. He has further deposed that

when he has narrated the same to Bhavani Revanna,

she has not believed the same initially and later on had 49 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 requested the same not to divulge the same to any

other person. 22. Further he has deposed that the accused

use to make telephonic calls to him and hence he had

transferred the photos and videos into Samsung J4

Mobile Phone which the accused had given to him to

throw away after the election. Further he has deposed

that in the year 2021, he had lost his Vivo Mobile

Phone when he went to medical shop to purchase

medicines and accordingly, he had lodged a complaint

on 14.08.2021 as per Ex. P40. He has also deposed

that Smt.Bhavani Revanna was not speaking with

Prajwal Revanna and at the time of his birthday he had

insisted her to disclose the name of the person who

had intimated her about the videos and as such she

has revealed the name of the witness. In furtherance of

the same, as quarrel had taken place between the

witness and Prajwal Revanna and also his mother

Bhavani Revanna and as such he had filed a civil suit 50 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 at Holenarasipura and also had filed a Police

complaint, however, no action was taken in this regard.

He has also deposed that the accused had called him

to rejoin him as driver and also had assured that he

will get the Civil dispute resolved within 15 days from

returning back from the Parliament Sessions.

However, during the midst of the same, he had filed a

Civil suit and had obtained a restraining order and, in

that case, he was arraigned as Defendant No.88 and

approached Mr.Devaraje Gowda, Advocate and handed-

over certain photographs in a Pen Drive to prepare

defence on his behalf. Further he has deposed that

about 3 years back, quarrel had taken place between

Devaraje Gowda and H.D.Revanna and at that time

Devaraje Gowda stated that he is having videos and

photographs which he would reveal. At that time, the

witness had approached Devaraje Gowda and had

requested him to return back the Pen Drive, however

he had stated that he would not give it to any other 51 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 person. It is the evidence of PW.10 that about 3 to 4

days prior to Parliamentary elections, in the year 2024,

several videos and photographs were publicized in the

media he has seen the videos which he had handed-

over to Devaraje Gowda. He has also deposed that

Prajwal Revanna was using I-Pad, I-Phone, watch and

Samsung Mobile and laptop with him and he use to

bring Sim Cards from a shop of one Manjunath from

Rajarajeshwarinagar, Bengaluru and the accused use

to purchase Mobile Phone from Mr.Kanti of Channel-9

Shop. He has deposed that he had got the videos

transferred to his mobile phone on 2 to 3 instances

when he had visited the house of his girlfriend. The

witness was subsequently recalled and he had

identified the Samsung Galaxy J4 Mobile Phone which

he had handed-over to SIT and accordingly on his

identification it was marked as MO.9. During the

course of his cross-examination, he has admitted of

registering of a case against him in Crime No.33/2024 52 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of CEN Police Station, Hassan for circulating masked

videos and photos. He has also admitted of filing

anticipatory bail petition before the Sessions Court at

Hassan and also of approaching Hon'ble High Court of

Karnataka seeking anticipatory bail in Crl.Petition

No.4505/2022 which was dismissed. He has denied

the suggestion that he was a Congress party worker.

Further he has admitted of lodging a complaint against

Mr.Kiran to the Superintendent of Police, Hassan and

witness had volunteered that he had also lodged

complaint against Prajwal Revanna and Bhavani

Revanna. It is his statement that Prajwal and others

had coerced him to execute the Sale Deed in favour of

Mr.Kiran pertaining to land in Sy.No.174, Sy.No.174/1

and other 9 survey numbers to an extent of 13.5 acres

of land at Kallubyadrahalli village, Holenarasipura

Taluk and the case came to be closed for want of

evidence. He has also admitted of filing a Civil Suit in

2023 itself, which was pending and has deposed that 53 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 he cannot remember the case number. He has also

admitted that he was using two Sim Numbers during

the period 2020 to 2023. Further he has deposed of

inserting one Sim Card of Samsung J4 Mobile Phone

which was in his name and has admitted of using

Mobile No.8147628203. Further it was suggested to

him that he use to drop Prajwal Revanna to the Airport

when he was traveling to Delhi and when he was MP.

The witness categorically admitted the same and has

deposed that several persons used to travel with him.

He has also admitted the suggestion that H.D.Revanna

was having Farm House at Kamenahalli, which was

visited by Revanna, Bhavani Revanna, Suraj Revanna

and Prajwal Revanna. He has also admitted the

suggestion that accused use to be accompanied by his

Gunman and Personal Assistant and has denied the

suggestion that they use to accompany him everywhere

by voluntarily stating that they use to accompany him

only during the official visits. Apart from that, the 54 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 entire evidence which he has been tendered in his

chief-examination has been denied. The witness has

admitted that his Advocate Devaraje Gowda has

contested the elections against H.D.Revanna. Further

it was suggested to him that he had requested Devaraje

Gowda to return back the Pen Drive which he had

given only for the purpose of the case. Further it was

suggested to him that the family members of

Manjunath were using Sim numbers, the witness has

feigned his ignorance and has deposed that on

purchasing of the Sim Cards he used to hand-over to

accused Prajwal Revanna. 23. PW.11 Prasad B.R., is another mahazar

witness and has deposed that on 13.06.2024, he had

visited the SIT Office and there he was taken to a

sound proof room in Section-1 of the CID office, there

he was intimated the voice of Prajwal Revanna had to

be recorded and at that time they had made the

accused to narrate some transcriptions and his voice 55 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 sample was recorded in their presence and he had

affixed his signature to the mahazar at Ex.P42. Further

he has also identified the SD Card on which the

recording was made and during the course of cross-

examination, nothing much was elicited from him. 24. PW.12 Manjunath H.N., has deposed that in

the year 2014 he was a JDS Party worker and also the

President of Rajarajeshwari Nagar Constituency.

Further he has deposed about his acquaintance with

Prajwal Revanna and he used to create fan pages in the

name of Prajwal Revanna by name Prajwal Revanna

Brigade Karnataka, Prajwal Revanna Supporters, I

support Prajwal Revanna, Team Prajwal Revanna,

Prajwal Revanna for C.M., Hassana Zilla Janathadal,

Akhila Karnataka Prajwal Revanna Balaga and in that

they use to post the party activities. He has deposed

that in the year 2019, Prajwal Revanna had become MP

and he was handling the social media through

Facebook, Twitter and Instagram and he was paid with 56 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 a sum of Rs.15,000/- per month towards the expenses

incurred by him. Further he has deposed that accused

Prajwal Revanna had enquired him that whether it

would be possible to get fancy numbers for which he

had answered in the affirmative and as such his Driver

Karthik, Madhu and another person use to visit his

store to collect some cards in their name stating that it

was required for Prajwal Revanna and about 12 Sims

were purchased in the same manner during the period

2016 to 2023. Further he has deposed that Sim cards

were purchased in the name of Prajwal Revanna and at

times he had also purchased the Sim Card in the name

of his known persons and out of 12 numbers 6 Sim

Cards were purchased in the name of the persons

connected to him and two mobile numbers were

standing in his name and two numbers were standing

in the name of his cousin by name Santhosh one Sim

Card was purchased in the name of his mother

Radha.M., another Sim Card was purchased in the 57 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 name of his sister Bhavyashree H.N. He has also

deposed that in the year 2024, they felt necessity of

higher man power to handle the social media and had

hired Pre-Poll Analytics Company and he stayed at

Hassan in the year 2024. He has also deposed that on

the polling day he was with the accused from morning

till evening and after completion of the polling he had

changed his dress and traveled to Bengaluru. At that

time, accused had stated that he would return back on

May 1st and directed them to go to Shivamogga for

campaigning. He has also stated that his Personal

Assistant Bharath had sent him a letter to his

WhatsApp and requested him to post the same in his

official social media and requested him to switch off

the comment section and accordingly after posting the

letter in his Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, he had

done the needful and the letter was addressed by the

Advocate of accused Prajwal Revanna to the SIT

requesting for some more time to appear before them 58 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 for the purpose of investigation. Further he has

deposed of identifying the letter which was marked

subject to its admissibility as Ex. P44. During the

course of cross-examination, apart from denial nothing

much was elicited and it was suggested that he does

not know who was using the Sim Card, the witness has

specifically deposed that it was being used by Prajwal

Revanna and sometimes he used to leave the phone in

the car which was being used by his driver. 25. PW.13 Hemesh Kumar.H who is the

Laboratory Assistant of Photography Division, FSL,

Bengaluru, has deposed that on 10.05.2024, he had

visited a house within Basavanagudi Town limits along

with Assistant Director of DNA Section Shahanaz

Fathima and Manjunath from Biology Section and at

that time victim was also present in that house along

with persons from PWD and they were collecting

information for the purpose of Mahazar. He has

deposed of capturing nearly 242 photographs and the 59 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 photographs were captured through Nikon D-7000

Camera given to him by their department and after

returning to their office, he has transferred the

photographs to the computer which was being used in

the ordinary course of work. He has further deposed

that on 28.05.2024, he had visited Gannikada at

Moolekalenahalli, Holenarasipura and had reached at

about 05.45 p.m. to 06.00 p.m., a shed was

constructed on the left side consisted of about 5 to 6

rooms and in the first room a family was residing and

in the second room clothes were kept. The experts had

searched the clothes and had obtained photographs.

He has deposed that the team had collected 10 clothes

and hair sample which were packed and sealed and he

had taken the photographs at that point of time. He

has deposed of capturing nearly 276 photographs and

after visiting all the rooms they had returned back to

Bengaluru. The witness has further deposed that on

15.06.2024, he had visited Sri. Atal Bihari Vajpayee 60 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Medical Institute, Bowring Hospital, Bengaluru, along

with their existing team and Investigating Officer who

was present there had collected their ID Card and

prepared a letter which was handed-over to the Doctor.

He has also deposed that he had obtained the

photographs of the accused Prajwal Revanna by

identifying him in the Court and had stated that he

had taken the photographs of his forehead, legs, upper

portion of his face, including private parts and private

part in erectile form. He has deposed of issuing

necessary Certificate under Sec.65(B) of the Indian

Evidence Act as per Ex. P45. He has also identified the

images which were captured by him and transferred to

the DVD. The DVD was marked as Ex. P46 and also

photographs of the Gannikada and Basavanagudi

house were also identified by him. During the course of

cross-examination, it was suggested to him that

normally they check their digital still camera to

ascertain that weather it was any default mode or real 61 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 time mode which is denied by the witness. It was also

suggested to him that the System Officer of their

Department would check the computer to ascertain

whether it was in working condition and fire walls are

inserted, the witness was deposed that no System

Officer was working in their department, however there

was one system being used in the ordinary course of

business. He has also admitted the suggestion that he

generated a file and folder name in the computer and

also the file and folder can be edited. Apart from the

suggestions, nothing much was elicited from him. 26. PW.14 Dr.Guruprasad is another Senior

Scientific Officer of FSL, Bengaluru and he has

deposed of analyzing the DNA and furnishing the

Report. He has explained in detail about the

procedures in which the materials will be collected to

their office and has deposed that on 27.05.2024, they

had received an intimation from the Deputy Director of

FSL to visit the scene of crime and accordingly they 62 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 have visited the SIT Office and later on they had

reached the Farm House at Gannikada at about 05.45

p.m. to 06.00 p.m. It is his evidence that at that time,

the Investigating Officer was also present who had

travelled in another vehicle and later on they had

entered the Farm House and necessary notice was

issued to the Care Taker of the Farm House i.e.,

Mr.Rakesh and they had entered into a servant quarter

and also the labourers quarters. He has deposed of

entering into the second room which was more like a

store room and in the said room there were 3 to 4 bags

kept and on enquiring the labourers, they stated that

the bags were present prior to their joining the Farm

House and on verifying the said bags, they found

several clothes, saree, petticoats and by using UV Light

source, they segregated 10 clothes which consisted of

suspected stains. During the course of cross-

examination, he has admitted that they had not

mentioned the number of stains in each item. Further 63 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 he has admitted the suggestion that the Investigating

Officer had not asked the exact number of stains in

each item. He has also admitted that he has not

enclosed in the letter of using UV Torch and also of

finding stains in the cloths. Apart from that, nothing

much has been elicited from him. 27. PW.15 R.Kumara is the Police Constable

who was deputed to guard the residence of

H.D.Revanna at Holenarasipura. 28. PW.16 Dr.K.V.Sathish is the Professor and

HOD of Forensic Medicine Department, Atal Bihari

Vajpayee Medical College and Research Institute,

Bengaluru. He has deposed that as per the directions

of the Government of Karnataka, they have received an

information on 01.08.2024, wherein he was appointed

to conduct medical examination along with Dr.Arvind

M.N., Dr.Rohith, Dr.Housine Mubaraq Khan,

Dr.Thejaswi, Dr.Darshan Yellappa. It is his evidence 64 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 that accused Prajwal Revanna was produced before

them on 15.06.2024 and on the same day firstly he

was examined by the General Physician Dr.Aravind and

at that time all the members of the committee were

present and also, he had examined Prajwal Revanna

and he had identified necessary identification marks

on his body and also, he had examined his genitalia.

He has specifically deposed that the genitalia were well

developed and there were pubic hairs which were black

in colour and measured about 1 CM in length and

shaft of the penis in flaccid state and stretch penile

length measured 5 CM in length and 10 CM in

circumference and rest aspects were normal and

intact. On the basis of his examination, he had opined

that there was nothing to suggest that the person was

incapable of performing sexual intercourse and

accordingly he had filed a Report which was as per Ex.

P51, for which the accused had affixed his signature.

He has also identified the out-patient report at Ex. P52 65 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 and it is his evidence that after his examination the

other Doctor pertaining to Urology and Dermatology

had examined the accused and necessary photographs

were obtained at that time. It is his specific evidence

that they had obtained necessary consent of the

accused prior to subjecting him to medical

examination. The witness has also deposed that the

Committee which was formed had examined the

queries of the Investigating Officer by pointing out to

the matches which were found on the body of the

accused in the photograph. He has also deposed about

furnishing the Report in the DVD as per Ex.P56.

During the course of cross-examination, it was elicited

from him that they had not mentioned separately and

findings of the individual Doctors, but the Report was

issued collectively. Apart from that, nothing much was

elicited from him. 29. PW.17 Dr.Thejaswi.R., who is the Senior

Specialist in Department of Dermatology, has deposed 66 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 that he was appointed as a Committee Member which

was formed for the purpose of medical examination of

Prajwal Revanna and on 15.06.2024, he was brought

to the Hospital by the SIT and accordingly they had

conducted the medical examination by opening an out-

patient card as per Ex. P52. He has deposed of

identifying the various queries of the Investigating

Officer including the mole on his body which he had

explained in detail. He has also deposed of furnishing

the Report in DVD as per Ex. P54. During the course of

cross-examination, apart from denial, nothing much

was suggested to him. 30. PW.18 Dr.B.M.Girish, who is the Post

Graduate Student of Forensic Science Department,

Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College and Research

Institute, Bengaluru, has deposed that he worked as

Assistant to the Medical Board at the time of

examination of Prajwal Revanna and it is his evidence

that they had received 2 DVD's from SIT and based on 67 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the opinion of the Board, they had identified the

identification marks with respect to the photographs in

the DVD. The DVD consisted of totally 65 photographs

and by looking into the same, 6 photographs were

selected for the purpose of identification and they were

labeled and after that it was written on 3 DVD's and

had obtained signature of the Board Members on it.

He had identified the DVD which were marked as Ex.

P57. Apart from denial, nothing was elicited from him. 31. PW.19 Dr.Rohith, who was also the Member

of Medical Board, has deposed in consonance with the

evidence of another Medical Officer. During the course

of cross-examination, he has admitted the suggestion

that the photographs of the erectile state of the pennis

of Prajwal Revanna were taken after 01.35 p.m., on the

same day. 32. PW.20 Smt.Shanaz Fathima is the Assistant

Director, DNA Section to FSL and has deposed of 68 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 collecting the samples. It is her evidence that apart

from that they had other duties like attending the

crime scene to collect the scientific evidence to assist

the Investigating Officer. She has further deposed that

on 10.05.2024, she was intimated by the Deputy

Director of SOC Wing to be present at the crime scene.

Accordingly, on the same day she along with

Manjunath, Hemesh Kumar, had directly came to CID

Office at about 2.00 to 3.00 p.m. At about 05.00 p.m.,

the Investigating Officer had reached the Basavanagudi

and even the witness was present at that time in the

house which belonged to Prajwal Revanna at

Basavanagudi. It is his evidence that he reached the

third floor of the building and through naked eyes itself

he could make out some stains on the upper layer of

the mattress and had recovered the same under a

mahazar at Ex. P4 and he had also identified the

mattress at MO1. He has identified the DNA Report

furnished by L.Purushotham who was no more and 69 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 she has identified the same as per Ex. P60. During the

course of cross-examination, she was admitted that

they had to follow the standard operating procedure

when they use to visit the alleged scene of crime and

they had to carry the forensic kit consisting of mask,

gloves etc., It was also suggested to them that they

carry UV Torch with them. It was also suggested that

they had documented about the stains in the mattress,

for which the witness has deposed that if the stains

were available in a particular place, it could have been

documented, in the instant case stains were available

at several places and hence it was not documented. It

was also suggested that sweat marks were also present

which is denied by the witness. He has specifically

stated of marking 21 stains on the mattress and he

has deposed that the same were narrated in the

mahazar. 33. PW.21 Vedamurthy H.R., is another

Scientific Officer of Mobile Forensic Division and has 70 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 deposed that he has received a sealed cover consists of

Mobile Phone in their Department on 20.08.2024 and

on 25.08.2024, he had commenced the analysis and

the first article consisted of a Samsung Mobile Phone

with 2 Sim Cards which he had marked as D-1 and D-

1b. He has also deposed of subjecting Samsung Mobile

Phone marked as D-1 to Forensic examination using

cellebrite UFED4PC 7.69.0.1397 and digital data was

analyzed using forensic science software by name

Oxygen and he did not notice any video files existed in

the Sim Card. He has also deposed of examining the

Samsung Mobile Phone and on its careful examination

he came to know that the photos were captured from

the same mobile phone. Accordingly, he had mentioned

it in the CD. He has also deposed of examining 4 video

files and Investigating Officer had requested them to

ascertain whether the video files were captured from

the Samsung Mobile, even for which he answered in

the negative by stating that it was not available in that 71 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 mobile. After completion of his examination, he had

copied it to CD, seeing it he has given a Report to

Investigating Officer along with necessary Certificates

under Sec.65B of Indian Evidence Act. He has also

identified his Report as Ex. P61 and Certificate as Ex.

P62. During the course of cross-examination, he has

specifically deposed of being notified as examiner of

electronic evidence under Sec.79(A) of Information

Technology Act. It was suggested to him that the

Mobile had only internal storage capacity and did not

have external SD Card facility. Further he has deposed

and admitted the suggestion that path which was

mentioned in the system generated report is "path

data/media/0/Download/20210223_071653.mp". He

has also admitted the suggestion that when once the

hash value was generated, the contents could not be

changed subsequently. 34. PW.22 Kailash is also an FSL Expert and

has deposed that on 20.08.2024 his office had received 72 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 3 articles relating to Crime No.2/2024 and through

intersection transfer he had received the materials and

on the same day he had started the analysis of the

sealed cover in which it was noticed that the sealed

cover was intact and tallied with the sample seal. He

has explained in detail about the procedure adopted by

him to analyze the mobile phone. During the course of

cross-examination, a firm suggestion has made with

respect to his analysis. 35. PW.23 Ramesh.K is also an FSL Expert has

deposed of verifying the sealed articles and on opening

the sealed cover, he had found a DVD while the other

materials was a Pen-drive, accordingly Article No.4

which was DVD and whereas Article No.5 was the Pen-

drive, Article No.4 was pertaining to DVD of

Basavanagudi scene of Crime and has deposed of

receiving the questionnaire from the Investigating

Officer, for which he had given the reply. 73 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 36. PW.24 Rajesh.R, is the Detective Police

Inspector who was also in-charge of Cyber Crime Police

Station and has deposed of registering the FIR on

05.05.2024 by receiving the complaint from the victim

as per Ex. P1 and the FIR was marked as Ex. P78. 37. PW.25 Suma Rani.B, is the Investigating

Officer who had conducted investigation in Crime

No.107/2024 and she has deposed of recovering the

mobile phone i.e., Samsung Galaxy J4 from PW.10

Karthik and later on handing over the same to PW.26

Smt.Shobha.N during the course of investigation. 38. PW.26 Shobha.N is the Investigating Officer

who had collected the materials, recorded the

statements and also materials from the FSL and since

the allegations leveled against the accused was made

out, she has filed the final report. 74 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024  CHAPTER-IV: STATEMENT OF ACCUSED
 RECORDED UNDER SECTION 313 OF Cr.P.C : 39. On completion of the evidence by the

prosecution, the statement of accused came to be

recorded, wherein he had denied all the incriminating

materials leveled against him. During the course of his

statement under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C., at Question

No.111, it was put to him that PW.10 Karthik had

stated of drawing salary of Rs.21,600/-, for which the

accused has categorically admitted by stating that it

was paid from the DC Office at Hassan but he never

called PW.10 Karthik for any work but his Personal

Assistant use to call him. To another question he has

admitted of filing civil suit against PW.10 Karthik and

also of obtaining stay against him. He has also

admitted that the videos were circulated and published

in the media just prior to parliamentary election. With

respect to the medical examination at Question

No.212, the accused has categorically admitted of 75 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 visiting the Hospital and has stated that he was taken

for general medical examination. Finally, the accused

had submitted that he had not committed any offences

and due to political rivalry, a case was fixed against

him and he had also filed written statement under Sec.313(5) of Cr.P.C. In the said statement, he had

stated that he was made to sit during odd hours before

the SIT Office and when he was feeling sleepy, taken to

medical examination several times and was asked to

provide blood samples, swabs of genitals etc., for the

purpose of comparison. On completion of the

statement under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C., the accused had

initially obtained an adjournment by submitting that

he would intend to lead the defence evidence and he

had also summoned one witness on his behalf.

However, on the day of his examination, the accused

had submitted that he would drop the said witness and

close his side. During the course of cross-examination,

Ex. D1 and 2 came to be marked. 40. Heard the arguments of both parties and

perused the records.  CHAPTER-V: SUBMISSIONS/ARGUMENTS MADE BY
 BOTH PARTIES: 41. The learned Special Public Prosecutor

Sri.Ashok Naik and Sri.Jagadeesh B.N., have

vehemently argued that the prosecution has

established beyond reasonable doubt all the allegations

leveled against the accused person. It is their

contention that the evidence of the victim/PW.1 is

required to be read conjointly with the evidence of

PW.4 Shyamala, who is none other than the sister of

victim. Sri.Ashok Naik has also appraised the Court

with the chronological event that had taken-place just

prior to filing of the case is also required to be

appreciated. It is his submission that on 22.04.2024,

the obscene videos were viralled in the media as well as

the public and on 26.04.2024 the polling to Parliament

election of Hassan constituency in which accused 77 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Prajwal Revanna was the contestant. It is further

argued that immediately on the date of election i.e.,

after completion of the polling, the accused Prajwal

Revanna had left the country which would indicate

that he left the country immediately on report of the

sexual assault signaling of fear seeing the

consequences. That apart, it is his submission that at

that time accused was a Parliamentarian and a case

was initially registered against him. The learned

Special Public Prosecutor by pointing out to the

evidence of the victim has argued at length that victim

had consistently deposed before the Court by narrating

that she worked at Gannikada Farm House about 8

years and she came in contact with the family of the

accused through one Sathish Babanna and also, she

has specifically deposed about the overt-acts of the

accused Prajwal Revanna in having forcible sexual

intercourse with her at Gannikada Farm House.

Further it is argued that the witness has deposed 78 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 about another sexual assault on her at the house of

accused at Basavanagudi, Bengaluru and she has

given graphic details with respect to the instances that

had taken-place. Further he had pointed out to the

portion of the evidence, wherein she has specifically

deposed that she has not collected back her clothes

from Farm House at Gannikada which would indicate

that the subsequent recovery which was made on

24.08.2024 in presence of Panch witnesses were validly

proved. The learned Special Public Prosecutors have

also contended that though the victim is unable to

narrate the exact date of forcible sexual assault on her,

however the Court has to appreciate the fact that she

is a rustic village women who had appeared before the

court for the first time and also her demeanor was

observed by the Court, wherein she was weeping while

deposing about the sexual assault made by her by the

accused person. It is also deposed that when the entire

evidence would clearly indicate that the victim has 79 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 consistently given her statement in Sec.161 as well as

164(b) of Cr.P.C ., against the accused person. It is

further argued that the entire scheme of evidence

nowhere the contradictions and omissions were

pointed out by the defence by putting the

contradictions to the witness at the time of her

evidence. It has also been submitted by the learned

Special Public Prosecutor that though there are minor

discrepancies/variations in her statement, same

cannot be considered as one which would negate her

claim before the Court, but in other words it would

indicate that she was truthful in her statement. In

order to buttress the submission, he has argued that if

only the victim had intended to improvise her

statement, she would have sticked with her earlier

version which she narrated in Ex. P1 that she was

raped thrice. However, in her further statement as well

as in her evidence before the Court, she has

consistently narrated that she was subjected to forcible 80 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 sexual intercourse only twice and on third occasion an

attempt was made by the accused person at

Gannikada Farm House, she has successfully evaded.

By pointing out to the various portions of cross-

examination wherein as per the contentions of the

learned Special Public Prosecutor, several suggestions

were put-forth by the accused which would indicate

that the victim was working at Gannikada Farm House

was to be accepted. That apart, he has also argued that

the forensic evidence in the form of DNA fully

corroborates with the evidence of the victim. The

learned Special Public Prosecutor has also taken this

Court to the fact that the evidence of PW.2 Raju who is

the son of victim, PW.3 Devaraju, who is none other

than the son-in-law of the victim, fully corroborates

with that of the evidence of victim. The learned Special

Public Prosecutor has also pointed out to the

suggestions made during the course of cross-

examination and it is his argument that a bare denial 81 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of the evidence is highly insufficient to disprove the

evidence which has been placed before the Court by

the prosecution. The learned Special Public Prosecutor

has also pointed out to the photographs which were

taken during the course of mahazar which would also

fortify their case. That apart, the evidence of Medical

Officer, who had examined the accused person and

subjected him to medical examination on 15.06.2024

would indicate that a thorough medical examination

had taken place and at that time certain photographs

of private part of the accused i.e., of his genitals were

taken and that photograph was used to mark the

identification marks by the Medical Officers which were

once again sent to FSL and when juxtaposed together

would indicate that it was the accused person who had

committed the offence. The learned Special Public

Prosecutor has also argued that necessary Certificate

under Sec.65-B of Indian Evidence Act has been

produced before the Court which would indicate that 82 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the documents which were marked subject to its

admissibility has to be accepted. Lastly, the learned

Special Public Prosecutor has taken this Court to the

identification of the clothes by the victim. Though it is

submitted that no proper mahazars were drawn

towards recovery of the clothes at Gannikada Farm

House, subsequently the victim herself has identified

the clothes and even in her evidence before the Court

she has given a pictorial description of the clothes

which she was wearing at the time of incident and by

relying upon the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court of

Karnataka reported in 1983(2) Kar.L.J. 1 in the case of

Eerabhadrappa alias Krishnappa Vs. State of Karnataka ,

the learned Special Public Prosecutor has argued that

even in that judgment it was held that women have a

uncanny sense to identify their own belongings. By

pointing out to the same, it is submitted that the

identification is duly proved by the prosecution. The

learned Special Public Prosecutor Sri.B.N.Jagadeesh, 83 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 has vehemently argued that the Gannikada and

Basavanagudi houses were under the possession of the

family members of the accused is undisputed. In order

to point out the same, he has relied upon the

document at Ex. P124, which indicates that initially

the land was standing in the name of one Prakash,

who is none other than the brother of Bhavani

Revanna and also admitted by the accused person.

Further it is argued that the Report which is furnished

in Ex. P124 also involves the Revenue Inspector's

Report which is not at all denied or disputed by the

accused. It is his submission that when a particular

document is not denied or disputed by other side, the

same is required to be appreciated by the Court and as

per the said document it indicates that accused

Prajwal Revanna was residing in the house of

Gannikada. That apart, he has also brought to the

notice of the Court with respect to the suggestions

which were put-forth and also the questions which 84 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 were asked during the course of cross-examination

which would fortify their contention. The learned

Special Public Prosecutor has also taken this Court to

the 313 statement which was recorded by this Court. It

is his submission that accused was fully aware of

circulating the videos and as per Question No.132 in

the statement recorded under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C., he

has admitted that the photos were being circulated,

which would in other words fortify the case of

prosecution that on circulation of the videos

immediately steps were taken by the Government for

framing the SIT and thereafter materials were collected.

It has also been argued by the learned Special Public

Prosecutor that the evidence of PW.10 Karthik is

required to be considered with a pragmatic approach,

wherein he has specifically deposed that original videos

which were available in the phone of the accused was

transferred to his mobile and later on the same was

lost, for which he has also registered a criminal case 85 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 and subsequently the videos which were available in

Samsung J4 Galaxy Mobile phone was produced before

the Investigating Agency. The said aspect is also not

denied and even otherwise it is his submission that the

accused himself had categorically admitted of having

obscene videos with the witness PW.10 Karthik as he

has filed a Civil Suit against him at an undisputed

point of time in OS No.3394/2023 before the learned

20th Addl. City Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru,

and had obtained an interim order wherein PW.10

Karthik was arraigned as Defendant No.88. When all

the aforesaid aspects are considered in its entirety and

when it is read conjointly, it only fortifies the case of

the prosecution of proving guilt of the accused person

beyond reasonable doubt. Immediately after the

incident. Further it is argued that the conduct of the

accused is also required to be considered wherein he

had left the country and thereafter necessary steps

were taken to secure him by issuing Red Corner 86 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Notice, and only when an initiative was made to get

his diplomatic Passport cancelled, he had returned

back to the country which would also fortify the claim

of the prosecution that the accused had made an

attempt to destroy the original mobile phone and hence

the provision of Sec.201 of IPC would be attracted.

While pointing out the same, he has taken the Court

with the evidence of PW.12 Manjunath, who has

deposed of purchasing several Sim Cards in the name

of his family members and also known persons and

even during the course of cross-examination, the

aforesaid aspect was admitted by the witness. Under

these facts and circumstances, it is vehemently argued

by the learned Special Public Prosecutor that the

incident of rape twice at Gannikada and Basavanagudi

was established by the prosecution beyond reasonable

doubt. Last but not the least, the DNA Report which

was obtained also fortify the fact that seminal stains

were found in the clothes of the victim and it indicate 87 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 that the seminal stains belonged to accused Prajwal

Revanna and in order to appreciate the same, once

again recourse is required to be taken to the Medical

Examination Report, wherein it has been suggested

that there were no materials to indicate that the

accused was unable to indulge in sexual activities. By

pointing out to the aforesaid aspects, he has

vehemently argued that the prosecution has proved

their case beyond reasonable doubt and accordingly

sought for convicting the accused person. In order to

buttress his submission, the learned Special Public

Prosecutor has relied upon the following Authorities

which is as follows: Sl.No. Citation Para

 I. SOLE TESTIMONY OF PROSECUTRIX CAN BE RELIED
 UPON
 1 (Phool Singh Vs. Stte of M.P.) 7, 8 AND 9
 (2022) 2 SCC 74

 2 ( State of Punjab Vs. Gurmit 22, 14 and 16
 Singh) (1996) 2 SCC 384 88 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 3 Lok Mal Vs. State of U.P. 13, 14 and 15
 (2025) 4 SCC 470 4 State of Maharashtra Vs. 16 Chandraprakash Kewalchand
 Jain (1990)1 SCC 550 5 Bhojraj Vs. Sitaram, 1935 7 SCC Online PC 64

 II. DEMEANOR OF VICTIM 6 XYZ Vs. State of MP., (2021) 45 17 SCC 179

III. WHEN THERE IS OTHER EVIDENCE PRESENT, DNA
 SAMPLE BECOMES A CORROBORATORY EVIDENCE
 7 Pattu Rajan Vs. State of Tamil Para 33
 Nadu (2019)4 SCC 771

 8 Pantangi Balarama Venkata Para 49
 Ganesh Vs. State of Andhra
 Pradesh ( 2009) 14 SCC 607

 9 Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Para 78
 Sharma Vs. State of
 Maharashtra (2005)5 SCC 29

 IV. VOICE SAMPLE
 10 Ritesh Sinha (2) Case, (2019)8 Para 27
 SCC 1, 12: AIR 2019 SC 3592

 11 Kamal Pal Vs. State of Para 18
 Punjab, 2021 SCC Online
 P&H 1541

 12 Sudhir Chaudhary Etc. Etc Para 12 89 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Vs. State (NCT of Delhi)
 2016(8) SCC 307

 V. CONDUCT OF THE ACCUSED
 13 Kartarey Vs. State of UP, Para 43
 (1976)1 SCC 172

 VI. 65-B AND SECONDARY EVIDENCE
 14 Anvar P.V. Vs. P.K.Basheer Para 24
 (2014)10 SCC 473

VII. PRIMARY EVIDENCE VS. SECONDARY EVIDENCE -
WHEN THERE IS ABSENCE OF DOCUMENT WILL ORAL
 TESTIMONY SUFFICE
 15 Ma Mi Vs. Kallander Ammal ,
 1926 SCC Online PC 60

VIII. MINOR INCONSISTENCIES IN TESTIMONY WILL NOT
 LEAD TO INVALIDITY
 16 State of A.P. Vs. Gangula Para 27
 Satya Murthy (1997) 1 SCC 272 IX. CONTRADICTIONS, OMISSIONS REGARDS TO
 SECTION 161 CR.PC STATEMENT
 17 Vinod Kumar Vs. State (Govt. Para 11
 of NCT of Delhi) SC - Criminal
 Appeal No.2482 of 2014 : 18 Tahasildar Singh and another Para 13 and 19
 Vs. State of U.P., 1959 SCC
 Online SC 17 : 1959 Supp (2)
 SCR 875 : AIR 1959 SC
 1012 : 1959 Cri.L.J.1231 90 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 X. SCIENTIFIC REPORT CAN BE RECEIVED BY THE
 COURT WITHOUT EXAMINING THE AUTHOR 19 Crl.P.No.6524 of 2018 - Para 8 Saginala Venkateswarlu Vs.
 State of Andhra Pradesh
 (High Court of Telangana)

 XI. GEO-FENCING
 20 Writ Petition(s) (Civil)
 No(s).4677/1985 M.C.Mehta Vs. Union of India
 and others (Daily order) 42. The accused is being represented by the

learned Senior Counsel Smt.Nalina.M., has vehemently

argued that the prosecution have utterly failed to prove

their case beyond reasonable doubt. It is her

submission that the prosecution has not explained

when the incident had taken place i.e., whether it had

been taken-place during the first Covid-19 wave in the

year 2020 or in the year 2021. That apart, it is her

submission that the prosecution should have

established beyond reasonable doubt that the victim

was employed in the Farm House at Gannikada which 91 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 was owned by accused Prajwal Revanna and his family

members. She has argued at length that the revenue

records when compared with the suggestions which

were put-forth to the accused would clearly indicate

that they were not in possession nor they were the

owners of the Farm House, but instead it was one

Prakash who was the distant relative of Smt.Bhavani

Revanna was the owner of the Farm House. Further

she has also taken this Court through the entire

deposition of the victim and has compared the same

with her complaint which was lodged at the inception

of the case and also she has taken this Court to the

statements which were recorded under Sec.161 of

Cr.P.C., and has requested the Court to compare the

same with the statement recorded under Sec.164(5) of

Cr.P.C., in order to ascertain the discrepancies in the

evidence. She has also argued that when the FIR is

appreciated, it indicates the entire contents of the

complaint has been incorporated in the FIR instead of 92 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the summary of the complaint and hence it would

indicate that it is not the statement of the victim, but it

is the story which is created by the prosecution. It is

her submission that when there were consistent

suggestions being made by the accused person that the

aforesaid Farm House did not belong to the family

members of the accused, it was the bounden duty of

the prosecution to lead the evidence of Sathish

Babanna, who was also cited as necessary witness in the above case . It is also relevant to note that Sathish

Babanna who was the one who allegedly introduced

the victim to the family of the accused persons and had

also participated in the negotiations of the salary of the

victim with Smt.Bhavani Revanna and he was not at all

examined by the prosecution, which in other words

indicate that the crucial and best evidence was

withheld from the court. That apart, she has argued

that the husband of the victim by name

Dakshinachari, who was cited as necessary witness 93 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 was also not examined in the instant case. In order to

point out the same, the learned Senior Counsel has

taken this Court through the entire witness list

wherein it indicates that the daughter and husband of

victim were though cited as witnesses were not

examined. The learned Senior Counsel has also argued

that the recovery mahazar at Gannikada indicates that

only saree and clothes were recovered and if the same

is to be accepted, then necessary explanation should

have been given by the prosecution that what had

happened to other materials which were allegedly left

out by the victim. It is also argued that it is surprising

that the husband of the victim or her sisters had never

enquired the victim about the reasons for leaving the

job and the silence on their part indicates of some

unusual thing and also the silence/non-disclosure of

incident by the victim to her sister even at the time of

leaving the job seems to be unusual. The learned

Senior Counsel has also argued with the unusual 94 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 behavior of the victim could not stop there but the

manner in which she has identified the clothes also

raises certain suspicion. It is also relevant to note that

the victim for the first time had recalled for leaving the

clothes at Gannikada only when she has allegedly

confronted or shown the video of her ravishment. By

pointing out the same, it is argued that the entire

aspects would indicate that the prosecution have failed

to explain the situation that whether the lock-down

was imposed about 4 years back or 5 years back. 43. The learned Senior Counsel taking this

Court through the mahazar has argued that the

contents of the mahazar are not reliable and in fact the

victim knew about the demolition of the house where

allegedly the incident had taken place and in spite of

the same, she has not uttered anything when the

mahazar at Ex. P2 was drawn nor she had narrated

anything in her statement at that time. However,

subsequently she narrates that the house was 95 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 demolished and a new house was constructed while

drawing the mahazar. If only she knew about the

demolition which is very much evident from her

statement that she had participated in the House

Warming Ceremony of the Farm House in the year

2023, then also a serious question mark would be

raised with respect to her conduct as she has attended

the function even after such a horrifying incident. She

has argued at length that the Investigating Officer

could not have sub-delegated her job of collecting the

documents from the Revenue Authorities to ascertain

that who was residing in the said house. That apart, as

per Ex. P124, the Approved Plan would indicate that

the Farm House consisted of only ground floor and

whereas as per the evidence of the victim, it is deposed

that she was subjected to ravishment on the first floor.

Even the sketch which is placed along with Ex. P124

does not indicate of a structure as deposed by the

victim. It is submitted that the villagers who had stated 96 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 that the accused and his family members used to visit

the Farm House are not examined and even the search

warrant which was obtained by the Investigating

Agency from the learned Magistrate only indicated of

conducting a search in the Farm House and whereas a

search was conducted in the labour room of the Farm

House which was totally against to the contentious of

the order passed by the learned JMFC Court. The

learned Senior Counsel in order to caste aspirations on

the mahazar at Ex.P2, has pointed out with the time

gap between the mahazar which was drawn initially in

the presence of victim at Ex.P2 and the mahazar at

Ex.P4, which was said to have been drawn on

28.05.2025 with respect to recovery mahazar is having

a gap of about 10 days and even during the recovery

mahazar the victim was not at all present and there

was no explanation that why the victim was not taken

at the time of search mahazar. In order to point out the

discrepancies, she has taken this Court to the 97 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 schedule which has been mentioned in the mahazar at

Ex. P2 and argued that the schedule does not indicate

of any labour quarters in existence. As such, she has

argued that the mahazars at Ex. P2 and also the

documents which are produced at Ex. P19 and the

revenue records which are all collectively marked at

Ex. P124, are all planted and created in a hurried

manner so as to ensure that the same would be

completed prior to return of the accused to the

country. Further in the entire statements there was no

whisper by the victim that whether she has kept the

sarees in the Farm House nor any identification of the

servant quarters were forthcoming in the earliest

mahazar which was drawn at Ex. P2. By pointing out

to the aforesaid aspects, it is vehemently submitted

that the entire aspect cast a clear shadow of doubt

with respect to the truth-worthiness of the witness.

Even otherwise, it is the argument of the learned

Senior Counsel that the victim has deposed that she 98 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 was wearing an orange-coloured saree and green

coloured blouse at the time of the alleged incident at

Basavanagudi, Bengaluru, but however the saree

which was recovered was yellow in colour as could be

seen from the recovery mahazar at Ex. P13. When the

articles at Gannikada were recovered in the absence of

the victim, the Investigating Officer should have

confronted the same to the victim immediately after its

recovery. Unless the same is made, the act of

Investigating Agency cannot be accepted and hence it

is argued that not much importance can be attached to

the evidence of the victim as well as of the recovery of

articles. 44. The learned Senior Counsel in her

sesquipedalian argument has submitted that during

the course of recording of statement under Sec.313 of

Cr.P.C., the Sale Deed with respect to purchase of

Gannikada Farm House was produced which would

clearly indicate that the brother of the accused Prajwal 99 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Revanna had purchased the same on 27.10.2021. It is

her statement that the aforesaid document itself would

indicate that the family member of the accused Prajwal

Revanna had entered into possession over the Farm

House only in the month of October-2021, however the

prosecution case indicates that the alleged incident

had taken-place during the Covid lock-down period. In

order to contradict the evidence, the learned Senior

Counsel has taken this Court through the evidence of

PW.3 Devaraju with respect to celebrating his marriage

with the daughter of victim by name Smt.Varalakshmi

and he in his evidence has deposed that the marriage

had taken-place probably in the year 2021 or in 2022

and whereas as per the evidence of PW.2 Raju who is

the son of victim has deposed that he had left the

school immediately after the marriage. As such, it is

her submission that the evidence would indicate that

the victim was not present in the Gannikada Farm

House. The learned Senior Counsel has also taken this 100 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Court through the contents of Ex. D2, which is a DVD

which indicates that the victim had purchased a

mobile Sim Card at Zara Mobiles in Mysuru. By

pointing out the same, she has argued that the victim

had specifically deposed that she was not having

mobile phone while she was working at Gannikada

Farm House and later on she was given a mobile phone

by her son-in-law which was a key pad mobile. In

order to justify the same, the learned Senior Counsel

has taken this Court to the mobile number which was

elicited from the evidence of PW.2 Raju and when it is

juxtaposed it would indicate that the victim was

owning a mobile for which she had purchased the Sim

card from Zara Mobiles, Hebballa, K.R.Nagara. As

such, the learned Senior Counsel has argued that the

evidence of victim cannot be believed. It is her

statement that purchasing the Sim card at Mysuru has

to be considered by looking into the latitude and

longitude which is described over the application form 101 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 which is produced in the DVD. It is her submission

that if the latitude and longitude as mentioned is

clicked, the same would indicate that the victim was

the resident of Hebballa and hence would fortify the

contention of the accused that the victim never resided

at Gannikada Farm House. It has also been argued at

length that as per the evidence of the FSL Team and

also as per the mahazar at Ex. P19, it would indicate

that certain clothes were recovered from a particular

bag and it is her submission that how the same was

segregated by the FSL Team and identified the

particular bag and why hairs were wrapped and kept in

the bag. All the aforesaid aspects would indicate that

only planting materials in order to foist a false case

against the accused person. The learned Counsel has

also argued that timeline for joining the work by PW.1

victim and when compared with the evidence of PW.4

Shyamala, is not tallying with each other. Further by

pointing out to the chief-examination of PW.4, it is 102 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 argued at length that the witness has deposed that the

victim was weeping profusely which is not forthcoming

in her statement recorded under Sec.161 of Cr.P.C.,

and hence the same amounts to improvement and as

such a serious doubt would be cast against the

evidence lead by the prosecution. The learned Counsel

further moving towards the digital evidence has argued

that how the photography in the DVD were converted

into photographs is not forthcoming and also the video

of the mahazar is not produced. The print-out of the

photographs were taken out at an independent third-

party service provider and as such the print-out taken

out also casts a strong aspersion with respect to the

evidence lead before the Court. It is her submission

that when the print-out is taken-out by some other

person, the furnishing of Certificate under Sec.65(B) of

Indian Evidence Act as per Ex. P176 and Ex. P177 and

also the Certificate furnished at Ex. P118 by the

Scientific Officer of FSL, Bengaluru, Mr.Karthik M.D., 103 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 is not proper. In order to point out the lacuna in the

same, it is argued at length that as per the evidence of

PW.13 Mr.Karthik M.D., certain photographs were

allegedly stored in the computer of their division which

was being used in regular course of business. However,

his evidence would categorically indicate that the very

same computer was being used by some other officials

and as such issuance of Certificate under Sec.65(B) was not proper and justified. Likewise, another

Certificate which was generated under Sec.65(B) of

Indian Evidence Act and marked as Ex. P162 was

issued by Mr.Anurag Dubey, who was not at all

examined by the Court and whereas the Certificate

came to be marked through the Investigating Officer.

AS such, a serious doubt would be casted to the case

of the prosecution. 45. The learned Senior Counsel has argued that

the prosecution has not led any foundation with

respect to the contents of the Pen-drive being 104 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 transferred into it. Even otherwise what amounts to

modification is required to be appreciated in the wake

of provisions of Information and Technology Act and

also by looking into the definitions. 46. The learned Senior Counsel has continued

her arguments and had drawn the attention of the

Court that the upper portion of the mattress which was

recovered and allegedly consisted of stains were not

properly identified by the witnesses and it is her

submission that if at all such stains were found, there

was no impediment for the FSL Experts to identify each

individual stains on the mattresses. Further it has

been argued that the veracity of the Panchama itself

was questionable and more so the evidence of PW.14

Dr.Guruprasad is also not in accordance with law. In

order to point out the same, the learned Senior

Counsel has drawn attention of the Court with respect

to the evidence of PW.26 Smt.Shobha.N., who is the

Investigating Officer and, in her evidence, she admits 105 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of not mentioning the number of stains at the time of

recovery of the mattresses. It has also been argued that

strangely in the instant case the blood samples of the

accused were not drawn but rather the Investigating

Agency had relied upon the approval which was

obtained from the blood samples of the accused in

Crime No.107/2024. Since there was no explanation in

this regard, the findings rendered in the DNA Report

itself was questionable. That apart, she has also

referred to the Report of the Medical Officers which

were confronted to the Medical Officer and marked as

Ex. D1 which would indicate that the date of

examination was inter-polated, wherein the date of

05.06.2024 was inter-polated into 15.06.2024. It is her

submission that incidentally the medical examination

of accused in Crime No.107/2024 was conducted on

05.06.2024 and the very same document was obtained

and in the present case the date was modified into

15.06.2024. Further she has argued that the timings of 106 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the OPD Slip indicates that the accused was subjected

to medical examination at about 12.00 p.m., on that

day. However, the evidence of Photographer who was

from the FSL i.e., PW.13 Mr.Hemesh Kumar would

indicate that he had obtained the photographs of the

accused at about 02.00 p.m., in the afternoon.

Absolutely there is no explanation with respect to the

aforesaid aspects. The learned Senior Counsel has also

pointed out to the suggestions which were made in

Para-21 during the course of cross-examination of

PW.13 Mr.Hemesh Kumar, wherein he has categorically

admitted of marking the points and also the said

points do not be co-related to the points of the body of

the accused person. It is also argued that the cross-

examination of PW.18 would indicate that PPT was

generated and later on hash value was generated on

14.08.2024. Whereas the document at Ex. P56 would

indicate that the hash value was generated on

12.08.2024, which was quite contrary to the evidence. 107 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Even otherwise, it is the argument of the learned

Senior Counsel that the evidence of PW.16 does not

inspire the confidence as he had categorically admitted

that he had only confirmed the photograph belonged to

accused person, but he never stated that it is belonged

to accused person. It has been argued at length that

the PPT was generated allegedly on 12.08.2024 and

whereas the Report of the Committee was furnished on

14.08.2024. That apart, the arguments which is

canvassed with respect to the video is that how the

Committee had furnished the Report relating to the

accused is not established. With respect to the voice of

the victim and also that of the Investigating Officer, it

is argued that the document at Ex. P110 which

allegedly consists of voice of the victim and of the

Investigating Officer is carefully appreciated, it

indicates that the entire voices are of women and an

identification should have been given with respect to

the voice which were being recorded. That apart, it is 108 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 argued that the transcripts which were read-over by

the victim would not be a proper transcript in the wake

of the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court,

wherein certain phonetics were required to be

explained rather than the entire transcript. Instead of

pointing out to the unique phonetic transcriptions

which were red completely would not pass the Litmus

test. Hence, it is submitted that the voice sample which

was recorded as per Ex. P42 and also the recording

into another equipment of 32 GB SDHC Card was not

proper and even the Certificate which was issued

under Sec.65(B)(4) of the Indian Evidence Act was not

in accordance with law. 47. The learned Senior Counsel has argued that

initially mobile phone i.e., Samsung Galaxy J4 Mobile

Phone which was belonging to PW.10 Karthik was

recovered by PW.25 Suma Rani in Crime No.107/2024.

As on the date of execution of Ex. P82 i.e., the

mahazar, the Investigating Officer of Crime 109 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 No.107/2024 was Priyadashini Sanikoppa was not all

examined and even otherwise the mobile phone was in

the custody of FSL till 20.08.2024. However, the

mahazar at Ex. P82 indicates that the mobile phone

came into the custody of PW.26 on 19.08.2024 itself

which was contrary to their own evidence. The learned

Counsel has also vehemently argued with respect to

the photographs which were marked and also the

comparisons which were made by the Forensic

Laboratory. The video files were examined and as per

their own evidence, the audio files were also produced

is not in accordance with law and extractions of the

same cannot be looked into since the mahazar which

was drawn to recover the same is not proved in

accordance with law. It is also argued that normally,

the dump obtained from the third party would be given

but in the instant case the same was not given for

examination and even the soft copy was not given for

examination. As such, it is vehemently argued that 110 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 obtaining of 65 Photographs itself was questionable

and also the method of analysis for arriving at a

conclusion that the FSL Team in the Report at Ex. P75

was not forthcoming and straightly an opinion was

furnished. Hence, it is requested that the Court is

required to draw an adverse inference for furnishing a

Report without properly appreciating. It has also been

argued that the meta data and other details are not

properly examined and at one breath it is submitted

that the videos were captured through the same mobile

phone, but at last it was submitted that it was

captured through Samsung Mobile Phone. By pointing

out to the evidence, it is argued that the capturing and

circulation of the photographs and videos were all

made by PW10.Karthik and hence the provision of Sec.66(E) of Information and Technology Act, would

not be attracted against the accused person. Even

otherwise, the mandatory certificate which is required

to be issued under Sec.65(B) was not properly 111 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 forthcoming as laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in

Arjun Pandith Rao's case. By pointing out to the

aforesaid infirmities, the learned Senior Counsel has

requested the Court to take note of the fact that no

proper investigation has been conducted and also

materials which are produced before the Court are not

sufficient to prove the guilt of the accused beyond

reasonable doubt. The learned Senior Counsel has also

relied upon the Authorities of the Hon'ble Apex Court

which are mentioned below and also on another

judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court wherein, the

question of fair trial has been dealt. Accordingly, the

learned Counsel for the accused has requested the

Court to acquit the accused person. 48. The following citations which are mentioned

below are relied upon by the accused Counsel which

are as follows; a) (2023) 15 SCC 521 ( Rajesh and another Vs.
 State of Madhya Pradesh ) 112 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 b) (2024)SCC Online SC 260 ( Nirmal
 Premkumar and another Vs. State ) c) (2016) 10 SCC 506 ( Raja Vs. State of
 Karnataka ) d) AIR 2012 SC 3157 ( Rai Sandeep Vs. State
 (NCT of Delhi ) e) (2012)7 SCC 171 ( Narender Kumar Vs. State
 (NCT of Delhi ) f) (2011)7 SCC 130 ( Krishan Kumar Malik Vs.
 State of Haryana ) g) (2006)10 SCC 92 ( Sadhashiv Ramrao Hadbe
 Vs. State of Maharashtra ) h) (2023) 17 SCC 381 (Naveen alias Ajay Vs.
 State of Madhya Pradhesh) i) (2023)13 SC 365 (Balasudham Vs. State of
 Maharashtra) j) (1989) SCC Online MP 57 ( Sankariya Vs. State
 of Madhya Pradesh ) k) AIR 2020 SC 985 ( Santhosh Prasad Vs. State
 of Bihar ) l) AIR 2009 SC 858 ( Raju and others Vs. State
 of Madhya Pradesh ) m) 2011(2) SCC 385 ( Alamelu Vs. State ) n) 2003(8) SCC 745 ( Narbada Devi Gupta Vs.
 Birendra Kumar Jaiswal ) 113 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 o) 2018 Crl. L.J.4314 (Kar) (S.Ravichandra Vs.
 M/s Elements Developments Consultants,
 Bengaluru) p) (2020)7 SCC 1 ( Arjun Pandit Rao Khotkar Vs.
 Kailash Kushanrao Gorantyal and others ) q) (2016)8 SCC 307 ( Sudhir Choudhary Vs. State
 [NCT of Delhi ])

  CHAPTER-VI: POINTS WHICH WOULD ARISE
 FOR CONSIDERATION: 49. The points that would arise for my

consideration are; 1) Whether the prosecution proves
 beyond reasonable doubt that the
 accused Prajwal Revanna being the
 Member of Parliament from Hassan
 Constituency had visited Gannikada
 farm house at Moolekalenahalli
 village situated in Sy.No.91/2 and
 91/3 and during the COVID lock- down period in the year 2021, who
 was in a position of control and
 dominance over PW.1 victim, had
 called her inside the room, closed
 the door, removed her clothes and
 had pressed her breast and touched
 inappropriately and thereafter had
 committed forcible sexual
 intercourse by recording the incident 114 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 in his mobile phone and thereby
 committed an offence punishable
 under Sec.376(2)(k) of Indian Penal
 Code? 2) Whether the prosecution proves
 beyond reasonable doubt that the
 accused after committing forcible sex
 with the maid PW.1 victim, at
 Gannikada Farm House had
 repeated the incident at his house at
 Basavanagudi by calling her inside
 his bed room on the third floor of the
 building and made her to remove her
 clothes and had once again recorded
 it in his mobile phone and thereby
 had committed an offence
 punishable under Sec.376(2)(n) of
 Indian Penal Code? 3) Whether the prosecution proves
 beyond reasonable doubt that on the
 aforesaid places, the accused being
 in dominance and control over the
 victim, had made her to come inside
 his room at Gannikada Farm House
 and also at Basavanagudi house and
 had made advances towards her
 involving unwelcome and explicit
 sexual overtures and demanded for
 sexual favours and had touched her
 private parts inappropriately by
 disrobing her and capturing in 115 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 mobile phone and thereby had
 committed an offence punishable
 under Sec.354-A of Indian Penal
 Code? 4) Whether the prosecution proves
 beyond reasonable doubt that on the
 aforesaid places and time, the
 accused had called upon the victim
 to his room at Gannikada Farm
 House and also at Basavanagudi
 house and had made physical
 contact and advances involving
 explicit sexual overtures by using
 criminal force to disrobe her and
 compelling her to be naked and had
 forcible sexual intercourse with her
 and thereby committed an offence
 punishable under Sec.354-B of
 Indian Penal Code? 5) Whether the prosecution proves
 beyond reasonable doubt that on the
 aforesaid places and time, the
 accused had called upon the victim
 to his room at Gannikada Farm
 House and also at Basavanagudi
 house and had made her to enter the
 room, latched the door and had
 made physical contact and advances
 involving unwelcome and explicit
 sexual overtures by using criminal
 force to disrobe her and had 116 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 captured the sexual act in mobile
 phone and thereby committing an
 act of voyeurism and committed an
 offence punishable under Sec.354-C of Indian Penal Code? 6) Whether the prosecution proves
 beyond reasonable doubt that on the
 aforesaid places and time, accused
 had made the victim CW1 to enter
 the bedroom on the 1st floor of
 Gannikada Farm House at
 Holenarasipura and also in bedroom
 at 3rd floor of house at
 Basavanagudi, Bengaluru, had made
 her to enter the room, latched the
 door and had made physical contact
 and advances involving unwelcome
 and explicit sexual overtures by
 using criminal force to disrobe her
 and had captured the sexual act of
 forcible sexual intercourse in your
 mobile phone and had threatened
 her of dire consequences if she
 revealed the same to any other
 person by causing criminal
 intimidation and thereby committed
 an offence punishable under Sec.506 of Indian Penal Code? 7) Whether the prosecution proves
 beyond reasonable doubt that the
 accused who had recorded the 117 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 forcible sexual intercourse which he
 had with the victim at Gannikada
 Farm House at Holenarasipura and
 also in his house at Basavanagudi
 and recorded in his mobile phone
 and later on in order to screen the
 evidence, had destroyed the mobile
 phone and thereby committed an
 offence punishable under Sec.201 of
 Indian Penal Code? 8) Whether the prosecution proves
 beyond reasonable doubt that in the
 aforesaid places and time, the
 accused had recorded his act of
 forcible sexual intercourse with the
 victim in his mobile phone in order
 to pressurize her to co-operate with
 his unlawful sexual overtures and
 was responsible for the explicit video
 to be viralled/circulated in the
 society and thereby committed an
 offence punishable under Sec.66(E) of Information Technology Act,
 2008? 9) What orders? 50. My findings to the aforesaid points for

consideration are as follows:  CHAPTER VII: REASONS ASSIGNED FOR
 ARRIVING AT CONCLUSION: 51. In the instant case a serious allegation has

been leveled by the prosecution against the accused

Prajwal Revanna who was a Member of Parliament

from Hassan Constituency from the period of 2019 to

2024. It is contended by the prosecution that accused

used to visit the Farm House situated at Sy.No.91/1 of

Moolekalenahalli village, Holenarasipura Taluk, which 119 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 is narrated as Gannikada Farm House at various

places of the Final Report. It is also submitted that

PW.1 victim and her husband Dakshinachari had

started to work in aforesaid farm house and they used

to stay at the labour quarters of the Farm House at

Gannikada. It is also submitted that they had joined

the work in the farm house through one Sathish

Babanna who was from their village and also the close

confident of the mother of Accused Prajwal Revanna. In

the evidence led before the court it is noticed that the

victim has narrated about the incident in detail and

also she has explained in her statements which were

recorded by the Investigating Agency that initially she

had demanded for certain sum of amount and

subsequently it was negotiated that the victim and her

family use to get a sum of Rs.10,000/- per month and

20 Kgs of Rice towards their salary and she also

received a sum of Rs.15,000/- from Smt.Bhavani

Revanna, the mother of the accused. The victim has 120 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 also deposed that during the first Covid lock-down

period on one afternoon the accused had called her to

the room which was situated on the first floor of the

Gannikada Farm House by directing her to bring

drinking water. It is narrated by her in her chief-

examination that the accused had closed the door,

latched it from inside and had started to behave

inappropriately. In fact, in her chief-examination, she

has given a pictorial description of the ill-deeds which

were made by the accused Prajwal and even she

narrates that the accused had forced her to remove her

blouse and also, he had kept his private parts in her

mouth and later on he had pushed her in the bed room

and had forcible sexual intercourse on her. At this

juncture, it is also appropriate to note the demeanor of

the witnesses which was observed by this Court at the

time of recording the evidence and it is observed by the

court that the victim during the course of her

examination had started to weep profusely whenever 121 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 she deposed of forcible sexual intercourse and also the

circulation of her obscene video. It is noticed from the

entire deposition that the PW.1 victim is a rustic

villager and she in ordinary manner has given evidence

before the Court. In her chief-examination she has also

narrated that normally no one used to reside in the

Farm House and only the family members used to visit

the Farm House. Further the Court had observed the

demeanor of the victim wherein she has started to

weep profusely while deposing about the incident.

Further she had deposed that though she had pleaded

by holding the legs of the accused requesting him to

leave her and even she had slapped her head, he had

not left her. Particularly, the words which were used

by the victim assumes importance and in vernacular

(Kannada) she has deposed "ದಮ್ಮಯ್ಯ ನನ್ನನ್ನು ಬಿಟ್ಟು ಬಿಡಿ ಎಂದು ತಲೆ

ಚೆಚ್ಚಿ ಕೊಂಡರೂ ಬಿಟ್ಟಿರುವುದಿಲ್ಲ". That apart, she has also

deposed that the accused had fingered her private part

and he was holding a mobile phone during the 122 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 aforesaid forcible sexual intercourse and had recorded

the incident. Immediately after that she has deposed

that he had threatened of dire consequences and also,

he had threatened to send the videos of the alleged

incident to her son i.e., PW.2 Raju. Thereafter she

explains that she was not in a position to reveal about

the incident since she was having a fear that no

persons would come forward to help the labourers like

them. At this juncture, it would be appropriate to

consider the family background of the accused person

which has been elucidated at various stages of the

case. Admittedly, the accused Prajwal Revanna was a

Member of Parliament from Hassan Constituency at

that point of time. His father Mr.H.D.Revanna was

previously Minister and also sitting MLA of

Holenarasipura Constituency, mother Smt.Bhavani

Revanna was Member of Zilla Panchayath and his elder

brother Mr.Sooraj Revanna was Member of Legislative

Council at that point of time. The fact which assumes 123 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 importance at this juncture is the deposition tendered

by the victim is to be considered to ascertain whether

the same is deposed in its natural sense. Further the

victim has also deposed that she had kept quiet for the

sake of her daughters and also their economic

condition was not good enough to challenge the might

of the accused persons. Thereafter, the victim explains

about the second horrific incident that had taken place

in her life wherein she has deposed that after some

days Smt.Bhavani Revanna had taken them for

cleaning their house at Basavanagudi, Bengaluru and

at that time she was joined by Smt.Shyamla,

Smt.Shobha and Smt.Lakshmamma and others and

had stayed in that house for about 3 days. It is her

evidence that on the third day when she was cleaning

the house, she has heard the commanding voice of

accused Prajwal Revanna, wherein he had directed her

to come in the room on the third floor of the building to

collect the clothes for washing. As she was afraid of the 124 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 earlier incidents, she had not visited his room

immediately, however he had once again raised his

voice which had let her to enter his room even at that

time he has closed the room, latched it and even she

has pleaded "Anna Please Leave Me" he had not left her

and had opened her blouse and other dress and in fact

it is her evidence that when she had not heeded to his

request, he had forcibly removed the blouse and had

ravished her. It is her evidence that even at that point

of time he was holding a Mobile Phone and recording

the incident. Even at that point of time she had not

disclosed the incident to any person and suppressed

her emotions by weeping silently which was even

noticed by her sister PW.4 Smt.Shyamala, who had

enquired the reason for keeping dull, for which she had

narrated that she was suffering from headache.

Whether the said statement assumes any importance

will be dealt by me in the later part of my judgment. At

this juncture, prima-faciely when the chief- 125 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 examination is looked into, it would clearly indicate the

fact that the victim was subjected to forcible sexual

intercourse wherein she narrates of two incidents that

had taken-place in the house of accused Prajwal

Revanna. 52. I have carefully appreciated the entire line of

defence and stand taken by the accused during the

course of his evidence. In the instant case, it is the

definite contention of the accused Prajwal Revanna

that he never visited the Gannikada Farm House nor

the house at Basavanagudi, Bengaluru and also, he

has contended that at no point of time the Farm House

belonged to him or his family members and more

particularly during the period 2020-21. The other

defence which has been taken up by the accused is

that PW.1 victim had not worked for him at any point

of time. In short, the defence of the accused is of total

denial. When the case of forcible sexual intercourse is

placed before the Court, the manner of appreciating 126 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the evidence is also required to be considered. The

allegations of committing the sexual offences and

violence apart from being a deep humanizing act is an

unlawful intrusion into the right of privacy and

sanctity of a woman. In fact, it is a serious blow to her

supreme honor which would affect her self-esteem,

agility to live like a normal human being in the society.

The offence of rape has been defined in Chapter-XVI of IPC , wherein it is named as the Chapter which affects

the human body. The fact that the provision of Sec.375 of IPC which would define the rape is termed as the

offence affecting the human body is required to be

considered. The question of rape not only impairs the

dignity, honor, reputation and not the least her

chastity itself is also a crime against the person of a

women. It can also be termed as the crime against the

entire society since it would destroy the entire

psychology of a woman and pushes her into deep

emotional crisis. The aforesaid facts have been stressed 127 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 upon by the Court, is to appreciate the manner in

which the evidence are to be appreciated in sensitive

matters like which affects the human body and that

too of a woman in the society. 53. Time and again, it has been laid down in various dictum that the Courts cannot accept a

straight jacket formula towards appreciation of

evidence or in that manner in which the evidence is

required to be tendered before the Court. The

experience would in fact that at majority of the time it

will be a herculean task for a woman and that too for a

rustic villager to approach the authorities and intimate

about the violations that had taken-place on her

person. In the instant case, apart from blanket denial

of the incident, at every stage of proceedings the delay

in which the case came to be reported is also

questioned by the defence. It is also vehemently argued

that in the entire scenario the victim has nowhere

narrated or explained when she was ravished and what 128 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 period of time she was subjected to forcible sexual

intercourse. It is the submission of the learned

Counsel for the accused that mere utterances and

explaining of some facts by deposing that she was

subjected to forcible sexual intercourse is not suffice to

prove their case and in particularly the question of

delay.  CHAPTER-VIII: DELAY IN REPORTING SEXUAL
 OFFENCE: CAN IT BE GROUND TO DOUBT THE
 CASE OF PROSECUTION? 54. In order to better appreciate the same about

the incident, I have bestowed my anxious reading

towards the cross-examination of PW.1 victim. It is

relevant to note that during the course of cross-

examination she has deposed that her elder daughter

was aged about 12 years when she had joined the work

and her younger daughter was aged about 10 years. It

is also relevant to note that it was elucidated from her

that she has joined the work about 8 years back. Now 129 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the question which requires to be considered at this

juncture is whether the Court is required to strictly

apply the rule and hold that whether the period of 8

years commence from the date of tendering the

evidence or in normal parlance the period of 8 years

can be calculated. In my humble opinion, since the

offence of rape itself is a traumatic experience which is

experienced by the victim, the Court should be

empathetic and sensitive towards the manner in which

the evidence is placed before the Court. The manner in

which the delay is required to be considered has been

laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the judgment

reported in (2010) 8 SCC 714 (Satpal Singh V State of

Haryana) wherein the question delay in lodging the FIR

is examined and the same is extracted for the sake of

profit which reads as: She remains in traumatic state of
 mind. The family of the victim
 generally shows reluctance to go to 130 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the police station because of society's
attitude towards such a woman. It
casts doubts and shame upon her
rather than comfort and sympathise
with her. Family remains concerned
about its honour and reputation of
the prosecutrix. After only having a
cool thought is it possible for the
family to lodge a complaint in sexual
offences. (Vide Karnel Singh v. State
of M.P. [(1995) 5 SCC 518 : 1995 SCC
(Cri) 977 : AIR 1995 SC 2472]
and State of Punjab v. Gurmit
Singh [(1996) 2 SCC 384 : 1996 SCC
(Cri) 316 : AIR 1996 SC 1393] .) 15. This Court has consistently
highlighted the reasons, objects and
means of prompt lodging of FIR. Delay in lodging FIR more often than
not, results in embellishment and
exaggeration, which is a creature of
an afterthought. A delayed report not
only gets bereft of the advantage of
spontaneity, the danger of the
introduction of a coloured version, an
exaggerated account of the incident
or a concocted story as a result of
deliberations and consultations, also
creeps in, casting a serious doubt on
its veracity. Thus, FIR is to be filed
more promptly and if there is any
delay, the prosecution must furnish a
satisfactory explanation for the same 131 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 for the reason that in case the
substratum of the evidence given by
the complainant/informant is found
to be unreliable, the prosecution case
has to be rejected in its entirety. ( Vide State of A.P. v. M. Madhusudhan
Rao [(2008) 15 SCC 582 : (2009) 3 SCC
(Cri) 1123] .) 16. However, no straitjacket formula
can be laid down in this regard. In
case of sexual offences, the criteria
may be different altogether. As
honour of the family is involved, its
members have to decide whether to
take the matter to the court or not. In
such a fact situation, near relations
of the prosecutrix may take time as
to what course of action should be
adopted. Thus, delay is bound to
occur. This Court has always taken
judicial notice of the fact that: 17. In State of H.P. v. Prem
 Singh [(2009) 1 SCC 420 : (2009) 1
 SCC (Cri) 351] this Court considered
 the issue at length and observed as
 under : (SCC p. 421, para 6)
 "6. So far as the delay in lodging the
 FIR is concerned, the delay in a case
 of sexual assault, cannot be equated
 with the case involving other
 offences. There are several factors
 which weigh in the mind of the
 prosecutrix and her family members
 before coming to the police station to
 lodge a complaint. In a tradition- bound society prevalent in India,
 more particularly rural areas, it
 would be quite unsafe to throw out
 the prosecution case merely on the
 ground that there is some delay in
 lodging the FIR." 18. Thus, in view of the above, the
 delay in lodging FIR in sexual
 offences has to be considered with a
 different yardstick. If the instant
 case is examined in the light of the
 aforesaid settled legal proposition,
 we are of the considered opinion that
 the delay in lodging the FIR has been
 satisfactorily explained. 55. In the aforesaid judgment it has been held

by the Hon'ble Apex Court that there cannot be any 133 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 straight jacket formula in considering the delay in

lodging of criminal case and also it cannot be expected

from a woman to report about the crime of sexual

offence immediately considering the societal status and

also the tradition bound conditions prevailing in our

country. Further the Hon'ble Apex court has also held

that the court is required to consider the stigma

attached to the family in the matters pertaining to

sexual offences. The aforesaid dictum assumes

importance since the victim in the instant case has

also pleaded that she is a rustic villager with no

political or societal background and further she was

required to take care of her two un married daughters

at that time. The aforesaid aspect would only indicate

the peculiar situation which is expressed b the victim

which seems to be believable. Instead of accepting the

said aspect the court has also appreciated the other

materials which are produced in the case to ascertain

its veracity. That apart with respect to the presence of 134 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 victim at the Gannikada farm house, the entire

evidence is required to be appreciated. In fact, when

the cross-examination is considered, it would indicate

the suggestion wherein it was suggested to the victim

that they were residing in the Farm House along with

her two daughters and son. If only the cross-

examination portion is considered, it would indicate

that the accused also categorically admits the presence

of the victim at Gannikada Farm House. No doubt the

repeated submissions made by the learned Senior

Counsel and also the Counsel for the accused is that

the Farm House never belonged to Prajwal Revanna

nor the victim had worked as labourer in the said Farm

House is to be considered. The appreciation of evidence

is not just examining by looking into the chief-

examination or the cross-examination, but it also

attaches a sacrosanct duty on the Court wherein the

Court is required to consider both the facts which is

adduced during the chief-examination and cross- 135 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 examination and subject it to a litmus test. At the

same time, the Court has to ignore the stray

admissions which might have been given in a flow by

the accused during the course of cross-examination. In

the instant case, I have consistently appreciated the

cross-examination and consistently it has been

suggested to the victim that she has resided in the

Farm House along with her daughter and son. In the

next part of suggestion it was deposed by the victim

that the daughters were not attending the school and

her son was attending the school at Gannikada.

Further she has deposed that her son studied for

about 3 years and later on had stopped his studies for

his 9th Class. It was suggested to the victim that her

son had dropped out of the school in the year 2018.

The aforesaid suggestion put-forth by the defence

counsel would only fortify the contention of the victim

that at relevant point of time she had resided at

Gannikada Farm House and worked as a labourer. 136 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 During the course of further cross-examination, she

has explained that there was 5 Rooms in the Farm

House constructed for labourers and totally 4 persons

were working in the said Farm House and they are also

residing with their children. She has deposed that her

sisters had also joined the work with her. Later on, it

was questioned to her that when her elder daughter

was married? for which she has deposed that for about

3 years back she was married. If for a moment it is to

be considered that she has joined the Farm House

about 7 to 8 years back probably, the relevant year of

her joining would be somewhere around 2016-17 and

also her evidence that her son had attended the school

for about 3 years at Gannikada would also fortify the

case of prosecution that she has resided in Gannikada

till 2020-21. Further when she deposed that her elder

daughter was married about 3 years back, it would

only indicate that her daughter might have been

married at the age of 18 years when she turned to be a 137 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 major. No doubt, the Court is not reducing its own

explanation and justification towards the case of

prosecution, but it is only proposing the facts to

incident whether the evidence which is tendered by the

victim is proper or not. It is also suggested to the

victim that she had left the job in the year 2017, it

would only fortify the case of prosecution since on

earlier occasions as already discussed by me, the

accused themselves has suggested that she was

residing in the Farm House along with her children.

Another circumstance, the suggestion which were put

forth by the defence cannot be considered as a stray

suggestion. Further it is relevant to note that the

witness has specifically deposed that she had left the

job after the lock-down was lifted and when the bus

and cards were traveling. Further she has feigned her

ignorance with respect to the year and date on which

the lock-down came to be imposed. It was also

suggested to her that she had left the job due to the 138 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 spread of Corona Virus which is empathetically denied

by the witness. When the aforesaid suggestions are

juxtaposed and appreciated together, the unerring

findings that can be rendered is that the victim did

work as a labourer at Gannikada Farm House about 8

years back which could be parabolized to 2017-18 and

she had left the job when lock-down was lifted. The

question which is required to be considered at this

juncture is whether it was during the first lock-down

period or during the second lock-down period. For a

moment if the written submissions of the accused is to

be appreciated, it has been explained in detail by

comparing the evidence of PW.21 Vedamurthy, who is a

Forensic Expert, wherein he has deposed that out of

the four video files which was sent for scientific

examination consisted Metadata which indicate that

the incident at Bengaluru was captured on 23.02.2021

and whereas the incident at Gannikada had also

taken-place on 23.02.2021. For a moment, if the 139 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Metadata and also appreciation of the digital records

are paused and left to be considered in the later stage

of the case, even then the records would fortify the

case of the prosecution than that of the accused

person. The aforesaid approach is very much essential

that it is settled law that the victim of the sexual

offences' cases cannot be considered as accomplice and

normally the evidence of the victim is to be believed

and only to ascertain whether the same inspires

confidence the same may be looked into for minor

corroboration. In this regard the court has relied upon

the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court reported in

(2011)2 SCC 550 (Chottey Lal V State of UP) wherein the

manner of appreciation and also the settled law that

the women cannot be considered as accomplice is laid

down which for the sake of profit is extracted and it

reads as: The nature of evidence required to lend
assurance to the testimony of the
prosecutrix must necessarily depend on
the facts and circumstances of each 142 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 case. But if a prosecutrix is an adult
and of full understanding the court is
entitled to base a conviction on her
evidence unless the same is shown to be
infirm and not trustworthy. If the
totality of the circumstances appearing
on the record of the case disclose that
the prosecutrix does not have a strong
motive to falsely involve the person
charged, the court should ordinarily
have no hesitation in accepting her
evidence." 24. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit
Singh [(1996) 2 SCC 384 : 1996 SCC
(Cri) 316] this Court made the following
weighty observations at pp. 394-96 and
p. 403: (SCC paras 8 & 21)
"8. ... The court overlooked the
situation in which a poor helpless
minor girl had found herself in the
company of three desperate young men
who were threatening her and
preventing her from raising any alarm.
Again, if the investigating officer did
not conduct the investigation properly
or was negligent in not being able to
trace out the driver or the car, how can
that become a ground to discredit the
testimony of the prosecutrix? The
prosecutrix had no control over the
investigating agency and the
negligence of an investigating officer
could not affect the credibility of the
statement of the prosecutrix ... The 143 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 courts must, while evaluating evidence,
remain alive to the fact that in a case
of rape, no self-respecting woman
would come forward in a court just to
make a humiliating statement against
her honour such as is involved in the
commission of rape on her. In cases
involving sexual molestation, supposed
considerations which have no material
effect on the veracity of the prosecution
case or even discrepancies in the
statement of the prosecutrix should
not, unless the discrepancies are such
which are of fatal nature, be allowed to
throw out an otherwise reliable
prosecution case ... Seeking
corroboration of her statement before
relying upon the same, as a rule, in
such cases amounts to adding insult to
injury ... Corroboration as a condition
for judicial reliance on the testimony of
the prosecutrix is not a requirement of
law but a guidance of prudence under
given circumstances.... *** 21. ... The courts should examine the
broader probabilities of a case and not
get swayed by minor contradictions or
insignificant discrepancies in the
statement of the prosecutrix, which are
not of a fatal nature, to throw out an
otherwise reliable prosecution case. If
evidence of the prosecutrix inspires
confidence, it must be relied upon 144 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 without seeking corroboration of her
statement in material particulars. If
for some reason the court finds it
difficult to place implicit reliance on
her testimony, it may look for evidence
which may lend assurance to her
testimony, short of corroboration
required in the case of an accomplice.
The testimony of the prosecutrix must
be appreciated in the background of
the entire case and the trial court must
be alive to its responsibility and be
sensitive while dealing with cases
involving sexual molestations." (emphasis in original) 25. In Vijay v. State of M.P. [(2010) 8
SCC 191 : (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 639] ,
decided recently, this Court referred to
the above two decisions of this Court
in Chandraprakash Kewalchand
Jain [(1990) 1 SCC 550 : 1990 SCC (Cri)
210] and Gurmit Singh [(1996) 2 SCC
384 : 1996 SCC (Cri) 316] and also few
other decisions and observed as
follows: ( Vijay case [(2010) 8 SCC 191 : 26. The important thing that the court
has to bear in mind is that what is lost
by a rape victim is face. The victim
loses value as a person. Ours is a
conservative society and, therefore, a
woman and more so a young unmarried
woman will not put her reputation in
peril by alleging falsely about forcible
sexual assault. In examining the
evidence of the prosecutrix the courts
must be alive to the conditions
prevalent in the Indian society and
must not be swayed by beliefs in other
countries. The courts must be sensitive
and responsive to the plight of the
female victim of sexual assault. Society's belief and value systems need
to be kept uppermost in mind as rape is
the worst form of women's oppression.
A forcible sexual assault brings in
humiliation, feeling of disgust,
tremendous embarrassment, sense of
shame, trauma and lifelong emotional
scar to a victim and it is, therefore,
most unlikely of a woman, and more so
by a young woman, roping in somebody
falsely in the crime of rape. The stigma
that attaches to the victim of rape in
Indian society ordinarily rules out the
levelling of false accusations. An
Indian woman traditionally will not
concoct an untruthful story and bring 146 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 charges of rape for the purpose of
blackmail, hatred, spite or revenge. 27. This Court has repeatedly laid
down the guidelines as to how the
evidence of the prosecutrix in the crime
of rape should be evaluated by the
court. The observations made
in Bharwada Bhoginbhai
Hirjibhai v. State of Gujarat [(1983) 3
SCC 217 : 1983 SCC (Cri) 728] deserve
special mention as, in our view, these
must be kept in mind invariably while
dealing with a rape case. This Court
observed as follows: (SCC p. 224, para 9)
"9. In the Indian setting, refusal to act
on the testimony of a victim of sexual
assault in the absence of corroboration
as a rule, is adding insult to injury.
Why should the evidence of the girl or
the woman who complains of rape or
sexual molestation be viewed with the
aid of spectacles fitted with lenses
tinged with doubt, disbelief or
suspicion? To do so is to justify the
charge of male chauvinism in a male
dominated society. We must analyse
the argument in support of the need for
corroboration and subject it to
relentless and remorseless cross-
examination. And we must do so with a
logical, and not an opinionated, eye in
the light of probabilities with our feet
firmly planted on the soil of India and 147 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 with our eyes focussed on the Indian
horizon. We must not be swept off the
feet by the approach made in the
western world which has its own social
milieu, its own social mores, its own
permissive values, and its own code of
life. Corroboration may be considered
essential to establish a sexual offence
in the backdrop of the social ecology of
the western world. It is wholly
unnecessary to import the said concept
on a turnkey basis and to transplant it
on the Indian soil regardless of the
altogether different atmosphere,
attitudes, mores, responses of the
Indian society, and its profile. The
identities of the two worlds are
different. The solution of problems
cannot, therefore, be identical." 28. This Court went on to observe at
SCC pp. 225-26: ( Bharwada case [(1983)
3 SCC 217 : 1983 SCC (Cri) 728] , SCC
para 10)
"10. Without the fear of making too
wide a statement, or of overstating the
case, it can be said that rarely will a
girl or a woman in India make false
allegations of sexual assault on
account of any such factor as has been
just enlisted. The statement is
generally true in the context of the
urban as also rural society. It is also by
and large true in the context of the
sophisticated, not so sophisticated, and 148 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 unsophisticated society. Only very
rarely can one conceivably come across
an exception or two and that too
possibly from amongst the urban elites.
Because-- (1) A girl or a woman in the tradition-
 bound non-permissive society of India
 would be extremely reluctant even to
 admit that any incident which is
 likely to reflect on her chastity had
 ever occurred. (2) She would be conscious of the
 danger of being ostracised by the
 society or being looked down by the
 society including by her own family
 members, relatives, friends, and
 neighbours. (3) She would have to brave the whole
 world. (4) She would face the risk of losing
 the love and respect of her own
 husband and near relatives, and of
 her matrimonial home and happiness
 being shattered. (5) If she is unmarried, she would
 apprehend that it would be difficult
 to secure an alliance with a suitable
 match from a respectable or an
 acceptable family. (6) It would almost inevitably and
 almost invariably result in mental
 torture and suffering to herself. (7) The fear of being taunted by
others will always haunt her. (8) She would feel extremely
embarrassed in relating the incident
to others being overpowered by a
feeling of shame on account of the
upbringing in a tradition-bound
society where by and large sex is
taboo. (9) The natural inclination would be
to avoid giving publicity to the
incident lest the family name and
family honour is brought into
controversy. (10) The parents of an unmarried girl
as also the husband and members of
the husband's family of a married
woman, would also more often than
not, want to avoid publicity on
account of the fear of social stigma
on the family name and family
honour. (11) The fear of the victim herself
being considered to be promiscuous
or in some way responsible for the
incident regardless of her innocence. (12) The reluctance to face
interrogation by the investigating
agency, to face the court, to face the
cross-examination by the counsel for
the culprit, and the risk of being
disbelieved, acts as a deterrent." 150 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 56. Further during the course of cross-

examination, it was also suggested to the witness that

the accused after getting himself elected as Member of

Parliament has not visited the Farm House, it is also

suggested that even her sister has joined work at

Kammenahalli Farm House which also belonged to the

family members of the accused, the witness has

specifically deposed that her sister was shifted to some

other Farm House after about 3 years. It is quite

interesting to note that a suggestion was made that the

Farm House to which her sister was shifted was

belonging to H.D.Devegowda and their family members,

the witness has deposed that it belongs to

H.D.Revanna and Smt.Bhavani Revanna. No doubt as

per the dictum of the Hon'ble Apex Court, the Court

cannot appreciate the evidence in a bits and piece

manner, but it is required to be consider the same in

its entirety. The learned Counsel for the accused has

vehemently argued that any suggestions which has 151 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 been put-forth by them during the course of cross-

examination cannot be considered to fortify the case of

prosecution and in order to buttress their submission

they have relied upon the judgment reported. The

question which requires to be considered at this

juncture is whether the admissions given by the

accused can be considered. On considering the

materials it is clear that delay in reporting the incident

of rape is always not fatal.  CHAPTER-IX: WHETHER CONCESSIONS GIVEN
 BY ACCUSED DURING CROSS EXAMINATION
 BINDS THE ACCUSED: 57. The law in this regard is well settled by the

Hon'ble Apex Court and in fact the learned counsel for

the accused has also relied upon the judgment of the

Honble Apex Court reported in (2023) 13 SCC 365 (Balu

Sudam Khalde V State of Maharastra) wherein it is held

as: Take for instance, in the present case
we have reached to the conclusion
that the evidence of the three
eyewitnesses inspires confidence and
there is nothing in their evidence on
the basis of which it could be said that
they are unreliable witnesses. Having
reached to such a conclusion, in our
opinion, to fortify our view we can
definitely look into the suggestions
made by the defence counsel to the
eyewitnesses, the reply to those
establishing the presence of the
accused persons as well as the
eyewitnesses in the night hours. To
put it in other words, suggestions by
itself are not sufficient to hold the
accused guilty if they are
incriminating in any manner or are in
the form of admission in the absence
of any other reliable evidence on
record. It is true that a suggestion has
no evidentiary value but this
proposition of law would not hold good
at all times and in a given case during
the course of cross-examination the
defence counsel may put such a
suggestion the answer to which may
directly go against the accused and
this is exactly what has happened in
the present case. 41. The principle of law that in a
criminal case, a lawyer has no implied
authority to make admissions against
his client during the progress of the
trial would hold good only in cases
where dispensation of proof by the
prosecution is not permissible in law.
For example, it is obligatory on the
part of the prosecution to prove the
post-mortem report by examining the
doctor. The accused cannot admit the
contents of the post-mortem report
thereby absolving the prosecution from
its duty to prove the contents of the
same in accordance with law by
examining the doctor. This is so
because if the evidence per se is
inadmissible in law then a defence
counsel has no authority to make it
admissible with his consent. 43. The main object of cross- examination is to find out the truth on
record and to help the Court in
knowing the truth of the case. It is a
matter of common experience that
many a times the defence lawyers
themselves get the discrepancies
clarified arising during the cross-
examination in one paragraph and
getting themselves contradicted in the
other paragraph. The line of cross-
examination is always on the basis of
the defence which the counsel would
keep in mind to defend the accused. At 155 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 this stage, we may quote with profit
the observations made by a Division
Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High
Court in Govind v. State of
M.P. [Govind v. State of M.P., 2004 SCC
OnLine MP 344 : 2005 Cri LJ 1244] The
Bench observed in para 27 as under : examination is to find out the truth
and detection of falsehood in human
testimony. It is designed either to
destroy or weaken the force of
evidence a witness has already given
in person or elicit something in favour
of the party which he has not stated
or to discredit him by showing from
his past history and present
demeanour that he is unworthy of
credit. It should be remembered that
cross-examination is a duty, a lawyer
owes to his clients and is not a matter
of great personal glory and fame. It
should always be remembered that
justice must not be defeated by
improper cross-examination. A lawyer
owes a duty to himself that it is the
most difficult art. However, he may
fail in the result but fairness is one of
the great elements of advocacy. Talents and genius are not aimed at
self-glorification but it should be to
establish truth, to detect falsehood, to 156 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 uphold right and just and to expose
wrongdoings of a dishonest witness. It
is the most efficacious test to discover
the truth. Cross-examination exposes
bias, detects falsehood and shows
mental and moral condition of the
witnesses and whether a witness is
actuated by proper motive or whether
he is actuated by enmity towards his
adversaries. Cross-examination is
commonly esteemed the severest test
of an advocate's skill and perhaps it
demands beyond any other of his
duties exercise of his ingenuity. There
is a great difficulty in conducting
cross-examination with creditable
skill. It is undoubtedly a great
intellectual effort. Sometimes cross-
examination assumes unnecessary
length, the Court has power to control
the cross-examination in such cases.
(See Wrottescey on cross-examination
of witnesses). The Court must also
ensure that cross-examination is not
made a means of harassment or
causing humiliation to the victim of
crime [See State of Punjab v. Gurmit
Singh [State of Punjab v. Gurmit
Singh, (1996) 2 SCC 384 : 1996 SCC
(Cri) 316] ]." 44. During the course of cross- examination with a view to discredit
the witness or to establish the defence
on preponderance of probabilities 157 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 suggestions are hurled on the witness
but if such suggestions, the answer to
those incriminate the accused in any
manner then the same would
definitely be binding and could be
taken into consideration along with
other evidence on record in support of
the same. 45. However, it would all depend upon
the nature of the suggestions and with
what idea in mind such suggestions
are made to the witness. Take for
instance in case of a charge of rape
under Section 376 of the Penal Code,
the statement of the accused
contained plain denial and a plea of
false implication, a subsequent
suggestion by the defence lawyer to
the prosecutrix about consent on her
part would not, by itself, amount to
admission of guilt on behalf of the
accused. In cases of rape, it is
permissible for the accused to take
more than one defence. In such type of
cases a suggestion thrown by the
defence counsel to a prosecution
witness would not amount to an
admission on the part of the accused.
At the same time, if the defence in the
cross-examination of the prosecutrix,
with a view to support their
alternative case of consent procure
answers to the questions in the form of
suggestions implicating the accused 158 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 for the offence of rape then such
 suggestions would definitely lend
 assurance to the prosecution case and
 the Court would be well justified in
 considering the same. We may give one
 more example of a case where the
 accused would plead right of a private
 defence. Such a defence is always
 available to the accused but although
 if such a defence is not taken
 specifically during the course of trial
 yet if the evidence on record suggests
 that the accused had inflicted injuries
 on the deceased in exercise of his right
 of private defence then the Court can
 definitely take into consideration such
 defence in determining the guilt of the
 accused. However, if a specific
 question is put to a witness by way of
 a suggestion indicative of exercise of
 right of private defence then the Court
 would well be justified in taking into
 consideration such suggestion and if
 the presence of the accused is
 established the same would definitely
 be admissible in evidence. 58. Even the said Authority has been relied

upon by the prosecution also and even there, the

Hon'ble Apex Court has clarified that any concessions

or admission of fact by a defence counsel during the 159 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 course of their cross-examination or the suggestions

which binds the accused is required to be considered

by the Court. It is also made clear that the Court can-

not solely rely upon the suggestions put-forth by the

defence Counsel but it has to look into the other mate-

rials for the purpose of corroboration. Further during

the course of cross-examination, it was suggested to

the victim that she was only doing labour work in the

Farm House of Gannikada, she has deposed that she

was also doing household work apart from the Farm

work. If for a moment it is to be assumed that the de-

fence are totally denying the presence of the accused

person or her working at Gannikada Farm House,

then there would have been no necessity for them to

put-forth a suggestion that she was only doing a

labour work at Gannikada and not the household

work. Even otherwise if the aforesaid aspects are con-

sidered from another angle, wherein it has been con-

tended that at no point of time the accused or his fam- 160 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 ily members were having control over the Farm House

till it was purchased on 27.10.2021 by Mr.Sooraj Re-

vanna, the elder brother of the accused, then how the

suggestion would be justifiable that the victim was

working only in the Farm House requires explanation.

Though it is argued that the accused is entitled to take

inconsistent stand also the accused may take more

than one stand in a case, the main aspect which is re-

quired to be considered is that such inconsistent

stand should not be self-destructive or contrary to

each other so that the same goes to the root of the

case. At the cost of repetition if it is to be appreciated

that the stand of the accused is that the victim never

worked in the farm house then there was no necessity

to put forth a suggestion that she had worked only in

the farm and not in the farm house at Gannikada and

also the fact which is required to be considered is that

the accused is continuously denying of having any

farm house at Sy.No.91/1 of Molekalenahalli village 161 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 which is termed as Gannikada Farm house in the

above case . That apart, repeatedly, a question was

posed to the victim that when was the lock-down was

imposed, whether in 2020 or in the year 2021, for

which she has repeatedly answered that she is an illit-

erate lady and she does not know the year but it is her

consistent evidence that the lock-down was imposed

about 4 years ago. As already discussed above, once

again when the period of her work in the Gannikada is

appreciated with the evidence tendered by her with re-

spect to imposing of lock-down, it would somewhere

justify the case of the prosecution that she did stay at

Gannikada house and also during the lock-down pe-

riod she was subjected to sexual harassment. The wit-

ness has also repeatedly deposed that she was worried

about the reputation of her daughters and as such she

was unable to leave the job immediately. Further dur-

ing the course of cross-examination, a suggestion was

made to her that she had never visited the house at 162 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Basavanagudi, Bengaluru at the behest of Smt.Bha-

vani Revanna and it was her sister Smt.Shobha and

Smt.Lakshmamma, who had visited Basavanagudi

house at Bengaluru for the cleaning purpose. For a

moment it is also required to be appreciated that the

accused has denied of having any house at Basavan-

gudi, Bengaluru and in another breath, he has sug-

gested that his mother Smt.Bhavani Revanna had

never called victim to clean the house at Basavangudi

at Bengaluru, which is nothing but a farrago. This

part of suggestion is required to be appreciated with

the evidence of PW.4 Smt.Shobha, wherein a sugges-

tion was made that she never visited the house at

Basavanagudi for cleaning purpose nor she was taken

there for cleaning by Smt.Bhavani Revanna. The en-

tire suggestion which is put-forth by the defence

Counsel is nothing but a farrago consisting of many

convolutions. It is also questioned to her that whether

she had asked her sister Smt.Shyamala about the 163 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 present work in Bengaluru, she has deposed that she

has not asked any such question. The un erring con-

clusion that can be drawn from the aforesaid discus-

sion by placing reliance on the judgment of the

Hon'ble Apex Court is that the concessions in the

manner of admissions given by the Accused during the

course of cross examination can bind the accused

though he is permitted to take inconsistent stand or

more than one stand. The Hon'ble Apex court in fact

has taken pains to explain the circumstances in which

inconsistent stand can be taken and in the instant

case, the contention of the accused that the sugges-

tions don't binds him cannot be accepted. 59. When the entire aspects are carefully appre-

ciated, the point which could be noticed is the manner

in which the evidence is tendered by the victim before

this Court. The main aspect which is required to be

considered at this juncture is whether the evidence

tendered by the victim is sufficient in ordinary course 164 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of evidence to arrive at a conclusion that she is depos-

ing true. The learned Counsel for the accused has ve-

hemently argued that various infirmities can be found

out in the evidence that has been tendered by the vic-

tim. In order to draw the attention of the court, the

learned Senior Counsel has taken this Court and has

read the complaint which was registered to initiate the

criminal proceedings and also the statements of the

victim which were recorded under section 161of Cr.P.C

with that of her statement recorded under Section

164(5) of Cr.P.C with respect to inconsistencies in the

statement tendered by the victim. Firstly, it has been

argued that the date has been not properly mentioned

and also in the evidence it was narrated that the

younger daughter was married prior to 2022, whereas

such evidence was not having any consistency with

the statement which she had given. In order to but-

tress their contention, the learned Senior Counsel has

relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in 165 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 2024 SCC Online SC 260 (Nirmal Prem Kumar and an-

other Vs. State) wherein it is held as: While a victim's testimony is usually
 enough for sexual offence cases, an
 unreliable or insufficient account
 from the prosecutrix, marked by
 identified flaws and gaps, could
 make it difficult for a conviction to
 be recorded. 17. When considering the evidence of
 a victim subjected to a sexual
 offence, the Court does not
 necessarily demand an almost
 accurate account of the incident. Instead, the emphasis is on allowing
 the victim to provide her version
 based on her recollection of events, to
 the extent reasonably possible for her
 to recollect. If the Court deems such
 evidence credible and free from
 doubt, there is hardly any insistence
 on corroboration of that version. 60. As could be noticed from the aforesaid

Authority, it has been held by the Hon'ble Apex Court

that the Court can rely upon the sole testimony of the

victim if it is a sterling quality. The Hon'ble Apex Court

has held that the victim's testimony in usual

circumstance is sufficient for sexual offence cases and 167 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 an unreliable and insufficient account from the

Prosecutrix marked by identified flaws and gaps could

make it difficult to render a conviction. In the

aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble Apex Court has

explained the instances which would amount to

contradiction. By pointing out to the aforesaid aspects,

it is vehemently submitted that the Court is required to

look into the written information at Ex.P1 which lodged

at the inception of the case at the time of filing of

complaint with that of the statement which can be

recorded in Sec.161 Cr.P.C. on multiple occasion and

the same is required to be compared with the

statement which she had tendered under Sec.164 of

Cr.P.C., coupled with the evidence before the Court. No

doubt, the ratio which has been laid down in the

aforesaid judgment cannot be disputed since the

Hon'ble Apex Court has taken the pain to explain the

contradictions and omissions. At the same time, it is

relevant to note what could be considered as 168 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 contradictions, omissions and improvements in the

wake of the judgment laid down by the Hon'ble Apex

court.  CHAPTER-X: CONTRADICTIONS AND
 OMISSIONS: WHETHER MERE COMPARISON OF
 STATEMENTS WITH THE EVIDENCE IS
 SUFFICIENT? 61. At this juncture, what amounts to

contradiction and omission is required to be

appreciated. In order to better appreciate the said

aspects, the Court has relied upon the authoritative

judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court which was

rendered by the larger bench in the celebrated

judgment reported in AIR 1959 SC 1012 ( Tahsildar Singh

Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh ), is relied upon which still

holds the field even today and, in that judgment, it has

been held as: If the accused exercises the right in (v)
above in any instance, then the
prosecution has the right to use the
statement in the re-examination of the
witness but only to explain any matters
referred to by him in cross- examination. Section 145 of the Indian
Evidence Act reads: Our learned brother, Subba Rao, J.,
restricts the use by the accused of the
previous statements to the mechanism
of contradiction as detailed in (3) above, 175 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 but says that the accused has no right
to proceed under (1) and (2). He deduces
this from the words of s. 162 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, where it is
provided: The fact that the accused can use the
previous statement for the purpose of
contradicting, shows that the previous
statement cannot be used for
corroborating the witness. Also, there
must be some basis for contradicting.
This may arise, because of there being
a contrary statement, irreconcilable
statement or even material omissions. The accused can establish a
contradiction by cross-examining the
witness but only so as to bring out a
contradiction and no more. We regret
we cannot agree (and we say this with
pro- found respect) that the accused is
not entitled to cross- examine but only
to contradict. In our opinion, the
reference to s. 145 of the Indian
Evidence Act brings in the whole of the
manner and machinery of s. 145 and
not merely the second part. In this
process, of course, the accused cannot
go beyond s. 162 or ignore what the
section prohibits but cross-examination 176 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 to establish a contradiction between
one statement and another is certainly
permissible. This question loses much
of its importance when there are patent
contradictions and they can be put to
the witness without any cross- examination as in the two statements: He was chased by A and B who caught
him. There is an omission of two facts in the
first statement, viz., (a) X took out a
dagger from his pocket, and (b) he
stabbed D in the chest. These two
statements or their omission involve a
contradiction as to the stage of the
occurrence, when the observation of the
witness began. What s.145 of
the Indian Evidence Act provides is that 177 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 a witness may be contradicted by a
statement reduced into writing and
that is also the use to which the earlier
statement can be put under s. 162 of
the Code of Criminal Procedure. When
some omissions occur, there is
contradiction in one sense but not
necessarily on a relevant matter. The
statements of witnesses may and do
comprise numerous facts and
circumstances, and it happens that
when they are asked to narrate their
version over again, they omit some and
add others. What use can be made of
such omissions or additions is for the
accused to decide, but it cannot be
doubted that some of the omissions or
additions may have a vital bearing
upon the truth of the story given. We do
not think that by enacting s. 162 in the
words used, the legislature intended a
prohibition of cross-examination to
establish which of the two versions is
an authentic one of the events as seen
by the witness. The use of the words" in the same proviso show that cross-
examination is contemplated or in
other words, that the manner of
contradiction under s.145 of the Indian
Evidence Act comprises both cross-
examination and contradiction. Indeed,
the second part is only the final stage
of the contradiction, which includes the 178 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 earlier stages. Re-examination is only
permissible where there is cross- examination. It must not be overlooked
that the cross-examination must be
directed to bringing out a contradiction
between the statements and must not
subserve any other purpose. If the cross-
examination does anything else, it will
be barred under s. 162 , which permits
the use of the earlier statement for
contradicting a witness and nothing
else. The word " contradict " has various
'Meanings, and in the Oxford English
Dictionary it is stated as " To be
contrary to in effect, character, etc.; to
be directly opposed to go counter to, go
against "as also" to affirm the contrary
of; to declare untrue or erroneous; to
deny categorically" and the word
"contradiction" to mean " A state or
condition of opposition in things
compared; variance; inconsistency,
contrariety". In Shorter Oxford English
Dictionary, " contradict " is said to
mean "To speak against; to oppose in
speech; to forbid; to oppose; to affirm
the contrary of; to declare untrue or
erroneous; to deny to be contrary to go
counter to and go against and
"contradiction " to mean " A state of
opposition in things compared; variance; inconsistency". The meaning 179 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 given to the words ,contradict " and " in s. 162 of the Code. In a civil suit
Act must carry the same meaning as
the words " to contradict, where the
provisions of s. 162 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure have no
application, would it be correct to say
that only questions concerning
omissions of the kind suggested by our
learned brother could be put and none
other ? We cannot see why a question of
the nature of cross-examination
regarding an omission with respect to
a matter which the witness omitted to
make in his previous statement and
which, if made, would. have been
recorded, cannot be put. The facts and 180 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 circumstances of each case will
determine whether any other kind of
omission than that referred to by our
learned brother could be put to a
witness in order to contradict him. It
would be for the Judge to decide in
each case whether in the circumstances
before him the question could be put.
The purpose of cross-examination is to
test the veracity of the statement made
by a witness in his examination-in-chief
as also to impeach his credit. Not only
is it the right of the accused to shake
the credit of a witness, but it is also the
duty of the Court trying an accused to
satisfy itself that the witnesses are
reliable. It would be dangerous to lay
down any hard and fast rule. We pause
to look at the matter from another
angle. We shall assume that the
interpretation which the State claims
should be put upon s. 162(1) is correct
and compare the respective rights of
the accused and the prosecution. According to this interpretation, the
accused has no right of cross- examination in respect of the
contradiction. This means that no
question can be put about the previous
statement but only the part in which
there is a contradiction can be brought
to the witness's notice and his
explanation, if any, obtained. In other
words, there is only " contradiction " 181 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 62. In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble Apex

Court has clearly enumerated what amounts to

contradictions and what amounts to omission and

improvisation by explaining with illustration. Further it 182 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 is clearly held that just because there is some

discrepancy in the evidence tendered when compared

to the statement the same cannot be considered as

contradiction or just because some of the incidents

mentioned/narrated in the statement is deposed

during the course of evidence, the same cannot be an

omission. Further the authoritative judgment clearly

mandates that a statement of witness may be

contradicted by a statement reduced into writing and

that is also the used to which earlier statement can be

put under Sec.162 of Cr.P.C, in other words the

attention of the witness is required to be drawn to the

earlier statement and also the same is required to be

confronted with that of the investigating officer. The

evidence Act much less the provisions of section 145 to Section 157 of Indian Evidence Act cannot be read in

isolation and the same is required to be considered by

looking into broad spectrum of the case. The aforesaid

aspects are to be juxtaposed with the facts of the case. 183 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 However, in the instant case, though during the course

of argument it is submitted that there are

discrepancies with respect to the year of alleged joining

for work at Gannikada and also the statement of the

victim in deposing about the year and date of marriage

of her daughter, nothing was brought to her notice

during the course of her evidence. Even otherwise it is

also pointed out that the same should be considered

with the deposition and evidence of other witnesses. In

order to clarify the aforesaid aspect it is to be kept in

mind that the statement recorded under section 161 of

Cr.P.C or for that matter the statement recorded under section 164(5) of Cr.P.C cannot be considered as

substantive piece of evidence and for the very said

reason the legislatures in their wisdom had elaborately

laid down the procedures commencing from section

145 of Indian Evidence Act and the manner in which

the witness is required to be cross examined and the

manner in which admission has to be obtained. In fact, 184 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 in the aforesaid authoritative judgment, it is explained

that the previous statement may it be in the form of

Sec 161 of Cr.P.C or in the form of Sec164 of Cr.P.C has to be brought to the notice of the witness. Further

it is laid down that only to discredit the worthiness of

the witness the same is required to be put to the

witness and the answer elucidated is required to be

confronted with that of the investigating officer. Unless

the witness is confronted with the previous statement

by bringing to their knowledge about the same, the

question of considering the contradiction, omission will

not be permissible. The statement of witnesses may

and do compromise enormous facts and circumstances

and it happens that when they are asked to narrate

their version once again same omissions will be made

and something else will be added. When the aforesaid

aspect is considered in the wake of the evidence which

has been tendered by the Court, it is crystal clear that

the facts which are now argued to be contradictions 185 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 were not at all confronted to the witnesses during the

course of cross examination. Even otherwise, if the

submissions are accepted for the sake of arguments

and the same is appreciated with the evidence, the

minor discrepancies which are alleged otherwise

cannot be considered as contradictions or omission in the above case .  CHAPTER-XI: WHAT AMOUNTS TO STERLING
 QUALITY EVIDENCE: What would be more relevant would be
 the consistency of the statement right
 from the starting point till the end,
 namely, at the time when the witness
 makes the initial statement and
 ultimately before the court. It should be
 natural and consistent with the case of
 the prosecution qua the accused. There
 should not be any prevarication in the 187 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 version of such a witness. The witness
should be in a position to withstand the
cross-examination of any length and
howsoever strenuous it may be and
under no circumstance should give
room for any doubt as to the factum of
the occurrence, the persons involved, as
well as the sequence of it. Such a
version should have co-relation with
each and every one of other supporting
material such as the recoveries made,
the weapons used, the manner of
offence committed, the scientific
evidence and the expert opinion. The
said version should consistently match
with the version of every other witness.
It can even be stated that it should be
akin to the test applied in the case of
circumstantial evidence where there
should not be any missing link in the
chain of circumstances to hold the
accused guilty of the offence alleged
against him. Only if the version of such
a witness qualifies the above test as
well as all other such similar tests to be
applied, can it be held that such a
witness can be called as a "sterling
witness" whose version can be accepted
by the court without any corroboration
and based on which the guilty can be
punished. To be more precise, the
version of the said witness on the core
spectrum of the crime should remain
intact while all other attendant 188 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 materials, namely, oral, documentary
and material objects should match the
said version in material particulars in
order to enable the court trying the
offence to rely on the core version to
sieve the other supporting materials for
holding the offender guilty of the
charge alleged. 27. In the decision reported as State of
H.P. v. Asha Ram [(2005) 13 SCC 766 : The testimony of the victim of sexual
assault is vital, unless there are
compelling reasons which necessitate
looking for corroboration of her
statement, the courts should find no
difficulty in acting on the testimony of
a victim of sexual assault alone to
convict an accused where her testimony
inspires confidence and is found to be
reliable. It is also a well-settled
principle of law that corroboration as a
condition for judicial reliance on the 189 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 testimony of the prosecutrix is not a
 requirement of law but a guidance of
 prudence under the given
 circumstances. The evidence of the
 prosecutrix is more reliable than that
 of an injured witness. Even minor
 contradictions or insignificant
 discrepancies in the statement of the
 prosecutrix should not be a ground for
 throwing out an otherwise reliable
 prosecution case." (emphasis added) 64. When the ingredients of the above case are

carefully appreciated, it itself indicates that the victim

did appear before the Court and had explained in detail

about the forcible sexual act which had taken-place on

her. In the instant case, what could be looked into is

that the victim is a poor labourer and also it is

categorically admitted even by the defence that during

the period 2017 onwards she has worked in the Farm

House of Gannikada. The question with respect to the

ownership of the Farm House is another aspect which

will be dealt subsequently in the judgment. However, at

this juncture, the materials which are produced before 190 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the Court would indicate that she did work at

Gannikada Farm House. When such being the case,

the main aspect which is required to be considered is

why a women would appear before the Court and

depose that she was subjected to forcible sexual

intercourse. The law is well settled that in such

matters, how the same is required to be appreciated. In this regard, I have relied upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Apex Court reported in the case of (1996)2 SCC

384 ( State of Punjab v Gurmit Singh ) wherein it is held

as: The prosecutrix in her statement
categorically asserted that as soon as
she was pushed inside the car she was
threatened by the accused to keep quiet
and not to raise any alarm, otherwise
she would be killed. Under these
circumstances to discredit the
prosecutrix for not raising an alarm
while the car was passing through the
bus adda is a travesty of justice. The
court overlooked the situation in which
a poor helpless minor girl had found
herself in the company of three
desperate young men who were
threatening her and preventing her
from raising any alarm. Again, if the
investigating officer did not conduct
the investigation properly or was
negligent in not being able to trace out
the driver or the car, how can that
become a ground to discredit the
testimony of the prosecutrix? The
prosecutrix had no control over the
investigating agency and the negligence
of an investigating officer could not
affect the credibility of the statement of
the prosecutrix. The trial court fell in 192 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 error for discrediting the testimony of
the prosecutrix on that account. In our
opinion, there was no delay in the
lodging of the FIR either and if at all
there was some delay, the same has not
only been properly explained by the
prosecution but in the facts and
circumstances of the case was also
natural. The courts cannot overlook the
fact that in sexual offences delay in the
lodging of the FIR can be due to variety
of reasons particularly the reluctance
of the prosecutrix or her family
members to go to the police and
complain about the incident which
concerns the reputation of the
prosecutrix and the honour of her
family. It is only after giving it a cool
thought that a complaint of sexual
offence is generally lodged. The
prosecution has explained that as soon
as Tirlok Singh PW 6, father of the
prosecutrix came to know from his wife,
PW 7 about the incident he went to the
village Sarpanch and complained to
him. The Sarpanch of the village also
got in touch with the Sarpanch of
Village Pakhowal, where in the tubewell
kotha of Ranjit Singh rape was
committed, and an effort was made by
the panchayats of the two villages to sit
together and settle the matter. It was
only when the Panchayats failed to
provide any relief or render any justice 193 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 to the prosecutrix, that she and her
family decided to report the matter to
the police and before doing that
naturally the father and mother of the
prosecutrix discussed whether or not to
lodge a report with the police in view of
the repercussions it might have on the
reputation and future prospects of the
marriage etc. of their daughter. Tirlok
Singh PW 6 truthfully admitted that he
entered into consultation with his wife
as to whether to lodge a report or not
and the trial court appears to have
misunderstood the reasons and
justification for the consultation
between Tirlok Singh and his wife when
it found that the said circumstance had
rendered the version of the prosecutrix
doubtful. Her statement about the
manner in which she was abducted and
again left near the school in the early
hours of next morning has a ring of
truth. It appears that the trial court
searched for contradictions and
variations in the statement of the
prosecutrix microscopically, so as to
disbelieve her version. The observations
of the trial court that the story of the
prosecutrix that she was left near the
examination centre next morning at
about 6 a.m. was "not believable" as
"the accused would be the last persons
to extend sympathy to the prosecutrix" 65. Even in the aforesaid judgment the Hon'ble

Apex Court had taken upon pain to explain in detail

the manner in which the evidence is to be appreciated

when the victim of the crime is rustic villager. In the

case on hand at several instances, questions were

asked with respect to the year in which she had joined

the farm house at Gannikada and also several

questions were asked that when she had left the job

and also it was suggested that due to rampant spread 200 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of corona virus she had left the job, for which she has

only deposed that she cannot recollect the year due to

her illiteracy and consistently she has deposed before

the court by giving pictorial descriptions by mentioning

the years and further the year of her daughter's

marriage and also the year her son dropped out of the

school is also described by her by stating that it had

taken place about so many years back, which indeed

indicates that she had deposed in normal manner and

it cannot be suspected of having blemish or marred

with un-naturality. That apart, I have also considered

the cross-examination portion of the victim when it

was directly asked to her that did, she show the place

where she was residing at Gannikada Farm House to

the Police. The victim has specifically deposed that she

has not shown the place where she was residing but

had only shown the place where she was residing. As

such, it would also be worthwhile to look into the

entire aspect of the cross-examination. Nowhere the 201 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 alleged incident has been denied nor any materials are

produced before the Court to indicate that the victim

was deposing falsely. As already discussed above, if for

the sake of arguments, it is to be considered then what

was the necessity for her to depose falsely against the

accused person is not forthcoming. Though it is

vehemently argued that a false case was foisted against

the accused persons due to political rivalry, nowhere in

her evidence it is suggested that she belonged to some

other political party and in fact, the turn of events that

had taken place just prior to the incident also indicate

that the victim was falsely stated that she was involved

in some criminal case during the elections and as such

she was sent to a safe place with Sathish Babanna.

Though the aforesaid aspect is denied categorically by

the witness, the very same aspect resurfaces in the

evidence of PW-2 Raju who is the son of the victim and

also in the evidence of PW-3 Devaraj the son in law of

the victim and they have consistently explained the 202 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 manner in which his mother was taken by Sathis

Babanna just prior to elections and immediately after

the election. Further the evidence of PW.4 Shymala

would only fortify the case of the prosecution in this

regard wherein she also deposes that the victim was

brought to the house of Smt.Bhavani Revanna and in

her presence, she was sent to some safe place. That

apart, it is also suggested to the victim that she was

using mobile phone when she was working at

Gannikada Farm House, for that she has deposed that

she was not using the same and later on her son-in-

law after about one year she joined the Farm House,

had got her a key paid mobile phone. At this juncture,

the argument of the learned Senior Counsel is required

to be appreciated. It is vehemently argued that as per

Ex.D2 the CD, which was furnished by the

Investigating Agency, along with the charge-sheet was

confronted to the witnesses since it consisted of CAF

(Customer Application Form Details), wherein the 203 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 victim had admitted of purchasing a Sim Card at

Hebbala. Further it has been argued at length by

displaying the said CD at Ex. D2 by the learned Senior

Counsel that the Sim Card which was purchased was

having a Geo Physical Tag which would clearly indicate

that the victim had purchased the same at Zara

Mobiles near Hebbala. Even otherwise, if the said

aspect is appreciated with the evidence which has been

placed before the Court with that of the suggestions

that were put-forth, it would indicate that the victim

had consistently deposed that she was using a mobile

phone which was purchased after one year she joined

the Farm House through her son-in-law. No doubt the

Sim Card which was purchased stands in her name,

but the question which was put to her was Mobile

Phone. In normal parlance, she might have purchased

a Sim Card at Mysuru or her native place, mere

purchasing of Sim Card would not lead to infer that

she had not stayed at Gannikada itself and rather she 204 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 was staying in her native place. Once again at the cost

of repetition, the evidence which has been tendered by

the victim is to be re-appreciated with that of the

evidence of PW.2 Raju i.e., the son of the victim, PW.4

Smt.Shyamala, who is none other than the sister of the

victim. As already pointed out in the earlier portion of

my discussion, it would indicate that several

suggestions were put-forth questioning that the

victim's son had left Gannikada Farm House along

with their parents. However, the victim's son PW.2 Raju

has specifically deposed that he had dropped out of the

school at 9th Standard and in his earlier evidence he

has specifically deposed of joining the school at

Gannikada and of studying there about 3 years. The

evidence of victim also indicates that her son was aged

about 8 to 9 years when they had joined the

Gannikada Farm House which would only probabalize

the case of prosecution that he was studying tat 5 th

Standard at this point of time. No doubt the Court 205 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 cannot fix the exact age and calculate the same

through a mathematical calculation at this juncture

since it is to be kept in mind that the victim and also

her family members are illiterates or it may be termed

as Neo-literates who only knows to affix their

signatures. When the entire evidence is marshaled, it

would lead to a conclusion that the victim was nowhere

able to satisfy the year and she deposed about the

marriage of daughter also by submitting that it has

been taken place 4 to 5 years back and like-wise.

Under these circumstances, the Court has to accept

the basic contention of the victim and her situation

that she is an illiterate lady and she could not

remember the incident. 66. At this juncture, it would be worthwhile to

appreciate another limb of arguments which is

vehemently canvassed by the learned Senior Counsel.

It is argued at length that there are lot of discrepancies

in the evidence of victim. As already noticed, certain 206 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 minor discrepancies can be noticed in the evidence

tendered by the victim. However, whether such minor

discrepancies can be considered as the one which

would go to the root of the prosecution is another

aspect which is required to be appreciated. In this

regard, the Court has relied upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (1978)4 SCC 161 ( Inder

Singh and another Vs. The State ), wherein it has been

held: Why fake up? Because the court asks
 for manufacture to make truth look
 true? No, we must be realistic. 67. In the aforesaid Authority, the Hon'ble

celebrated Justice Krishna Iyer speaking for the bench

has quoted that if only the witnesses deposed

flawlessly in a perfect manner the same would lead to

draw inference that the same is artificial and mainly

when the statement which was recorded under Sec.161 of Cr.P.C., is compared with the evidence led before the

court, too much of perfection in the statement and

evidence would have to be viewed cautiously. In other

words, it is the view of the Hon'ble Apex Court that

there has to be minor discrepancies, otherwise the

same cannot be considered as the evidence having

sterling quality. I have also bestowed my anxious 208 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 reading to the Authority which has been relied upon by

the learned Senior Counsel with respect to the lacunas

in the statement of witness which is reported in

(2016)10 SCC 506 ( Raja and others Vs. State of

Karnataka ) wherein it is held as: consensual physical assault ought to be
accepted as true and unblemished, it
would still be subject to judicial
scrutiny lest a casual, routine and
automatic acceptance thereof results in
unwarranted conviction of the person
charged. 68. The aforesaid judgment is required to be

considered with the facts and circumstances of that

case. In that case, the victim was alleged to be

subjected to gang rape and the Court has observed the

unusual behavior which was expressed by the victim

immediately after the incident. Further it has been

discussed in detail that for testimony belies the

medical examination and also immediately after the

incident she had not went away from the place of

occurrence and stayed back in that place itself and

later it was noticed that she behaved in an abnormal

manner. Apart from that, the other witnesses turned

hostile and even during the course of cross-

examination a specific defence was taken-up by the

defence when it was suggested and elicited by the

victim herself that she had requested for financial help,

which was turned down by the accused person and as

such a case was projected against him. However, in the

instant case, no such aspects are forthcoming. Under 211 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 these circumstances, the contention of having

inconsistencies cannot be accepted. I have also

bestowed my anxious reading to the other Authority

which has been relied upon by the learned Counsel for

the accused which is reported in (2012)8 SCC 21 ( Roy

Sandeep Vs. State ) which is already discussed above

and there cannot be qualms with respect to the ratio laid down in the said authority. 69. Even in the above case , on appreciating the

evidence, the Hon'ble Apex Court had found that

totally conflicting versions were tendered by the victim.

Even otherwise there were no materials to indicate that

she was a sterling quality witness. Once again in the

aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble Apex Court has

explained what amounts to sterling witness is 'sterling

witness' should be of a very high quality and caliber

whose version should, therefore be unassailable. The

Court at the time of considering the version of such

witness should be in a position to accept it for its face 212 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 value without any hesitation. Apart from that, the

Hon'ble Apex Court has also clarified the test for the

quality of such witness is not the status of the witness

but what would be relevant is the truthfulness of the

statement made by her. The aforesaid aspect is

required to be kept in mind at the time of adjudicating

the case. Even in the instant case, the victim was a

maid in the house of accused person and as could be

seen it is a case which is filed by the victim against her

own Master who is politically, economically and socially

powerful and their status cannot be compared

altogether. In other words, it is a fight which could be

termed as David Vs. Goliath. The Court is solely not

considering the evidence of the victim alone, but for the

purpose of corroboration, the evidence which has been

tendered by PW.2 Raju, the victim's son-in-law, PW.3

Devaraju and her sister PW.4 Smt.Shyamala is also to

be considered. As already discussed above, I am

intentionally not dwelling upon the digital record for 213 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the time being, which will be discussed in detail in the

later part of the judgment. PW.2 Raju has specifically

stated that he has studied till 9th Standard and after

that he had stopped studying and it was suggested to

him that he went with their parents to Hebbala, for

which he has deposed that he accompanied his

brother-in-law for work. It is relevant to note that he

has specifically deposed that his parents had joined for

work at Gannikada Farm House in the year 2017

which would once again corroborate with the evidence

of PW.1 victim that she had joined the work about 8

years back. Further it was suggested to him during

the course of his cross-examination that several

labourers were working when they were residing in the

said farm house. However, he has deposed that he

cannot recollect their names and when it was

suggested that the Farm House was standing in the

name of Prakash, he has specifically deposed that he

does not know about the same but they were working 214 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 in the Farm and there accused to visit and also it was

also suggested to him that he used to leave to the work

in morning and return back at 09.00 p.m. in the night

which was admitted by the witness. If for a moment the

evidence is juxtaposed with that the of the victim, it

would indicate that he had studied at Government

School at Gannikada and also the victim had joined

the accused persons for work about 8 years back. That

apart, when the evidence of PW.3 Devaraju is

considered, he has deposed that the probable year of

his marriage with the daughter of the victim was

during 2020-21. Once again, the aforesaid aspect

clearly corroborates with the evidence of the victim

wherein, she has given a pictorial description that she

had intended to get the marriage of her daughter

celebrated and hence she had kept quite even at the

time of first incident of forcible sexual intercourse

committed on her. Apart from denying about the entire

materials, nothing has been elicited or suggested to the 215 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 witness in the above cross-examination. I have also

bestowed my anxious reading to the evidence of PW.4

Shyamala, during the course of her chief-examination

had admitted the suggestion made to her that totally 3

workers by name Smt.Shobha, Smt.Lakshmi and

another person was working in the house of

Smt.Bhavani Revanna at Holenarasipura. If for a

moment the aforesaid aspect is considered with the

evidence of PW.1 victim, wherein she narrates that

after the first incident at Gannikada and after days

they were taken to the house of the accused Prajwal

Revanna at Basavanagudi, Bengaluru for the purpose

of cleaning and at that time they were accompanied by

her sisters Smt.Shyamala, Smt.Shobha and

Smt.Lakshmi. When the aforesaid names are clearly

uttered by the victim and when it is categorically

admitted that PW.4 Smt.Shyamala was also working in

the house of Smt.Bhavani Revanna at Kamenahalli

Farm House and also when there is a suggestion put- 216 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 forth to PW.4 Shayamala that it was not possible for

them to converse with each other i.e., the victim and

PW.4 Smt.Shayamla when they were working in their

respective Farm House due to the problem from

distance between the two Farm Houses, would only

fortify the case of prosecution that the victim indeed

was working at Gannikada farm house. Further, for

the sake of clarification, the exact suggestion which

has been made to the witnesses i.e., PW.4 Shyamala is

extracted which reads as follows; 70. The aforesaid suggestion itself would clearly

indicate that the victim/PW.1 had worked at

Gannikada Farm House. If the prosecution is able to

establish the aforesaid fact, then the court must have

justifiable reasons to disbelieve the aforesaid aspect. 217 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 No doubt, it is the bounden duty of the prosecution to

prove their case beyond reasonable doubt. However, at

the same time, the prosecution cannot be accepted to

prove each and every aspect and the same ratio has

been laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in (2000)8

SCC 382(State of West Bengal V Mir Mohammed Omar)

wherein it has been held as: narrated circumstances, the court has
 to presume the existence of certain
 facts. Presumption is a course 218 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 recognised by the law for the court to
 rely on in conditions such as this. 71. The aforesaid judgment aptly applies to the

case on hand and in this regard, it would be

worthwhile to recollect that the prosecution has

established the fact that the PW-1 Victim had resided

and worked at Gannikada farm house and also the

same is corroborated from the evidence of PW-2 Raju

the son of the victim, PW-3 Devaraju the Son-in-law

and PW-4 Shyamala, her sister. When the above said

aspect is once again considered with the evidence

which has been placed before the Court, it would

clearly indicate that the victim did work at Gannikada

Farm House and hence the prosecution has

established the aforesaid fact.  CHAPTER-XII: REGARDING OWNERSHIP OF
 FARM HOUSE: 72. The other aspect which is required to be

appreciated is the ownership of the Farm House. It is

consistently submitted that the Farm House did not 219 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 belong to the accused Prajwal Revanna or his family

members and instead it was standing in the name of

one Prakash. It is relevant to note that in the evidence

of victim, it has been elicited that during the election

time she was afraid of being nabbed by the Police men

as it is narrated that a criminal case was registered

against her, for which the Police were looking out to

arrest her. Hence, the evidence of PW.2 Raju also

justifies that the victim had went with Sathish

Babanna and later on during the evidence it is

elucidated from the evidence of PW-4 Shyamala that

one Sathish Babanna had brought PW-1 victim to the

house of Bhavani Revanna where she was performing

obsequies ceremony of her brother Prakash. It is

relevant to note that it is elucidated from the evidence

that Prakash is the very same person with respect to

whom suggestions are made to the witnesses that the

Farm House belonged to him. It is also relevant to note

that the Farm House was subsequently purchased by 220 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the elder brother of accused Mr.Sooraj Revanna on

27.10.2021, which is evidenced through the copy of the

Sale Deed which the accused had furnished along with

his written submissions filed under Sec.313(5) of

Cr.P.C. For a moment the evidence which is placed by

the prosecution in this regard to prove the ownership

of the farm house is required to be appreciated. The

prosecution in order to prove the aforesaid aspects has

produced documents at Ex. P124. As per the said

document which were collectively marked through the

Investigating Officer Smt.Shobha, it would indicate

that she had collected materials from the Revenue

Authorities. It is pertinent to note that she had raised

certain questionaries in her letter dated 12.06.2024,

which was addressed to the Tahasildar,

Holenarasipura Taluk, wherein she had specifically

enquired that whether any Farm House was in

existence in the year 2021 and if so, to produce

necessary documents. It is relevant to note that the 221 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 concerned Authorities have furnished a Report stating

that in the year 2021, a Farm House was in existence

which was having a RCC building and for construction

of the same they had obtained necessary permission

from Moodalahippe Village Panchayath and also they

have explained that the individual building was in the

name of one H.E Ravichandra who had sold the same

in favour of N.S.Prakash. The learned Counsel for the

accused has vehemently argued that the Sale Deed of

Prakash when considered would indicate that the

building did not consist of more than one floor and also

the schedule which was mentioned in the Sale Deed

also did not indicate of any labour quarters being

constructed. If for a moment, the aforesaid aspect is to

be accepted, then it would be appropriate to juxtapose

the same with the evidence of PW.26 Smt.Shobha. It is

noticed from records that during her cross-

examination, nothing much was elucidated from her

apart from denial. In fact, she was the best witness to 222 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 narrate about all the incident since it has to be borne

in mind that none of the Revenue Authorities were

examined by the prosecution and also the documents

which were collected from the Revenue Authorities

were collectively marked. The record also consists of

the Report of Revenue Inspector, wherein he has also

narrated that since from 2015, as per the statement of

villagers it was in the possession of Sooraj Revanna

and later on he has purchased the same. No doubt, the

sketch has been produced from the Village Panchayath

which does indicate of a building being constructed. I

have also bestowed my anxious reading to the Sale

Deed which would indicate that H.S.Prakash of

Saligrama Village purchasing the same on 23.11.2015. Even in the Sale Deed, it has been mentioned that a

concrete ceiling RCC House was in existence in the

Farm House. Along with the same, the statement of the

villagers has also been recorded which has been

marked. Now the question which assumes importance 223 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 at this juncture is whether the production of document

would be suffice to hold that the document has been

proved. The learned Counsel for the accused has relied

upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court reported

in (2011)2 SCC 385 ( Alamelu Vs. State ), wherein it has

been held as: Section 162 is aimed at statements
 recorded by a police officer while
 investigating into an offince. This is
 clear from the opening words of Section 162 . They speak only of
 statements made to a police officer
 during the course of investigation.
 This implies that the statement sought
 to be excluded from evidence must be
 ascribable to the enquiry conducted by
 the investigating officer and not one
 which is de hors the enquiry. A
 communication like Ex. 6 will not fall
 within the ambit of such statements.
 In this view we hold that the document
 in question is not hit by Section 162 of
 the Criminal Procedure Code and the
 High Court was right in admitting it in
 evidence. 74. Even in the aforesaid case, a letter was

received by the Investigating Officer, wherein certain

averments were made against the accused persons and

later on the letter was sent to handwriting expert and

he had vouchsafed its veracity and the portion of the

statement was marked during evidence and later on 226 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the Hon'ble Court had held that that said portion of the

statement was admissible for the purpose of

corroboration of motive. Even in the instant case, the

same ratio can be applied, since in the instant case

certain documents are summoned and also the report

of the Revenue authorities is summoned and they are

marked through the investigating officer and it would

indicate that the same was admitted into evidence

without any objection from the other side. Further in

another judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court reported

in (2004)7 SCC 107 (Dayamathi Bai V K M Shaffi) it has

been held that if no objections are raised at the time of

marking of the document, subsequently no qualms can

be raised with respect to its admissibility. For the sake

of profit the extract from the aforesaid judgment is

extracted which reads as: Similarly, in Sarkar on Evidence, 15th
 Edn., p. 1084, it has been stated that
 where copies of the documents are
 admitted without objection in the trial
 court, no objection to their admissibility
 can be taken afterwards in the court of
 appeal. When a party gives in evidence a
 certified copy, without proving the
 circumstances entitling him to give
 secondary evidence, objection must be
 taken at the time of admission and such
 objection will not be allowed at a later
 stage. 75. Though the Hon'ble Apex court had laid

down the ratio in a civil case, the same is applicable in

the instant case also since report was called from

Revenue authorities, which consisted of proof. Though

it is argued that the mere marking would not be suffice 228 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 to prove the contents, the Investigating officer had

produced the same and through her who had

summoned the records the said report came to be

marked and if there existed any serious dispute over

the same, the parties were at liberty to question about

its veracity in the cross examination. Without raising

any qualms over the same during the course of cross

examination, disputing the veracity at arguments is not

justifiable. The Hon'ble Apex court had mainly laid

down the ratio keeping in mind with respect to

admissibility of documents or in other words where the

question of insufficiently stamped or otherwise

admissible documents were introduced the ratio was

laid down that mere marking of document would not

amount to admitting the document. Even otherwise

the question which arise for consideration is whether

the same can be looked into by the Court as it was hit

by Sec.162 of Cr.P.C. The Hon'ble Apex Court by

appreciating the same has held that Sec.162 of Cr.P.C., 229 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 does not say that every statement made during the

period of investigation is barred from being proved as

evidence. Further the Hon'ble Apex Court has held in

the judgment referred about that "period of

investigation" and "course of investigation" are not

synonymous. Sec.162 is aimed at statements recorded

by a Police Officer while investigating into an offence.

This is clear from the opening words of Sec.162 . They

speak only of statement made to a police officer during

the course of investigation. This implies that the

statement sought to be excluded from evidence must

be ascribable to the enquiry conducted by the

investigating office and not one which is de-hors the

enquiry. Lastly it is important to note that the court

cannot strictly apply the principles relevant to

document for the reason that the title of the parties is

not being adjudicated and the court is only looking into

the document as ancillary document to ascertain 230 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 whether the accused and their family members used to

visit Gannikada farm house or not. 76. It is also to be ascertained from the

aforesaid aspect that certain materials were not

disputed by the other side at the time of marking the

documents. No doubt the Court cannot give undue

advantage or weightage to the same. As it is a settled

principle of law that mere marking of document

dispenses the necessity of proving the document. Often

used adage that marking of a document is only a

ministerial act and admitting a document is a judicial

act is required to be looked into. As could be noticed

from the materials which were produced during the

course of evidence, the documents which were

produced was not disputed to be marked. I have also

bestowed my anxious reading to the cross-examination

of PW.26 Smt.Shobha. No where during her cross-

examination it was suggested that the aforesaid

statements were of concocted or created to suit their 231 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 needs or none of the villagers have given such a

statement. If for a moment the documents which are

produced are excluded and if only the oral testimony

which has been produced before the Court is to be

accepted, then the undisputed fact which would

emerge that the victim had worked at Gannikada Farm

House and also house at Basavanagudi by name

'Shivasmitha' situated at Ranoji Rao Road belonged to

the sister of H.D.Revanna, who is none other than the

father of Prajwal Revanna. It is not much disputed with

respect to the ownership of Basavanagudi House at

Bengaluru but a serious dispute has been raised with

respect to the ownership of Gannikada Farm House. As

could be noticed from the entire materials, both the

houses were standing in the name of some of the

family members and there is a categorical admission

that the victim was working at Gannikada Farm

House. Further, the evidence of PW.15 R.Kumar, Head

Constable who was posted to guard the residence of 232 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 H.D.Revanna clearly deposed that the victim was also

called for cleaning purpose whenever the functions

were being celebrated in their house at Holenarasipura

and it is his evidence that she was to be called from

Gannikada Farm House, wherein people used to speak

that the same belonged to H.D.Revanna. During the

course of cross-examination, it was suggested that the

Farm House belonged to Prakash, which has been

denied by the witness. Apart from that, there was no

much suggestions put-forth to him that he was

deposing falsely. Now, the ultimate question which

remains to be explained that whey witness deposed

falsely against the accused person. In normal parlance

no person will be entertaining a grudge against the

accused person unless it is suggested. In the entire

evidence which is placed before the Court, it is not to

be seen that the accused had suggested even slightest

evidence to indicate the reason for deposing falsely and

foisting a false case against the accused by the victim 233 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 that too the victim making allegations of ravishment

consistently by the accused person. 77. Further, I have also bestowed my anxious

reading to the documents at Ex. P.124 with the

evidence which is available on record. PW.4

Smt.Shyamala has deposed to a suggestion that the

Gannikada Farm House belongs to Prakash Anna,

wherein she has stated that she does not know the

same and in fact it belongs to H.D.Revanna. If the

statements of villagers are considered with that of the

mahazar, which is part and parcel of the mahazar, it

would only lend assurance to the case of prosecution

and supports the evidence of PW.4 Smt.Shyamala.

That apart, I have also appreciated the evidence of

PW.10 Karthik, who was the Driver of accused person.

He in his evidence has specifically deposed that the

accused Prajwal Revanna used to visit Gannikada

Farm House and further during the course of cross-

examination nothing much was elucidated by him to 234 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 disbelieve the same. Further during the course of

cross-examination of PW.10 Karthik, it was suggested

that H.D.Revanna and Bhavani Revanna were having

house at Holenarasipura and also having house at

Basavangudi, Bengaluru, the witness had admitted the

same and has deposed that he was having another

house at Gannikada. It was further suggested to the

witness that Gannikada Farm House was standing in

the name of Mr.Prakash and not in the name of

Bhavani Revanna, H.D.Revanna, Sooraj Revanna or

Prajwal Revanna, the witness has deposed that he does

not know in whose name it was standing but it was

being used by Prajwal Revanna. The underlining aspect

which is required to be looked into is that the accused

is not entirely denying the fact of his visit to Gannikada

Farm House, but it was suggested that it was standing

in the name of Prakash. As could be noticed from the

records, even the house at Basavanagudi, Bengaluru

was standing in the name of the sister of H.D.Revanna 235 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 i.e., by name Smt Shyla Chandrashekar. As such, a

parlance can be drawn that even the house at

Gannikada though was not standing in the name of

family members of the accused persons, they were

using the said Farm House. During the further cross-

examination it was suggested that the Gannikada

Farm House was purchased by Sooraj Revanna on

27.10.2021, the witness had feigned his ignorance

about the same and also, he has admitted the

suggestion that H.D.Revanna was having a Farm

House at Kamenahalli village. Once again, the

aforesaid evidence is required to be appreciated with

the evidence of PW.1/victim and that of PW.4

Smt.Shyamala, wherein at several instances it was

suggested to the victim and her sister that they were

unable to converse with each other as the distance

between the Farm House at Gannikada and the Farm

House at Kamenahalli was very far. That apart, PW.1

has consistently deposed and also PW.4 Smt.Shyamala 236 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 has deposed that initially they were together at

Gannikada Farm House and later on PW.4

Smt.Shyamala was shifted to the Farm House at

Kamenahalli. That apart, during the course of cross-

examination of PW.10 it was suggested that the Farm

House at Kamenahalli was being visited by

H.D.Revanna, Smt.Bhavani Revanna, Sooraj Revanna

and also accused Prajwal Revanna, he has admitted

the same. Further he has also admitted the suggestion

that Prajwal Revanna used to be accompanied by his

Gunman and Personal Assistant whenever they used to

visit and witness has further clarified that they used to

accompany him only during his official visits. If for a

moment the evidence of PW.4 Shyamala is juxtaposed

with that of the evidence of PW.2 Raju, consistently the

evidence which has been brought before the Court

indicates that the Gannikada Farm House was being

used by accused Prajwal Revanna even though it might

have been standing in the name of the brother of 237 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Smt.Bhavani Revanna i.e., Mr.Prakash. With this

material evidence when the Authority mentioned above

of the Hon'ble Apex Court is considered, the unerring

inference which could be drawn is that the Farm

House belonged to the family members of the accused

person or at least the farm house was being used by

them. The main aspect which is required to be

considered is the court is not considering the case to

determine the ownership of the farm house but to

ascertain whether any incident had taken place in the

aforesaid farm house. Interestingly, the very same

Farm House was subsequently purchased by the elder

brother of accused Prajwal Revanna on 27.10.2021.

With respect to the pleadings which were in existence,

the learned Special Public Prosecutor Sri.Jagadish

B.N., at the time of his arguments has produced the

Geo Political Map google map, which would indicate of

the structures which were in existence from 2017 to

2021. It is his evidence that if only that the accused 238 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 can be permitted to rely upon the Geo Political Map as

mentioned in CAF at Ex D.2, which were produced by

the victim to purchase the Sim Cards and if on that

basis if arguments could be placed that she was

residing at Hebbala at that point of time, then why not

the same Geo Political Map which is an authenticated

document has to be ignored. 78. Further it is relevant to note that Google

Maps are reliable only to the limited extent and it does

require corroboration. For the sake of benefit the

provisions of section 83 of the Indian Evidence Act is

extracted which reads as: but maps or plans made for the 239 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 purposes of any cause must be proved
 to be accurate. 79. Further at this juncture it would be

appropriate to consider the aforesaid provision with section 36 of the Indian Evidence Act which is

extracted for the sake of benefit as: 80. The difference between private maps and

also the maps published by the State was considered

by the Hon'ble High Court of Calcutta in the judgment

rendered in AIR 1953 CAL 253 (Kedarnath Bhattacharjee

V Mahendranath Kundu) wherein it is held as: 240 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 The maps, if they had stood by
themselves, there cannot be any doubt
that until their accuracy was proved
they could not be taken into evidence. 241 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 81. The aforesaid authority only indicates that if

the accuracy of the maps is proved by themselves then

the same may be accepted or otherwise the same

cannot be looked into. In order to better appreciate the

same, the court has relied upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2024) 8 SCC 415 (Frank

Vitus V Narcotic Control Bureau) wherein it is held as: Accordingly, Shri R. Suresh Babu,
 authorised signatory of Google LLC,
 has filed an affidavit. Paras 5 to 10 of
 his affidavit read thus: 7. Upon dropping the pin, the user
dropping the pin can identify the
specific coordinates of the location on
the map. Through the Google Maps app
or through a web browser, the user
dropping the pin may opt to get 243 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 directions to the location, mark the
location with a label, add a business
address to the location, or share the
location with another user. 8. The pin identifies and marks a
specific location of the user's choosing
on Google Maps. The pin need not be
dropped at the location where the
user/the user's device is located at the
time of sharing the pin. The pin
dropped and shared need not be the
real-time location of the user sharing
the pin. 9. Google Maps allows users to share
information, such as the pin, with third
parties. This is explained in Google's
privacy policy, which is available at
https:policies.google.com/privacy?
hI=en-US, and shares as follows:"Many
of our services let you share
information with other people, and you
have control over how you share
[emphasis supplied]". Users consent to
the privacy policy when they create a
Google Account. In this case, if a user
wants to share a pin, they can do so by
clicking on the "share" button. This
generates a link to Google Maps that
the user can share with others through
messaging platforms or other modes of
online communication. When clicked,
the link directs users (having access to
the link) to the location where the pin
was dropped on the map. 10. The Google Maps pin feature, which
includes the creation of a pin or the
sharing of such a pin with another
user, does not impinge on the user's
privacy as the user has full control over
sharing of such information. The user
with access to the link can only access
the static location pinned and shared
on Google Maps. The pinned location
does not enable real-time tracking of
the user or their device. Even if the pin
were to coincide with a user's location
at a given time, this would (a) be the
static location pinned by the user; and (b) only be accessible to others when a
user affirmatively shares the pin with
them by clicking on the share button."
(emphasis added) 15. In Para 10 of the affidavit, Google
LLC stated that the user has full
control over sharing pins with other
users. Moreover, it does not impinge on
the user's privacy, as the user retains
full control. Most importantly, it is
stated that the pin location does not
enable real-time tracking of the user or
the user's device. Therefore, the
condition of the accused dropping a pin
on Google Maps, as it stands, is
completely redundant as the same does
not help the first respondent. 82. In the aforesaid judgment the Hon'ble Apex

Court was considering the relevancy of imposing of

condition in a bail order by Hon'ble High court with

respect to furnishing google pin with respect to the

location of the accused, the court has relied upon the

aforesaid judgment only to ascertain how the maps

would be procured by the Google. In that case the

Hon'ble Apex Court had issued notice to Google and

had obtained details. Now in the instant case, the court

is not solely relying upon the google map since it is not

marked in the course of evidence, but only looking into

for limited extent. In the instant case, the map which

has been produced would indicate that in the year

2018-19 and also in the year 2020-21, a double storied

building was in existence which was later on

demolished as per the subsequent Gannikada map

which has been produced. How the Court has to

believe the same is the next aspect which is required to

be considered. Google map which is produced consists 246 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of latitude and longitude which is mentioned in that

and as per Ex. P2 Mahazar for instance is 12.836688

and 76.351312 respectively. Further, as per Ex. P15

Mahazar, which is Search and Seizure Mahazar, which

was also drawn at Gannikada Farm House indicates of

the very same latitude and longitude and when it is

juxtaposed with the present Google Map, the same

latitude and longitude is formed. Under these

circumstances, the contention of the accused person

that no building was in existence as suggested by them

does not holds water. It is very much made clear that

the Court is not entirely relying upon the digital

records nor the suggestions which are being made by

the accused persons, but the Court is only

appreciating the materials which has been produced by

the accused and verifying the same with the materials

available on record. The learned Senior Counsel

appearing for the accused has vehemently argued that

the suggestions put to the witness by the defence 247 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 cannot be taken as admission. In order to better

appreciate the same, the Authority which is relied

upon is reported in (2023)13 SCC 365 ( Balu Khalde

Sudam Vs. State of Maharashtra ), which is discussed

supra is to be appreciated. By relying upon the

aforesaid Authority, the learned Counsel for the

accused has vehemently argued that it is the cardinal

principle of criminal justice that it is bounden duty of

the prosecution to establish their case beyond

reasonable doubt and especially the suggestions put-

forth by them cannot be taken as admission. Further,

she has argued at length that the accused can take

more than one defence. It would be appropriate to

consider the aforesaid judgment in its entirety. In the

very same judgment, the Hon'ble Apex Court has also

held that any concession or admission of a fact by a

defence counsel would definitely be binding on his

client, except the concession on the point of law.

Further in the very same judgment, the Hon'ble Apex 248 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Court has taken pains to explain the distinction which

is available under Sec.137 and 132 of the Evidence

Act. With respect to the same, the Hon'ble Apex Court

has held that the same has got a binding effect if the

suggestion is made by the defence in case of plain

denial in rape cases and when the accused pleads right

of private defence. Further the Hon'ble Apex Court has

held, if a specific question is put to a witness by way of

suggestion indicative of exercising of right of private

defence, then the Court would be justified in taking

into consideration such suggestion and if the presence

of the accused is established, the same would be

definitely be admissible evidence. Further in the

aforesaid Authority, the Hon'ble Apex Court has

explained the situation that if the defence in the cross

examination of the prosecutrix, with a view to support

their alternative case of consent procure answers to

the questions in the form of suggestions implicating the

accused for the offence of rape, then such suggestions 249 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 would definitely lend assurance to the prosecution and

also the Hon'ble Apex Court has given one more

explanation wherein the accused in order to plead his

right of private defence, if any suggestions or questions

are put forth, such questions can be considered.

However, when the suggestions which are put forth in the above case are carefully appreciated and

juxtaposed with the present situation, the contentions

urged by the learned Senior Counsel does not holds

water. Further in another judgment reported by the

Hon'ble Apex Court in (1989) SCC Online MP 57

( Sakariya Vs. State of MP ), wherein some ratio has been

held. That apart, what can be distinguished in the said

Authority is that if a suggestion is put to the

prosecution witnesses during the course of cross-

examination, it cannot be used as implied admission

and plea of guilty, pleaded by an accused which can

relieve the prosecution of its burden of proof. There is

no second thought about the ratio laid down in the 250 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 said Authority. Any suggestions will not dispense the

prosecution of proving their case beyond reasonable

doubt. The Court is taking pains to ascertain all the

aforesaid aspects only to arrive at a conclusion that

whether the evidence of victim can be construed as

that of a sterling quality as it has been laid down in (2008)3 SCC 775 (Gobarbhai Naranbhai Singhala Vs.

State of Gujrath and others), which is discussed supra. 83. The aforesaid Authority would clearly

indicate the manner in which the Court can appreciate

the evidence which is of sterling quality. The

suggestions which are put-forth to the witnesses is

only examined for a limited extent to consider the case

of prosecution in its entirety. The appreciation of

evidence does not mean that only chief-examination is

to be looked into eschewing the cross-examination, but

in fact the chief-examination and cross-examination

both are required to be juxtaposed and considered to

arrive at a just conclusion. Only then the true facts can 251 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 be ascertained. As such, the contention which is urged

by the accused does not holds water and hence it is to

be accepted that the prosecution has proved their

contention with respect to the accused person visiting

Ghanikada Farm.  CHAPTER-XIII: CONCEPT OF RES GESTAE AND
APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE: 84. In the instant case, it is noticed that all

other witnesses except the victim cannot be considered

as direct witness and all of them either speak about

the circumstances or in directly about the fact in issue.

It is true that in matters pertaining to sexual assault or

offences, there cannot be another eyewitness to the

case. Under the circumstances, the provisions of Secs.6 to 8 of Indian Evidence Act has to be looked

into. The provisions terms as 'Res gestae' is to be

looked into which indicates that the evidence otherwise

which is considered as hearsay can be looked into for

the purpose of proving the sexual offences. The 252 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 provisions of Section 6 and Section 8 of the Indian

Evidence Act is herewith extracted for benefit, which

reads as: 85. As per the Indian Evidence Act the hearsay

evidence cannot be appreciated. However, there are

exceptions to the same which has been enumerated

and cited in the Criminal Evidence (5th Edition) of 253 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Richard May and Steven Powles, wherein the rule is

explained as; 86. Any fact which shows or constitutes the

motive or the preparation for any fact in issue or

relevant fact, is a relevant fact and admissible as such.

It is to be appreciated that Sections 6 to 8 of the Indian

Evidence Act, 1872 are evidence res gestae which are

exceptions to the rule of hearsay. It is to be appreciated 254 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 that the evidence of previous relationship as well as

background evidence are also admissible under the

exception to the hearsay evidence rule. The relevant

extracts from Phipson on Evidence (16th Edition); Sections 6 to 8 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 are

placed in Chapter II titled "Relevancy of facts". The

relevant extracts thereof read as follows: - Explanation 1. - The word "conduct" in
 this section does not include
 statements, unless those statements
 accompany and explain acts other than
 statements; but this explanation is not
 to affect the relevancy of statements
 under any other section of this Act.

 Explanation 2. - When the conduct of
 any person is relevant, any statement
 made to him or in his presence and
 hearing, which affects such conduct, is
 relevant. Illustrations (j) The question is, whether A was
 ravished. 87. The facts which would otherwise not

relevant would become relevant under certain

circumstances and in particularly the facts which had 256 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 taken-place shortly after the alleged rape, complaint

with respect to the crime being filed, the circumstances

under which, and the terms in which the complaint

was made, would become relevant. The facts that,

without making a complaint, she said that she had

been ravished is not relevant as conduct under this

section, though it may be relevant as a dying

declaration under Section 32 of Indian Evidence Act or

as corroborative evidence under Section 157 . Though

the stated law is capable of encompassing previous

relationship cases, it extends well beyond them.

Clearly, evidence about the parties' relationship before

the date of the offence could be described as part of the

background of history. Phipson has narrated in

Chapter 31 that 'res gestae' is a Latin phrase without

an exact English translation. The expression is used in

the common law to refer to "the events at issue or

others contemporaneous with them". Evidence of

motive would fall in the category of what is known as 257 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 'previous relationship' as also as 'background evidence'

which are evidence res gestae and has been treated as

exceptions to the bar against hearsay evidence, hence

the same is to be considered as admissible. It has been

said that the section embodies, in a statutory form, the

rule of evidence that the testimony of res gestae is

always allowable when it goes to the root of the matter

concerning the commission of the crime. In this regard

it would be appropriate to rely upon the authority of

the Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (1996) SCC 241

(Gentela Vijayavardhan Rao V State of A.P) wherein it

is held as: In other words, such statement must
have been made contemporaneous with
the acts which constitute the offence or
at least immediately thereafter. But if
there was an interval, however slight it
may be, which was sufficient enough
for fabrication then the statement is
not part of res gestae. In R. v. Lillyman [(1896) 2 QB 167: The correct legal position stated above
 needs no further elucidation. 88. The aforesaid provisions are to be

appreciated with the facts of the case. It is noticed from

the records that during the course of chief-examination

of PW.1, the victim, had deposed that immediately after

the incident of forcible sexual intercourse at

Basavanagudi, Bengaluru, she was keeping dull and

was not in a position to disclose about the same.

Further in her chief-examination she had deposed that

she started to weep when she returned back to her

room in the first floor. The evidence which is placed on

record also indicates that her sister PW.4 Shyamala

who had accompanied her had also enquired in this

regard by noticing the victim crying profusely, for

which she had narrated that she was suffering from

head ache. The aforesaid aspect assumes importance

when the same is appreciated with the evidence of

PW.4 Shyamala. PW.4 Shyamala in her chief- 260 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 examination has specifically deposed that on the third

day of their visit to Bengaluru house at Basavanagudi,

her sister after completing her work in the upstairs of

the house was keeping dull and on enquired by her,

the victim had stated that she was having head ache

and was silently uttering that they cannot do anything.

Though in normal parlance the aforesaid aspect of

noticing by PW.4 Shyamala of the victim silently crying

and also uttering that they cannot do anything may

not have much impact, but for the invocation of the

provision of res gestae, it would become relevant

because of the fact of the behaviour of the victim

immediately after the incident. It is also relevant to

note the evidence of PW.2 Raju who is none other than

the son of the victim has deposed that on the day of

the Parliament election, his mother the victim was

dropped back and at that time he had enquired his

mother that where she had been with Sathish Babanna

immediately prior to the election. However, he had 261 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 noticed that his mother and his sister Varalakshmi

were speaking in a low voice and were uttering that

they should not be caught by the Police. Thereafter, his

mother and sister had directed him to keep quiet. The

aforesaid aspect assumes importance for the reason

that it is the case of the prosecution that the victim

was made to be kept quiet by the family members of

the accused at the time of Parliament elections and

also they were aware of the fact that the obscene videos

involving accused and the victim had went viral and as

such they have requested Sathish Babanna to take the

victim and keep her in a safe place. It is also pertinent

to note the accused during the course of his statement

recorded under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C., has deposed to

Question No.128, wherein it was brought to his notice

that PW.10 Karthik had deposed that the accused had

obtained an interim order of stay from the Court for

publishing videos and photographs, the accused has

stated that filing of the civil suit and obtaining of stay 262 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 was true. Further, in his statement which he has filed

under Sec.313(5) of Cr.P.C., the accused himself has

narrated in detail that on the day of general election on

26.04.2025 and also during the campaign just prior to

the election, he came to know through his followers

that certain morphed images and videos were

circulated to malign him and thereby influence his

voters. The aforesaid aspect clearly indicates a positive

conduct and knowledge wherein the accused was

knowing about circulation of certain videos and

images. Once again if the cross-examination of PW.1 is

revisited to ascertain the suggestion which was made

to her with respect to the videos and photographs in

which she had got herself identified, it indicates that

the accused had suggested that he was not the person

who was present in the video. In other words, the

accused is not specifically denying the contents of the

video by stating that it was morphed or doctored, but

in fact he takes a plea that the person and in 263 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 particularly the male was found in the video and also

the person present was not the accused. The aforesaid

aspect though it seems to be a minimal one, when

appreciated from the point of res gestae, it would

indicate that the accused is not specifically denying the

contents of the video. Further it is noticed that the

accused was fully aware of the existence of the video

much prior to the election since accused himself had

knocked the doors of the court by filing a civil suit and

obtaining interim order, wherein PW.10 Karthik was

arraigned as defendant No.88. Even otherwise, I have

bestowed my anxious reading to the evidence of PW.22

Kailash, who is the Scientific Officer, Audio-Video

Forensic Section, FSL, Bengaluru, wherein he has

specifically deposed that the videos which were sent to

them for scientific examination were not edited or

morphed and even otherwise during the course of

cross-examination it was suggested to him that in his

Report he had not mentioned the frames where it was 264 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 edited or morphed, for which the witness has

specifically deposed that all the frames were

continuous and they were not edited or morphed.

Further it was also elucidated from him that their lab

was not equipped with software to detect deep fake and

witness has deposed that they were able to detect

partial software fake. He has also denied the

suggestion that the deep fake video and images cannot

be segregated and has deposed that it can be detected

at the time of frame analysis. The inevitable conclusion

which could be drawn from the aforesaid evidence is

that the behaviour of the victim immediately after the

aforesaid incident were all natural and no aspersions

can be castigated against her evidence in the above

case.  CHAPTER-XIV: APPRECIATION OF THE
 MAHAZARS: P13 is another mahazar which was drawn on

23.05.2024 at SIT Office, wherein the victim had

produced the clothes which she was wearing at the

time of incident at Basavanagudi and also it was

recovered in the presence of independent witness PW.7

Madhura. Apart from that, Ex. P19 is very important

mahazar, wherein a search was conducted at

Gannikada Farm House on 28.05.2024 and in the

presence of FSL team, totally 11 articles comprising of 266 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 10 dress materials and 1 hair sample was recovered by

the FSL team. The other mahazar is at Ex. P42, which

was drawn in the SIT office itself at the time of

collecting the voice sample of accused Prajwal Revanna

and the independent witness who had attended the

same was PW.11 Prasad B.R. It is vehemently argued

that none of the mahazars inspires confidence. It is the

contention urged by the learned Counsel for the

accused that even though it is submitted that the

entire proceedings of mahazar were video-graphed and

photographed, the video was not furnished to the

Court. It is also the contention of the accused that the

mahazars are not supported by necessary Certificate as

contemplated under Sec.65(B) of Indian Evidence Act.

In order to ascertain the same, it would be appropriate

to consider the flow of investigation in seriatim,

wherein as per the case of the prosecution the criminal

law was set into motion on the basis of the written

information which was filed on 05.05.2024 by the 267 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 victim. It is relevant to note that investigation paper

indicates that immediately after reporting the incident

the victim was not in a position to tender her statement

and she was consoled the members of Child and

Women Welfare Department and only thereafter she

had mustered courage to lodge the complaint. Why the

aforesaid aspect is stressed upon is for the reason that

a human behavior would vary from person to person

and that too the Court should be sensitive towards the

victim who has undergone a horrific incident in her life

of being ravished. Thereafter, the records indicates that

on 09.05.2024 that is within a span of 4 days, she had

taken the Investigating Officers to the place of incident.

It is also vehemently argued that the victim had not

narrated the true facts wherein she could have stated

about the demolition of the Gannikada Farm House. In

the mahazar at Ex. P2, it is specifically stated that the

victim had agreed to show the place of incident and as

such they had visited the Farm House and had issued 268 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 notice under Sec.100 of Cr.P.C., to the caretaker of the

Farm House. In the subsequent paragraph it is

narrated that at the gate of the Farm House, the victim

was asked to show the place of incident and she had

taken them to a place and shown a house and had

narrated that previously the place consisted of one

storied RCC building wherein she was ravished in the

room situated at the first floor. Though it is argued by

the learned Senior Counsel that the victim could have

narrated about the place where she allegedly resided at

the time of the mahazar at Ex. P2, in my humble

opinion the same cannot be considered as a major

lacuna in the evidence of the prosecution. The evidence

which is tendered by the victim seems to be a natural

one. For a moment, if the evidence is to be looked into

and in particularly of the victim, it would indicate that

a specific question was posed to the victim that had

she shown the place where she was residing at

Gannikada Farm House, for which she has specifically 269 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 deposed that she had only shown the place where the

incident had taken place and also it was suggested to

her that she had narrated in her mahazar about the

place where she was residing, the witness has admitted

the same. That apart, more interestingly the defence

counsel himself has suggested that the Police had not

enquired her about the place where she was residing in

the Farm House and also, she had not voluntarily

narrated and shown the place of her residence at

Gannikada, for which she had admitted the same. In

other words, the suggestion itself would demolish the

sesquipedalian arguments casting aspersions about

the manner in which the mahazars were drawn. In

other words, the accused himself has categorically

admitted the presence of the victim at Gannikada Farm

House and also of the fact that she had not shown the

place of her residence nor it was enquired by the

concerned Police. It is also further suggested that she

had not narrated about leaving behind her clothes in 270 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the Farm House in her complaint or in her statement,

she has admitted the same and has deposed that she

was not asked in this regard by the concerned Police.

The aforesaid suggestions would only indicate of the

fact that the victim was present at Gannikada Farm

House and also, she had left behind clothes in the

Farm House. The aforesaid suggestion also goes to the

root of the case since a serious aspersion is raised with

respect to recovering the articles as present Ex. P19 on

28.05.2024. 90. It is vehemently argued that the recovery

mahazar which was drawn towards recovering the

clothes at Gannikada Farm House does not inspires

confidence. Firstly, it is argued that just prior to the

arrival of accused Prajwal Revanna to India, the

mahazar was drawn in a hurried manner and also the

other limb of submissions which is being made is that

the entire proceedings were not video-graphed and also

how the FSL team could identify the clothes which 271 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 were allegedly available in the labour quarters after

lapse of more than 3 to 4 years. It is also argued that

the absence of the victim at the time of recovery

mahazar would cast a shadow of doubt over the

recovery which is being made. In order to better

appreciate the same, the evidence of the mahazar

witnesses to Ex. P19 i.e., PW.8 T.N.Ravi and also

PW.14 Dr.Guruprasad, who was Senior Scientific

Officer, DNA Section of FSL, Bengaluru, is required to

be appreciated. In the instant case, the evidence of

PW.8 T.N.Ravi would indicate that on the aforesaid

date, they had reached the Farm House at about 06.00

p.m. in the evening and the caretaker of the Farm

House was intimated about the purpose of their visit

and also he was requested to make necessary search

for which he had refused and later on they had

commenced the search of the labour quarters which

were totally 5 in number and in which some labourers

were residing in the first room and on visiting the 272 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 second room, they noticed certain clothes which

belonged to ladies and had collected totally 10 clothes,

out of which 4 were sarees, 5 petticoats, 1 blouse and

1 hair sample was collected. He has also deposed that

the FSL team had examined the clothes with some sort

of torch and they had also visited the other servant

rooms. The aforesaid evidence is required to be

juxtaposed with the evidence of PW.14 Dr.Guruprasad.

He has also deposed in a similar manner and has also

narrated that the Farm House consisted of a big house

and firstly they had entered into the servant quarters

and he has also given description of the materials

which were found in the first room. He has deposed

that thereafter they moved towards the second room

and on entering it they noticed that the majority of the

room was looking like a store room consisting of

batteries, box, paint box, carpets and some clothes. He

has also deposed that they had found a bag of cloth

and on enquiry they came to know that the bags were 273 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 prevailing for a long time. He has also deposed of

searching the clothes with UV light source on having

recovered the clothes. During the course of cross-

examination, it was suggested to the FSL expert that

the Investigating Officer had not asked them about the

number of stains each item consisted of. In other

words, there is a categorical admission of the fact that

the clothes were having stains. For a moment if the

aforesaid aspect is considered with the evidence of

PW.8, it is noticed that a suggestion was made to him

that he was standing near the door of the second room

and also it was suggested that the proceedings were

video-graphed. Apart from that, another suggestion

was made to him that he had not stated in his

statement about finding stains on the clothes. When

both evidence is juxtaposed, the unflinching aspect

which emerges is on 28.05.2024 the Investigating

Officer along with PW.8 T.N.Ravi and PW.14

Dr.Guruprasad and his team had visited Gannikada 274 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Farm House and there the recovery proceedings had

taken place. During the course of arguments, the

learned Senior Counsel had tried to impress upon the

Court by pointing out to the DVD which was produced

along with the charge-sheet which were pertaining to

the recovery mahazar. It is her submission that how

come the clothes were in neat and tidy condition and

how the same was kept in a bag. It was also argued

that the recovery was not inspiring confidence.

However, when the ocular evidence is appreciated, it

would lead to draw an inference that a mahazar was

drawn and also certain clothes were recovered. The

suggestions which were made by the accused

themselves would fortify the case of prosecution rather

than that of accused. 91. Now coming to another recovery mahazar at

Ex. P3, which pertains to the one drawn at

Basavanagudi house at Bengaluru. It is pertinent to

note that the same came to be drawn on 10.05.2024 275 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 that is immediately on the next day of drawing the

mahazar at Ex. P2. The aforesaid mahazar was drawn

in the presence of PW.6 Lingamurthy and another

witness Kum.Lolitha. The description in the mahazar

would clearly indicate that they have reached the

Basavanagudi house at about 05.00 p.m., and FSL

team comprising of PW.20 Shahanaz Fathima, PW.13

Hemesh Kumar, PW.12 Manjunath were also present.

It is relevant to note that on the same day another

recovery mahazar was drawn as per Ex. P4, wherein

the upper portion of the mattress came to be recovered

since it allegedly consisted of stains. When the

evidence of PW.6 Lingamurthy is appreciated, he has

deposed of visiting the house and also attending the

mahazar proceedings. During the course of cross-

examination, he has admitted the suggestion that the

videos were being recorded of the mahazar proceedings

from the time they had entered the house. It was also

suggested to him that he had prepared a note with 276 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 respect to dimension of the house and the room. For

the purpose of clarity, it is noticed that based on the

notes, the sketch was produced before the Court which

is as per Ex. P12. Now, when his evidence is compared

with the evidence of PW.20 Shahanaz Fathima, who is

the Assistant Director of DNA Section, FSL, Bengaluru,

it indicates that the victim had taken them to a room

in the third floor of the building and in that room no

furniture were available and only a cot and bed was

available and she could notice the existence of stains

on the upper layer of the mattress and accordingly it

was cut down and they had requested the IO to send

the same for scientific examination. During the course

of her cross-examination, it was suggested to her that

she had made markings on MO.1 mattress, where the

stains were available. The witness has admitted the

same and has also given explanation that why the

number of stains were not narrated in the mahazar by

submitting that if the stains were present in a 277 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 particular place, the same could have been

documented, but in the instant case the stains were

found across the mattresses and hence the same was

not documented. In other words, the cross-

examination itself is self-explanatory to the arguments

of the learned Senior Counsel that why the number of

stains were not narrated in the mahazar. 92. With respect to the other two mahazars i.e.,

the mahazars at Ex. P13 and Ex. P42, the same will be

dealt by me during the course of appreciating the

digital evidence. The learned Senior Counsel for the

accused has vehemently argued that the requirements

of the mahazar was not properly adhered to and in

order to fortify their contention, she has relied upon

the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court reported in

(2023)15 SCC 521 ( Rajesh and another Vs. State of

Madhya Pradesh ), wherein it has been held as: 93. When the aforesaid authority is

appreciated, the Hon'ble Apex Court has laid down the

criteria in which mandatory conditions are required to

be complied by the Investigating Agency. It is noticed

from the mahazar that they had taken necessary steps

for personal search and also of the panch witness as

could be noticed from the deposition, wherein it is

stated that the caretaker of the Farm House by name

Rakesh and also the caretaker of Basavanagudi house

by name Manikanta and Harsha were offered to make

necessary search, however they had refused to do so

and the aforesaid aspect was indeed recorded in the

mahazar itself. Even otherwise the proceedings of the

search were clearly narrated by stating the identity of

the place, space, search and also the description of the

articles seized under the mahazar. In this regard,

reference may be made to Ex. P4 mahazar which

describes about the recovery of upper portion of the

mattresses and also to Ex. P19 which makes reference 280 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 with description of the articles which were recovered at

Gannikada Farm House which were totally 11 in

number. In my humble opinion, all the aforesaid

aspects are compiled and hence the submission that

the mahazar is not in accordance with law cannot be

accepted.  CHAPTER- XV: DNA EXAMINATION AND
 APPRECIATION OF SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE: 94. In the instant case, it has been vehemently

submitted that the scientific examination of DNA itself

does not inspires confidence. In order to better

appreciate the same, the Court is required to consider

the evidence of PW.20 Smt.Shahanaz Fathima, who is

the Assistant Director, DNA Section, FSL, Bengaluru.

With respect to her competency to conduct DNA

examination cannot be questioned since she has

narrated in detail about the educational qualifications

and also the training which she had underwent at DNA

Center, Bengaluru. Even otherwise there cannot be 281 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 much qualms in this regard since the defence have not

questioned her qualifications. She has deposed that on

10.05.2024, they had visited the house of accused

person at Basavanagudi, Bengaluru and there she had

found some stains on the upper portion of the

mattresses which was of 6 feet X 6 feet which while in

colour and the upper portion was cut down and it was

recovered under the mahazar at Ex. P4. With respect

to the recovery under the mahazar at Ex. P4, I have

already discussed in detail. She has further deposed

that the scientific examination of DNA was carried out

by Mr. L.Purushottam, who had worked along with her

since 2004 and it is her evidence that he had died on

19.04.2025 and she has identified his Report dated

09.10.2024, which came to be marked as Ex. P59. The

first aspect of getting the Expert opinion/document

marked by the Court is res-integra since it is settled

principles of law that the expert's opinion is admissible

even in their absence as per Sec.293 of Cr.P.C. Be that 282 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 as it may, I have bestowed my anxious reading to Ex.

P59. In the said Test Report, he has explained in detail

that the 'Y' chromosomal DNA profile results of

accused Prajwal Revanna is identical and matching

with the 'Y' chromosomal DNA profile result of seminal

stain detected in Item No.1. It is relevant to note that

Item No.1 is the sealed packet containing one saree

and also with the Item No.7 which is a petticoat.

Further it is narrated in his Report that the DNA profile

result of the victim's sample blood in Item No.2 was

identical and matching with the vaginal secretions with

epithelial cells in Item No.6 to 8 i.e., the 3 petticoats. In

his conclusion he has specifically held that the

accused Prajwal Revanna was included from being the

contributor of seminal stains detected in Item No.7

which is a petticoat and also the DNA sample of the

victim was included from being contributor of vaginal

secretions. The Expert has also explained in detail the

manner in which the DNA analysis and profiling was 283 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 conducted. He has narrated that the DNA was

quantified and then amplified by the Polymerase Chain

Reaction (PCR) using PCR Amplification Kit containing

primers for 23 autosomal STR loci, gender marker,

amelogenin and 3 Y-specific STR loci. He has also

furnished the DNA profile samples in the enclosures at

Annexure-I and Annexure-II. 95. Firstly, what amounts to DNA fingerprinting

is to be appreciated. DNA Fingerprint is a unique

identification clue and the two persons will not be

having the same DNA fingerprint. The DNA profile is

more accurate and precise method for the purpose of

identification and it has been held by various

authorities that Deoxyribonucleic acid fingerprint is

unique in nature. DNA testing is the most advanced

form of proving or disproving the biological

relationship. The testing is based on the analysis of

genetic material between two people and DNA is every

person genetic "blueprint". As per the settled 284 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 principles of law and also as per the scientific

examination it is held that when a person's DNA is

compared with the DNA of his parent and if there no

match exists that person is excluded as 100% as the

biological parent. If there is a match in the DNA

pattern a probability of 99% or greater is calculated

thus establishing a biological relationship. DNA

parentage testing is the most reliable and powerful

method of proving or disproving the parentage for legal,

personal or medical reason. It conclusively answers

difficult questions, resolves disputes, helps streamline

court proceedings and facilitates the pretrial

settlements. Testing of DNA is based on highly

accurate analysis of genetic profiles of the mother,

child and alleged father. The question which requires

to be appreciated is whether the report furnished by an

expert can be considered as an opinion under Section

45 of Indian Evidence Act and whether it can be

accepted as legal evidence. The Hon'ble Apex court in 285 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 various cases has laid down the dictum that the

evidence can be accepted as valid evidence provided it

is supported by some corroborative materials. Apart

from that, the court is also required to appreciate the

procedures which have been involved in the above

case . As noticed from the expert's opinion, expert has

tendered her evidence stating that the DNA materials

were segregated and separated from the blood samples

and it was subjected to PCR method. In order to better

appreciate the same, what amounts to PCR method is

required to be considered. PCR setup indicates that

each region of PCR is prepared in a dedicated Det Air

Box under low light condition and on the ice to ensure

contamination free master mix and optimum sensitivity

for all fluorescent labels. This particular aspect

assumes importance since it has been argued at length

that there are chances of contamination. However, all

that it was suggested to the expert was that the

procedure involved and also the method of analysis 286 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 was not proper. In the wake of the specific evidence by

the expert that they had subjected the DNA sample for

PCR analysis, it has to be appreciated that the said

aspect indicates of passing the DNA sample i.e. regents

for PCR in a dedicated Det air box and also optimum

sensitivity for fluorescent labels. Further it is to be

appreciated that after PCR setup the master mix of

DNA will be combined and loaded up to 384 well plates

and the same will be transferred into amplification

laboratory and through a dedicated one-way pass

through the box on the wall of the laboratory, the same

will be minimized which helps to reduce the

contamination if any and the PCR equipment is used

for DNA amplification. Further the plate is also heated

to 96 degrees Celsius for 3 minutes to denature DNA

and then placed in a freezer or on the ice for 5 minutes

to cool. This particular process clearly indicates that

how Polymerase chain reaction will be conducted and

also the methodology used for obtaining the results. 287 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Under the circumstances the court has once again

revisited the cross examination of the scientific officer.

In the cross examination the not much has been

suggested to the scientific expert in this regard. That

apart, the photographs of the mahazar drawn as per

Ex. P3 pertaining to the house at Basavanagudi,

Bengaluru, also throws light with respect to marking of

the seminal stains on the mattresses which was

recovered and sent to scientific examination. The

photographs at Ex. P164 indicates the victim showing

the place of incident and also the photograph at Ex.

P166 and 167 indicates markings being made by the

FSL Team in the presence of Panch witnesses and in

particularly PW.20 Shahanaz Fathima, the

Investigating Officer and also PW.13 Hemesh, who was

the photographer is clearly seen. With respect to the

photographs obtained by the FSL team, necessary

hash value has been produced as per Ex. P163 and

also Certificate under Sec.65(B) has been produced as 288 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 per Ex. P176 and Ex. P177. The relevancy of the

Certificate issued under Sec.65(B) of Indian Evidence

Act is seriously disputed by the learned counsel for the

accused. The aforesaid aspect will be dealt by me in

the next chapter, wherein the question of admissibility

of digital evidence is discussed. That apart, it is also

relevant to note that at the time of examination the

DNA profiling was carried out by one Mr. L.

Purushotham who is no more. As such the report of

the expert was produced before the court and marked

through PW20 Shahanaz Fatima who was also a DNA

expert and who has seen the process of DNA. That

apart the Investigating Officer who was examined as

PW26 Smt. Shoba had also deposed in this regard.

Though the learned counsel for accused seriously

disputes the report which has been placed before the

court, nothing much has been elucidated during the

course of cross examination of PW20 Shahnaz Fathima 289 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 who is the FSL expert or from the investigating

authorities in this regard. 96. By looking into the aforesaid aspects, once

again the Court is now required to look into the cross-

examination of PW.20 Smt.Shahanaz Fathima. During

the entire course of her cross-examination, nothing

was elucidated or suggested to her to cast any

aspersions with respect to DNA profiling. The manner

in which the DNA Report is to be appreciated has been laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the judgment

rendered in (2005)5 SCC 194 (Kamalnath V State of Tamil

Nadu) wherein the manner of analysis and competency

of the expert was questioned and in the said judgment it is held as: According to Dr. Lalji Singh, he had
published 57 scientific papers in
internationally reputed journals. He
was awarded the Banaras Hindu
University Gold Medal in 1966, the
Science Academy Medal for Young
Scientists for the year 1974 and
various other awards like the CSIR
Technology Award for the year 1992
for Biological Sciences, Professor S.P.
Roy Chaudhuri 75th Birthday Lecture
Award for the year 1994, Professor
Viswanathan Memorial Lecture Award
for the year 1995, vasvik Research
Award for Biological Sciences and
Technology for the year 1992 and the
Ranbaxy Research Award in the field of
Basic Medical Sciences for the year
1994. He is the elected Fellow of the
Indian Academy of Science since 1989,
Fellow of National Academy of Science
since 1991 and Fellow of Indian
National Science Academy elected in
1993. He is also a member of various
other organisations like the Indian
Society for Cell Biology, etc. According
to him, he had given opinion in 96
cases and has also given evidence in 5 291 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 cases in various courts, including Rajiv
Gandhi Assassination
case [ State v. Nalini , (1999) 5 SCC 253 : 60. Dr. Lalji Singh was subjected to
lengthy cross-examination. He has
categorically stated that if really there
is any contamination, it would result
only in non-matching of bands. He has
also stated that multilocus/single-locus
probe have been carried out throughout
the world for DNA test. 61. Regarding database and
contamination Dr. Lalji has stated in
cross-examination as under: The witness further clarified that a
 laboratory error can produce mismatch
 but it cannot produce a proper match. 97. When the aforesaid dictum of the Hon'ble

Apex Court is appreciated, it would clearly indicate

that the mode and method of conducting the DNA

analysis is apt and proper and as such the contention

of the learned Senior Counsel that the same is not in

accordance with law cannot be accepted. Even

otherwise, during the course of arguments it was

argued that in the instant case, the blood samples of

accused Prajwal Revanna were not at all collected.

Though the said submission seems to be attractive, it

is relevant to note that the present accused person is

alleged to have committed several sexual offence cases

and in fact after his return to the country, the accused

was arrested in Crime No.107/2024 and in that case 293 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 his blood samples were collected. As rightly argued by

the learned SPP, the profile which was created could

consist of necessary data and the same would be

suffice to conduct DNA analysis. In fact, at Ex. P59,

the Scientific Officer has also explained the collection

of profile pertaining to Prajwal Revanna by mentioning

the File Number. In other words, no aspersions can be

casted on the DNA examination. At the cost of

repetition, the Reports at Ex. P59 and Ex. P60 are to be

juxtaposed and read conjointly, since in Ex. P60 it is

explained and narrated about the materials which were

sent which were upper portion of the bed and one

sealed EDTA Vacutainer which consisted of sample

blood of the victim. It is also relevant to note that the

aforesaid articles were sent on 15.05.2024 and

whereas the Reports were generated and compared and

a final opinion was tendered as per Ex. P60. The

aforesaid aspects would clearly lend assurance to the

case of the prosecution. With respect to the evidentiary 294 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 value of DNA report time and again the Hon'ble Apex

Court has explained its admissibility. In this regard

reliance is placed on the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex

Court reported in (2017)4 SCC393 (Sunil V State of

Madhya Pradesh) wherein it is held as: cution. The prosecution has, therefore,
 failed to prove its case beyond reason-
 able doubt. Reliance in this regard has
 been placed on the decision of this
 Court in Krishan Kumar Malik v. State
 of Haryana [Krishan Kumar Ma- lik v. State of Haryana, (2011) 7 SCC
 130 : (2011) 3 SCC (Cri) 61] . 4. From the provisions of Section 53-A
 of the Code and the decision of this
 Court in Krishan Kumar [Krishan Ku-
 mar Malik v. State of Haryana , (2011) 7
 SCC 130 : (2011) 3 SCC (Cri) 61] it does
 not follow that failure to conduct the
 DNA test of the samples taken from the
 accused or prove the report of DNA pro-
 filing as in the present case would nec- 295 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 essarily result in the failure of the
 prosecution case. As held in Krishan
 Kumar [Krishan Kumar Malik v. State
 of Haryana , (2011) 7 SCC 130 : (2011) 3
 SCC (Cri) 61] (para 44), Section 53-A re-
 ally "facilitates the prosecution to
 prove its case". A positive result of the
 DNA test would constitute clinching evi-
 dence against the accused if, however,
 the result of the test is in the negative
 i.e. favouring the accused or if DNA pro-
 filing had not been done in a given
 case, the weight of the other materials
 and evidence on record will still have to
 be considered. It is to the other materi-
 als brought on record by the prosecu-
 tion that we may now turn to.  CHAPTER-XVI: APPRECIATION OF DIGITAL
 EVIDENCE VIS-A-VIS CONCEPT OF SILENT
 THEORY OF WITNESS IN COMPARISON WITH
 MEDICAL EXAMINATION REPORTS OF ACCUSED: 99. Further, as per Section 29 of Indian Penal

Code, it explains that the word document denotes any

matter expressed or described upon any substance by

means of letters, figures or marks or by more than one

of those means, intended to be used or which may be

used as evidence in that matter. Going by the

definitions of document, it includes not only all

materials or substances upon which thoughts of a man

are represented, by writing or any other specious of

conventional mark or symbol, but also records and it 297 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 includes the records of information of some sort. Hence

by looking into the definition clause, it is crystal clear

that the document means something which conveys or

affords information, notwithstanding the matter or

medium on which it is exhibited, inscribed or

contained. It also includes writing, picture, caricature,

map or plan printed, lithographed or photographed on

a piece of paper and document includes an inscription

on a metal plate or a stone. 100. As could be noticed from the records,

photographs, audio and video aspects also would be

considered as documents. Witnesses may with their

personal knowledge state that a photograph is a fair

and accurate representation of fundamental facts

which appears therein. In such a case, the evidence of

the witnesses will be the primary matter rather than

what is depicted in the photograph and the

photographer need not be examined in the court. They

are explained by Wigmore as nothing more than 298 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 illustrated testimony of the witness. This principle gave

rise to 'Pictorial testimony theory' or a communication

theory. But when a photograph itself is taken as a

probative and substantial evidence of the matters

appeared therein, it acquires the glorified status of

independent 'Silent witnesses'. In Black's Law

Dictionary, 9th edition, at Page 1508 Silent Witness

Theory is mentioned as hereunder: In Halsbury's Laws of England, Fourth Edition, Vol. 1

 7, at page 158, it is noticed as follows: In Halsbury's Laws of England, Fifth Edition,

Vol.11, at page 723, it is stated as follows: 101. The aforesaid aspect of Silent Witness

Theory assumes importance in the instant case since the above case requires to consider a situation wherein

the original document in the form of video in which it

was captured was not traced or recovered by the

Investigating Agency. It is pertinent to note that as per

the case of the prosecution, the accused Prajwal

Revanna had captured the videos at the time of

committing the offences in his mobile phone. In order

to better appreciate the aforesaid aspect, it would be

appropriate to look into the evidence of PW.10 Karthik,

who was the Driver of Prajwal Revanna. It is relevant to

note that he has deposed before the Court that initially

he had worked for H.D.Revanna, who is the father of

accused and later on he had also worked as Driver to

Smt.Bhavani Revanna, who is none other than the

mother of accused and thereafter he had worked as

Driver to Sooraj Revanna, the elder brother of accused

about two years. The aforesaid aspect assumes 301 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 importance since the prosecution case is based on the

videos which were allegedly downloaded by PW.10

Karthik on his mobile phone from the mobile of

accused Prajwal Revanna. The long intimacy which the

witness had with the family of the accused cannot be

disputed and also assumes importance that he had

that leniency and proximity with the family of the

accused Prajwal Revanna to access his mobile phone.

He has also deposed that subsequently after the

election of accused Prajwal Revanna as Member of

Parliament in the year 2019, and at that time was

appointed as his Driver officially and he was also

drawing salary from the office of the Deputy

Commissioner at Hassan. The documents with respect

to drawing salary has been produced by him which are

marked as Ex. P141. That apart, he has also deposed

that the accused used to watch certain videos and

photographs while travelling in the car when the

witness was driving the same. The witness has deposed 302 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 that out of curiosity he had tried to peep into the same

and at that time the accused had closed the same.

Thereafter the witness deposes that the accused had

left his mobile phone in the car when he went to visit

his girlfriend at Jayanagar house and as he knew the

password of his mobile phone which was "8055", he

opened the mobile phone and was shocked to see

videos consisting of several women having sexual

intercourse with the accused person. The knowing of

password by the witness which is termed as "8055" is

required to be appreciated from the evidence of PW.12

Manjunath H.N., who was also looking after the social

media accounts of accused Prajwal Revanna. PW.12

Manjunath in his chief-examination has specifically

deposed that accused was obsessed of having unique

and fancy numbers as his mobile numbers and in fact

he used to obtain several Sim Cards in his name which

would include the last digit as "8055" or the mobile

numbers when added would come into number "5" or 303 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 number "9" in single digit. This particular aspect has

not at all been denied but it was suggested to the

witness that he does not know who was using the Sim

Card, the witness has specifically deposed that it was

being used by Prajwal Revanna and further

interestingly the witness has deposed that sometimes

he used to leave the mobile phone in the car which was

being used by his Driver. All that it could be

appreciated from the aforesaid evidence is that the

accused Prajwal Revanna was having obsession to

obtain fancy numbers which would include last digits

as "8055", which in normal parlance as argued by the

learned SPP would fancifully project as "BOSS", when

digitally written. That apart, the aforesaid evidence is

not even denied and when it is further appreciated it

would indicate that the mobile phone of accused

Prajwal Revanna was also sometimes being used by his

Driver i.e., PW.10 Karthik. The aforesaid evidence

would only fortify the contentions of the prosecution 304 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 that his Driver knew about the Password and he was

one who had transferred the videos and photographs

from the mobile phone of accused Prajwal Revanna.

The other interesting aspect which assumes

importance is as per the prosecution case, the Driver

Karthik had transferred the videos and photographs

from his Vivo mobile phone, since accused sometimes

used to take his mobile phone to make telephonic calls

and as such he had transferred the data to another

Samsung Galaxy J4 Mobile phone which originally

belonged to Prajwal Revanna and which he had

handed-over to him to destroy after the elections. The

witness has also deposed that the Vivo mobile phone

was lost in the year 2021 and accordingly he had

lodged a complaint, for which he had received an

endorsement on 14.08.2021, which was marked as per

Ex. P40. The Samsung Galaxy J4 Mobile phone was

produced before the Court which the witness had

identified it to be MO.9. With this factual background, 305 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 now the Court is required to ascertain the veracity of

the digital records which are placed before the Court. 102. The main aspect which assumes importance

at this juncture is whether the accused Prajwal

Revanna was using Apple Mobile phone. In the entire

case of prosecution all that it has been contended is

that the accused at the time of having forcible sexual

intercourse had recorded the incident in his mobile

phone. It is pertinent to note that a correspondence

was made by the SIT in Cr.No.107/2024, wherein a

reply was furnished and it was marked as per Ex. P88

subject to objections. The aforesaid document was

marked subject to objections since the author was not

examined. It is relevant to note that the reply which

was furnished by Apple Company in the main case

would be otherwise relevant for corroborative purposes.

The aforesaid document when considered with the

suggestions which were put-forth by the accused 306 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 during the course of cross-examination of PW.10

Karthik that 8055 was not the password of his I-phone,

the same would lead to draw an inference that the

accused had admitted categorically of using I-phone at

that point of time. 103. Further it has been elucidated in the chief-

examination that the accused used to purchase mobile

phone from Mr.Kanti of Channel-9 shop for which

necessary receipts are also marked in the instant case.

When the aforesaid aspect is once again appreciated

with the details furnished by "Apple.com", it would

indicate that the accused used various social media

platform and, in several instances, his social media

handle was tagged as "Prajwal8055revanna", which

indicate that the accused did have the habit of

introducing the aforesaid number 8055 which would

only probablize the case of prosecution. Further the

mobile extraction and analysis report also indicates the 307 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 details of the Sim cards which were being used on

Samsung Galaxy J4 Mobile Phone. The mobile number

8047628203 which even the witness PW.10 Karthik

has admitted during the course of cross-examination

as the one being used by him would once again fortify

the case of prosecution since as per the analysis report

the date of using the Sim Card was 06.11.2021 and

whereas as per the complaint at Ex.P40, which the

witness had lodged the complaint with respect to losing

his vivo mobile phone was on 14.08.2021. it is relevant

to note that the aforesaid complaint was lodged at an

undisputed point of time i.e. in the year 2021 ad even

during the course of cross examination there is no

suggestion put forth to the witness that the complaint

lodged was all concocted or created. The aforesaid

aspect could clearly fortify the case of prosecution that

witness PW.10 Karthik had used the aforesaid mobile

phone and also the mobile extraction which was made

indicated of totally 85 videos out of which 25 were 308 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 deleted and in that sexually explicit videos were 53 in

number. That apart, the mobile numbers which were

stored in the name of accused Prajwal Revanna

indicates that totally 12 numbers were saved in his

name of which the first number 9741448443 finds

reference in the evidence of PW.12 Manjunath, wherein

he has deposed that he had furnished 12 Sim Cards

and one of the number was purchased in the name of

his cousin Santhosh which was bearing 9035544474

and another one which was purchased was

9632385691. The aforesaid aspects are noted down

only to indicate that the evidence of PW.10 Karthik

seems to be justifiable and even the digital records are

fortifying their contentions. 104. With respect to appreciation of the digital

evidence and the also the necessity for issuance of

certificate under section 65(B)(4) of Indian Evidence

Act, it would be appropriate to rely upon the celebrated 309 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in

(2020)7 SCC 1 ( Arjun Pandith Rao Khotkar Vs. Kailash

Kushan Rao Gorantyal and others ) wherein it has been

held as: Section 65-A provides that contents of
electronic records may be admitted as
evidence if the criteria provided in
Section 65-B is complied with. The
computer-generated electronic records
in evidence are admissible at a trial if
proved in the manner specified by Section 65-B of the Evidence Act. Sub-
section (1) of Section 65-B makes
admissible as a document, paper
printout of electronic records stored in
optical or magnetic media produced by
a computer, subject to the fulfilment of
the conditions specified in sub-section
(2) of Section 65-B. Secondary evidence
of contents of document can also be led
under Section 65 of the Evidence Act.
PW 13 stated that he saw the full video
recording of the fateful night in the
CCTV camera, but he has not recorded
the same in the case diary as nothing
substantial to be adduced as evidence
was present in it. 25. The production of scientific and
electronic evidence in court as
contemplated under Section 65-B of the
Evidence Act is of great help to the
investigating agency and also to the
prosecution. The relevance of electronic
evidence is also evident in the light 311 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of Mohd. Ajmal Amir Kasab v. State of
Maharashtra [Mohd. Ajmal Amir
Kasab v. State of Maharashtra, (2012)
9 SCC 1 : (2012) 3 SCC (Cri) 481] ,
wherein production of transcripts of
internet transactions helped the
prosecution case a great deal in
proving the guilt of the accused. Similarly, in State (NCT of
Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu [State (NCT of
Delhi ) v. Navjot Sandhu, (2005) 11 SCC
600 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 1715] , the links
between the slain terrorists and the
masterminds of the attack were
established only through phone call
transcripts obtained from the mobile
service providers." 61. We may reiterate, therefore, that
the certificate required under Section
65-B(4) is a condition precedent to the
admissibility of evidence by way of
electronic record, as correctly held
in Anvar P.V. [Anvar P.V. v. P.K.
Basheer , (2014) 10 SCC 473 : (2015) 1
SCC (Civ) 27 : (2015) 1 SCC (Cri) 24 : Section 65-B(4) of the Evidence Act
clearly states that secondary evidence
is admissible only if led in the manner 312 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 stated and not otherwise. To hold
otherwise would render Section 65-B(4)
otiose. 73. The reference is thus answered by
stating that: 2018 reported as Shafhi Mohd. v. State
of H.P. [Shafhi Mohd. v. State of H.P.,
(2018) 5 SCC 311 : (2018) 2 SCC (Cri)
704] , do not lay down the law correctly
and are therefore overruled. 73.2. The clarification referred to
above is that the required certificate
under Section 65-B(4) is unnecessary if
the original document itself is
produced. This can be done by the
owner of a laptop computer, computer
tablet or even a mobile phone, by
stepping into the witness box and
proving that the device concerned, on
which the original information is first
stored, is owned and/or operated by
him. In cases where the "computer" happens to be a part of a "computer
system" or "computer network" and it
becomes impossible to physically bring 313 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 such system or network to the court,
then the only means of providing
information contained in such
electronic record can be in accordance
with Section 65-B(1), together with the
requisite certificate under Section 65- B(4). The last sentence in para 24
in Anvar P.V. [Anvar P.V. v. P.K.
Basheer , (2014) 10 SCC 473 : (2015) 1
SCC (Civ) 27 : (2015) 1 SCC (Cri) 24 : 73.3. The general directions issued in
para 64 (supra) shall hereafter be
followed by courts that deal with
electronic evidence, to ensure their
preservation, and production of
certificate at the appropriate stage.
These directions shall apply in all
proceedings, till rules and directions
under Section 67-C of the Information
Technology Act and data retention
conditions are formulated for
compliance by telecom and internet
service providers. 73.4. Appropriate rules and directions
should be framed in exercise of the Information Technology Act , by
exercising powers such as in Section
67-C, and also framing suitable rules
for the retention of data involved in 314 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 trial of offences, their segregation,
rules of chain of custody, stamping and
record maintenance, for the entire
duration of trials and appeals, and
also in regard to preservation of the
metadata to avoid corruption. Likewise, appropriate rules for
preservation, retrieval and production
of electronic record, should be framed
as indicated earlier, after considering
the report of the Committee constituted
by the Chief Justices' Conference in
April 2016. 76. Documentary evidence, in contrast
to oral evidence, is required to pass
through certain checkposts, such as (i)
admissibility, (ii) relevancy and (iii)
proof, before it is allowed entry into the
sanctum. Many times, it is difficult to
identify which of these checkposts is
required to be passed first, which to be
passed next and which to be passed
later. Sometimes, at least in practice,
the sequence in which evidence has to
go through these three checkposts,
changes. Generally, and theoretically,
admissibility depends on relevancy.
Under Section 136 of the Evidence Act,
relevancy must be established before
admissibility can be dealt with. Therefore, if we go by Section 136 , a
party should first show relevancy,
making it the first checkpost and
admissibility the second one. But some
documents, such as those indicated in Section 68 of the Evidence Act, which
pass the first checkpost of relevancy
and the second checkpost of
admissibility may be of no value unless
the attesting witness is examined.
Proof of execution of such documents,
in a manner established by law, thus
constitutes the third checkpost. Here 315 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 again, proof of execution stands on a
different footing than proof of contents. 77. It must also be noted that whatever
is relevant may not always be
admissible, if the law imposes certain
conditions. For instance, a document,
whose contents are relevant, may not
be admissible, if it is a document
requiring stamping and registration,
but had not been duly stamped and
registered. In other words, if
admissibility is the cart, relevancy is
the horse, under Section 136 . But
certain provisions of law place the cart
before the horse and Section 65-B
appears to be one of them. 78. Section 136 which confers a
discretion upon the Judge to decide as
to the admissibility of evidence reads
as follows: 81. What is laid down in Section 65-B
as a precondition for the admission of
an electronic record, resembles what is
provided in the second part of Section 136. For example, if a fact is sought to
be proved through the contents of an
electronic record (or information
contained in an electronic record), the
Judge is first required to see if it is
relevant, if the first part of Section 136 is taken to be applicable. 82. But Section 65-B makes the
admissibility of the information
contained in the electronic record
subject to certain conditions, including
certification. The certification is for
the purpose of proving that the
information which constitutes the
computer output was produced by a
computer which was used regularly to
store or process information and that
the information so derived was
regularly fed into the computer in the
ordinary course of the said activities. 83. In other words, if we go by the
requirements of Section 136 , the
computer output becomes admissible if
the fact sought to be proved is relevant.
But such a fact is admissible only upon
proof of some other fact, namely, that
it was extracted from a computer used
regularly, etc. In simple terms, what is
contained in the computer output can
be equated to the first mentioned fact
and the requirement of a certification
can be equated to the last-mentioned 317 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 fact, referred to in the second part of Section 136 read with Illustration (b)
thereunder. 84. But Section 65-B (1) starts with a
non obstante clause excluding the
application of the other provisions and
it makes the certification, a
precondition for admissibility. While
doing so, it does not talk about
relevancy. In a way, Sections 65-A and
65-B, if read together, mix up both
proof and admissibility, but not talk
about relevancy. Section 65-A refers to
the procedure prescribed in Section 65- B, for the purpose of proving the
contents of electronic records, but
Section 65-B speaks entirely about the
preconditions for admissibility. As a
result, Section 65-B places
admissibility as the first or the
outermost check post, capable of
turning away even at the border, any
electronic evidence, without any
enquiry, if the conditions stipulated
therein are not fulfilled. 85. The placement by Section 65-B, of
admissibility as the first or the border
check post, coupled with the fact that
a number of "computer systems" [as
defined in Section 2(l) of the
Information Technology Act, 2000]
owned by different individuals, may get
involved in the production of an
electronic record, with the "originator"
[as defined in Section 2(za) of the
Information Technology Act, 2000]
being different from the recipients or
the sharers, has created lot of
acrimony behind Section 65-B, which is
evident from the judicial opinion
swinging like a pendulum. 105. In the aforesaid judgment the Hon'ble Apex

Court has clearly laid down the necessity of complying

the provisions of Sec.65(B)(4) of Indian Evidence Act.

In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble Apex Court has

held that the Certificate under Sec.65(B)(4) is

unnecessary if the original document itself is produced

before the Court. Further it is clarified that the same

may be produced by the owner of the Laptop,

Computer or even a mobile phone by stepping into the

witness box and deposing about its genuineness that

the original information was stored, owned or operated

by him. However, in matters wherein the computer

happens to be a part of a computer system or

computer network and if it becomes impossible to

physically bring such system or network, the

information contained can be produced in the form of

electronic record in accordance with Sec.65(B)(1) together with the requisite Certificate. With this basic

aspect, now the Court is required to ascertain whether 319 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the certificates which are issued under Sec.65(B)(4) are

proper and issued in accordance with law. In order to

look into the same, the brief description of materials

which were sent for forensic examination is required to

be reiterated. At the first instance it could be

appropriate to note the following aspect at the cost of

repetition that the case of the prosecution would

indicate that the accused Prajwal Revanna had

recorded the incident of forcible sexual intercourse in

his mobile phone and the videos were transferred by

PW.10 Karthik to his mobile i.e., Vivo Mobile Phone

which he claims to have lost in the year 2021 for which

he had lodged a complaint as per Ex.P40 on

14.08.2021. The main aspect which requires to be

considered is whether such an information which was

secured without the knowledge of the person who had

stored the same can be considered as valid evidence. In

other words, whether the information secured illegally

can be considered as valid evidence under the eyes of 320 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 law. In this regard, the Court has relied upon the

judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court reported in 2025

SCC Online SC 1421 ( Vibhor Garg Vs. Neha ) wherein the

Hon'ble Apex Court has held: The court must be satisfied beyond
reasonable doubt that the record has
not been tampered with." (underlining by us)
9.4 In furtherance to the above view
came the judgment of this Court in the
case of R. M. Malkani v. State of
Maharashtra , (1973) 2 SCR 417 ("R.M.
Malkani"), wherein the validity of a
tape-recorded conversation was in
question. This Court, while allowing
the tape-recorded conversation to be
admitted in evidence, observed the
following: conversation is relevant to the matters
in issue; secondly, there is
identification of the voice; and thirdly,
the accuracy of the tape-recorded
conversation is proved by eliminating
the possibility of erasing the tape
record. A contemporaneous tape record
of a relevant conversation is a relevant
fact and is admissible under section 8 of the Evidence Act. It is res
gestae. It is also comparable to a
photograph of a relevant incident. The
tape-recorded conversation is therefore
a relevant fact and is admissible under section 7 of the Evidence Act." 9.5 The aforesaid test laid down by this
 Court has become a locus classicus on
 the issue of determining the
 admissibility of a tape-recorded
 conversation. The three-fold test of
 relevance, identification and accuracy
 has to be satisfied before a Court
 admits a recorded conversation in
 evidence. However, the fact that the
 conversation was recorded without the
 consent and knowledge of the person
 speaking is not a prohibition on the
 admissibility of the evidence, as laid
 down by the Evidence Act and read into
 the statutory provisions by this Court. 106. The Hon'ble Apex Court though was

considering a case wherein certain conversation

between the spouses were produced as document

before the Court and was appreciating its credentials

by looking into the provisions of Sec.122 of Indian

Evidence Act, the Court had also considered the other

limb of the same by referring to various Authorities

with respect to the admissibility of materials which

were obtained illegally. Further the Hon'ble Apex Court

has held that as per the test laid down there in the

Court had become locus classicus. That apart it is 324 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 specifically held by the Hon'ble Apex Court that merely

because certain materials were obtained illegally, the

Courts are not debarred from looking into the same,

however a rider has been imposed by way of caution

that the Court is required to tread about its veracity

with certain caution. The aforesaid judgments aptly

apply to the case on hand. Even in the instant case,

the Court is not accepting the submissions which are

made by the prosecution as if it is a gospel truth.

However, the materials which are placed before the

court when appreciated with a pinch of salt coupled

with the ocular evidence lead before the court by

PW.10 Karthik, it would indicate that the original

device which is the mobile phone of the accused

Prajwal Revanna could not be recovered or found

during the entire course of investigation. This leads to

a situation wherein the Court is now required to

appreciate the case of the prosecution in the wake of

the allegations of viralling of obscene videos of various 325 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 victims with that of accused Prajwal Revanna. In the

instant case, at the first instance the Investigating

Officers i.e., the I.O in Crime No.107/2024 had

recovered the Mobile phone from PW.10 Karthik by

drawing a mahazar. The records indicates that the I.O

in the instant case had sought the mobile phone for

which it was replied by the IO in Crime No.107/2024

that it would be permissible to hand-over the same

only with the permission of the court and as such

PW.26 Smt.Shobha had made a requisition to the

learned committal Court as per Ex.P148 and as per the

order dated 14.08.2024 at Ex.P149 the learned 42nd

ACJM Court at Bengaluru had permitted PW.26 to

secure the same. In this background, the mahazar

which was drawn towards securing of the mobile is

required to be considered. As noticed from the records,

the mahazar at Ex. P82 which was drawn on

19.08.2024 indicates that the present I. O Smt.Shobha

had secured the possession of the mobile phone which 326 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 was in a sealed cover consisting of a seal of FSL,

Bengaluru. At this juncture, the objections raised by

the learned Counsel for accused is required to be

appreciated. It is the submission of the learned

Counsel for the accused that as per the evidence of

PW.26 Smt.Shobha, who is the Investigating Officer in the above case has admitted during the course of

cross-examination that the mobile phone as on

20.08.2024 was in the possession of FSL. It is their

submission that if for the sake of arguments, if

admissions are accepted then it could lead to a

situation that how the Investigating Agency had sent

the mobile phone for forensic examination and how the

FSL had furnished the Report without verifying the

mobile phone. The learned SPP has vehemently argued

that the concept of 'falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus'

concept is not applicable to India. It is his submission

that though there may be some stray admissions or

even otherwise the I.O might have deposed about the 327 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 date erroneously it should be kept in mind that the

materials which are produced before the Court were all

voluminous in nature and it is natural for a human to

err at the time of evidence with respect to dates on

which the materials were sent for forensic examination.

Hence, he has argued that the entire evidence and

documents are required to be considered conjointly.

The submissions of the learned SPP are justifiable and

I have bestowed my anxious reading to the entire

materials which are placed before the Court. When the

document which is Recovery Mahazar at Ex. P82 is

examined scrupulously, it would indicate that the I.O

in Crime No.107/2024 had recovered the mobile phone

through PF No.1/2024 in that case and she had

handed-over the same which was kept in a sealed cover

to the present I.O. It would be worthwhile to consider

the evidence of PW.25 Smt.Suma Rani, wherein she

had stated that initially she had recovered the mobile

phone from PW.10 Karthik on 30.04.2024 under the 328 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 mahazar at Ex. P81 and she had extracted the data

contained in the mobile phone in a pen-drive which

was nothing but a cloned copy of the data. She has

further deposed that later on she had handed-over the

same to PW.26 under the mahazar. During the course

of cross-examination, it was suggested to her that on

30.05.2024 she had sent the mobile phone for

scientific examination which was returned back by FSL

on 20.08.2024. The said suggestion was admitted by

the witness. Once again, the very same question was

put to PW.26 Smt.Shobha, who has also admitted the

suggestion. If for a moment the admission is

considered with the documents which were sent by the

Investigating Officers in the form of mobile phone and

its data extracted in the pen-drive, it could be noticed

that as per Ex.P64, which is the test report furnished

by PW.22 Kailash, it indicates that he had received one

sealed packet containing of 1 Samsung Mobile Phone

which had an Article Smart Code as "TAM3ZTNT". The 329 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 aforesaid aspect completely corroborates with the

acknowledgment slip issued by the FSL on 20.08.2024

which is at Ex. P155 wherein the description of the

article No.1 is mentioned as Samsung Mobile Phone

and very same Article Smart Code is mentioned. I have

also bestowed my anxious reading to the evidence of

PW.22 Kailash. No where in his evidence the aforesaid

aspect was suggested to him and in fact, he has

specifically deposed of receiving the mobile phone on

20.08.2024 itself. The fact which is not confronted to a

person who was having the best knowledge about the

same cannot be confronted later on or it may be

considered as a ground to be urged during the course

of arguments. Even otherwise the unintentional

mistakes committed by the Investigating Officers at the

time of tendering their evidence and that too when a

complex situation arises of remembering various dates,

the same requires to be ignored. In my humble

opinion, the contention of the accused that the 330 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 admissions given by the witness does not have any

impact on the case of the prosecution since the

document produced by the FSL speaks volume for

itself. 107. Now, coming to the other aspect of

considering the veracity of the documents. Admittedly,

it is noticed that the Samsung Galaxy J4 mobile phone

was recovered in Crime No.107/2024 as per the

mahazar at Ex. P81 and later on it was handed-over to

the present I.O under the mahazar at Ex. P82 which

was once again sent to the FSL. At this juncture, the

materials which was sent to the FSL is required to be

looked into. In the instant case, the FSL at Bengaluru

was sent with one mobile phone which is already

discussed above and it was marked as Article No.1 and

along with that another SanDisk ultra-SD Card of 16

GB capacity was also sent and another sealed packet

consisted of SanDisk Micro SD Card of 16 GB capacity 331 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 which allegedly consisted of the audio files of the

victim. Whereas, the fourth sealed cover consisted of

32 GB capacity SanDisk Micro SD Card which

allegedly containing audio files having voice sample

features of Prajwal Revanna. With this the Court is now

required to consider the questionnaires which were

sought by the Investigating Officer. The questionnaires

in Form No.152 as per Ex. P70 gives the description of

the same. In that it has been specifically mentioned

that on 18.05.2024 the victim was called to their office

and in her presence the videos were displayed in which

she had identified herself in 4 videos along with

accused person. Identification of the victim by herself

in the video assumes importance in the instant case.

That apart the aforesaid videos were transferred into

SD Card and the description of the videos are also

mentioned. Further the questionnaire also indicates of

sending two other SD Cards which allegedly consisted

of the audio speech samples of the victim and of 332 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 accused person. In the questionnaire the following

specific questions have been asked which are as

follows;  Whether the contents of the
 video files mentioned was in existence
 in the mobile phone? matched with the video in Article No.1
 of the mobile phone?  Whether the audio text in the
 SD Card matched with the speech of
 the victim in the mobile phone by 333 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 comparing with the specific words
 uttered by her? compared with the person in videos in
 Article No.1 (Mobile Phone) tallied
 with each other? with the video in Article No.1 of the
 mobile phone?  Requested them to furnish
 photographs from the video by quality
 enhancement? 108. The aforesaid aspect is also required to be

appreciated from the fact that certain photographs

were obtained pertaining to accused Prajwal Revanna

during the course of his medical examination. In this

regard, once again the questionnaires which was 334 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 requested by the I.O in Form No.152 addressed to the

FSL, Bengaluru is to be considered, wherein the details

of the photographs which were obtained by way of

mobile data extraction is discussed. In that, it has

been stated that a Sony DVD - RW with capacity of 8.5

GB was obtained from the concerned Medical Officer

which was named as Article No.1 and the same was

received along with two other DVD's from the Medical

Examination Board of Sri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical

College and Research Institute on 20.08.2024 and the

same was mentioned as Article No.2 and thereafter on

04.09.2024, a mobile data extraction obtained in two

pen-drive's was received which was mentioned as

Article No.3 and the details of the images was

enumerated and had requested to point out that

whether the photographs which were taken out at the

time of medical examination by FSL team would

corroborate with the PPT submitted by the Medical

Board pertaining to identification marks on the body of 335 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the accused person. Apart from that, the IO had also

sent another DVD to FSL consisting of photos and

videos taken out at the time of mahazar at

Basavanagudi house and another pen-drive consisting

of the photos of the Gannikada Farm House. 109. Now coming to the test report furnished by

the Investigating Agency with respect to the mobile

data, it is noticed that, Ex. P61 was subjected to

scientific examination by PW.21 Vedamurthy H.R.

During the course of his chief-examination he has

explained in detail the process by which he had

subjected the Samsung Mobile Phone to scientific

examination. It is his evidence that he had conducted

forensic examination using Cellebrite UFED 4 PC

7.69.0.1397 and digital data was analyzed by using

forensic software by name Oxygen Forensic Detective -

15.3.0.86 and he has deposed that the videos were not

captured from the Samsung Mobile Phone and he has 336 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 stated that the 4 video files were present in download

path, the source of transferred, shared/received details

and further the video files consisted of Metadata of the

captured, created, date and time of the videos. During

the course of cross-examination it was elucidated from

him that the mobile did not have any internal storage

capacity and also, he has admitted that he had not

mentioned the total number of applications available in

the Samsung Mobile Phone. It is his evidence that prior

to extraction of mobile data, hash value would not be

generated and it would be generated only at the time of

extraction. Further he had admitted that the extraction

was sent by him in a CD to the inter section transfer

for another Branch for scientific analysis. It was also

suggested to him that with advanced applications

screen shots could be modified for which he has

admitted the same. Apart from that, nothing was

elucidated from him questioning the manner of

extraction or the methodology adopted by him. In other 337 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 words, the extraction process and furnishing of the

Report is categorically admitted since there is not even

a slightest denial of the same. 110. The result of the examination which is

forthcoming in Ex. P61 is extracted for the sake of

benefit which is disclosed as below: 111. When the aforesaid opinion is appreciated,

it seems to be little bit confusing. However, when the 338 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 entire aspect is carefully appreciated with the

explanation offered and compared with the extraction

report, the unerring inference which could be drawn is

as follows: device through which it was captured. whether the videos were recorded on
 that specific phone or another device

  All 4 videos were located in
 download path suggesting that they
 might have been downloaded rather
 than recorded using the device

  The source from which the videos
 were downloaded/shared was not
 identifiable from the available digital
 data 339 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024  The videos did contain Metadata
 showing the date and time they were
 created or captured. 112. The aforesaid aspect would indicate that the

videos were not captured from the Samsung Mobile

Phone which in other words would fortify the case of

the prosecution that in fact the videos were captured

by accused on his mobile phone and the same was

subsequently transferred into Vivo Mobile Phone which

later on was transferred to Samsung Galaxy J4 Mobile

Phone by PW.10 Karthik. The aforesaid Report is to be

considered only to a limited extent and whereas the

other Report which has been furnished at Ex. P64

gives further clarity about the actual aspects of the

case. In order to better appreciate the same, the

evidence of PW.22 Kailash is required to be considered

wherein he has deposed about his educational

qualifications and also the method adopted by him for

arriving at a conclusion with respect to analyzing the 340 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 data which was in the mobile phone with 3 SD Cards.

In his explanation he has specifically stated that the

mobile phone consisted of 4 video files in which audio

conversation with one male and one female speaker

was noticed. Further he has also narrated about the

materials contained in various articles which he had

received for scientific examination. He has deposed and

he had submitted in his Report that with respect to

voice feature he had conducted the examination by

using semi-automatic method and also he has

furnished the details of cepstrum which represents the

source characteristics of speech sounds and has stated

that the vowels uttered from the words selected and

compared with the segregated speeches of question

and sample recordings would confirm that the voice of

the female speaker match with that of the victim and

whereas the auditory and feature extraction methods

revealed that the speeches of male speaker Prajwal

Revanna matched with the speeches in the videos 341 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 pertaining to male speaker. Further he has opined that

on the basis of frame analysis the video files were

found continuous and not edited or morphed. However,

in one of the video frames, jumping of frame was found

at time duration of 31 Seconds, however the file frames

were continuous and were not edited and morphed.

With this opinion he has also furnished the cepstral

plots of accused Prajwal Revanna and also of the

victim. He has also furnished necessary Certificate

under Sec.65(B)(4) of Indian Evidence Act wherein he

has explained in detail the materials used for data

extraction, its retrieval and the process of analysis

which was marked as Ex. P65. 113. During the course of cross-examination of

PW.22 nothing much was elucidated from him. It is

also pertinent to note he has specifically deposed

during cross-examination that none of the frames were

edited or morphed and has admitted that their Lab can 342 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 detect partial software, deep fake. Apart from that

nothing much has been elucidated. The unerring

inference which can be drawn from the aforesaid

Report is that the videos were not edited or morphed

and hence the contention of casting aspersions on the

videos is not justified and even in the absence of the

original one, the report of the FSL would indicate that

the videos were not edited or morphed. 114. The other Report of the FSL which is at Ex.

P75 which is furnished by PW.23 Ramesh.K pertains to

examining the photographs of the accused person

which was obtained during his medical examination

along with the pen-drive and mobile phone data which

was sent to him. Further he was requested to give his

opinion with respect to the scene of crime i.e., the

Gannikada Farm House and also the house of

Basavanagudi, wherein several photographs were

obtained at the time of mahazar. The aforesaid opinion 343 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 assumes importance for the reason that the expert is

able to identify the distinctive fabric patterns and

visible features of the accused persons by pointing out

to the mole, scar and vein pattern and he in his

opinion has deposed that the same demonstrate a high

degree of similarity across the images and also the

findings provide substantial evidence that the visuals

depict same individuals and same environment. During

the course of his chief-examination he has deposed

that Article No.2 consisted of PPT Format which were 6

slides taken out during the course of medical

examination and whereas the other articles i.e., Article

No.1 and 2 were DVD's and Article No.3 was a pen-

drive. At this juncture, the submissions of the learned

Counsel for the accused are to be appreciated wherein

they had raised serious objections with respect to the

medical examination of the accused being conducted

by the concerned Hospital. During the course of

evidence, Ex. D1 came to be marked by way of 344 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 confrontation. It is submitted that as per Ex. D1,

which is dated 15.06.2024 certain interpolation of

dates was found wherein the photographer had affixed

his signature initially as 05.06.2024 which was

subsequently edited as 15.06.2024. In order to better

appreciate the same, it would be appropriate to

consider the evidence of the medical officer PW-16 Dr.

K V Sathish who has deposed before the court with

respect to constitution of the Medical Board by the

Government of Karnataka and he has deposed that the

accused Prajwal Revanna was subjected to medical

examination by the team of doctors constituted

therein. Further he has deposed that at the time of the

Medical Examination, the photographer of FSL had

captured the photographs of the various body parts of

the accused person and subsequently on 01.08.2024,

they had received another requisition from the I.O with

a request to identify the identification marks on the

body of the accused person. It is relevant to note that 345 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the team of Doctors of the Medical Board so

constituted had verified the photographs and video and

had prepared the PPT consisting of 9 photographs out

of 65 photographs in the DVD which were sent to

them. It is relevant to note that very same PPT was

sent to FSL to examine whether such identification

marks matched with that of the person seen in the

video ravishing the victim. Further it is required to

consider the contents which is mentioned in the report

which is furnished along with medical report and as

per the same the accused was subjected to medical

examination and at that time permission was granted

to FSL to take video graph and photograph of his

genitals in erectile state. Further it is mentioned that

subsequent to the second attempt his gentile had

attained erectile state and the same was captured. It is

submitted that the accused was subjected to medical

examination on 05.06.2024 in Cr.No.107/2024 and

whereas the very same Report by editing the date was 346 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 furnished in the instant case. In order to better

appreciate the same, I have carefully examined the

medical examination Report of the accused at Ex. P51

furnished in the above case and in the said report at

internal Page No.831 it has been mentioned as; 115. The aforesaid aspect is required to be

considered with the medical examination Report

furnished in Crime No.107/2024 which is also pending

for consideration before this Court and in that case , it

was submitted that the accused was subjected to

medical examination on 05.06.2024, wherein it is

mentioned with respect to pubic hairs as follows; 116. The aforesaid difference in both Reports

would clarify the hollowness in the submissions of the

learned Counsel for accused. That apart during the 347 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 course of entire cross examination, none of the Doctors

were confronted in this regard. Even otherwise, the

FSL expert could have been questioned about the

Metadata of the PPT files to ascertain whether the

same was captured on 05.06.2024 or on 15.06.2024.

That apart, I have also considered the cross-

examination of PW.19 Dr.Rohith, wherein it was

suggested that the photographs of erectile state of the

pennis of Prajwal Revanna were obtained at 01.35

p.m., the witness has deposed that the photographs

were obtained when he got the erection. This particular

aspect when juxtaposed with Ex. D1, it would indicate

that a second attempt was made and at that time the

accused had obtained erection. That apart, the

evidence of PW.17 Dr.Thejaswi, PW.18 Dr.B.M.Girish

coupled with the evidence of Dr.K.V.Sathish is

considered, it would indicate that there was nothing to

suggest that the accused was incapable of indulging in

sexual intercourse. The main aspect which is disputed 348 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 is with respect to obtaining the photographs by the

Medical Board. However, when the suggestion put-forth

to PW.19 indicates that the image was captured at

01.35 p.m., when the accused had obtained erection,

the same would fortify the contention of the

prosecution. If for a moment the reasons assigned by

the Expert along with his Report at Ex. P75 is

appreciated, it would indicate the findings rendered by

them by comparing with the super imposed image of

the victim at the place of incident and also the body

parts, the fabric which was worn were all compared.

Further the photograph pertaining to accused with

respect to specific identification mark when super

imposed and compared with the image, it would

indicate the very same mole and identification mark

matched with each other. That apart, a comparison

has been made with respect to vein structures of the

genitals of the accused person and in conclusion it has

been drawn that the visible features in both images 349 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 particularly the pattern and placement of the vein, it

would strongly suggest that the visible characteristics

are consistent across two visuals and both images

depicted the same individual. The said Report is also

accompanied by necessary Certificate under Sec.65(B) of Indian Evidence Act which is at Ex. P77. 117. When the aforesaid aspect is compared with

the Silent Witness Theory which is propagated at the

beginning of this Chapter, it would indicate that the

photographs, videos and images are self-explanatory

and it speaks for itself. In the instant case, no doubt

the original mobile through which the recording was

made was not recovered by the Investigating Agency,

however the fact which remains on record is that the

PW.1 the victim, herself had got her identified in the 4

videos which were shown to her during the course of

investigation by the Investigating Officer and also

subsequently in the Court. It is relevant to note that 350 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 when the victim was once again called upon before the

Court for the purpose of identification, her demeanor

came to be recorded by this Court wherein she had

started to weep profusely immediately on the display of

the video and she had specifically identified her voice

and also the voice of accused Prajwal Revanna. During

the course of cross-examination nowhere it is

suggested that the videos were not genuine but it was

suggested that the male voice found in the video did

not belong to the accused Prajwal Revanna. Further it

was suggested that he was not found in the video, for

which she has specifically stated that his hands and

legs are found. If for a moment the Report furnished by

the Team of Medical Examiners in the 9 PPT which

were captured by them on 15.06.2024 is appreciated

with the Report at Ex. P75, the entire submissions

made by the accused would be falsified. That apart,

during the course of the statement recorded under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C., the accused himself has admitted of 351 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 filing injunctive suit against PW.10 Karthik and others

before the Civil Court and had obtained interim order.

If for a moment the accused when does not dispute the

genuineness of the video, then the submission would

be a farrago and it cannot be considered. In other

words, the entire cross examination would indicate

that the accused is not seriously disputing the

existence of video but it is his contention that he was

not present in the video. However, when the medical

examination coupled with scientific examination by

FSL is conjointly read, the unerring inference which

can be drawn is that the accused was present in the

video with the victim. What is the evidentiary value of

the silent witness theory has been categorically

explained by the Hon'ble Apex Court in a case where

identification was made through photographs. In this

regard the court has placed reliance on the judgment

rendered in (2000)1 SCC 138 ( Umar Abdul Sakoor

Sorathia v. Intelligence Officer, Narcotic Control 352 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Bureau ) has been succinctly explained wherein it is

held as: It must be borne in mind that the
 appellant is not a proclaimed offender
 and we are not considering the
 eventuality in which he would be so
 proclaimed. So the observations made
 in Kartar Singh [(1994) 3 SCC 569: 118. The Hon'ble Apex Court had an occasion to

consider the theory of Silent Witness and in the

judgment rendered in (1970)2 SCC 340 ( N. Sri Rama

Reddy v. V.V. Giri ) the same was discussed and it was

held as: Accordingly, the learned Judge allowed
the police officer to give evidence as to
what he heard on the tape-recorder,
which was played before the Jury. 13. On appeal to the High Court of
Justiciary it is seen that no objection
appears to have been taken to the
competency of the evidence furnished
by the tape-recorder but the
admissibility of the evidence of the
police officer based upon his hearing of
the tape-recorded conversation was
objected to. This objection was over-
ruled by the High Court of Justiciary
stating that it is competent for the
police officer to give evidence of
conversation which he hears with the
help of hearing aid or, as in the case
before them, when the conversation is
transmitted to him over a distance by
wireless and that there may be
criticism of the quality of his evidence
and not about the competency of the
evidence of what he has heard. The
Court further observed at p. 267: From the above decision it is apparent
that the tape itself is primary and
direct evidence admissible as to what
has been said and picked up by the
recorder. 14. In R. v. Mills [(1962) 3 All ER 298] a
conversation which had been recorded
on tape between two of the persons was
heard by a police officer who gave
evidence that he has himself
remembered the various remarks which
passed between those two persons
which could be corroborated by the
conversation recorded on the tape. But
the tape-recording itself was not
introduced in evidence nor was there
any production of the record by consent
before the Jury. They referred to the
decision of the High Court of Justiciary
in Hopes case and held that according
to the said decision the tape-recorded
conversation was admissible as direct
evidence. Though the discussion in the
judgment shows that a tape-recorded
conversation is admissible in evidence
ultimately the Court left open the
question stating: 16. The question again directly arose
in R. v. Maqsud Ali [(1965) 2 All ER 464] 356 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 . In that case a conversation which
took place in Punjabi dialect between
two persons and which had been
recorded on the tape was played before
the jury and was admitted in evidence
by the trial Judge. Objection was taken
before the court of criminal appeal
regarding the admissibility in evidence
of the tape-recorded conversation
between the accused. Therefore the
point that specifically arose before the
court of appeal was "Is a tape- recording as such admissible in
evidence, as a matter of law?" After
referring to the observations in Mills case the appellate court noted that the
question regarding the admissibility of
a tape-record was not actually decided in that case . The decision of the High
Court of Justiciary in Hopes case was
referred to and it was noted that the
evidence of the police officer who
listened to the tape-recorder was held
to be admissible. The Court said, at p.
469: In consequence, the Court held that the
 tape-recorded conversation was
 admissible in evidence, subject to the
 limitations mentioned in the above
 extract. 17. It will therefore be seen. that
 though the question of admissibility of
 a tape-recorded conversation had been
 left open in Mills case, the same was
 specifically considered and decided
 affirmatively in Maqsud Ali case. 119. In the instant case it is vehemently argued

that the Certificates which are issued under Sec.65(B) 358 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 (4) of Indian Evidence Act does not comply with the

necessary provisions and dictum as laid down by the

Hon'ble Apex Court. With respect to the production of

Certificates by the Experts, already this Court has

discussed in detail. With respect to the photographs

which were taken at the time of mahazar, is seriously

disputed. It is the submission of the learned Senior

Counsel for the accused that as per the evidence of

PW.13 Hemesh Kumar.H, he had assisted in obtaining

the photographs and during the course of his cross-

examination it was denied by him that the data of their

department will be stored in a server and he had

voluntarily tendered his evidence that it will be stored

in a dedicated system. Further it was questioned to

him that whether their Department would check the

computer with respect to its working condition and

also whether any firewalls were installed to the system,

he has answered that they were all working properly

and it is his evidence that there was only one system in 359 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 their Department which was being used in the ordinary

course of work and also four other persons in their

section would use the system available. By pointing to

the same, the learned Senior Counsel has vehemently

argued that the aforesaid deposition is very much

contrary to the dictum laid down by the Hon'ble Apex

Court in Arjun Pandith Rao 's case discussed supra. I

have bestowed my anxious reading to the same. It is

relevant to note that in Para-26 of the aforesaid

judgment, the stipulated conditions and the competent

persons to issue the Certificate have been narrated.

For the sake of brevity, the same is extracted which

reads as follows; 26. It is now appropriate to examine
 the manner in which Section 65-B was
 interpreted by this Court. In Anvar
 P.V. [Anvar P.V. v. P.K. Basheer , (2014)
 10 SCC 473 : (2015) 1 SCC (Civ) 27 : B(2) of the Evidence Act : 15. Under Section 65-B(4) of the
Evidence Act, if it is desired to give a
statement in any proceedings
pertaining to an electronic record, it is
permissible provided the following
conditions are satisfied: 16. It is further clarified that the
person need only to state in the
certificate that the same is to the best
of his knowledge and belief. Most
importantly, such a certificate must
accompany the electronic record like
computer printout, compact disc (CD),
video compact disc (VCD), pen drive, etc.
pertaining to which a statement is
sought to be given in evidence, when
the same is produced in evidence. All
these safeguards are taken to ensure
the source and authenticity, which are
the two hallmarks pertaining to
electronic record sought to be used as
evidence. Electronic records being more
susceptible to tampering, alteration,
transposition, excision, etc. without
such safeguards, the whole trial based
on proof of electronic records can lead
to travesty of justice. 17. Only if the electronic record is duly
produced in terms of Section 65-B of
the Evidence Act, would the question
arise as to the genuineness thereof and
in that situation, resort can be made to
Section 45-A--opinion of Examiner of
Electronic Evidence. 18. The Evidence Act does not
contemplate or permit the proof of an
electronic record by oral evidence if
requirements under Section 65-B of the
Evidence Act are not complied with, as
the law now stands in India. *** 20. Proof of electronic record is a
special provision introduced by the IT
Act amending various provisions under
the Evidence Act . The very caption of Section 65-A of the Evidence Act, read 363 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 with Sections 59 and 65-B is sufficient
to hold that the special provisions on
evidence relating to electronic record
shall be governed by the procedure
prescribed under Section 65-B of the
Evidence Act. That is a complete code
in itself. Being a special law, the
general law under Sections 63 and 65 has to yield. 21. In State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot
Sandhu [State (NCT of Delhi ) v. Navjot
Sandhu, (2005) 11 SCC 600 : 2005 SCC
(Cri) 1715] a two-Judge Bench of this
Court had an occasion to consider an
issue on production of electronic record
as evidence. While considering the
printouts of the computerised records
of the calls pertaining to the
cellphones, it was held at para 150 as
follows : (SCC p. 714)

'150. According to Section 63 ,
"secondary evidence" means and
includes, among other things, "copies
made from the original by mechanical
processes which in themselves insure
the accuracy of the copy, and copies
compared with such copies". Section 65 enables secondary evidence of the
contents of a document to be adduced if
the original is of such a nature as not
to be easily movable. It is not in dispute
that the information contained in the
call records is stored in huge servers
which cannot be easily moved and
produced in the court. That is what the
High Court has also observed
[ State v. Mohd. Afzal , 2003 SCC OnLine
Del 935: (2003) 71 DRJ 178] at para 276. Hence, printouts taken from the
computers/servers by mechanical
process and certified by a responsible
official of the service-providing 364 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 company can be led in evidence
through a witness who can identify the
signatures of the certifying officer or
otherwise speak of the facts based on
his personal knowledge. Irrespective of
the compliance with the requirements
of Section 65-B, which is a provision
dealing with admissibility of electronic
records, there is no bar to adducing
secondary evidence under the other
provisions of the Evidence Act , namely, Sections 63 and 65 . It may be that the
certificate containing the details in
sub-section (4) of Section 65-B is not
filed in the instant case, but that does
not mean that secondary evidence
cannot be given even if the law permits
such evidence to be given in the
circumstances mentioned in the
relevant provisions, namely, Sections
63 and 65 .'

It may be seen that it was a case where
a responsible official had duly certified
the document at the time of production
itself. The signatures in the certificate
were also identified. That is apparently
in compliance with the procedure
prescribed under Section 65-B of the
Evidence Act. However, it was held that
irrespective of the compliance with the
requirements of Section 65-B, which is
a special provision dealing with
admissibility of the electronic record,
there is no bar in adducing secondary
evidence, under Sections 63 and 65 , of
an electronic record. 22. The evidence relating to electronic
record, as noted hereinbefore, being a
special provision, the general law on
secondary evidence under Section 63 read with Section 65 of the Evidence
Act shall yield to the same. Generalia 365 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 specialibus non derogant, special law
will always prevail over the general
law. It appears, the court omitted to
take note of Sections 59 and 65-A
dealing with the admissibility of
electronic record. Sections 63 and 65 have no application in the case of
secondary evidence by way of electronic
record; the same is wholly governed by
Sections 65-A and 65-B. To that extent,
the statement of law on admissibility of
secondary evidence pertaining to
electronic record, as stated by this
Court in Navjot Sandhu case [ State
(NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu , (2005)
11 SCC 600 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 1715] ,
does not lay down the correct legal
position. It requires to be overruled and
we do so. An electronic record by way
of secondary evidence shall not be
admitted in evidence unless the
requirements under Section 65-B are
satisfied. Thus, in the case of CD, VCD,
chip, etc. the same shall be
accompanied by the certificate in terms
of Section 65-B obtained at the time of
taking the document, without which,
the secondary evidence pertaining to
that electronic record, is inadmissible. 23. The appellant admittedly has not
produced any certificate in terms of
Section 65-B in respect of the CDs, Exts.
P-4, P-8, P-9, P-10, P-12, P-13, P-15, P-20
and P-22. Therefore, the same cannot
be admitted in evidence. Thus, the
whole case set up regarding the corrupt
practice using songs, announcements
and speeches fall to the ground. 24. The situation would have been
different had the appellant adduced
primary evidence; by making available
in evidence, the CDs used for 366 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 announcement and songs. Had those
 CDs used for objectionable songs or
 announcements been duly got seized
 through the police or Election
 Commission and had the same been
 used as primary evidence, the High
 Court could have played the same in
 court to see whether the allegations
 were true. That is not the situation in
 this case. The speeches, songs and
 announcements were recorded using
 other instruments and by feeding them
 into a computer, CDs were made
 therefrom which were produced in
 court, without due certification. Those
 CDs cannot be admitted in evidence
 since the mandatory requirements of Section 65-B of the Evidence Act are not
 satisfied. It is clarified that
 notwithstanding what we have stated
 herein in the preceding paragraphs on
 the secondary evidence of electronic
 record with reference to Sections 59 , 65-A and 65-B of the Evidence Act, if an
 electronic record as such is used as
 primary evidence under Section 62 of
 the Evidence Act, the same is
 admissible in evidence, without
 compliance with the conditions in Section 65-B of the Evidence Act." 120. When the aforesaid Authority is

appreciated, it indicates that the Certificate must

describe the electronic record, the manner in which it

was produced, the particulars of the device involved

and it must be signed by a person occupying a 367 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 responsible official position in relation to the operation

of the relevant device. It is also been clarified that the

person issuing the Certificate is required to state that it

is the same as to the best of his knowledge and belief.

With this factual position, if the facts of the case are

appreciated, it indicates that the witness PW.13

Hemesh was in-charge of the Photography Division of

the FSL, Bengaluru and his designation was

Laboratory Assistant. That apart, nowhere during the

course of cross-examination it was denied that he was

not the sole person who was having control over the

system in which the digital photographs were initially

stored. Even otherwise, as per the aforesaid judgment

in Para-73.2, it has been clarified by the Hon'ble Apex

Court that it is unnecessary to issue Certificate if the

original document is produced and further it has been

held that the same can be dispensed with by producing

the Certificate as laid down in Anwar P.V. Vs. Basheer case rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court. The other 368 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 submission which has been made is the 65(B)

Certificates were also marked through the IO PW.26.

In the aforesaid judgment itself, the Hon'ble Apex

Court has given the clarification that the Certificate

can be produced even during the course of trial. What

could be recollected is that initially some of the

photographs which were obtained at the time of

drawing the mahazar were marked subject to

objections and at the time of evidence of the

Investigating Officer, necessary Certificates under Sec.65(B) came to be marked. At the time of producing

the Certificate, no objections were raised in particularly

with respect to Ex. P176. For a moment, if Ex. P176 is

to be considered, it indicates that the same was issued

by one Mr.Dhana Prakash.N of Sabari Printers,

Bengaluru. It is argued that why the SIT had taken out

the materials out of their office and that too had

obtained a print-out from a faraway place at BTM

Layout, Bengaluru. No doubt the submissions seems to 369 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 be attractive. However, the argument which is

canvassed is required to be based with a foundation

during the course of cross-examination. When the

cross examination is carefully appreciated it would

indicate that not much was suggested nor even

questioned. Even otherwise as per the dictum of the

Hon'ble Apex Court, as laid down in Arjun Pandith

Rao 's case discussed supra, it is crystal clear that the

Certificate requires certain details to be furnished. In

the Certificate at Ex. P176 all details are mentioned

and also the primary source of information through

their 32 GB pen-drive with its description is also

mentioned. In my humble opinion, the mandate under Sec.65(B)(4) of Indian Evidence Act is complied and

hence the submission does not hold water. 121. By considering the aforesaid aspects, I am of

the firm opinion that even though the digital records

are not considered as substantive piece of evidence, the 370 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 same corroborates with the ocular evidence which is

placed before the Court and absolutely nothing is

pointed out to disbelieve the digital evidence and hence

the digital evidence and opinion of the expert renders

assurance to the case of the prosecution, wherein the

ocular evidence is corroborated.  CHAPTER-XVII: REGARDING THE QUESTION OF
 FAIR TRIAL: 122. In the instant case it is noticed that several

volleys of arguments were made with respect to

conducting a fair trial. What amounts to fair trial has

been explained by Sir Oliver Wendell Holmes which

describes the process as: 123. The learned Senior Counsel in her

compendium of Authorities which they have relied has

relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court

reported in (2023)17 SCC 381 ( Naveen @ Ajay Vs. State of

Madhya Pradesh ), wherein the relevant paras which

according to the accused are as follows: 187)

 "38. A criminal trial is a judicial
 examination of the issues in the case
 and its purpose is to arrive at a
 judgment on an issue as to a fact or
 relevant facts which may lead to the
 discovery of the fact issue and obtain
 proof of such facts at which the
 prosecution and the accused have
 arrived by their pleadings; the
 controlling question being the guilt or
 innocence of the accused. Since the
 object is to mete out justice and to 372 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 convict the guilty and protect the
innocent, the trial should be a search
for the truth and not a bout over
technicalities and must be conducted
under such rules as will protect the
innocent, and punish the guilty. The
proof of charge which has to be beyond
reasonable doubt must depend upon
judicial evaluation of the totality of the
evidence, oral and circumstantial, and
not by an isolated scrutiny. 39. Failure to accord fair hearing
either to the accused or the prosecution
violates even minimum standards of
due process of law. It is inherent in the
concept of due process of law, that
condemnation should be rendered only
after the trial in which the hearing is a
real one, not sham or a mere farce and
pretence. Since the fair hearing
requires an opportunity to preserve the
process, it may be vitiated and violated
by an overhasty, stage-managed,
tailored and partisan trial. 40. The fair trial for a criminal offence
consists not only in technical
observance of the frame and forms of
law, but also in recognition and just
application of its principles in
substance, to find out the truth and
prevent miscarriage of justice." (emphasis supplied) 17. In Anokhilal v. State of
M.P. [Anokhilal v. State of M.P., (2019)
20 SCC 196 : (2020) 3 SCC (Cri) 803]
this Court, after referring to Best
Bakery [Zahira Habibulla H.
Sheikh v. State of Gujarat , (2004) 4
SCC 158 : 2004 SCC (Cri) 999] on the
issue, has held in paras 21 to 23 as 373 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 follows : (Anokhilal
case [ Anokhilal v. State of M.P. , (2019)
20 SCC 196 : (2020) 3 SCC (Cri) 803] ,
SCC p. 223)

"21. In the present case, the Amicus
Curiae, was appointed on 19-2-2013,
and on the same date, the counsel was
called upon to defend the accused at
the stage of framing of charges. One
can say with certainty that the Amicus
Curiae did not have sufficient time to
go through even the basic documents,
nor the advantage of any discussion or
interaction with the accused, and time
to reflect over the matter. Thus, even
before the Amicus Curiae could come to
grips of the matter, the charges were
framed. 22. The provisions concerned viz. Sections 227 and 228 of the Code
contemplate framing of charge upon
consideration of the record of the case
and the documents submitted
therewith, and after "hearing the
submissions of the accused and the
prosecution in that behalf". If the
hearing for the purposes of these
provisions is to be meaningful, and not
just a routine affair, the right under
the said provisions stood denied to the
appellant. 23. In our considered view, the trial
court on its own, ought to have
adjourned the matter for some time so
that the Amicus Curiae could have had
the advantage of sufficient time to
prepare the matter. The approach
adopted by the trial court, in our view,
may have expedited the conduct of
trial, but did not further the cause of
justice. Not only were the charges 374 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 framed the same day as stated above,
but the trial itself was concluded
within a fortnight thereafter. In the
process, the assistance that the
appellant was entitled to in the form of
legal aid, could not be real and
meaningful." 18. This Court,
in Anokhilal [Anokhilal v. State of M.P. ,
(2019) 20 SCC 196 : (2020) 3 SCC (Cri)
803] , also set aside the conviction and
sentence imposed by the trial court and
the High Court and directed for de novo
trial. This Court also laid down certain
norms in matters where the accused is
represented by a counsel appointed
through legal aid. The norms, as stated
in para 31 of the said judgment [ Anokhilal v. State of M.P. , (2019) 20
SCC 196 : (2020) 3 SCC (Cri) 803] are
reproduced hereunder : (SCC pp. 224- 25)

"31.1. In all cases where there is a
possibility of life sentence or death
sentence, learned advocates who have
put in minimum of 10 years' practice at
the Bar alone be considered to be
appointed as Amicus Curiae or through
legal services to represent an accused.

31.2. In all matters dealt with by the
High Court concerning confirmation of
death sentence, Senior Advocates of the
Court must first be considered to be
appointed as Amicus Curiae. 31.3. Whenever any learned counsel is
appointed as Amicus Curiae, some
reasonable time may be provided to
enable the counsel to prepare the
matter. There cannot be any hard-and-
fast rule in that behalf. However, a 375 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 minimum of seven days' time may
normally be considered to be
appropriate and adequate. 31.4. Any learned counsel, who is
appointed as Amicus Curiae on behalf
of the accused must normally be
granted to have meetings and
discussion with the accused concerned. Such interactions may prove to be
helpful as was noticed in Imtiyaz
Ramzan Khan [Imtiyaz Ramzan
Khan v. State of Maharashtra , (2018) 9
SCC 160 : (2018) 3 SCC (Cri) 721] ." 19. In Best Bakery [Zahira Habibulla H.
Sheikh v. State of Gujarat , (2004) 4
SCC 158: 2004 SCC (Cri) 999], this
Court has observed that the principle of
fair trial now informs and energises
many areas of the law. It is reflected in
numerous rules and practices. It is a
constant, ongoing development process
continually adapting to new and
changing circumstances, and
exigencies of the situation--peculiar at
times and related to the nature of
crime, persons involved--directly or
operating behind social impact and
societal needs and even so many
powerful balancing factors which may
come in the way of administration of
criminal justice system. The concept of
fair trial entails familiar triangulation
of interests of the accused, the victim,
and the society. 20. It was further observed that there
can be no analytical, all-comprehensive
or exhaustive definition of the concept
of a fair trial, and it may have to be
determined in seemingly infinite
variety of actual situations with the
ultimate object in mind viz. whether 376 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 something that was done or said either
before or at the trial deprived the
quality of fairness to a degree where a
miscarriage of justice has resulted.
Each one has an inbuilt right to be
dealt with fairly in a criminal trial.
Denial of a fair trial is as much
injustice to the accused as is to the
victim and the society. Fair trial
obviously would mean a trial before an
impartial Judge, a fair prosecutor, and
the atmosphere of judicial calm. Fair
trial means a trial in which bias or
prejudice for or against the accused,
the witnesses, or the cause which is
being tried is eliminated. It is inherent
in the concept of due process of law,
that condemnation should be rendered
only after the trial in which the
hearing is a real one, not sham or a
mere farce and pretence. Since fair
hearing requires an opportunity to
preserve the process, it may be vitiated
and violated by an overhasty, stage-
managed, tailored and partisan trial. It
is thus settled that a hasty trial in
which proper and sufficient
opportunity has not been provided to
the accused to defend himself/herself
would vitiate the trial as being
meaningless and stage-managed. It is
in violation of the principle of judicial
calm. 21. The principle of "judicial calm" in
the context of a fair trial needs to be
elaborated for its observance in letter
and spirit. In our view, in the hallowed
halls of justice, the essence of a fair
and impartial trial lies in the steadfast
embrace of judicial calm. It is
incumbent upon a Judge to exude an
aura of tranquility, offering a 377 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 sanctuary of reason and measured
 deliberation. In the halls of justice, the
 gavel strikes not in haste, but in a
 deliberate cadence ensuring every
 voice, every piece of evidence, is
 accorded its due weight. The expanse
 of judicial calm serves not only as a
 pillar of constitutional integrity, but as
 the very bedrock upon which trust in a
 legal system is forged. It is a beacon
 that illuminates the path towards a
 verdict untainted by haste or prejudice,
 thus upholding the sanctity of justice
 for all. 124. I have bestowed my anxious reading to the

kind orders passed by the Hon'ble Apex Court. In my

humble opinion, the facts which are narrated are

required to be distinguished and in the instant case

the conduct of the accused and his Counsel is also

required to be considered. As per the records of the

case , the above case was committed to this court on

31.12.2024 and on that day this court considering the

fact that the accused was in judicial custody in

another connected case, had directed the jail

authorities to produce the accused on body warrant on

04.01.2025 and on that day the learned Counsel for 378 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the accused Sri.Arun.G had obtained the permission

from the Court and had filed his vakalath. Thereafter,

the case was periodically adjourned for HBC and the

order sheet reveals that the case was adjourned to

06.01.2025, 13.01.2025 and on that day the accused

had filed application under Sec.207 of Cr.P.C., by

submitting that he was not provided with certain

documents. He had also preferred a Criminal Petition

before the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka in

Crl.Petition No.206/2025 and again the case was

adjourned to 15.01.2025, 17.01.2025, wherein it was

submitted that the Criminal Petition before the Hon'ble

High Court was disposed off with a liberty to the

accused to inspect the digital records. The learned SPP

immediately on the next day i.e., on 18.01.2025,

23.01.2025 had made submission to the court that

they were ready to furnish the digital documents in the

court for the purpose of inspection by accused.

However, the record indicates that he had not availed 379 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the said opportunity. Further on 01.02.2025,

12.02.2025, the arguments on discharge application

came to be heard on behalf of the accused and on

19.02.2025 additional grounds were urged by the

accused and the case was adjourned to 21.02.2025,

22.02.2025, on which date the learned SPP had

submitted his arguments on discharge and had also

produced a separate pen-drive with respect to digital

records. Thereafter, several adjournments were sought

by the accused and in fact the order sheet reveals that

the accused was unnecessarily dragging the

proceedings and seeking for adjournment. Finally, the

arguments were concluded by the accused on

21.03.2025 and orders on discharge application were

pronounced on 03.04.2025, wherein the discharge

application came to be rejected and on the same day

the charges were framed. 125. It seems that the accused was taken a back

with respect to framing of charges and even after that

the case was adjourned for FDT on three occasions and

subsequently on 19.04.2025 the accused had sought

the permission to obtain the assistance of an IT Expert

to verify the digital records and had also insisted for

the presence of accused which was accepted by the

Court and it was directed to the jail authorities to

produce him before the court under body warrant. The

records indicates that for continuously three days the

inspection of digital records were made by the accused

and in the meantime the trial was fixed from

23.04.2025 to 29.04.2025. On the previous day of the

trial, the case was advanced and application under

Sec.207 was filed once again requesting to defer the

trial. The said application came to be rejected, wherein

this court had observed of granting several

adjournments to the accused. On the date of trial i.e.,

on 23.04.2025, the learned Counsel for the accused 381 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 had filed an application requesting the court to place

the records before the Hon'ble Prl. City Civil and

Sessions Judge to pass appropriate order to transfer

the case to some other Court since he was denied of

proper opportunity and the trial was being commenced

in a hurried manner. The court had placed the records

before the Hon'ble Prl. City Civil and Sessions Judge,

who had sent back the records with a direction to

continue with the case in accordance with law.

Immediately on the receipt of the order Sri.Arun.G, the

Advocate representing the case had filed his

Retirement Memo. It is relevant to note that the

accused did not intend to get the trial commenced and

even he had sought several adjournments to engage

counsel and even he had refused to take the assistance

of the legal aid which was offered to him. Left with no

other alternative, the court had proceeded to appoint

an Amicus Curie Smt.Jayashree R.S., who is the Chief

Legal Aid Defence Counsel to represent the accused. 382 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Once again, the trial was rescheduled from 02.05.2025

to 09.05.2025. At this juncture, the mother of the

accused had approached the Hon'ble High Court of

Karnataka in WP No.13645/2025 (Smt.Bhavani Revanna

Vs. State of Karnataka) seeking various reliefs. In this

said Writ Petition, the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka

had come down heavily with respect to the conduct of

the learned Advocate Sri.Arun.G., in delaying the

proceedings before the trial court and for the sake of

benefit the relevant paragraphs are extracted, which

reads as follows; 14. Learned Senior Counsel for the
 respondent has also brought to the
 notice of this Court that the learned
 Advocate Arun.G., who is appearing in
 the other criminal cases for the accused,
 has continued to appear for the accused
 in all the said cases except
 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024, and according to
 the learned Senior Counsel only to delay
 the trial, the learned Advocate has
 adopted the tactic of retiring from the
 present case. Considering the material
 on record, more so, the order sheet of
 the Trial, I find some force in the said
 contentions urged on behalf of the 383 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 respondent and it is prima facie appears
that a deliberate attempt is being made
by and on behalf of the accused to delay
the trial in Spl.CC.No.2627/2024. 15. The Trial Court is a Special Court
constituted in view of the judgment of
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case
of ASHWINI KUMAR UPADHYAY VS. UNION OF INDIA & ANOTHER - (2024)1
SCC 185, and in the said judgment, it
is observed that designated court shall
not adjourn the cases except for rare
and compelling reasons, and in the
present case, it is brought to the notice
of this Court that this Court has
directed the Trial Court to conduct
trial on day today basis. 16. Learned Senior Counsel appearing
for the respondent has fairly submitted
that even at this juncture, it is always
open for the accused to engage the
services of an Advocate of his choice
and seek permission of the Trial Court
to permit the said Advocate to appear
on his behalf and defend his case. 17. Accused and his mother are not
common people and the submission
made on behalf of the petitioner and
the accused that they are finding it
difficult to engage the services of an
Advocate before the Trial Court cannot
be appreciated, more so considering the
fact that by engaging the services of
Advocates, this petition was filed
before this court after the Trial Court
has appointed Amicus Curiae on behalf 384 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of the accused. On the guise of denial
 of fair trial if an attempt is made to
 stall the proceedings, such deliberate
 attempts needs to be dealt with iron
 hands and also needs to be deprecated.
 Under the circumstances, I do not find
 any merit in this petition. Accordingly,
 petition is dismissed. 126. In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble High

Court has clearly held that the Advocate had adopted

the tactic of retiring from the case only to delay the

proceedings. Quite interestingly immediately on the

passing of the kind order by the Hon'ble High Court of

Karnataka, Sri.Prajith.C, Advocate had appeared on

behalf of accused and had filed vakalath with a request

for adjournment and to defer cross-examining the

witness. The court had considered the same and time

was granted for the cross-examination of the

witnesses. It is also relevant to note that during the

course of trial, the very same authority which is now

relied upon was placed before the Court and had

submitted that the trial should be deferred for some 385 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 period. Since no reasons were assigned, the request

was turned down. 127. The court has also taken into account of the

provision of Sec.309 of Cr.P.C., wherein after the

amendment incorporated in the year 2018 by Act

No.22 of 2018 with effect from 21.04.2018, it is

mandated that the trial of the cases relating to offence

under Sec.376 of IPC shall be completed within a

period of 2 months from the date of filing of the charge-

sheet. Here in the instant case, the charge-sheet was

filed in the month of November-2023 and accused was

making hectic efforts to stall the proceedings. 128. Even more interesting fact which is required

to be considered is on 26.05.2025, one more Counsel

had appeared i.e., Sri.Vipin Kumar Jain had filed

vakalath along with the previous counsel and at that

time strangely the learned Counsel Sri.Arun.G., who

had filed retirement on the previous occasion had also 386 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 requested the court to permit him to appear on behalf

of accused. The aforesaid conduct would clearly

indicate the tactics adopted by the learned counsel

Sri.Arun.G., to delay the proceedings which is fortified

by the observations made by the Hon'ble High Court

mentioned supra. Even otherwise, he was permitted to

come on record and throughout the trial he had

assisted the lead counsel and at certain times he had

also made submissions before the court. It is also

relevant to note that the applications which were filed

by the accused to recall witnesses was also allowed by

this Court. It seems that in spite of providing all the

opportunities, once again the accused has submitted

that he was not provided with fair trial. In my humble

opinion, the aforesaid act would definitely amount to

professional misconduct as per Sec.35 of Advocate's

Act 1961. In this regard, it would be appropriate to rely

upon the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court of

Madhya Pradesh reported in AIR Online 2020 MP 5 387 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 ( Vinod Giri Vs. Sachiv Gram Panchayath Malhargarh ),

wherein it has been held as: They have to be metamorphosed to
 actuality. Long back, Francis Bacon, in
 his aphoristic style, had said, "Hope is
 good breakfast, but it is bad supper." 129. The aforesaid dictum clearly indicates that

seeking of unnecessary adjournments to stall the

proceedings would amount to professional misconduct

and when the same is appreciated with the facts of the

case, none of the ingredients as narrated by the

Hon'ble Apex Court which relied upon by the accused

is attracted. 130. Further what amounts to professional

misconduct is explained in Black's Law Dictionary

whrein "misconduct" is defined as: 131. Be that as it may, it would be appropriate for

this court not to express anything in this regard by

considering the fact that to ' err is human'. However, in

my humble opinion, the accused was provided with fair

opportunity at every stage of the proceedings, albeit he

was denied from obtaining mechanical adjournments.

Accordingly, the contention of denying of fair trial is

not justified by the accused.  CHAPTER-XVIII: APPRECIATION OF OCULAR
 EVIDENCE OF VICTIM VIS-A-VIS DIGITAL
 EVIDENCE AND SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE: 132. In the instant case finally, the Court is

required to consider the ocular evidence of the victim.

It is settled principles of law that the ocular evidence of

the victim in normal circumstances is required to be

accepted and at any stretch of imagination the victim

cannot be considered as an accomplice. The aforesaid

principle has been laid down by the Hon'ble Apex

Court in the judgment reported in (2022)2 SCC 74 390 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 ( Phool Singh Vs. State of M.P ) which relied upon by the

learned SPP and the same reads as follows: examination, she has stood by what
 she has stated and has fully supported
 the case of the prosecution. We see no
 reason to doubt the credibility and/or
 trustworthiness of the prosecutrix. The
 submission on behalf of the accused
 that no other independent witnesses
 have been examined and/or supported
 the case of the prosecution and the
 conviction on the basis of the sole
 testimony of the prosecutrix cannot be
 sustained is concerned, the aforesaid
 has no substance. 8. In Ganesan [Ganesan v. State , (2020)
 10 SCC 573 : (2021) 1 SCC (Cri) 76] ,
 this Court has observed and held that
 there can be a conviction on the sole
 testimony of the victim/prosecutrix
 when the deposition of the prosecutrix
 is found to be trustworthy,
 unblemished, credible and her evidence
 is of sterling quality. In the aforesaid
 case, this Court had an occasion to
 consider the series of judgments of this
 Court on conviction on the sole evidence
 of the prosecutrix. In paras 10.1 to
 10.3, it is observed and held as under : The nature of evidence required to lend
assurance to the testimony of the
prosecutrix must necessarily depend on
the facts and circumstances of each
case. But if a prosecutrix is an adult
and of full understanding the court is
entitled to base a conviction on her
evidence unless the same is shown to be
infirm and not trustworthy. If the
totality of the circumstances appearing
on the record of the case disclose that
the prosecutrix does not have a strong
motive to falsely involve the person
charged, the court should ordinarily
have no hesitation in accepting her
evidence." 10. In State of U.P. v. Pappu [State of
U.P. v. Pappu, (2005) 3 SCC 594 : 2005
SCC (Cri) 780] this Court held that even
in a case where it is shown that the
girl is a girl of easy virtue or a girl
habituated to sexual intercourse, it
may not be a ground to absolve the
accused from the charge of rape. It has
to be established that there was
consent by her for that particular 393 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 occasion. Absence of injury on the
prosecutrix may not be a factor that
leads the court to absolve the accused.
This Court further held that there can
be conviction on the sole testimony of
the prosecutrix and in case, the court
is not satisfied with the version of the
prosecutrix, it can seek other evidence,
direct or circumstantial, by which it
may get assurance of her testimony.
The Court held as under : (SCC p. 597,
para 12)

"12. It is well settled that a prosecutrix
complaining of having been a victim of
the offence of rape is not an accomplice
after the crime. There is no rule of law
that her testimony cannot be acted
upon without corroboration in material
particulars. She stands at a higher
pedestal than an injured witness. In
the latter case, there is injury on the
physical form, while in the former it is
both physical as well as psychological
and emotional. However, if the court of
facts finds it difficult to accept the
version of the prosecutrix on its face
value, it may search for evidence,
direct or circumstantial, which would
lend assurance to her testimony. Assurance, short of corroboration as
understood in the context of an
accomplice, would do." 11. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit
Singh [State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh,
(1996) 2 SCC 384 : 1996 SCC (Cri) 316] ,
this Court held that in cases involving
sexual harassment, molestation, etc.
the court is duty-bound to deal with
such cases with utmost sensitivity.
Minor contradictions or insignificant
discrepancies in the statement of a
prosecutrix should not be a ground for 394 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 throwing out an otherwise reliable
prosecution case. Evidence of the victim
of sexual assault is enough for
conviction and it does not require any
corroboration unless there are
compelling reasons for seeking
corroboration. The court may look for
some assurances of her statement to
satisfy judicial conscience. The
statement of the prosecutrix is more
reliable than that of an injured witness
as she is not an accomplice. The Court
further held that the delay in filing FIR
for sexual offence may not be even
properly explained, but if found
natural, the accused cannot be given
any benefit thereof. The Court observed
as under : (SCC pp. 394-96 & 403,
paras 8 & 21)

"8. ... The court overlooked the
situation in which a poor helpless
minor girl had found herself in the
company of three desperate young men
who were threatening her and
preventing her from raising any alarm.
Again, if the investigating officer did
not conduct the investigation properly
or was negligent in not being able to
trace out the driver or the car, how can
that become a ground to discredit the
testimony of the prosecutrix? The
prosecutrix had no control over the
investigating agency and the
negligence of an investigating officer
could not affect the credibility of the
statement of the prosecutrix. ... The
courts must, while evaluating evidence,
remain alive to the fact that in a case
of rape, no self-respecting woman
would come forward in a court just to
make a humiliating statement against
her honour such as is involved in the 395 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 commission of rape on her. In cases
involving sexual molestation, supposed
considerations which have no material
effect on the veracity of the prosecution
case or even discrepancies in the
statement of the prosecutrix should
not, unless the discrepancies are such
which are of fatal nature, be allowed to
throw out an otherwise reliable
prosecution case. ... Seeking
corroboration of her statement before
relying upon the same, as a rule, in
such cases amounts to adding insult to
injury. ... Corroboration as a condition
for judicial reliance on the testimony of
the prosecutrix is not a requirement of
law but a guidance of prudence under
given circumstances. ... 21. ... The courts should examine the
broader probabilities of a case and not
get swayed by minor contradictions or
insignificant discrepancies in the
statement of the prosecutrix, which are
not of a fatal nature, to throw out an
otherwise reliable prosecution case. If
evidence of the prosecutrix inspires
confidence, it must be relied upon
without seeking corroboration of her
statement in material particulars. If
for some reason the court finds it
difficult to place implicit reliance on
her testimony, it may look for evidence
which may lend assurance to her
testimony, short of corroboration
required in the case of an accomplice.
The testimony of the prosecutrix must
be appreciated in the background of
the entire case and the trial court must
be alive to its responsibility and be
sensitive while dealing with cases
involving sexual molestations." 12. In State of Orissa v. Thakara
Besra [State of Orissa v. Thakara
Besra, (2002) 9 SCC 86 : 2003 SCC (Cri)
1080] , this Court held that rape is not
mere physical assault, rather it often
distracts (sic destroys) the whole
personality of the victim. The rapist
degrades the very soul of the helpless
female and, therefore, the testimony of
the prosecutrix must be appreciated in
the background of the entire case and
in such cases, non-examination even of
other witnesses may not be a serious
infirmity in the prosecution case,
particularly where the witnesses had
not seen the commission of the offence. 13. In State of H.P. v. Raghubir
Singh [State of H.P. v. Raghubir Singh,
(1993) 2 SCC 622 : 1993 SCC (Cri) 674] ,
this Court held that there is no legal
compulsion to look for any other
evidence to corroborate the evidence of
the prosecutrix before recording an
order of conviction. Evidence has to be
weighed and not counted. Conviction
can be recorded on the sole testimony
of the prosecutrix, if her evidence
inspires confidence and there is
absence of circumstances which
militate against her veracity. A similar
view has been reiterated by this Court
in Wahid Khan v. State of M.P. [Wahid
Khan v. State of M.P., (2010) 2 SCC 9 : 14. Thus, the law that emerges on the
issue is to the effect that the statement
of the prosecutrix, if found to be worthy 397 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of credence and reliable, requires no
corroboration. The court may convict
the accused on the sole testimony of
the prosecutrix.'

10.2. In Krishan Kumar Malik v. State
of Haryana [Krishan Kumar
Malik v. State of Haryana, (2011) 7 SCC
130 : (2011) 3 SCC (Cri) 61] , it is
observed and held by this Court that to
hold an accused guilty for commission
of an offence of rape, the solitary
evidence of the prosecutrix is
sufficient, provided the same inspires
confidence and appears to be
absolutely trustworthy, unblemished
and should be of sterling quality. 10.3. Who can be said to be a "sterling
witness", has been dealt with and
considered by this Court in Rai
Sandeep v. State (NCT of Delhi) [Rai
Sandeep v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2012)
8 SCC 21 : (2012) 3 SCC (Cri) 750] . In
para 22, it is observed and held as
under : (SCC p. 29)

'22. [Ed. : Para 22 corrected vide
Official Corrigendum No.
F.3/Ed.B.J./48/2012 dated 18-8-2012.]
In our considered opinion, the "sterling
witness" should be of a very high
quality and calibre whose version
should, therefore, be unassailable. The
court considering the version of such
witness should be in a position to
accept it for its face value without any
hesitation. To test the quality of such a
witness, the status of the witness
would be immaterial and what would
be relevant is the truthfulness of the
statement made by such a witness. What would be more relevant would be
the consistency of the statement right 398 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 from the starting point till the end,
namely, at the time when the witness
makes the initial statement and
ultimately before the court. It should be
natural and consistent with the case of
the prosecution qua the accused. There
should not be any prevarication in the
version of such a witness. The witness
should be in a position to withstand
the cross-examination of any length
and howsoever strenuous it may be and
under no circumstance should give
room for any doubt as to the factum of
the occurrence, the persons involved, as
well as the sequence of it. Such a
version should have co-relation with
each and every one of other supporting
material such as the recoveries made,
the weapons used, the manner of
offence committed, the scientific
evidence and the expert opinion. The
said version should consistently match
with the version of every other witness.
It can even be stated that it should be
akin to the test applied in the case of
circumstantial evidence where there
should not be any missing link in the
chain of circumstances to hold the
accused guilty of the offence alleged
against him. Only if the version of such
a witness qualifies the above test as
well as all other such similar tests to
be applied, can it be held that such a
witness can be called as a "sterling
witness" whose version can be accepted
by the court without any corroboration
and based on which the guilty can be
punished. To be more precise, the
version of the said witness on the core
spectrum of the crime should remain
intact while all other attendant
materials, namely, oral, documentary
and material objects should match the 399 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 said version in material particulars in
order to enable the court trying the
offence to rely on the core version to
sieve the other supporting materials for
holding the offender guilty of the
charge alleged.' " 9. In Pankaj Chaudhary [State (NCT of
Delhi) v. Pankaj Chaudhary , (2019) 11
SCC 575 : (2019) 4 SCC (Cri) 264] , it is
observed and held that as a general
rule, if credible, conviction of the
accused can be based on sole
testimony, without corroboration. It is
further observed and held that sole
testimony of the prosecutrix should not
be doubted by the court merely on basis
of assumptions and surmises. In para
29, it is observed and held as under : The nature of evidence required to lend
assurance to the testimony of the
prosecutrix must necessarily depend on
the facts and circumstances of each
case. But if a prosecutrix is an adult
and of full understanding the court is
entitled to base a conviction on her
evidence unless the same is shown to be
infirm and not trustworthy. If the
totality of the circumstances appearing
on the record of the case disclose that
the prosecutrix does not have a strong
motive to falsely involve the person
charged, the court should ordinarily
have no hesitation in accepting her
evidence. We have, therefore, no doubt
in our minds that ordinarily the
evidence of a prosecutrix who does not
lack understanding must be accepted.
The degree of proof required must not
be higher than is expected of an injured
witness. For the above reasons we think
that exception has rightly been taken
to the approach of the High Court as is
reflected in the following passage: With respect, the law is not correctly
stated. If we may say so, it is just the 402 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 reverse. Ordinarily the evidence of a
 prosecutrix must carry the same weight
 as is attached to an injured person who
 is a victim of violence, unless there are
 special circumstances which call for
 greater caution, in which case it would
 be safe to act on her testimony if there
 is independent evidence lending
 assurance to her accusation. 134. In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble

Apex Court has clearly held that the prosecutrix of a

sexual offence cannot be put in par with an accomplice

and she is undoubtedly a competent witness under Sec.118 and there is no rule of law or practice

incorporated in the Evidence Act similar to Illustration (b) of Sec.114 of which the Court requires

corroboration. In the said judgment it is stated that the

view of the Hon'ble High Court wherein it was held that

only in rarest of rare cases the testimony of the

prosecutrix is so trustworthy and reliable for which

corroboration is not required was set aside by the

Hon'ble Apex court. The aforesaid ratio is required to

be applied to the case on hand. The Court is not 403 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 repeating the evidence on record which is already

discussed elaborately in the earlier part of the

judgment. Though it is argued in the aforesaid case,

there is an inordinate delay and also during the course

of arguments the learned Senior Counsel had

submitted that if at all the alleged incident had taken

place, what made the victim to keep quiet for such a

long period of time and also why did she not complain

to the authorities at the time she had left the job. In

matters pertaining to sexual offences, it would be

appropriate to answer the question that why a rustic

innocent women would come before the court and

deposes about her chastity and that too having

complete knowledge that such a statement or the

complaint lodged by her would completely paralyze her

social standing in the society. In the instant case, as

noticed from records, the accused Prajwal Revanna

was a Member of Parliament and he belonged to a

political family wherein his father is an Ex-Minister 404 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 and also sitting MLA, his mother is a ZP Member, his

grandfather was the Ex-Prime Minister of the country

which would indicate that they had exercised

considerable power in the region and as such it would

probabalize the statement of the victim with respect to

her apprehension. That apart it is also relevant to note

that during the course of entire evidence, not even a

single suggestion has been made to point out the

reason for the victim to file so called false complaint

against the accused. On completion of the evidence, it

is narrated during the course of recording the

statement under Sec.313 of Cr.P.C., and also in his

written submission which he had filed under Sec.313(5) of Cr.P.C., that the aforesaid case was

foisted with a political vengeance against him and also

to spoil his political career. Though the aforesaid

argument seems to be attractive, the basic question

which requires to be answered is why the victim had

filed the complaint against the accused. There should 405 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 be some materials or even a reasonable/plausible

suggestion to indicate that she had joined the hands of

his political rivals to bring him down in the society. No

such suggestions were made to the victim or even to

any other witnesses. The court has also appreciated

the demeanor of the victim wherein she had started to

weep profusely whenever she was deposing about

forcible sexual intercourse and also at the time of

identifying herself in the videos of forcible sexual

intercourse her demeanor is recorded. In various

authorities and dictum, the demeanor of the victim

plays an important role and further in another

judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court, reported in

(2021)17 SCC 179 ( XYZ Vs. State of MP ) wherein it is

held as: (ii) women are incapable of or cannot
take decisions on their own; (iii) men are the "head" of the
household and should take all the
decisions relating to family; (iv) women should be submissive and
obedient according to our culture; (v) "good" women are sexually chaste; (vi) motherhood is the duty and role of
every woman, and assumptions to the
effect that she wants to be a mother; (vii) women should be the ones in
charge of their children, their
upbringing and care; (viii) being alone at night or wearing
certain clothes make women
responsible for being attacked; (ix) a woman consuming alcohol,
smoking, etc. may justify unwelcome
advances by men or "has asked for it"; (x) women are emotional and often
overreact or dramatise events, hence it
is necessary to corroborate their
testimony; (xi) testimonial evidence provided by
women who are sexually active may be
suspected when assessing "consent" in
sexual offence cases; and (xii) lack of evidence of physical harm
in sexual offence case leads to an
inference of consent by the woman. 135. In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble Apex

Court had laid down the criteria from which the courts

should desist from expressing any stereotype opinions

in the course of the judicial proceedings. When the

ocular evidence of the victim is carefully appreciated

with the evidence of her son PW.2 Raju, her son in law

PW.3 Devaraj and also her sister PW.4 Smt.Shyamala,

the same seems to be plausible and the evidence

tendered by them seems to be natural and also this

court had recorded the demeanor of the victim at the

time of tendering her evidence before the court. That

apart, the medical evidence in the form of DNA and

also of the digital evidence is appreciated in the above

case . It has been laid down in the judgment of the

Hon'ble Apex Court which is relied upon by the

prosecution reported in (2019)4 SCC 771 ( Pattu Rajan Vs.

State of Tamilnadu ), wherein it has been held: Be that as it may, it cannot be
forgotten that opinion evidence is
advisory in nature, and the Court is not
bound by the evidence of the experts. [See State (UT of Delhi) v. Pali
Ram [State (UT of Delhi) v. Pali Ram,
(1979) 2 SCC 158 : 1979 SCC (Cri)
389] ; State of H.P. v. Jai Lal [State of
H.P. v. Jai Lal, (1999) 7 SCC 280 : 1999
SCC (Cri) 1184] ; Baso Prasad v. State of
Bihar [Baso Prasad v. State of Bihar,
(2006) 13 SCC 65 : (2007) 2 SCC (Cri)
567] ; Ramesh Chandra
Agrawal v. Regency Hospital
Ltd. [Ramesh Chandra
Agrawal v. Regency Hospital Ltd.,
(2009) 9 SCC 709 : (2009) 3 SCC (Civ)
840] and Malay Kumar
Ganguly v. Sukumar Mukherjee [Malay
Kumar Ganguly v. Sukumar Mukherjee,
(2009) 9 SCC 221 : (2009) 3 SCC (Civ)
663 : (2010) 2 SCC (Cri) 299] .] 52. Like all other opinion evidence, the
probative value accorded to DNA
evidence also varies from case to case,
depending on the facts and
circumstances and the weight accorded
to other evidence on record, whether
contrary or corroborative. This is all
the more important to remember, given
that even though the accuracy of DNA
evidence may be increasing with the
advancement of science and technology
with every passing day, thereby making
it more and more reliable, we have not
yet reached a juncture where it may be 409 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 said to be infallible. Thus, it cannot be
said that the absence of DNA evidence
would lead to an adverse inference
against a party, especially in the
presence of other cogent and reliable
evidence on record in favour of such
party. 53. This leads us to the question of the
propriety of relying upon the
superimposition test conducted in the
instant case for identifying the
deceased. As noted supra, the learned
counsel for the appellants has argued
that evidence pertaining to the use of
the superimposition technique is not a
tangible piece of evidence. We find
ourselves unable to agree with this
view. There cannot be any dispute that
evidence on superimposition is also
based on experts' opinion. We would
like to note that the use of the
superimposition technique in Indian
investigations for identification
purposes is not a new phenomenon. Notably, it has been employed in the
investigations pertaining to the Nithari
murders, the Russian murder incident
in Goa in 2008, and even before that in
the Morni Hill murder case and the
Paharganj bomb blast case as far back
as in 1996, and the Udhampur murder
case in 2005 (see Modi, A Textbook of
Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology,
26th Edn., 2018, pp. 267-71). This
Court itself has placed reliance on
identification of the deceased through
superimposition on several occasions
(see Shankar v. State of
T.N. [Shankar v. State of T.N., (1994) 4
SCC 478 : 1994 SCC (Cri) 1252] ; Swamy
Shraddananda v. State of
Karnataka [Swamy 410 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Shraddananda v. State of Karnataka,
 (2007) 12 SCC 288 : (2008) 2 SCC (Cri)
 322] ; State of T.N. v. John David [State
 of T.N. v. John David, (2011) 5 SCC
 509 : (2011) 2 SCC (Cri) 647]
 and Mahesh Dhanaji Shinde v. State of
 Maharashtra [Mahesh Dhanaji
 Shinde v. State of Maharashtra, (2014)
 4 SCC 292 : (2014) 2 SCC (Cri) 321] ),
 clearly indicating that it is an
 acceptable piece of opinion evidence. 136. In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble Apex

Court has clearly held that the evidence based on DNA

can be looked into for corroboration and the evidence

of the Expert is advisory in nature. Further in the very

same judgment, the question of super imposition test

and its techniques was considered and it has been held

that Indian investigation for identification process, the

super imposition test is not a new phenomenon and in

fact it is an acceptable piece of opinion evidence. Even

in the instant case also the primary source of evidence

which is produced by the prosecution is the victim

herself who has in detail explained the incidents and

also the facts which had led her to lodge the complaint. 411 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 When the aforesaid incidents are juxtaposed with the

digital materials which are placed before the Court, the

same would only fortify the case of prosecution. At this

moment, it would be relevant to refer to the submission

made by the learned Counsel for the accused wherein

it is submitted that as per Ex. P61, the Report of the

FSL Expert is furnished wherein the 4 video files

pertaining to the victim is analyzed and in that the

capture/creation date and time is narrated. By

pointing out to the same, the learned Counsel has

argued that though there is no Metadata available with

respect to the captured device, it does contain the

Metadata of the capture/creation date. It is their

submission that the first three video files were allegedly

created on 23.02.2021 and whereas the fourth file was

created on 21.05.2021. It is their submission that the

fourth file pertained to the alleged incident that had

taken-place at Gannikada and the first three video files

pertains to the incident at Basavanagudi. As per the 412 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 ocular evidence of the victim, the incident at

Gannikada had taken place first and the incident at

Basavanagudi had followed the first incident. Though

the submission once again seems to be fashionable,

the underlining aspect which could be looked into is

such a defence is taken by the accused then it would

invariably fortify the case of prosecution since it would

be nothing but admitting the commission of offence.

Hence, in my humble opinion, the said aspect cannot

be accepted. As rightly argued by the learned SPP by

relying upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Privy Council

reported in 1926 SCC Online PC 60 (Ma Mi Vs.

Kallandar Ammal), it has been held as: 137. In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble Privy

Council has clearly held that the oral evidence of the

contents of the documents must be given by some 414 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 persons who has seen those contents and who has

read the document. The facts and very similar in the

above case since in the instant case also the original

document which is in the form of digital video record is

not to be traced. However, with respect to the incident,

there is positive evidence of the victim herself which is

not shaken throughout the course of cross-

examination and also the same is fortified by the

evidence of the expert and other witnesses. The

evidence of the victim which is rendered in detail and

her self-identification in the video which is also

considered as document would only indicate that the

prosecution has proved their case and the aforesaid

judgment is applicable to the case on hand. Under

the circumstances, the production of the video files

and its extraction from the mobile of PW.10 Karthik

will have to be considered as secondary evidence which

would lend assurance to the case of the prosecution

which is in the form of ocular evidence of the victim. 415 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 On entire consideration of the facts in the above case,

the unerring inference which can be drawn is that the

primary oral evidence of the victim is of sterling quality

and the reasons assigned by her with respect to the

delay caused seems to be reasonable in the wake of

peculiar facts and circumstance of the case and the

prosecution have proved their case beyond reasonable

doubt with respect to committing forcible sexual

intercourse by accused Prajwal Revanna at Gannikada

Farm House who at that point of time was in a

dominion position of control or dominance over the

victim and also the prosecution have proved beyond

reasonable doubt in the wake of the ocular and

scientific evidence which is placed before the court that

the accused Prajwal Revanna had repeated forcible

sexual intercourse with the victim in his bed room on

the third floor at Basavanagudi, Bengaluru, thereby

committing an offence punishable under Sec.376(2)(k) and 376(2)(n) of IPC. 138. Further the prosecution have also

established the fact that the accused had called the

victim into his bed room at Gannikada Farm House

and also at Basavanagudi, Bengaluru, on some

pretexts and had closed the door latched it from inside

and had made sexual overtures towards the victim and

in fact the evidence of PW.1 victim also indicates that

the accused had touched her inappropriately and also

he had disrobed her by using criminal force and

fingered her private parts which would definitely

attract the rigors of Sec.354(A) , 354(B) and 354(C) of

IPC. That apart, the entire evidence also indicates that

the accused Prajwal Revanna had threatened the

victim not to disclose about the incident of forcible

sexual intercourse and had threatened that he would

send the video of the same to her son PW.2 Raju, and

by placing sufficient materials before the court, the

prosecution has established the threat given by the 417 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 accused to keep silent and thereby the rigors of Sec.506 of IPC is also proved beyond reasonable doubt. 139. The prosecution has also proved the fact

that the accused had recorded the act of forcible sexual

intercourse in his mobile phone which could not be

secured/seized and though the accused had feigned

his ignorance of recording the incident or owning a

mobile phone as already discussed above, certain

suggestions were put-forth during the course of cross-

examination by the accused that he had owned Apple

I-phone and also the data collected from Apple.com

would justify the case of the prosecution. Since the

mobile phone was in the custody of the accused, it was

his bounden duty to produce the same and even for the

sake of arguments if it is contended that he had lost

the same, it would have been different. But denial of

possessing the same is falsified by the evidence which

is obtained from Apple.com company and also the 418 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 ocular evidence and it is settled law that taking of false

plea would only add to as an additional circumstance

towards the guilt of the accused is to be considered.

Since the mobile phone was not to be found, the

submission of the prosecution that he had destroyed

the mobile phone to screen the evidence is to be

accepted and accordingly the prosecution has proved

their case beyond reasonable doubt with respect to

commission of offence under Sec.201 of IPC. 140. Last but not the least, the other allegation of

recording the forcible sexual intercourse by accused

Prajwal Revanna is proved beyond reasonable doubt by

the prosecution by placing the digital records before

the court. At this juncture it is relevant to note that the

alleged incidents were captured and recorded by

accused Prajwal Revanna in his mobile phone in order

to pressurize the victim to accede to his request is also

proved by the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt. 419 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Though it is argued that PW.10 Karthik should have

been made as a co-accused, the submission of the

learned SPP that he is already ben arraigned as

accused seems to be justifiable and accordingly the

prosecution has proved their case beyond reasonable

doubt that the accused had committed an offence

punishable under Sec.66(E) of Information Technology

Act 2008. :EPILOGUE: 141. At the end of the sesquipedalian trial, which

comprised of voluminous documents both in physical

and digital form, it is to be noticed that the

Investigating Agency have conducted the investigation

with the assistance of Scientific Experts. The

allegations which were levelled and also the nature of

materials which were required to be collected in the

above case clearly indicates that it is a case of its own

kind wherein explicit and obscene videos of several 420 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 respectable women in the society involving the accused

went viral without the trace of original video/image, the

task of the prosecution was a herculean in nature.

However, the SIT Team formed for investigation of the

aforesaid case are to be appreciated for conducting and

analyzing the digital evidence with the help of forensic

experts and hence it would be appropriate to place

appreciation to the entire SIT Team for their limpid

examination in adopting and utilizing the modern

technology of scientific examination which is really a

welcoming step wherein the scientific examination was

conducted to compare the motif's, environment and

also the superimposition of pictures of the persons

were obtained to lend assurance to the evidence of the

victim. Further the submissions made by the learned

SPP Sri.Ashok Naik and also Sri.Jagadish B.N., with lot

of perspicacity to bring to the light of the prurient act

of accused Prajwal Revanna is to be appreciated. The

SIT Team deserves appreciation for the fact that they 421 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 had utilized the best available scientific methods and

also probably it is first case in the State wherein the

SIT had requested the Forensic Science Laboratory to

super-impose the images of the environment of the

room found in the videos with that of the images which

were captured scientifically during the course of

investigation and also to examine the image patterns,

voice analysis in a scientific manner. The Court also

places appreciation to the assistance rendered by the

learned Senior Counsel Smt.Nalina.M., for her limpid

and dispassionate submissions enlightening on the

various facets of law. :SUMMATION: 142. The prosecution has proved beyond

reasonable doubt the following aspects;

  PW.1 victim had worked as a maid in the

 Gannikada Farm House situated at Moole

 Kalenahalli village, Holenarasipura Taluk, which 422 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 was frequented by the family members of accused

 Prajwal Revanna.  The evidence of PW.1 victim inspires confidence

 with respect to the evidence tendered by her

 about forcible sexual intercourse committed on

 her by the accused Prajwal Revanna at

 Gannikada Farm House, Holenarasipura and also

 at the Basavanagudi House at Bengaluru.

 The prosecution has also proved beyond

 reasonable doubt that during the course of

 committing the forcible sexual intercourse the

 accused had recorded the incident in his mobile

 phone which was later on clandestinely

 transferred by PW.10 Karthik to his Vivo Mobile

 Phone initially and later on to his Samsung

 Galaxy J4 Mobile Phone.  The prosecution has proved beyond reasonable

 doubt about the commission of the incident by

 placing corroborative evidence of the scientific

 experts in the form of DNA Examination Report

 wherein the stains found on the saree and other

 clothes of the victim matched with the DNA

 profiling of accused Prajwal Revanna. The

 prosecution has also proved the digital records in

 the form of videos which were circulated were not

 edited/morphed and also the male and female

 voice found in the videos matched with the

 sample voice of accused Prajwal Revanna and the

 victim. Ergo, I answer points for consideration

 raised above in the AFFIRMATIVE. 143. Point No.9: In view of my findings on point

No.1 to 8, I proceed to pass the following order: 424 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 144. Heard the Learned Special Public

Prosecutors and also the Learned Counsel for accused

persons. 145. The Learned Special Public Prosecutor has

vehemently argued that in the instant case the Court is 425 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 required to appreciate special facts and circumstances

and should weigh the aggravating and mitigating

circumstances. It is his submission that though

aggravating and mitigating facts were to be considered

in the offences which are punishable with death

sentence, the Court is also required to balance the

equities in other cases also. It is argued that in the

instant case the accused Prajwal Revanna was holding

a high position as a public servant and was a Member

of Parliament having control over the dominion over

the victim who was working as maid for monthly salary

in their Farm House. The act of committing forcible

sexual intercourse and thereafter repeating the same

and also recording of the incident to black-mail the

victim and later on being the root cause for circulation

of obscene videos and photographs in the society has

caused irreparable damage to the victim which cannot

be compensated so easily. Further it is submitted that

the accused had made all sort of efforts to escape from 426 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the clutches of law and the fact of misusing his power

is a grave concern which requires to be considered by

the Court very seriously. He has also argued that the

victim is a rustic villager who does not have a social

status or income much like the accused person. He

has argued that the victim though is alive is facing the

trauma everyday in her life and also the fact which

remains is that she has been defamed in the society

due to circulation of video consisting of her forcible

sexual intercourse. He has argued that the prosecution

have adduced evidence to indicate the manner in

which she was ravished wherein the accused had not

left her and shown mercy even when she had begged

with him by touching his feet and stating that she is of

the age of his mother. That apart, he has argued that

there are no mitigating circumstances and even

otherwise the post commission of offence and the

conduct of the accused and his family members are to

be considered. He has argued that the accused had 427 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 run away from the country immediately on circulation

of the videos and the allegation of kidnapping the

victim by his family members are also pending for

consideration and with great difficulty and that too

after initiating process to cancel his diplomatic

Passport, he had returned back to the country. The

learned SPP has also argued that during the entire

course of proceedings, no remorse whatsoever was

shown by the accused and in fact he went on making

allegations against everyone. Sri.Ashok Naik, has also

argued that the Court is also required to take note of

the fact of the economic condition of the victim,

wherein she is unable to obtain any work for her

livelihood as she has been defamed in the society due

to the circulation of the video. As such, he has

requested the Court to impose just and suitable fine of

which the major portion may be awarded to the victim

so as to rehabilitate her life. The learned SPP has relied

upon the following Authorities reported in; 146. By relying upon the same, the Learned

Special Public Prosecutor has requested the court to

award maximum punishment and also to impose

suitable fine on the accused. 147. The learned Senior Counsel Smt.Nalina.M.,

on behalf of the learned Advocate for accused has

argued that the Court is required to take note of the

fact that the accused was the youngest Member of

Parliament and he is a third generation politician who

had joined politics only to serve people. Further it is

her submission that the Court is also required to take

note of the fact that the videos were surfaced only 429 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 during the Parliament elections at 2024. The aforesaid

videos were circulated only to vilify the accused and to

ensure that he was defeated in the elections. It is her

submission that the accused was vilified by media and

all other persons and also the Court is required to take

note on the fact that he is aged about 34 years. 148. The learned Senior Counsel has further

argued that the Court is required to consider the fact

that what loss has been caused to the victim as she is

married and having husband and residing in the

village. Per contra, the accused who was a Member of

Parliament is made to suffer and he has been

incarcerated for the last 14 months. She has argued

that if maximum punishment is awarded, the accused

will be made to languish in incarceration which would

not be proper. That apart, the conduct of the accused

throughout the trial was exemplary and also the Court

may take a lenient view that he has to take care of his

aged grandfather who was the Ex-Prime Minister of the 430 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Country and also his aged parents. Lastly, it is argued

that the accused did not had any criminal antecedents

and not even a single case was registered against him

and accordingly she has requested the Court to impose

minimum sentence as contemplated under law. 149. The accused was also afforded an

opportunity to make his submission with respect to

quantum of sentence. The accused has submitted that

no complaint whatsoever was registered against him

till he ruled Hassan District. He has also argued that

just because he had come-up in politics in a short

span of time, several false allegations are leveled

against him and he has been made to suffer the agony.

The Court had also enquired him with respect to his

educational qualification, wherein he has deposed that

he is a Mechanical Engineering Graduate who had

completed the same with flying colours. Lastly, he has

requested the Court to impose minimum sentence. 431 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 150. Time and again, it has been reiterated by the

Hon'ble Apex Court that in the matters pertaining to

awarding sentence, the court should be cautious and

sift and weigh the factors which are relevant for

arriving at a just conclusion. It is also the cardinal

principle of law that the nature and gravity of the crime

is important than the criminality. The court at the time

of passing an order on quantum of sentence has to

look into the materials in a different manner than that

of the appreciating evidence for passing of judgment.

The court is not against the criminal but against

the criminal act and at the time of considering the

quantum of sentence, the court is required to look into

the manner in which the crime is committed. There is

no specific legislation with respect to passing of

quantum of sentence. However, the parameter which is

required to be considered is based on the case laws

which are required to be looked into. Apart from that

the Hon'ble Apex Court has also held that at the time 432 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of passing of sentence, an exercise has to be made by

the court by pointing the aggravating and mitigating

factors and balance has to be secured in order to arrive

at a conclusion to award appropriate sentence that

could be imposed upon the parties. The settled

principles of law would indicate that matters pertaining

to sexual offences against women have to be

considered from a different yardstick and also with a

sensitive approach, which cannot be equated with any

other ordinary criminal case. By keeping the same in

mind, I have bestowed my anxious reading to the

submissions made by the Learned Counsel for the

accused, Learned Special Public Prosecutor and also

the submissions of the accused person. What could be

the criteria for imposing just and appropriate sentence

is laid down by the Hon'ble Apex court in the judgment

rendered in (2022) 7 SCC 628 (Jaswinder Singh V

Navjot Singh Sidhu) wherein it is held as: 433 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 [ Sumer Singh v. Surajbhan Singh ,
(2014) 7 SCC 323 : (2014) 3 SCC
(Cri) 184] It has, thus, been
observed that the punishment to
be awarded for a crime must not
be irrelevant but it should conform
to and be consistent with the
atrocity and brutality with which
the crime has been perpetrated. [ Ravji v. State of Rajasthan , (1996)
2 SCC 175 : 1996 SCC (Cri) 225] 27. A three-Judge Bench of this
Court in State of
Karnataka v. Krishnappa [State of
Karnataka v. Krishnappa, (2000) 4
SCC 75 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 755] while
discussing the purpose of
imposition of adequate sentence
opined in para 18 that : (SCC p. 83)

"18. ... Protection of society and
deterring the criminal is the
avowed object of law and that is
required to be achieved by
imposing an appropriate
sentence." 28. The sentencing philosophy for
an offence has a social goal that
the sentence has to be based on
the principle that the accused
must realise that the crime
committed by him has not only
created a dent in his life but also
a concavity in the social fabric. [ Shyam Narain v. State (NCT of
Delhi ), (2013) 7 SCC 77 : (2013) 3
SCC (Cri) 1] While opportunity to
reform has to be kept in mind, the
principle of proportionality also
has to be equally kept in mind. 29. Criminal jurisprudence with
the passage of time has laid
emphasis on victimology, which
fundamentally is a perception of a
trial from the viewpoint of the
criminal as well as the victim. Both are viewed in the social
context and, thus, victim's rights
have to be equally protected
[ Rattiram v. State of M.P. , (2012) 4
SCC 516: (2012) 2 SCC (Cri) 481] . It would be useful to rely on the
observations of this Court in Gopal
Singh v. State of
Uttarakhand [Gopal Singh v. State
of Uttarakhand, (2013) 7 SCC
545 : (2013) 3 SCC (Cri) 608] that
just punishment is the collective
cry of the society and while
collective cry has to be kept
uppermost in mind,
simultaneously the principle of
proportionality between the crime
and punishment cannot be totally
brushed aside. Thus, the principle
of just punishment is the bedrock
of sentencing in respect of a
criminal offence. No doubt there
cannot be a straitjacket formula
nor a solvable theory in
mathematical exactitude. An
offender cannot be allowed to be
treated with leniency solely on the
ground of discretion vested in a
court. Similarly, in Alister
Anthony Pareira v. State of
Maharashtra [Alister Anthony
Pareira v. State of Maharashtra,
(2012) 2 SCC 648 : (2012) 1 SCC
(Civ) 848 : (2012) 1 SCC (Cri) 953 : The near and dear ones whether
as guardians or legal heirs are
required to be treated as victims. It was, thus, observed in SCC para
22 as under: 31. In the similar vein in Criminal
Appeal No. 579 of 2022
titled State of
Rajasthan v. Banwari Lal [State of
Rajasthan v. Banwari Lal, (2022)
12 SCC 166 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC
428] , this Court has again
frowned upon the tendency of
courts to reduce the sentence to
the period already undergone. An
earlier judgment of this Court
in Soman v. State of
Kerala [Soman v. State of Kerala,
(2013) 11 SCC 382 : (2012) 4 SCC
(Cri) 1] was referred to, more
specifically para 27, which reads
as under : ( Soman case [ Soman v. State of Kerala ,
(2013) 11 SCC 382 : (2012) 4 SCC
(Cri) 1] , SCC p. 393)

"27.1. Courts ought to base
sentencing decisions on various
different rationales -- most
prominent amongst which would
be proportionality and deterrence.

27.2. The question of
consequences of criminal action
can be relevant from both a
proportionality and deterrence
standpoint. 27.3. Insofar as proportionality is
concerned, the sentence must be
commensurate with the
seriousness or gravity of the
offence. 27.4. One of the factors relevant
for judging seriousness of the
offence is the consequences
resulting from it. 27.5. Unintended
consequences/harm may still be
properly attributed to the offender
if they were reasonably
foreseeable. In case of illicit and
underground manufacture of
liquor, the chances of toxicity are
so high that not only its
manufacturer but the distributor
and the retail vendor would know
its likely risks to the consumer. Hence, even though any harm to
the consumer might not be directly
intended, some aggravated
culpability must attach if the
consumer suffers some grievous
hurt or dies as result of
consuming the spurious liquor." 37. In a nutshell, the aspects of
sentencing and victimology are
reflected in the following ancient
wisdom: It is to be noted that the sentences
 prescribed for offences relatable to
 Section 304 Part I are
 imprisonment for life or up to a
 period of 10 years. It is true that
 no minimum sentence has been
 prescribed. The sentences can be
 compared with prescription of
 similar sentences and other
 provisions like Section 326 IPC
 and Section 307 IPC when hurt is
 caused. Section 304 Part I is a 440 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 species of homicidal death. It is
statutorily described as culpable
homicide though not amounting to
murder as defined under IPC . Taking note of the purpose for
which a sentence is imposed, it
cannot be laid down as a rule of
universal application that a long
passage of time in all cases would
justify minimal sentence. Long
pendency of a matter by itself
could not justify lesser sentence. 11. The law regulates social
interests, arbitrates conflicting
claims and demands. Security of
persons and property of the people
is an essential function of the
State. It could be achieved
through instrumentality of
criminal law. Undoubtedly, there
is a cross-cultural conflict where
living law must find an answer to
the new challenges and the courts
are required to mould the
sentencing system to meet the
challenges. The contagion of
lawlessness would undermine
social order and lay it in ruins. Protection of society and stamping
out criminal proclivity must be the
object of law which must be
achieved by imposing appropriate
sentence. Therefore, law as a
cornerstone of the edifice of
"order" should meet the
challenges confronting the society.
Friedman in his Law in Changing
Society stated that, "State of
criminal law continues to be -- as
it should be -- a decisive reflection
of social consciousness of society." Therefore, in operating the 441 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 sentencing system, law should
adopt the corrective machinery or
the deterrence based on factual
matrix. By deft modulation
sentencing process has to be stern
where it should be, and tempered
with mercy where it warrants to
be. The facts and given
circumstances in each case, the
nature of the crime, the manner in
which it was planned and
committed, the motive for
commission of the crime, the
conduct of the accused, the nature
of weapons used and all other
attending circumstances are
relevant facts which would enter
into the area of consideration. For
instance, a murder committed due
to deep-seated mutual and
personal rivalry may not call for
penalty of death. But an organised
crime or mass murder of innocent
people would call for imposition of
death sentence as deterrence. In Mahesh v. State of M.P. [(1987) 3
SCC 80 : 1987 SCC (Cri) 379 : 82, para 6)

It will be a mockery of justice to
permit the accused to escape the
extreme penalty of law when faced
with such evidence and such cruel
acts. To give the lesser
punishment for the accused would
be to render the justicing system
of the country suspect. The
common man will lose faith in
courts. In such cases, he
understands and appreciates the 442 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 language of deterrence more than
the reformative jargon. 12. Therefore, undue sympathy to
impose inadequate sentence would
do more harm to the justice
system to undermine the public
confidence in the efficacy of law
and society could not long endure
under such serious threats. It is,
therefore, the duty of every court
to award proper sentence having
regard to the nature of the offence
and the manner in which it was
executed or committed etc. This
position was illuminatingly stated
by this Court in Sevaka Perumal v. State of T.N. [(1991) 3 SCC 471 : 13. Criminal law adheres in
general to the principle of
proportionality in prescribing
liability according to the
culpability of each kind of
criminal conduct. It ordinarily
allows some significant discretion
to the Judge in arriving at a
sentence in each case, presumably
to permit sentences that reflect
more subtle considerations of
culpability that are raised by the
special facts of each case. Judges,
in essence, affirm that
punishment ought always to fit
the crime; yet in practice
sentences are determined largely
by other considerations. Sometimes it is the correctional
needs of the perpetrator that are
offered to justify a sentence,
sometimes the desirability of
keeping him out of circulation, 443 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 and sometimes even the tragic
 results of his crime. Inevitably,
 these considerations cause a
 departure from just deserts as the
 basis of punishment and create
 cases of apparent injustice that
 are serious and widespread. 14. Proportion between crime and
 punishment is a goal respected in
 principle, and in spite of errant
 notions, it remains a strong
 influence in the determination of
 sentences. The practice of
 punishing all serious crimes with
 equal severity is now unknown in
 civilized societies, but such a
 radical departure from the
 principle of proportionality has
 disappeared from the law only in
 recent times. Even now for a single
 grave infraction drastic sentences
 are imposed. Anything less than a
 penalty of greatest severity for
 any serious crime is thought then
 to be a measure of toleration that
 is unwarranted and unwise. But in
 fact, quite apart from those
 considerations that make
 punishment unjustifiable when it
 is out of proportion to the crime,
 uniformly disproportionate
 punishment has some very
 undesirable practical
 consequences. 152. In the aforesaid judgment the Hon'ble Apex

Court has clearly held that undue sympathy to impose

inadequate sentence would do more harm to the

justice system to undermine the public confidence in 444 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the efficacy of law and society do not endure such

threats. Once again at the cost of repetition, it is to be

recalled that the above case was a classic case wherein

blatant violation of law and procedures were made by

mighty and powerful people. The question of showing

leniency on the ground that the accused has to take

care of his family members and his grandfather, in my

humble opinion does not augurs well, since his

grandfather is Sitting Member of Parliament of Rajya

Sabha and his father is Sitting MLA in the State of

Karnataka. The Court is also required to take note of

the plight of the victim and also the ignominity which

she has suffered. At the same time, the duty of the

Court is to balance the equities urged. I am also

fortified in this regard by the judgment rendered by the

Hon'ble Apex Court in (2006) 10 SCC 673 ( Siddarama

and others Vs. State of Karnataka ) wherein it is held as

follows:- State of T.N. [(1991) 3 SCC 471 : 153. By relying upon the aforesaid authorities,

the Court is required to prepare a chart consisting of

aggravating and mitigating circumstances. The

following aggravating factors can be noticed in the

instant case. 154. Aggravating Factors: 155. Mitigating Factors: 156. By looking into the aforesaid aggravating

and mitigating factors and also on consideration of the

materials which has been produced before the Court, it

indicates that the act of accused person could be

construed as an offence which is committed towards 451 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 the society at large wherein in our traditional Indian

society, women are worshiped and in fact from time

immemorial, it has been held that the god will reside in

the place where women are worshiped. However, in the

instant case, the allegation of committing an offence

against women at large cannot be considered lightly

since the accused was in a dominant position being a

Member of Parliament. Further, the maxim "Nullum

crimen sine lege" which means, the principle of

legality in the rule of construing criminal statute is to

be in favour of citizens and also the approach towards

the social welfare. The important aspect of offences

committed against women is to be emphasized with the

gravity of the harm caused to the society and also the

nature of the offences themselves. In many instances,

the gravity of the offence cannot be easily deciphered

and same requires to be considered in a manner which

would indicate the mode of execution in secrecy by

shrewd and snollygoster person with sophisticated 452 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 means. Time and again, it has been held by the

Hon'ble Apex Court that the cry of the victim is also to

be appreciated at the time of imposing punishment. In

the instant case, the society at large is to be considered

as the main victim due to the act committed by the

accused person. 157. In the instant case, as noticed from records,

the victim is a rustic innocent villager who had come in

search of her job and as rightly argued by the learned

SPP they were not in a position even to bargain for

their salary and ultimately they had settled down to

stay in the Farm House for a meager sum of

Rs.10,000/- per month for their entire family. It is also

relevant to note the submission of the learned Senior

Counsel about the fact that what is being suffered by

the victim due to the incident. It is appropriate to note

that for women, her chastity is the most precious jewel

which she embraces till her last breath. Time and

again, the Hon'ble Apex Court has come down heavily 453 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 upon the acts wherein casual remarks are passed with

respect to the survivals of the sexual offences.

Probably for that reason the Hon'ble Apex Court has

held that at any stretch of imagination the rape victim

cannot be considered as an accomplice. In my humble

opinion, the act of committing forcible sexual

intercourse on the victim repeatedly would be more

than committing of murder since in matters pertaining

to murder, a person will die once, however in case of

sexual offences like rape, she will be made to suffer

throughout her life, more so on each and every

moment of her life. In my humble opinion, committing

of sexual offences against maid and other women in

the society by showing disdain towards them due to

their economic condition is a grave offence which

cannot be brushed aside lightly and such kind of a

conduct cannot be accepted as a normal one. It is to be

kept in mind of the apt quote of Lord Denning wherein 454 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 it is stated as "Be ye never so high, the law is above

you". 158. Though the accused person at this juncture

claims to take care of aged parents who are suffering

from various ailments, the same will not be a

mitigating factor. In this regard, the court has relied

upon the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court reported in

AIR 1996 SC 361 ( A. Wati Ao vs The State Of Manipur ),

wherein it has been held as follows: According to us, none of these
 factors (except the last, to some 455 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 extent) make out a case for
awarding sentence less than the
minimum prescribed by the
aforesaid Act - the same being
imprisonment for one year. The
fact that the appellant is a senior
IAS Officer really requires a
serious view of the matter to be
taken, instead of soft dealing. The
fact that he has a number of
dependents and is going to lose
his job are irrelevant
considerations inasmuch as in
almost every case a person found
guilty would have dependents and
if he be a public servant, he would
lose his job. The present being the
first offence is also an irrelevant
consideration. Though the delay
has some relevance, but as in
cases of the present nature,
investigation itself takes time and
then the trial is prolonged,
because of the type of evidence to
be adduced and number of the
witnesses to be examined, we do
not think that the fact of delay of
about five years could have been a
ground to award the sentence of
imprisonment till rising of the
court, which really makes a
mockery of the whole exercise. We,
however, think that the delay does
require some reduction from the
minimum prescribed; and on the
facts of this case, ends of justice
would be met, according to us, if
at this length of time, pursuant to
notice of enhancement issued by
this Court, a sentence of
imprisonment for six months is
awarded." 159. In the above said judgment, Hon'ble Apex

Court has held that the conviction of IAS Officer

charged with misuse of office could not be let of

leniently since it would give an wrong message to the

society at large. Even in the instant case, the act of the

accused persons are to be viewed seriously. 160. In Halsbury's Laws of England, Fifth

Edition, Page No.766, Para No.649, it has been laid

down as follows: 161. In the instant case it is noticed that the

allegations against the accused which is leveled was

when he was enjoying power. The question of

commission of an offence by a Legislator is a serious

aspect which is to be taken note of. In fact, the society

looks at legislature with a fond hope of transforming

the society. They are the supreme Authority of making

laws towards the welfare of the citizenry. The concept

of supremacy of law [Dharma] was laid down in Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, wherein it is held as; 162. Which means the law (Dharma) is the king

of kings. No one is superior to the law (Dharma); the

law (Dharma) aided by the power of the king enables

the weak to prevail over the strong. Further Rape of 458 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 any kind and on any one is an anathema in a civilized

society which would totally deprive the victim of her

normal life. Even in the instant case, the Court has

also taken note of the fact that the video was being

circulated and watched by several persons across the

country and also the fate of the victim and the

ignonimity which she is required to undergo due to the

horrendous act. Further law after all is an instrument

which aims at social order and aberrant elements

would inherently destroy the social fabric of the

society. That apart, the Court has also taken note of

the financial condition of the victim and also the

accused person. The victim is a poor daily wage

labourer who is now being made to suffer due to the

horrendous act and she would not be in a position to

obtain daily employment in the masculine dominated

world wherein several male chauvinism will be

subjected to her. It is nothing but the duty of the Court

and also society at large to suitably compensate the 459 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 victim for suffering such ignonimity. In this regard, I

have also looked into various dictum of the Hon'ble

Apex Court, wherein it is specifically directed that the

Court is required to pass suitable order towards

compensating the victim as per Sec.357-A of Cr.P.C. In

this regard, it is noticed that awarding of compensation

shall not be shouldered upon the State for the reason

that the accused is quite capable and economically

stable. What would be the just compensation that can

be awarded is a question which requires being

determined. I have also considered the Authority of the

Hon'ble Apex Court reported in (2013)6 SCC 770

(Ankush Shivaji Gayakwad Vs.sowmya State of

Mahabharata), wherein a duty has been casted upon

the Court to mandatorily award just and appropriate

compensation which is noticed as below: In Maya Devi v. Raj Kumari Batra [Maya
Devi v. Raj Kumari Batra, (2010) 9 SCC
486 : (2010) 3 SCC (Civ) 842] this Court
held that the disclosure of application of
mind is best demonstrated by recording
reasons in support of the order or
conclusion. The Court observed : (SCC p.
495, paras 28-30)
"28. ... There is nothing like a power
without any limits or constraints. That is
so even when a court or other authority
may be vested with wide discretionary
power, for even discretion has to be
exercised only along well recognised and
sound juristic principles with a view to
promoting fairness, inducing
transparency and aiding equity. 29. What then are the safeguards against
an arbitrary exercise of power? The first
and the most effective check against any
such exercise is the well-recognised legal
principle that orders can be made only
after due and proper application of mind.
Application of mind brings reasonableness
not only to the exercise of power but to the
ultimate conclusion also. Application of
mind in turn is best demonstrated by
disclosure of the mind. And disclosure is
best demonstrated by recording reasons in
support of the order or conclusion. 30. Recording of reasons in cases where
the order is subject to further appeal is
very important from yet another angle. An
appellate court or the authority ought to
have the advantage of examining the
reasons that prevailed with the court or
the authority making the order. Conversely, absence of reasons in an
appealable order deprives the appellate 461 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 court or the authority of that advantage
 and casts an onerous responsibility upon
 it to examine and determine the question
 on its own." (emphasis supplied) 66. To sum up : while the award or refusal
 of compensation in a particular case may
 be within the court's discretion, there
 exists a mandatory duty on the court to
 apply its mind to the question in every
 criminal case. Application of mind to the
 question is best disclosed by recording
 reasons for awarding/refusing
 compensation. It is axiomatic that for any
 exercise involving application of mind, the
 Court ought to have the necessary
 material which it would evaluate to arrive
 at a fair and reasonable conclusion. It is
 also beyond dispute that the occasion to
 consider the question of award of
 compensation would logically arise only
 after the court records a conviction of the
 accused. Capacity of the accused to pay
 which constitutes an important aspect of
 any order under Section 357 CrPC would
 involve a certain enquiry albeit summary
 unless of course the facts as emerging in
 the course of the trial are so clear that
 the court considers it unnecessary to do
 so. Such an enquiry can precede an order
 on sentence to enable the court to take a
 view, both on the question of sentence and
 compensation that it may in its wisdom
 decide to award to the victim or his/her
 family. 163. Before parting it would be appropriate to

quote the apt words extracted from Raja Dharma with 462 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 lessons on Raja Neeti by Justice Dr.M.Rama Jois,

which is extracted; Which means Dharma protects those who protect

it, those who destroy Dharma get destroyed.

Therefore, Dharma should not be destroyed so that we

may not be destroyed as a consequence thereof. As

such, it would not be appropriate to accept the version

of the accused person to show leniency. In fact, no

grounds are pointed out in the above case that why

maximum sentence should not be awarded to the

accused person Ergo, I proceed to pass the following; hereby convicted for the offence under Section 376(2)(k) of IPC., and accused is
 hereby sentenced to undergo imprisonment
 for life and imposed with a fine of 463 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs only) and
in default of payment of fine, he shall
undergo a Simple Imprisonment for a period
of One Year. The accused Prajwal Revanna is
hereby convicted for the offence under Section 376(2)(n) of IPC., and accused is
hereby sentenced to undergo imprisonment
for life which shall mean imprisonment for
the reminder of that person's natural life
and imposed with a fine of Rs.5,00,000/-
(Rupees Five Lakhs only) and in default of
payment of fine, he shall undergo a Simple
Imprisonment for a period of One Year. The accused Prajwal Revanna is
hereby convicted for the offence under Section 354-A of IPC., and accused is
hereby sentenced to undergo Rigorous
Imprisonment for a period of Three Years
and imposed with a fine of Rs.25,000/-
(Rupees Twenty Five Thousand only) and in
default of payment of fine, he shall undergo 464 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 a Simple Imprisonment for a period of Six
Months. The accused Prajwal Revanna is
hereby convicted for the offence under Section 354-B of IPC., and accused is
hereby sentenced to undergo Rigorous
Imprisonment for a period of Seven Years
and imposed with a fine of Rs.50,000/-
(Rupees Fifty Thousand only) and in default
of payment of fine, he shall undergo a
Simple Imprisonment for a period of Six
Months. The accused Prajwal Revanna is
hereby convicted for the offence under Section 354-C of IPC., and accused is
hereby sentenced to undergo Rigorous
Imprisonment for a period of Three Years
and imposed with a fine of Rs.25,000/-
(Rupees Twenty Five Thousand only) and in
default of payment of fine, he shall undergo
a Simple Imprisonment for a period of Six
Months. The accused Prajwal Revanna is
hereby convicted for the offence under Section 506 of IPC., and accused is hereby
sentenced to undergo Rigorous
Imprisonment for a period of Two Years and
imposed with a fine of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees
Ten Thousand only) and in default of
payment of fine, he shall undergo a Simple
Imprisonment for a period of Three Months. The accused Prajwal Revanna is
hereby convicted for the offence under Section 201 of IPC., and accused is hereby
sentenced to undergo Rigorous
Imprisonment for a period of Three Years
and imposed with a fine of Rs.25,000/-
(Rupees Twenty Five Thousand only) and in
default of payment of fine, he shall undergo
a Simple Imprisonment for a period of Six
Months. The accused Prajwal Revanna is hereby
convicted for the offence under Section 66(E) of
Information and Technology Act, 2000, and
accused is hereby sentenced to undergo
Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of Three 466 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Years and imposed with a fine of Rs.25,000/-
(Rupees Twenty Five Thousand only) and in
default of payment of fine, he shall undergo a
Simple Imprisonment for a period of Six
Months. Acting under Section 357(A) of Cr.P.C.,
suitable compensation requires to be ordered to
the victim i.e., PW.1 and out of the fine amount
Rs.11,25,000/- (Rupees Eleven Lakhs Twenty
Five Thousand only) is awarded as
compensation to the victim and the remaining
amount stands forfeited to the State. MO.1 to 8 being worthless, are ordered to
be destroyed on completion of the appeal period
and in the event of preferring the appeal the
same shall be destroyed only on the disposal of
the appeal. MO.9 Mobile is hereby ordered to be
confiscated to the State. It is hereby made clear that even if the
accused undergoes the default sentence, he will
not be absolved of his liability to pay fine
amount in view of the provisos to Sub-Section
(1) of Sec.421 of Cr.P.C. The substantive 467 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 sentences of imprisonment shall run
 concurrently. The accused is not given any set-off since
 he was not in custody in the above case and
 was secured under body warrant. Send the copy of this Judgment and
 sentence to the District Magistrate concerned
 as per Sec.365 of Cr.P.C. Office is hereby directed to furnish the
 copy of the Judgment to the accused forthwith.

 (Dictated to Stenographer Grade-I, transcribed by
her, revised and corrected by me and then pronounced
in open court on 2nd day of August, 2025)

 (SANTHOSH GAJANAN BHAT)
 LXXXI Addl. City Civil & Sessions Judge,
 Bengaluru City (CCH-82)
 (Special Court exclusively to deal with criminal
 cases related to former and elected MPs/ MLAs
 in the State of Karnataka)

 ANNEXURES 1. Witnesses examined on behalf of the prosecution; 2. Witnesses examined by the defence/accused.: Nil 3. Documents exhibited by the prosecution: Ex.P107(a) Signature of Rathnamma
Ex.P108 Official Memorandum
Ex.P109 Notice
Ex.P109(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P110 Mahazar
Ex.P110(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P111 Covering letter with sketch 476 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Ex.P112 Requisition dated 21.05.2024
Ex.P113 Requisition
Ex.P113(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P114 Notice
Ex.P114(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P115 Letter
Ex.P115(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P116 Letter
Ex.P117 Requisition
Ex.P118 Letter
Ex.P118(a) Certificate
Ex.P119 Letter
Ex.P.119(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P120 Letter
Ex.P121 Certified copy of Orders
Ex.P122 Requisition letter to the Tahashildar
Ex.P122(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P123 Voice samples
Ex.P123(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P124 Covering letter
Ex.P125 Letter dated 07.06.2024
Ex.P126 42nd ACMM Voice samples, certified copy 477 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 of order sheet
Ex.P127 Letter dated 12.06.2025
Ex.P127(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P128 Letter dated 13.06.2025
Ex.P129 PF No.43/2024
Ex.P129(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P130 Letter dated 14.06.2024
Ex.P130(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P131 Certified copy of Orders of ACMM Court
Ex.P132 Letter dated 14.06.2024
Ex.P133 Letter dated 14.06.2024
Ex.P134 Letter dated 16.06.2024
Ex.P134(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P135 Letter dated 18.06.2024
Ex.P135(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P136 Letter dated 20.06.2024
Ex.P137 Sony DVD PF No.47/2024
Ex.P137(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P138 Letter dated 01.07.2024
Ex.P138(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P139 Letter dated 15.07.2024
Ex.P140 Certificate U/s.65-B of Evidence Act 478 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Ex.P141 Appointment of PW.10 Karthik as Driver
 of the accused
Ex.P142 Test Report
Ex.P143 PF No.58/2024
Ex.P143(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P144 Letter dated 01.08.2024
Ex.P144(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P145 Certificate U/s.65-B of Evidence Act
Ex.P146 C.D.
Ex.P147 Letter dated 12.08.2024
Ex.P148 Letter dated 13.08.2024
Ex.P149 Certified copy of the order of 42nd ACMM
 Court, Bengaluru
Ex.P150 Covering letter dated 14.08.2024 issued
 by the BBMP regarding Khatha Extract
Ex.P1New Letter dated 17.08.2024
Folder51
Ex.P152 Notice dated 19.08.2024
Ex.P152(a) Signature
Ex.P153 PF No.62/2024
Ex.P153(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P154 Letter dated 19.08.2024
Ex.P155 FSL Acknowledgment
Ex.P156 P.F.No.64/2024 479 Spl.CC.No.2627/2024 Ex.P156(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P157 Letter dated 22.08.2024
Ex.P158 Letter dated 22.08.2024
Ex.P159 Account opening form and statement of
 account relating to accused
Ex.P160 Letter dated 27.08.2024
Ex.P161 Letter dated 02.09.2024
Ex.P162 Certificate U/s.65(B) of Evidence Act
Ex.P163 Report with hash value and path
Ex.P164 to Photographs
Ex.P175
Ex.P176 Certificate U/s.65-B of Evidence Act
Ex.P177 Certificate U/s.65-B of Evidence Act
Ex.P178 P.F.No.65/2024
Ex.P178(a) Signature of PW.26
Ex.P179 Acknowledgment dated 24.09.2024
Ex.P180 Letter dated 04.11.2024 4. List of Material Objects marked by the prosecution:- One pink colour saree with black border
 One cream colour saree with navy blue
 colour border
 One pink colour petticoat
 One green colour petticoat
MO.8 Hair Sample
MO.9 Samsung Mobile phone 5. Documents exhibited by the Defence/Accused:- LXXXI Addl. City Civil & Sessions Judge,
 Bengaluru City (CCH-82)
 (Special Court exclusively to deal with criminal
 cases related to elected former and sitting
 MPs/MLAs in the State of Karnataka) Digitally signed by SANTHOSHGAJANANABHAT SANTHOSHGAJANANABHAT Date: 2025.08.04 12:08:53 +0530