1. Regular Bail Application under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as ' Cr.PC ') ( Section 483 of the
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023) (hereinafter referred to as
 'B.N.S.S.') has been filed on behalf of the Applicant/Pradeep Rana in FIR
 No. 139/2022 under Sections 420 / 409 / 468 / 471 read with Section 120B of
 the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as ' IPC ') registered at
 Police Station EOW, New Delhi. 2. It is submitted that the Applicant had applied for Regular Bail before
 the learned ASJ, which has been dismissed on 06.08.2025 while ignoring
 and overlooking the factual aspects particularly that the Investigating
 Agency had adopted a stereotypical story. 3. The Applicant has been implicated falsely by the Complainant. The
 learned ASJ has not considered the entire Trial Court Record and has failed
 to appreciate the investigations and the Chargesheet. Also, change of
 circumstances of the filing of the Supplementary Chargesheet against the
 Applicant, after the dismissal of the first Bail Application on 03.07.2025,
 has also not been considered. 4. It is submitted that the Applicant is a law abiding and peace loving
 citizen of India and is innocent. The Charge-Sheet already stands filed and
 the total facts as have been collected during the investigations, suggest only
 the false implication of the Applicant. The Applicant is a victim of
 manipulated tactics of Investigating Agency and has been implicated on
 totally false and twisted facts, which do not have an iota of truth. He has no Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS ARORA BAIL APPL.3363/2025 Page 2 of 13 Signing Date:08.10.2025 19:25:57 criminal antecedents and has been made a scapegoat in the alleged offence
 despite there being no direct or indirect involvement. The allegations against
 the Applicant are based on assumptions and presumptions, unsupported by
 cogent evidence. 5. The brief facts of the case are that the Applicant was working with
 the Complainant Company i.e. TATA AIG Insurance Company as Chief
 Manager till 27.10.2021. During his tenure, he had worked with utmost
 sincerity and achieved all the targets as assigned to him by the Company.
 He used to handle claims of Gurgaon Branch. He was assigned a financial
 authority to approve the claims upto Rs.5,00,000/-. He used to collect
 Report from the Internal as well as External surveyors empanelled by
 Corporate office of TATA AIG and used to put the data received from them
 in the system, for approval of his superior. No physical verification was
 allowed during the Covid-19 period and this Rule was mandatory for all the
 Examiners, as per the guidelines of Complainant Company. 6. A Complaint was made by a whistle-blower about certain
 irregularities in processing fraudulent accident claims of vehicles which
 were insured with the Complainant Company. It was alleged that fake
 claims have been passed by the Company officials in connivance with the
 Workshop owners, causing loss to the Complainant Company. 7. The Applicant submits that he had approved certain of vehicles
 insured with the Complainant Company favouring/benefitting the Car
 Garages which are asserted to be allegedly fraudulent since the Firms
 purportedly did not exist. 8. The Applicant submits that prior to registration of the FIR, the
 Complainant Company had constituted an Internal Investigation Committee. The Petitioner had joined the enquiry in response to the Show Cause Notice
 and had given due reply and joined further investigations. However, to
 pressurize the Applicant, he was falsely implicated in the present FIR. 9. It is submitted that significantly no Policy holder whose Insurance
 Policies were allegedly used for making false claims in respect of luxury
 cars, has been named as an accused either in the FIR or in the Chargesheet.
 This strongly indicates that the present case has been directed only against
 the employees of the Complainant Company while the actual beneficiaries
 namely the Garage Owners, Policy Holders and Surveyors have not been
 proceeded against. 10. During the course of investigation, neither any documentary evidence
 nor any incriminating material, had been recovered or brought on record
 against the Applicant. The circumstances clearly points towards his
 innocence. 11. After the registration of the FIR, the Applicant was called for the first
 time in February, 2025 and thereafter, on 14.04.2025. Despite fully
 cooperating with the I.O, he was arrested on 14.04.2025 from EOW office
 and since then he is in Judicial Custody. Reliance is placed on Arnesh
 Kumar vs. State of Bihar , (2014) 6 SCC 219, which mandates strict
 compliance with Section 41 and 41A Cr.P.C. before arrest. Reliance is also
 placed on Satender Kumar Antil vs. CBI , 2022 Livelaw SC 577. 12. It is further submitted that the evidence in the case is entirely
 documentary and the same has already been seized during the investigation
 and filed along with the Chargesheet. There is no further necessity for
 custodial interrogation or further investigation of the Applicant. The
 similarly placed co-accused Deepak Kumar who has been attributed Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS ARORA BAIL APPL.3363/2025 Page 4 of 13 Signing Date:08.10.2025 19:25:57 identical role as Applicant, has already been granted regular Bail vide Order
 dated 18.06.2025. 13. The Applicant further submits that he had been acting solely upon the
 Surveyor's Report and had been evaluating them for either processing or for
 approval. 14. It is further submitted that the Applicant is 41 years old and was
 working as Chief Manager in the Complainant Company. He acted under
 the instructions of his senior officials namely Mr. Naveen Chikara, Vice
 President and Mr. Ditesh Anand, Associate Vice President and had no
 independent role in initiating or finalizing any claim. The Applicant had
 continued in service till his resignation on account of his deteriorating
 health. During the entire period, he has not tampered with any evidence and
 extended due cooperation during the investigations. 15. The allegations of forgery and criminal conspiracy, are wholly
 unsubstantiated. The Chargesheet fails to establish that any financial benefit
 was received by the Applicant and no alleged misappropriated funds have
 been traced to his Accounts. 16. The statement of one Sombir Poonia, Surveyor accusing the
 Applicant of forgery in Claim No.821300037A, is self-serving and
 uncorroborated. Notably, he did not lodge any Complaint when the incident
 allegedly occurred. The I.O has failed to produce any documents which
 purportedly bear the forged signatures/stamps. In any case, it is matter of
 trial as no FSL Report for any forgery of stamps or signatures has been
 received till date. 17. The Chargesheet is incomplete and selective and the Applicant has
 not been supplied with key documents relied upon by the Prosecution and a Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS ARORA BAIL APPL.3363/2025 Page 5 of 13 Signing Date:08.10.2025 19:25:57 half page Chargesheet, cannot be considered as complete evidence against
 the Applicant. The entire evidence is documentary in nature and all
 documents were uploaded and remained in the custody of the Complainant's
 portal which cannot be tampered, and has already been filed along with the
 Chargesheet. The documents are all in possession of the I.O. 18. There is no necessity of custodial interrogation or continued detention
 of the Applicant. The Applicant had no role in verifying KYC documents
 nor any control or authority to onboard any Garages which subsisted with
 Naveen Chikara, Vice President and Ditesh Anand, Associate Vice
 President, who are the senior officials of the Complainant Company and
 further verification about the existence of the said Garages solely comes
 within the purview of these Senior Officers. 19. Furthermore, as per the Instructions/Directions/Rules from IRDAI, for
 the claims above Rs.50,000/- the Examiner was required to appoint internal
 or external Surveyor for verification of genuineness of Claims raised by the
 Complainant. The Applicant was only to evaluate the Surveyor's Report
 over Complainant portal for finalization by uploading the Claim files after
 they were examined and forwarded to him by the authorized Surveyors. 20. The I.O. has filed a list showing the Applicant as examiner in the
 alleged Claims, but the Applicant was neither an Examiner nor he processed
 any Claims nor forwarded them for approval and nor were those claims
 approved. He had no association or relationship with any of the Garages
 involved and he did not conspire with the co-accused persons. There is no
 evidence to establish the conspiracy. 21. The Applicant submits that he never had any domain or entrustment
 over the Company funds, but was merely processing Claims with Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS ARORA BAIL APPL.3363/2025 Page 6 of 13 Signing Date:08.10.2025 19:25:57 supervisory approvals. He has deep roots in the Society and a permanent
 resident. He has a wife and school going children and an ailing mother of
 71 years. 22. Moreover, the continued incarceration would amount to pre-trial
 punishment which is violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India.
 There are 38 prosecution witnesses in the main Chargesheet and 10 in the
 Supplementary Chargesheet. The trial is likely to take considerable time. 23. Reliance is place on Sanjay Chandra vs. CBI , (2012) 1 SCC 40; State
 of Rajasthan vs. Balchand , (1977) 4 SCC 308; Amit Agrawal vs. State of
 NCT of Delhi & Ors., Bail Application No.4475/2024 & Crl . M.A.36662/2024; Bibhav Kumar vs. State of NCT of Delhi, 2024 SCC
 OnLine SC 2646; R. Vasudevan vs. CBI 2010 (1) JCC 642; H.B. Chaturvedi
 vs. CBI , 2010 (3) JCC 2109; P. Chadambaram vs. CBI , (2020) 13 SCC 337 24. In the end, it is submitted that the Applicant is willing to abide by any
 terms and conditions that may be imposed upon him and also undertakes not
 to tamper any evidence or to hamper the trial in any manner. 25. A prayer is made that he may be granted Bail. 26. The Status Report has been submitted on behalf of the State,
 wherein it has been explained that the Complainant had alleged that six
 Garage Operators located in Delhi NCR region, in collusion with four
 former employees of Complainant Company, 3 IRDAI licensed External
 Surveyors and some Policyholders had submitted fake Repair Invoices for
 damaged vehicles, which in fact were actually never repaired. The
 Complainant Company was induced to make payments against these
 fraudulent Claims, causing a loss to the tune of Rs.30 crores to the Company
 and illegal gains to the perpetrator. 27. An enquiry was conducted by EOW. During the investigations, the
 following facts emerged : 28. Based on these evidences, the present FIR was registered. 29. The role of the Applicant as described in the Status Report, is that he
 along with other employees of the Complainant Company was involved in
 manipulation of the digital claim approval system "I CAN", where the
 examiner, a Company employee is the first custodian of the Claim and is
 required to exercise due diligence in claim processing, coordinate with
 surveyors and verify all supporting documents before claim
 initiation/approval. 30. It was revealed during the investigation that the Applicant a former
 employee of the Complainant, had initiated 72 such fraudulent Claims under
 scrutiny. He was arrested after collection of sufficient incriminating
 material against him. His one day Police Custody was granted for custodial
 interrogation. 31. During the investigations, it emerged that the signatures of IRDAI
 licensed Surveyor Mr. Sombir Poonia were forged on 34 Claims by the
 official staff of the Surveyor was misused to authenticate fraudulent
 Surveyor's Reports. The Applicant had initiated of 34 Claim Files, and
 forgery in signatures and stamps in respect of these Claims is clearly
 attributable to him. Although, no direct monetary benefit could be traced to
 the bank account of the Applicant, his role in facilitating and processing
 fraudulent Claims is fully established and remains under detailed
 investigation. 32. The role of senior TATA AIG officials and the secondary
 beneficiaries of the fraudulent disbursement of Insurance Money, is still
 ongoing. Additional digital forensic data, audit trails and financial linkages
 are being examined. In view of magnitude of fraud and the possibility of Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS ARORA BAIL APPL.3363/2025 Page 9 of 13 Signing Date:08.10.2025 19:25:57 tampering with the evidence at this critical stage of investigation, the Bail
 Application is opposed. 33. Learned counsel for the Applicant has explained that there was a loss
 of more than Rs.30 crores caused due to fraudulent processing of the
 Insurance claims in respect of the vehicle. There were in all 102 bogus
 insurance claims. 34. The modus operandi involved four tiers, the first being the four
 employees of the Insurance Company; at the second level were the
 Insurance Surveyors; at third level were the Garage Owners; and at the
 fourth level were the Insured. The fake incidents were reported by the
 insured to the Garage owners who were in fact, ghost Garage and existed
 only on paper. 35. It is contended that there was no fraud committed by the Applicant
 who had discharged his duty, with due diligence. 36. Reply has been filed by the Complainant Company/TATA AIG
 Insurance Company. 37. It is submitted that the Applicant was named in the FIR and is one of
 the main culprits involved in the deep-rooted conspiracy to illegally siphon
 off public money from the coffers of the Complainant Company. 38. The said conspiracy involved, four senior employees of the
 complainant; garage owners empanelled with the complainant; IRDAI
 licensed surveyors; and the owners/insured of the vehicles which were high
 end vehicles such as BMW, Mercedes, Audi, etc. 39. It is further submitted that the Applicant, who is a former senior
 employee of the Company has on investigation, found to be one of the main Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS ARORA BAIL APPL.3363/2025 Page 10 of 13 Signing Date:08.10.2025 19:25:57 protagonist of the crime and is involved in the conspiracy of siphoning of
 more than Rs. 23 Crores of public money. 40. The first supplementary Charge-Sheet records that the Applicant
 along with others was instrumental in processing at least 377 times out of
 the total 593 bogus claims. 41. It is submitted that in the first supplementary Charge-Sheet, it prima
 facie appears that the Applicant has forged signatures of an internal
 surveyor. It also records that the Applicant has been instrumental in showing
 two examiners in the system who were never appointed as examiners. 42. It is further submitted that the Applicant is a repeat offender having
 been involved directly in examining and approving dozens of forged claims
 raised by garage owners and is also involved in collusion and connivance
 with other accused persons. 43. Further, the money trail in respect of the crime has not yet been
 established. There is a real apprehension that the Applicant will tamper and
 destroy tangible evidence if granted Bail. It is submitted that the Applicant's
 active role in duping the Complainant of at least Rs.23 Crores, the
 underlying scam and conspiracy, and potential to influence witnesses - all
 are important factors to dismissed the Bail Application.
 Submissions heard and the record perused. 44. The Applicant was Chief Manager in the Complainant Company. The
 prosecution has asserted that the role of the Applicant/Pradeep Rana, in the
 present matter is central to the fraudulent activity identified within the
 digital Claim Approval System "I_CAN" of the Complainant
 Company/TATA AIG. As a former employee and Examiner, Pradeep Rana
 was entrusted with the initial custody of insurance claims, bearing the Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS ARORA BAIL APPL.3363/2025 Page 11 of 13 Signing Date:08.10.2025 19:25:57 responsibility to exercise due diligence, coordinate with surveyors, and
 verify all supporting documents prior to the initiation or approval of any
 claim. During the investigation, it was revealed that he had initiated 72
 fraudulent claims that are currently under scrutiny. 45. From the investigations, essentially it is Mr. Naveen Chikkara,
 President of the Company, who has been identified as main kingpin of the
 fraud, who has till date, not been arrested. 46. The co-accused, Deepak Kumar, who had a role similar to that of the
 Applicant, has also been granted Bail vide Order dated 18.06.2025 by the
 learned ASJ. 47. In the case of Himansh alias Himanshu Verma vs. Directorate of
 Enforcement , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 4697, the Apex Court in similar
 circumstances where the main accused was not arrested, granted Bail to the
 co-accused. 48. The investigations have already been completed against the
 Applicant, which essentially rests on the documentary evidence, which has
 been already collected and filed along with the Charge-Sheet. No further
 custodial detention is merited as the investigations against him, stands
 concluded. 49. He is in Judicial Custody since 16.04.2025. His conduct of having
 remained available all throughout the internal enquiry done by the
 Complainant and his full participation therein, cannot be overlooked. 50. Considering his conduct, nature of allegations and that the Charge-
 Sheet/Supplementary Charge-Sheet has already been filed against him, the
 Applicant/Pradeep Rana is admitted to Regular Bail on his furnishing a
 Personal Bond in the sum of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand Only) Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS ARORA BAIL APPL.3363/2025 Page 12 of 13 Signing Date:08.10.2025 19:25:57 with one surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of learned Trial Court
 and on the following conditions: 51. The Bail Application is disposed of accordingly. (NEENA BANSAL KRISHNA)
 JUDGE
 OCTOBER 08, 2025/va Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS ARORA BAIL APPL.3363/2025 Page 13 of 13 Signing Date:08.10.2025 19:25:57