DINESH KUMAR SHARMA,J : scale money laundering, wherein public money was looted through
 apps such as Power Bank App, Tesla Power Bank App, Ezplan, etc., by
 luring people with the promise of doubling their money in a short
 period. Initially, the public received 10-15% of the deposited amount as
 interest; however, after some time, they stopped receiving any money,
 and the executives of these apps became inaccessible. Allegedly, the
 money deposited by the public was further transferred to the bank
 accounts of various shell entities through payment gateways such as CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 2 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 PayU and Razorpay, as well as through regular banking channels. The
 Special Cell, Delhi Police, also filed a chargesheet on 29.07.2021 in
 FIR No. 141/2021 dated 29.05.2021. It was stated that the proceeds of
 crime (PoC) of approximately Rs. 250 crores were collected through
 the Razorpay payment gateway from more than 5 lakh victims in this
 cheating and fraud case. The Special Cell chargesheeted around 15
 people, and 59 bank accounts were frozen. The chargesheet also
 alleged that some Chinese nationals were the masterminds behind the
 Power Bank App fraud and that, in conspiracy with local individuals,
 including some CA/CS professionals, they formed companies,
 appointed directors, opened bank and payment gateway accounts, and
 arranged SIM cards. Allegedly, the chargesheeted individuals and
 others assisted the Chinese nationals in conspiring to induce innocent
 people to invest their hard-earned money through online apps and
 websites like Power Bank App, Tesla Power Bank App, and Ezplan. 4. Pursuant to the filing of the chargesheet, some of the offences were
 classified as scheduled offences, prompting the Directorate of
 Enforcement (ED) to begin an investigation under the Prevention of
 Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, and register ECIR-No.
 ECIR/20/HIU/2021. During the course of the investigation, the ED
 discovered that, from August 2020 to June 2021, various shell
 companies such as M/s. Diyabati Technology Pvt Ltd, M/s. Maojaza
 Technology Pvt Ltd, M/s. Sumyth Technologies Pvt Ltd, etc. (first-
 layer entities), were either formed or acquired by Chinese nationals
 with the assistance of Indian nationals. The bank accounts of these CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 3 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 first-layer shell companies were then used to collect money from the
 public, and this money, obtained through fraudulent means, was further
 layered and laundered through several bank accounts of other dummy
 entities, such as M/s. Akash Corporation, M/s. Haresh Corporation,
 M/s. Balaji Traders, M/s. Dynamic Fab World, M/s. Jitender
 Enterprises, etc. (second-layer entities), during the period from August
 2020 to June 2021. Ultimately, the laundered money was transferred
 out of the country under the guise of payments for imports, import
 logistics, and in the form of cryptocurrencies. 5. During the course of the investigation, the ICICI Bank accounts of M/s. Diyabati Technology Pvt Ltd (Account No. 244605500362), M/s.
 Maojaza Technologies Private Ltd (Account No. 244605500407), and
 M/s. Sumyth Technologies Private Ltd (Account No. 244605500408)
 (first-layer shell entities) were analyzed. This analysis revealed that
 substantial funds received in these accounts were subsequently
 transferred to various other bank accounts, including the IndusInd Bank
 accounts of M/s. Akash Corporation (Account No. 259023954406) and
 M/s. Haresh Corporation (Account No. 201004377970) (second-layer
 entities). The ED's investigation also uncovered that these funds were
 further layered and laundered through additional accounts, including
 the ICICI Bank account of M/s. Sagar Diamonds Ltd. (Account No.
 123805005479) and the IndusInd Bank account of M/s. Patel Rushabh
 & Co. (Account No. 201007176105) (third-layer entities). It was
 submitted that M/s. Sagar Diamonds Ltd. further transferred these
 funds either to its own SBI account (Account No. 039392347980) for CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 4 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 outward remittances under the guise of imports or to the IDFC Bank
 account (Account No. 100055588628) and SBI account (Account No.
 39583280574) of M/s. RHC Global Exports Pvt Ltd (fourth-layer
 entities), which further remitted the funds outward under the pretense
 of imports from Hong Kong and Dubai. 6. During the investigation, summons were issued to M/s. Akash
 Corporation on 19.04.2022, but they were returned with the remark
 "Left." Summons were also issued to Mr. Vaibhav Dipak Shah,
 Director of M/s. Sagar Diamonds Ltd., on 02.06.2022, 24.06.2022, and
 28.06.2022, but these were not complied with. Instead of complying,
 Mr. Vaibhav Dipak Shah fled to Dubai on 28.06.2022. An analysis of
 the KYC and ICICI bank account statements of M/s. Sagar Diamonds
 Ltd. revealed that the bank account was opened on 28.08.2020, and
 approximately Rs. 7.50 crores of public funds, identified so far as being
 obtained through fraud, were laundered through this account during
 May 2021. These funds were then transferred to M/s. RHC Global
 Exports Pvt. Ltd., an associated entity of M/s. Sagar Diamonds Ltd.
 Further analysis of the bank account statements of M/s. RHC Global
 Exports Pvt. Ltd. revealed that the company remitted hundreds of
 crores abroad during the scam period from November 2020 to June
 2021 under the guise of payments for imports. The KYC information
 for the SBI and IDFC bank accounts of M/s. RHC Global Exports Pvt.
 Ltd., as well as the ICICI bank account statement of M/s. Sagar
 Diamonds Ltd., showed that the respondent was a common Director in
 both companies. 7. The respondent was summoned to record his statement on 11.07.2022. However, instead of cooperating with the investigation, the respondent
 allegedly attempted to flee to Dubai and was detained by the Bureau of
 Immigration (BOI) on 07.07.2022. Subsequently, his statement was
 recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002. Rather than providing
 the requested details, the respondent shifted the responsibility onto Mr.
 Vaibhav Dipak Shah, his brother-in-law, claiming that Shah handled all
 matters related to trading, exports/imports, and finance for M/s. Sagar
 Diamond Ltd. and M/s. RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd. The ED's case is
 that the respondent, despite being a Director of both companies,
 deliberately shifted the burden of providing details to Shah, knowing he
 had already fled to Dubai and could not be contacted. The investigation
 also revealed that the respondent had obtained a three-year work visa
 for the UAE, allowing him to travel frequently to Dubai under the guise
 of employment as a Sales Executive at Gems Star Trading FZE, based
 in Ajman, UAE. Furthermore, it was found that M/s. Sagar Diamonds
 Ltd. had made outward remittances of approximately Rs. 12 crores
 during May 2021 to Gems Star Trading FZE under the pretext of
 payments for diamond imports, indicating the respondent's involvement
 in transactions executed abroad. 8. The respondent was arrested on 19.09.2022 at 23.40 hours at New
 Delhi. 9. Vide the impugned order dated 19.10.2022, learned Sessions Judge
 after noting the submissions of the parties and the relevant laws,
 admitted the respondent on bail on the following terms; A. There is no reference in the response/reply of the ED regarding
 any connection of respondent or his company with shell
 companies like M/s. Diyabati Technology Pvt Ltd, M/s. Maojaza
 Technology Pvt Ltd, M/s. Sumyth Technologies Pvt Ltd, etc. (first
 layer entities). B. There is no evidence shown on the record reflecting any
 connection of respondent with M/s. Akash Corporation, M/s.
 Haresh Corporation, M/s. Balaji Traders, M/s. Dynamic Fab
 World, M/s. Jitender Enterprises, etc. (second layer entities) and
 therefore mere acquisition of transfer of funds from account of
 "first layer entities" to second, third, fourth layer entities in itself
 does not show required knowledge of those funds being proceeds
 of crime. C. The allegations made by the ED regarding transfer of huge amount
 from the account to first layer entities to successive layer entities
 are without any establishing any connection of respondent with
 such transfer of funds. D. M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd of which allegedly the respondent is one
 of the Director is in the business of manufacturing in
 gold/diamond jewellery and it had business with M/s Akash
 Corporation. The only transaction between M/s Sager Dimonds
 Ltd and M/s RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd is regarding Rs.7.10
 crores which is based on e-invoices showing that it was business
 transaction regarding the purchase of jewellery.
 E. The remittance of sum of Rs.10 crores to Gems Star and Jiya
 Impex is also supported with e-way bills, airway bills, project CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 7 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 invoices etc.
 F. Though, the ED has made allegation of transfer of of funds to the
 tune of Rs.160 Crores from M/s Akash Corporation, M/s Harsh
 Corporation, M/s Patel Rushab & Co. to M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd,
 However, admittedly, the ED has alleged laundering to the tune
 of Rs.7.10 crores without any documentary basis of segregating
 sum of Rs.7.10 crores to the other amounts. Learned Trial Court
 also inter alia held that it is not clear as to how the funds so
 transferred have been described as proceeds of crime.
 G. The bare fact that the ED could locate certain transactions in the
 account of M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd and M/s RHC Global Exports
 Pvt. Ltd. is not itself sufficient to draw an assumption that the said
 property/funds found part of proceeds of crime. H. The respondent is related to the fourth layer entities, and there is
 no evidence connecting them to the first and second layer entities.
 The ED, through the present petition, has challenged the grant of
 bail on the following grounds; (i) That the petitioner has remained non cooperative during
 the investigation and did not submit the complete book
 of accounts of M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd and M/s RHC
 Global Exports Pvt. Ltd. The analysis of the part books
 of accounts of M/s. RHC Global Exports Pvt Ltd and
 M/s. Sagar Diamonds Ltd and Bank account statements
 of M/s. Akash Corporation, M/s. Patel Rushabh & Co.,
 M/s. Haresh Corporation, M/s. RHC Global Exports Pvt
 Ltd and M/s. Sagar Diamonds Ltd, it is noticed that M/s. Sagar Diamonds Ltd has received funds to the tune of
 approx. Rs.160 crores from M/s. Akash Corporation,
 M/s. Haresh Corporation and M/s. Patel Rushabh & Co.
 during the scam period i.e. from November, 2020 to
 June, 2021 and therefore the observation of he learned
 Trial Court that there is no material on the record to
 connect the "fourth layer entities" concerning to the
 respondent with the first and second layer entitites is
 wrong on the face of it. In this regard ED has also
 submitted that M/s. RHC Global Exports Pvt Ltd has
 shown purchases of approx. Rs.40.20 crores from M/s.
 Akash Corporation during the period from November,
 2020 to March, 2021. (ii) The bail is also liable to the cancelled as the respondent
 in his statements recorded u/s 50 of the PMLA, falsely
 stated that he does not know any Mr. Akash Panchal
 (M/s. Akash Corporation), Mr. Rushabh Patel (M/s. Patel
 Rushabh & Co.) and Mr. Haresh Panchal (M/s. Haresh
 Corporation) whereas the whatsapp chats of Mr.Saurin
 Shah another Director in M/s. Sagar Diamonds Ltd on
 05.09.2022, indicates that Mr. Vaibhav Shah & Mr.
 Saurin Shah are in contact with the aforesaid persons of
 M/s Akash Corporation for preparing legal
 Declarations/Affidavits with regard to the sham
 transactions carried out involving the respondent and his
 associated persons and entities. (iii) The analysis of these documents has revealed that all the
 said persons have executed such legal documents on
 22.08.2022 mentioning the same addresses at which the
 Summons were issued. The ED alleged that these
 persons are not available at such addresses and are not
 traceable. The field enquiries also revealed that Mr.
 Akash Panchal, and Mr. Haresh Panchal relatives and
 had sold and vacated their property at 13, Pallavith
 Society, Shahibaug, Ahmedabad in the year 2019. The
 field enquiry also revealed that Mr.Akash and Mr.
 Haresh Panchal both are engaged in the business of
 trading of Vegetables. Similarly, Mr. Rushabh Patel is
 engaged in the business of Grains. Similarly, M/s. Akash
 Corporation, M/s. Patel Rushabh & Co. and M/s. Haresh
 Corporation were not found into diamonds and jewellery
 business. The ED has also alleged that the respondent has
 been authorized signatory on behalf of M/s. Sagar
 Diamonds Ltd. and M/s. RHC Global Exports Pvt Ltd. (iv) The flow chart as prepared by the ED showing the
 layering of funds is as follows; (v) The bail is liable to the cancelled as if respondent
 remains on bail he shall derail the entire investigation
 and the offshore location where the money was
 laundered and transferred will not be identified. (vi) The respondent had failed to satisfy with twin conditions CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 11 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 for grant of bail as required under Section 45 of the
 PMLA. (vii) ED has also sought the cancellation of bail on the ground
 that petitioner is at flight risk as even after service of the
 summons, he tried to flee away from the justice. The ED
 alleged that the respondent and his brother in law Mr.
 Vaibhav Dipak Shah and his associate Mr. Saurin
 Rasiklal Shah are having strong network in India and
 abroad and they may influence the witnesses or destroy
 evidence pertaining to the investigation. (viii) The present case is very serious case which pertains to a
 conspiracy hatched by a Chinese syndicate to dupe and
 gullible citizens of this country and constitutes a class
 apart and need to be visited with a different approach in
 the matter of bail. The ED has placed reliance on the
 following judgments; State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal, (1987) 2
 SCC 364],

 Anil Kumar Yadav v. State (NCT of Delhi),( 2018) 12
 SCC 129
 Sunil Dahiya v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi ), 2016
 SCC OnLine Del 5566 10. It is pertinent to mention here that after filing of the bail applications,
 certain orders came to be passed by this Bench regarding the
 modification of the terms and conditions of the bail. However, it is not
 disputed that the respondent has not violated any condition of the bail. 11. The respondent in its counter affidavit denied all the averments and
 submitted that well reasoned order for bail has been passed. It has been
 submitted that the respondent had appeared the ED as and when
 summoned and illegally arrested on 19.09.2022. The respondent
 submitted that even after grant of bail he had appeared as and when
 directed by the ED. The respondent submitted that the present petition
 is devoid of any substance or spirit but merely a browbeating, harassing
 and intimidating tactics with the sole motive and aim being to coerce,
 compel and force him to toe the line of the ED to make a confessional
 statement. The respondent submitted that the learned Sessions Judge
 has passed a detailed order on the basis of the material on the record. It
 has also been submitted that the learned Sessions Judge has followed
 the well settled principle "bail is a right and jail is an exception." 12. The respondent submitted that he is well qualified person being
 certified trader from Gemological Institute of America and over the
 few years. It has been submitted that the respondent is the Director of
 M/s RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd which is a diamond trading company
 based in the city of Mumbai and Surat that deals in cutting and
 polishing diamonds as well as rough diamonds. It has been submitted
 that the respondent is non-executive Director of M/s Sagar Diamonds
 Limited till he resigned on 02.08.2021. It has further been submitted
 that the respondent had no link or concern with the aforesaid FIRs
 lodged in respect of present scam nor he has been chargheeted by the
 Special Cell, Delhi Police. It has further been submitted that the
 allegation against the respondent which is being investigated by the ED
 is that "funds to the tune of Rs.7.10 crores approax. Were further CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 13 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 layered and laundered involving the Bank accounts of M/s Sagar
 Diamonds Ltd." 13. It has further been submitted that the transactions of Rs.7.10 Crores
 received from M/s Akash Corporation for the purchase of rough
 diamonds is genuine and duly accounted for and supported by invoices.
 It has further been submitted that the respondent is M/s Sagar
 Diamonds Limited is a public limited company and all the information
 regarding its financials are in public domain. It has further been
 submitted that the summons was issued to M/s Sagar Diamonds
 Limited through Mr. Vaibhav Deepak Shah, Director for appearance on
 15.06.2022 to produce ""Details of all transactions with M/s. Akash
 Corporation (Account No 259023954406) during the period January -
 2021 to December - 2021, along with transaction proofs i.e. copy of
 invoices, vouchers, ledger, etc". It has further been submitted that the
 notice was adequately and properly complied with by the respondent. It
 has further been submitted that the respondent was travelling to Dubai
 in the usual course of his business and was not aware about the Look
 Out Circular (LOC). 14. It has further been submitted that the money was received in the
 account of M/s RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd. from M/s Sagar
 Diamonds Ltd. in respect of the sale transaction of rough diamonds in
 the normal course of business and the respondent has no involvement
 with any activity arising out of the scheduled offence. It has further
 been submitted that subsequently, co accused Vaibhav Dipak Shah was
 admitted to anticipatory bail on 15.112022. Respondent submitted that
 Mr. Vaibhav Dipak Shah has already deposited an amount of Rs.7.10 CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 14 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 Crore which was alleged proceeds of crime. In support of his
 submissions, learned counsel for the respondent has relied upon the
 following judgments; i. Dolat Ram v. State of Haryana , (1995) 1 SCC 349; ii. Abdul Basit v. Mohd. Abdul Kadir Chaudhary , (2014) 10 SCC
 754; iii. Myakala Dharmarajam v. State of Telangana , (2020) 2 SCC
 74; iv. Air Customs Versus Shail Anand and Another 2022 SCC
 OnLine Del 114. 15. The respondent submitted that there are no supervening circumstances
 for cancelling of the bail nor is there any allegation that the respondent
 has misused or interfered in the course of the investigation. There is
 also no any allegation of tampering with the evidence or witnesses or
 threatening. The respondent submitted that he always complied with
 the conditions of the bail. 16. ED has filed the rejoinder to the counter affidavit filed by the
 respondent denying all the averments made in the counter affidavit and
 reiterated the averments made in the petition. 17. In the rejoinder, the ED submitted that an analysis of Mr. Akash
 Panchal's bank account showed a significant and frequent rotation of
 funds, disproportionate to the nature of his business and its terms. The
 ED further submitted that Mr. Akash Panchal, in his statement under Section 50 of the PMLA dated 18.11.2022, admitted to providing
 bogus accommodation entries to M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd. and M/s
 RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd. through their directors, including the CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 15 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 respondent. It also emerged in Mr. Akash Panchal's statement under Section 50 of the PMLA that the respondent used to inform him of their
 requirements for RTGS payments into the bank account of M/s Sagar
 Diamonds Ltd. Additionally, Mr. Akash Panchal testified that he had
 not received any goods or materials from M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd.
 during April 2022 against any outstanding amount, as these were
 merely accommodation entries. Furthermore, in his statement under Section 50 of the PMLA recorded on 18.11.2022, Mr. Akash Panchal
 stated that he was advised by an advocate, calling on behalf of M/s
 Sagar Diamonds Ltd. and its directors, including the respondent, not to
 appear before the ED until instructed to do so. 18. In the rejoinder, it was stated that Mr. Akash Panchal, in his statement
 under Section 50 of the PMLA recorded on 18.11.2022, admitted to
 executing a false legal document dated 23.08.2022. Allegedly, Mr.
 Akash Panchal also stated that he had not conducted any business
 trading with the first-layer entities and had only provided
 accommodation entries. The ED alleges that, thereafter, Mr. Akash
 Panchal failed to respond to the summons, left the given address, and
 retracted his statement made on 18.11.2022. The ED further alleged
 that mobile phones seized from Mr. Akash Panchal revealed that he
 was in contact with the respondent and had shared various worksheets
 containing details of financial transactions with shell entities and
 banking transaction messages, which were not found recorded in the
 books of account submitted by the directors of M/s Sagar Diamonds
 Ltd. The ED also alleged that an MOU for a property deal, executed by
 some individuals, including the respondent, on 24.05.2021, establishes CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 16 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 that Mr. Akash Panchal was in contact with the respondent. Therefore,
 the respondent's claim of not knowing Mr. Akash Panchal is false. It
 was also stated that Mr. Akash Panchal was in regular contact with Mr.
 Vaibhav Dipak Shah. The ED alleged that documents revealed that the
 funds arranged by Mr. Akash Panchal from his group entities were
 involved in a scheme to transfer funds into the bank accounts of M/s
 Sagar Diamonds Ltd. 19. The documents including transactions of Rs 5.65 crores with M/s Sagar
 Diamonds Ltd. In the rejoinder, ED also explained the statement made
 by Mr.Saurin Shah regarding engaging him in various activities by
 Mr.Vaibhav Dipak Shah. 20. In the rejoinder, the ED brought to the notice of the Courts to the
 following submissions/facts pertinent to the issue at hand: e) Legal Counsel of Vaibhav Shah and Rahil Chovatia got prepared
 false affidavit on 17.11.2022 for the Bail application matter of Mr.
 Saurin Rasiklal Shah. f) On 18.11.2022, Akash Panchal was located by the Directorate and
 his statement was recorded in presence of Rahil Chovatia wherein he
 admitted that he has not done any diamond trading with Sagar
 Diamonds Ltd and has only provided accommodation entries to it as
 required by Rahil Chovatia and Vaibhav Shah. He also submitted his
 three mobile phones to corroborate the fact that he is into the business
 of providing accommodation entries and stated that he will submit
 further details/documents on 21.11.2022. However, he has not joined
 investigation till date. g) On 23.11.2022, a postal letter from Akash Panchal is received by
 the Directorate informing his retraction from his statements dated
 18.11.2022. h) SDL Directors have been in contact with Akash Panchal
 throughout the investigation, however, instead of providing his
 whereabouts they influenced him not to join the investigation in
 compliance of summons. It is very likely that after recording
 statements of Akash Panchal on 18.11.2022 in presence of Rahil CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 18 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 Chovatia, SDL Directors have again influenced Akash Panchal not to
 join further investigation and also to retract from his statement. i) In view of above, it is clear that SDL Directors have been creating
 false evidences and influencing the persons involved in the
 transactions under investigation which has delayed and hampered the
 investigation in PMLA case. 21. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel, along with Mr. Vivek
 Gurnani, submits that the order granting bail by the learned Sessions
 Judge is unjustified, illegal, and perverse, and therefore liable to be set
 aside. The learned counsel argued that bail can be canceled if it is
 wholly unjustified, patently illegal, or perverse. In support of this
 submission, reliance was placed on Puran v. Rambilas (2001) 6 SCC
 338, wherein it was inter alia held that the rejection of bail at the initial
 stage and the cancellation of already granted bail should be considered
 differently, requiring very cogent circumstances for cancellation.
 Grounds for canceling bail include interference with justice, evasion, or
 abuse of the bail concession, although these are not exhaustive.
 Additionally, a perverse order granting bail in a heinous crime without
 reasons can be grounds for cancellation. The concept of canceling bail
 due to an unjustified or illegal order differs from canceling bail due to
 misconduct or new facts, as clarified in Gurcharan Singh v. State
 (Delhi Admn .) (1978) 1 SCC 118 under Section 439(2), the focus
 should be on whether the bail order had serious infirmities, justifying
 High Court interference in the interest of justice. 22. Learned Special Counsel submitted that while the jurisdiction to grant
 bail is discretionary, it cannot be exercised in an arbitrary, capricious,
 or injudicious manner. It was argued that bail can be canceled not only
 due to supervening circumstances or misconduct by the accused but
 also if the bail order is unjustified. Counsel submitted that if the bail
 order fails to consider relevant factors or is granted based on irrelevant
 considerations, the superior courts can set it aside. In such cases, the
 violation of conditions by the accused or supervening circumstances
 becomes irrelevant. Reliance has been placed on Neeru Yadav v. State
 of U.P. (2014) 16 SCC 508, wherein the Supreme Courtinter aliaheld
 that while granting bail is discretionary, this discretion must be
 exercised with caution, especially in cases involving serious crimes. The Court referred to several precedents, such as Ram Govind
 Upadhyay v. Sudarshan ( 2002) 3 SCC 598 and Prasanta Kumar
 Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee (2010) 14 SCC 496, emphasizing the
 importance of considering the nature and severity of the crime, the
 potential for witness tampering, and the genuineness of the prosecution.
 The Court also highlighted that the cancellation of bail due to
 misconduct or new circumstances is distinct from setting aside an
 unjustified or illegal bail order. In the latter case, the focus is on the
 legality and soundness of the initial decision to grant bail, not on
 subsequent events or violations. 23. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel with Mr. Vivek Gurnani,
 submit that the impugned order by the learned Sessions Judge has
 passed the impugned order by ignoring material and evidence on the
 record and therefore suffers from perversity. It has been submitted that CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 20 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 though the detailed examination of evidence and elaborate
 documentation of the merits of the case may not be undertaken but the
 Court is required to be on reasons. 24. Mr. Vikram Choudhari, learned senior counsel for the respondent
 submits that simply put initially, the companies first layer entities were
 formed during the scammed period were found and purchased by the
 Chinese national with the help of some Indians. During the scam
 period, the bank account of these first layer companies were used for
 collecting the proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs. 250 crores from
 public through Power Bank App. Such cheated money was further
 layered and laundered through several bank account of various other
 dummy entities i.e., second layer entities. During the period August
 2020 to June 2021 (during the scam period) and finally this money was
 taken out of country through third/fourth layer entities in the guise of
 payments made in the form of imports, import logistics and in the form
 of crypto currencies. 25. Learned counsel further submitted that during the period 07.05.2021 to
 11.05.2021, POC to the tune of Rs. 10.10 crores was transferred from
 the first layer entities to the bank account of M/s Akash Corporation
 and M/s Haresh Corporation. During the period 07.05.2021 to
 11.05.2021 and this was further layered and laundered during the same
 period in the ICICI Bank account of M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd. M/s
 Sagar Diamonds Ltd. further transferred the said funds either to its own
 SBI account or in the guise of for making outward remittances in the
 guise of import or to the IDFC Bank account and SBI account of M/s.
 RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd. M/s. RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd. further remitted the said POC or Rs. 10.10 crores outward during the
 same period remittances in the guise of imports from Hongkong and
 Dubai. 26. Learned counsel further submitted that Mr. Akash Panchal and Mr.
 Haresh Panchal, who are relatives and actually involved in the business
 of trading vegetables, were in constant touch with the respondent and
 other directors of M/s Sagar Diamonds Pvt. Ltd., including Mr.
 Vaibhav Dipak Shah and Mr. Saurin Shah, for preparing legal
 declarations related to the sham transactions. 27. Learned counsel submitted that Mr. Vaibhav Dipak Shah did not join
 the investigation and fled to Dubai on 28.06.2022. It was further
 submitted that the respondent made a false statement claiming he did
 not know Mr. Akash Panchal, whereas M/s. RHC Global Exports Pvt.
 Ltd., in which the respondent is a Director and shareholder, showed
 purchases of approximately Rs. 40.20 crores from M/s Akash
 Corporation during the period from November 2020 to March 2021. It
 was also submitted that the respondent is a director in both M/s Sagar
 Diamonds Pvt. Ltd. and M/s RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd.
 Additionally, it was noted that M/s Sagar Diamonds Pvt. Ltd. recorded
 sales of diamonds and jewelry to M/s Akash Corporation in April 2022
 against long-standing advance payments of Rs. 97.67 crores, including
 the direct proceeds of crime of Rs. 10.10 crores, made since May/June
 2021. 28. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned Special Counsel, along with Mr. Vivek
 Gurnani, representing the ED, submitted that it is improbable that a
 Promoter and Director of M/s. RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd., a CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 22 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 company engaged in diamond trading where the raw materials are so
 expensive, would not be involved in the company's sale and purchase
 matters. The learned Special Counsel also submitted that the
 respondent falsely shifted the responsibility onto Mr. Vaibhav Dipak
 Shah, knowing that he was unavailable for investigation. Furthermore,
 Mr. Vaibhav Dipak Shah was not associated with the company M/s
 RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd. in any official capacity, making it
 inexplicable how he could have been handling the company's purchase
 and export-import matters. 29. Learned counsel submitted that the respondent did not provide any
 documentary evidence authorizing Mr. Vaibhav Dipak Shah to handle
 such dealings on behalf of M/s RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd. The
 learned counsel further submitted that the respondent obtained a work
 visa permit for the UAE, valid for three years, to travel frequently to
 Dubai under the pretense of being employed as a Sales Executive at
 Gems Star Trading FZE, based in Ajman, UAE. M/s Sagar Diamonds
 Ltd. made an outward remittance of approximately Rs. 12 crores to this
 entity during the relevant scam period in May 2021, under the guise of
 payments for diamond imports, indicating that the accused was also
 involved in the transactions executed abroad. 30. Learned counsel submitted that the accused was the authorized
 signature of M/s RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Sagar
 Diamonds Ltd. Learned counsel submitted that the prosecution
 complaint has already been filed. It has further been submitted that
 after grant of bail to the respondent, Mr.Akash Panchal initially,
 remained absconded till he was traced on 18.11.2022 at Mumbai. It has CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 23 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 been submitted that in his statement under Section 50 of PMLA on
 18.11.2022 at Mumbai Zonal Office, Mr. Akash Panchal admitted that
 he used to provide accommodation entries on the instructions of/to the
 M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd. and M/s RHC Global Pvt. Ltd. on
 instructions of the respondent. Learned counsel also submitted that
 Mr.Akash Panchal had also admitted that he had not done any business
 with the first layer entities and had provided only accommodation
 entries. 31. Learned special counsel submits that the discretion has been revealed
 that Mr.Akash Panchal was not involved in any real business activity
 and was only providing accommodation entries. An entry of 5.65 cores
 was given to M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd. which establishes that the fund
 availed by his group entities (involved in accommodation entries) were
 used to the transfer into the bank account of M/s. Sagar Diamonds Ltd.
 Learned counsel also submitted that there is material on the record that
 Mr. Akash Panchal and the respondent were in constant touch with
 each other and this fact has also been incorporated by the statement of
 Mr. Sourin Shah recorded in the statement of Section 50 of PMLA. 32. Learned counsel for the ED submitted that this is very serious case and
 it was revealed during investigation in PMLA that Mr. Sourin Shah
 was found assisting and making efforts for getting closure of this
 PMLA case of M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd. and getting the impounded
 mobile phones of its Directors released for which POC of Rs.2.60
 crores was also paid in case to Mr.Dinesh Singh Kushwaha and
 Mr.Jeetendra Prasad through hawala channel by exchanging ten rupee
 notes for delivery of cash amounts during the period September, 2022. A search operation under Section 19 of PMLA was conducted on
 01.03.2023 at Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Surat based offices and
 factory premises of Vaibhav Dipak Shah and his group companies M/s
 Sagar Diamonds Ltd., M/s RHC Global Exports Pvt.Ltd and M/s
 Sagarempire Jewels Pvt. Ltd. learned counsel submitted that the
 findings of search operation are as below; i. No local stock was found at Mumbai and Ahmedabad offices of
 said companies, whereas, total local trade stock of approax
 28.67 crorers was shown in stock registers of books of account
 M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd. and M/s RHC Global Exports Pvt.
 Ltd. No explanation regarding the reason of physical stock of
 approax Rs.1425 crores not found during the searches at office
 and factory premises as shown in the books of account of
 abovesaid companies. The respondent and Mr. Vaibhav Dipak
 Shah has failed to explained the same despite opportunities
 given to them. ii. The samples of Stock-in-Trade at SEZ units of above
 companies, the precious stones (Ruby) which were imported by
 these entities were found to be synthetic and of very low value
 in comparison to the import prices shown in their respective
 import documentation. iii. Unexplained huge outstanding export balances of around
 Rs.16500 crores (i.e. Rs.7000 crores of M/s Sagar diamonds
 Ltd., Rs.6500 crores of M/s Sagarempire Jewels Pvt. Ltd.,
 Rs.4500 Crores of M/s RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd.) was also
 noticed and same remained unexplained. iv. The analysis of ledger of accounts of M/s Sagar Diamonds Ltd. and M/s RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd revealed that each of the
 said two entities has shown export sales of more than Rs.200
 crores to Mars Ind & Comm Services Ltd. during the scam
 period April to June 2021 against which either the payment is
 outstanding till date or barter import purchases of similar goods
 has been shown to set off the Imports & Exports in their books
 of account. It hs further submitted that M/s Sagar Diamonds
 Ltd. shown total outstanding payment of Rs.1880 crores against
 exports to Mars Ind & Comm Services Ltd,Hongkong as on
 01.04.2021 which was increased to Rs.5,374 crores as on
 01.04.2022 and fianll the same was found increased to
 Rs.11,684 crores as on date of search whereas M/s RHC Global
 Exports Pvt. Ltd had shown total outstanding payment of
 Rs.304 cores against exports to Mars Ind & Comm Services
 Ltd. Hongkong as on 01.04.2021 which was increased to
 Rs.4,630 crores as on 01.04.2022 and finally the same was
 found increased upto Rs.6754 crores as on date of search.
 Learned counsel submitted that such exponential increase in
 huge outstanding funds against the Exports as well as the
 overvaluation and misdeclaration of the goods
 imported/exported found during search without any rationale
 and explaination by Mr.Vaibhav Dipak Shah and is associates
 leaves no scope of doubt that such Indian and foreign entities
 are in control of Mr. Vaibhav Dipak Shah are being used by CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 26 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 him with the sole motive to executive his illegal hawala
 activities and remitting funds outside the country.
 v. The search operation also revealed that out of the funds of
 approx Rs.97.17 crores received during the same period from
 14.04.2021 to 24.05.2021 (power bank app scam period),
 around Rs.90 crores were remitted by M/s Sagar Diamonds
 Ltd. to one Dubai based entity namely Gems Star Trading FZE
 of Mr.Amit Lakhani in the guise of payments against imports
 of Diamonds, which were shown exported to Mars Ind &
 Comm Services Ltd. Hongkong during the relevant period of
 28.04.2021 to 02.06.2021. The enquiry revealed that Mr Amit
 Lakhani is close associate of Mr. Vaibhav Dipak Shah and
 involved in process of formation of shell entities at UAE and
 opening their bank accounts by introducing dummy proprietors
 through his other entity. Learned counsel submitted that
 respondent has also shown him as self as Sales Executive in
 Gems Star Trading FZE based at Ajman, UAE. Learned
 counsel submitted that therefore it is established that Mr.
 Vaibhav Dipak Shah and respondent are involved in remitting
 funds outside the country for executing hawala activities in the
 guise of Imorts through his controlled entities M/s Diamonds
 Ltd. and M/s RHC Global Exports Pvt. Ltd. 33. Mr. Vikram Choudhari, the learned counsel for the respondent
 vehemently denied all the averments made by the ED and submitted
 that the learned Trial Court has passed a reasoned and detailed order. It CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 27 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 has been submitted that in the learned Trial Court has rightly noted in
 the reply filed by ED, there is no reference of the respondent regarding
 his connection with "first layer entities". Learned counsel submitted
 that admittedly, the respondent has not been named or chargesheeted
 by the Special Cell. Learned senior counsel submitted that the learned
 Trial Court has rightly observed that no evidence has been placed
 reflecting any correction with the second layer entities. It has been
 submitted that the observations made by the learned Trial Court
 regarding the missing link of required knowledge "proceeds of crime" 34. Learned counsel submits that this case involves alleged money
 laundering to the tune of Rs. 7.10 crores, which has already been
 deposited by Mr. Vaibhav Dipak Shah and Mr. Akash Panchal.
 Counsel further submitted that the ED has now come up with
 exponentially higher figures, seemingly to mislead the Court. It was
 submitted that the transactions between M/s Sagar Diamonds Pvt. Ltd.
 and M/s RHC Global Pvt. Ltd. are supported by documents and are
 genuine transactions. Similarly, it was submitted that the transaction of
 Rs. 10.10 crores was made for importing goods, and during the relevant
 time, amounts of Rs. 507,599 were transferred to Gem Star, and Rs.
 50,535,188 was transferred to M/s Jiya Impex. It was submitted that
 these were genuine transactions, duly documented. Learned senior
 counsel further submitted that there is no material on record to connect
 the respondent even with the second-layer entities. 35. Learned senior counsel submitted that it has been rightly observed that
 the mere transfer of funds from the accounts of first-layer entities to CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 28 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 second, third, or fourth-layer entities does not, by itself, indicate
 acquired knowledge that those funds were "proceeds of crime." 36. Learned senior counsel submitted that the respondent has no
 connection with Mr. Akash Panchal, Mr. Haresh Panchal, and that the
 transactions between M/s Akash Corporation and M/s Sagar Diamonds
 Pvt. Ltd. are ordinary and regular business transactions. It was
 submitted that among the many customers of the petitioner's company,
 M/s Akash Corporation Pvt. Ltd. is just one of them. Learned senior
 counsel argued that the allegations of the respondent being in touch
 with Mr. Akash Panchal on WhatsApp are merely inferences drawn to
 harass the respondent. Further, it was submitted that the respondent has
 no connection whatsoever with the case of Mr. Vaibhav Dipak Shah. 37. Learned senior counsel submitted that Mr. Vaibhav Dipak Shah was
 prevented from leaving the UAE due to a travel ban imposed on him by
 the authorities at the instance of certain vested interests. Counsel
 further argued that the ordinary business transactions between the
 companies were based on proper documentation, as per the law, with
 evidence provided. It was submitted that the assumptions made by the
 ED are baseless and merely based on whims and fancies. Learned
 senior counsel submitted that, in the present case, the cancellation of
 bail is devoid of any substantial merit and appears to be an attempt to
 harass and intimidate the respondent, with the sole motive of
 compelling and forcing him to align with the ED and make a
 confessional statement. 38. Learned senior counsel submitted that in landmark case Vijay
 Madanlal Chaudhary v. Union of India and Anr. 2022 SCC OnLine
 SC 929 , the following principles have been lead; a. The term 'money laundering has no meaning other than the
 offence contemplated under Section 3 thereof which essentially
 hovers around dealing etc. with 'proceeds of crime: 39. Learned senior counsel further submitted that, based on the principles
 laid down, even the offense under the PMLA is not attracted. Learned
 senior counsel also submitted that, to date, the respondent and the co-
 accused have furnished all the information, materials, and documents
 sought by the ED from time to time, as revealed in the chart annexed as
 Annexure-R6 with the counter-affidavit filed by the respondent. 40. The Directorate of Enforcement has filed the present petition for
 cancellation of bail. The law regarding cancellation of bail was
 explained by apex court in Abdul Basit alias Raju and Others vs.
 Mohd. Abdul Kadir Chaudhary (2014) 10 SCC 754 wherein it was
 inter alia held as under: 41. It is also pertinent to mention here that the concept of setting aside an
 unjustified, illegal or perverse order is absolutely different from
 cancelling an order of bail on the ground that the accused was
 misconducted himself or because of some supervening circumstances
 warranting such cancellation. Reliance can be placed upon Puran vs.
 Rambilas (2001) 6 SCC 338. Similarly in Narender K.Amin vs. State
 of Gujarat (2008) 13 ACC 584 it was reiterated that when irrelevant
 materials have been taken into consideration by the court granting
 order of bail, the same makes the said order vulnerable and subject to
 scrutiny by the appellate court. Thus, if an order of grant of bail is
 perverse, the same can be set at naught only by the superior court. In Ranjit Singh vs. State of M.P. (2013) 16 SCC 797 it was inter alia held
 that there is a distinction between the concept of setting aside an
 unjustified, illegal or perverse order and cancellation of an order of bail
 on the ground that the accused has misconducted himself or certain
 supervening circumstances warrant such cancellation. Thus, if the
 order granting bail is found to be perverse one or passed on irrelevant
 materials, it can be annulled by the superior court. In Mayakala
 Dharmarajam and others vs. State of Telangana and Another (2020)
 2 SCC 743, the petition was filed for cancellation of bail on ground of
 illegality of order passed by the Sessions Court and conduct of
 appellants subsequent to their release after bail was granted. The High
 court allowed the application for cancellation of bail. It was contended
 by the appellants that no specific overt act was attributed to any of the CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 32 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 accused, except for omnibus allegations made against them. The apex
 court inter alia held that it must be remembered that rejection of bail
 stands on one footing but cancellation of bail is a harsh order because it
 interferes with the liberty of the individual and hence it must not be
 lightly resorted to. The apex court inter alia held that cancellation of
 bail can be done in cases where the order granting bail suffers from
 serious infirmities resulting in miscarriage of justice. It was further
 inter alia held that if the court granting bail ignores relevant material
 indicating prima facie involvement of the accused or takes into account
 irrelevant material, which has no relevance to the question of grant of
 bail to the accused, the High Court or the Sessions Court would be
 justified in cancelling the bail. It is pertinent to mention here that the
 apex court while examining the aspect of perversity inter alia held
 though the the Sessions Court did not discuss the material on record in
 detail, but there is an indication from the orders by which bail was
 granted that the entire material was perused before grant of bail. The
 apex court also observed that it was not the case of either the
 complainant-Respondent No.2 or the State that irrelevant
 considerations have been taken into account by the Sessions Court
 while granting bail to the Appellants. Thus, the apex court has inter alia
 held that bail granted to the appellants cannot be termed as perverse as
 the Sessions Court was conscious of the fact that the investigation was
 completed and there was no likelihood of the Appellant tampering with
 the evidence. 42. In Dolat Ram and Others vs. State of Haryana (1995) 1 SCC 249, the
 apex court while drawing the distinction between exercise of CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 33 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 jurisdiction in rejection of bail and cancellation of bail has inter alia
 held as under: 43. Recently, the apex court in Prem Prakash vs. Union of India through
 the Directorate of Enforcement SLP (Crl) no. 5614/2024 dated
 28.08.2024, while considering the scope of enquiry under Section 45 of
 PMLA has inter alia held as under: We are in agreement with the observation made by the court
 in Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma (supra). The court while
 dealing with the application for grant of bail need not delve deep
 into the merits of the case and only a view of the court based on
 available material on record is required. The court will not weigh
 the evidence to find the guilt of the accused which is, of course. the
 work of Trial Court. The court is only required to place its view
 based on probability on the basis of reasonable material collected
 during investigation and the said view will not be taken into
 consideration by the Trial court in recording its finding of the guilt
 or acquittal during trial which is based on the evidence adduced
 during the trial. As explained by this court in Nimmagadda Prasad
 (supra), the words used in section 45 of the 2002 Act are
 "reasonable grounds for believing" which means the court has to see
 only if there is a genuine case against the accused and the
 prosecution is not required to prove the charge beyond reasonable
 doubt." (emphasis supplied) 44. In Manish Kothari v. Director of Enforcement BAIL APPLN. 2341/2023 dated 22.09.2023, the Delhi High Court reiterated that at the
 stage of considering a bail application, it should assess whether the
 accused possessed the requisite mens rea without requiring a definitive CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 36 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 finding of guilt. The jurisprudence of bail emphasizes that a person's
 liberty should not be interfered with except in exceptional cases, and
 courts should examine the case on the scale of broad probabilities. In
 several cases, including Sanjay Pandey v. Directorate of Enforcement SCC OnLine Delhi 4279 and Ranjit Singh Brahamjeet Singh Sharma
 v. State of Maharashtra (2005) 1 SCR 876, the principle of broad
 probabilities has been applied in granting bail. Additionally, the
 Supreme Court in Mohd. Muslim @ Hussain vs. State (NCT of Delhi )
 2023 SCC OnLineSC 352 held that the court's assessment of the
 accused's likely guilt is a prima facie determination based on a
 reasonable reading of the material on record. This approach ensures
 that the liberty of individuals accused under special laws is balanced
 against public interest, without a meticulous examination of evidence
 during the bail stage. 45. In the present case, Mr.Zoheb Hossain, learned special Counsel for ED
 and Mr.Vivek Gurnani learned counsel have emphatically argued that
 the learned trial court has not discussed the entire material on record
 and has made certain observations which are contrary to the facts. 46. To start with the order granting bail is only a prima facie view being
 expressed by the court and such observations are not taken into
 consideration while deciding the matter finally. Generally, any
 observations made at the stage of bail are not taken into account after
 the parties lead their evidence and the matter is appreciated by the
 learned trial court. The case of the ED is based on the fact that the
 entity of the respondent has received the funds from the first, second
 and third layer entities. It is to be kept in mind that even as per Vijay CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 37 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 Madan Lal Chaudhary (supra) it has categorically been held that
 ingredients constituting the offence of money laundering needs to be
 construed strictly. It is also no longer a matter of debate that the
 probative value of statement under section 50 of PMLA is to be
 considered at the stage of trial. The bail cannot be denied merely on the
 assumption that the property recovered from the respondent must be
 proceed of crime. 47. The ED has also sought cancellation of bail on the ground of certain
 WhatsApp chat of Mr.Saurin Shah another director in M/s Sagar
 Diamond Ltd. indicates that he was in touch of Vaibhav Shah for
 preparing legal declaration/affidavit of Akash Corporation. The
 criminality regarding transfer of funds is something which is to be
 considered at the stage of trial. The least discussion at the time on the
 merits of the case is desirable so as not to prejudice either of the
 parties. 48. The ED has alleged that the investigation enquiry revealed that
 Mr.Akash Panchal and Mr.Harish Panchal are not available at the given
 address and they were engaged in the business of trading of vegetables.
 The apprehension of the ED that if the petitioner is allowed to be
 remain on bail he may derail the investigation or is a flight risk are
 mere apprehension and no substantial reason has been given. The E.D.
 may always move the court for imposing more stringent condition.
 The facts of the case may be very serious in nature but that has to be
 tested and examined during the course of trial. The defence being put
 up is that all the transactions between the firm of the respondent with
 other entities are the genuine sale transactions in the normal course of CRL.M.C. 5481/2022 Page 38 of 39 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:25.09.2024 19:14:16 business. It is also a matter of record that alleged proceeds of crime of
 Rs.7.10 crore has already been deposited by Mr.Vaibhav Deepak
 Shah. 49. The frequent rotation of funds disproportionate to the nature of
 business of Mr.Akash Panchal and the authenticity of statement under Section 50 of PMLA is required to be examined during the trial. The
 investigation has already been completed and the complaint has already
 been filed. I consider that there is no material on record to allow the
 application of ED for cancellation of bail. This Court considers that
 there is nothing on record to indicate that the bail has been granted on
 the irrelevant considerations. Thus, the present petition is liable to be
 dismissed. However, before parting with, it is made clear that any
 observation made by the learned Sessions Judge in the order granting
 bail will not be taken into consideration at the time of final appreciation
 of evidence. The case at the final stage shall be decided in accordance
 with the law on the basis of material available on record. 50. In view of the above, the present petition and all the pending
 applications are rejected. DINESH KUMAR SHARMA, J
 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024
 Pallavi/rb/NA..