(09.01.2025)

NARESH SALECHA, MEMBER (TECHNICAL) 1. The present appeal has been filed by Canara Bank who is Appellant

herein under Section 61 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 ('Code')

against the Impugned Order dated 10.02.2023 passed by the National Company

Law Tribunal, New Delhi, Principal Bench ('Adjudicating Authority') in I.A.

No. 836 of 2023 in C.P.(IB) No. 654(PB)/2019, where by the application

preferred by the Applicant, seeking appropriation directions against the

Respondent to admit the claim of the Appellant has been dismissed. 2. Sh. Vivek Kumar Resolution Professional of M/s AVJ Developers

(India) Private Limited is the Respondent . 3. The Appellant stated that he submitted claims on 25.02.2021 under Form-

C as a Financial Creditor to Resolution Professional. This claim pertains to 59

individual accounts of borrowers who obtained housing loans for purchasing

residential units within the Corporate Debtor's project. The total amount claimed

by the Appellant, as of 21.10.2019, is Rs. 17.46 Crores. 4. The Appellant brought out that he received a communication on

01.09.2022 from the Resolution Professional, who stated that the Appellant's

claim had been rejected. The primary reason for this rejection was that only

individual homebuyers are entitled to file claims directly with the Resolution Page 2 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

Professional. The Appellant's was also deemed to lack locus standi, as it was

made on behalf of the homebuyers without any formal authorization. The

Appellant contends that this decision is unjust, as it undermines the collective

interests of the homebuyers represented. The Appellant asserts that he acted in

good faith to represent the claims of multiple homebuyers who were unable to

navigate the complexities of the insolvency process individually. Furthermore,

the Appellant stated that proper authorization was implied through prior

communications and actions taken by the homebuyers. In light of these

circumstances, the Appellant urged this Appellate Tribunal that his claims

should be reconsidered, emphasizing the need for a more inclusive approach

acknowledging collective representation in claims related to insolvency

proceedings. 5. The Appellant submitted that the rejection of the claim by the Resolution

Professional was merely mechanical and did not provide any opportunity for the

Appellant to clarify the situation regarding the loan accounts that have

outstanding dues owed to the Appellant. It is in the case of the Appellant that

this lack of engagement prevented fair assessment of the claims and the

circumstances surrounding it. 6. The Appellant submitted that the disbursement of housing loans were

made directly to the Corporate Debtor on behalf of the borrowers. A tripartite

agreement was executed among the Appellant, the Borrower, and the Corporate

Debtor for all relevant accounts. Furthermore, the Appellant submitted that Page 3 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

according to the terms of the said tripartite agreement, the Appellant holds a

prior charge/lien on the residential units within the Corporate Debtor's project

for which the housing loans were advanced. 7. The Appellant stated that one of the terms of the tripartite agreement

stipulates that in the event of default, the entire amount advanced by the bank on

behalf of the borrowers must be refunded by the Corporate Debtor/Builder to

the bank. The Appellant emphasizes that this provision clearly outlines the

obligations of the Corporate Debtor in case of default, reinforcing the right of

the Appellant to recover funds advanced for housing loans therefore the

Appellant assume the character of the Financial Creditor in terms of Section

5(8) of the Code. 8. The Appellant elaborated that the specific clause is unique and is in

contrast with typical prevalent Tripartite Agreements amongst Bank,

Homebuyer and Builders/ Corporate Debtor where full responsibilities of

repayment of loan is on the Homebuyer as borrower and the Builders/ Corporate

Debtor does not assume any responsibilities of repayment. The Appellant

amplified that it is the intent of the Agreement which is vital to determine

whether it is Financial Debt in terms of Section 5 (8) of the Code or not as well

as who is the Financial Creditor. The Appellant submitted that in present case

clearly he is the Financial Creditor as he directly lent money to the Corporate

Debtor, albeit on behalf of the Homebuyer/borrower, with clear and specific

clause that in case of any default by the Homebuyer/borrower or Page 4 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

Builders/Corporate Debtor not delivering flat to the Borrower etc. the

Builders/Corporate Debtor will refund money to the Appellant Bank. 9. The Appellant submitted that he has approached the Debt Recovery

Tribunal ('DRT') by filing Original Applications ('OAs') against the individual

homebuyers (borrowers) concerning the outstanding dues. In its rulings on these

OAs, the DRT, Delhi, has directed that the primary liability to refund the

outstanding dues owed to the Applicant Bank lies with the Corporate Debtor.

Specifically, one such OA filed by the Appellant, bearing number 356/2019,

was disposed of in accordance with this directive. 10. The Appellant submitted that in a separate instance concerning one of the

accounts, where the borrower has an outstanding debt payable jointly and

severally with the Corporate Debtor to the Applicant Bank, a Writ Petition (C)

No. 16170/2022 was filed before the Hon'ble Delhi High Court titled Pradeep

Kumar Bhatt vs. Reserve Bank of India & Ors. In its order dated 23.11.2022,

the Hon'ble Delhi High Court stayed the proceedings initiated by the Applicant

Bank before the DRT against the Petitioner. 11. The Appellant stated that the Applicant Bank cannot be left without a

remedy in the face of the admitted and adjudicated debt and default. The

Appellant emphasized that it is essential that the rights of the Applicant Bank

are upheld and that appropriate measures are taken to address the outstanding

obligations. Page 5 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 12. The Appellant submitted that the reliance placed by the Resolution

Professional on the judgment in Axis Bank Limited vs. Value Infracon India

Private Limited & Anr passed in Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 582

of 2020 is not applicable to the present case. This is due to the specific orders

issued by the DRT, Delhi, which stipulated that the bank is permitted to pursue

its claim before the Liquidator or the Adjudicating Authority as appropriate. The

Appellant submitted that these orders establish a clear basis for the Appellant's

claims and differentiate this case from the circumstances addressed in the cited

judgment by the Resolution Professional. 13. The Appellant submitted that out of the 32 accounts for which the claim

has been filed, it holds a decree in its favor from the DRT against 18 of those

accounts, as well as against the Corporate Debtor. Furthermore, as per Section

3(10) of the Code, a creditor is defined as:"any person to whom a debt is owed

and includes a financial creditor, an operational creditor, a secured creditor,

an unsecured creditor, and a decree-holder."This definition underscores the

Appellant's standing as a legitimate creditor in this matter. 14. The Appellant submitted that the rejection of the claim by the

Respondent/ Resolution Professional, along with the subsequent dismissal of

L.A. 836 of 2023, was legally flawed. The Appellant stated that the order of

DRT, Delhi, were made in favor of the Appellant and this vital fact was ignored

by the Adjudicating Authority. Page 6 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 15. The Appellant stated that, in light of the aforementioned facts and

circumstances, the dismissal of L.A. 836/2023 is unsustainable under the law as

the Adjudicating Authority failed to recognize that the Appellant cannot be left

without a remedy concerning the admitted and adjudicated debt and default.

Furthermore, the reliance placed by the Adjudicating Authority on the judgment

in Value Infracon India Limited (Supra) is not applicable to the present case,

given the specific orders issued by the DRT, Delhi, which allow the bank to

pursue its claim before the Liquidator or the National Company Law Tribunal,

as appropriate. The Adjudicating Authority has also overlooked that under the

framework of the Code, particularly as per Section 5(8) , the Appellant has the

right to maintain its claim as a Financial Creditor against the Corporate Debtor

in this case. 16. The Appellant submitted that the contractual arrangement established

between the parties explicitly required the Corporate Debtor to indemnify the

Bank in the event of a default. The Appellate submitted that the Allottees or

borrowers, who received the loan, have not submitted any claims to the

Respondent/ Resolution Professional. Consequently, in the absence of such

claims being listed among the creditors in the information memorandum, there

exists a significant risk that the right to claim may be extinguished upon the

approval of the Resolution Plan. This situation raises serious concerns regarding

the enforcement of indemnification rights and the overall integrity of the

resolution process. Page 7 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 17. The Appellant submitted that the security interest charge has been duly

created, with the explicit consent of the Corporate Debtor. Furthermore, this

charge has been registered in accordance with the provisions of the SARFAESI

Act, 2002 , and is recorded under the Central Registry of Securitisation Asset

Reconstruction and Security Interest of India (CERSAI). This registration

underscores the validity and enforceability of the security interest held by the

Appellant Bank. 18. The Appellant submitted that Section 15 (1) of the code mandates for the

issuance of public announcement upon the commencement of the CIRP of the

Corporate Debtor for inviting the claims against the Corporate Debtor from the

creditor and the term claim' defined in Section 3(6) of the code provides for 'a

right to payment'. In terms of Section 16 of the Tripartite Agreement, the

Appellant bank have right to payment in the event of default. 19. The Appellant submitted that the Appellant has provided the details of the

borrowers/ Allottees who have defaulted in repayment of amount. The said list

provides the details pertaining to the name of the borrower, sanctioned amount,

NPA date and contractual liability of both Borrower and the Corporate Debtor.

The claims were filed by the Appellant Bank on 25.02.2021 claiming to be a

secured financial creditor in terms of Section 5(8) of the Code. The Appellant

submitted that the definition of financial creditor' provided under Section 7 of

the Code includes any person to whom financial debt is owed and definition of

financial debt' as provided under Section 5(8) includes any debt along with Page 8 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

interest disbursed against the consideration of time value of money including

money borrowed against the payment of interest and liability arising out of any

guarantee or indemnity. 20. The Appellant submitted that the claim of the Appellant is arising out of

the terms of the Tripartite Agreement. The Appellant stated that it is a settled

law that the claim of the Allottees falls under the head of financial creditor in

class and they are represented by the Authorized Representative. In terms of Section 5(8)(f) the Allottees are identified as Financial Creditors.

The Appellant elaborated that when any claim falls under the definition of the

financial debt then such liability in the case of presence of guarantee or

indemnity by any Person will also fall under the category of financial debt and

in terms of Section 5(8)(i) such claimant is to be treated as Financial Creditors.

The Appellant emphasised that the analogy is that when in case of contract of

guarantee if a claim of the principal borrower falls under the head of financial

debt then upon invocation of guarantee the claim against the guarantor by the

creditor will also fall under the head of financial debt and such creditor will be

treated as Financial Creditors. The Appellant elaborated that in the present case,

the Corporate Debtor has already undertaken to secure the amount in Tripartite

Agreement then the Appellant is also to be treated as financial creditor because

the claim of the Allottee falls under the head of financial debt in view of Section

5(8)(i) of the Code. Page 9 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 21. The Appellant submitted that consequence of event of default is also

clearly provided in the tripartite agreement which the Resolution Professional

and the Adjudicating Authority failed to consider that the Appellant have right

to sale the allotted/ mortgaged units to third party. It terms of the specific

provision under the agreement, the right of the Appellant Bank cannot be taken

away as per the provisions of the Code. 22. The Appellant during the course of the argument has placed reliance

upon the judgment passed by this Appellate Tribunal in the matter of Canara

Bank vs. Mr. S. Rajendran passed in Company Appeal (AT) (CH) (Ins.) No.

277 of 2023 and IA No. 851 of 2023, wherein it was held that non-Registration

of Charge under Section 77 of Companies Act, 2013 cannot be ground to come

to the conclusion that the claimant is not a secured creditor. 23. Concluding his arguments, the Appellant urged this Appellate Tribunal to

dismiss the Impugned Order and allow his appeal. 24. Per contra, the Respondent denied all the averments made by the

Appellant in the present appeal. 25. The Respondent submitted that the Corporate Insolvency Resolution

Process (CIRP) was initiated against the Corporate Debtor by an order of the

Adjudicating Authority dated 21.10.2019, wherein the Adjudicating Authority

appointed Mr. Anil Tayal as the Interim Resolution Professional. Mr. Anil Tayal

was subsequently confirmed as the Resolution Professional during the first

meeting of the Committee of Creditors ('CoC') held on 22.11.2019. However, Page 10 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

on 04.10.2022, the Adjudicating Authority appointed the Respondent as the

Resolution Professional replacing Mr. Anil Tayal. 26. The Respondent submits that the Appellant filed the claim amounting to

Rs.17.46 Crores for the funds disbursed for the allotment of units to homebuyers

in the AVJ Heights project of the Corporate Debtor on 25.02.2021. The

Respondent highlighted that while the Appellant initially filed claims for 59

homebuyers, the Appellant filed I.A. No. 836 of 2023 before the Adjudicating

Authority, and the current appeal only pertain to 32 homebuyers. 27. The Respondent submitted that the claims, submitted by the Appellant on

01.09.2021 were rejected by the erstwhile Resolution Professional primarily on

the basis that it did not meet the criteria for classification as a financial debt

under the definition provided in Section 5(8) of the Code. The Respondent

submitted that the decision is supported by the legal principles established by

this Appellate Tribunal in the Value Infracon India Private Limited (Supra),

wherein it was held that Bank can't be treated as Financial Creditor in real estate

project and it is only Homebuyers who are to be considered as the Financial

Creditor as a class. 28. The Respondent submitted that, based on the said judgment , the

Appellant cannot be classified as a Financial Creditor with respect to the loans

extended to homebuyers for the purpose of financing the allotment of flats in the

AVJ Heights project of the Corporate Debtor. Page 11 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 29. The Respondent submitted that the Appellant has attempted to establish

its status as a Financial Creditor by relying on the tripartite agreements entered

into among the homebuyers, the Appellant, and the Corporate Debtor. The

Respondent referred to the recitals in these tripartite agreements states: 30. The Respondent submitted that the CoC approved the resolution plan for

the Corporate Debtor during its fourteenth meeting held on 11.10.2021 and the

Resolution Professional filed application IA No. 5385 of 2021 on 09.11.2021,

seeking approval for the resolution plan from the Adjudicating Authority, which

is currently pending adjudication. The Respondent also referred to this

Appellate Tribunal's earlier judgement in the case of Mukul Kumar vs. M/s

RPS Infrastructure passed in Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 1050 of

2020, where it was held that a resolution professional is not permitted to

entertain new claims once a resolution plan has been approved by the CoC Page 12 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

which establishes the finality of the CoC's decision and the importance of

adhering to established processes within the insolvency framework. 31. The Respondent submitted that the liability to repay the loan lies solely

with the individual homebuyers, as explicitly stated in the tripartite agreement.

The Respondent denied the averments of the Appellant that according to the

terms of the tripartite agreement, the Appellant holds prior charge or lien on the

residential units or flats within the Corporate Debtor's project for which the

housing loans were provided. The Respondent emphasized that this assertion of

the Appellant is unfounded. The Respondent stated that under Section 77 of the

Companies Act, 2013, it has been stipulated that every security interest must be

registered with the RoC within 30 days of its creation and the Appellant has

failed to produce any evidence demonstrating that such a charge was registered,

thereby undermining its claim of a prior lien on the properties in question. 32. The Respondent submitted that the Appellant's assertion that its claim is

based on adjudicated debt and default, and therefore must be accepted, is

misleading in view of this the Appellate Tribunal's judgment in the Value

Infracon India Private Limited (Supra), where it was held that a mere

"Permission to Mortgage" is irrelevant in the absence of a registered charge

under Section 77 of the Companies Act, 2013. The Respondent stated that the

existence of a tripartite agreement does not alter the nature of the amount

borrowed by the homebuyer in relation to the Bank and the Corporate Debtor. Page 13 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 33. The Respondent submitted that many homebuyers have already filed

their claims in accordance with the law and accepting the Appellant's claim

would lead to duplicity of claims, which could adversely impact the value of the

Corporate Debtor and potentially disrupt the ongoing CIRP. 34. The Respondent submitted that the Appellant has relied on the order dated

26.08.2022 issued by the Debt Recovery Tribunal in O.A. No. 356/2019 which

was obtained by the Appellant through the concealment of material facts and in

violation of Section 14(1)(a) of the Code, which imposes a moratorium on the

institution of suits or continuation of pending suits or proceedings against the

corporate debtor, including execution of any judgment, decree, or order in any

court of law, tribunal, arbitration panel, or other authority. The Respondent

stated that the Appellant filed its claim on 01.09.2021, while the order from the

Debt Recovery Tribunal was pronounced on 26.08.2022. This timeline clearly

indicates that the Appellant failed to disclose the imposition of the moratorium

on the Corporate Debtor to the Debt Recovery Tribunal and the Appellant did

not mention these proceedings in its claim submitted to the erstwhile Resolution

Professional. The respondent argues that these actions amount to a fraud on the

court, violating the established moratorium, thereby rendering such orders non

est in law. Consequently, the Respondent asserted that Appellant cannot

rightfully claim to be a financial creditor based on these proceedings, as they

were conducted without due regard for the legal framework governing

insolvency proceedings. Page 14 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 35. The respondent submitted that the established legal precedent requires

a direct disbursal of the amount owed by the financial creditor to the corporate

debtor for the debt to qualify as 'Financial Debt' under the relevant provisions.

In this case, although the loaned amount was credited directly to the accounts of

the Corporate Debtor, the Respondent asserted that there was no actual

disbursement made in exchange for the consideration of time value of money, as

required to classify the Appellant as a financial creditor. Furthermore, it is

acknowledged that the Appellant /Canara Bank itself has admitted that the funds

were disbursed "on behalf of the said borrowers," indicating that the transaction

does not meet the necessary criteria for direct engagement with the Corporate

Debtor. 36. The respondent submits that the contention of the Appellant that the

Corporate Debtor has guaranteed the debt or indemnified the Appellant under

Clause 16 must be rejected as the obligation of the Corporate Debtor does not

extend to repaying the money owed by the homebuyer; rather, it is limited to

refunding the money received by the Corporate Debtor from the Appellant. This

obligation is triggered not solely by a default on the part of the homebuyer but

also in other specific instances, which removes it from the definition of a

guarantee. Furthermore, the Respondent argued that the obligation outlined in

Clause 16 should be interpreted as akin to that of a garnishee, rather than

creating an independent right against the Corporate Debtor. The Respondent

stated that the Tripartite Agreement clearly indicates that the liability for Page 15 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

repayment remains with the homebuyer, and specific provisions for

indemnification are explicitly included within that agreement. Therefore, any

claims by the Appellant regarding a guarantee or indemnification by the

Corporate Debtor lack legal merit and should be rejected. 37. The Respondent submits that the appellant claim regarding a prior

charge or mortgage over the property, as stipulated in the Lease

Deed dated 01.09.2010 between the Greater Noida Industrial Development

Authority (GNIDA) and the Corporate Debtor, is without merit. The

Respondent explained that Lease Deed explicitly states that the Corporate

Debtor could only create a charge or mortgage on the property after obtaining

prior permission from GNIDA. In this instance, the Respondent stated that no

such permission was ever sought or obtained by the Corporate Debtor, thereby

rendering any purported charge in favor of the Appellant invalid. The

Respondent emphasized that Appellant was fully aware of the terms of the

Lease Deed, as these terms were also referenced in the Builder Buyer

Agreement executed between the allottee and the Corporate Debtor. This

agreement was available to Appellant at the time of executing the Tripartite

Agreement, further indicating that Appellant cannot claim ignorance of the

restrictions imposed by GNIDA. The Respondent contended that the

Appellant's assertions regarding a valid charge on the property are legally

unfounded. Page 16 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 38. Concluding his arguments, the Respondent requested this Appellate

Tribunal to dismiss this appeal with costs. 39. The Intervention Application bearing I.A. No.7105 of 2024 was made

before us. That the Intervener is suspended director of Corporate Debtor/AVJ

Developers (India) Pvt. Ltd. (Corporate Debtor ). 40. The intervener submits that, according to the terms of the Tripartite

Agreement, no security is created in favor of the Appellant Bank in any manner, 41. The case of the Intervenor is that Clause 18 clearly indicates that security

is not established in favor of the Appellant Bank but rather pertains to a third

party that has yet to be identified by the Appellant Bank. The Intervenor

contended that the Appellant Bank cannot benefit from a clause that is

inherently premature and has not been enforced by the Appellant Bank itself.

This lack of a valid security interest further supports the argument against the

Appellant's claims regarding his rights under the Tripartite Agreement. 42. The intervener submits that the Appellant Bank's reference to certain

paragraphs in the Tripartite Agreement as formal clauses with riders is

misleading. Specifically, Clause 3 of the Tripartite Agreement states that the

"Bank shall be first and paramount over the charge which the Builder may have

over the said flat/loan amount." The Intervenor stated that according to

the mortgage clause in the lease agreement with GNIDA dated 31.08.2009,

GNIDA holds the first charge over the assets. Therefore, the Appellant Bank's

claim to a first charge is inherently illegal. Page 17 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 43. The Intervenor submitted that the Appellant Bank has not obtained any

permission from GNIDA prior to mortgaging the property in its favor, rendering

these clauses inapplicable. The absence of such permission means that any

purported charge or lien created by the Appellant Bank lacks legal standing and

cannot be enforced. Thus, Appellant's claims regarding its security interest

should be dismissed based on these grounds. 44. The Intervenor emphasised that even if the claim of the Appellant/Canara

Bank is not allowed, then also there is a provision in Resolution Plan, to admit

his claim and give him the claim amount in prorata basis to the other creditor,

under which category he falls accordingly Resolution Plan need not to be return

to CoC at any event. 45. The Intervenor further argued that even if the claim of the

Appellant/Canara Bank is admitted, its share in the Committee of Creditors

(CoC) would remain negligible, amounting to less than 1%. Furthermore, if

additional claims are admitted after CoC approval of the Resolution Plan and

the plan is subsequently referred back to the CoC, it could create perpetual

delays, hindering the approval of the Resolution Plan by the CoC and,

consequently, by the Adjudicating Authority. Page 18 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 46. Concluding his arguments, the Intervenor requested this Appellate

Tribunal to dismiss this appeal. Findings 47. We note that the Appellant/Canara Bank filed claims asserting that it

advanced funds to Corporate Debtor on behalf of the individual homebuyers for

dwelling units. We note that the Corporate Debtor defaulted on construction and

in handing over flats and is currently under CIRP. The Respondent rejected

Appellant's claim on 01.09.2022, stating that the claim did not qualify as

financial debt under Section 5(8) of the Code. The Respondent referenced the

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India judgement in the case of Pioneer Urban Land

and Infrastructure Limited & Anr. Vs. Union of India & Ors. passed in Writ

Petition (Civil) No. 43 of 2019 decided on 09.08.2019 which established that

homebuyers are considered financial creditors under Code provisions. Additionally, the Respondent also cited this Appellate Tribunal's judgement Value Infracon India Pvt. Ltd. (Supra) that banks lending to homebuyers

cannot be classified as financial creditors since the repayment obligation lies

with the homebuyers. We further note that the Adjudicating Authority held that

Appellant Bank did not directly finance the Corporate Debtor, making the

homebuyers the real Financial Creditors and therefore the Respondent's

decision to reject the claim of the Appellant was upheld, leading to the dismissal

of IA-836/2023 of the Appellant. Page 19 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 48. It will be necessary for us to refer to the relevant provision of the code

which reads as under :- 3 (10)- "creditor" means any person to whom a debt is
 owed and includes a financial creditor, an operational
 creditor, a secured creditor, an unsecured creditor and a
 decree-holder. Section 3(33) - "transaction" includes a agreement or
 arrangement in writing for the transfer of assets, or funds,
 goods or services, from or to the corporate debtor;
 3 (34)- "transfer" includes sale, purchase, exchange,
 mortgage, pledge, gift, loan or any other form of transfer of
 right, title, possession or lien; 5 (7)- "financial creditor" means any person to whom a
 financial debt is owed and includes a person to whom such
 debt has been legally assigned or transferred to
 5(8)- "financial debt" means a debt along with interest, if
 any, which is disbursed against the consideration for the
 time value of money and includes- (a) money borrowed against the payment of interest; Page 20 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 (b) any amount raised by acceptance under any acceptance
credit facility or its de materialised equivalent; (c) any amount raised pursuant to any note purchase facility
or the issue of bonds, notes, debentures, loan stock or any
similar instrument; (d) the amount of any liability in respect of any lease or hire
purchase contract which is deemed as a finance or capital
lease under the Indian Accounting Standards or such other
accounting standards as may be prescribed; (e) receivables sold or discounted other than any
receivables sold on non-recourse basis; (f) any amount raised under any other transaction,
including any forward sale or purchase agreement, having
the commercial effect of a borrowing; [Explanation. -For the purposes of this sub-clause, - (i) any
amount raised from an allottee under a real estate project
shall be deemed to be an amount having the commercial
effect of a borrowing; and (ii) the expressions, "allottee"
and "real estate project" shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in clauses (d) and (zn) of section 2 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development)
Act, 2016 (16 of 2016);] (g) any derivative transaction entered into in connection
with protection against or benefit from fluctuation in any
rate or price and for calculating the value of any derivative
transaction, only the market value of such transaction shall
be taken into account; (h) any counter-indemnity obligation in respect of a
guarantee, indemnity, bond, documentary letter of credit or Page 21 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

 any other instrument issued by a bank or financial
 institution; (i) the amount of any liability in respect of any of the
 guarantee or indemnity for any of the items referred to in
 sub-clauses (a) to (h) of this clause; (Emphasis Supplied) 49. We would like to refer to the relevant portion of the Impugned Order to

understand the reasoning for rejection of IA filed by the Appellant Bank seeking

direction of the Respondent to consider his claims. The following is the

excerpts from the Impugned Order :- Admittedly, in the present case the bank has not directly
financed the CD. The real financial creditors are the home
buyers. The decision of the Hon'ble NCLAT applies to the
facts of the present case hence the RP was right in rejecting
the claim. We find no reason to interfere in the proceedings
and the reasoning of the RP. (Emphasis Supplied) Page 24 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 50. We note that the claims as submitted by the Appellant bank was

considered by the Erstwhile Resolution Professional however the same were

rejected, vide e-mail dated 01.09.2022, which reads as under :- Page 25 of 55 51. From above it is apparent that the Erstwhile Resolution Professional

rejected the claims of the Appellant Bank on the ground that the claim filed by

the Appellant Bank were not financial debt in terms of Section 5(8) of the Code

in the opinion of the Respondent and he referred to the judgment of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India in the matter of Pioneer Urban Land and

Infrastructure Limited & Anr. Vs. Union of India & Ors. passed in Writ

Petition (Civil) No. 43 of 2019 decided on 09.08.2019 where it was held that it

is the homebuyers in real estate projects who are deemed to be financial

creditors under the Code. The Resolution Professional also referred to the

Regulation 16A and 25 A of the IBBI (Insolvency Resolution Process for

Corporate Person), Regulation, 2016. The Respondent also relied upon the

decision of this Appellate Tribunal decided on 20.12.2021 in the matter of Value Infracon India Private Limited (Supra). 52. Yet another ground taken by the Resolution Professional for rejection of

the claim was lack of authorisation by the Homebuyers in favour of the

Appellant Bank. We also note that in the rejecting claim the Respondent stated

that "the liability to pay back the borrower amount lies upon the borrower and

not the Corporate Debtor." And finally, the Resolution Professional found that

it is prerogative of the homebuyers to either file claim with the Resolution

Professional or not to file claims but it is not for bank to file such claims but

Appellant bank can take the legal recourse against homebuyers in accordance

with the law. Page 28 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 53. Now it will be desirable to look into and examine the relevant clauses of

the tripartite agreement entered into amongst the Appellant Bank, the

Homebuyers and Borrower/ Corporate Debtor. The relevant portion of the

tripartite agreement is reproduced as under :- (To be executed by the Borrower, Canara Bank and Land
 owning Builder/PA holder of the land owner having rights
 to construct and sell Flats)

 WHEREAS under an Agreement for Sale dated ......entered
 into between the Builder and the Borrower, the Builder has
 agreed to sell Schedule B property to the Borrower and in
 furtherance thereof, the Borrower has already paid to the
 builder Rs.15,85,000/- (Rupees Fifteen Lac Eighty Five
 Thousand Only) by way of advance money and the receipt of
 which is acknowledged by the Builder. WHEREAS the Borrower has approached the Bank to grant
 him loan of Rs 11,00,000/- (Rupees Eleven lac Only) for
 purchase of Schedule B property and the Bank has vide its
 sanction letter dated.... Agreed to sanction the loan of Rs
 11,00,000/-(Rupees Eleven lac Only) to the Borrower
 (hereinafter called "Loan". Whereas Borrower and builder represent that after
 completion of construction of flat, Builder shall execute Sale
 Deed for Schedule B property in favour of Borrower in
 terms of this agreement. Pending execution of Sale Deed, Page 29 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

the Bor- rower and the Builder have requested the Bank to
disburse the said loan to the Borrower. Bank has agreed to
disburse the said loan on the following terms and conditions
among others: (Rupees Fifteen Lac Eighty Five Thousand Only) to the
builder on........ as advance money for the purchase of
Schedule B property. The Borrower hereby authorizes the
Bank to disburse the above said loan amount directly to
the Builder in terms of the above said Agreement for Sale
or as requested by the Borrower. The sum of Rs.11,00,000/-
(Rupees Eleven Lac Only) advanced by the Bank to the
Borrower and remitted by the Bank directly to the builder
shall be deemed as disbursed by the Bank directly to the
Borrower. 3. That the Bank has and shall have the first and paramount
lien over the money disbursed by the Bank as loan to the
Borrower, The charge in favour of the Bank shall be first
and paramount over the charge which the Builder may have
over the said flat/loan amount. 4. That the Builder agrees that they have no objection to the
Borrower(s) mortgaging Schedule B Property as security
for the above said Loan. 5. That the Builder shall note in its records, the charge and
lien of the Bank over the Schedule B property. The Builder
shall not transfer the Schedule B property to any person
without the prior written consent of the Bank 11. That on receipt of the entire loan amount, the Builder
shall execute a proper Conveyance Deed/ Sale Deed/Lease Page 30 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

Deed in favour of the Borrower. The Builder undertakes to
deliver the same along with original Registration fee receipt
directly to the Bank and not to the Borrower (s). Before the
execution of the Sale Deed /Conveyance Deed/ Lease Deed,
the Builder shall inform the Bank about the same and date
of registration shall be fixed with written consent of Bank.
On receipt of the entire loan amount, the Builder shall
deliver possession of Schedule B property to the Borrower. 13. The Borrower/s, hereby undertakes to create equitable
mortgage in favour of Bank after obtaining the original sale
deed of Schedule B Property as per guidelines of the Bank. 16. In the event of default of repayment of the loan and/or
the Borrower(s) committing any other default which make
the Borrower liable for the re payment of the entire
amount outstanding in the said loan as per the terms of the
loan agreement executed between the Borrower's and the
Bank, or if the Borrower withdraws from his agreement or
Builder cancels the booking of the Borrower, or in the event
of failure of the Builder to complete the project, or in the
event of death of the Borrower, or in any event where the
title to the schedule flat/dwelling unit is not/not being
passed on to the Borrower or in any other eventualities of
the nature by which the loan advanced by the Bank is not
utilised for the purpose for which it was so advanced or
breach of any of the terms and conditions contained in this
agreement, the entire amount advanced by the Bank on
account of the Borrower shall be refunded by the Builder
to the Bank. If the entire amount refunded by the Builder is
insufficient to close the loan account, Borrower shall make Page 31 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

 immediate arrangements for payment of such deficit
 amount as may be required to close the loan account. If the
 Builder fails to repay the amount as stated under this
 clause, the Borrower shall repay the entire loan amount
 with interest, expenses, penal interest, etc. in terms of the
 loan agreement executed by the Borrower/s. 17. The Builder hereby agrees that the Builder shall not
 refund the Borrower or any other person any
 advance/contribution given by the Borrower unless the
 Builder has taken written consent from the Bank to that
 effect. 18. In the event of any default by the Borrower and the
 Builder not paying the dues of the bank, the Bank shall
 have right to identify third party in the place of Borrower
 and Builder shall accept the purchaser identified by the
 Bank and execute necessary Conveyance deed/Sale deed in
 favour of the said third party /purchaser. The Borrower is
 bound to accept the said Conveyance deed / Sale deed
 executed by the Builder at the request of the Bank. The
 decision of the Bank as to whether Borrower has
 committed default or not shall be final and binding on the
 Borrower Builder. (Emphasis Supplied) 54. This Appellate Tribunal had previously passed an order in the present

appeal on 19.12.2023 which reads as under: 2.The pleaded case of the appellant is that it had advanced
various amount to the Corporate Debtor for booking their
units. The Corporate Debtor is in CIRP, therefore, the
Appellant filed a claim before the RP on the ground that
they are the financial creditor as they have lent money to the
home buyers. This claim was rejected by the RP on
01.09.2022. Aggrieved against that decision of the RP, the
application bearing I.A. No. 836 of 2023 has been filed
which too has been dismissed vide the impugned order
relying to a decision of this Tribunal in the case of Axis
Bank Vs. Value Infracon India Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. CA (AT)
(Ins) No. 582 of 2020 decided on 20.12.2021 in which it has
been held that :- 3. Although Counsel for the Appellant has vehemently
 argued that the impugned order is bad in law but he could
 not cite any judgment to the contrary to the decision
 rendered in the Case of Axis Bank (Supra), therefore, we do
 not find any merit in the present appeal and the same is
 hereby dismissed. No costs. (Emphasis Supplied) 55. It will be necessary for us to refer to order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

of India while remanding this case back to us for fresh consideration vide order

dated 27.09.2024 passed in Civil Appeal No. 7311 of 2024 in the matter of

Canara Bank vs. Vivek Kumar, Resolution Professional of AVJ Developers

(India) Pvt. Ltd. which reads as under :- 56. The case referred by the Respondent as well as the Adjudicating

Authority in the case of Pioneer Urban Land (Supra) and the relevant portion

of the judgment reads as under :- Even the dissent of Shri Shroff recognises that in the case of
home buyers, who have taken loans from banks, such banks
ought to be on the Committee of Creditors. If such banks
ought to be on the Committee of Creditors as
representatives of the home buyers, and they are to vote
only in accordance with the home buyer's instructions, why
should the home buyer himself then not be on the Committee Page 36 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

of Creditors, and why should it make any difference as to
whether he has borrowed money from banks in order to pay
instalments under the agreement for sale or whether he does
it from his own finances? These matters have not been
addressed by the dissenting view which in principle, as we
have seen, supports home buyers who have taken loans as
against home buyers who have used their own finances.
Perhaps the real reason for Shri Shroff's dissent is the fact
that unsecured, as opposed to secured, financial creditors
are being put on the Committee of Creditors. If there is
otherwise good reason as to why this particular group of
unsecured creditors, like deposit holders, should be part of
the Committee of Creditors, it is difficult to appreciate how
such a group can be excluded. The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 (RERA) and its impact on the real estate sector. 68. However, Dr. Singhvi strongly relied upon the report of
the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee of November, 2015
and in particular paragraph 3 of 'Box 5.2 - Trigger for
IRP' which states that financial creditors are persons where
the liability to the debtor arises from a "solely" financial
transaction. This Committee report, which led to the
enactment of the Code, is an important guide in
understanding the provisions of the Code. However, where
the provisions of the Code, as construed in the light of the
objects of the Code, are clear, the fact that from a huge
report one word is picked up to indicate that all financial
creditors must have debtors who owe money "solely" from
financial transactions cannot possibly have the effect of Page 37 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

 negating the plain language of Section 5(8)(f) of the Code.
 In fact, what is important is that the threshold limit to
 trigger the Code is purposely kept low - at only one lakh
 rupees - making it clear that small individuals may also
 trigger the Code as financial creditors (as financial
 creditors include debenture holders and bond holders),
 along with banks and financial institutions to whom crores
 of money may be due. 69. That this amendment is in fact clarificatory is also made
 clear by the Insolvency Committee Report, which expressly
 uses the word "clarify", indicating that the Insolvency Law
 Committee also thought that since there were differing
 judgments and doubts raised on whether home buyers would
 or would not be included within Section 5(8)(f) , it was best
 to set these doubts at rest by explicitly stating that they
 would be so covered by adding an explanation to Section
 5(8)(f) . Incidentally, the Insolvency Law Committee itself
 had no doubt that given the 'financing' of the project by the
 allottees, they would fall within Section 5(8)(f) of the Code
 as originally enacted." (Emphasis Supplied) 57. In Pioneer Urban Land (Supra) we note that several Writ Petitions were

filed before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India challenging the constitution

validity of the amendment made to the Code subsequent to report of Insolvency

Law Committee dated 26.03.2018. The amendment was made under Section

5(8)(f) of the Code which entitles the allottees of the real estate project to be

financial creditor so that they could independently pursue Section 7 of the Code. Page 38 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India upheld the amendment and also stipulated

that amendment was only clarificatory in nature since allottee of the real estate

projects were already been presumed in Section 5(8)(f) of the Code and no new

rights were created. 58. The order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India is very categorical and

clear there that the amendment in the Code was made to make homebuyers as

Financial Creditors to the extent of money invested by them in buying the

concern dwelling units whether financed from to its own source or from

borrowed money through banks. 59. We also note that as per amendment in the Code as well as in the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, there is hardly any scope for

the lenders/ banks who gave loan to the homebuyers to be treated as Secured

Financial Creditor and consequently fined place in this CoC. 60. The Respondent has heavily relied upon the judgment of this Appellate

Tribunal in case of Value Infracon India Private Limited (Supra), thus it will

be necessary for us to refer to the said judgment and the relevant portion of the

judgment reads as under :- On perusal of this application, it appears this bank
advanced loan to the home buyers of the corporate debtor.
In view of it, now the bank is asking this Bench to pass an
order declaring him a secured financial creditor of the
corporate debtor and also to allow him to sit in the CoC.
We are of the view that this bank cannot be called as a
creditor to the corporate debtor because the loans are given
to the home buyers of the corporate debtor. Therefore, we
have not found any merit in this application, hence
dismissed as misconceived. 2. Succinctly put, the facts in brief are that the Section 7 Application filed by M/s. Daimler Financial Services
Private Limited against the 'Corporate Debtor' was
admitted on 04.05.2018; a Public Announcement was made
by the IRP inviting claims on 09.05.2018; M/s. Axis Bank
hereinafter referred to as the 'Appellant' filed its claim
amounting to Rs.15,76,14,801/- on 20.09.2018 vide email,
but the Office of the IRP refused to accept the Hard Copy;
the RP rejected the document of the Appellant for want of
documents on 07.10.2018; the Appellant submitted the
claims once again with the relevant documents, but the
same was not accepted; and thereafter the Appellant choose
to file this Application before the Adjudicating Authority. 4. Submissions of Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of
the Appellant: Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 5. Submissions of the Learned Counsel appearing on behalf
of First Respondent/Resolution Professional representing
the 'Corporate Debtor': It is not denied that there is no registered 'charge' created
on the asset or property as contemplated under Section 77 Page 43 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

of the Companies Act, 2013 . Further, there is no submission
made on behalf of the Bank as to whether any steps were
taken under Section 78 of the Companies Act, 2013. The
ratio of 'Indiabulls Housing Finance Ltd.' Vs. 'Mr. Samir
Kumar Bhattacharya and Anr. ' passed by this Tribunal in
Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 830 of 2019
regarding "Registration of charge" is squarely applicable
to the facts of this case. 15. It can be seen from the material on record that Axis
Bank had rendered financial assistance for the purpose of
booking units in the Project floated by the 'Corporate
Debtor' and had a tie-up with the 'Corporate Debtor' for
procuring business from the Home Allottees. The Home
Loan Agreements in these cases were made individually by
the Borrowers. As per standing instructions, the money in
the account of the Home Allottees was disbursed
automatically to the 'Corporate Debtor'. Tri-partite
Agreement is only by way of security that the developer
would withhold the allotment in the event of default by the
allottee. The Bank had sought security by creating mortgage
of the residential units for the loans availed by the Home
Buyers and the 'Corporate Debtor' had given permission
for the same to enable the Home Buyer to procure financial
assistance. 16. From the aforenoted clause in the tri-partite Agreement
entered into between the Home Buyer, the Axis Bank and the
'Corporate Debtor', it is evident that in case of any default
by the Borrower, the Bank would have the right to write to
the builder for cancellation of Agreement executed between Page 44 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

the developer and the Borrower, whereafter the Bank shall
have the right to pay the sale consideration and get the
subject property registered. There is no material on record
to evidence that any such cancellation has taken place. The
Home Loan Agreement read with the Demand Letters and
the Allotment Letter clearly specify that when there is a
'default' on behalf of the Home Allottee a penalty interest
would have to be paid by the allottee to the Bank. Therefore,
the 'default' aspect is to be seen vis-a-vis the Home Allottee
and the Appellant Bank only. It is contended by the
Respondent that though the Allotment Letter shows that the
payments were construction linked, the Bank released the
entire amount prior to completion of construction. 17. Be that as it may, we are of the considered view that this
subject matter cannot be viewed from such a narrow
compass. It is definitely not the scope and objective of the
Code to include Banks/Financial Institutions which have
advanced loans to Home Buyers to be considered as
'Financial Creditors' and included in the CoC, specifically
in the light of the fact the liability to repay the Home Loan
is on the individual Home Buyers. This would defeat the
very spirit and objective of the Code aiming at Resolution
and maximisation of the assets of the 'Corporate Debtor'.
Presence of a mere tri-partite Agreement does not change
the character of the amount borrowed by the Home Buyer
vis-a-vis the Bank and vis-a-vis the 'Corporate Debtor'.
Viewed from any angle, the Appellant cannot be included as
a 'Secured Financial Creditor' in this case and hence we Page 45 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

 find no reasons to interfere with the well-reasoned Order of
 the Adjudicating Authority." (Emphasis Supplied) 61. We have already noted that while remanding the present appeal back to us

for fresh consideration, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has indicated the

NCLAT has dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellant. Reliance placed by

the NCLAT on its own judgment appears to be not correct, as the said case was

decided on its own facts. 62. We note from the order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India that the

case was remanded back to us for the reason that this Appellate Tribunal's

earlier order did not consider the merits of the appeal preferred by the

Appellant. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India also indicated this Appellate

Tribunal did not consider whether as per clauses of the tripartite agreement, the

developer was liable to repay the loan. 63. Hence it become correct important to understand the background and the

ratio of the said judgement i.e., Value Infracon India Private Limited (Supra).

We already noted the relevant portion of the said judgment in the preceding

paragraphs. It is clear that in the said case the loans were given by the banks to

the individual homebuyers and it was responsibility of the homebuyers alone to

repay the loan to the bankers/ Financial Creditors and there was no

responsibility of the Corporate Debtor/ Borrower for any payment to banker in

case of any default by borrower or Corporate Debtor. Page 46 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 64. The most significant portion of the judgment is the relevant clause to

tripartite agreement entered amongst the homebuyers/ developers and the

Financial Creditors in case of Value Infracon India Private Limited (Supra)

and the same is quoted as under :- (Emphasis Supplied) 65. This clause of Value Infracon India Private Limited (Supra) clearly

indicate that in case borrower/ homebuyers failed to honour its commitment, the

bank had right to pay the balance sale consideration and get it registered either

in bank's name or its nominee's name. Page 47 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023 66. In contrast to this the cause 16 of tripartite agreement of the present case

before us reads as under : (Emphasis Supplied) 67. This Clause is quite different from the typical clauses of the Tripartite

agreement and different from the equivalent clause of the Value Infracon India Page 48 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

Private Limited (Supra) noted, quoted and discussed in the preceding

paragraphs. 68. The clause of tripartite agreement in the present appeal is very categorical

that in case of default of payment of loan or borrower committing any default or

any event of failure of builder or in event where the title of dwelling unit is not

passed on to the borrower/ homebuyers or due to breach of any terms and

conditions contained in the tripartite agreement "the entire advance by the bank

on account of borrower shall be refunded by the builder to the bank". The

clause 16 also provide that in case the builder fails to pay the amount as stated

in this clause, the borrower shall pay the entire loan amount with interest,

including panel interest etc., in terms of loan agreement. 69. Thus, the distinguishable aspect of the tripartite agreement of the present

appeal vis-à-vis the tripartite agreement of Value Infracon India Private

Limited (Supra) relied heavily by the Respondent (Resolution Professional) (as

well as the Adjudicating Authority in the Impugned Order in rejecting of claims

of the Appellant) is that in case of tripartite agreement of Value Infracon India

Private Limited (Supra) there is no responsibility of the Corporate Debtor/

builder/ developer, whatsoever to repay any money of the bankers and the entire

responsibility was of the homebuyers, where in in terms of clause 16 of the

tripartite agreement of the present appeal, the primary responsibility of

repayment of loan in case of any of the eventuality laid down in tripartite

agreement falls on the builder/ Corporate Debtor. This indicate relationship of Page 49 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

the Appellant Bank and the Corporate Debtor to meet the stipulation of Section

5(8) of the Code regarding the financial debt. This aspect was not available in

the case of Value Infracon India Private Limited (Supra). 70. In Clause 16 of the tripartite agreement in the present appeal and it is only

on the failure of the builder to repay to the Appellant/Bank, the borrower/

homebuyer is required to repay the entire outstanding balances to the Appellant/

Bank. We note that this is quite distinctive term which has been signed by the

Appellant Bank as lender, the borrower (homebuyers) and the builder

(Corporate Debtor) making direct relationship and set of obligations and rights

between the Appellant/ Bank and the Corporate Debtor/ Builder. In fact, the

primary responsibility in the present case is of the Corporate Debtor/ Builder

and secondary responsibility is of borrower/ Homebuyers. 71. We have already taken into consideration the definition of financial debt

in our earlier discussion. The main requirement is that there must be debt along

with interest, if any, which is disbursed against time value and money and there

should be disbursement of money from creditors to debtors in terms of Section

5(8) of the Code. In context of Section 5(8) of the Code, promise by the debtor

to pay money to the creditor may also tantamount to transaction as defined

under Section 3(33) of the Code and same may attract the provisions of the Section 5(8) of the Code. We have already noted that the clause 16 of the

tripartite agreement in the present appeal amongst the parties indicates that the

entire amount advanced by the bank on account of the borrower shall be Page 50 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

refunded by the Corporate Debtor/ Builder to the Appellant/ bank thus in terms

of Section 5(8) r/w Section 3(33) of the Code, the same may become a financial

debt advanced by the Appellant bank to the Corporate Debtor. 72. We would like to reiterate and re-emphasised that in normal case it is only

the homebuyers/ allottee who could be treated as Financial Creditor and not

lenders/ banker who lent the money to the allottee. The very fact that the

amendment was made in Section 5(8)(f) of the Code was to enable the

homebuyers/ allottees to act as Financial Creditor and participate in CoC.

However, since the peculiar clause has been provided in the present agreement

which create the rights of the Appellant banker for the right to payment in terms

of Clause 3(6) of the Code and based on this right to payment the appellant has

pleaded to be classified as Financial Creditor to the extent of its money due to

be paid by the Corporate Debtor which was specifically agreed in Clause 16 of

the agreement. 73. Another pleas taken by the Respondent is regarding non registering of the

charge created in favour of the Appellant as well as claims under recovery

certificate issue by the DRT amounting to financial debt. 74. As regard the issue of non registration of mortgaged as per Section 77 of

the Companies Act, 2013 the issue was dealt by this Appellate Tribunal in the

matter of Canara Bank (Supra). The relevant portion of this judgment reads as

under :- Page 51 of 55 75. The above judgment make the position clarified that such non registration

will not has any adverse impact on the right of the Appellant. 76. As regard claim under recovery certificate issued by the DRT, we will

again refer to Clause 5(8) of the Code, where the word "include" has been used

which enlarge the scope of the definition of Section 5(8) of the Code. We

observe that subsequent to the word 'includes' 9 sub-clauses from (a) to (i) have

been mentioned. This list is not exhaustive and only illustrative. Thus, the

recovery certificate issued by the DRT may fall within the definition of financial

debt. 77. We have already taken into consideration that the Impugned Order

rejected the claims of the Appellant mainly based on the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of Pioneer Urban Land (Supra)

and this Appellate Tribunal in the case of Value Infracon India Private Limited (Supra). The Impugned Order passed by the Adjudicating Authority stated that

the bank did not finance the Corporate Debtor and real financial creditors are the

homebuyers and based on the judgment of this Appellate Tribunal Value

Infracon India Private Limited (Supra) the Adjudicating Authority rejected the

case of the Appellant. 78. We have examined both the cases in greater details in preceding

paragraphs as well as legal provisions of the Code and various clauses of the Page 53 of 55 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

agreement specially in contrast with provisions of the Tripartite Agreement of

the present case vis- a vis Value Infracon India Private Limited (Supra), as

such we find that the Adjudicating Authority has erred in not considering the

aspects brought out by the Appellant in the present appeal. 79. The Appellant Bank has directly disbursed the amount to the Corporate

Debtor/ Builder, albeit, on behalf of the Borrowers/ Homebuyers and in terms of

the Tripartite Agreements amongst the Allottees, Builder and the Bank, the

Corporate Debtor/ Builder has undertaken to refund the entire amount advanced

by the bank in case of event of default of repayment of loan. 80. We observe that Clause 9.5(v) of the Resolution Plan provides for

submission of claims by allottee/ unit holder/ flat/ shop owner who had failed to

file the same with the Respondent or who had filed it but the same was under 81. We note that Intervenor brought to our notice the clause in Resolution

Plan :- Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 390 of 2023

 In fact the pleadings of the Intervenor and provision in the Resolution

Plan support the cause of the Appellant and gives the Appellant due protection. 82. In view of above detailed discussion, the appeal succeeds. The Impugned

Order is set aside and I.A No. 836 / 2023 in C.P. (IB) No. 654(PB)/2019 is

restored to its original number and the matter is remanded back to the Tribunal

for reassessment of the case, in accordance with law. The Adjudicating

Authority may decide without being influenced by any of the observation made

herein above. All contentions of the parties will also remain open. 83. Parties are directed to appear before the Adjudicating Authority on

27.01.2025. 84. No costs. I.A. if any, are closed. [Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain]
 Member (Judicial)

 [Mr. Naresh Salecha]
 Member (Technical)
Sim Page 55 of 55