Shri G George Paracken: 2.	In the present case, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Special Cell, Delhi recommended the cases of SI Rahul Kumar Singh (the applicant) and SI Dharmender Kumar for out of turn promotion (OTP for short) to the rank of Inspector and HC Ajit Singh to the post of Assistant Sub Inspector. All of them belonged to the same team which displayed extra-ordinary good work and exemplary gallant act that led to successful operation on 30.12.2004 in which dreaded gangster Krishan Pehalwan of gang Surender @ Sunder, carrying cash reward of Rs.25000/- on his arrest from Haryana Police, was pinned down in an encounter after a shoot out which took place at outer gate, Sugar Mill, Panipat, Haryana. Two of his associates, Pradeep and Ranbir were also apprehended. During the shoot out SI Mehtab Singh sustained bullet injuries and later succumbed to his injuries. The Incentive Committee constituted for this purpose, after going through all the material facts considered their cases twice on 14.09.2005 and 02.08.2006. Finally, in its meeting held on 04.12.2006 it was convinced that the applicant and his teammates have displayed extraordinary gallant and recommended the names of the applicant and SI Dharmender Kumar for OTP to the rank of Inspector and the name of HC Ajit Kumar for grant of Asadharan Karya Purskar with Rs.5000/- as cash reward. The said recommendations were placed before the then Commissioner of Police who after going through the same and other relevant material approved them on 05.12.2006. However, during the
 consideration period in the case of the applicant and others, at least 4 more meetings of the Incentive Committee have taken place and many other officers who displayed extra-ordinary gallant after 30.12.2004 were granted out of turn promotions in different ranks. According to the respondents, the applicant could not be given promotion due to non-availability of earmarked vacancies for the purpose. Meanwhile, the applicant was promoted to the rank of Inspector on his own turn along with his batch mates on 13.01.2009. 3.	Later on, the new incumbent of the post of Commissioner, constituted another Incentive Committee to review the earlier decisions of the earlier Commissioner. The said Committee recommended AKP with Rs.5000/- to SI Dharmender Kumar and in the case of the applicant, it came to the conclusion that he does not deserve any incentives. SI Dharmender Kumar challenged the aforesaid decision vide OA No. 557/2011 before this Tribunal and vide order dated 05.09.2011 the same was allowed. The relevant part of the said order is as under:- 4. In the case of HC Sukhbir Singh Vs. Govt. of NCT of Delhi and Ors. in OA No.2304/2010 referred to in the aforesaid order, the findings of this Tribunal were as under:- 5.	Thereafter, the respondents implemented the said order of this Tribunal and granted OTP to SI Dharmender Kumar to the rank of Inspector w.e.f. 14.09.2007 vide Annexure A-10 order dated 14.10.2011. The applicant being similarly placed is seeking the same reliefs in his case also. 6.	The respondents have filed their reply. According to them, in pursuance of the direction of the then C.P. Delhi, the cases of all those who were waiting for promotion for want of vacancies of OTP quota in the next higher rank were reviewed by the Incentive Committee. After going through the citations, service record and other relevant record of all police personnel in the team including SI Dharmender, the Incentive Committee felt that SI Dharmender Kumar deserve only the award of Asadharan Karya Puraskar and asked the unit concerned to send citation accordingly. The above recommendation of the committee was approved by the then C.P., Delhi. Accordingly, DCP/Spl. Cell (SB) sent the citation for the grant of AKP to SI Dharmender Kumar. Later on, the applicant was promoted to the rank of Inspector (Exe.) w.e.f. 13.1.2009 along with his batch mates as per seniority in the rank of SI (Exe.). As such, his claim for grant of OTP on ad-hoc basis is no more covered under the rule 19(ii) of Delhi Police (Promotion & Confirmation) Rules, 1980, as the said rule provides for the ad-hoc promotion on OTP basis with immediate effect and not from any ante date. Further, they have stated in another CWP No. 10733/2009-Commissioner of Police & Ors. Vs. SI Satbir Singh, the Honble High Court of Delhi has held that the respondent was not claiming any right to be promoted under the notified Recruitment Rules and the out of turn promotion being by way of a special benefit, cannot be claimed as a matter of right and nobody can stake a claim to be promoted from a date when somebody has done good work justifying claim to be considered for out of turn promotion. Special incentive can never rank at par with statutory rights. 7.	We have heard the learned counsel for the applicant Shri Saurabh Ahuja and the learned proxy counsel for respondents Sh. Madhurendra Jha. In our considered view, when the case of the team mate of the applicant SI Dharmender Kumar who was similarly placed was allowed by this Tribunal vide order dated 05.09.2011 in OA 557/2011 (supra) and the respondents have implemented the same vide their order dated 14.10.2011, there is no justification to deny the same benefit to the applicant herein. Otherwise, it will amount to invidious discrimination. We, therefore, allow this OA. Consequently, the respondents shall grant ad hoc promotion on out of turn basis to the next higher rank of Inspector (Exe.) under Rule 19(ii) of the Delhi Police (Promotion and Confirmation) Rules, 1980. The date of such promotion shall be form the due date as determined in the case of promotion given to SI Dharmender Kumar to the rank of Inspector. Consequently, the applicants promotion to the aforesaid rank already granted w.e.f. 13.01.2009 shall stand pre-poned. The respondents shall pass appropriate orders in compliance of the aforesaid directions within two months from the date of receipt of a copy of this order. There shall be no order as to costs.