Arrangement (Virtual/Physical Mode). 2. This is the 3rd bail application U/ S. 439 of
 Cr.P.C. by the Petitioner for grant of bail in
 connection with Cyber Crime P.S. Case No.02 of
 2022 corresponding to C.T. Case No.525 of 2022
 pending in the Court of learned S.D.J.M.,
 Bhubaneswar for commission of offence punishable
 U/Ss. 419/420/467/468/471/120-B/34 of the I.P.C .
 and U/Ss.66(C) and 67 (D) of Information Technology
 Act , on the allegation of committing online fraud by
 obtaining Mobile Numbers, 16 digit Card No. and CVV
 expiry date with OTP of different innocent persons. 3. Heard Mr. Gyana Ranjan Dhal, learned
 counsel for the petitioner and Mr. K.K. Gaya, learned
 ASC in the matter and perused the record. In addition
 to the certificate appended to the bail application, Mr. Page 1 of 6 Gyana Ranjan Dhal, learned counsel for petitioner
apprises this Court that this is the 3rd bail application
of the petitioner, but the petitioner has never
approached any higher forum against the order
passed by this Court refusing to grant bail to him on
earlier two occasions and at present, no bail
application of the petitioner is pending before any
other forum except this one. Mr. T.K. Praharaj,
learned Standing Counsel produces an affidavit sworn
in by Inspector-in-charge, CID, CB, Crime Branch,
Cyber Crime Police Station, Dist-Cuttack, which is
taken on record and the same reveals about
involvement of the petitioner in some cases in the
State of Telengana. 4. It is brought to the notice of the Court that
the present petitioner is similarly situated with co-
accused Krishna Kumar Mandal, who has already
been granted bail by this Court in BLAPL No.1811 of
2024. Further, it appears from the report submitted
by the learned S.D.J.M., Bhubaneswar that only part
examination in chief of P.W.1 was recorded on
03.05.2024 and the rest part of the examination in
chief of P.W.1 was deferred to next date i.e. on
04.05.2024, but till today, the examination in chief of
P.W.1 is yet to be concluded. It is, however, not in
dispute that the present petitioner is in custody since
29.01.2022, but in the meanwhile, more than two
year and six months has elapsed, however, the trial Page 2 of 6 is not yet concluded. Right to speedy trial is the
fundamental right of a person accused of the offence,
but in this case the same has been seriously
infringed. It is also not in dispute that the first date
fixed for taking evidence was on 09.11.2023, but
even after ten months therefrom, the trial has not yet
been completed. However, Section 437(6) of the
CrPC gives some preference/liberty to the accused to
go on bail, if the trial is not concluded with a period of
60 (sixty) days from the first date fixed for
prosecution evidence. 5. It is, however, true that personal liberty
of an accused is not absolute since the personal
liberty as provided in Article 21 of the
Constitution of India provides protection of life
and personal liberty in the following manner that
no person shall be deprived of his life or personal
liberty except according to procedure established
by law, which thereby carves out an exception to
personal liberty of a person which must be in
accordance with the procedure established by law,
but this article of Constitution quite sincerely
provides a right to an accused for speedy trial.
In a sense, when the Court continues with
custody of an accused in jail, it has an onerous and
arduous task to provide speedy trial to the
accused and failure to provide speedy trial to
accused in a Magistrate triable offence by keeping Page 3 of 6 the accused in custody for indefinite period would
not only lead to arbitrary exercise of power, but
also tantamount to break down of constitutional
machinery which would eventually lead to erode
the faith of the general public in the functioning
of the Courts. 6. In view of the above facts and discussions
made hereinabove and taking into consideration the
object and purpose of Section 437(6) of the Cr.P.C.
which persuades this Court to take a view in favour of
the individual liberty of a person while striking a
balance between the conflicting interests of the
petitioner as provided in Sec. 437(6) of the Cr.P.C
and regard being had to the pre trial detention of the
petitioner in custody for more than two years and six
months without trial being concluded, muchless
recording of part examination of only one witness and
keeping in view the mandate of law laid down by the
Apex Court Satendra Kumar Antil Vrs. C.B.I. and
others; (2021) 10 SCC 773 and last but not the
least, taking into account the release of co-accused
persons Pradhum Kumar Mandal, Sundram Charan
and Krishna Kumar Mandal on bail in BLAPL
Nos.10760 of 2023, BLAPL No. 2987 of 2022 and
BLAPL No.1811 of 2024 respectively, this Court
without going into the merits of the case considers it
in the interest of justice to extend the relief of bail to
the petitioner not only on the principle of parity, but Page 4 of 6 also by extending the benefit of Section 437(6) of
Cr.P.C. 7. This Court, however, finds some merit in the
submission of the learned ASC that since the
petitioner is having some criminal antecedent in the
State of Telengana, local surety may be insisted upon
for the release of the petitioner on bail. 8. In the result, the bail application of the
petitioner stands allowed and the petitioner is allowed
to go on bail on furnishing bail bonds of Rs.50,000/-
(Rupees Fifty Thousand) only with two local solvent
sureties each for the like amount to the satisfaction of
the learned Court in seisin of the case on such terms
and conditions as deem fit and proper by it with
following conditions:- The I.I.C. of Jurisdictional Police Station shall
 not detain the petitioner unnecessarily after recording
 his attendance beyond the time as stipulated. It is clarified that the Court in seisin of the
 case will be at liberty to cancel the bail of the
 petitioner without further reference to this Court, if
 any of the above conditions are violated or a case for
 cancellation of bail is otherwise made out. In the wake
 of aforesaid, the subsequent involvement of the
 petitioner in future for similar/grave offence on prima
 facie accusations may be treated as a ground for
 cancellation of bail in this case. 9. It is also made clear that the Court in seisin of
 the case, while releasing the petitioner on bail must
 verify the residential proof of the sureties by taking
 the help of local police, if required and such exercise
 must be completed within a reasonable period of not
 more than seven days of filing the bail bonds. 10. Accordingly, the BLAPL stands disposed of. 11. Issue urgent certified copy of the order as per
 Rules. (G. Satapathy) Signature Not Verified Judge DigitallyS.Signed Sasmal Signed by: SUBHASMITA SASMAL Reason: Authentication Location: High Court of Orissa Page 6 of 6 Date: 08-Aug-2024 15:03:17