-(Per Jitendra Jain, J.) 1. Rule. The Rule is made returnable immediately at the request
of and with the consent of the learned counsel for the parties. By
consent of the parties, matter is heard finally since the pleadings are
complete. 2. This is a matter where all the statutory, regulatory and law
enforcement agencies remained stand still for five years from the fraud
having surfaced till today more so when the fraud was committed on
these very authorities which should have awakened them and they
ought to have moved with lightning speed for discharging their duties
to set criminal action in motion. 3. The Petitioner by this petition under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India has sought for following reliefs:- 4. Brief Facts:- Metro International Trading Company. (v) The Petitioner was faced with several other legal notices by various
 parties under Section 138 of the NI Act and the Petitioner replied
 to the same reiterating his stand that somebody has misused his
 identity and played fraud on these parties. (vi) On 27 January 2020, the Petitioner filed a complaint with the
 Dadar Police Station, Mumbai bringing to the notice of the law
 enforcement agency that someone has misused his identity and Page 4 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

 specifically brought to the attention of the police authorities the
 various legal notices received by the Petitioner which are referred
 to hereinabove. The authorities at Dadar Police Station informed
 the Petitioner on 11 March 2020 that upon enquiry it is informed
 that an incident of cheating has been reported in the State of
 Gujarat by using Petitioner's Aadhaar card and PAN card and,
 therefore, requested the Petitioner to approach the authorities at
 Gujarat since, the offence had been committed in the State of
 Gujarat. (vii) On 4 March 2020, the Petitioner's Advocate addressed a letter to
 Andhra Bank at Ahmedabad bringing to their notice that the
 Petitioner has not opened any account with the said branch nor has
 he visited Gujarat at any point of time. The Petitioner also brought
 to the attention of the bank about legal notices under Section 138 of the NI Act. On 25 November 2020, since Andhra Bank Branch
 did not respond to the said letter another reminder was sent by the
 Petitioner. (viii) On 16 December 2020, Union Bank of India (Respondent No.6)
 (since Andhra Bank had merged with Union Bank of India)
 informed about the details of the account opened at its branch.
 The date of account opening was 20 July 2019 and the cheque
 book was issued on 2 August 2019 and 4 December 2019. (ix) On 1 December 2020, Union Bank of India addressed a letter to
 the Petitioner stating that all relevant KYC documents for opening
 the account in the name of M/s. Metro International Trading
 Company, under the proprietorship of Mr. Vilas Prabhakar Lad
 were submitted and at the time of account opening Union Bank of
 India had verified the office address and all the KYC documents
 with the originals. With this letter, the bank annexed a copy of PAN Page 5 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

 card, Aadhaar card and GST registration certificate on the basis of
 which the bank had opened the account. All these documents bear
 the name of the Petitioner but the photograph was not of the
 Petitioner. (x) On 29 January 2021, the Petitioner's Advocate brought to the
 notice of Respondent No.1-UIDAI Authority the above chain of
 events which led to undue harassment to the Petitioner on account
 of fraud having been committed by using the Aadhaar card and
 PAN card number of the Petitioner on which the photograph of
 some other person was embossed. The said letter requested the
 Respondent No.1-UIDAI to suspend/cancel the Aadhaar card
 number issued to the Petitioner. Along with the said letter, the
 Petitioner also enclosed copy of the Aadhaar card issued to him
 and what was being misused to show that the photographs on both
 these Aadhaar cards do not tally. (xi) Having failed to receive any response from Respondent No.1-
 UIDAI, the Petitioner once again through his Advocate sent a
 reminder notice and requested the Respondent No.1 to take
 immediate action. Similar letter was sent to the agency issuing PAN
 card on behalf of Respondent No.2. (xii) In January 2021, the Petitioner's Advocate informed the PAN card
 Regional Office about the fraud having been committed and
 misuse of the Aadhaar card and PAN card. Along with the said
 letter, the Petitioner also enclosed his original PAN card and the
 copy of PAN card which was misused. In February 2021, the
 Petitioner's Advocate addressed a similar letter to Respondent
 No.3, the entity engaged by the Income Tax Department for
 providing services of issuing PAN card. Respondent No.3-UTI
 Infrastructure and Technology Services Ltd. replied to the said Page 6 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

 notice vide letter dated 17 March 2021. Respondent No.3 in its
 reply stated that PAN card copy (original and fraud) annexed to
 the notice has not been processed by them and further they
 clarified that they are not an authority to cancel/suspend the PAN
 card issued to the Petitioner. (xiii) On 29 January 2021, the Petitioner brought to the notice of the
 Mumbai GST authorities the aforesaid fraud committed by
 impersonation of the Petitioner's identity. In the said letter, the
 Petitioner brought to the attention of the Mumbai GST authorities
 that the GST registration number has been obtained by an
 unknown person by using Aadhaar card of the Petitioner and GST
 registration is issued in the name of M/s. Metro International
 Trading Company having office at Rajkot. The Petitioner further
 requested the Mumbai GST authorities to cancel the GST
 registration obtained through fraud. The said letter was forwarded
 by the Mumbai GST authorities to the Gujarat GST authorities vide
 letter dated 4 February 2021 for necessary action since, the
 Registration Certificate was issued by the Gujarat GST authorities.
 The Petitioner's Advocate, vide letter dated 10 February 2021,
 addressed to the Gujarat GST authorities reiterated what was
 stated to the Mumbai GST authorities and requested the Gujarat
 GST authorities to cancel the Registration Certificate since same
 was obtained by fraud. Having not heard from the Gujarat GST
 authorities, the Petitioner sent a reminder to the said authorities on
 2 November 2021. (xiv) The Petitioner was also faced with criminal complaints being filed
 against him before the Court of Metropolitan Magistrate at
 Ahmedabad for dishonour of cheques. Criminal Case No.18299 of Page 7 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

 2020 was filed against the Petitioner by one Shree Salasar Papers
 before the Metropolitan Magistrate, Ahmedabad. (xv) On 29 September 2021, the Petitioner filed a complaint with
 Navrangpura Police Station, Ahmedabad on the above issue
 bringing to the notice of the police authorities the Petitioner's
 identity being stolen for opening a fake bank account etc.

(xvi) The Petitioner was also served with an attachment notice in Form
 GST DRC-01A issued by the Commissioner of State Tax,
 Government of Gujarat (Respondent No.7) seeking to attach
 property of the Petitioner for outstanding dues of M/s. Metro
 International Trading Company, the entity which was floated by an
 unknown person using the identity of the Petitioner. 5. It is on the above backdrop that the Petitioner was constrained
to approach this Court for seeking necessary reliefs. 6. The affidavit-in-reply, dated 10 March 2021 is filed on behalf
of Respondent No.1 by Dr. Dipti Yadav, Deputy Director of Respondent
No.1. In the reply of Respondent No.1, it is stated that Respondent No.1
has not generated identical Aadhaar number for two different persons.
In the said affidavit, Respondent No.1 has stated that notices issued by
the Petitioner dated 29 January 2021 and 2 November 2021 were
replied by Respondent No.1 on 18 November 2021. The reply further
states that jurisdiction for entertaining matters relating to forgery lies
with the appropriate authority and not with Respondent No.1. In the
said reply, Respondent No.1 has stated that if the Aadhaar number is
deactivated, then the Petitioner will not be able to use the same for any
transaction and neither Respondent No.1 can issue another Aadhaar Page 8 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

number to the same person. Respondent No.1 brought to the attention
of the Petitioner various Regulations with respect to privacy and
confidentiality of biometric data. Respondent No.1 also relied upon the
authentication records of Aadhaar number holders which are available
on the website for securing the identity of the person holding Aadhaar
numbers. Respondent No.1 referred to various provisions of the
Aadhaar Act with regard to maintaining the privacy and confidentiality
of details of Aadhaar number holders. 7. Respondent No.3-UTI Infrastructure Technology and Services
Limited filed its reply through Mrs. Sandhya Rapshe, Deputy Manager
on 11 May 2022. Respondent No.3 in its reply has referred to the
Agreement dated 1 June 2019 entered between itself and the Income
Tax Department for implementation and processing of PAN application
and issuance of PAN cards on behalf of Central Board of Direct Taxes,
Government of India. Respondent No.3 has stated that they have
limited scope of work as service provider for issuance of PAN card and
their scope includes receipt of PAN application, creation of PAN data
and printing of PAN card. Respondent No.3 stated that the PAN card of
the Petitioner was allotted on 25 February 2010 and the address in the
PAN application was of Mumbai. The Respondent No.3 denied having
issued the original PAN card to the Petitioner and also the fake PAN card
used by an unknown person, primarily on the basis that Respondent
No.3 was not in the picture in 2010 when the PAN number was allotted
to the Petitioner. 8. Respondent No.6-(Successor of Andhra Bank)-Union Bank of
India has filed an affidavit dated 11 July 2025 through Mr. Darshak
Vaghela, Branch Manager, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad. Respondent No.6
in the said reply has stated that the account was obtained after verifying
"Know Your Customer (KYC)" documents with the originals including Page 9 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

the notarized Rent Agreement and cheque books were issued to the
account holder. Respondent No.6 has expressed its inability to access all
the papers in this connection since the account was opened by Andhra
Bank which has merged with Union Bank of India with effect from 1
April 2020. Respondent No.6 has further stated that the bank is guided
by RBI policies/directions in this regard. Respondent No.6 in its reply
has also relied upon the Master Circular issued by RBI dated 25
February 2016 as updated in 2019 and submitted that the documents
obtained by the erstwhile bank were in compliance with RBI guidelines.
The reply further states that on uploading the PAN card number in the
Finacle system available with the bank, it never shows the photograph
of the concerned person and only confirms the name, PAN number.
Similarly, no photograph of the person holding the Aadhaar number
gets reflected on feeding of the Aadhaar card details and, therefore, it is
not possible to verify the identity of the holder of the Aadhaar card/PAN
card of any customer by the bank in case the same is used by non-DBT
customer. Respondent No.6 has further stated that the account has been
frozen and same is having dormant status with a negative balance. Submissions of the Petitioner:- 9. Dr. Warunjikar, learned counsel for the Petitioner, has filed
written submissions and contended that the Respondents have failed to
take necessary measures to ensure confidentiality of identity
information and, therefore, the Petitioner is entitled to compensation.
He further submitted that the Respondents have failed to comply with
Regulations 28 and 29 of Aadhaar (Enrolment and Update) Regulation,
2016. He further submitted that even today on the portal of GST the
same entity exists with the same name and Aadhaar number. He further
submitted that the Bank, UIDAI, GST authorities and tax authorities
have failed to carry out their duties cast upon them by the Aadhaar Act, Page 10 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

GST Act and Income-tax Act and even Respondent No.6 has failed to
perform its duty as per the Master Circular of RBI. He submitted that
none of the Respondents have filed any FIR on discovery of this fraud
even after 4 to 5 years of the event having taken place. He submitted
that the Petitioner had to face a lot of hardship and harassment by
facing various criminal proceedings on account of fraud being played by
an unknown person. He submitted that the Petitioner is a small-time
businessman and hardly makes both ends meet. He further submitted
that the inaction of the Respondents should be construed as dereliction
of their duties. He submitted that the proceedings against the Petitioner
initiated by the GST authorities, criminal proceedings before
Metropolitan Magistrate etc. should be quashed. However, he submits
that necessary action should be taken against the person who has
committed the fraud. 10. Mr. Warunjikar has also brought to the notice of the Court
how identity theft is dealt with by different countries of the world and
he has made further suggestions on the steps to be taken to prevent
such incidents in the future. Submissions of the Respondents:- 11. Mr. Mishra, learned counsel for Respondent No.1 has tendered
across the bar various documents to show measures taken by
Respondent No.1 to prevent misuse of Aadhaar. He submitted that they
have cooperated with the Petitioner as soon as the incident was brought
to their notice by deactivating the Aadhaar number and further
activating the same. He submitted that the Aadhaar number is a unique
number given to a person and, therefore, it is not possible to give two
numbers to the same person. He submitted that the bank was supposed
to carry out the authentication which they have failed to do so in the Page 11 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

instant case and, therefore, the fault lies at the doorstep of Respondent
No.6 and not with Respondent No.1. 12. Mr. Amin, learned counsel appearing for Respondent No.6
submitted that the bank has complied with the Master Circular issued
by RBI in relation to opening of the account and, therefore, no fault can
be attributed to the bank in opening the account. He submitted that
even today the photograph of an Aadhaar number holder does not get
reflected on e-verification. He further submitted that no relief is claimed
against the bank except de-freezing of the account which the
Respondent No.6-bank has already done. He further submitted that till
today no complaint has been filed by the bank for the fraud committed
in opening the account. Analysis and Submissions:- 13. At the outset, we wish to express our displeasure with the
inaction on the part of each of the Respondents, after having brought to
their notice the fraud committed by unknown persons on each of these
Respondents who are statutory and government authorities. This is a
case where all the statutory, regulatory and law enforcement agencies
stood motionless for 5 years till today when the fraud committed on
these authorities should have awoken them and spurred them to move
at lightning speed to set the criminal process in motion thereby
discharging their lawful duties. 14. Although the Petitioner vide various letters since 2020
onwards informed each of the Respondents as to how his Aadhaar
number and PAN number was misused by impersonation for opening
bank account, obtaining GST registration, conducting business
transactions, etc., none of the authorities initiated or took steps to lodge
an FIR with the law enforcement agencies against unknown persons for Page 12 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

having committed fraud on each of these authorities. The Petitioner
informed the GST authorities at Gujarat about an unknown person
fraudulently obtaining GST registration by using his Aadhaar number
and PAN number way back in February 2021. Till today, it appears that
the GST authorities at Gujarat have not lodged an FIR on account of
fraud played on them for obtaining GST registration by unknown
person. 15. Similarly, this was brought to the notice of Respondent No.6-
Bank in December 2020 itself and even after being aware of the same
till today, we are informed that no FIR has been filed by Respondent
No.6 or its predecessors. This was a clear case where fraud was
committed for opening a bank account by misusing the Aadhaar number
and PAN number of the Petitioner by another individual. However, even
till today, Respondent No.6 has not set in motion any criminal
proceedings against such an individual. We were informed by the
counsel appearing for Respondent No. 6 that they would be filing
criminal complaint on this issue now. 16. The illegal act of fraud was brought to the notice of
Respondent No.5, Income Tax Department by the Petitioner in January
2021, but we have not been shown any material by Respondent No.5 of
any complaint having been lodged with the police authorities. It was
incumbent upon the Income Tax Department to have lodged a
complaint with the police authorities since PAN number of the Petitioner
was misused for availing GST registration number, opening bank
account, etc. Even today, with the matter having been argued for more
than 2-3 days, no one appeared on behalf of Respondent No.5 to
apprise the Court on this issue. This only shows callousness with which
such a serious matter is being handled by the Revenue officials. Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx 17. Respondent No.1-UIDAI failed to take any action against
misuse of the Aadhaar card allotted to the Petitioner and fraud
committed thereon. Respondent No.1 also till today has not filed any
complaint with the police authorities for investigating the fraud.
Respondent No.1 is an authority under the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery
of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 (Aadhaar Act, 2016 ) who is a custodian of data of millions of Indians.
However, today Mr. Mishra, learned counsel for Respondent No.1 states
that they would file a complaint now. 18. Mr. Mishra, learned counsel for Respondent No.1 and
Mr. Amin for Respondent No.6 on a query being raised by the Court
fairly admitted negligence on the part of Respondent Nos.1 and 6 in not
initiating any criminal proceedings on account of the fraud. 19. In our view based on the above analysis, we have no doubt in
our mind that none of the Respondents, who are statutory and
regulatory authorities, have discharged their duties under the Acts by
which they are governed. There has been a total failure on the part of
these Respondents in not taking any action since the last five years of
the discovery of fraud committed on them. The least that they could
have done was to file an FIR with the police authorities for conducting
investigation to prevent such events in the near future. The fraud played
on all these Respondent authorities have been taken very lightly. We do
not approve the inaction on the part of the Respondents in not filing an
FIR or setting the criminal proceedings in motion. This is an issue which
the highest authorities of each of the Respondents should introspect,
investigate and fix accountability for such blatant inaction. We have our
own doubts as to what would be achieved if criminal proceedings are
set in motion after a period of five years of discovery of the fraud if, at
all, the Respondents take the matter seriously now at least. Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx 20. We may also note that the Petitioner himself in September
2021 filed a complaint with Navrangpura Police Station bringing to
their notice the fraud being committed on various authorities by
impersonating the Petitioner's identity. However, it appears that even
the law enforcement agency of the State did not take the matter further. 21. This is indeed a very sad state of affairs where a citizen of this
country was made to run from pillar to post for seeking redressal of his
grievance where none of the authorities entrusted for enforcing and
regulating their respective acts took any action. We hope that such
inaction is not repeated in the future and that the authorities of the
Respondents would take appropriate timely action when such fraud is
brought to their notice. There is no reason given by any of these
authorities for not taking any action for almost a period of five years
after the fraud was discovered. 22. Respondent No.6-Bank has adopted a very casual approach to
this issue by submitting that they relied on the self-certified documents
submitted to them by the unknown person impersonating the Petitioner.
It is their contention that based on the directions of RBI contained in
the Master Circular once self-certified documents were furnished to
them for opening the account there was no need for them to take
further steps for authentication of those documents. Respondent No.6
has relied upon Master Directions-Know Your Customer Direction, 2016
in support of this submission. 23. Chapter VI of the said Master Direction deals with customer
identification procedure. Paragraph 16 of Chapter VI provides that
regulated identity (RE) shall obtain following documents from an
individual while establishing an account-based relationship. One of the
documents being Aadhaar number where an individual is desirous of
receiving various benefits notified under Section 7 of the Aadhaar Act, Page 15 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

2016 or the individual decides to submit his Aadhaar number
voluntarily to the bank. The second document is Permanent Account
Number. Proviso to paragraph 16 states that Aadhaar number under
clause (a) if submitted to a bank then such bank shall carry out such
authentication of the customer's Aadhaar number using E-KYC
authentication facility provided by Respondent No.1-UIAI. The proviso
also requires the regulated entity to carry out offline verification, verify
digital signature, verification through digital KYC, etc. The
authentication of the Aadhaar number has to be done as per the
Aadhaar Authentication (Regulation), 2016 which lays down
comprehensive procedure for authentication of the Aadhaar number. 24. In the instant case, admittedly and undisputedly Respondent
No.6 has failed to carry out the directions contained in paragraph 16 of
Chapter VI of the Master Directions - KYC Direction 2016, since
Respondent No.6 has not conducted any Aadhaar authentication. Had
Respondent No.6 conducted Aadhaar authentication in accordance with
the 2016 Regulations and Master Directions of the RBI, then the
photograph of the Petitioner would have got displayed on the screen of
Respondent No.6 and they could have verified the said photograph with
the actual person in front of them for opening the bank account. Merely
because Aadhaar number is not compulsory for opening a bank account
and merely because self-certified copy of Aadhaar card is given to the
bank for opening an account, it does not absolve Respondent No.6 from
carrying out Aadhaar authentication as per Respondent No.6's own
submission by following Regulation 2016 and the Master Directions of
2016. Had Respondent No.6 conducted this authentication, then the
account would not have been opened and immediately the unknown
person could have been apprehended for playing fraud. The contention
of Respondent No.6 that they also relied on rent agreement, GST Page 16 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

registration, etc. for opening the bank account and therefore they have
taken due diligence and care cannot be accepted since Aadhaar number
was also given and it was obligatory on the part of Respondent No.6 for
authenticating the same as required by the Master Directions and
Aadhaar (Authentication) Regulation, 2016. Therefore, in our view
Respondent No.6 has not discharged its duty in accordance with the
Master Directions and 2016 Regulations for authentication. 25. Even assuming we accept the submission of Respondent No.6-
Bank that since they were provided with self certified documents there
was no need for authentication and, therefore, no fault can be
attributed to the bank in opening the bank account, still there is no
explanation from Respondent No.6 as to why till today i.e. for almost
lapse of five years from the date when the fraud was noticed that no FIR
was filed on this issue. We say so because the unknown person
defrauded the bank by providing forged document relating to some
other person for opening the bank account in his name and, therefore,
the bank ought to have filed an FIR since the unknown person had
played fraud on the bank by using forged document. There is no
explanation for this even till today. 26. On account of fraud played on various statutory and
regulatory authorities by impersonating the Petitioner's identity, the
Petitioner faced various criminal proceedings for dishonour of cheque,
attachment of property by the GST authority, etc. The Petitioner is a
resident of Mumbai and the transactions and fraud was committed in
Gujarat and he was faced with various criminal proceedings in Gujarat.
Had the Respondents taken timely action this could have been definitely
avoided. 27. A citizen of this country who toils hard to make both ends
meet cannot be made to run from pillar to post by leaving his livelihood Page 17 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

to defend various proceedings arising out of fraud committed by an
individual impersonating the Petitioner's identity and Respondents
inaction in not setting criminal action in motion. Even the police
authorities to whom the Petitioner made a complaint did not come to
the rescue of the Petitioner. Respondents are statutory and regulatory
authorities who have all the resources at their disposal to counter such
fraud, but same cannot be said of a citizen of this country. The
Petitioner had to engage the services of an Advocate for replying to
various legal notices, for making complaints to various authorities and
for instituting the present petition in this Court after having failed to get
justice by repeatedly knocking the doors of the Respondents. 28. The fraud was first brought to the notice of Respondent No.6
in March 2020 by the Petitioner, but it took the Respondent No.6 almost
nine months to reply to the Petitioner's letter of March 2020. Similarly
Respondent No.1-UIDAI was made aware of the fraud in January 2020
but it took Respondent No.1 almost similar nine months to reply to the
Petitioner's grievance and that too after the Petitioner sent a reminder.
The fraud was also brought to the notice of the GST authorities by the
Petitioner vide letter dated 10 February 2021, but the said Authority did
not respond inspite of reminders sent by the Petitioner in November
2021. The GST authorities on the contrary took recovery action against
the Petitioner by issuing attachment notice in spite of the said authority
being made aware of the fraud. All these authorities were cognizant of
the various criminal proceedings initiated against the Petitioner on
account of transactions carried out by the unknown person
impersonating the Petitioner's identity by using Aadhaar number and
PAN number. Even today we were shown the portal of the GST
authorities where Aadhaar number of the Petitioner appears against
Metro International Trading Company. All the above analysis clearly Page 18 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

reflects the plight, the harassment and mental agony which the
Petitioner had to undergo single-handedly without any assistance from
the Respondent statutory and regulatory authorities having large
resources at their disposal for investigating the fraud. We appreciate
the efforts put by the Petitioner and his Advocate in instituting this
petition and bringing to our attention the plight of common citizens of
this country. We, therefore, have no doubt in our minds and there was
no difference of opinion between the Bar and the Bench that the
Petitioner had to undergo tremendous mental harassment and agony in
facing the consequences of the fraud played on him by an unknown
person and inaction on the part of the Respondents on this count. 29. We, however, agree with the learned counsel for Respondent
No.1 that they cannot issue a second Aadhaar number to the Petitioner
since the same is not permissible under the Aadhaar Act of 2016,
Aadhaar number being a unique identity ascribed to each person.
However, the said number is in the knowledge of the unknown person
who may further misuse the same and we have not been apprised by
Respondent No.5 as to whether they can issue a different PAN number
to the Petitioner and link that PAN number with the Aadhaar number of
the Petitioner so that whenever the Aadhaar number of the Petitioner is
used it can be cross-verified by issuance of the new PAN number. We
express our displeasure that none appeared on behalf of Respondent
No.5-Income Tax Department to assist us in resolving this issue. 30. Dr. Warunjikar, learned counsel for the Petitioner with the able
assistance of his junior has made various suggestions to prevent such
incidents of misuse of Aadhaar number namely, Aadhaar card should
have a QR code which should be used for authentication, mobile OTP
verification system, procedure for discarding of documents, information Page 19 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

by SMS upon usage, criminal proceedings for misuse of Aadhaar and
taking assistance of Artificial Intelligence. 31. Mr. Mishra, learned counsel for Respondent No.1 has tendered
across the Bar various documents and steps taken by them for
preventing misuse of Aadhaar. Such measures include securing
enrollment and updating ecosystem with biometric and demographic
checks, biometric lock/unlock, promotion of mask Aadhaar to protect
Aadhaar number, de-recognition of weaker ID documents, penal action
for violation of Aadhaar Act, use of QR code, public awareness
measures, etc. Mr. Mishra has also handed over SOP for carrying offline
verification issued by Respondent No.1 in February 2025. The Union of
India has also issued an Office Memorandum dated 19 June 2023 for
authentication/verification of Aadhaar and copies of the same have
been marked to about 84 Secretariats of the Government of India for
further action. Mr. Mishra has also handed over the advisory dated 31
May 2022 regarding strengthening of biometric authentication security
and Circular No.9 of 2020 for fingerprint authentication and launch of
face authentication. Circular No.3 of 2024 issued by Respondent No.1
deals with guidelines on requiring Aadhaar number for receipt of
subsidy, benefit of service under Section 7 of the Aadhaar Act, 2016. In
our view, the suggestions made by the Petitioner's counsel are already in
place as evident from the documents produced by counsel for
Respondent No.1. Similarly, the Aadhaar Act of 2016 and various
Regulations made therein and the provisions of the Bhartiya Nyaya
Sanhita, 2023 and Information Technology Act, 2000 fairly deal with
the penal provisions for dealing with such issues which is posed for our
consideration. 32. In our view, in spite of various penal laws and provisions, such
acts of fraud cannot be prevented, but it is the shortcoming and delay in Page 20 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

implementation of these laws that such frauds get committed and are
perpetuated. Therefore, it is the duty of the law enforcement agencies
to take timely action when such frauds are brought to their notice, and
if such timely action is taken then that would act as a deterrent in
commission of such offences in the future. 33. We have no doubt in our mind that as and when such
incidents are brought to the notice of Respondent No.1-UIDAI and
Respondent No.4-UOI, they would take proactive steps to not only
prevent such incidents from happening but would also take appropriate,
timely and deterrent measures to prevent anyone from committing such
a fraud. 34. In the instant case also, the fraud could have been detected at
an early stage had all the Respondents been diligent enough to
authenticate the Aadhaar number. However, inaction on the part of the
Respondents after having failed in their duty has aggravated the
situation even more. We sincerely hope that in the future all concerned
authorities would take prompt action when such instances of fraud are
brought to their notice. We pray that common citizens of this nation do
not suffer agony like the Petitioner. 35. In our view, Respondent No.1 should take steps to make the
public aware of the authorities/entities who can insist on Aadhaar
number and these authorities/entities who are permitted to use
Aadhaar number for authentication should be equipped with necessary
technology for authentication and such authentication should be done
in accordance with the Aadhaar (Authentication) Regulations of 2021,
including the authentication by matching the photograph of the person
appearing on the system and comparing the same with the physical
presence of the person whose Aadhaar number is being used. This
procedure should be adopted by all the authorities/entities who are Page 21 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

entitled to use Aadhaar number for verification. Respondent No.1
should also make public aware as to likely frauds which can be carried
out by misuse of the Aadhaar card and the way certain frauds are
committed, so that the general public can take appropriate measures.
For example, the Reserve Bank of India is regularly using electronic and
social media for making public aware of various cyber frauds. Such
action can also be adopted by Respondent No.1 for public awareness. 36. We may conclude by observing and hoping that in the future
when such frauds are brought to the notice of the authorities and law
enforcement agencies by common citizens of this country then the
authorities and law enforcement agencies would immediately take steps
for finding the people behind such fraud and bringing them to justice
and to take steps to prevent occurrence of the same in the near future.
Delay in responding to such complaints and inaction in not initiating
any criminal proceedings on discovery of such fraud and moreso when
fraud is committed on the very statutory and regulatory authorities of
this country then, in such a scenario, a higher degree of responsibility is
required to be discharged by the officers of the regulatory authorities
and enforcement agencies. 37. We may also observe that inspite of service being made on
Respondent No.5 being Commissioner of Income-Tax Mumbai and
Respondent No.7 being Commissioner of State Tax, Gujarat they chose
not to appear. We do not approve of such non-appearance, moreso in
matters like this, which is non-adversarial and when the proceedings
are in the larger interest of the nation and public. 38. The Delhi High Court in the case of Anil Kumar vs. GST
Commissioner, CGST and Excise & Ors.1 had a similar issue to be

1 (2023) 73 GSTL 59 Page 22 of 24 Sayyed 1-WP.3586.2021.(J).docx

considered and the Court directed the authorities to initiate criminal
action against the fraudsters. 39. In view of above, we pass the following order :- 40. With the hope that in future all the concerned authorities
 would take prompt action when such fraud surfaces, we pray that,
 common citizen of this nation does not suffer the mental agony like the
 Petitioner. The petition is disposed of in the above terms.