SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. The present applications have been filed under Section 438 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' Cr.P.C ') on behalf of
 applicants seeking anticipatory bail in the case arising out of FIR
 bearing no. 15/2023, registered at Police Station Cyber (West),
 Delhi for offence punishable under Section 420 of Indian Penal
 Code, 1860 (' IPC '). 2. Briefly stated the facts of the present case are that the
 present FIR was registered on the complaint of complainant
 Manish Meena against the present petitioners for committing the
 offence of cheating by way of advertising and selling of banned
 product Pink Flamingo Neimo 2.0 through facebook. It was
 alleged that on 03.03.2023 when complainant was out of Delhi, a
 courier was received in his name, while he had placed no such
 order. However, one of his office staff members had received the
 courier and had paid a sum of Rs.4,000/-. It was alleged by the
 complainant that the payment was made by Amarjeet Kaur from
 her account, who is an employee of complainant. The complainant
 had reported the same at the office of Blue Dart where he was
 informed that the order was delivered by Nimbus India and the
 refund for the delivery was made to the complainant from Paytm
 mobile number registered in the name of applicant/accused, Sulav
 Adhikari. On the next day, when office staff of the complainant
 had contacted Blue Dart, they had received another call asking for Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN BAIL APPLN. 1484/2023 & connected matters Page 3 of 8 Signing Date:26.09.2023 19:07:02 an OTP, and they were informed that the money of complainant
 will be received within 24 hours. Thereafter, the complainant had
 received his money back in the name of Sulav Adhikari whose
 Paytm number was ***959, and after a few hours a sum of
 Rs.4100/- was deducted from the account of the complainant. On
 10.03.2023, a courier boy came to the complainant, but the
 company name was XPRESSBEES. The complainant was asked
 for an OTP which he refused to give and denied to receive the
 package. 3. The police had seized 2 shipments which had contained 12
 nail polishes but shipment was prepared with a label of Pink
 Flamingo Neimo 2.0 product. Thereafter, learned Trial Court had
 dismissed anticipatory bail applications moved by
 applicants/accused persons vide order dated 25.04.2023. 4. Learned counsel for applicants states that no offence under Section 420 of IPC is made out against applicants. It is stated that
 applicants have been falsely implicated in the present case. It is
 also stated that applicants are the employees of Suson Adhikari
 Media (OPC) Pvt. Ltd. which conducts online sale and purchase of
 beauty products. The company had delivered the products ordered
 by complainant herein and the payment was made for them,
 however, a cancellation request with refund was made and entire
 amount was returned to the complainant. A second order was
 placed on 06.03.2023 by the complainant and accordingly, delivery
 was made. It is stated that the applicants have not cheated the
 complainant of any money. Therefore, bail be granted. 5. Learned APP for the State, on the other hand, states that this
 is a cybercrime case whereby multiple people have been cheated
 off by applicants herein. It is stated that applicants appeared in the
 police station after issuance of notice under Section 41 of Cr.P.C.
 and they were examined however, they did not cooperate in the
 investigation. It is also stated that during investigation, CDR of
 complainant was examined and no message was found with regard
 to placing of any such order. It is further stated that the employees
 of applicants namely, Surender Rabidas and Azhar, in their
 statement had stated that no product with the name of Pink
 Flamingo Wireless was being sold by the company. However,
 upon conducting further investigation, and as per data provided by
 Nimbus Post Pvt. Ltd. that a total of 6267 orders out of 20590
 orders have been placed for the Pink Flamingo. It is stated that
 since investigation is at an initial stage and in order to unearth the
 conspiracy that has been happening on a much larger scale,
 custodial interrogation of applicants herein is essential. Therefore,
 bail be rejected. 6. I have heard arguments addressed on behalf of learned
 counsel of applicants and learned counsel for respondents and have
 perused material on record. 7. In the case at hand, applicants/accused persons have
 advertised and sold banned product Pink Flamingo Neimo 2.0
 through Facebook. It was reported in the complaint that orders
 were placed in the name of complainant without his consent and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN BAIL APPLN. 1484/2023 & connected matters Page 5 of 8 Signing Date:26.09.2023 19:07:02 had charged him for the same. However, the payment for first
 order was refunded to him. 8. During investigation, it was revealed that the call detail
 records of complainant showed that orders for the said products
 were not placed by the complainant. On 09.05.2023, applicants
 have joined investigation and applicant/accused, Suson Adhikari
 had disclosed that he runs the company in the name of 'Suson
 Adhikari Media (OPC) Pvt. Ltd.' This company is registered on
 the online shopping platform of Shopify through a website. By
 way of this website, consumers may contact Shopify and place the
 orders. Then, Shopify directs those orders to accused/applicant's
 company, Susan Adhikari Media (OPC) Pvt. Ltd. for packaging
 and delivery of the orders. The applicant/accused, Aditya Raj
 Verma had disclosed that he runs a company in the name of
 'Aditya Raj Air Media Private Limited' and his company has no
 connection with the company of other applicants/accused persons.
 However, during investigation, it was revealed that no such
 company in the name of 'Aditya Raj Air Media Private Limited'
 was found to be running and that he had vacated the property in
 February, 2023. 9. A perusal of records reveals that the employees of
 applicants/accused persons herein, in their statements, had stated
 that they have been working on the directions of
 applicants/accused persons, Suson Adhikari, and Aditya Raj
 Verma. This Court notices that 2 shipments were seized which had Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN BAIL APPLN. 1484/2023 & connected matters Page 6 of 8 Signing Date:26.09.2023 19:07:02 although contained only nail polishes but the shipments were
 labeled with the banned product in question. 10. The APP draws attention of this court to the fact that
 investigation is at an initial stage and replies from different
 agencies are yet to be received and that applicants/accused person
 are probably running a large scale fake parcel delivery scam and
 possibly have been cheating innocent people. 11. A perusal of material on record reveals that the accused
 persons are allegedly running a fake parcel delivery scam on a
 large scale by the means of online portals. This Court observes that
 the perpetration of scams like the one under consideration impacts
 the society on a much broader scale. It not only effects the trust
 and confidence of individuals, but also undermines the integrity of
 online payment systems and digital transactions as a whole. Such
 scams, therefore, should be deemed as grave offenses, given their
 potential to serve as a significant deterrent to public trust in the
 sphere of online financial transactions--an indispensable pillar of
 our modern economy. 12. In an era where digital transactions have evolved to become
 fundamental component of our economic infrastructure, any threat
 to the security and trustworthiness of online financial interactions
 poses a direct challenge to the economic stability and progress of
 our society. Resultantly, it is imperative that we view such offenses
 with the seriousness they deserve, recognizing their potential to not
 only harm individual victims but also disrupt the foundation of
 online transaction. 13. During the course of investigation, it was revealed that the
 courier company was asked to provide the details of the shipment
 which were booked by the alleged persons for delivery but the
 complete data was never received. In this regard, this Court
 observes that such data is essential in order to trace such scams as
 the present complaint is not just a representation of an individual
 interest, but in the larger interest of the society, and the conspiracy
 needs to be unearthed. 14. A perusal of status report filed by the State reveals that the
 petitioners were served with a notice under Section 41A of Cr.P.C.
 for appearance on 14.03.2023 and had appeared before the
 investigating officer. However, as per status report, the petitioners
 herein had not co-operated with the investigation. 15. Thus, considering the overall facts and circumstances of the
 case and that the allegations the accused persons are serious in
 nature and that they are allegedly involved in running a financial
 scam, this Court does not deem it fit to grant anticipatory bail to
 the accused persons. 16. Accordingly, the present anticipatory bail applications
 alongwith pending applications, if any, stand dismissed. 17. It is, however, clarified that nothing expressed herein above
 shall tantamount to an expression of opinion on merits of the case. 18. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 SEPTEMBER 26, 2023/zp Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN BAIL APPLN. 1484/2023 & connected matters Page 8 of 8 Signing Date:26.09.2023 19:07:02