% 02.08.2024 CRL.M.A. 22737/2024 Exemption allowed, subject to just exceptions. Application stands disposed of. 1. An application under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
 1973 (' Cr.P.C .') has been preferred on behalf of the petitioner for grant of
 regular bail in FIR No. 250/2023 under Sections 420 / 467 / 468 / 120B IPC
 registered at P.S.: Crime Branch, Delhi. 2. Issue notice. Learned APP for the State appears on advance notice and
 accepts notice. 3. In brief, as per the case of prosecution, on 19.10.2023, on the basis of BAIL APPLN. 2723/2024 Page 1 of 4 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/08/2024 at 21:37:45
 secret information, a raid was conducted near Bus Terminal Sarai Kale Khan,
 Delhi and one Asad Ali was apprehended. During his search, 600 activated
 mobile SIM Cards (400 Jio and 200 Airtel), which were hidden in a box of
 Talcum Powder were recovered from his possession. It was revealed that SIM
 Cards were fraudulently procured in name of other people and were being
 used by criminals to commit cyber crimes. During course of investigation, Asad Ali initially misled the
 Investigating Agency, but later on disclosed the name of Meena, wife of Ali
 Mohammad @ Jibbhu to whom 3000 fake SIM Cards were supplied. He
 further provided mobile number of co-accused Meena which was found to be
 connected with accused Asad Ali, Abdul Halim and Raju Khan (petitioner). 4. Subsequently, Abdul Halim was also apprehended from whose
 possession one mobile phone alongwith 25 SIM Cards of Vodafone Idea were
 recovered. Out of 600 recovered SIM Cards, 59 SIM Cards (32 SIM Cards of
 Airtel and 27 SIM Cards of Jio) were found to be linked with mobile number
 of co-accused Abdul Halim. 5. During investigation, it was disclosed by accused Abdul Halim that
 Raju Khan (petitioner) had supplied these SIM Cards to him and accordingly,
 petitioner was arrested on 21.12.2023 from Assam. One mobile phone
 bearing two IMEI numbers was found from possession of Raju Khan
 (petitioner) which was found linked with 73 mobile numbers, which were
 recovered in the present case from possession of accused Asad Ali. 6. Learned counsel for petitioner submits that petitioner is in custody
 since 21.12.2023 and is no longer required for purpose of investigation, since
 chargesheet has been filed. He further submits co-accused Meena has since
 been arrested who was initially absconding. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/08/2024 at 21:37:45 7. On the other hand, learned APP for the State vehemently opposes the
 bail application and points out that petitioner is involved in an earlier case of
 cyber crime. Co-accused Meena is also informed to be involved in five
 similar cases and racket of operating fake SIM Cards is stated to be a threat to
 National Security. Also, several innocent persons are stated to be duped of
 their lifetime earnings. He further submits that 1715 Cyber Crime complaints
 on National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal (NCRP), 3740 Cyber Crime
 complaints and 180 FIRs on Citizen Financial Cyber Frauds Reporting and
 Management System (CFCFRMS) have already been registered in respect of
 recovered SIM Cards which are linked, mostly from the State of Telangana.
 Learned APP further informs that in case of issuance of fake SIM Cards,
 penalty is also required to be imposed on service providers in accordance with
 the rules issued in this regard. 8. Petitioner is reported to be earlier involved in similar cyber crimes.
 Apparently, evidence on record points out to well organized racket of
 procuring and selling fake SIM Cards which are being rampantly used for
 commission of cyber offences. The recovery of SIM Cards as well as their
 linkage to the Cyber Crimes already registered, reflects that there is a
 manifest violation of norms in the process of KYC verification, by the
 concerned service providers, namely, Airtel, Vodafone Idea, Jio etc..
 Considering the nature of threat posed to National Security as well as
 mushrooming financial frauds, no grounds for bail are made out in view of
 large scale recovery and use of fake SIM cards. Application is accordingly
 dismissed. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. 9. Considering the large scale recovery of SIM Cards, there is an urgent
 need to deactivate the SIM cards obtained and activated on fake proof of BAIL APPLN. 2723/2024 Page 3 of 4 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/08/2024 at 21:37:45
 identity, by the service providers. The service providers also cannot escape
 the responsibility of strictly adhering to KYC norms as per instructions issued
 in this regard, merely by claiming that fake documents submitted for
 obtaining SIM cards could not be tracked. Secretary, Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of
 Communications, as well as Commissioner of Police, Delhi are directed to
 appropriately take up the issue with all concerned agencies and service
 providers for ensuring that KYC norms are strictly verified before issuing the
 SIM Cards. Appropriate action also needs to be initiated against the service
 providers and dealers issuing the SIM cards, in case any violation and
 dereliction is found at their end. A copy of this order be forwarded to Secretary, Department of
 Telecommunications, Ministry of Communications and Commissioner of
 Police, Delhi, through Investigating Officer/SHO concerned, for information
 and compliance. Action taken report be accordingly placed with the Registry
 within eight weeks for perusal by this Court. ANOOP KUMAR MENDIRATTA, J
 AUGUST 2, 2024
 p BAIL APPLN. 2723/2024 Page 4 of 4 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/08/2024 at 21:37:45