PER S. RIFAUR RAHMAN (AM) 1. This appeal is filed by the revenue against order of the Learned

Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)- 8, Mumbai [hereinafter in short

"Ld.CIT(A)"] dated 22.10.2018 for the A.Y. 2014-15. 2. Revenue is in appeal before us, raising following grounds: - without appreciating that informer information expenses is
 unexplained expenditure u/s 69C as the assessee failed to furnish
 plausible explanation with cogent evidence? 5. The appellant prays that the order of CIT(A) on the above
 grounds be set aside and that of Assessing Officer be restored 6. The appellant craves leave to amend, alter, delete or add grounds
 which may be necessary." 3. From the above grounds of appeal, revenue is aggrieved with three

issues which is relating to disallowance of expenditure u/s. 14A of the Act, 3 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

addition on account of foreign travelling expenses and addition on account

of informer information expenses. 4. Brief facts relating to disallowance u/s. 14A of the Act are, during

assessment proceedings Assessing Officer observed that assessee had

invested in various unquoted shares of group companies and further

observed that assessee had not made any disallowance u/s. 14A of the

Act, since assessee had made huge investments and also has borrowed

money, according to him assessee must have utilized the funds in

purchase of investments in unquoted shares and the interest expenses

incurred for acquisition of investment is required to be disallowed u/s. 14A of the Act. He is of the view that disallowance u/s. 14A can be made in a

year in which no exempt income is earned or received by the assessee. By relying on several decisions, Assessing Officer disallowed ₹.2,43,131/- by applying Rule 8D of I.T. Rules. 5. Aggrieved assessee preferred an appeal before the Ld.CIT(A) and

Ld.CIT(A) after considering detailed submissions of the assessee and by

relying on Hon'ble Supreme Court decision in the case of Maxopp

Investment Ltd [91 Taxmann.com 154] the disallowance u/s. 14A cannot

exceed the exempt income. He observed that since assessee has not 4 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

earned any exempt income during the year the disallowance u/s. 14A of

the Act cannot be made. Accordingly, he allowed ground raised by the

assessee. Aggrieved Revenue is in appeal before us. 6. After considering the submissions of both the counsels, we observed

that it is fact on record that assessee has not earned any exempt income

during the year, therefore by respectfully following the various decisions

of Hon'ble Supreme Court and various High courts, no disallowance can

be made u/s. 14A of the Act when assessee has not earned any exempt

income. Accordingly, ground raised by the revenue is dismissed. 7. With regard to Ground No. 2 and 3, the relevant facts are during

the assessment proceedings Assessing Officer observed that assessee has

debited ₹.36,95,518/- on account of foreign travelling expenses to foreign

countries from where assessee was not deriving any revenue. He

observed that on account of expenditure of two sons of director were also

charged as business expenditure. He observed that as per the provisions

of section 37 of the Act any such personal expenditure is not allowable as

deduction. When the assessee was asked specifically, assessee made the

submissions dated 13.12.2016 before the Assessing Officer. After

considering the submissions of the assessee, Assessing Officer observed 5 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

that assessee failed to provide any supporting documents to establish the

business purpose of the Singapore visit made during the year to the extent

of ₹.11,92,998/-, accordingly, he disallowed the same. Aggrieved

assessee preferred an appeal before the Ld.CIT(A). 8. Before the Ld.CIT(A) assessee filed detailed submissions, for the

sake of brevity it is reproduced below: - on account of expenditure on Foreign Travelling Expenses to
 Singapore u/s 37 on ground that the assessee has incurred
 expenditure on account of family of Mr. Zaheer Khan and Mrs. Shirina
 Khan being their two sons (one of them an infant) which was charged
 as business expenditure and failed to provide any supporting
 documents to establish the business purpose of the Singapore trip
 made during the year by CEO Mr. Zaheer Khan and his Wife
 Operations Manager Mrs. Shirina Khan. (b) At the outset, we state that the assessee's books of accounts
 are audited and no adverse comment on account of personal use has
 been stated by the auditor. Further, the Assessing Officer has not
 rejected the books of accounts, (c) The assessee Company provides its services to large
 multinational corporations such as Hewlett Packard, Bosch Ltd.,
 Canon, Diaego, Louis Vuitton and many more multinational
 corporations, its services are not restricted to the territorial limits of
 India but also extend to other parts of World. Piracy has become a
 rampart evil affecting each business, its source is spread into various
 parts of India and overseas. The assessee company is required to
 depute its investigation officers to each source or potential source
 identified or informed about. The structure of the Assessee Company
 consists of the Chairman, CEO, CFO, Executive Directors, Directors,
 Regional Heads in (India, senior investigative officers and
 investigative officers. The hierarchy of the Assessee Company is
 elaborate and spread out throughout India and clientele location
 outside India. It is evident that directors and officers of the company 6 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

are required to travel outside India for performance, meeting,
product training and execution of their duties. The reports prepared
by investigative officers and senior investigative officers are then
presented to the Assessee Company's clients by the CEO, Directors
etc. Since the heads of the multinational corporations reside outside
India, they are required to travel outside India to present the reports
of their investigation, review agreements scout for new business.
Subsequent to approval from the Assessee Company's clients, the
Assessee Company puts into motion the actions of catching the
perpetrators. Therefore on basis of the aforesaid, it is eminent for
the business of the Assessee Company that its Officers travel out of
India. Such travels are done in the normal course of business and it
is not necessary that for every travel there has to be a piece of
evidence of emails, invites or minutes of meeting. Such foreign travel
is under taken for routine follow up, to review old business and to
scout for new business. (d) The Assessing Officer has stated in the assessment order that
the assessee company has incurred expenditure on account of two
sons (one of them an infant) of Director Mr. Zaheer Khan and his
Wife Mrs. Shirina Khan for Singapore Trip. The expenditure has been
incurred only for travelling of Mr. Zaheer Khan and Mrs. Shirina Khan
for the purpose of business and not for their son and infant as stated
by Assessing Officer. The assessee company encloses herewith the
details of foreign travelling expenses on Singapore trip vide page no,
44 of the paper book and it is evident from the said details that the
said statement is erroneous. The foreign travelling expenses of their
son and infant child is separately debited by Mr. Zaheer Khan in his
personal books of accounts under the head foreign travelling
expenses, the capital account of Mr. Zaheer Khan is enclosed vide
page no 89 of the paper book from which it is evident that foreign
travelling expenses on the said two children are separately debited
in personal books of accounts. (e) Mr. Zaheer Khan is the CEO & director of the company and
Mrs. Shirina Khan is providing professional services in the field of
operations of the company. Mrs. Shirina Khan has travelled with
director Mr. Zaheer Khan for the purpose of meeting with M/s.
Hewlett-Packard Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd (Singapore) and therefore the
expenses incurred are wholly for the purpose of business. In the
circumstances, the Assessee company has discharged the burden of
proof that expenses has been incurred for the purpose of business
and during the ordinary course of business. The details of
professional fees paid has been handed over to the assessing officer 7 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

 vide letter dated 13/12/2016 from which it is evident that the
 professional fees has paid to Mrs. Shirina Khan for the professional
 services rendered by her. The said professional fees has been
 accepted as business expenses by the Assessing Officer. (f) Our client M/s. Hewlett-Packard Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. head
 office is at Singapore. The address of M/s. Hewlett-Packard Asia
 Pacific Pte. Ltd is PO Box 200, Alexandra Post Office, 911507
 Singapore. We have generated revenue of RS. 15,79,47,218/- in
 Asst. Year 2014-15 from M/s. Hewlett-Packard Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd
 and which is borne on the assessment record and not disputed by
 the Assessing officer. The said sales has been accepted by the
 Assessing Officer. In the circumstances, revenue has been generated
 from the place of visit i.e. Singapore. (g) Similar disallowance made by the Assessing Officer on
 account of travelling expenses including foreign travelling was
 deleted in principle by the CITA in the earlier asst. year 2012-13.
 Copy of CIT A order is enclosed vide Page No. 94-144 of the Paper
 Book. (h) As the foreign travel expenses are genuine expenses incurred
 wholly and exclusively for the purpose of business and are of revenue
 in nature the same are deductible expenses u/s 37(1) of the Act and
 therefore request Your Honour to delete the disallowance made out
 of foreign travelling expenses." 9. After considering the detailed submissions of the assessee,

Ld.CIT(A) allowed the ground raised by the assessee with the observation

that assessee has submitted details of foreign travelling expenses on

Singapore trip and stated that there is business connection and also

expenses incurred on account of the sons are not debited in the assessee's

account but has been debited in the capital account of the director. Assessee also submitted the capital account of the director in support of

its claim wherein the foreign travelling expenses are debited. Aggrieved 8 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

revenue is in appeal before us raising grounds in respect of Rule 46A and

on merit of allowing the foreign travelling expenses by the Ld.CIT(A). 10. Before us, Ld. DR submitted that he relied on the Assessment Order

and submitted that assessee has filed additional evidences which were

not submitted before the Assessing Officer. He submitted that Ld.CIT(A)

should have remitted the matter to the Assessing Officer and he supported

the finding of the Assessing Officer. 11. On the other hand, Ld. AR brought to our notice submissions of the

assessee before the Ld.CIT(A) and findings of the Ld.CIT(A) at Page No.

12 and 13 of the appellate order. Further he brought to our notice Page

No. 152 of the Paper Book which is the capital account of the Director in

which foreign travelling expenses were debited. He observed that

expenses of the children incurred by the company are charged to the

Director's account and further he submitted that assessee has business

connection in Singapore and Director has traveled with his wife who also

a Director and claimed these expenditures which is incurred for the

business purposes. He submitted that all the travel expenses relating to

sons were charged to the respective personal accounts of the Director. ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd., 12. Considered the rival submissions and material placed on record, we

observed that assessee has submitted capital account of the Directors and

other relevant information before the Ld.CIT(A) as the additional

evidences which clearly indicates that the expenses relating to two sons

who were travelled with the Directors were not charged to Profit and Loss

Account and were charged to personal account of the Directors. Further,

he brought to notice that there is business connection in Singapore for

the Directors to visit there. These are all details relating to the expenses

and disallowed by the Assessing Officer. Ld.CIT(A) having coterminous

powers is empowered to verify the simple documents submitted before

him. Therefore, it need not be remitted to Assessing Officer for further

verification. Hence, the information placed before the Ld.CIT(A) and

before us clearly indicate that assessee has not claimed personal

expenditure relating to the family travelled in foreign trip and also there

is business connection for the directors to visit Singapore. Therefore, we

do not find any reason to interfere with the findings of the Ld.CIT(A). Accordingly, grounds raised by the revenue are dismissed. 13. With regard to addition made on account of informer information

expenses the relevant facts relating to this ground are, during the

assessment proceedings Assessing Officer observed that assessee has 10 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

debited ₹.1,37,95,570/- in its Profit and Loss Account on account of

informer information expenses under the head other expenses. When the

assessee was asked to submit the details along with the proof of payment

and justify the expenditure, assessee filed submissions vide letter dated

13.12.2016 in which assessee had submitted the details of names of

receivers against the various raids. Assessing Officer observed that no

other details were filed like addresses etc., to allow the authorities to

verify or cross check assessee's claim of expenditure. During the

assessment proceedings for the A.Y. 2013-14 also assessee has expressed

its inability to produce supporting documents submitting that it is difficult

to build a trail and supporting for these payouts. Assessing Officer

rejected the submissions of the assessee in the absence of any supporting

documentary evidences or explanation, according to AO, the expenses

cannot be allowed in absence of evidence for such expenditure and he

relied on various sections of Indian Evidence Act to disallow the

expenditure claimed by the assessee. Aggrieved assessee preferred an

appeal before the CIT(A) and before the Ld.CIT(A) assessee submitted

the following submissions: - ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

i. The assessee has failed to provide any supporting
documentary evidence or explanation, which suggest that the
expenditure are genuine. ii, The assessee has not even submitted the proof of payment
of such expenses. (b) At the outset, we state that the statement of the Assessing
Officer in respect of the assessee failed to provide any supporting
documentary evidence or explanation, which suggest that the
expenditure are genuine is erroneous since the assessee had
provided the details along with the reconciliation of the income
generated vis-a-vis the expenses incurred on informer expenses and
were same submitted in the course of the assessment proceedings
vide letter dated 13/12/2016. The said details are enclosed vide page
no. 45 to 57 of the paper book. c. The Assessee company submitted complete details of the
Informer Information expenses vide letter 13/12/2016 enclosed vide
page no. 45 to 56 of the paper book stating the details of date of
payment, name of person, cheque details, name of client, invoice no
and date and location where the expenses are incurred which
relevant letter is also enclosed vide Page No. 38-43 of the Paper
Book. The assessee company has explained the details of payments
made along with revenue generated. The Assessing Officer stating
that "the assessee has failed to provide any supporting documentary
evidence or explanation, which suggest that the expenditure are
genuine and the assessee has not even submitted the proof of
payment of such expenses" is wholly erroneous. In view of the
above, the assessee company has submitted full details of Informer
Information Expenses. (d) The Assessee Company has already explained hereinabove
the nature of business carried on by it i.e. to bring perpetrators /
violators to book for violation of Intellectual Property Rights, etc. (e) The meaning of an informant is as under. (i) An informant, especially one who informs against others for
compensation or a person who informs against another, esp. for
money or other reward. ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd., (ii) An informant (also called an informer) is a person who
provides privileged information about a person or organization to an
agency. The term is usually used within the flaw enforcement world,
where they are officially known as confidential or criminal
informants, and can often refer pejoratively to the supply of
information without the consent of the other parties with the intent
of financial gain. (iii) By its very nature, organized crime involves many people who
are aware of each other's guilt, in a variety of activities. Quite
frequently, confidential informants will provide information in order
in return for money. Quite often, someone will become an informant
following their arrest (iv) Informants are also extremely common in every-day
investigations work, police work, including homicide. Any citizen who
aids an investigation by offering helpful information to the agency is
by definition an informant. (v) It is likely to feel strong hostility toward any known informers,
regard them as threats and inflict punishments ranging from social
ostracism and/or death. Informers are therefore generally protected,
either by being segregated or, if they are not incarcerated, relocated
under a new identity. (f) The investigations made by the Assessee Company is crucial
on the basis of the information provided by the informants as
subsequent to receipt of such information, the Assessee Company in
alliance with the police force carries out raids. The resultant effect of
such raids is that the perpetrators / violators are put behind bars and
criminal prosecution against them is commenced. FIR of the raids
are lodged with the police station. The crucial information which
converts an investigation into a successful raid and criminal
prosecution against the wrongdoers is the information which the
Assessee Company receives from the informers. (g) The Assessee Company vide letter dated 13/12/2016 provided
the following explanation to substantiate the informer information
expenses incurred by it: (h) The payments are made to informers to receive tips /
information etc., which results in criminal raids on violators of
intellectual property rights, etc. The said payments to informers for
obtaining information is a business requirement and necessity on the
basis of information. After the information is received from the
informers, the assessee prepares a detailed report which contains
documentary evidence of IPR violations, counterfeit, fraud etc. which
in turn is submitted to the client indicating the source of the
violations to IPR. The Assessee on approval of the client, approaches
and submits a detailed report to the jurisdictional police force who in
conjunction with the Assessee company carries out raids on the
violators and ensures that they are booked under the relevant civil
and criminal laws. The fact that the perpetrators are criminals etc.
and caught on basis of the information received from informers, they
pose a threat to the life and livelihood of the informers and their
family and hence the Assessee Company has to ensure security of
the informer's identity for their safety and protection. The practice
of payment to informers in the field of investigation and prosecution
is an established fact. The Assessee would not be able to bill its
clients and perform its investigative services if it had not paid
informers to release confidential information pertaining to the said
violations. It is well established that the concept of payment to
informers and keeping their names a secret is followed not only by
other companies who practice tin the same field but also by Income
Tax Authorities who pay informers who are able to provide
information on tax evaders leading to collection of evaded taxes.
The assessee states that payments made to informers in the field of
investigations and keeping their names and identity a secret is not
an unknown concept and the said payments to informers is a general
practice in assessee companies line of business. The payments made
to informers are directly related to its business activities. The
Assessee would not be able to have such voluminous turnover if not
for information received from informers. (i) Nevertheless, the details of payment made to informer along
with correlation with details of revenue received by the assessee
company from its clients submitted to the Assessing Officer are re-
enclosed herewith vide page no 57 of the paper book. It is evident 15 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

from the said details that assessee has earned high revenue in
relation to the said small informer information expenses. The
percentage of the said expenses as compared to the revenue is
reasonable and allowable considering the nature of the assessee
Company's business. No disallowance has been made in earlier ear
which is evident from the details annexed vide Pg.no. 45 of paper
book except disallowance made for the first time in the asst. year
2012-13. The said disallowance for asst. year 2012-13 was wholly
deleted by the your predecessor in appeal vide CIT A order dated
17/07/2017. Copy of the CITA order is enclosed vide Page no 94 to
144 of the Paper book. (j) Many businessmen incur such expenditure in the private
sector by paying employees of the concerns with which they deal
with for (i) getting orders; (ii) ensuring continuation of the business
dealings; (ili) ensuring early payment of the bills. Obviously, such
practices is not be illegal or prohibited by law or not against public
policy. (k) The Assessee Company relies on the following case laws to
support the above contentions: - (II) The Assessee relies on the decision of the Hon'ble High
Court of Bombay in the case of CIT v. Sigma Paints Ltd (1990) 188 ITR 6 where it was held as follows: (iii) The Assessee also relies on the decision of the Hon'ble High
Court of Gujarat in the case of Dr. G.G. Joshi v. CIT (1993) 209 ITR
324 where it was held as follows: The court further held (at page 511) : 6. Further, a similar view is taken by the Bombay High Court in the
case of CIT v. Goodlass Nerolac Paints Ltd. [1991] 188 ITR 1. The
Bombay High Court, relying upon its earlier decision rendered in the
case of Goodlass Nerolac Paints Ltd. v. CIT [1982] 137 ITR 58, held
that it cannot, perhaps, be disputed that, in order to be entitled to
deduction of payments to persons whose names are not disclosed,
the assessee has to - (i) establish the practice prevailing in that line of business for making
such payments; (ii) adduce satisfactory evidence to establish the payments; (iii) satisfy the authorities that the payments were made for the
purpose of business. 7. It is further held that this would be a finding of fact and the court
would normally decline to interfere with the view taken by the
Tribunal. It is also held therein that the High Court would not
interfere with the finding of fact unless such finding is perverse or is
such that no reasonable person can give such finding. 8. As stated above, in the present case, the Tribunal has relied upon
its previous decisions with regard to the same company for holding
that it was a practice prevailing in the trade of dye-stuffs and colour
chemicals which are being sold to the textile mills to pay secret
commission. This aspect is also considered by this court in the case
of Moolchand Jaikishandas and Co. [1977] 108 ITR 500. Considering
the aforesaid facts and the established trade practice, it cannot be
said that the finding given by the Tribunal of upholding partial
disallowance can be interfered with by this court. In this view of the 20 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

matter, as all these questions referred to this court are based upon
a finding of fact, they are required to be answered accordingly. 9. In the result, questions Nos. 1 and 2, referred at the instance of
the assessee, are answered in the affirmative, in favour of the
assessee and against the Revenue. Similarly, questions Nos. 1 and
2, referred at the instance of Revenue, are also answered in the
affirmative. Accordingly, we answer all the four questions in the
affirmative. The reference stands disposed of accordingly with no
order as to costs. (IV) The decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Sri Venkata
Satyanarayana Rice Mill Contractors Co v CIT (1997) 223 ITR 101,
has put the issue in the right perspective, when considering such
payments as deductible drawing a line only as between bribe
opposed to public policy and other payments motivated by
commercial considerations after review of a number of decisions on
the subject, throwing considerable light on the issue. Explanation 1
to section 37 should not make a difference, since payment of such
secret commission by itself does not constitute an offence. The
object of the Legislature was only to disallow payment by way of
extortion moneys obviously given to terrorists for protection. The
Finance Minister's speech refers to the intention to avoid controversy
relating to deductibility of extortion moneys. Secret commission,
which is voluntarily paid to promote business, cannot be treated on
par with such extortion money, nor could the payment of such
commission be treated as an offence in every case, where, as is
usual, it is paid to employees of buying organisations or middlemen,
who would not acknowledge the receipt, but all the same the amount
is paid and particulars are available with the payer

(V) The Madras High Court in the case of CIT v Rathinasamy Nadar
(A S K ) (1995) 212 ITR 527 deliberated the issue related to payment
of secret commission by a firm doing business in timber. The High
Court found that it is true that it is for the assessee to establish an
expenditure and that it has been made wholly and exclusively for the
purpose of his business as laid down by the Supreme Court in Swadeshi Cotton Mills Co Ltd v CIT (No. 1). But it also found that
where there is a trade practice to pay secret commission and there
is no ground to warrant that the payment is not genuine, the law is
settled that such amount to the extent, that it can be considered
reasonable, has to be allowance has a deduction. ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

(VI) Allahabad High Court in DCIT v Super Tannery (India) Ltd (2005) 274 ITR 338 held that Commission by way of speed money
paid to an agent to get credit for duty drawback due from the
Government was held to be deductible under section 37. If the
payment had been directly made to the officers of the Government,
it would have been certainly disallowable as bribe. Apparently, the
payment of the commission was proved, but the Assessing Officer
found that the payment was excessive. The High Court found that it
1s obliged to take judicial notice of the difficulties in getting even
lawful amounts from the Government without incurring avoidable
expenses besides harassment caused to the person entitled to such
refund. Hence, a payment to avoid delay and harassment, to a third
person or middleman cannot be said to have been laid out for
purposes other than business Such claim should be understood from
the point of view of the assessee and not the Assessing Officer who
"has neither the expertise of running business nor has any
specialization to sit in judgment over the assessee as to whether
such expenditure was incurred for commercial expediency or not." It
was found there was no provision to disallow business expenditure,
when it is found to be proved. The High Court, therefore, took judicial
notice of the need for incurring such heavy expenditure for getting
a legitimate refund from the Government. (Vii) The Assessee Company relies on an additional case law
enclosed herewith for your ready reference in the case of CIT vA.S.K.
Rathinaswamy Nadar 75 Taxmann 638 (Madras High Court) in which
an identical issue has been allowed. (Viii) The decision of the Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad in the case
of CIT v. Pt. Vishwanath Sharma (2008) 216 CTR 281 where it was
held as follows: (l) Assessee States that its entire informer information expense
has been paid non-government individuals and hence in view of the
aforesaid case law, since commission is paid to non-governmental
individuals as per business practice and the same was allowed in
previous years as business expenditure, the same is required to be
allowed as qualified business expense and such expense cannot be
considered as against public policy. (m) The Assessee Company also relies on the directly applicable
order of The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of SumatiDayal vs.
CIT (214 ITR 801) where it has been held that for considering
whether the apparent is real, matter has to be considered by
applying the test of human probabilities'. Applying the ratio, it has to
be concluded that the nature of business of the appellant is such that
payment of secret nature to informants cannot be avoided.
Moreover, the source of informant fees is out of the business receipts
from clients on which tax has been paid. In the alternative, as per
section 69C the explanation, offered by assessee is not, in the
opinion of the Assessing Officer, satisfactory. In the instant case,
there is no such finding but merely a conclusion which is not based
on any evidence. There is nothing to indicate that the payment to
informants was from unaccounted sources or from out of the books
of accounts. The law requires more than mere opinions or
presumptions to make an assessment of income. (n) The ratio of the following cases also have direct bearing on the
facts and circumstances in the instant appeal

i. In Rajesh P. Soni v. ACIT (2006) 100 TTJ 464 (Ahd.) (Trib.) it was
held addition under section 69 was not justified merely because
suppliers could not be located and were not produced for
examination 23 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

ii. In Balaji Textile industries (P.) Ltd. v. ITO (1994) 49 ITD 177
(Mum.)(Trib.), it was held that there was no allegation or proof that
the amount was received back by assessee. Sales were accepted ~
No sales can be made without purchases. Addition was deleted. iii. Rajesh P. Soni v. ACIT (2006) 100 TTJ 892 (Ahd.)(Trib.) The
sales against purchases are not doubted. It is not the case of AO that
amounts paid for purchases had come back to the assessee. AO had
made addition merely on the ground that the suppliers are not
located and they were not produced for examination. This is not a
relevant factor. (o) The assessee has claimed "Informer Information Expenses" ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

(Q) In our case, all the aforesaid criteria's have been satisfied (i) The payment of commission has been established in terms of
payment accounted in books of accounts and vouchers maintained.
The address of such recipients need not be given due to protection
of the life of the informant. (ii) It is established that the payment has been made wholly for
the purpose of business Without incurring such expenditure, the
Assessee would not get information in related to counterfeit product
in the nook and corner of India and without which we would not be
able to make investigation, report to the clients, carry out the raid
and book the culprit. It is therefore wholly for commercial
consideration (iii) Such payments are incurred in this line of business and is a
common trade practice without which, such information would not
be forthcoming. Certain web cuttings are enclosed to show that
various other agencies carrying on similar business also rely on such
informants (iv) The Assessee has proved beyond doubt the reasonableness
of expenditure incurred by comparing the revenue to the expenditure
incurred and the said expenditure forms minuscule part of the
revenue earned (v) Vouchers are prepared stating full details of the work done
i.e. the name of the clients, the nature of work and the nature of
information. It is therefore evident that all the conditions enumerated above have
been fulfilled for allowing such kind of expenditure (r) The informer information expenses has been allowed by the
department year to year after due scrutiny. Though resjudica does
not apply to Income Tax cases, matter which is permeating year to
year and which matter has been accepted by both the sides, the
same cannot be disturbed in the subsequent years. In this respect
we rely on the (a) Supreme Court decision in case of Radhasoami Satsang v
 CIT (1992) 193 ITR 321. ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd., (b) Navabharat Tobacco Company V. ITO 14 77 J 26 (HYD ITAT) 1982 (c) DCIT V Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizers company ltd., 42
 taxmann.com 438 (Gujarat High Court) 2014 and, (d) ACIT versus Hindustan Fertiliser Corporation Ltd. ITA No.
 2045 of 3318 (Delhi) - C Bench (2013) and (s) In view of the above, assessee company requests you honour
 to direct the Assessing Officer to delete the addition made in toto
 similar to the deletion of disallowance made by the Hon. CIT(A) in
 asst. year 2012-13" 5.2.7. Thus, as per the section, the Assessing Officer must first come
to a finding of fact that the assessee has incurred expenditure and
he offers no explanation about the source of such expenditure. This
is not the situation in the instant case. The source of payments is
from the audited books of accounts and bank account of the
appellant. The appellant also offered explanation as to the nature
and reason for payment and also supplied corroborative details of
the clients in connection with whose cases such payments were
made. 5.2.8 The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of SumatiDayal vs. CIT
(214 ITR 801) has held that 'for considering whether the apparent is
real, matter has to be considered by applying the test of human
probabilities'. Applying the ratio, it has to be concluded that the
nature of business of the appellant is such that payment of secret
nature to informants cannot be avoided. Moreover, the source of
informant fees is out of the business receipts from clients on which
tax has been Paid. ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

In the alternative, as per section 69C the explanation, offered by
assessee is not, in the opinion of the Assessing Officer, satisfactory.
In the instant case, there is no such finding but merely a conclusion
which is not based on any evidence. There is nothing to indicate that
the payment to informants was from unaccounted sources or from
out of the books of accounts. The law requires more than mere
opinions or presumptions to make an assessment of income. 5.2.9 The ratio of the following cases also have direct bearing on the
facts and circumstances in the instant appeal: ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

5.2.11 Thus, if the expenditure has been made out of funds reflected
in the books of accounts and if the Assessing Officer has not rejected
the books or disputed the receipts related to the expenditure,
addition u/s. 69C cannot be sustained. In the instant case, all
payments to informants have been made out of the books and
hence, the "source" cannot be said to be unexplained. In IT A No.
338/Mum/2011, ITO vs Growel Energy Co. Ltd., Hon'ble IT AT
Mumbai observed: "A careful perusal of the relevant provision shows
that when an assessee incurs expenditure from known sources section 69C does not get attracted; in order to invoke the section it
has to be shown that the assessee had not explained about the
source of such expenditure or part thereof. In the instant case there
is no dispute with regard to the source of expenditure and it is also
not in dispute that the assessee incurred expenditure." 5.2.12 It is noted also that in the course of assessment proceedings,
the appellant had submitted ledger account of informant fees giving
details of payments made from its declared bank account. Therefore,
the question of applicability of section 69C does not arise. On this
conclusion alone, this ground of appeal succeeds. It could be that
the payment was not related to business but that is not the case.
The ratio of decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in CIT vs
GoodlassNerolac Paints Ltd , 188 ITR 1 is also in support of the
appellant in as much as if it is established that business practice
prevents the appellant from disclosing the names of persons to
whom payment was made then the expense is allowable. It is also
noteworthy that the expenses were directly relatable to work done
for specified clients. The payment to informants constitutes only 5-
7% of the revenue earned from operations. It is also noted that in
the unique nature of business of the appellant, such payments are
not only extremely probable but also unavoidable. The explanation
given for not having details of persons to whom payments were
made averred this is done to ensure safety of the informants and
their families. This explanation is also reasonable in context of the
nature of business. In their order pronounced on 13/01/2015 in ACIT
vs Shri Ratansingh M Rathod, ITA Nos . 3717 & 5297/Mum/2013,
Hon'ble ITAT Mumbai had allowed cash payments to labour on the
ground that the accounts were audited and the Assessing Officer had
not found any discrepancy in the audit report or the accounts. 5.2.13 Specifically with regard to payment of "secret
commission reliance is placed on the jurisdictional High Court's 30 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

decision in the case of Commissioner Of Income-Tax vs Sigma Paints
Ltd. on 18 September, 1990, 188 ITR 6 Bom. Relevant extract is
reproduced

"Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the
Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the secret commission
amounting to Rs. 1,41,346 paid by the assessee was an allowable
deduction within the meaning of section 37(1) of the Income-tax Act,
1961 ?" 5.2.14 The payment to informants in the instant case is in the nature
 of "secret commission", therefore, the ratio of the above decision of
 Bombay High Court applies to the facts and circumstances of the
 case. Accordingly, this ground of appeal is allowed." 3.4.3 Since the facts and circumstances are the same for this
 assessment year, except for the amount involved, following the
 decision of Ld. Predecessor for assessment year A.Y.2012-13 above,
 the A.O. is directed to delete the disallowance of informer
 information expenses of Rs.1,37,95,570/-. These grounds of appeal
 is allowed." 15. Aggrieved Revenue is in appeal before us and at the time of hearing

Ld. DR submitted that assessee has not filed any evidences before the

Assessing Officer and Assessing Officer has nothing to verify, therefore

when there is nothing to submit in support of the claim of the assessee,

the Assessing Officer has rightly disallowed and he is at liberty to do so. He relied on the finding of the Assessing Officer. 16. On the other hand, Ld. AR relied on the finding of the Ld.CIT(A) at

Page No. 15 of the order and further he submitted that the issue involved

in this case is violation of privacy and in this regard assessee carried out 32 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

various raids based on the information collected from the various parties

and the information relating to the informants cannot be disclosed or put

the information in public domain. He submitted that similar disallowances

were made in A.Y. 2012-13 and due to low tax effect the appeal of the

revenue was dismissed. In this regard he brought to our notice details of

the informer information expenses claimed by the assessee during the

year which is placed at Paper Book from Page No. 97 to Page No. 130. Further he brought to our notice the monthly revenue received by the

assessee during this year to the extent of ₹.23.09 crores whereas

assessee has claimed 1.38 crores during this year on informer information

expenses which is 5.97% of the total revenue. He also brought to our

notice details of raids conducted by the assessee during the year which is

placed at Page No. 132 of the Paper Book and assessee has carried out

total 407 raids during the year. He also brought to our notice historical

information relating to this expenditure from A.Y: 2009-10 to

A.Y.2014-15 which is in and around 6% of the total revenue. Further he

submitted that department has raised ground equating this expenditure

under unexplained expenditure u/s. 69C of the Act. He submitted that

the section 69C of the Act has no application. These expenses are incurred

in carrying the business of the assessee and these information is placed 33 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

on record, therefore, section 69C has no application. He prayed that this

ground may be dismissed. 17. Considered the rival submissions and material placed on record, we

noticed that the nature of the business of the assessee is to engage in the

field of investigation for violation of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and

apprehending the perpetrators/violators through a system of informants

and carrying out raids on counterfeit business with the help of

jurisdictional police force. As per the records assessee is India's largest

investigation agency specializing in anti-counterfeiting solution. Further

assessee is engaged by large Internationals/multinational corporations to

prevent or identify such theft and violation of intellectual property. From

the record submitted before us this is a relevant expenditure incurred by

the assessee during the year and also assessee is claiming this

expenditure from the past several years. We also observed that Assessing

Officer has not disputed the revenue or services offered by the assessee

which is the services offered to rendering the services to multinational

companies in the field of investigation of violation in the utilization of IPR. In our view once nature of business of the assessee is accepted, the

unique aspect of informants expenses is also to be accepted, which is

relevant for carry out the functions of the company. And when assessee 34 ITA NO. 7471/MUM/2018 (A.Y: 2014-15)
 M/s. EIPR India Pvt. Ltd.,

takes services of informants certainly they will demand compensation

without incurring such expenses assessee will not be able to provide

effective services and continue similar services to other clients. In this

case, details of informants have to kept secret and the assessee has

supplied enough information to substantiate the actual payment but only

kept the identity of the informants. After going through detailed finding

of the Ld.CIT(A) we do not find any reason to interfere with the finding

of the Ld.CIT(A). Accordingly, ground raised by the revenue is dismissed

and also involvement of provisions of section 69C of the Act in the case

of the assessee is farfetched and accordingly, this aspect also dismissed. Ground raised by the revenue is dismissed. 18. In the result, appeal filed by the Revenue is dismissed. Order pronounced on 07.02.2022 as per Rule 34(4) of ITAT Rules by
 placing the pronouncement list in the notice board.