% 14.05.2025 1. This is an application under Section 482 of Bhartiya Nagarik
 Suraksha Sanhita ["BNSS"], 2023, filed on behalf of the applicant for the
 grant of anticipatory bail in case FIR No. 198/2023, under Section 420 / 34 IPC, lodged at PS Special Cell, New Delhi. 2. Learned counsel appearing for the applicant submits that applicant is a
 villager and she is neither technically advanced nor is aware of modern
 technical manoeuvres, as alleged in the FIR. Even as per the own case of the
 complainant, it failed to respond to the chargeback requests of its customers
 within stipulated time prescribed under the National Payment Corporation of
 India ["NPCI"] guidelines, owing to which, the amounts were credited

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/06/2025 at 03:10:32
 twice in the targeted accounts. It is argued that assuming the allegations in
 the FIR to be true, complainant can, at best, set up a civil case for the
 recovery of excess amount and by no stretch of imagination, it can implicate
 hundreds of customers in a criminal case for its own negligence. It is stated
 that there seems to be a concerted effort on behalf of the higher ups of the
 company to save their own skins by lodging the FIR. It is argued that the
 ultimate call to transfer the invested amount remained with the company,
 which was to be exercised after verification of records and it is not the case
 of complainant that accused persons have not got the chargeback/refunds in
 accordance with the NPCI guidelines. 3. Learned counsel further submits that the FIR has been lodged after a
 delay of around five months to save the officers of the complainant company
 from their liability. It is submitted that as per complainant, there was a
 system error, and due to which, complainant did not respond to the
 chargeback request, and thus that being so, it is not a case of inducement and
 therefore, ingredients of offence under Section 420 IPC are not attracted.
 The evidence is primarily documentary in nature, and therefore, no custodial
 interrogation of the applicant is required. He further submits that applicant
 has already joined the investigation and is still ready and willing to join the
 same. 4. Bail application has been vehemently opposed by the learned ASC,
 arguing that a huge amount has been cheated by taking advantage of the
 technical glitch. It is submitted that applicant did not join the investigation
 despite grant of protection by this Court. Cheated amount is yet not
 recovered and the custodial interrogation of the applicant is required for
 unearthing the conspiracy. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/06/2025 at 03:10:32 5. In rebuttal, learned counsel for the applicant states that applicant met
 the IO at Jodhpur and joined the investigation. However, learned ASC
 submits that IO had gone to Jodhpur but the sister of the applicant met him
 and applicant did not join the investigation and that the affidavit filed by the
 applicant in this regard is a false affidavit. 6. The FIR in this case has been registered under Section 420 / 120-B IPC
 at the instance of the complainant company, which is engaged in the
 business of peer to peer lending and is an online platform providing service
 of borrowing and lending money to its customers under the name and style
 of "LENDBOX". Complainant entered into a sourcing service agreement
 with MOBIWIK Systems Ltd., which provides E-wallet services for availing
 its services of sourcing of lender/ customer/ investor relations. The
 complainant integrates their service on the online platform of Mobikwik.
 The user of Mobikwik has the option of investigating their money through
 the complainant's platform and the complainant pays interest on the amount
 invested by the investors/customers, as mutually agreed by the complainant
 and the investor. The investment can be made through UPI, debit card and
 net-banking and these investments were governed by NPCI. Once a
 chargeback is received with NPCI portal, the same is forwarded for
 response/verification, if no response is received within the stipulated period
 of 40 days, then such chargebacks are deemed to be approved and paid to
 customer/investor's account. 7. In March 2023, complainant company became aware that several of
 the users/customers/investors, who deposited money with them, raised
 request for return of the money on the same day i.e. the date of deposit itself.
 Since the remittances were made using UPI, such transactions are governed

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/06/2025 at 03:10:32
 by NPCI. 8. It was found that simultaneous to the request placed through
 Mobikwik for the return of the money, the accused persons were also
 placing request for refund of the money, they also raised request for
 chargeback with NPCI, alleging that money so deposited has not been
 returned or that the same was deducted from their account without their
 consent. While the complainant promptly returned the money to the accused
 persons upon receipt of request, there was no reason for them to approach
 the NPCI. 9. Due to system error, accused persons became aware that complainant
 had not disputed the chargeback requests, and therefore, they started
 undertaking multiple transactions. Even though, the money was received
 from the complainant, the accused started raising fraudulent chargeback
 requests. 10. Thus, in this manner, accused persons, for every transaction
 undertaken by them, not only received the money from the complainant
 upon request, but at the same time, were also paid through the bank account
 of the complainant, owing to chargeback request. A-systemic fraud was
 perpetrated in this manner, as many as 457 persons and complainant has
 been defrauded of Rs. 10,54,79,040/- from the period 05.12.2022 to
 19.03.2023. 11. So far as the present applicant is concerned, she has claimed 36
 successful chargebacks and the amount of these chargebacks is Rs.
 32,53,383/- from 19.01.2023 to 17.03.2023. Applicant is therefore actively
 involved in the wrongful loss to the complainant company and earned
 wrongful gain for herself. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/06/2025 at 03:10:32 12. During the pendency of the bail application, applicant was granted
 interim protection subject to her joining the investigation. Admittedly, she
 did not join the investigation, inasmuch as, as per order dated 17.02.2025,
 learned counsel for the petitioner himself submitted before the Court that he
 has also tried to reason with the petitioner to join the investigation, but for
 the reasons best known to her, she is not keen to join the investigation. Even
 though, the learned counsel now claims that subsequently petitioner joined
 the investigation at Jodhpur, but the same has been disputed by the State. 13. Admittedly, the recovery of the cheated amount is yet not affected.
 Applicant would be required for detailed interrogation to unearth the modus-
 operandi and the conspiracy for which her custodial interrogation may be
 necessary. The allegations are serious in nature. In my view, this is not a fit
 case for the grant of pre-arrest bail to the applicant/accused. 14. The application is accordingly dismissed. 15. It is clarified that nothing stated in this order shall tantamount to an
 expression on the merits of the case. RAVINDER DUDEJA, J. MAY 14, 2025
 RM

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/06/2025 at 03:10:32