1. The Applicant has filed this Application under Section 439 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure for enlarging the Applicant on Regular Bail in
connection with FIR being File No. DC/ENF/Div-8/AC/Asif Dolla/2023-24/B-
1 registered with the office of the Deputy Commissioner, State Tax
Enforcement, Division 8, Surat, Camp at Office of the Chief Commissioner of
Sales Tax, Ahmedabad. 2. Heard learned Advocate for the Applicant and learned APP for the
Respondent - State. Rule. Learned APP waives service of notice of Rule on behalf of the
Respondent - State. 3. Leanred Advocate Mr. Chetan K. Pandya appearing for the Applicant
has submitted that the Applicant has been arrested in connection with the
present offence on 24.01.2024 and since then he is in custody. Thereafter the Page 1 of 4 Downloaded on : Mon Jul 08 21:20:39 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/5447/2024 ORDER DATED: 05/07/2024

 undefined

investigation of the offence has been carried out and a complaint (chargesheet)
has been filed by the Investigating Agency before the competent court. The
present Applicant is alleged to have illegally availed the benefit of input tax
credit to the tune of Rs. 161 Crores on the basis of fake invoices without supply
of any goods. He submitted that no proceedings whatsoever have been
initiated against the present Applicant by the GST department. He therefore
submitted to allow the present Application and enlarge the Applicant on bail
subject to suitable conditions. He further submitted that the Applicant has good
reputation in the society and no useful purpose would be served by keeping the
applicant in jail for indefinite period. It is further contended that the applicant
is ready and willing to abide by all the conditions that may be imposed by this
Court if released on bail. 4. Per contra, learned APP has vehemently opposed the present application
for grant of regular bail contending that the present Applicant is the main
perpetrator in commission of the offence in quesetion. It was the present
Applicant who was involved in purchase and sale of the fictitious firms. The
bills for fake transactions had been prepared and certain transactions in the
bank accounts opened in the names of these fictitious firms had also taken
place. The present Applicant used to get those transactions overturned. He
also submitted that after his arrest the Applicant had made a complaint of chest
pain and therefore he was taken to the U. N. Mehta Institute of Cardiology &
Research Centre (hereinafter refeffed to as "the Hospital") and he had escaped
from the washroom of the Hospital and therefore there is a reason to believe
that if the Applicant is ordered to be enlarged on bail, in all probability the
Applicant would not be available for the purpose of trial. Learned APP has
therefore submitted that looking to the nature of offence, this Court may not
exercise the discretion in favour of the applicant and the Application may be
dismissed. 5. Heard learned Advocates for the parties and perused the record. At the
outset, the conduct of the present Applicant is required to be taken note of. As
per the record, the present Applicant was arrested in connection with the
present offence on 24.01.2024 and was presented before the Metropolitan
Court on the very same day, where, he had complained of chest pain, and
therefore, he was taken to the Hospital on 24.1.2024. There, he entered the
washroom of the Hospital on the ground of answering the nature's call and had
escaped from the window of the said washroom. He could be apprehended
only on the next day. Having regard to this conduct of the Applicant, the
apprehension voiced by the learned APP that he may not be available for the
purpose of trial if enlarged on bail cannot be ruled out at this stage. 6. The modus operandi for commission of the offence shows that poor and
needy people were targeted by the present Applicant and the other co-accused,
and they were lured of payment of small amounts, and in return, asked to
provide details like; their mobile phone number linked with Aadhar Card etc.
After having procured those details from those perons, the mobile number
linked to the Aadhar Card was changed and applications were submitted for
obtaining PAN Card in their names, and thereafter, the Applications for GST
registrations in their names were also made and, on the basis of the said
particulars, several fictitious firms had been created, where fake transactions
worth crores of rupees would take place and the benefit of input tax credit
would be availed on such fictitious tranactions. The record indicates that the
details of as many as 139 firms could be obtained from the mobile phone of the
present Applicant, out of which, 65 firms were found to be bogus and, out of
these, 59 firms were used for the purpose of bogus billing and thus the
exchequer has been duped to the tune of Rs.161 crores. 7. The Applicant in his statement recorded by the GST Authority has
admitted that he along with his brother and other relatives was involved in the Page 3 of 4 Downloaded on : Mon Jul 08 21:20:39 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/5447/2024 ORDER DATED: 05/07/2024

 undefined

purchase and sale of fictitious firms and operation of this fictitious firms were
providing bogus bills for purchase and sale, e-way bills, bank transactions etc.
The amounts which were received in the bank accounts of these fictitious firms
were converted / over-turned through angadia. Thus, the present Applicant
appears to be the main king-pin in commission of the offence in question. 8. It is sought to be contended on behalf of the Applicant that the other co-
accused have been considered for grant of regular bail by this court, and
therefore, the parity is claimed with them. However, having regard to the role
played by the present Applicant in commission of the offence in question and
also the conduct of the Applicant noted herein above, no case is made out. The
Application is therefore dismissed. (M. R. MENGDEY,J)
J.N.W Page 4 of 4 Downloaded on : Mon Jul 08 21:20:39 IST 2024