26. This view of the Judicial Committee clearly demarcates
 the functions of the executive and the judiciary in the field
 of detection of crime and its subsequent trial and it would
 appear that the power of the police to investigate into a
 cognizable offence is ordinarily not to be interfered with by
 the judiciary.” 7. M.C. Mehta (Taj Corridor Scam) v. Union of India
 (2007) 1 SCC 110 was a public interest litigation in which
 this Court, after noticing the precedents, held that when a
 cognizable offence is reported to the police, they may after
 investigation take action under Section 169 or Section 170 of the Code. If the officer in charge of the police station
 forms an opinion that there is no sufficient evidence against
 the accused, the officer-in-charge may, under Section 169 of the Code, release the accused from custody or, if the
 officer forms an opinion that there is sufficient evidence, he
 may, under Section 170 of the Code, forward the accused to
 a competent Magistrate. 8. After analysing the earlier judgments, this Court
 observed: (Taj Corridor Scam case (2007) 1 SCC 110,
 SCC p. 128, para 26)
 “26. … that there is a clear-cut and well-demarcated
 sphere of activities in the field of crime detection and crime
 punishment. Investigation of an offence is the field reserved
 for the executive through the Police Department, the
 superintendence over which vests in the State Government.
 The executive is charged with a duty to keep vigilance over
 the law and order situation. It is obliged to prevent crime. If
 an offence is committed allegedly, it is the State’s duty
 to investigate into the offence and bring the offender to
 book. Once it investigates through the Police Department
 and finds an offence having been committed, it is its duty to
 collect evidence for the purposes of proving the offence.
 Once that is completed, the investigating officer submits
report to the court requesting the court to take cognizance of
the offence under Section 190 CrPC and his duty comes to
an end.”

************ 25. It is the statutory obligation and duty of the police to
investigate into the crime and the courts normally ought not
to interfere and guide the investigating agency as to in what
manner the investigation has to proceed. In M.C. Abraham
v. State of Maharashtra (2003) 2 SCC 649 this Court
observed: (SCC pp. 657-58, para 14)
“14. … Section 41 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
provides for arrest by a police officer without an order from
a Magistrate and without a warrant. The section gives
discretion to the police officer who may, without an order
from a Magistrate and even without a warrant, arrest any
person in the situations enumerated in that section. It is
open to him, in the course of investigation, to arrest any
person who has been concerned with any cognizable
offence or against whom reasonable complaint has been
made or credible information has been received, or a
reasonable suspicion exists of his having been so
concerned. Obviously, he is not expected to act in a
mechanical manner and in all cases to arrest the accused as
soon as the report is lodged. In appropriate cases, after some
investigation, the investigating officer may make up his
mind as to whether it is necessary to arrest the accused
person. At that stage the court has no role to play. Since the
power is discretionary, a police officer is not always bound
to arrest an accused even if the allegation against him is of
having committed a cognizable offence. Since an arrest is in
the nature of an encroachment on the liberty of the subject
and does affect the reputation and status of the citizen, the
power has to be cautiously exercised. It depends inter alia
upon the nature of the offence alleged and the type of
persons who are accused of having committed the
cognizable offence. Obviously, the power has to be
exercised with caution and circumspection.” 26. It is further observed: ( M.C. Abraham case (2003) 2
SCC 649, SCC pp. 659-60, para 17)
 “17. The principle, therefore, is well settled that it is
 for the investigating agency to submit a report to the
 Magistrate after full and complete investigation. The
 investigating agency may submit a report finding the
 allegations substantiated. It is also open to the investigating
 agency to submit a report finding no material to support the
 allegations made in the first information report. It is open to
 the Magistrate concerned to accept the report or to order
 further enquiry. But what is clear is that the Magistrate
 cannot direct the investigating agency to submit a report
 that is in accord with his views. Even in a case where a
 report is submitted by the investigating agency finding that
 no case is made out for prosecution, it is open to the
 Magistrate to disagree with the report and to take
 cognizance, but what he cannot do is to direct the
 investigating agency to submit a report to the effect that the
 allegations have been supported by the material collected
 during the course of investigation.” 27. This Court while observing that it was not appropriate
 for the High Court to issue a direction that the case should
 not only be investigated but a chargesheet must be
 submitted, held: ( M.C. Abraham case (2003) 2 SCC 649,
 SCC p. 660, para 18)
 “ 18. … In our view the High Court exceeded its
 jurisdiction in making this direction which deserves to be
 set aside. While it is open to the High Court, in appropriate
 cases, to give directions for prompt investigation, etc. the
 High Court cannot direct the investigating agency to submit
 a report that is in accord with its views as that would
 amount to unwarranted interference with the investigation
 of the case by inhibiting the exercise of statutory power by
 the investigating agency.”

The Supreme Court in the case of Manohar Lal Sharma Vs. Principal
Secretary , reported in (2014) 2 SCC 532 has held as under :