R.N. Bhardwaj, Member 1. The appeal has been taken up for final disposal with the consent of both parties. 2. The appeal has been filed by UBS Securities Asia Limited, ('UBS' for short) against the impugned order dated 17/05/2005 issued by the Whole Time Member, SEBI, the operative portion of which reads as under: 3. UBS Securities Asia Limited, i.e., the appellant, is a licensed securities company in Hong Kong and is part of UBS Investment Bank which is Headquartered in New York and London. The appellant is a Foreign Institutional Investor (FII) registered with SEBI. Swiss Finance Corporation (Mauritius) Limited ('SFCML' for short) is registered as a proprietary sub-account of the appellant. UBS AG London issues Offshore Derivative Instruments ('ODI' for short) to its clients located outside India in accordance with FII Regulations and simultaneously hedges its risk on such ODIs with SFCML on the basis of a swap transaction under an ISDA Master Agreement. SFCML in turn invest in the Indian securities market. Investors in ODIs are clients of UBS London and not of the appellant. 4. SEBI investigated a steep fall in the Indian stock market on 17th May, 2004 with sensex falling by 567.74 points and NIFTY fell by 196.90 points. It resulted in temporary stoppage of trading twice on major stock exchanges i.e., BSE and NSE during the day. Such a fall in the market was unprecedented in the history of Indian stock market. SEBI rightly wanted to find out the reasons of such a crash in the market on 17/05/2004 and they found from their enquiry that UBS Securities Asia Limited was a major participant which sold securities to the extent of Rs. 188.35 crores in the cash market segment on 17th May, 2004. It was also a significant participant in the derivative segment (F&O) of the Indian securities market during May, 2004. It had built up NIFTY Futures Short positions to the extent of Rs. 434/- crores and Stock Futures short positions to the tune of Rs. 292/- crores. SEBI found from its investigations that UBS had also sold large quantity of securities on May 17, 2004 on behalf of various entities to which UBS AG, London, had issued Offshore Derivative Instruments. SEBI suspected that sudden fall in the market on 17/05/2004 could have been triggered by UBS playing "ducks and drakes with the market". It put selling pressure in the market which was not related to fundamentals of the scrip. SEBI wanted to investigate whether the conduct of UBS and other players on 17/05/2004 was in violation of SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. 5. SEBI therefore called for information from UBS relating to its major ODI clients in terms of their addresses, the names of their Directors, Fund Managers, Major Shareholders, Top 5 Investors, etc. It wanted to ascertain the details of the ultimate beneficiaries as to whom the ODIs were issued by UBS AG, London. There was a protracted correspondence between UBS and SEBI for obtaining the above mentioned information. UBS informed that this information was not readily available with them and they would have to get it from the clients of UBS AG, London because even UBS AG, London also did not have this information. It also informed SEBI that some of the clients might not give the information to UBS due to confidentiality reasons but they would prefer to give directly to SEBI which is a regulator. It was also because some of the clients were dealing with other FIIs also, therefore, they would feel more comfortable in giving this information to a Central Regulatory Authority, i.e., SEBI. SEBI felt that the flow of information from UBS was delayed and tardy and in some crucial cases the information was not forthcoming even after numerous exchange of e-mails and personal meetings by UBS representatives with SEBI officials. Therefore a detailed show cause notice dated 24/11/2004 was issued to UBS. The show cause notice was issued under Section 11(4) and 11B of the SEBI Act, 1992 read with Regulations 15A, 20 and 20A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, 1995 ("FII Regulations" for short) and Clauses 1, 2, 5 and 6 of the Code of Conduct as specified in Regulation 7A of the FII Regulations. The show cause notice required from UBS inter alia the names and addresses of major shareholders and names of 5 top investors in respect of the major clients of UBS. They were also advised to confirm that none of the investors of their clients were Indian nationals, persons of Indian origin, or overseas corporate bodies "which are majority owned or controlled by Non-Indian resident". 6. The show cause notice contains details of the information called for and received about various clients of UBS up to the date of issue of show cause notice i.e., 24/11/2004. It finally said that UBS did not give the required information in respect of the following six clients which are mentioned in the show cause notice: Caxton International Limited
 Specified details of the shareholders 2. 
 Indus Asia Pacific Fund Ltd. Expressed inability to disclose the name and addresses of the top five investors for investments in Indian securities during May, 2004, directors and major shareholders pursuant to the fund's organizational documents. 3. 
 ROHATYN
 Did not release the names of top five investors to SEBI shareholding 4. 
 Indea Capital Pte. Ltd. Declined to reveal information on the investors and shareholding 5. 
 PMA Prospect Fund
 Declined to furnish the names and addresses of top five largest investors in the funds citing reasons of confidentiality 6. 
 Satva Asia Opportunities Master Fund 
 Declined to provide the names of investors of the fund. 7. The show cause notice further said that UBS has failed to furnish complete information in respect of their clients as sought by SEBI. It says: 8. The show cause notice stated that UBS failed to comply with the KYC (Know Your Clients) requirements as specified in Regulation 15A of the FII Regulations read with Circular No. IMD/Cust/8/2003 dated 08/08/2003. The show cause notice further stated that for not furnishing the information reasons were not satisfactory as Regulation 20A of FII Regulations clearly stated that FIIs are required to fully disclose information about "terms of and parties to" ODIs relating to any securities listed in stock exchanges in India as and when SEBI may need. 9. In view of what is stated above the show cause notice finally asked UBS to show as to why directions under Section 11(4) and 11B of SEBI Act, 1992 including directions to prohibit UBS from "dealing in securities on behalf of and/or its clients in respect of whom it does not have information on their underlying investors" should not be issued against it. UBS was asked to submit their reply within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice. 10. UBS replied to the show cause notice on 22/12/2004 wherein they submitted that they have not violated any of the FII Regulations mentioned in the show cause notice, neither have they violated the Code of Conduct under Regulation 7A of the FII Regulations. They further submitted that they had been cooperating with SEBI in furnishing the required information which they were not obliged to maintain in terms of FII Regulations. They submitted that whatever information was available with them was submitted to SEBI promptly and whatever additional information which SEBI wanted but which was not required to be maintained by them in terms of FII Regulations was promptly conveyed to their UBS, London clients in London. It followed up with them to give the necessary information to SEBI. They have been advising and persuading their clients to submit the required information and getting the same from their London and New York offices to comply with the investigation requirements of SEBI. They further submitted that they had not violated the provisions of Know Your Client (KYC) requirement of Regulation 15A(1) of FII Regulations. UBS provided additional information to SEBI on 14/01/2005 and through a confidential letter of 13/05/2005. 11. SEBI passed the impugned order of 17th May, 2005 after taking into account all the submissions, documents, reply to the show cause notice, information supplied by UBS after the issuance of show cause notice and the personal hearing on 1st February, 2005, and May 5, 2005. The order says: 14. The above regulation has come into effect from February 3, 2004. The rationale behind inserting this new regulation has been to avert another possibility of market scam which happened during early 1999 to March, 2001. The rationale to incorporate the new FII Regulation 15A was to know the investor's particular details of participatory notes against underlying securities of investments in shares. Participatory notes are extra territorial instruments over which SEBI has no regulatory jurisdiction over them. Such instruments have been earlier used to manipulate the Indian securities market. Therefore, JPC's recommendation was to prevent undesirable entities from dealing in Indian securities market to destabilize the securities market of India. The Regulation 15A(1) mentioned that a Foreign Institutional Investor may issue off-shore derivative instruments such as participatory notes against underlying securities only in favour of those entities which are regulated by any relevant regulatory authority in the countries of their incorporation. It further says that it is subject to 'Know Your Client' (KYC) requirement. It was thought desirable not to allow any unregistered and unregulated entities to invest in the Indian market. 15. It is not sufficient that the entity be only a regulated entity. The order further takes note of the reply given by UBS that these entities to whom ODIs were issued by UBS AG, London were of 'Know Your Client' (KYC) compliant entities and UBS London is a FSA compliant organization. It is also necessary that when the ODIs have been issued against the securities listed in the Indian market, they should also comply with the requirements of Indian regulator i.e., 'Know Your Client' (KYC) requirement of Regulation 15A of FII Regulations. It should be possible to know the names and addresses of the investors and shareholders as and when asked for by the regulator. Whatever 'information' SEBI sought from UBS pertained to KYC - i.e., Regulation 15A of the FII Regulations. 16. SEBI could not accept the contention of UBS that ODIs have been issued by an affiliate i.e., UBS AG, London, of the FII (i.e., UBS Securities Asia Limited) which is a regulated entity in London and accordingly the requirements stipulated in Regulation 15A of FII Regulations were not applicable in its case. The fact that UBS London has provided access to the offshore clients through ODIs to Indian securities market, it has to verify their antecedents and also ensure that KYC norms as specified in Regulation 15A are fully adhered to. 17. The impugned order notes that the KYC guidelines issued by UBS itself are applicable to UBS and SFCML and also to UBS AG, London. The Customer Identification Program (CIP) of UBS clearly mentions that: The fundamental question to keep in mind through the process is simply that UBS is certain that it know the true identity of those with whom UBS is doing business" 18. According to SEBI, it is clear that UBS has not followed its own internal guidelines which required it to identify the ultimate beneficiaries of entities on whose behalf UBS or its affiliates transact. Therefore the contention of UBS that it does not know the beneficiaries of entities on whose behalf ODI have been issued against underlying Indian securities is a clear violation of the KYC norms of UBS itself. As per SEBI, KYC is a very basic commercial requirement which does not require any formal definition or prescription. In the light of the fact that UBS did not supply the required information to SEBI, there were only two possible inferences: (1) UBS did not comply with the requirements of Regulation 15A and thus violated its provisions; (ii) UBS had the required information in its possession or had access to it but did not furnish the information in time to SEBI would mean violation of Regulations 20 and 20A of FII Regulations. If UBS had followed either its own internal guidelines or what is required under Regulation 15A of FII Regulations, it would have been able to supply SEBI necessary information. In view of what is stated above, it is obvious that UBS violated Regulation 15A of FII as it did not follow the KYC norms. 19. Non-Furnishing of Information: SEBI had asked in the show cause notice names and addresses of top five investors details of shareholders in respect of six of its clients. It is noticed that excepting Caxton International Limited, for which information had not been received till the date of impugned order, the information in respect of other five cases mentioned in the show cause notice had been provided to SEBI without the address. In respect of Caxton International Limited, UBS has neither provided the names of top five investors of the 100% shareholders nor their addresses. 20. A Question arises whether UBS was in possession of information or UBS could have accessed the information but it failed to obtain the same and submit to SEBI. In response to the request from SEBI to provide the names of ODI clients with Indian underlying securities UBS stated that all counter parties were major institutional investors and they were classified as regulated entities according to FII Regulation15A and on this basis information relating to Directors and major shareholders were not provided. SEBI, however, did not accept this contention of UBS and repeatedly sought the names and addresses of the underlying clients, their respective shareholders, Directors and Fund Managers on whose behalf UBS had dealt with in cash market on 17/05/2004 / taken positions in Indian securities market on May 3, May 14 and May 20, 2004. In response to SEBI's request, UBS provided the addresses of 21 of their clients and names of principal Directors in respect of two of its clients, (namely, Satva Asia Opportunities Master Fund and Aman). UBS did not furnish the information in respect of six of their major clients as detailed in the show cause notice. UBS also said that majority of their clients are incorporated in Europe and America and that they have their offices in London and New York. It could take some time before they would be able to furnish the information. UBS could obtain the information pertaining to five clients out of six mentioned in the show cause notice excepting Caxton International Limited and furnished the same to SEBI. In the light of the above, an inference was drawn that UBS did possess the required information which was sought by SEBI or it was in a position to have accessed the information if it so desired. UBS has given certain information after much follow up but for rest of the information it was biding the time to avoid furnishing of the information. It was concluded in the impugned order that UBS was making selective disclosure under the pretext of not having information and thus they were not making a clean breast of the whole thing. 21. Non-Compliance of Regulation 20 and 20A of the FII Regulations. It says: 22. UBS had argued in its reply to show cause notice that as per Regulation 20A of the FII Regulations, the obligation of UBS is to disclose only the "terms and parties" to offshore derivative instruments such as participatory notes, equity linked notes entered into by it. There was no obligation to record / details of top five investors and major share holding of the clients. 23. The impugned order did not accept the interpretation in 20A concerning "terms and parties to offshore derivative instruments". It concluded that UBS should have information and details to enforce the agreements with their clients. 24. The impugned order further said that Regulation 20 of FII Regulations was of much wider scope which casts an obligation on the FII to submit to the Board / RBI "any information, record or documents in relation to his activities as a Foreign Institutional Investor". 25. In the light of aforesaid, the information sought by SEBI was well within the realm of Regulations 20/20A and UBS was obliged to supply the same under the FII Regulations. 26. Investigations were hampered by contumacious conduct of UBS: The show cause notice alleged that the investigations were hampered because of the contumacious conduct of UBS. SEBI wanted to conduct an investigation about the reasons of an unprecedented market crash on 17th May, 2005 since UBS was one of the major market participants on that day in both cash and derivative segment (F&O). SEBI asked UBS along with other information to give the names of major shareholders and names of top five investors in respect of major clients of UBS. It had also sought the confirmation from UBS that none of the major investors of its clients are Indian nationals, persons of Indian origin or overseas corporate bodies which are majority owned or controlled by NRI. The information was given belatedly on persistent follow up and in respect of Caxton International Limited, the largest client of UBS, the required information was not given till 17th May, 2005 i.e., the date of the impugned order. Despite vigorous follow up by SEBI and UBS, Caxton International did not furnish information regarding their major shareholders/investors, etc. SEBI again reminded UBS to obtain the said clients' names and addresses of their top five shareholders / investors. In view of non receipt of information SEBI wrote to Securities Exchange Commission, USA and in January, 2005, SEC, furnished the requisite information to SEBI including the client agreement entered into by UBS AG and Caxton International Limited. SEBI had asked UBS to supply copies of KYC and client agreements with Caxton International Limited, Discovery Capital and Indea Capital Limited. UBS wrote on 13/05/2005 that they had already sent the Know Your Client procedure and the agreement with three clients which were understood by them as business terms and conditions of UBS AG London, branch and not the ISDA agreements. It was strange that UBS did not understand the requirement of ISDA agreement and sent only terms and conditions. It is mentioned in the impugned order that all this hampered conducting investigation leading to valuable loss of time for conducting a meaningful investigation. SEBI could get the copy of the agreement between UBS AG and Caxton International Limited through Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), USA during January, 2005 and it could get client agreement between UBS AG and Discover global Opportunity Master Fund Limited and Indea Absolute Return Fund only on April 29, 2005. Therefore it could not conduct a meaningful investigation in real time. UBS, therefore, according to SEBI, did not give the information timely and it virtually thwarted the investigation. If UBS had any doubt about the information, it could have sought clarification from SEBI regarding actual requirement of SEBI. The impugned order says 
 "The conduct of UBS as narrated above speaks for itself and for the purpose of determining the Contumacious Conduct of UBS, I do not find it necessary to go into the notices of UBS for not-cooperating to the requests of the regulator. The egregious conduct of UBS is evident from the circumstances as mentioned above." The delay in the receipt of information erodes its value as an evidence in a real time enquiry. 27. Incidence of reporting lapses and mis-statement: UBS had cited confidentiality provisions in its client agreement as reasons for non-furnishing of information. The fact that it could provide information as sought by SEBI in respect of many of its client but did not provide similar information in respect of its other clients shows that client confidentiality provisions was not a restraining factor. Some clients provided information directly to SEBI. Thus failure to provide information to SEBI was due to the reluctance of UBS to furnish information. UBS provided some vague information while furnishing the names of top five investors of Indus Asia Pacific Fund Ltd., on 14th January, 2005, but later on when SEBI asked for specific information it gave the names of top five investors to SEBI which shows that it was in a position to access the information but it did not submit the same to SEBI. When SEBI asked for copies of client agreement with three of its clients, namely, Caxton International Limited, Discovery Capital and Indea Capital Limited, UBS submitted the "terms and conditions" of a proforma agreement but later on it submitted the copies of the client agreement with two clients viz., Discovery Capital and Indea Capital Limited, on 29th April, 2005 subsequent to personal hearing on 1st February, 2005 and 5th May, 2005. 28. During personal hearing, it was mentioned by UBS representatives that all information sought by SEBI had been provided to SEBI including ultimate investors of Caxton International Limited. However, vide their letter dated 13th May, 2005 UBS admitted that it did not possess the information about Caxton International Limited. It shows that the claim of submission before the Investigating Officer on 5th May, 2005 was not correct. It was also noticed that UBS had not been including the name of Caxton International from January, 2005 in the monthly ODI statement submitted to SEBI every month. UBS has stated that it was an inadvertent error and regretted the same. This particular instance was not a part of show cause notice but it is cited as a "relevant antecedent in a continuum of what permeates the case history to make a talking point that cocking a snook at the regulating requirements is the staple of the conduct of UBS" 29. Non adherence to Code of Conduct: UBS has been charged with the violation of clauses 1, 2, 5 and 6 of Code of Conduct as specified under Regulation 7A of FII Regulations. The code of conduct states that: ... 30. According to SEBI, UBS should have been in a position to know the ultimate client for whom the ODIs have been issued by UBS AG, London against the underlying Indian securities held by it. It should have been able to ascertain from UBS AG, London, and give the information to the regulator in time. The claim of UBS that KYC norms are not applicable to UBS is not acceptable to SEBI. UBS has failed to give information about Caxton International Limited and timely information pertaining to other cases to the regulator and this frustrated the investigation. UBS even submitted misleading information to the regulator about offshore derivative instrument statements which did not include the name of Caxton International Limited. The counsel of UBS made a wrong statement before the Investigating Officer that it had provided all information including the top five investors of Caxton International Limited which was incorrect. The impugned order says: The conduct of the appellant was detrimental to the orderly development of the securities market. 31. Considering all these factors UBS failed to maintain high standards of integrity, fairness and professionalism in all dealings in the Indian securities market with the regulatory authority and comply with the relevant clauses of the Code of Conduct as applicable to FII. In view of the above, UBS is found guilty of non-compliance of Regulations 15A, 20 and 20A and Clauses 1, 2, 5 and 6 of Code of Conduct under Regulation 7A of the FII Regulations. It has failed to exercise due diligence in dealing with its clients and the regulator. It has failed to maintain appropriate level of knowledge and competency. UBS has made selective statements and even suppressed material facts in documents and reports to SEBI. 32. Learned senior counsel for the appellant, Shri C.A. Sundaram, submitted that the impugned order by SEBI is not justified as there is no failure on the part of the appellant to comply with the Regulations 15A, 20 and 20A of the FII Regulations and Clauses 1, 2, 5 and 6 of the Code of Conduct of the FII Regulations. He argued that the main charge against the appellant was that it did not furnish information of top five clients / investors to SEBI for conducting the investigation, and that it violated the KYC requirement as prescribed in Regulation 15A of the FII Regulations. The learned senior counsel submitted that it would have submitted the required information to SEBI on time had it been clearly mentioned in the Regulations applicable to FII. The Regulation 15A of FII Regulations, which reads as under: 33. The learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that a plain reading of the Regulation 15A it makes quite clear that it does not call for knowing the ultimate beneficiary or the persons behind the client who has entered into an agreement. Nowhere is it mentioned that the names and addresses of top five investors / clients should be maintained by the FII and provided to the regulator. All that it says is that derivatives such as Participatory Notes can be issued by the FII in favour of only those entities which are regulated in the countries of their incorporation subject to compliance of Know Your Client (KYC). Nowhere KYC requirement has been defined in the FII Regulations or in any other laws/rules/regulations/byelaws relating to FIIs. The learned senior counsel pointed out that it is not possible to give a definite and certain meaning to the KYC as it is mentioned in Regulation 15A . He argued that any interpretation of the KYC which is to be understood, should be seen in the light of the circular dated 8th August, 2003 issued by SEBI, the Respondent, prescribing various formalities in relation to the reporting of information in respect of ODIs to SEBI. The annexure to the circular prescribes the detailed items to be disclosed as to the 'terms and parties' to the offshore derivative instrument. He argued that neither the FII Regulations nor any other available indicators of the standards of KYC requirement could support the findings in the impugned order that identity of the top five investors / shareholders of a corporate client is an essential requirement of KYC in terms of Regulation 15A of FII Regulations. 34. The learned senior counsel pointed out to the paragraph 6(22) of the impugned order which says " 'Know Your Client' is a very basic commercial requirement which does not require a formal prescription". He submitted that in the light of such KYC requirement which is not exact as is admitted by the Respondent itself and which has not been defined by the respondent there could not be any legal obligation on the part of the appellant to maintain and obtain information pertaining to the names and address of the major shareholders / top five investors. The reasoning is flawed. The learned senior counsel again pointed out to paragraph 9.13 of the impugned order which holds that: 35. He submitted that SEBI has sought to impose an indeterminate standard as it expects the appellant to anticipate correctly all the questions that the respondent may "likely to ask or may ask in future." He submitted that it is impossible to satisfy such a requirement. SEBI should have made known questions which are likely to be complied with by the FIIs instead of leaving them to be imagined by the FII to respond when SEBI asked such questions. The KYC requirement in terms of Regulation 15A of FII Regulations should have been more exact and precise. 36. The learned senior counsel again pointed out to paragraph 6.23 of the impugned order which states that: 37. The learned senior counsel submitted that the regulations do not prescribe any specific question which should have been asked by the appellant. He submitted that in the absence of any clear guidance from the respondent and the regulations the scope and extent of KYC requirement under Regulation 15A of the FII Regulations would be highly inexact and flexible because the interpretation would be left to the respondent at subsequent point of time. He went on to argue that the phrase 'know your client' has not been defined by the respondent anywhere. He argued that in the absence of a clear definition in the provision, the regulation cannot be given a wide interpretation against the accused. Further there could not be any case against the appellant if it does not arise from a reasonable construction of the statute. Because of any ambiguity in the law, the Court must lean towards the construction which exempts the accused from the penalty. 38. The learned senior counsel further argued that the requirement of verifying that the first level of clients are regulated entities is clearly stipulated in Regulation 15A(1) of the FII Regulations. The respondent by its circular dated 19th February, 2004 has defined the scope of 'regulated' for the purpose of Regulation 15A . It defines that any entity incorporated in a jurisdiction that requires filing of constitutional and/or other documents with a registrar of companies or comparable regulatory agency or body under the applicable companies legislation in that jurisdiction or an entity that is regulated, authorized or supervised by a Central Bank, like Bank of England, the Federal Reserve, The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Monetary Authority of Singapore or any other similar body provided that the entity must not only be authorized but also be regulated by the aforesaid regulatory bodies, or an entity which is supervised by Securities of Futures Commission such as the Financial Services Authority (FSA), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or an entity which is a member of the securities or futures exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange, London Stock Exchange, etc. The learned senior counsel argued if the law required that the ultimate beneficiaries of the ODIs should also be ascertained by the FIIs, the FII Regulation should have specifically said so and it should have prescribed the requirement of a compliance report in this respect also. The FII Regulation has not stated any such requirement. The Regulation 15A(2) of the FII clearly states that only requirement for any further down stream issue or transfer of ODI is to ascertain that further down stream issue or transferring of such OID is only to be done to a regulated entity. Therefore the impugned order is beyond the scope of Regulation 15A of the FII Regulations. 39. The learned senior counsel submitted that the impugned order makes an allegation that UBS has not complied with its own internal KYC policies / guidelines. He submitted that ODIs were issued by UBS AG, London which is regulated by UK FSA. He submitted that all the clients of UBS AG, London have complied with the FSA,UK requirement of KYC and UBS AG London does not have the requirement of obtaining the names and addresses of five top investors / shareholders as part of the KYC requirement under the CIP. It was submitted that the appellant was required to provide a monthly undertaking as to the ODIs not being issued /subscribed / purchased directly or indirectly by Indian resident, NRIs, OCBs or PIOs. In this regard it was submitted that the appellant ensured that in all cases the ODIs were not issued / subscribed / purchased by such persons and was fully aware of the identity of the purchasers / subscribers of such ODIs. The learned senior counsel argued that the undertaking only required UBS London to ensure the compliance of above mentioned undertaking as to the first level of subscribers / purchasers, namely, as to the identity of the clients to whom ODIs were issued and not as to top five investors or ultimate beneficial owners. He submitted that world wide financial markets and dealings relied upon certificates representation and warranties of clients. It is pertinent to note that the investors and the clients keep on changing and it was practically difficult to maintain this information. It is therefore not clarified by the respondent how often a FII is expected to keep information about changing of its clients' top five investors / ultimate beneficiaries. 40. The learned senior counsel submitted that the respondent had relied only on preamble of 'Know Your Client Policy Summary' of the appellant which states that the purpose of CIP is to determine the true identity of each of its customer. However, the detailed specific KYC / CIP requirement are dependent on specific conditions based on geographical location of the client, regulatory status, nature of the client, type of business of the client and business to be done with the client, risk participation, etc. Schedule A of Client Identification Program (CIP) did not require UBS AG, London to establish the details of ultimate beneficial owners of the client in question. In fact even the UK FSA, which is the regulatory authority for UBS AG, London does not require the same. There are significant variation in KYC requirement in different countries and therefore it cannot be said that KYC is a "basic commercial requirement not requiring a formal prescription". There was no obligation under the laws of UK for UBS AG, London to have ascertained the details of the top five investors / shareholders. There was no obligation to know the ultimate beneficial owners in the form of natural persons as alleged by the respondent. In any case, the appellant could not be penalized for non-observance of its internal policy. In order to justify penalty the respondent has to demonstrate that the appellant has clearly violated a provision of law or of FII Regulations. It is relevant here that neither the Regulation 15A of the FII Regulations clearly defines the KYC requirement nor the reporting format prescribed by SEBI circular dated 8th August, 2003, requires the details of top five investors / shareholders. The learned senior counsel further submitted that the KYC requirement of FSA, UK; SEC, USA and the Hong Kong Securities Futures Commission who are signatories to the FATF FORTY recommendations do not require ultimate beneficial owners' information or major shareholder or top five investors in all cases. 41. He also submitted that FII industry, even now, is not clear about the KYC requirement. He pointed out to the letters dated 08/06/2005 of ISDA which is a Global Trade Association representing over 600 institutions from 47 countries including India, letter dated 18/05/2005 of Merrill Lynch and Citi Group letter dated 16/05/2005 and it was pleaded that there were areas of uncertainty and ambiguity about the KYC requirement under Regulation 15A of the FII Regulation which are causing great concerns for market participants in the FII industry. They were not quite sure of the KYC requirement under FII Regulations. A request was made in the latter for "guidelines setting out the minimum KYC requirement that FIIs should meet under the Regulations" 42. The learned senior counsel pointed out that the SEBI (Stock Brokers) Regulation have been modified in October, 2004 which stipulates the KYC requirement but under Regulation 15A of the FII Regulation there is no requirement to obtain the same type of details of the shareholders or ultimate beneficiaries. The learned senior counsel also submitted that when the Tribunal had asked the respondent to clarify to the entire industry what it meant by KYC through an affidavit, the Respondent filed an affidavit dated 04/08/2005 merely stating its position as mentioned in the impugned order. In view of the vagueness of the KYC requirement under Regulation 15A of the FII Regulation and in view of the established legal proposition that a provision which if violated is visited with a penalty should be strictly construed in favour of the accused i.e. to say if the language of the provision is not clear it cannot be interpreted to the disadvantage of the accused. He cited the following case laws: 43. The learned senior counsel argued that impugned order holds that appellant failed to satisfy SEBI that the warranties have not been complied with was not based on facts. It was mentioned in the order as "brazen tokenism without a modicum of compliance in substance". Such a finding was not correct. On the contrary the names or description of the top five investors of any client would indicate no one is PIO or NRI or an OCB. This allegation is not a part of the show cause notice. He argued that under CIP, UBS London was not required to obtain top five investor information. The clients were international investors. The non-availability of information was not because the appellant did not follow the KYC or its CIP procedures but because it believed along with the rest of the FII community that for compliance of KYC, the information sought by the respondent was not necessary. 44. The learned senior counsel, Mr. Sundaram submitted that there has been no breach of Regulation 20 and 20A of the FII Regulations. He submitted that it was wrongly concluded that the appellant deliberately failed to submit the relevant information which was either in its possession or it could have directly accessed the same and thus violated Regulations 20 and 20A. The Regulation 20 of FII Regulations provides that every FII shall submit to SEBI or RBI any information, record or document in relation to its activities as an FII whenever required by SEBI or RBI. The learned senior counsel submitted that the appellant had been promptly responding to any communication received from the respondent with regard to the information required by it. Wherever information was available with the appellant the same was promptly submitted and where it did not have the information it actively followed up and pursued with the clients and persuaded them to comply with the respondents demands. The fact that the appellant had several personal meetings with various officials of the respondent is a sheer proof of its willingness to cooperate with the respondent. The conclusion in paragraph 7.7 of the impugned order which states that the information relating to the clients of UBS which was sought by SEBI was already available with the London and New York offices of UBS is not correct. In another paragraph of the impugned order it is said that "UBS in all likeliness should be in a position to know the ultimate client for whom the ODIs have been issued by UBS AG, London". The first statement in paragraph 7.7 of the impugned order is conclusive in nature whereas the second statement extracted from paragraph 9.10 of the impugned order is tentative and a diluted version of the same conclusion which is based on probability without any factual or legal backing. It was submitted by the learned senior counsel that where the appellant did not have the information in relation to a client it was left with no choice but to approach UBS AG London to obtain the information from each client as sought by the respondent. By January, 20005 the appellant had provided to the respondent substantially all the information sought by the respondent pertaining to the shareholders / investors excepting Caxton International Limited which was in direct correspondence with the respondent. In fact the appellant had exercised high levels of care and effort in obtaining the information which is amply corroborated from the sizeable correspondence and numerous personal meetings with the respondent. Therefore, it is not correct to say that the appellant violated any requirement of Regulation 20 of the FII Regulations. It was argued by the learned Sr. Counsel that Regulation would entail the obligation on the FII Regulations only to the extent the information which was in the possession of the FII. It was contended by the learned senior counsel that the law did not compel one to give the information which it did not have or is not required to have. Where the law creates a duty but if the party is disabled from performing it without any default in him and has no remedy over it then the law would in general excuse such person. In support of this contention the learned senior counsel cited the following case laws: He argued and asked where had it been prescribed in the Regulations that particulars of the top five investors of the FII clients were normally required to be in possession of the FII?. Investors of the clients could be a continuing and changing stream and there was no regulation which required monitoring of such changing number of investors. 45. Regulation 20A : The learned senior counsel argued that there was no breach of the Regulation 20A of the FII Regulations. Regulation 20A required that FII investor shall fully disclose information concerning "the terms and parties" to offshore derivative instruments such as Participatory Notes, Equity Linked Notes or any such instruments of whatever names they are called as and when the Board may require. He submitted that the respondent had issued a circular dated 8th August, 2003 which prescribes the format in which the FIIs are required to disclose their offshore derivative positions. From this circular it could be seen that no details of top five investors / major shareholders are required to be provided. Regulation 20A requires the disclosure of information concerning the 'terms of and parties" to offshore derivative instruments such as Participatory Notes, Equity Linked Notes, entered into by the FII or its sub-account or affiliates relating to securities listed in Stock Exchanges in India. He submitted that under Regulation 20A there was no obligation on the part of the appellant (FII) to maintain records / details of major shareholders or of investors of the clients. The annexure to the circular dated 08/08/2003 prescribed the detailed items to be disclosed as to the "Terms and Parties" to the offshore derivative instruments. It is therefore clear that the disclosures which are required for the purpose of Regulation 20A are mentioned and defined in the annexure to the circular. Nowhere do we find any mention of the names of top five investors/ major shareholders required to be submitted by the FII to SEBI. Therefore there is no obligation under Regulation 20A of the FII Regulations to maintain and provide the information as sought by SEBI and hence there is no breach of the said Regulation. 46. There is no breach of Clauses 1, 2, 5 and 6 of Code of Conduct under Regulation 7A of the FII Regulations: The learned senior counsel submitted that the appellant had been observing the highest standards of integrity, fairness and professionalism in its working. It had worked with due diligence in its dealing with the respondent. It had cooperated with the respondent in obtaining and submitting all information which was required by the respondent. It made necessary effort in getting the information as requested by the respondent. The appellant corresponded promptly with the clients and even suggested to the clients to provide necessary information to the respondent if they were prevented because of client confidentiality clause from disclosing the required information to the appellant. He further submitted that in law diligence meant doing all that which an ordinary man would do having regard to all the circumstances remaining within the parameters set out by the law. The appellant made sincere efforts to comply with every request and direction of the respondent. At times, the delay which occurred in submitting the information to the Respondent was mainly due to non-availability of information which the appellant was not required to maintain in the ordinary course of business or in terms of FII Regulations. Therefore it could not be said that the appellant had failed to exercise due diligence. The learned senior counsel argued that it would be wrong to say that the appellant did not maintain the appropriate level of knowledge and competency and abide by the provisions of SEBI Act , FII Regulations and other circulars and guidelines from the regulator. He further said that the appellant has not knowingly made any wrong statement or knowingly submitted wrong statement or suppressed any information to the Respondent. The appellant has always maintained highest standards of integrity, fairness of professionalism. The learned senior counsel referred to the judgment in the case of Peco Arts Inc. v. Hazlitt Gallery Ltd. [1983] 3 All ER 193, for explaining what "reasonable diligence" was all about. It holds that: He also referred to the order of SAT in the case of JM Mutual Fund and Anr. .v. SEBI in appeal No. 39/04 and 39A/04. It was submitted that the appellant has in no way breached the clauses 1, 2, 5 and 6 of the Code of Conduct. 47. The learned senior counsel argued that investigations of the respondent were not hampered by the conduct of the appellant. It is mentioned in the order dated 17/05/2005 that information about Caxton International Limited, sought by SEBI could not be received even till the date of the impugned order i.e. 17/05/2005. The learned senior counsel submitted that in relation to Caxton International Limited the appellant communicated to SEBI on November 2, 2004 that a letter dated 1 November, 2004 was received from Caxton International Limited confirming that the sole shareholder of Caxton International Limited was Caxton Global Investment Limited and that the shareholders of Caxton Global Investment Limited with more than 100% holdings were qualified institutional holders who were not NRIs / OCBs. The appellant followed up with Caxton International Limited to supply further information but it was not forthcoming. Caxton informed the appellant that it would deal directly with the respondent and even respondent had also clearly stated that the clients could deal directly with it. Since information to other five cases mentioned in the show cause notice of 24/11/2004 had been submitted by the appellant before the issuance of the impugned order, the appellant, therefore, thought that all requirements as sought by the appellant had been received by the appellant. 48. As regards non receipt of ISDA agreement, it was submitted by the learned senior counsel that on 11/01/2005 the respondent had received from SEC, New York, a copy of the ISDA agreement entered into between Caxton International Limited and UBS AG, London. During personal hearing on 1st February, 2005 the learned Whole Time member had made a request to provide him with the copy of agreement governing the relationship between the respective clients and UBS AG, London. The appellant thinking that the information sought by the Whole Time Member was the terms and condition had sent the "business terms and conditions" under the cover of a letter dated 24th February, 2005 to the respondent. It was also made clear in the covering letter of 24th February, 2005 that the document being sent to the respondent was in response to his request during the personal hearing on 1st February, 2005 for terms and conditions of business of UBS. Then again on 14/03/2005 the appellant wrote a letter to the respondent stating that it had provided all the information requested at the personal hearing but there was no response from SEBI. It was only on 20/04/2005 that the respondent alleged that the relevant agreement which was requested by him in personal hearing were not "terms and conditions of business" of UBS but were of ISDA agreement. There was a personal meeting with the respondent on 29th April, 2005 to seek clarification and after that on the same day the appellant provided the ISDA and related agreement between UBS AG, London and Discovery Global Opportunities Master Fund Limited and Indea. The learned senior counsel submitted that it was a case of mis-understanding that Terms and Conditions of Business were sent by the appellant earlier. In fact the appellant had confirmed on 14/03/2005 that all necessary information as was requested in the personal hearing had been submitted but the respondent informed only on 20th April, 2005 that what it wanted was ISDA agreement and not Terms and Conditions of Business. He submitted that had the respondent immediately informed the appellant on 24/02/2005 or after that what it required from the appellant was ISDA agreement, the same would have been supplied immediately. Obviously it was a case of genuine misunderstanding and it was wrong to term it "another instance of duplicity of UBS" as mentioned in para 9.17 of the impugned order. 49. The learned senior counsel argued that even the respondent was aware that the appellant could not have information from the clients as a matter of legal right. Therefore the respondent informed the appellant as follows: 50. This is evident from the e-mail dated 30/07/2004 and August 30, 2004. He submitted that in a situation where the appellant did not have the information it had no way but to approach the client for obtaining the information and the appellant communicated promptly with the clients. The appellant did not keep the respondent in the dark about the status of information and the difficulties it was encountering in obtaining the required information from the client. The representatives of the appellant had been meeting the officials of the SEBI on several occasions and explaining to them the difficulties being faced by them from the side of the clients in providing the requisite information to the respondent. 51. Misstatements and Reporting Lapses: It was submitted by the learned senior counsel that there was no evidence to suggest that the appellant did not want to submit the information to the respondent on account of client confidentiality. In fact it was the clients who were claiming difficulties in releasing the information to the appellant because of their own confidentiality obligations to their investors. It was not the suggestion of the appellant to the respondent that appellant was not providing information because of client confidentiality agreement between it and the clients. In fact there is always an exception to such confidentiality from the regulatory authorities. 52. On October 20, 2004 Indus provided limited information to the appellant stating that it was constrained by confidentiality provisions in the funds documentation. Accordingly the appellant through e-mail informed the respondent on 28/10/2004 that Indus Asia Pacific Fund was not able to disclose the names and addresses of the top five investors for investment in the Indian securities during May, 2004 or the major shareholders of Indus. After much persuasion and discussion the appellant received information about the broad categories of top five investors of Indus Asia Pacific Fund only on January 15, 2005 which was immediately supplied to the respondent. The learned Whole Time Member advised the appellant in the personal meeting on 1st February, 2005 to furnish the specific names of the top five investors in Indus Asia Pacific Fund which was received from the client on February 25, 2005. The appellant communicated the same to the respondent. Therefore there was no attempt on the part of the appellant to provide vague information or to conceal any information. He argued that the conclusion drawn in the impugned order "it was attempting to thwart the investigation by SEBI, providing bits and pieces of vague information despite being in possession of specific information" was wrong and without any basis. 53. The learned senior counsel submitted that it was not the intention of the appellant to mislead the respondent by saying that the transactions of May 17, 2004 were of a proprietary nature. The appellant initially understood the request as only relating to actual cash and future market in India and not to ODIs. The appellant therefore was accurate in characterizing the appellant and SFCML as acting as principal in the Indian cash and futures market and not acting as agent of UBS group. The appellant itself sought a meeting with the respondent to clear the misunderstanding. The meeting took place on June 10, 2004 and thereafter provided all the information which was sought by the respondent about the ODIs with UBS London. 54. It was submitted that it is not correct that non disclosure of Indian sounding names in the investigation lead to thwarting of investigation. It was submitted that contrary to what the respondent stated in the impugned order, the respondent already had the Indian sounding names in some cases including the names shown as signatories on behalf of Indea as early as July 1, 2004. Even in case of Caxton International Limited where there was an Indian sounding names of signatory to ISDA agreement the respondent had received from SEC the copy of ISDA agreement on 11/01/2005. In such circumstances it would not be correct on the part of respondent to conclude that because of not providing the ISDA agreement between UBS London and Caxton International Limited, the appellant was responsible for delaying the investigations about the antecedents of the signatories to the ISDA agreement. 55. As regards the charge that Caxton International Limited's name was not included in the ODI statement submitted to the regulator from January, 2004, the appellant regretted this error which happened inadvertently due to incompatibility of the appellant's internal infrastructure and software system. The appellant had acknowledged error and amended the reports. Moreover these errors were not subject of the show cause notice dated 24/11/2004. 56. The learned senior counsel submitted that the impugned order contained observations which indicated that the appellant wrongly held to have engaged in actions requiring an element of intention or willfulness or mensrea. He refuted all such instances mentioned in the impugned order. Some of such wrongful conclusions requiring an element of intention or willfulness are: 57. The learned senior counsel submitted that in para 8.1 and 8.2 of the impugned order an allegation has been made that on 17/05/2004 UBS was a major trading client in the cash and F&O segment and by its strategy it earned gross profit of Rs. 59.37 and it incurred loss of Rs. 17.54 on account of its sale in cash segment whereas it earned profit in Futures segment. It earned net profit of Rs. 41.83 crores. 58. The learned senior counsel contested the figures and the analysis as mentioned in the impugned order. He denied that there was any 'strategy' on the part of appellant to effect large scale sales in cash market to depress the market and simultaneously take short positions in the futures segment. He submitted that these allegations were not correct. The appellant was never informed of such allegations. It was not mentioned in the show cause notice. It amounted to pre-judging the issues which was in violation of principles of natural justice. 59. It was submitted by the learned senior counsel that the appellant was constantly keeping the respondent informed of the difficulties and delays being faced in obtaining the required information from the clients and as such it could not be alleged to have committed these violations as mentioned in the impugned order. 60. The learned senior counsel submitted that the impugned order travels beyond the scope of the show cause notice. The show cause notice mentions why directions should not be passed prohibiting the appellant from dealing securities on behalf of the appellants in respect of whom the appellant does not furnish information on their underlying investors. However, the impugned order has prohibited the appellant from dealing in ODI on behalf of its clients and it also purports to require disclosure of beneficiaries. The prohibition has been imposed on the appellant and not on persons who failed to provide the information and who continued to trade in Indian stock market. The impugned order directly adversely affects the third party clients of the appellant who have not been issued any show cause notice or given any hearing. 61. The impugned order has been passed under Section 11(4) and Section 11B of the SEBI Act, 1992. It does not enable the respondent to impose penalties for violation of provisions of SEBI Act, 1992 and the FII Regulations. Powers under Section 11B of SEBI Act, 1992 are to be used only to take remedial and preventive steps and not for imposition of penalties. A ban on the appellant for a period of one year does not remedy the market position when the funds relate to activities which are more than year old. The ban is in the nature of a penalty. Such an order is not intended for orderly development of the market. Section 11B order should be passed only in emergent scenario. He cited the following case laws in support of his contention: 62. He further argued that the penalty imposed by the appellant is disproportionate as compared to the penalties imposed by the respondent in earlier comparable cases such as : 63. He further submitted that the impugned order is proceeding on the basis of the finding that the appellant is guilty and such a finding is tantamount to a final finding on the issue and as such orders should not be under Sections 11(4) and 11B of the SEBI Act, 1992. In fact if there was any violation of FII Regulations the action should have been taken under Regulation 21A under SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalties) Regulations, 2002. 64. The learned senior counsel submitted that 40% of the business of the appellant was from ODIs and ban on its ODI transaction would severely impact the income of the appellant. He further argued that the appellant was a global investment bank which operated in 40 countries with a strong institutional and corporate client base and enjoyed high reputation. It had a substantial business interest in India also. It had a Regulations / Law compliant culture. The present order would have an adverse impact on its working world wide. More over, the ban on roll-over of existing ODIs would mean that there would be a loss of existing clientele which would have adverse impact on its functioning if the ban was allowed to continue. Therefore, he pleaded, the impugned order should be set aside. 65. Mr. Rafique Dada, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent, while defending the impugned order submitted that it was essential to take note of the circumstances which lead to the issuance of this order. He drew attention to the unprecedented crash in the securities market on 17th May, 2004 when the sensex fell by 567.74 points and NIFTY by 196.90 points. Such a steep fall in the stock market resulted in the temporary stoppage of trade twice on major stock exchanges i.e., BSE and NSE during the day. It was, therefore incumbent on the part of the regulator to examine the dealings in securities by various entities and find out the reasons for this steep fall in the Indian stock market. During the course of investigation it came to light that UBS, the appellant, were one of the major participants in the market on that day. It had sold through SFCML [Swiss Financial Corporation (Mauritius)] in the cash market to the extent of Rs. 188.35 crores (gross). As on May 14th, 2004 the equity portfolio of the appellant was to the tune of Rs. 2956 crores. On May 14, 2004 the appellant had NIFTY Futures short positions of Rs 434/- crores and stock futures short positions to the tune of Rs. 292/- crores. Thus the appellant had a significant participation in the cash as well as the derivative (F&O) segment of the Indian securities market. It was suspected that the appellant might have earned profits due to unprecedented sale in the cash market with its effect of depressing the cash as well as future markets with simultaneous favourable impact on short positions in the future segment. In the light of this finding the regulator, i.e., the respondent sought host of information from the appellant and all those who had participated in the market on that day. 66. The justifiable anxiety of the regulator was to avoid any security scam particularly in view of what had happened in 2001 when it was suspected that some Indian promoters had purchased the shares of their own companies through FII route which was later on shifted to Ketan Parikh entities through OCBs. It was in this context that SEBI had issued a circular dated 31/10/2001 directing FIIs who have been issuing ODIs against underlying Indian securities to report issuance / renewal / cancellation / redemption of the aforesaid instruments to SEBI as per the format prescribed in the circular. In terms of the circular dated 31st October, 2001 FIIs are required to give an undertaking that the FIIs / associates / clients have not issued / subscribed / purchased any of the offshore derivative instrument directly or indirectly to/from Indian residents / NRIs / PIOs / OCBs. The learned senior counsel submitted that from the above undertaking it could be seen that the FIIs or the appellants would have to know the ultimate beneficiaries of the respective clients on whose behalf the appellants were transacting in the capital market. 67. He also submitted that Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) which was appointed soon after the 1999-2001 scam also observed that through PNs various layers were created which made it easy for holders to keep their identities undisclosed and at the same time purchase shares in the Indian capital market. Participatory Notes are derivative instruments issued by FII against holding underlying Indian securities. An investor may collect funds from various retail investors to pool the funds against underlying Indian securities and the return could be linked to equity index. PNs are extra-territorial instruments. 68. The amendment to the existing format of circular of 31st October, 2001 was introduced on 8th August, 2003 which changed the reporting format for issuance / renewal / cancellation / redemption of the aforesaid instruments. The format was further changed vide circular No. IMD/CUST/15/2004 dated 2/04/2004 which retained the undertaking relating to PIO / NRI, etc. The statement should contain information on investors / general information on offshore derivative instruments with quantity and value on ODIs and quantity and value on underlying Indian securities. It should contain information on offshore derivative instruments with underlying as various derivatives traded in Indian Stock Exchanges. This statement shall be submitted by FII on a monthly basis and in addition to the contents in the statement, the FII have to give the undertaking that "we undertake that we/associates / clients have not issued / subscribed / purchased any of the offshore derivative instrument directly or indirectly to/from Indian residents / NRIs / PIOs during the statement period." 69. Later on Regulation 20A was inserted on 28/08/2003 which require the FIIs to disclose information concerning "terms of and parties" to ODIs such as Participatory Notes entered into by Financial Institutions or its sub-account or affiliates relating to any securities listed or proposed to be listed in any Stock Exchange in India, as and when and in such form as the Board may require". Thereafter Regulation 15A was inserted on 3rd February, 2004. Regulation 15A comprises of two points: 70. The learned senior counsel for the respondent emphasized that both the conditions were absolutely essential for compliance of Regulation 15A . It could not be taken as compliance of Regulation 15A merely if ODIs were issued to the regulated entities. The compliance of KYC was equally important part of the Regulation. He went on to argue that 'Know Your Client' was in fact, defining the existing provisions under Regulations 20 and 20A. The learned senior counsel argued that the appellant failed to meet with the requirement of Regulation 15A when it did not submit the required information about the names and addresses of top five investors / shareholders of clients to whom ODIs had been issued by the UBS AG, London. In spite of protracted correspondence, numerous emails and personal meetings the required information was not received by the respondent and show cause notice was issued to the appellant on 24/11/2004. He further submitted that in terms of the undertaking given as per the statement submitted vide circular dated 8th August, 2003, the appellant should have obtained the required information from UBS AG, London which issued the ODIs underlying Indian securities. The information sought by SEBI was only first level information whereas the appellant should have the information about the ultimate beneficiaries. He argued that KYC as part of Regulation 15A was not a newly introduced Regulation. In fact the requirement to comply with these conditions were existing even earlier as per Regulation 20 of FII Regulations. 71. He went on to argue that the appellants themselves have their own Customer Identification Program (CIP) which existed even before the introduction of Regulation 15A in 2004. In terms of the Client Identification Program (CIP) of the appellant, it is necessary to ascertain the identity of the ultimate beneficiary whose account is being operated. The appellant's CIP specifically mentions that it complies with the requirement of Financial Task Force (FATF) which is an international organization formed for prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. It is clear from Forty Recommendations framed by FaTF that it recommends identification of the 'beneficial owner' of customers by financial institutions. The 'beneficial owner' is the ultimate beneficiary. He submitted that the concept of KYC was internationally understood in the financial sector to mean the ultimate beneficiary of an account. He submitted that to know the ultimate beneficiary it would be essential to remove the layers. He submitted that if it was not necessary to know the ultimate beneficiary and we only go through one or two layers, then it would always be possible to conceal the real / ultimate beneficiary which would defeat the purpose of KYC. Hence the condition of KYC as required under Regulation 15A was similar to that which was available in the CIP of the appellant and it was also the same internationally. He submitted that there could not be any doubt about the meaning of the concept of KYC which UBS found difficult to follow although it was a well known concept throughout the financial world and appellant could not take the pretext of its vagueness. The appellant have violated Regulation 15A when they failed to submit the information required by SEBI, the respondent. 72. The learned senior counsel argued that even without Regulation 15A the respondent was well within its right to ask for any information / record or document in relation to the activities of a Foreign Institutional Investor. The information which was sought to be received by the respondent from the appellant was well within the provisions of Regulation 20 of FII Regulation. In fact the compliance of respondent's circular dated 8th August, 2003 requires complete disclosure to be given regarding ultimate beneficiary as well as an undertaking that no person of Indian origin, NRIs, PIOs, OCBs, was investing in Indian security market. There is thus a clear violation of Regulation 20 of FII Regulations in this case. 73. As regards Regulation 20A the FII is required to fully disclose information concerning "terms of and parties to" offshore derivative instrument like participatory notes, or equity linked notes which are entered into by the FII or its sub-account or affiliates relating to securities listed in any stock exchange in India. The appellant failed to supply the information when SEBI asked for it and went on to say that the information was not available with it and it has to access the same from the clients. On 24/11/2004 when the show cause notice was issued, the appellant could not give the information about the top five investors / shareholders (their names and addresses) of six major clients of UBS i.e., Caxton International Limited, Indus Asia Pacific Fund Limited, ROHATYN, Indea Capital Pte. Ltd., PMA Prospect Fund and Satva Asia Opportunities Master Fund. At the time of issuance of impugned order, excepting Caxton International Limited, most of the information had been submitted by the appellant vide its letter dated 8th January, 2005. This clearly points to the fact that UBS was in a position to access the information. The delay in submission of information obviously rendered the investigation difficult and ineffective. 74. Non-Furnishing of Information: The respondent had asked by e-mail dated 27/05/2004 and asked the appellants to give names and addresses of ultimate underlying clients on whose behalf shares had been bought and sold by the appellants on 17/05/2004 along with the names of scrips, quantity and value of the shares bought and sold. The respondent also sought the names of major shareholders and Directors of the aforesaid clients and also the name of Investment Advisors and Fund Managers. Initially the appellant vide their e-mail dated 02/06/2004 replied that SFCML (Swiss Financial Corporation) traded only for its own account in the Indian securities market and did not trade in Indian shares of futures contracts on behalf of other clients. The appellants further volunteered that UBS AG, London, its affiliate, transacted derivative instrument for underlying Indian securities outside India, the details of which were reported to the respondent every month in terms of Regulation 20A . Later on the appellant furnished the names of their ODI clients with the Indian underlying securities transacted by UBS AG, London and they also said that all counter parties were major financial institutional investors which are classified as "regulated entities" according to Regulation 15A of FII Regulations and on this basis the information about Directors and major shareholders was not provided. Obviously this was not accepted by the respondent and sought information relating to ODI beneficiaries. The appellant vide their e-mail dated 22/06/2004 furnished the addresses of 21 of their clients and names of the principal directors in respect of two of its clients. However, they said that they were working with their London and New York offices to obtain the information of principal Directors and shareholders for each client. Some of this information was received after the issuance of show cause notice on 24th November, 2004. It clearly shows that the appellant could have accessed all these information earlier. 75. The learned senior counsel further argued that the appellant were required to submit monthly statement in terms of SEBI circular dated 31/10/2001 and 08/08/2003 regarding the transactions entered into on behalf of their respective clients. It was found that Caxton International which had sold scrip valued Rs. 99.05 crores on 17th May, 2004 was omitted to be included in the statement of May, 2004. The respondent placed on record that two of the appellant's clients i.e., ROHATYN and Satva Asia were also omitted. The appellant vide their e-mail dated 25/06/2004 admitted the omissions and thus explained that this happened due to changes in the internal operating systems. It was found that right from January 2004 the appellant failed to disclose the name of Caxton International Limited in the PN statements submitted by them to the respondent. The learned senior counsel submitted that, of course, it was not a part of the show cause notice but perhaps it indicated the intention of the appellant to avoid giving information to the respondent about a client which accounted for almost 50% of its transactions on 17/05/2004. 76. Hampering of Investigation by the Contumacious Conduct of the Appellant: The respondent could not get names of clients and addresses of major shareholders and major investors and the Fund Managers of Caxton International Limited even up to the date of impugned order on 17/05/2005 despite the fact that Caxton International comprises of over 50% of the transactions entered into by the appellants on 17/05/2004. The appellants stated that some Investment Managers may not be able to respond due to confidentiality constrains. The appellant informed vide e-mail dated 11/08/2004 that as and when they receive further information they would inform the respondent which clearly shows that the requisite information was not available on behalf of their clients at the time of entering into transactions thereby violating the KYC requirement under Regulation 15A . 77. The Caxton International vide their letter dated 09/09/2004 informed SEBI that Caxton International Limited was British virgin island company which had entered into a Price Return Equity Swap on NSE, S&P, CNX, NIFTY Index with UBS AG, London on 06/01/2004 and on 17/05/2004 the parties closed out the said Swap in order to prevent further losses. The respondent wanted confirmation whether any of the major investors of Caxton International Limited were FIIs. When the information was not forthcoming due to non-cooperation of the appellant the respondent sought the client agreement from Caxton International Limited from the Securities Exchange Commission, USA, which furnished the said ISDA agreement between Caxton International Limited and UBS AG, London. It shows that UBS AG would always be having aforesaid ISDA agreement. The agreement between UBS AG and Caxton International Limited had some signatories with Indian names which has further triggered an investigation. The entire conduct of UBS in relation to Caxton called for action from SEBI. 78. Indus Asia Specific Fund Limited: The respondent had sought for the names of major shareholders and top five investors of Indus Asia Specific Fund Limited on 14/05/2004. The appellant on 28th October, 2004 expressed their inability to disclose the names of the top five investors under Indian securities during May, 2004. After the show cause notice the appellants vide their e-mail dated 6th December, 2004 furnished the names of Directors of Indus Asia Specific Fund Limited. During personal hearing held on 1st February, 2005 the appellants were advised to furnish specific names of investors of Indus Asia Specific Fund Limited rather than vague description of the investors given by the appellant. The appellant vide e-mail dated 25/02/2005 furnished the names of investors of Indus Asia Specific Fund Limited. This clearly shows that despite having requisite information the appellants chose not to furnish the same to the respondent. 79. ROHATYN, Indea Capital Pte. Ltd. PMA Prospect Fund & Satva Asia Trading Master Fund: Information in all these cases were received after the issuance of the show cause notice. The appellant vide e-mail dated 14/01/2005 furnished further information regarding the names of the investors in the TRG Global Master Fund, Rohatyn and certain others were directors of Fund. 80. In case of Indea Capital Pte. Ltd., the appellants were informed on 1st February, 2005 during personal hearing with the Whole Time Member to furnish copy of client agreement with Indea Capital Pte. Ltd. The appellant sent the "terms and conditions" contained in the proforma agreement on 24/02/2005. The respondent again advised the appellant on 20/04/2005 to furnish the information which was sought by the respondent during the personal hearing on 1st February, 2005. It was only on 29th April, 2005 that ISDA master agreement between UBS AG, London and Idea Absolute Return Fund was submitted to the respondent. It was explained that the delay occurred due to misunderstanding about the requirement but it was significant that the agreement was signed by persons with Indian names. The delay in furnishing information, obviously, was for some motives. 81. The learned senior counsel argued that it was wrong to say that impugned order was beyond the scope of show cause notice. The appellants were repeatedly asked to furnish information regarding top five investors and top five shareholders in respect of some of their clients. Majority of the information sought by the respondent was furnished only after issuance of the show cause notice. At the time of issuance of show cause notice the breach of regulations were substantial by the appellant. In the show cause notice dated 24/11/2004 it was clearly set out that the appellant were called upon to show why action should not be taken against the appellants including directions to prohibit the appellant from dealing in securities on behalf of their clients in respect of whom the appellant did not furnish the information. It clearly says that it was one of the actions contemplated in the show cause notice and nowhere was it indicated that this was the only action which the respondent would take against the appellant in case the appellants were unable to show cause to the aforesaid notice. On the contrary the respondent has taken into account the information submitted even after the issuance of the show cause notice. The wording of the show cause notice are as under: 82. The inclusive portion in the show cause notice does not in any way limit the scope of the show cause notice. It encompasses within its fold any direction or order that may be passed under Section 11(4) and or Section 11B of SEBI Act, 1992. He further argued that it was not correct to say that order could be passed only under Regulation 21 of the FII Regulations read with SEBI (Proceedings for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations 2002. The learned senior counsel further argued that it was also not correct to say that punitive action could not be taken under Section 11B . The conditions for taking action under Section 11B are mentioned in clause (i), (ii) and (iii). It also needs to be stressed that any action taken under Section 11B by the regulator would invariably have some detrimental impact on somebody which could not be avoided in the interest of the security market. He referred to the view taken by Hon'ble Tribunal in cases such as Sterlite, BPL and Videocon. He also pointed out that where SAT had taken a view in Roop Ram Sharma's case similar to that of Sterlite Industries. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has stayed the judgment of SAT and therefore the earlier decisions of the Tribunal could not be operative in the present case. In any case, he submitted that the impugned order under Section 11(4) of the Act can independently be supported. The insertion of Section 11(4) in the Act expressly clarified the position and empowers SEBI to restrain persons from accessing the securities market and prohibit any person associated with the securities market either pending enquiry or investigation or on completion of such inquiry or investigation by recording the reasons in writing in the interest of investors or securities market. In the impugned order there is only limited prohibition or bar on the appellant from issuing fresh ODIs and rolling over of the existing ODIs for a period of one year. He submitted that the Nirmal Bang case which was cited by the learned senior counsel for the appellant in which the SLP was dismissed by the Supreme Court is of no relevance here because in the aforesaid case the order was not based under Section 11B , it was a case where action was taken under FUTP Regulations. He went on to argue that Section 11(4) and Section 11B were not confined to market manipulations only. He submitted that orders under Section 11(4) and Section 11B could be passed either under emergent situation pending full scale enquiry or it could be after the conclusion of enquiry or investigation. It is for the regulator to weigh the need under which provision of the Act should he take an action in a given situation. The learned senior counsel submitted that it could not be accepted that SEBI would take action only under Regulation 21 read with the Enquiry Regulations. The Competent Authority might not think that the alleged violations by the FII would warrant suspension or cancellation of registration. It might think that directions under Section 11 / 11B of the SEBI Act or by imposing monetary penalties under Chapter VIA could address the violations. A serious violations could even invoke the Section 24 of the Act. He argued that all these measures were mutually complementary and it would be wrong to say that under the circumstances the only course open to SEBI was under Regulation 21 of the FII Regulations. It would render the Section 11(4) and Section 11B of SEBI Act, 1992 as redundant which would not be the intention of the legislature which has introduced Section 11(4) in 2002. 83. The learned senior counsel for the respondent argued that it was contended by the appellant that the clients who did not furnish the required information to the regulator were free to deal in ODIs through other FIIs, whereas the instant order is passed against the appellant for its failure to adhere to and follow the applicable SEBI FII Regulations. The appellant is a registered FII and it is supposed to follow the FII Regulations which include KYC and Regulations 20 and 20A. The impugned order may result in the appellant improving its KYC system and there is further direction to the appellant to "establish highest standards of customer due diligence process in line with the FII Regulations of SEBI." 84. The appellant in the course of oral submission had argued that SEBI has made some changes in the SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992 in August 2004. The appellant have submitted the format for individual client registration as of August, 2004 and uniform contemporary requirement and the form of individual client registration. He argued that this format is required to be understood as the format between a broker and its client in the Indian scenario. The appellant contended that in the event of an entity being registered as FII which is a client of a broker, the requisite information is not required to be furnished. The aforesaid exemption from furnishing information is granted in the case of FII as an FII would be required to comply with the disclosure requirement under the FII Regulations. In the case of the client of FII, there is no other Regulation which requires furnishing of information and therefore the KYC has to be understood in the case of a client of an FII to mean the ultimate client of the said FII. 85. The learned senior counsel for the respondent submitted that, the appellant, during the course of arguments sought to criticize the affidavit filed by the respondent in respect of understanding of the KYC Regulations. The learned senior counsel said that the impugned order was quite clear in its contents and it did not require any clarification about the KYC. The impugned order clearly sets out that an FII is required to know who is the ultimate beneficiary of ODI. 86. The learned senior counsel for the respondent further submitted that it was not correct that any of the FIIs did not understand the meaning of KYC in Regulation 15A . While referring to the letters addressed by other FIIs and ISDA he submitted that the plain reading of these letters did not show that there was any lack of understanding of KYC but they merely set out that SEBI had issued the aforesaid order dated 17/05/2005 which showed that scope of information which SEBI expected an FII to provide shall include details of transactions as well as information relating to clients and their ultimate investors. 87. It was submitted that the respondent has not passed the impugned order solely on the KYC policy of the appellant but it is based on the FII Regulations of SEBI. The appellant's KYC policy was one of the means set out in the impugned order to show that the appellant were aware of the understanding of KYC policy and yet they did not follow here. 88. The appellants have referred to para 9.13 of the impugned order and contended that the respondent had not set out its requirement and the appellant would be required to furnish such information as the respondent may likely to ask. The learned senior counsel submitted that the order merely states that the appellant was required to maintain all the requisite information required under the FII Regulations but the respondent could ask lesser details than what the appellant may be keeping with it. The interpretation of "likely to ask" given by the appellant during the course of oral argument is totally incorrect. 89. It was submitted by the learned senior counsel that the impugned order merely restrained the appellant from issuing fresh ODIs or renewing ODIs for one year only and it did not place a complete embargo on the appellant from dealing in the Indian capital market. The reason for the aforesaid direction was to enable the appellant to strengthen their system to comply with the FII Regulations. He therefore submitted that the impugned order was perfectly justified and valid and should be sustained under the facts and circumstances of the case. 90. We have considered the impugned order, the appeal from the appellant, oral and written submissions by the learned senior counsel of appellant and the respondent and other documents submitted to the Tribunal. From the perusal of the documents and careful consideration of the written and oral submissions, we find that the impugned order passed by the respondent on 17/05/2004 was in response to an enquiry initiated due to the unprecedented crash in the Indian stock market reflected by 567.74 points fall in sensex and 196.90 points fall in NIFTY. SEBI as a regulator saddled with the responsibility of orderly and healthy growth of the securities market for protecting the investors interest was required to examine and investigate into the fall in the securities market. It, therefore, called for a host of information from the appellant which happened to be one of the major market participants on 17/05/2004. SEBI called for names and addresses of underlying clients, trade details, major shareholders / directors and investment advisors, fund managers and type of client in respect of trading in securities on 17/05/2004. It also called for information on client's trading strategy, clients' position in futures and options, including stock futures and NIFTY index futures. Transaction details of clients who had traded in the same securities entered into ODIs with UBS London with the same underlying securities / futures on the same day" and reasons for building up and subsequent liquidation, short positions in index and stock futures during the period May 3, 2004 to May 14, 2004. It also called for the addresses, names of shareholders, directors and fund managers of clients on whose behalf the appellant had positions in the Indian derivative market as of May 3, 14 and 20 of 2004. There is a protracted correspondence between the appellant and the respondent for seeking information in connection with the investigation which will be referred to in the later part of the judgment. After the issuance of show cause notice on 24th November, 2005 the final order was passed by the respondent on 17th may, 2005 as under: 91. At the time of passing the final order almost entire information as sought by the respondent had been submitted by the appellant excepting the information about Caxton International Limited. SEBI did not receive the information with respect to names or holding details of qualified institutional investors of Caxton Global. Copies of ISDA master agreement between UBS AG, London and Caxton International were received through SEC, USA on SEBI's initiative during January, 2005. In the show cause notice six names of major clients were mentioned from whom information had not been received but after the issuance of show cause notice information pertaining to Indus Asia Specific Fund Limited, ROHATYN, Indea Capital Pte. Ltd., PMA Prospect Fund Limited and Satva Asia Opportunities Master Fund had been furnished. 92. From the perusal of the information and documents submitted by both the appellant and the respondent we find the only information which was delayed to be submitted pertains to the names and addresses of top five investors / shareholders of the clients of UBS AG, London. The information pertaining to trade details were well received in time. It was held by the respondent that by not furnishing the above mentioned information UBS has violated Regulation 15A of the FII Regulations. Regulation 15A reads as under: 93. In terms of Regulation 15A an FII can issue ODI against underlying securities listed in the Stock Exchanges in India subject to compliance of 'Know Your Client' (KYC). It has been argued by the respondent that condition of KYC in Regulation 15A has not been complied with by the appellant. Had they complied with the provisions of KYC they would have supplied the required information timely in all cases and the investigation would have been completed much faster which would have enabled SEBI to come to a conclusion about the market crash and it would have helped the market in orderly development. It was further argued that in the impugned order "it is the duty of UBS/its affiliate that prior to issue of ODIs against underlying Indian securities it should have completed KYC requirement by asking all the questions that the regulation require", the order further says "know your client is a very basic commercial requirement which does not require a formal prescription". It was argued by the respondent in the impugned order that KYC principle was well accepted internationally and even in case of KYC guidelines as accepted by the appellant, it was required under its CIP to know the ultimate beneficiaries of a client. If UBS, London had followed their own 'know your client' guidelines they would have submitted the information of top five investors as required by SEBI. It was submitted by the learned senior counsel that the respondent had asked only first level information of top five investors whereas the appellant should have information about the ultimate beneficiary of each individuals as required by the KYC norms in pursuance of Regulation 15A of FII Regulations. It is submitted that Regulation 15A of FII Regulations requiring Foreign Institutional Investors to comply with 'know your client' requirement came to be inserted in the FII Regulations w.e.f. 03/02/2004. It was observed by the JPC after the stock market crash of 2001 that while issuing Participatory Notes and ODIs by the FII real identities of the investors were hidden under different layers while dealing in the securities market. The JPC viewed the matter seriously and wanted suitable modification in the FII Regulations which resulted in the insertion of a new Regulation 15A . It was in this context that SEBI wanted to know the details of ultimate investors in the Indian market based on 'know your client' principle. 94. The objectives of the regulator in inserting new Regulation 15A are unexceptionable and quite right. It is always the legitimate right of the regulator who is entrusted with the responsibilities of maintaining orderly development of the securities market to enforce Regulations and seek any information which it considers essential for the discharge of its responsibilities. The contentious issue is whether Regulation 15A which entails upon the FII the KYC obligation means maintaining and submitting the information of top five investors / shareholders. Does this information fall within the ambit of Regulation 15A . From perusal of the Regulation and other circulars and guidelines issued by SEBI, we find that KYC requirements are vague. It has not been defined anywhere by the respondent. Even when the Tribunal during the course of hearing asked the respondent to define what they meant by 'Know Your Client' requirement, it had not been clarified by the respondent but reiterated what was mentioned in the impugned order. 95. Paragraph 9.13 in the impugned order reads as under: 96. From the above we find that the regulator did not have a clear and explicit understanding of the KYC requirement. Had it been so, it would have been spelt out unequivocally instead of expecting the appellant to visualize and imagine the likely questions SEBI is to ask. It is an accepted principle of law that if anyone is to be punished for violation or infringement of any Act or Regulation he should clearly know the obligations which are required to be met under the law. If the legislature or the respondent had wanted to make the KYC unambiguous, it could have easily inserted or added the necessary words such as 'ultimate beneficiaries'. Alternatively, it could have been prescribed as a part of Compliance Report to be submitted by the FIIs. 97. In a circular issued by SEBI on 19/02/2004 the respondent has clearly defined the scope of the term 'regulated' by issuing a circular for the purpose of Regulation 15A of the FII Regulations. The circular inter alia states that any entity that is regulated, authorized or supervised by a Securities or Futures Commission, a Central Bank, Registrar of Companies, Securities and Exchange Commission, USA etc., is a regulated entity. It has not been disputed that all the clients of UBS are regulated entities in terms of the aforesaid circular of the respondent. It also needs to be mentioned that if law had desired that 'ultimate beneficiaries' of the ODIs should also be ascertained by the FII, FII Regulations would have specifically mentioned the same and the same should have been prescribed as a compliance report. There are no prescribed KYC requirement under Regulation 15A of the FII Regulations, neither has respondent issued any clarification or guidance in this respect. It may be mentioned that in view of the growing importance being attached to the Drug and Terrorists money flowing across the world, the countries have world over adopted a comprehensive and well documented guidelines for KYC depending on the risk perception from different regions and types of business. SEBI has so far not come out with any comprehensive guidelines on the subject. 98. It is observed that KYC norms which are applicable for brokers in India also do not provide for identification of the ultimate beneficiaries. Vide circular No SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir - 37/2003 dated 30/09/2003 it has been stated that stock brokers while registering individual client should ascertain the categories of shareholders holding in excess of 5% in the share capital of the company, duly certified by the Company Secretary / Whole Time Director / Managing Director / photographs of partners / whole time directors, individual promoters holding 5% or more either directly or indirectly in the shareholding of the company and of persons authorized to deal in securities. However, in paragraph 4 of the circular it is mentioned that for client registration the requirement of obtaining client Registration Form may be waived for SEBI registered institutional clients such as FIIs, mutual funds, stock brokers. The point to be noticed is that such a modification that seeks details of shareholding of individual clients' directors, etc. was introduced by SEBI in the Brokers Regulation only in the year 2003 and no such modification was ever introduced in the FII Regulations. 99. It was made out that the appellant did not follow its own Client Identification Program (CIP) guidelines as mentioned in the preamble of the 'know your client' document of UBS consisting of 127 pages. From a careful perusal of the appellant's KYC guidelines, it can be inferred that it is dependent on various factors which determine the KYC requirements which are not uniform. It depends on geographical location of the client, regulatory nature and status of the client, and regulator, type of business of the client, risk perception, etc. The CIP requirement for registering a new client based in London, New York will be different from clients based in other places. Of course CIP requirements will be different if it is a large international or institutional funds managing on behalf of large number of investors. It also depends on whether the client is situated in a sensitive or non-sensitive country. From the perusal of KYC requirement of FSA it is found that there is no obligation under the laws of UK for UBS AG, London to have ascertained the details of the top five investors in the client. It was sufficient for KYC requirement if it was a FSA regulated entity. The KYC requirements in USA, UK and Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission "who are signatories to FATF FORTY recommendations" do not require ultimate beneficiary information or major shareholders / top five investors information. Thus we find, that neither Regulation 15A of the FII Regulations nor the prescribed internal KYC of the appellant required to have the information pertaining to top five investors / shareholders. It is quite clear that there is no mention of 'ultimate beneficiaries' in the Regulation 15A . 100. In any case it is the violation of FII Regulations of the country which would be relevant because there may be different Regulations and KYC requirements for different FIIs in their own countries which could not be subject to enforcement and monitoring or compliances in this country. SEBI circular dated 08/08/2003 prescribed the details of item to be disclosed about the offshore derivative instruments. Nowhere is it mentioned that the names of top five investors / major shareholders are also required to be disclosed while submitting the ODI statement. It is felt that any law which has to be enforced has to be clearly made known to the persons who are supposed to abide by the Regulations or law. The Regulation 15A(2) prescribes that FII or sub-account shall ensure that no further down stream issue or transfer of any instrument referred to in sub-regulation (1) is made to any person other than a 'regulated entity'. It is nobody's case that UBS has not given or has not obtained the undertaking from their clients that purchase or sell or offer to purchase and sale by it or to its clients will not cause or result in violation of any provision of applicable law/Regulation. It would not be offered to or sold directly or indirectly in India for the account of any resident Indian, NRI, OCBs. It will not be in violation of any Indian exchange control regulations. It is also stated that the purchase or sale or offer to purchase or sale by it or its clients of the notes will be made to entities which are 'regulated by any relevant regulatory' authorities as permitted from time to time by SEBI. Such monthly undertakings have been given by the appellant which is not disputed by the appellant. It has to be agreed that worldwide financial markets and dealings rely on certificates and warranties of clients. In the absence of anything proved otherwise it has to be taken as an acceptable standard document in the financial world. 101. It has to be mentioned that KYC requirement is vague and in this context letter dated 08/06/2005 which is exhibit 21 in the appeal may be seen. The letter has been issued by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc, (ISDA) to SEBI for the attention of its Chairman. It, among other things, says that ISDA would support SEBI's aim for promoting an efficient market. It says, however, there are areas of uncertainty concerning the Regulations and the KYC requirement. It expects from SEBI to provide greater clarity. It goes on to say that pertaining to 'know your client' requirement the FIIs are required to satisfy the KYC requirement which are not fully clear / to which entities the FIIs should apply KYC requirement. It says that there are various difficulties in identifying the ultimate beneficiaries in ODIs. It wants SEBI to let them know which are the minimum KYC requirement that FII should meet under the FII Regulations. 102. On 18/05/2005 i.e., next day after the impugned order was issued, Merril Lynch wrote to their clients that "you should be aware that in engaging in ODI trades you should be required to provide details of your ultimate benefit investors to SEBI as and when asked". It says that the scope of such information which SEBI expects could include details of ODI transactions as well as information relating to the clients and their ultimate investors. 103. On 16/06/2005 Citigroup has also written a letter. From the above correspondence it is quite evident that there is some vagueness about the KYC requirement under Regulation 15A of the FII Regulations which persists even today and in view of the established legal position that if a violation of such vague regulation occurs which can place the consequence of penalty, it could not be visited in favour of the accused. The Supreme Court in its judgment in the case of Tolaram Relumal and Anr. Vs. The State of Bombay , also held a similar view, which reads as under: 104. Breach of Regulations 20 and 20A of the FII Regulations: As per Regulation 20 of FII Regulations every Foreign Institutional Investor, as and when required by the Board or the RBI, shall submit any information, record, documents, in relation to its activities as a Foreign Institutional Investor as and when the Board/RBI may require. The impugned order says: 105. From a plain reading of the FII Regulation, it does not make it clear that it is obligatory on the part of the FII to provide the information pertaining to top five investors / shareholders of the clients of UBS. Such information was not available with UBS since it is not provided in the Regulation to have such information with UBS. More over the investors of clients could be a continuing and changing stream and there is no Regulation which requires continuous monitoring of such change in stream of investors. It is also a fact that in response to the request of the respondent, the appellant provided a host of information about trades in ODI, strategy of trading, volumes of trade, names of scrips cash and future market, the names of the investors, addresses of investors, etc. There is a compilation of correspondence between the respondent and the appellant which is submitted to the Tribunal and the record of number of personal meetings which the appellant's representative had with the respondent, which clearly indicates that there was willingness and effort on the part of appellant to provide necessary information to the respondent for conducting the investigation into the market crash of 17/05/2004. 106. Mr. Sundaram, the learned senior counsel for the appellant relied on a chart which chronologically sets out the requests made by SEBI and the responses by the appellant. Since these details are factually not disputed by the respondent, we feel it appropriate to incorporate the chart submitted to the Tribunal, which reads as follows: 107. There is a disclosure requirement of ODIs as per SEBI circular IMD/Cust/8/2003 dated 08/08/2003 which is being regularly submitted by the appellant, but there is no requirement as per the circular to provide the details of the top five investors / major shareholders. We find that it was only the information pertaining to KYC particularly, Caxton International Limited that was not provided by the appellant and respondent has charged the appellant for violation of Regulation 20 of the FII Regulations for the aforesaid lapse. It needs to be stressed that it has already been dealt with by us while discussing the requirement under Regulation 15A and we came to the conclusion that there was no requirement under Regulation 15A in terms of KYC requirement to give the names of top five investors / shareholders of the clients of UBS. Hence there is no violation of Regulation 20 . 108. What is important to know at this point is whether there is "due diligence" on the part of the appellant to provide the required information to the regulators i.e., the respondent. We have no hesitation in admitting that the appellant has made all efforts and cooperated with the respondent in seeking information which was not available with it from its clients, who had offices in London and New York to supply the same to the respondent. It may be mentioned that where the law creates a duty or charge and the party is unable to perform without any default with him then the law in general excuses such lapse. The Supreme Court in the case of Raj Kumar Vs. Tarapada has also held a similar view which reads as follows: 109. There is Regulation 20A of FII Regulations which prescribes that Foreign Institutional Investor shall fully disclose the information concerning the "terms of and parties" to offshore derivative instrument such as Participatory Notes, Equity Linked Notes or whatever names by which they are called, entered into by it or its sub-accounts or affiliates relating to securities listed in any Stock Exchanges in India as and when any such information the Board may require. As per this Regulation the obligation of the appellant is to give information concerning the "terms of and parties to" offshore derivatives instrument relating to securities listed or proposed to be listed in any Stock Exchange in India. What the appellant has not been able to provide the information to the respondent is about the shareholders or investors of the client. This information strictly does not fall in the phrase concerning 'terms of and parties to'. In fact the annexure to the circular dated 8th August, 2003 issued by SEBI prescribed the details to be disclosed as to what terms of and parties to the offshore derivative instrument. As per Annexure A and B to the above referred circular, the "terms of and parties to" the offshore derivative instrument which are required to be disclosed are mentioned as under: 110. From the above it is quite evident that appellant is nowhere required to maintain information pertaining to top five investors / major shareholders because it has not been provided under Regulation 20A of the FII Regulations. It is pertinent to note that other than the names of top five investors pertaining to Caxton International Limited, the appellant has provided almost the entire information sought by the respondent. Not only this, the appellant has been submitting a monthly statement with an undertaking under both the annexures A and B that "we/associates/clients have not issued / subscribed / purchased any of the offshore derivative instruments directly or indirectly to/from Indian residents / NRIs / PIOs / OCBs during the Statement period". 111. In view of above we do not find that there is any violation of Regulation 20A of the FII Regulations. 112. The Investigations of the Respondent were hampered by non-adherence to the Code of Conduct and Instances of Reporting Lapses: The main charge against the appellant is that it did not provide information about Caxton International Limited, the name of Caxton International was omitted in the monthly statement being submitted by the appellant. On 17/05/2005 UBS had sold securities valuing Rs. 99.05 crores in the cash segment on behalf of Caxton International Limited to whom offshore derivative instrument were issued by UBS AG, London. The respondent sought information about the addresses, names of major shareholders, major investors for the said transactions and fund managers of Caxton International Limited. After repeated follow up and Caxton International Limited writing to UBS that it would like to deal directly with SEBI, SEBI wrote directly to Securities Exchange Commission, USA to obtain about the name and addresses of the major shareholders and copy of the ISDA agreement with UBS AG, London. SEBI received from SEC, USA in January, 2005 the requisite information including the copies of client agreement entered into by UBS AG, London with Caxton International Limited. It is also on record that Caxton had informed UBS that it would deal directly with the respondent and respondent had also stated that the clients could deal directly with it. It is mentioned in the impugned order that in the personal hearing on May 5, 2005 UBS had contended that all the information that SEBI had asked for has been provided even though belatedly. It is mentioned in the impugned order that information regarding the ultimate investors of Caxton International which had been sought by SEBI had also been furnished to the Investigating Officer. From record we find that since all information pertaining to other five cases mentioned in the show cause notice had been provided and Caxton International was being handled directly by the respondent it could have been a case of genuine misunderstanding on the part of UBS. The appellant could not have known which information was yet to be received from Caxton International Limited. The respondent had already received the copies of agreement and other information from SEC (USA) directly in the month of January, 2005. In view of the aforesaid, the appellant's belief that all information as sought by the respondent had been received by the respondent could not be considered as unjustified under these circumstances. 113. There is a mention in the impugned order that in the monthly ODIs statement furnished by UBS to SEBI, the name of Caxton International Limited did not figure. On being pointed out by SEBI UBS admitted the lapse and furnished the revised ODI statement on 25/06/2004 by incorporating the name of Caxton International Limited. In the light of the fact that this lapse was not taken into account while issuing the show cause notice, this could only be taken as an inadvertent error arising out of the incompatibility between the reporting system and the software system maintained by the appellant. This would not become one of the factors determining the conduct of the appellant. Moreover, the errors in reporting format started in the month of January, 2004 whereas the market crash and subsequent investigation happened in the month of May, 2004. 114. During the personal hearing with the Whole Time Member on 1st February, 2005 a request was made by the Whole Time Member to provide a copy of the agreement governing the relationship between the respective clients and UBS. The appellant provided the business "terms and conditions" vide its letter dated 24/02/2005. However, on 14/03/2005 the appellant wrote a letter to the respondent that it had provided the information as was requested at the personal hearing on 1/02/2005. But the respondent wrote only on 24th April, 2005 that the relevant agreement by which it meant ISDA agreement had not yet been received by it even though a request was made at the personal hearing on 1/02/2005. Copies of ISDA agreement of Discovery Global Opportunities Master Fund Limited and Indea Capital Pte. Ltd. were submitted by the appellant on 29/042005. The appellant submitted that it was due to misunderstanding that a delay occurred in supplying the information. We are inclined to agree with the appellant that due to some misunderstanding only this delay could have occurred in supplying the required information. 115. There is a charge in the impugned order that UBS provided only vague information about the five largest investors in Indus Asia Pacific Fund Ltd., which was not of much help in investigation. Indus provided the names of top five investors on January 15, 2005 describing as (1) a USA based global fund organization; (i) a major North Eastern USA University; (iii) a major South Western USA University, (iv) European based Bank and Investment organization; (v) an European based Funds Organisation. Indus also gave the information that to the best of its knowledge and belief none of the investors are Indian nationals, persons of Indian origin or OCBs which are majority owned by or controlled by NRIs. The Whole Time Member in the personal hearing on 1/02/2005 advised the appellant to furnish this specific names of the five largest investors in Indus. The appellant further corresponded with the Indus and obtained the information from them on 25/03/3005 which was promptly communicated to the respondent. From this it would be difficult to adduce that vague information was supplied deliberately by the appellant when we are aware that there has been a long and continuous correspondence with the respondent by the appellant. 116. The impugned order mentions that non-disclosure of Indian sounding names at an early stage of investigation frustrated the efforts of the respondent in conducting a meaningful investigation. It is mentioned in the impugned order as regards Indea Capital Pte. Ltd., the Whole Time Member advised UBS to furnish copy of its client agreement whereas UBS furnished only the "terms and conditions" contained in its proforma agreement on 24/02/2005. SEBI once again asked UBS on 20/04/2005 to furnish the ISDA master agreement between UBS AG, London and Idea Absolute Return Fund which was received by SEBI only on 29/04/2005. Had this information been received earlier it could have made necessary investigation into the matter. It is important to note in this case apart from the reason of misunderstanding in supplying the necessary information, SEBI had already been supplied with the information on 7th September, 2004 as regards the Indian sounding names of Directors of Indea Absolute Return Fund was concerned. The e-mail dated 7/09/2004 contains three Indian sounding names and also provided the names of Directors Indian sounding names for Satva and Indea and PMA Fund and Aman. Therefore, it would not be correct to say that such information was received only on 29th April, 2005. 117. Similarly names contained in the ISDA agreement between UBS and Caxton International has also been received by SEBI in the month of January 2005. From a perusal of the documents submitted and the correspondence exchanged between the appellant and the respondent and between the appellant and the clients of UBS, it appears that the flow of information from clients to UBS and in turn to the respondent was constant. UBS was quite prompt in conveying to its clients the SEBI requirements. If there was any problem with regard to the speed with which the information was being received, it has to be seen only in the context that there was lack of clarity about the FII Regulations particularly Regulation 15A with regard to KYC. The problem could have been obviated if SEBI had made the KYC compliance requirement more explicit and specific. 118. There is a reference in the impugned order that UBS might have earned substantial gains by trading in the cash market and derivatives. Since this is not a part of the show cause notice we would take it that this order does not have anything against appellant as far as market conduct is concerned. It is also common ground that the appellants have not been found guilty of any misconduct of manipulation at the stock market under the provisions of SEBI (Prevention of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 or any other law in force. The show cause notice says: 119. The impugned order has been issued under Section 11(4) read with 11 B of the SEBI Act, 1992 . Under Section 11B the power to issue directions by SEBI after making or causing to be made an enquiry, if Board is satisfied that in the interest of investors or orderly development of securities market. Section 11B reads as follows: 120. This is to be read with Section 11(4) whereby Board may by an order for reasons to be recorded in writing in the interest of investors or securities market take any of the following measures either pending investigation or enquiry or on completion of such investigation. Section 11(4) reads as follows: 121. We do agree that Section 11(4) read with Section 11 B of SEBI Act, 1992 gives unrestricted power to SEBI to intervene for an orderly development / functioning of the market and in the interest of investors there is no doubt about the authority or power of SEBI Act, 1992 to issue orders under the above mentioned sections. The main rationale of taking action under Section 11(4) read with Section 11B would be emergent situation or impending dangers to the market conditions or security to the market. This provision is for safeguarding the market and not for penalizing the persons for any violation. From the impugned order which is issued one year after the event, we do not find any finding which suggests that appellant has done anything which endangers the interest of the investors or disruption of orderly development of securities market. This Tribunal has held in number of judgments that Section 11B of SEBI Act, 1992 does not empower the respondent to impose penalties. There was no emergency situation involved. The market crash took place on 17/05/2004 and the impugned order has been issued after one year i.e., on 17/05/2005. 122. The only issue dealt in the impugned order is of non-furnishing of the information or delay in the submission of information. The impugned order bans the appellant from issuing offshore derivative instrument for one year and it also prohibits the appellant / its affiliates from renewing or rolling over any of the ODIs issued against positions held by it in the Indian securities market for one year. As submitted by the appellant that 40% of its business income comes from the derivative market, the prohibition to participate and roll over the existing ODIs would mean great loss of income which could be even permanent because a client when it switches over to another FII may not come back to the appellant again even after the prohibitory period is over. This order thus becomes punitive in nature and goes against the spirit of Section 11B and Section 11(4) of SEBI Act, 1992. In the FII Regulations there is a procedure for action in case of default by FII. The Regulation 21A of the FII Regulations reads as under: From reading of the above Regulation we find that if there is any contravention of the Act, Rules or Regulations it shall be dealt with in the manner as provided under Securities Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002. In law there is a specific provision to deal with a particular type of contravention or irregularity, it should be dealt with accordingly, instead of invoking the provisions of General Act. 123. It may also be noted that under SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 and SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003, it is specifically mentioned in the Regulations that Board may issue directions under Regulations 10, 11, 11B and or under Regulations 12. What is more important is that on a careful perusal of the Regulations it is noticed that the intention of the legislature to include the right to act under the provisions of Section 11 of the Act with respect to violation of many other Regulations (e.g., SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003). On a careful perusal of the FII Regulations, one finds that Section 11 has been specifically excluded and the only recourse mandated under the Regulations is under the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Inquiry by an Inquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002. In case of FII Regulations, it is clearly mentioned under Procedure for Action in case of Default: Regulation 21 also uses the word "shall" be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Inquiry by an Inquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002. The word "shall" would clearly indicate that the legislature intended that the violation of the FII Regulations shall be dealt with under the Inquiry Regulations, 2002 thereby excluding the provisions of Section 11 since the power to exercise directions under Section 11 finds a place in many other Regulations except the FII Regulations. If there had been any intention of the legislature to allow SEBI to take action under Section 11B and Section 11(4) of the SEBI Act, 1992 they would have certainly mentioned the same in the FII Regulations. The Privy Council also held similarly in Nazir Ahmad v. King Emperor AIR 1936 PC 253; (1936) L.R. 63 I.A. 372 at 381 where it observed that "where a power is given to do a certain thing in a certain way, the thing must be done in that way or not at all". This judgment has been followed by Supreme Court in many cases such as, A.R. Antulay v. Ramdas Sriniwas Nayak and Anr. ; Ballavdas Agarwala V. Shri J. C. Chakravarty . . 124. It has not been disputed by both sides that Regulations have the sanctity of law since the power to make Regulations vests with the Board and Section 31 clearly stipulates that every Regulation made under the Act shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament. This having been done, the Regulations are on par with the provisions of the Act. (See State of Karnataka vs. Suvarna Malini and Anr.. in (2001) 1 SCC 728 125. In the main Act there is a Chapter on Penalties and Adjudication. Under this Chapter Section 15A which specifically deals with situations such as failure) to furnish any document, return or report, etc. Section 15A reads as under: 126. The impugned order only speaks of some delay and non-furnishing of information on the part of the appellant. Instead of invoking the provisions of Section 11B and Section 11(4) , we find Section 15A could have handled the instant case more appropriately where there is an exact provision for handling delays in the submissions of information. 127. The point at issue is whether in this particular case an order under Section 11B read with Section 11(4) is a justifiable order on the basis of the alleged violation. 128. In view of the facts and circumstances of the case we do not find any reason to uphold the orders issued under Section 11B and Section 11(4) of the SEBI Act, 1992. We also do not find there is violation of Regulation 15A , 20 and 20A and Clauses 1, 2, 5 and 7 of Code of Conduct under Regulation 7A of the SEBI (Foreign Institutional Investor) Regulations, 1995 while we have expressed our view about the order issued under Section 11(B) read with Section 11(4) we set aside the impugned order and uphold the appeal on the basis of the facts and circumstances of the case as analyzed earlier. It was not necessary to refer to all the cases cited at the bar since we have decided the matter purely on the question of fact on the basis of the material before us. However, SEBI is free to take any action, if it so desires, and if there is a prima facie case under any of the provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992 and the FII Regulations thereunder. 129. No order as to costs.