(ACC & Import), Mumbai
Air Cargo Complex, Sahar,
Mumbai-400099
 And
 Customs Appeal No. 859 of 2010
Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. KimtiLal .... Appellant
Proprietor, M/s. CommunicationTrade Links
A-15, MahakVihar
New Delhi-110016. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Arising out of Order-in-Original No CCD-MJ/14/2010 ADJ ACC dated
13/08/2010, passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Import) ACC,
Mumbai. Dr. Prabhat Kumar, Advocate & Shri C.M. Sharma, Consultant forthe
Respondent/Appellant Assessee

CORAM: 2. The show cause notice has been adjudicated upon by
Commissioner of Customs (Import), Air Cargo Complex, Sahar
Mumbai-400099 vide Order in-Original No. CC/MJ/14/2010/ADJ/ACC
dated 13.08.2010 wherein he rejected the declared and/or assessed
transaction value; redetermined the value; confirmed duties along with
interest on Shri Satish Luthra, holding him to be the actual importer; imposed equal penalty under Section 114 A on various importers;
confiscated the goods seized and allowed them to be redeemed on
payment of fine of Rs 2, 00,000 and appropriated the amounts
deposited during the investigation. 2.1. Hence, Satish Luthra and the proprietors of the six firms are in
appeal against the confirmed demand. Three firms and/or their
proprietors i.e. Unique Trade Link, Oberoi Import Export and Sanjay
Enterprises are in appeal seeking refund of the duty deposited in their
names. Shri Sushil Goyal and Shri Vijay Chand Baid are in appeal
against the penalty imposed on them. Department is in appeal against
a portion of demands dropped; non-imposition of penalty under
section 114A equal to duty and interest and dropping of penalty
against Harish Luthra. 3. Shri C.M. Sharma, Consultant, appeared for the following
Appellants/ Respondents: 3.1.Shri C.M. Sharma submits that so far as the first three appellants
respondents, Learned Commissioner of Customs, vide the impugned
Order had rejected the assessable values declared underRule 10/ 10A
of CVR, 1988; redetermined the assessable values under Rule 5 of the
CVR, 1988 read with Section 14; confiscated seized goods under
Section 111 (m) and 119; has given an option to redeem the goods on
payment of fine of Rs. 20 Lakhs; confirmed differential duty under
Section 28 (2), along with the interest under Section 28AB;
appropriated the amounts deposited by the appellants/respondents
and imposed Penalties under Section 114A and 112(a) of the Customs
Act,1962. However, fine of Rs. 20 Lakhs imposed was not quantified
relating to any Bills of Entry or to any of the Importers. 3.2.Shri C.M. Sharma further submits that whereas the SCN raised the
demand under Section 28 (1) of the Act, impugned order neither
raised nor confirmed by invoking proviso clause to the Section 28 (1) of the SCN; while the bills of entry are of February - September, 2004
/ October-November, 2004 / July-August, 2003, the SCN is dated 31-
03-2006; there is no case for attracting extended period of time and
proviso clause is not invoked; consequently, interest under Section
28AB and penalty under Section 114A is also not attracted; just
because the declared values are re-determined, it does not amount to
misstatement or suppression of material particulars; Provisions of 10 Section 111(m) for confiscating and penalty under Section 112 (a) of
the Act are not sustainable and liable to be set aside; when penalty
under Section 112 (a) is imposed, penalty under Section 114A of the
Act is not imposable. 3.3.Shri C.M. Sharma further submits that the assessable values were
re-determined once at the time of assessments of the Bills of Entry, a
further re-determination for the second time is against the law. He
relies upon the following cases.  Mohan Meakin Ltd Vs CCE, Kochi 2000 (115) E.L.T. 3 (S.C.)  Naresh Kumar Vs CC (Prev) 2017 (357) E.L.T. 383 (Tri-Mum)
  CC (Imports), Mumbai Vs Lord Shiva Overseas- 2005 (181) E.L.T.
 213 (Tri. - Mumbai)
  Hitaishi Fine Kraft Indus. Pvt. Ltd Vs CC, West Bengal - 2002 (148)
 E.L.T. 364 (Tri. - Kolkata)

3.4.Shri C.M. Sharma further submits that while the SCN seeks
rejecting the values under Rule 10/10A of the CVR, 1988 and re-
determination of value under Rule 5 of CVR, 1988, based on identical
imports, the impugned order held that only the Branded Goods are
identical and that ST Micro Electronics and Sanyo Semiconductor Pte
Ltd., Singapore price lists and the values of the identical goods are the
basis for re-determined values; the impugned order does not discuss
no evidence that the goods imported are compared favourably with the
goods with which comparisons are being made as regards Country of
origin, quantity imported and timing of imports; no enquiry was
conducted for invoking Rule 10 and 10A, and no mandate therein
observed.  Commissioner Vs Venus Insulation Products Mfg. Co. 2003
 (153) ELT A172 (SC)
 Venus Insulation Products Mfg. Co Vs Commissioner2002 (143)ELT 364 (Tri. - Del.)

3.5.Shri C.M. Sharma further submits that Rule 10Aof Customs
Valuation Rules, 1988 was not a substantive provision governing
determination of value in the sequential scheme under Valuation Rules 11 as the Rule is only a procedural provision to determine whether Clause (i) or Clause (ii) of Rule 3 will be applicable to a given case; Apex
Court, in the case of Eicher Tractors Ltd. [2000 (122) E.L.T. 321
(S.C.)] held that when Department has not been able to establish
existence of any circumstances as in Rule 4(2) of Customs Valuation
(Determination of Price of Imported Goods) Rules, 1988, price
mentioned in the invoice is to be accepted as the transaction value;
Bills of Entry of the identical goods are not disclosed in the SCN or
cited in the impugned order and Rule 2 (c) provisions are not
considered; Rejection of transaction value under Rule 3 of CVR is not
concluded in the impugned order; Essential ingredient of Rule 5 has
not been shown as applicable basis of re-determined values; It is not
shown as the test values were "at or about the same time as the
goods being valued; Contemporaneous import are not shown to be
within a period of 90 days from the respective imports of which values
are being re-determined. He relies upon the following.
  VintelDistributorsPvtLtd Vs CC (Sea), Chennai2002 (149)
 ELT 145 (Tri. - Chennai) and 2003 (153) ELT A101 (S.C.)(
 It was held that goods should be identical and not just
 similar, corresponding in nature identically in terms of
 quality, quantity, place of origin and time of origin)
  CC, Chennai Vs Forte Garments 2002 (150) ELT 622 (Tri. - Chennai)( it was held that Proof of
 contemporaneousimports of same goods, country, time,
 quantity and quality as that of impugned goods is required
 to be produced by Revenue).  Navin Chandra & Co. V/S Cc Mumbai 2003 (162) ELT 287
  Varsha Poly Products Pvt Ltd VsCollector 1994 (74) ELT 151
 (Tribunal) and 1999 (112) ELT A118 (S.C) ( it was held that
 relying upon the Price List of Singapore for the imports from
 Hong Kong is not just, legal and proper). 3.6.Shri C.M. Sharma further submits that Price List cannot be the
basis for re-determination of values; All Appellants herein are an
independent entities, with their separate Income Tax PAN Numbers, 12 IEC Codes and Bank Accounts and operations and conducted their own
operations; Goods were subjected to examination and copy of the
examination reports are not made available / considered; The variation
in the declared values and re-determined assessable values have not
be shown in the impugned order and if such variations are in normal
course of trade and attendant circumstances. Shri Satish Luthra has
nothing to do with business of Appellant herein.Impugned Order
travelled beyond SCN and is thus non est.It is a settled principle of law
that orders travelling beyond show cause notice are non-est as held in
the following.  Carborandum Universal Ltd VsCommissioner 2007 (211)
 ELT 105 (Tri. - Chennai) (affirmed in 2008 (223) ELT A 94
 (SC)
  Volvo India Private Limited V/S Cc, Chennai 2005 (180)
 489 (T)
  Vijay Power Generators Ltd. V/S CCE, Meerut 2001 (129)
 ELT 663 (Tri. Del)
  CCE, Mumbai-I V/S Parekh Plast2000 (124) ELT 1016 (T)
  Kalyani Sharp India V/s, Pune 2005 (187) 315 (T)

3.7.Shri C.M. Sharma submits, in respect of Unique Trade Links, New
Delhi (Appellant in C/ 24/2011 &Respondent in C/ 915/2010), that the
impugned order has not demanded any duty or imposed any penalty;
an amount of Rs. 35 Lakhs deposited by them in February, 2005 / Mar,
2006 has been ordered to be appropriated towards duty / penalty of
other importers; such an appropriation is not sanctified by the law. 4. ShriPrabhat Kumar, Advocate, appeared for Appellants M/sRadhe
International (C/21/2011), M/s Shiv Enterprises (C/61/2011) and M/s.
Simran Exports (C/62/11). 4.1.ShriPrabhat Kumar submits that the Appellants have been
engaged in the import of electronic components on their own account
and have imported various consignments of electronic components
vide various Bills of Entry at through various ports; in some
consignments, declared value was enhanced by the proper officer;
commissioner confirmed the differential duty on branded goods.
Learned Advocate submits that Commissioner has erred in travelling 13 beyond the scope of show cause notice; he has relied upon an area of
EDP where he is said to have seen the brand names declared by the
actual importers; as per impugned order, such area is not visible on
the hard copy and can be seen only on the soft copy of EDP; there is
no mention of such an area in the show cause notice; Even DRI has
not seen anywhere the declaration of such brand names; It is a settled
principle of law that orders travelling beyond show cause notice are
non-est in view of Commissioner VsCarborundum Universal Ltd 2007
(211) ELT 105 (Tri. Chennai) and (affirmed by SC 2008 (223) ELT A94
(S.C.)) and Asha Celluloid Vs CCE, Surat - 1998 (98) E.L.T. 769 (T);
adjudication authority is not to assume upon itself the role of
investigating agency and go on to investigate something which has not
been alleged in the SCN; Ld Commissioner should have shown soft
copy of EDP to the appellants also. Not showing the relied upon area
in the EDP to the appellant tantamount to denial of natural justice and
non-supply of relied upon documents; such orders are non-est;
Reliance is placed on the following. (i). Silicon Graphics System (India) Private Limited Vs UOI 2006
 (204) ELT 247 (Bom.) (ii). Shripra Alloys Ltd Vs CCE, Nagpur . 2007 (220) ELT 297
 (Tri- Mumbai) (iii). Novamet Industries Vs UOI 2008 (227) ELT 363 (All)

4.2. Dr. PrabhatKumar submits that Commissioner devised his own
erroneous means to say that the goods are identical by going beyond
the scope of SCN; he has travelled beyond the scope of SCN, in gross
violation of the principles of natural justice, as far as concluding (Para-
60.9) that the goods declared were branded at the time of import and
it was very obvious that the goods are identical. Commissioner has
erred in upholding the depositions made in the retracted statements
despite admitting (in para-63.3.2) that.....I find from the case records
that goods worth about Rs.1.39 crores were seized on 31 01-05 and
28.2.2005 which remained locked out of business till end of July 2005.
This might have put pressure on the owner of the goods; after
admitting the kind of pressure that was exerted by DRI for
extracting the desired statements, Commissioner has fallen back and 14 rejected the retractions filed by Mr. Satish Luthra on 3.2.2005 and
8.2.2005 in respect of statements recorded on 31.1.2005 and 1.2.
2005; statement recorded on 7.3.2006 was retracted by Mr. Satish
Luthra on 8.3.2006; though this statement was recorded after release
of the seized goods - released on 29.7.2005 -- but there are a
multifarious forms of exerting pressureother than blocking the goods
from business mainstream. 4.3. ShriPrabhat Kumar further submits that Commissioner has erred
in rejectingexamination reports and outcome of cross-examination
of AOs and Eos, who testified that the goods examined by them were
unbranded; the testimony (Paras-50 and 51); Commissioner has
travelled beyond the scope of SCN (Para 63.3.4) of the impugned
order while holding that the officers cannot normally see the 'Brand'
declared unless they go to screen 18 which is for 'Accessories'; the
inference drawn by Commissioner regarding the depositions made by
officers is not sustainable in the eye of law. Therefore, the impugned
order is liable to be set aside. All the goods were examined by the
proper officers and no discrepancy, least of all about the nature of the
goods having been declared without any brands, was ever noticed by
any of the examining officers. The goods were unbranded and question
of their being now termed as branded does not arise. It is submitted
that all the Assessment Orders, passed by Assistant Commissioner on
the respective bills of entry, have attained finality because no appeal
has been preferred against any such order by department. He relies
upon.  Mohan Meakin Ltd Vs CCE, Kochi 2000 (115) E.L.T. 3 (S.C.)  CC (Imports), Mumbai Vs Lord Shiva Overseas- 2005 (181)
 E.L.T. 213 (Tri - Mumbai)

4.4. Counsel submits thatthe Appellants completely deny all the
charges and categorically state that the Appellants are independent
importers; the goods have been bought from the foreign suppliers on
principal to principal basis; DRI has wrongly alleged under invoicing by
alleging that Mr. Satish Luthra approached the foreign supplier
namely, M/s Ascend International Hong Kong and M/s Stride 15 Promotion Pte. Ltd., Singapore; the transactions between the present
appellants and the supplier of the goods were on principle to principle
basis and at arm's length; Mr. Satish Luthra had nothing to do with the
import business of the appellants; all the bills of entry were filed by
the Appellants and goods were cleared after following due process of
clearance; however, sometimes the Appellants took assistance from
Shri Satish Luthra, who is an experienced hand in the import trade;
whenever the Appellants faced any difficulties they used to approach
many persons, one of which happened to be Shri Luthra; however,
that does not lead to the conclusion that Shri Luthra himself became
the importer in respect of the consignments imported by them.
4.5. Counsel submits that the allegation of undervaluation not
sustainable on the following grounds. (i). Goods supplied by M/s Ascend International, Hong Kong or
 and M/s. Stride Promotion Pte Ltd, Singapore were duly examined
 by the officers; no discrepancy was ever found; there is no basis
 for the main allegation that branded goods were imported in the
 guise of unbranded goods was incorrect; during cross
 examination officers categorically stated that imported goods
 were duly checked and no discrepancy has ever been found. (ii).appellants were not provided with examination reports,
 stating that the examination reports are not relied upon; it is not
 understood as to how the case of under-valuation can be booked
 against the appellants without having a look at the same; no
 vigilance case booked against any of the officers, who according
 to DRI had connived in not reporting the branded nature of the
 goods. (iii).Values (Annexure A-4) given in some imports made by
 RECPL were relied upon; apart from this, no details of
 misdeclaration furnished to the Appellants; comparison of values
 is odious as it does not meet the requirement of Customs
 Valuation Rules, 1988 as there is no similarity. (iv). The basic charge of the goods being branded is without
 any evidence, factual or otherwise; the origin, quantity and
 timing of import is not known from the chart in Annexure A-4, as 16 the relied upon Bills of Entry are not supplied to the Appellants;
Values have been simply enhanced to a very high level
without giving any particulars of imports in the said chart; The
said values may be of different kind and quality and proof of the
goods and hence not applicable for comparison of goods imported
by the present appellants. (v). It is a well laid down principle that transaction value
cannot be rejected in absence of specific proof or evidence so as
to ensure that the case falls under exclusion clause rule 4(2) of
Customs Valuation Rules; no such reason has been alleged in the
show cause notice; SCN does not allege as to which sub-clause of
the aforesaid Rule has been contravened by the importer; there
is no misdeclaration vis-à-vis the alleged import by RECPL. there
is no evidence on record regarding the misdeclaration of the
goods imported by the appellant; in the absence of higher prices
declared for imports of the same kind and quality at about the
same time, cannot be enhanced; Price of electronic
components depends upon the manufacturer's brand, country of
origin, timing of imports, quantity imported and other factors as laid down in Customs Valuation Rules, 1988 inthe absence of any
such allegation, the transaction value declared by the appellants
must be accepted as held in the following. Reliance is placed on
the following case (i). Eicher Tractors Vs CC - 2000 (122) ELT 321 (SC) (ii). CC Vs Jindal Strips Ltd 2003 (156) ELT A385 (SC) (iii). Navin Chandra & Co Vs CC Mumbai 2003 (162) ELT 287
 (Tri-Mumbai)- (iv). CC New Delhi Vs Grover Imports 2003 (162) ELT 992. (vi). Inthe present case, DRI has not even examined the prices of
contemporaneous imports of the unbranded goods being imported
into India; application of Rule 5 and 6 thus has been completely
ignored; Law not only requires that there must be evidence of
contemporaneous import, but that the importation must match in
terms of all details, such as quantity, quality, timing, and all other
relevant factors; unless samples are available for comparison, no 17 comparison can be made and no charge of under-valuation can
accordingly be made. Reliance is placed on the following case
laws. (i). CC Bombay Vs Nippon Bearings (P) Ltd 1996 (82) ELT 3
 (SC) (ii). CC Vs Iron Master India Pvt Ltd - 2003 (157) ELT A151
 (SC) (iii). Tech Tronix India Vs CC (Port), Kolkata-I 2006 (203) ELT
 301(Tri - Kolkata (vii). Rejecting the examination reports and assessment in such
large number of cases that too without any contra evidence is
total disrespect to the Customs authorities concerned; DRI does
not have any authority over the assessment of
those consignments which were done at a higher value than the
declared in the respective invoices; rejection of such assessments
simplicitor is not permitted under the law in view of the cases of Mohan Meakins (Supra) and Lord Shiva Overseas (Supra). As no
samples were drawn for comparison and as no examination
reports were made available, the entire charge of under valuation
can be assumed to be based on mere presumptions and
assumptions, without scrutiny of documents and without
ascertaining the facts; they rely upon Oudh Sugar Mills Ltd Vs
UOI 1978 (2) ELT (J 172) (SC-Constitution Bench). (viii). From the definition of "Identical goods" as appearing
in Rule 2(c) of Customs Valuation Rules 1988, it is clear that
identical goods have to be same in all respects including physical
characteristics, quality and reputation except for minor differences
in appearance that do not affect the value of the goods; DRI
authorities have not examined the physical characteristics, quality
and reputation of the goods imported by the Appellants; they
have not produced samples of such imported goods in order to
make a comparison; the fact that the impugned goods were
unbranded itself will go against the allegation of goods being
identical goods to those imported by M/s. RECPL; therefore, no 18 ground exists for rejection of Transaction; declared value must be
 accepted and no fine and penalty can be imposed in view of Sony
 ImpexVs CCE & C 2006 (202) ELT 486 (Tri-Kolkata); as the
 evidence relied upon do not confirm to the "timing of import",
 cannot be comparable. As regards the Price List, they cannot per
 say be an evidence as held in (i). Eicher Tractors Vs CC - 2000 (122) ELT 321 (SC) (ii). Mirah Exports Pvt Ltd Vs CC 1998 (98) ELT 3 (SC) (iii). CC Vs Venus Insulation Products Mfg. Co - 2003 (153) ELT A172 (SC) (iv). Aryan Electronics Vs CC, New Delhi-IV 2004 (177) ELT 908 (Tri-Del) (v). Vintel Distributors Pvt Ltd 2002 (149) ELT 145 (Tri-Chennai) (ix). Learned Counsel submits thatthere is no case for application
 of extended period of limitation as held in Dr. Reddy's Laboratories
 Ltd Vs CC Hyderabad 2004 (175) ELT 565 (Tri-Bang); there is no
 case of confiscation and levy of penalty as there was
 nosuppression as held in KohliPrintographicsVs CC, New Delhi 2003
 (159) ELT 1178 (Tri-Del); It is a settled principle of law that the
 amount deposited during investigation is not liable to be
 appropriated when the demand of duty itself is not sustainable; no
 penalty is imposable when the demand of duty itself is not
 sustainable as held in CC Vs M.M.K. Jewellers - 2008 (225) ELT 3
 (SC)and Collector v/s H.M.M. LTD - 1995 (76) ELT 497 (SC); no
 interest is demandable when the demand of duty itself is not
 sustainable. (x).Learned Commissioner erred in imposing penalty on
 Proprietors when the penalty has been imposed on his proprietary
 concern as held in V.K. Enterprises Vs CCE, Panchkula - 2010
 (249) ELT 462 (Tri-Del) andJayantibhai J. Patel Vs CCE,
 Ahmedabad - 2009 (244) ELT 140 (Tri. Ahmd); in the absence of
 mens reapenalty cannot be imposed Akbar BadruddinJiwaniVs
 Collector - 1990 (47) ELT 161 (SC) 5. Learned Counsel, for that the appellant Shri Sushil Goel, Appeal
No. C/786/2010, submits that penalty of Rs.2.50, 000, has been
imposed on him under Section 112 (a) of the Customs Act, 1962,
though a separate penalty has been imposed upon the firm M/s 19 Communications Trade Links and 8 others firms controlled by Shri
 Satish Luthra as well as on other co-noticees; appellant has given no
 objection and had not made any entry in the bill of entries and
 therefore, Sections 14 , 14 (1) & 14 (1A) of the Customs Act,1962 and
 Customs Valuation (Determination of Price of Imported Goods) Rules
 1988, are not applicable in the present case qua him; entire case has
 been made against the appellants on the basis of statement of Satish
 Luthra, who is quoted to have stated that he remitted the differential
 of the actual price and the under invoiced price declared before the
 Indian Customs to the foreign supplier in cash through Hawala
 Operators residing in Karol Bagh, Trans Yamuna in Shahdara and in
 Ashok Vihar; he did not know the exact names of these Hawala
 operators; he arranged Hawala amount by selling the undervalued and
 misdeclared imported goods against the actual price in cash; the
 statement of the appellant was recorded on 23.03.2006; prior to
 recording of his statement there was no material on record; he was
 not implicated by anybody else in whole case either by the importer or
 by the persons whose companies have been used by the importer i.e.
 Luthra Brothers; there is no documentary evidence at all in the show-
 cause notice, whereby the appellant can be connected with the alleged
 contravention made by the importers; neither the appellant had made
 any payment on behalf of any person resident abroad nor he had
 received any payment from any person on behalf of person resident
 abroad or in India; statement was retracted by the appellant at the
 first available opportunity; during the cross-examination conducted on
 05.01.2009, Shri Satish Luthra specifically stated that he never met
 the appellant and has not send any money through the appellant; He
 relies upon to state that in case of retracted statements the burden is
 on the department to prove. (i). UOI VsBalmukund 2009 2 JCC Narcotics 76 (ii). MohteshamMohd Ismail Vs Special Director, Enforcement, & another 2008
 (1) JCC 240 (iii). Vinod Solanki Vs UOI 2009 (223) ELT 157 SC. 5.1.Learned Counsel submits that Adjudicating Authority framed
 issues but left them unanswered; he raised the issue as to whether 20 Shri Sushil Goel and ShriVinodBaid have any role in remitting any
differential value of the goods imported but relies solely on the
statements given by Shri Satish Luthra on 07.03.2006, which refers
to one "Arjun" who remitted the differential amount through Hawala
route; investigations by DRI showed that it was alias for Shri Sushil
Goel; it has been admitted by Shri Sushil Goel in his statement dated
23.03.2006 that he was known as "Arjun" in Hawala Market. Learned
Counsel submits that the appellant was not implicated by any importer
or by Shri Satish Luthra; there was no material to summon Shri Sushil
Goel to the DRI office; ShriAswin Sharma of DRI, when cross
examined, stated that he does not remember any facts relevant to the
case and replied to all questions that 'it is a matter of record". 6.ShriPrabhat Kumar, Advocate, also appearing for Shri Satish Luthra
(C/868/2010), submits all the importer-concerns/business units are
independent entities; procured the import export code; placed the
order for imports; filed the customs documents like bills of entry;
remitted money through their respective bank accounts and were filing
their own independent VAT and Income Tax returns; availability of all
the proprietors should dispel the doubt and settle the matter at rest
that they are independent importers; each unit has been held to be in
existence since duty demands are confirmed only against such
individual importers; just because appellant's brothersupplied goods to
independent importers through his company, no charge can be made
against the appellant. 6.1.ShriPrabhat Kumar also submits that Legal provisions have been
ignored totally; statements (retracted later) recorded under threat
have been given precedence over facts; Shri Satish Luthra retracted
his statement recorded on 31.1.2005; there is no corroborative
material; Commissioner did not allow Cross-Examination of CHAs,
proprietors and others, which was required to prove the charges. not
affording cross-examination has resulted in violation of the principles
of natural justice and hence not sustainable as held by Hon'ble 21 Supreme Court in the case of SwadeshiPolytex LtdVs CCE, Meerut
2000 (122) ELT 641 (SC). 6.2.ShriPrabhat Kumar submits thatAs per definition contained in section 2(26) of the Customs Act, 1962,it is clear that to be importer,
a person has to either file a bill of entry or should hold himself out to
be the importer; Satish Luthra never claimed himself to be the
importer; status of importer can be determined only before clearance
of goods andno discretion has been conferred on the customs
authorities to allege that a person is the importer who has not claimed
himself to be so.Even assumingthat, for the sake of argument, Satish
Luthra was the beneficial owner, such an amendment in Section 2 (26) of the Customs Act relating to the definition of "IMPORTER" has been
incorporated only in the budget of 2017, i.e., much after the import of
goods. 6.3.ShriPrabhat Kumar also submits that the demand under section 28 can be raised only against importer and relies upon CC (Import),
Bombay Vs VXL India Ltd 2006 (193) ELT 396 (Bom) affirmed 2006
(197) ELT A121 (SC); the word "Jointly and severally" has no legal
sanctity under the eye of law; the impugned order confirms duty and
penalty only against the importers; there is no authority for the same
devolving on the appellant; commissioner has not cited any authority; Section 28 (4) of the Customs Act is very categorical about the duty
being demanded only against the importer; it was held in following
decisions that Customs authorities must make their mind as to who is
the noticee for the payment of the alleged short levy of duty. (i). Vision IncArun Kumar (ii). RimjhimIspatVs CCE Kanpur 2013 (293) ELT 124. (iii). JK Pharma Vs CC (Import), Mumbai - 2004 (166) ELT 407 (Tri. - Mumbai) (iv). SreeAravindh Steels Ltd Vs CCE2007 (216) ELT 332 (Tri-Chennai) (v). Famous Textile Vs CCE, Rajkot 2005 (190) ELT 361 (Tri-Mumbai)

6.4. ShriPrabhat Kumar also submits that confiscationis not proper as
it was held (Para 60.6) that there is no link between the seized goods
and the imported goods; penalty imposed on other concerns cannot be
demanded from Satish Luthra; there is no provision in law to demand 22 the same; no penalty is imposable in the absence of mens rea as held
in AkbarBadruddinJiwaniVsCollector (supra). 7. Learned counsel submits, on behalf ofShriNarender Singh,
Proprietor, M/s Oberoi Import Export (Appeal No. C/59/2011), that
though the commissioner dropped the charges against him, an amount
of Rs. 8, 00,000, deposited during the investigation, has been
appropriated towards duty liability of M/s. Simran Exports; the
Appellant is an independent importer and has nothing to do with Mr.
Satish Luthra CEO of M/s. Ramakrishna Electro Components Pvt Ltd;
Ld. Commissioner has erred in appropriating the amount, as there is
no authority of law to do so. 8. Shri Ramesh Kumar, Learned Authorised Representative for the
department, submits that Satish Luthra in connivance with his brothers
Jawahar Lal Luthra, and Harish Luthra planned to import electronic
goods of ST (ST Micro Electronics) of Philips and Sanyo brand
undervaluing them; he adopted a modus whereby they would procure
such goods in Singapore and Hong Kong from the original
manufacturers; he would generate invoices, in the name of firms viz.
M/s Stride Promotion Pte Ltd in Singapore and M/s Ascend
International, Hong Kong, owned by Ranjan Shukla, a friend of Satish
Luthra and Jawahar Lal Luthra, brother of Satish Luthra, showing lower
value; in order to avoid detection by Customs department, he planned
to import in the name of various firms (IECs) in the name of his
employees or acquaintances who were lured to connive in the fraud for
an offer of few thousand rupees; he also opened a firm, in the name
of M/s Ramakrishna Electro Components Pvt Ltd (RECPL), with his wife
and his brother Harish Luthra as Directors, to show some genuine
business; RECPL did not resort to undervaluation and misdeclaration of
brands; he opened another firm, namely, M/s SK Trading, under his
own proprietorship, to sell goods imported in the name of M/s RECL
and others, locally. 8.1. Learned AR submits that Satish Luthra was the mastermind
behind the fraud and he was the controlling person of all the nine 23 firms. Documents pertaining to the imports made by all the nine firms
impugned firms were recovered from the searched premised of RECPL;
scrutiny of revealed that payments to supplier, CHA and transporters
were not made through the bank accounts of these firms in most of
the cases; most of these firms did not have an office and the
residential premise was shown as the address; they did not have any
sales tax registration some addresses were bogus. Further evidence is
as follows.  The proprietors, of these 9 firms, categorically stated that
 they were only namesake owners; real owner of the firms was
 Satish Luthra; they had never contacted foreign supplier, the
 CHA or the transporter.  Parveen Mahajan, Sales Advisor of RECPL stated, on
 31.1.2015, that Satish Luthra used to negotiate with the foreign
 suppliers viz., M/s ST Micro Electronic (Thompson Group),
 Singapore, and M/s Phillips Semiconductors, Hong Kong and
 used to sell goods imported by M/s Communication Trade Links,
 M/s Air Sea Trade Links and M/s Unique Trade Links.
  Kuljeet Singh, anemployee of RECPL, stated on 31.1.2005
 that he used to sell the electronic components imported by
 Satish Luthra through the firms controlled by him.
  various CHAs stated that Satish Luthra had approached them
 to render their services in respect of Customs Clearance of the
 goods imported by him in the name of RECPL and the other nine
 firms; he handed over the copies of IECs & authority letters of
 the nine firms; used to make payments and arrange for
 transportation; they did not know the other proprietors /
 persons except Satish Luthra;  Various transporters, who transported the imported goods,
 stated that they had dealt with Satish Luthra with respect to the
 imports; payments were made by Satish Luthra; they delivered
 the goods to Shri Luthra.  Hawala operators viz. Sushil Goel and Vijay Chand Baid also
 admitted, in their statements on 23.3.2006 and 24.3.2006, that
 they had send the difference between the actual value and the 24 declared value through Hawala channel to Jawahar Luthra in
 Hong Kong for Shri Satish Luthra.  Satish Luthra on being confronted with these statements,
 Satish Luthra admitted, on 31.01.2005, 1.2.2005, 9.3.2005 and
 7.3.2006 the same on 7.3.2006, that the above were true.
  The request for provisional release, of goods seized, was
 made under the signature of Satish Luthra though goods were
 imported in the name of these nine firms; during the course of
 provisional release, he even submitted a bond, supported by a
 BG of Rs.50 lakhs, stating that the nine firms are under his
 control.  Satish Luthra also made a voluntary deposit of duty to the
 tune of Rs. 1.5 Crores in the name of these nine firms.
  Satish Luthra in his statement dated 9.3.2005 and 7.3.2006
 also admitted to the duty chart prepared on the basis of Price
 lists and contemporary imports made by him in his own firms
 RECL. 8.2.Learned AR submits that definition of 'Importer', as in Section
2(26) includes any owner or any person holding himself out to be the
importer"; Shri Satish Luthra is the person who, between their
importation and clearance for home consumption, dealt with the
goods; he booked the imports; remitted the value through IECs
holders' accounts and also through the Hawala operators; as seen
above, this fact is supported by the statements of CHAs, Transporter
and Shri Satish Luthra himself; Learned AR submits that admitted
facts need not be proved as held in CCE, Madras Vs System &
Components Pvt Ltd 2004 (165) ELT 136 (SC) and ACC, Madras -I
VsGovindasamyRagupathy 1998 (98) ELT 50 (Mad). Relying on
following cases, Shri Satish Luthra can be held as the importer and
duty demand can be fastened on him. (i). CC (Import), Mumbai VsPundrickRavindraTrivedi 2015 (322) ELT 812 (SC) (ii). Sushil Agarwal Vs CC (Import), Mumbai 2013 (283) ELT 377 (Tri-Mumbai)
 affirmed by Hon'ble High Court 2012 (293) ELT 633(Bom) (iii). Shri Ganesh Overseas Vs CC, Ahmedabad 2002(150) ELT 145 (Tri-Del). 8.3.Learned AR submits on the argument /claim of Retraction, of
statement of Shri Satish Luthra, that the counsel for Satish Luthra
could not produce any copy of retraction; all the statements, recorded
at various intervals, are written by himself in Hindi; such statements
running into pages cannot be written under any force or threat. It was
held that retraction should be addressed to the authority who had
recorded the statement; any other retraction would not be valid and
that even if a statement is retracted it is still admissible, in the
following cases. (i). Surjeet Singh ChhabraVs Union of India 1997 (89) ELT 646 (SC) (ii).ACC, Madras -I VsGovindasamyRagupathy 1998 (98) ELT 50 (Mad). (iii). K.I. PavunnyVs ACC (HQ), C.Ex Collectorate, Cochin 1997 (90) ELT 241
 (SC) (iv). ZakiIshratiVs CCE, Kanpur 2013 (291) ELT 161 (All.) (vi). Sidhharth Shankar Roy Vs CC, Mumbai 2013 (291) ELT 244 (Tri-Mumbai) (vii). D.M.Mehta & BrosVs CC(General),Mumbai 2017(346)ELT 477(Tri-Mumbai)

8.4.Learned AR submits, on the argument that second time
enhancement of value is invalid, that Counsels did not produce any
evidence to substantiate their argument; even in such case there is no
bar in re-determining the value; Tribunal held, in the case of A.G.
Incorporation Vs CC, Delhi 2013 (287) ELT 357, that after loading of
value at time of import, It is not proper to throw it out at threshold,
without looking at quality of evidence; fraud, if established, unravels
all; otherwise, it could be means to evade Customs duty with
impunity, by declaring substantially low price in Bill of Entry, somehow
getting Customs officer to load value a bit; judicial decisions only
protect bona fide purchaser or assessee; they do not deal with
situation where approval is obtained by fraud, or unearthing of
misdeclaration or suppression of value subsequent to assessment of
Bill of Entry; they do not lay down absolute law that assessment made
under Section 47 of Customs Act, 1962, cannot be opened through
notice issued under Section 28 . Hon'ble Tribunal had also distinguished
the judgement of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case Mohan Meakin
Ltd (supra). 8.5.Learned AR submits, on the argument that the goods imported in
the name of these nine firms are not branded, that a perusal of the 26 Annexures to the SCN and the Price list of ST Brand clearly reveals
that the unique code of these brands are specifically mentioned in the
bills of entry, which indicates that the goods are nothing but branded
goods; code names specific to the ST brands, such as transistors and
ICs like TR 1802, TR 13005, IC FONDA 4 etc, found on invoices are
also found in the Bills of Entry; the department is in appeal as even
the Adjudicating authority had ignored this fact unnoticed while
dropping the demand. Learned AR submitsthat although Assessing
officers were cross examined, questions were posed only with
reference to one or two bills of entry, as against 171 consignments
involved; cross examination had taken place after a gap of 4 to 5
years; it is very difficult for anyone to remember exactly what was
presented to them.Adjudicating authority erred in holding that these
are unbranded goods; Satish Luthra had himself admitted the duty
liability; duty chart prepared on the basis of Price list and
contemporary imports. Adjudicating Authority cannot drop an admitted
liability; as the bills of entries show the brand code in the description,
there is no doubt that these are branded goods and therefore the
whole of demand is sustainable. Learned AR submits that valuation
was correctly arrived after rejecting the declared price on the basis of
contemporaneous Import (Para 24, 25 and 26); price lists available
corroborated the correctness of the value of the imported ICs and
Transistors, as declared by RECPL; actual prices were declared on
goods imported in the name of RECPL but under-invoiced when
imported in the name of 9 dummy firms; this fact was admitted by
Shri Satish Luthra in his voluntary statements; Price List in question is
from the original Manufactures, whereas the invoices produced by
dummy firms are from traders like M/s Stride Promotion Pte Ltd. in
Singapore, owned by the Ranjan Shukla (a friend of Satish Luthra) and
M/s Ascend International in Hong Kong (owned by Jawahar Lal Luthra
brother of Satish Luthra); the following judgements hold that
manufacturer's Price list or quotations can be relied for arriving at the
transaction value. (i). Mytri Enterprises Vs CC, Mumbai 2004 (174) ELT 389(Tri-Mumbai) affirmed by
 Supreme Court 2015 (323) ELT A71 (SC). (ii). Pan Asia Enterprises Vs CC 1995 (79) ELT 322 (T) affirmed by SC as 1997
 (94) ELT A59 (SC). (iii). Hind Industries Vs Commissioner 1997 (90) ELT 499 (T) affirmed by SC 1998
 (99) ELT A55 (SC). (iv). Sharp Business Machines Pvt Ltd Vs CC 1990 (49) ELT 640 (SC). (v). CC, Pune Vs Shri Hari Corporation 2014 (307) ELT 771 (T). 8.6.Learned AR submits that in view of Madras High Court's
judgement in K V Shivaraj 2017 (346) ELT 547, penalty can be
imposed proprietors of dummy units for allowing third party to gain
unauthorized access to IEC;Unique Trade Link (ShriJagvir Singh) and
Oberoi Import Export (ShriNarender Singh) are not eligible for refunds
as they are not importers in this case; Shri Satish paid the amounts
and not them and refund was not claimed as provided in Section 27 . 8.7. On departmental appeals, C/911/2010 ( Respondent M/s Radhe
International), C/912/2010 (Respondent M/s Universal Electronics),
C/915/2010 (Respondent M/s Unique Trade Links), C/917/2010
(Respondent M/s Oberoi Import Export),C/920/2010 (Respondent M/s
Simran Exports ) , C/921/2010 (Respondent M/s Communication
Trade Links), learned AR reiterates the grounds of appeal and submits
that the adjudicating authority erred in dropping the portion of the
demand holding that some of the goods are unbranded; regarding
appeal No. C/914/2010 (RespondentShri Harish Luthra), he submits
that the impugned order was incorrect as far as dropping of penalty on
Shri Harish Luthra; Shri Harish Luthra is the Director of RECPL; he
accepted, his role as stated by Shri Satish Luthra, in his statement
dated 31.01.2005; Shri Harish Luthra was aware and was a part of the
whole fraud and therefore, is liable to penalty and in respect of appeal
No. C/919/2010 (RespondentShri Satish Luthra, CEO), learned AR
submits that the Adjudicating Authority erred in not imposing penalty
under Section 114A equal to duty and interest; which requires to be
rectified. 9. Heard both sides and perused the records of the case. Brief issues
that require consideration in these set of appeals are as to whether (i). Shri Satish Luthra can be held to be the importer in respect of
various imports for which the bills of entry have been filed in various 28 names and thus, whether Shri Satish Luthra is liable to pay duty,
interest penalty etc in respect of the impugned imports? (ii). whether department could establish the charge of under valuation
in respect of the impugned imports and if so whether the
redetermination of value was correctly made? (iii). whether the appellants, S/Shri Sushil Goel, Vijay Chand Baid,
Kanchan Kumar Kora (M/s Radhe International), Jagveer Singh
(Universal Electronics), Vinod Kumar Sharma(Air Sea Trade Links),
Narendra Singh,KimtiLal (M/s Communication Trade Links) and D.K.
Chopra (M/s Shiv Enterprises) are liable to pay penalty? (iv). whether the respondent, Shri Harish Luthra is liable to pay
penalty. 10. The SCN makes a case against Shri Satish Luthra that he controls
M/s RECPL engaged in import and sale of branded electronic goods; in
order to evade customs duty, he set up nine other firms with proxy
owners controlled by him and imported electronic goods in the names
of nine firms by under declaring the value and remitting the difference
between declared value and actual value through Hawala route.
Learned Commissioner has concluded that all the nine firms are proxy
for the reasons that import documents pertaining to the all importing
firms were found in the premises of RECPL controlled by Sh. Satish
Luthra; three firms were found to be non-existent at their given
addresses; letters written to the nine firms were returned by Postal
authorities; they do not have Sales Tax Registration; the addresses of
some companies were in residential areas and their accounts do not
show any proof of payment to the overseas suppliers. He also
concludes that Sh. Satish Luthra is the actual importer for the reasons
that vide letter dated 11.03.2005, Sh. Satish Luthra requested for
provisional release of goods seized at New Delhi Railway Station
though the imports were in the name of Shiv Enterprises; the CHA and
the transporters identified Sh. Luthra to be the person with whom they
dealt with in respect of the impugned imports. Learned Commissioner
interprets the word "person" in the definition of "importer" to mean
"persons" relying on the fact that Section 13 of the General Clauses 29 Act 1897stated that in all (Central Acts) and Regulations, unless there
is anything repugnant in the subject or context words importing the
masculine gender shall be taken to include females, and words in the
singular shall include the plural. 11.We find that Learned Counsel for the appellants submits that Shri
Satish Luthra never claimed himself to be the importer; status of
importer can be determined only before clearance of goods and no
discretion has been conferred on the customs authorities to allege that
a person is the importer who has not claimed himself to be so. Learned
Counsel submits that all the importer-concerns/business units are
independent entities; procured the import export code; placed the
order for imports; filed the customs documents like bills of entry;
remitted money through their respective bank accounts and were filing
their own independent VAT and Income Tax returns; availability of all
the proprietors should dispel the doubt and settle the matter at rest
that they are independent importers; each unit has been held to be in
existence since duty demands are confirmed only against such
individual importers; just because appellant's brothersupplied goods to
independent importers through his company, no charge can be made
against the appellant. 12.we find that it will be beneficial to have a look at the definition of
the word "importer" Section 2 (26) of the Customs Act defines
importer as follows: A bare reading of the definition implies that the term "importer"
includes any person holding himself out to be the importer. However,
it is important to note that such a person holding himself out to be the
importer would be considered an importer any time between the
importation of the goods and the clearance of the same for home
consumption. In the instant case, it is not in dispute that the entire
case is about the goods which have been imported and cleared for 30 home consumption after due assessment. It is evident that Shri Satish
Luthra has not been held to be an importer before the clearance of
goods for home consumption and as such he cannot be held to be an
importer after the clearance of the goods for home consumption.
Learned Counsel submits that though an amendment, in Section 2
(26) of the Customs Act, including "the beneficial owner"to be an
importer has been incorporated only in the budget of 2017, the same
is after the impugned imports have taken place.We find merit in the
contention of the Learned Counsel for the appellants. We also find that
post 2017 amendment also, the time period wherein any person can
be deemed to be an importer has not been changed. Therefore, it
cannot be construed that Shri Satish Luthra is the importer in the
impugned case. Therefore, we find that for the purpose of Section 2 of
the Customs Act 1962, Shri Satish Luthra cannot be held to be an
importer and as such cannot be a person referred to in Section 28 of
Customs Act 1962. Therefore, neither the demanded duty nor the
imposed penalty can be held to be devolved on Shri Satish Luthra. 13. Coming to the issue of alleged under-valuation of goods,we find
that the entire allegations in the show cause notice and consequently
the impugned order are based on statements of different persons.
Some of them have been since retracted. We find that all the
impugned goods imported by or imported in the name of nine
importers have been cleared for home consumption by the proper
officers. The Department has sought to re-determine the value of such
goods which have been already cleared for home consumption without
filing appeals against the respective assessments in the Bills of Entry.
We find that Learned Commissioner has been categorical in holding
that there is considerable difference between price of branded goods
and un-branded goods of the same specification. The investigation has
not made any efforts to cross-link the seized goods to the goods
imported under the Bills of Entry filed by the nine importers. He also
observes that the demand is made in respect of all the goods imported
by the nine firms during the period December 2002 to February 2005
assuming that all the goods imported under these Bills of Entry were 31 branded goods without co-relating the seized goods to the goods
imported under the impugned bills of Entry or producing any other
documentary evidence to prove that. Though the Learned
Commissioner finds as above goes on to make a case against the
appellants on the point that some of the Bills of Entry have an
indication that the goods are branded and that indication is normally
not visible on the printout of the Bills of Entry. The Learned Counsel
for the appellants has submitted that the Learned Commissioner has
set out a new ground which was not discussed in the SCN. Thus, he
has travelled beyond the scope of the SCN. Learned Counsel also
submits that it is also a settled principle of law that orders travelling
beyond show cause notice are non-est in view of Commissioner
VsCarborundum Universal Ltd (supra) and Asha Celluloid Vs CCE,
Surat(supra); adjudication authority is not to assume upon itself the
role of investigating agency and go on to investigate something which
has not been alleged in the SCN; Learned Commissioner should have
shown soft copy of EDP to the appellants also. Not showing the relied
upon area in the EDP to the appellant tantamount to denial of natural
justice and non-supply of relied upon documents. 14. We find that in the instant case Commissioner has, on the one
hand, found that there is no co-relation between the impugned seized
goods and the Bills of Entry. He has set out a new ground of some of
the goods being branded by looking into the portion of the Bills of
Entry which is normally not visible on the printed copy. He has not
supplied the copies of Bills of Entry showing that the goods are
branded. In doing so, Learned Commissioner has not only travelled
beyond the scope of the SCN but also has contravened the principles
of natural justice. Moreover, it is pertinent to note that the counsel's
submission that none of the examination reports have indicated to be
branded in nature. Officers on cross-examination have submitted that
if the examination reports indicated the goods to be unbranded, the
goods are unbranded. The evidence that commissioner seeks to rely
during the course of adjudication, is not supplied to the appellants and
thereby, an opportunity to defend themselves has been denied to 32 them. Under the circumstances and in view of the various case laws
as cited above, we find that such an order is not maintainable and is
liable to be set aside. 15. Moreover, we find that the OIO failed to give proper grounds to
establish that the transaction value declared by the appellants is liable
to be rejected. The OIO does not rely upon any contemporaneous
imports of identical or similar goods to establish that the goods are
mis-declared. In Para 60.8 of the OIO, Commissioner has rejected the
contention of OIO to ascertain the price of the goods comparing them
to identical goods imported by M/s RECPL; commissioner finds that the
Show Cause Notice does not state the basis for considering that the
goods imported by M/s RECPL are identical to the goods imported.
Having deviated from the assertions in the SCN, Learned
Commissioner dos not state clearly as to why the declared values are
liable to be rejected. He sets forth a new ground of goods being
branded and makes reference to price lists. We find that one important
pitfall in this approach is that whereas the importers have imported
from traders, the OIO seeks to apply the values, in respect of certain
goods treating them to be branded, on the basis of the price list of
manufacturers. We find that Supreme Court in the case of Eicher
Tractors Ltd. v. Commissioner of Customs, Mumbai 2000 (122) E.L.T.
321 (SC) wherein the Apex Court has laid down that 'it is only when
'the' transaction value is rejected, then under Rule 3(ii) the value shall
be determined by proceeding subsequently through Rules 5 to 8 -
Conversely, if the transaction value can be determined under Rule 4(1)
and does not fall under any of the exceptions in Rule 4(2), there is no
question of determining the value under the subsequent Rules." We
find that the impugned order does not record any reasons for rejection
of the declared value. Impugned order on the on hand rejects the
adoption of value of identical goods imported by M/s RECPL and on the
other relies on the price lists of the manufacturing company where as
the goods are imported by traders. Learned counsel for the appellants
allege that provisions of Rules are not followed and bills of Entry of the
identical goods are not disclosed in the SCN or cited in the impugned 33 order; rejection of transaction value under Rule 3 of CVR is not
substantiated; it was not even displayed that essential ingredients of
Rule 5, as to test values were at or about the same time as the goods
being valued, are not complied; it is also not made known whether the
contemporaneous imports shown are within a period of 90 days from
the respective impugned imports. Moreover, even though, the SCN
and the impugned order alleged that the differential between the
actual price and declared price of the imported goods has been sent
through Hawala route using the services of Shri Sushil Goel aka Arjun,
no evidence whatsoever, even for a single transaction has been
produced to establish the fact. 16. The assessing/examine officers have stated during the cross-
examination that the goods were not branded goods. The SCN does
not provide any proof as to how some of the goods could be treated as
branded goods. The SCN neither discusses nor alleges if there was any
connivance/collusion on the part of the assessing/examining officers.
Learned Commissioner observes that: The information regarding brand name of the items covered by the above Bills of
Entries are given in that field which is not normally seen in the Print out. Some
importers declare the brand name in the "Description" itself in those cases the
officers is able to see the brand name directly on the screen at the time of
assessment and examination. But when this information is declared in the field for
Brand name the officers can see it only if they go to a different screen by name
"Accessories". Since the officers did not look at this information at the time of cross-
examination the answers given by them were based on mistaken notion. At any rate
the question of facts whether the brand name was declared at the time of filing of BE
is to be decided from the records and not from the opinion of the officers. So, I do
not find the deposition of these officers to be of any consequence to my finding." However, it can be seen that the learned Commissioner has not only
travelled beyond the SCN but also did not botherto supply the copies
of the Bills of Entry, which he relied upon to come to the conclusion
that some of the goods are branded. Therefore, we find that the
impugned order is liable to be set aside. We find merit in the
appellants submission that the Assessment Orders, passed by
Assistant Commissioner on the respective bills of entry, have attained
finality, as no appeal has been preferred against any such order by
department as held in Mohan Meakin Ltd Vs CCE, Kochi 2000 (115) 34 E.L.T. 3 (S.C.) and in CC (Imports), Mumbai Vs Lord Shiva Overseas- 2005 (181) E.L.T. 213 (Tri - Mumbai) 17. Though in the operative portion of the order learned commissioner
has observed that the declared value is redetermined under Rule 5 of
Customs Valuation (Determination of Price of Imported Goods) Rules,
1988, no reference to any bill of entry is given and it is not established
as to how the referral goods are identical to the impugned goods, in
terms of quality, quantity, place of origin and time of origin as held in
VintelDistributorsPvtLtd Vs CC (Sea), Chennai 2002 (149) ELT 145 (Tri - Chennai) upheld by Supreme Court 2003 (153) ELT A101 (S.C.) 18. Wefind thatlearned counsel for theappellants submits that whereas
the SCN raised the demand under Section 28 (1) of the Act, impugned
order neither raised nor confirmed by invoking proviso to the Section
28 (1) of the SCN. We find that while the bills of entry pertain to the
period July-August, 2003; February - September, 2004 and October-
November, 2004, the SCN is dated 31-03-2006. We find that proviso
for extending the limitation for demanding duty has not been invoked
in the how Cause Notice and there is no mention as regards invocation
or finding as regards justification for the same, in the impugned order.
Admitted fact of the case is that the goods have been duly cleared by
the Customs for home consumption after examination and
assessment. No suppression of facts etc has been either alleged or
substantiated. On the contrary, learned commissioner goes beyond the
SCN and says that some of the goods are declared as branded goods.
Therefore, we find that no case is made out invoking extended period
of time. Thus, we find that the notice is barred by limitation. 19.We find that the entire case of the Department is built upon the
statements of different persons involved and most of the statements
have been retracted. Once, the statements have been retracted, the
onus lies on the Department to prove that the statements are correct.
We find that the same has not been discharged. We further find that
other than statements, no evidence documentary or otherwise
hasbeen put forth by the Revenue to substantiate the allegation of 35 under-valuation. No samples were drawn and no enquires were made.
As discussed above, no reasons for rejection of the assessable value
of the goods, more so looking in to the fact that the goods have been
once cleared by Customs after due process of examination and
assessment, as declared by the importers have been given. The
respective Bills of Entry have not been challenged at appropriate
forum.Connivance/collusion of assessing/examining officers, if any,
have not been alleged/established. No enquiries relating to the
existence of higher contemporaneous values have been done.
Retractions have not been challenged on concrete evidence and have
been brushed aside as routine and afterthought. In some cases, cross-
examination has not been allowed and wherever it was allowed, the
averments thereon have not been taken into consideration. Show
Cause Notice has been issued much after the relevant date; SCN does
not invoke proviso to Section 28(1) of the Customs Act, 1962 and the
impugned order also does not discuss and substantiate such
invocation. Therefore, the impugned SCN is barred by limitation also.
Thus, we find that the impugned order suffers from various lacunae
and thus is liable to be set aside. When the charge of under-valuation
is not established, no case is made out for imposition of redemption
fine, penalties and demand of duty from any of the appellants
involved. 20. Though, we find that Sh. Ramesh Kumar, Learned AR for the
Department has made a spirited attempt to defend the case for the
Department, in view of the discussions above and the facts of the case
and the evidence on record weigh the balance heavily against the
Revenue.The case law cited by him, of Pundrik and Ganesh Overseas
etc (supra), on redetermination of value were under the circumstances
when the assessments of the goods were not complete and goods
were not released by customs for home consumption and the cases
which involve smuggling. In the instant case, the issue is of
redetermination of value of goods which have been cleared for home
consumption. The appellants also relied upon a number of cases but 36 we find that all of them need not be discussed. As the facts of the
cases are different, the ratio cannot be applied. Moreover, we find that
each case stands on its own and ratio of one case cannot be applied
unless the facts are identical. As we find that Shri Satish Luthra
cannot be held to be importer in the instant case and that the charge
of undervaluation is not established, we do not find merit in the
departmental appeals, which are filed for imposing penalty on Shri
Harish Luthra and for inclusion of interest in the quantum of penalty.
We find that they are liable to be set aside. 21. In view of the above, the following order is passed. (i).Appeal filed by Revenue i.e. Appeal NosC/911/2010,
C/912/2010,C/914/2010, C/915/2010, C/917/2010, C/919/2010,
C/920/2010, C/921/2010 are rejected. (ii).All other appeals are allowed with consequential relief, if any. (Pronounced in open court on 11/03/2020)

 (S.K. Mohanty)
 Member (Judicial)

 (P. Anjani Kumar)
 Member (Technical)
sasi