4.
			
			 
			 

................. 5.
			
			 
			 

Banks' process of KYC and how an overdraft account of MMRDA can be opened
			
			 
			 

For opening of an Overdraft account KYC process as listed in the Reply Point no.1 will be followed. 6.
			
			 
			 

Banks' process of calling customer for effecting RTGS/NEFT
			
			 
			 

As per extant guidelines, customers are required to submit the prescribed application form for effecting RTGS/NEFT transactions duly filled in all respect and signed by the authorized signatory/ies. 7.
			
			 
			 

Banks' process of issuance and delivery of cheque books to the customers
			
			 
			 

As per extant practice followed by our bank, cheque book is issued at the request of the account holder and had to be collected personally by the account holder or an authorized person. 13.    It would thus be seen that the Term Deposit Accounts in the name of the complainants could be opened by the bank only after obtaining the prescribed KYC documents such as address proof and identity proof which were required to be verified with the originals and the signature of the authorized persons, to be taken in the presence of a bank official. In the case of MMRDA, no address proof of the complainant Authority was taken by the bank.  Though, a photocopy of PAN card of one Mr. Naveen H. Bagadiya who purportedly attested the said photocopy as the Assistant Chief Accounts Officer of MMRDA, seems to have been taken, no proof of Mr. Naveen H. Bagadiya being the Assistant Chief Accounts Officer of MMRDA such as his identity card was taken by the bank.  There is no evidence or even allegation of the Assistant Chief Accounts officer of MMRDA having visited the Branch for the purpose of the verification, which the bank officials were to carry out before opening the account in the name of MMRDA.  No document evidencing the address of Mr. Naveen H. Bagadiya was taken by the bank, before opening the account.  Thus, the procedure prescribed by the bank for opening the Fixed Deposit account was not followed.  The prescribed verification required presence of an authorized signatory of MMRDA in the bank, along with proof of his address as well as his identity, verification of the copies of the KYC documents with the originals and the signatures appearing on the KYC documents by verifying the same with the signature to be taken in the presence of the bank official.  The bank has not told this Commission, as to who had brought the copy of the PAN card to it, but, even if it is presumed that a person representing himself to be the Assistant Chief Accounts Officer of MMRDA had approached the bank for the purpose of opening an account, the bank was required to obtain the proof of his being a functionary of MMRDA as well as the proof of his address.  He should have been made to sign in the presence of the bank official, in order to verify the signature on the KYC document such as PAN card with the signature made in the presence of the bank official.  The bank was not expected to open the account without the authorized signatory of MMRDA actually attending the branch along with the original documents of his address and his identity and without verification of his signature by comparing the same with the signature on the KYC documents.  If it is presumed that someone brought the PAN card of Mr. Naveen H. Bagadiya to the bank and claimed that Mr. Bagadiya was the Assistant Chief Accounts Officer of MMRDA, the bank should have insisted upon his personal appearance along with proof of his address and identity.  However, in the present case, the bank did not even obtain any documents which would establish the identity of Mr. Naveen H. Bagadiya as the Assistant Chief Accounts Officer of MMRDA.  No proof of his address was obtained.  In fact, there is no evidence even of the original PAN card of Mr. Naveen H. Bagadiya having been produced before the bank for the purpose of verification. 14.    In case of MTDC, the statement of Mr. T.T. Solanke, Chief Accounts Officer shows that the PAN card of MTDC, documents related to authorized signatory of MTDC, PAN Card of the Managing Director and PAN card of Chief Accounts officer were given to Mr. Devendra Bhogle, who represented to be an officer of the Dena Bank.  However, considering the procedure of the bank for opening such accounts, it was necessary for the bank to insist upon the personal visit of the functionaries of the MTDC to the branch along with the original documents.  Thereafter, their signatures should have been taken in the presence of the bank officials and verified with the signatures on the KYC documents.  That admittedly, was not done in this case.  Moreover, there is no evidence of any documents of address of either MTDC or its functionaries having been taken by the bank before opening the account in the name of MTDC. The document of identity, when an account is to be opened in the name of a corporate such as MTDC would comprise  not only the document establishing the personal  identity of the person who claims to be the functionary of the Corporate but also the document, which would show him to be such a functionary.  Though, the PAN card could establish the identity of the certain persons, they could not have shown them to be the functionaries of MTDC.  It would be immaterial, if the persons, photocopies of whose PAN cards were made available to the bank by Shri Devendra Bhogle actually happened to be the functionaries of the MTDC.  What is relevant is that the bank did not carry out any verification such as obtaining their identity cards to verify their linkage with MTDC.   In fact, even the photocopies of the PAN Cards of Mr. Jagdish Patil and Mr. Tulshi Ram Solanke, functionaries of MTDC, available in the record of the bank are forged documents, as is evident from the photocopies of the said documents filed by MTDC.  This in turn, shows that the original PAN Cards were never produced before the bank.  The requisite verification, which envisaged comparison with the originals thus, was not carried out. 15.    A perusal of the customer relationship form in respect of MMRDA shows that it is an absolutely blank document, except the forged stamp of MMRDA and a forged signature at the place meant for the signature of the first applicant.  Even the name of the account holder or the date of the opening the account is not filled up.  This blank customer relationship form leaves no doubt at all that the account in the name of MMRDA was opened by / in connivance with the concerned bank officers at Malabar Hill Branch of Dena Bank. 16.    The specimen signature card relevant to the account opened in the name of MMRDA also is an absolutely blank document, except bearing the forged stamp of MMRDA and a forged signature at the place meant for the signature of the first applicant.  Even the instructions for operating the account have not been selected.  Though there is a space earmarked for affixing the photograph of the account holder, no photograph appears on the specimen signature card.  The address of the account holder has also not been filled and all the relevant columns have been left blank.  There is absolutely no explanation from the bank as to why the customer relationship form and the specimen signature card were left blank and why even the photograph of the account holder was not affixed on the specimen signature card. 17.    The customer relationship form for opening the account in the name of MTDC purports to be signed by two authorized signatories of the aforesaid company. The investigation conducted by CBI has revealed that the signatures as well as the stamp, affixed on the aforesaid form were forged. The opening of the account was introduced by one Hiren Praful Gala who claims to be authorized proprietor of Vee Pee Store, which is the proprietorship concern of his uncle.  He was examined by this Commission on 14.10.2015. In his statement before this Commission he inter-alia stated that Mr. Nagarkar then Branch Manager at that time, had called him and introduced him to two gentlemen sitting in his cabin and introduced them as the officers of MTDC without giving their names or designations to him and he had signed in the column of Introduction at the instance of Mr. Nagarkar, despite the fact that he did not know either of those two persons sitting in the cabin of Mr. Nagarkar. He also stated that the aforesaid two persons had neither signed nor stamped the account opening form in his presence nor did they show their identity card to him.  He further stated that he cannot identify those persons if they are brought before him.  This person could not assign any reason for not asking the persons present in the cabin of Mr. Nagarkar to show the proof of his identity or atleast their business card to him.  It is obvious from the statement of Mr. Gala that the account in the name of MTDC was opened by certain unauthorized persons in connivance with Mr. Nagarkar, the then Branch Manager at Malabar Hill Branch of Dena Bank.  The connivance of Mr. Hiren Praful Gala is also evident from the facts and circumstances of the case.  No-one would introduce a corporate account in the name of a Government Undertaking, merely on the request of the bank manager unless he knows the person who claims to be the officers of such an Undertaking of the Government.  The least he would do, even if he is to oblige the bank manager, is to see the proof of identity of those persons in order to satisfy himself that they actually represented the Undertaking in whose name the account was sought to be opened. 18.    The bank having received Rs. 351.5 crores from MMRDA by way of direct transfer, it was its duty to deliver the original Fixed Deposit Receipts in the office of MMRDA against due acknowledgement or to deliver the same to person duly authorized by MMRDA in this regard after verifying his authority and identity.  The case of the bank is that the original Fixed Deposit Receipts were delivered to one Rahul Mukesh Gohil, who claimed to be an authorized representative of the MMRDA.  However, there is no evidence of the bank having verified the identity of Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil as a functionary of MMRDA.  No identity card of Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil, showing him to be a functionary of MMRDA was obtained by the bank.  Had such a document been obtained, it would have been available in the record of the bank.  Delivering Fixed Deposit Receipts of more than Rs. 350 crores, opened in the name of a statutory body to a rank outsider, without verifying the alleged association between him and the account holder was an act of gross negligence and clearly shows a nexus between the bank officer who delivered the Fixed Deposit Receipts and the person who allegedly collected the same from the bank.  Though according to the bank, Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil had brought an authority letter purportedly to be signed by the Assistant Chief Accounts Officer of MMRDA, no attempt was made by the bank to verify the signature appearing on the said letter. The least expected from the bank, before handing over Fixed Deposit Receipts of more than Rs.350 crores to Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil was to depute a bank official to visit the office of MMRDA and verify the signatures appearing on the said letter.  Alternatively, the bank should atleast have contacted the Assistant Chief Accounts Officer of MMRDA on telephone and verified his signatures on the aforesaid letter from him, before delivering the Fixed Deposit Receipts to Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil.  Had the bank not been negligent in delivering the Fixed Deposit Receipts to Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil, it probably would not have possible to siphon off the money belonging to MMRDA, since as per the procedure of the bank, pledge of original Fixed Deposit Receipts with it was necessary for availing the overdraft / loan facility against the Fixed Deposit Receipts. It was contended by the learned counsel for the bank that the signature on the aforesaid authority letter dated 10.4.2014 whereby Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil was purportedly authorized to collect the Fixed Deposit Receipts from the bank being similar to the admitted signature of the Assistant Chief Accounts Officer of MMRDA on the placement letter dated 19.3.2014, the bank was justified in acting upon the said letter.  I however, find no merit in the contention.  It has come in the statement of Mr. Jitender Salvi of MMRDA that the aforesaid letter dated 19.3.2014 was delivered by him to Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil at the time when he brought the Fixed Deposit Receipts of Rs.351.5 crores to the office of MMRDA.  It is therefore, obvious that the Fixed Deposit Receipts to Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil had been delivered by the bank even before receipt of the original letter dated 19.3.2014 for the placement of the term deposits.  In any case, the bank could not have delivered the original Fixed Deposit Receipts to Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil without first verifying his identity as a functionary of MMRDA, and verifying the signature appearing on the Authority Letter. 19.    As per the FIR lodged by the bank, the procedure prescribed by the bank for sanction of the loan against fixed deposits envisaged KYC compliance in all respects such as obtaining an unstamped letter-cum pledge signed by the holders of the Fixed Deposit Receipts, requesting a loan / overdraft against the Fixed Deposit Receipts.  The Fixed Deposit Receipts are to be discharged on the reverse by signing on a revenue stamp by the authorized signatory and loan documents such as Demand Promissory Note, letter of Set Off and Letter of Continuity should be signed in the presence of the bank official, along with the Rubber stamp of the Organization.  The FIR further shows that the Bank Manager did not personally verify the genuineness of the documents with the concerned organization and therefore failed to exercise proper due diligence as a Branch Manager.  Moreover, there is no evidence of the loan documents such as Demand Promissory Note, Letter of Set Off and letter of continuity having been signed in the presence of the bank official and the seal of MMRDA on those documents having been put in their presence.  The same happened to be the position in case of sanction of the loan / overdraft to MTDC against its fixed deposits.  There is no evidence of the requisite loan documents such as Demand Promissory Note, Letter of Set Off and Letter of Continuity having been signed in the presence of the bank official along with seal of MTDC.  There is no evidence of the bank officer having verified the genuineness of the documents with MTDC.  This was yet another act of gross negligence on the part of the bank, which shows connivance between the bank officials and the persons who siphoned off the money belonging to the complainants. In letter dated 18.7.2014 to MMRDA the Chief Manager of the bank while describing the procedure for grant of overdraft against Fixed Deposit Receipts, stated that in case of corporate accounts, Resolution authorizing the signatory to open / operate the overdraft account against Fixed Deposit Receipts was required.  Though, a Resolution purporting to be passed by the MMRDA is available in the record of the bank.  There is no evidence of the genuineness of the said Resolution having been verified by the bank in any manner.  The Resolution purporting to be passed by MTDC and available in the record of the bank also was not verified by the bank either by deputing a bank official to visit the office of the organization to carry out the requisite verification or by ensuring the presence of the bank official in the Branch, along with the proof of his identity, to verify the genuineness of the said Resolution.  In my opinion, the bank could not have acted upon a copy of purported Resolutions without verifying their genuineness with the concerned organization i.e. MMRDA and MTDC. 20.    As per the above referred letter dated 18.7.2014, specimen signature card of the authorized signatory was required for operating an overdraft account. There is no evidence of a separate specimen signature card for operating the overdraft account having been taken by the bank, either in case of MMRDA or in the case of MTDC before allowing the overdraft / loan facility. 21.    It has come in the FIR lodged with CBI that an overdraft of Rs.36.00 crores against security of Fixed Deposit Receipts was ratified by the Zonal Credit Approval Committee but it was not conveyed to MMRDA.  The same was the position in the case of MTDC.  This was yet another act of negligence on the part of the bank.  Had the sanction of the aforesaid loan of Rs.36.00 crores being conveyed to MMRDA/MTDC, the said organization would immediately have informed the bank that no such credit facility was even applied by it. 22.    The cheque book in the name of MMRDA and MTDC were issued without obtaining any letter of authority from the account holder.  It is also not known by whom the cheque book was received from the bank in case of MMRDA.  Obviously, the bank could not have issued the cheque book without a proper authority letter from MMRDA and without verifying the identity of the receiver of the cheque book.  The cheque book, in the name of MTDC, purportedly to have been delivered to Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil.   Since there was no letter from MTDC requesting the bank to deliver the cheque book to him, the said delivery was absolutely unauthorized and unwarranted.   This was yet another act of negligence on the part of the bank and reveals a nexus between the bank officials and the persons who siphoned off the money belonging to the complainants. 23.    Some of the fixed deposit receipts in the name of MTDC were delivered by the bank to Mr. Devendra Bhogle, whereas the remaining Fixed Deposit Receipts were delivered to Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil.  In doing so, the bank was purporting to act upon authority letters purporting to be written by MTDC to the bank, requesting it to deliver the same to the aforesaid persons. There is no evidence of the genuineness of the aforesaid authority letters which otherwise were forged documents, having been verified by the bank from MTDC either by deputing a bank official to visit the office of the complainant to verify the signature on the said letters or by even calling up the person who purportedly signed the said letters on behalf of MTDC.  Moreover, there is no evidence of the bank having collected any evidence of Mr. Devendra Bhogle / Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil being associated with MTDC.  Considering that the aforesaid company was a Government of Maharashtra Undertaking, the fixed deposit receipts, could have been handed over only to an officer / functionary of the said company.  Therefore, the fixed deposit receipts could not have been delivered to them unless the bank had verified that they were the functionaries / officers of MTDC.  There is no evidence of the aforesaid persons having even claimed to be the functionaries / officers of MTDC.  In fact, even the purported signature of Mr. Kishori Jagdish Gadre on the authority letters to the bank and the seal of MTDC on the aforesaid letters are not identical.  The difference in the signature is so obvious that even a layman can point out the same, not to talk of a bank officer who is supposed to be an experienced person in the matters such a comparison of signature of the account holder.  The letter dated 03.2.2014 did not have any seal of MTDC, whereas the seal on the letter dated 07.2.2014 is different from the seal on the letters dated 14.2.2014, 18.2.2014 and 08.3.2014.  The above said act of the bank officials clearly indicates that they were hand in gloves with the persons who siphoned off the money belonging to MTDC. 24.    The learned counsel for the complainant has submitted a compilation of judgments, containing Bihta Cooperative Development Cane Marketing Union Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Bank of Bihar & Ors. , AIR 1967 SC 389, Canara Bank Vs. Canara Sales Corporation & Anr. (1987) 2 SCC 666, Haryana Gramin Bank & Anr. Vs. Madan Lal (2011) 15 SCC 113 and State Bank of India Vs. Sheo Kumar Sharma (2014) CPJ 167 (NC), whereas the learned counsel for the opposite parties has filed a compilation of judgments, including Deepak Khosla & Anr. Vs. Union of India & Ors. 163 ( 2009) DLT 575 (DB), Anil Rishi Vs. Gurbaksh Singh (2006) 5 SCC 558, Sebastiao Luis Fernandes (Dead) through LRs Vs. K.V.P. Shastri through LRs 2014(1) SCJ 634, K.M. Abbu Chettiar Vs. Hyderabad State Bank , AIR 1954 Mad 1001, Indian Overseas Bank Vs. Industrial Chain Concern , ( 1990) 1 SCC 484, Steel Authority of India Ltd. Vs. Punjab & Sind Bank & Ors. Manu/DE/6261/2012, Bhagwani D. Patel Vs. India Bank & Ors. III (2011) CPJ 175 (NC) and CMD & Ors. Vs. Bhagwanji D. Patel & Anr. Order dated 17.2.201 of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Civil Appeal No. 9366 of 2011. 25.    In Haryana Gramin Bank (supra), Hon'ble Supreme Court expressly held that the petitioner bank was vicariously liable for the wrong doings of its officials/ employees which resulted in monetary loss to the respondent. In Bihta Cooperative Development (supra), the Apex Court held that if the signature on the cheque is not genuine, there is no mandate on the bank to pay and the question of any negligence on the part of the customer such as leaving the cheque book carelessly would afford no defence to the bank.  The bank was found to be negligent in not ascertaining whether the signature on the cheque in question was genuine and the circumstances attending the encashment of the cheque proved that the bank was negligent and some of its officers fraudulent right from the beginning.  Upholding the order decreeing the suit against the bank, it was observed that fraud could only be perpetrated because of the complicity of the employees of the bank. In Canara Bank (supra), the Court held that when a cheque containing a forged signature is presented, the bank has no authority to make payment against such a cheque and it could deny its liability only where it establishes that the customer was disentitled to make a claim on account of adoption, estoppel or ratification.  It was further held the bank, when it makes payment of such a cheque, cannot plead the defence of negligence on the part of the customer.  In Sheo Kumar Sharma (supra), it was contended on behalf of the bank that the proceedings under the Consumer Protection Act being summary in nature, the subject disputes could not be adjudicated merely on evidence by affidavit.  It was submitted that the charge of forging and cheating has to be proved by leading voluminous evidence which would include cross examination of the experts who had examined the relevant documents and that is beyond the scope of the proceedings under the Consumer Protection Act .  The contention however was rejected by this Commission, noticing that the factum of issue of cheque book in the case before it was not in dispute and therefore, deficiency in rendering services to the customer was writ large. In the case before this Commission, acts and omissions constituting negligence on the part of the bank stand established from the material placed before this Commission and in fact, have also been admitted in the FIR lodged by the bank itself against several persons, including the then Branch Manager, Mr. P.V. Nagarkar.  More importantly, this is not the case of the bank that the documents and signature which the complainants MMRDA and MTDC claim to be forged are in fact genuine documents and signatures.  For instance, the bank does not even claim that the purported signature on the customer relationship form and the specimen signature card are genuine signatures of the functionaries of the complainants.  This is also not the case of the bank that the applications for availing overdraft / loan against Fixed Deposit Receipts bear genuine signatures of the functionaries of the said complainants.  This is also not the case of the bank that the cheques used for the purpose of facilitating RTGS transfer bear genuine signatures of the functionaries of the complainants.  The bank also does not say that the copies of the PAN cards available in its record are the true copies of the genuine PAN cards.  Similarly, this is also not the case of the bank that the Demand Promissory Note, Letter of Set Off and Letter of Continuity available in its record bear genuine signatures of the functionaries of the complainants.  This is also not the case of the bank that the Board Resolutions of the complainants available in its record were actually passed by the complainants.  The failure of the bank officials to follow the procedure prescribed by the bank for opening Fixed Deposits accounts and overdraft / loan accounts have been admitted by the bank in its complaint to CBI and in the letter dated 18.7.2014 written to MMRDA.  Therefore, there seems to be practically no dispute that the documents available in the record of the bank except the placement letters of fixed deposits receipts are forged documents.  Therefore, it would be difficult to say that the factual questions involved in these complaints require voluminous oral and documentary evidence, including examination of the handwriting experts.  As far as the fixed deposit receipts in the custody of the complainants are concerned, I have no hesitation in holding that the same are forged documents and no evidence is really required to render this finding.  The complainants may be under a bonafide belief that the fixed deposit receipts in their custody are genuine documents but in fact, they are forged documents.  Some of the genuine fixed deposit receipts are in the custody of the bank, but the whereabouts of the remaining genuine fixed deposit receipts are not known, and could not be found even by CBI. 26.    I have perused the decisions in the Deepak Khosla (supra) Anil Rishi (supra) and Sebastiao Luis Fernandes (supra) and K.M. Abbu Chettiar (supra), but have not found any such legal proposition which would disentitle the complainants from obtaining an appropriate relief from this Commission. In Steel Authority of India (supra), a learned Single Judge of the High Court dismissed a Writ Petition filed against the Punjab & Sind Bank holding that disputed question of fact incapable of adjudication in Writ jurisdiction were involved. The appeal preferred by SAIL (supra) was also dismissed holding that principle enunciated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Canara Bank (supra) ought to apply when the officials of the bank, not authorized, purport to act on behalf of the bank.  It was observed in the course of the judgment that an institution like a bank is governed by rules and regulations and procedure and the action of the officer if not authorized, if it makes the bank liable, would expose the bank to large financial claims.  The aforesaid judgment, in my opinion, would not apply since this is not the case of the bank that the concerned branch manager at Malabar Hill branch of the bank was not authorized to accept the fixed deposits, open the Fixed Deposit accounts and make the RTGS / cheque based transfers.  The case of the bank is that the overdraft upto a particular limit could be sanctioned by the bank manager, whereas the overdraft / loan beyond that limit required approval from the Zonal Committee.  This is also the case of the bank that the branch manager Mr. P.V. Nagarkar, sanctioned overdraft / loan only to the extent he was competent to do and the higher limit was duly approved by the concerned Zonal Committee.  Therefore, it cannot be said that Mr. Nagarkar was acting beyond the scope of his ostensible authority as the concerned branch manager. On the other hand, a Division Bench of the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi expressly held the bank to be liable in case of fraud practiced by its officials, in Punjab National Bank Vs. Durga Devi & Ors. 13 (1977) DLT 377.  The following observation made by the Division Bench of the High Court is pertinent in this regard: 27. In Bhagwani D. Patel (supra) it was contended on behalf of the bank that there was a deep rooted conspiracy involving the attorney of the complainants with the certain other persons and therefore, voluminous and detailed evidence would be required, for which a Consumer Forum was not an appropriate Forum.  There was a factual dispute in that case as regards the genuineness or otherwise of a receipt purporting to be issued by the bank.  The withdrawals made by the attorney of the complainants from time to time were also in dispute.  It was on the particular facts of the case, that this Commission held that Consumer Forum was not the appropriate Forum to decide those disputes.  The decision of this Commission was later upheld by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No.9366 of 2011.  The aforesaid decision is clearly distinguishable on facts and therefore, does not apply to the factual situation prevailing in these complaints. 28.    For the reasons stated hereinabove, the complaints are disposed of with the following directions: In case of MMRDA, the placement letters of Fixed Deposit Receipts were delivered to Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil who also claimed to be an officer of Dena Bank.  It has come in the statement of Jitender Salvi, Accounts Officer of MMRDA, that he had called the Malabar Hill Branch of Dena Bank where a lady officer asked him to contact Rahul Mukesh Gohil and also gave his mobile number which he passed on to Deputy Accountant Ms. Mansi Khadekar.   He further stated that Mansi Khadekar as well as he himself had contacted Rahul Mukesh Gohil from the landline number of MMRDA.  He does not specifically say that Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil had represented himself to be an officer of Dena bank.  If no such representation was made by him, the placement letter should not have been delivered to him.  If he represented himself to be an officer of Dena Bank, either his identity should have been verified by visiting the concerned Branch or atleast a copy of his identity card should have been obtained and kept in the record of MMRDA.  In the absence of such an action, his statement cannot be taken at its face value. It has also come in the statement of officers of MTDC that the fixed deposit receipts to their office were brought by Mr. Devendra Bhogle.  The officials of MMRDA in my opinion, ought to have accepted the fixed deposit receipts from him, without verifying his identity by visiting the branch or atleast obtaining and retaining a copy of his identity card.  In any case, the genuineness of the fixed deposit receipts obtained from Mr. Devendra Bhogle should have been verified by the officers of MTDC from the concerned branch by personally visiting the said branch.  That however, was not done.  Similarly, MMRDA received original fixed deposit receipts from Mr. Rahul Mukesh Gohil, without verifying his identity by visiting the concerned branch and without taking and retaining a copy of his identity card, if any.  The fixed deposit receipts brought by him were also not verified by MMRDA. The above referred acts of negligence on the part of the functionaries / officers of MMRDA and MTDC cannot be ignored as minor aberrations and need to be dealt with administratively, so as to ensure that water tight instructions are in place and no-one is able to repeat such acts of fraud in future.  However, the aforesaid acts of negligence on the part of the functionaries / officers of MMRDA and MTDC have no bearing on the liability of the opposite party Dena Bank.  It is therefore, directed that one copy of this order be sent to the Chief Secretary, Government of Maharashtra for inquiring into the aforesaid acts of negligence and taking appropriate action in the matter. ......................J V.K. JAIN PRESIDING MEMBER