Heard on this first bail application under Section 439 of the
Cr.P.C. filed on behalf of the petitioner Anil Sikarwar in
Crime No.21/2015 registered by P.S.-Cyber and High
Technical Crime, District- Bhopal under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 470 , 471 and 120-B the I.P.C and Sections 67 (C) and 67 (D) of the Information and Technology Act.
As per the prosecution case, an amount of Rs. 3 lacs
deposited in the account of Alfavision Overseas India Limited,
in Palasia Indore Branch of Bank of India was illegally
transferred to the account of co-accused Neetu Agrawal in
Gurunanak Road, Jaipur branch of ICICI Bank. Out of this
amount, Rs.1.5 lacs were transferred by aforesaid Neetu
Agrawal in her account in the Gurana, Jaipur branch of ICICI.
Bank. Out of Rs.1.5 lacs, she transferred Rs.48,500/- to the
account of co-accused Udaybhan Singh in the Tirupati Nagar,
Mandsaur branch of ICICI Bank. The aforesaid co-accused
persons have withdrawn the amount which were transferred
in their account. This fraud was perpetrated by blocking the
sim in the mobile of Vishnu Yadav, who was authorized officer
of Alfavision Overseas India Limited and by obtaining a
duplicate sim in his name from Nodal Officer, of IDEA mobile.
The role that has been ascribed to the petitioner in the crime
is that he got opened a forged account in the name of Uday
Bhan Singh; whereas, the account was opened by Anup
 Singh. The forged account was opened in the name of Uday
Bhan Singh on the basis of forged pan card and forged
documents, which were got prepared by co-accused Arvind
Yadav for getting the aforesaid account opened and the
petitioner Anil Sikarwar had received Rs.15,000/- for getting
the forged account opened. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that keeping
in view the peripheral role ascribed to the petitioner in the
case as also the fact that the charge sheet against him has
been filed and he has been in custody since 18.06.2016,
petitioner deserves to be released on bail.
Learned panel lawyer for the respondent-State has opposed
the application by pointing out that it has been observed by
the Court below in the order declining to grant bail to the
petitioner that the petitioner is infamous for getting forged
account of the people opened; however, learned panel lawyer
for the respondent State has conceded that there is nothing in
the case diary to indicate that the petitioner has previous
criminal antecedents. Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case in
their entirety, particularly; 1. the peripheral role ascribed to the petitioner where for
 he has received Rs.15,000/- out of the total sum of Rs.3
 lacs; 2. nature of evidence collected in the case; 3. duration of custody already undergone by the petitioner
 and; 4. he has no criminal antecedents; -in the opinion of this Court, the petitioner is entitled to be
released on bail. However, it will have to be ensured that the
petitioner does not flee from justice. Consequently, this first application for bail under section 439 of Cr.P.C., filed on behalf of the petitioner is allowed.
It is directed that the petitioner shall be released on bail on
furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs. 80,000/- with
two solvent sureties in the sum of Rs.40,000/- each to the
satisfaction of the trial Court for his appearance before the
Court on each date and for complying with the conditions
enumerated under Section 437(3) of the Cr.P.C.
Certified copy as per rules. (C V SIRPURKAR)
 JUDGE

sh