1. Compliance affidavit filed today in the Court, the same is taken on record. 2. Mr. Ramit Sharma, Commissioner of Police (Now A.D.G.), Commissionerate, Prayagraj, Mr. Deepak Bhuker Dy. Commissioner of Police (City), Commissionerate, Prayagraj, Mr. Shwetabh Pandey A.C.P. Civil Lines, Prayagraj and Investigating Officer Mr. Mohd. Alamgir, S.H.O. Cyber Crime, Prayagraj are present before this court. 3. Heard Mr. Anand Kumar Upadhyay, learned counsel for the applicant, Mr. P.K. Giri, Additional Advocate General assisted by Mr. Amrit Raj Chaurasiya, Additional Government Advocate and Mr. A.K. Sand, learned Government Advocate. 4. By means of this application under Section 439 of Cr.P.C., applicant, namely, Budhisar Shikari, who is involved in Case Crime No. 05 of 2020, under Sections 406 , 419 , 420 , 120-B , 467 , 468 , 471 I.P.C. and Sections 66 , 66-C & 66-D of Information Technology Act, Police Station- Cyber Crime Police, District- Prayagraj seeks enlargement on bail during the pendency of trial. 5. The prosecution story is as follows:- that a first information report was lodged by the informant, namely, Ghanshyam Ji at P.S. Haja to the effect that on 11.9.2020, the informant through YONO application of his mobile number 9935764397, which was attached with Account No. 38183638813 is said to have recharged his Airtel mobile for an amount to Rs.598/- but the mobile could not be recharged even amount of Rs.598/- was deducted form his account, and a complaint to this effect was verbally made to the Bank after a week. It is alleged that the Bank manager, namely, Avinash Shukla told the informant to make complaint about this in Airtel office. It is also alleged that after a week, informant made complaint about the deduction of money in the Airtel office, and when the money is not returned to his account, after 25-27 days, informant again visited Airtel office where he met one Prashant Shukla and talked to him, whose Mobile number is 7318274151 who told the informant to make complaint wherever he wants to do. It is further alleged that on 15.10.2020 at around 11.45 a.m. informant is said to have received a call from an unknown mobile number 8389905260, who revealed his name as Rahul and said to return his money and asked saving account number of informant and IFSC code, which was revealed to him by the informant and the informant also revealed his date of birth. 6. It is further alleged that the informant also is said to have given some code and ATM Pin, thereafter, the alleged sum of Rs.598/- credited in the account of the informant. Thereafter, OTP received on his mobile was also revealed. It is also alleged that for about 1:50-2:00 hours, messages were coming continuously and the same were revealed by the informant and the money was being deducted from account of informant and he was unaware about all this. It is further alleged that when son of the informant saw the messages that money is being deducted from account, then the same was complained to the bank manager namely, Avinash Shukla, whereupon he said that the complaint would be lodged only from your mobile, because server of the Bank is down. Thereafter, the Bank Manager called someone from mobile phone of informant and told that ATM of informant has been locked and everything has been locked and also told the informant to make all withdrawals through cheque. 7. It is further alleged that after this, informant is said to have received a call from an unknown number 7478428583 stating that the caller is from S.B.I. Delhi Main Branch and he said the informant to go on Play Store of Mobile and download an application, thereafter, the informant disconnected the phone in anger, after which the money was continuously being deducted from his account till evening between 5-7 pm, which was complained to Bank Manager, namely, Avinash Shukla, thereafter, he told that the informant has not stopped YONO application and Net banking, so the money is being deducted. Hearing this, informant said the Bank Manager that he had assured him that he had locked everything, and thereafter, the informant asked for the statement of account of both the days, which has been denied by the Bank Manager as by that time Rs.16,78,380/- is said to have been deducted from account of the informant. Thereafter, the report of the incident was lodged at Cyber Crime. 8. It is contended by learned counsel for the applicant that the alleged incident is said to have happened between 15.10.2020 to 16.10.2020 whereas the F.I.R. of the incident was lodged on 19.10.2020. The applicant is completely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the above mentioned case and is not the accused named in the First Information Report. Neither did the applicant call the informant, nor did he accepted money from account, nor did the applicant give any kind of inducement to the informant. There is no legal or factual evidence against him. All the allegations made in the First Information Report are against the accused named in the Police Information Report. The name of the applicant has been added as an accused in this incident on the basis of the statement given by the co-accused to the police during investigation, which is not admissible in evidence. Nothing has been recovered from the possession of the applicant. There is no evidence to connect the applicant with the present crime. It is further submitted that the maximum punishment provided in relation to the offences indicated in the present F.I.R. is seven years. The applicant has no criminal history except the present case. 9. The main substratum of argument of learned counsel for the applicant is that similarly placed co-accused persons, namely, Shabosaha, Tausif Jaman, Mohan Kumar Mandal, Tapan Kumar Mandal, Neeraj Kumar Mandal, Sujan Kumar Mandal, Vishwajeet Barman and Ashish Barman have already been granted bail by the co-ordinate Bench as well as by this Court vide orders dated 6.5.2022 & 18.1.2023 passed in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 11466 of 2022, 23148 of 2022 & 8435 of 2022, therefore, the applicant is also entitled to bail on the ground of parity. The applicant is in jail since 13.1.2023. It is further submitted that there is bleak possibility of trial in near future and the offences are triable by the Magistrate. 10. On the other hand, Mr. P.K. Giri, Additional Advocate General opposed the application for bail. He submits that the investigation is now completed and the charge sheet has been filed against the applicant whereupon cognizance has been taken by the court below and the trial is in progress. He further submits that it is a matter of Cyber Fraud and there are cogent materials in the Case Diary against the applicant. The applicant is the main accused who along with other co-accused persons was involved in the business of defrauding innocent persons by using computer technology and in this case he has syphoned the hard earned money of informant. He further submits that the offence allegedly committed by the applicant involves scamming various individuals not only within the State but individuals from other States. Various individuals were duped and cheated to part with their hard earned money, therefore, having regard to the nature of the case, the applicant is not entitled to be released on bail. He also submits that the bail cannot be granted solely on the ground of parity i.e. co-accused persons have been granted bail, but while considering the bail application, the prima-facie case, role of the accused-applicant, conduct of the accused and other relevant factors should be taken into account. 11. It is further contended that it is a case of online Cyber fraud, which is not limited to dupe the first informant himself but there are several other victims not only throughout the State but in other parts of country as well. In this case, pursuant to the registration of the aforesaid FIR, the applicant came to be arrested and after the arrest, investigation was carried out and charge-sheet has been submitted to the competent Court against the applicant. 12. It is no doubt true that Cybercrime is a growing threat that can have serious consequences for individuals and others in our country, therefore, Investigating Agencies are required to be well specialized in investigating such crimes to gather evidence and identify the culprits. The goal of Cyber crime investigation is to identify the source of the crime, gather evidence and present that evidence in a way that can be used in Court to prosecute the culprits so as to ensure that justice is served for victims of Cybercrime In the present matter, as it appears from the various compliance affidavits filed by the State as well as Investigating Agency not only show that they made their sincere efforts in getting the culprits to fore but also find sufficient materials against the present applicant connecting him with the alleged crime, who is said to be the kingpin in the alleged offence on the basis of the materials collected during course of investigation, as such, prima-facie case is made out against the applicant. Moreover, the Supreme Court in Ramesh Bhavan Rathod v. Vishanbhai Hirabhai Makwana , (2021) 6 SCC 230 has held that the Court cannot exercise it powers in a capricious manner and before granting bail on the ground of parity, the Court must focus upon the role of the accused and his position in relation to the incident and victims is also of utmost importance. In the present case, the argument of the applicant that he may be enlarged on bail on the ground of parity, is found to be devoid of merit for the simple reason that the applicant is the kingpin of the alleged offence, and his role is distinguished in relation to other co-accused, who have been enlarged on bail. Therefore, the applicant cannot claim parity with the co-accused. 13. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case as well as submission advanced by learned counsel for the parties, nature of allegations, gravity of offence and all attending facts and circumstances of case, the Court is of the opinion that it is not a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant. 14. Accordingly, the bail application is rejected. Order Date :- 30.1.2024
 
Krishna*