(PER VINAY JOSHI, J.)

 Heard. 2. Common judgment and order of conviction dated

07.03.2017 in Sessions Case Nos.13/2014 and 130/2015 under the

provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (hereinafter referred to as 'the UAPA' for short) and Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (hereinafter referred to as 'the IPC ' for

short) led convicted accused to challenge the judgment and order

by filing two separate appeals. 3. On 22.08.2013, Crime No.3017/2013 was initially

registered with the Police Station Aheri, District Gadchiroli against

the appellant Mahesh Tirki (accused No.1), Pandu Narote (accused
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 4 No.2), and Hem Mishra (accused No.3). During the course of

investigation, the role of Prashant Sanglikar (accused No.4), Vijay

Tirki (accused No.5) and G.N. Saibaba (accused No.6) was revealed.

On completion of investigation, charge-sheet came to be filed and

numbered as Sessions Case No. 13/2014. It was followed by filing

of supplementary charge-sheet on 31.10.2015 numbered as Sessions

Case No. 130/2015. 4. After ensuring compliance in terms of Section 208 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure (hereinafter referred to as 'the Code' for

short), the Trial Court framed charges on 21.02.2015 against all six

accused for the offence punishable under Sections 10 , 13 , 20 , 38 , 39 read with Section 18 of the UAPA and under Section 120-B of the

IPC. On the accused pleading to be tried, the prosecution has

examined as many as 25 witnesses to establish the guilt of accused.

The prosecution was also banking upon certain documents to

establish the guilt with requisite standard of proof. On completion

of evidence, statements of accused were recorded in terms of Section

313 of the Code to seek their explanation on incriminating material.

The defence of the accused is of total denial and false implication.

The accused have denied seizure of incriminating material from their
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 5 possession claiming it to be planted and fabricated. The accused did

not examine any witnesses in defence. On the assessment of oral

and documentary evidence, the Trial Court has recorded a finding of

guilt against all the accused vide impugned common judgment. The

Trial Court has convicted all accused for different offences and

imposed punishment alongwith fine. For the sake of convenience,

we deem it appropriate to set out the details of conviction and

sentence of each of them in following table:- Accused 2-Pandu Pora Section 120-B of seven years each
 Narote, the IPC . and to pay fine of
 Rs.1000/- and in
 Accused 3-Hem default Rigorous
 Keshavdatta Mishra, Imprisonment for
 Accused 4-Prashant Rahi six months each. Narayan Sanglikar, Section 18 of the Imprisonment for
 Accused 6-Gokalkonda UAPA read with Life each and to
 Naga Saibaba Section 120-B of pay a fine of
 the IPC . Rs.1000/- and in
 default to suffer
 Rigorous
 Imprisonment for
 Six Months. Section 20 of the Imprisonment for
 UAPA read with Life each and to
 pay a fine of
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 6 Section 120-B of Rs.1000/- and in
 the IPC . default to suffer
 Rigorous
 Imprisonment for
 Six Months each. 2. Accused 5-Vijay Nan Section 13 of the Rigorous
 Tirki UAPA read with Imprisonment for
 Section 120-B of four years and to
 the IPC . pay a fine of
 Rs.1000/- and in
 default to suffer
 Rigorous
 Imprisonment for
 Six Months. 5. Being aggrieved by the aforesaid common judgment

and order of conviction, accused Nos 1 to 5 preferred criminal

appeal No. 136/2017 whilst accused No.6 preferred criminal appeal
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 8 No. 137/2017 before this Court. Both appeals were heard by this

Court and vide common judgment and order dated 14.10.2022, this

Court principally held that the proceedings of Sessions Case No.

13/2014 and 130/2015 was null and void for want of valid sanction

in terms of Section 45(1) of the UAPA and accordingly set aside the

order of conviction. During the pendency of the appeal, accused No.

2 Pandu Narote died, however this Court observed that his appeal

does not abate. Dealing with the issue of sanction qua accused Nos.

1 to 5 and accused No. 6 G.N. Saibaba separately, this Court was of

the view that sanction for prosecution vitiates and concluded as

below:- that the proceedings in Sessions Trials 30/2014 and 130/2015
 are null and void in the absence of valid sanction under Section
 45(1) of the UAPA, and the common judgment impugned is
 liable to be set aside, which we do order. (ii) We are conscious of the demise of accused 2-
 Pandu Pora Narote during the pendency of the appeal. We are of
 the considered view, that in view of the decision of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in Ramesan (Dead) through LR. Girija v. State of
 Kerala, AIR 2020 SC 559 which is rendered on the anvil of the
 provisions of Section 394 of the Code of 1973, appeal preferred
 by accused 2-Pandu Pora Narote does not abate. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 9 (iii) The prosecution did submit that if the appeal is decided,
 not on merits, but only on the point of sanction, we may grant
 liberty to the prosecution to obtain proper sanction and try the
 accused. In view of the well entrenched position of law, that the
 rule against double jeopardy has no application if the trial is held
 vitiated due to invalidity or absence of sanction, we see no reason
 to dilate any further on the said submission.(iv) Accused 5-Vijay
 Nan Tirki is on bail, his bail bond stands discharged. (v) Accused 1-Mahesh Kariman Tirki, accused 3-Hem
 Keshavdatta Mishra, accused 4-Prashant Rahi Nrayan Sanglikar
 and accused 6-G.N. Saibaba be released from custody forthwith,
 unless their custody is required in any other case. (vi) The appellants shall execute bond of Rs.50,000/-
 (Rupees Fifty Thousand) each with surety of like amount, to the
 satisfaction of the trial Court, in compliance with the provisions of
 Section 437-A of the Code of 1973. (vii) The appeals are disposed of in the aforestated
 terms." 6. Aggrieved with the judgment and order of this Court

dated 14.10.2022, the State preferred criminal appeal Nos. 1184-

1185 of 2023 arising out of SLP (Crl.) Nos. 11072-11073/2022

before the Supreme Court. Since this Court had not considered

and/or decided the appeals on merit, by consent of the parties, the

judgment and order of this Court dated 14.10.2022 was set aside

and the matters are remitted to this Court for fresh decision on
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 10 merits as also on the question of validity of the sanction. For the

sake of convenience, the relevant portion of the order of the

Supreme Court dated 19.04.2023 has been extracted below:- 7. In turn, the learned Acting Chief Justice of this Court vide

order dated 19.05.2023 assigned both appeals to the Bench headed

by one of us (Vinay Joshi, J.). As per convenience of the learned

Counsels appearing for different accused and learned special

prosecutor, the appeals were heard extensively including through

Video Conferencing. Both sides have canvassed various issues and

relied on several decisions in support of their respective contentions.

They have also filed written notes of arguments with charts

indicating the factual chronology and events. With this prologue, we

proceed to decide the Appeals. 8. The judgment and order under challenge is for the

offfences punishable under a special statute namely UAPA. The

UAPA was introduced with the aim and object of providing a more
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 12 effective mechanism for prevention of certain unlawful activities of

individuals and organizations and for matters connected therewith.

A special mechanism and procedure has been introduced right from

the stage of investigation containing various checks and balances. 9. The present case relates to the act of terrorism or related

activities covered under the UAPA. Initial arrest on suspicion has

revealed the involvement of the accused in acts of terrorism covered

under the provisions of UAPA. After completing all the formalities of

investigation, charge-sheet was filed, which was followed by filing a

supplementary charge-sheet with sanction to prosecute accused No.6

G.N. Saibaba. 10. The prosecution case can be stated in brief as below:- 11. On 22.08.2013 around 06.00 p.m., both accused No.1

Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu Narote were found standing

in suspicious conditions at a secluded place near Aheri Bus Stand.

Within short time, by around 06.15 p.m. one person wearing a white

cap came to them and they were conversing with each other. From

the overall appearance and movements, their activities were found

to be suspicious. API Awhad accosted them and made necessary
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 14 inquiries, to which however they gave evasive answers strengthening

his suspicions of these accused. API Awhad took these three accused

to the Police Station at Aheri. All three suspects were brought to the

Police Station by API Awhad pursuant to which the Police Station

incharge Narendra Dube, made a station diary entry No. 29/2013

around 06.35 p.m. Two panch witnesses were summoned. In their

presence, accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu

Narote disclosed their names whilst the third person (accused no.3)

who had come to meet them, disclosed his name as Hem Mishra.

Police Inspector ('PI') Anil Badgujar has made further inquiries, but

did not get any response. In the presence of panch witnesses, a

personal search of all three accused was taken. 12. Initially, the search of accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki revealed

on his person, three pamphlets of the banned terrorist organization

CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organization RDF, one purse containing

cash of Rs.60/-, platform ticket of Ballarshah Railway Station dated

28-5-2013, Identity Card and one Cell Phone of Micromax Company,

which were all seized. During the search from accused No.2 Pandu

Narote, one Cell Phone of Samsung Company, one purse containing

cash of Rs.1480/-, platform ticket of Delhi Railway Station dated
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 15 28.05.2013, Pan Card and Identity Card, were seized. Then

personal search of accused No.3 Hem Mishra was taken. During his

search, one memory card of Scandisc Company of 16 GB, one purse

containing cash of Rs.7,700/-, railway ticket of Delhi to Ballarshah

dated 19-8-2013, Camera along with Charger, Pan Card, Identity

Card and Cloth Bag were seized. All the articles were seized in

presence of a panch witnesses under panchama (Exh.137). The

seized property was taken into custody by PI Anil Badgujar. 13. On the basis of the seized material, API Awhad lodged a

report (Exh. 219) containing the details of the seizure and official

information regarding the material collected. API Awhad, during his

preliminary inquiry concluded that accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki,

accused No.2 Pandu Narote and accused No.3 Hem Mishra were

involved with the banned terrorist organization CPI (Maoist) and its

frontal organization RDF. The Officer Incharge of Police Station

Aheri PW-15 Narendra Dube has registered a crime vide Crime No.

3017/2013 against them, for the offence punishable under Sections

13 , 18 , 20 , 38 , 39 of the UAPA read with Section 120-B of the Indian

Penal Code and made a Station Diary entry to that effect. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 16 14. Since the crime was registered under the provisions of

UAPA, the investigation was handed over to PW-11 Sub-divisional

Police Officer ('SDPO') Suhas Bawche. The apprehended accused

were produced before the Magistrate on the following day and were

remanded to police custody for the purpose of investigation. During

interrogation, it was revealed that a lady named Narmadakka who

was a Naxalite belonging to banned terrorist organization CPI

(Maoist) and its frontal organization RDF, had assigned the job to

accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu Narote to

receive accused No.3 Hem Mishra, who was arriving from Delhi and

safely escort him to Murewad forest area. During interrogation of

accused No.3 Hem Mishra, it was revealed that one person from

Delhi i.e. accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba was an active member of the

banned terrorist organization CPI (Maoist) and its frontal

organization RDF. That accused no.6 had given one memory card to

accused No.3 Hem Mishra which was wrapped in paper with a

direction to deliver the same to naxalite Narmadakka. 15. Further interrogation of accused No.3 Hem Mishra

uncovered the involvement of accused No.4 Prashant Rahi Narayan

Sanglikar ('Prashant Rahi'). The investigating Officer also came to
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 17 know that accused No.4 Prashant Rahi was about to visit Raipur or

Deori. The Investigating Officer passed this information to Police

Station Chichgarh. On 01.09.2013, PW-14 PI Rajendrakumar Tiwari

found accused No.4 Prashant Rahi and accused No.5 Vijay Tirki at

Chichgarh T-point, Deori under suspicious circumstances, hence they

were brought to Aheri Police Station on 02.09.2013 around 05.00

a.m. The Investigating Officer Suhas Bawche effected arrest of

accused No.4 Prashant Rahi and accused No.5 Vijay Tirki under

arrest panchnama Exh. 239 and 240. A personal search was carried

out by the Investigating Officer Suhas Bawche. During the personal

search of accused No.4 Prashant Rahi, one purse, cash of Rs.8,800/-,

one Visiting Card, one Driving Licence, one Yatri Card, one

Newspaper "Dainik Bhaskar" and eight papers containing naxal

literature along with typewritten papers pertaining to the under-trial

Maoist leader Narayan Sanyal were seized. Likewise while carrying

a personal search of accused No.5 Vijay Tirki, one Cell Phone of

silver colour, cash of Rs.5,000/-, four pieces of paper on which

certain phone numbers were written and one newspaper "Dainik

Bhaskar" were seized. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 18 16. During investigation accused No.5 Vijay Tirki, revealed

that he was assigned a job by one Ramdar, an active member of

banned terrorist organization CPI (Maoist) and its frontal

organization RDF to receive accused No.4 Prashant Rahi and to

escort him safely to Abuzmad forest area to meet senior maoist

cadre. Investigation further led to the revelation that accused No.3

Hem Mishra, accused No.4 Prashant Rahi and accused No.6 G.N.

Saibaba entered into criminal conspiracy, pursuant to which accused

No.6 G.N. Saibaba arranged a meeting of accused No.3 Hem Mishra

and accused No. 4 Prashant Rahi with underground members of the

banned terrorist organization CPI (Maoist) and its frontal

organization RDF who were hiding themselves in Abuzmad forest

area. It was revealed that accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba handed over a

micro chip SD memory card of 16 GB of Sandisk company

containing vital maoist communications to accused No.3 Hem

Mishra and accused No.4 Prashant Rahi with instructions to deliver

the same to the naxalities with an intention to furthering the

activities of banned terrorist organization CPI (Maoist) and its

frontal organization RDF. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 19 17. It is the prosecution's case that during investigation, it was

revealed on 26.08.2013 that accused No.3 Hem Mishra was using his

face-book account for these activities. The Investigating Officer

called two panch witnesses and in their presence, the face-book

account of accused No.3 Hem Mishra was opened on the lap-top of

Aheri Police Station. After opening the face-book account of accused

No.3 Hem Mishra, some screen shots and their printouts were taken

in the presence of panch witnesses. The entire process was video-

graphed and panchnama was prepared vide Exh. 199. The material

collected from the face-book account of accused No.3 Hem Mishra

was seized vide panchnama Exh.200. The 16 GB memory card of

Sandisk Company seized after the personal search of accused No.3

Hem Mishra was sent to Central Forensic Science Laboratory,

Mumbai ('CFSL'). Scientific expert PW-21 Bhavesh Nikam has

examined the said material and submitted his report at Exh.266.

The certified hard copies printed from the data contained in the

mirror images/clone of the data in the said memory card of Sandisk

Company were annexed along with the CFSL report Exh. 266. 18. On completing the process of investigation, sanction under Section 45(1) of the UAPA was sought. PW-19 Dr. Amitab Ranjan
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 20 has accorded sanction vide order dated 15.02.2014 for the

prosecution of accused Nos. 1 to 5 only. After obtaining sanction,

final report in terms of Section 173(2) of the Code was filed in the

Court of Judicial Magistrate First Class, Aheri on 16.02.2014. The

case was committed to the Court of Sessions on 26.02.2014 which

was registered and numbered as Sessions Case No. 13/2014. 19. During investigation and interrogation of accused No.3

Hem Mishra and accused No.4 Prashant Rahi, involvement of

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba was revealed. In turn, PW-11

Investigating Officer Suhas Bawche sought a search warrant from

the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Aheri on 07.09.2013 for search of

the house of accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba at New Delhi. The

investigating Officer along with police staff proceeded to Delhi on

09.09.2013 after making a station diary entry to that effect. The

Investigating Officer Suhas Bawche sought assistance from the Local

Police of Maurice Nagar Police Station, New Delhi. The Local Police

provided the police staff, computer expert and videogrpaher to

facilitate the house search of accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba which was

in the campus of Delhi University. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 21 20. Investigating Officer Suhas Bawche along with his search

party proceeded to the house of accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba. The

Investigating Officer disclosed the purpose of his visit to the accused

No.6 G.N. Saibaba in presence of panch witnesses. During the house

search, seizure was made of a Compact Disk, Digital Versatile Disk,

Pen Drive, Hard Disk, three Cell Phones, two Sim Cards, Books,

Magazines and certain other articles vide panchnama (Exhibit 165).

Electronic and digital gadgets and devices which were seized during

the house search of accused 6-G.N. Saibaba, were sent to the CFSL,

Mumbai for forensic analysis. Mr. Bhavesh Nikam (PW 21) has done

the forensic analysis of the electronic gadgets and data and

submitted a report at Exhibit 267, along with the cloned

copies/mirror images of the data contained in the electronic gadgets

and hard disk. 21. Investigating Officer Suhas Bawche attempted to arrest

accused No. 6 G.N. Saibaba, however members of banned terrorist

organization CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organization RDF

protested. The Investigating Officer Suhas Bawche therefore,

obtained an arrest warrant for accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba from the

Judicial Magistrate First Class, Aheri on 26.02.2014 and then
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 22 effected his arrest vide panchnama Exh. 269 on 09.05.2014. From

personal search of accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba, one mobile phone, RC

Book of a vehicle and cash amount of Rs. 320/- was seized. Accused

No.6 was brought from Delhi and produced before the Judicial

Magistrate First Class, Aheri who in turn remanded him to the

judicial custody. 22. The sanction for prosecution under Section 45(1) of the

UAPA pertaining to accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba was applied for. PW-

18 sanctioning authority Mr. K.P. Bakshi has accorded sanction vide

order dated 06.04.2015 which led to filing of supplementary charge-

sheet registered as Sessions Case No. 130/2015. Since both

Sessions Cases No. 13/2014 and Sessions Case No. 130/2015 arose

out of the same incident, the learned Sessions Judge directed a joint

trial of both cases. 23. The learned Counsels for the appellants adopted two

arguments to press for the acquittal of the accused. The validity of

the sanction under Section 45(1) of the UAPA was challenged after

which the veracity of the evidence was attacked to persuade us to
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 23 hold that the evidence led by the prosecution was unrealistic,

unreliable and fabricated. We make it clear that though accused no.2

Pandu died, his appeal survives. 24. It is advantageous to advert first to the contentions

relating to validity of the sanction being an important facet of the

criminal prosecution under UAPA. SANCTION FOR PROSECUTION UNDER SECTION 45 [1] OF UAP

ACT. 25. Legality of sanction has been seriously challenged by the

learned Counsels appearing for different accused. For the sake of

convenience, we prefer to deal with sanction qua accused Nos. 1 to

5, separately from the challenge to the sanction qua accused No.6

G.N. Saibaba. Except the ground of non-application of mind by the

Sanctioning Authority, the grounds for challenges are distinct. 26. Both sides have vehemently argued the point of prior

sanction for the Special Court to take cognizance in terms of Section

45(1) of the UAPA. The learned special prosecutor submitted that

sanction qua accused No1. 1 to 5 is a valid sanction issued by the

competent authority after due application of mind. He would
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 24 submit that sanction as regards accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba, though

issued post taking cognizance, does not vitiate the proceeding for

two reasons. Firstly, in the absence of raising a specific challenge at

initial stage itself, and secondly, it is a curable defect in terms of

Section 465 of the Code. Per contra, the learned defence Counsel

attacked the validity of sanction with all seriousness. It is the

precise submission of the accused that the provisions of UAPA are

quiet stringent in nature, the Act providing harsh punishment even

for preparatory acts, or likelihood of the involvement, or for mere

membership of a banned organization. The UAPA was amended from time to time adding various

stringent provisions. One of the major and extensive amendment

was by amendment to the UAPA was amendment Act 35 of the year

2008. The central theme behind amendment of the year 2008 was

to make further provisions to cover various facets of terrorism and

terrorist activities. The object of avoiding possible misuse of the

stringent provisions has direct nexus with amended Section 45 of the

UAPA which pertains to prior sanction. It is argued that Section

45(2) of UAPA provides a special mechanism in the form of a two
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 25 tier filter to protect the personal liberty which was to be strictly

complied. 27. Before dealing with the rival submissions, it would be

apposite on our part to note some dates and events connecting to the

aspect of sanction. 2. 15.02.2014 Sanction for prosecution Against accused Nos. 1 to 5. 3. 16.02.2014 Charge-sheet against all six accused. 4. 13.06.2014 Validity of sanction challenged in Bail Application No.
 96/2014. 5. 21.02.2015 Charge framed against all accused.

6 04.03.2015 Received recommendation of Reviewing authority on
 accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba. 7. 06.04.2015 Sanction as regards to accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba. 8. 27.10.2015 First prosecution witness was examined. 9. 30.11.2015 Supplementary charge-sheet against accused No.6 G.N.
 Saibaba with sanction order. 10. 05.01.2016 Recall of PW-1 28. We have heard Mr. Ponda learned senior Counsel for

State at length on the point of sanction. Mr. Ponda initially drew
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 26 our attention to the questions framed by the Supreme Court in its

earlier order dated 15.10.2022 which are as below:- 29. The prosecution endeavoured to establish that sanction

qua accused Nos. 1 to 5 issued by PW-19 Dr. Amitabh Ranjan was

legal and valid. Secondly, sanction qua accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba

though granted post cognizance, however for want of specific

challenge and demonstrating some failure of justice, is a curable

defect in terms of section 465 of the Code. 30. For the sake of convenience, we have reproduced Section

465 of the Code herein below:- 31. It is argued that the provisions of the Code would squarely

apply to the prosecution under UAPA. In particular, it is submitted

that Section 45 of the UAPA does not open with a non-obstante

clause, meaning thereby the general provisions of the Code would

apply with full force. Our attention is specifically drawn to Sub-

clause (2) to Section 465 of the Code to contend that while

determining the question as to whether there was any error or

irregularity or omission, in grant of any sanction, the Court shall

consider whether the objection has been raised at the earliest stage

of the proceedings. According to the prosecution, the accused did not raise

any specific challenge at various stages of the case i.e. at the time of

taking cognizance, framing of charge, recording of evidence, during

cross-examination, during recording of statement under Section 313
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 29 of the Code and while advancing final arguments in the Trial Court.

It is submitted that the accused have neither claimed discharge nor

invoked inherent powers of this Court in terms of Section 482 of the

Code to question the tenability of prosecution on account of

irregularity/omission or invalidity of the sanction. It is contended

that the accused cannot raise the issue of sanction first time in

appeal that too in re-joinder. Moreover, it is submitted that no such

specific ground was raised in the appeal memo. 32. It is contended that the irregularity of sanction cannot

determine the competence of the Court to try the matter once having

faced the trial and availed the opportunity of cross-examination.

After issuance of sanction qua accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba dated

06.04.2015, PW-1 was recalled as well as cross-examined. Fullest

opportunity was given in the Trial Court and thus it is not a case of

failure of justice. 33. Mr. Ponda would submit that accused Nos. 1 to 5 have not

challenged the validity of sanction by initiating substantive

proceedings. Even if the order is void, it is required to be set aside

by a competent Court of law and such order cannot be declared to
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 30 be void in collateral proceeding. Accused Nos. 1 to 5 have not

challenged the validity of sanction during cross-examination. Full

opportunity was given in Trial Court to inspect the original sanction

file. There is no substance in the contention that the entire material

was not placed either before Reviewing Authority or Sanctioning

Authority. 34. According to Mr. Ponda, Section 45 of the UAPA does not

prescribe for the recording of reasons nor provides a format in which

sanction or opinion or recommendation is to be made. The accused

cannot challenge the independence of the Reviewing Authority. The

act of making recommendations is an executive or administrative

order which is not amenable to an appeal. Moreover, legislative

debates cannot be relied upon for the purpose of interpreting

statutory provisions. Mr. Ponda relied on various decisions to which

we will advert shortly. 35. Mr. Mandhyan, learned Counsel appearing for accused

Nos. 1 to 3 has seriously challenged the legality of sanction. He

submits that sanction is accorded without considering an

independent review by the authority appointed by the Government. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 31 The intention of the legislature in mandating sanction is to prevent

the misuse of the stringent provisions. The recommendation for

according sanction was given in absence of part of the material

which was later produced as evidence, that too without any

application of mind. He would submit that in absence of an

independent opinion by the Reviewing Authority, the sanction is

defective and tantamounts to absence of sanction which is an

incurable defect. In the absence of valid sanction, the Court is not

empowered in law to take cognizance. He has attacked the legality

of the sanction based upon total non-application of mind by an

independent reviewing authority as well as sanctioning authority. In

support of his contention, he relied on several decisions, to which we

would advert to. 36. Mr. Pais, learned senior Counsel appearing for accused

Nos. 4 and 5 has on similar lines challenged the legality of the

sanction by making exhaustive submissions backed by several

reported decisions. He would submit that Section 386(b)(i) of the

Code applies only to a stage after a full-fledge trial and thus, the

Appellate Court is well within its competence to discharge the

accused. When the entire trial is without jurisdiction, the accused
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 32 are entitled for discharge. Pre-condition of previous sanction under

UAPA is done in a more specific and stringent manner than the other

laws, because the consequences are serious. Though no particular

form has been prescribed for recommendation, however it requires

to reflect due application of mind. 37. Mr. Pais would submit that Section 45(1) of the UAPA bars

a Court from taking cognizance of any offence in absence of valid

sanction. The sanction has to be accorded only after consideration

of the report of an independent authority which reviews the

evidence and the material available on record. Valid sanction is

essential to lift the statutory bar, and in its absence, the Court lacks

jurisdiction to taking cognizance. He would submit that a

fundamentally invalid sanction amounts to no sanction and goes to

the root of the jurisdiction of the Court, being an incurable defect.

The effect of invalid sanction would be as if the Court had tried the

matter without jurisdiction. Mere formal order of sanction without

due application of mind would not automatically render the validity

nor could be cured with the aid of Section 465 of the Code.

Sanction dated 15.02.2014 qua accused Nos. 1 to 5 is only for

prosecution of acts under Section 45(1)(ii) under Chapter IV and VI
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 33 of the UAPA. There was no sanction for the offence falling under

Chapter III of the UAPA. The sanction order is devoid of reasons as

to how each specific charged offence applies to each of the accused

against whom sanction has been accorded. It is criticized that the

sanction order is nothing but a reproduction of the draft sanction

order provided by the Investigating Officer. 38. In order to emphasize the importance of sanction under

UAPA, it is submitted that the UAPA is a stringent statute and an

extraordinary piece of legislation. The statute itself has provided a

safeguard against its misapplication or misuse. The legislature

thought that mere executive sanction is not enough, hence a two

stage filter has been specifically provided. Every sanction must be

preceded by reviewing of the entire material by an independent

authority. The authority issuing the recommendation shall

independently apply its mind to the material qua each accused. The

recommendation is bereft of reasons or anything from which it could

be perceived that there was due application of mind. Resultantly,

the Sanctioning Authority was deprived from considering an

independent review report mandated by law. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 34 39. Mr. Pais submitted that the objection as to validity of

sanction was very much taken at the earliest possible opportunity.

While applying bail for accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba in Bail

Application No. 96/2014, legality of sanction dated 15.02.2014 qua

accused Nos. 1 to 5 was challenged, however the Trial Court kept

these objections pending till examination of the Sanctioning

Authority. The cross-examination of relevant witnesses and

arguments advanced before the Trial Court equally suggest, the

objection taken as to the legality of sanction. In sum and substance,

the entire proceeding would stand vitiated in the absence of valid

sanction in view of the specific statutory mandate provided under

UAPA. 40. Mr.S.P. Dharmadhikari, Senior Counsel appearing for

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba while challenging the legality of sanction

took us to the background of introduction of UAPA and more

particularly the objects and reasons for introducing time to time

amendments to the UAPA. His endevour was to impress that the

provisions of the UAPA are stringent, hence the statute itself has

provided various safeguards in the shape of power to arrest and

search, procedure for arrest and seizure, modified application of
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 35 certain provisions of the Code, presumption as to the offences under Section 15 , obligation to furnish information and more particularly

the necessity of prior sanction, that too in the manner required

under Section 45 of the UAPA. According to him, Section 45 is a

unique provision adding a very important pre-cognizance, pre-

sanction filter. The UAPA departs from the general procedure at

every stage, provides a presumption as well as stringent punishment.

The endeavour was to ensure that the UAPA and its provisions are

not misused and citizens are not harassed, therefore various checks

and balances are incorporated therein. With the said object, a two-

layer filter has been provided at pre-cognizance stage. Even before

the stage of grant of sanction, a review of the entire material was

contemplated from an independent authority. Section 45(2) creates

a statutory bar on grant of sanction unless independent authority

"reviews" the evidence gathered and gives its recommendation in a

time bound manner. Recommendations of an independent authority

are not an empty formality. 41. On facts, it is submitted that the Trial Court has framed

charge against accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba on 21.02.2015 whilst

sanction against accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba was accorded on
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 36 06.04.2015 and filed in the Court with supplementary charge-sheet

on 30.11.2015. Prior to sanction, cognizance as against accused

No.6 had already been taken, charge was framed and evidence has

commenced. 42. It is strenuously argued that Section 465 of the Code

would cure the "error" or "irregularity" in grant of sanction, but does

not cover omission or total absence of sanction. With the aid of

Section 465 of the Code, cognizance taken by the Court in violation

of the mandatory provisions of Section 45(1) of the UAPA cannot be

cured. Absence of sanction is an illegality, rendering the whole trial

vitiated. Only a valid sanction would confer the jurisdiction on the

Court to take cognizance, and in absence of the same, all acts get

vitiated. Departure from the statutory provision amounts to

deprivation of the fundamental right of freedom and liberty violating Article 21 of the Constitution of India. In support of said

submission, he took us through various provisions as well as

reported decisions. 43. To address the issue, we feel it necessary to see the origin

of UAPA. The genesis of The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act apeal136 & 137.17.odt 37 1967 lies in the recommendations of the Committee on National

Integration and Regionalism set-up by the National Integration

Council to look, inter alia, into the aspect of putting reasonable

restrictions on certain freedoms in the interests of the sovereignty

and integrity of India. As reflected in the Statement of Objects and

Reasons of the UAPA, it was pursuant to the recommendations of the

said committee that Parliament enacted the Constitution (Sixteenth

Amendment) Act 1963 to impose reasonable restrictions in the

interest of sovereignty and integrity of India on: 44. Pursuant thereto, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention)

Bill was introduced in Parliament to make powers available for

dealing with activities directed against the sovereignty and integrity

of India, which bill came on the statute book as the Unlawful

Activities (Prevention) Act 1967 ('UAPA', for short) w.e.f. 30.12.1967. The Preamble to the UAPA as originally enacted read as

follows : (emphasis supplied) 45. Subsequently, in order to give effect to certain resolutions

passed by the Security Council of the United Nations and to give

effect to the Prevention and Suppression of the Terrorism

(Implementation of Security Council Resolution) Order 2007 and

further, to make special provisions for prevention of, and for coping

with, terrorist activities and for matters connected therewith or

incidental thereto, the UAPA was further amended in the year 2008

inter alia by substituting the then existing Section 15 relating to

"terrorist act" with effect from 31.12.2008. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 39 46. It was followed by further amendment by Act 3 of 2013

and then by the Amendment Act No. 28 of 2019. The legislative

history indicates that from time to time, to tackle the challenges,

UAPA was amended to provide effective remedy to cope-up with

unlawful activities and the act of Terrorism. 47. In this background, we shall examine the much argued

challenge regarding the validity of sanction in terms of Section 45 of

the UAPA, and its effect on taking cognizance of the offences by the

special Court. For the sake of convenience, Section 45 of the UAPA

as it stands after amendment of the year 2008 reads as under:- apeal136 & 137.17.odt 40 (2) Sanction for prosecution under sub-section
 (1) shall be given within such time as may be
 prescribed only after considering the report of such
 authority appointed by the Central Government or, as
 the case may be, the State Government which shall
 make an independent review of the evidence gathered
 in the course of investigation and make a
 recommendation within such time as may be
 prescribed to the Central Government or, as the case
 may be, the State Government." 48. We take note that Sub-clause (2) has been inserted in the

year 2008 mandating additional compliances to the initial

requirement of Section 45 of the UAPA. Before insertion of Sub-

clause (2), the original Section 45 precluded the Court from taking

cognizance of the offence without previous sanction as contemplated

under Sub-clause(i) and (ii) of Clause 1 to Section 45 of the UAPA.

The initial fetter on the powers of the Court to take cognizance was

akin to the other statutes. However, the legislature in its wisdom

thought it fit to put an additional safeguard or a filter in terms of

Sub-clause (2) to Section 45 of the UAPA. This necessitates

examination of the background behind insertion of one more filter in

the process of sanction. The best course to unfold the legislative
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 41 intent is to go through the Statement of Objects and Reasons of

amendment Act 35 of 2008. This being of great significance, we

have reproduced the same as below:- 49. Much has been canvassed on the genesis behind

introducing the bill to amend the UAPA in the year 2008. Rival

submissions have been made about the use and utility of the

Parliamentary Debates while interpreting statutory object. Elaborate

submissions have been made on whether it is permissible to use

Parliamentary Debates as an extrinsic aid to interpret construction of

statutes. We do not wish to delve into the said aspect since to our

mind the statement of objects and reasons behind amendment is the

best guide to unfold the legislative intent in bringing the provision

into the statute book. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 43 50. The object was loud and clear to make additional provision

for speedy investigation, prosecution and trial of cases related to

terrorism, related offences, coupled with ensuring against any

possible misuse of such provision. The initial provision requiring the

sanction for taking cognizance was an important safeguard

protecting the fundamental rights of the citizens guaranteed under

the Constitution. Besides that, one additional safeguard was

provided by insertion of Sub-clause (2) to ensure that the citizens

are not unnecessarily engulfed into frivolous prosecution by the

Investigating Agency. A second pre-sanction layer was put in

requiring the scrutiny of material by an independent authority. Sub-

clause (2) of Section 45 of the UAPA provides that the sanction for

the prosecution under Sub-Section (1) shall be given "only after" 51. The UAPA as was originally enacted did not cover terrorist

activities. After repeal of the POTA, the UAPA was strengthened with

the amendment of the year 2008 continuing initial Section 45 of the

UAPA prohibiting cognizance by any Court in absence of sanction in

terms of Sub-clause (1) of Section 45 of the UAPA. The said initial

provision pertaining to sanction under Section 45 of the UAPA was in

juxtaposition with the provisions under the Terrorist and Disruptive

Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 ('TADA') and the POTA vide Section

20-A and 50 respectively. Despite that a need was felt to put an

additional rider in the shape of one more filtering process by some

authority other than the Investigating Agency, with a mandate to

have an independent review before according a sanction. Obviously,

an independent authority so appointed may take its own decision,

which was the very purpose behind the insertion of Sub-clause (2) of

the 45 of the UAPA. As stated above, the object of amendment is

clearly discernible from the aims and objects of the amended Act.

The rival submissions are required to be considered in the light of

said specific provision introduced in the amended statute. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 45 52. Mr. Ponda has strenuously argued that the sanction orders

meet the requirement of law and they are in tune with Section 45(2) of the UAPA. We have been taken through the recommendations of

the independent authority, sanction order and related evidence led

by the respective Sanctioning Authorities. In addition, it is

submitted that even if there is any error in the process of sanction,

the same is a curable defect in terms of Section 465 of the Code.

Much emphasis is laid on the point that the defence has not

challenged the validity of sanction at any earlier point of time and

thus, at a later stage they cannot challenge the same, more so after

conviction recorded by the First Court. 53. The statute itself provides twin safeguards against misuse of a

stringent law. The statute has engrafted an additional filter of

review by an independent authority before granting conventional

executive sanction as contained in other Acts. It is argued that

though the independent authority has submitted its report, it is

nothing, but a sheer formality without application of mind. It has

frustrated the very legislative object by such mechanical exercise. In

this regard, we have been taken through the report of the Reviewing
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 46 Authority i.e. the Director of prosecution (Exh. 358) which reads

thus:- 54. We have examined the report to understand what was

perused by the Reviewing Authority, and what material prompted
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 47 the authority to form an opinion that there exists prima facie

evidence against the accused, and therefore the recommendation.

Can such a report be treated to be in conformity with the legislative

expectations, and can the said report would achieve the purpose of

assisting the Sanctioning Authority in forming its opinion? 55. Mr. Ponda submitted that Section 45(1) of the UAPA

nowhere prescribes for assigning reasons for grant of sanction. He

would submit that the law does not prescribe or mandate that the

authority must assign reasons for grant of sanction, but according to

him in case of refusal to grant sanction, it must be backed with

reasons. He would submit that the provisions of Section 45(2) does

not mandate the Authority so appointed to assign reasons while

forwarding its recommendations. In support of this contention, the

learned Special Prosecutor invited our attention to some of the

provisions of the Code to impress that for taking action, reasons are

not warranted, but for denial, reasons are necessary. He drew

support from the decision of the Supreme Court in case of U.P.

Pollution Control Board1. In the said decision, relating to the

provisions of Section 203, 204 of the Code, it has been observed that 1.U.P. Pollution Control Board Vs. Mohan Meakins Ltd. , (2000) 3 SCC 745
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 48 there is no legal requirement to pass detailed order for issuance of

process, but for dismissal of complaint brief reasons are required.

Applying the said analogy, it is submitted that the reasons are not

required for grant of sanction since Section 45 of the UAPA does not

prescribe assignment of reasons like the case of Section 204 of the

Code. On similar lines, he drew our attention to the decision of the

Supreme Court in case of Kanti Bhadra Shah.2 where, in the context

of framing of charge, it has been expressed that, in view of the

language employed under Sections 239 and 240 of the Code, for

framing charge reasons are not required, but for discharge, the Court

must assign the reasons. 56. We are afraid that adopting this analogy drawn from

general provisions of the Code would not be the correct course

under UAPA. The said analogy could be made applicable at the stage

of issuance of process, or framing of charge, but certainly not in the

context of Section 45(2) of the UAPA which prescribes strict

compliances in line with the objects of fair play sought to be

achieved. We have no doubt in our mind that the

report/recommendations of the Reviewing Authority is an executive 2.Kanti Bhadra Shah and another Vs. State of W.B (2000) 1SCC 722
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 49 act which is not at par with the quasi judicial orders amenable to the

appellate jurisdiction. However, in the context of preserving the

statutory spirit behind incorporating the pre-sanction layer, the

provision is to be read and understood. The legislature thought the

traditional executive sanction was inadequate for providing

sufficient safeguards to the accused. The very provision of a two tier

system took birth on the background of repeal of similar statutes,

namely POTA and TADA, which were widely criticized. The UAPA

came into force in the year 1967, however substantial amendments

to tackle acts of terrorism have been introduced in the year 2004

and then elaborated in the year 2008 along with additional

safeguards under Section 45(2) of the UAPA. The very statement of

object and reasons behind Amendment Act 35 of 2008 conveys the

reason for expanding the term "terrorist act" along with the statutory

safeguards enacted in the same stroke. The object was clear, that the

repealed POTA was largely criticized, hence to control the terrorist

acts, expansive provision was made by way of amendment of the

year 2008 along with a statutory safeguard. In the light of the said

statutory object, the provisions of Section 45(2) are to be

understood and interpreted. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 50 57. Before amendment of the year 2008, Section 45 of the

UAPA pertaining to cognizance of offences was in existence with a

rider to obtain prior sanction like other parallel statutes. However,

by way of amendment, Sub-clause (2) has been added with the

object to protect uncalled prosecution and to prevent misuse. It puts

in place a check on the Investigating Agency by intervention of an

independent authority to independently examine the material and

make recommendations as the authority deems fit. The wordings of

Sub-clause (2) do not merely state that the prior "consent" of the

independent authority is required, but spells out the mode and

manner in which such pre-sanction exercise has to be done, that too

within a prescribed time frame. At the cost of repetition, for ready

reference, we once again extract Sub-clause (2) to Section 45 of the

UAPA which reads as below:- 58. Words employed in the section itself conveys the legislative

intent, that recommendation by an independent authority is

prerequisite for grant of sanction. The Sub-clause (2) is specific, and

mandates that the authority shall make an "independent review" of

the evidence gathered and submit its recommendations. It is a

prerequisite for Sanctioning Authority to consider the "report" of the

independent authority before grant of sanction. The term report has

its own significance. The word "report" does not mean to pass on

assent, but is to be read in context. It is generally understood that a

report is a concise piece of writing that refers to facts and evidence

to look at issues, situations, events or findings. Reports are

informative texts that aim at analyzing material with a specific

purpose and audience in mind. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 52 59. It is a statutory mandate for the authority to take

independent review of the entire evidence. The legitimate

expectation is that the authority will apply its mind, consider the

entire material, re-scan the evidence before reaching to the

particular conclusion. The term "review" in general parlance

connotes to reconsider or to view again or to give second thought on

the existing material or to re-examine. The report at least should

indicate broadly the basis on which the conclusion was reached,

however we cannot find a single word in the Report to lay such a

foundation for making a recommendation for grant of sanction. The

Report displays total non-application of mind to the material on

record. 60. In the light of the above statutory requirement, we have

looked at the report (Exh. 358) of the Director of Prosecution. The

report only indicates in cryptic manner as to what the authority has

perused. The report does not convey anything beyond the

conclusion of finding of prima facie evidence and the

recommendations to that effect. Cryptic non-speaking report neither

gives an idea about the exercise done by the authority, nor convey

anything even briefly, while reaching a conclusion. We find it
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 53 difficult to treat the said communication as a "report" in terms of Section 45(2) of the UAPA. Certainly, this was not the legislative

intent. Rather it was expected that the Sanctioning Authority would

get a good deal of assistance from the report of the independent

authority for its consideration which is totally lacking. In the result,

what was with the Sanctioning Authority for its consideration was

nothing more than a mere green signal and certainly not an

independent opinion. A cryptic communication cannot be

considered as a "report" as expected under the law. 61. Having regard to the language used under Sub-clause

(2), though the reasons are not required, but the independent

authority is certainly expected to at least communicate in brief as to

what prompted the authority to make the recommendation. It was

an important facet of the process of sanction which has to be passed

to the Sanctioning Authority to enable it to take an appropriate

decision. We do agree that statute has not prescribed any format or

a form in which the report is to be made. However, it was the

minimum expectation from the Authority that the report would

convey due application of mind. The very purpose was to provide

assistance to the Sanctioning Authority. In turn, besides a go ahead
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 54 signal of the authority, there is nothing before the Sanctioning

Authority for its consideration while granting sanction. As such the

legislative object has been completely frustrated by said

communication which was not in tune with the additional filter

provided by the statute. 62. Mr. Ponda not only adhered to the legality of sanction, but,

also endeavoured to impress that even if there happens to be an

error or irregularity, it is a curable defect in terms of Section 465 of

the Code. He would submit that an irregularity in the process of

sanction cannot be capitalized on to stifle the genuine prosecutions.

To avoid failure of genuine prosecution, Section 465 of the Code is

to be taken into consideration. It is emphasized that Section 465 of

the Code is meant for Appellate Courts/Revisional Courts to condone

the irregularity in sanction unless failure of justice has occasioned

thereby. Moreover, it is strenuously argued that in terms of Sub-

clause (2) to Section 465 of the Code unless the objection to the

validity of sanction has been raised at an earlier stage, the same

cannot be entertained in appeal, that too after accused is held guilty. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 55 63. On the other hand, the learned defence Counsel would

submit that though ideally objection to the sanction was to be raised

at an initial stage, however it can be raised at any stage even in

appeal. The Central theme of submission is that it is not a case of

mere error or omission, but the sanction is totally invalid, resulting

in the Court lacking jurisdiction to take cognizance, which goes to

the root of the case. Therefore, even if the validity of sanction has

been challenged in context to a subsequent stage, still the objection

has to be entertained. 64. Section 465 of the Code is undoubtedly meant for the

Appellate Court to save the prosecution from its failure on mere

error or irregularity. Sub-clause (2) to Section 465 of the Code

conveys that objection to the sanction should be raised at an earlier

stage, however the statue itself provides that it is one of the

consideration for the assessment. Sub-clause (2) to Section 465 of

the Code never precludes the Appellate Court from entertaining an

objection, if raise at belated stage, but the Court shall have regard to

the stage of objection. [ 65. Since the stage of raising objection to the validity of

sanction is one of the major factor for consideration, we have
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 56 examined the said aspect in great detail. The learned Special

Prosecutor emphasized that the validity of sanction has not been

challenged during the entire trial. It is submitted that neither the

accused have claimed discharge nor argued the aspect of sanction in

the final submissions, nor during recording their statement under

Section 313 of the Code. Rather, it is submitted that the accused

gave no objection to frame the charge. It is submitted that though

after framing of charge, sanction to prosecute accused No.6 G. N.

Saibaba was tendered, the prosecution has recalled PW-1 Santosh

Bawne to which accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba gave no objection and

thus, there was no challenge to the legality of sanction during trial.

Mr. Ponda would submit that the accused could have claimed

discharge on account of invalidity of sanction or applied for

quashing of the prosecution in terms of Section 482 of the Code, but

they did not. In substance, he would submit that post conviction,

the said objection cannot be entertained in terms of Section 465(2)

of the Code. 66. Mr. Ponda relied on the decision of the Supreme Court

in case of Lal Singh3 to contend that the objection pertaining to the 3. Lal Singh Vs. State of Gujarat and another , (1998) 5 SCC 529
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 57 validity of sanction shall be raised at the earliest occasion. In this

decision it has been observed that in view of Sub-clause (2) to

Section 465 of the Code, the objection could and should have been

raised at an earliest stage and if not, mere error or irregularity in

sanction becomes ignorable. The said decision was later

distinguished by the Supreme Court in case of Ashrafkhan to which

we will advert. 67. In response, Mr. Pais would submit that though ideally

the objection to the validity of sanction should be raised at the initial

stage, however it can also be raised at different stages of trial i.e. at

the time of taking cognizance, framing of charge, final argument and

even in appeal. In support, reliance is placed on the decision in case

of S. Subbegowda4 which reads below:- (Emphasis supplied.) 68. In order to butress the submission that the objection

regarding proper sanction can be considered at a later stage, reliance

is also placed on the decision in the case of C. Nagarajaswamy5 5.State of Karnataka through CBI Vs. C. Nagarajaswamy, (2005) 8 SCC 370
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 59 with special reference to para 16 of the decision which is quoted

below:- (Emphasis supplied.) 69. Besides that, the learned Counsel appearing for defence

denied the submission of Mr. Ponda by stating that at each and every

stage, the validity of sanction was challenged in the proceedings

before the Trial Court. In order to impress that the objection to the

validity of sanction was very much raised at initial stage, the defence

heavily relied on the objection to the sanction raised in the bail

application itself. Our attention has been invited to the order of

rejection of bail dated 13.06.2014 passed by the Trial Court in the

Miscellaneous Criminal Bail Application 96/2014. Bare perusal of

the said order reflects that the validity of sanction was challenged

with specific objection that the sanction was not issued after taking
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 60 into consideration the report of the authority. To bring clarity, we

deem it appropriate to reproduce certain portion of the bail rejection

order which is quoted below:- 11. The ld. Advocate appearing for accused has also
 mainly contested case on the ground that the sanction
 given by State government to prosecute accused under the
 provisions of UAP Act is invalid. Hence he submitted that
 court cannot take cognizance of the offence punishable
 under the provisions of UAP Act against applicant
 accused. For that purpose he submitted that the State
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 61 Government had not considered the report of authorised
 officer before according sanction. I had gone through
 record of the case. On perusal of the same it has become
 clear that the State government had accorded sanction
 within the period of limitation to prosecute accused
 persons under the provisions of UAP Act . At this stage, it
 will have to be presumed that the sanction must have been
 given by following due process of law by the State
 government. At this stage, there is nothing on record to
 sow that the due process of law was not followed by the
 state government while granting sanction. I am of the
 opinion that the same will be decided on merit in the case
 when sanction authority will be examined in the case.
 However, at this stage, it will have to be considered that
 sanction was accorded after following due process of law
 by the State government." (Emphasis supplied.) 70. The above order makes it abundant clear that at the

inception before framing of charge, the validity of sanction was

challenged, but the Court has postponed its consideration. It is a

matter for consideration as to whether the accused are expected to

challenge the sanction midway when the Court has postponed the

objections till conclusion of recording of the evidence. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 62 71. Defence submitted that the line of cross-examination as

well as the arguments advanced before the Trial Court, indicates that

validity of sanction has been challenged and was the subject matter

of scrutiny by the Trial Court. In this regard, we have been taken

through the suggestions put in the cross-examination of PW-11

Suhas Bawche (Investigating Officer), PW-18 Mr. K.P. Bakshi, PW-19

Dr. Amitabh Ranjan (Sanctioning Authority). Moreover, it is

submitted that the Trial Court has exhaustively dealt with the

objection to the validity of sanction by spending as many as 58 pages

which itself demonstrates that the validity of sanction was very

much under challenge before the Trial Court. 72. Besides that we have also gone through the cross-

examination of PW-19 Dr. Amitab Ranjan who has accorded sanction

qua accused Nos.1 to 5. It is evident from the line of cross-

examination that the process of sanction has been challenged.

During cross-examination, it has been suggested that there was no

due application of mind. The cross-examination was on the lines that

the entire papers were not placed before the Sanctioning Authority.

The conclusions were reached without supporting material and thus,

sanction was accorded without application of mind. We have also
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 63 gone through the cross-examination of PW-18 Mr. K.P. Bakshi who

has accorded sanction as regards to accused No. 6. G.N. Saibaba. He

was also subjected to lengthy cross-examination giving various

suggestions indicating that the entire material was not produced and

the sanction was mechanically accorded without application of

mind. 73. After recording of evidence, accused were examined in

terms of Section 313 of the Code. It was one of the argument

advanced by the State that during recording of his statement, the

point of sanction was not challenged. We have gone through the

statements of accused to that extent. The accused have specifically

denied suggestions to that effect by stating that said evidence is

false. For ready reference, we have quoted the answers given by the

accused to sanction related questions in the following form:- 74. The accused Nos. 1 to 6 have filed point wise written notes

of arguments (Exh. 489) in the Trial Court making final submissions

on various aspects, and particularly on the validity of the first

sanction dated 14.02.2014 which was challenged under the separate

caption. The relevant portion of written notes of argument is

extracted herein below:- 75. Likewise, the second sanction order dated 06.04.2015 for

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba was challenged under the following

caption:- ------- 22.3. No independent review by the director of prosecution.

 22.4. Delay in granting sanction which goes beyond the
 statutory time limit - makes the sanction orders invalid
 and bad in law - no explanation given by the
 prosecution for the delay - prejudice caused to the
 accused. 22.5. The office of director of prosecution as well as the
 director of public prosecution are the same: it casts a
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 66 doubt over the independent role to be played by the
 director of prosecution. 76. The above exercise is a complete answer to the submission

that the defence has not challenged the validity of sanction before

the Trial Court. Rather we may add that the Trial Court has devoted

total of 58 pages (Page No. 1772 to 1830 of the paper book) in

dealing with the point of sanction. At the first instance, even before

framing of charge, sanction was challenged in the bail application

itself. The Trial Court has specifically concluded that the point of

sanction shall be considered after recording of evidence of the

Sanctioning Authority. Thus, the objection regarding sanction was

kept in abeyance by the Trial Court till the conclusion of evidence.

The line of cross-examination, answers given in the statements

recorded under Section 313 of the Code and in particular written

notes of arguments, overwhelmingly point out that the sanction was

very much challenged before the Trial Court. 77. Needless to say that in the appeal before us, the point of

sanction has been exhaustively argued, meaning thereby the

question of sanction was one of the main issues in challenge raised
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 67 by the defence. Paragraph No.36 of the appeal memo equally

indicates the challenge to the sanction. Therefore, it is not a case to

say that the validity of sanction was not challenged at the earliest

point of time which is one of the factor for consideration while

dealing with the aspect of sanction. 78. Mr. Pais argued another dimension of this issue by bringing

to our attention, the powers of the Appellate Court in terms of

Section 386(b)(i) of the Code, which empowers the Appellate Court

to reverse the finding and sentence and acquit or discharge the

accused or order for re-trial. In the said lines, he has argued that the

Appellate Court is well empowered to discharge the accused even

after conviction, which is provided for in the procedural law itself.

According to him, recording of conviction by the Trial Court would

by no means foreclose the right of the accused to object to the

legality of sanction in appeal and claim discharge. 79. Though Sub-clause (2) to Section 465 of the Code

contemplates that the objection to the sanction shall be raised at an

earlier stage, however the Section itself postulates that stage of

objection is a factor for consideration but not a decisive one. In
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 68 other words, Sub-clause (2) conveys that ideally objection to lack of

sanction shall be raised at an earlier stage and said would be

considered while dealing with the objection. By no means would

Sub-clause (2) convey that objections to sanction, if raised at a

belated stage, shall not be considered. Moreover, we have

sufficiently demonstrated above that the validity of sanction was

challenged in the Trial Court. 80. Mr. Dharmadhikari, the learned senior Counsel took us

through Sub-clause (1) to Section 465 of the Code to contend that

the language employed in the Section itself is specific and which

cures procedural errors, omissions, or irregularity, but it does not

speak about omission of sanction. True, Sub-clause (1) to Section

465 of the Code states that any error, omission or irregularity in the

complaint, summons, warrant, proclamation, order, judgment or

other proceedings before or during trial or other proceedings under

this Code are curable. As regards sanction, the section is specific,

that any error or irregularity in the sanction would be saved.

Emphasis is laid on the later part of Sub-clause (1) pertaining to

sanction which only speaks about error or irregularity and not about

omission. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 69 81. It is argued that the word omission, pertaining to the

former part of Section is about other irregularities which do not

cover sanction. Mr. Ponda responded to this submission by

submitting that the former part about error, omission, and

irregularity pertains to the "proceedings" before the Trial Court

which according to him includes sanction. We are not in agreement

with this submission because, if such an interpretation is accepted

then there would be no reason to make a separate reference in the

later part of section pertaining to sanction, which speaks about error

or irregularity and not about the omission. The above submission

assumes significance in the context of language employed in Section

465 of the Code which saves error or irregularity of sanction and not

the omission which is the case relating to accused No.6 G. N.

Saibaba. 82. Mr. Chitale, learned Counsel for prosecution would submit

that this is not a case of omission of sanction qua accused No.6 G. N.

Saibaba, but it is a case of delayed sanction for accused No.6 G.N.

Saibaba. Admittedly, when cognizance was taken and charge was

framed, there was no sanction for prosecution of accused No.6 G.N.
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 70 Saibaba and thus, under colour of delayed sanction, we cannot

assume that while taking cognizance, there was a valid sanction

which was a mandate of law in terms of Section 45(1) of the UAPA.

We say so because of the negative language employed in the statute

under Section 45(1) of the UAPA, which precludes the Court from

taking cognizance in the absence of sanction and thus, it is a vital

stage as there is a complete prohibition on the Court to take

cognizance in the absence of sanction. 83. Mr. Ponda relied on the decision of Bhooraji6 to contend

that a procedural irregularity does not vitiate the trial unless failure

of justice has been demonstrated. The Court of competent

jurisdiction would not cease having competence merely because

there happens to be a procedural lapse. To note the context in

which the decision in Bhooraji's (supra) case was rendered, is a

matter of significance. The long drawn trial for offences under the

Indian Penal Code, and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

(Prevention of Atrocities) Act ('SC and ST Act') resulted in

conviction. The Investigating Agency had directly filed a charge-

sheet in the special Court, which, after taking cognizance ended the 6. State of M.P. Vs. Bhooraji and others , (2001) 7 SCC 679
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 71 trial in conviction. The accused filed appeal before the High Court

of Madhya Pradesh. During the pendency of the said appeal, the

Supreme Court, while deciding the case of Ganguli Ashok held that

committal proceedings are necessary for special Courts to take

cognizance. Till the said decision of the Supreme Court, the Full

Bench decision of Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Anand

Swaroop was followed holding that, for proceeding under the SC

and ST Act, committal orders are not required. However, taking

note of the change in legal position, the High Court of Madhya

Pradesh held that the trial without committal was sans jurisdiction

and thereby, quashed the entire trial and returned the charge-sheet

for re-submission. 84. In the aforesaid background, in case of Bhooraji (supra),

the Supreme Court considered that there were demerits for the

accused at the stage of committal prior to the introduction of the

Code of 1973, however the Court noted that after the Code of 1973

came into operation, there are no disadvantages to the accused at

the stage of committal. In the said context, coupled with the fact

that, after conviction only by noticing the change in legal position,

objection was raised, the issue was considered. In the aforesaid
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 72 background, Section 465 under Chapter XXXV "irregular

proceedings" was considered and it was held that the procedural

irregularity does not make a validly constituted Court incompetent

on account of such irregularity. In substance, it was held that there is

no prejudice occasioned to the accused under the new Code of 1973

at the stage of committal which is totally a procedural aspect,

curable under general provisions contained in Chapter XXXV of the

Code. The issue of sanction was not involved in the said decision . 85. On the same line, prosecution relied on the decision of the

Supreme Court in case of Rattiram7, wherein the decision rendered

in Bhooraji 's case (supra) was held to be the correct position of law.

In the case of Rattiram, the trial under the provisions of SC and ST

Act had commenced and concluded without committal of case to the

Court of Sessions. It was canvassed that by virtue of the bar created

under Section 193 of the Code, the entire trial stood vitiated. The

Court has considered the substantive rights enjoyed by accused prior

to the committal in context with the old Code of 1898. Note was

taken of the fact that after the new Code of 1973, the Magistrate was

only required to see whether the offence was exclusively triable by a 7.Rattiram and ors. Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (2012) 4 SCC 516,
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 73 Court of Sessions. Earlier at the time of committal, the Magistrate

was required to hold inquiry, record satisfaction, take evidence, and

the accused had a right of cross-examination, but after the Code of

1973, the limited role was ascribed to the Magistrate to commit on

satisfaction of cognizable offence. In the said context, it has been

held that, since the accused did not have substantial rights at the

time of committal under the new Code, there was no occasion for

failure of justice. Considering the said position in the light of

Section 465 of the Code, it was observed that the procedural lapses

which do not vitiate the valuable rights of accused would not

frustrate the trial as there is no failure of justice. The issue of invalid

sanction or no sanction was not considered in the context of Section

465 of the Code. 86. Our attention has been invited to the decision of

Kalpanath Rai8 to contend that the legislature has purposefully

introduced Sub-clause (2) to Section 465 in the Code of 1973 to

save failure of prosecution on mere error or irregularity in

prosecution. Likewise merely because an objection is raised at

earlier point of time, it does not invalidate the proceedings, but it is 8.Kalpanath Rai Vs. State (through CBI) (1997) 8 SCC 732
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 74 only one of the consideration to be weighed. The relevant

observations are extracted below:- (Emphasis supplied.) 87. Undisputedly, by virtue of Sub-section (2) of Section 465

of the Code, error or irregularity in sanction is saved, unless failure

of justice has occasioned. It is a question of fact whether in the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 75 context of given facts, process of sanction can be termed as mere

error or irregularity and if so, whether failure of justice has

occasioned. 88. Prosecution relied on the decision of the Supreme Court in

case of Girish Kumar9 under the provisions of Prevention of

Corruption Act , to contend that mere absence or error or irregularity

in grant of sanction, does not vitiate the proceeding in absence of

raising objection at the initial stage. Moreover, after judicial scrutiny

and the conclusion of guilt, the point of absence or error or omission

would become inconsequential. The relevant observation made in

paras 67 and 77 are as under:- It was explained that a trial involves judicial scrutiny of
the entire material before the Special Judge. Therefore, if
on a judicial scrutiny of the evidence on record the
Special Judge comes to a conclusion that there was
sufficient reason to convict the accused person, the
absence or error or omission or irregularity would
actually become a surplusage. The necessity of a sanction
is only as a filter to safeguard public servants from
frivolous or mala fide or vindictive prosecution. However,
after judicial scrutiny is complete and a conviction is
made out through the filtration process, the issue of a
sanction really would become inconsequential. 77. An allegation of 'failure of justice' is a very
strong allegation and use of an equally strong
expression and cannot be equated with a miscarriage
of justice or a violation of law or an irregularity in
procedure - it is much more. If the expression is to be
understood as in common parlance, the result would
be that seldom would a trial reach a conclusion since
an irregularity could take place at any stage,
inadmissible evidence could be erroneously admitted,
an adjournment wrongly declined etc. To conclude,
therefore, Section 19(3)(c) of the PC Act must be given
a very restricted interpretation and we cannot accept
the over-broad interpretation canvassed by learned
Counsel for the appellants." (Emphasis supplied.)
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 77 89. In the said decision a note was taken of the specific

provision of Section 19 of the PC Act pertaining to the previous

sanction for prosecution. Relying on the decision in case of V.K.

Sehgal,10 it has been observed that absence or error or omission or

irregularity in grant of sanction would not ipso facto result in failure

of justice. Moreover, if objection to the sanction has not been raised

at the initial stage, post conviction, such absence, error or

irregularity would become a surplusage. The term "failure of

justice" has been explained in that it cannot be equated to

miscarriage of justice or a violation of law, but is much more than

that. 90. The said decision was rendered in context of the

provisions of Section 19 of the PC Act pertaining to previous

sanction for prosecution. Notably, Sub-clause (3) to Section 19 of

the PC Act is a specific provision to cure or save any error, omission

or irregularity in the sanction. For the sake of convenience, we have

extracted clause (3) to Section 19 of the PC Act as below:- (Emphasis supplied.) 91. Clause (3) of Section 19 of the PC Act gives overriding

effect to the provisions of the Code. It provides that the sanction

does not vitiate the proceeding on the ground of absence of, or any

error, omission or irregularity in the sanction unless in the opinion of

the Court, a failure of justice has been occasioned. The clause
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 79 specifies the term "omission" which is not the position in case of

Section 465 of the Code pertaining to sanction, on which much

emphasis is laid by the prosecution. Sub-clause (1) of Section 465 of

the Code saves procedural irregularities which are "omissions", but

the later portion pertaining to sanction only cures the error or

irregularity in the sanction and does not speak about omission of

sanction. 92. PC Act has a specific inbuilt provision under Section 19(3) (a) to save omission in sanction, which is not the position under Section 45 of the UAPA which does not have such an arrangement.

Moreover, the UAPA being a special stringent statute, the

observations made in a different context cannot be made applicable

in the light of specific requirements of Section 45(2) of the UAPA. 93. Nishan Singh11 was a case under Section 302 of the

Indian Penal Code. The issue about non-compliance of the

provisions of Section 319(4)(a) of the Code was under 94. Mr. Ponda relied on the decision of the Supreme Court in

case of Pradeep Wodeyar12 to contend that generally a finding or

order is not reversible due to irregularity unless a "failure of

justice" is proved. The objection about irregularity should be raised

at the earliest opportunity. The Court has considered the purport

of Chapter XXXV of the Code which relates to the irregular

proceedings. The relevant paras 46 and 47 of the decision runs

thus:- However, Section 465(2) only provides one of the factors
 that shall be considered while determining if there has
 been a failure of justice. Section 465(2) by corollary does 12.Pradeep S. Wodeyar Vs. State of Karnataka , 2021 SCC Online SC 1140
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 81 not mean that if the alleged irregularity is challenged at
 an earlier stage, the failure of justice is deemed to be
 proved. Even in such cases though, where the challenge is
 made before the trial begins, the party has the burden of
 proving a failure of justice'. Further, even if the challenge
 is made before the trial begins, the Court still needs to
 determine if the challenge could have been made earlier. 47. The test established for determining if there has
 been a failure of justice for the purpose of Section 465
 is whether the irregularity has caused prejudice to the
 accused. No straitjacket formula can be applied.
 However, while determining if there was a failure of
 justice, the Courts could decide with reference to inter
 alia the stage of challenge, the seriousness of the
 offence charged, and apparent intention to prolong
 proceedings. It must be determined if the failure of
 justice would override the concern of delay in the
 conclusion of the proceedings and the objective of the
 provision to curb the menace of frivolous litigation."
 (Emphasis supplied.) 95. In case of Pradeep Wodeyar (supra), relating to the

provisions of Mines and Minerals Act, 1957 , the Supreme Court

has considered the effect of irregularity in committal proceedings

and its consequence in the context of failure of justice. Emphasis
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 82 is laid on the test as to whether the irregularity has caused failure

of justice with reference to the stage of challenge. 96. Prosecution relied on the decision in case of V.K. Sehgal (supra). The relevant para 10 and 11 are as quoted below:- (Emphasis supplied.) 97. In this decision relating to the PC Act , the issue of

competence of the Sanctioning Authority was raised for the first

time in appeal which is not the case here. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 84 98. Reliance is placed by Mr. Ponda on the decision of the

Supreme Court in case of Rajmangal Ram13 to impress that unless

the Court reaches to the conclusion that a failure of justice has

been occasioned, error, omission or irregularity in sanction may

not be entertained. In the said decision relating to the PC Act , the

objection about sanction was raised midway through the trial.

Taking note of the specific provision of Section 19(3) of the PC

Act, read with Section 465 of the Code, it is expressed that under

both the enactments any error, omission or irregularity in the

sanction does not vitiate the eventual conclusion in the trial unless

a failure of justice has occurred. The aspect of failure of justice

would be considered after leading evidence and not at the midst of

the trial. 99. Our attention has been invited to the decision of the

Supreme Court in case of Deepak Khinchi14, which was a case

under the Explosive Substances Act . In the said case, sanction was

accorded after three years of the occurrence which took the lives

of 14 innocent persons. Before framing charge, the Court directed 13.State of Bihar and others Vs. Rajmangal Ram , (2014) 11 SCC 388 14.Deepak Khinchi Vs. State of Rajasthan , (2012) 5 SCC 284
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 85 the prosecution to obtain sanction for which there was delay of

three years. In that context, it was observed that three years delay

in obtaining sanction cannot be considered fatal, but it is a duty of

the Court to see that the preparators of crime are tried and

convicted if offences are proved against them. 100. Though Mr. Ponda relied on the decision in case of

V.K. Sasikala15 the said decision is of no assistance. In the said

case, the issue was of denial of access to documents in custody of

the Court, but not relied upon by the prosecution. In that context,

it has been ruled that the objection of prejudice, if raised by the

accused, it should be dealt by the Court then and there. 101. Mr. Ponda relied on the decision of the Supreme Court

in case of Virender Kumar Tripathi16 to contend that in absence of

pleadings about failure of justice, the objection to the validity of

sanction cannot be entertained. Our attention has been invited to

paras 9 and 10 of the decision which read as under:- (Emphasis supplied.) In the said decision , the Trial Court had not entertained the

objection to the sanction while framing charge. The accused has

filed a revision petition against said order on the ground that

sanction was accorded without consulting the parent department

in terms of Circular dated 09.02.1988. In that context, it was
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 87 observed that the provisions of Section 19(3) of the PC Act have

not been considered by the High Court. There was no whisper or

pleading of any failure of justice. Moreover, the stage when this

failure was to be established was yet to reach, therefore, the High

Court's decision of quashing was set aside. The above decision

was in the context of specific provision of Section 19(3) of the PC

Act, and the stage of prosecution. 102. The decision in case of Kuppuswamy17 has been cited

to contend that unless failure of justice is pleaded and proved, the

trial cannot be quashed. The relevant observations made in para

15 reads as below:- (Emphasis supplied.) 103. The above decision was rendered in context of specific

saving provision of Section 462 of the Code. It has been observed

that on the ground of mere technicality or lack of territorial

jurisdiction the sentence cannot be set aside unless failure of justice

is shown. The issue of validity of sanction was not involved in the

said decision . 104. On the similar line, our attention was drawn to the

decisions of the Supreme Court in cases of Mohd. Shahabuddin18

and Fertico19 to impress the importance of pleadings of failure of 18.Mohd. Shahabuddin Vs. State of Bihar and others , (2010) 4 SCC 653 19.Fertico Marketing and Investment Private Limited Vs. CBI and another , (2021) 2 SCC 525
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 89 justice. The issue for consideration in case of Mohd. Shahabuddin

was about place of sitting of Court in context with Section 462 of the

Code. In case of investigation by C.B.I, prior consent under Section

6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act was not obtained to

investigate a public servant, which was accorded later. In that

context, absence of pleading about prejudice to the accused was

considered. 105. On the other hand, the learned defence Counsel,

strenuously argued that the material defect in grant of sanction

goes to the root of the case. In view of special requirement of section 45(2) of the UAPA in absence of valid compliance, sanction

vitiates the whole process which is an incurable defect. It is

submitted that the general provisions of the Code namely Section

465 would protect the procedural irregularity but nor the

fundamental defects which goes to the root of the case. According

to the learned Counsel for defence, the legislative object of providing

twin layers of protection was frustrated by flagrant breach

committed by the Reviewing Authority. The said material defect

itself amounts to failure of justice which touches the fundamental

rights of the citizen. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 90 106. Mr. Mandhyan strenuously argued that the use of

negative words employed in the statute itself shows its mandatory

nature. For this purpose, he relied on the decision of the Supreme

Court in case of Rangku Dutta20 with special reference to para 18, 19

and 21of the decision:- (Emphasis supplied.)
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 92 107. Above observations made in context of the provisions of

Section 20-A(1) of a similar statute such as TADA assist us in

interpretation of the mandatory nature of Section 45(1) of the UAPA. 108. In order to impress that defect in sanction is incurable,

initial reliance is placed on the decision of the Privy Council in case

of Gokulchand Dwarkadas21, with reference to para 12 of the

decision which reads as under:- (Emphasis supplied.)

In the said decision, it has been expressed that in absence of valid

sanction, the Court would loose jurisdiction and the defect in

jurisdiction of the Court can never be cured under Section 537 of the

old Code. The said decision was rendered on the canvass of the old

section which does not have specific enabling provision like Section

465(1) of the Code which requires to be noted. 109. Mr. Mandhyan relied on the decision of the Supreme

Court in case of Pulin Das22 to impress the mandatory nature of the

requirement of sanction with reference to para 23 of the decision

which is quoted below:- 110. Mr. Mandhyan would submit that the UAPA is a special

statute with a dual safeguard in sanction process which cannot be

tinkered with in terms of the general provisions of the Code. By

relying on the decision of the Supreme Court in case of Dilwar

Singh23 it is contended that in case of special statute, maxim

"generalia specialibus non derogant" would apply. 111. Reliance is placed on the decision of the Supreme Court

in case of Rambhai Gadhvi24 to contend that validity of sanction is

sine qua non for enabling the Court to take cognizance. The

relevant observation made in para 8 of the decision runs as

below:- (Emphasis supplied.) 112. The above decision relates to the pari materia provision of

Section 20-A(2) of the TADA which is as under:- General of Police, or as the case may be, the Commissioner
 of Police." TADA was a similar statute under which these observations have

been made which assumes significance. Observations made under

similar stringent statutes bears relevance in the context of UAPA

running on the same lines. 113. In order to emphasise the necessity of valid sanction,

heavy reliance is placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in

case of Ashrafkhan25 with special reference to para 34 which

reads as under:- (Emphasis supplied.) 114. Considering its earlier pronouncement in case of Lal

Singh (supra), the Supreme Court in case of Ashrafkhan (supra),

observed that the defect in sanction goes to the root of the case

and is not a curable defect. The Court has observed that the

provisions of stringent and harsh statute are to be strictly followed.

Moreover, it is clearly observed that omission in prior approval in

taking cognizance under similar statute, TADA is not a curable

defect under Section 465 of the Code. Above observations are

quite relevant since both are stringent and harsh statutes made to

combat terrorist acts. 115. Mr. Pais has placed reliance on the decision in case of

Nanjappa26 to contend that grant of proper sanction is a sine qua

non for taking cognizance and even the plea of no sanction can be

raised for the first time before the Appellate Court. The special

emphasis is laid on para 22 of the decision which reads thus:- The competence of the court trying the accused so
 much depends upon the existence of a valid sanction.
 In case the sanction is found to be invalid the court can
 discharge the accused relegating the parties to a stage
 where the competent authority may grant a fresh
 sanction for the prosecution in accordance with law. If
 the trial Court proceeds, despite the invalidity attached
 to the sanction order, the same shall be deemed to be
 non-est in the eyes of law and shall not forbid a second
 trial for the same offences, upon grant of a valid
 sanction for such prosecution." (Emphasis supplied) 116. Mr. Pais further relied on the decision of the Supreme

Court in Seeni Nainar Mohammed27 where, having regard to the

stringent provisions of the TADA with special reference to Section

20-A. it is observed that non-compliance of those provisions vitiates 27Seeni Nainar Mohammed Vs. State (2017) 13 SCC 685,
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 100 the proceedings. Relying on the decision in case of Ashrafkhan (supra), it is expressed that TADA being a stringent penal statute, it

requires strict interpretation and failure may vitiate the entire

proceeding. In this regard, we may reproduce para 11 and 21 of the

decision which read thus:- 21. We are therefore of this considered opinion that as
 a result of illegal sanction order the criminal
 proceedings for prosecution under the TADA Act are
 vitiated entirely. Suffice it to say that Learned Court
 under the TADA Act has grossly erred in taking
 cognizance of the case." (Emphasis supplied) 117. Mr. Pais submitted that the aspect of failure of justice may

not occur at the initial stage, but it is to be demonstrated after

conclusion of trial. He drew support from the decision of the

Supreme Court in case of Virender Kumar Tripathi (supra),

wherein, it is observed that whether or not failure has occasioned,

has to be determined once the trial commences and evidence was

led. Similarly, Mr. Pais would submit that all types of errors or

irregularity cannot be cured with the aid of Section 465(2) of the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 102 Code, nor would delay in raising objections foreclose the right to

challenge the legality of sanction. In this regard, he would also rely

on the decision in case of Kalpnath Rai (supra). 118. Mr. Pais heavily relied on the decision of the Supreme

Court in case of Anwar Osman28 to contend that Sanctioning

Authority is under obligation to accord sanction specific to an

offence in relation to the provisions of TADA. It is observed that the

question of prior approval or prior sanction goes to the root of the

matter and is sine qua non for valid prosecution concerning offences

under TADA. The relevant observations made in para 19, 20 and 21

read thus:- 20. The necessity of obtaining prior sanction under
Section 20-A(2) need not be underscored considering the
draconian provisions of TADA. In our opinion, therefore,
even sanction qua Accused No.3-Respondent No.3 dated
1-4-2005 (Exh.57) does not stand the test of a valid
sanction to prosecute him for offences punishable under
TADA. Indeed, the prosecution has relied on the evidence
of PW10 and PW-13. That, in our opinion, at best,
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 104 would suggest that all the relevant papers gathered during
 the investigation were placed for consideration before the
 sanctioning authority. The fact remains that Exh.57 issued
 under the signature of A.K. Bhargav, IGP, makes no attempt
 to even remotely indicate as to why sanction to
 prosecution for offences punishable under Sections 3 , 4 or
 5 of TADA has been accorded qua accused No.3-
 Respondent No.3 merely on the basis of possession and
 recovery of two walky-talkies from him. Further, he has
 not been examined by the prosecution which also could
 have thrown light on that crucial aspect. Therefore, we
 have no hesitation in concluding that the sanction dated 1-
 4-2005 (Exh.57), is not a valid sanction qua Accused
 No.3-Respondent No.3. 21. We are conscious of the fact that the Designated
 Court did not frame any issue regarding validity of
 prior approval under Section 20-A(1) or prior sanction
 under Section 20-A(2). As the question of prior
 approval or prior sanction goes to the root of the
 matter and is sine qua non for a valid prosecution
 concerning TADA offences and including the
 jurisdiction of the Designated Court, no fault can be
 found with the Designated Court for having answered
 that issue at the outset." (Emphasis supplied)

In above decision it has been specifically observed that the issue of

prior sanction goes to the root of the matter and is a sine qua non for
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 105 valid prosecution under the TADA. Moreover, our attention has been

invited to the observations made therein that the duty of the

Sanctioning Authority cannot be underscored considering the

draconian provisions of TADA. In the said decision , the Supreme

Court, after considering its earlier pronouncements in the case of Seeni Nainar (supra), Ashrafkhan (supra), Rambhai Gadhvi (supra)

reiterated the position of law about importance of sanction under a

stringent statute and its effect on prosecution. 119. The Supreme Court has consistently emphasized in a series

of decisions rendered under similar statute that validity of sanction

is a sine quo non for valid prosecution, and absence thereof vitiates

the proceedings. We find these decisions more relevant and

appropriate for consideration under the UAPA which was introduced

to achieve the same object. In this regard we drew support from the

observations of Supreme Court in case of Vernon29, particularly

paragaraph no.36 thereof, which reads as under. The above observations assist us to the great extent. 120. Mr. Dharmadhikari drew our attention to the decision of

the Supreme Court in case of Ajmer Singh30 to emphasize that by

virtue of Section 5 of the Code, in the absence of specific provision

to the contrary, it would not affect any special or local law for the

time being in force. 121. Mr. Dharmadhikari relied on the decision in case of Prakash 31

to emphasis the need of stricter interpretation of a stringent law of

which para 14 is relevant:- (Emphasis supplied) 122. Mr. Dharmadhikari would submit that a stringent law is to

be interpreted strictly. He relied on the decision of the Supreme

Court in case of Karnal Singh32 with special emphasis on para 6 of

the decision which reads as under:- (Emphasis supplied) 123. We may take note of the Constitutional Bench decision in

case of Baij Nath33 in which while dealing with the provisions of 32.Karnal Singh Vs. State of Haryana , (2009) 8 SCC 539 33.Baij Nath Prasad Tripathi Vs. The State of Bhopal and another , AIR 1957 SC 494
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 108 Section 403 (Old Code) about maintainability of a second trial, it is

expressed that the trial without sanction is null and void being by a

Court not competent. The relevant observations made in para 6 are

quoted below:- (Emphasis supplied) 124. When confronted with various decisions rendered under

the provisions of TADA, Mr. Ponda responded by submitting that they
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 109 are of no assistance in view of peculiarity of Section 20-A of the

TADA which reads as below:- General of Police, or as the case may be, the
 Commissioner of Police." It is canvassed that Section 20-A(1) opens with a non-obstante

clause which specifically excludes the applicability of the general

provisions made under Chapter XXXV of the Code. The decisions

rendered under the TADA cannot be made applicable since Section

45 of the UAPA does not open with a non-obstante clause giving an

overriding effect. Though at first blush this submission seems to be

attractive, however the entire Section 20-A of the TADA requires

consideration with its true import. Sub-clause(1) to Section 20-A of

the TADA opens with non-obstante clause giving overriding effect to

the general provisions of the Code. The said clause pertains to the

prior approval of the District Superintendent of Police for
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 110 registration of crime. Certainly Sub-clause (1) gives overriding

effect to Section 154 of the Code which mandates the Police Officer

to register a crime on receiving information relating to the

commission of cognizable offence. We are afraid to stretch the effect

of a non-obstante clause to Sub-clause (2) of Section 20-A of the

TADA which pertains to pre-sanction required for the Court to take

cognizance. Sub-clause (2) of Section 20-A of the TADA does not

open with a non-obstante clause, but it is akin to Section 45(1) of

the UAPA with the only difference that such sanction is only of the

Sanctioning Authority spcified in the Section. 125. We cannot equate or import a non- obstante clause

incorporated in Sub-clause (1) of TADA into Sub-clause (2) which

does not have one. If it was the legislative intent to give overriding

effect to Sub-clause (2) pertaining to sanction, then Sub-clause (2)

would also have been opened with a non-obstante clause like the

case of Sub-clause (1). We cannot read something which is not

provided under the statute. For these reasons, we are unable to

accede the submission of Mr. Ponda for discarding the precedents

cited under the provisions of TADA. Rather in our opinion, TADA

was a similar stringent statute made to tackle acts of terrorism. We
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 111 can trace the genesis for amending UAPA Act of 2008 covering

terrorist acts to TADA and POTA. These statutes on the same subject

introduced with the object of tackling terrorism run on same lines.

Therefore, according to us, the guiding principles laid down by the

Supreme Court in the context of TADA would assist us to great

extent compared to other statutes like PC Act . 126. Mr. Ponda laid further emphasis on the absence of

pleadings and satisfaction on account of failure of justice. It is

strenuously argued that the accused have neither pleaded the case of

failure of justice on account of irregularity in the sanction, nor it has

been demonstrated before us. Adverting to Section 465(1) of the

Code, it is canvassed that unless the Court comes to the conclusion

that a failure of justice has occasioned, the error or irregularity in

sanction is of no consequence. 127. The legislative intent behind Section 465 is to save the

prosecution from technical errors or irregularity post conviction, that

too if it does not occasions failure of justice. The core issue is

whether in given facts, the sanction accorded in the manner as

discussed above can be termed as a mere error or irregularity. We
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 112 have extensively dealt the issue of sanction in the context of special

pre-requirement under the UAPA. The mechanical exercise done by

the Director of Prosecution cannot be termed as a mere curable

procedural error or irregularity. In case of mere error or irregularity,

it is for the defence to show the failure of justice, but if the sanction

itself is void for material defect, it goes to the root of the case and

vitiates the entire proceedings which itself is an instance occasioning

failure of justice. 128. In addition to Section 465 of the Code, our attention

has been invited by the learned special prosecutor to Section 460 of

the Code relating to the irregularity which does not vitiate the

proceedings. Chapter XXXV of the Code under caption of "irregular

proceedings" has specified the contingencies, in which the

irregularity does not vitiate the proceedings (Section 460 of the

Code) and eventualities in which irregularity would vitiate the

proceedings (Section 461 of the Code). It is argued that Section

460(e) of the Code provides that if any Magistrate not empowered

by law to take cognizance of an offence under Clause (a) or Clause (b) of Sub-section (1) of Section 190 of the Code takes cognizance,

it does not vitiate the proceedings. Based upon these provisions in
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 113 addition to Section 465 of the Code, it has been canvassed that if

cognizance is taken without empowerment, it is a curable defect. 129. As a matter of fact, UAPA being a special stringent

statute, the provisions of the UAPA would prevail over the general

provisions of the Code. Section 45 of the UAPA specifically precludes

the Court from taking the cognizance of any offence in absence of

valid sanction which goes to the root of the case. The said material

deficiency cannot be cured by invoking general provisions of the

Code. 130. The next hurdle which the prosecution has to surmount

is the challenge to the sanction on account of non-application of

mind by the Sanctioning Authority. It is argued that both the

Sanctioning Authorities have not applied their mind nor satisfied

themselves about sufficiency of material to put accused on trial. The

relevant material and the relevant facts in relation to the commission

of offence were not considered by the authority. Particularly, it is

submitted that CFSL report was not available for consideration by

the Sanctioning Authority and PW-19 Dr. Amitab Ranjan despite that

made a statement about perusal of the CFSL report. Moreover, it is
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 114 submitted that the approach of the Sanctioning Authority was casual

and has merely approved the draft sanction forwarded by the

Investigating Officer. 131. Mr. Pais would submit that in order to demonstrate due

application of mind by the Sanctioning Authority, the entire relevant

material must be placed before the Authority. For this purpose, he

relied on the decision of the Supreme Court in case of Navjot

Sandhu34. In the said decision , it is observed that the test to be

applied is whether relevant material that form the basis of

allegations constituting the offence was placed before the

Sanctioning Authority and the same was perused before granting

sanction (para 16). It is also observed that grant of sanction is an

executive act and the validity thereof cannot be tested in the light of

principles applied to a quasi-judicial order. 132. Mr. Pais relied on the decision of the Supreme Court in

Ashok Kumar35 to contend that the entire relevant record must be

placed before the Sanctioning Authority who in turn applies its mind

to this material and passes an order of sanction. From following such 34.State (NCT of Delhi) Vs. Navjot Sandhu Alias Afsan Guru , (2005) 11 SCC 600. 35.Central Bureau of Investigation Vs. Ashok Kumar Aggarwal , (2014) 14 SCC 295
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 115 process one can conclude that the authority has applied its mind.

The relevant observations made in para 16 are as under:- apeal136 & 137.17.odt 116 16.5. In every individual case, the prosecution has to
 establish and satisfy the court by leading evidence that
 the entire relevant facts had been placed before the
 sanctioning authority and the authority had applied its
 mind on the same and that the sanction had been
 granted in accordance with law." 133. No doubt, grant of sanction is a sacrosanct act and is

intended to provide safeguard against frivolous and vexatious

litigation. The Sanctioning Authority after being apprised of all the

fact, must form an opinion that prima facie case is made out.

Application of mind by the Sanctioning Authority is a sine qua non

for valid sanction. Moreover, sanction order must speak for itself and

enunciate that the authority has gone through the entire record of

the investigation. Sanction as regards to accused Nos. 1 to 5 has

been accorded by the Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department

Dr. Amitabh Ranjan (PW-19) whilst sanction for accused No.6 G.N.

Saibaba was granted by the Additional Chief Secretary, Home Mr.

K.P. Bakshi (PW-18). Both the Sanctioning Authorities have been

examined by the prosecution. We have gone through the evidence of
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 117 the Sanctioning Authorities on the canvas of objection about non-

application of mind. 134. It is the evidence of PW-19 Dr. Amitabh Ranjan that on

11.02.2014, his office has received the independent review report

from in-charge Director of prosecution under signature of Mrs.

Gundecha (Exh.358). On 13.02.2014, the Section Officer and

Deputy Secretary of Home has studied the file which he received on

14.02.2014 for according sanction. It is his evidence that along with

the file, he received all investigation papers, calendar of events and

opinion of Director of Prosecution along with 257 pages. He

deposed that he carried the file to his residence for study. He has

gone through the investigation papers, CFSL report, soft copies of

the electronic data, mirror images of hard copies containing the

electronic gadgets. It is his evidence that after going through all the

documents, he came to the conclusion about commission of offence

and accorded sanction against accused Nos. 1 to 5 for the offence

punishable under Sections 13 , 18 , 20 , 38 , 39 of the UAPA which is

Exh. 17. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 118 135. PW-19 Dr. Amitabh Ranjan has been subjected to cross-

examination. Certain technical as well as factual suggestions were

put to him, however, over all he has withstood cross-examination.

True, CFSL report was not available, however, he has categorically

deposed that mirror images of hard copies have been perused.

Pertinent to note that Director of Prosecution though recommended

grant of sanction against accused Nos. 1 to 6, has not granted

sanction to accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba who was not arrested. We

have gone through the sanction order (Exh.17) dated 15.02.2014

along with the schedule. Grant of sanction is an administrative act

which cannot be evaluated like a quasi judicial order. In that view of

the matter, we are not inclined to accept the case of non-application

of mind on his part. 136. We have also gone through the evidence of PW-18 Mr. K.P.

Bakshi who has accorded sanction for accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba. It

is his evidence that on 15.02.2015, his office has received proposal

for sanction which he forwarded to the Director of Prosecution for

independent review on 26.02.2015. He has received the

independent review on 04.03.2015. It is his evidence that all the

documents including search warrant, investigation papers, CFSL
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 119 report, hard copies certified by the CFSL, all seizure panchnamas,

arrest panchnamas and other papers were submitted to him. He

deposed that he has studied the file and gone through all the

documents. He was subjectively satisfied that there is a prima facie

case against accused No. 6 G.N. Saibaba for commission of offence

punishable under Sections 13 , 18 , 20 , 38 , 39 of the UAPA. He came

to the conclusion that it was a fit case for grant of sanction and

accordingly passed the sanction order on 06.04.2015 (Exh. 349).

His cross-examination does not reflect anything to construe the non-

application of mind. Such an inference cannot be drawn easily by

conjecture and surmise. The grant of sanction is an executive act

which cannot be treated at par with quasi judicial order. Therefore,

we are not inclined to accept the defence submission that the

sanction order suffers from non-application of mind by the

Sanctioning Authority. 137. We have given thoughtful consideration to the various

precedents cited by both sides. Though Mr. Ponda would submit

that he has cited more Supreme Court decisions rendered by a Three

Judge-Bench, however, we are not impressed by said submission,

since the applicability matters more than the number of citations. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 120 We have carefully gone through all the reported decisions and

considered their applicability to the facts of this case. Most of the

decisions pertain to a specific provision under the PC Act and the

error in non committal of proceedings and of like nature. 138. Stringent nature of the provisions of UAPA necessitates

us to consider the precedents rendered by the Supreme Court

relating to the provisions of TADA which was a statute running on

the parallel lines, introduced with the same object. The necessity of

obtaining prior sanction under Section 45(1) of the UAPA cannot be

underscored in view of the stringent provisions of the UAPA. The

UAPA which is harsh containing stringent provisions prescribing

procedure substantially departing from the ordinary law cannot be

considered casually or liberally. In the case of Ashrafkhan (supra),

the Supreme Court in the context of invalid sanction, considered the

effect of general provisions of Section 465 of the Code. It is

worthwhile to note that in the said context, it has been observed that

Section 465 of the Code shall not be a panacea for all errors,

omissions or irregularities. The omission to grant prior approval for

prosecution is not a kind of omission covered under Section 465 of
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 121 the Code. It is a defect which goes to the root of the matter and it is

not one of the curable defects. 139. In the latter decision of Seeni Nainar Mohammed (supra), the Supreme Court reiterates that the penal statute requires

strict interpretation and failure to comply with the mandatory

requirement of sanction before cognizance is taken, as mentioned in

TADA may vitiate the entire proceedings in the case. With those

observations, the Supreme Court concluded that as a result of illegal

sanction order, the criminal proceedings for prosecution under the TADA Act are vitiated entirely. The Supreme Court considering its

earlier pronouncements in case of Rambhai Gadhvi (supra), Ashrafkhan (supra), and Seeni Nainar Mohammed (supra) has re-

enforced the said view in its later decision in case of Anwar Osman (supra) that in case stringent statute like TADA prior sanction goes

to the root of the matter and is sine qua non for valid prosecution.

Moreover, it is observed that the duty of the Sanctioning Authority

cannot be underscored considering the draconian provisions of the

TADA. The line of consistent decisions rendered in the same field
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 122 postulates that valid sanction for prosecution is sine quo non and in

absence, vitiates the entire proceedings. 140. We have elaborated that the accused have objected to the

validity of sanction during trial right from the bail application till

final arguments. It is not a case that post conviction, first time in

appeal the objection to the validity of sanction has been raised.

Rather the Trial Court while rejecting the bail, postponed the

objection for consideration till recording of the evidence. 141. We have no doubt that the report qua accused Nos. 1 to 5

was a mechanical empty formality complied by the Director of

Prosecution. The report is bereft of material to display consideration

to arrive at the conclusion of existence of a prima facie case. We

have already elaborated above that when terrorist acts have been

expansively brought under the umbrella of UAPA, the additional

filter was provided with the object of providing one more safeguard.

Re-visiting Sub-clause (2) of Section 45 of the UAPA makes the

legislative intent clearer, that the Sanctioning Authority is bound to

consider the report of an independent authority before taking a

decision. The laconic half page communication cannot be called a
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 123 report since there is no material found therein to infer that the

authority has reviewed the evidence gathered and formed a

particular opinion on that basis. The very legislative intent was for

the report to assist the Sanctioning Authority in arriving at the

conclusion by going into the report of the independent authority. 142. Section 48 of the UAPA postulates that the provisions of

UAPA or Rules made thereunder, shall have overriding effect over

anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other enactment.

The very intent of legislature is to give primacy to the provisions of

the UAPA, meaning thereby it shall be followed in stricter sense. The

principle expressed in the maxim "generalia specialibus non

derogant" would apply i.e. if a special provisions has been made in a

certain matter, it would have overriding effect over the general

provision. Therefore, there is no gainsaying that general provisions

of the Code would save acts which are not in tune with the special

Act i.e. UAPA. 143. The stringent provisions of the UAPA would preclude

the Court from taking cognizance of an offence in absence of

sanction accorded in the manner as provided by Section 45 of the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 124 UAPA itself. The Special mechanism has been provided under the

statute for the process of sanction which is a statutory requirement

to make the sanction legal and valid. This Special arrangement

cannot be equated with general provisions of the Code nor can be

frustrated by applying the general law. Every statutory safeguard

made by a special statute must be followed scrupulously. The line of

decisions rendered by the Supreme Court in parallel legislation

(TADA) would provide the best guide to interpret the provisions of

the UAPA. In the case of Anwar Osman (supra), the Supreme Court

has succinctly ruled that the valid sanction is a sine qua non and its

invalidity vitiates the trial. The case in hand falls on the same lines

which persuades us to hold that the sanction is in variance with the

special requirement of the UAPA and would go to the root of the

matter making the entire process invalid. 144. As observed above, besides a half page communication to

go ahead, there is nothing on the part of the authority to

demonstrate its consideration. Scanty communication of the Director

of Prosecution does not stand the test of valid report expected under

the special law. Consequently, the sanction accorded in the absence
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 125 of compliance with the mandatory pre-requisite cannot be termed as

a valid sanction within the meaning of Section 45(2) of the UAPA.

This was a fundamental error which has invalidated cognizance as

being without jurisdiction. Defect of this kind is fatal and cannot be

cured with the aid of general provisions of the Code. It must,

therefore follow that the Trial Court could not have taken

cognizance of the offence punishable under the provisions of the

UAPA for want of valid sanction. 145. As regards to the accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba the position is

even worse. We have amply expressed hereinabove that a valid

sanction is a pre-requisite for launching prosecution under the UAPA.

We may reiterate that Section 45(1) of the UAPA puts a complete

embargo on the Court to take cognizance in the absence of sanction.

Admittedly, the Trial Court has not only taken cognizance, but also

framed charge without sanction. To be noted here that the Trial

Court has taken cognizance and framed charge against accused No.

6 G.N. Saibaba on 21.02.2015 whilst sanction against him was

accorded on 06.04.2015 and tendered in the Court on 30.11.2015.

Thus, there is total non-compliance with the sanction provision

which goes to the very root of the case, vitiating everything against
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 126 accused No.6 from its inception for want of authority of the Trial

Court to proceed. In sum and substance, the prosecution against

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba for want of valid sanction is also totally

vitiated. TIME FRAME FOR SANCTIONING PROCESS. 146. A further challenge that is thrown to the prosecution is about

non-compliance of the time frame in the process of grant of sanction

in terms of Section 45(2) of the UAPA, read with Rules 3 and 4 made

thereunder. It is argued that the period prescribed under the Rules

has not been followed, which vitiates the entire process of sanction.

Our attention has been invited to Section 45 [2] of the UAPA, which

mandates following of the time frame provided under the Rules. Section 45 [2] of UAPA requires sanction for prosecution within such

a time as is prescribed, after considering the report of Authority so

appointed. 147. The 2008 Rules are enacted specifically to prescribe the

time as mandated in Section 45 [2] of the UAPA. Rule 3 prescribes

the time for making the report containing recommendations by the

Authority to the appropriate Government, whilst Rule 4 prescribes
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 127 the time limit for issuance of sanction for prosecution by the

appropriate Government. Both these Rules prescribe 7 [seven]

working days, as time within which the recommendation is to be

made and the sanction has to be accorded. Emphasis is laid to the

term 'shall' used in Section 45 [2] of the UAPA as well as in Rules 3

and 4 of the Rules of 2008. The defence drew support from the

decision of Kerala High Court in case of Roopesh36, wherein the

time limit prescribed in Rules 3 and 4 is held to be mandatory. 148. Per contra, the learned Special Prosecutor would submit

that during the process of trial, sanction was not challenged on

account of non-compliance of the time limit prescribed under the Act

and Rules. It is contended that the term 'shall' is to be construed in

tune with the legislative intent and should be read as "may".

Particularly, it is submitted that the UAPA does not prescribe any

consequence for non-compliance of the Rules. Moreover, prejudice

has not been shown to have been caused because of non-compliance

of the time frame. 149. Generally the use of the word 'shall' prima facie

indicate that a particular provision is imperative, however, that is not
36 Roopesh .vrs. Sate of Kerala 2000 SCC Online Ker 1372
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 128 so always. The meaning to be given to a particular word depends

upon the context in which it is used. It is the function of the Court

to ascertain the real intention of the legislature by carefully

examining the entire scope of the statute, the purpose it seeks to

achieve and the consequences that would flow from the construction

to be placed therein. The word 'shall' therefore, ought not to be

construed in accordance with the language with which it is clothed,

but, in the context in which it is used and consequences of its non-

compliance. 150. The special prosecutor heavily relied on the decision of the

T.V. Usman37 to contend that the provision as to the time specified

shall be construed as directory unless the delay has caused prejudice

to the rights of the accused. Particularly, reference is made to para

11 of the decision quoted below:- 151. The above decision conveys that the word "shall" ought to

be construed not according to the strict language, but in the context

in which it is used and particularly consequence or prejudice which

would be caused to the other side. 152. So far as the sanction qua accused nos. 1 to 5 dated

25.02.2014 [Exh.17] is concerned, there is no dispute that the dual

time rider has been complied. However, the order of sanction qua

the accused no.6 - G.N. Saibaba, has been challenged on account of

non-compliance of the mandatory time frame prescribed by the

Statute and Rules. On facts, a proposal for sanction qua accused

no.6 G.N.Saibaba was received by the Director of Prosectuion on

26.02.2015 whilst the report from the Director of Prosecution, was

received by the State Government on 04.03.2015. The sanction has
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 131 been accorded by Sanctioning Authority P.W.18 - Bakshi on

06.04.2015. It is evident that the Director of Prosecution has

complied with the time limit by forwarding the report within 7 days

on 04.03.2015, however the real glitch is with respect to the grant of

sanction after 7 working days from 04.03.2015, which was infact

granted on 06.04.2015. 153. Though the word "shall" no doubt connotes the sense of

urgency, but the consequence of non-compliance in strict sense

which flows from the wordings in the rule, has not been spelt out

under the statute. Neither at an initial stage of the prosecution nor

even before us the defence has projected any prejudice from strict

non-compliance of time frame. 154. The very purport of the provision is to convey that the

process has to be complied with and completed in an expeditious

manner. Particularly, we have taken into account the contingency

which may occur, if the word "shall" in the context is held

mandatory. In that case, even if a single days delay would stifle the

prosecution intending to curb the act of terrorism. Certainly, the

legislative intent behind incorporating the term "shall" is not to stifle
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 132 the prosecution on such insignificant technicality, but conveys that

the process ought to be completed in an expeditious manner. We are

unable to persuade ourselves to accept the contention that the term

"shall" is to be strictly treated as a mandatory provision and failure

to comply with the timeline strictly vitiates the process. Therefore,

we respectfully defer with the view taken by the Kerala High Court

in the case of Roopesh (supra) in that regard. 155. We are of the view that and accordingly hold that to

achieve legislative intent the dual mandate is to be complied with in

its true spirit. Though a minuscule delay would not thwart the

legislative intent, but delay if writ large from the record, which is

unexplained, would certainly have its own adverse impact on the

process of sanction. In the present case, the report of Director of

Prosecution (qua accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba) was received by the

Sanctioning Authority on 04.03.2015 whilst sanction was accorded

after a long period of one month, i.e. on 06.04.2015. In such

eventuality, it was obligatory on the prosecution to at least explain

the circumstances causing this delay. Evidence of PW-18 Bakshi is

totally silent on this count nor is any submission canvassed in that
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 133 regard. In the circumstances, a long period of three weeks of unex-

plained delay would certainly work against the legislative spirit en-

grafted in Section 45(2) read with Rule 4 of the Rules 2008. For

aforesaid reason also, the sanction is vitiated and the act of the

Court taking cognizance without authorization is consequently

contrary to the mandate of law. The Trial Court could not take

cognizance of the case and has acted without jurisdiction. 156. In view of the conclusions reached hereinabove, we are of

the considered view that no cognizance could have been taken

against any of the accused in the absence of valid sanction/no

sanction. To sum up, the first sanction qua accused Nos. 1 to 5 was

not based upon the "independent review of evidence" carried by the

Director of Prosecution and sanction qua accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba

was not in-existence at the time of taking of cognizance by the

special Court despite a statutory bar. Therefore, the very foundation

for initiation of prosecution being not in consonance with law, the

order of taking of cognisance by the Special Court vitiates the entire

further proceedings. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 134 157. At the end, Mr. Mandhyan, learned Counsel would submit

that Section 45 of the UAPA contemplates an independent review/

assessment of the evidence, meaning thereby assessment by an

independent authority. It is submitted that the Director of

Prosecution works under the Home Department which cannot be

treated as an independent authority. Undoubtedly, the Director of

Prosecution is an authority appointed by the State Government for

the purposes of Section 45(2) of the UAPA. The said appointment of

the Director of Prosecution cannot be questioned in incidental

proceedings which is the subject matter of a separate challenge. The

plea that the authority is not independent has not been raised by

proper pleadings nor is opportunity given to the respondent to meet

the challenge. The Supreme Court in E.I.D. Parry38 has expressed

that a Court may not decide a question not raised before it unless

the pleadings contain a contention that a particular rule/appoint-

ment is bad. The said exercise would be, of-course by appropriate

proceedings in a proper way. In that view of the matter, in absence

of specific challenge raised to the competence and independence of a

Director of Prosecution being appointed as the Independent 38.Union of India Vs. E.I.D. Parry (India) Ltd. , (2000) 2 SCC 223
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 135 Authority by way of pleadings and opportunity to other side, we are

not inclined to entertain this objection. APPLICABILITY OF THE STATUTORY PRESUMPTION. 158. At the inception, Mr. Ponda would submit that UAPA is a

preventive statute introduced to cope up and tackle the acts of

terrorism. In order to achieve the object of the UAPA, the statute has

provided mandatory presumptions under Section 43-E of the UAPA

which shifts the burden on the accused to explain. He drew our

attention to the Section 4 of the Evidence Act, to contend that when

the statute provides the words "shall presume", the Court has no

choice than to presume a fact unless it is disproved. The burden

would shift on the accused to rebut the presumption, if some

definitive evidence suggesting his involvement in a terrorist act has

been proved. 159. Mr. Ponda would submit that the presumption under Section 43-E of the UAPA is mandatory since the word "shall" has

been used in the section itself. He relied on the decisions of the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 136 Supreme Court in cases of Dhanvantrai39, Hiten40, K.N. Beena41,

Neeraj Dutta42, Ram Krishna43, Sanjay Dutt44, Seema Silk45,

Sailendra46 and A. Vaidyanatha Iyer47 to contend that when the

presumption is mandatory, the Court has no choice. It is a

presumption of law and therefore, it is obligatory on the Court to

raise this presumption. 160. In these decisions, the scope and mandate of presumptions

under different statutes namely PC Act, Negotiable Instruments Act,

Evidence Act and TADA has been explained. We have no doubt in

our mind of the principle stated therein that, if the case is brought

under Section 43-E of the UAPA then there is an obligation on the

Court to raise the statutory presumption. For ready reference, we

have extracted Section 43-E of the UAPA as under:- session of the accused and there is reason to believe that
 such arms or explosives or other substances of a similar
 nature were used in the commission of such offence; or (b) that by the evidence of the expert the finger-prints of
 the accused or any other definitive evidence suggesting
 the involvement of the accused in the offence were found
 at the site of the offence or on anything including arms
 and vehicles used in connection with the commission of
 such offence, the Court shall presume, unless the contrary
 is shown, that the accused has committed such offence." 161. It is submitted that though reading of Section 43-E of

the UAPA provides presumption for an offence under Section 15 of

the UAPA, however Section 15 merely defines the term "terrorist

act". It is submitted that statutory presumption is applicable to all

the Sections wherever the term "terrorist act" has been employed.

In this context, he took us through Section 18 (punishment for

conspiracy), Section 20 (punishment for member of terrorist gang or

organization), which refers to a terrorist act. According to him,

since those penal provisions pertains to "terrorist act" as defined

under Section 15 , presumption would apply in those cases. In short,

he would submit that the presumption operates against the accused
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 138 and as they failed to discharge the burden, the offence is presumed

to be proved. 162. The learned defence Counsels strongly opposed the

applicability of statutory presumption under Section 43-E of the

UAPA. It is submitted that the presumption is restricted to an

offence under Section 15 of the UAPA only to those made punishable

under Section 16 of the UAPA. It is submitted that though Section

15 defines "terrorist act", however Section 16 particularly provides a

punishment for terrorist act and thus, presumption would apply to Section 15 read with Section 16 of the UAPA only. 163. We are unable to accept the submission canvassed by

the Special Prosecutor that wherever the word "terrorist act" has

been employed in the statute, a presumption would follow. Had it

been the legislative intent to do so, then there was no necessity to

restrict the applicability of presumption in a prosecution for an

offence under Section 15 of the UAPA only. Statutory presumption

under Section 43-E being part of stringent legislation, requires strict

interpretation and any violation would frustrate the rights of

accused. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 139 164. This apart, it is the contention of Mr. Ponda that in

terms of Sub-clause (b) to Section 43-E of the UAPA, if any kind of

definitive evidence suggesting the involvement of the accused in the

offence were found at the site of the offence, is sufficient to draw the

presumption. It is submitted that seizure of incriminating material

in the form of electronic data is a definitive evidence suggesting the

involvement, therefore, the presumption would apply with full force.

In that context, we have taken a note that accused are not charged

for the offence of 'Terrorist Act' punishable under Section 16 of the

UAPA. 165. Besides that, we have examined Section 43-E of the UAPA.

Sub-clause (a) which pertains to recovery of arms or explosives or

any other substances specified in Section 15 recovered from the

accused and used in the commission of terrorist act. Sub-clause (a)

is to be read with Section 15 which is clear from the language itself.

It provides that arms or explosive or other substances specified in

the said Section obviously means Section 15 , if recovered from the

possession of the accused and there is reason to believe that it has

been used in the commission of such offence, means offence of
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 140 terrorist act, then only presumption can be invoked. In order to

apply Sub-clause (a), two things are essential, namely that there

shall be a recovery from the possession of accused of the articles

specified in Section 15 of the UAPA and that there shall be reason to

believe that these were used in the terrorist act. 166. Contextually, we have gone through Sub-clause (a) of Section 15 of the UAPA which refers to the use of bombs, dynamite

or other explosive substances or inflammable substances, firearms or

substances of hazardous nature or by any other means to cause or

likely to cause the effect as stated under clauses (i) to (iv) of Sub-

clause (a) to Section 15 of the UAPA. Apparently, the seizure must

be of some articles used to create violence resulting in death, injury,

damage, destruction etc. Though it provides use of any other means

of whatever nature, however it necessarily must be connected to the

result as stated under Clauses (i) to (iv). The residuary provisions

are to be read in context with the bombs or explosive or any article

of hazardous nature and certainly not pamphlets or communication

which have no relevance with the cause or likelihood to cause the

result as stated in Sub-clauses (i) to (iv) of Section 15(a) of the

UAPA. Sub-clause (a) contemplates that the seizure must be of a
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 141 physical article like bomb, explosive etc and not pamphlets. In

substance, Sub-clause (a) of Section 43-E of the UAPA has no

application at all. 167. The prosecution heavily relied on Sub-clause (b) of Section 43-E of the UAPA with particular reference to finding of

definitive evidence suggesting the involvement of the accused in the

offence. According to the State, finding of incriminating electronic

data and pamphlets amounts to definitive evidence suggesting the

involvement of the accused in the offence. The submissions is

misconceived, wholly untenable and contrary to the provisions of

the Act. A reading of Sub-clause (b) suggests that the evidence

demonstrating the involvement of the accused in the offence shall be

the offence of a terrorist act and be connected with what is found at

the site of offence or shall have connection with the commission of

the terrorist act. The legislative intent is to cover up the evidence

which was found at the site of the offence of terrorist act. In case at

hand, the seizure of incriminating articles from accused Nos. 1 to 3

was from the Aheri Bus Stand, for accused Nos. 4 and 5 from

Chichgarh T-point and seizure from accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba from

his house. Certainly those places cannot be construed as a site of the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 142 offence of a terrorist act. In order to apply Sub-clause (b) there

must be finding of definitive evidence at the site of offence which is

totally lacking. By no stretch of imagination, can the bus-stand or

house be termed a site of offence i.e. offence of Terrorist Act. The

word "anything" used in Sub-clause (b) should be in connection with

the offence of terrorist act. Morevoer, it is not the prosecution's case

that any Terrorist Act has been committed at any of these sites. 168. In that view, we have no hesitation to hold that mere

finding of some incriminating material in the form of pamphlets and

electronic data cannot be termed as a recovery of the articles in

terms of Sub-clauses (a) and (b) to Section 43-E of the UAPA and

thus, the presumption would not apply. Moreover, we may reiterate

that the statutory presumption would apply only in prosecution for

an offence under Section 15 punishable under Section 16 of the

UAPA of which the present accused have not been charged.

Stretching the presumptions to other Sections of the UAPA would be

reading something into the provisions which is not contemplated in

the statute. In the above view, we are totally in disagreement with

Mr. Ponda as to the applicability of statutory presumption under
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 143 Section 43-E of the UAPA to the facts of this case and we hold

accordingly. Besides such inherent lacuna we undertake to examine

prosecution case on merits. PROSECUTION CASE AND DEFENCE. 169. In a nutshell, the prosecution alleges that accused No.6

G.N. Saibaba sent some secret messages stored in the 16 GB memory

card relating to the banned terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist) and

its frontal organisation (RDF). The secret messenger was accused

No.3 Hem Mishra. One Naxalite lady named Narmadakka had sent

accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No. 2 Pandu Narote to

receive accused No.3 Hem Mishra at Aheri Bus-stand, however on

the basis of the intelligence inputs, all three were apprehended on

22.08.2013, followed by the seizure of incriminating material from

their possession. 170. It is also the prosecution case that accused No.4

Prashant Rahi and accused No.5 Vijay Tirki linked with the banned

terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organisation

(RDF), were found in possession of literature belonging to CPI
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 144 (Maoist) and RDF. It was followed by the seizure of incriminating

material from accused No.4 Prashant Rahi. The investigation reveals

that the accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba was an active member of CPI

(Maoist) and its frontal organisation (RDF) having close connection

with the arrested accused. Accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba sent secret

information which led the Police to seek his search warrant and

consequential seizure of incriminating material from his house. 171. The prosecution mainly alleges that the accused have

conspired or advocated or abetted the commission of terrorist act.

They were active members of a terrorist organization which was

involved in terrorist activities. Moreover, it is alleged that they were

associated with a terrorist organization with an intention to further

the activities of the terrorist organization. The accused have also

actively supported this terrorist organization with an intention to

facilitate the activities of the terrorist organization. The prosecution

case entirely hings around the seizure of incriminating material from

the accused. The arrest and seizure of incriminating material is the

backbone or foundation of the entire prosecution. 172. By and large, the prosecution case can be divided into

three parts leading to the arrest of different accused at different time
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 145 and places. The first set of arrest is of accused Nos. 1 to accused No.

3 on 22.08.2013, near Aheri Bus Stand around 06.15 p.m. This

arrest was on suspicion about their involvement in naxalite activities

relating to banned terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist) and its frontal

organization (RDF). Seizure of certain incriminating material

coupled with the information extracted during interrogation

revealed involvement of the accused No.4 Prashant Sanglikar and

accused No.5 Vijay Tirki involved in similar activities. In pursuance

of this information, accused No. 4 Prashant Sanglikar and accused

No.5 Vijay Tirki were arrested on 01.09.2013 at Chichgarh T-Point,

Deori around 06.00 p.m. Likewise, investigation further revealed

involvement of accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba with his leading role.

The police sleuth went to Delhi and took house search of accused

No.6 G.N. Saibaba on 12.09.2013 in the late afternoon. Voluminous

electronic devises have been seized during his house search. Later

on accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba came to be arrested on 09.05.2014. 173. It is the prosecution case that accused Nos.1 to 6 were part

of the larger criminal conspiracy with some other accused who were

not under arrest. They have planned to wage war against the

Government of India. The seizure effected from different sets of
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 146 accused disclose their involvement with terrorist organisation CPI

(Maoist) and its frontal organisation RDF. The prosecution claimed

that contents of seized material amounts to involvement of the

accused in the offences under the UAPA. It is the definitive evidence

suggesting their involvement in a terrorist organization and acts of

terrorism. The material suggest their involvement with CPI [Moist]

and its frontal organization [RDF]. This organization has been

placed in the first schedule the UAPA as a terrorist organization vide

entry No.34 in a notification issued in terms of Section 2 [1][m] of

the UAPA. The Organization is deemed to have been involved in the

terrorism by committing, participating, preparing, promoting,

encouraging terrorism. 174. It is the prosecution case that naxal related documents,

various communications, reports of review meeting in the form of

electronic data disclose that the accused have conspired to commit a

terrorist act. According to the prosecution, the accused have

associated themselves with this terrorist organization with intent to

further the activities of the terrorist organization CPI (Maoist) and

its frontal organization RDF. The accused have also intentionally

supported the said terrorist organization. Seizure of incriminating
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 147 material in the form of literature and videos, disclose that accused

No.6 G.N. Saibaba rejected a parliamentary form of governance and

supported an armed struggle against the Government of India and

the State of Maharashtra. 175. The defence has strongly assailed the seizure itself by

making a variety of submissions. Apart from violation of various

statutory safeguard provided under the UAPA, it is canvassed that

the arrest of accused Nos. 1 to 5 itself is not free from doubt. It is

their defence that accused No.3 Hem Mishra was already

apprehended on 20.08.2013 from Ballarshah and subsequently a

scene was created that on 22.08.2013 accused Nos. 1 to 3 were

arrested from Aheri Bus-stand. Likewise, it is their defence that

accused No.4 Prashant Rahi was taken charge of from Raipur whilst

shown to be arrested from Chinchgarh T-point. It is the defence that

the FIR was antedated and arrest was fabricated. According to the

defence the entire process of arrest and seizure is suspicious. The

incriminating material has been planted to suit the purpose of

prosecution under the UAPA . Arrest as well as seizure panchnamas

were seriously in doubt, not credible and unreliable and a case of

fabrication. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 148 [ 176. It is submitted that no incident of violence occurred or

is even alleged to have occurred. There is no material to infer the

conspiracy since the prosecution has not spelt out as to what has

been conspired to be done by the accused, besides a vague allegation

of conspiracy to wage war against the Government. 177. In the light of above challenge to the process of arrest

and seizure, coupled with the factum of the prosecution solely

relying on the seizure of incriminating material, evidence needs

close examination. The prosecution, though examined 23 witnesses,

the prosecution evidence mainly consists of Police personnel and

panch witnesses. In order to have a bird's eye view of the entire

evidence, we have preferred to extract this material into a chart

prepared by the Trial Court containing the oral and documentary

evidence for the sake of convenience which is given below:- 178. Subject to the relevancy, we have gone through the

entire material adduced by the prosecution. For the sake of

convenience, we undertake to examine all three seizures along with

related evidence separately. 179. The prosecution mainly sought to take shelter of

statutory presumption under Section 43-E of the UAPA claiming that

the prosecution led evidence establishing foundational facts and

thus, it is for accused to rebut the presumption. According to the

prosecution, electronic evidence in the definitive form suggest the

involvement of accused. Notably, the accused have not been charged

for the offence of terrorist act defined under Section 15 and made

punishable under Section 16 of the UAPA. We have held above that

the presumption is restricted to the prosecution for Section 15 only. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 156 Further more, we have analyzed Sub-clause (a) and in particular

Sub-clause (b) and arrived at a conclusion that definitive evidence

suggesting the involvement in the offence of a terrorist act must be

found at the site of the offence i.e. offence of terrorist act defined

under Section 15 of the UAPA and thus, the presumption would not

apply. 180. In view of the above conclusion, the onus which

generally lies on the prosecution continues to lie on the prosecution.

Needless to say that in criminal jurisprudence, it is a well-recognized

principle that the onus of proof lies on the prosecution and is higher

than the mere preponderance of probability. The prosecution is

under an obligation to establish the guilt of the accused beyond

reasonable doubt. We are certainly aware that the doubt need not

be a fanciful or imaginary one. Though the offences are against the

security and integrity of the nation, the law does not dilute the

standard of proof, except in cases, where statutory presumptions

would apply. The prosecution is thus bound to establish the guilt of

the accused with the standard of proof ordinarily required to prove

criminal offences. In view of this requirement of law, we have
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 157 analysed and scanned the evidence led by the prosecution to

establish the guilt of the accused. 181. At the inception, perceiving serious challenge to the

credibility of evidence, the learned special prosecutor would submit

that the defective investigation by itself cannot be made a ground for

discarding the prosecution case. The story of prosecution has to be

examined dehors the lapses on the part of the Investigating Officer.

To substantiate this contention, he relied on the various decisions of

the Supreme Court in cases of Allarakha K. Mansuri48, Amar Singh49,

C. Muniappan50 Chandan Khan51, Paramjit Singh52, Paras Yadav53,

Ram Bali54 Mast Ram55 and . K. Yarappa Reddy56. We have gone

through these decisions laying down propositions pertaining to rules

of appreciation of evidence. 182 In the above referred decisions, the Supreme Court has

emphasized that defective investigation ipso facto would not give a 48.Allarakha K. Mansuri Vs. State of Gujarat , (2002) 3 SCC 57, 49. Amar Singh Vs. Balwinder Singh and others , (2003) 2 SCC 518 50.C. Muniappan and others Vs. State of Tamil Nadu . (2010) 9 SCC 567 51.Chandan Khan and another Vs. State of U.P. (1995) 5 SCC 448 52.Paramjit Singh Alias Mithu Singh Vs. State of Punjab (2007) 13 SCC 530 53.Paras Yadav and others Vs. State of Bihar , (1999) 2 SCC 126 54. Ram Bali Vs. State of U.P. (2004) 10 SCC 598 55. State of H.P. Vs. Mast Ram , (2004) 8 SCC 660 56.State of Karnataka Vs. K. Yarappa Reddy , (1999) 8 SCC 715
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 158 right to accused to claim acquittal. In the case of defective

investigation, the Court has to be circumspect in evaluating the

evidence. There is a legal obligation on the Court to examine the

prosecution evidence carefully to find out whether the evidence is

reliable or not, and whether such lapses affect the object of finding

the truth. We are conscious that criminal justice should not be

made a casualty for the wrongs committed by the Investigating

Officer in the case. Certainly, unnecessary importance given to the

defects would tantamount of giving decisive role to the Investigating

Officer in the process of reaching the truth. 183. It is a general principle that defective investigation does

not vitiate a valid prosecution. However, it is a matter of fact and

depends on the facts of each case. To our mind, if the lapses or

irregularities are inconsequential or negligible then it has no impact

on the merits of the case. On the other hand, if the defect or lapses

on the part of the Investigating Officer raises an entertainable doubt

on the fabric of prosecution, it matters. In short, on the basis of

material adduced by the prosecution vis-a-vis the defect in

investigation, the worth of evidence is to be determined. Keeping in
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 159 mind this general principle that mere defect would not vitiate a valid

prosecution, we have examined the evidence adduced before the

Trial Court. 184. The line of challenge requires us to consider each

seizure separately and to assess the credibility thereof. For the sake

of convenience, we have considered the aspect of seizure in three

parts firstly, arrest and seizure of accused Nos. 1 to 3 dated

22.08.2013, secondly, arrest of seizure of accused No. 4 Prashant

Sanglikar and accused No.5 Vijay Tirki dated 01.09.2013 and

seizure from the house search of accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba dated

12.09.2013. ARREST OF ACCUSED NOS.1 TO 3 AND SEIZURE. 185. The first limb pertains to the arrest of and seizure from

accused Nos. 1 to 3 dated 22.08.2013. For ready reference, we may

recapitulate that it is the case of prosecution that on the basis of

secret inputs about involvement of accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and

accused No.2 Pandu Narote with the banned terrorist organisation

CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organisation (RDF), the Police were

keeping watch on their movements. According to secret
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 160 information, the Police traced them on 22.08.2013 around 06.00

p.m., standing at a secluded place near Aheri Bust-stand. At about

06.15 p.m. one person wearing a cap on his head came there and

started talking with each other in a suspicious manner. The Police

apprehended them and brought them to the Aheri Police Station.

From their personal search, several incriminating articles including

three Naxal pamphlets and a 16 GB memory card, were seized by

drawing Panchnama. It led the Police to register a crime and their

arrest was effected. [ 186. The defence has particularly doubted the process of

arrest as well as seizure on account of material irregularity, lack of

transparency, manipulation and a case of fabrication. In order to

demonstrate the improbabilities in the prosecution case, the defence

took us through the relevant documents coupled with several

admissions given by the relevant witnesses. 187. The evidence of PW-6, informant API Avhad, PW-1

Panch witness Santosh Bawne, PW-10, In-charge Police Inspector

Anil Badgujar and the evidence of PW-9 Atram is relevant for our

purpose. Besides that, certain documents bear relevance which are -

written FIR (Exh. 219), Printed FIR (Exh. 220), Carbon Copy of FIR
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 161 (Exh. 221), spot-cum-seizure panchnama (Exh. 137), arrest

panchnama of accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki (Exh.227), arrest

panchnama of accused No.2 Pandu Narote (Exh.228), and arrest

panchnama of accused No.3 Hem Mishra (Exh.229). 188. The episode unfolded through the evidence of PW-6

informant API Avhad. It is his evidence that in pursuance of secret

information, on 22.08.2013, at 06.00 p.m., he found accused No.1

Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu Narote standing at a secluded

place near bus stand Aheri. Within a short time, one person wearing

a cap on his head came there and they started conversing with each

other. Finding their movements suspicious, PW-6 API Avhad took

them to Aheri Police Station and briefed the information to PW-10

Police Inspector Anil Badgujar. In turn, PW-10 Anil Badgujar made a

preliminary inquiry and on not being satisfied with their

explanation, called panch witnesses. In the presence of panch

witnesses, personal search of accused Nos. 1 to 3 was taken in which

various articles were seized. 189. During personal search of accused No. 1 Mahesh Tirki,

three naxal pamphlets regarding banned organization, one mobile,
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 162 one pocket purse containing Rs. 60/-, and a platform ticket were

found. On search of accused No.2 Pandu Narote, platform ticket,

one mobile, cash of Rs. 1400/-, election identity card, school leaving

and birth certificate were found. On personal search of accused

No.3 Hem Mishra, one memory card of 16 GB, railway ticket, cash

Rs. 7,500/-, one camera, his identity card of JNU University, election

identity card, one cloth bag, PAN card were found. All articles were

seized and taken into custody in presence of panch witnesses by

drawing panchnama (Exh.137) in between 06.30 p.m. to 07.55

p.m. on the very day. The said panchnama was carried out by PI

Anil Badgujar. 190. During interrogation, it was revealed that accused No.1

Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu Narote were deputed by one

Naxalite lady Narmadakka to receive the messenger sent by an

activist from Delhi (accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba) with important

information, and to escort accused No. 3 Hem Mishra to Morewad

Forest. The Police concluded that all were activist of banned

terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organisation

(RDF), hence PW-6 API Avhad has lodged a report (Exh.219) at
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 163 Aheri Police Station around 09.30 p.m. Duty in-charge PW-15

Narendra Dube has registered crime No. 3017/2013 for the offence

under the provisions of UAPA. This was followed by arrest of

accused Nos. 1 to 3 vide arrest panchnama exhibits 227, 228 and 229. 191. The prosecution has examined PW-10 PI Anil Badgujar

who was incharge of Aheri Police Station at the relevant time. He

stated that API Avhad has brought accused Nos. 1 to 3 to Aheri

Police Station on that day. He has also stated that in his presence

personal search of accused Nos. 1 to 3 was taken, wherein, articles

were seized under the panchnama (Exh. 137) in presence of two

panch witnesses. He deposed that the articles were sealed with wax

seals, which was followed by lodging of the report by PW 6 API

Avhad and registration of crime No. 3017/2013. 192. Since the process of arrest and seizure has been

seriously doubted, we turn to the evidence of panch witness PW-1

Santosh Bawne, in whose presence seizure and arrest was made. His

evidence is of great significance. PW-1 Santosh Bawne deposed that

on 22.08.2013, he went to Aheri Police Station around 06.00 p.m. to
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 164 06.30 p.m. having been called by the Police. In his presence,

personal search of accused Nos. 1 to 3 was taken, wherein various

articles including three naxal pamphlets and a 16 GB memory card

were seized under panchnama (Exh.137). He deposed that seized

articles were sealed with wax. He has identified his signature on

seizure panchnama (Exh.137). 193. In this regard, the defence has seriously assailed the

prosecution case right from the alleged arrest of accused Nos. 1 to 3

dated 22.08.2013 and consequent seizure vide panchnama (Exh. 137). It is their defence that accused No. 3 Hem Mishra was already

taken into custody by Police from Balarasha Railway Station on

20.08.2013. The Police have prepared a story that all three accused

were arrested on 22.08.2013 from the area of Aheri Bus-stand. It is

argued that after planting documents, conveniently they have been

shown to be arrested on 22.08.2013 which is a high handed act of

Police of false implication. To substantiate this stand, our attention

has been invited to various aspects relating to the arrest of accused

Nos. 1 to 3. 194. It is pointed out that various columns of FIR were

purposely kept blank which were filled in later to suit their purpose. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 165 There are apparent mistakes and variance in the arrest panchnama

which shows its falsity. It is argued that PW-1 Santosh Bawne was a

stock panch of the Police who is wholly unreliable. Another panch

witness was not examined to support the first panch witness. Arrest

was made in the presence of a single panch Narendra Empalwar,

however he was not examined. The description of the title of three

Naxal pamphlets has not been incorporated in the panchnama with a

purpose. The seized pamphlets [articles Exh. 139 to 141] do not

bear signatures of panchas or Police to vouch their credibility. In fact,

they do not bear any signatures or identification marks. 195. Pursuing the line of objection, we have revisited the

prosecution evidence. Coming to the evidence of PW-1 Santosh

Bawne (panch) admittedly he was in the service of Home Guard

attached to Aheri Police Station from the year 2000. We note, in

particular that at the relevant time, he was serving as a home guard

with Aheri Police. Though initially, he denied the label of regular

panch, however he admits that in the past, he has acted as a panch

witness in another case. He admits that three pamphlets do not bear

the label containing signatures of panch witnesses. He did not

remember the heading of the pamphlets which were seized. He has
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 166 stated that another panch Umaji was present with him, which is

factually incorrect, since the other seizure panch was one Narendra

Empalwar. He has admitted that he does not know the difference

between card reader, pen-drive and memory card nor can identify

the storage capacity of different electronic applications. 196. There is variance in the evidence of Police personnel as

to who has summoned PW-1 Santosh Bawne for effecting

panchnama. During cross-examination of PW-1 Santosh Bawne,

stated that he was called by PW-15 Narendra Dube, but PW-15

Narendra Dube did not claim so. Rather PW-15 Narendra Dube says

that at the relevant time, he was on station diary duty from 06.00

p.m. to 10.00 p.m. PW-6 informant API Avhad says that panchas

were called by PW-10 PI Anil Badgujar, but, the latter is not specific

in that regard. 197. Be that as it may, it is not material as to who has called

the panch witnesses, however what is relevant is that within just 5 to

10 minutes, PW-1 Santosh Bawne arrived at Police Station,

admittedly since he was called from another place. Pertinent to note

that the Police have not ventured into examining another panch
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 167 witness to gain support in the process of seizure, which is an

important facet of the case. Though the fate of the prosecution

largely hinges around seizure from accused Nos. 1 to 3, prosecution

has not offered any plausible explanation for not examining another

panch witness. True, it is not necessary to examine a second panch,

however considering the peculiarity of the case, which is largely

dependent on the credential of seizure, the prosecution ought to

have examined him to remove the needle of suspicion. It appears

that only because PW-1 Santosh Bawne was a Home Guard attached

to the same Police Station since a long time, he has been chosen as a

panch as a man of the confidence of the police. Therefore, it is

difficult to treat him as an independent panch witness. Moreover,

he was an illiterate person, who does not know the difference

between different electronic gadgets, which was the material part of

the seizure. Pertinent to note that the alleged arrest was made from

Aheri Bus Stand, where admittedly there were pan stalls, tea stalls

and hotels, from where services of independent/natural panch

witnesses could easily have been secured. [ 198. A great deal of criticism has been made on account of

planting, fabrication and registration of antedated FIR and arrest. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 168 We have gone through the printed FIR (Exh.220) coupled with its

carbon copy (Exh.221). It has come in the evidence of PW-15

Narendra Dube that on the basis of report lodged by PW-6 API

Avhad (Exh.219), he has registered crime No.3017/2013. He has

identified printed FIR (Exh.220) and its carbon copy (Exh.221). It is

strongly contended in defence that FIR was antedated, and was

prepared later. In that connection, we have examined printed FIR

(Exh.220). As per the prosecution case, accused No.3 Hem Mishra

was brought at Aheri Police Station on 22.08.2013 at 06.15 p.m.

After preliminary interrogation by PW-10 PI Anil Badgujar, seizure

was effected between 06.30 p.m. to 7.55 p.m followed by

registration of FIR at 09.30 p.m. In this context, the submission is

that it is practically impossible to complete all formalities in this

short duration. We have seen the chain of events that at 06.15 p.m.,

the accused were for first time accosted near Aheri Bus-stand. It

would certainly take a few minutes to interact and then, further,

some more time would be required to bring them to the Police

Station. According to the prosecution, PW-6 API Avhad has briefed

PW-10 PI Anil Badgujar who again interacted with the accused,

summoned two panch witnesses and thereafter seizure panchnama
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 169 was effected. In substance, from the first interaction with accused at

06.15 p.m., all preliminary steps were taken within just 15 minutes

and then seizure panchnama has commenced, which is improbable

and requires to be noted. 199. Our attention has been invited to the printed FIR

(Exh.220) which bears signature of informant, and signature of

Head constable, PW-15 Narendra Dube. In this regard, it is argued

that PW-10 PI Anil Badgujar was not present at the relevant time,

which resulted in signing of form 1-C of FIR by the Head Constable

instead of Officer in-charge of the Police Station. The prosecution

has not offered any explanation in that regard. 200. Besides that, it is argued that Column No. 3(b) and (c)

of printed FIR pertaining to the information about time of receipt of

information and general diary reference, there are discrepancies. In

this regard, we have been taken through the evidence of PW-6 API

Avhad who initially avoided to state that the entries in Column No.

3(b) and (c) are in different ink, however he has admitted that

entries in Column No. 3(b) and (c) are subsequently written. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 170 Besides that, he admits that there is overwriting in entry at Column

No.3(c) of the carbon copy of printed FIR (Exh.221). Attention of

PW-6 API Avhad was particularly invited to the copy of printed FIR

(Exh.221) to which he admits that those three entries in Column

No.3(b) and (c) are in different ink. We may hasten to add that

copy of FIR (Exh. 221) is a carbon copy on which the time is

mentioned in blue ink, whilst the time and general diary reference is

in black ink. We do not find any explanation coming forth in this

regard from the prosecution to remove this doubt. 201. It is the case of defence of accused No.3 Hem Mishra

that the arrest as alleged by prosecution is fake. It is his stand that

he was taken into custody from Balarasha Railway Station two days

earlier i.e. on 20.08.2013 which was followed by implicating him in

the case after two days. In this regard, initially we have been taken

through the evidence of PW-9 Atram who has been examined in the

capacity of an independent witness. Evidence of this witness is

somewhat strange. As per the prosecution case itself, he was an

associate of the accused, however he has been examined as an

independent witness. PW-9 Atram deposed that on 20.08.2013, the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 171 Police called him for interrogation. On that day, he went to the

Police Station in the afternoon around 02.00 to 2.15 p.m. He

deposed that during the interrogation, he was made to understand

that the Police have earlier interrogated some accused, on which

basis they came to know about his involvement (PW 9 Atram) in his

past acts of handing over cash at the instance of Naxalite lady

Narmadakka. In his evidence, he specifically deposed that he knew

accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu Narote since

long. Both of them once took him to naxalite lady Narmadakka and

at her instance, he received cash of Rs. 5,00,000/- which was later

on handed over at Balarshah Railway Station by A1 and A2 to

someone else. This witness was examined to demonstrate the

involvement of accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu

Narote in naxal activites. 202. Witness PW-9 Atram stated that on 20.08.2013 itself,

the Police came to know about his involvement in the earlier money

deal obviously, from the interrogation of A1 and A2 itself. Thus it

emerges a strong possibility of police interrogation A1 and A2 in this

crime on 20.08.2013 or prior to that. Moreover, this witness has
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 172 specifically stated that on 21.08.2013, his statement was recorded by

the Police to that effect. His evidence suggests that prior to alleged

arrest of accused Nos. 1 to 3 dated 22.08.2013, the Police had

already interrogated some accused from which the role of PW-9

Atram was revealed. Thus, a strong possibility emerges in support of

the defence that custody of accused No.3 Hem Mishra was actually

taken on 20.08.2013. We are not holding so only on the basis of

statement of PW-9 Atram, but, the possibility emerges from variety

of circumstances like not picking up an independent panch, choosing

a panch related to Police, discrepancies and overwriting at the time

of registration of crime etc. It is for the prosecution to remove all

these doubts. We are aware that there may be minor mistakes,

however, the overall effect of the evidence is to be considered on the

basis of variety of circumstances. 203. We have been taken through one more circumstance

which pertains to the time of arrest of accused Nos. 1 to 3. It is the

prosecution case that, after registration of crime accused Nos. 1 to 3

were arrested. We have gone through the evidence of PW-6 API

Avhad and PW-10 PI Anil Badgujar in particular, which does not

specify the exact time of arrest of accused Nos. 1 to 3. In the context
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 173 of the defence of antedated arrest, we have gone through the entire

related material. The arrest of A1 to A3 was effected by PW-10 PI

Anil Badgujar. He has merely deposed that he has arrested accused

by drawing arrest panchama (Exh. 227 to 229) without specifying

the time and date. Examination reveals that all three arrest

panchnamas are in different handwriting with the use of different

ink pertaining to the date and time of arrest. The defence has

specifically questioned to PW-10 PI Anil Badgujar, to which he has

admitted that, on arrest panchnamas (Exh. 227 to 229), FIR number,

date of arrest and time of arrest is in different handwriting and in

different ink. Moreover, a glaring discrepancy is pointed by defence

that the arrest panchnamas (Exh. 227 to 229) at its foot bears the

date of arrest as 23.08.2013, whilst on first page, the date and time

of arrest is mentioned as 22.08.2013 at 09.30 p.m. in a different ink. 204. Close examination of arrest panchnama Exh. 227

pertaining to accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki denotes that the entire

panchnama is written in black ink, whilst crime number, date of

registration of crime and date and time of arrest are in blue ink.

Panchnama (Exh. 228) pertaining to arrest of accused No.2 Pandu

Narote discloses that the entire portion is in blue ink, whilst date
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 174 and time of arrest is in black ink. Again we find material

discrepancy in the arrest panchnama (Exh.229) pertaining to

accused No.3 Hem Mishra, wherein the entire panchnama is written

in black ink, whilst crime number, date of registration of crime, date

of arrest, time of arrest and station diary entry number was written

in blue ink. Likewise on the first page of all panchnamas, the date of

arrest is mentioned as 22.08.2013 at 09.30 p.m. whilst the last entry

below the signature of PW-10 PI Anil Badgujar, the date of

panchnama is mentioned as 23.08.2013. When PW-10 PI Anil

Badgujar was confronted with these discrepancies, he gave a feeble

explanation that it may be a mistake. These discrepancies coupled

with the insertion of date and time of arrest raises further suspicion

about the date and time of arrest, in the background of defence

version. PW-10 PI Anil Badgujar stated that these three arrest

panchnamas were written by three different Police Officers. It is

surprising to note that three Police Officers have simultaneously

committed the same mistake of putting another date at the end of

panchnama as 23.08.2013 which again enhances the degree of

suspicion. [
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 175 205. In the background of the above discrepancies, it was

incumbent on the prosecution to examine panch witnesses to the

arrest panchnama, to vouch the credibility of the date and time of

arrest. The Prosecution was alerted by the line of cross-examination,

that the defence of accused No. 3 Hem Mishra, was his illegal

custody for two days and registration of the antedated FIR. In the

circumstances, it was the duty of the prosecution to either explain

the said material discrepancy or to examine the sole panch witnesses

on arrest panchnama, but, they have avoided to examine him. 206. The defence has invited our attention to the cross-

examination of PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche, wherein he admits

(para No.19) that while replying to the bail application, in his say

dated 02.06.2014, he stated that accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and

accused No.2 Pandu Narote had gone to Balarasha Railway Station.

Specific suggestion was put to him that on 20.08.2013 accused No.3

Hem Mishra had come to Balarasha Railway Station. In response,

PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche stated that he might have

communicated to the Court that accused No.3 Hem Mishra had

come to Balarsha Railway Station on 20.08.2013. These admissions

falsify the prosecution case that A3 came to Aheri bus stand on
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 176 22.08.2013, to whom A1 and A2 came to receive. The defence also

brought our attention to the answers given by accused No.3 Hem

Mishra in his statement under Section 313 of the Code (question

No.6), wherein he took a specific stand. Accused No.3 Hem Mishra

stated that on 20.08.2013 itself, he was taken into custody by the

Police from Balarasha Railway Station. His belongings were forcibly

taken into custody and he was illegally detained at Gadchiroli Police

Head Quarter. 207. The learned defence Counsel, strenuously argued that,

though CDR of the mobile SIM of accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and

accused No.2 Pandu Narote were obtained by the Police, they have

been purposely suppressed. It is contended that the CDR of their

mobile phones would have exposed the foul play as the tower

locations of both of these accused would be of Gadchiroli Police

Head Quarter from 20.02.2013 to 22.02.2013. During cross-

examination, PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche admitted that he has

collected the CDR of the mobile SIM of accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki

and accused No.2 Pandu Narote, however, he has not filed the same

on record. We do not see any explanation from the side of the

prosecution as to why they have not filed these CDR's to demolish
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 177 the defence raised since the inception. True, it is not the duty of

prosecution to demolish the defence stand, however all

circumstances have to be taken together while drawing an inference.

The said circumstance denotes that more than a reasonable doubt is

created about the alleged arrest of accused Nos.1 to 3 on 22.08.2013

from the area of Aheri Bus-stand. 208. The above discussion leads us to hold that the

prosecution failed to establish by adducing reliable evidence that, on

22.08.2013, accused Nos. 1 to 3 were found in suspicious

circumstances moving near Aheri Bus-stand and the consequential

seizure of incriminating material from them. We are led to think so

on the basis of the quality of the evidence, admissions given by the

prosecution witnesses and particularly the above-noted discrepancies

highlighted by us in the process of registration of crime, seizure and

effecting arrest of accused. The defence has succeeded in creating a

reasonable doubt about the arrest of and seizure from accused Nos.

1 to 3, as alleged. In the result, the prosecution case regarding

arrest of A1 to A3 on 22.08.2013 and consequential seizure of

incriminating material is doubtful and cannot be relied upon. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 178 SEIZURE FROM FACE BOOK ACCOUNT OF ACCUSED NO.3 HEM
MISHRA. 209. It is the prosecution case that screen shots and video

shooting of the Face Book account of accused No.3 Hem Mishra,

was taken on 26.08.2013 and 29.08.2013 in presence of PW-4

Shrikant Gaddewar (panch). According to the prosecution,

incriminating material was seized from the Face Book account of

accused No.3 Hem Mishra which shows his involvement with the

banned terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist) and its frontal

organisation (RDF). In order to establish the said seizure,

prosecution relied on the evidence of PW-4 Shrikant Gaddewar

and PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche. It has come in the evidence of

PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche that during interrogation on

26.08.2013, he came to know that accused No.3 Hem Mishra was

using a Face Book account. On instructions, accused No.3 Hem

Mishra has opened his Face Book account in the presence of PW-4

Shrikant Gaddewar. After opening the Face Book account, screen

shots have been taken and the entire process was video-graphed.

Related panchnama (Exh. 199) was drawn in presence of two

panch witnesses. He has clarified that in panchnama (Exh.199),
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 179 mistakenly the date of panchnama was mentioned as 26.09.2013

instead of 26.08.2023. 210. Further, it is his evidence that to verify the friends list

from the Face Book account of accused No.3 Hem Mishra, they have

again called panch witnesses. In the presence of accused No.1

Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu Narote, video recording dated

26.08.2013 about the opening of the Face Book account of accused

No.3 Hem Mishra was played on 29.08.2013 and Panchnama

(Exh.200) was drawn of this process. The prosecution has examined

PW-4 Shrikant Gaddewar to that effect. He has stated that on

26.08.2013 in his presence, accused No.3 Hem Mishra, by entering

his password has opened his Face Book account. All the activities on

Face Book account including the friends list were verified by the PW-

11 SDPO Suhas Bawche and screen shots were taken. Panchnama

(Exh.199) to that effect was drawn in his presence. He deposed that

on 29.08.2013, again he was called by PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche

for identification of the video shooting taken during panchnama

dated 26.08.2013. CD of the video dated 26.08.2013 was played in

the presence of accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu

Narote. Both of them have identified two persons from the friend
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 180 list of accused No.3 Hem Mishra namely Ajay Kumar and Dona

Willson. The Police have again drawn a panchnama (Exh.200) on

29.09.2013 during the identification by accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki

and accused No.2 Pandu Narote from the video shooting of the Face

Book account of accused No.3 Hem Mishra. The screen shots were

identified and marked as A/1 to A/16 for the purpose of

identification. 211. The defence has strongly criticized the said evidence by

stating that no such panchnama was drawn either on 26.08.2013 or

29.08.2013. The Police had already obtained printouts, but, made it

appear that accused No.3 Hem Mishra had opened his Facebook

account in presence of panchas and this video was seen in the

presence of accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu

Narote. The learned Counsel appearing for the accused has drawn

our attention to the printouts of the screen shots article A/1 to A/16

to contend that those printouts had already been taken on

09.08.2013. We have gone through all the printouts of screen shots

and find that at the right side bottom corner, there is mention of the

time and date of taking of these screen shots. All these screen shorts

were taken on 09.08.2013 between 08.51 p.m. to 09.14 p.m. (prior
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 181 to arrest dated 22.08.2013) We find considerable force in the above

submissions to which there is no explanation from the prosecution. 212. Next, it is argued that in the Facebook account, if a

person is not in the friends list of the account holder then there

would be an option of "add friend" on the Facebook page. In this

regard, we have been taken through the printout as well as

admission given by PW-4 Shrikant Gaddewar who was a computer

expert. He has specifically admitted that if a person's name is not in

the friends list, then there would be an option as "add friend".

Particularly, he admits that in the screen shots, A/15 and A/16

option "add friend" appears and not the name of a friend. Perusal of

A/15 and A/16 discloses that in front of the name 'Ajay Kumar and

Dona Willson', there is a column "add friend". Thus, the said

admission falsifies the prosecution case that those two persons were

in the friends list of accused No.3 Hem Mishra. Moreover, it is not

clarified who were those two persons. This time also we could not

get any explanation from the prosecution. 213. The learned defence Counsel would submit that

according to the evidence of the prosecution, the first panchnama
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 182 (Exh.199) of the Facebook account was prepared on 26.08.2013,

whilst the second panchnama (Exh.200) of the viewing of the video

during opening of the account was dated 29.08.2013. These

panchnamas reveal that on the top and bottom of both panchnamas,

there is specific mention that these have been prepared on

29.09.2013. PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche has explained that due to

oversight, the date is wrongly mentioned. However, the said

explanation has to be tested on the above background. 214. The learned defence Counsel submitted that in the

charge sheet index at Serial No. 53 it is mentioned that Facebook

photos dated 09.08.2013 have been annexed. We have verified this

from the record which does exists. It is apparent that screen shots

were taken on 09.08.2013 (prior to arrest), however, both

panchnamas were shown to be carried out on 26.08.2013 and

29.08.2013. From these material discrepancies, we are unable to

accept the prosecution case regarding seizure of screen shots from

the Facebook account of accused No.3 Hem Mishra and panchnama

of the video shooting of the process. Though the prosecution alleges

that they have video-graphed the entire process of taking screen

shots of the Facebook account of accused No.3 Hem Mishra, the said
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 183 CD of video recording dated 26.09.2013 has not been brought on

record which adds to the suspicion. SEIZURE FROM ACCUSED NO.4 PRASHANT RAHI, ACCUSED NO.5
VIJAY TIRKI AND THEIR ARREST. 215. It is the prosecution case that during interrogation of

accused No.3 Hem Mishra, it was revealed that accused No.4

Prashant Rahi was coming from Raipur and Deori to meet accused

No.5 Vijay Tirki, who under instructions of naxalite Ramdar was to

escort accused No.4 Prashant Rahi to Abuzmad forest area to meet

senior Moist Leaders. According to the prosecution, PW-11 SDPO

Suhas Bawche had passed this information to PW-14 API

Rajendrakumar Tiwari of Deori Police Station with the description

of the suspect. At the relevant time, PW-14 API Rajendrakumar

Tiwari along with driver PW-8 Yede were on patrolling duty at

Chinchgarh area, District Gondia in search of accused Pahad Singh.

On receipt of information, PW-14 API Rajendrakumar Tiwari went to

Raipur but, learn that the suspects have gone towards Deori. He

went to Deori and found that two persons (accused No.4 Prashant

Rahi and accused No.5 Vijay Tirki) were at Chichgarh T-point under
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 184 suspicious circumstances, so he took them into custody. PW-14 API

Rajendrakumar Tiwari brought them to Aheri Police Station and

handed them over to PW-11 SDPO Suhash Bawche. It was followed

by seizure of incriminating material and effecting arrest of both of

these accused. It is the prosecution case that from the possession of

accused No.4 Prashant Rahi, naxal documents have been seized. 216. In order to establish the arrest and seizure of accused

No.4 Prashant Rahi and accused No.5 Vijay Tirki, the prosecution

relied on the evidence of PW-8 Yede, PW-14 API Rajendrakumar

Tiwari, PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche and panch PW-3 Umaji

Chandankhede. Moreover, prosecution has relied on seizure

panchnama (Exh.179) of articles from accused No.4 Prashant Rahi

and seizure panchnama (Exh.180) of articles from the possession of

accused No.5 Vijay Tirki. 217. The learned Counsel for accused strongly assailed the

prosecution case on the point of arrest as well as seizure from the

possession of accused No.4 Prashant Rahi and accused No.5 Vijay

Tirki. It is the defence version that accused No.4 Prashant Rahi had

gone to Raipur in relation to Court proceeding from where he had
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 185 been illegally taken into custody. The defence has specifically denied

the alleged arrest at Chichgarh T-point and particularly seizure of

various articles including naxal documents. The learned defence

Counsel made a variety of submissions to discredit the entire process

of arrest followed by seizure. 218. It is the evidence of PW-14 API Rajendrakumar Tiwari

of Deori Police Station that, on 01.09.2013 he had been to

Chinchgarh in search of accused Pahad Singh relating to Crime No.

39/2011. He received a message on his mobile that suspects of

crime No. 3017/2013 registered with Aheri Police Station are in

Raipur area, so he should search and take them into custody.

Accordingly, he went to Raipur, but, learnt that the suspects had

proceeded towards Deori by a four-wheeler. PW-14 API

Rajendrakumar Tiwari came to Deori and found the suspects at

Chichgarh T-point as per description given to him. On their

examination, Maowadi and naxal literature was found in their

possession, hence, they have been taken into custody and handed

over on the following day in wee hours (02.09.2013) to Aheri Police

Station. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 186 219. We have gone through the evidence of PW-11 SDPO

Suhas Bawche. It is his evidence that on 02.09.2013, PW-14 API

Rajendrakumar Tiwari brought accused No.4 Prashant Rahi and

accused No.5 Vijay Tirki at Aheri Police Station. He made

preliminary inquiry and took their personal search in the presence of

pancha witnesses. The articles seized from both of them were sealed

and handed over to the Muddemal Clerk and then arrested both

accused. His evidence is silent on what was seized from the

possession of accused No.4 Prashant Rahi and accused No.5 Vijay

Tirki. Personal search of accused No.4 Prashant Rahi and accused

No.5 Vijay Tirki was taken in the presence of panch PW-3 Umaji

Chandankhede. 220. It is the evidence of P.W.3 Umaji that on 02.09.2013,

around 05.45 p.m. he had been called by the PW-11 SDPO Suhas

Bawche. He went to the Police Station and in his presence, personal

search of accused No.4 Prashant Rahi and accused No.5 Vijay Tirki

was taken. Pertinently he has described the seized material as cash

amount of Rs. 8,800/-, visiting card, driving licence, Pan card, Yatri

Card news paper and some "other property". He has not stated

anything about the seizure of incriminating material such as naxal
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 187 documents. We cannot assume the term "other property" pertains to

naxal documents. As far as accused No.5 Vijay Tirki is concerned, it

is not even the prosecution case that any incriminating material has

been seized from his possession. 221. We have gone through the seizure panchnama

(Exh.179) pertaining to accused No.4 Prashant Rahi. The

panchnama bears description of the seized articles which include

papers relating to arrested naxalite Narayan Alias Vijay Alias

Prasad, so also, 8 naxal related papers stapled together. While

doubting the whole process of effecting seizure, it is primarily

argued that as to on which basis PW-14 API Rajendrakumar Tiwari

had arrested accused No.4 Prashant Rahi and accused No.5 Vijay

Tirki at Chichgarh T-point. According to the defence the

prosecution case is totally unbelievable of identifying the

passengers moving by four-wheeler to be suspects of a crime.

Moreover, none of the Police Officers including PW-14 API

Rajendrakumar Tiwari, PW-8 Yede stated the description of the

suspects received by them. It is argued that the entire process of

arrest is mysterious, hence it supports the defence version of

taking accused No.4 Prashant Rahi into custody from Raipur. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 188 222. Though PW-14 API Rajendrakumar Tiwari submitted

that he received the message about the suspects to be

apprehended, however he did not say as to who has commanded

him to find the suspects. PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche does not

speak of passing of the message to PW-14 API Rajendrakumar

Tiwari regarding the suspects with their description. In this

scenario, the evidence of panch PW-3 Umaji Chandankhede

carries significance. He deposed that on 02.09.2013 at 5.45 p.m.

i.e. in the evening, he has been called at Aheri Police Station. In

that regard we have gone through both seizure panchnama (Exh.

179 and 180) which were drawn in between 06.15 to 06.30

O'Clock and 06.30 to 06.45 O'Clock. Pertinent to note that both

panchnamas do not state whether they were carried out in the

morning or in the evening, by mentioning "A.M." or "P.M." Arrest

panchnama discloses that both were arrested on 02.09.2013

around 07.10 O'Clock similarly without specifying A.M. or P.M. 223. The defence has produced a copy of remand order

dated 02.09.2013 showing that on that day around 03.45 p.m.,

both accused No.4 Prashant Rahi and accused No.5 Vijay Tirki
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 189 have been produced in the Court of Magistrate seeking Police

custody remand. Thus, it remains a mystery whether they were

actually arrested on 02.09.2013 in the early morning or in the

evening. Be that as it may, if they have been arrested in the

evening then it is difficult to believe that for 24 hours they were in

possession of the documents which were seized in the evening. If

arrest was made in the morning, then they would be in possession

of the documents overnight. PW-14 API Rajendrakumar Tiwari

states that at the time of taking them in custody on 01.09.2013,

they were in possession of Maowadi and Naxal literature, however,

PW-14 API Tiwari did not describe what documents were

possessed by them. We have noted earlier that PW-11 SDPO Suhas

Bawche has not deposed the nature of documents seized. Panch

PW-3 Umaji Chandankhede though stated the detailed description

of insignificant material i.e. cash, driving licence, Pan Card, Yatri

Card, has not deposed of seizure of Maowadi and naxal literature.

Seizure panchnama (Exh.179) merely bears a reference to papers

relating to arrested naxalite Narayan [8 pages related to naxal

movement]. Thus, neither oral evidence nor panchnama bears a

reference to the description of documents except papers relating to
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 190 arrested naxalite Narayan. It is argued that the prosecution has

not produced the Court paper relating to naxalite Narayan which

carries importance. The State has not responded in showing that

such papers were included in the charge-sheet. 224. Coming to the credentials of panch witness, it is in

defence that the documents have been planted by creating a scene

of effecting seizure panchnama by using regular panch i.e. panch

PW-3 Umaji Chandankhede. Panch PW-3 Umaji Chandankhede

admitted during cross-examination that he is illiterate, cannot read

or write Marathi and Hindi language. In such a scenario, it is

difficult to hold that panch was aware as to what was disclosed in

the seizure panchnama. He did not state that the contents of

panchnama were at least read over to him, and its contents were

accepted. It is noteworthy to see that this witness admitted that

he used to attend Aheri Police Station for cleaning the office

premises, as a sweeper. He has admitted that he had gone to the

Police Station on 22 to 25 occasions in the past. He admits that he

has acted as a panch of the Police on 4 to 5 occasions and more

particularly he stated that Aheri Police Station used to call him as
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 191 panch whenever there was a need. These admissions

unequivocally show that PW-3 Umaji Chandankhede was a stock

panch witness of the Police. He is an illiterate person and he does

not know Marathi language. Thus, it is difficult to believe that this

panch was aware of the recitals in panchnama specifying the

description of incriminating material. Besides that neither PW-3

Umaji Chandankhede nor PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche have stated

the description of the incriminating documents seized from the

possession of accused No.4 Prashant Rahi. 225. The defence would submit that this is a case of

planting of evidence and the Police have purposely not written a

specific time of arrest and seizure, by leaving its options open to

treat it as morning or evening. True, neither the arrest

panchnamas (Exh. 239 and 240) bears A.M. or P.M. nor both

seizure panchnamas (Exh. 179 and 180) bears such reference. In

this context, though the Police claimed to have effected seizure

and arrest in the morning on 02.09.2013, the sole panch PW-3

Umaji Chandankhede states that he went to the Police Station on

02.09.2013 in the evening. Therefore, possibility of preparing
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 192 these documents in the evening, after Police remand, cannot be

ruled out. 226. Strikingly, as per the prosecution case on 01.09.2013,

in the evening both were taken into custody from Chichgarh T-

point, however, the search and seizure was not effected at the said

place. Since panchnama was executed on the following day, it is

difficult to believe that both arrested accused kept the

incriminating material intact with them, which was seized later.

Though the Investigating Officer is not obliged to disclose the

source of information, however, PW-14 API Rajendrakumar Tiwari

ought to have said who has asked him to apprehend suspect and

what was the description. The suspicion is further raised since

PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche was silent about this aspect. Thus,

the entire process of arrest of and seizure from accused No.4

Prashant Rahi and accused No.5 Vijay Tirki is not free from doubt.

Hence, we are not inclined to rely on this evidence.

HOUSE SEARCH AND SEIZURE FROM A6- SAIBABA. 227. It is the prosecutions case that in pursuance of search

warrant issued by the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Aheri dated
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 193 07.09.2013, the Police carried out a house search of accused No.6

G.N. Saibaba on 12.09.2013. During the search, the Police have

seized incriminating material in the form of electronic gadgets

which were seized under a panchnama in presence of panch

witnesses. The defence has seriously challenged the entire process

of seizure claiming the same to be illegal and planted. Defence

alleges manipulation in the seizure of incriminating articles from

the house of accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba. Infact it is the primary

duty of the prosecution to establish the case of seizure. 228. The prosecution has relied on the evidence of PW-10

PI Anil Badgujar, PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche, PW-2 Jagat Bhole

(Panch) and related documents. It is the evidence of PW-10 PI

Anil Badgujar that after the complicity of accused No.6 G.N.

Saibaba was revealed, they had obtained search warrant from

Judicial Magistrate First Class, Aheri and with the help of Delhi

Police, seized incriminating material from the house of accused

No.6 G.N. Saibaba on 12.09.2013. He deposed that the seizure

was made in the presence of accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba and panch
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 194 witness. Seizure panchnama was drawn by PW-11 SDPO Suhas

Bawche. 229. Evidence of PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche carries

importance since he has conducted the entire process of the raid

and consequential seizure. It is his evidence that on receipt of the

search warrant, he went to Delhi on 09.09.2013 along with a

Police team. He has contacted Moris Nagar Police Station at

Delhi. He has issued a requisition letter to the Police of Moris

Nagar for providing Police staff, computer expert and videographer

for the process of search and seizure. In response, Moris Nagar

Police provided police staff, computer expert and videographer for

effecting search. 230. It is in the evidence of PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche

that on 12.09.2013 in the afternoon, they went to the house of

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba, situated in the campus of Delhi

University. They have shown the search warrant to accused No.6

G.N. Saibaba and obtained his signature. The purpose of their

visit was explained, as well as the Police offered their personal

search, to which accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba declined. The Police
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 195 carried a thorough search of the house of accused No.6 G.N.

Saibaba. During the search, they have collected six CDs, 24 DVDs,

3 Pen-drives, 32 GB memory card, five hard disks, Lap-top, Blue-

tooth, three mobiles, 2 SIM cards, documents related to naxal

literature (book, magazines, printed material, photograph of lady

naxal) etc. The electronic devices were sealed in one plastic box.

Lap-top was sealed in a separate packet and printed material was

seized in 3 separate packets. All articles were sealed with a label

and signature of panchas. The copy of the panchnama was given

to accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba and his signature was obtained. PW-

11 SDPO Suhas Bawche deposed that the entire process of seizure

and drawing of panchnama was videographed through a

videographer provided by Moris Nagar Police Station. He stated

that during the process, memory capacity of the video camera

went full, hence the Police staff took further video recordings on

their mobile phone which was later on stored and then transferred

to a CD. Thereafter, the entire raiding party returned to Aheri

Police Station on the following day i.e. on 13.09.2013 and

deposited the entire seized property with the Muddemal Clerk of

Aheri Police Station as well as station diary entry was effected. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 196 231. It is evident from the line of cross-examination that

the process of seizure of incriminating material itself is doubtful,

fake and fabricated. The submission on the question of power of

search and seizure, as well as questions of chain and safe custody

of seized articles are dealt with separately. We have scrutinized

the entire material to see whether the prosecution evidence

regarding seizure of incriminating material is reliable. The said

aspect is of great significance, since the entire prosecution is based

only on seizure. 232. In order to vouch for the credibility of the seizure, the

prosecution relied on the evidence of panch witness PW-2 Jagat

Bhole. It is his evidence that on 12.09.2013, around 2.45 p.m.

while he was at his barber shop situated near Delhi University

campus, he was called by the Police to act as panch. Accordingly,

he has accompanied Delhi and Maharashtra Police to the house of

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba situated at Delhi University campus.

The Police started recording the process of search and seizure on a

video camera. During the house search, 25 to 30 CDs, Laptop, 4 to

5 Pen-drives, 4 to 5 hard disk, 5 to 6 books were found in a drawer

of a wooden table. The Police sealed all this material in his
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 197 presence and drew a panchnama to that effect. Panchnama

(Exh.165) was read over to him, on which he has signed. All

seized articles have been identified by PW-2 Jagat Bhole. 233. Since the process of search and seizure is under

challenge, we have carefully gone through the cross-examination

of these witnesses. Though PW-2 Jagat Bhole stated that all the

articles have been sealed, he admits that the labels affixed on the

articles do not bear his signature. It is not the prosecution case

that the articles have been sealed with wax. We have gone

through the seizure panchnama (Exh.165) drawn on the date of

seizure. The entire panchnama does not bear reference to the fact

that articles were sealed with wax seal or even with labels

containing signatures of the panch. We only find a reference that

the panchnama was carried out on 12.09.2013 between 03.00

p.m. to 05.45 p.m. and all articles were taken in custody by the

Police for the purpose of investigation. Thus, the first infirmity is

about securing the seized material by proper sealing and labelling. 234. The learned special prosecutor would submit that

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba has signed on the seizure panchnama
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 198 and the same has been shown to us. True, accused No.6 G.N.

Saibaba has not denied his signature. However, the entire process

shows that a huge batch of 25 to 50 Police barged in for the raid

and at that time his signature was obtained. Merely because he

has signed the panchnama, it does not mean that the seizure was

legal and valid as required under the law. At the most, it can only

be inferred that the copy of seizure panchnama was provided to

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba and nothing beyond that. 236. The defence has seriously challenged the credibility of

panch witness. It is submitted that this witness was a poor

illiterate barber who has signed on the panchnama and deposed in

Court under pressure of the Police. According to the defence, he

was not present at the time of panchnama, but he was tutored by

the Police. It is interesting to go through the cross-examination of

panch PW-2 Jagat Bhole. He is running a barber shop situated

outside the campus of Delhi University. It has come in his

evidence that he cannot read or write any language except to sign

in the English language. He is an illiterate person. He has

requested the Police for taking another panch as he is illiterate,

however, the Police insisted him to act as a panch. It has come in
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 199 his evidence that thousands of students and professors were

available in the vicinity to act as a panch. It is his evidence that

when they went to the house of the accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba,

several students and professors had gathered near the house of

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba. 237. Panch PW2 Jagat Bhole admitted that at the relevant

time, accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba requested the police that the search

should be taken in the presence of professors or his Advocate.

Particularly, he admits that at the time of house search, he himself

and accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba were kept by locking the door within

and the Police carried out the process of search. He stated that the

Police did not allow anyone to enter into the house of accused No.6

G.N. Saibaba during the search. Though the prosecution argued that

this is a vague admission, in the context of nature of his evidence,

we are unable to overlook this vital admission by merely assuming it

to be an oversight admission. This witness has in so many words

stated that he is totally illiterate and he should not be taken as

panch on account of his illiteracy. Moreover, he stated that near

about 20 to 25 Delhi Police and equal number of Maharashtra Police

went inside the house of the accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba and by
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 200 locking the door carried searches. He stated in particular that he

himself and accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba were kept out of the house.

These specific admissions speak volumes about the credibility of the

process of entire search and seizure. 238. It has come in the evidence of PW-2 Jagat Bhole that he

does not know the difference between CD and DVD, or difference

between Pen-drive and blue-tooth, or between a CD Drive and DVD

Drive. He also states that he does not know what is meant by hard

disk. In the context of these admissions, coupled with being

admittedly illiterate, his deposition as to identification of articles will

have to be assessed. All seized articles which are about 40 to 50 in

number, particularly, electronic gadgets have been shown to the

witness during his evidence. Most of the electronic gadgets were

shown to him by reference to the company specification, writing on

the CDs and DVDs in English language etc. which he claimed to

identify. Since this witness was totally illiterate, we deem the said

exercise in futility. It can be easily inferred that the prosecution has

shown articles one by one, read whatever is printed on the electronic

gadgets in English Language, on which the illiterate panch has
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 201 merely nodded his acceptance of identification. In true sense, this

long exercise does not convince us to hold that the witness has

identified the seized material. He does not know how to read the

English language, but is also digitally illiterate and thus, it is difficult

to hold that this witness has identified the articles claimed to be

seized during the house search. In any event, details and

descriptions of these articles are not specified by colour, unique ID

number or container on the panchnama. 238. It is the prosecution case that before proceeding to the

targeted house of accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba, the Maharashtra

Police went to Maurice Nagar Police Station who had provided

additional Police force with technician, photographer etc. The high

ranking Police Officers including ACP Meena, SDPO Suhas Bawche,

PI Anil Badgujar, along with the officers of Delhi Police were on this

mission. The Police team was equipped with a computer expert and

videographer. It assumes significance that it was a pre-planned raid

with participation of high ranking Police Officers. Despite that,

surprisingly one illiterate witness, a barber by profession was chosen

as panch. This is not a case of the Police accidentally catching a

suspect, and then taking his search. In such a case, one can
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 202 understand the propriety and paucity of time in choosing a panch

witness. We reiterate that it was a very well planned raid that too

under the stringent statute like UAPA, being a joint venture of two

police forces led by high ranking police officers. Despite this, they

chose an illiterate barber as panch over a large number of potential

witnesses available in the housing complex of the University campus

where the raid took place. Surely, several highly educated witnesses

would be available. The entire search is therefore not free from

suspicion. True, a panch can be any one, however considering the

propriety of the whole matter and involvement of high ranking

Police officers, it is difficult to accept that the choice of panch is

natural one, especially for a case as under UAPA which was so

sensitive. 239. Notably, PW-2 Panch Jagat Bhole requested the Police to

choose someone literate as a panch as he could neither read or

write. Still the wisdom of high ranking Police officers did not prevail,

strangely insisted only he should act as a panch which has created

grave doubt in our mind. It is not a case that panchas were not

available. It was in broad daylight, a pre-planned raid in Delhi
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 203 University campus, wherein thousand of people were available;

however, police acted as if this were a hobson's choice. The search

commenced in a planned manner under requisition, the Maharashtra

Police asked Maurice Nagar Police to provide a photographer,

computer expert and Police staff for the raid. In all fairness, they

could have also requested them to look for someone as an

independent panch witness, but, they did not. Having regard to

such colourable exercise coupled with the clear admission of the

panch that the seizure was a close door affair by keeping the panch

and accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba out of the premises, does not allow

us to accept the genuineness of seizure keeping all this material at

bay. The suspicion has been further aggravated because the seizure

panchnama (Exh.165) does not bear a reference to either the articles

which were sealed with wax or with label with pancha's signature.

The evidence of the panch also states that the label containing his

signature was not affixed on the articles. This circumstance further

raises a suspicion about the genuineness of the raid. 240. Strikingly, the raiding party, though was well equipped

with computer expert/technical expert still neither hash value of the

electronic gadgets was drawn nor the description of the devices was
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 204 incorporated in seizure panchnama. Again, we say that it was a

planned raid conducted by high ranking Police Officers equipped

with computer expert, however, electronic devices have not been

secured at all. In order to secure the devices found, hash value

could have been easily drawn on the spot. Moreover, mirroring of

the contents would have been taken in panchnama, which was not

done. Apart from hash value, unique identification number of the

hard disk and electronic gadgets have not been recorded in

panchnama to vouch for its credibility. The description of the

electronic gadgets in the nature of outer appearance, cover, serial

number, or some other factors, which could have been easily

incorporated in the panchnama with the help of experts, have not

been done. The seizure was like an ordinary articles of crime. 241. Moreover, the defence has drawn our attention to the

evidence of PW-2 Jagat Bhole to establish that he was wholly under

the police influence even at the time of recording his evidence. We

have re-visited the evidence of PW-2 Jagat Bhole who stated that

on 03.01.2016, he came from Delhi to Gadchiroli for leading

evidence. The Trial Court has recorded his evidence on 06.01.2016

and 16.01.2016. He stated that after reaching Gadchiroli, he has
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 205 halted at one place at Gadchiroli which he cannot remember.

However, he admits that it was a Police guest house. When the

learned APP has alerted the witness, he denied that it was a Police

guest house. It has also come in his evidence that the second panch

Umar also came with him from Delhi, but the prosecution did not

choose to examine him, which is a matter to be noted. During cross-

examination, it has amply come on record that PW-2 Jagat Bhole

was illiterate and during search he was kept away.

[ 242. It has come in the evidence of Investigating Officer PW-

11 SDPO Suhas Bawche that accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba gave in

writing that the search should be conducted in presence of

professors and his advocate, but, no heed was paid to this request.

The Investigating Officer has explained that said letter was given

after completion of the house search. However, it is evident that

before search such request was made, but, was neglected, hence

written application. No doubt, accused has no choice of panch

witness, but, his objection appears to be to the unreliable nature of

the panch who was illiterate. 243. It is the prosecution's case that the entire process of

seizure and search was video-graphed by officers from Maurice
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 206 Nagar Police Station Delhi. PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche stated in his

evidence that the videography was done through a photographer

provided by Maurice Nagar Police Station. While carrying out the

panchnama, the memory of the card in the video camera became

full, hence the Police staff made video recording of the panchnama

on their mobile. He deposed that after returning, the video shooting

taken by Aheri Police on mobile was stored and saved on a computer

and a CD was prepared. PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche stated that

repeatedly they sent requisition to the Maurice Nagar Police Station

to provide the video recording done by their videographer, but, the

Police avoided their request. Admittedly, no such written requisition

was sent to the Maurice Nagar Police Station was produced in

evidence. Besides that video recording on mobile phone though

allegedly done, was not tendered in the course of trial. Moreover,

there is no mention in seizure panchnama (Exh.165), that the entire

process was video-graphed. In the context of the admission that

during the search, the panch and accused No.6 G.N. Sabiaba were

kept out of the house, absence of the video recording carries

importance, and creates doubt. During the course of the arguments,
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 207 we sought a copy of this videography even though not produced in

evidence, but the same was not forthcoming. 244. It is the prosecution's case that on 04.09.2013, they

have applied to the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Aheri for issuance

of search warrant. In-turn, the learned Magistrate has issued search

warrant (Exh. 244) on 07.09.2013, on the basis of which, the search

was conducted. The defence has drawn our attracted to the extract

of the case diary (page 593) of Aheri Police Station dated

13.09.2013. The case diary bears a reference to the fact that the

Investigating Officer met the Additional Commissioner of Police on

11.09.2013 with a warrant, seeking his assistance, however the then

Police asked him to bring a specific search warrant under Section 93

of the Code. It is stated that thereafter, search warrant under

Section 93 of the Code was procured for that process. In that

context, there is no evidence of the Investigating Officer about

obtaining search warrant under Section 93 of the Code. Rather

letter dated 12.09.2013 issued by the Investigating Officer (Exh.252)

shows that while seeking assistance of the Police, a search warrant

issued by the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Aheri dated 07.09.2013

was produced. There is no record to indicate that a fresh search
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 208 warrant particularly under Section 93 of the Code was obtained. We

have gone through the search warrant (Exh.244) which was issued

by the Magistrate jointly under Sections 93 and 94 of the Code. 245. There is marked distinction between the search warrant

under Section 93 and under Section 94 of the Code. Warrant under

Section 93 of the Code pertains to the production of documents or

other things which are necessary for the purpose of investigation and

which the Court believes that a person despite summons would not

produce the same. However, warrant under Section 94 of the Code

relates to a search of a place suspected to contain stolen property or

forged documents. We have examined the search warrant (Exh.244)

though captioned as search warrant under Sections 93 and 94 of the

Code, however it is in the Form No.11 of the Second Schedule of the

Code under Section 94 relating to seizure of stolen property. The

prosecution has not explained whether warrant under Section 93 of

the Code was obtained, though it may not be essential, in view of

the specific powers of search and seizure provided under the UAPA. 246. It appears that the Police under assumption of necessity

to have a search warrant from a Magistrate have obtained the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 209 warrant which was issued with a specific rider (as per format), that

the property seized shall be forthwith brought before the Court on

return of warrant. In this regard, admittedly no such compliance

was done, but, only a report dated 13.09.2013 (Exh.258) was made

to the Magistrate along with the list of seized articles without its

production. Be that as it may, even according to the prosecution

case, they did not comply with the conditions of warrant which,

otherwise, according to us, is not required in the context of the

special provisions made under the UAPA in that regard. 247. In substance, the entire process of search and seizure

from the house of accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba is doubtful. We

reiterate the importance of the seizure because the whole

prosecution depends on the said search and seizure. Despite a pre-

planned raid by High Ranking Police Officers, an illiterate panch was

used, though he resisted. During the process of search, the panch

was kept out of the searched premises. Though the entire process

was videographed the said material is not proved nor was the other

panch examined. Panchnama does not bear reference to sealing and

labeling of seized articles. In that view of the matter and for these

reasons, we hold that prosecution has failed to prove seizure and
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 210 search of incriminating material from the house search of accused

No.6 Saibaba by leading credible evidence. 248. The learned special prosecutor relying on the decisions

in Anter Singh57, Mallikarjun58 and Rameshbhai Mohanbhai Koli59

submits that there is no difficulty in relying on the seizure by

accepting the evidence of the Investigating Officer dehors hostility of

panch witness. In the above quoted cases, principally it has been

ruled that if the evidence of the Investigating Officer regarding

seizure is convincing, that evidence cannot be rejected solely on the

ground that the panch witnesses did not support the prosecution

version. 249. It is fairly well settled that the evidence of the

Investigating Officer can be relied upon to prove the recovery even

if the panch witness turns hostile. In other words, the evidence of

the Investigating Officer about seizure, if it does not suffer from

any infirmity or doubt, the hostility of panch would be

inconsequential. It is an usual phenomenon that in criminal cases

often panchas resile from the facts in the signed panchnama for a 57.Anter Singh Vs. State of Rajasthan , (2004) 10 SCC 657, 58.Mallikarjun and others Vs. State of Karnataka , (2019) 8 SCC 359 59.Rameshbhai Mohanbhai Koli Vs. State of Gujarat , (2011) 11 SCC 111
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 211 variety of reasons. Certainly the hostile tendency of panchas

would not handicap the prosecution. Criminal law does not offer a

driving seat to the panch witness, though it depends upon the

credibility of the evidence of the Investigating Officer and if it

stands upto judicial scrutiny, it can be very well accepted. 250. This is a case having its own peculiarity. Generally in

criminal cases, the seizure of articles are mostly used as a piece of

corroborative evidence to substantiate the evidence led through

other sources. In the case at hand, the entire prosecution case is

based upon three different seizures and nothing beyond that. The

prosecution has built a case of commission of offence under the

UAPA only on the basis of seizures. Thus, the seizure being the very

foundation of prosecution, it must pass the test of reliability.

Pertinent to note that in the above referred decisions, the panch

witnesses have not supported the prosecution case which is not the

case in this matter. Three independent panch witnesses namely PW-

1 Santosh Bawne (Panch for the first seizure dated 22.08.2013 from

accused Nos. 1 to 3), PW-3 Umaji Chandankhede (panch for the

second seizure dated 02.09.2013 from accused No.4 Prashant Rahi
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 212 and accused No.5 Vijay Tirki) and witness PW-2 Jagat Bhole (panch

for the third seizure dated 12.09.2013 from accused No.6 G.N.

Saibaba) have supported the prosecution case. None of the

witnesses was declared hostile to claim the exception. These

witnesses have supported the prosecution case, however several

admissions given by these witnesses has created substantial doubt

about the entire process of seizure. We cannot wash of vital

admissions and the character of those panchas with the aid of

certain general propositions which have been led in above referred

cases. Rather in criminal cases, cross-examination is the only

effective weapon in the armory of defence to impeach the credibility

of prosecution witnesses. Admissions given by these witnesses made

us to hold that they are not natural, responsible and reliable

witnesses. They are in fact regular stock witnesses of the Police and

that too illiterate used by the Police to prove the seizure which we

do not accept for the reasons stated earlier. CORROBORATIVE EVIDENCE OF PW-9 ATRAM. 251. This takes us to the evidence of one more prosecution

witness PW-9 Atram. His evidence is led to impress that accused
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 213 No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu Narote were involved in

the terrorist activities. It is his evidence that he was acquainted with

both of them. In the year 2013, accused No.2 Pandu Narote came to

him informing that naxalite lady Narmadakka called him.

Accordingly, he went to the Todalgatta forest area with accused No.2

Pandu Narote to meet this naxalite lady Narmadakka. He was

accompanied with accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2

Pandu Narote. The naxalite lady Nambadakka gave him a sum of

Rs.5 lakhs and asked him to give it to A1- Mahesh and A2-Pandu at

Ballarsha Railway Station. On 27.05.2013, he has been asked by

accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu Narote to come

to Balarsha Railway Station along with the money. Accordingly, on

29.05.2013, he reached Ballarsha Railway Station, where accused

No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu Narote were present.

He deposed that two unknown persons came therewith whom

accused No.2 Pandu Narote talked and took money from him and

handed over the money to one of them. 252. This is the only evidence of this witness stating that at the

behest of naxalite lady Narmadakka, he has handed over money to

one unknown person at Ballarsha Railway Station through accused
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 214 No.1 Mahesh Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu Narote. It is pertinent to

note that accused were not charged for the offence punishable under Section 17 of the UAPA for raising or providing fund for terrorist act.

The endevour was to show the nexus of accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki,

accused No.2 Pandu Narote with the naxalite lady Narmadakka and

their activities of sending money. 253. The defence has strongly assailed the evidence of this

witness by stating that his evidence is that of an accomplice.

According to the defence, if he was involved in the act of facilitating

terrorism or he was associated with some terrorists, he ought to have

been made accused in the crime. It is argued that according to the

prosecution case, this witness has assisted the co-accused and

therefore, he is not an independent truthful witness worthy to be

believed. The evidence of this witness is very general and vague. It

is not the prosecution case that accused No.1 Mahesh Tirki and

accused No.2 Pandu Narote have provided finance to a particular

person that too for the purpose of terrorist activities. Besides his

evidence, there is no link evidence as to whom accused No.1 Mahesh

Tirki and accused No.2 Pandu Narote have paid the sum. It is not

made clear as to who is naxalite lady Narmadakka. Moreover, this
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 215 witness has been stated to have assisted the accused of this crime

and therefore, it is not safe to rely on his version without

corroboration. Considering the nature of his vague statement, it is

of no assistance to the prosecution to prove any particular act.

JUDICIAL CONFESSION. 254. This takes us to considering another piece of evidence

pertaining to confessional statements allegedly given by A1-Mahesh

and A2 Pandu. It is the prosecution case that both of them have

voluntarily shown their willingness to give a confession. In turn,

they were produced before the Magistrate who after completing the

statutory formalities recorded their confessional statements,

supporting the prosecution case. The learned Special Prosecutor

would submit that the evidence of PW 12- Mr. Vyas [Magistrate]

coupled with confessional statements [Exhs.280 and 286] unerringly

points towards the active participation of both of them in the act of

terror. It is submitted that the confession of the accused recorded

by the Magistrate after ensuring the same to be voluntary can be

accepted as the best piece of evidence in support of the prosecution

case. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 216 255. Section 164 of the Code makes a confession made before a

Magistrate admissible in evidence. The manner in which such

confession is to be recorded by the Magistrate is provided in the

section itself. The said provision inter alia seeks to protect the

accused from making a confession under influence, threat or

promise from a person in authority. Before we examine the legal

implication with regard to recording of judicial confession we may

turn to the factual aspect since on the basis of facts, a call has to be

taken as to whether the confession was truthful, voluntary and free

from doubt. PW 12- Mr. Vyas, Magistrate has been examined on the

point of recording of confession. It is his evidence, that on

02.09.2013, the investigating officer applied for recording

confessional statements of A1-Mahesh and A2 Pandu. On that day

though both were willing to make confessional statements, however,

the Magistrate gave them two days time for retraction and called on

04.09.2013. It is the evidence of Mr. Vyas, that again on

04.09.2013, both the accused were brought by the police for

recording confession. The Magistrate once again put several

questions with a bid to ascertain the voluntary nature of the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 217 confession and still thought it fit to give some more time for

retraction. 256. In turn on 06.09.2013 A1-Mahesh was again produced

before the Magistrate for recording confessional statement. The

learned Magistrate has put him several questions to ascertaining his

voluntariness, on satisfaction recorded his confessional statement

[Exh.280]. The Magistrate gave necessary certification [Exh.281 to

283], stating the voluntary nature of accused and his own

satisfaction about this aspect. Further it has come in the evidence of

PW 12 Mr. Vyas, that on 08.09.2013 A2 Pandu was brought for

recording confessional statement. The Magistrate has asked him

several questions and on satisfaction, recorded his statement

[Exh.286] and certified at Exh.287 to 289 it was voluntary,

truthfulness and to his satisfaction. Record indicates that the

Magistrate has complied with the legal requirement that disclosure

to the accused that his is a Magistrate, the accused is not bound to

give a statement, but, if given it will be used against him. The

Magistrate also enquired whether both accused were threatened,

allured or promised by the police or any one else. The Magistrate

also ensured that the accused were not brought from the police
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 218 custody and also explained that even if they refuse to give

statements, they would not be kept in police custody. The

Magistrate asked the reason for making the confession, to which

both stated that because they have committed wrong, they are giving

a statement. 257. A1-Mahesh has stated in his statement that he is resident

of Murewada, Taluq Etapalli, District Gadchiroli and was doing

painting work. He stated that generally naxalites used to visit

Murewada and compel the villagers to give help. One naxalite lady

named Narmadakka called him and stated that he should go to

Ballarsha Railway Station with A-2 Pandu and receive two persons.

He was also informed about the appearance of those persons along

with a sign for identification with a nickname. Accordingly on

27.05.2013 he went to Ballarsha railway station with A2- Pandu,

received a person as per description given to him and then the said

person left with A2 - Pandu towards Morewada. A1 Mahesh

remained at the railway station. On the following day i.e.

29.05.2013, one Raju Atram PW9, came to the railway station with

Rs.5 lakhs, which they handed over to a fellow who came from

Delhi. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 219 258. A1- Mahesh stated that on 14.08.2013, he was asked by

the naxalite lady Narmadakka to receive one person at Ballarsha

railway station on 20 or 22 August, 2013 along with A-2 Pandu.

Similarly the sign language and specific marks have been informed.

Accordingly A1 Mahesh along with A2 Pandu went to Ballarsha

railway station in the morning. Around 9.45 a.m. The said person

came and on matching the identity mark and sign all three came to

Aheri by bus. After alighting from bus they were talking with each

other at the side of bus stand from where the police apprehended

them and took them to Aheri police station. 259. It is the evidence of PW 12 Vyas [Magistrate] that on

08.09.2013 A2-Pandu was produced for recording confession. He

has put all preliminary questions for ensuring the voluntary nature

of his statement and on satisfaction recorded the confessional

statement of A2-Pandu [Exh.286] on the very day. It is the

statement of A2- Pandu that he is also resident of Morewada, Taluq

Etapalli, District Gadchiroli. Once he was called by Narmadakka

along with A1-Mahesh. They were asked to receive a person coming

from Delhi on 28.05.2013. Accordingly after matching the sign, he
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 220 escorted the said person. He stated that A1 - Mahesh stayed back at

Ballarsha station, as he was assigned the job of handing over Rs.5

lakhs to a person coming from Delhi. He stated that around

15.08.2013, A1-Mahesh came to him conveying that naxalite lady

Narmadakka has called him. Both of them went to the said lady, and

they were informed that one person is coming from Delhi on 20 or

22 August, and both shall receive him at Ballarsha railway station

and safely escort him. Accordingly on 22 nd August both of them

went to Ballarsha railway station. Around 10 a.m. one person met

them who was possessing articles like a cap, newspaper, spectacle

cover, which matched the description. After verifying the identity

through a code name, both of them brought him to Aheri bus stand

and while they were standing at the side of bus stand, the police

apprehended and brought them to police station Aheri. 260. A confession ordinarily is admissible in evidence if it is

relevant, subject to its voluntariness. Section 164 of the Code cast a

statutory duty on the Magistrate to ensure about voluntariness in

strict sense. Considering the guarantee enshrined under Article

20[3] of the Constitution of India, the evidence of confession needs

to be seen cautiously and even more cautiously if the confession is
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 221 retracted. Both the accused have filed a joint application [Exh.292]

on 27.09.2013 retracting the confessions recorded on 06.09.2013

and 08.09.2013 respectively. It is relevant to note the contents of

said application by which both the accused to retracting the

confession urged the Magistrate to discard the same. 261. In the said application [Exh.292], accused have stated that

on 23.08.2013 they have been produced before the Magistrate who

has remanded them to police custody for 10 days i.e. upto

02.09.2013. In the said application they have explained that they

had been kept in illegal custody for 2 days preceding 22.08.2013. It

is stated that during the period of police custody i.e. from

23.08.2013 to 02.09.2013, the police have beaten them mercilessly.

The police have also mentally tortured them due to which they were

in deep terror of police. It is stated that the police threatened that

they would also implicate relatives of the accused in the crime. The

police assured them if they give a confessional statement, they

would not be implicated and if tried, they would not be punished.

The police also threatened to cause destruction of their property

and family. It is stated that on 06.09.2013 and 08.09.2013 while

taking them to the Magistrate from jail, the police initially took them
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 222 to Aheri Police Station where they have been tutored for giving a

statement. They were threatened by the Aheri police and escort

party. Finally they stated that whatever statement they gave was

false and was given under police pressure, and it should not be acted

upon. 262. Generally confession can be acted upon if the Court is

satisfied that it is voluntary and true. The voluntary nature of the

confession depends upon whether there was any threat or

inducement. Trustworthiness is to be judged in the context of the

entire prosecution case, because the confession must fit into the

proved facts and shall not run contrary to them. Retracted

confession however, stands on a slightly different footing. There is

no embargo on the court to take into account the retracted

confession but, the Court must look for the reasons for making of

confession, as well as its retraction. The Court may act upon the

confession made voluntarily, but, in case of retraction the general

assurance about its voluntary nature has to be ascertained. The

value of retracted confession is well known. The Court must be

satisfied that the confession at the first instance is true and
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 223 voluntary. The stage of retraction also matters while appreciating

the voluntariness and truthfulness. 263. It is the prosecution case that both A-1 and A2 were

arrested on 22.08.2013 and remanded to police custody for 10 days

i.e. till 02.09.2013, on which they were sent to judicial custody.

Both were produced before the Magistrate for recording confession

on 04.09.2013 i.e. while in judicial custody, but, the Magistrate gave

time for retraction, which led the police to produce A1 Mahesh on

06.09.2013 and A2 Pandu on 08.09.2013 for recording confession.

It is revealed from the evidence of P.W.12 Mr. Vyas [Magistrate], that

the accused persons [A1 Mahesh and A2 Pandu] were produced on

02.09.2013 when they were remanded to Magisterial custody. It is

not in dispute that the Magistrate has remanded them to police

custody for 10 days on 23.08.2013, meaning thereby till 02.09.2013

they were in police custody and have been produced before the

Magistrate, who sent them to judicial custody. 264. The evidence of Magistrate [PW-12] discloses that on

02.09.2013 itself the investigating officer filed an application for

recording confessional statement of both the accused. The
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 224 Magistrate stated that immediately he informed both the accused

about such application, and inquired whether they desire to make a

confession. However, it emerges that when the application was

moved to the Magistrate, both the accused were continuously in

police custody and no sooner they were brought to the Court from

police custody on 02.09.2013, an application for recording

confession was moved. It is apparent that the accused were not in

judicial custody, but, they were in police custody when the

application was moved. It is further revealed that the Magistrate

had interacted with both of them in the Court which accentuates

that both had not yet been sent to judicial custody. At that time the

investigating officer has pressed for recording their confession.

Therefore, it can safely be said that the accused were in continuous

10 days police custody when they allegedly expressed their

willingness to make a confession, which is one of the factors for

consideration. 265. Both the accused in their retraction application [Exh.292]

dated 27.09.2013 stated the reasons for delayed retraction. It is

explained that after 08.09.2013 [date of confession of A2], the next

date for production was 24.09.2013, meaning thereby they had no
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 225 opportunity in the meantime to put their grievance. The accused

stated that in the meantime they decided to write an application for

retraction, however, they were threatened. We have gone through

the evidence of PW 12 Vyas [Magistrate], who admitted that on

24.09.2013 accused A1 Mahesh has disclosed to him that he was

threatened by the police to make a confession, but, the Magistrate

did nothing. It shows that even before filing of the retraction

application dated 27.09.2013 on first occasion when the accused got

a chance to come to the Court for remand. A-1 Mahesh has

disclosed to the Magistrate about threats given by the police for

giving a confessional statement. The entire chain of events discloses

that before expressing to give confession, for 10 days the accused

were continuously in police custody and even after confession as and

when they got the opportunity they have retracted the confession. 266. In the background that the accused were in long police

custody before expressing willingness and its retraction on the first

possible opportunity, the value of confession is to be assessed. The

issue of evidentiary standard is a very delicate one and has a great

bearing on the outcome of the case. The confession is one element

of consideration of all the facts proved in the case, as it can be put
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 226 into the scale and weighed with other evidence. If the confession is

retracted, the probe requires to be deeper to satisfy its truthfulness.

No doubt the Magistrate has complied with the legal requirement,

but, the question is whether confession is made under torture,

threat, promise, if so it is inadmissible. 267. It is the prosecution case that the accused [A1 and A2]

were arrested from Aheri bus stand on 22.08.2013 around 6.15 p.m.

It is the evidence of P.W.6-API Awhad, that they were keeping

surveillance on the movement of A1 Mahesh and A2 Pandu. On

22.08.2013 around 6 p.m. both of them were found standing at a

secluded place near Aheri bus stand. After 15 minutes, around 6.15

p.m. one person wearing a cap arrived, after which they started to

talk with each other. On suspicion API Awhad took them into

custody. We have gone through both the confessional statements

[Exhs.280 and 286]. Both of them stated a different story that on

that day in the morning they went to Ballarsha railway station from

where they received a person who had earlier been described to

them. All three returned by bus to Aheri bus stand, and no sooner

they alighted from the bus and were talking, they were apprehended
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 227 by the police. The said narration in the confessional statement

contradicts the prosecution case that A1 and A2 went to Aheri bus

stand to receive some one and after waiting for 15 minutes, a third

person came and thereafter they were arrested. 268. Both of them have stated a past incident of receiving some

one in the month of May at Ballarsha station and handing over a

sum of Rs.5 lakhs on the following day to someone else. These

instances are without specification. It is not the prosecution case as

to whom both of them had received at Ballarsha railway station and

as to whom they have handed over the cash amount. Thus, part of

the said statement lends no assistance to the prosecution. Besides a

general and vague statement, that they were acting on the

instructions of one naxalite lady Narmadakka, nothing can be culled

out from this part of their narration. Both have stated that either on

20.08.2013 or 22.08.2013, they went to Ballarsha and then followed

their arrest at Aheri bus stand. However, as we have mentioned

hereinabove, there is a strong possibility of both of them having

been taken into custody on 20.08.2013 itself. Moreover, in the

application for retraction dated 27.09.2013, itself it is stated that
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 228 they have been taken into custody on 20.08.2013. Thus, the

confessional statement given by them does not match with their own

stand. 269. Reading the confession as a whole besides past instances,

it is of no assistance. The accused were in police custody for

continuous 10 days and on the last date then expressed willingness

to give a confession. Moreover, on the first possible opportunity they

have disclosed about extracting a confession under threat, as well as

given written application within a couple of days to the Magistrate

for said purpose. Thus, there is immediate retraction of the

confessional statements. The accused gave detailed reasons in their

application as to what persuaded them to give a confession and

under which circumstances they did so. The reason for giving

confession is that they did wrong and nothing more. Taking an

overall view of the matter, in the context of the facts of this case, we

do not find it safe to rely on the retracted confession which is

uncorroborated. In the result, for the above reasons we are not in a

position to accept the retracted confession as a legally admissible

piece of evidence. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 229 AUTHORIZATION FOR ARREST AND SEARCH 270. The learned Counsel appearing for accused would

submit that the officers effecting arrest and search were not

authorized in terms of provisions of the UAPA, hence search and

seizure was illegal. It was submitted that PW-11 SDPO Suhas

Bawche who has investigated the matter has no authority under the

special statute to effect arrest and search and thus, the whole

investigation is vitiated. It is submitted that in terms of Sub-clause

(2) of Section 43-B of the UAPA, the seized articles ought to have

been forwarded to the nearest Police Station at Delhi, but it was not

done. Moreover, it is submitted that the provisions of Section 25 of

the UAPA have not been complied with since the information

relating to seizure has not been forwarded to the Designated

Authority within 48 hours from the seizure. Per contra, the learned

special prosecutor would submit that PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche

was an officer competent to investigate in terms of Section 43(c) of

the UAPA. Moreover, Police have general powers of search and

seizure under the Code, which are not taken away by the special

statute. Besides that, Section 465 of the Code would cure the defect,

if any. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 230 271. The first objection is about competency of the

Investigating Officer to arrest and conduct search of accused No.6

G.N. Saibaba. The defence heavily relied on the provisions of

Section 43-A of the UAPA to contend that the special requirement

incorporated in the Section has not been complied with. For the

sake of convenience, we have extracted Section 43-A of the UAPA

which reads as under:- 273. Investigation was entrusted to PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche

who was of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police. Section 43 of the UAPA specifies who is competent to investigate the offence

under Chapter IV and VI of the UAPA. Sub-clause (a) and (b) of Section 43 are not relevant for our purpose. Sub-clause (c) provides

that investigation shall be carried out by an Officer not below the

rank of the Deputy Superintendent of Police or a Police Officer of an

equivalent rank. There is no dispute that PW-11 SDPO Suhas

Bawche, Investigating Officer was holding the rank of Deputy

Superintendent of Police, and was competent to investigate in terms

of the provisions of the UAPA. 274. The dispute is about the competency of PW 11- Suhas

Bawche I.O. to arrest and take search of the house of A6- Saibaba.

Section 43-A of the UAPA has a specific provision requiring
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 232 authorization for effecting arrest and search relating to cases under

the UAPA. It provides that any officer (competent under Section 43 of the UAPA) of the Designated Authority empowered in this behalf,

by general or special order may authorize any officer sub-ordinate to

him to arrest or search a building. In other words, only the

competent officer in terms of Section 43 of the UAPA who has been

specially empowered by the Designated Authority to arrest or effect

search is competent to effect search and arrest or his sub-ordinate,

on his authorization. It is not enough that he is competent in terms

of Section 43 , to investigate, but the additional requirement is that

he should be authorized by the Designated Authority and be

conferred the powers for effecting arrest or search. 275. The term "Designated Authority" has been defined under Section 2(1)(e) of the UAPA which reads as below:- 276. In short, a Designated Authority is an officer appointed by

the State Government not below the rank of the Secretary of the

Government appointment by a Notification published in the Official

Gazette. There is no dispute that the Home Department has issued a

Notification dated 18th March, 2005 in exercise of powers conferred

by Clause (e) of Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the UAPA for

appointment of the Designated Authority. By the said notification,

the Government of Maharashtra has appointed Principal Secretary

(Appeals and Security), Home Department, Government of

Maharashtra to be the Designated Authority for the purposes of

UAPA. Though Section 43-A has been inserted by an amendment in

the year 2008, no fresh notification has been issued by the State,

thereafter. However, we need not consider this aspect in the light of

the following facts. 277. It is not the prosecution's case that PW-11 SDPO Suhas

Bawche is authorized by the Designated Authority i.e. the Principal

Secretary for the purpose of effecting arrest or search as required
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 234 under Section 43-A of the UAPA. The scheme of the UAPA, though

empowers a high ranking Police Officer at the level of Deputy

Superintendent of Police to be competent to investigate, the power

of arrest and search however were specifically kept under the control

of the Designated Authority i.e. the Principal Secretary who is a

Higher Ranked officer of the Government. The legislative intent was

therefore to confer powers of arrest and search on an officer

specifically authorized in that behalf by the Competent Authority

and such search and arrest can be conducted by only under the

supervision and control of this Higher Ranking Government Officer

(The Designated Authority) which is independent to Police Authority. 278. In the case of arrest and search, the statute has

incorporated the intervention of a High Ranking Officer of the State

Government in the process with a view to have an independent

check over the Police Officer to avoid abuse of the provisions of law.

Clearly, the Investigating Officer PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche was

not authorized by the Designated Authority to effect arrest and

search. Mr. Chitale, the learned prosecutor would submit that no

such permission, much less authorization of the Designated
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 235 Authority is required since PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche was holding

the rank as specified under Section 43 of the UAPA. As stated above,

the said submission is wholly untenable since a special provision has

been made under Section 43-A of the UAPA which we have dealt

with above. 279. Mr. Chitale would submit that Section 43 of the UAPA does

not bear a reference to the Designated Authority for the purposes of

investigation and thus, the authorization of the Designated Authority

is not essential. We may reiterate that for the purpose of

investigation, intervention of the Designated Authority is not

warranted in terms of Section 43 of the UAPA, of which we have no

doubt. However, the statute, though permits the competent officer

in terms of Section 43 of the UAPA to investigate the offence,

however, puts a restriction on his power of arrest and search which

is required to be authorized in terms of Section 43-A of the Act.

Therefore, the argument, that merely because PW-11 SDPO Suhas

Bawche was competent to investigate, he has also power to effect

arrest and search is wholly untenable. 280. Mr. Chitale further submits that the later part of Section

43-A of the UAPA provides for authorization of any subordinate
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 236 officer to effect arrest or search. We are not prepared to accept this

submission, which, if accepted, would amount to authorizing any

subordinate officer to effect arrest and search which would be

against the spirit of Section 43-A. Plain reading of Section 43-A

would postulate that the competent officer in terms of Section 43 of

the UAPA who has been specially authorized by the Designated

Authority for effecting arrest and search, may authorize his sub-

ordinate. The basic requirement is that the officer who assigns

authorization to his subordinate must be empowered conferred by

the Designated Authority, and then only then can he delegate the

authority to his subordinate. Therefore, the submission in this

regard being against the spirit of Section 43-A of the UAPA is not

worthy of acceptance. 281. Another argument put forth by the prosecution was that

the UAPA does not take away the general powers conferred by the

Code, on the Police. According to the prosecution, the Police have

general power of arrest and seizure under the Code and thus, even

otherwise they are competent to that extent. In this regard, our

attention has been invited to Section 43-C of the UAPA which reads

as below:- 282. It is submitted by the prosecution that the provisions of the

Code would clearly apply for the prosecution under the UAPA and

therefore, despite authorization by the Designated Authority under

the UAPA, the Police have power to effect arrest and search. We are

afraid we cannot subscribe to this submission because Section 43-C of the UAPA though speaks of the applicability of the Code, qualifies

that the provisions of the Code are applicable in so far as they are

not inconsistent with the provisions of the UAPA relating to arrest,

search and seizure. Thus, if the special statute namely UAPA, makes

a specific arrangement as regards powers of arrest or seizure, the

special provision/regulation would prevail over the general

provisions of the Code. To that extent, the powers conferred by the

Code are inconsistent and in conflict with the provisions of Section

43C of the UAPA and must yield to the special statute. 283. Though the prosecution advanced an argument that

Section 465 of the Code saves such an irregularity, however we are
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 238 unable to accept the submission in view of the specific provision

contained under Section 43-A of the UAPA which is a stringent

statute. Having regard to the severity of punishment, the statute

itself has provided inbuilt safeguards. Section 43-A is a specific

safeguard incorporated with a view to require empowerment from a

High Ranking State Officer before arrest and seizure. Obviously, the

very purpose is to avoid false implication of a citizen. Having regard

to the aims and object of providing a special mechanism, the general

provisions would not cure the defect. We may hasten to add that

this is not a case where there was procedural irregularity or lapse

while obtaining authorization by the Designated Authority, but a

case of total absence of empowerment of the Investigating Officer by

the Designated Authority. Thus, the said material deficiencies

cannot be cured with the aid of Section 465 of the Code otherwise,

the statutory requirement under Section 43-A would become otious. 284. Apart from the general provisions of Section 465 of the

Code, the prosecution also canvassed that even if the seizure is

illegal, however, it can be used in evidence. For this purpose the

prosecution drew support from the decision of the Supreme Court in
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 239 case of Pooram Mal60. In the said decision which is under the Income Tax Act , the search and seizure was challenged on account of

contravention of the requirement of Section 132 and Rule 112 of the Income Tax Act . In that context, it was observed that where the test

of admissibility of evidence lies in relevancy, unless there is an

express or necessarily implied prohibition in the Constitution or

other law, evidence obtained as result of illegal search or seizure is

not liable to be shut out. We are afraid that, to borrow the said

proposition in the context of statute like UAPA, wherein a special

provision of Section 43-A prescribes a special mechanism for

authorization to effect arrest and search cannot be countenanced. In

other words, a general provision is curtailed/restricted by the special

statute and thus, observations made in that judgment are in a totally

different context and would not assist the prosecution in any

manner. 285. In order to escape from the clutches of Section 43-A of the

UAPA, Mr. Ponda made one another submission that the provisions

of Section 43-A would apply only when the Authority gets

information of its own accord. We do not see any distinction carved 60.Pooram Mal Vs. Director of Inspection (Investigation) of Income Tax , AIR 1974 SC 348
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 240 out under Section 43-A of the UAPA pertaining to source of

information. The Section plainly provides the requirement of

authorization/ empowerment by the Designated Authority, whatever

the source of information may be i.e. to his personal knowledge or

information received in writing. The distinction sought to be carved

out by Mr. Ponda is artificial which is not in consonance with the

statutory requirement. In short, we are unable to accept the

submission. We may reiterate that when the special statute has

provided a specific mechanism for authorization of search and arrest

by the Designated Authority, then that would have overriding effect

and exclude application of the general provisions of the Code. 286. The defence also argued that the non-compliance of the

provisions of Section 43-B of the UAPA which requires that the

person arrested be forwarded with the articles seized to the officer in

charge of the nearest Police Station would not be of any effect. The

said provision of Section 43-B reads as under:- der section 43-A shall be forwarded without
 unnecessary delay to the officer-in-charge of
 the nearest Police Station. (3) The authority or officer to whom any per- son or article is forwarded under sub-section
 (2) shall, with all convenient dispatch, take
 such measures as may be necessary in accord- ance with the provisions of the Code." 287. Sub-clause (2) of Section 43-B of the UAPA provides that

every person arrested and article seized under Section 43-A of the

UAPA has to be forwarded to the officer in-charge of the nearest

Police Station. In this regard, it is not the prosecution's case that

either after arrest accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba was forwarded to the

nearest Police Station i.e. Maurice Nagar Police Station, Delhi or that

articles which were seized were forwarded to the said Police Station.

Sub-clause [3] to Section 43-B casts a further duty on the said

incharge officer to take further necessary steps as provided under the

Code. 288. Apparently seized articles were not forwarded to the

officer in-charge of the nearest Police Station. After seizure, only
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 242 information was given vide letter (Exh. 254) to said Police Station

with copy of panchnama. Sub-clause (2) to Section 43-B of the

UAPA does not contemplate just the forwarding of information of

seizure but, requires that the articles seized be forwarded, hence

there is total non-compliance of statutory requirement of Section 43-

B of the UAPA. In view of that, we hold that the arrest and seizure

is not in accordance with the requirement of the Special Statute

namely UAPA. 289. The defence also assailed the seizure on account of non-

compliance of the provisions of Section 25 of the UAPA. It is argued

that the seized material i.e. electronic gadgets amount to "property"

within the meaning of Section 2(1)(h) of the UAPA. According to

the defence, the words electronic items are movable in nature,

having value and can be used for terrorist activity, hence, it falls

under the term "proceeds of terrorism". It is argued that the seizure

being 'proceeds of terrorism', the prosecution ought to have

complied with the mandate of Section 25 of the UAPA. For this

purpose, we were taken through Section 25 of the UAPA which

requires prior approval in writing of the Director General of the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 243 Police to seize the 'proceeds of terrorism'. Sub-clause (2) to Section

25 of the UAPA further mandates the Investigating Officer to inform

about the seizure to the Designated Authority within 48 hours.

Moreover, it requires the Authority to confirm or to revoke the

seizure or attachment within 60 days which is made appealable to

the Court within the period of 30 days from the date of order. It is

also submitted that proviso to Sub-clasue (3) of Section 25 of the

UAPA gives an opportunity to a person whose property has been

seized or attached of making a representation. According to the

defence, no such procedure has been followed and therefore, seizure

vitiates. 290. The relevant part of Section 25 is reproduced herein

below for ready reference:- 291. Section 25 of the UAPA is a complete scheme for dealing

with seizure or attachment of proceeds of terrorism. No doubt if

seized electronic gadgets are held to be 'proceeds of terrorism', the

mandate of Section 25 of the UAPA would come into play. Reading

of the whole of Section 25 of the UAPA conveys that the term

"proceeds of terrorism" is used in the sense of some valuable

movable or immovable, obviously acquired by the act of terrorism.

Exhaustive provisions are made for the seizure and attachment of

property, opportunity to make a representation, confirmation or

rejection of the order of seizure or attachment and the right of

appeal to the aggrieved person. The whole scheme conveys that it

relates a valuable movable or immovable property which was

acquired through the act of terrorism. 292. The UAPA has not defined the word "proceeds of

terrorism". The ordinary meaning of the word "proceeds" would

mean money or value that one gets by sale of something. In other
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 246 words, a profit or return derived from a transaction, herein an act of

terrorism. The term proceeds of terrorism cannot be equated with

the articles used or intended to be used for the act of terrorism.

Therefore, we are unable to accept the defence submission that the

seized incriminating electronic data amounts to "proceeds of

terrorism" within the meaning of Section 25 of the UAPA requiring

further mandatory compliance. For this reasons, we reject the

defence argument to that extent. 293. The learned special prosecutor would submit that

though under criminal jurisprudence the guilt of the accused must

be proved beyond all reasonable doubt, however the burden on the

prosecution is only to establish its case beyond reasonable doubt and

not from all doubt. The standard of proof under the criminal law is

of a high degree but, not of absolute nature. What degree of

probability amounts to "proof" is an exercise, particular to a case.

The principle of "beyond reasonable doubt" shall not be stretched to

the extent that would break down the credibility of the system. In

order to substantiate this contention, initially he relied on the

decision of the Supreme Court in case of Leela Ram61 laying special 61.Leela Ram (dead) through Duli Chand Vs. State of Haryana, (1999) 9 SCC 525
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 247 emphasis on the observations in para 12 thereof, which read as

under:- 294. Though the prosecution further relied on the

decisions in cases of Bhaskar Ramappa Madar62, Shivaji Sahabrao

Bobade63, Jagir Singh Baljit Singh 64, Krishna Gopal65 and

Valson66, however, after considering those decisions in case of

62 Bhaskar Ramappa Madar and others Vs. State of Karnataka , (2009) 11 SCC 690 63.Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade and another Vs. State of Maharashtra , (1973) 2 SCC 793 64.The State of Punjab Vs. Jagir Singh, Baljit Singh and Karam Singh (1974) 3 SCC 277 65.State of U.P. Vs. Krishna Gopal and another , (1988) 4 SCC 302 66.Valson and another Vs. State of Kerala , (2008) 12 SCC 241,
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 248 Yogesh Singh67, the principles in this regard have been set out in

paras 15 to 18 which read thus:- 67.Yogesh Singh Vs. Mahabeer Singh and others , (2017) 11 SCC 195
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 249 must grow out of the evidence in the
 case. 26. ..... 16. Another golden thread which
runs through the web of the administration
of justice in criminal cases is that if two
views are possible on the evidence adduced
in the case, one pointing to the guilt of the
accused and the other to his innocence, the
view which is favourable to the accused
should be adopted. [Vide Kali Ram Vs. State
of Himachal Pradesh, State of Rajasthan Vs.
Raja Ram , (2003) 8 SCC 180; Chandrappa &
Ors. Vs. State of Karnataka , Upendra
Pradhan Vs. State of Orissa , and Golbar
Hussain Vs. State of Assam "]. 17. However, the rule regarding
the benefit of doubt does not warrant
acquittal of the accused by resorting to
surmises, conjectures or fanciful
considerations, as has been held by this
Court in the case of State of Punjab Vs. Jagir
Singh , (SCC pp. 285-86, para 23). 18. Similarly, in Shivaji Sahebrao Bobade & Anr. Vs.
State of Maharashtra, V.R. Krishna Iyer, J., stated
thus: (SCC p.799 para 6) 6. The cherished principles or golden thread
 of proof beyond reasonable doubt which runs
 through the web of our law should not be
 stretched morbidly to embrace every hunch,
 hesitancy and degree of doubt. The excessive
 solicitude reflected in the attitude that a
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 251 thousand guilty men may go but one
 innocent martyr shall not suffer is a false
 dilemma. Only reasonable doubts belong to
 the accused. Otherwise any practical system
 of justice will then break down and lose
 credibility with the community." 295. It is a consistent law that though the cardinal principles

of criminal jurisprudence are requirement of proof beyond

reasonable doubt, however they denote that standard of proof is

higher, but, not absolute. Certainly, doubts must be actual and

substantial doubt as to the guilt of the accused arising from the

evidence or from lack of evidence so as to oppose mere vague

apprehension. We are conscious of the fact that reasonable doubt is

not an imaginary, trivial or a mere possibility, but, a fair doubt which

would command judicial mind. The law does not expect the kind of

evidence which is impossible to prove, but the standard shall be to

the extent which excludes an entertainable doubt. 296. Similarly, we must keep in mind the golden rule of

criminal jurisprudence expressed by the Supreme Court in the case

of Leela Ram (supra), that if two views are possible, the view

favourable to the accused would take precedence. In the light of
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 252 above well cherished principles, we have scrutinized the prosecution

case while arriving at our conclusions. CHAIN OF CUSTODY OF SEIZED ARTICLES. 297. During the course of investigation, from time to time,

incriminating material has been seized from different accused

persons. The same was deposited in the malkhana, and then from

time to time the same were sent for analysis to CFSL Mumbai.

Various panchnamas have been drawn to that effect. 298. The defence would urge that the chain of custody is not

properly established, meaning thereby chances of tampering cannot

be ruled out. The first seizure from A1 to A3 is dated 22.08.2013,

whilst the seized muddemal articles were deposited with the

malkhana clerk on the very day. The second seizure from A4 and A5

is of 02.09.2023, and on the same day it was deposited with the

malkhana clerk. The third seizure is from A6 - Saibaba dated

12.09.2023, which was deposited with the malkhana clerk on

13.09.2013. 299. The learned defence counsel drew our attention to some

discrepancies in establishing that from time to time muddemal was
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 253 taken out from the custody of the malkhana clerk without proper

verification, and it has changed hands without endorsement. It is

submitted that though the evidence of the investigating officer PW-

11 shows that on 12.09.2013 the seized electronic articles were

sealed in one plastic bag, the laptop in a separate packet and printed

material in three packets, however, the relevant malkhana register

entry dated 13.09.2013 discloses that only one plastic bag and two

paper envelopes have been deposited. It is argued that the labels

containing panchas signatures obtained on the date of seizure i.e.

12.09.2013 were never preserved nor produced to vouch for their

credibility. According to the defence, the said muddemal was taken

out on 14.09.2013 for forwarding to CFSL, however, the relevant

panchnama does not disclose that the plastic container was re-

sealed. Particularly, it is argued that the mirror images, though

stated to be received from time to time, however, the said evidence

is contradicted by PW 21 - Nikam, who is a Scientific Analyst. Our

attention has been invited to the muddemal entry dated 16.02.2014.

It does not bear specification as to what has been deposited by PW 7 - Constable Apeksha Ramteke, which she brought from the CFSL

Mumbai. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 254 300. On the point of custody, the evidence of P.W.11- Suhas

Bawche, investigating officer, P.W.5- Constable Kamble [carrier],

P.W.7 Constable Apeksha Ramteke [carrier], P.W.13 Constable Rathod

[malkhana clerk] and P.W.21 Scientific Analyzer - Nikam is

important. With the assistance of both sides we have gone through

their evidence and relevant malkhana register entries which are at

Exhs.276-A to 276-E. We have also gone through the muddemal

challan at Exhs.299-A to 299-C, 300-A and 300-B, 301-A to 301-I.

So also invoice challan of muddemal deposited in Court Exh.302,

has been tendered on record. We find that from time to time entries

have been taken in the muddemal register, which supports the oral

evidence led by the prosecution witness, with little variance in the

description. We are not prepared to accept that the minor

discrepancies, affect the credibility of deposit of muddemal. 301. Particularly we have gone through the evidence pertaining

to receipt of mirror images by the investigating officer from CFSL

Mumbai. In this regard, P.W.11- Suhas Bawche, stated that on

31.08.2013 he received the mirror images of the memory card seized

from the possession of Hem Mishra, which is corroborated by the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 255 evidence of P.W.21- Bhavesh Nikam. It is in the prosecution evidence

that on 20.09.2013, P.W.5 Constable Kumbhare received mirror

images regarding one hard disk, which he has deposited on

21.09.2013. However, the evidence of P.W.21 Analyst Nikam no

where supports the said contention, who states that he has issued

mirror images on 30.08.2013 and then on 05.10.2013. We have

gone through the evidence of these witnesses along with the time,

description and related panchnamas. Though there are certain

discrepancies about the description of the container namely plastic

box and packets, however, nothing has been brought on record to

create a doubt. Such minor discrepancies are bound to occur. The

oral evidence is supported by relevant muddemal entries and thus,

interference cannot be lightly drawn about the possibility of

tampering on conjectures and surmises. ASSESSMENT OF ELECTRONIC EVIDENCE 302. The Prosecution case solely rests on the electronic

evidence seized from the possession of accused. Therefore, it

necessitates us to undertake the exercise whether the said evidence

is duly proved in accordance with the provisions of the Evidence Act,

Information Technology Act and Rules framed thereunder. apeal136 & 137.17.odt 256 303. Under the Evidence Act, 1872 , the contents of electronic

record may be proved in accordance with the provisions of Section

65-B of that Act. Section 65-B stipulates that any information

contained in an electronic record which is then printed on paper,

stored, recorded or copied in optical or magnetic media produced by

a computer shall also be deemed to be a document provided

conditions mentioned in Section 65-B are satisfied in relation to the

information and the computer in question. If the conditions are

satisfied, such "document" shall be admissible, without further proof

or production of the original, as evidence. 304. The conditions required to be fulfilled for such

"document" to be admissible in evidence are stipulated in Sub- Section 2 of Section 65-B. In terms of Section 65-B, amongst the

various conditions stipulated in Sub- Section 2 and 3 , if evidence is to

be given of the information contained in the electronic record in the

device, a certificate is required to be issued in terms of Sub- Section 4 of Section 65-B wherein the identity of the electronic record is to be

specified, the particulars of the device involved in production of the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 257 electronic record are to be specified and this certificate is to be

issued by a person who has at the relevant time been familiar with

the operation of the device. 305. Section 85-B of the Evidence Act raises presumptions as

to electronic records in a proceeding involving a "Secure Electronic

Record"; The Court shall presume, unless the contrary is proved that

the Secure Electronic Record has not been altered since the specific

point of time to which the secure status relates. 306. In order to attach any presumption that the Secure

Electronic Record has not been altered, certain procedures have been

prescribed in terms of the Information Technology Act, 2000 in

which Section 14 defines a "Secure Electronic Record" and Section

16 prescribes the security procedure and practices to be adopted in

relation to such a record, in order to attract the presumption. Section 14 and Section 16 read as under:- Provided that in prescribing such security procedures

and practices, the Central Government shall have regard to the

commercial circumstances, nature of transactions and such other

related factors as it may consider appropriate.]
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 259 307. The security procedure and practices have been

prescribed by the Central Government for the purpose of Section 14 and Section 16 in the Information Technology (Security Procedure)

Rules 2004 published on 29.10.2004. Under Rule 3 a "Secure

Electronic Record" shall be deemed to be a secure record for the

purpose of the Act if it has been authenticated by means of a Secure

Digital Signature. Rule 4 provides the manner in which the digital

signature is deemed secure for the purpose of the Act by providing a

procedure which is reproduced hereinbelow. Rule 4. - Secure digital signature. - A digital signature
 shall be deemed to be a secure digital signature for
 the purposes of the Act if the following procedure has
 been applied to it, namely:- apeal136 & 137.17.odt 260 (d) that the information contained in the smart card
 or hardware token, as the case may be, is solely under
 the control of the person who is purported to have
 created the digital signature; (e) that the digital signature can be verified by using
 the public key listed in the Digital Signature
 Certificate issued to that person; (f) that the standards referred to in rule 6 of the
 Information Technology (Certifying Authorities) Rules,
 2000 have been complied with, in so far as they relate
 to the creation, storage and transmission of the digital
 signature; and (g) that the digital signature is linked to the electronic
 record in such a manner that if the electronic record
 was altered the digital signature would be
 invalidated." 308. From a combined reading of the above-quoted

provisions, the process of giving electronic evidence a status of

"Secure Electronic Record", to which the presumptions under Section 85-B of the Evidence Act would be attracted is laid down. In

the present case, the burden was heavily upon the prosecution to

demonstrate how the various devices seized/attached, which include

the 16 GB pendrive seized from Accused No.4, and the hard disk and

other devices seized from the residence of Accused No.6 at New
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 261 Delhi, were "secured" by following the process referred to in the

above referred paragraphs. 309. The electronic data or record in the present case

concerning Accused No.6 was mainly contained in a hard disk at his

residence. In order that the contents of the electronic evidence

contained within this device attract the presumptions, two

procedures would have to be followed. The identity and description

of the device itself i.e. hard disk would have to be properly recorded,

which description would have to be deposed to and the device

identified by its external description, serial number, colour of its

casing or cover, the product number or other such specific

identification marks such as stickers or printing thereon. The seizure

panchanama would obviously have to have a fairly clear description

of the device, which would also include its photographs

countersigned by the witnesses to the seizure. 310. In the present case, apart from the panch witness who

was examined, who is alleged to have attended the search

operations at the residence of Accused No.6, no other witness has

been examined and deposed as to the description of the electronic
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 262 devices, which included the computer hard disk and the laptop

attached during the search. The panchanama, Exh. 165 does not

contain a description of the electronic devices by serial number,

colour of the outer cover or box, the product number or even the

colour of the device. Thus, there is no physical identification of the

device which contains the electronic record or in other words, there

is no co-relation established between the device which is not

physically identified in the seizure panchanama, to the electronic

record sought to be relied upon as evidence in Court. Having failed

to establish this co-relationship, the electronic record or content of

the hard disk could not have been referred to as a "Secure Electronic

Record". 312. Further, if one seeks to draw a presumption as to this

electronic record, the procedure that would have to be followed

would be, as set out in Rule 4; This procedure requires that the

forensic expert or computer expert who intends to ultimately use the

electronic evidence contained in the device in Court should first have

the device physically identified in a written record, by its description,

product number, serial number and any other identification marks

on the cover or box within which lies the electronic record. The
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 263 same person is required to then apply a private key which is issued

to him to the device which has his personal digital signature in it,

which process would take the hash value of the electronic content in

the device from the host system to the smart card or hardware

token, and the private key is used to create the digital signature and

signed hash is then returned to the host system. In this manner, at a

later stage, when the device is reopened, the digital signature of the

computer expert could be identified. The computer expert may also

create a mirror image or clone of the information contained in the

device on to another device, and if he undertakes this process, in

order that there is evidence that the hash value at the start of the

information and end point of the information on the original device

matches exactly with the hash value of the cloned information, the

procedure under Rule 4 would have to be complied by appropriately

applying the expert's digital signature on the cloned

information/data. 313. The computer expert would then record the hash value

at the starting point of the electronic data and the end point of this

data which could be later ascertained by the forensic expert who

would examine the data in the lab as well as re-ascertain before the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 264 Court recording the evidence when the device or the evidence

contained therein is sought to be produced and admitted in

evidence. The presumptions under Section 85-B of the Evidence Act

would be attached to this evidence only if the hash values certified

by the computer expert who has first examined the device match

with those certified by the expert who examines the device at a

forensic lab and then again these would match when the device is

produced in Court. Of course, the presumptions would flow only if it

is established that the electronic record in question could be co-

related to the physical description of the device produced in Court. 314. Looking at the evidence produced in relation to Accused

No.6, the panchanama does not refer to the physical description of

the hard disk seized during the raid and strangely, even though a

computer expert accompanied the raiding team, he has not given a

detailed physical description of the device or even mentioned its

serial number. This same person has also not been examined to

ascertain the compliance of the afore-stated rules, to establish that

the content of this electronic record could truly be considered a

"Secure Electronic Record" to which any presumption could be

attached. This being the case, the prosecution has failed to prove
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 265 beyond any doubt that the computer hard disk or any of the other

devices attached during the search conducted at the residence of

Accused No.6 were Secure Electronic Record in terms of Section 85-

B of the Evidence Act. Even the investigating officer who was present

throughout the search has not recorded these details and has

miserably failed to follow the procedure laid down in Rule 4 of the

I.T. Rules. Thus, the contents of the hard disk could not be looked

into as evidence and would be wholly unreliable if relied upon, to

prove the offences alleged against Accused No.6. 315. Adverting to the compliance of issuance of a certificate

in relation to the electronic evidence contained and sought to be

produced in Exhibit 375 i.e. the hard disk seized from Accused No.6,

we are of the opinion that the requirements of Section 65-B of

Evidence Act have not been complied with. Section 65-B requires

five conditions stated in Sub- Section 2 thereof to be complied with.

A perusal of the certificate at Exhibit 375 would show that the same

does not identify the electronic record contained in the statement in

evidence nor does the certificate describe the manner in which the

electronic record sought to be produced in evidence was produced.

There is no description of the device with its serial numbers used in
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 266 the production of the electronic record or copy. There is thus no

compliance with the requirements of a valid certificate under Section

65-B. For that reason, we are of the opinion that the

evidence/information produced under the certificate at Exhibit 375

would not be admissible and could not be relied upon. With such

inherent lacuna, we proceed further. 316. Notwithstanding the fact that the prosecution has failed

to prove that the hard disk contained a Secure Electronic Record, we

would nevertheless also proceed to record our findings on the

content of this unproved record which is plainly in the form of

writings, video films of public speeches and what appears to be

propaganda material. The first question that we address is whether

merely being in possession of such material in one's computer, any

offence could be said to be made out in terms of the various sections

of the UAPA of which the Accused have been charged. Even

assuming that the content of the speeches or written literature

contained in the electronic material on the hard disk attached from

the residence of Accused No. 6 was inflammatory or denounced a

certain form of governance or expressed dissent with any

government, would the mere fact that a person was in
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 267 possession of such material fall within the ingredients of any offence

under the UAPA. 317. The Supreme Court in Thwaha Fasal68, was dealing with

a case where the allegation against the accused was that he was

found in possession of soft and hard copies of various materials

concerning the banned organization CPI (Maoist) and he was seen

present in a gathering which was part of the protest arranged by an

organization alleged to have links with the banned organization. The

material also contained minutes of meetings where the accused were

alleged to have been part of various committees of the banned

organization. Whilst dealing with the question as to whether mere

possession of such material attract offences under Sections 20 , 38 and 39 of the UAPA, the Supreme Court has held as under:- 318. A Single Judge of this Court in Jyoti Babasaheb

Chorge Vs. State of Maharashtra reported in 2012 SCC OnLine

Bom 1460, had earlier considered the very same question as to

whether possession of certain literature containing a particular social

or political philosophy could be considered incriminatory to

implicate an accused under Section 20 of the UAPA and has held

thus:- 19. Undoubtedly, Article 19(2) empowers the
Parliament to impose, by law, reasonable restrictions on
these rights in the interests of sovereignty and integrity
of India. Section 20 has been enacted as and by way of
reasonable restriction on the aforesaid freedoms and
rights, guaranteed by the Constitution. Inasmuch as the
said clause imposes restrictions on the aforesaid
freedoms and rights, the interpretation thereof has to be
in consonance with the constitutional values and
principles,and the concept of membership contemplated
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 272 by the said section, is required to be interpreted in the
light of the aforesaid freedoms and rights. 20. It follows that considering from this point of view,
the membership of a terrorist gang or organization as
contemplated by section 20 , cannot be a passive
membership. It has to be treated as an active
membership which results in participation of the acts of
the terrorist gang or organization which are performed
for carrying out the aims and objects of such gang or
organization by means of violence or other unlawful
means. In her oral arguments, Ms.Rohini Salian, the
learned Special Public Prosecutor submitted that there
was a great danger to the whole nation from the said
Organization, and that the unity and integrity of the
nation was already in danger because of their activities.
She submitted that section 20 of the UAP Act has been
deliberately worded very widely by keeping these
aspects in mind. She submitted that mere association
with such type of people, and sharing their ideology
would make a person a member of their organization. 24. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court of India
expressed agreement with the aforesaid views, and
opined that the same would apply to India also, as the
fundamental rights in Indian Constitution are similar to
the bill of rights in the US Constitution. Their Lordships
ultimately concluded as follows:- 25. Even prior to the aforesaid Judgment, the Supreme
Court of India had an occasion to consider a similar
question i.e. in State of Kerala Vs.Raneef, (2011)1 SCC 784. In that case,the Kerala High Court had granted
bail to one Dr.Raneef - respondent before the Supreme
Court, who was, inter alia, accused of having
committed offences punishable under various
provisions of IPC , the Explosive 16/26 BA 1020 AND
1066-12 Substances Act and the UAP Act . The
allegation was that the said respondent was a member
of the Popular Front of India (P.F.I), alleged to be a
terrorist organization. Their Lordships noted that there
was till then, no evidence to prove the P.F.I to be a
terrorist organization, but observed that even
assuming it to be so, whether all members of the said
organization can be automatically held to be guilty,
would need consideration. Their Lordships referred to
the observations made by the US Supreme Court in
Scales vs. United States, 367 U.S. 203, distinguishing
'active knowing membership and 'passive, merely
nominal membership' in a subversive organization.
The following observations of the US Supreme Court
were quoted with approval:- The applicants therein had been alleged to be in
 contact with a person involved in Naxal movement and
 serious charges of offences punishable under Section
 121-A, 124-A, 153-A, 120-B etc. of the IPC were
 leveled against them along with offences punishable
 under Sections 38 , 39 and 40 of the UAP Act (as it
 stood then). Certain documents such as agenda of a
 meeting, in which one of the items was to pay homage
 to a dead Naxalvadi who was killed in encounter and
 some literature about revolution and lessons of
 Communist Party of India (Maoists / Leninists)
 containing, inter alia, features of Guerrilla 22/26 BA
 1020 AND 1066-12 Warfare etc.was seized from the
 applicants. While releasing the applicants on bail, the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 276 High court observed that the seizure of the so called
 incriminating material, by itself, cannot show
 participation in an activity prohibited by law. It was
 held that mere possession of such literature, without
 actual execution of the ideas contained therein, would
 not amount to any offence. 35. Since none of the applicants is said to have
 indulged into any acts of violence or of being a party to
 any conspiracy for committing any particular violent
 act or crime, they cannot be held, prima facie, to have
 committed the offences in question. Though it appears
 that they had come in contact with the members of the
 said organization, and were perhaps learning about the
 philosophy and ideology of the said organization, they
 cannot be prima facie held as offenders. Even if they
 were impressed by the said philosophy and ideology,
 still they cannot be said to be members - much less
 such members as would attract the penal liability - of
 the said organization. There does not seem to be a
 prima facie case against the applicants even in respect
 of an offence punishable under section 38 of the UAP
 Act, which expands the scope of the criminal liability
 attached to the membership of a terrorist organization,
 inasmuch as, the mens rea in that regard, should
 necessarily be with respect to such activities of the
 organization as are contemplated in section 15 , and
 made punishable by sections 16 to 19 of the UAP Act." 320. The defence has relied on the decision of the Supreme

Court in the case of Vernon (supra), wherein the Court has

considered the different provisions of UAPA and about its
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 277 applicability under certain circumstances. The observations made in

the said decision are worthwhile to note which reads as below:- 321. Keeping in mind above observations, we have examined

the worth of material adduced in support of the prosecution case. It

is the argument of the prosecution that broadly, the following

material contained in electronic form in the computer of Accused

No.6, would connect him with the banned organization CPI(Maoists)

and would demonstrate that he had knowledge about the activities

of this organization or was a member of RDF, a frontal organization

of CPI (Maoists): 322. Perusing these and various other literature contained in

the hard disk, as claimed to have been seized from Accused No.6,

the contents of these documents read and understood by any person,

by themselves would not constitute an offence under Sections 13 , 18 , 20 , 38 or 39. The documents relate to the period from the year

2006 to the year 2012, ranging for a period of 1 year to 7 years prior

to registering the FIR. The content of these documents if taken

cumulatively, would perhaps demonstrate that the accused were

sympathisers of a Maoist philosophy or sympathized with the cause

of certain tribal groups or certain people who were perceived to be

marginalized or disenfranchised, and mere possession of such

literature, having a particular political and social philosophy by itself

is not contemplated as an offence under the UAPA. 323. It is the argument of the prosecution that Vernon

(supra) and Thwaha Fasal (supra), the judgments rendered by the

Supreme Court at the stage of grant of bail and the considerations

therein are only to conclude whether there was (prima facie)

material against the accused. It is also argued that in the above
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 283 decision, the statutory presumption in terms of Section 43E of the

Act has not been considered, and therefore would not apply to the

present case. We are unable to accede to this argument since in both

these cases, the Supreme Court has examined the requirement to

bring home an offence under Section 18 , 20 , 38 , 39 and 40 of the

UAPA; The discussion in both these judgments on the requirements

of bringing out the offence, and the balance to be struck whilst doing

so to uphold the fundamental rights of freedom of speech and liberty

of the accused enshrined in Article 19 would be, in our opinion,

binding precedent and must be followed by us. 324. The ratio laid down in Jyoti Babasaheb Chorge (supra), Vernon (supra) and Thwaha Fasal (supra) would squarely

apply to the material content in all this literature; As held in these

judgments, passive membership, even if demonstrated from the

material is not contemplated as an offence under the above referred

provisions of UAPA. In any event, merely because a particular

philosophy is contained in the literature, which in any case has not

been proved is under the authorship of any of the accused, or

because a person chooses to read such literature which is otherwise

accessible from the internet from various websites containing
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 284 Communists or Maoists literature and philosophy, would to a certain

extent be violative of the fundamental rights of any citizen under Article 19 of the Constitution of India. We take note of the

deposition of the investigating officer, PW-11 Suhas Pauche at para

31 thereof where he states that he is aware that there is a website

where "Naxal related banned thoughts" are available and this

website also contains "All information regarding CPI (Maoists) and

Naxal literature, meetings, resolutions and such material is available

on other websites on the internet. (Page 265 of paper book) 325. It is by now common knowledge that one can access a

huge amount of information from the website of Communist or

Naxal philosophy, their activities including videos and video footage

of even violent nature; Merely because a citizen downloads this

material or even sympathizes with the philosophy, would itself not

be an offence unless there is specific evidence led by the prosecution

to connect an active role shown by the accused with particular

incidents of violence and terrorism, which would be offences within

the purview of Sections 13 , 20 and 39 of the UAPA. No evidence has

been led by the prosecution by any witness to any incident, attack,

act of violence or even evidence collected from some earlier scene of
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 285 offence where a terrorist act has taken place, in order to connect the

accused to such act, either by participating in its preparation or its

direction or in any manner providing support to its commission. 326. Similarly, we refer to videos played during the course of

the arguments wherein, it was submitted that the presence of A-6

and A-4 has been established. These videos are of a rally at

Hyderabad somewhere in the year 2012 in an open space, accessible

to any member of the public where certain speeches were made by

various persons. The content of the speeches may portray dissent or

criticism or even a streak of militancy, but by themselves, the content

of these videos do not in any manner portray any acts of "terrorism"

contained in the various provisions of the UAPA. In fact, there is no

evidence brought forth by the prosecution to connect the persons in

these videos with any actual act of terrorism which had taken place

in the past or to demonstrate how the persons in the video were

directly connected with and responsible for the commission of any

other act of terrorism. 327. The prosecution has not established that the speeches

made in these videos are in the nature of support to any banned
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 286 organization under the UAPA. We are of the opinion that the

prosecution ought to have connected the content of the speeches to

some past incident of terrorism or violence and the mere presence of

the Accused Nos.3, 4 and 6 in these videos by itself would not make

out any case for the prosecution. In fact, there is no deposition on

record identifying various accused in these videos or deposing to the

specific parts of the speech or actions in these videos which

constitute a terrorist act under the UAPA. 328. Though a great deal of electronic evidence is produced

in the form of printed/hard copies of the content stored in digital

form or in the nature of video footage, no evidence has been led by

any witness identifying the various persons in these videos, or

deposing as to the specific statements made by such persons and

quoting them, or how these statements or actions in videos

constitute material to make out an offence under the Act. Playing

several videos or requesting the Court to read through hundreds of

pages of literature does not constitute evidence. In our opinion,

there should have been specific evidence led through witnesses to

connect with the making out of an offence. In the absence of any
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 287 depositions to this effect, we are afraid we cannot consider all this

footage to be evidence. 329. For the above reasons, we reject the arguments of the

prosecution that the content of electronic evidence produced, though

not proved, by itself constitutes an offence under any of the

provisions of the UAPA of which the accused have been charged. We

reiterate that for the sake of this judgment we have done the above

exercise. Infact since the prosecution has failed to establish the

electronic evidence in accordance with law, the said material need

not be gone into as an evidence in this case. INTENTION, PREPARATION AND CONSPIRACY. 330. The prosecution relied on the decisions in cases of

Aman Kumar69 and Malkiat Singh70 to contend the stages of crime

and in particular, the offence of preparation is complete if some of

the positive steps have been taken to achieve the intended act. In

these cases, the Court has considered that in every crime, there is

first intention to commit, secondly, preparation to commit it, and

thirdly, attempt to commit the crime. The culprit first intends to

commit offence, then makes preparation for committing it and then 69.Aman Kumar and Another Vs. State of Haryana , (2004) 4 SCC 379 70.Malkiat Singh and another Vs. State of Punjab , (1969) 1 SCC 157
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 288 attempts to commit the offence. It has been observed that the

preparation consists of devising or arranging the means or measures

necessary for the commission of the offence. 331. Certainly, in order to establish the offence of preparation to

commit crime, there must be some positive steps to achieve the

object. It is the prosecution case that accused undertook a

preparatory act for commission of a terrorist act punishable under Section 18 of the UAPA. In order to attract the offence of conspiracy,

besides vague allegations that they have conspired to wage war

against the Government or advocated arms struggle, there is no

other material. The preparatory act must be for commission of a

terrorist act. The accused have not been charged of making

preparation to commit a particular terrorist act. CDR will only show

their acquaintance with each other, which factor without

corroboration will yield nothing. It is difficult to accept that have

conspired and made preparation to commit a terrorist act which is

not spelt out. 332. The defence has also criticized the mode and manner of

the investigation. Our attention has been invited to the evidence of

PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche who is an Investigating Officer. He
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 289 admits that the case diary is neither paginated nor in bound

condition, but, it is in loose condition, kept in the file. Since

inception, the learned defence counsel has blamed the Investigating

Officer for manipulating record and fabrication of incriminating

material. In the said context, it is submitted that the case diary was

purposely kept in loose paper form, so as to replace the same to suit

the purpose. 333. Section 172 of the Code mandates the Investigating Officer

to carry day to day entry in a case diary with particulars of time,

steps, places of visit and all other relevant circumstances. The

Criminal Court may use such diaries in a case in aid of the trial.

Amended Sub-clause (1-B) to Clause 1 of Section 172 of the Code

mandates that the case diary shall be a volume and duly paginated.

Admittedly, such procedural mandate was not followed in a serious

crime like this, which is not free from doubt. 334. It is a prosecution case that on 12.09.2013, house of

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba was searched, in which voluminous

electronic gadgets containing incriminating material have been

seized. It is in the evidence of the Investigating Officer that on
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 290 15.02.2014, the Police tried to arrest accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba,

however, his party members created a law and order problems,

hence they did not arrest him. PW-11 SDPO Suhas Bawche deposed

that on 26.02.2014, he has applied to the Magistrate (Exh.268)

seeking an arrest warrant. Despite filing of the charge-sheet, the

Police did not think it appropriate to arrest accused No.6 G.N.

Saibaba, which was ultimately done on 09.05.2014 almost eight

months later. It does not stand to reason because of law and order

problem, the Police did not arrest him. The reason for not arresting

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba for considerable period despite knowing

his alleged complexity and his place of abode has not been explained

to our satisfaction. CONCLUSION

(A) In conclusion, we observe that the objection pertaining to

the validity of sanction has been raised before the Trial Court, right

from the stage of bail application till final arguments. Therefore,

non-filing of a separate objection, does not make any difference and

the question of validity of the sanction can be gone into in this

appeal. The conviction rendered by the Trial Court would always be

subject to the appeal. After analysing the evidence, we hold that the
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 291 conviction is not sustainable in the eyes of law, and therefore it

would not come in our way in this appeal to entertain objections to

the validity of the sanction. (B) In our view, there is total non-compliance of various

provisions of UAPA. The sanction accorded to prosecute Accused

Nos.1 to 5 is invalid. Taking of cognizance by the Trial Court without

valid sanction or no sanction to prosecute accused No.6 G.N.

Saibaba goes to the root of the case, which renders the entire

proceedings null and void. There is non-compliance of the

provisions of Sections 43-A and 43-B of the UAPA pertaining to

arrest, search and seizure. Statutory presumption under section 43-

E of the UAPA would not apply for the offences charged. We hold

that the trial held despite violation of mandatory provisions of law

itself amounts to failure of justice. (C) We summarize that, the entire prosecution is vitiated on account

of invalid sanction to prosecute accused Nos.1 to 5 and against

accused No.6, for want of valid sanction in terms of Section 45(1) of

the UAPA. The prosecution has failed to establish legal arrest and

seizure from accused Nos.1 to 5, and failed to establish the seizure

of incriminating material from the house search of accused No.6
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 292 G.N. Saibaba. The prosecution has also failed to prove the electronic

evidence in terms of the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act, and

the Information Technology Act. (D) In view of the above conclusion, the common judgment

rendered by the Trial Court in Sessions Case No. 13/2014 and

130/2015 is not sustainable in the eyes of law. We therefore, allow

both the appeals by setting aside the impugned common judgment

and order of conviction dated 07.03.2017. (E) Accused No.1 Mahesh Kariman Tirki, accused No.2 Pandu

Pora Narote, accused No.3 Hem Keshavdatta Mishra, accused No.4

Prashant Rahi Narayan Sanglikar, accused No.5 Vijay Nan Tirki and

accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba stand acquitted for the offence

punishable under Sections 10 , 13 , 20 , 38 , 39 read with Section 18 of

the UAPA and under Section 120-B of the IPC. (F) Bail bond of accused No.5 Vijay Nana Tirki stands

cancelled. Accused No.1 Mahesh Kariman Tirki, accused No.3 Hem

Keshavdatta Mishra, accused No.4 Prashant Rahi Narayan Sanglikar,
 apeal136 & 137.17.odt 293 and accused No.6 G.N. Saibaba be released forthwith, if not required

 in any other offence. (G) The accused shall execute bond of Rs.50,000/- each with

 surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the Trial Court in

 terms of provisions of Section 437-A of the Code.

 (H) Muddemal property be dealt with in accordance with law.

 (I) The appeals stand disposed of in the aforesaid terms.