Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: Further discussion on the motion for consideration of Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2016, moved by Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal on the 26th July, 2017 (Discussion concluded and Bill Passed). HON. CHAIRPERSON : Now, the House will take up Item No. 9, the Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2016. Hon. Minister to continue. वित्त मंत्रालय में राज्य मंत्री तथा कॉर्पोरेट कार्य मंत्रालय में राज्य मंत्री (श्री अर्जुन राम मेघवाल) :  माननीय सभापति जी, मैं कंपनीज अमेंडमेंट बिल, 2016 के बारे में कहना चाहता हूं। यह बिल चर्चा करने और पास करने के लिए है। बिल के साथ कुछ ऑफिशियल अमेंडमेंट भी हैं जिनको मैंने ऑलरेडी मूव कर दिया है। मेरा यह कहना है कि कंपनीज एक्ट 2013 दिनांक 19 अगस्त 2013 को नोटिफाइड हुआ था। 2013 के अधिनियम द्वारा कंपनीज एक्ट में बहुत अमेंडमेंट किये गये थे। मुझे ध्यान है कि पन्द्रहवीं लोक सभा में देर रात तक इसके लिए बैठे थे, जैसे स्टेक होल्डर का डिसक्लोजर, डाइरेक्टर, ऑडिटर व प्रमुख कार्मिकों की एकाउंटेबिलिटी है तथा इसका मुख्य उद्देश्य इंवेस्टर प्रोटैक्शन एंड कॉरपोरेट गवर्नेन्स है। That was the main objective behind this amendment to the Companies Act . इस एक्ट के प्रारंभिक काल में कुछ परेशानियां आयी थीं, रिप्रजैंटेशंस आये, जिसको दूर करने के लिए हमारी सरकार आने के बाद मई, 2015 में अमेंडमेंट किया गया था। सभापति महोदय, जब वर्ष 2015 में कंपनीज एक्ट, 2015 पर राज्य सभा में चर्चा हो रही थी, तब यह सुझाव आया कि अमेंडमेंट कॉप्रिहेंसिव रूप में आना चाहिए और इसी श्रृंखला में बहुत माननीय सदस्यों ने कंपनी एक्ट के नये संशोधनों को सुधारने के लिए प्रतिवेदन दिये, जिस पर एक कमेटी बनी, जिसका नाम कंपनी लॉ कमेटी था और कहा गया कि इसमें जितने भी स्टेक होल्डर्स हैं, उनसे वह चर्चा करें, चाहे वह चार्टेड एकाउंटैंट के इंस्टीटय़ूट्स हों, कंपनी सेक्रेट्री इंस्टीटय़ूट हो, कॉस्ट एकाउंटैंट इंस्टीटय़ूट हो, इंडस्ट्रीयल एसोसिएशन हो, सीआईआई हो, एसोचैम हो, फिक्की हो, पी एच डी चैम्बर्स एंड कॉमर्स हो, इन सभी से चर्चा करें और चर्चा करके एक कॉप्रिहेंसिव अमेंडमेंट बिल लेकर आयें। सेक्रेट्री कॉरपोरेट अफेयर्स के बीच में अध्यक्षता बनी, उन्होंने एक फरवरी को अपनी रिपोर्ट प्रस्तुत कर दी। उसके बाद यह मैटर स्टैंडिंग कमेटी ऑन फाइनैंस को रेफर हो गया। मैं श्री एम.वीरप्पा मोइली जी को धन्यवाद देना चाहता हूं, वह इस स्टैंडिंग कमेटी के चेयरमैन थे। उनके सभी वरिष्ठ साथी भर्तृहरि महताब जी, सौगत राय जी, किरीट सोमैया जी, दिनेश त्रिवेदी जी ने बहुत अच्छे सुझाव दिये, एक कॉप्रिहेंसिव रिपोर्ट आयी। इस रिपोर्ट के बाद यह बिल लोक सभा में 16 मार्च, 2016 को इंट्रोडय़ूस हुआ। जब यह बिल 16 मार्च, 2016 को इंट्रोडय़ूस हुआ 

  

तो कमेटी को रेफर हुआ और 12 अप्रैल, 2016 को कमेटी को यह रिपोर्ट दिया और 07 दिसम्बर, 2016 को अपनी रिपोर्ट आयी। कमेटी ने दो फील्ड विजिट भी की - मुंबई एंड बंगलुरु, उसमें नेशनल एसोसिएशंस ऑफ सॉफ्टवेयर एंड सर्विसेंज कंपनी से भी कंसल्ट किया और एसोसिएशन से भी कंसल्ट किया। मैं आपके माध्यम से इनिशियल रिमार्क में यह कहना चाहता हूं कि इस अमेंडमेंट का जो मुख्य उद्देश्य है, वह ईज ऑफ डूइंग बिजनेस को बढ़ावा देना है। मुझे विश्वास है कि इस अमेंडमेंट के बाद प्रॉसिजर सिम्पलिफायड हो जायेगा।  कम्प्लायंस सरल हो जाएगा और जो कम्पनियां डिफॉल्ट करेंगी, उन्हें सख्त से सख्त सजा देने का प्रावधान इस अमेंडमेंट बिल के माध्यम से किया गया है। कम्पनीज अमेंडमेंट एक्ट, 2016 के मुख्य उद्देश्य का मैंने जिक्र किया है। उसके साथ-साथ होल्डिंग कम्पनी, जिसके विषय में भी इसमें अमेंडमेंट है और इसमें एक बड़ा अमेंडमेंट है कि पहले के प्रावधानों में 20 करोड़ रुपये का टर्नओवर करने वाली कम्पनियों का कम्प्लायंस सरल था, उसकी सीमा हमने 20 करोड़ रुपये से बढ़ाकर सौ करोड़ रुपये कर दी है। इसका मतलब 100 करोड़ रुपये तक की कम्पनियां इसके सरल कम्प्लायंस के कैनवास में आ गई हैं। हमने थ्रैश होल्ड लिमिट में कम्प्लायंस सरल करने का काम किया है। महोदय, मैं  आपके  माध्यम से सदन को बताना चाहता हं कि हमने सैक्शन-42 में संशोधन किया है, उसमें प्राइवेट प्लेसमेंट में सिक्योरिटीज़ को ईज़ कर दिया है। यह भी एक बड़ा विषय समिति के सामने था। सैक्शन-230 के तहत जो रिओपनिंग आफ एकाउंट को रीड करता है, उसमें भी संशोधन किया गया है। पहले इसमें कोई सीमा नहीं थी। अब इसमें संशोधन करके आठ साल तक के खातों को रिओपनिंग करने का प्रावधान किया गया है। यह भी कम्पनियों को राहत देगा और ईज़ आफ डूइंग बिजनेस को बढ़ाएगा। सैक्शन-96 के तहत जो अनलिस्टेड कम्पनियों को एनुअल जनरल मीटिंग रजिस्टर्ड आफिस में ही करना अनिवार्य था, अब इसमें प्रावधान किया गया है कि रजिस्टर्ड आफिस के अलावा भी आप एजीएम कर सकते हैं और यह कदम भी ईज़ आफ डूइंग बिजनेस को बढ़ाता है। मेरा आपके माध्यम से कहना है कि इंडिपेंडेंट आडिटर्स पांच साल के लिए और फर्म दस साल के लिए अप्रूव्ड होती थी। हर साल एजीएम में रेक्टीफाई करना पड़ता था, अब रेक्टीफिकेशन हटा दिया गया है। यह भी ईज़ आफ डूइंग बिजनेस को बढ़ावा देता है। महोदय, कम्पनीज एक्ट में एक और संशोधन किया गया है कि जो इनसाइडर ट्रेडिंग है, वह हमने सेबी के साथ हार्मोनाइज किया है। मैं इनीशियल रिमार्क में कहना चाहता हूं कि सैक्शन 185 के तहत जो कॉमन डायरेक्टरशिप वाली कम्पनियों में ‘ए’ कम्पनी को  ‘बी’ कम्पनी को लोन एलाऊ नहीं था, अब लोन एलाऊ कर दिया गया है। इससे बिजनेस करना आसान होगा। कुल मिलाकर ईज़ आफ डूइंग बिजनेस को बढ़ावा देने के लिए कम्पनीज अमेंडमेंट बिल, 2016 सदन के समक्ष चर्चा के लिए लाया गया है। सार्थक 

  

चर्चा के बाद इसके पास होने से ईज़ आफ डूइंग बिजनेस की रैंकिंग में बहुत बड़ा सुधार होने की संभावना है। मैं प्रस्ताव करता हूं कि इस बिल पर सदन चर्चा करे और इस कम्पनीज़ अमेंडमेंट बिल को पास करे। HON. CHAIRPERSON: Motion moved : One problem is of harmonising laws. There is a Companies Act ; there is also a SEBI Act for the Securities and Exchanges Board of India. They overlap. An effort has been made now to remove that. The resultant ambiguities of an overlap dissuade companies from complying with relevant laws. The amendments are geared towards doing away with dual requirements, especially in the context of separate prescriptions for prospectus and the contents of the board report; the provision of prohibition on forward dealing and insider trading has been omitted since those are relevant for listed entities which are already regulated by SEBI. So, there is no need for keeping them in the Companies Act . The unlisted companies will also now be allowed to convene annual general meetings in any place in India, not necessarily at the place of their registered office. The Bill has empowered the Centre to exempt any class of foreign companies from the applicability of registration and other requirements provided in the Act. I do not know if this is an unmixed blessing. I have a slight antipathy towards foreign companies because they often put money in and take it out. We have no control over that. 15.02 hours                       (Shri Hukmdeo Narayan Yadav in the Chair) 

          The Bill attempts to address the provisions that were criticised on the grounds of being onerous, relaxing the restriction on number of layers of subsidiaries as a much needed step towards giving companies greater freedom in the way they structure themselves. This Amendment Bill will remove many ambiguities from the current law and streamline its provisions with other relevant laws. I want to mention something here. Earlier I mentioned about the Company Law Committee which was set up by the Government. Certain recommendations of the Company Law Committee have not been incorporated in the Bill. These include issues related to resident requirement of directors and compliance requirement for dormant companies. The new restriction will prevent a company from attracting a talented individual residing outside India. The CLC recommended that the residence requirement for a foreign national should be removed but that has not been done. Under the Act of 2013, any company without transactions for the previous two years may apply to obtain the status of a dormant company. The Act of 2013 does not exempt such dormant companies from the requirement of constituting committees. The Company Law Committee suggested that the dormant companies may be exempted from constituting an audit committee as they have no business activity or employees. Lastly I want to say that the Supreme Court upheld the constitutional validity of the National Company Law Tribunal. However the Court held certain provisions in relation to the qualification of the technical members of the NCLT and composition of the selection committee for appointment of technical members of the NCLT and the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal as invalid. This Bill has modified those provisions to bring them in line with the Supreme Court’s decision which is a good thing. To end, we want good corporate governance in India because as the economy expands and is liberalised, it is not only necessary to have proper regulation but also allow companies the freedom to grow, invest and attract investment.  The intention of this Bill is to improve the ease of doing business.  We shall have to pass the Bill and then see what response we get from the corporate world.  I hope that Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal, who is looking after the Corporate Affairs Department, will use the powers of the Department to really save people.  A number of people have sunk their money in companies which did not pay back their depositors.  Companies have raised money in so many fraudulent ways and so the need of the hour is to see that the common citizen of India is free of all this encumbrance.  With this, I end my speech on the Bill.  Thank you. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): Thank you, Chairman, Sir.  I start from where Prof. Roy ended. In India we have seen a large number of fly-by-night companies.  We have seen companies being floated to do plantation and hardly a tree has been planted, yet money has been taken and they have just evaporated. We have seen during the last five or ten years one of the major concerns of every enlightened citizen of this country was why could the Government not do something about it. Today, we have a Minister looking after the corporate affairs who very much has his feet on the ground.  Not only he has his feet on the ground, he also travels to a place, which was not visited by any public representative during the last 70 years, and calls for a ladder  to climb up a tree so that his mobile can be connected.  That made him very famous throughout the country.  Anyone who looks at him says यहां तो ये लैडर मिनिस्टर हैं।  Sir, you have actually not only magnified the problem of your constituency, you have also magnified the problem that the Ministry is facing in remote parts of our country. श्री अर्जुन राम मेघवाल : माननीय सभापति जी, महताब जी मेरे अच्छे दोस्त हैं। मैं रेगिस्तान से आता हूं, इन्होंने धौलिया गांव का जिक्र किया, यह श्रीडुंगरगढ़ तहसील का गांव है। 70 साल में यहां कोई मंत्री नहीं गया। मीडिया ने एक प्रोजेक्ट लिया कि क्या इस गांव में कोई मंत्री जा सकता है। मैंने चैलेंज स्वीकार किया। मीडिया का एक चैलेंज और था कि धूप में 12 से 2 बजे के बीच ही जाना है जब टेम्परेचर 49-50 डिग्री था। मैं उस दिन गांव में गया, दो घंटे रुका, उन्होंने कहा था 12 से 2 बजे तक रुकना है। वहां सारी बातें हुई कि क्या एमपीलैड देंगे या और क्या करेंगे। यह गांव बहुत छोटा था, ग्राम पंचायत मुख्यालय भी नहीं था। गांव वालों ने कहा कि आप इस गांव में पहली बार आए हो, आप एक काम कर दो, हमने 70 साल में कोई नर्स नहीं देखी। मैंने कहा कि यह काम तो मैं कर सकता हूं, मैंने कहा कि सीएमएचओ को फोन करो, तब उन्होंने कहा कि फोन यहां नहीं लगता  है। मैंने कहा कि आप कभी फोन लगाते हो, उन्होंने कहा कि हम फोन कभी लगाते हैं, एक टिब्बा है, वहां एक पेड़ है, उस पर चढ़ते हैं। मैंने कहा कि कल कर दूंगा। वे कहने लगे कि आप हमें धोखा दे रहे हैं, अगर आप हमारे जन प्रतिनिधि हो, जैसे हम फोन करते हैं आपको करना पड़ेगा। मैंने कहा कि अगर वहां फोन लग गया तो ठीक है। मैं वहां जाकर सीएमएचओ को फोन कर रहा था। 70 साल से वहां सैन्ड डय़ून हैं, कोई गया ही नहीं और मोदी सरकार तो तीन साल से ही है। वहां 70 सालों से कोई नहीं गया, इसे आप एप्रिशियेट कीजिए। जब मैंने फोन लगाया, तो उस गांव में दूसरे दिन ही नर्स आ गयी। आप यह भी एप्रिशियेट कीजिए। SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB : Hon. Chairperson, I was just mentioning that we have now a Minister of Corporate Affairs who has his feet on the ground. I was appreciating the effort made. But, I would also like to know this. Do you have a ladder in your quarter here? कॉल ड्रॉप की ज्यादा प्रॉब्लम दिल्ली में होती है। Now, I come to the issue of The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2016. I would mention here that ‘yes’ on earlier stages, during the UPA regime, this Bill came before this Parliament. This Amendment was moved in the Parliament on 16th March, 2016. The Standing Committee deliberated with the Government and stakeholders like The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, FICCI, ASSOCHAM, CII, etc., and with the representatives of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Bombay Chamber of Commerce, Indian Merchant Chamber, Investor’s Grievances Forum, The Chamber of Tax Consultants and NASSCOM, etc. The report was submitted to the Parliament on 1st December, 2016. One curious aspect of this Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2016 is that when Dr. Moily was the Minister for Corporate Affairs, the Companies Bill, 2009 was introduced in the Lok Sabha. The Standing Committee on Finance examined it and submitted its Report on 31st August, 2010. The Ministry examined the Report and out of 178 recommendations made by the Committee, 167 were incorporated fully, six were partially accepted and a different view was taken by the Ministry on the rest five recommendations. In 2011, the revised Bill was introduced and again it was referred to the Standing Committee on Finance by this august House to look into it. The report was presented on 13th August, 2012 and out of 15 recommendations, 13 were accepted by the Government and a different view was expressed on the remaining two recommendations. Therefore, one may say that out of 193 recommendations, 180 were accepted fully. This shows the enormity of the problem that our old Companies Act of 1956 was facing. The Committee had recommended around 193 recommendations, out of which, 180 were accepted. There have been a host of changes in the present Bill. It is because this is the third attempt of correcting the Act of 2013. This Bill seeks to simplify private placement process, remove restrictions on layers of subsidiaries and investment companies, amend Corporate Social Responsibilities provisions to bring greater “clarity.” Today, out of 470 sections of the Companies Act of 2013, 284 have come into effect since 1st April, 2014. Now, new amendments are to be effected and therefore, we have this Bill before us for consideration. Hon. Chairperson, I would say the process of fine tuning the Companies Act of 2013 seems to have no end. It is because even today a large number of corporate bodies are still saying that there is a need to have further amendment to the amendments that have been made by the Government. Should we continue to do amendment of this Companies Act , again and again? It was in 1956 when an  Act was promulgated.   We amended it in 2013.  Now every time and every year whenever the corporate people meet, they say that there is some flaw in this Act and we need amendment.  To tide over this situation, a committee was formed when this new Government came into being.  They gave certain suggestions and those suggestions have been incorporated in this Bill and some suggestions have not been accepted by the Government in its wisdom.  But should we go on amending the Act like this?  That is the first question. As I said earlier, more than 200 changes were incorporated over a period of five years.  Now based on a Government-appointed panel’s report, 100 odd amendments to the Companies Act of 2013 are under discussion.  Even day before yesterday, another 48 amendments have been moved by the Minister.  The aim is to make it easier for the companies to do business including simpler laws for incorporating a company, for raising funds as also for insider trading and dealing with top  executives. It is interesting to note that even as various amendments to the Companies Act were passed in the Budget Session year before last, industries still have concerns over some provisions and now the Government has again come to us with amendments. As I have reiterated earlier, the Government is only interested in economies and money.  The social fabric of the society that keeps businesses together is being torn apart.  You can see the result of the hostile attitude of the Government yourself since lending by banks is at five per cent which is a 60 year low.  Some may say that it is because of demonetization but the fact today is that it is a 60 year low and it has come down to five per cent.  Banks are flushed with money but people are not taking money from the banks.  The economy is practically stagnant today.  Jobs are being lost and yet the Government insists on living in an imaginary city where buildings are made of gold. On the one hand, the Government violated individual privacy and on the other hand, it gives more anonymity to corporates.  Corporates are legal persons.  They can enter into contracts, take loans and do business.  People who run these corporates are not held responsible for any loss that the company makes but the burden is distributed among the shareholders.   That is how, it has been since the Mauryan Empire where such entities were also present but this corporate veil of secrecy offered by the corporates is also prone to misuse. What has happened today is that the Kingfisher will take a loan of around Rs.7000 crore and it will not pay it back.  It gets a pay off from the United Breweries of Rs.515 crore, severance package.  There is something, I would say which the House should ponder over.  There is something very wrong with our system if things like this are allowed to happen. The  Economic Survey this year pointed out that top ten Companies in India owe Rs.40,000 crore each to the banks.  The Directors who run these Companies are living lavish lives at the cost of the Company while the corporate itself is going on many misadventures. In April last year the Supreme Court was given an envelop by the RBI regarding big defaulters in the country.  An argument was made that these names should be kept confidential since it would impact our economy.  It is incredible that artificial and fictional persons have more rights in India than individuals today. On the one hand, you have brought this Bill which removes subsidiary company caps, investment layer caps, diluting requirements to have an objective clause while on the other hand, you keep imposing Aadhar on the citizens of this country. Sir, the Finance Bill, 2017 went a step ahead and allowed anonymous corporate donations to political parties. The Government is going on over-drive to give more powers to institutions that are not accountable to the public while taking away the freedom of the public. Sir, this Bill allows some pecuniary interest in companies for independent Directors. Here I would say this because this is one of the major provisions of this amendment today which the Government is dealing with relating to appointment of independent Directors with transactions up to 10 per cent with the company. Section 149 of this Bill allows an independent Director to have 10 per cent pecuniary benefits with the company where he or she holds a position. The earlier Act did not allow any personal interest to interfere in the business. This Bill is allowing it. Not only does it allow pecuniary benefits, it also leaves it to the executive to decide the percentage of interest. This goes completely against the concept of corporates as independent entities.  This will be misused by the likes of Shri Mallya to lead an even more comfortable life than they already have, while the companies continue on their misadventure. This should not be allowed at all. While India has to catch up quite a bit on its record of independence of Directors, most of the problems of the corporate sector and that of the banking sector can be traced to poor corporate governance. When corruption, nepotism and crony capitalism are eroding the foundations of our institutions in India, change in a law which determines independence of Directors, even if justified for pragmatic reasons, should not be espoused. While India largely escaped the adverse effect of 2008 melt down in the wake of the sub-prime mortgage crisis, the crisis in India which is threatening to explode may be solved in the medium and large term only through a robust model of corporate governance, both in the banking sector as well as in the corporate sector. Sir, in the light of the Satyam scam, the Company’s Act 2013 introduced new rules to improve audit quality and to punish auditors who will be found guilty of negligence or connivance with the management in acts of omission and commission by the company. Will this be effective? I would like to get an answer from the Government. For business reasons auditors have strong motivation to approve client’s financial statements because an unfavourable report might lead to losing the client. The Company’s Act stipulates that the auditor has to be appointed for a term of five years and they can be removed only by passing a special resolution in a shareholder’s meeting and with the approval of the Government. This has reduced the risk of losing the client, yet audit partners act as an agent of the firm in securing non-audit businesses from the client and therefore, there is motivation to appease the client. This needs to be corrected. Sir, the process of fine-tuning the Company’s Act, 2013 seems to have no end, but the process to make a perfect law seems to be never ending. I would come to my last point. There are certain shortcomings in this Bill. Amongst the problematic provisions of the 2013 Company’s Act which have not been redressed by the amending Bill are the provisions contained in Sections 203 which requires every company of a certain size to have at least three classes of key management personnel.  This has been one of the most impractical provisions of the 2013 Act requiring companies to perfunctorily designate Chief Financial Officers and Company Secretaries in companies which have significant capital but do not have day-to-day business.  There was a widespread demand that either such companies may designate the same person to look after several positions or the same person to look after several companies.  However, nothing has been done to introduce amendments in this section although the definition of ‘key managerial personnel’ in section 2(51) has been widened. Another significant difficulty created by the 2013 Act was the unduly restrictive set of provisions pertaining to private placements.  This over ambitious scheme of regulation was a direct result of some incidents in the past which I mentioned about Satyam.  One such provision requires every private placement to be routed through a separate bank account opened for this purpose and a bar on utilisation of the money until allotment.  While the Bill rewrites the entire section 42 , it in fact,  bars the use of money until the return of allotment has been filed with the Registrar of companies.  It is curious to note that the use of the money has been linked with filing of a document for which the time allowed is as much as 60 days for allotment and 15 days for filing the return.  More often that not, the amount received in private placement is large and companies cannot afford to keep the amount idle even for a day.   The only relief in the private placement provisions seems to be that the amount of penalty for contravention has been limited to Rs. 2 crore which was earlier seemingly extending to the entire amount raised by private placement. Sir, with your wide experience, you know that law is as good as it is administered. The Companies Act, 2013 is a modern law for a rising India.  It is important that the administrators of such a law have  a mindset keeping with the spirit of such a law.  Unless transformative changes are brought about in its administration, the felt purpose of such a law would be lost. Therefore, we should address this issue effectively so that India becomes a beaconing economy of the world. SHRI JAYADEV GALLA ( GUNTUR ):   Sir, I rise to support the Bill moved by the hon. Minister for Corporate Affairs, Shri Meghwal.  Nearly 90 amendments proposed in the Bill are mainly in pursuance of the recommendations made by the Company Law Committee and based on the recommendations made by various industrial bodies, industries and professional organisations. This House itself passed the Companies Bill in 2013 and out of 470 Sections, so far, only 284 have been notified and the remaining are relating to National Company Law Tribunal and National Company Appellate Law Tribunal.  They could not probably be constituted earlier since the matter was sub judice but a five judge Constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court approved the constitution of NCLT and NCLAT in 2015 itself.  But have these not been constituted?  It is a big question mark which I wish the hon. Minister for Corporate Affairs to explain. Coming to the Bill, some of the major amendments include providing greater flexibility in incorporating and running a company by simplifying Memorandum of Association which and doing away with Central Government approvals, etc., to simply procedures to raise capital, to rationalise penal provisions relating to auditors, improving corporate governance and remove ambiguities in CSR provisions, etc.  

          With your permission, I have a few points to make on the Bill and request Shri Meghwal to ponder over them and take steps accordingly. The first one is regarding Clause 45. Clause 45 allows a relative of an Independent Director to be indebted to the company or its promoters within a limit as may be prescribed by the Central Government. But I wish  to make a point here. When a relative of an Independent Director is indebted to company, the independence of such a Director would be highly suspect. Especially, when a relative of an Independent Director is indebted to promoters of a company, independence of such a Director becomes a definite casualty. Here, the Government of India may prescribe the limit, but that limit is nowhere mentioned in the Bill. I suggest, while framing subordinate legislation, the limit should be kept at a minimum level. Otherwise, it brings disrepute to the company and also hit its brand image in the market and before creditors. Clause 45 allows some pecuniary interest in companies for Independent Directors. The Bill allows such Directors on their own to have transactions with companies where they are Independent Directors up to 10 per cent of such Independent Directors’ total income or such amount as may be prescribed. It means, in a way, we are legitimizing ‘self-dealing merchants’ as Independent Directors. I apprehend that the limit of 10 per cent transactions in the hands of Independent Directors can be altered by the executive action by prescribing an altered limit. Vested interests can achieve a higher limit by influencing the executive. I feel that this would certainly weaken the independence of corporate boards. And, you are also removing an existing provision which says that an Independent Director’s relative should not have been a senior employee of the company in the last three years and it may also impact independence of an Independent Director. Secondly, I beg to differ with the CLC which says that such a small amount of income will have no bearing on the independence of the Director. This assumption, in my view, is flawed. A threshold limit of the pecuniary relationship affecting the independence of a Director cannot be objectively set, as the concept of independence is more subjective in nature. Objectively, the only manner in ensuring independence is adhering to the provisions in the Act, i.e. absolutely no monetary relationship aside from the Director’s remuneration. The next one is Clause 59. You are proposing to amend Section 185 which deals with loans to Directors, etc. I wish to submit that a holding company, irrespective of being a public or private company and without conditions imposed on the nature of its shareholding, can grant loans to its subsidiaries subject to the passing of a special resolution and the subsidiary utilising such amount for its principal business activities. This may be a cause of concern because if the end-use of loan is still restricted to the ‘principal business activities’, it appears that in case of loans required by the subsidiaries for purpose other than its ‘principal business activities’, holding companies may have to continue the current practice of amending its objects in its Memorandum of Association to include ‘grant of loans to subsidiaries’, in order to have such loans granted in the ‘ordinary course of business.’ 

          Then, claim exemption under sub-section (3) (b) of the proposed to be amended Section 185 , which exempts companies providing loans/guarantees/securities in the ordinary course of business, provided the specified rate of interest is charged. But again, if the MCA intended to permit such an exception, it would have been reflected in the Bill itself. Secondly, practice of amending the objects clause may prove to be risky. So, I suggest for consideration of the hon. Minister that Exemption Notification must be amended to reflect the above relaxation under Section 185 and there should not be any confusion that public companies enjoy more liberty than private companies under Exemption Notification. The next one is regarding Clause 60. Clause 60 of the Bill seeks to amend Section 186 of the Principal Act by deleting restrictions on layers of investment companies. It also seeks to provide for aggregation of loans and investments so far made and guarantees so far provided, for the purpose of calculating the limits of loans and investments. Further, it also seeks to provide that requirement of passing a special resolution at general meeting shall not be necessary where a loan or guarantee is given or where a security has been provided by a company to its wholly owned subsidiary company or a joint venture company or acquisition is made by a holding company of the securities of its wholly owned subsidiary company. I agree that under the existing provisions, a company is not allowed to make investment through not more than two layers of investment companies.  This Clause eases the structuring of group companies and inter-company investments. I feel that there is a need to put a limit on the number of layers. Otherwise, I am apprehensive that this very proposed amendment facilitates rerouting of black money against which this Government waged a war.  And, the second one is, you are going to create a structure where promoters can control large businesses with small holdings through a series of subsidiaries.  If this is the objective of this provision, what would be the impact on corporate governance? The next point is regarding Clause 65.  It is good that the hon. Minister has removed the ceiling of 11 per cent on managerial remuneration.  But, there is a condition that if a company has taken loan from a bank or if any public financial institution is subsisting or there is any default, then it has to take approval of that financial institution.  If a company takes loan, say from 10 financial institutions, then it has to take approval from each one of them.  And, everybody knows that no bank or financial institutions is going to agree to this.  But when it comes to private companies, there is no need to take consent of lenders even if such a private company has a running default with its lenders.  So, I feel this is sheer discrimination and request the hon. Minister to relook at it once again. Sir, one final point I would like to make is in response to rising NPAs.  Hon. Minister, this is an important point to which I would just like to draw your attention.  With the rising NPAs, banks are now insisting on personal guarantees or personal guarantees of the promoters for every loan taken by company.  This goes against the very principle and nature of a limited liability companies.  If promoters have to provide a personal guarantee for every loan that they have to take for their companies, then what is the point of having a limited liability company?  That goes against this principle. So in response to this, I believe, risk taking is coming down in our country.  The risk taking comes down.  The dynamism of our economy depends on risk taking capability. I think, the dynamism of our economy is also at risk if personal guarantees are insisted every time. There needs to be a balance.  The accountability of banks also has to be there in doing their due diligence and evaluating the loans needs to be brought into focus.  What is the due diligence being done by the banks?  How are they evaluating the nature of the loan before giving the loan?  All these things also need to be brought into focus.  The accountability of banks also needs to be established. It is not only that accountability has to be completely on the promoters who are taking the risk in the first place but the banks giving the loans also have to take some risk.  I think, a balance needs to be maintained. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is no doubt that a large portion of the Bill achieves its objective of providing clarity, unambiguity, transparency and certainty.  But there are some provisions, a few of which I had mentioned, which appears to have been contradicting to the core theme of the Bill.  I only wish hon. Minister will have a relook at them once again closely and avoid this Bill paving the way for rampant misuse of these provisions. With these observations, I support the Bill. Thank you. SHRI KONDA VISHWESHWAR REDDY ( CHEVELLA ): Thank you, Sir, for giving me this opportunity. Sir, at the outset, I would like to state that on behalf of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi we support this Bill. But, yes, this is a very small step in the long democratic process.  While it is an important step, we are going to pass it, it may merely amount to tinkering of the existing law and great changes are required. At the end of the day, in another half-an-hour, we are going to pass this Bill.  All of us are going to thump our benches loudly and cheer that the Bill is going to be passed. I will just raise two or three points.  Many more points have already been covered.  There are a number of layers and subsidiaries. We should support this.  The number of layers and subsidiaries were limited.  Now, it is unlimited. This is very very required.  I worked in a large multinational corporation, General Electric Corporation, one of the largest companies in the world.  I was trying to count how many subsidiaries and layer of subsidiaries it has.  I think, I stopped counting at 150, but I think there are more than 1000 subsidiaries and several layers.  It is extremely required for Indian companies to grow big, to become multinational conglomerates.  Sometimes, even temporary companies are formed called a Special Purpose Vehicle for a particular contract.  Short duration joint ventures are formed.  Country-specific companies are formed.  So, I think it is very important.  It does not restrict Indian companies to grow.  We support it. My next point is regarding pecuniary interest of independent directors.  I think, this restriction has been removed. This is totally not required.  It is because, the concept of independent directors is that it is not the interested parties who are directors.  We want a fresh thought.  It may be an academician who is an independent director or it may be a scientist in that field or it may be a market engineer or a finance expert or even a social worker who brings a new thought in the company directorship.  What is the need for them to own a company?  It is because, the very fact of owning a company brings in conflict of interest.  But the rationale here is, little bit conflict of interest is okay.  But there is an American phrase which says you cannot be a little bit pregnant.  Either you are pregnant or you are not pregnant.  How can you have little a bit conflict of interest?  Either you have conflict of interest or no conflict of interest. I have one more point regarding removal of dealing in insider trading.  Once again, unnecessarily we are treading on a dangerous area.  In an age when the Prime Minister and the whole country is looking forward to give more teeth, I think we are taking away one teeth from the law makers.  Right now it is only SEBI which can go after these companies that are dealing in insider trading and removal of forward dealing.   We do not need relaxations.  We need stricter regulations.  We are discussing all this when one Mr. King of good times is actually fishing somewhere in some islands near Britain or some other place.  So, I think we need to make it stricter.  While we support the entire Act, I would like to bring forth a few other issues. In US, we have the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  These have significant teeth.  Companies there are really scared not out of a moral need or ethical need.  It is because of the sword hanging and because of the teeth those regulations have.  I think, we need to make regulations stricter.  In this case, it is mostly relaxing those regulations. When the previous Companies Act, 2013 was addressed, there is a whole list – whether it is CII or FICCI – of disadvantages, pros and cons that were listed out.  One of them is the compliant requirement which continues to be very high.  It is good; it is required.  But, if it is too high, it hits the ease of doing business.  It can be high for large companies which have hundreds of employees and even they have the accounts and compliance departments.  But for a small company, to have such stringent compliance standards will actually reduce the ease of doing business.  This was actually given earlier.  There is no mention of that in this Bill. The Memorandum of Association, as per the Act, requires the company to declare the objective of formation.  The Bill removes this requirement.  We saw a telecom company importing apples.  Earlier, we had objectives of the company and the company had to do that business.  You cannot do any other business.  So, we cannot do relaxations on some of these.  I think, we need to increase this.  I do not want to say too much because, I think, many speakers have covered these points. Many speakers said that we achieved great things by closing down defunct companies.  This is one more thing of thumping the benches too hard for very little achievements.  We had 16 lakh companies and, I think, the Ministry did a good job.  They took an initiative of closing down defunct companies.  Frankly, I also have a personal experience in this regard. Recently, two companies belonging to my son were closed down. They were neither scam companies nor they were involved in any operations which were illegal.  They were not shell companies.  This is merely a part of spring cleaning. So, you get rid of unwanted things in your house.  In most countries after winter, in spring, you have enough of unwanted things which you throw out or close them. So, the Ministry’s initiative is good.  A lot of group companies close down these unwanted companies.  How many are they?  Maybe, they are  about 16,000 or so.  They closed them down in the last six months.  It is a very good initiative but let us not say that we made any impact on closing down shell companies or unauthorised operations.  A lot more needs to be done.  That is not the proof of the pudding.  Somaiya Ji was mentioning that we closed down these many companies.  By doing that, we have not closed any shell companies.  Shell companies are alive, kicking well, paying all the fees and doing all the illegal operations.  So, a lot more needs to be done.   The real proof of the pudding is, have the NPAs of banks reduced, has corruption reduced, has tax compliance increased, has hawala reduced, has under-invoicing of exports reduced and finally, has the rupee gained value in the international market? These are the real proofs of pudding. So, has our GDP increased significantly?  Yes, we are making marginal progress. At this point, I would also like to make one more thing. So, entire India is not like this. Some pockets of India are doing extremely well in terms of tax compliance and other things. I would like to point out  that you will be shocked to know, recently we got the data, that in the State of Telangana, got 21.7 per cent increase in its tax collections. The next is only Chattisgarh which is at 10 per cent and the rest of the country is hardly at 7-8 per cent. Lastly, a lot more needs to be done. Not enough is being done.  So, when we pass the Bill, let us not thump our benches so hardly.  Let us not cheer so hardly. Let us thump little softer.  Thank you Sir. We support the Bill. SHRI MD. BADARUDDOZA KHAN ( MURSHIDABAD ): Hon. Chairman Sir, I am thankful to you for giving me an opportunity to speak on an important Bill. Sir, as you know that this Bill was introduced in Lok Sabha on 16th March, 2016 and referred to the Standing Committee on Finance on 12th April, 2016.  Actually, the Companies Act, 2013 came into force on 1st April, 2014.  Since then many companies raised their voice that they are facing difficulties with the implementation of 2013 Act. So, the then Government set up Companies Law Committee on June, 2015 to examine the issues regarding implementation of 2013 Act.  The Committee submitted its report in February, 2016. But in the meantime in 2015, the Supreme Court gave its judgement related to quasi-judicial tribunal set up under the 2013 Act as invalid. Sir, it was the need of the time to amend some sections related to such issues. Subsequently, the Standing Committee on Finance heard the views of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, FICCI, CII, ASSOCHAM and NASSCOM. Finally, they submitted the report on 7th December, 2016.  I agree with the observations made by the Standing Committee and the verdict of the Supreme Court also. Sir, it is true that all recommendations submitted are for improving ease of doing business in India without many hurdles.  The Committee has proposed changes in 78 sections. Approximately, 50 amendments to the Rules have also been proposed.  So, a record number of amendments have been proposed in this Bill. Mostly, it will help the corporates to expand their business in India.  But I want to know about the small companies.  The existing definition of small companies limits the scope of small companies having a turnover of rupees two crore. The limit is being increased to rupees five crore but the limit of paid up capital still remains at rupees fifty lakhs. I request the Government to review the situation. In another case relating to banking companies, I want to seek some clarifications on the provision of Sections 53 and 185 . Actually, the banks are making use of Corporate Debt Restructuring (CDR) and Strategic Debt Restructuring (SDR) Schemes to convert their loan into equity. The problem is that the fair value of equity shares was less than its par value. However, the bar in the Act against issuing shares at a discount would force a banker to convert the loans at least at par value of the equity. The provisions of Section 53 are proposed to be amended to permit conversion of loans into equity at less than the par value. Please clarify this position. Further, I want to know the provisions relating to forward dealing and insider trading to be omitted from the Companies Act, 2013 . Why is such a proposal necessary? I want to know why such a proposal is necessary. Now under what Act will the insider trading be dealt with? In addition to that I want to seek some clarifications. Dr. Kirit Somaiya, Shri Bhartruhari Mahtab and also Prof. Saugata Roy told here about some companies. Kirit Somaiya Ji told about 30 companies. He has huge information with him, including Saradha scam. I know, and also I think Dr. Kirit Somaiya also knows that Saradha Company and Rose Valley Company are under the CBI inquiry, under the CBI scanner. I am sorry to say that during interrogation, some MPs were also interrogated and one MP is still now in jail. In spite of that, I am sorry to say that the CBI is conducting its inquiry in a very, very slow pace. There is no effort to refund the money to the actual losers, the people whose money was looted. There is no effort. Then what will be done in future? In the future also, some fake companies will be registered but not for doing any business. They will collect money and launder it to others and launder it to foreign countries also. In such a way, the companies are being registered still now in India. What do you do about that? What is the thinking of our Minister about all these ponzi and fake companies? What action are you going to take about these companies? Now it is a very serious matter in India.  What kind of inquiry is being done by the CBI? The CBI is doing the inquiry. The ED is also making the inquiry by the ruling of the Supreme Court. But I am sorry to say that there is no progress in the inquiry. The CBI is directed by the Prime Minister. Then, my question is, whether the Prime Minister has directed the CBI to go slow and not to take action and not to close their inquiry. It is a never ending process, and finally, the public will be refunded nothing. They will suffer. So, I request the Government to take action. Also, I request Dr. Kirit Somaiya that if you have huge information, then please give it to the Minister to make an inquiry into that. Why are you speaking only here? Why are you making the statement here? You give it to the Minister and let them conduct an inquiry. Now, you have the SFIO; you have the ED; and you have the CBI. They can make inquiry and take action. So, this is my request to the Minister that please to try to finalise this inquiry and refund the money to the losers. It is the need of the hour, and give punishment to the culprits who have taken money from them. I am concluding my speech. I hope our Minister who is present here, will take necessary action. Thank you. SHRI VARAPRASAD RAO VELAGAPALLI ( TIRUPATI ): Hon. Chairman, Sir, I thank you for giving me this opportunity to speak. We appreciate the amendments which are being brought into the company law, particularly with regard to the set-up of Company Law Tribunals and Appellate Tribunals. It has also tried to take some initiatives to protect the interest of the investors on a large scale. Similarly, it has tried to bring in some accountability of the Directors, the auditors and the managerial persons. It has also tried to improve the corporate governance. It also wants to help in ease of doing business, particularly for the start-up companies and to simplify some of the procedures like private placement process, self-declarations. It is also doing away with separate offer letters. It also wants a register to be maintained of significant beneficiary-owners of the company. We appreciate these positive aspects, but as Shri Bhartruhari Mahtab mentioned, a law is as good as it is administered. Therefore, merely bringing laws does not take us anywhere. The implementation of the law has to be good and monitoring has also to be done. All that we need is mostly on account of corporate governance, particularly dealing with the banking sector as well as corporate sector. That is totally lacking on professional lines as far as India is concerned. We are far behind in comparison to the advanced countries and the European countries. Sir, I am not able to appreciate some of the clauses which have been incorporated for the simple reason that a relative of an independent director could give a loan to the company or to the promoters and its subsidiaries. It is definitely an unhealthy trend. I do now know why it has been considered. Many of the Members, who spoke before me, have already mentioned that there is no reason as to why it has to be considered. Already, there is lot of nepotism and corruption taking place and still you want to bring down the independence of independent directors. It is very unfortunate. The very logic of bringing in independent directors, as earlier speakers mentioned, is lost the moment you permit a relative of an independent director to give a loan to the company or to the promoters. I thank the Ministry for having done a lot of consultations and formed committees and all that before bringing in this Bill, but there is one thing missing. They have involved the RBI, the SEBI, industrial bodies, ICWAI, ICAI, ICSI etc., but the real stakeholders, the investors, are totally missing. I do not think that representatives of the investors, who are the real shareholders and stakeholders, is mentioned anywhere. I do not think that any of the document shows that they have had discussions with the bodies of shareholders. It is an extremely important thing. Perhaps they can consider one thing now. As of now, India does not have a system or a committee at the highest level to protect the interests of the shareholders. Both the Ministers, who are sitting here, are learned Ministers. They may consider to have a high level committee to protect the interests of the investors.  Most of them are very small time investors and the money belongs to them. Every time, the other institutions are taking initiatives. It does not take them anywhere unless we really involve the investors and the shareholders. Sir, I would like to ask the hon. Minister as to why they have given a big concession with regard to managerial remuneration. Earlier, beyond a stipulated limit, the proposal was supposed to come to the Government. Now, you are removing that also. I have a classical example. Here, I am not talking politics and I am not prejudiced. The Reliance Industries company exploits – I am saying this in a positive sense and not a negative sense – the oil and gas in our country. Whatever be the pricing policy, it is giving enormous profit to the company, running in lakhs of crores and crores of rupees.  We all know about the house constructed by owners of Reliance Industries. I do not think that in the entire world, you have a parallel to that. They have spent crores and crores of rupees to construct that house. We do not deny it, but the point is that he has exploited the natural resources which belong to the State, to the country and to the poor people of this country. Therefore, I am of a very strong opinion that managerial remuneration beyond a stipulated limit should be with the Government because the money belongs to the people and the land belongs to the people and these are the national resources. Therefore, allowing it just like that is not required because as we see it now, one per cent of the people in India own 60 per cent of the interest by way of national wealth. 16.00hours 

Kindly see this irony. Unless you take these kinds of steps, the gap between the rich and the poor can never be filled up. So, I would request the hon. Minister to please give a thought to it, and managerial remuneration should be restricted beyond a point. There are Company Law Tribunals and Appellate Tribunals. It is fine, but as of now you consider that it will reduce the burden of the High Courts. There is no doubt about it because the work could be transferred to these Tribunals, but the point is that you have a very limited number of Tribunals all over the country and most of the States do not have it. Ultimately, it will again lead to pendency of cases unless you open more. For example, unless you have more number of Company Law Tribunals in the very highly industrialised States like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, I do not think that it will serve any purpose. So, kindly have a re-look at this issue. Many people have spoken in favour of prohibition of more than two layers of subsidiaries. We appreciate it as perhaps it wants to plug the loophole of siphoning off money illegally, and corruption also will be brought down. But certain industries, particularly, the infrastructure companies just cannot handle without having more number of layers of subsidiaries. So, that aspect needs to be considered because the infrastructure companies are extremely important. … (Interruptions) Sir, very few speakers are there. Kindly bear with me as there are a few more points. Therefore, at least for infrastructure companies it should be considered. One more point is a buzzword in the Government for the last three years, which is ‘ease of doing business’. Why are we pampering the industries so much? What did they do for the last three years? Why are we pampering the start-up companies also to this extent? It is at what cost and whose cost? If you see the Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) for the last three years, it has doubled as much as from Rs. 5 lakh crore to Rs. 10 lakh crore and in some cases even Rs. 16 lakh crore has been mentioned. When the performance of the private sector banks is so good, then why are these Government sector banks lagging behind? Therefore, ‘ease of doing business’ should have some logic because the money does not belong to anybody. It belongs to the poor people and whatever taxes are paid by a poor fellow like a sweeper is being given here. So, the money of the banks belongs to the poor people. Therefore, while ‘ease of doing business’ to some extent could be encouraged, but not beyond a point, and a blanket permission should not be given. Kindly re-look at this issue because I do not think that in the last three years any of these so-called companies have produced any employment. So, I would once again request the hon. Minister to re-look at these things. माननीय सभापति : अब आप समाप्त कीजिए। SHRI VARAPRASAD RAO VELAGAPALLI : Okay, Sir. Lastly, as regards the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), I would request the hon. Minister that CSR is extremely important because unless that is done, then there is no point in it. I would suggest that unless there is an Act for CSR it will not serve any purpose. It is for the simple reason that instead of spending on smaller things, bigger things like rural infrastructure, housing, hospital buildings, roads, etc. should be constructed, and in this way the two per cent of annual profit of the companies could be better utilized than squandering it away. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Sir. Thank you. श्री सुभाष चन्द्र बहेड़िया ( भीलवाड़ा ) : महोदय, आपने मुझे कंपनी (संशोधन) विधेयक, 2016 पर बोलने का मौका दिया, इसके लिए आपका धन्यवाद। महोदय, इस सरकार का एक उद्देश्य मिनिमम गवर्नमेंट, मैक्सिमम गवर्नेंस है और दूसरा उद्देश्य यह है कि व्यापार और उद्योग में सुगमता है। इसी उद्देश्य को लेते हुए यह कंपनी (संशोधन) विधेयक लाया गया है। काफी समय तक कंपनीज एक्ट 1956 के तहत कम्पनियाँ काम करती थीं। उसके बाद विचार हुआ, जब इन्वेस्टर का पैसा, आम गरीब जनता का पैसा इधर-उधर होने लगा, तो यह चर्चा हुई कि कंपनीज एक्ट नया बनना चाहिए और उस पर चर्चा शुरू हुई। 2013 में नया कंपनीज़ एक्ट लागू हुआ पर उस कंपनीज़ एक्ट में इतनी कमियाँ थीं कि उसके जो कुल 470 सैक्शंस हैं, उसमें से आज तक 284 सैक्शंस ही लागू हुए हैं, बाकी 186 सैक्शंस सरकार अभी तक लागू नहीं कर सकी, क्योंकि उनमें काफी कमियाँ थीं। इन्हीं कमियों को दूर करने के हिसाब से बीच में कंपनीज़ अमैंडमैंट एक्ट 2015 भी पास किया गया और उस समय डिसकशन में यह आया कि अभी कंपनीज़ एक्ट में और अमैंडमैंट करने की ज़रूरत है ताकि जो छोटी कंपनियाँ हैं, जो प्राइवेट कंपनियाँ हैं और जो वन मैन कंपनियाँ हैं, उनको कुछ फॉर्मैलिटी कम करनी पड़े जो कि बड़ी कंपनियों को ज्यादा करनी पड़ती हैं। उसी उद्देश्य से कंपनीज़ एक्ट 2016 आया है। 16.06 hours                        (Shri Hukum  Singh  in  the  Chair) 

          जैसा अभी महताब साहब बोल रहे थे कि अभी और अमैंडमैंट की ज़रूरत पड़ेगी और मैं भी उनकी बात से सहमत हूँ। क्योंकि आज जो छोटी कंपनियाँ हैं, जो प्राइवेट लिमिटेड कंपनियाँ हैं, जिनको पहले कंपनीज़ एक्ट 1956 में कुछ स्पेशल सुविधाएँ थीं, वे इस कंपनीज एक्ट 2013 ने हटा लीं। मेरा आपके माध्यम से माननीय मंत्री जी से आग्रह है कि इस बारे में भी एक बार स्टेकहोल्डर्स को बुलाकर, चर्चा करके जो भी आवश्यक अमैंडमैंट है, वह भी आगे किये जाएँ। इसमें सबसे बड़ा जो काम किया है, वह काम यह किया है कि जो छोटी कंपनियाँ हैं और अनलिस्टेड कंपनियाँ हैं, उनको एजीएम या जनरल मीटिंग कंपनी शेयरहोल्डर्स की करनी होती हैं। अभी कंपनीज़ एक्ट में प्रावधान है कि इसमें 21 दिन का नोटिस पीरियड चाहिए। पर जो अनलिस्टेड कंपनियाँ हैं, उनको कोई मीटिंग करनी है, और उसके 95 परसेंट शेयरहोल्डर्स, यानी 95 परसेंट जो मालिक हैं, वह एग्री हो जाएँ तो वह कम समय में भी एजीएम काल कर सकते हैं। यह एक बहुत बड़ा चेंज उन्होंने किया है। दूसरा, कंपनीज़ प्रॉस्पैक्टस जो मिलते हैं, पब्लिक इश्यू में जाते हैं, डायरैक्टर उसमें साइन करते हैं और उसमें कुछ गलतियाँ होती हैं, उसमें कुछ फ्रॉड होता है तो उनकी ज़िम्मेदारी होती है, लेकिन अगर उन डायैक्टर्स ने किसी एक्सपर्ट की रिपोर्ट पर अपनी राय दी है कि यह एक्सपर्ट रिपोर्ट है और इसके आधार पर सरकार की तरफ से जो घोषित एक्सपर्ट है, उनकी रिपोर्ट के आधार पर कोई राय दी और कोई स्टेटमैंट दिया है तो इस अमैंडमैंट में यह प्रावधान किया गया है कि वह दोषी नहीं होगा, जबकि उसकी जगह जिस एक्सपर्ट ने रिपोर्ट दी है, वह दोषी होगा। यह बहुत बड़ा प्रावधान है क्योंकि कंपनीज़ डायरैक्टर बहुत मामलों में एक्सपर्ट नहीं होते हैं। अगर वे किसी एक्सपर्ट से रिपोर्ट लेते हैं तो उसकी रिपोर्ट की गलती की वजह से उनको सज़ा न मिले, यह प्रावधान इसमें लाया गया है। इसके साथ ही पहले 2013 के कंपनीज़ एक्ट में जो नियम थे कि कंपनी का कोई भी पेपर कंपनी का ऑफिसर ही साइन करेगा, वह भी ऑथराइज्ड बाय द बोर्ड, लेकिन अब इसमें यह प्रावधान किया है कि ऑफिसर हो या इंप्लॉई हो, क्योंकि कंपनी का ऑफिसर भी कंपनी का नौकर ही होगा और कंपनी का इंप्लॉई भी नौकर ही होगा, तो इसमें अमैंडमैंट किया कि कंपनी की तरफ से कोई भी जो डॉक्यूमैंट साइन करना है, अगर बोर्ड ने किसी इंप्लॉई को या किसी नौकर को भी ऑथराइज़ किया है तो वह कर सकता है, यह अमैंडमैंट अभी आया है। महोदय, अभी सभी माननीय सदस्य स्माल कंपनीज़ की बात कर रहे थे। अभी स्माल कंपनीज़ की डैफिनिशन भी चेंज की है और आज की स्थिति को देखकर उसको बढ़ाया गया है। उसमें एक बड़ा काम इस अमैंडमैंट में किया है, वैसे पूरा नहीं किया है लेकिन शुरूआत की है कि जो बड़ी कंपनियों में पैनल्टी का क्लाज़ लागू होता था, अभी जो अमैंडमैंट आया है, क्लाज़ 86 के तहत छोटी कंपनियों को, 1 परसेंट कंपनियों को उसमें जो मैक्सिमम लिमिट है, उसकी आधी कर दी गई है।  महोदय, यह एक बहुत बड़ा कदम है। पर, इसमें और कुछ करने की जरूरत है क्योंकि छोटी कंपनियां काफी फॉर्मैलिटीज़ पूरी नहीं कर सकती और उनकी अपनी मर्यादाएं होती हैं। उनके पास उतना स्टाफ भी नहीं होता है। इस कारण मेरा आग्रह है कि इसको उनकी कैपिटल के साथ लिंक करके और उस हिसाब से पेनल्टी के क्लॉज़ लगाए जाएं। महोदय, शुरू से ही, जब से ‘कंपनी (अमेंडमेंट) एक्ट, 2013’ लागू हुआ और उसके बाद से जगह-जगह एस.एम.ईज़. से, छोटी कंपनियों से यह रिक्वेस्ट आ रही है कि कम से कम डिपॉजिट के मामले में उनका ध्यान रखा जाए। बड़ी कंपनियों ने बाजार में हेराफेरी की होगी, बाजार से पैसे लाए होंगे और इंवेस्टर्स के पैसे खा गए होंगे। लेकिन, छोटी कंपनियां, जो अपने रिश्तेदारों और अन्य लोगों से पैसे इकट्ठे करती है और इस पर जो रोक लगाई गई है, उसको हटाकर कंपनी के जो भी शेयरहोल्डर्स हैं, वे उस कंपनी में डिपॉजिट कर सकें, ऐसा रिलैक्सेशन आपको इस बिल में करना चाहिए, ताकि जो छोटे व्यापारी हैं, जो टेक्नोक्रेट्स हैं, जो अपना काम या व्यवसाय कोई भी कंपनी बनाकर स्टार्ट-अप में शुरू करना चाहते हैं, उन्हें कैपिटल की वज़ह से दिक्कतें आती हैं। इसलिए वे अपने रिश्तेदारों से, अपने शेयरहोल्डर्स से पैसे लेकर कंपनी में डिपॉज़िट कर सकें और उन दिक्कतों को दूर कर सकें। जब भी आगे इस पर अमेंडमेंट हो, ऐसे प्रावधान और आने चाहिए। तीसरा, मैं यह कहना चाहता हूं कि बड़ी कंपनियों में काफी लोगों के, इंवेस्टर्स के पैसे फंसे हुए हैं। मेरे एरिया में भी ऐसी एक कम्पनी है और वह पूरे भारत की कम्पनी है, जिसका नाम है - ‘पी.ए.सी.एल.।’ माननीय उच्चतम न्यायालय ने आदेश दिया है कि इसके जो भी इंवेस्टर्स हैं, जिनसे पैसे लिए गए हैं, गरीब जनता से जो पैसे इकट्ठे किए गए हैं, उन्हें वे लौटा दिए जाएं। उस कम्पनी के पास काफी एसेट्स भी हैं। उन्हें लिक्वीडेट करके उनके पैसे लौटाए जा सकते हैं, परन्तु माननीय उच्चतम न्यायालय के आदेश के बावज़ूद भी इस पर कोई कार्रवाई नहीं हो रही है और जान-बूझ कर उसको इधर से उधर किया जा रहा है, जबकि इसमें करोड़ों गरीब आदमियों के पैसे फंसे हुए हैं। इस बारे में भी माननीय मंत्री जी को थोड़ा संज्ञान लेना चाहिए। माननीय सभापति :अब समाप्त करें। श्री सुभाष चन्द्र बहेड़िया :  सभापति महोदय, मैं समाप्त कर रहा हूं। महोदय,एक और जो दिक्कत आ रही है, वह यह है कि डायरेक्टर्स रिपोर्ट में इनको इन्क्लूड करना पड़ता है। सेक्शन-134 में कंपनीज की जो डायरेक्टर्स रिपोर्ट होती है, उसमें उन्हें ‘मैटेरियलिटी चेंज’ को इन्क्लूड करना पड़ता है, पर कंपनीज एक्ट में कहीं पर भी  ‘मैटेरियलिटी’ को डिफाइन नहीं किया गया है, जिसके कारण सब लोग इसका इंटरप्रेटेशन अलग-अलग ढंग से करते हैं। महोदय, मेरा आग्रह है कि इस बिल में इसे भी एक बार डिफाइन कर दिया जाए तो ठीक होगा। बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): Thank you very much, Sir, for giving me this opportunity to speak on the Companies (Amendment) Bill of 2016. I rise to speak on this Bill with so many reservations and so many objections for which I am seeking clarifications from the hon. Minister. At the outset, I would like to congratulate the hon. Minister Shri Arjun Ram Meghwalji for having piloted such an important legislation which is having drastic implications on the company administration in future. I also thank the Minister for having such patience to hear to the detailed discussion on this Bill. The Companies Act of 2013 was enacted to consolidate and amend the laws relating to the companies. The original Companies Act of 1956 was drastically amended at the time of the UPA Government and the Act has come into force on 1st April, 2014. But, it is quite unfortunate to note that out of 470 sections of the Act, only 284 sections have been brought into force and the rest of the sections have not yet been brought into force. You may kindly see that the heart and soul of the Companies Act of 2014 was the constitution or establishment of the National Company Law Tribunal and the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal. These are the two major drastic changes which took place by virtue of 2013 Act. Unfortunately, even after four years of passing of that Act in the year 2014, three years have elapsed. So far, the Government is not able to establish the National Company Law Tribunal and the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal throughout the country. Even the aims and objects of the Bill says that it is at the final stage. You may kindly see that almost all the powers, which were being governed by the Courts, even the High Court, the Supreme Court, the Company Law Board and the Boards of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR), all the bodies were vested with the National Company Law Tribunal as well as National Company Law Appellate Tribunal. But it has not been constituted and it is going at a snail’s pace. Even in my home State of Kerala also, the Company Law Tribunal has not been established yet. Coming to 2013 Act, what were the circumstances because of which the UPA Government enacted such a legislation? Such a legislation was enacted because of the huge scam in company affairs or in the corporate affairs. We know about the Satyam scam, Sahara scam as well as the Saradha Chit Fund scam. So many scams took place. In order to control and check the companies in the country, such an amendment was brought in by the UPA Government. I do agree that because of these circumstances, it became a reactive one rather than a proactive one. There are some stringent provisions also. In order to avoid the stringent and regressive provisions in the (Amendment) Bill, the Government is claiming or arguing that this 2016 Bill is being brought in. The pertinent question to be considered at this juncture is whether this 2016 (Amendment) Act is sufficient to meet the purpose of ease of doing business. That is the question to be considered when we analyse the provisions of 2016 (Amendment) Bill. According to me, if you see, from the first day in Office, this Government has been talking about ease of doing business and giving so many slogans like Make-In-India, Skilled India and Digital India but, Sir, if you go through the entire scenario of these three years of the NDA Government in Office, you can very well see that almost all the slogans are on paper but not in practice. Let us see as to what is the situation of ease of doing business, what is the global scenario and what is the India’s position? At the time when the NDA Government came to power, the global ranking of India was 134, now it has come to 130. I do agree that out of 189 countries, it has come to 130. It is accepted. But if you do a micro analysis of the situation, it can be seen that there is an improvement in starting a business, getting a construction permit and there is an improvement in accessing electricity. There is an improvement in three aspects when it is about ease of doing business. But in all other sectors, situation has worsened further, especially, in accessing credit and in paying tax etc. The ease of doing business is going in the reverse direction. That is why I am saying that ease of doing business is on paper but not in practice. I am again coming to the 2013 Act. You may kindly see the delegated legislation by the rule making provision. In 2013 Act, there are 470 Sections and there are 28 sets of rules in various chapters. In more than 300 provisions of the 2013 Act, it ends with “as may be prescribed by the notification”. That means it is a pukka delegated legislation. At 300 places in the Act, it is being stated “as may be prescribed by notification by the Central Government” which means ‘delegated legislation’. Therefore, a lot of ambiguity is there. I will cite one example. What is ‘related party’ transaction? If you want to find it out, half of the portion is there in the 2013 Act and half of the provision is there in the Rule. To my belief and to my information, even now the Companies Act of 1956 has not been repealed. Even 2-3 Sections of the Companies Act, 1956 are still in existence. So, not only Rule and 2013 Act is there, but also the 1956 Act is also there. Total confusion is there. If all the authority is being given to the Government instead of having clarity in the legislation, then the Government will be overpowered and more confusion will also be there. You may kindly see that after the passage and after the 2013 Act came into force, so many circulars were issued by the Corporate Affairs Ministry in order to clear the doubt and to remove the difficulty. So, giving rule-making power in almost all the provisions of this Act will never hold good as far as a good legislation is concerned. I will conclude within a short span of time, Sir, I may kindly be allowed time. Sir, I now come to the provisions of the Bill clause by clause. I would like to seek clarification from the hon. Minister on a very contentious provision in Section 4 of the Bill. Hon. Finance Minister is also sitting here. The proposed amendment to Section 4 allows too much flexibility to use the objects clause of the Memorandum of Association of a company. Part 3 of the Memorandum of Association is the objects clause. The aims and objects of a particular company are well established and enunciated in the objects clause of the Memorandum of Association. What is said in the amendment is that a company can have the business only within the scope and within the limit of the objects which are stated in the Memorandum of Association. That is why the Memorandum of Association is there. By virtue of this amendment to Section 4(c) : SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN : Sir, I am not moving. HON. CHAIRPERSON: The question is : Amendment 
 of section 121.                              ‘30A. In section 121 of the principal Act,- (Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal) 

          

  

Page 22, omit lines 1 to 20.                (41) 

 (Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal) HON. CHAIRPERSON: The question is :