The matter has been taken up through virtual Court

 proceeding. Heard Mr. Bikramdeo Singh, learned counsel for

 the petitioner and Mr. J.N. Thakur, learned APP for the State. The petitioner is languishing in custody since 15..10.2019 in a case registered for the offences punishable

 under Sections 414 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120B of the Indian

 Penal Code and Sections 66(B) and 66(C) of Information

 Technology Act, hence, the prayer for bail has been made

 through the present application. The prosecution case, as per the written report of

 S.I., Sumant Choudhary, Teghra Police Station submitted to the

 Station House Officer, Teghra Police Station, is to the effect that
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.81891 of 2019(4) dt.19-06-2020 2/4 a confidential information was received that a gang of ATM

 fraud are standing near an ATM and are planning to hack the

 ATM machine, consequently, a raid was laid and a Bolero

 vehicle was intercepted parked near the ATM, in which, five

 persons were found sitting and on seeing the police force, they

 started fleeing away but on chase, two persons were

 apprehended, who disclosed their name as Dilkhush Kumar and

 Kundan Kumar and from their possession, card reader device,

 wallet, Aadhar card, two ATM cards, mobile phones and other

 articles were recover and they further disclosed the name of

 other persons, who managed to escape from the scene as Satish

 Kumar, the petitioner and co-accused Vikash Kumar and

 Chandan Kumar. Thereafter, the petitioner was also

 apprehended while driving a Bolero vehicle and from the bag

 ATM swap card reader machine, two screw drivers and other

 articles were recovered. From the possession of the petitioner,

 cash of Rs. 17,000-, mobile phones, Aadhar card, ATM card,

 driving license and several ATM cards of different persons were

 recovered and from other two persons also similar recovery was

 made. It is submitted by learned counsel for the petitioner

 that though the petitioner has confessed before the police but the
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.81891 of 2019(4) dt.19-06-2020 3/4 petitioner has not accepted his guilt nor the confession led to

 any recovery and petitioner is languishing in custody since

 15.10.2019. The investigation has already been concluded and

 co-accused Dilkhush Kumar and Kundan Kumar, who were

 apprehended with different incriminating articles, have been

 granted bail by Co-ordinate benche of this Court vide Cr. Misc.

 Nos. 84536 of 2019 and 1893 of 2020. The petitioner is

 accused in 19 other cases but most of the cases have been

 lodged after arrest of the petitioner in the present case. Learned APP for the State submits that the

 petitioner is named in the FIR and has serious criminal

 antecedent. Considering the fact that the investigation has

 already been concluded and co-accused persons have been

 granted bail, let the petitioner above named be released on bail

 for the present provisionally for a period of three months on

 furnishing one surety to the satisfaction of the learned Chief

 Judicial Magistrate, Begusarai in connection with Teghra P.S.

 Case No. 359 of 2019. However, in view of the present pandemic COVID-

 19, it will be open for the learned Court below to accept the

 bail bond upon furnishing an undertaking by the surety, on
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.81891 of 2019(4) dt.19-06-2020 4/4 photo copy of his Aadhar Card, to the effect that he is ready to

 become the bailor of the petitioner which may be transmitted by

 such surety to the learned Court concerned through e-mode. The provisional bail of the petitioner will be

 confirmed by the learned Court below within three months on

 furnishing bail bond of Rs.10000/- (ten thousand) with two

 sureties, including one surety given at the time of provisional

 bail, of the like amount each to the satisfaction of the learned

 Chief Judicial Magistrate, Begusarai in connection with Teghra

 P.S. Case No. 359 of 2019. The learned Court below is at liberty to further

 extend the period of provisional bail if the court proceeding in

 physical mode will not resume in next three months. Considering the serious criminal antecedent of the

 petitioner, the learned court below will be at liberty to cancel the

 bail bonds of the petitioner, if the petitioner gets substantially

 involved in some serious nature of offence or defaults for two

 consecutive occasions. (Dinesh Kumar Singh, J)
DKS/-