Hon'ble Shri Parth Prateem Sahu, J. CAV Order 4 WP PIL No.53 of 2018 The following order of the Court was delivered by

Prashant Kumar Mishra, J. 1. This petition, initially filed as writ petition (Cr.) was later on

 converted into a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) under the

 orders of the Court, has been preferred seeking an appropriate

 writ/order/direction to the Central Bureau of Investigation

 (CBI) to register an FIR (First Information Report) and

 investigate the matter; as also for a direction to the respondent

 No.2-Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT),

 Government of India, for initiating departmental proceedings

 against the respondents No.15 to 26 namely; 2. Albeit the then Hon'ble Minister of the concerned Department

 Smt. Renuka Singh has been arrayed as respondent No.14,

 but no relief has been prayed against her in the writ petition. 3. The petitioner has also prayed for a direction to conduct audit

 of the accounts maintained by the State Resource Center (for

 brevity 'the SRC') (jkT; Jksr fu%'kDr tu laLFkku), Samaj

 Kalyan Parisar, Mana, District Raipur; as also for recovery of

 the embezzled amount from the respondents No.15 to 26. 4. Brief and necessary facts of the case, as projected in the writ

 petition, are that a society named as the State Resource Centre

 (SRC) manages Bank Account No.30790835402 at State

 Bank of India, New Raipur and the Physical Referral

 Rehabilitation Centre (for brevity 'the PRRC') under the said

 SRC as Account Nos.63006155111, 63000051762 &

 31647505404 at State Bank of India, Moti Bagh, Raipur. The

 petitioner and like persons at different PRRC throughout the

 State are shown as the Government employees and whopping

 amount towards their salary is withdrawn for purported

 payment of salary, but neither the petitioner nor any other like

 persons throughout the State were ever paid salary for

 working with the PRRC. The entire set up of the SRC and

 PRRC is running only on papers without there being any 6 WP PIL No.53 of 2018 visible tangible activity at any such center. There was no

 recruitment process through advertisement or otherwise nor

 any hospital for disabled is established nor any employees

 were ever appointed, but such persons are shown to be

 employed and working with the SRC/PRRC only for showing

 payment of salary to them. Despite the Bank Accounts of the

 employees throughout the State having been linked through

 their respective Aadhar Cards such fake employees are shown

 to be paid in cash, only on papers in a planned and organized

 manner just to siphon hundreds of crores of rupees. In course

 of arguments, Shri Devershi Thakur, learned counsel

 appearing for the petitioner, has stated that the total

 embezzled amount would be more than Rs.630.00 crores. 5. It is stated in the writ petition that the petitioner is shown in

 the list of employees who are paid in cash through the society

 as if the Government is not well equipped to transfer salary to

 its employees in their respective Bank Accounts. The

 petitioner is employed in Swawelamban Center and not in

 PRRC, however, he is shown to be working in the PRRC and

 the amount showed to be paid to the petitioner in cash for

 working in PRRC never reached him and was getting

 remuneration for working in Swawelamban Center. It is

 further stated that the SRC was registered in the year 2004 as 7 WP PIL No.53 of 2018 a society under the provisions of the Chhattisgarh Society

 Registrikaran Adhiniyam, 1973, but has never been audited

 since after its formation. The respondents No.15 to 26 against

 whom the relief has been prayed in the writ petition are the

 office bearers of the society. 6. According to the petitioner, PRRC was set up for working for

 the welfare of the disabled and handicapped persons and was

 supposed to make artificial limbs for them. In such PRRC

 employees were shown to be working and paid through the

 withdrawal authority namely; Shri Rajesh Tiwari (Respondent

 No.22). The SRC provided lacs of rupees to the PRRC for

 payment to fake employees as also for running the

 establishment, its functioning and purchase of equipments.

 One example of such fake payment for payment to the fake

 employees shown to be working at PRRC, Mana, District

 Raipur is document Annexure - P/7 showing sanction of

 amount as per the details given below : 7. The amount towards Travelling Allowance and Dearness

 Allowance (TA & DA) for the year 2014-15 was sanctioned

 for Rs.11.00 lacs and similarly other amount on this head

 were sanctioned and shown to be released for different years.

 There being no direct payment to the employees, the E-code

 of the individual employees was never allotted. The cash

 amount was withdrawn for different purposes only on paper

 without there being any activity. In fact, there is no PRRC at

 Mana. 8. The petitioner also contended that one Sanjiv Reddy is

 working with a private firm at Shankar Nagar, Raipur; one

 Anirudh is working in the Health Department at Jagdalpur;

 Fiza Khan is working in GATLAB; petitioner-Kundan Singh

 Thakur is working at Swawelamban Center; and Stuti is

 working in a private school, but all these persons are shown to

 be employed at the PRRC and shown payment of salary in

 cash which has never been paid to them. The manner in

 which the amount is released and thereafter it reaches to the

 PRRC is mentioned in para 8.12 of the writ petition. When

 the petitioner sought information under the provisions of the Right to Information Act and made representations he has

 been threatened with dire consequences. WP PIL No.53 of 2018 9. It is argued by Shri Devershi Thakur, learned counsel

 appearing for the petitioner, that lacs of amount at an average

 of Rs.35.00 to Rs.40.00 lacs per month has been released for

 each district. Thus, for each district the annual amount would

 be about Rs.4.0 crores (approx.). If this is multiplied for all

 the revenue districts of the State of Chhattisgarh the yearly

 figure comes to more than Rs.100.00 crores (approx.). It can

 be very well imagined that for the last 10 years the total

 embezzled amount may cross Rs.1000.00 crores (approx.). 10. The documents filed with the petition shows budgetary

 provision and release of amount for establishment of the

 PRRC at Mana, District Raipur. It also shows huge amount

 running into lacs of rupees being withdrawn in cash. 11. At page 93 of the writ petition cash withdrawal of Rs.51.00

 lacs has been shown in the name of employees, who are

 already in the Government service. It is argued that since

 these persons are Government servants and receive regular

 salary they were never aware that their salary is also drawn

 for payment in cash showing them to be working in the

 PRRC. The document at page 93 is signed by the Joint

 Director, District Office, Social Welfare, Bilaspur. The

 document also shows withdrawal of cash for paying 10 WP PIL No.53 of 2018 honorarium, towards fuel expenses, etc. In one of the

 document filed subsequently by the petitioner on 24-10-2019

 a sum of Rs.50,000=00 was withdrawn for expenses towards

 the vehicle hired for Hon'ble Shri Justice Altamas Kabir,

 Judge, Supreme Court of India, on 9-9-2011. 12. In the memo of submission filed by the State on 1-10-2018 it

 has been admitted that there is no precise information

 available at the PRRC regarding drawl of salary for payment

 to the employees. It is also admitted that the SRC has never

 made any payment for its own offices or for PRRC and that

 employees were appointed through outsourcing. It is further

 admitted that the petitioner is working at Swawelamban

 Center, Mathpurena and was doing the additional duty at the

 PRRC. In respect of payment made to the petitioner for

 working in the PRRC neither any enquiry was made by the

 respondent, though directed by the Court, nor any statement

 in this regard has been made in the memo of submission. The

 Finance Department was requested for conducting audit only

 after filing of the present writ petition. In the said audit

 irregular and illegal withdrawal of cash has been found, prima

 facie, proved. Thus, the allegation of the petitioner about the

 financial irregularity has been, prima facie, admitted in the

 State's memo of submission. State has issued show cause 11 WP PIL No.53 of 2018 notices to some of the employees, but no further action has

 been taken. 13. Petitioner's counter to the State's submission would highlight

 that the SRC is a society whereas the PRRC is the

 Government entity under the Department of Social Welfare,

 therefore, it is impossible and questionable as to how the

 society manages the Government department. According to

 the petitioner, the State authorities are trying to hush up and

 cover up the entire issue so that the high rank officials are

 saved. 14. Learned counsel appearing for the State, per contra, would

 submit that the matter has been enquired and remedial

 measures to be taken are in the pipeline. 15. In order to appreciate as to whether the facts brought before

 this Court alleging rampant misuse or misappropriation or

 embezzlement of public money needs to be investigated by

 the CBI or an independent agency, we deem it appropriate to

 refer to the observations made by the Supreme Court in its

 decisions dealing with the prayer made for conduct of enquiry

 by the CBI. WP PIL No.53 of 2018 16. In the celebrated case of Vineet Narain and Others v Union

 of India and Another1 , the Supreme Court held thus in paras

 55 & 56 : Any deviation from the path of rectitude by any
 of them amounts to a breach of trust and must be
 severely dealt with instead of being pushed under
 the carpet. If the conduct amounts to an offence,
 it must be promptly investigated and the offender
 against whom a prima facie case is made out
 should be prosecuted expeditiously so that the
 majesty of law is upheld and the rule of law
 vindicated. It is the duty of the
 judiciary to enforce the rule of law and,
 therefore, to guard against erosion of the rule of
 law. 56. The adverse impact of lack of probity in
 public life leading to a high degree of corruption
 is manifold. It also has adverse effect on foreign
 investment and funding from the International
 Monetary Fund and the World Bank who have
 warned that future aid to under-developed
 countries may be subject to the requisite steps
 being taken to eradicate corruption, which
 prevents international aid from reaching those for
 whom it is meant. Increasing corruption has led
 to investigative journalism which is of value to a
 free society. The need to highlight corruption in
 public life through the medium of public interest
 litigation invoking judicial review may be
 frequent in India but is not unknown in other
 countries: R v Secy. of State for Foreign and
 Commonwealth Affairs. 1 (1998) 1 SCC 226 13 WP PIL No.53 of 2018 17. On the issue as to whether sanction or approval under Section

 6 & 6-A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946

 is required even for Court directed/monitored investigation

 was dealt with by the Supreme Court in Manohar Lal

 Sharma v Principal Secretary and Others2 held thus in para

 98 : That being so, Section 6A of the Act must be
 meaningfully and realistically read, only as an
 injunction to the executive and not as an
 injunction to a constitutional court monitoring an
 investigation under Article 32 of the Constitution
 in an exercise of judicial review and of issuing a
 continuing mandamus. 18. In Subramanian Swamy v Director, Central Bureau of

 Investigation and Another3 the Supreme Court has observed

 that office of public power cannot be the workshop of

 personal gain. A person howsoever high he may be, the law is

 above him. This signature tune in Vineet Narain (supra) was

 reiterated in this matter and adding further it was observed

 that corruption is an enemy of nation and tracking down

2 (2014) 2 SCC 532
3 (2014) 8 SCC 682 14 WP PIL No.53 of 2018 corrupt public servant, howsoever high he may be, and

 punishing such person is a necessary mandate under the PC

 Act, 1988 . The status or position of public servant does not

 qualify such public servant from exemption from equal

 treatment. The decision-making power does not segregate

 corrupt officers into two classes as they are common

 crimedoers and have to be tracked down by the same process

 of inquiry and investigation. The Supreme Court also

 observed that corruption corrodes the moral fabric of the

 society and corruption by public servants not only leads to

 corrosion of the moral fabric of the society but is also harmful

 to the national economy and national interest, as the persons

 occupying high posts in the Government by misusing their

 power due to corruption can cause considerable damage to the

 national economy, national interest and image of the

 country. 19. In Subramanian Swamy (supra) the Supreme Court

 highlighted the need of fair and independent investigation

 observing thus in para 86 : Section 6-A fails in the context of these facets of Article 14. The argument of Mr. L. Nageswara
 Rao that the rule of law is not above law and
 cannot be a ground for invalidating legislations
 overlooks the well settled position that rule of
 law is a facet of equality under Article 14 and
 breach of rule of law amounts to breach of
 equality under Article 14 and, therefore, breach
 of rule of law may be a ground for invalidating
 the legislation being in negation of Article 14. 20. The Supreme Court in E. Sivakumar v Union of India and

 Others4 observed thus in paras 13 & 14 : 14. Suffice it to observe that we do not intend
 to deviate from the conclusion reached by the
 High Court that in the peculiar facts and
 circumstances of the case, it is but appropriate
 that investigation of the crime in question must
 be entrusted to CBI. 21. Having noted the law declared and observations made by the

 Supreme Court in the above referred judgments and

 considering the same in the facts and circumstances of the

 case it requires serious notice that the petitioner alleges large

 scale bungling and siphoning of public funds which may run

 into hundreds of crores or even more than thousand crores.

 The report along with submission memo of the

 respondent/State partially admits of certain financial

 irregularities, however, no serious attempt has been made to

 unearth and find out as to who has siphoned the amount.

 Only some notices for departmental action have been issued

 without registering any offence for misuse of public funds of

 such enormous proportion. Public office cannot be a place 18 WP PIL No.53 of 2018 for acquiring personal gain. Probity in public life is of great

 importance. Corruption is an enemy of nation and tracking

 down corrupt public servant, howsoever high he may be, and

 punishing such person is a necessary mandate under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and the Indian Penal

 Code . 22. The public officers arrayed as the respondents No.15 to 26 are

 high ranked officers and it seems to be the precise reason why

 the respondent State is reluctant to investigate the crime to

 find out as to whether any criminal offence has been

 committed or not, however, when startling and disturbing

 facts have been brought to our notice with, prima facie, proof,

 this Court cannot shun its constitutional duty and be a mute

 spectator to condone such lapses, if it is eventually find out in

 a fair and independent investigation. 23. The respondent officers being high ranked, there is

 apprehension that the investigation may be influenced,

 therefore, having considered the law laid down and the

 observations made by the Supreme Court in the facts and

 circumstances of the case, we direct that the matter be

 investigated by the CBI in a fair and independent

 manner. WP PIL No.53 of 2018 24. In the result, we dispose of the instant writ petition with the

 following directions : 25. There shall be no order as to cost(s). CBI Investigation directed for alleged misappropriation and
 siphoning of more than Rs.1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand
 Crores) in State Resource Centre (SRC) and the Physical
 Referral Rehabilitation Centre (for brevity 'the PRRC') of
 the State Government for the last about 10 years.