These Criminal Petitions are filed by the petitioners - A1 and A2

respectively under Sections 437 and 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure for

grant of bail in Crime No.2481 of 2023 of Cyber Crime Police Station,

Hyderabad, registered for the offences punishable under Sections 66(C) and 66(D) of Information Technology Act and Sections 419 and 420 of IPC. 2. The case of the prosecution in brief was that on 31.10.2023 at 14:30

hours, the de facto complainant lodged a report stating that on 31.08.2023, she

received a message in Telegram App from @chanana425, who stated that there

was a part time job and she only had to subscribe and like the YouTube Channel.

Considering it to be genuine, she asked them as to how to start to work. They

stated that she had to register in the given link of mega pro digital marketing

group. From there, she would get the work. By following the instructions, she

got registered in the said link. They had given her few channels to like and

subscribe and after that to share a screen shot to them. She blindly followed

them and did the same. Initially, they sent Rs.50/-. Later, they stated that she

should invest and could earn huge amount from it. She started sharing them 2 Dr.GRR, J
 crlp_3717 & 3718_2024

amount. Initially, she paid an amount of Rs.8,500/- and they refunded her

Rs.10,925/-. Convinced by such payments, she paid a total amount of

Rs.40,49,900/-. On 21.10.2023, she received a message in Telegram App from

@Singh_5128, who stated that there was a part time job and she had to like the

Instagram reels. She blindly followed them and did the same. Initially, they

sent Rs.150/-. Later they stated that, she should invest and could earn huge

amount from it. Believing the same, she started sharing the amount. She shared

an amount of Rs.96,000/-. But nothing was refunded. She lost an amount of

Rs.8,96,000/-, in total, she lost an amount of Rs.49,45,900/-. 3. Basing on the said report, the above crime was registered against

unknown offenders. 4. Subsequently, the Inspector of Police of Cyber Crime Police Station,

Detective Department, Hyderabad sought for the details of the fraud

transactions in account numbers pertaining to the victim and obtained reply

from the concerned banks, wherein they furnished the beneficiary account

details into which accounts, the victim transferred the amounts. After that, he

sent notices to Bank Managers to furnish the details and obtained reply from the

Axis Bank Manager in which they furnished the details of second layer account

registered in the name of M/s.COSOS Technologies Private Limited maintained

by Johnny J (the petitioner - A1 herein) and gave the details of the phone 3 Dr.GRR, J
 crlp_3717 & 3718_2024

number, to which they would send the SMS alerts and the Gmail ID. As per the

tower location of the said number, they found the said address located at

Sowhirda Nagar - 136, Leksham Veedu, Kavanad P.O., Kollam, Kerala State.

During the course of investigation, they also found that the mobile number

6282883612, which was used in the commission of offence had been inserted in

IMEI numbers, was found to be roaming in Kerala. Upon verifying the Gmail

details and analyzing the call detail records, it was found that the accused

person was operating from Palaniyarpalayam, Pazhaniyarpalayam,

Kozhinjampara, Palakkad of Kerala State. After obtaining permission from the

superiors, the Investigating Officer proceeded to Kerala and basing on the tower

locations of the mobile numbers, apprehended the accused persons A1 and A2

near Raviraj Theater in Kozhinjampara and arrested them on 21.02.2024. He

recorded their confession cum seizure panchanamas, seized the incriminating

material, brought them to Hyderabad and produced them before the Court. 5. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioners and the learned Assistant

Public Prosecutor. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that the petitioners had not

committed any offences as alleged. Their involvement in the said crime was not

based on any admissible evidence on record. Though all the offences alleged

against the petitioners were punishable with imprisonment for less than seven 4 Dr.GRR, J
 crlp_3717 & 3718_2024

years, no notice under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. was issued to the petitioners and

they were arrested in violation of the mandatory procedure under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. They were entitled to be released on bail, if the mandatory procedure

under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. was not complied, by virtue of the law laid down by

the Hon'ble Apex Court in Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of

Investigation and Another 1. The petitioners were implicated in the above case only by filament of their imagination without any legal basis and prayed to

enlarge the petitioners on bail. 7. Learned Assistant Public Prosecutor opposed grant of bail to the

petitioners stating that as per the confession of the petitioner - A1, he used to do

P2P trading in binance for side income along with his childhood friend by name

Manual (the petitioner - A2 herein) and one Abinu (shown as absconding). In

that process, he was introduced to a person in Telegram App by name Raisul

Islam, R/o. Dubai, native of Nagapattnam, Tamilnadu State. Raisul stated that

he would send daily 3000 USDT to 4000 USDT to his binance wallet. For that

deal, in the month of August, 2023, he along with his friends Manual and Abinu

visited Dubai to meet Raisul Islam. Raisul offered him to give big commission,

if he would hand over the said money to his associates in Indian Rupees. Later,

they came to India and opened two joint current bank accounts in ICICI Bank

and Axis Bank in the name of M/s.COSOS Technologies Private Limited 1 (2022) 10 SCC 51 5 Dr.GRR, J
 crlp_3717 & 3718_2024

(Proprietors: Johnny and Abinu) After opening the bank account, they started

doing business deal with Raisul Islam by taking 3% commission. Then, Raisul

Islam created a Whatsapp group namely 'Traders'. They were the group

members in that group. After Raisul Islam sent the USDT to their binance

wallet and post those screen shots in Whatsapp group, then they would sell

those USDT to others for good profits. After selling those USDT then they

would receive money in Indian Rupees. After that Raisul Islam would give his

associate bank account numbers and then they would transfer that money to

those bank accounts by keeping 3% commission and later used to share the

commission amount among each other. 8. He further contended that the petitioners were doing online fraud and

were cheating the victims in an organized manner. To verify the money trail

and to verify the bank passbooks, cheque books and debit cards, their presence

was required. As such, they were arrested and prayed to dismiss the bail

application of the petitioners. 9. Perused the record and the remand report of the petitioners herein. 10. As seen from the remand report of petitioners herein, the Investigating

Officer had obtained the details of the beneficiary account details into whose

accounts the victim's amount were transferred and also obtained a second layer

account number, into which the said amounts were transferred and traced out its 6 Dr.GRR, J
 crlp_3717 & 3718_2024

origin to one M/s.COSOS Technologies Private Limited, for which the

petitioner - A1 was one of the proprietors. He also obtained the details of the

mobile number and the Gmail ID, for which the SMS alerts would be sent by

the Bank Authorities. Basing on the tower location of the said mobile numbers,

apprehended A1 and A2 from a place at Kerala. 11. Thus, the investigation conducted by the Investigating Agency prima

facie pointed a finger of suspicion to the involvement of the petitioners herein.

It was for the petitioners to explain as to how they were receiving the said

amounts. A1 in his confession stated about his business dealings with one

Raisul Islam, resident of Dubai that Raisul Islam would be sending USDT to a

binance wallet and after selling those USDT, they would receive money in

Indian Rupees and were transferring money to the bank accounts of the

associates of Raisul Islam by keeping their 3% commission, which would not

satisfactorily explain their business dealings. As the said Raisul Islam was

shown as absconding and his role also needs to be investigated and if the

petitioners were released, they might cause disappearance of evidence or

tampering with the evidence, it is considered not a fit case to release the

petitioners on bail at this stage. 12. The contention of the learned counsel for the petitioners with regard to

non-compliance of the notice under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. is considered not fatal, 7 Dr.GRR, J
 crlp_3717 & 3718_2024

as the Investigating Officer himself explained the reasons that necessitated the

arrest of the petitioners in their remand report. As the Investigating Officer

could satisfactorily explain the reasons as to why the arrest of the petitioners

was required and considering that this is a case of online fraud, where the

victims were cheated in an organized manner and to verify the money trail and

to know the details of the other persons involved and for proper investigation of

the case, their arrest was required, this Court does not find merit in the

contention of the learned counsel for the petitioners on this aspect. 13. Considering the complicated nature of fraud involved in these types of

cases and a variety of financial transactions to launder the amounts received and

the accused persons were also belonging to various States and Countries and as

it is also not easy to trace out the money trail, it is considered not fit to release

the petitioners on bail at this stage. 14. In the result, the Criminal Petitions are dismissed. As a sequel, miscellaneous applications pending in these petitions, if any,

shall stand closed. ____________________
 Dr. G.RADHA RANI, J
Date: 16th April, 2024
Nsk.