The appeal has been preferred by the assessee against the order of the
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-6, Ahmedabad ('CIT(A)' in short) dated
29.12.2017 arising in the assessment order dated 27.12.2016 passed by the
Assessing Officer (AO) under s. 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (the Act)
concerning AY. 2014-15. Shah Vs. ITO] A.Y. 2014-15 -2- 2. The assessee has raised following grounds of appeal: 3. The assessee is an individual and claimed to be working as sub-broker
 and also drawing salary. The assessee also declared exempted capital gain
 under section 10(38) of the Act for Rs. 1,15,49,320/- on account of sale of
 shares of M/s Compfort Fincap Ltd. 3.1 The AO found that the company M/s Comfort Fincap Ltd was previously
 known as Parasnath Textile Limited and changed its name w.e.f. 4th June 2011.
 The assessee purchased 55000 share of M/s Comfort Fincap Ltd as on 27th June
 2011 in preferential allotment @ 18 per share. Subsequently, the share of M/s
 Comfort Fincap Ltd. got listed at BSE in direct listing norm w.e.f. 25th March
 2013 at a price of Rs. 387 per share which was very high considering the
 financial strength and the fact that the company was not involved in any major
 business activity and was showing nominal income. The assessee also in a
 statement recorded under section 131(1) of the Act stated that she is not
 knowing the fundamentals of the company M/s Comfort Fincap Ltd and their
 director despite the fact that she has purchased shares in private placement.
 Therefore, the AO show caused the assessee proposing to treat the impugned
 long term capital gain as bogus and represents the unexplained cash credit
 under section 68 of the Act. has been dealing in investment in shares and securities of different companies
 since many years and also acting as sub-broker for Kunverji Finstock Private
 Limited Ahmedabad. She, in the normal course, invested in the shares of M/s
 Comfort Fincap Ltd in the month of June 2011 in offline transaction which was
 supported by the share application form and KYC document. Likewise, the
 payment was made through banking channel. The shares were dematerialized
 with M/s Kunverji Finstock Private Limited and kept in demat account till the
 same were transferred in the year under consideration through BSE platform
 during the month of October 2013 to February 2014 at different price which
 was supported by demat account, the contract note, STT and payment received
 in bank through ECS. Therefore, as per the provision of section 10(38) of the
 Act, the assessee is eligible for exemption of long term capital gain. 3.3 The allegation that the company M/s Comfort Fincap Ltd was not
 engaged in major business activity and change of its name of the company
 suggests that the company was not doing good is devoid of merit. As the M/s
 Comfort Fincap Ltd formerly known as Parasnath Textile Ltd (PTL) was
 incorporated as on 12-11-1982 and also got registered with RBI dated 15-09-
 1998 as NBFC. In the year 2010 PTL acquired by Lahuraka Sales & Services
 Limited which prompted in change in the name of the company w.e.f. 04-06-
 2011. Further on perusal of financial statement of the company, it can be seen
 that the company has shown income form operation regularly which is in
 crores. The next allegation, that the share were purchased offline, is again of
 no adverse inference as there is no prohibition to purchase shares in off market
 and that does not mean that the transaction is not real. 3.4 The rise in market price of the share especially on stock exchange is not
 governed by the financial fundamental of the company. As such, the same is
 affected by several other factors. Further, the listing of shares at stock
 exchange and their transaction at exchange is strictly monitored by the stock
 exchange authority as well by the SEBI. Therefore no adverse inference can be ITA No. 391/Ahd/2018 [Alpa Udaykumar Shah Vs. ITO] A.Y. 2014-15 -4-

 drawn for rise in price of share which is allegedly not supported by the financial
 of the company. Similarly, no adverse inference can be drawn for the fact that
 price of share sharply increased in the year under consideration and sharply
 decreased in subsequent year as the stock market is free market where investor
 does not have any control over the price as the same is governed by market
 equilibrium. Further, the book value of share of the company for the related
 parties was of Rs. 220 per share in March 2013 which increased to 246 in
 March 2014 which can be verified from the annual report of company available
 at BSE. The shares of the company on exchange were regularly traded. Thus, it
 is established that the company was in some concrete business and not a paper
 or bogus company. 3.5 However, the AO disagreed with the submission of the assessee and held
 the assessee failed to produce the KYC document filed at the time of purchase
 of shares along with share application form. The company at the time of
 investment was relatively unknown, still the assesse made investment at Rs. 9.9
 lakh without any basis which suggest the scheme of pre-arrangement. It is true
 that the price of shares at stock market is governed by several different factors
 but there is some consistency and basis whereas in the case of impugned
 company within the period of a year, the price of the share sharply increased as
 high as Rs. 448 per share and thereafter started falling and reached to Rs. 14
 per share and after that no price movement noted. The DDIT(Inv.) carried out
 countrywide search and survey at different entry operator, stock broker and
 others. In the process several stock broker has accepted that they have
 provided bogus long term capital gain in scrip of M/s Comfort Fincap Ltd to the
 beneficiaries. The CEO of the company and key person of the comfort group
 Shri Anil Aggarwal also accepted the same. The SEBI vide order dated 19-12-
 2014 and 02-06-2016 also restricted the M/s Comfort Fincap Ltd and M/s
 Comfort Securities Ltd from access to the market in any manner. 3.6 Based on the above, the AO concluded that like thousands of the
 beneficiaries of modus operandi of penny stock, the assessee is also one of the ITA No. 391/Ahd/2018 [Alpa Udaykumar Shah Vs. ITO] A.Y. 2014-15 -5-

 beneficiary. Therefore the amount credited in the bank of account of the
 assesse needs to be taxed under section 68 of the Act. Further the burden of
 proof with regard to certain income not taxable lies on the assessee and the
 assessee failed to prove the same. The AO in conclusion also considered the
 concept surrounding circumstantial evidences in the light of judgment of
 Hon'ble Supreme court in case of Sumati Dayal vs CIT (244 ITR 801) and
 Durga Prasad More (82 ITR 540). 3.7 Thus the AO in view of the above treated the long term capital gain of
 Rs. 1,15,49,320/-claimed by the assessee as bogus and added to the total
 income of the assessee as unexplained cash credit under section 68 of the Act. 4. Aggrieved assessee preferred an appeal to the learned CIT(A) and
 besides reiterating its submission made before the AO contended that the
 purchase of share in the year of acquisition has been accepted by the
 Revenue. Therefore, the sale of the same should also be accepted. Likewise,
 the entry operators or stock broker who provided accommodation entry in the
 scrip of the impugned company nowhere in their statement stated that they
 have provided accommodation entry to the assessee on hand. Further their
 statements were not provided for rebuttal and cross examination. 5. The learned CIT(A) after considering the facts in totality confirmed the
 order of the AO by observing as under: 6.8 Where any sum is found credited in the books of an assessee
 maintained for any previous year, and the assessee offers no
 explanation about the nature and source thereof or the explanation
 offered by him is not, in the opinion of the Assessing Officer,
 satisfactory, the sum so credited may be charged to income-tax as the
 income of the assessee of that previous year: Shah Vs. ITO] A.Y. 2014-15 -6-

 Provided that where the assessee is a company (not being a company
 in which the public are substantially interested), and the sum so
 credited consists of share application money, share capital, share
 premium of any such amount by whatever name called any explanation
 offered by such assessee-company shall be deemed to be not
 satisfactory, unless- (emphasis added). Thus the is on the taxpayer to explain to the satisfaction of the AO the nature
 and source of any sum credited in his/her books, In this case, the AO on
 information in his possession had reason to believe that the transaction of
 shares was bogus., hence the onus was on the appellant to rebut this
 presumption which she has failed to do miserably. Further there is no
 substance in the contention of the appellant that statement of Anil Agarwal,
 who had accepted before Department authorities that he had provided
 accommodation entries for LTCG in the scrip of Comfort Fincap, was not
 provided to her. The appellant had 55,000 shares of Comfort Fincap and Anii
 Agarwal is the main behind Comfort Fincap. The appellant could have produced
 Anil Agarwal before the AO to deny the allegations of. rigging In this share. The
 appellant did not do so. Thus the appellant failed to discharge the onus on her
 to prove the presumption of AO wrong. Thus there is no substance in various
 contentions of the appellant. Further, there are several other peculiarly aspects/facts in respect of
 transaction by the appellant of this scrip which cast a huge shadow of doubt
 over the genuineness of this transaction. Some of these facts/aspects are
 detailed below : Also when the share is bought, it is not listed on stock exchange. The scrip is listed only
 in March,2013. (iii) During the period of holding of share by the appellant, the price of the share
 rises very high. So much so that it reaches Rs.448/- per share on 2,05,2013. Once the
 shares have been sold, the price starts falling and reaches the price of Rs.14/- per
 share in F.Y. 2014-15. After this there is practically no movement in the share price. Ail
 this is mentioned by the AO in the assessment order. It is clear that both the rise and
 fall in share price are sudden and abnormal. order were not such that It would attract any investor to invest in the company. In
 previous years ending from March 20.11 to March 2014, the company had turnover of
 2.6 crores, 39.50 crores, 9.99 crores and 2,80 crores respectively. Thus the company
 had minuscule business activity, In previous years ending from March 2011 to March
 2014, the company had profit of 0.01 crores, 0.59 crores, 0.99 crores and 0.62 crores
 respectively. Thus the company had either negligible profit showing that the company
 was not having a substantial business activity. It defies logic as to why a person would
 invest in such a company with such poor financial. This is more so since as per
 appellant's own submission she has been a regular investor. Also such poor financials do not warrant any spectacular rise in share price
 especially in the absence of any corporate announcements regarding big deals etc. (v) The financial of the company as detailed above do not warrant price of
 Rs,367/- on opening for trading when the company is listed on the stock-exchange. (vi) Key person of Comfort Fincap admitted during search conducted by the
 Investigation Wing of the Income Tax Department, Mumbai that they provided
 accommodation entry for LTCG in the scrip of Comfort Securities. (vii) Vide order dated 12/19/2014 and 2/06/2016, SEBI had restrained Comfort
 Fincap Ltd. and Comfort Securities Ltd. from accessing the securities market and buying
 and selling of securities. All the above aspects/facts mentioned above lead to the conclusion that
 transaction in question was rigged in order to garner huge LTCG and claim the same as
 exempt, Hon'bie Supreme Court in Sumati Dayal v, Commissioner of Income-tax [1995]
 80 TAXMAN 89 (SC) held as follows ; (Emphasis added)

 Thus as laid down by the hon'ble Apex Court the matter has to be
 considered in the light of human probabilities and after considering
 surrounding circumstances. In the present case, preponderance; of
 probabilities casts serious doubts on the contention of the appellant and points towards
 the transaction being bogus. Hon'ble Bombay High Court, Nagpur Bench in Income Tax Appeal No. 18/2017
 in the case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain L/H Shantidevi Bimlchand Jain vs Pr.CIT-I,
 Nagpur &. Another has confirmed addition on account of LTCG on penny stock shares,
 Hon'bte Court has held as follows ; Facts in the present case are identical to the facts of the above case . Hence ratio of
 decision in the above case is squarely applicable to the present case. Further, hon'ble ITAT, Mumbai in CIT vs Shamim M, Bharwani m ITA No.
 4906/Mum/2011(A.Y.2006-07) in order dated 27.03.2015 has held identical
 transactions as bogus and confirmed action of the AO in treating these as unexplained
 and adding the same u/s 68 of the Act. Ratio of the above judgment is fully applicable
 to the present case. Further, hon'ble Guwahati High Court in CIT vs. Sanghamitra Bharati (361 UR 481) has held similar transactions to be bogus and sham. Case laws relied on by the appellant are not applicable to the present case as
 the same are distinguished on facts. In view of discussion above and relying on the above cited judgments, I uphold
 the action of the AO In holding the transaction in shares of Comfort Fincap Ltd. as
 bogus and adding the amount of Rs. 1,l5,,49,320/-to the income of the appellant u/s 68 of the Act, Accordingly, addition of Rs., I,l5f49,320/-is upheld, This ground of appeal is
 dismissed." 6. Being aggrieved by the order of the learned CIT(A) the assessee is in
 appeal before us. contended that the assessee was never supplied the investigation report or any
 other document suggesting that the script of impugned was manipulated. There
 was no action by the SEBI against the impugned company. According to the ld.
 AR, the script of the impugned company was never delisted from the stock
 exchange and remained active all over. The learned AR also reiterated the
 contentions raised before the lower authorities. 6.2 On the other hand, the learned DR contended that shares were
 purchased off market which were de-materialized later before sale of shares.
 According to the learned DR, there is no human probability for rise in the share
 price of non-working company. The learned DR vehemently supported the order
 of the Authorities below by reiterating his findings contained in their respective
 orders. 7. We have heard the rival contentions of both the parties and perused the
 materials available on record. In the present case, the long term capital gain
 declared by the assessee on sale of shares of M/s Comfort Fincap Ltd for ₹
 1,15,49,320/- was treated as bogus and manipulated, leading to the addition
 by the AO under section 68 of the Act. The view of the AO was based on
 certain factors which have been elaborated in the preceding paragraph which
 has been also confirmed by the learned CIT(A). 7.1 The 1st observation of the AO for holding the impugned capital gain as
 bogus was that the at the time of investment by the assessee the company,
 was not known in public domain and share were purchased in offline. In this
 regard firstly we note that the offline purchase of share is not prohibited under
 the statute. Secondly, if some investment in the shares of a company is made,
 which at the relevant time was not known in public domain or in private
 placement does not mean that the investment is not genuine or pre-arranged
 unless some adverse materials are available on record. was increased manifolds in a short period of time which was not believed by the
 authorities below on the principles of preponderance of human probabilities in
 the given facts and circumstances. The rise in the price of the scripts of a
 company, having no financial base/business activity/profitability certainly gives
 rise to the doubt about such increase in the price. However, in the given case,
 the impugned company was engaged in the business activity and likewise, it
 was regularly showing income from operation and also declaring dividend and
 having registered in RBI as NBFC. Further, in our considered view, the sharp
 rise in the price of scrip cannot be a sole criteria for reaching to the conclusion
 that the price were rigged up to generate the long-term capital gain which is
 exempted under section 10(38) of the Act. Such observation during the
 assessment proceedings provides reasons to investigate the matter in detail and
 the same cannot take the place of the evidence. But in the case on hand, there
 was no enquiry conducted either by the SEBI or the stock exchange with
 respect to rigging up of share price of M/s Comfort Fincap Ltd. either by the
 assessee or his broker. Similarly, there was no complaint filed by any of the
 party either to the SEBI or the stock exchange about the assessee or brokers
 impleading that they were involved in the activity of rigging up the price of the
 shares. Similarly, the AO has not conducted an enquiry from the SEBI or BSE
 about the assessee whether he was engaged in the frivolous activities as
 alleged. The AO alleged that the SEBI has prohibited the impugned company to
 enter into transaction at stock market. However, we note that the SEBI has not
 taken any action against the scrip of the impugned company as the action was
 taken against the director promoter and the company from accessing to share
 market. 7.3 Further, the price of a share at stock exchange cannot be linked to the
 financial strength of the company, as such the same is governed by several
 market driven factors. The assessee is also a regular investor and have made
 investment in the scrip of other companies. We also note that the assessee has
 acquired 55000 shares of impugned company whereas the shares were ITA No. 391/Ahd/2018 [Alpa Udaykumar Shah Vs. ITO] A.Y. 2014-15 - 12 - transferred only 34400 in numbers during the period of October 2013 to
 February 2014 and remaining shares are still held by the assessee. We also
 note the price of the impugned share also reached as high as Rs. 448 per share
 whereas the highest price at which, the assessee transferred was of Rs. 395 per
 share and lowest was of Rs. 187 per share. Thus in our considered view had
 the assessee indulged in pre-arrange transaction for taking accommodation
 entries then he should have transferred the entire holding and that too at the
 highest possible price. 7.4 The AO alleged that the CEO of Comfort Fin Securities and key person of
 the comfort group in the statement recorded before the DDIT Kolakata
 admitted to have provided accommodation entry in the scrip of M/s Comfort
 Fincap Ltd. Similar admission was also made by the other stock broker during
 the search and survey proceeding conducted by the DDIT Kolkata in the matter
 of penny stock. However their statements were not provided to the assessee
 for the rebuttal and cross examination. It was also not brought on record that
 any of the person whose statement was recorded have taken the name of the
 assessee or his broker. We also note that there was no allegation against the
 broker through whom the assessee has purchased and sold the impugned
 script. What has been adopted by the AO for making the addition was the
 modus of operandi as highlighted by the investigation wing of Kolkata. To our
 understanding, the mere modus of operandi cannot the basis of making the
 addition or treating the capital gain as bogus until and unless it is supported by
 other corroborative material documents. 7.5 On further analyzing the facts of the present case, we note that the AO
 on one hand has alleged that the entire transaction was bogus but on the other
 hand the AO himself has allowed the cost of acquisition against the sale of
 shares, meaning thereby, the purchase of the shares has been admitted as
 genuine. The transactions of purchase and sales go hand in hand. In simple
 words, sale is not possible without having the purchases. Thus, once purchases
 has been admitted as genuine, then corresponding sales cannot be doubted ITA No. 391/Ahd/2018 [Alpa Udaykumar Shah Vs. ITO] A.Y. 2014-15 - 13 - until and unless some adverse materials are brought on record. As such, we
 note that the AO in the present case has taken contradictory stand. On one
 hand, the AO is treating the entire transaction as sham transaction and on the
 other hand he's allowing the benefit of the cost of acquisition for the shares
 while determining the bogus long-term capital gain. 7.6 The alleged scam might have taken place on generating LTCG to avoid
 the payment of tax. But it has to be established in each case, by the party
 alleging so, that this assessee in question was part of this arrangement. The
 chain of events and the live link of the assessee's action that he was involved in
 such rigging up of share price should be established based on cogent materials.
 The allegation as discussed above implies that there was cash exchanged for
 taking exempted income by way of long term capital gain by way of cheque
 through banking channels. This allegation that cash had changed hands, has
 not been brought on record by the Revenue and there is also no such whisper
 in the order of the AO. There was no information brought on record suggesting
 that there was exchange of cash against the long-term capital gain shown by
 the assessee. Likewise we also note that the assessee has discharged the onus
 imposed under section 68 of the Act by furnishing the necessary documentary
 evidence in support of the identity, genuineness of transaction and
 creditworthiness of the parties. Therefore the same cannot be made subject to
 tax under the provisions of section 68 of the Act. 7.7 We also note that there was no dispute raised by the Revenue with
 respect to the following facts: enjoyed the windfall from such scripts, can he be disallowed the benefit of tax
 exemption provided under section 10(38) of the Act in a situation where it is
 established that the share price of the company was rigged up to extend the
 benefit to certain parties. The Justice cannot be delivered in a mechanical
 manner. In other words, what we see on the records available before us,
 sometime we have to travel beyond it after ignoring the same. Furthermore,
 while delivering the justice, we have to ensure in this process that culprits
 should only be punished and no innocent should be castigated. An innocent
 person should not suffer for the wrongdoings of the other parties. In the case
 on hand, admittedly there was no evidence available on record suggesting that
 the assessee or his broker was involved in the rigging up of the price of the
 script of M/s Comfort Fincap Ltd. Thus, it appears that the assessee acted in
 the given facts and circumstances in good-faith. 7.11 In holding so we draw support and guidance from the judgment of
 Hon'ble Delhi High court in case of Pr. CIT vs. Smt. Krishna Devi reported in
 126 taxmann.com 80 where it was held as under: 133(6)/131 of the Act were issued to M/s Gold Line International Finvest
 Limited, but nothing emerged from this effort. The payment for the shares in
 question was made by Sh. Salasar Trading Company. Notice was issued to this
 entity as well, but when the notices were returned unserved, the AO did not
 take the matter any further. He thereafter simply proceeded on the basis of the
 financials of the company to come to the conclusion that the transactions were
 accommodation entries, and thus, fictitious. The conclusion drawn by the AO,
 that there was an agreement to convert unaccounted money by taking fictitious
 LTCG in a pre-planned manner, is therefore entirely unsupported by any
 material on record. This finding is thus purely an assumption based on
 conjecture made by the AO. This flawed approach forms the reason for the
 learned ITAT to interfere with the findings of the lower tax authorities. The
 learned ITAT after considering the entire conspectus of case and the evidence
 brought on record, held that the Respondent had successfully discharged the
 initial onus cast upon it under the provisions of Section 68 of the Act. It is
 recorded that "There is no dispute that the shares of the two companies were
 purchased online, the payments have been made through banking channel, and
 the shares were dematerialized and the sales have been routed from de-mat
 account and the consideration has been received through banking channels."
 The above noted factors, including the deficient enquiry conducted by the AO
 and the lack of any independent source or evidence to show that there was an
 agreement between the Respondent and any other party, prevailed upon the
 ITAT to take a different view. Before us, Mr. Hossain has not been able to point
 out any evidence whatsoever to allege that money changed hands between the
 Respondent and the broker or any other person, or further that some person
 provided the entry to convert unaccounted money for getting benefit of LTCG,
 as alleged. In the absence of any such material that could support the case put
 forth by the Appellant, the additions cannot be sustained. 12. Mr. Hossain's submissions relating to the startling spike in the share price
 and other factors may be enough to show circumstances that might create
 suspicion; however the Court has to decide an issue on the basis of evidence
 and proof, and not on suspicion alone. The theory of human behavior and
 preponderance of probabilities cannot be cited as a basis to turn a blind eye to
 the evidence produced by the Respondent. 7.12 Respectfully, following the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court (Supra),
 we hold that in absence of any specific finding against the assessee in the
 investigation wing report, the assessee cannot be held to be guilty or linked to
 the wrong acts of the persons investigated as far as long term capital gain
 earned on sale of share of M/s Comfort Fincap Ltd. is concern. 7.13 We also note that this Tribunal in the case of Parasben Kasturchand
 Kochar Mehta Lodha & Co. Chartered Accountant vs. ITO bearing ITA No.
 549/Ahd/2008 involving identical facts and circumstances has held as under: Shah Vs. ITO] A.Y. 2014-15 - 17 - "7. We have gone through the relevant record and impugned order and heard
 both the parties. Assessee submitted that he is a customer of ICICI Bank and
 having demat account of ICICI Securities Ltd. and he has purchased shares
 through ICICI Securities Ltd. and money has been paid through banking
 channel. Copies of bank statement and Demat account have been submitted
 before the lower authorities. 8. Ld. A.R. also drawn our attention towards the statement of Edelweiss
 Broking Ltd. through the said company shares were sold and also shown us
 copy of the Contract Note and all these details were furnished before the lower
 authorities. The assessee has earned long term capital gain from the sale of
 companies share i.e. Alpha Graphic India Ltd. and Blazon Marbles. 9. In our considered opinion, in such case assessee cannot be held that he
 earned Long Term Capital gain through bogus company when he has
 discharged his onus by placing all the relevant details and some of the shares
 also remained in the account of the appellant after earning of the long term
 capital gain. 10.Ld. A.R. contention is that no statement of the Investigation Wing was given
 to the assessee which has any reference against the assessee. 11. In support of its contention, ld. A.R. also cited an order of Co-ordinate
 Bench in ITA No. 62/Ahd/2018 in the matter of Mohan Polyfab Pvt. Ltd. vs. ITO wherein ITAT has held that A.O. should have granted an opportunity to cross
 examine the person on whose statement notice was issued to the assessee for
 bogus long term capital gain. But in this case, neither statement was supplying
 to the assessee nor cross examination was allowed by the ld. A.O. Therefore, in
 our considered opinion, assessee has discharged his onus and no addition can
 be sustained in the hands of the assessee. " 7.15 In view of the above discussion we hold that the capital gain earned by
 the assessee cannot be held as bogus merely on the basis of some report
 unearthed in case of third party/parties unless cogent material is brought
 against particular assessee on record. Therefore, we hereby set aside the
 finding of the learned CIT(A) and direct the AO to delete the addition made by
 him. Hence the grounds of assessee's appeal are allowed. 8. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.