1. The appellant filed an application under the Right to Information Act,
2005 (RTI Act ) before the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO), Bharat
Petroleum Corporation Limited, Maharashtra. The appellant seeking
information is as under:- 2. As the CPIO had not provided the requested information, the appellant
filed the first appeal dated 25.08.2019 requesting that the information should be
provided to him. The first appellate authority was ordered on 18.09.2019 and
disposed of his first appeal. He filed a second appeal u/ Section 19(3) of the RTI
Act before the Commission on the ground that information has not been
provided to him and requested the Commission to direct the respondent to
provide complete and correct information. Hearing: 3. The appellant attended the hearing through audio-call. The respondent,
Shri Sathyan Nair, CPIO attended the hearing through audio-call. 4. The written submissions of the parties are taken on record. 5. The appellant submitted that complete information has not been provided
to him by the respondent on his RTI application dated 29.07.2019. The
appellant submitted that he has sought certified copies of his KYC documents
for the year 2018 and 2019 but the documents given in the year 2018 has not
been provided to him by the respondent. 6. The respondent submitted that complete information as per the
documents available on record has already been provided to the appellant vide
letter dated 20.08.2019 and has now again provided to the appellant after
collecting the same from the distributor vide letter dated 26.07.2021. The replies
were seen during the hearing. Decision: 7. The Commission, after hearing the submissions of both the parties and
after perusal of records, observes that the appellant was aggrieved that complete
information has not been provided to him by the respondent on his RTI
application dated 29.07.2019. The Commission observed that the information
sought by the appellant is held by the distributor and not by the public authority.
Nonetheless, the respondent has gone beyond the provisions of the RTI Act and
has collected the information from the concerned distributor and provided the
information to the appellant as per the data available on record. The
Commission is satisfied with the action/steps taken by the respondent in dealing
with the RTI application of the appellant. The appellant is, however, advised to
approach his concerned distributor in order to redress his grievance. No further
intervention of the Commission is required in the matter. 8. With the above observations, the appeal is disposed of. 9. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Jalgaon LPG Bottling Plant & Territory Office,
 P-27, Addl. MIDC, Jalgaon, MH-425003 2. Mr. Prashant Ashokrao Wadgawe Page 3 of 3