This application has . been filed on

10.09.2012 under Section 19 at the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 seeking the. following reliets:- ch

ih 2. The applicant was erving as Assistan

Teacher of Railways Higher Secondary School,

3 4

Purna when he filed a complaint on 03.04.1997
(Annexure A~4}) with the respondent No.6 i{Sr..DPO

& Chairman of Railway Schools) making certain
specific allegations against the then Principal
of the High School on collection of fees fream
students, use of paper and ink and school
materials, and other malpractice in collection
of fees under the subject heading "corruption,
the malpractices and maladministration in
Railway H.S. School, Purna (Jn)-regarding'. He
has followed this with a Further complaint
addressed to the Hon'ble Prime Minister on
23.08.1937 with the following subject heading:~

"Subject: A) Humble request to investigate "Fee Scam" 3. This complainh explicates the previous

+

complaint made to Respondent No.6 in greater 5 detail and a further complaint that the 4 Principal had appointed his. daughter as kG
Taacher {Annexure A-S). This letter was issued
by the applicant in his capacity as Secretary,
S.C.R, Teacher Association, Purna District along
with a parent as co-signatory. A copy of this
letter has been sent to the Railway Minister and

to the General Manager, Respondent No.2. The

is

q

applicant filed a further complaint dated

03.02.1998 (Annex A-6} on 03.02.1998 directly to

iF

t

respondent No.2 alleging misuse of quarters,
misappropriation, and bribery/corruption by the
Principal. This complaint asserted that all the
staff members were depressed and tortured by the
Principal and also made personal allegations
which questioned the character and reputation of
the Principal. The respondents conducted a
Vigilance inguiry which examined all these

complaint and informed him in their replies

$3

dated 19.02.1998 and 20.02.1998 and duiy
received by the applicant. In these letters,

his

jad

the Applicant was advised that al
 

eae naan GR

4 QA No, 14/2013

oF

complaints and charges had been inquired an
found to be baseless and that the said Principal

had acted as per Rules applicable

#

4, The respandents then issued charge
hemorandum dated 28.07.1998 containing one item
of charge which reads as belay: 5. Applicant filed hie reply and inquiry was
thereafter conducted in which the applicant has
participated and after examining each aspect of
the allegations made by the applicant, the

Inquiry Officer forwarded his report on

aa

 
 

 

cana)

 

employee and then passed orders on 15.06.1939

 

i

tht

.O2.19935 {Annexure R<4) to the Disciplinary

Authority who invited views of the charged

>

os
iby

(Annexure A-7). After examining the record
the inquiry, the Disciplinary Authority held
that making false complaint against the incharge
official directly to the Hon'ble Prime Minister
amounted to gross indiscipline and was a
vielation of Rule 3(1) (iii) of Raliway Servants
fConduct} Rules, 1966. Expunging the view that
this warranted imposition of severe penalty, a
lenient view was taken in the context of the

1cB as a teacher and in 5 applicant's good performa
consequence, the Disciplinary Authority imposed
a penalty of withholding of increment for a
period of six months. On appeal, the Appellate

Authority in orders dated 67.06.2000 enhanced

in
+
th 1 wo
in
a
a
ip

the penalty to reduction by two
period of one year with adverse cumulative
effect. Further, this was reduced in order of
respondents dated 09.07.2001 (Annexure A-3}

passed by the Chief Personnel Officer after a
detailed consideration ef ceanduct of the
applicant and inquiry conductec by the

respondents and the punishment reduced to 6 OA No. i4/20133 withholding of one increment for a period of
three months without cumulative effect. This
order has heen confirmed by the Revisionary
Authority in impugned order dated 23.01.2668
{Annexure A-i} after granting personal hearing. 6. QBuring the arguments, the learned counsel
for the applicant argued that the applicant ha ad
not made any complaint subsequent to the results
of the vigilance inquiry communicated to the
applicant ain February 1998 and therefore his
initial acts of making complaint to various
authorities including Prime Ministers could not
be construed As misconduct. He relied on the
views of the Principal Bench of this Tribunal in C.§8.Manral Vs. Union of India & Ors , 1986 aATc

587 dated 30.06.1986. Re also argued against

OQ
fe
ts
fet
if
rt
4,
t 4
G

the factum of punishment becaus
this was a stigma on his career although it did
not affect his pension. The learned counsel for
the respondents has justified the charge

memorandum issued to the applicant and penalty

imposed by virtue of the fact that the applicant

had made a series of very serious complaint
imputing khoth financial irregularities and

tributing grave deficiencies of character on 7 OA No.}4/3013 the part of the Principal. vas given an

fos
Oo
a
ct 7. Therefore, where the app
opportunity to establish his innocence rising
the evidence available with him, he could not do
so and could not support any of the allegations
made by him while corresponding directly with
the Hontble Prime Minister. This showed grave
misconduct in terms of the definition of such
misconduct under the Rules, in their view. The
punishment eventually imposed on the applicant.
was also of a minor nature and therefore, there
could not be any grievance on the part of the
applicant on the proportionality of punishment. a. The matter has been carefully examined. It
is geen that all opportunities were given to the
licant to establish the veracity of his
complaints through vigilance inquiries conducted
by the respondents, the results of which were

also communicated to the applicant although they

rv 4 his was

}

were under no requirement to do so.
followed by a full scale disciplinary inquiry
where the applicant has peen given all
oppertunities to justify his action of making
allegations and addressing the Prime Ministers

by bypassing official channels and further, to
 

saeseatai 8 OA No. 14/2013 establish any basis for the allegations made by

%

him but he could not establish any aspect of the

allegations either in respect of financial

ce 7 eps pe
Ona. MAALracuer

us

Lrreguiarities, nepotism, per: 8. The learned counsel argues tha

cannot be called Tmiscanducth'. The tern

>

misconduct has not been defined in the Railway
Service (Conduct) Rules, 1966 although Secticn
20 states as below: tA
te
cc
i¢¥
4,

In this regard, clarifications have been
by the respondents subsequentiy as below: i@. In the present case, the applicant first
addressed the General Manager and then to
Respondent No.6 who was Senier Divisional
Personnel Officer and Chairman of Railway
Schools on 03.04.19 and even without obtaining
a reply, he has addressed the Hon'ble Prime

r

Minister on 23.08.1997 with an expanded List of

nd. complaints. These actions bring him within the
scope of violation of Section 20 of the Conduct

Rules. Further, in Baldev Singh Gandhi Vs.

{5

State of Punjab, AIR 2002 SC 1124, the Hon'ble

%
tne

oh

Apex Court held that "misconduct™ i

o

antithesis of the word "conduct™ and it has ¢
be construed with. reference to the subject and
the context wherein it occurs. Black's Law
Dictionary, 6° Edn. defines misconduct as 'R
transgression of some established and definite
rule of action, a forbidden act, a dereliction
from duty, unlawful behavior, wilful in

character, improper or wrong behavior; its
 

% 1g OA No. 14/2013 synonyms are mis~demeanor, misdeed, misbehavior,
delinquency, impropriety, mismanagement,

offense, but not negligence or carelessness.'

ii. Misconduct implies a wrongful intention and
not mere error of Jjudament and also not. necessarily the same thing as conduct invelving

moral turpitude. Essentially, the term

SOR
ry
oh. ft
ity

misconduct requires a wrongful intention

tty
hh
oe
C
ct
o

it has no bearing in reality. in terms
as subsequently verified or in the hands of

persons exhibiting such conduct, would amount to
2 " ¥

misconduct. In the present case, quite apart
from viol on of Section 20 , the applicant kad

no basis for any of his allegations which were
essentially scurrilous and were intended t5
bring down not only the reputation of the
Principal of the School, but also of the Rallway
School Institution for which he was Secretary of
the Parent Teacher Association. He had also
associated with some parents in his adventure to
heap abuse and calumny on the Principal without
any basis whatsoever. Therefore, such
activities cannot by any stretch of imagination
be considered to be the actions cf a whistle- blower as the learned counsel for the applicant il OANO14/2013 sought to present. The learned counsel for the
applicant has argued that this bypassing of his
official superiors could not amount to
misconduct by reference to C.S.Manral supra.
However, we notice that in the cited case, the
complaint of the official was not forwarded and

his superior communicated his refusal to him and

then sent letters to Prime Minister, Home

Minister, Railway Minister and Financial
Adviser. The facts in the present case ara

quite different and no attempt has bean made to
argue similarity in facts or context. These are
plainly, acts of serious misconduct and the
respondents have appropriately proceeded against
the applicant. All these aspects ave been
addressed by the respondents in the process of
inguiry and adequate opportunity is seen to have
peen provided to the applicant to make Ais

defence. 12. In view of the above, we do not find
merits in the present OA, Hence, this OA is
accordingly dismissed. No order as to coasts. : i
w een

(R a | (R. Vijapketinar)
Mein. Member (A dmiftistrative)
kmg* |