For ease of reference, refer the table as under:- 1. PayPal Payments Private Limited1, the petitioner impugns the
 order dated 17 December 2020 passed by the first respondent the
 Financial Intelligence Unit India2 holding it to be a ―reporting
 entity‖ under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 20023 and
 consequently proceeding to impose monetary penalties for it having
 failed to comply with the reporting obligations as placed under the
 Prevention of Money Laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules
 20054. PayPal asserts that it is not a ―payment system operator‖ as
 defined under the PMLA and consequently it would be erroneous for
 FIU-IND to hold it to be a Reporting Entity. This is asserted on the
 basis of it not being engaged in rendering services relating to clearing,
 payment or provision of settlement between a payer and a beneficiary.
 It essentially avers that it merely provides a technological interface
 enabling export related transactions that may be undertaken by an
 Indian exporter and an overseas buyer. It is its categorical case that in 1 PayPal 2 FIU-IND 3 PMLA 4 2005 Rules W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 3 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 the chain of transaction which ensues between the Indian exporter and
 an overseas buyer, PayPal is at no stage engaged in the actual
 handling of funds. According to it, the transmission of funds occurs
 between the constituent Authorised Dealer Category-1 Schedule
 Commercial Banks5 which not only collect the amounts from the
 foreign purchaser directly and without any intervention of PayPal, the
 said funds are then transmitted to the AD Partner Bank's Export
 Collection Account. PayPal also relies upon the stand as struck by the
 Reserve Bank of India6 which in separate proceedings had averred
 on affidavit that it is not a payment system operator. The petitioner
 seeks to derive advantage from the stand so taken by RBI in those
 proceedings since the definition of a ―Payment System‖ under the
 Payments and Settlements System Act 20077 is identical to the
 provision embodied in the PMLA. 2. For the purposes of evaluating the challenge which stands raised,
 it would be apposite to notice the following essential facts. As per the
 disclosures made in the writ petition the officials of the petitioner are
 stated to have participated in a meeting with the Additional Director
 of the FIU-IND on 08 October 2017 where they had been invited to
 explain the scope and content of their business operations in India.
 The petitioner asserts that it had expressed its willingness to cooperate
 with the FIU-IND in that meeting and remains bound by that 5 AD Banks 6 RBI 7 2007 Act/PSS Act W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 4 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 obligation even today. On 16 March 2018 FIU-IND issued a
 communication directing PayPal to register itself as a reporting entity
 under the PMLA. FIU-IND further asserted that the business model
 of PayPal clearly established that it would fall within the definition of
 a reporting entity as embodied in Section 2(1)(wa) of the PMLA.
 FIU-IND alleged that despite the detailed clarifications that had been
 submitted by PayPal it was convinced that it was liable to register
 itself in accordance with the statutory obligations placed by the
 PMLA. Acknowledging the receipt of that letter, PayPal in terms of
 its communication of 06 April 2018 sought further time to respond.
 Ultimately and on 17 April 2018, it addressed a communication to
 FIU-IND asserting that it could not be treated as a reporting entity and
 that it was in any case not operating a payment system. It would be
 apposite to extract the following parts from the aforesaid
 communication hereinbelow:- under the PMLA and the rules made thereunder. Request 7. Based on all of the above, we believe that PayPal is not covered
 under the definition of a "reporting entity" under the PMLA and
 therefore at this time cannot register as such with the India FIU.
 Despite this, we remain very open and eager to have further
 discussions with the FIU India to identify an alternative and
 mutually agreeable solution that supports the FIU and PayPal in
 our joint goals of disrupting and preventing financial crime. 8. Given the above, we kindly request that you grant us time to
 meet you in-person for us to seek further guidance and discuss the
 best possible way forward.‖ 3. On 23 July 2019 FIU-IND issued a Show Cause Notice
 purporting to be under Section 13 of the PMLA addressed to PayPal
 and its six officers alleging non-compliance of Section 12 of the
 PMLA along with Rule 7 of the 2005 Rules. PayPal was in terms of
 the aforesaid notice called upon to show cause why suitable directions W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 6 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 be not issued against them including the imposition of penalties.
 Responding to the aforesaid show cause notice, PayPal on 08 August
 2019 asserted as under:- 4. As we had set out in our letter to the FIU-IND dated 17 April
 2018 (since when there has been no change in the in the
 business activity being conducted by PayPal), PayPal conducts
 the following businesses in India: 5. We would like to clarify that PayPal is classified as a payment
 intermediary and not a 'payment system operator‟ under the
 rules and regulations issued by the RBI in this respect. A
 payment system intermediary, such as PayPal, is required to
 comply with the Payment Intermediary Circular which provides
 for a separate regime regulating the functioning of the payment
 system intermediaries. 6. PayPal's business in India of providing payment processing W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 7 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 services and facilitation of processing and settlement of import
 and export related payments is governed under the framework
 prescribed by the RBI-"Processing and settlement of import and
 export related payments facilitated by Online Payment Gateway
 Service Providers". While providing such services, PayPal
 operates as an OPGSP and is compliant with the applicable RBI
 regulatory framework. 7. It is submitted that the RBI does not consider or regulate
 PayPal as an operator of a "payment system" under the PSS Act
 by virtue of PayPal providing payment intermediary services.
 Request 8. Based on what is stated above, we believe that payment
 intermediaries, such as PayPal, are not covered within the
 definition of a ‗payment system operator‟ or ‗financial
 institution‟ and in turn, not covered under the definition of a
 "reporting entity" under the PMLA. Therefore, at this time
 payment intermediaries, such as PayPal, are not required to
 register as such with the FIU-IND. 9.We wish to further submit that unless the PMLA and/or the
 applicable rules are amended in order to specifically include
 payment intermediaries, such as PayPal, within the definition of
 a ‗payment system operator', we sincerely request that FIU-IND
 not consider PayPal as a "reporting entity" required to register
 with the FIU-IND.‖

 B. PA's AND OPGSP's- REGULATORY
 FRAMEWORK 4. As would be evident from the aforesaid extracts PayPal had
 reiterated the stand taken on earlier occasions by contending that it
 was not a payment system operator as defined under the PMLA and
 that payment intermediaries could not be said to be reporting entities
 under the enactment. It was PayPal's case further that till appropriate
 amendments are introduced in the PMLA as well as the 2005 Rules, it
 could not be forced to register as a reporting entity under the PMLA. The said show cause notice was followed by, yet another notice issued
 by FIU-IND on 17 September 2019 reiterating that PayPal had failed
 to register as a reporting entity despite earlier communications issued
 and thus making it liable to face imposition of penalties by the FIU-
 IND. PayPal responded to the said show cause notice in terms of its
 letter of 11 October 2019. Apart from the various pleas which had
 been raised in its earlier communication, PayPal additionally averred
 that it was essentially an Online Payment Gateway Service
 Provider8 and which business is governed and regulated solely by the
 various circulars issued by the RBI from time to time. It would be
 pertinent to note that with the tremendous growth of e-commerce and
 financial transactions being affected on the internet, RBI had firstly
 issued directions in respect of electronic and online payments on 24
 November 2009. Those directions had been issued in exercise of
 powers conferred upon it by Section 18 of the 2007 Act. Dealing
 further with the subject of processing and settlement of import and
 export related payments facilitated specifically by OPGSPs, RBI had
 issued a subsequent circular dated 24 September 2015. This was in
 addition to the guidelines which had been circulated by RBI for
 regulation of Payment Aggregators and Payment Gateways on 17
 March 2020. In order to understand the concept of Payment
 Aggregators9 and OPGSPs it would be pertinent to firstly advert to 8 OPGSP 9 PA W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 9 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 the Intermediary Directions issued on 24 November 2009 10and
 which defined intermediaries engaged in facilitating electronic and
 online payments. The said directions are reproduced hereinbelow: - commerce/m-commerce/bill payment transactions), are credited
 to the accounts of these intermediaries, before the funds are
 transferred to the accounts of the merchants in final settlement of
 the obligations of the paying customers. Any delay in the transfer
 of the funds by the intermediaries to the merchants account will
 not only entail risks to the customers and the merchants but also
 impact the payment system. 1.3 With a view to safeguard the interests of the customers and to
 ensure that the payments made by them are duly accounted for by
 the intermediaries receiving such payments and remitted to the
 accounts of the merchants who have supplied the goods and
 services without undue delay, it is considered necessary to frame
 these directions for the safe and orderly conduct of these
 transactions. Accordingly, following directions are being issued
 under Section 18 of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 10 Intermediary Directions W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 10 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 2007 (Act 51 of 2007). 2. Definitions
 2.1 Intermediaries: Intermediaries would include all entities that
 collect monies received from customers for payment to merchants
 using any electronic/online payment mode, for goods and services
 availed by them and subsequently facilitate the transfer of these
 monies to the merchants in final settlement of the obligations of
 the paying customers. Explanation: For the purpose of these directions, all
 intermediaries who facilitate delivery of goods/services
 immediately/simultaneously (e.g. Travel tickets/movie tickets etc)
 on the completion of payment by the customer shall not fall
 within the definition of the expression ―intermediaries‖. These
 transactions which are akin to a Delivery versus Payment (DvP)
 arrangement will continue to be facilitated as per the contracts
 between the merchants and the intermediaries as hitherto and
 banks shall satisfy themselves that such intermediaries do not fall
 within the definition of the ―intermediaries‖ when they open
 accounts other than internal accounts. 2.2 Merchants: For the purpose of these directions, merchants
 shall include all Electronic commerce/Mobile commerce service
 providers and other persons (including but not limited to utility
 service providers) who accept payments for goods and service
 provided by them, through Electronic/Online Payment modes. 3. Maintaining of accounts for collection of payments
 3.1 All accounts opened and maintained by banks for facilitating
 collection of payments by intermediaries from customers of
 merchants, shall be treated as internal accounts of the banks.
 While it is left to the banks to decide on the exact nomenclature of
 such accounts it shall be ensured that such accounts are not
 maintained or operated by the intermediaries. 3.2 Banks shall ensure that the process of converting all the
 existing accounts maintained and operated by intermediaries for
 the purpose covered in these directions shall be completed within
 three months of issuance of these directions. 3.3 For the sake of further clarity, the permitted credits/debits in
 these accounts are set out below: Note: No payment other than the commissions at the pre-
 determined rates/frequency shall be payable to the
 intermediaries. Such transfers shall only be effected to a
 bank account intimated to the bank by the intermediary
 during the agreement. 3.4 Pending conversion of the existing accounts to internal
 accounts, banks shall ensure that only transactions as stated at
 paragraph 3.3 are permitted in these accounts. This process shall
 be implemented with immediate effect. 4. Settlement
 4.1 The final settlements of funds to the merchants are presently
 guided by business practices followed by the
 intermediaries/merchants. In order to increase the efficiency of
 the payment process, it is necessary that banks transfer funds to
 the ultimate beneficiaries with minimum time delay. It is
 therefore mandated that banks shall implement the following
 settlement cycle for all final settlements to merchants. This
 settlement arrangement shall be implemented within three months
 of issuance of this circular:- 5. Treatment of balances by banks
 5.1 As the funds held in the accounts as indicated in paragraph 3.1
 would be in the nature of outside liability of the bank, the
 balances in these accounts shall be reckoned as such for the
 purpose of computation of Net Demand and Time Liabilities of
 the bank. 6. Concurrent Audit
 6.1 Banks shall subject these accounts to concurrent audit and a
 certificate to the effect that these accounts are operated in
 accordance with these directions shall be submitted to Department
 of Payment and Settlement System, Reserve Bank of India, on a
 quarterly basis. 7. Instruction applicable to other payment system operators
 7.1 All persons authorized to operate payment system for issuance
 of prepaid payment instruments and card schemes shall facilitate
 compliance with these directions.‖ 5. In terms of the circular of 24 September 2015, RBI permitted AD
 Category- I Banks to offer facilities similar to those as provided by
 OPGSPs by entering into standing arrangements with the latter. It
 becomes pertinent to note that the aforenoted circular was preceded by
 the circular dated 16 November 2010 which had permitted similar
 arrangements with respect to exports. The aforenoted two circulars
 thus enabled AD Category I Banks to enter into standing arrangements
 with OPGSPs both with respect to exports as well as imports. The
 relevant parts of the aforesaid circulars are extracted hereinbelow:- 5. AD Category-I banks may bring the contents of this circular to
 the notice of their constituents and customers concerned. 6. The directions contained in this circular have been issued under Section 10 (4) and Section 11 (1) of the Foreign Exchange
 Management Act (FEMA), 1999 (42 of 1999) and are without
 prejudice to permissions / approvals, if any, required under any W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 14 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 other law.‖
 Circular of 16 November 2010
 ―2. Accordingly, it has been decided to allow the Authorised
 Dealer Category- l (AD Category-l) banks to offer the facility of
 repatriation of export related remittances by entering into standing
 arrangements with OPGSPs, subject to the following conditions: Category-I banks and obtaining approval from the Chief General
 Manager, Reserve Bank of India, Foreign Exchange Department,
 Central Office, Fort, Mumbai 400 001 for this purpose.
 In respect of all new arrangements, the OPGSP shall open a
 liaison office with the approval of the Reserve Bank before
 operationalising the arrangement. 3. AD Category-I banks desirous of entering into such an
 arrangement/s should approach the Chief General Manager,
 Reserve Bank of India, Foreign Exchange Department, Central
 Office, Fort, Mumbai 400 001, for obtaining one time permission
 in this regard and thereafter report the details of each such
 arrangement as and when entered into. 4. AD Category-I banks may bring the contents of this circular to
 the notice of their constituents concerned. 5. The directions contained in the circular have been issued under Section 10(4) and Section 11(1) of the Foreign Exchange
 Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and are without prejudice to
 permissions / approvals, if any required under any law.‖ 6. The 17 March 2020 circular of RBI essentially framed
 Guidelines for Regulation of Payment Aggregators and Payment
 Gateways. It defined the two in the following terms:- 7. In terms of Clause 2.1, RBI clarified that while the guidelines
 would be applicable to PAs, Payment Gateways may ―as a measure of
 good practice‖ also adhere to the technology related recommendations
 as embodied therein. In terms of Clause 3 it placed non-banking PAs
 under the obligation to obtain appropriate authorisation from RBI
 under the 2007 Act. Payment Gateways however were not placed
 under that obligation with it being observed that they were essentially
 ‗technology providers' or ‗outsourcing partners' of banks and would
 thus be bound by the guidelines contained in the 3 November 2006
 Circular which essentially dealt with the management of risks and W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 17 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 code of conduct to be observed by banks in course of outsourcing of
 financial services. It proceeded to thereafter set out various baseline
 requirements which PAs were required to adhere to. These were
 contained in Clauses 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8 of that circular and the same are
 extracted hereunder:- The directors of the applicant entity shall submit a declaration in
 the enclosed format. RBI shall also check ‗fit and proper' status
 of the applicant entity and management by obtaining inputs from
 other regulators, government departments, etc., as deemed fit.
 Applications of those entities not meeting the eligibility criteria,
 or those which are incomplete / not in the prescribed form with all
 details, shall be returned. 5.2. Any takeover or acquisition of control or change in
 management of a non-bank PA shall be communicated by way of
 a letter to the Chief General Manager, Department of Payment
 and Settlement Systems (DPSS), RBI, Central Office, Mumbai
 within 15 days with complete details, including ‗Declaration and
 Undertaking' by each of the new directors, if any. RBI shall
 examine the ‗fit and proper' status of the management and, if
 required, may place suitable restrictions on
 such changes. 5.3. Agreements between PAs, merchants, acquiring banks, and
 all other stake holders shall clearly delineate the roles and
 responsibilities of the involved parties in sorting / handling
 complaints, refund / failed transactions, return policy, customer
 grievance redressal (including turnaround time for resolving
 queries), dispute resolution mechanism, reconciliation, etc.
 5.4. PAs shall disclose comprehensive information regarding
 merchant policies, customer grievances, privacy policy and other
 terms and conditions on the website and / or their mobile
 application. 5.5. PAs shall have a Board approved policy for disposal of
 complaints / dispute resolution mechanism / time-lines for
 processing refunds, etc., in such a manner that the RBI
 instructions on Turn Around Time (TAT) for resolution of failed W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 19 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 transactions issued vide DPSS.CO.PD No.629/02.01.014/2019-20
 dated September 20, 2019 are adequately taken care of. Any
 future instructions in this regard shall also be adhered to by PAs.
 5.6. PAs shall appoint a Nodal Officer responsible for regulatory
 and customer grievance handling functions. PAs shall
 prominently display details of the nodal officer on their website. 6. Safeguards against Money Laundering (KYC / AML /
 CFT) Provisions
 6.1. The Know Your Customer (KYC) / Anti-Money Laundering
 (AML) / Combating Financing of Terrorism (CFT) guidelines
 issued by the Department of Regulation, RBI, in their ―Master
 Direction - Know Your Customer (KYC) Directions‖ updated
 from time to time, shall apply mutatis mutandis to all entities.
 6.2. Provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and
 Rules framed thereunder, as amended from time to time, shall
 also be applicable. 7. Merchant On-boarding
 7.1. PAs shall have a Board approved policy for merchant on-
 boarding. 7.2. PAs shall undertake background and antecedent check of the
 merchants, to ensure that such merchants do not have any
 malafide intention of duping customers, do not sell fake /
 counterfeit/ prohibited products, etc. The merchant's website shall
 clearly indicate the terms and conditions
 of the service and time-line for processing returns and refunds.
 7.3. PAs shall be responsible to check Payment Card Industry-
 Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) and Payment Application-Data
 Security Standard (PA-DSS) compliance of the infrastructure of
 the merchants on-boarded. 7.4. Merchant site shall not save customer card and such related
 data. A security audit of the merchant may be carried out to check
 compliance, as and when required. 7.5. Agreement with merchant shall have provision for security /
 privacy of customer data. Pas agreement with merchants shall
 include compliance to PA-DSS and incident reporting obligations.
 The PAs shall obtain periodic security assessment reports either
 based on the risk assessment (large or small merchants) and / or at
 the time of renewal of contracts. 8. Settlement and Escrow Account Management

 8.1. Non-bank PAs shall maintain the amount collected by them in
 an escrow account with any scheduled commercial bank. An
 additional escrow account may be maintained with a different
 scheduled commercial bank at the discretion of the PA. For the
 purpose of maintenance of escrow account, operations of PAs shall
 be deemed to be ‗designated payment systems' under Section 23A
 of the PSSA (as amended in 2015). 8.2. In case there is a need to shift the escrow account from one
 bank to another, the same shall be effected in a time-bound manner
 without impacting the payment cycle to merchants, under advice to
 RBI. 8.3. Amounts deducted from the customer's account shall be
 remitted to the escrow account maintaining bank on Tp+0 / Tp+1
 basis. The same rules shall apply to the non-bank entities where
 wallets are used as a payment instrument. 8.4. Final settlement with the merchant by the PA shall be effected
 as under: b) Pre-funding by merchants / PAs. c) Transfer representing refunds for failed / disputed /
 returned / cancelled transactions. d) Payment received for onward transfer to merchants
 under promotional activities, incentives, cash-backs etc.
 8.9.1.2. Debits a) Payment to various merchants / service providers. b) Payment to any other account on specific directions
 from the merchant. c) Transfer representing refunds for failed / disputed
 transactions. d) Payment of commission to the intermediaries. This
 amount shall be at pre-determined rates / frequency. e) Payment of amount received under promotional
 activities, incentives, cash-backs, etc.
 8.10. For banks the outstanding balance in the escrow account shall
 be part of the ‗net demand and time liabilities' (NDTL) for the
 purpose of maintenance of reserve requirements. This position shall W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 22 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 be computed on the basis of the balances appearing in the books of
 the bank as on the date of reporting. 8.11. The entity and the escrow account banker shall be responsible
 for compliance with RBI instructions issued from time to time. The
 decision of RBI in this regard shall be final and binding.
 8.12. Settlement of funds with merchants shall not be co-mingled
 with other business, if any, handled by the PA. 8.13. A certificate signed by the auditor(s), shall be submitted by
 the authorised entities to the respective Regional Office of DPSS,
 RBI, where registered office of PA is situated, certifying that the
 entity has been maintaining balance(s) in the escrow account(s) in
 compliance with these instructions, as per periodicity prescribed in
 Annex 3. In case, an additional escrow account is being
 maintained, it shall be ensured that balances in both accounts are
 considered for the above certification. This shall also be indicated
 in the certificate. The same auditor shall be employed to audit both
 escrow accounts. 8.14. PAs shall submit the list of merchants acquired by them to the
 bank where they are maintaining the escrow account and update the
 same from time to time. The bank shall ensure that payments are
 made only to eligible merchants / purposes. There shall be an
 exclusive clause in the agreement signed between the PA and the
 bank maintaining escrow account towards usage of balance in
 escrow account only for the purposes mentioned above.
 8.15. No interest shall be payable by the bank on balances
 maintained in the escrow account, except when the PA enters into
 an agreement with the bank maintaining the escrow account, to
 transfer "core portion" of the amount, in the escrow account, to a
 separate account on which interest is payable, subject to the
 following: Banks shall not issue any deposit receipts or mark any
 lien on the amount held in such form of deposits. 8.15.5. The core portion shall be calculated separately for
 each of the escrow accounts and will remain linked to the
 respective escrow account. The escrow balance and core
 portion maintained shall be clearly disclosed in the
 auditors' certificates submitted to RBI on quarterly and
 annual basis. Note: For the purpose of this regulation, "Core Portion" shall be
 computed as under: 9. The draft is stated to have been discussed between the officers of
 the petitioner and FIU-IND on 28 February 2020. On 10 June 2020
 FIU-IND addressed yet another letter to PayPal wherein it reiterated
 its perceived obligation of the petitioner to register as a reporting
 entity. While doing so it also referred to the guidelines promulgated W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 25 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 by RBI regulating payment aggregators and payment gateways which
 have been referred to hereinabove. On 21 August 2020, the petitioner
 addressed a letter to FIU-IND indicating its intent to cease all
 domestic operation as a payment intermediary with effect from 01
 April 2021. On 17 December 2020, the impugned order came to be
 passed. On 12 January 2021 after considering detailed submissions
 addressed by respective sides, a learned Judge of this Court framed the
 following directions: - 10. As would be evident from the aforesaid directions, the Court had
 called upon the Secretary in the Ministry of Finance to constitute a
 Committee which may examine the issue as to whether facilitators of
 monetary transactions ought to be categorised as Payment System
 Operators and thus be held to be reporting entities under the PMLA.
 The said Committee after according an opportunity to parties to
 address submissions has ultimately submitted a report which stands
 placed on the record. In terms of the ultimate conclusions as so
 recorded it has essentially held that entities like PayPal should be held
 to be covered under the PMLA and that they are liable to be
 categorised as payment system operators. The Conclusions as
 formally recorded by the Committee are extracted hereinbelow:- 11. Entities like PayPal are very much covered under the
 definition of Payment System Operator under PMLA. The
 definition of Payment System Operator in PMLA is a standalone
 definition and not linked with PSS Act. Non-requirement of
 registration of PayPal and similar entities with RBI under PSS
 Act does not preclude them from registering with FIU India under
 PMLA and discharging their Anti-Money Laundering and
 Countering financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) obligations under
 PMLA. It is the mandate of Ministry of Finance, Government of
 India to implement PMLA and discussions in the Committee
 clearly point towards the intention of legislature in making PMLA
 definitions oriented towards covering ML/TF risks. There is a W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 27 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 continued very high ML/TF risk in not covering PayPal and
 similar entities under PMLA. RBI concurs with the view of the
 Committee that the interpretation of "payment system" / "payment
 system operator" definitions in PMLA is the sole mandate of
 Ministry of Finance. 12. Having discussed all the issues at hand as per the
 mandate in the order of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi, answers
 to the two main questions posed by the Hon'ble High Court
 are unanimously and categorically decided and are as follows: 13. The word ―netting" is defined in Section 2(1)(e) in the following
 terms:- laws (by whatever name called), of the transactions admitted for
 settlement at a future date so that only a net claim be demanded or
 a net obligation be owned;‖ 14. ―Payment system" is defined in Section 2(1)(i) as follows:- 15. Section 2(1)(n) defines ―settlement" as under:- 16. A ―system provider" is defined in Section 2(1)(q) in the
 following terms:- 17. Section 4 prohibits any person from operating a payment system W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 29 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 without an authorisation from the RBI. That provision reads thus:- 18. In terms of Chapter IV of the 2007 Act, RBI is conferred the W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 30 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 power to regulate and supervise payment systems generally. Section
 16 confers RBI with the authority to carry out audit and inspection of
 a payment system operator. The said provision reads as follows:- 18. Power of Reserve Bank to give directions generally.--
 Without prejudice to the provisions of the foregoing, the Reserve
 Bank may, if it is satisfied that for the purpose of enabling it to
 regulate the payment systems or in the interest of management or W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 31 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 operation of any of the payment systems or in public interest, it
 is necessary so to do, lay down policies relating to the regulation
 of payment systems including electronic, non-electronic,
 domestic and international payment systems affecting domestic
 transactions and give such directions in writing as it may
 consider necessary to system providers or the system participants
 or any other person either generally or to any such agency and in
 particular, pertaining to the conduct of business relating to
 payment systems.‖ 20. Section 23 which deals with the subject of settlement and netting
 reads as under:- Explanation1.--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared
 that the settlement, whether gross or net, referred to in this
 section is final and irrevocable as soon as the money, securities,
 foreign exchange or derivatives or other transactions payable as
 a result of such settlement is determined, whether or not such
 money, securities or foreign exchange or derivatives or other
 transactions is actually paid. Explanation 2.--For the purposes of this section, the expression
 ―central counter party‖ means a system provider who by way of
 novation interposes between system participants in the
 transactions admitted for settlement, thereby becoming the buyer
 to every seller and the seller to every buyer, for the purpose of
 effecting settlement of their transactions.‖ 21. Section 23A makes provisions for the protection of funds
 collected from customers and is extracted hereunder: - Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the
 expressions-- (a) ―designated payment system‖ shall mean a payment
 system or a class of payment system, as may be specified
 by the Reserve Bank from time to time, engaged in
 collection of funds from their customers for rendering
 payment service; ―scheduled commercial bank‖ shall mean a ―banking company‖,
 ―corresponding new bank‖, ―State Bank of India‖ and
 ―subsidiary bank‖ as defined in section 5 of the Banking
 Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) and included in the Second
 Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act,1934 (1 of 1934).‖ 22. A ―reporting entity‖ is defined under section 2(1)(wa) of the
 PMLA in the following terms:- 23. The expression ―financial institution‖ is defined in Section
 2(1)(l) as follows:- 24. The word ―intermediary‖ is defined by Section 2(1)(n) as under:- 25. Undisputedly PayPal can neither be said to be a banking
 company nor would it fall within the ambit of the expression
 ―intermediary‖ as defined. The expression ―financial institution‖,
 however, which stands included in the definition of reporting entity
 leads one to the heart of the issue which stands raised in the present
 petition. It is the case of the respondents that PayPal is a payment
 system operator and thus a reporting entity. The expressions
 ―payment system‖ and ―payment system operator‖ are defined by Section 2(1)(rb) and (rc) and are reproduced hereinbelow:- Explanation.--For the purposes of this clause, ―overseas
 principal‖ means,-- (A) in the case of a person, being an individual, such
 individual residing outside India, who owns or controls or
 manages, directly or indirectly, the activities or functions
 of payment system in India; (B) in the case of a Hindu undivided family, Karta of such
 Hindu undivided family residing outside India who owns
 or controls or manages, directly or indirectly, the activities
 or functions of payment system in India; (C) in the case of a company, a firm, an association of
 persons, a body of individuals, an artificial juridical
 person, whether incorporated or not, such company, firm,
 association of persons, body of individuals, artificial
 juridical person incorporated or registered outside India or
 existing as such and which owns or controls or manages,
 directly or indirectly, the activities or functions of payment
 system in India;‖ 26. Chapter IV of the PMLA lays down the obligations of banking
 companies, financial institutions and intermediaries. Section 12 of the
 Act reads as under:- 27. In terms of Section 12A , the Director is empowered to call upon W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 37 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 any reporting entity to furnish records referred to in Section 11A , 12 and 12AA. Section 11A reads thus:- Explanation.--The expressions ―Aadhaar number‖ and
 ―core biometric information‖ shall have the same meanings as
 are respectively assigned to them in clauses (a) and (j) of section
 2 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other
 Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 (18 of 2016).‖ 28. Finance Act No. 22 of 2019 which came into effect from 01
 August 2019 introduced Section 12AA in the PMLA which reads as
 follows:- Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, "specified
 transaction" means-- (a) any withdrawal or deposit in cash, exceeding such amount; (b) any transaction in foreign exchange, exceeding such amount; (c) any transaction in any high value imports or remittances; (d) such other transaction or class of transactions, in the interest
 of revenue or where there is a high risk or money-laundering or
 terrorist financing,
 As may be prescribed.‖ 29. The Director is conferred with the power of imposition of fines
 and monetary penalties upon erring reporting entities in terms of Section 13 and is extracted hereinbelow: - Explanation.--For the purpose of this section,
 ―accountant‖ shall mean a chartered accountant within the
 meaning of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949).‖ 30. Rule 3 of the 2005 Rules obligates reporting entities to maintain
 records of varied transactions and reads as under:- 31. It would also be appropriate to notice Rules 4, 5 and 7 of 2005
 Rules which are reproduced hereinbelow: - (2)Every reporting entity shall evolve an internal mechanism for
 maintaining such information in such form and manner and at
 such intervals as may be specified by its regulator from time to
 time. (3) It shall be the duty of every reporting entity, its designated
 director, officers and employees to observe the procedure and the
 manner of maintaining information as specified by its regulator
 under sub-rule (1). [***] 7. Procedure and manner of furnishing information.-(l)
 Every reporting entity shall communicate to the Director the
 name, designation and address of the Designated Director and
 the Principal Officer. (2) The Principal Officer shall furnish the information referred to
 in clauses (A), (B),(BA), (C), (D), (E) and (F) of sub-rule (1) of
 rule 3 to the Director on the basis of information available with
 the reporting entity. A copy of such information shall be retained
 by the Principal Officer for the purposes of official record.
 (3)Every reporting entity shall evolve an internal mechanism
 having regard to any guidelines issued by the Director in
 consultation with, its regulator, for detecting the transactions W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 44 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 referred to in clauses (A), (B),(BA), (C), (D), (E) and (F) of sub-
 rule (1) of rule 3 and for furnishing information about such
 transactions in such form as may be directed by the Director in
 consultation with its Regulator. (4) It shall be the duty of every reporting entity, its designated
 director, officers and employees to observe the procedure and the
 manner of furnishing information as specified by the Director in
 consultation with its Regulator.‖ 32. The obligations placed upon a reporting entity to undertake due
 diligence in respect of clients is reiterated in Rule 9 which reads thus:- Explanation. --For the purpose of this sub-clause-- 1. "Controlling ownership interest" means ownership of or
 entitlement to more than twenty-five per cent. of shares
 or capital or profits of the company; 2. "Control" shall include the right to appoint majority of
 the directors or to control the management or policy
 decisions including by virtue of their shareholding or
 management rights or shareholders agreements or
 voting agreements; (b) where the client is a partnership firm, the beneficial
 owner is the natural persons) who, whether acting alone or
 together, or through one or more juridical person, has
 ownership of entitlement to more than fifteen per cent. of
 capital or profits of the partnership; (c) where the client is an unincorporated association or
 body of individuals, the beneficial owner is the natural
 person(s), who, whether acting alone or together, or
 through one or more juridical person, has ownership of or
 entitlement to more than fifteen per cent. of the property or
 capital or profits of such association or body of
 individuals; (d) where no natural person is identified under (a) or (b) or (c) above, the beneficial owner is the relevant natural
 person who holds the position of senior managing official; (e) where the client is a trust, the identification of
 beneficial owner(s) shall include identification of the
 author of the trust, the trustee, the beneficiaries with fifteen
 per cent. or more interest in the trust and any other natural
 person exercising ultimate effective control over the trust
 through a chain of control or ownership; and (f) where the client or the owner of the controlling interest
 is an entity listed on a stock exchange in India, or it is an
 entity resident in jurisdictions notified by the Central
 Government and listed on stock exchanges in such
 jurisdictions notified by the Central Government, or it is a
 subsidiary of such listed entities, it is not necessary to
 identify and verify the identity of any shareholder or
 beneficial owner of such entities. (4) Where the client is an individual, he shall for the purpose of
 sub-rule (1) submit to the reporting entity, -- (a) the Aadhaar number where, (i) he is desirous of receiving any benefit or
 subsidy under any scheme notified under section 7
 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and
 Other subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016
 (18 of 2016); or (ii) he decides to submit his Aadhaar number
 voluntarily to a banking company or any reporting
 entity notified under first proviso to sub-section (1)
 of section 11A of the Act; or
 (aa) the proof of possession of Aadhaar number where
 offline verification can be carried out; or
 (ab) the proof of possession of Aadhaar number where
 offline verification cannot be carried out or any officially
 valid document or the equivalent e-document thereof
 containing the details of his identify and address; and (b) the Permanent Account Number or the equivalent e-
 document thereof or Form No. 60 as defined in Income-tax
 Rules, 1962; and W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 49 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 (c) such other documents including in respect of the
 nature of business and financial status of the client, or the
 equivalent e-documents thereof as may be required by the
 reporting entity: and W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 51 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 (iv) such documents as are required for an individual under
 sub-rule (4) relating to beneficial owner, managers, officers or
 employees, as the case may be, holding an attorney to transact
 on its behalf; (8) Where the client is a trust, it shall, for the purposes of sub-
 rule (1) submit to the reporting entity the certified copies of the
 following documents, namely or the equivalent e-documents
 thereof:- (iii) Permanent Account Number or Form 60 of the trust;
 and (iv) Such documents as are required for an individual
 under sub-rule (4) relating to beneficial owner, managers,
 officers or employees, as the case may be, holding an
 attorney to transact on its behalf; (9) Where the client is an unincorporated association or a body
 of individuals, it shall submit to the reporting entity the certified
 copies of the following documents or the equivalent e-documents
 thereof, namely:- Explanation.-For the purpose of this clause, simplified measures
 are not acceptable whenever there is a suspicion of money
 laundering or terrorist financing, or where specific higher-risk
 scenarios apply or where the risk identified is not consistent with
 the national risk assessment. (ia) The guidelines issued under clause(i) shall also include
 appropriate - (A) exemptions, limitations and conditions and
 alternate and viable means of identification, to provide
 account based services to clients who are unable to
 undergo biometric authentication; (B) relaxation for continued operation of accounts for
 clients who are unable to provide Permanent Account
 Number or Form No. 60; and
 (C) exemption, limitations and conditions and alternate
 and viable means of identification, to provide account
 based services of clients who are unable to undergo
 Aadhaar authentication for receiving any benefit or
 subsidy under any scheme notified under section 7 of the
 Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other
 subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 (18 of 2016);
 Owing to injury, illness or infirmity on account of old age or
 otherwise, and such like causes. (ii) Every reporting entity shall formulate and implement a
 Client Due Diligence Programme, incorporating the
 requirements of sub-rules (1) to (13), sub - rle (15) and sub-rule
 (17) and guidelines issued under clause (i) and (ia). (iii) the Client Due Diligence Programme shall include policies,
 controls and procedures, approved by tile senior management, to
 enable the reporting entity to manage and mitigate the risk that W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 54 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 have been identified either by the reporting entity or through
 national risk assessment. (15) Where the client has submitted - (a) his Aadhaar number under clause (a) of sub-rule (4) to
 the banking company or a reporting entity notified under
 first proviso to sub-section (1) of section 11A , such
 banking company or reporting entity shall carry out
 authentication of the client's Aadhaar number using e-
 KYC authentication facility provided by the Unique
 Identification Authority of India; (b) proof of possession of Aadhaar under clause (aa) of
 sub-rule (4) where offiline verification can be carried out,
 the reporting entity shall carry out offline verification; (c) an equivalent e-document of any officially valid
 document, the reporting entity shall verify the digital
 signature as per the provisions of the Information
 Technology Act,2000 (21 of 2000) and any rules issues
 thereunder and take a live photo as specified under
 Annexure 1. (d) any officially valid document or proof of possession of
 Aadhaar number under clause (ab) of sub-rule (4) where
 offline verification cannot be carried out, the reporting
 entity shall carry out verification through digital KYC as
 specified under Annexure 1: PayPal urged that RBI has admittedly not directed it to seek any
 authorisation under the aforesaid enactment even though it has been
 functioning as an OPGSP since 2017. Reliance was also placed on a
 response tendered by RBI under the Right to Information Act,
 200512 and which stands placed on the record as Annexure-19 and in
 terms of which RBI acknowledges that it had not issued any
 registration certificate to PayPal for setting up or operating a payment
 system in India. 46. It was submitted that in light of the pari materia definition of
 ‗payment system' in the two statutes, it would be wholly
 impermissible for the respondents to urge that while PayPal does not
 operate a payment system as defined under the PSS Act but it would
 still be liable to be recognised as a payment system operator under the
 PMLA. In the course of rejoinder submissions, reliance was also
 placed upon the decision rendered by a Division Bench of the Court in Lotus Pay Solutions (P) Ltd. v. Union of India13 where the Court 12 RTI Act 13 2022 SCC OnLine Del 2939 W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 63 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 had come to hold that OPGSPs do not handle funds and are only
 concerned with providing technological infrastructure to facilitate the
 processing of online payment transactions. 47. Reliance was placed on the following observations as appearing
 in Lotus Pay Solutions:- 48. Mr. Poovayya submitted that Lotus Pay Solutions in clear and
 unequivocal terms recognises the distinction between a PA and an
 OPGSP. It was also highlighted that the Court in Lotus Pay Solutions
 had also clearly found that this distinction rested on the fact that
 OPGSPs do not handle funds and merely put in place a technology
 interface which facilitates the completion of online payment
 transactions. 49. PayPal then asserted that by virtue of being an OPGSP, it carries
 on its functions in India strictly in accordance with the OPGSP
 guidelines as framed by RBI and which stand encapsulated in its
 circular dated 24 September 2015. According to PayPal, the
 distinction between a PA and an OPGSP also comes to the fore when
 one analyses various circulars issued by RBI. It was pointed out that
 even the OPGSP guidelines in unambiguous terms recognise such
 entities to be those which merely facilitate the processing of an online
 payment transaction without being involved in the actual handling of
 funds. 50. It was further submitted that those guidelines also do not lend
 credence or advance the case of the respondents by merely stipulating
 that the provisions of the PMLA would be applicable. It was
 submitted that those circulars merely refer to an obligation placed on
 entities to abide by all applicable laws. It was submitted that unless it
 could be successfully established that PayPal operates a payment
 system, PMLA would clearly not be a relevant statute whose
 provisions would stand attracted. 51. Insofar as the submissions urged by the respondents of PayPal
 being obliged to onboard foreign buyers as well is concerned, it was
 submitted that onboarding of customers in terms of the architecture of
 the technology interface only requires the Indian customer to be
 onboarded by PayPal. It was pointed out that such onboarding is
 effected strictly in accordance with the contractual standing
 arrangements which PayPal has entered with AD Banks. In terms of
 those contractual obligations, PayPal disclosed that all relevant
 transaction information containing data points such as name, city,
 state, country, telephone, mobile, email and other relevant details are
 in fact furnished by it to AD Banks. It was further submitted that the
 remaining information data points which number approximately 1440
 are duly captured in Cross Border Wire Transaction Report14
 prepared by the AD Banks and which in turn is forwarded to FIU-
 IND. CBWTR W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 66 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 52. It was further submitted that as would be evident from Clauses
 2.1 and 2.2, it is manifest that due diligence obligations are placed on
 the AD Banks as opposed to an OPGSP. Taking the Court through
 paragraph 4 of the OPGSP guidelines and which deals with the subject
 of export transactions, it was again submitted that all obligations
 including those concerning the opening of a NOSTRO collection
 account as well as maintenance of an Export Collection Account are
 those which are placed on AD Banks as opposed to an OPGSP. 53. Mr. Poovayya further argued that undisputedly PMLA imposes
 numerous penal sanctions. It was submitted that it is a settled principle
 that statutes with penal implications ought to be interpreted strictly
 and its provisions be not accorded an expansive construction. Reliance
 in support of the aforesaid was placed on the following enunciation on
 the legal position in Glaxo Laboratories (I) Ltd. vs. Presiding
 Officer :-15
 ― 22. Having examined the matter both on principle and
 precedent, it would clearly emerge that clause 10 of Standing Order
 22 which collects various heads of misconduct must be strictly
 construed being a penal provision in the sense that on the proof of a
 misconduct therein enumerated, penalty up to and inclusive of
 dismissal from service can be imposed. We see no reason for
 departing from the well-established canon of construction that
 penal provisions must receive strict construction, and not extended
 beyond their normal requirement. The framer's intention in using
 the expression ―committed within the premises of the establishment
 or in the vicinity thereof‖ are the words of limitation and they must
 receive due attention at the hands of the interpreter and the clause
 should not receive such broad construction as to render the last
 clause redundant.‖ 15 (1984) 1 SCC 1 W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 67 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 54. It was contended that the provisions of PMLA must be construed
 strictly and notwithstanding the mischief and the malice of money
 laundering which it seeks to tackle. It was argued that even if it were
 accepted that PMLA embodies both regulatory as well as penal
 provisions that too would not detract from the provisions of Section
 2(1)(rb) being interpreted by employing the rule of strict construction. 55. Mr. Poovayya submitted that if the terms of the definition of a
 payment system be found to be specific and unambiguous, it cannot be
 accorded a hypothetical interpretation solely for the purposes of
 including PayPal as a payment system operator, even though it clearly
 stands excluded. Reliance was placed on the following passages as
 appearing in the decision of the Supreme Court in Kanai Lal Sur vs.
 Paramnidhi Sadhukhan16 :- 56. Mr. Poovayya further submitted that the impugned order suffers
 from a more fundamental fallacy since the same proceeds on the
 precept of a ―deemed‖ payment system operator. It was contended that
 in the absence of the statute deploying a deemed fiction, the
 respondents could not have introduced the concept of a deemed
 payment system operator. According to PayPal while holding it to be a
 deemed payment system operator, FIU-IND has clearly travelled far
 beyond the statute itself quite apart from having exceeded the
 jurisdiction and authority conferred upon it. It was further urged that
 while the scourge of terror financing is liable to be prevented and
 effective safeguards need to be adopted to fight that malaise, that
 alone cannot constitute a valid ground for PayPal being held to be a
 reporting agency under the statute. 57. Mr. Poovayya submitted that while, undisputedly, FIU-IND is
 bound by the international obligations which flow from the various
 international covenants to which India is a party as well as the
 Financial Action Task Force17 directives that cannot possibly be a
 ground for either re-writing Section 2(1)(rb) or for holding PayPal to
 be covered by that provision. Mr. Poovayya further submitted that if
 the provisions of the PMLA do not cover PayPal, it cannot be forced 17 FATF W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 69 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 to become a reporting entity merely to subserve the international
 obligations of FIU-IND. 58. In any case, PayPal submitted that it had proffered various
 suggestions to FIU-IND in order to aid and assist its fight against
 terror financing. Mr. Poovayya pointed out that while PayPal remains
 bound to cooperate with the FIU-IND in its fight against terror
 financing and money laundering, it cannot be compelled to concede to
 be a reporting entity even though the statute does not render an
 OPGSP to either fall within the scope of a payment system or be liable
 to be held to be a payment system operator. F. CONTENTIONS OF FIU-IND 59. Advancing submissions on behalf of FIU-IND Mr. Hossain,
 learned counsel firstly urged that the challenge as mounted by PayPal
 ignores well settled principles of statutory interpretation. Mr. Hossain
 submitted that it is by now well-settled that a statutory provision must
 be interpreted consistent with the purpose of the enactment. It was
 pointed out that there exists a stark and evident difference between the
 PSS Act and PMLA. According to Mr. Hossain, while the former is
 merely a financial regulatory statute, PMLA constructs a framework
 which is intended to deal with special fiscal offences and illicit
 financial flows. In view of the aforesaid, it was submitted that the
 mere fact that PayPal is not recognised to be covered by the provisions
 of the PSS Act would not be determinative of the question of whether W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 70 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 it is liable to be treated as a payment system operator under the
 PMLA. It was further submitted that the very fact that the framers of
 the PMLA chose to independently define
 "payment system" and "payment system operator" rather than merely
 incorporating through reference and adopting the provisions of the
 PSS Act is indicative of the legislative intent to confer a different and
 distinct meaning upon the phrase "payment system" for the purposes
 of the former. According to Mr. Hossain, the fact that the Legislature
 did not adopt the well-known tool of incorporation by reference is an
 important indicator of the distinct regimes which stand created under
 the two statutes. Mr. Hossain submitted that regard must also be had
 to the fact that PMLA is a statute with a dual character in the sense of
 it containing penal as well as preventive and regulatory provisions. 60. It was submitted that merely because PayPal is required to be
 registered as a reporting entity under the PMLA, the same cannot
 possibly be held to be an obligation which is penal in character. The
 fact that PMLA comprises of both penal as well as regulatory
 averments, Mr. Hossain pointed out was one which stands duly
 recognised by the Supreme Court in Vijay Madan Lal Choudhary
 vs. Union of India & Ors18 itself. 61. In order to impress upon the Court, the extent of operations that
 occur on the interface created by PayPal, Mr. Hossain stated that the 18 2022 SCC OnLine SC 929 W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 71 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 nodal account maintained by PayPal in India with Citibank witnessed
 export transactions of a combined value of more than Rs.12,000 crores
 in 2021. The details of transactions were also set out in paragraph 8 of
 the written submissions filed on behalf of FIU-IND in these
 proceedings and the table so presented is extracted hereinbelow:- 62. Mr. Hossain also questioned the assertion of PayPal being
 unaware of the overseas remitter and its assertion that it does not
 onboard the foreign or overseas buyer. Mr. Hossain drew the attention
 of the Court to the disclosures made in the counter affidavit filed in
 these proceedings and more particularly to Paragraphs 98 and 99
 thereof which read thus:- Five lakh Indian rupees which considering the risk that such funds
 pose to the country's Anti-Money Laundering and Countering of
 Terrorist Financing Framework, the government in its wisdom
 deemed it fit to be reported under the provisions of PMLA and the
 Rules thereunder. The amount of hindrance
 created by the petitioner in the legitimate functioning of FIU-India
 can be gauged from the fact that there were more than 22000 cross
 border wire transactions involving fund transfer of the tune of Rs.
 2500 crores that were reported by just one bank i.e. Citibank for
 transactions carried out between 01.04.2017 and 31.07.2020
 through PayPal and all these transactions had been reported
 without actual remitter details because the petitioner held W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 73 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 back the said information. ‖ 63. Since the emails addressed by Citibank, the nodal partner of
 PayPal, would have some bearing on the issues which stand raised, the
 contents thereof are reproduced hereinbelow:- 64. In paragraph 100, FIU-IND then refers to the communications
 which were exchanged between it and SBI Card and Payment Services
 Limited. The exchange of these communications is detailed in
 paragraph 100 of the counter affidavit which reads as follows:- 65. Mr. Hossain also argued that PayPal through its concerned or
 parent entity has also committed to comply with analogous
 legislations prevalent in United States, Australia, Hong Kong and
 Luxembourg to name a few. He also drew the attention of the Court to
 the following disclaimer as appearing on the website of the parent
 entity of PayPal which reads as follows: - 66. Mr. Hossain submitted that PayPal for unjustifiable reasons is
 seeking to create an exception insofar as India is concerned and thus W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 76 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 seeking exemption from coverage under the PMLA. It was submitted
 that the questions which stand raised cannot be fully appreciated
 without bearing in mind the various obligations which India is obliged
 to discharge by virtue of being a member of FATF and comply with
 the global efforts to fight the malaise of money-laundering. 67. It was submitted that the fight against money-laundering in order
 to succeed must keep in step with the digital transformation which is
 reshaping the economies and societies across the globe. It was
 submitted that the anti-money-laundering and counter terrorist
 financing modes adopted by nations across the globe rest upon the
 exchange of financial intelligence. It was submitted that FIU-IND is a
 member of the Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units, a global
 organisation consisting of 167 global FIUs which came to be
 constituted to enable FIUs established in various jurisdictions to sit on
 a common platform and thus enabling exchange of expertise and
 financial intelligence needed to combat money-laundering, terror
 financing and associated predicated crimes. FIU-IND also placed on
 the record the details evidencing a regular exchange of information
 and intelligence with partnering FIUs situate overseas. Those details
 are extracted hereinbelow: - 68. It was submitted that the failure of PayPal to register as a
 reporting entity is continuing to cause harm to vital security and law
 enforcement interests and resulting in FIU-IND being deprived of full
 transactional information which is not shared by the petitioner even
 with its nodal bank. It was submitted that even when the data is
 presently shared by the petitioner with its nodal bank, the same is an
 activity which is undertaken only on a monthly ad hoc basis and thus
 undermining the value of the data itself which, ceases in many
 situations to constitute actionable financial intelligence. It was
 additionally pointed out that even where transaction data is shared by
 the nodal bank, it is usually incomplete and does not include key data
 fields such as sender reference, originating bank details, beneficiary
 address and payment particulars. 69. In addition, it was submitted that the rule of strict construction of
 regulatory statutes was one which was duly propounded by the
 Supreme Court in Balram Kumawat vs. UOI19 where it was
 observed as follows:- 70. It was the submission of Mr. Hossain that money-laundering and
 financial crimes clearly fall in the genre of crimes of a special nature
 and which thus warrant the provisions of the PMLA being interpreted
 in a manner where the plain intention of Parliament is subserved. It
 was submitted that unless the provisions of the PMLA were to be
 interpreted bearing the aforesaid aspects in mind, it would clearly
 result in a proliferation of unmonitored channels of finance and
 facilitate the very mischief sought to be to be addressed by PMLA. 71. Mr. Hossain submitted that if Section 2(1)(rb) were to be
 interpreted and accepted on lines advocated by the petitioner, it would
 clearly hinder the anti money-laundering and counterterrorist
 financing measures which India seeks to adopt. Mr. Hossain also in
 aid of his submissions invited the attention of the Court to the
 judgement of the Supreme Court in Baldeo Krishna Sahi v. Shipping
 Corp of India Ltd20 which had held that a statute must not be
 interpreted in a manner which would either promote a mischief or
 create a lacuna. (1987) 4 SCC 361, 366 W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 79 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 72. Turning then to the provisions of the relevant provisions of
 PMLA itself, Mr. Hossain argued that Section 2(1)(rb) significantly
 uses the expression ―enables‖ while dealing with the subject of
 payment which is to be effected between a payer and a beneficiary. Of
 equal significance, Mr. Hossain would urge is the insertion of the
 word ―or‖ between payment and settlement service. It was further
 underlined that Section 2(1)(rb) thus clearly has been constructed in
 order to include a wide category of entities which facilitate payments. 73. According to Mr. Hossain, PayPal principally discharges a role
 of facilitating payment transactions. Mr. Hossain submitted that it
 would thus be clear that the technological platform created by PayPal
 would clearly fall within the ambit of a payment system as defined
 under the PMLA. It was further urged that merely because PayPal
 does not directly engage in clearing or settlement activities relating to
 monetary transactions would not detract from it being recognised to be
 a system which involves payment services. 74. Reference was made in this regard to the definition of the word
 ―enable‖ as contained in Stroud's Judicial Dictionary and which is
 reproduced hereinbelow: - 75. According to Mr. Hossain, of equal significance is the placement
 of a comma between the expressions ―clearing‖ and ―payment‖
 coupled with the use of the disjunctive word ―or‖ in Section 2(1)(rb) .
 Reliance was placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in Rasila
 S. Mehta & Ors. vs. Custodian, Nariman Bhavan21 where the
 meaning to be accorded to the expression ―involving‖ arose. Mr.
 Hossain referred to the following passages from that decision:- 76. In Jyoti H. Mehta v. Custodian [(2009) 10 SCC 564 : (2010) 2
 SCC (Cri) 1494] , this Court from paras 33 to 38 has held that the Special Court Act is a special statute and is a complete code in
 itself. The purpose and object for which it was created was to
 punish the persons who were involved in the act for criminal
 misconduct in respect of defrauding banks and financial
 institutions and its object was to see that the properties of those
 who were involved shall be appropriated for the discharge of
 liabilities of not only banks and financial institutions but also other
 governmental agencies. In construing the statute of this nature the
 court should not always adhere to a literal meaning but should
 construe the same, keeping in view the larger public interest. For
 the said purpose, the court may also take recourse to the basic rules
 of interpretation, namely, ut res magis valeat quam pereat to see
 that a machinery must be so construed as to effectuate the liability
 imposed by the charging section and to make the machinery
 workable. 77. The statutes must be construed in a manner which will suppress
 the mischief and advance the object the legislature had in view. A
 narrow construction which tends to stultify the law must not be
 taken. Contextual reading is a well-known proposition of
 interpretation of statute. The clauses of a statute should be
 construed with reference to the context vis-à-vis the other
 provisions so as to make a consistent enactment of the whole
 statute relating to the subject-matter. Furthermore, even in relation
 to a penal statute any narrow and pedantic, literal and lexical
 construction may not always be given effect to. The law would
 have to be interpreted having regard to the subject-matter of the
 offence and the object of the law it seeks to achieve. The purpose W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 82 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 of the law is not to allow the offender to sneak out of the meshes of
 law. The courts will reject the construction which will defeat the
 plain intention of the legislature even though there may be some
 inexactitude in the language used. 78. Reducing the legislation (sic to a) futility shall be avoided and
 in a case where the intention of the legislature cannot be given
 effect to, the courts would accept the bolder construction for the
 purpose of bringing about an effective result. The courts, when rule
 of purposive construction is gaining momentum, should be very
 reluctant to hold that Parliament has achieved nothing by the
 language it used when it is tolerably plain what it seeks to
 achieve." G. RBI'S POSITION 76. Appearing for RBI Mr. Tripathi, learned senior counsel at the
 outset, submitted that the affidavit tendered on its behalf in Abhijit
 Mishra cannot be viewed as being dispositive of the question which
 stands raised. According to Mr. Tripathi, the said affidavit is liable to
 be read and appreciated in the context of the statute which formed the
 subject matter of those proceedings, namely, the PSS Act. Mr.
 Tripathi drew the attention of the Court to the Preamble of the PSS
 Act and submitted that a reading thereof would establish that the said
 statute is principally concerned with the regulation and supervision of
 payment systems involved in the actual transmission of funds between
 the payer and a beneficiary. According to Mr. Tripathi, the object of
 the PMLA, on the other hand, is clearly distinct and different. Mr.
 Tripathi submitted that PMLA is fundamentally concerned with
 prevention, regulation and carrying forward the fight against the crime
 of money-laundering. 77. It was submitted that PMLA came to be enacted with the avowed
 objective of investigating offences of money-laundering and for
 punishment being meted out to those who are found guilty of the
 commission of the said offence. Mr. Tripathi invited our attention to
 the succinct observations as entered by the Bombay High Court in the
 matter of Babulal Verma and Another vs. Enforcement
 Directorate22 where the objectives of the PMLA were explained in
 the following terms:- 78. Mr. Tripathi also referred to the following passages from Babulal
 Verma in order to delineate the principles which must be borne in
 mind while construing the provisions of the PMLA:- Every provision and word must be looked at generally and in the
 context in which it is used. Elementary principle of interpreting
 any word while considering a statute is to gather the intention of
 the legislature. The Court can make a purposeful interpretation so
 as to effectuate the intention of the legislature and not a
 purposeless one in order to defeat the intention of the legislature
 wholly or in part. 24. At the time of debate in Rajya Sabha, while introducing Amendment to the Finance Act on 17 December, 2012, the then
 Finance Minister has categorically made the aforestated statements
 as reproduced in para No. 5 page No. 8 above. From the
 statement of the Finance Minister, it can be clearly discerned that,
 or lodgement for an offence under the PMLA, there must be a
 Predicate Offence and it is dealing with the proceeds of a crime.
 The information published by Respondent No. 1-ED pertaining
 to FAQs, for an answer to question No. 13 therein, it has been
 specifically stated that, every Scheduled Offence is a Predicate
 Offence. The Scheduled Offence is called Predicate Offence and
 the occurrence of the same is prerequisite for initiating
 investigation into the offence of money-laundering. 25. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, in the case of P. Chidambaram (Supra) while considering various provisions of PMLA and in
 particular Section 2(1)(y) , which defines ―Scheduled Offence‖ has
 held that, ―Scheduled Offence‖ is a sine qua non for the
 offence of money-laundering which would generate the money that
 is being laundered. It is held that, PMLA contains schedules, which
 originally contained three parts namely, Part-A, Part-B and Part-C. 26. The Division Bench of this Court in the case of Radha Mohan
 Lakhotia (Supra) in para No. 13 has held that, Sections 3 and 4 of
 the Act deal with the offence of money laundering and punishment
 for money-laundering respectively. That, both these
 provisions, even on strict construction, plainly indicate that, the
 person to be proceeded for this offence need not necessarily be
 charged of having committed a Scheduled Offence. For the
 Expression used is ―whosoever‖. The offence of money laundering
 under Section 3 of the Act is an independent offence. It is W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 85 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 committed if ―any person‖ directly or indirectly attends to indulge
 or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is actually
 involving any process or activity connected with the proceeds
 of crime and projecting it as untainted property. The Division
 Bench thus in unequivocal terms has held that, the offence of
 money-laundering under Section 3 of the PMLA is an independent
 offence. 27. The Division Bench of Madras High Court in the case of VGN
 Developers P. Ltd. (Supra) has relied upon the decision in the case
 of Radha Mohan Lakhotia (Supra). The Madras High Court
 accepted the contention of the learned Additional Solicitor General
 appearing therein, that, the PMLA is self-contained and stand alone
 and thus, independent of predicating offence. It has been held that,
 it cannot be stated that, a mere closure by the CBI would provide a
 death knell to the proceedings of the Respondent (i.e. ED therein).
 That, in a given case, the complaint may emanate from
 a registration of a case involving scheduled offence. But the fate of
 the investigation in the said scheduled offence cannot have bearing
 to the proceedings under the PMLA. From the reading of the said
 decision it is clear that, mere filing of closure report by
 the Investigating Agency will not create any impediment or hurdle
 in the process of investigation by the ED of an offence registered
 under PMLA and being investigated by it. 28. It is thus absolutely clear that, for initiation/registration of a
 crime under the PMLA, the only necessity is registration of a
 Predicate/Scheduled Offence as prescribed in various Paragraphs
 of the Schedule appended to the Act and nothing more than it.
 In other words, for initiating or setting the criminal law in motion
 under the PMLA, it is only that requirement of having a
 predicate/Scheduled crime registered prior to it.
 Once an offence under the PMLA is registered on the basis of a
 Scheduled Offence, then it stands on its own and it thereafter does
 not require support of Predicate/Scheduled Offence. It further does
 not depend upon the ultimate result of the Predicate/Scheduled
 Offence. Even if the Predicate/Scheduled Offence is
 compromised, compounded, quashed or the accused therein is/are
 acquitted, the investigation of ED under PMLA does not get
 affected, wiped away or ceased to continue. It may continue till the
 ED concludes investigation and either files complaint
 or closure report before the Court of competent jurisdiction. 29. The language of Sections 3 and 4 of PMLA, makes it
 absolutely clear that, the investigation of an offence under Section W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 86 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 3, which is punishable under Section 4 , is not dependent upon the
 ultimate result of the Predicate/Scheduled Offence. In other words,
 it is a totally independent investigation as defined and
 contemplated under Section 2(na) , of an offence committed under Section 3 of the said Act. 30. PMLA is a special statute enacted with a specific object i.e. to
 track and investigate cases of money-laundering. Therefore, after
 lodgment of Predicate/Scheduled Offence, its ultimate result will
 not have any bearing on the lodgment/investigation of a crime
 under the PMLA and the offence under the PMLA will survive and
 stand alone on its own. A Predicate/Scheduled Offence is
 necessary only for registration of crime/launching prosecution
 under PMLA and once a crime is registered under the PMLA, then
 the ED has to take it to its logical end, as contemplated under Section 44 of the Act.‖ 79. Learned senior counsel further submitted that the expression
 "payment system" as defined under the PSS Act cannot be
 mechanically applied or imputed while understanding the scope and
 intent of the Legislature in seeking to regulate the activities of a
 payment system operator under the PMLA. This, according to Mr.
 Tripathi, would clearly flow from the fact that the PSS Act operates in
 an entirely different sphere. It was submitted that even though the
 definition of a ―payment system‖ be more or less identical in the two
 statutes, the same would have to be appreciated bearing in mind the
 well settled principle of statutory interpretation that identical words
 employed in two separate statutes may be ordained and intended to
 carry completely different meanings. According to Mr. Tripathi, it
 would be the principle of contextual interpretation which would apply
 in order to understand and appreciate the distinction which must
 necessarily be understood to exist and the meaning liable to be W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 87 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 ascribed to the phrase ―payment system‖ under the two statutes. 80. In support of the aforenoted submissions, reliance was placed on
 the following pertinent observations as entered by the Constitution
 Bench in D.N. Banerjee vs. P.R. Mukherjee and others23: - 81. Mr. Tripathi in support of the aforesaid contention also relied
 upon the following pertinent observations as appearing in the decision
 of the Supreme Court in Commissioner of Central Excise v Shree 23 AIR 1953 SC 58 W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 88 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan Ltd.24 :- 82. Continuing along this thread, Mr. Tripathi, further submitted that
 an identical word while appearing in the very same statute may, if
 circumstances so warrant, be liable to be interpreted in different ways
 based on the context in which it is placed. Learned senior counsel
 sought to draw sustenance in this respect on the following succinct
 observations as appearing in the decision of the Supreme Court in
 Whirlpool v. Registrar of Trademarks25:- 83. To buttress the aforesaid proposition, Mr. Tripathi, additionally
 referred to the following passage from the decision of the Supreme
 Court in Jagir Singh vs. State of Bihar26 :- 84. In order to expand upon the objectives underlying the PSS Act,
 Mr. Tripathi also relied upon the following observations as were
 rendered by the Supreme Court in Internet and Mobile Assn. v.
 Reserve Bank of India 27
 ―157. Apart from the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934 and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 , the impugned Circular also refers to 26 (1976) 2 SCC 942 27 (2020) 10 SCC 274 W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 90 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 the power under Section 18 of the Payment and Settlement Systems
 Act, 2007. In order to buttress their contention regarding the
 availability of power to regulate, the petitioners refer to the
 definition of the expression ―payment system‖ under Section
 2(1)(i) of the said Act and contend that VCEs do not operate any
 payment system and that since the power to issue directions under Section 18 is only to regulate the payment systems, the invocation
 of the said power to something that does not fall within the purview
 of payment system, is arbitrary. 158. But Section 18 of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act
 indicates (i) what RBI can do, (ii) the persons qua whom it can be
 done, and (iii) the object for which it can be done. In other words, Section 18 empowers RBI (i) to lay down policies relating to the
 regulation of payment systems including electronic, non-electronic,
 domestic and international payment systems affecting domestic
 transactions and (ii) to give such directions as it may consider
 necessary. These are what RBI can do under Section 18 . Coming to
 the second aspect, the persons qua whom the powers under Section
 18 can be exercised are (i) system providers (ii) system participants
 and (iii) any other person generally or any such agency. The
 expression ―system provider‖ is defined under Section 2(1)(q) to
 mean a person who operates an authorised payment system. The
 expression ―system participant‖ is defined in Section 2(1)(p) to
 mean a bank or any other person participating in a payment system,
 including the system provider. Other than the expressions ―system
 provider‖ and ―system participant‖, Section 18 also uses the
 expressions ―any other person‖ and ―any such agency‖. 159. It is true that the purposes for which the power under Section
 18 can be exercised, are also indicated in Section 18 . They are (i)
 regulation of the payment systems, (ii) the interest of the
 management and operation of any payment system, and (iii) public
 interest. 160. As we have pointed out elsewhere, the impugned Circular is
 primarily addressed to banks who are ―system participants‖ within
 the meaning of Section 2(1)(p) . The banks certainly have a system
 of payment to be effected between a payer and a beneficiary,
 falling thereby within the meaning of the expression payment
 system. 161. It may also be relevant to take note of the definition of the
 expressions ―payment instruction‖ and ―payment obligation‖
 appearing in clauses (g) and (h) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 91 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 which read as follows: 162. Therefore, in the overall scheme of the Payment and
 Settlement Systems Act, 2007 , it is impossible to say that RBI does
 not have the power to frame policies and issue directions to banks
 who are system participants, with respect to transactions that will
 fall under the category of payment obligation or payment
 instruction, if not a payment system. Hence, the argument
 revolving around Section 18 should fail.‖ 85. In view of the aforesaid, it was his submission that neither the
 affidavit of RBI filed in Abhijit Mishra, nor the mere fact that the
 expression "payment system" is identically defined under the PSS and
 PMLA Acts would lend credence to the submissions addressed on
 behalf of PayPal. 86. Proceeding further, Mr. Tripathi submitted that even the
 Committee which came to be constituted by this Court has correctly
 appreciated the distinction which is liable to be recognised to exist
 when the PMLA chooses to define a payment system and referred to
 the stand of the Department of Revenue which was noticed as under:- 87. Mr. Tripathi also drew the attention of the Court to the ultimate W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 93 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 conclusions which came to be recorded by that Committee when it
 opined as under: - 88. Reverting then to the affidavit filed in Abhijit Mishra, it was
 pointed out that the said affidavit must be understood bearing in mind
 the regulatory regime which prevailed at the relevant time and
 governed payment aggregation services. It was submitted that while
 RBI at that time had adopted a "light touch" approach by advising
 banks to exercise caution on their part and to follow instructions, with
 the exponential increase in online transactions and the expanding roles
 performed by such intermediaries, it decided to regulate PA activities
 in terms of its circular of 17 March 2020. It was submitted by Mr.
 Tripathi that in light of the prevalent scenario and bearing in mind the W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 94 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 Anti-Money Laundering /Terror Financing28 risks and challenges
 which face the Nation, the provisions of the PMLA must be accorded
 a purposive interpretation and PayPal held to be a payment system
 operator. H. PROCEEDINGS ON THE PETITION 89. It would be appropriate to pause at this juncture and briefly take
 note of certain proceedings which ensued prior to the matter being
 closed for judgement. The Court on 12 January 2021 had taken note of
 the issues which stood raised and proceeded to constitute a Committee
 comprising of nominees of the RBI as well as the Ministry of Finance
 and other stakeholders so that a principled view of those authorities
 may be elicited for the consideration of the Court. The deliberations
 which ensued and the conclusions which ultimately came to be
 recorded by that Committee have already been extracted hereinabove. 90. During the course of the preliminary submissions which were
 addressed, the Court on 15 December 2022 also accorded liberty to
 parties to place a short note explaining the business model of PayPal
 and why according to FIU-IND, it was liable to be viewed as a
 reporting entity under the PMLA. Pursuant to the liberty so granted,
 FIU-IND in terms of its Note of 16 January 2023 highlighted the
 following issues:- Resolution of all payment related complaints in India shall
 remain theresponsibility of the OPGSP concerned.‖ 5. This makes it clear that, by regulation, the Petitioner is
 required to conduct onboarding due diligence. In order to comply
 with this requirement it is clear that the Petitioner must collect and
 process various data points relating to the business and profile of
 the merchants it onboards. Within context of this binding
 obligation, it is not open for the Petitioner now to claim that it
 merely serves as an intermediary entity. 6. In view of its requirement to conduct due diligence and
 onboard of transacting parties, the Petitioner would reasonably be
 expected to collect at least the following data points at the time of
 onboarding as well as on an ongoing basis. As relevant to the
 present context where the Petitioner is facilitating exports from
 India, such data points would be relevant in connection with the
 Indian exporter as well as the foreign remitter (to the extent relevant
 / applicable). Entity / Person line of business Required to complete transactions; for
 onboarding diligence; and screening
 against blacklists. licensing details (if applicable) transactions; for onboarding diligence;
 Entity / Person contact Required to complete transactions and
 information including website, provide services;
 email, and phone number
 Whether entity / person has Required to protect business from fraud;
 been blocked or suspended for
 fraudulent activity
 Whether any law Required for screening against blacklists.
 enforcement requests have
 been received in respect of
 Entity / Person
 Note: The above data points are illustrative only and, in the
 experience of FIU-IND, most large entities in the payments ecosystem
 collect a large number of datapoints beyond the above. 7. Further, at the time of the Impugned Order, the Petitioner
 was also operating its domestic business. The arguments above
 apply in equal measure to this business while it was in operation. 8. In prior hearings, the Petitioner has also sought to equate its
 business model with other common applications e.g. UPI
 applications (which are referred to as Third Party Application
 Providers (TPAPs) in the UPI ecosystem). However, such
 comparisons are completely misleading and factually erroneous. In
 the case of the UPI ecosystem, TPAPs are basically software /
 application providers which provide an interface to access the UPI
 ecosystem through a bank. They do not themselves onboard
 customers - which is done by banks and TPAPs merely provide a
 new interface through which banks and UPI can be interacted with.
 In contrast: 9. In connection with the business model, the following points
 assume critical importance: Each and every data points lends itself to analysis when seen
 within a large dataset and each and every data point can serve as a
 valuable tool in detecting, deterring, and investigating illicit W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 99 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 financial flows. In this regard, it is the sole prerogative of FIU-
 IND, which is possessed with the requisite expertise, to determine
 which data points are of value from a broader financial intelligence
 perspective. 13. In this regard, it is not open for the Petitioner to submit that
 it only maintains some data points and rest are filled in by its
 banking partner. Even if there is a single data point collected by or
 available to the Petitioner, the same serves as a basis for valuable
 analytics and pattern detection at the end of FIU-IND. Therefore,
 the admission of the Petitioner that it provides certain data points
 not otherwise available to its banking partner itself demonstrates
 the value of bringing it within the financial intelligence reporting
 net. 14. Flowing from the above, it is important to understand that
 FIU-IND receives a wide variety of reports from ‗reporting
 entities'. This includes: 15. In this regard, the case of the Petitioner is that it meets its
 obligations by supplying all information available to it to its
 banking partner which files reports. The Petitioner has even
 provided the fields of the cross-border wire transfer report format
 to demonstrate how the same is populated. However, in doing so, the
 Petitioner is attempting to mislead the court by setting its own
 goalpost. As discussed above, the cross-border wire transfer report
 is merely one of the many threshold reports received by FIU-IND
 from ‗reporting entities'. Merely demonstrating that it provides
 certain information to the bank in connection with the same format
 does not account for the other types of reports required to be filed by
 ‗reporting entities'. 16. In this regard, of particular concern are ‗suspicious
 transaction reports' which are the most valuable type of report
 received by FIU-IND. Such reports are based on subjective W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 100 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 assessments of ‗reporting entities' that certain transactions may
 directly relate to the proceeds of crime or some other illicit
 financial activity. By collecting STRs, FIU-INDpushes the frontiers
 of intelligence collection and early warning and creates a
 framework whereby every stakeholder in the financial ecosystem is
 incentivised to undertake actions to detect and report potential
 criminality. Given the scale of criminal misuse of the financial
 system, such a framework - leveraging maximum number of
 stakeholders - is crucial to the early detection and deterrence of
 illicit financial flows. It is essential that every single stakeholder
 plays its part to protect the public as well as the system from illicit
 financial flows. The Petitioner's case is silent on STR reporting. 17. As a responsible stakeholder in the financial ecosystem, the
 Petitioner itself must also use all available data points and its
 resources to detect and report STRs. These are subjective and
 based on assessment of the respective ‗reporting entity'. These go
 far beyond the threshold reports and, therefore, the data points
 populated by the Petitioner in the CBWTR format are wholly
 irrelevant and misleading. The fact remains that the CBWTR is
 merely one type of report filed by a ‗reporting entity' and the data
 points to be leveraged to report the same are limited in nature. In
 contrast, STR reporting requires every ‗reporting entity' to leverage
 all data points available to it to report to FIU-IND. The Petitioner,
 by its own admission, collects several data points exclusive to it.
 Regardless of whether the same are shared with its banking
 partner, the fact remains that the Petitioner is best placed to analyse
 and report STRs based on the same. 18. Therein lies the logical inconsistency within the case of the
 Petitioner. On one hand, the Petitioner is at pains to point out that it
 shares certain data points with banks. In doing so, the Petitioner
 acknowledges and admits that certain data points (which are
 shared) are only available with it. Such admission itself establishes
 the case that the Petitioner itself is only privy to certain data points
 which can serve as basis for reporting of STRs and other reports.
 Even a single data point collected by the Petitioner must be
 leveraged to full extent. Therefore, the admission of the Petitioner
 establishes the needfor it to be covered as a ‗reporting entity'.
 The Petitioner in choosing to present its data points in a specific
 reporting format also seeks to mislead the Court on another front -
 its extensive collection of technical metadata (e.g. IP addresses).
 There is no doubt that the Petitioner collects such information.
 However, by the Petitioner's own illustration the same does not W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 101 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 flow to its banking partner. Therefore, it is clear that the Petitioner
 presents a misleading picture when it chooses to present its data
 elements in the CBWTR format. Further, the fact that such data is
 required to be leveraged for STR reporting is conveniently glossed
 over by the Petitioner by relying on a format for a narrow
 purpose.‖ 92. FIU-IND also alluded to the fact that PayPal was in fact
 complying with AML statutes prevalent across different jurisdictions.
 This was sought to be highlighted with the aid of a chart which stood
 appended to that note and the same is extracted hereinbelow: - It is these submissions which fall for consideration. I. MONEY LAUNDERING - GLOBAL EXPERIENCES 98. It must at the outset be acknowledged that the menace of
 money laundering is not an ―India centric‖ issue. It is a transnational
 phenomenon and an international challenge. In fact, the PMLA is an
 embodiment of India's resolve to join the concerted global effort in
 the fight against money laundering and terror financing. This is also
 evident from the fact that the legislation in question itself owes its W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 115 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 genesis to the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in
 Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, the recommendations of
 the Financial Action Task Force established at that summit and which
 was followed by the adoption of the United Nations General
 Assembly Resolution of 23 February 1990. As PMLA itself
 acknowledges, it came to be enacted in furtherance of India's
 international obligations to implement various United Nations
 Resolutions in terms of which member States were called upon to
 adopt national anti-money laundering legislations and programmes. 99. The history of the coordinated endeavour and integrated
 reporting measures adopted by nations to combat the threat of money
 laundering was elaborately traced by the Supreme Court in Vijay
 Madan Lal as would be evident from the following extracts of that
 decision: - [EndNote 181 : 181 (i) It has 8 or more Non-compliant
 NC/Partially Compliant (PC) ratings for technical
 compliance; (ii) It is rated NC/PC on any one or more of
 R.3, 5, 10, 11 and 20 ―big six‖ recommendations; or (iii)
 It has a low level of effectiveness for 4 or more of the 11
 effectiveness outcomes.] 98. It is further submitted that jurisdictions under monitoring
 then, based on their commitments and compliances, are put in two
 types of list viz., grey list and black list, which serve as a signal to
 the global financial and banking system about heightened risks in
 transactions with the country in question which not only severely
 affect its international reputation but also impose economic
 challenges, such as impacting the bond/credit market of the
 country, impacting the banking and financial sector of the
 country, affecting cross-border capital flows, especially for the W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 117 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 trade sector, documentary requirements for export and import
 payments, such as letters of credit may become more challenging
 to fulfil, potentially raising costs and hampering business for
 companies engaged in trade, adversely affecting the economy due
 to a lack of investment opportunities which may further
 deteriorate the financial health of the country and the country may
 also be deemed as a ‗high-risk country'. 99. Further, the learned Solicitor General has relied on a report by
 the International Monetary Fund182 (IMF) - Anti-Money
 Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism
 (AML/CFT) Report on the Effectiveness of the Program to state
 the potential economic effects that may arise from such financial
 crimes, such as destabilizing capital inflows and outflows, loss of
 access to international financial markets as a result of
 deterioration in the country's reputation, difficulty in supervising
 financial institutions, undermining of the stability of a country's
 financial system and adverse effect on growth of the country. 100. The respondent has further relied on Council of Europe
 Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of
 the Proceeds from Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism
 (2005) to state that nations are free to choose the definition of
 ‗predicate offences' for money-laundering purposes from the list
 of offences given under the Convention, for example, by
 providing a list of those offences, a category offences, or by
 reference to offences that have a maximum term of imprisonment
 of one year or more (or, for states that have minimum thresholds
 for offences, those with imprisonment of a minimum of six
 months) and to take measures which are preventive in nature. 101. To illustrate the global development of the approach against
 money-laundering, 1991 Money Laundering Directive (‗First
 Directive') adopted by the European Union is cited which
 imposed obligations on credit institutions and financial
 institutions in relation to customer identification and record-
 keeping, internal controls and training of staff and mandatory
 reporting of suspicious transactions. The Second Directive (2001)
 widened the number of institutions that fell within the scope of
 reporting obligations and also expanded the range of predicate
 offences for the purpose of money-laundering. EU Third
 Directive (2005) was directed to bring the EU legislation into line
 with the revisions to the FATF Recommendations and further W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 118 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 expanded the range of institutions within its scope to include life
 insurance intermediaries and widened the definition of high value
 dealers to capture those who accept cash payments of €15,000 or
 more. A definition of ‗serious crimes' was included that
 constituted ‗predicate offences', including all offences punishable
 by a maximum sentence of one year or more, or a minimum
 sentence of six months or more (in jurisdictions where minimum
 sentences are applied), as well as other specified offences
 including serious fraud and corruption. It is submitted that the EU
 Fourth Directive on Money Laundering (2015) aimed to improve
 the regulatory European framework after taking into account new
 FATF recommendations published in 2012. 103. To emphasize on the role of international cooperation to
 combat money-laundering, it has been stated that the Financial
 Intelligence Unit created by the Egmont Group, which is an
 international forum to combat money-laundering, should serve as
 a national centre for receiving, analyzing and disseminating
 suspicious transaction reports, and should have access on a timely
 basis to the financial, administrative and law enforcement
 information that it requires to properly undertake its functions as
 per the revised FATF Recommendations. 104. The Union of India has further traced the origin of the term
 ―money-laundering‖ and stated that the term arose in United
 States in 1920s, which was used by the American Police Officers
 with reference to the ownership and use of launderettes by mafia
 groups as the launderettes gave them a means of giving a
 legitimate appearance to money derived from criminal activities.
 The profits gained through these launderettes were thus termed
 ‗laundered'. Further, the term ‗money-laundering' was first used
 with a legal meaning in an American judgment of 1982
 concerning the confiscation of laundered Columbian drug
 proceeds. 107. It is stated that the principal sources of illegal proceeds are
 collar crimes (tax, fraud, corporate crimes, embezzlement and
 intellectual property crimes), drug related crimes and smuggling
 of goods, evasion of excise duties, corruption and bribery (and the
 embezzlement of public funds). 108. To show the global impact of money-laundering, it is
 submitted that the IMF and the FATF have estimated that the
 scale of money-laundering transactions is between 2% and 5% of
 the global GDP. It is also stated that the United Nations has W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 119 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 recently put the figure of money-laundering at USD 2.1 trillion or
 3.6% of global GDP. Thus, the operation of money-laundering
 has international dimension. It is submitted that measures being
 taken at the national level would be inadequate, which made it
 necessary to establish effective international co-operation
 mechanisms to allow national authorities to co-operate in the
 prevention and prosecution of money-laundering and in
 international ‗proceeds-hunting'. 110. It is stated that India, and its version of the PMLA, is
 ‗merely a cog in this international vehicle' and as India is a
 signatory to these treaties, therefore, is bound legally and morally,
 to adopt the best global practices and respond to the changing
 needs of the times. It is, therefore, submitted that the
 constitutionality of the PMLA has to be adjudicated from the
 stand point of the country's obligations and evolving
 responsibilities internationally. 257. Thus, it is clear from a bare reading of two very initial
 international Conventions attempting to establish a world order to
 curb money-laundering, gave a very wide interpretation to the
 concept of money-laundering. There has been a consensus that
 acquisition, possession, use, concealing or disguising the illicit
 origin of illegitimately obtained money to evade legal
 consequences would be money-laundering. Further, concealing
 and disguising too were clearly a part of money-laundering and as
 such there was no bar or understating that pointed to the fact that
 there was a need to project the monies as untainted. This was
 obviously subject to the fundamental principles of the domestic
 law of the countries. However, the growth of the jurisprudence in
 this law did not stop or end there. As we progressed into a world
 equipped with the internet and into a digital age, criminals found
 new ways to launder and the law found new ways to tackle them.
 In the meanwhile, the FATF was established and it started
 working towards a goal of preventing money-laundering. It has
 since its inception been aimed towards reducing cross border and
 intra State money-laundering activities. In this endeavour, it has
 made many concerted efforts to study, understand, develop and
 mutually evaluate the state of the compliance in countries towards
 reducing money-laundering. Today, as we will see, many of the
 amendments in the 2002 Act are in response to the
 recommendations of the FATF. Thereafter, forty
 recommendations dated 20.6.2003, were made by the FATF
 which had led to much deliberations go on to show that all W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 120 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 endeavours were to be Vienna and Palermo Conventions
 compliant. During the evolution of the jurisprudence on money-
 laundering, it was found that India was in fact lacking in some
 aspects of curbing money-laundering. Hence, the
 recommendations were made to India time and again...‖ 258. Thus, it is clear that certain recommendations were made by
 the FATF concerning the definition of money-laundering. It is
 also clear from public records that India has time and again, since
 the inception of the Act, made active efforts to follow and evolve
 its own laws in line with the mandates and recommendations of
 the FATF. Furthermore, it is noteworthy that even in other
 jurisdictions; the above-mentioned definition has gained a more
 holistic approach which is not per se the same as the colloquial
 term, ―money launder‖ or simply turning black money into white.
 In the UK and Spain, possession of criminal proceeds is covered
 under money-laundering, similarly by way of interpretation, the
 same is the case in Germany and Italy452. Following these
 recommendations, amendments were brought about in India....‖ 100. Insofar as FIU-IND is concerned, the same came to be set up
 pursuant to the ―40+9‖ recommendations of the FATF which obliged
 partnering countries to establish an intelligence unit that would serve
 as the focal point for receipt and analysis of Suspicious Transaction
 Reports [STRs'] as well as other information relating to money
 laundering and other associated predicate offences, the financing of
 terrorism, for dissemination of analytical results and to ultimately
 form part of a collaborative system for the benefit of member nations.
 The FIU-IND essentially acts as the central nodal agency for
 receiving, processing and analysing information relating to suspicious
 financial transactions. It is thus tasked with the collection of
 information, analysis thereof and the consequential sharing of
 information with other national intelligence and law enforcement W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 121 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 agencies. FIU-IND represents the coordinated mechanism adopted by
 nations aimed at strengthening the collection and sharing of financial
 intelligence by the creation of a national, regional and a global
 network to detect illicit financial flows and combat money laundering. 101. While the ubiquitous imprint of the internet has enabled
 nations and people to transcend borders and forms the backbone of the
 "wired world", it has also given rise to its fair share of attendant and
 ever evolving challenges. This is duly acknowledged in FATF's
 report on Emerging Terrorists Financing Risks published on 21
 October 2015. The Court deems it apposite to extract the following
 passages from that report: - The FTF phenomenon is not new, but the recent scaling up of
 individuals travelling to Iraq and Syria has been a challenge for
 many FATF members. FTFs are predominantly using traditional
 methods, particularly self-funding, to raise the funds they
 require to travel to the conflict areas. However, the novel aspect
 for jurisdictions is the challenge in identifying these individuals
 because of the relatively low amounts of funding they require and
 the speed with which they can acquire it. The report reveals that
 financial intelligence can assist in identifying FTFs in a number
 of ways. Close cooperation between authorities domestically and
 internationally and close partnerships between authorities and the
 private sector can assist to better identify FTFs and their facilitation
 networks. The report also shows that further work is required to shed
 light on blind spots in information about FTFs, including returnees.
 The role of social media in breeding violent extremism has been well
 reported but less is known about how it used to raise funds for
 terrorists and terrorist groups. The report finds that there are W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 123 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 significant vulnerabilities associated with social media, including
 anonymity, access to a wider range and number of potential
 sponsors or sympathisers and the relative ease with which it
 integrates electronic payment mechanisms. It is also apparent that
 donors are often unaware of the end-use of funds supported by social
 media, including crowdfunding, which presents a risk that terrorist
 organisations can exploit. This report finds that electronic, on-line and new payment
 methods pose an emerging terrorism financing vulnerability
 which may increase over the short term as the overall use and
 popularity of these systems grows. Many of these systems can be
 accessed globally and used to transfer funds quickly. While
 transactions may be traceable, it proves difficult to identify the actual
 end-user or beneficiary. This report presents a number of interesting
 cases, but the actual prevalence and level of exploitation of these
 technologies by terrorist groups and their supporters is not clear at
 this time and remains an ongoing information gap to be explored.
 The exploitation of natural resources for TF was raised as a
 substantial concern in the context of the Islamic State of Iraq and
 the Levant (ISIL) but this report has confirmed that it is also relevant
 for other terrorist organisations and regions. The ability to reap high
 rewards from the natural resources sector, coupled with the weak
 institutional capability, particular in or near areas of conflict, creates
 a significant vulnerability for terrorist organisations to capitalise on.
 This report finds that this issue is linked with criminal activity
 including extortion, smuggling, theft, illegal mining, kidnapping for
 ransom, corruption and other environmental crimes.
 This report builds on the findings of the Financing of the Terrorist
 Organisation of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant report (the
 ‗FATF ISIL report', 2015) and takes into account the activities of a
 broader range of terrorist organisations. The project benefited from
 the involvement of national experts from FATF's entire global
 network, including law enforcement, intelligence agencies and
 Financial Intelligence Units (FIUs). This report also takes into
 account recent initiatives by the United Nations, the Egmont Group
 of FIUs and the Members of the Counter-ISIL Coalition, specifically
 Counter ISIL Financing Group (CIFG). The project involved private
 sector feedback via their involvement in the FATF/ Financial Action
 Task Force of Latin America (GAFILAT) Joint Experts' Meeting on
 Terrorism Financing. This engagement with the private sector to
 identify TF risks has also laid the groundwork for future initiatives to W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 124 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 develop risk indicators which will be helpful to both private and
 public sectors. This report was developed in a short timeframe to provide a snapshot
 of the TF risks we see today. It is not a comprehensive assessment of
 those risks and the issues discussed in the report should be subject to
 further study. This report serves to raise awareness among FATF
 members and the private sector on the underlying issues that
 need to be addressed by policy and operational responses. This
 research is intended to complement FATF's work to enhance
 countries' implementation of the FATF standards on TF.‖ 102. FATF also underlines the complex challenges which have
 arisen on account of the adoption of internet-based payment services
 across the globe. While dealing with this aspect it has observed as
 under: - 103. It becomes relevant to note that while dealing with this subject,
 FATF has specifically referred to a case study involving the financing
 of terrorist activities by usage of the platform of the petitioner here.
 The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime29 in its 2012 report
 had also taken note of the growing challenges stemming from the
 misuse of the internet for terrorist purposes. The Court deems it
 apposite to extract the following passages from that report: - 104. While dealing with the subject of financing, it noted as
 follows: - 105. The extent and reach of payment facilitation platforms and the
 exponential increase in transactions accomplished thereon is also
 evident from the disclosures made by FIU-IND in these proceedings.
 FIU-IND had, with the aid of data disclosed on the record of these
 proceedings drawn the attention of the Court to the increase in the
 value of transactions completed on the PayPal platform between 2020
 to March 2022 and stated that the transactional value which stood at
 Rs. 9951 crores in 2020 had increased to Rs. 12327 crores in 2021 and
 as of March 2022 that figure stood at Rs. 3048 crores. It is in the
 aforesaid backdrop that FIU-IND had asserted that the platform of the
 petitioner had been utilised as a financial channel on which
 transactions of Rs. 12,000 crores came to be fulfilled in 2021. The
 grievance of the FIU-IND essentially is, and in its own words,
 described to be that of an "impaired visibility" with respect to
 transactions which are completed on PayPal's platform. 106. While the Court has taken note of the global trends and the
 multifaceted complexities which emerging technologies and tools W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 130 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 have brought on in the fight against money laundering and terror
 financing, it has done so only to broadly note the scenario which
 prevails and which appears to have prompted FIU-IND to require the
 petitioner to comply with reporting obligations under the PMLA.
 However, the aforesaid discussion is neither liable to be viewed as
 being a valid reason with has weighed with the Court in arriving at its
 conclusions which stand recorded hereinafter nor should the same be
 misunderstood as having clouded its vision and obligation to
 independently evaluate whether PayPal can be said to have
 constructed a payment system as defined under the PMLA and thus be
 liable to be recognised as a payment system operator. However, and
 before proceeding to deal with the principal question which arises and
 the answer to which must be founded solely on an interpretation of the
 provisions of the PMLA, it would be apposite to deal with some of the
 central issues which arise. J. CENTRAL THEME OF THE PSS ACT 107. As was noticed in the preceding parts of this decision, PayPal
 had strongly relied upon the affidavit filed by RBI in the Abhijit
 Mishra proceedings in support of its submission that it is not legally
 permissible for the respondents to assert that it administers a payment
 system. It had in this connection also placed reliance upon the
 similarity with which the PSS Act and PMLA defined a payment
 system. In order to evaluate this contention, it would, at the outset, be
 necessary to advert to the scheme and the relevant provisions of the W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 131 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 PSS Act. 108. The PSS Act, as would be evident from its Preamble, is an Act
 which is concerned with the regulation and supervision of payment
 systems in India. The expression ―electronic fund transfer‖ is defined
 by Section 2(c) to mean any transfer of funds through electronic
 means through the modes specified therein. It includes transfer,
 deposit or withdrawal of funds via the internet. The expression gross
 settlement system as per the definition extracted hereinabove is
 defined to mean a payment system on the basis of which settlement is
 accomplished on the basis of separate or individual transactions. The
 word netting is then specified to mean the amount of money or
 securities due, payable or deliverable. Sections 2(n) , 2(p) and 2(q) define the expressions ―settlement‖ ―system participant‖ and ―system
 provider‖ as set out hereinabove. In terms of Section 3 , RBI has been
 anointed as the Designated Authority for the purposes of regulation
 and supervision of payment systems. Section 4 of the PSS Act
 proscribes any person from commencing or operating a payment
 system except under and in accordance with an authorisation issued by
 the RBI. In terms of Section 10 , the RBI stands empowered to
 determine standards relating to various aspects pertaining to payment
 systems. That provision reads as follows: - 109. Sections 17 and 18 confer authority upon the RBI to issue
 directions either to a specific payment system operator or to cover the
 activities of payment systems in general. Undisputedly the various
 directives and circulars pertaining to PAs' and OPGSPs' which have
 been referred to hereinabove owe their genesis to Section 18 .
 Provisions have been incorporated in Section 23 to cover and regulate
 the subject of settlement and netting. In terms of Section 23A, RBI is
 conferred the authority to create a protective fund if public interest or
 the interest of customers of designated payment systems, so require.
 As would be evident from a close reading of the aforesaid provisions,
 the PSS Act essentially appears to regulate PAs who receive, retain or
 hold funds of a customer before its onward transmission to a
 beneficiary. This clearly flows from the definition of a ―payment
 system‖ which describes the same to be one which enables payment to W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 133 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 be effected by a payer for its onward transmission to a beneficiary and
 involves clearing, payment, settlement services. A payment system in
 terms of that definition may be one which provides either one of those
 services or performs all of those functions compendiously. 110. Of equal significance is Section 2(1)(n) which defines the
 expression ―settlement‖ to mean settlement of payment instructions.
 The reach of the PSS Act can also be gathered from Sections 10 and 23 of the said enactment and which, while empowering RBI to
 determine standards, enables it to prescribe the format of payment
 instructions, timing to be maintained by payment systems as well as
 the manner of transfer of funds within the payment system itself. The
 settlement and netting procedure which is governed by Section 23 of
 the PSS Act relates to the distribution of funds between system
 participants and the payment system itself. All of the aforesaid
 provisions and the scheme of the PSS Act clearly appears to indicate
 that it recognises an authorised payment system operator to be one
 which dons the role of a repository of funds received from a customer
 and those funds being retained before their onwards transmission to
 the beneficiary. 111. The scope of the PSS Act may also be gathered from the
 Intermediary Directions dated 24 November 2009. The said
 Intermediary Directions recognise the basic structure of a payment
 system as comprising of intermediaries who receive funds from
 customers for the settlement of e commerce/ bill payment transactions W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 134 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 which come to be credited to the accounts of those intermediaries
 before they are transferred to the account of merchants in final
 settlement of obligations. Para 1.3 of the Intermediary Directions
 evinces the intent of RBI of framing directives for the purposes of
 safeguarding the interest of customers and to ensure that payments are
 duly accounted for by the intermediaries who receive the same.
 Clause 2.1 defines Intermediaries as under: - 112. Para 3 then contemplates the opening of internal accounts to
 which all monies either collected or received in connection with
 transactions entered into by customers with intermediaries would be
 credited. The permitted credits/debits in those accounts are clarified to
 be of the following nature: - Note: No payment other than the commissions at the pre-
 determined rates/frequency shall be payable to the
 intermediaries. Such transfers shall only be effected to a
 bank account intimated to the bank by the intermediary
 during the agreement.‖ 113. Para 4 prescribes the system of settlement which is to be
 adhered to. It reads as follows: - 114. The aforesaid Intermediary Directions were followed by
 circulars dated 16 November 2010, 11 June 2013 and 24 September
 2015. The circulars dated 16 November 2010 and 11 June 2013 had
 dealt with the facility of AD Category I Banks entering into standing
 arrangements with OPGSPs' in order to facilitate repatriation of
 export related remittances. In terms of the circular of 24 September
 2015, the said facility was also extended to import related payments.
 Pursuant to the directions embodied in the circular of 24 September
 2015, AD Category I Banks were required to maintain separate export
 and import collection accounts in India for each OPGSP. Para 2.1 (iv)
 places those banks under the obligation to submit all relevant
 information relating to transactions to RBI. In terms of Para 2.2,
 foreign entities desirous of operating as an OPGSP were required to
 open liaison offices in India with the approval of the RBI. Insofar as
 export transactions are concerned, the 24 September 2015 circular
 made the following provisions: - 115. Of equal significance are the Guidelines on Regulation of
 Payment Aggregators and Payment Gateways30 which came to be
 issued by RBI on 17 March 2020. The aforesaid circular assumes
 added significance since the same clearly acknowledges and accepts
 the distinction between PAs' and OPGSPs'. This is clearly evident
 from Para 1.1.1 of the Guidelines which defines PAs' to be entities 30 Guidelines W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 138 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 which act as facilitators between e-commerce sites and merchants to
 accept various payment instruments of customers and for completion
 of payment obligations thus obviating the necessity of merchants
 creating a separate payment system of their own. It also accepts the
 working model of PA's to entail the receiving of payments from
 customers, pooling the same till they are ultimately transferred to
 merchants. OPGSPs', on the other hand, are recognised to be entities
 that merely provide the technology infrastructure for the purposes of
 routing and facilitating online payment transactions. It is, however,
 specifically acknowledged that OPGSPs' are not involved in actual
 handling of funds. This clearly flows also from Para 3.7 which accept
 OPGSPs to be merely "technology providers" or "outsourcing
 partners". 116. Para 7 then deals with the subject of onboarding of merchants
 by PAs'. The settlement and escrow system liable to be put in place
 by PAs' is dealt with in paragraph 8 which reads as follows: - b) Pre-funding by merchants / PAs. c) Transfer representing refunds for failed / disputed /
 returned / cancelled transactions. d) Payment received for onward transfer to merchants
 under promotional activities, incentives, cash-backs etc.
 8.9.1.2. Debits a) Payment to various merchants / service providers. b) Payment to any other account on specific directions
 from the merchant. c) Transfer representing refunds for failed / disputed
 transactions. d) Payment of commission to the intermediaries. This
 amount shall be at pre-determined rates / frequency. e) Payment of amount received under promotional
 activities, incentives, cash-backs, etc.
 8.10. For banks the outstanding balance in the escrow account shall
 be part of the ‗net demand and time liabilities' (NDTL) for the
 purpose of maintenance of reserve requirements. This position shall
 be computed on the basis of the balances appearing in the books of
 the bank as on the date of reporting. 8.11. The entity and the escrow account banker shall be responsible
 for compliance with RBI instructions issued from time to time. The
 decision of RBI in this regard shall be final and binding.
 8.12. Settlement of funds with merchants shall not be co-mingled
 with other business, if any, handled by the PA. 8.13. A certificate signed by the auditor(s), shall be submitted by
 the authorised entities to the respective Regional Office of DPSS,
 RBI, where registered office of PA is situated, certifying that the
 entity has been maintaining balance(s) in the escrow account(s) in
 compliance with these instructions, as per periodicity prescribed in
 Annex 3. In case, an additional escrow account is being
 maintained, it shall be ensured that balances in both accounts are
 considered for the above certification. This shall also be indicated
 in the certificate. The same auditor shall be employed to audit both
 escrow accounts. 8.14. PAs shall submit the list of merchants acquired by them to the
 bank where they are maintaining the escrow account and update the
 same from time to time. The bank shall ensure that payments are W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 141 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 made only to eligible merchants / purposes. There shall be an
 exclusive clause in the agreement signed between the PA and the
 bank maintaining escrow account towards usage of balance in
 escrow account only for the purposes mentioned above.
 8.15. No interest shall be payable by the bank on balances
 maintained in the escrow account, except when the PA enters into
 an agreement with the bank maintaining the escrow account, to
 transfer "core portion" of the amount, in the escrow account, to a
 separate account on which interest is payable, subject to the
 following: Banks shall not issue any deposit receipts or mark any
 lien on the amount held in such form of deposits. 8.15.5. The core portion shall be calculated separately for
 each of the escrow accounts and will remain linked to the
 respective escrow account. The escrow balance and core
 portion maintained shall be clearly disclosed in the
 auditors' certificates submitted to RBI on quarterly and
 annual basis. Note: For the purpose of this regulation, "Core Portion" shall be
 computed as under: yet constituting a critical functional element in the remittance of
 funds. K. THE PARI MATERIA QUESTION 123. The PSS Act, thus appears to extend its coverage only to those
 payment systems which are directly engaged in the handling of funds,
 entities which constitute a direct bridge between the customer and the
 beneficiary. The said enactment clearly intends to regulate only those
 payment systems which as part of a money transfer operation actually
 retain funds received from payers till its ultimate remittance to the
 identified and chosen recipient. It is for the regulation of these
 activities that the PSS Act mandates the maintenance of settlement
 and escrow accounts, a process of netting and settlement being
 undertaken periodically, the creation of a consumer protection fund
 and other regulatory measures embodied therein. 124. The circulars and directives of the RBI referred to and noticed
 above, and which have undisputedly been issued with reference to the
 powers conferred on it by virtue of being the Designated Authority
 under the PSS Act, also seek to regulate and extend to the activities of
 Intermediaries, PAs' and AD Banks, all of which are directly engaged
 in the handling and movement of funds. It is for the aforesaid reason
 that those circulars while peripherally noticing the activities of
 OPGSPs' only mandate certain ―baseline‖ measures to be adopted.
 The stand as was taken by RBI in the Abhijit Mishra proceedings
 when it asserted that PayPal was not recognised to be a payment
 system operator must therefore and consequentially be understood in
 the aforesaid light. 125. Regard must also be had to the fact that the remittance of
 funds electronically is comprised of various sub-elements and may
 involve numerous parties and entities who participate in and facilitate
 the culmination of a particular transaction. These elements, as was
 observed earlier, though constituting a "cog in the wheel" are part of
 an entire ecosystem which enables the execution and culmination of
 an electronic transaction. The collaborative and enabling functions
 performed by such entities, no matter how miniscule, nonetheless
 constitutes a significant component without which the transaction may
 not achieve fruition. 126. On a foundational plane, therefore, it would be imprudent to
 disregard their existence or the role that they discharge merely
 because those entities may not be covered under the PSS Act. One
 would also have to bear in mind that a legislative measure need not
 necessarily be viewed as being encyclopaedic or an all-encompassing
 essay on a particular subject. The Legislature may choose to regulate
 only a few facets relating to a wide spectrum of economic activity by
 enacting a particular statute. It is for this reason that the Court comes
 to conclude that the mere fact that the PSS Act did not extend its
 regulatory net to cover OPGSPs' would not, of its own, constitute a
 plausible basis for rejecting the contention which was advanced by
 FIU-IND. Accordingly, and for the aforesaid reasons, this Court finds
 itself unable to accept the submission of PayPal that since it was not
 considered to be a payment system operator under the PSS Act, it W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 147 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 must ipso facto be held to fall outside the dragnet of the PMLA. 127. For reasons which follow, the Court also finds itself unable to
 accept the submission that the similarity of the definition clause in the
 two enactments would lead to PayPal being held to fall outside the
 ambit of Section 2(1)(rb) of the PMLA. The conclusions aforenoted,
 however, do not rest merely on the interpretation accorded on the
 provisions of the PSS Act, its discernible scheme, the regulatory
 regime embodied therein or the circulars and directions issued by the
 RBI noticed hereinabove. This since the Court is of the considered
 opinion that the answer to the principal question posited must
 necessarily be answered bearing in mind the objectives and the
 legislative policy underlying the PMLA and the various provisions
 incorporated therein. What the Court seeks to underline is that the
 meaning to be ascribed to the phrase ―payment system‖ must
 necessarily be ascertained bearing in mind the theme and ethos of the
 PMLA as opposed to an answer that is beclouded by how that subject
 is treated under the PSS Act. Approaching the issue from any other
 angle would in fact fall foul of certain well accepted tenets of statutory
 interpretation as would be manifest from the discussion which follows
 in the latter parts of this decision. L. PAYMENT SYSTEM UNDER THE PMLA 128. That takes the Court to the heart of the matter, namely, the
 interpretation of the relevant provisions of the PMLA. As was noted W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 148 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 hereinabove Section 2(1)(rb) defines a ―payment system‖ to be one
 which enables payment to be effected between a payer and a
 beneficiary. On a plain reading of Section 2(1)(rb) and bearing in
 mind that it uses the expression ―enables‖ it would appear that any
 system which facilitates the transfer of funds from a payer to a
 beneficiary would fall within the sweep of that provision. It becomes
 imperative to further note that Section 2(1) (rb) further stipulates that
 such a system may involve either clearing, payment or settlement
 services or for that matter all of them compendiously. A system which
 facilitates a transaction between a payer and a beneficiary may thus
 involve elements of clearing, payment or settlement. However it is
 not mandatory for a system to be recognised to fall within the ambit of
 2(1)(rb) to necessarily be one which performs all the three functions
 as generally understood. 129. The Explanation then stipulates that the expression ―payment
 system‖ would include various well recognised modes of transfer of
 funds between parties including significantly "money transfer
 operations or similar operations". Section 2(1)(rb) as well as the
 Explanation is couched in expansive terms which aspect stands
 highlighted by the use of the expressions ―includes‖ ―enabling‖ and
 ―similar operations‖. The use of the expression ―enable‖ and
 ―involve‖ clearly appears to be suggestive of the legislative intent to
 cast a wide net in order to enable the provisions of the PMLA to
 operate effectively and thus regulate a whole spectrum of activities W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 149 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 connected with the movement of funds between two parties. 130. It was in the aforesaid context that Mr. Hossain had invited our
 attention to the following pertinent observations as appearing in the
 decision of the Supreme Court in Rasila S. Mehta:- 131. As was aptly observed in Rasila S. Mehta, special statutes
 which are aimed at tackling crimes and offences must be construed
 and interpreted so as to ensure an effective implementation of relevant
 provisions as well as to avoid the spectre of the offender sneaking out
 of the "meshes of the law". The said decision bids us to bear in mind
 the well-known maxim of "ut res magis valeat quam pereat" and thus
 interpret the provisions of a special statute in a manner which
 effectuates its objectives and enables the authorities to effectively
 combat the mischief that it seeks to address. As was noticed
 hereinbefore, the PMLA is concerned with preventing the acts of W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 151 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 money laundering. Money laundering is principally aimed towards
 obfuscating the origins of proceeds of crime. Anti-money laundering
 or ―AML‖, as it is commonly known, actions are aimed at
 disentangling the layers under which the origins of those proceeds
 may be shrouded. Those actions are aimed at uncovering and
 interdicting methods and devices used to surreptitiously integrate and
 induct money generated from illegal activities into legitimate financial
 systems. 132. The PMLA thus constructs various regulatory measures and
 safeguards to aid and assist the jurisdictional authorities in uncovering
 proceeds of crime. It must be remembered that the said enactment is
 not concerned merely with meting out punishment for commission of
 the crime created by Section 3 thereof. The various declarations,
 disclosures and reporting measures put in place by Sections 11A , 12 , 12A , 12AA are all aimed towards discovery and prevention of
 fraudulent and suspicious transactions. Those provisions are
 concerned with collation of data, a centralized analysis thereof all of
 which would then enable the authorities to detect patterns of
 suspicious financial flows and assist in eradicating the scourge of
 money laundering. Of equal significance are the provisions comprised
 in Chapter IX which deals with reciprocal arrangements and gives
 teeth to the collaborative resolve of nations to tackle the complexities
 surrounding money laundering. The aspect of collaboration backed by
 cohesive and collective action amongst various agencies forms the W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 152 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 subject matter of Section 72A when it provides for the constitution of
 an Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee. The aforesaid
 discussion indubitably brings to the fore the regulatory aspects of the
 legislation and establishes that the PMLA goes far beyond being
 intended to be a mere penal statute. This aspect has also been noticed
 by the Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal. It is these salutary
 objectives of the statute which must be borne in mind while seeking to
 unravel the intent and scope of its various provisions. 133. The Stroud's Judicial Dictionary defines the word ―enable‖ to
 mean the conferment of a power to do something. Similarly, P.
 Ramanathan Aiyar in The Major Law Lexicon defines the words
 ―enables‖ and ―involves‖ as follows:- 134. The Oxford English Dictionary [Second Edition] ascribes the
 following meaning to the words ―enable‖ and ―involve‖: - +3. a. To give power to (a person); to strengthen, make adequate or
 proficient. Obs. or arch. b. To impart to (a person or agent) power necessary or adequate for
 a given object; to make competent or capable. Const. for, to, unto.
 rare in mod. use. c. To supply with the requisite means or opportunities to an end or
 for an object. Const. to with inf. 5. a. To make possible or easy; also to give effectiveness to (an
 action). enablement (e'neib(ǝ)lmǝnt). [f. ENABLE v. + -MENT.] The
 action or means of enabling. 2. a. The process of rendering able, competent, or powerful; the
 state of being so; concr. something by which one is enabled, a
 qualification. b. Support, sustenance, maintenance. rare. 3. An equipment, implement. Cf. ENABLE v. 3. 1495 Act 11 Hen.
 VII. c. 64 Armours Defensives, as..Crosbowes and other
 enhabilmentis of Werres. involve (in'volv), v. Also 4-8 en-. b. fig. To join as by winding together or intertwining; to 'wrap up'
 with. 6. trans. To include; to contain, imply. +a. Of a person, or with
 reference to personal action: To include covertly in or under
 something; to wrap up. Also in indirect passive. Obs.
 b. Of a thing: To include within its folds or ramifications; to
 contain, comprise, comprehend. Now chiefly Math., or passing into
 c. c. esp. To contain implicitly; to include as a necessary (and
 therefore unexpressed) feature, circumstance, antecedent condition,
 or consequence; to imply, entail. d. To include or affect in its operation.‖ 135. The word ―enable‖ as explained in the aforesaid lexicons would
 mean as empowering a person to achieve a particular objective,
 capacitate or facilitate. Thus any system which assists, makes possible
 or advances the objective of a payment between a payer and a
 beneficiary would on a plain reading of the provision fall within the
 ambit of a payment system. Understood on plain etymological
 principles, the word "involve" or "involving" would mean any facet
 or feature comprised or comprehended in the course of a payment
 being effected between a payer and a beneficiary. Thus all elements of
 the transaction comprised or connected with a payment being effected
 between two parties would appear to fall within the scope of the W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 155 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 expression ―payment system‖ as defined under Section 2(1)(rb) of the
 PMLA. 136. It also becomes relevant to note that the Explanation thereto is
 itself couched in expansive terms and uses the expression ―includes‖.
 Of equal significance is the use of the expressions ―money transfer
 operations‖. The Court finds itself unable to accord a restrictive
 construction to this expression or read it so as to be confined only to a
 system which may be literally or in actuality concerned with handling
 funds between a payer and a beneficiary. Any system which enables
 the transfer of money between two ends would thus appear to fall
 within the ambit of the expression ―payment system‖. The Court thus
 finds no justification to restrict the application of the expression
 ―payment system‖ only to those entities which may be directly or
 undeviatingly engaged in the handling or transferring of funds. Any
 interpretation contrary to what has been noted above, would not only
 scuttle and impede the measures liable to be deployed but also
 obstruct and hamper data collection and analysis which constitute
 critical elements of AML measures. The imperatives of those
 measures being borne in consideration is clearly merited in light of the
 interpretative principles which were commended for the consideration
 of the Court by FIU-IND. 137. Undoubtedly, the technology on which the platform of PayPal
 rests enables the transfer of money between parties at different ends.
 The mere fact that the said platform also interacts with AD Category W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 156 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 Banks or other PAs' would not detract from the platform of PayPal
 being otherwise understood and recognised to be a system which
 enables payment and one which is concerned with money transfer
 operations. The Court deems it apposite to emphasise that bearing in
 mind the objectives underlying the promulgation of PMLA and the
 activity that it seeks to regulate and penalise, there appears to be no
 legal justification to interpret Section 2(1)(rb) to embrace only those
 entities which are directly engaged in the handling, retention or
 transfer of funds. 138. Regard must be had to be fact that money laundering is
 concerned with obfuscating the trail of funds and its integration into
 legitimate systems and thus enabling money obtained from the
 commission of offences being washed of all taints of illegality. In
 order to effectively fight against money laundering, it is imperative
 that regulatory authorities are empowered to view and analyse all
 aspects of data connected with a particular transaction. The analysis of
 a transaction undoubtedly depends on the data generated and captured
 at different stages and points of the process and being available to be
 scrutinised and examined. The analysis of the data would necessarily
 entail each step of the transaction and the data pertaining thereto being
 captured and made available to a FIU. This would necessarily require
 the identity of the remitter and the beneficiary, the accounts between
 which the funds travel and all other attendant details being duly
 obtained and stored. Unless these essential and critical data points are W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 157 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 duly tracked and details thereof made available to the FIU, its scrutiny
 and evaluation will not only be impeded, it would also deprive it of
 the right to assess and analyse the genuineness of a transaction. 139. The Court must necessarily bear in mind that with the march of
 technology and the speed with which transactions are accomplished
 on the internet, there are pressing imperatives for the data being
 shared, if not in real time, at least with expedition. If data be not
 periodically presented for evaluation to a FIU, it may become
 redundant or obsolescent if made available only upon demand. It is
 these aspects which clearly appear to inform the reporting obligations
 that have been prescribed. From a financial intelligence perspective,
 data analysis is key to identifying correlated events and transactions
 which may appear to be suspicious when tested against evolved
 parameters. It is these primary objectives which appear to drive and
 inform the efforts of FIUs' across the globe. Section 2(1)(rb) must
 therefore be construed in a manner which subserves this legislative
 objective. The above factors would constitute a significant and
 relevant indicator to discern and identify the true scope of that
 provision. 140. It would be pertinent to recall that the principal argument of
 PayPal in its challenge to the invocation of Section 2(1)(rb) rested on
 its assertion that it neither onboards the importer nor is it engaged in
 the actual handling of funds. Insofar as the latter aspect is concerned,
 this Court has come to the definitive conclusion that the actual W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 158 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 handling of funds cannot be decisive of whether an entity would fall
 within the ambit of 2(1)(rb). This is notwithstanding certain facts
 which have been alluded to by the FIU-IND and stem from the
 exchange of e-mails between it and Citibank. 141. It would be pertinent to recall that Citibank acts as the nodal
 bank of PayPal in accord with the Guidelines as framed by the RBI.
 In its email of 20 July 2019, Citibank had apprised FIU-IND that
 payments due to Indian exporters are transferred from a PayPal
 ―offshore account‖ to a Citibank NOSTRO USD Export Collection
 Account. In yet another e-mail dated 20 January 2021 it apprised
 FIU-IND that the details of actual remitter did not form part of the
 original fund transfer instructions received by it and therefore could
 not be included in the CBWTR reports submitted for the relevant
 period. It also apprised FIU-IND that it has now put in place a system
 to obtain end remitter data for all reportable transactions from PayPal. 142. These emails would appear to cast a doubt on the categorical
 and unqualified assertion of PayPal of it not handling funds at any
 stage of a transaction between an Indian beneficiary and a foreign
 importer. However and since the diagrammatical representation of the
 various elements comprised in a transaction on the PayPal platform
 was not seriously questioned or doubted by FIU-IND, the Court
 refrains from entering any further observation in this respect. This
 more so since in any case it has come to the conclusion that even if the
 assertion of PayPal of it actually not being engaged in the handling of W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 159 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 funds at any stage of the transaction be correct, it would still be liable
 to be recognised as a payment system operator as defined under the
 PMLA. 143. Apart from what has been found by the Court to be the true
 meaning to be assigned to the phrase ―payment system‖ as utilised in
 the PMLA, the Court additionally finds merit in the contention
 addressed by Mr. Hossain and Mr. Tripathi, when it was submitted
 that mere similarity in the definition of a payment system under the
 PSS Act and the PMLA would not be decisive of the question that
 stands raised. As was eloquently explained by the Supreme Court in
 D.N. Banerjee, even though a definition of a word or phrase may be
 more or less the same in two different statutes, it would be the object
 and the preamble of the two competing legislations which would be of
 import. It was explained that same words may have a different
 connotation depending upon the context in which they are placed.
 This aspect assumes greater significance when one bears in mind the
 indubitable fact that PMLA is a special statute dealing with money
 laundering as opposed to the PSS Act which is essentially concerned
 with regulating the functioning of PAs' and safeguarding the interest
 of consumers and merchants. 144. The said aspect was again highlighted by the Supreme Court in
 Shree Baidyanath when it was pertinently observed that the
 expression ―Ayurvedic, siddha or unani drug‖ as defined under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 cannot be mechanically applied to W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 160 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 another statute. It was observed that the object, purpose and scheme
 of the statute must necessarily be borne in mind before forming an
 opinion on the meaning to be ascribed to a word or a phrase. It was
 on those principles that it was held that the definition of expressions
 as embodied in the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 should not be
 blindly adopted for the purposes of the Excise Act . 145. This principle was lucidly explained by the Supreme Court in Maharaj Singh v. State of U.P.31 , as would be evident from the
 following passage of that decision:- 146. The Court further bears in mind the fact that Section 2 of the
 PSS Act as well as the PMLA are prefaced by the use of the 31 (1977) 1 SCC 155 W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 161 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 expression ―unless the context otherwise requires‖. The significance
 of the aforesaid phrase was succinctly explained by the Supreme
 Court in Whirlpool Corporation in the following terms:- 147. The well settled principle in this respect and which was taken
 note of in Whirlpool Corporation also finds resonance in an earlier
 decision of the Supreme Court in Jagir Singh where it was held as
 under:- 148. The aforenoted decisions thus speak of words in a statute being
 liable to be interpreted in the context and setting in which they are
 used. In fact, the aforesaid precedents also speak of situations where a
 particular word as occurring in a statute may be intended to be
 accorded a totally different meaning when used in separate provisions
 of the same legislation itself. In any case both D.N. Banerjee as well
 as Shree Baidyanath in unambiguous terms warn us of the folly of a
 blind ascription of meaning to words appearing in two separate
 statutes. The adoption of such a course would be more injudicious and
 unwise when the two statutes are recognised to operate over
 apparently different subjects or subserve separate legislative
 objectives. 149. The Court also bears in consideration that the PSS Act had been
 enacted way back in 2007 and was thus a statute in existence at a time
 when the PMLA (Amendment) Act, 200932 came to be promulgated.
 In terms of the aforesaid Amending Act , clauses (ra) to (rc) came to be
 inserted in Section 2(1) . If it was the intent of Parliament to accord an 32 Act No. 21 of 2009 W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 163 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 identical meaning upon the phrase "payment system" as already
 defined in the PSS Act, it could have conveniently adopted the tool of
 legislation by reference/incorporation. Notwithstanding such recourse
 being available, it appears to have consciously introduced Section
 2(1)(rb) as well as the other amendments embodied in the 2009 Amending Act being aware of the distinct scheme and objective of the
 PMLA. This too leads the Court to come to the irresistible conclusion
 that the meaning of the term ―payment system‖ as contained in the
 PSS Act was not intended by Parliament to be directly infused or
 blindly transposed in the PMLA. M. PAYPAL'S GLOBAL COMPLIANCES 150. Turning then to some of the additional issues which were
 raised, this may be an appropriate juncture to also deal with the
 contention of FIU-IND of PayPal being obliged to comply with
 reporting obligations under the PMLA in light of the compliances that
 it holds itself bound to fulfil in other foreign jurisdictions. It becomes
 pertinent to note in this regard that PayPal had by way of a detailed
 note set forth requisite particulars of the different foreign statutes
 prevailing in different jurisdictions and with which it ensures
 compliance. In terms of the note as well as the statutes which operate
 in those jurisdictions, it was submitted on behalf of PayPal that the
 reporting and registering obligations that it complies is by virtue of the
 specific statutory provisions contained in those enactments. It was
 additionally pointed out that the range of activities as well as the W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 164 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 facilities that it provides in those jurisdictions is far wider than those
 provided by it in India and where it functions merely as an OPGSP. 151. For instance, it was pointed out that in USA, PayPal provides
 debit and credit card services, balance holding accounts services as
 well as point of sale solutions. In Canada, apart from providing money
 services, it also engages in foreign exchange currency conversions,
 payment in person and touch free payment solutions as well as
 remittance and receipt of payments for commercial and personal
 transactions which occur both on a domestic and at the international
 level. Similar functions and services are provided by PayPal in
 Australia. In Singapore, Japan and Malaysia apart from the aforesaid
 services, PayPal also provides what has now come to be commonly
 described as digital "wallet" services. The submission in essence was
 that since there is no similarity in the nature of services that are
 provided by PayPal in those jurisdictions when compared with its
 operations as an OPGSP in India, the statutory compliances that it
 adheres to cannot be determinative of the question which stands
 raised. 152. The Court finds merit in the submission so addressed and is of
 the considered opinion that the question of whether PayPal is liable to
 be treated as a payment system operator must fundamentally be
 answered on a construction of Section 2(1)(rb) and (rc) of the PMLA
 alone and not by its conduct in other jurisdictions where the gamut of
 services provided by it range far wider than those that are ordinarily W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 165 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 extended by an OPGSP. Ultimately the question of whether it is liable
 to be recognised as a payment system operator would have to be
 answered solely on the anvil of the statutory provisions embodied in
 the PMLA. This is precisely what the Court has attempted to focus
 upon and has hopefully achieved. Its ultimate conclusions, as would
 be evident from the body of this decision, have remained uninfluenced
 by the conduct of PayPal in foreign jurisdictions. N. PAYPAL AND TPAPs' 153. It would also be apposite to dispose of an ancillary argument
 which was addressed by PayPal and was founded on third party
 applications such as GPay and Amazon Pay not being treated as
 payment system operators or being required to comply with reporting
 obligations. Without delving into this aspect in much detail it may
 only be observed that the Third-Party Applications Providers33
 which were spoken of are those which are embedded in and are part of
 the Unified Payments Interface34 ecosystem unrolled in India and
 participate within that structure through Payment System Provider35
 Banks. The National Payments Corporation of India is an organisation
 that owns and operates the Unified Payments Interface and is
 essentially charged with the authority of prescribing rules for and
 approving the participation of Customer Banks, PSPs, TPAPs and 33 TPAP 34 UPI
 35 PSP W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 166 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 Prepaid Payment Instrument issuers in the UPI. More fundamentally
 in terms of the UPI structure, all details relating to the remitter as well
 as the beneficiary are captured end to end. In fact, in order to
 participate on that system both the remitter as well as the beneficiary
 have to be pre-enrolled. Appropriate particulars of individuals and
 entities are thus fully captured quite apart from the transactions
 themselves being conducted through banking channels. O. PENALTY UNJUSTIFIED 154. That leaves the Court to consider the issue of imposition of
 penalty upon PayPal in terms of the impugned order under Section
 13(2)(d) of the PMLA. PayPal questioned the penalties which
 ultimately came to be imposed upon it in terms of the order impugned.
 Mr. Poovayya pointed out that in terms of Section 13(2)(d) , the
 maximum penalty which may be imposed can extend to Rs.1,00,000/-
 for each failure to comply. According to Mr. Poovayya, FIU-IND has
 arbitrarily interpreted the said provision and imposed the highest
 monetary penalty of Rs.1,00,000/- for each of the three alleged
 offences and that too for every month stretching over a period of 32
 months. According to Mr. Poovayya, the quantification of penalty is
 thus clearly rendered unsustainable. It was additionally submitted that
 it is well-settled in law that the imposition of penalty would be
 justified only if an entity fails to discharge a statutory obligation and
 provided it is established that it had deliberately chosen to act in
 defiance of the law or was guilty of dishonest conduct. 155. Mr. Poovayya submitted that bearing in mind the nature of the
 challenge which was raised by PayPal and the substantive objection
 taken with respect to the construction to be accorded to the provisions
 of the PMLA, it cannot possibly be said that its conduct was either
 deliberate, contumacious or dishonest. To buttress the aforesaid
 submissions, Mr. Poovayya firstly drew the attention of the Court to
 the following principles as laid down in Hindustan Steel Ltd. vs.
 State of Orissa36 :- 156. Reliance was also placed on the following pertinent 36 (1969) 2 SCC 627 W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 168 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 observations as rendered by the Supreme Court in Excel Crop Care
 Ltd. vs. CCI and Anr.37:- 157. As would be evident from a reading of the impugned order,
 FIU-IND has found PayPal guilty of the following three violations: - 158. The impugned order has then proceeded to compute the penalty
 as being payable for each month of the 32-month period commencing
 from 16 March 2018 when PayPal was first placed on notice. The
 computation of penalty was assailed with Mr. Poovayya contending
 that there was no justification for PayPal being foisted with the
 maximum penalty provided for in that provision. Quite apart from the
 above, it was submitted that Section 13(2)(d) only speaks of penalty
 being liable to be imposed for "each failure". According to learned
 senior counsel, the impugned order proceeds on the basis that penalty
 is liable to be imposed for each month of default. Mr. Poovayya had
 further commended for the consideration of the Court the principles
 enunciated by the Supreme Court in Hindustan Steel to submit that the
 imposition of penalty is rendered wholly illegal and is liable to be
 quashed. 159. Having duly taken the aforesaid submissions under
 consideration, the Court finds merit in the challenge raised by PayPal
 in this regard for the following reasons. On first principles, the Court
 notes that undisputedly the levy of penalty is imbued with a quasi-
 criminal characteristic. It is this aspect which was highlighted by the
 Supreme Court in Hindustan Steel when it observed that penalty
 would be justified provided it is established that a party had failed to
 comply with legal obligations deliberately, in defiance of the law or be
 guilty of contumacious or dishonest conduct. The Supreme Court W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 170 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 pertinently observed that penalty would not be leviable merely
 because it was lawful to do so. Hindustan Steel went further to hold
 that the imposition of penalty would also not be justified where a
 person is found to have proceeded on the bona fide belief that it was
 not covered by the provision or legally obliged to effect compliance. 160. Tested on the aforesaid principles it is manifest that the
 imposition of penalty is clearly unjustified in the facts of the present
 case. As the record would bear out, PayPal had consistently taken the
 position that it could not be held to be a payment system operator
 under the PMLA. The stand taken by the petitioner in this regard
 cannot possibly be said to be wholly specious or in wilful
 disobedience to abide by a legal obligation which was either apparent
 or free from doubt. The issue was further compounded by the affidavit
 filed by RBI in the Abhijit Mishra proceedings. PayPal can thus be
 justifiably said to have been proceeding under the bona fide belief that
 its operations did not fall within the ambit of the PMLA. 161. The Court further notes that even when the present writ petition
 was entertained, the Court had in its order of 12 January 2021 taken
 note of the perceptible incompatibility between the stand taken by
 FIU-IND and the RBI and which led to the constitution of a
 committee of experts. This too would seem to indicate that the issues
 raised by PayPal were not free from doubt and that its challenge was
 found to, prima facie, raise triable questions. 162. The Court also cannot lose sight of the fact that the stand of
 PayPal as evident from its communications with FIU-IND was
 essentially collaborative and a testament to its intent to arrive at a
 mutually acceptable solution. This is also manifest from its approach
 of both parties identifying a "mutually acceptable mechanism" and
 the suggestion of three models of information sharing forming part of
 their letter dated 20 December 2019. 163. Proceeding then to the issue of quantification, the Court notes
 that Section 13(2)(d) does not prescribe or stipulate the imposition of
 penalty for each month of default. It also does not speak of non-
 compliance amounting to a continued infraction or one which may
 warrant imposition of penalty on a monthly basis. The Court also finds
 merit in the challenge raised with respect to the maximum penalty
 being imposed on the ground of an abject failure on the part of the
 respondent to confer consideration on the nature of questions which
 were raised by PayPal. It was, in the considered opinion of this Court,
 imperative for FIU-IND to have recorded reasons in justification of
 the levy of the maximum penalty provided under the statute. For all
 the aforesaid reasons, the Court finds itself unable to be sustain the
 imposition of penalty as embodied in the impugned order. The order,
 would thus to the aforesaid extent be liable to be quashed. P. THE DEEMING FICTION ARGUMENT 164. The Court also finds itself unable to sustain the impugned order W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 172 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55 insofar as it proceeds to observe that PayPal would be "deemed" to be
 a payment system operator. A deeming fiction must stand specifically
 engrafted in a statutory provision. A legal fiction would be available
 to be invoked only in a situation where the Legislature engrafts such a
 measure or frames the provision in language which justifies the
 existence of such a fiction being recognised to operate. While we find
 ourselves unable to endorse the contrarian view as expressed in the
 impugned order, nothing further would turn on this issue in light the
 Court having upon an independent review of the relevant provisions
 come to the conclusion that PayPal is liable to be recognised to be a
 payment system operator. Q. DISPOSITIF 165. Accordingly and for all the aforesaid reasons, the instant writ
 petition is partly allowed. In terms of the conclusions recorded
 hereinabove, the Court holds that PayPal is liable to be viewed as a
 ―payment system operator‖ and consequently obliged to comply with
 reporting entity obligations as placed under the PMLA. The
 imposition of penalty in terms of the impugned order dated 17
 December 2020 is, however and for reasons aforenoted, quashed. The
 impugned order shall stand set aside to the aforesaid extent. 166. In view of the above, the Bank Guarantee as submitted by
 PayPal shall stand discharged. The Registrar General of the Court is
 requested to take further steps in light of the above. 167. The instant application had been moved for certain material in
 sealed cover being taken on record. While the aforesaid material was
 placed for the perusal of the Court, the same was neither taken on
 board nor PayPal apprised of its contents. The material has also not
 been taken into consideration by the Court while rendering the present
 judgment. In view of the above, the application is rendered
 infructuous and shall stand disposed of as such. 168. All other pending applications shall stand disposed of. YASHWANT VARMA, J. JULY 24, 2023
 SU/neha W.P.(C) 138/2021 Page 174 of 174 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:24.07.2023 17:34:55