A.K. SIKRI, J. Leave granted. Introduction: Thereafter, detailed judgment was passed by the Bench of this Court in the
aforesaid proceedings on 2nd February, 2012 which is reported as Centre for Public Interest Litigation & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. [1]. The Court
allowed the appeal as well as the writ petition, holding that spectrum
licences were illegally granted to the beneficiaries at the cost of the
nation. The Court accordingly cancelled the licences granted to the
private respondents on or after 10.01.2008 and issued certain directions
for grant of fresh licences and allocation of spectrum in 2G Band. It was
also specifically clarified that the observations in the said judgment would not, in any manner, affect the pending investigation by the CBI,
Directorate of Enforcement and other agencies or cause prejudice to those
who are facing prosecution in the cases registered by the CBI or who may
face prosecution on the basis of charge-sheet(s) which may be filed by the
CBI in future. The Court also made it clear that the Special Judge, CBI
would decide the matter uninfluenced by the judgment dated February 02,
2012. Thereafter, order dated 11.04.2011 was passed in that very appeal,
making its intention manifest that this Court would be monitoring the
investigation by CBI in larger public interest. Special Court was set up
for trial of the 2G case and a Senior Advocate was nominated as the Special
Public Prosecutor by the Court itself, who also agreed with his appointment
in that capacity. The Court also made it clear that no other Court would
stay or impede trial conducted by the Special Court and the aggrieved
person could approach this Court for any grievance. In the present
proceedings, we are not concerned with the subject matter of the said
trial. However, the aforesaid narrative became necessary to point out that
present proceedings triggered as a result of order dated 16.12.2010 vide
which the Court directed CBI to register a case and conduct the inquiry in
connection with alleged irregularities in grant of licences from 2001 to
2006-2007 as well. Further, as would be noticed later, the investigation
pertaining to this period also is being monitored by the Supreme Court and
the learned counsel for all the parties were at ad idem that challenge to
the impugned order is to be entertained by this Court only under Article
136 of the Constitution, though while entertaining these appeals, the Court
would bear in mind the parameters of Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as "the Code"). The Instant Proceedings : Factual Narration
The CBI registered another RC being RC DAI 2011 A 0024 on 17th November,
2011 with regard to alleged irregularities in grant of additional spectrum
in the year 2002 during the tenure of late Shri Pramod Mahajan as Minister
of Communications. In this RC, apart from Shri Pramod Mahajan, others who
were named were Mr. Shyamal Ghosh, the then Secretary (Telecom), Mr. J.R.
Gupta, the then Deputy Director General (VAS) and three Cellular Companies
viz. M/s Bharti Cellular Limited, M/s Hutchison Max Telecom (P) Limited and
M/s Sterling Cellular Limited. After registering the said RC, the CBI
started investigation into the allegations contained therein. As already
pointed out above, since the matter was being monitored by this Court,
progress reports of investigation were filed from time to time in sealed
envelopes. On 29th November, 2012, after perusing certain documents
presented in a sealed cover, this Court directed the CBI to take action in
accordance with the views expressed by it on the issue of prosecution of
public servants and the companies in connection with the said case. The
precise nature of this order can be seen from the actual language thereof
which is reproduced hereunder: On completion of the investigation, charge-sheet was filed by the CBI in
the Court of Shri O.P. Saini, the learned Special Judge, on 21st December,
2012. Before proceeding further, it would be prudent to mention in brief the case
set up by the CBI in the charge-sheet to have the flavour of the
prosecution case. Though we are not much concerned about the merits of the
allegations in these proceedings, a brief account thereof will facilitate
in understanding the background leading to the roping in of the appellants
in these proceedings. During monitoring of the investigation of CBI Case
No. RC-DAI-2009-A-0045 (2G Spectrum Case), this Court vide its order dated
16.12.2010 directed CBI to investigate the irregularities committed in the
grant of licences from 2001 to 2007 with partial emphasis on the loss
caused to the public exchequer and corresponding gain to the
Licensees/Service Providers. Accordingly, in compliance to the said order,
a Preliminary Enquiry vide No. PE-DAI-2011-A-0001 was registered on
04.01.2011 at CBI, ACB, New Delhi. During inquiry of the said PE, it was
learnt from reliable sources that vide a decision dated 31.01.2002 of the
then MoC&IT, on the recommendation of certain DoT officers, the allocation
of additional spectrum beyond 6.2 MHz upto 10 MHz (paired) was approved
wherein only 1% additional revenue share was charged thereby causing
revenue loss to Government exchequer. As pointed above, on the basis of the outcome of the aforesaid inquiry, a
regular case was registered on 17.11.2011 for the offences punishable under Sections 120-B IPC r/w 13 (2) and 13 (1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption
Act, 1988 (for short, ' PC Act '). It was against Mr. Shyamal Ghosh, Mr.
J.R. Gupta and the three Cellular Companies, names whereof have already
been mentioned above. The main allegation is that additional spectrum
beyond 6.2 MHz upto 10 MHz (paired) was approved at an additional revenue
share at the rate of 1% only, meaning thereby the said additional revenue
should have been at a higher rate. As per the investigation, Cellular
Operators Association of India (COAI) had made a request to DoT, in the
year 2001, for allocating additional spectrum particularly in Delhi and
Mumbai service areas. On this, Technical Committee was constituted which
gave its report on 21.11.2001 recommending therein that 6.2 MHz spectrum
was sufficient for a subscriber based out of about 9 lacs per operator in
service areas like Delhi and Mumbai for another 24-30 months. The
Committee also recommended to levy incremental charges for additional
spectrum. However, on 31.01.2002, a note was put up by Mr. J.R. Gupta
mentioning therein that a consensus had emerged after discussion that
additional spectrum to the extent of 1.8 MHz (paired) beyond 6.2 MHz in
1800 MHz band might be released on case to case co-ordination basis to the
Operators by charging additional 1% of revenue after customer base of 4-5
lacs was reached. On this note, Mr. Shyamal Ghosh agreed to the reduced
subscriber base from 9 lacs to 4/5 lacs for allocation of additional
spectrum and recommended to allocate additional spectrum beyond 6.2 MHz
upto 10 MHz by charging only additional 1% of AGR. This note was approved
by the then Minister of Communications and Information Technology on the
same day i.e. 31.01.2002 itself. It resulted in issuance and circulation
of General Order on 01.02.2002 to all Cellular Mobile Telecom Service
(CMTS) Operators. As per the allegations in the FIR, the accused public
servants entered into a criminal conspiracy with the accused beneficiary
companies in taking the aforesaid decision which caused undue cumulative
pecuniary advantage of Rs.846.44 crores to the beneficiary companies and
corresponding loss to the Government Exchequer, by charging an additional
1% AGR only for allotting additional spectrum from 6.2 MHz upto 10 MHz
(paired) instead of charging 2% AGR, as per the existing norms. Thus, the allegation, in nutshell, is for grant of additional spectrum by
lowering the condition of 9 lacs subscribers to 4/5 lacs subscribers, by
only charging additional 1% AGR instead of charging additional 2% AGR which
has caused losses to the Government Revenue. It is further the case of the
prosecution that this was the result of conspiracy hatched between
Mr.Shyamal Ghosh and the then Minister as well as the accused Cellular
Operator Companies. The decision was taken in haste on 31st January, 2002
itself inasmuch as note was prepared by Mr. J.R. Gupta on that day which
was agreed to by Mr. Shyamal Ghosh and thereafter approved by the Minister
on the same day. On that basis, circular was issued on the very next day
i.e. on 01.02.2002. As per the charge-sheet, investigation has also
revealed that all this was done in haste to help M/s Bharti Cellular
Limited which had come out with Initial Public Offer (IPO) that was opened
and it was not getting good response from the public as it had remained
under-subscribed. The moment such a decision of allocating additional
spectrum was taken on 31.01.2002, on the very next day, the issue got over-
subscribed. It would be pertinent to mention that in the charge-sheet filed, Mr.J.R.
Gupta was not made accused as no material of any conspiracy or being a part
of decision is attributed to him. In this charge-sheet, CBI named Mr.
Shyamal Ghosh and the aforesaid three companies namely M/s Bharti Cellular
Limited, M/s Hutchison Max Telecom (P) Limited and M/s Sterling Cellular
Limited as the accused persons in respect of offences under Section 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of the PC Act and allied offences. The Impugned Order
The matter was taken up by the Special Judge on 19th March, 2013 for the
purposes of issuance of summons to the accused persons in the said charge-
sheet (CC No.101/12). The learned Special Judge passed orders dated 19th
March, 2013 recording his satisfaction to the effect that there was enough
incriminating material on record to proceed against the accused persons.
At the same time, the learned Special Judge also found that Mr.Sunil Bharti
Mittal was Chairman-cum-Managing Director of Bharti Cellular Limited, Mr.
Asim Ghosh was Managing Director of Hutchison Max Telecom (P) Limited and
Mr. Ravi Ruia was a Director in Sterling Cellular Limited, who used to
chair the meetings of its Board. According to him, in that capacity, these
persons, prima facie, could be treated as controlling the affairs of the
respective companies and represent the directing mind and will of each
company. They were, thus, "alter ego" of their respective companies and
the acts of the companies could be attributed and imputed to them. On this
premise, the Special Judge felt that there was enough material on record to
proceed against these three persons as well. Thus, while taking cognizance
of the case, he decided to issue summons not only to the four accused named
in the charge-sheet but the aforesaid three persons as well. Two of the aforesaid three persons are before us in these appeals. Feeling
aggrieved, they have challenged the order insofar as it proceeds to
implicate them as accused persons in the said charge-sheet. Before proceeding to record the submissions of the learned counsel for the
appellants as well as the counsel opposite, it becomes necessary to take
note of the brief order dated 19th March, 2013, as this order was read and
re-read time and again by each counsel with an attempt to give their own
interpretation to the same. Therefore, we deem it apposite to reproduce
the said order in its entirety as it would facilitate understanding the
arguments of counsel on either side, with more clarity. The impugned order
dated 19th March, 2003 reads as under: It will also be pertinent to mention that the appellants were not
implicated as accused persons in the charge-sheet. As discussed in some
details at the appropriate stage, Mr. Mittal was interrogated but in the
opinion of CBI, no case was made out against him. Mr. Ravi Ruia was not
even summoned during investigation. The Arguments : Appellants
M/s Harish Salve and Fali Nariman, learned senior counsel, argued the case
on behalf of the appellant Sunil Bharti Mittal in an attempt to take him
out of the clutches of the impugned order. Mr.K.V. Viswanathan, learned
senior counsel, led the attack to the said order on behalf of the appellant
Ravi Ruia. Their onslaught was tried to be blunted by Mr. K.K. Venugopal,
learned senior counsel appearing for the CBI. Challenge of the appellants
was also sought to be thwarted by Mr. Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel
appearing for CPIL, and Mr. Sunil Malhotra, counsel who argued on behalf of
Telecom Watchdog, which has filed the appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.)
Nos.3326-3327/2013 challenging another order of the even date namely 19th
March, 2013 passed by the Special Judge whereby protest application filed
by this appellant has been dismissed. Leading the attack from the front, Mr. Harish Salve opened his submission
by arguing that the impugned order was in two parts. Paras 1 to 3 pertain
to the charge-sheet which was filed by the CBI naming four accused persons
namely, Mr. Shyamal Ghosh and the three Cellular Companies. This fact is
noted in para 2. He pointed out that in respect of these four accused
persons named in the charge-sheet, after going through the copy of the FIR,
charge-sheet, statement of witnesses and documents on record, the learned
Judge was satisfied that there was enough incriminating material on record
to proceed against them. However, in the second part of the order, which
was contained in para 4, the Court also found that the three persons
(including the two appellants) were, prima facie, controlling the affairs
of the said three companies and, therefore, they represented the directing
mind and will of each company. On that basis, these three persons are
treated as "alter ego" of their respective companies and in the opinion of
the learned Special Judge, the acts of the companies are "to be attributed
and imputed to them". That was the reason given by the Special Judge
finding enough material to proceed against them also which resulted in
issuing of summons against these three persons including the appellant. The neat submission of Mr. Salve was that the aforesaid reason given by the
learned Special Judge was clearly erroneous in law. Expanding this
argument, he submitted that principle of "alter ego" has always been
applied in reverse, inasmuch as general principle is that the acts of
individual, who is in control of the affairs of a company and is a
directing mind, are attributed to the company, inasmuch as whenever such a
person, who is controlling the affairs of the company, is made an accused,
on the application of the principle of "alter ego", the company can also be
implicated as accused person. It is on the well recognised principle that
company does not act of its own but through its Directors/Officers and when
such Directors/Officers act on behalf of the company, the company is also
held liable for those acts on the application of "principal - agent" Mr. Salve also referred to the following observations in S.K. Alagh
v. State of U.P. [4]: Reliance was also placed on the decision in the case of Aneeta
Hada v. Godfather Travels & Tours (P) Ltd. [5], with particular emphasis on
the following passage: In addition to the above, another submission of Mr. Salve was that in the
present case, role of the appellant was specifically looked into and
investigated by the CBI and an opinion was formed that there was no
material to implicate him. Since the appellant was consciously omitted
from the array of the accused persons after thorough discussions and
deliberations by the investigating agency at the appropriate level, and it
was specifically so stated in the charge-sheet itself, in a situation like
this even if the learned Judge wanted to differ from the investigating
agency and decided to take cognizance against the appellant, he should have
given valid reasons for proceeding against the appellant which could
include his opinion that there was sufficient material against the
appellant to be proceeded against. However, reasons given in the impugned
order, according to the learned senior counsel, are totally extraneous
amounting to wrong approach in law. His further submission was that even at a later stage if any evidence
surfaces against the appellant, the Court is not powerless as any person
can be summoned as accused under Section 319 of the Code at any stage of
the trial. Mr. Viswanathan who appeared for the appellant Mr. Ravi Ruia, while
adopting the aforesaid arguments and reiterating them briefly, tried to
canvass another feature peculiar to in the case of his client Mr. Ravi
Ruia. The learned counsel pointed out that he was not even called for
interrogation by the CBI which would show that there is no material against
him at all. His name is not even mentioned in the charge-sheet. He
painstakingly pleaded that in the absence of any material reflected even in
the charge-sheet, this appellant would be handicapped in making any
submission for his discharge at the stage of framing charges. As the
appellant was implicated involving the principle of vicarious liability,
which is not applicable and erroneously referred to, he had no option but
to file the present appeal for quashing of the notice of cognizance against
him. Mr. Viswanathan in support of his submission referred certain
judgments, which we shall discuss at the appropriate stage. The Arguments: Respondents
Mr. K. K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing for the CBI, refuted
the aforesaid submissions in strongest possible manner. He referred to the
various portions of the charge-sheet where allegations against the accused
persons are stated and outcome of the investigation revealed. His
endeavour was to demonstrate the manner in which the decision was taken,
resulting into huge loss to the Government Exchequer and, prima facie, it
was established that such a decision was taken to help the accused Telecom
Companies. He argued that once the companies are charged with mens rea
offences, they require guilty mind as these are not strict liability
offences. However, the companies would act through their Directors/Officers
only and the mens rea/guilty mind would be of those persons who are
controlling the affairs of the companies. He referred to the counter
affidavit filed by the CBI which, in summary form, mentions the role of
different persons including the manner in which note was put up by Mr. J.R.
Gupta; the changes that were made by Mr. Shyamal Ghosh to the said note
allegedly to benefit the companies; and the manner in which it was approved
by the Minister. This affidavit also mentions that there is evidence on
record to show that the appellant Mr. Sunil Mittal had met late Shri Pramod
Mahajan during 2001-2002 for getting allocated additional spectrum beyond
6.2 MHz for tele-service area of his company. There was also evidence of
meetings between the appellant and Mr. Shyamal Ghosh for the same purpose
during the same period which would constitute the circumstantial evidence
to implicate these persons. The thrust of his submission, thus, is that it
is the "human agency" in the accused companies who was responsible as it
was a mens rea offence and such an agency/person has to be the top person,
going by the circumstantial evidence. Therefore, even if in the charge-
sheet, names of these appellants were not included, the Special Judge was
within his powers to look into the matter in its entirety as the charge-
sheet along with documents spanning over 25000 pages was submitted to him. Mr. Venugopal joined issue on the interpretation given by the appellants to
the impugned order. According to him, the order could not be bifurcated
into two parts. Para 3 of the order wherein the Special Judge has observed
that he had perused the FIR, charge-sheet, statement of witnesses and
documents on record was relatable to the three individuals, including the
two appellants as well. He even submitted that in the absence of
individual accused persons, who were in charge of the affairs of the three
accused companies, it may become difficult to proceed against the accused
companies alone as it was a mens rea offence. He also relied upon the
following judgments to support the impugned order, with the plea that the
trial court was invested with requisite powers to summon the appellants: 3. Dharam Pal v. State of Haryana [8]

"40. In that view of the matter, we have no hesitation in agreeing with the
views expressed in Kishun Singh case (1993) 2 SCC 16 that the Sessions
Court has jurisdiction on committal of a case to it, to take cognizance of
the offences of the persons not named as offenders but whose complicity in
the case would be evident from the materials available on record. Hence,
even without recording evidence, upon committal under Section 209, the
Sessions Judge may summon those persons shown in column 2 of the police
report to stand trial along with those already named therein. 41. We are also unable to accept Mr Dave's submission that the Sessions
Court would have no alternative, but to wait till the stage under Section
319 CrPC was reached, before proceeding against the persons against whom a
prima facie case was made out from the materials contained in the case
papers sent by the learned Magistrate while committing the case to the
Court of Session." He also referred to the decision in the case of Lee Kun Hee, President,
Samsung Corpn., South Korea v. State of Uttar Pradesh[9] wherein this Court
has set down the limits of High Court's power under Section 482 of the Code
to interfere with summoning orders passed by the trial court, as follows: In such circumstances, we have to examine whether it was appropriate for
the High Court to exercise its jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC to quash
the proceedings at the stage when the Magistrate had merely issued process
against the respondents." xx xx xx 59. While dealing with the various judgments rendered by this Court on the
subject reference was also made to the decision in M.N. Ojha v. Alok Kumar
Srivastav (2009) 9 SCC 682 . In M.N. Ojha case similar views as in Bhajan
Lal case 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 came to be recorded in the following words: Normally, the High Court would not intervene in the criminal proceedings at
the preliminary stage/when the investigation/enquiry is pending. 30. Interference by the High Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure can only be where a clear
case for such interference is made out. Frequent and uncalled for
interference even at the preliminary stage by the High Court may result in
causing obstruction in the progress of the inquiry in a criminal case which
may not be in the public interest. But at the same time the High Court
cannot refuse to exercise its jurisdiction if the interest of justice so
required where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd
and inherently improbable on the basis of which no fair-minded and informed
observer can ever reach a just and proper conclusion as to the existence of
sufficient grounds for proceeding. In such cases refusal to exercise the
jurisdiction may equally result in injustice more particularly in cases
where the complainant sets the criminal law in motion with a view to exert
pressure and harass the persons arrayed as accused in the complaint." 63. As of now we are satisfied, that the factual foundation/background of
the acts of omission and commission presented by the complainant is
specific and categorical. We are also satisfied that the allegations
levelled by the complainant, fully incorporate all the basic facts which
are necessary to make out the offences whereunder the impugned summoning
order dated 12-1-2005 has been passed. The instant controversy does not
suffer from any of the impairments referred in Iridium India Telecom Ltd. case. Accordingly, we leave it open to the appellants to canvass the legal
issues, as were canvassed before us, before the trial court. After the
rival parties have led their evidence the trial court will return its
finding thereon in accordance with law without being influenced by any
observations made on the merits of the controversy hereinabove, or
hereafter. xx xx xx 71. It was also the contention of the learned counsel for the respondents,
that the civil liability, in the instant case, was raised as against the
eventual purchaser of the goods/product (Samsung, Dubai), in lieu of the
goods/product supplied by the complainant JCE Consultancy, which had passed
onto the purchasers under the agreement dated 1-12-2001. Accordingly, the
civil liability was only raised as against Samsung, Dubai. However, insofar
as the criminal liability is concerned, Samsung, Dubai being one of the
subsidiary companies of Samsung, South Korea, it was allegedly under the
overall control exercised by Samsung, South Korea. Samsung, South Korea,
according to the complainant, was instrumental in the eventual decision
taken by Samsung, Dubai to deny the passing of the reciprocal monetary
consideration for the goods supplied under the agreement dated 1-12-2001.
This, according to the respondents, has been the categorical stance of JCE
Consultancy in the criminal complaint, as also, in the pre-summoning
evidence recorded before the VIIth Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Ghaziabad under Section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 72. These allegations made by JCE Consultancy, are supported by documents
furnished to the summoning court. The aforesaid factual position has also
been endorsed by Sky Impex Ltd. before this Court. According to the learned
counsel for the respondents, the culpability of the appellants before this
Court, in a series of similar actions, clearly emerges even from documents
placed on record of the instant case by Sky Impex Ltd. As such, it is
submitted, that the respondents have per se repudiated all the submissions
advanced on behalf of the appellant, obviously subject to the evidence
which rival parties will be at liberty to adduce before the trial court. xx xx xx 74. It would not be appropriate for us to delve into the culpability of the
appellants at the present juncture on the basis of the factual position
projected by the rival parties before us. The culpability (if at all) would
emerge only after evidence is adduced by the rival parties before the trial
court. The only conclusion that needs to be drawn at the present juncture
is that even on the basis of the last submission canvassed on behalf of the
appellants it is not possible to quash the summoning order at this stage.
In the aforesaid view of the matter, it is left open to the appellants to
raise their objections, if they are so advised, before the trial court. The
trial court shall, as it ought to, adjudicate upon the same in consonance
with law after allowing the rival parties to lead evidence to substantiate
their respective positions." He concluded his submission by reiterating that when it was a case of
circumstantial evidence which appeared on record in abundance, the trial
court was right in summoning the appellants and in fact, judgment in Keshav
Mahindra v. State of M.P.[10] fully supported the impugned order. On the
other hand, decision in Iridium India Telecom Ltd. (supra) had no
application to the facts of this case. Mr. Prashant Bhushan, appearing for intervenor, highlighted the role of the
appellant Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal from the records and particularly the
extract of file noting which inter alia contained the views of the
Superintendent of Police. He, thus, submitted that this constituted
sufficient material to proceed against him and since it was only a
summoning order, the appellants were free to seek discharge before the
trial court. Submissions of Mr. Sunil Malhotra, Advocate, were also on the
same lines. The Arguments: Appellants' Rejonder
Mr. Fali Nariman argued in rejoinder on the lines submissions were made by
Mr. Salve, and in the process lucidly expanded those submissions.
Emphasising that position in law with regard to vicarious liability was
that there is no such vicarious liability in criminal law unless something
is imputed or there is a specific statutory provision creating criminal
vicarious liability. He pointed out that in para 4 of the impugned order,
the learned Special Judge has not gone into the facts but did so taking
shelter under a legal cover, but went wrong in applying an ex facie
incorrect non- existing legal principle. Our Analysis of the Subject Matter
We have given our serious consideration to all the submissions made before
us and fully conscious of the importance of the matter as well. At the
outset, we would like to point out that detailed submissions were made on
the nature of the charges, and in the process, learned counsel for the
appellants tried to trivialize the matter by stating that what was decided
was only a policy decision of the Government to allocate additional
spectrum by charging 1% additional AGR i.e. from 4% to 5%; benefit thereof
was extended to all Cellular Operating Companies including Pubic Sector
Companies like MTNL and BSNL etc. and, therefore, there cannot be a
criminal intent behind it. Mr. Salve as well as Mr. Nariman took pains in
showing various portions of the counter affidavit filed by the CBI to show
that the appellant was left out and not made accused after due
deliberations and argued that it was not a case of erroneous omission by
CBI. It was also argued at length that the allegations were in the domain
of the policy decision taken by the Government to charge 4% of AGR whereas
it was realised much later in the year 2010 when the TRAI has passed orders
that it should have been 5% AGR. According to them, it was merely a bona
fide policy decision which could not be subject matter of criminal
proceedings, in the absence of intent of criminality therein. More so, when
benefit of the said decision was not confined to the appellant's company,
namely M/s Bharti Cellular Limited, but was extended to all others as well
including public sector telecom companies like MTNL and BSNL. Therefore,
there cannot be a criminal intent behind such a decision. Mr. K.K.
Venugopal and others, appearing for the other side, had tried to
demonstrate that the aforesaid submission of the learned counsel for the
appellant was totally erroneous and contrary to records. He tried to
project that it was a conspiracy of major level with sole intention to
benefit the accused companies at the cost of the public exchequer and for
this purpose, criminal conspiracy was hatched up between them. However, we
make it clear at this juncture itself that this part of the submission is
beyond the scope of the present appeals inasmuch as even according to the
learned counsel for the appellants that the aforesaid is not made the basis
of the order while implicating the appellants herein. Insofar as four
persons who were made accused in the charge-sheet by the CBI is concerned,
they are concededly not before us as their summoning order has not been
challenged. Therefore, we deem it unnecessary to go into this question,
which position was even conceded by all the counsel appearing before us. The fulcrum of the issue before us is the validity of that part of impugned
order vide which the two appellants who were not named in the charge sheet,
have been summoned by the Special Judge, for the reasons given therein. (i) Dissecting the Impugned Order: It is on this basis alone that the Special Judge records that "in this fact
situation, the acts of companies are to be attributed and imputed to them". (ii) Principle of "alter ego", as applied
The moot question is whether the aforesaid proposition, to proceed against
the appellants is backed by law? In order to find the answer, let us scan
through the case law that was cited during the arguments. First case which needs to be discussed is Iridium India (supra). Before we
discuss the facts of this case, it would be relevant to point out that the
question as to whether a company could be prosecuted for an offence which
requires mens rea had been earlier referred to in a Constitution Bench of
five Judges in the case of Standard Chartered Bank v. Directorate of
Enforcement [11]. The Constitution Bench had held that a company can be
prosecuted and convicted for an offence which requires a minimum sentence
of imprisonment. In para 8 of the judgment, the Constitution Bench
clarified that the Bench is not expressing any opinion on the question
whether a corporation could be attributed with requisite mens rea to prove
the guilt. Para 8 reads as under: In Iridium India (supra), the aforesaid question fell directly for
consideration, namely, whether a company could be prosecuted for an offence
which requires mens rea and discussed this aspect at length, taking note of
the law that prevails in America and England on this issue. For our
benefit, we will reproduce paras 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 64 herein: 61. The principle has been reiterated by Lord Denning in Bolton (H.L.)
(Engg.) Co. Ltd. v. T.J. Graham & Sons Ltd. in the following words: (AC p. 172): 62. The aforesaid principle has been firmly established in England since
the decision of the House of Lords in Tesco Supermarkets Ltd. v. Nattrass.
In stating the principle of corporate liability for criminal offences, Lord
Reid made the following statement of law: (AC p. 170 E-G)

"I must start by considering the nature of the personality which by a
fiction the law attributes to a corporation. A living person has a mind
which can have knowledge or intention or be negligent and he has hands to
carry out his intentions. A corporation has none of these: it must act
through living persons, though not always one or the same person. Then the
person who acts is not speaking or acting for the company. He is acting as
the company and his mind which directs his acts is the mind of the company.
There is no question of the company being vicariously liable. He is not
acting as a servant, representative, agent or delegate. He is an embodiment
of the company or, one could say, he hears and speaks through the persona
of the company, within his appropriate sphere, and his mind is the mind of
the company. If it is a guilty mind then that guilt is the guilt of the
company. It must be a question of law whether, once the facts have been
ascertained, a person in doing particular things is to be regarded as the
company or merely as the company's servant or agent. In that case any
liability of the company can only be a statutory or vicarious liability." From the above it becomes evident that a corporation is virtually in the
same position as any individual and may be convicted of common law as well
as statutory offences including those requiring mens rea. The criminal
liability of a corporation would arise when an offence is committed in
relation to the business of the corporation by a person or body of persons
in control of its affairs. In such circumstances, it would be necessary to
ascertain that the degree and control of the person or body of persons is
so intense that a corporation may be said to think and act through the
person or the body of persons. The position of law on this issue in Canada
is almost the same. Mens rea is attributed to corporations on the principle
of "alter ego" of the company. 64. So far as India is concerned, the legal position has been clearly
stated by the Constitution Bench judgment of this Court in Standard
Chartered Bank v. Directorate of Enforcement (2005) 4 SCC 530 . On a
detailed consideration of the entire body of case laws in this country as
well as other jurisdictions, it has been observed as follows: (SCC p. 541,
para 6)

"6. There is no dispute that a company is liable to be prosecuted and
punished for criminal offences. Although there are earlier authorities to
the effect that corporations cannot commit a crime, the generally accepted
modern rule is that except for such crimes as a corporation is held
incapable of committing by reason of the fact that they involve personal
malicious intent, a corporation may be subject to indictment or other
criminal process, although the criminal act is committed through its
agents." It is abundantly clear from the above that the principle which is laid down
is to the effect that the criminal intent of the "alter ego" of the
company, that is the personal group of persons that guide the business of
the company, would be imputed to the company/corporation. The legal
proposition that is laid down in the aforesaid judgment is that if the
person or group of persons who control the affairs of the company commit an
offence with a criminal intent, their criminality can be imputed to the
company as well as they are "alter ego" of the company. In the present case, however, this principle is applied in an exactly
reverse scenario. Here, company is the accused person and the learned
Special Magistrate has observed in the impugned order that since the
appellants represent the directing mind and will of each company, their
state of mind is the state of mind of the company and, therefore, on this
premise, acts of the company is attributed and imputed to the appellants.
It is difficult to accept it as the correct principle of law. As
demonstrated hereinafter, this proposition would run contrary to the
principle of vicarious liability detailing the circumstances under which a
direction of a company can be held liable. (iii) Circumstances when Director/Person in charge of the affairs of the
company can also be prosecuted, when the company is an accused person: 7. Keki Hormusji Gharda v. Mehervan Rustom Irani [18]

"16. We have noticed hereinbefore that despite of the said road being under
construction, the first respondent went to the police station thrice. He,
therefore, was not obstructed from going to the police station. In fact, a
firm action had been taken by the authorities. The workers were asked not
to do any work on the road. We, therefore, fail to appreciate that how, in
a situation of this nature, the Managing Director and the Directors of the
Company as also the Architect can be said to have committed an offence
under Section 341 IPC. The Penal Code, 1860 save and except in some matters does not contemplate
any vicarious liability on the part of a person. Commission of an offence
by raising a legal fiction or by creating a vicarious liability in terms of
the provisions of a statute must be expressly stated. The Managing Director
or the Directors of the Company, thus, cannot be said to have committed an
offence only because they are holders of offices. The learned Additional
Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, therefore, in our opinion, was not correct
in issuing summons without taking into consideration this aspect of the
matter. The Managing Director and the Directors of the Company should not
have been summoned only because some allegations were made against the
Company. 18. In Pepsi Foods Ltd. v. Special Judicial Magistrate (1998) 5 SCC 749
this Court held as under: (SCC p. 760, para 28)

"28. Summoning of an accused in a criminal case is a serious matter.
Criminal law cannot be set into motion as a matter of course. It is not
that the complainant has to bring only two witnesses to support his
allegations in the complaint to have the criminal law set into motion. The
order of the Magistrate summoning the accused must reflect that he has
applied his mind to the facts of the case and the law applicable thereto.
He has to examine the nature of allegations made in the complaint and the
evidence both oral and documentary in support thereof and would that be
sufficient for the complainant to succeed in bringing charge home to the
accused. It is not that the Magistrate is a silent spectator at the time of
recording of preliminary evidence before summoning of the accused. The
Magistrate has to carefully scrutinise the evidence brought on record and
may even himself put questions to the complainant and his witnesses to
elicit answers to find out the truthfulness of the allegations or otherwise
and then examine if any offence is prima facie committed by all or any of
the accused." 19. Even as regards the availability of the remedy of filing an
application for discharge, the same would not mean that although the
allegations made in [pic]the complaint petition even if given face value
and taken to be correct in its entirety, do not disclose an offence or it
is found to be otherwise an abuse of the process of the court, still the
High Court would refuse to exercise its discretionary jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure." It is stated at the cost of repetition that in the present case, while
issuing summons against the appellants, the Special Magistrate has taken
shelter under a so-called legal principle, which has turned out to be
incorrect in law. He has not recorded his satisfaction by mentioning the
role played by the appellants which would bring them within criminal net. In this behalf, it would be apt to note that the following observations of
this Court in the case of GHCL Employees Stock Option Trust v. India
Infoline Ltd. [19]: We have already mentioned above that even if the CBI did not implicate the
appellants, if there was/is sufficient material on record to proceed
against these persons as well, the Special Judge is duly empowered to take
cognizance against these persons as well. Under Section 190 of the Code,
any Magistrate of first class (and in those cases where Magistrate of the
second class is specially empowered to do so) may take cognizance of any
offence under the following three eventualities: This Section which is the starting section of Chapter XIV is subject to the
provisions of the said Chapter. The expression "taking cognizance" has not
been defined in the Code. However, when the Magistrate applies his mind
for proceeding under Sections 200-203 of the Code, he is said to have taken
cognizance of an offence. This legal position is explained by this Court
in S.K. Sinha, Chief Enforcement Officer v. Videocon International Ltd &
Ors. [20] in the following words: Sine Qua Non for taking cognizance of the offence is the
application of mind by the Magistrate and his satisfaction that the
allegations, if proved, would constitute an offence. It is, therefore,
imperative that on a complaint or on a police report, the Magistrate is
bound to consider the question as to whether the same discloses commission
of an offence and is required to form such an opinion in this respect.
When he does so and decides to issue process, he shall be said to have
taken cognizance. At the stage of taking cognizance, the only
consideration before the Court remains to consider judiciously whether the
material on which the prosecution proposes to prosecute the accused brings
out a prima facie case or not. Cognizance of an offence and prosecution of an offender are two different
things. Section 190 of the Code empowered taking cognizance of an offence
and not to deal with offenders. Therefore, cognizance can be taken even if
offender is not known or named when the complaint is filed or FIR
registered. Their names may transpire during investigation or afterwards. Person who has not joined as accused in the charge-sheet can be summoned at
the stage of taking cognizance under Section 190 of the Code. There is no
question of applicability of Section 319 of the Code at this stage (See SWIL Ltd. v. State of Delhi [21]). It is also trite that even if a person is
not named as an accused by the police in the final report submitted, the
Court would be justified in taking cognizance of the offence and to summon
the accused if it feels that the evidence and material collected during
investigation justifies prosecution of the accused (See Union of India v.
Prakash P. Hinduja and another [22]). Thus, the Magistrate is empowered to
issue process against some other person, who has not been charge-sheeted,
but there has to be sufficient material in the police report showing his
involvement. In that case, the Magistrate is empowered to ignore the
conclusion arrived at by the investigating officer and apply his mind
independently on the facts emerging from the investigation and take
cognizance of the case. At the same time, it is not permissible at this
stage to consider any material other than that collected by the
investigating officer. On the other hand, Section 204 of the Code deals with the issue of process,
if in the opinion of the Magistrate taking cognizance of an offence, there
is sufficient ground for proceeding. This Section relates to commencement
of a criminal proceeding. If the Magistrate taking cognizance of a case
(it may be the Magistrate receiving the complaint or to whom it has been
transferred under Section 192), upon a consideration of the materials
before him (i.e., the complaint, examination of the complainant and his
witnesses if present, or report of inquiry, if any), thinks that there is a
prima facie case for proceeding in respect of an offence, he shall issue
process against the accused. A wide discretion has been given as to grant or refusal of process and it
must be judicially exercised. A person ought not to be dragged into Court
merely because a complaint has been filed. If a prima facie case has been
made out, the Magistrate ought to issue process and it cannot be refused
merely because he thinks that it is unlikely to result in a conviction. However, the words "sufficient grounds for proceeding" appearing in the
Section are of immense importance. It is these words which amply suggest
that an opinion is to be formed only after due application of mind that
there is sufficient basis for proceeding against the said accused and
formation of such an opinion is to be stated in the order itself. The
order is liable to be set aside if no reason is given therein while coming
to the conclusion that there is prima facie case against accused, though
the order need not contain detailed reasons. A fortiori, the order would
be bad in law if the reason given turns out to be ex facie incorrect. However, there has to be a proper satisfaction in this behalf which should
be duly recorded by the Special Judge on the basis of material on record.
No such exercise is done. In this scenario, having regard to the aforesaid
aspects coupled with the legal position explained above, it is difficult to
sustain the impugned order dated 19.03.2013 in its present form insofar as
it relates to implicating the appellants and summoning them as accused
persons. The appeals arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 and SLP
(Crl.) No. 3161 of 2013 filed by Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal and Ravi Ruia
respectively are, accordingly, allowed and order summoning these appellants
is set aside. The appeals arising out of SLP (Crl.) Nos. 3326-3327 of 2013
filed by Telecom Watchdog are dismissed. Epilogue

While parting, we make it clear that since on an erroneous presumption in
law, the Special Magistrate has issued the summons to the appellants, it
will always be open to the Special Magistrate to undertake the exercise of
going through the material on record and on that basis, if he is satisfied
that there is enough incriminating material on record to proceed against
the appellants as well, he may pass appropriate orders in this behalf. We
also make it clear that even if at this stage, no such prima facie material
is found, but during the trial, sufficient incriminating material against
these appellants surfaces in the form of evidence, the Special Judge shall
be at liberty to exercise his powers under Section 319 of the Code to rope
in the appellants by passing appropriate orders in accordance with law at
that stage. .........................................CJI. (H.L. DATTU)

 .............................................J.
 (MADAN B. LOKUR)

 .............................................J.
 (A.K. SIKRI)

NEW DELHI; JANUARY 09, 2015. PETITION FOR SPECIAL LEAVE TO APPEAL (Crl.) NO. 2961 OF 2013

Sunil Mittal .. Appellant(s)

 vs.

Central Bureau of Investigation ..Respondent(s)

 WITH

CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 35 of 2015 (@ SLP(Crl.) No. 3161 of 2013 CRIMINAL APPEAL NOs.36-37 of 2015
(@ SLP(Crl.) Nos. 3326-3327 of 2013)

DATE : 09.01.2015 These matters were called on for
 pronouncement of judgment today. For Appellant(s) Mr. Harish Salve, Sr. Adv. Mr. Fali S. Nariman, Sr. Adv. Mr. Amit Desai, Sr. Adv. Mr. Percival Billimonia, Adv. Mr. Sidharth Agarwal, Adv. Mr. Kamal Shankar, Adv. Mr. Atul N, Adv. Mr. Manpreet Lamba, Adv. Mr. Gautam , Adv. Mr. Utkarsh Saxena, Adv. Mr. Utkarsh Saxena, Adv. Hon'ble Mr. Justice A.K. Sikri pronounced the judgment of the
Bench comprising Hon'ble the Chief Justice, Hon'ble Mr. Justice Madan B.
Lokur and His Lordship. Leave granted. The appeals arising out of SLP(Crl.) No. 2961 of 2013 and 3161
of 2013 are allowed. The appeals arising out of SLP(Crl.) Nos. 3326-3327
of 2013 are dismissed.