IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MPs(M) No. 1276 to 1280, 1375
 & 1419 to 1421 of 2019
 Decided on: 9th September, 2019

 . 1. Cr.MP(M) No. 1276 of 2019: The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia, Judge. Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes. In Cr.MPs(M) No. 1276 to 1280 of 2019: 2. The second set of petitions has been maintained by

 petitioner/complainant/objector, Shri Mujesh (hereinafter referred to

 as "the complainant/objector") under Section 439(2) Cr.P.C., whereby

 cancellation of bail, granted to petitioners Desh Raj, Rajender Thakur,

 Yash Pal and Mohinder Singh, vide order dated 05.07.2019, has been

 sought. 3. All the petitions are being taken up together for

 consideration and disposal, as succinctly the gamut of the matter is

 interwoven and it would be inapt to take up both the above set of cases

 separately for consideration and disposal. 4. The petitioners averred in their petitions that they are

 innocent and have been falsely implicated in the present case. They

 are residents of Himachal Pradesh and neither in a position to tamper ::: Downloaded on - 29/09/2019 03:59:41 :::HCHP 4 with the prosecution evidence nor in a position to flee from justice, so

 they may be released on bail. 5. Police reports stand filed. As per the prosecution story, on

 . 25.04.2019 complainant, Shri Mujesh Kumar (objector herein) made a

 written complaint to the police and alleged that in the year 2018-19 he

 and Yash Pal (petitioner in Cr.MP(M) No. 1276 of 2019), being his

 partner, were granted liquor licence for selling liquor in the areas of

 Gumma Shanan, Padhar, Old Mandi and Samkhetar. He has further

 contended that due to his personal problem he used to remain in his

 house and all the management was being looked after by his partner

 Yash Pal and Desh Raj, Mohinder, Niketan (brother of Yash Pal) and

 one Rajinder Singh. As per the complainant, they had current account

 in State Bank of India and through this account they used to deposit

 their tax with the Excise Department. Petitioner Niketan had affable

 relations with one Shri Rishi, who used to work in SBI, where they

 used to deposit the tax. Subsequently, Niketan changed the mobile

 number for OTP, as earlier OTP used to come in his mobile. The

 complainant has further contended that they had three offices, viz., at

 Shanan, Padhar and Khaliyara and these offices were being looked

 after by the petitioners. Petitioner Desh Raj had good relations in

 Excise Department, so he, without any permit took a stock of

 approximately 4500 beer bottles and liquor, which was sold and the

 concerned Inspector used to check the stock in the shop, but as he had

 connived with the petitioners and did not take any action. This ::: Downloaded on - 29/09/2019 03:59:41 :::HCHP 5 practice of selling liquor without any permit continued at Shanan and

 when the complainant asked, he was shown stock as per the permits. The complainant could not get any clue about the misdeeds of the

 . petitioners. Later on, the Excise Inspector pressurized petitioners Desh

 Raj and Yashpal to deposit the due tax, which was ascertained to be

 one crore rupees. As per the complainant, the petitioners invested the

 said money in properties. Thereafter, liquor licence, for the next

 financial year was obtained in the name of petitioner Rajinder Singh

 and on 1st April the complainant convened a meeting with the

 petitioners to distribute the profit amongst them, but petitioner Desh

 Raj sought an excuse. The complainant came to Shanan for looking

 after liquor work and when he made telephonic calls to Desh Raj, his

 mobile was switched off. So, he asked for manual books from

 Mohinder Singh and Rajinder Singh and the next day, when he was

 present in liquor shop at Shanan, petitioner Mohinder, Rajinder,

 Niketan alongwith 4-5 persons came there and started abusing him

 and also scuffled with him. Thereafter, the complainant tried to

 contact Desh Raj, but he did not pick up the phone and on the next

 day he picked up the call. Shri Pradeep Thakur whatsapped L-1 and

 L-13 account of Desh Raj, which revealed loss of sixty lac and liquor of

 rupees one crore was purchased illegally. So, the complainant

 telephoned the petitioners, but they threatened him. The complainant

 sought action against the petitioners. Police, on the complaint, so filed

 by the complainant, registered a case and the investigation ensued. Police prepared the spot map and also recorded the statements of the

 witnesses. Police made the relevant recoveries and investigated all the

 records. It has come in the police investigation that total

 . Rs.4,79,66,843/- had been embezzled by the petitioners and the said

 amount is recoverable from the petitioners. Lastly, it is prayed that the

 bail application of the petitioner be dismissed, as the amount

 recoverable from the petitioners is huge and the petitioners were found

 involved in a serious offence of cheating and thereby caused huge

 financial loss to the Government of Himachal Pradesh and in case the

 petitioners are released on bail, they may tamper with the prosecution

 evidence and may also flee from justice. 6. The complainant/objector, by filing petitions under Section

 439(2) Cr.P.C. sought cancellation of bail granted vide order dated

 05.07.2019. Precisely, the objector is seeking cancellation of bail on

 the premises that on 13.07.2019, when the complainant was coming

 back from Mandi to Dehra, petitioner Desh Raj stopped him and

 pressurized him to withdraw the FIR, wherein the petitioners were

 granted interim bail. As per the complainant, the petitioners are

 misusing the liberty granted to them. It is further contended that the

 petitioners, through their misdeeds, committed the offence of cheating

 and huge public money is involved in the matter. As per the

 complainant, the petitioners, in connivance with others, committed a

 big scam. Lastly, the complainant prayed that the bail applications of

 the petitioners be dismissed. 7. I have heard the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners,

 learned Deputy Advocate General for the State, learned Senior Counsel

 for the complainant/objector and gone through the record, including

 . the police reports, carefully. 8. The learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner has argued

 that the dispute, if any, is of civil nature and police has registered the

 FIR. He has further argued that the custody of the petitioners is not at

 all required in the instant case. The petitioners are joining and co- operating in the investigation. The petitioners are residents of

 Himachal Pradesh and neither in a position to flee from justice nor in a

 position to tamper with the prosecution evidence, so the petitions be

 allowed and the petitioners be enlarged on bail. Conversely, the

 learned Deputy Advocate General has argued that custodial

 interrogation of the petitioners is required, as the amount involved is

 huge and the recovery is yet to be effected. He has further argued that

 the petitioners, if enlarged on bail, may tamper with the prosecution

 evidence and may also flee from justice. He has prayed that keeping in

 view the huge amount, which is involved in the present petitions, the

 petitions be dismissed. 9. Learned Senior Counsel for the complainant/objector

 argued that the petitioners have cheated the complainant and caused

 huge pecuniary loss to the State exchequer. He has further argued

 that in case the petitioners are enlarged on bail, they may tamper with ::: Downloaded on - 29/09/2019 03:59:41 :::HCHP 8 the prosecution evidence and may also flee from justice, so the bail

 application be dismissed. 10. In rebuttal, the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners

 . has argued that the petitioners are permanent residents of Himachal

 Pradesh and they are neither in a position to tamper with the

 prosecution evidence nor in a position to flee from justice. He has

 further argued that the custody of the petitioners is not at all required

 by the police. They are joining and co-operating in the investigation, so

 the bail applications be allowed. 11. At this stage, considering the material collected by the

 police during the course of investigation, which shows the involvement

 of the petitioners in the alleged offences, the fact that huge amount of

 government money is involved and the same is yet to be recovered, the

 fact that there is every likelihood that in case the petitioners are

 enlarged on bail, they may tamper with the prosecution evidence and

 may also flee from justice and also considering the overall material,

 which has come on record, and without discussing the same at this

 stage, this Court finds that the present are not the fit cases where the

 judicial discretion to admit the petitioners on bail, in the event of their

 arrest, is required to be exercised in their favour. 12. In view of what has been discussed hereinabove, the

 petitions (Cr.MPs(M) No. 1276 to 1280 of 2019) being devoid of merits,

 deserves dismissal and are accordingly dismissed. 13. With the disposal of the petitions preferred by the

 petitioners, Cr.MPs(M) No. 1375 & 1419 to 1421 of 2019 (petitions

 preferred by the complainant/objector) are disposed of as having

 . become infructuous. 14. In view of the above, all the petitions stand disposed of. 15. Needless to say that the observations made hereinabove

 shall not be construed as an opinion expressed on the merits of the

 case and the same shall be adjudicated on its own. As prayed, copy dasti.