1. This Appeal, under Section 57 (1) of Information Technology Act,
 2000, (hereinafter said to be " IT Act ") has been filed by Vodafone Idea
 Limited, Formally Idea Cellular Ltd, Appellant against Mrs. Harshada
 Bindu Dholepatil, complainant, State Bank of India, Corporate Office,
 as well as Murshidabad Branch, West Bengal, and Bank of
 Maharashtra, through its Manager, Sangamwadi Branch, Pune, against
 impugned Judgment, dated 18.01.2019, passed by Adjudicating
 Officers/Principal Secretary, Information Technology, Government of
 Maharashtra, in complaint no. 5 of 2014, Mrs. Harshada Bindu
 Dholepatil V/s Idea Cellular Ltd, whereby Appellant was directed to
 compensate the complainant with Rs.3,00,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs
 Only), within one month of above order, along with 12% Compound
 Interest, to be compounded monthly. 2. In Brief, the memo contends that complainant, Mrs. Harshada Bindu
 Dholepatil, presently Respondent No. 1, was a pre-paid subscriber of
 Formally Idea Cellular Ltd., presently Vodafone Idea Ltd, a public Ltd
 Company, duly incorporated under the Company's Act 2013, having its
 Registered Office at Suman Tower, Plot no.18, Sector 11, Gandhinagar,
 Gujarat at Metropolitan, F.P No.27, S.No.21, Old Mumbai-Pune
 Highway, Wakdewadi, Shivajinagar, Pune. It is an ISO 9001:2008
 certified, cellular network service provider, with a license, under
 Unified Access Service License, duly licensed by Department of
 Telecommunications, Government of India, to provide mobile
 telephony services. Complainant had originally been the customer of 3 Idea Cellular Limited, and the complaint was filed against it. A
 complaint, bearing No. 5 of 2014, dated 17.01.2014, was filed before
 the Adjudicating Officer, with contention, written in it, and upon
 receipt of notice, it was duly replied on 23.08.2014, but the fact
 placed before Learned Adjudicating Officer, were not taken into
 consideration, and impugned order, dated 18.01.2019, for making
 payment of Rs 3,00,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs Only), as compensation
 to complainant, was got passed by Learned Adjudicating Officer,
 Principal Secretary, Information Technology, Government of
 Maharashtra, and it was awarded with the compound Interest of 12%,
 to be compounded monthly, in case of failure to make payment
 thereafter. Respondent No. 1 complainant had been a pre-paid
 subscriber of the Appellant since 06.08.2009 with Consumer
 Application Form and documents submitted by it, at the time
 subscription, which are Annexure A-6 (Colly) to memo of Appeal.
 Kingston Travels, which is a partnership firm, of which complainant,
 present Respondent No. 1, is one of the partners, held a current
 account with Bank of Maharashtra, Dhole Patil Road, Pune,
 Respondent No. 4. There was service of online banking facility,
 granted by Respondent No. 4 to Respondent No. 1. Complainant's
 mobile Phone number was linked with above bank account
 maintained by Respondent No. 4. 3. Appellant had never been informed about this relationship of
 complainant and Respondent No. 4, nor it was a party in above
 transactions. On 15.1.2014, Respondent No. 1 came to know about
 the unauthorized two NEFT transactions, amounting to Rs. 1,50,000/- (Rupees One Lakhs Fifty Thousand) each, to Respondent No. 2 and
 Respondent No. 3, respectively, in the name of Mr. Alam Shaikh and
 Mr. Sanjay K. Ghosh. In fact, on 13.01.2014, a person, claiming herself
 Mrs. Harshada Bindu Dholepatil, visited the Idea store, namely,
 Everest Enterprises, Pune, which is a franchisee store of the
 Appellant, with the grievance, that she had lost her original SIM Card
 and made a request for issuance of duplicate SIM Card. Upon Receipt
 of SIM replacement request, in the prescribed form, along with the
 PAN Card, as proof of Identity, the Appellant verified the documents,
 as per the existing norms, under regulations, then after duplicate SIM
 Card was got issued, in good faith, as a measure of speedy consumer
 grievance redressal. The copy of SIM replacement form, dated
 13.01.2014, along with supporting documents viz, Pan Card, are
 annexed Annexure A-7 (Colly) to memo of appeal. 4. On 13.01.2014 itself, the Appellant sent a message from IZ-IDEA,
 intimating about the SIM exchange request, which admittedly, was
 received by the Respondent No. 1. The same was noted below : 5. Complainant Respondent No. 1, knowing fully well that no request for
 SIM exchange had been made by her, choose to discard the SMS,
 despite being cognizant to it. The purpose was sending SMS to
 subscriber was to give information about SIM exchange request, and 5 get it verified and authenticated by the subscriber. But, in present
 case, complainant failed to make response, and the failure, on the
 part of Respondent No. 1, establishes her negligence, along with
 lackadaisical conduct, resulting above fraudulent transactions from
 her account. On 15.01.2014 Complainant lodged a complaint, bearing
 No. 14/14 at Sr. No.377 with the Cyber Crime Branch, of
 Commissioner Office, Pune. 6. Thereafter, an undated legal notice was sent by Respondent no.1,
 which was received by Appellant on 14.03.2015, wherein, she
 admitted that alleged fraudulent transaction took place on account of
 hacking of cash credit account of Respondent No. 1, maintained with
 Respondent No. 4. Hence, the very saying of the complainant that
 appellant had failed to protect the secret information of Respondent
 No. 1, is baseless and misguided on several accounts. Appellant is not
 a privy to any "secret information" of Respondent No. 1. The
 inspection conducted by the Appellant could not establish the alleged
 contention of complainant, for want of appropriate document,
 supporting purported claim. This legal notice was replied by Appellant.
 Appellant had extended all its cooperation in all the investigation,
 made by Cyber Police. Even then, this complaint was got lodged by a
 complainant, before the Ld. AO under Section 46 of the IT Act. There
 exists no nexus or any contractual relationship, between Respondent
 No. 4 and the Appellant, nor complaint was maintainable, under Section 46 of the IT Act. There was no violation of the condition given
 under Section 43A of IT Act, by the Appellant, which does not possess,
 handle or deal with any "sensitive personal data or information". Jurisdiction of Adjudicating Officer, under Section 43A , read with Section 46 , of the IT Act, was restricted to claims involving : 7. Therefore, in the present matter, the Appellant does not fall under
 this category, as Appellant has not possessed, handled or dealt with
 any sensitive personal data or information of Respondent No. 1, nor it
 failed to maintain reasonable security practices and procedure
 required under this. 8. The Cellular services, provided by the Appellant, involve carriage of
 voice and data of its subscribers, from one end to other, within or
 outside its network. For this purpose, the service provider is required
 to establish a cellular mobile network. But, this content is not under
 the access of cellular service provider. Rather Appellant company is a
 licensee, Department of Telecom of the Government of India, in the
 State of Maharashtra and Goa, for more than 2 decades, with a 7 function to be governed by the provisions of Indian Telegraph Act,
 1885 , Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1933 , and Telecommunication
 Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997. 9. Appellant's relationship with Respondent No. 1, complainant is limited
 to extent of providing Telecommunication services. Subscriber
 verification is not a subject matter of IT Act , and in fact, it falls under
 the jurisdiction and domain of DoT, Telegraph Act, and the rules made
 there-under. Failure to make compliance, with regard to subscriber's
 verification, falls within the jurisdiction of the DoT, and not under Section 43A of IT Act. With regard to scope of reasonable security and
 procedure under Section 43A of IT Act, the failure to make
 subscriber's verification does not fall in it. The alleged fraudulent
 transactions had been committed with the bank account of Kingston
 Travels and not of complainant. Hence, complainant has no cause of
 action to file the complaint. Hence, this Appeal, with a prayer for
 setting aside the impugned order. 10. Heard Learned Counsels for both side and gone through material
 placed on record. 11. From the very perusal of material placed on record, it is apparent that
 the complaint No. 5 of 2014, dated 17.01.2014, was got filed before
 the Adjudicating Officer, Principal Secretary Information Technology,
 Government of Maharashtra by Mrs. Harshada Bindu Dholepatil
 against Idea Cellular Limited, Respondent No. 1, State Bank of India, 8 Corporate Office, Mumbai. Respondent No. 2, State Bank of India,
Murshidabad, West Bengal Respondent No. 3, Bank of Maharashtra,
through its Manager Branch Pune, Respondent No. 4, under Section
46 of Information and Technology Act, 2000, with this contention that
on January 15, 2014 at around 10:23 AM, when complainant logged
into her bank account, being maintained with Respondent No. 4, she
noticed that two NEFT transactions were done, for Rs.1.5 Lakhs each
to SBI accounts in the name of Mr. Alam Shaikh and Mr. Sanjay K
Ghosh, from the bank account of complainant. She lost total of Rs.
3,00,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs Only), on account of duplicate SIM
Card given to a person, who allegedly was not the real owner of the
Mobile SIM card. Rather, her mobile number was misused for this
fraud. On January 13, 2014 evening, she had received a message from
Idea Cellular on her mobile number, stating that "Dear Customer, your
request for SIM exchange has been registered and would be actioned
by 01/13/14, 03:14:21 PM". Post this message, her SIM Card was
blocked, but she was able to receive calls, which made the
complainant believe that the SIM card is not blocked, and by using this
duplicate SIM Card, this fraudulent transaction was carried on. A
police Complaint was got lodged in this respect on January 15, 2014 at
the Commissioner of Police, Cyber Crime, Pune vide SR. No. 377
Registered No. 14/14. The matter was got investigated by the
Bandgarden Police station. Report stated that one of the accused, Mr.
Sanjay Ghosh was caught and was remanded in judicial custody of
Magistrate, but Mr. Alam Shaikh was untraceable. 12. Idea Cellular Limited vide its reply, dated 23.08.2014, stated that only
 a Criminal Court of competent jurisdiction can entertain this
 complaint. The cellular company, merely act as an intermediary, as
 defined under Section 2(w) of Information Technology Act, 2000. It
 had implemented all security practices/layers mandated by the DoT
 and TRAI guidelines. The alleged fraudulent transactions were
 committed from the Bank Account of Kingston Travels and the
 complainant was defrauded by the fraudsters. It was by hacking online
 bank facility. The information with regard to SIM exchange, sent
 through SMS, was received on January 13, 2014 by Complainant itself,
 but no response over it was by subscriber complainant. It shows the
 negligence of the complainant. It had fallen prey to phishing fraud,
 which had provided the personal and confidential information, which
 was misused by the fraudsters. Bank of Maharashtra, Respondent
 no.4, vide its reply dated November 24, 2015, stated that the internet
 banking system of this Respondent bank, generated necessary
 transaction alert message on the registered mobile number of the
 complainant. As SIM card of the complainant became dead on
 13.01.2014 and duplicate SIM card was got issued, hence, the
 messages, generated, went to the unauthorized user. For two days,
 complainant kept silence. The negligence was of complainant. KYC
 norms were followed by Bank of Maharashtra, as per RBI Guidelines. 13. The Telecommunication service provider was negligent, because
 duplicate SIM card was issued based on fake documents. The learned
 Adjudicating Officer, after hearing both sides, held that there was a
 direct connection between blocking of SIM Card of the complainant, 10 issuance and use of duplicate SIM Card by fraudster and unauthorized
 transaction from the account of the complainant, which occurred
 because of duplicate SIM card, procured by the fraudster. Failure of
 Telecom Service Provider to follow proper guidelines, laid down by
 TRAI. There by order for making payment of above for loss of
 Rs.3,00,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs Only) to complainant, was made by
 the learned Adjudicating Officer, against which this appeal. 14. This Tribunal in Cyber Appeal No. 3 of 2018, Bank of India Vs Shri
 Sandeep & Anr. And Cyber Appeal No. 5 of 2018, Vodafone Idea Ltd
 Versus Shri Sandeep Singhal & Anr., as well as in Cyber Appeal No. 6
 of 2014, Vodafone India Limited vs Prashant Mahadeorao Buradkar
 and Ors, C.A. No. 7 of 2014, State Bank of India Versus Mr. Prashant
 Mahadeorao Buradkar and Anr, had decided the legal points with
 regard to jurisdiction, intermediary, Section 43(A) of Information
 Technology Act, and 46 of IT Act , repeatedly, and it was held that
 information received at the time of issuing of a SIM Card, by way of
 having Customer Application Form are sensitive, personal information,
 taken by Cellular Service Provider and any misuse of SIM resulting the
 fraudulent transaction in any bank account, wherein registered
 mobile number has been given by subscriber for its entire transaction,
 with other daily routine technical uses of mobile number, is sensitive
 personal information and failure to maintain its secret, resulting
 misuse of it, entitled cellular company for making payment of
 damages and for adjudication, jurisdiction of Adjudicating Officer,
 under Section of 46 of IT Act , very well there. These all objections,
 raised in present appeal, with regard to legal arguments, have been 11 settled by this Tribunal. Hence, without reiterating and reproducing
 the same, and on the basis of judgment made by this Tribunal in Cyber
 Appeal No. 6 of 2014, Vodafone India Limited versus Mr. Prashant
 Mahadeorao Buradkar, and Cyber Appeal No. 7 of 2014, State Bank of
 India versus Mr. Prashant Mahadeorao Buradkar, the entire
 contention of the Appellant is being negated. 15. On the factual aspect, the admission of CAF filed by complainant at
 the time of getting cell number and an application by a fraudster for
 issue of duplicate SIM, along with proof of identity PAN Card, has been
 annexed with memo of appeal. On the very first perusal, it is apparent
 and both is not of one and same person. The initial CAF is of Mrs.
 Harshadha Bindu Dholepatil, which is at Annexure A/6 (Colly) and on
 this CAF, SIM Card was got issued, whereas, the person who applied
 for issuance of duplicate SIM, was with name Harshada Dholepatil.
 The PAN Card attached as proof of identity was of Harshada Birju
 Dholepatil with father's name Birju Raja Ram Dholepatil. It itself
 reveals that both are not one and same person. Both PAN cards were
 not of one and same person. Apparently, no verification was got
 made what to say, strict adherence with the TRAI Guidelines. In above
 previously decided appeals, the directions of TRAI, regarding issuance
 of SIM Card, again a duplicate SIM card and the verification required,
 in view of national security and the degree of precaution to be taken,
 has been discussed thoroughly. 16. Hence, in present appeal, the factual aspect is also of proved
 negligence and direct nexus between change of SIM, lock of SIM and
 the fraudulent transaction from banks. Hence, Learned Adjudicating
 Officer has rightly passed Impugned Order on the basis of facts and
 law placed before it. Hence, no ground for any interference by this
 Appellate Tribunal. Accordingly, this Appeal merits its dismissal with cost. Hence,
 dismissed with cost. ....................... (Justice Ram Krishna Gautam)
 Member
25.09.2024
/NC/