Mr. Janak Dwarkadas, Senior Advocate with Somasekhar Sundaresan, Advocate for
the Appellant. Mr. Saleh Doctor, Senior Advocate with Dr. Poornima Advani, Advocate for the
Respondent. Coram : Justice N.K. Sodhi, Presiding Officer
 Utpal Bhattacharya, Member

Per : Utpal Bhattacharya, Member

This order will dispose of two Appeals no. 68 and 69 of 2007 against separate orders,

both dated April 27, 2007 passed by the Adjudicating Officer, Securities and

Exchange Board of India (the Board for short) against the National Securities

Depository Ltd. (NSDL for short) and the Central Depository Services India Ltd.

(CDSL for short). NSDL is the appellant in Appeal no.68 of 2007 and a penalty of

Rs.5 crores has been imposed on it in terms of Section 15HB of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (the Act for short) and Section 19G of the

Depositories Act, 1996. CDSL is the appellant in Appeal no. 69 of 2007 and a

penalty of Rs.3 crores has been imposed on it under the same provisions of law. The

adjudication proceedings originated out of the investigations conducted by the Board

into the issue of shares of 21 companies through initial public offerings (IPOs) during

the period 2003-2005. Investigations revealed that shares in the aforesaid IPOs,

which were reserved for retail investors, were irregularly acquired by many entities 2 through the medium of thousands of fictitious/benami applications. For this purpose

the said entities (hereinafter referred to as key operators) opened a large number of

demat accounts in fictitious and benami names and used those to make applications

for shares in the IPOs in the category of retail investors. On allotment, the shares

were transferred to the demat accounts of the key operators who in turn allegedly

transferred the shares through off market deals to the ultimate beneficiaries who had

financed the purchase of such large number of shares. The financiers sold the shares

immediately after they were listed in the stock exchanges to garner huge profits. The

two appeals in which the charges as well as the arguments on both sides are very

similar to each other and somewhat interrelated, have been heard by us one after the

other. For the sake of convenience, we shall deal with NSDL'S Appeal no. 68 of

2007 first followed by CDSL's Appeal no.69 of 2007. However, before going into the

merits of the two cases, it is necessary to take note of the salient features of the

working of the depository system in India so that the facts and arguments in the cases

can be appreciated in the proper background. 2. The depository model adopted in India provides for a competitive multi-

depository system and there can be various entities providing depository services.

NSDL is one such entity. It was started in December, 1995 with a view to setting up a

depository system in India and creating an efficient market infrastructure that would

obviate the risks of paper-based trading and settlement of transactions in securities. The Depositories Act was enacted in 1996 to provide a statutory framework for the

functioning of Depositories. NSDL was the country's first Depository to be granted

registration by the Board under the Depositories Act . CDSL is the only other

Depository in the country that is registered by the Board. The basic function of the

Depositories is to maintain electronically the demat accounts of every holder of

securities. The Depositories become the registered owners of the securities in the

books of the issuer company while the beneficial ownership vests in the demat

account holders. As registered owners, the Depositories have the authority to effect 3 transfer of ownership of the securities on behalf of the beneficial owners but the latter

are entitled to all other rights and benefits (including voting rights) and the liabilities

in respect of their securities held by a Depository. The Depositories are responsible

for giving effect to all transfers of securities to and from the demat accounts of the

beneficial owners and also of keeping track of events like pledging of shares, freezing

of accounts ordered by the Board etc. The Depositories, however, do not deal

directly with individual investors who are the demat account holders. The interface

with investors is handled by another set of intermediaries commonly called

Depository Participants who are also registered by the Board. The Depository

Participants have investors as their clients whom they service directly. The

transactions of individual investors are reflected in their demat accounts by the

Depositories on the basis of intimations given by the Depository Participant

concerned. The Depository Participants, thus, act as agents of the Depositories. The

detailed duties, responsibilities and obligations of the Depositories and the Depository

Participants are laid down in the Depositories Act , the Regulations framed thereunder

and also in various orders and circulars issued by the Board from time to time. This

apart, the Depositories frame their own bye laws with the approval of the Board to

regulate their own operations. Both the Depositories have also issued separate sets of

operating instructions for their respective Depository Participants. With the

introduction of the depository system, the risk associated with handling paper

certificates and transfer deeds has been eliminated and the framework for settlement

of transactions in the securities market has evolved into a cleaner, more efficient and

more transparent one. Appeal no 68 of 2007 3. In the show cause notice dated November 23, 2006 which was issued to

NSDL under Rule 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Proceedure for

Holding Enquiry and Imposing Penalty by Adjudicating Officer) Rules, 1995, it has 4 been alleged by the Board that by facilitating the key operators to open

fictitious/benami accounts, the appellant had actively assisted the key operators in

cornering the IPO allotments in retail category. More specifically, the following

charges were levelled against the appellant:- 4. The specific charges levelled against the appellant by the Board are primarily

based on a system audit of the appellant which was got conducted by the Board

through an independent body called iSec Services Pvt. Ltd. (iSec for short) and the

final report of iSec was annexed to the show cause notice. While arguing his case,

the learned senior counsel for the appellant took us through the impugned order dated

27.4.2007 as well as the iSec report. For the sake of convenience, we shall deal with

the charges against the appellant one by one. 5. The charge of failure to prevent the opening/existence of multiple beneficiary

ownership accounts is a particularly important one because according to the Board, it

is this failure that directly led to the so called IPO scam. Though the demat accounts

are maintained by the Depositories (including the appellant) in their computerised

data base, these accounts are opened for the clients (beneficial owners) by the

Depository Participants (DPs) after ensuring adherence to the Know Your Client

(KYC) norms. Detailed instructions in this regard have been issued by the Board and

the Depositories also have issued various communications in this regard to the DPs.

It has been noted in the impugned order that as many as 34,924 fictitious/benami

accounts of beneficial owners were opened with the DPs for 21 IPO's including

thousands of accounts which had the same address and most of which were closed

soon after the allotment process. The respondent Board's case is that the failure of

the appellant to prevent the opening of such multiple beneficiary ownership accounts

with the same address occurred mainly because the application forms for opening

beneficial ownership accounts provided for two addresses and the process of making

illegal profits by cornering the retail category shares in the IPO's was facilitated by

using the address of the financiers as the correspondence address or the second

address. According to the iSec report, the provision for the second address was

introduced on the insistence of the appellant. This was vehemently denied by the

learned senior counsel for NSDL who argued that the feature regarding

correspondence address was introduced in the form for opening demat accounts at the 6 instance of the Board in as much as on 11.10.2004 the Board advised NSDL to

examine the feasibility of incorporating this feature. NSDL informed the Board on

18.10.2004 that this was being examined. Subsequently in June, 2005, NSDL

incorporated this feature in its business rules and intimated the Board accordingly.

This argument could not be controverted by the learned senior counsel for the Board.

Copies of the correspondence between NSDL and the Board in this regard are on

record and were referred to in detail. 6. It has been observed by the Adjudicating Officer in the impugned order that

it is the duty and the responsibility of the DP to ensure compliance with KYC

requirements but the appellant as the Depository cannot also disown its responsibility

in this regard because the DPs are the agents of the Depository, as has been expressly

mentioned in the Depositories Act . According to the Adjudicating Officer, "opening

of hundreds of accounts with the same address and on same day by some of the DPs

should have alerted the Depository as to whether the requirements of KYC

documentation were complied with by the DPs." The Adjudicating Officer doubted if

the requirements of the Board's circular SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-36/2000 dated

August 4, 2000 regarding adherence to KYC norms were complied with and held that

the Depository i.e. the appellant had to take responsibility for such noncompliance.

Having heard the learned senior counsel on both sides and examined the relevant

records, we find that the Board's circular of August 4, 2000 makes the DPs squarely

responsible for compliance with the KYC norms as can be seen from the following

excerpt from the circular: The circular of August 4, 2000 was addressed not to the Depositories but to the DPs,

though copies were endorsed to the Depositories as well. We also find that there is

absolutely no bar in the Depositories Act or the Regulations framed thereunder on

opening of multiple accounts by a beneficial owner. In fact, the Board itself advises

investors in its own website that an investor can open more than one account in the

same name with the same DP and also with different DPs. Thus, more than one

account can be opened in the same name and also with the same address. Given this

situation, it is no wonder that the appellant did not provide any system level check on

the number of accounts that could use the same address. The learned senior counsel

for the appellant also pointed out that only 153 accounts out of 34,924

fictitious/benami accounts actually had a second address different from the first one

and thus this could not be any factor in facilitating the opening of such a large number

of afferent accounts. This assertion could not be controverted by the respondent

Board. Considering all aspects of the matter we are of the view that the Depositories

have only a very limited role in the process of compliance with the KYC norms

which is squarely the responsibility of the DPs. In the normal course of things, it is

during the inspection of DPs by the Depository concerned that the latter gets to check

whether the DPs are following the procedure for compliance with the KYC norms

meticulously. There is material on record that a few failures and deviations on the

part of the DPs in this regard have actually been pointed out by the appellant during

its inspection though none relating to the occurrence of the same address in accounts

opened in different names. Though much has been made of the adverse impact of the

provision for the second address in the account opening form, it seems clear to us that

the provision for a correspondence address in an account opening form is not a

feature to be avoided and in fact, it is a desirable and even a necessary feature.

Similar feature exists in almost all other forms that an individual is required to fill in

for conducting his day to day business like opening of bank account, application for

passport and so on. It is another matter that the financiers of the so called IPO scam

might have benefitted by the misuse of this address as the second address of the 8 applicant but the system as it existed at the time of the scam or for that matter, exists

even now, does not have any check to prevent opening of such accounts. In the

absence of any prohibition in any Act or Regulations or any circular issued by the

Board, it is not in the least fair to expect the Depositories to detect and stop such a

practice. 7. The next charge against the appellant was that it failed to notice the

unauthorized outsourcing of their operations by the DPs and thus contravened

Regulation 52 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and

Participants) Regulations, 1996 (DP Regulations for short) which lays down that no

participant shall assign or delegate its functions as participant to any other person,

without the prior approval of the Depository. This charge relates to one particular

Depository Participant namely Karvy Stock Broking Ltd (Karvy for short). The

learned senior counsel for the appellant argued that use of an agent for collection of

application forms from intending investors and their submission to the DPs does not

amount to assignment or delegation of the functions of a participant, as alleged by the

Board. In view of the rush for opening new demat accounts before an IPO issue

opens, it is a common practice, according to the appellant, for DPs to use certain

individuals as their agents to source new clients. This is only a marketing activity and

does not at all amount to outsourcing within the meaning of Regulation 52 of the DP

Regulations. We are inclined to agree with the learned senior counsel for the

appellant because such outsourcing does not in any way dilute the responsibility of

the DP to ensure strict compliance with the KYC norms. It would appear to be a

common practice in the market for DPs to employ agents to approach and get new

clients for expanding their business. Such agents do not discharge any of the

functions of a DP but are engaged only for marketing activity. It has also been

recorded in the impugned order that "NSDL failed to make any norms to define the

nature and scope of the outsourcing being resorted to by its Depository Participants.

In the absence of any norms, these agents started performing activities like KYC 9 verification also which should have been done by the Depository Participant." We

have not found any material whatever in the records of the case to support the

conclusion that it was the agents who performed KYC verification nor is there

anything in any Rules or Regulations etc. to suggest that NSDL has the responsibility

of defining the nature and scope of outsourcing by the DPs. We are therefore, of the

view that this charge has not been established. 8. We shall now deal with the third charge namely the failure to put in

place adequate mechanisms for the purpose of reviewing, monitoring and evaluating

the controls, systems, procedures and safeguards. This charge is really one of

complete violation of Regulation 34 of the DP Regulations which lays down that

"every depository shall have adequate mechanism for the purpose of reviewing,

monitoring and evaluating the depository's controls, systems, procedures and

safeguards." There are two findings in the impugned order relating to this charge.

The first finding is that the appellant had failed to maintain data in an appropriate

manner and their data integrity is suspect. This finding has been recorded on the

basis of the fact that in the fields within the data base meant to record the dates of

opening of accounts, dummy dates have been recorded in many cases. It was

clarified by the learned senior counsel for the appellant that dummy dates like "0001-

01-01" and "9999-12-31" were used in case of old accounts in order to identify them

and to maintain the audit trail when the entire depository system was migrated from

the old decentralised model to the current centralised model. According to the

appellant such migration is still under way. It was also clarified on behalf of the

appellant that such entries are used as default entries in certain fields where data may

not be required in all cases. For example, the date of approval by Reserve Bank of

India is not necessary in the case of opening of an account by a domestic Indian

resident and therefore the date field for such approval in such an account would

normally have a default entry which should be easily identifiable as such. It was also

forcefully argued on behalf of the appellant that in order to understand on what basis 10 such a serious charge had been levelled and to clarify the position, it was essential for

the appellant to cross examine the authors of the iSec report on the basis of which this

charge has been framed but this request was turned down by the Adjudicating Officer.

We find absolutely no rationale behind such refusal by the Adjudicating Officer of

the appellant's right of cross examination. The Adjudicating Officer has recorded his

findings basing himself solely on the iSec report. Granting that iSec is an expert

body, NSDL is also a professional body whose system is operated by personnel who

are also experts in designing and operating compurterised data bases. Faced with the

charge of lack of data integrity, NSDL has come up with detailed explanation which

is prima facie quite plausible. Under these circumstances, there can be hardly any

justification for the adjudicating officer to totally ignore the submissions by NSDL

and rely entirely upon the views of iSec. In the present case, when two sets of experts

have expressed different views about a highly technical matter, we do not think there

was any better way for the Adjudicating Officer to arrive at the truth other than by

permitting cross examination of the author(s) of the iSec report by NSDL. This, in

fact, would have been in accordance with the very basic principles of natural justice.

This would also have assisted the Adjudicating Officer in taking a more balanced and

better informed view in the matter. Be that as it may, we find no material in regard

to any illegality or irregularity in the maintenance of the data base by the appellant.

The Board has also not cited any specific case where the integrity of data mentioned

by the appellant has been found to be suspect and we cannot accept the finding in this

regard on the basis of vague and insufficient material. 9. The second finding in respect of this charge is that the appellant has no bye

laws for internal control standards including the procedure for auditing, reviewing

and monitoring which led to lack of proper monitoring and control exercised by the

appellant over the DPs. From a perusal of the relevant paragraphs 9.3.1 and 9.3.2 of

the impugned order, it is not clear whether the Adjudicating Officer is referring to the

absence of internal controls of the systems and procedures within the Depository or 11 the absence of controls by the Depository over the systems prevailing in and followed

by the DPs. Be that as it may, the standards and procedures to be followed by the

DPs for the purpose of their internal control have been prescribed by the appellant in

bye law 10.2. Observance of these standards and procedures is to be verified by the

appellant at the time of inspection of the DPs. As regards the appellant's own internal

controls, it was pointed out that there is a regular system of internal audit review as

well as operations audit and that the relevant reports alongwith management

comments thereon are reviewed on a regular basis by the appellant at the level of the

Board of Directors. Again, in the absence of any specific instances being cited by the

Board, we are not in a position to accept the finding of the Adjudicating Officer in

this respect which could only be termed vague and without any basis. The charge

must, therefore, fail. 10. The next charge is failure to verify the infrastructural facilities of the

DPs. The Adjudicating Officer has held that the appellant never physically verifies

the DP prior to recommending its registration with the Board though bye law

6.2.1(vii) of the appellant provides that the applicant should have adequate office

space exclusively for depository operations. The appellant admits that physical

inspection is not undertaken as a matter of course before recommending registration

but that is because the applicants have to be electronically connected to the appellant

and this cannot be done unless the former have adequate infrastructure. After hearing

the learned senior counsel on both sides and examining the records, we are of the

view that physical inspection of a DP's site before recommending registration need

not be considered an absolute must in all cases. This is because the appellant itself

arranges the electronic connectivity of the DP applicants with service providers

(MTNL for example) and the software installed by a DP applicant is also provided by

the appellant only. The connectivity cannot be established and sustained and the

system cannot run unless compatible hardware and other infrastructure are in place

with the DP. The DP applicants are recommended for registration only after rigorous

testing of the software and hardware installed by it as well as the connectivity with 12 NSDL. In any case, the DP applicants are not unknown entities but are entities like

banks, NBFCs, stock brokers etc., who are already registered either with the Board or

with the Reserve Bank of India. In some cases, the DP applicant may be located in

some remote corner of this country and physical inspection prior to recommending

for registration may not even be feasible. After considering the submissions by the

parties and perusing the relevant portions of the iSec report, we are of the view that

a priori physical inspection of DP applicants may not be essential and in any case,

since there is no such stipulation in any statute, absence of physical inspection

cannot be considered an irregularity that calls for a penalty. 11. There is only one more charge in the show cause notice dated November 23,

2006 issued to the appellant and that is failure to take appropriate action against the

DPs for the various irregularities repeatedly committed by them. The specific finding

in the impugned order in support of this charge is that most of the penalties imposed

by the appellant on DPs are for failure to appoint qualified personnel and that the

amount of penalty levied for non-compliance with KYC requirements is significantly

lower than that for other violations. The Adjudicating Officer "assumed" that the

lesser penalty for account opening deficiencies gave a signal that such deficiencies

would be treated leniently and this encouraged the opening of a large number of

afferent accounts. We are unable to appreciate the basis for the view expressed by the

Adjudicating Officer that the penalty for a minor lapse in observing KYC norms

should be as severe as that for having unqualified personnel for operating a client

account. The second offence is much more severe and is comparable with that of a

person not possessing a driving licence driving a motor car while the first one is like a

case where an indicator light of the car is not working. While we cannot but agree

that any penalty has to be commensurate with the seriousness of the offence that it

penalises, there is no apparent reason for us to doubt the judgment of the appellant in

deciding the right kind of penalty for the lapses noticed by it during its inspection of

the DPs. 12. Apart from the five charges dealt with above, the Board in a

supplementary show cause notice issued to the appellant on 14.2.2007 sought

clarification from the former on its alleged failure to comply with the direction issued

by the Board in its orders dated January 12, 2006 and April 27, 2006 in respect of the

demat account of one Biren Kantilal Shah. It was also alleged in the said show cause

notice that the appellant had failed to comply with the directions issued by the Board

in its letter no. ISD/SD/HSE/03/2006 dated 16.11.2006 regarding audit of one

particular account of Karvy. The Adjudicating Officer did not give any adverse

finding in respect of the latter allegation in view of the circumstances explained in

paragraph 12.3.2 of the impugned order. Regarding the first charge, the Adjudicating

Officer proceeded on the premise that in its order dated 12.1.2006 regarding the IPO

of Infrastructure Development Finance Corporation (IDFC), the Board had issued a

directive to the appellant to monitor the flow of securities into the account of Biren

Kantilal Shah and recorded a finding that the appellant had failed to do so in violation

of the Board's directive. We have perused the Board's orders of 12.1.2006 and

27.4.2006 and find that the Board had not issued any directive whatever to the effect

that the flow of securities into the account of Biren Kantilal Shah should be

monitored or regulated. The clear and unambiguous direction issued by the Board

was that Biren Kantilal Shah should not be permitted to enter into any transactions

involving shares of IDFC and any other ensuing IPOs and there is no allegation

against the appellant that it had allowed any such prohibited transaction. Thus, the

charge in the show cause notice as well as the finding in respect thereof both are

based on a wrong premise and cannot be sustained. Appeal No.69 of 2007 13. In the show cause notice dated November 23, 2006 issued to CDSL, the

charges are as under: 14. The impugned order has recorded very strong findings on the first charge

against CDSL that the latter facilitated opening of fictitious/benami demat accounts

without following the prescribed procedure. The Adjudicating Officer has considered

the provision for the second address or the correspondence address in the account

opening forms to be primarily responsible for opening of the large number of

fictitious/benami accounts and has held CDSL responsible for that. The learned

counsel for CDSL, however, pointed out that it is not correct to hold, as the

Adjudicating Officer has done, that CDSL had included the column for

correspondence address without the Board's approval. The provisions for

correspondence address, in addition to the permanent address, has been a part of

CDSL's system since inception and this always had the approval of the Board.

Besides, the learned counsel for CDSL pointed out that contrary to what has been

recorded in paragraph 5.3 of the impugned order, CDSL has not withdrawn the

provision for correspondence address in the demat account opening forms as this

provision is considered to be absolutely necessary in the interest of investors. Similar

facility exists in the account opening forms in banks, in the applications forms for

allotment of permanent account number by the Income Tax department, in the form 15 of application for passport etc. Mere existence of the provision for correspondence

address cannot be held responsible for the so called IPO scam. The Adjudicating

Officer has noted that a very large number of accounts had been opened on a few

specific dates in different names but with the same correspondence address and has

held that CDSL ought to have been able to detect this phenomenon. This finding has

been based on the stipulation in the Board's circular dated August 4, 2000 quoted by

us in paragraph 6 supra but the logic that is being followed by the Adjudicating

Officer in this case for holding CDSL responsible for the failures of DPs does not

appeal to us.. In the aforesaid circular, the responsibility for verification of an

applicant's identity has been placed squarely on the DP and to shift the burden to the

Depositories on the ground that a DP is an agent of the Depository is not at all

justified. In the scheme of the regulatory process that exists in the securities market,

the role of each intermediary has been specifically delineated and the Depositories

cannot be saddled with the specific responsibility for any failure by the DPs. The DPs

are also market intermediaries registered with the Board and, in terms of chapter VI

of the DP Regulations, the Board has the responsibility of periodically inspecting

them. Therefore, by the same logic that the Adjudicating Officer seems to be relying

upon in this case, the Board itself can be held responsible for the alleged failures of

the DPs and hence, indirectly, for the IPO scam. However, considering the fact that

there is nothing intrinsically wrong in having a second address of the applicants for

opening demat accounts and that there is no bar on opening multiple demat accounts

by a single individual with the same DP or with different DPs, the entire basis for the

finding by the Adjudicating Officer is wrong, as has been found by us in case of

NSDL. 15. In the case of CDSL, however, there is yet another aspect of this charge.

It has been alleged that in order to facilitate the process of IPO allotments, CDSL

distributed identification numbers of beneficial owners in advance to its DPs even

before the latter completed the application forms and submitted the same to CDSL. 16 This, according to the Adjudicating Officer, is in violation of bye laws 13.3.4, 13.3.5

and 13.3.6 of CDSL's bye laws which read as under: It is also alleged by the Board that distribution of 29,848 identification numbers (ids

for short) of beneficial owners (BO for short) in advance to the DPs indicated lack of

due diligence on the part of CDSL and its failure to follow the prescribed procedures

and safeguards resulting in violation of Regulation 34 of the DP Regulations. We do

not think so. Bye laws 13.3.4 to 13.3.6 require that the BO id has to be given only

after an application is accepted by the DPs and it is not necessary for the latter to

upload those particulars to the CDSL system before giving the client a BO id. The

BO ids were provided to the DPs in advance on their request since typically, before a

popular IPO opens for subscription, a large number of applications are received at the

last moment and enough time may not be available for processing them and verifying

the KYC norms before sending the applications to the issuer companies. On the other

hand, it is mandatory to provide a BO id before sending the applications to the issuer

companies as otherwise the applications would be rejected by the latter. It was under 16. The next charge against CDSL is that of failure to put in place

adequate mechanisms for the purpose of reviewing, monitoring and evaluating the

controls, systems, procedures and safeguards. In the impugned order, the finding

against CDSL on this charge has been based on two strands of argument both of

which are fallacious. The first is that if effective control measures had existed along

with a proper system for monitoring and evaluating such control measures it "could

have prompted CDSL in checking creation of large number of afferent accounts".

We do not think that this would have been possible in a system which permits

opening of any number of accounts by a single individual with any number of DPs.

Apart from making a bald statement in the impugned order, the Adjudicating Officer

has not explained as to how it would have been possible. During the course of

arguments, we repeatedly asked the learned counsel for CDSL as to how it would

have been possible in the kind of system that we have and we got no satisfactory

explanation. The second argument is that the bye laws that CDSL has framed for the 18 purpose are not adequate. We do not think it is open to the Board to first approve

certain bye laws and then form an opinion (possibly with the benefit of hindsight) that

these are not adequate and then penalise the framers of the bye laws for the perceived

inadequacy. If there was any inadequacy, it was incumbent upon the Board to have

pointed out the same to CDSL and to have advised it to remove the same by

amending the bye laws suitably. 17. The only other adverse finding against CDSL is that it failed to verify the

infrastructural facilities of the DPs. This charge also fails for the same reasons as in

the case of NSDL which we have dealt with in paragraph 10 supra. 18. We have considered above the specific charges levelled against the two

Depositories by the Board and find that in the facts and circumstances of these cases,

none of the charges can be said to have been established. Some of the charges,

however, have very major implications for the securities market and deserve further

discussion. Much has been made by the Board about the column for the second

address that has been provided in the form for opening demat accounts. Honestly, we

are unable to see what is wrong with this form. A client may very well have a

permanent address and a correspondence address that is different. From the point of

view of communication, it would be the correspondence address which will be the

most important. However, is it not necessary for the DP to know also the permanent

address of the client? After all, the object is to know one's client and knowing both

the addresses is certainly a better KYC norm. Interestingly, though the Adjudicating

Officer has held that the provision for the second address has facilitated the opening

of fictitious demat accounts, we understand that the provision for both addresses

continues till now and the Board has not issued any orders to discontinue this

practice. Clearly, the Board also finds this provision to be necessary and useful. If

so, we do not find any rationale behind the Board's insistence on penalising the

Depositories for having the provision for two addresses. Admittedly, certain

unscrupulous elements have misused this facility for the purpose of cornering shares 19 in certain IPOs but the responsibility for the abuse or misuse of the facility cannot

certainly be laid at the door of the Depositories. 19. The charge of improper maintenance of data on the part of NSDL and its data

integrity being suspect also has very grave ramifications. NSDL and CDSL together

maintain the demat accounts of all investors in public limited companies in the entire

country and if the data integrity of either of them is suspect, the consequences could

be disastrous for the whole market. Such a charge ought not to be levelled lightly and,

if proved, should result in much more drastic action than the mere imposition of a

monetary penalty. Even if one were to assume that the use of certain default values in

a few fields in the database was not correct, but can it be concluded on that basis

alone that the data integrity of the Depository as such is suspect? The answer has to

be in the negative. Since NSDL contends that its systems are perfect and have the

approval of the Board, it was necessary to permit it to cross examine the author(s) of

the iSec report upon which the Adjudicating Officer has solely relied for recording a

finding against the former, so that the deficiency if any, in the system could be

identified. Another aspect of the matter also needs to be kept in view. If some defect

either in the design or in the operation of the computerised data bases of the

Depositories is detected, one would expect the primary concern of the market

regulator to be to find a way to rectify the defect. Considering the supreme

importance of the Depository data bases for the integrity of the market and its smooth

operation, this has to be the first priority. Of course, NSDL has taken the stand that

there is absolutely no defect or deficiency or irregularity in the maintenance or

operation of its data base but the Board has neither accepted that stand nor taken steps

to remove the perceived deficiency and restore data integrity by asking NSDL to take

any specific steps. Given the scale of operations of the two Depositories, even the

success of the Board's action to regulate the securities market properly is dependent

on the proper functioning of the two Depositories including the integrity of their data

bases. In fact, the Board and the two Depositories have to work together in tandem to

secure the interests of the investors and the securities market. The Depositories are 20 also very important and responsible market intermediaries and they are not expected

to work at cross purposes with the Board. In the case of IPO scam too, the immediate

remedy and the further follow up action ought to be decided by the Board and the two

Depositories together rather than through the Board's punitive action against the

former. Most of the data on the basis of which the Board has conducted investigations

into the IPO scam and fixed responsibilities on the key operators and the financiers

has emanated from the data bases of the two Depositories. Having relied upon and

utilised such data gleaned from the two Depositories without having any doubts about

its integrity, we do not think it is open for the Board to allege lack of data integrity in

respect of NSDL. For the reasons recorded above, the charges against both the appellants fail

and their appeals succeed. The impugned orders are set aside leaving the parties to

bear their own costs. Sd/- Justice N.K. Sodhi
 Presiding Officer

 Sd/- Utpal Bhattacharya
 Member
14.1.2009
RHN/PMB