These are four appeals filed by the aforesaid individual assessees against the

respective orders of ld. CIT(A)-1, Jaipur all dated 16.01.2020 & 30.01.2020 for A.Y

2014-15. Since the common issues are involved, all these appeals were heard

together and are being disposed off by this consolidated order. ITA No. 124/JP/2020 2. With the consent of both the parties, the case of assessee, Shri Ashok

Agarwal in ITA No. 124/JP/2020 for A.Y 2014-15 is taken as the lead case for the

purposes of present discussion wherein the assessee has taken the following ground

of appeal:- Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. 3. The assessee is an individual who has filed his return of income for the year

under consideration on 06.12.2014 declaring total taxable income of

Rs. 62,94620/-. During the scrutiny assessment, the Assessing officer noted that the

assessee has declared exempt income under section 10(38) of the Act of

Rs. 7,51,07,591/- on purchase and sale of shares of SUN ASIAN (Scrip Code: show the dematerialization of the shares in the Demat account and thereafter

allotment of 158,400 shares of M/s Sunrise Asian Ltd (allotted in lieu of shares of

M/s. SantoshimaTradelinks Ltd after amalgamation with M/s. SantoshimaTradelinks

Ltd). The assessee also produced the records showing the sale of the shares of M/s.

Sunrise Asian Ltd. from the Demat account through Stock Exchange during the

period starting 19th September 2013 to 25th March 2014 and the sale consideration

of Rs 7,82,75,591/- received in the bank account of the assessee. Thus the

assessee contended that the transaction of purchase and sale of shares of M/s.

Sunrise Asia Ltd is genuine and since the shares were sold after holding for more

than one year and STT has been paid, therefore, the capital gain arising from the

said transactions is exempt under section 10(38) of the IT Act. The assessee also

challenged the observations of the AO that the M/s Sunrise Asian Ltd is engaged in

giving accommodation entries as the information so gathered by the AO were not

made available or confronted to the assessee and in any case, the said information

is in nature of generalized information without pointing out the assessee's

involvement or that matter, the specific transaction pertaining to the assessee. The

assessee also relied upon various decisions in support of his claim. The AO did not

accept the reply of the assessee and held that the Revenue has strong evidences

against the assessee that the long term capital gains booked by the assessee were

pre-arranged method to evade taxes and launder money. The AO has supported his

findings by decision of the Coordinate Bench in case of Ratnakar M. Pujari vs ITO

(ITA No. 995/Mum/2012). The AO consequently made an addition of Rs.

7,51,07591/- by treating the same as bogus LTCG claimed exempt u/s 10(38) of the

Act. The assessee challenged the action of the AO before the ld. CIT (A) who has 5 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. confirmed the findings of the AO and against the said order of the ld. CIT (A), the

assessee has filed the present appeal. 4. During the course of hearing, the ld. A/R of the assessee has submitted that

the AO has made the addition on the basis of assumption and presumption without

bringing on record any material to show that the transactions of sales in the shares

of M/s Sunrise Asia Ltd through Stock Exchange is not genuine. The ld. A/R has

submitted that the assessee has produced all the relevant records and documentary

evidences in support of the purchase and sale of the shares. He has referred to the

application made by the assessee and subsequent allotment advice for allotment of

158,400 shares of M/s. SantoshimaTradelinks Ltd on 08.10.2011 for a consideration

of Rs. 31,68,000/-. He has also referred to the bank statement of the assessee

showing the payment of purchase consideration of Rs. 31,68,000/- and submitted

that the transaction was through banking channel and the assessee has clearly

established the purchase of shares by producing the application seeking allotment of

shares, allotment advice issued by the company, payment to the company made

through banking channel, and dematerialization of the same in the Demat account of

the assessee. It was submitted that M/s. SantoshimaTradelinks Ltd was

subsequently merged into M/s Sunrise Asian Ltd on 22.03.2013 through a scheme of

amalgamation approved by the Hon'ble Bombay High Court. Consequently, the

assessee was allotted 158400 shares of M/s Sunrise Asia Ltd in lieu of 158400 shares

of M/s SantoshimaTradlinks Ltd. The ld. A/R has referred to the Demat account

showing the credit of 158400 shares of M/s Sunrise Asia Ltd in the Demat account of

the assessee. Thus he has contended that the assessee has produced all the 6 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. relevant documentary evidences in support of purchase of shares of M/s

SantoshimaTradlinks Ltd and subsequent exchange and allotment of shares of M/s

Sunrise Asia Ltd which were credited to the Demat account of the assessee.

Thereafter, the assessee sold these shares during the year under consideration in

various lots during the period starting 19th September 2013 to 25th March 2014. He

has referred to the contract notes and Demat account maintained with the Axis Bank

where these sale transactions are duly reflected in the Demat account of the

assessee. The ld A/R has further referred to bank statement showing receipts of

sales consideration of Rs 7,82,75,591/-. The ld. A/R has accordingly contended that

when the holding of the shares are not in dispute, then the transaction of purchase

and sale of shares cannot be held as bogus. The ld. A/R has further contended that

the AO has made reference of SEBI order dated 7.11.2016 suspending the trading in

the shares of M/s. Sunrise Asian Pvt ltd. It was submitted that the assessee was not

provided with a copy of the said order and in any case, from the reading of the

assessment order itself, it is clear that said suspension is on account of failure to

meet certain disclosure requirements and has thus no bearing on the matter under

consideration so far as the transaction of purchase and sale of the shares made by

the assessee. The ld. A/R has further submitted that since the shares were

purchased in the earlier financial 2011-12 and are duly reflected in the books of

account of the assessee as on 31st March, 2012 and on 31st March, 2013, therefore,

when the assessee has produced all the relevant documentary evidences which

included allotment advice, payment through banking channel, Demat account

showing the holding of shares by the assessee, books of account as on 31st March,

2012 and 31st March, 2013 wherein the assessee has duly shown the shares in his 7 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. hand, then the transaction of purchase cannot be doubted. Further, the sales of the

shares are through Stock Exchange and the sale consideration has been received by

the assessee directly in the bank account. Thus the ld. A/R has submitted that once

the assessee has proved the transaction with the support of documentary evidence

as well as the other undisputed facts, then in the absence of any contrary material,

the same cannot be treated as bogus. 5. It was submitted by the ld A/R that the AO has not brought any evidence to

prove the assessee's transaction as non genuine and merely relied on the report

prepared by investigation wing of Kolkata & Mumbai to arrive at the finding that

assessee's transaction are non genuine and accommodation entries. It was

submitted that the said report of investigation wing is general analysis or one can

say that is a study report which is not assessee specific report. It analyses nature of

certain transactions which came on surface while carrying out certain investigation

however nowhere brings on record any evidence or nexus with respect of

asssessee's transaction for the reasons stated below: 6. It was further submitted that the findings of the AO are merely on surmises

and conjectures. The ld. AO did not being on record assessee's nexus with any of

the person of whom the statements have been recorded.Nothing has been brought

on record to show that the persons investigated have named that the assessee was

in collusion with them.The ld. AO did not bring on record any evidence showing any

nexus of assessee with any of the so called entry operator, exit operator.In the

assessee case, assessee has just dealt with his share broker, M/ s Mehta Equities 9 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. which has nowhere been named in the said study report as part of the entry

operator/ exit operator. Even no nexus of the said broker has been pointed out with

any of the parties referred to by assessing officer. In this case, the AO at best could

have considered the investigation report as a starting point of Investigation. The

report only informed the AO that some persons may have misused the scrip: for the

purpose of collusive transactions. The AO was duty bound to make inquiry from all

concerned parties relating to the transactions and then to collect evidences that the

transaction entered into by the assessee was also a collusive transaction. However,

the AO has not brought on record any evidence to prove that the transactions

entered by the assessee which are otherwise supported by proper third party

documents are collusive transactions. 7. It was further submitted that no opportunity of cross examination was

provided by the ld.AO.In this regard, itwas submitted that when the Assessing

authority relies on any third party statement as evidence to make the addition, then

opportunity of cross examination must be provided to the assessee. In the

assessee's case statement of Sh. Vipul Vidur Bhatt were recorded at the back of the

assessee and on the basis of the statements recorded, the ld. AO alleged the

assessee to indulge in the sham transaction of LTCG. As the assessee came to know

of the said statement on receipt of the assessment order, he expressly requested the

ld. CIT(A) to provide the opportunity for cross examination of the said person whose

statement is being relied upon by the ld.AO for making the addition so that true

facts of the case can be found out, however, the same was denied by the ld CIT(A).

We may further submit that if any material or evidence is sought to be relied upon 10 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. by the ld. AO, he has to confront the assessee with the material. The claim of the

assessee cannot be rejected based on mere conjectures unverified by evidence

under pretentious garb of preponderance of human probabilities and theory of

human behaviour by the department. It is well settled that evidence collected from

third parties cannot be used against an assessee unless this evidence is put before

him and he is given an opportunity to controvert the evidence. In this case, the AO

relies only on a report as the basis for the addition. The evidence based on which

the DDIT report is prepared is not brought on record by the AO nor is it put before

the assessee. The submissions of the assessee that he is just an investor and as he

received some tips and he chose to invest based on these market tips and had taken

a calculated risk and had gained in the process and that he is not party to the scam

etc., has to be controverted by the Revenue with evidence when a person claims

that he has done these transactions in a bona fide manner, one cannot reject this

submission based on surmises and conjectures. 8. It was further submitted that a wrong perception has been drawn by ld. AO in

respect of astronomical rise in share price. The ld. AO in his order, doubted the

price rise of M/s SAL over a very short period of just 15-18 month. He also

mentioned that "there is nothing worthwhile to mention on the front of assets and

net worth of the company as well, to conclude that it could command such high

premiums like blue chip companies. It was also found that during the period of

astronomical rise in shares price of the scrip there was no corporate announcement

or big order or any such news which could result into such frenzy in the scrip price.

The price of the scrip in the secondary market mainly depends upon the EPS, the 11 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. business health of a company or some new development in the company which

promises bright future for the shareholder." It was submitted that the facts that M/s

SAL was turned from loss making to profit earning itself demonstrates the facts that

there was potential in SAL. Further, the turnover of the company has been

substantially increasing from year to year. As seen in the assessment order, the

turnover increases by 447 times at Rs. 169.89 Crore from Rs.0.38 crore in FY 2011- 12. Consequently the resultant profit grew up by Rs. 1.45 crore from zero. Moreover,

the share price of the company did not move so high from the amalgamation. The

broker of the assessee suggested the assessee that the price of the share is at peak,

he slowly sold all the shares in the time span of six months. Further as far as AO's

allegation in respect of the company has no good business health and financial ratios

is concerned, we may submit that stock market does not work only on the basis of

financial position of the company but also works on demand& supply and speculative

basis and there are enough precedents which can be submitted in this regard. 9. It was accordingly submitted that the assessee sold the shares of listed

company after holding them for more than one year on Mumbai Stock Exchange

through his broker M/ s Mehta Equities Limited and STT was paid on sale

transaction. Thus, all the conditions of section 10(38) of the Act are fully complied.

Hence, the assessee being eligible, rightly claimed the exemption of Long Term

Capital Gains u/s 10(38) of the Act. It was submitted that the ld. AO nowhere in the

assessment order pointed out nor discussed non fulfillment or non-compliance of any

conditions of section 10(38) of the Act. Hence, rejecting the claim u/s 10(38) of the 12 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. Act without giving reasons is wrong and contrary to the provision of law. In support

of his contentions, he has relied upon the following decisions:- 10. Per contra, the ld. D/R has submitted that the AO has discussed all the relevant

facts in the assessment order as well as the modus operandi of various entry

providers as detected by the Department during the investigation carried out by the

Directorate of Investigation, Kolkata, Delhi etc. and which has been upheld by the ld

CIT(A) by passing a detailed order. Thus it comes to the light that large scale

manipulation has been done in the market price of shares of certain companies listed 13 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. on Bombay Stock Exchange by a group of persons working as syndicate for the

purpose of providing entries of tax exempt bogus Long Term Capital Gains to large

number of beneficiaries in lieu of unaccounted cash. Thus, in order to convert black

money into white without payment of income-tax, a large number of persons are

availing accommodation entries of bogus Long Term Capital Gains. The ld. D/R has

submitted that the AO has discussed each and every aspect of the modus operandi

of the entry providers under which the beneficiaries are asked to buy some shares of

pre-determined penny stock company controlled by them at a very nominal price

mostly off-line through preferential allotment. The beneficiaries hold the shares for

one year to avail the Long Term Capital Gain exemption under section 10(38) of the

IT Act. In the meantime, the operators rig the price of stock and gradually rise its

price many times from 500 to 1000 times. This is done through low volume

transaction indulged in by the dummies of the operator at a pre-determined price.

Thus the ld. D/R has submitted that the AO after discussing the modus operandi of

the operators minutely, has found the assessee is one of the beneficiaries of availing

the accommodation entries of bogus Long Term Capital Gain as the assessee was

allotted 158,400 shares of M/s. SantoshimaTradelinks Ltd. on 08.10.2011 through

private placement for Rs 31,68,000/- which is an off market transaction not through

the recognized Stock Exchange. The assessee thereafter sold equivalent shares of

M/s Sunrise Asian Ltd listed on Bombay stock Exchange (allotted in lieu of shares of

M/s. SantoshimaTradelinks Ltd after amalgamation with M/s. SantoshimaTradelinks

Ltd) for a consideration of Rs 7,82,75,591/-. Thus there is a stiff rise in the price of

the shares at the time of sale as against the acquisition cost which clearly shows

that the transaction is not genuine but it is a bogus transaction of accommodation 14 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. entries of Long Term Capital Gain. The ld. D/R has submitted that the transaction

through banking channel and sale of shares on the stock exchange is not sacrosanct

to hold that the transaction is genuine when all other surrounding circumstances

indicate that the assessee has obtained accommodation entries of bogus Capital

Gain in respect of penny stock and the circumstantial evidence and surrounding

circumstances cannot thus be ignored. Thus the AO has clearly brought out the

case of accommodation entries of bogus Long Term Capital Gain and which has

been rightly confirmed by the ld CIT(A). In support, reliance was placed upon the

judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Nawabganj Sugar Mills Co. Ltd vs CIT [1972] 86 ITR 44. The ld. D/R has also relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Delhi

High Court in case of Suman Poddar vs. ITO , 112 taxmann.com 329 (Delhi). The ld.

D/R has submitted that the Hon'ble High Court has confirmed the decision of the

Tribunal whereby the Long Term Capital Gains claimed by the assessee in respect of

purchase and sale of penny stock were treated as bogus transactions being

accommodation entries. It was submitted that the SLP filed by the assessee against

the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has been dismissed by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court reported in 112 taxmann.com 330 (SC). Further, reliance was placed

on the Hon'ble Guhati High Court's decision in case of CIT vs Smt. Sanghamitra

Bharali [2014] 50 taxmann.com 47. It was further submitted that in case of Pooja

Agarwal and other cases relied upon by the ld A/R, the decisions were mostly based

on the evidences in the form of contract notes, transaction on the stock exchange

and payments through banking channels, however, the surrounding circumstances

have not been appreciated therein. ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. 11. The ld A/R in his rejoinder submitted that the decision relied upon by the ld.

D/R in case of Suman Poddar vs. ITO (supra) is not applicable in the facts of the

assessee's case as in the said case it was a finding of fact by the Tribunal holding

that the assessee has failed to produce any evidence of actual sale except the

Contract Notes issued by the share broker whereas in the case of the assessee, the

assessee produced all the documentary evidences right from allotment of shares,

holding in Demat account, payment of purchase consideration as well as receipt of

the sale consideration through banking channel, thus the said decision cannot be

applied in the present case. Similarly, the case of CIT vs Smt. Sanghamitra Bharali (supra) is distinguishable on facts as in that case , no documentary evidence were

produced in terms of purchase of shares and the price prevailing at the time of

purchase, purchases were not done through the bank account of the assessee and

even the return of income for the assessment year relevant to year of purchase was

submitted after the date of sale of shares and also the fact that the director and the

company were found at the given address and the share broker couldn't submit any

evidence even for the sale of shares, the Assessing officer treated the capital gains

as bogus. On the other hand, the decisions of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court

in case of CIT vs. Smt. Pooja Agarwal in DBIT Appeal No. 209/2018 dated

24.07.2018 as well as PCIT vs. Shri Pramod Jain & Others in DBIT Appeal No.

385/2011 dated 11.09.2011 are binding precedents on this issue. 12. We have considered the rival submissions as well as the relevant material on

record. The AO has doubted the transactions of purchase and sale of shares by the

assessee of M/s. Sunrise Asian Ltd based on the investigation carried out by the 16 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. Investigation Wing, Kolkata wherein certain persons were found indulged in

providing accommodation entries, inter-alia bogus Long Term Capital Gains which is

claimed as exempt under section 10(38) of the Act by the beneficiaries in order to

facilitate the beneficiaries to convert their black money into white without paying

Income-tax. The AO has narrated the modus operandi of various entry providers

which is a general statement so far as the indulgence of certain persons in providing

the accommodation entry of bogus long term capital gains as well as other

transactions. However, in the said narration of modus operandi, there is nothing

against the particular transaction of purchase and sale of shares by the assessee.

The AO has specifically mentioned that during the course of enquiry in certain cases

it has come to light that large scale manipulation has been done in the market price

of shares of certain companies listed on Stock Exchange by a group of persons

working as a syndicate for the purpose of providing entry of tax exempt bogus long

term capital gains to large number of beneficiaries in lieu of unaccounted cash.

These observations of the AO in the assessment order cannot constitute any tangible

material or evidence to show that the transaction of the assessee is bogus being an

accommodation entry. The AO in the show cause notice has stated that information

has been received from the Investigation Wing, Kolkata vide letter dated 27.04.2015

that Sunrise Asian Ltd is engaged in giving entries of bogus LTCG and further,

enquiries were made in the matter and it was found that BSE vide notice No.

2016110726 has declared Sunrise Asian Ltd to be suspended due to direction from

SEBI. In reply to the show-cause, the assessee vide letter dated 13.12.2016 has

specifically requested for such information/documents/statements and details of 17 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. enquiry which has been conducted by the AO as apparent from his reply and the

contents thereof read as under: (ii) Enquiries were made in the matter and it was found that BSE declared

 Sunrise Asian Ltd., to be suspended due to direction from SEBI. 2. Before furnishing our explanation in respect of the aforesaid notes in

 para 1 of the SCN, we would like to state that though your goodself has

 doubted the genuineness of the transactions on the basis of information

 received, it appears from the SCN that your goodself is not doubting the

 computation part of the Capital Gain transaction and itsexemption u/s 10(38) read with Section 2(29A) and Section 2(29B) . We may also state here that in

 the assessee's transaction of LTCG, the sale consideration received is

 Rs.7,82,75,591 pursuant to sale of Listed Scripts of Sunrise between

 19.09.2013 - 25.03.2014 and the amount of capital gain as computed by the 18 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. assessee is Rs.7,51,07,591/- after taking into consideration the cost of

purchases of those scripts on 5.11.2011. Securities transaction tax has been

duly paid on such transaction and the information is available as per the

records already submitted. All the transactions are through banking channels

and via means and process which is justified following all relevant laws, rules

and procedures. The related documents have already been submitted and no

discrepancy therein has been pointed out by your goodself in the same. 3. Your goodself has referred to certain information receive vide letter no.

dated 27-04-2015 wherein it was stated that Sunrise Asian Ltd is engaged in

giving accommodation entries. We may submit that the same is not sufficient

to make addition in this case for following reasons: Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. vi) It appears that your goodself has some generalise information in hand

 rather than any specific information pertaining to assessee's transaction. If

 your goodself has any information in this regard, it is requested to kindly

 provide the same, otherwise, in absence of any such information no addition

 can be made by treating the captioned transaction as non genuine

 transaction. vii) Even if in the departmental actions, it is found that certain transaction

 in shares of Sunrise Asian Ltd are non genuine, the said finding by itself

 cannot be a reason' for concluding that the assessee's transaction is also not

 genuine unless some concrete and specific evidence is brought on record so

 as to prove that assessee's transaction of incurring LTCG was merely an

 accommodation entry." 13. We however, find that no such information/documents/statementswas made

available to the assessee thereby violating the basic principle of confronting the

assessee with the documents which the Revenue wishes to rely against the

assessee. Further, it is noted that in the assessment order so passed, the AO has

made reference to a statement of Shri Vipul Vidur Bhatt recorded u/s 132 during

certain search operations by the Investigation Wing, Mumbai and has relied on the

same for holding the transaction as bogus by availing the accommodation entry of

long term capital gain and beneficiary of the bogus LTCG scam.As the assessee was

again not confronted with such statement during the show-cause notice and he

came to know of the same from perusal of the assessment order, he raised the

objection before the ld CIT(A) that no such statement of Shri Vipul Vidur Bhatt

recorded u/s 132 was made available to him during the course of assessment 20 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. proceedings and secondly, he deserves a right to cross-examine Shri Vipul Vidur

Bhattwhose statement is being used against the assessee. However, we find that

even during the appellate proceedings, the assessee was not made available any

such statement and even the right of cross examination was denied by the ld CIT(A)

who exercises the co-terminus powers as that of the AO. Thus, in view of the

decision of Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in case of CIT vs A.L Lalpuria

Construction (P) Ltd (supra) and the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in case

of CCE vs. Andaman Timber Industries (supra), the assessment based on statement

of third party without giving an opportunity to the assessee is not sustainable in law. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Andaman Timber (Supra) while dealing

with the issue has held in para 5 to 8 as under:- 14. Therefore, the statement of a third party cannot be sole basis of the

assessment without given an opportunity of cross examination and consequently it is

a serious flaw which renders the order a nullity.Even on perusal of such statement of

Shri Shri Vipul Vidur Bhatt, we find that it is a general statement of providing bogus

long term capital gain transaction to the clients without stating anything about the

transaction of allotment of shares by the company to the assessee. The AO has

either discussed the modus operandi of entry providers and their statements but has

not made any reference of any material or documentary evidence which reveals that

the assessee has indulged in availing the accommodation entry of bogus long term 22 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. capital gain. There is no dispute that once the assessee has claimed the long term

capital gain from purchase and sale of shares which is exempt under section 10(38) of the Act, the primary onus is on the assessee to substantiate his claim by

producing the supporting evidence. We find that in the case in hand this is not an

isolated transaction of purchase and sale of shares by the assessee of M/s. Sunrise

Asian Ltd but the assessee has been regularly purchasing and selling the shares as it

is evident from the details of the holding of various shares as reflected in the 23 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. 15. Thus as on 31.03.2013, the assessee was holding the shares of about 12

companies which include shares of M/s. SantoshimaTradelinks Ltdworth

Rs 31,68,000/- which were acquired in the financial year 2011-12 and similarly

reflected in the balance sheet as on 31.03.2012. We find that the assessee has duly

reflected all these shares in the Balance Sheet as on 31.03.2012 as well as

31.03.2013 and the return of income for the assessment year 2012-13 and 2013-14

was also filed in time before the date of sale of the shares starting September 2013

onwards in various lots till March 2014. Thus it is clear that 158400 shares acquired

by the assessee on 08.10.2011 were reflected in the Balance Sheet as on 31st March,

2013. We further note that the assessee produced the copy of allotment advice of

these shares issued by the company along with the bank statement showing the

purchase consideration paid by the assessee through cheque whereby the shares

were allotted of face value of Rs 10/- at a premium of Rs 10/- each. The bank

account of the assessee has reflected the payment of Rs. 31,68,000/- for purchase

of shares. The AO has not disputed that subsequently there were events of

amalgamation of the company with M/s. Sunrise Asian Ltd. pursuant to scheme of

amalgamation duly approved by the Hon'ble High Court of Mumbai and consequently

the assessee was allotted 158,400 shares of M/s Sunrise Asian Ltd as against

158,400 shares of M/s. SantoshimaTradelinks Ltd originally allotted by the company.

The shares acquired by the assessee are duly reflected in the Demat account of the

assessee. Once the shares are dematerialized and credited in the Demat account of

the assessee, the holding of the shares by the assessee cannot be disputed. The AO

has treated the transaction of sale of 158400 shares as bogus being accommodation

entry but has not doubted the holding of these shares in the Demat account of the 25 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. assessee. Once the assessee has produced all the supporting evidences which

include allotment advice, bank statement showing the payment of purchase

consideration, Demat account showing holding of shares in the Demat account, sale

of the shares through Stock Exchange which are also reflected in the Demat account

of the assessee and receipt of the sale consideration in the bank account of the

assessee as it is evident from the bank account statement of the assessee, then in

the absence of any contrary material or evidence brought on record by the AO, the

transaction of purchase and sale of the shares in question cannot be held as bogus

merely on the basis of the investigation carried out by the Department in some other

cases where some persons were found indulged in providing accommodation entry.

The AO in the entire assessment order has not made reference to single

documentary evidence which can be said to be an incriminating material against the

assessee to show that the assessee has availed accommodation entry of bogus Long

Term Capital Gain. Therefore, the mere suspicion cannot be a ground for treating

the transaction as bogus in the absence of any evidence or material on record. 16. The ld. D/R has relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in

case of Suman Poddar vs. ITO (supra) wherein the Hon'ble High Court has

confirmed the finding of the Tribunal and finally observed in para 8 as under :- Thus it is clear that in the said case the Tribunal's finding is based on the fact that

no evidence of actual sale except the contract notes issued by the share broker was

produced by the assessee. In those facts, the Hon'ble High Court has held that no

question of law arises in the said case. On the contrary, in the case in hand the

assessee produced all the relevant documentary evidence to establish the

genuineness of the transaction. Even if the AO doubted the transaction, then to

establish that the transaction is bogus, the AO is required to produce the contrary

material evidence so that the evidence produced by the assessee can be

controverted. In the absence of such contrary material or evidence brought on

record by the AO and the evidence produced by the assessee is otherwise

independently verifiable being the documents in the shape of allotment advice, bank

statement, Demat account, books of account and contract notes for which the

assessee has no control or say, therefore, the said evidence cannot be manipulated

by the assessee. Once the evidence produced by the assessee is not prepared or

beyond the scope of any manipulation by the assessee, then the assessee has

discharged his onus to prove the transaction of purchase and sale of shares and

consequential capital gain. As we have already mentioned that this is not an

isolated transaction of purchase and sale of shares in single scrip, but the assessee

has been holding the shares of 12 companies out of which the AO has doubted only

one scrip. Thus the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court will not help the case of the

department. ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. 17. The ld. D/R has also relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Guahati High Court

in case of CIT vs Smt. Sanghamitra (supra). In that case, the AO, in the order of

assessment, noted that though the shares were sold through bank account of the

assessee, purchase of shares were not made through the bank account of the

assessee. The AO also observed that since the return for the asst. yr. 2000-01

relevant to the year of purchase, was filed after the date of sale and that purchase

of shares was not done through the bank account of the assessee, the actual event

of purchase of the shares of assessee could not be verified and, therefore, it was

apparently an afterthought and a modus operandi adopted to convert the

undisclosed income into 'capital gain'. The director of the company was also

summoned, but no such person was found available at the address of the company

obtained from Guwahati Stock Exchange and no company by name of Birdhichand

Pannalal Agency was in existence at the said given address. The share broker was

also examined under section 131 and in course of examination, he stated that all

records of purchase and sale of shares were lost and thus, the actual purchase and

sale of shares could not be verified. The AO, therefore, treated the 'capital gain' as

bogus and disallowed the long-term 'capital gain', sought to be exempted under s.

54 of the Act, to the tune of Rs. 15,33,160 and added back the same as income

from undisclosed sources'. In the context of said facts, it was held by the Hon'ble

High Court that where no documents could be produced in support of purchase and

sale of shares and the transaction could not be verified, that in such situations, the

genuineness of the transaction has to be examined from the surrounding

circumstances and has held as under: ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. 18. On the contrary, in the case in hand the assessee produced all the relevant

documentary evidence to establish the genuineness of the transaction which are

otherwise independently verifiable being the documents in the shape of allotment

advice, bank statements showing payment towards the purchase and sale receipts,

Demat account statement reflecting the purchase, conversion and subsequent sale

of shares, financial statements and books of account and the return of income

relevant for the assessment year pertaining to year of purchase and year of sale, the

contract notes reflecting the transaction executed as per price prevailing on the

stock exchange. We therefore find that unless these documentary evidence are

proved otherwise or any contrary evidence brought on record, the assessee has

discharged his onus to prove the transaction of purchase and sale of shares and

consequential capital gain. Thus the decision of Hon'ble Gauhati High Court will not

help the case of the department. 19. There is another decision of the jurisdictional Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court

in case of Pramod Jain (supra) relied upon by the ld A/R where the Hon'ble High

Court has referred to its earlier decision in case of CIT vs. Smt. Pooja Agrawal (supra) and has affirmed the findings of the Coordinate Bench and held that no

question of law arises and has dismissed the appeal of the Revenue. The relevant

findings of the Coordinate Bench are contained at para 6 to 8 as under: Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. It is manifest from the assessee's reply to show cause notice that the

assessee had specifically demanded the cross examination of Shri Deepak

Patwari however, the Assessing Officer did not offer the opportunity to the

assessee to cross examine Shri Deepak Patwari. Further, the AO asked the

assessee to produce the Principal Officers of the M/s Gravity Barter Ltd. and

M/s Paridhi Properties Ltd. However, in our view if the Assessing Officer

wanted to examine the principal Officers of those companies he was having

the authority to summon them and record their statements instead of shifting

burden on the assessee. It is not expected from the assessee individual to

produce the principal Officers of the companies rather the AO ought to have

summoned them if the examination of the officers were considered as

necessary by the AO. Hence, it was improper and unjustified on the part of

the AO to asked the assessee to produce the principal Officers of those

companies. As regards the non grant of opportunity to cross examine, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Andaman Timber Industries vs. CCE (supra)

while dealing with the issue has held in para 5 to 8 as under: Therefore, the statement of witness cannot be sole basis of the assessment

without given an opportunity of cross examination and consequently it is a

serious flaw which renders the order a nullity. The Mumbai Special of the

Tribunal in case of GTC Industries vs. ACIT (supra) had the occasion to

consider the addition made by the AO on the basis of suspicion and surmises

and observed in para 46 as under:- Therefore, when the Assessing Officer has not brought any material on record

to show that the assessee has paid over and above the purchase

consideration as claimed and evident from the bank account then, in the

absence of any evidence it cannot be held that the assessee has introduced

his own unaccounted money by way of bogus long term capital gain. The

Hon'ble Jurisdiction High Court in case of CIT vs. Smt. Pooja Agrawal (supra)

has upheld the finding of the Tribunal on this issue in para 12 as under:- In view of the above facts and circumstances of the case, we are of the

 considered opinion that the addition made by the AO is based on mere

 suspicion and surmises without any cogent material to show that the assessee

 has brought back his unaccounted income in the shape of long term capital

 gain. On the other hand, the assessee has brought all the relevant material to

 substantiate its claim that transactions of the purchase and sale of shares are

 genuine. Even otherwise the holding of the shares by the assessee at the

 time of allotment subsequent to the amalgamation/merger is not in doubt,

 therefore, the transaction cannot be held as bogus. Accordingly we delete the

 addition made by the AO on this account." 20. Thus, it is clear that the Tribunal in the said case has analyzed an identical

issue wherein the shares allotted in the private placement @ Rs. 10 at par of face

value which were dematerialized and thereafter sold by the assessee and

accordingly the Tribunal after placing reliance on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme 44 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. Court in case of CCE vs. Andaman Timber Industries (supra) as well as the decision

of Hon'ble jurisdiction High Court in case of CIT vs. Smt. Pooja Agarwal (supra) has

held that when the Assessing Officer has not brought any material on record to show

that the assessee has paid over and above purchase consideration as claimed and

evident from the bank account then, in the absence of any evidence it cannot be

held that the assessee has introduced his own unaccounted money by way of bogus

long term capital gain. Similar in the case in hand the assessee has produced the

relevant record to show the allotment of shares by the company by way of private

placement of face value of Rs 10/- at a premium of Rs 10/- on payment of

consideration by cheque and therefore, it is not a case of payment of consideration

in cash. But the transaction is established from the evidence and record which

cannot be manipulated as all the entries are part of the bank account of the

assessee and the assessee dematerialized the shares in the D-mat account which is

also an independent material and evidence cannot be manipulated. Therefore, the

holding of the shares by the assessee cannot be doubted and the finding of the AO

is based merely on the suspicion and surmises without any cogent material to show

that the assessee has introduction his unaccounted income in the shape of long term

capital gain. The aforesaid decision of the Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court thus

supports the case of the assessee and being of the jurisdictional High Court is

binding on this Tribunal. 21. Further the AO has discussed the abnormal rise in the share price of the

shares of Sunrise Asian Ltd without any under lying fundamentals. The Delhi

Benches of the Tribunal in case of Mohan Lal Agarwal (HUF) vs ITO Ward (1)(4) (ITA 2767/ DEL/2018 order dated 26-11-2018) have held that Capital gains 45 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. cannot be treated as bogus solely on the basis that the price of the shares has risen

manifold and the reason for astronomical rise is not related to any fundamentals of

market. If the transactions are duly proved by trading from stock exchange and the

documentation is proper, the gains cannot be assessed as unexplained credit or as

unexplained money. It was further observed that nowhere it has been found that

assessee was in any manner found to be beneficiary of any accommodation entry

under any inquiry or investigation and there is no material that any action has been

taken by the SEBI against the company and the company has been black-listed or

suspended from trading on account of price manipulation. Once all these

transactions are duly proved by trading on stock exchange, then to hold the sale of

shares as unexplained and bogus cannot be upheld. Similarly, in the instant case,

we find that the AO has not brought on record any material or documentary

evidence to show that the assessee has availed accommodation entry of bogus long

term capital gains under any enquiry or investigation rather the assessee has

produced all relevant documentary evidence in support of his purchase and sale

transaction through the stock exchange and there is nothing on record that the

trading in the scrip has been suspended by SEBI on account of any price

manipulation. We therefore find that the assessee satisfies the necessary

ingredients and conditions as so specified in section 10(38) of the Act, in terms of

transfer of long term capital asset by way of sale of equity shares on which STT has

been paid, he shall therefore be eligible for exemption in respect of whole of the

income so realized on transfer of such shares as the provisions of section 10(38) talks about any income arising from transfer of such long term capital asset which

shall be exempt from tax. ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. 22. Further, the Mumbai Benches of the Tribunal in case of Vijayrattan

Balkrishan Mittal vs. DCIT [2020] 121 taxmann.com 100 (Mumbai - Trib)

has again discussed this issue in threadbare in para 7 to 37 as under:- AO observed that the persons listed above in the notice have purchased the
shares of PAL and are exit providers and entry operator and are in the
business of providing accommodation entries and relied upon their statements
viz. Anil Khemka, Sanjoy Dey & Mandar Naik (director of Saraf Equity). The
relevant observations in the assessment order reads as under: - Para 9: "Further, a SEBI order has been passed in the case of Pine Animation
Ltd order vide dated 08.05.2015 which directs that the trading in the
securities of shall be suspended till further directions...........The shares are
sold by the beneficiaries have been purchased by paper/ bogus entities (e)it
providers). Para 11.3: ......to prove genuineness, proof of physical transfer of shares,
reasons to trade off-market when options to online market trading through 48 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. demat account were available, trading pattern of market transactions for the
last three years, have not been submitted to this office Submissions on
above: The Investigation in assessee's case by way of search did not reveal any
connection with the findings or evidences as referred to in such reports. 12. He stated that the statements of Anil Khemka & Sanjay Dey and Mandar
Naik relied upon the AO does not establish that the assessee has paid any
unaccounted money to these parties. None of the replies to the question
posed indicate that they received any unaccounted money from the assessee
or that they received or utilized the unaccounted money received from the
assessee with reference to shares of PAL. It is also not established that they
had any arrangement or dealings or relation with the assessee leave apart the
alleged accommodation or exit provided who has not stated any dealing with
them against the principles of natural justice. Further, as regards the parties
listed by AO in the assessment order (abstract reproduced above) as exit
providers and entry operators i.e. Dhriti Traders Pvt. Ltd., Dream valley
Trading Pvt. Ltd, Dwarkapuri constructions P Ltd, Olympia Sales Agencies P
Ltd, Particle Industries P Ltd, Signet Vinimay P Ltd, WinallVinimay P Ltd, Spice
Merchants P Ltd and Saraf Equity Services Pvt. Ltd., the assessee
categorically denied the same and confirmed that, he did not know or had
any relation with any of the above said parties and he never dealt with or had
any business or personal relations with any of them. He further confirmed
that as he did not know them, hence knowing their business or activities is
out of question. 13. He argued that the assessee has neither taken exit nor accommodation
entries from any party for purchase or sale of shares of the company, nor has
any evidence provided by AO nor statements of such persons revealed any
dealing with the assessee. All transactions done by the assessee are through
BSE and Bank account in the normal course. Even otherwise also the
statement of the persons referred by the AO as exit or accommodation
providers (Anil Khemka, Sanjay Dey & Mandar Naik) were not recorded in the
presence of assessee nor has he been provided to cross examine them before
using these statements against the assessee. Hence reliance on such
statements made in back of assessee cannot be admissible as evidence and
makes the assessment order invalid. In the present facts, the assessee at first
was allotted shares through preferential issue by the Company. The allotment
of shares by the Company was made after obtaining prior approval of BSE as 49 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. per SEBI Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements Regulation, 2009. The
sale of shares of PAL is through a reputed broker Geojit. All necessary
supporting evidence have been submitted to establish the genuineness of the
transactions. On investigation, the role of Geojit was not found to be
suspicious or questionable. Therefore, reliance on the findings of the
Investigation Wing in some other cases which bears no connection with the
case of the assessee irrelevant. 14. It was contended further that there is no evidence that implicate the
assessee to have entered into any arrangement with any operators /exit
providers or involvement of unaccounted money. The assessee took strong
objections to AO linking him or his transactions with so called alleged exit
providers and accommodation entry providers without any evidence or
involvement mentioned in such investigation reports and statements of such
persons. The seamless process of transactions at BSE as explained hereafter
does not identify and provide us the identity of persons who have purchased
those shares sold by assessee. The assessee has ordered his broker to sell
the shares of PAL who in turn sold the shares on BSE platform. The
assessee/his broker were not aware about the buyers or their brokers who
purchased the shares of PAL sold by the assessee. The allegation of AO in
para 7.2 and 7.3 of the Assessment order that that the assessee mainly
traded in one script (PAL) which is suspicious is completely incorrect and not
supported by facts. During FY 2014-15 (AY 2015-16) the assessee also traded
in following scripts:- 15. Further, the learned Counsel also narrated the fact that the assessee also
incurred losses in few scripts out of the above. With regard to the
observations of AO in Para 9 relating to suspicion for trading in PAL shares by
SEBI vide ad-interim ex-parte order dated 08.05.2015, it was argued that the
assessee and his wife along with more than 100 others entities were
exonerated of all allegations as detailed in ad-interim exparte order for
manipulation of price and volume of the script and also any arrangement by
the assessee with the company or its promoters, exit providers, or SEBI
Regulations etc. vide SEBI in its Final Order dated 19.09.2017. 16. The learned Counsel further narrated that the allegation of AO in para
11.3 that proof of physical transfer of shares, reasons for off market trading
and trading pattern of market transactions for the last three years have not 50 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. been submitted is also unfounded and contrary to the facts. The assessee
during course of assessment submitted complete documents of preferential
allotment of shares and trading in shares of seven years vide its reply dated
23.11.17. There was no physical transfer of shares during the year under
appeal except one in which company has bought back shares of Sundram
investment for Rs. 5,257/-. Therefore, observations regarding off market
trading are absolutely wrong and contrary to the facts. 17. Ld Counsel for the assessee explained the process at Stock Exchange
Network, which is filed in the shape of note as under: - Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. 18. Further, the learned Counsel stated that the assessee has sold these
shares through his broker Geojit who is registered broker of Bombay Stock
Exchange (BSE), National Stock Exchange (NSE) and other exchanges. The
broker Geojit is an old and reputed share broker and is in this business for
years. The assessee is dealing with it for more than 10 years and sold equity
shares of PAL on BSE platform through his regular broker Geojit and delivered
the shares from his demat account and received sale proceeds directly in his
designated bank account as explained in the facts of the case. STT,
brokerage, Stamp duty, SEBI and other charges were duly paid on
transactions done on BSE platform. The AO has accepted all the documents
filed by the assessee without any doubt on its authenticity or genuineness.
The relevant documents and evidence of these transactions are also
submitted before us. The broker Geojit also does not know to whom the
shares were sold. Only SEBI or stock exchange knows who bought these
shares and these authorities do not supply such information unless called by
Government Authority. Therefore, the assessee or his broker did not have any
record or knowledge of the purchasers at the time of sale. However, during
the course of investigation by SEBI, the information was supplied by BSE to
the assessee in the form of a CD to offer his reply on the ex-parte order
issued by SEBI on 08.05.2015. From the CD, the assessee came to know that
his shares of PAL were bought by 50 buyers through multiple brokers. The
delivery of shares is given to Geojit by the assessee from his demat account.
Copy of demat statement is already filed in assessee paper book before us.
The broker in turn transfers the shares to BSE Clearing account. The sale
proceeds of sale of shares is settled by exchange settlement system and
directly credited to broker's bank accounts by the BSE and the assessee
received payment from Geojit i.e. directly into his designated hank account.
Copy of bank statement is filed in assessee's paper book (APB). 19. Further, the assessee has no connection or nexus with the buyers as also
the activities of the buyers. Even if the buyers are doubtful or of suspicious
character that does not affect the transactions of sale of shares by the
assessee through proper channel i.e. on the recognized stock exchange
through the registered broker and payments were received. He argued that
during search itself and in the course of investigation the department had
made exhaustive survey and enquiry for these transactions from Geojit and
other brokers and nothing incriminating was found against the assessee. The
details, documents and third party evidences supporting the sale transactions
and payments received have been filed by the assessee. The transactions
were done at prices prevailing on the date of transaction and STT was paid
on such transactions cleared through exchange clearance system. 20. The learned Counsel further referred to SEBI Investigation in case of PAL.
It was argued that in case of PAL, the whole time member of SEBI the market
regulator, on a preliminary report of its surveillance department has passed
ad interim exparte order no. WTM/RKA/ISD/36/2015 dated 08.05.2015
against PAL and 177 entities including assessee. However, despite no charge 52 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. against the assessee, the whole time member of the SEBI confirmed the ex-
parte order vide passing Confirmatory order no. WTM/RKA/ISD/61/2016
dated 02.06.2016. The assessee went in appeal before the Securities
Appellate Tribunal against the confirmatory order of the SEBI. While the
assessee's appeal with SAT was at hearing stage, the investigation
department of the SEBI completed investigation in PAL and passed final order
vide order no. SEBI/WTM/MPB/EFDI-DRA-III/28/09/2017 dated 19.09.2017.
Relevant para no.9, 10, and 11 of SEBI order are reproduced herein below: 11) In view of the foregoing, I in exercise of the powers conferred upon me
under Section 19 of SEBI Act, 1992 read with section 11 , 11(4) and 11B of
the SEBI Act, hereby revoke the Confirmatory Orders dt.02.06.2026,
05.07.2016, 22.08.2016 and 02.06.2017 qua aforesaid the 114 entities with
immediate effect." 21. Thus, the SEBI's final order dated 19.09.2017 clearly came to the
conclusion that SEBI's investigation did not find any adverse evidence against
the 114 entities including the assessee and given finding that the assessee
has no connection/nexus with PAL or its promoters/directors or promoters
related entities nor any role in price manipulation, volume manipulation in the
script of PAL. No violation of provisions of SEBI Act , SCRA, PFUTP
regulation's, etc. were observed in respect of 114 entities (including the
assessee). The list of 114 entities referred in the SEBI Order also includes
following alleged exit providers discussed in show cause notice and referred
to in the assessment order as under: - 22. These alleged exit providers were also exonerated by the SEBI Order and
the remaining alleged exit providers viz. 1) Dwarkapuri Constructions P Ltd., 2) Olympia Sales Agencies P Ltd. and 3) Particle Industries P Ltd. were
neither referred in the SEBI ex-parte order dated 08.05.201 5 nor in the final
order dated 19.09.2017 which goes to prove that neither the assessee nor the
exit providers alleged by the AO were involved in any arrangement or
accommodation and hence , allegations of AO are wrong and without any
evidence. Copies of SEBI ad-interim ex-parte order dated 08.05.2015,
confirmatory order dated 02.06.2016 and final order dated 19.09.2017 are
enclosed at pages 217-277 of APB. Subsequently, the SAT disposed-off the
appeal of the assessee as infructuous and passed order accordingly vide order
no. nil dated 26.09.2017. Copy enclosed at pages 278-283 of APB. 23. In view of the above the assessee has been exonerated by SEBI in the
case of PAL stating that he had no nexus/ connection or collusion with the
company, its directors, or promoters and was not involved in price
manipulation & volume manipulation, etc. Further, the alleged exit providers
for the script have not played any role in assessee's transactions in the script
as he has neither taken any accommodation nor entry or exit from any of the
alleged parties. 24. On the other hand, the learned CIT DR Shri Manjunatha Swami, argued
that the entire transaction is bogus. He stated that he is relying on the
elaborate order written by the AO and that of the CIT(A). 25. We have noted that PAL made a preferential allotment of equity shares in
the year 2013. The assessee on application for shares was allotted the same
at Rs. 10 per share. The company had split the face value of its shares in
2013. Due to this, assessee received 15,00,000 shares against 1,50,000
shares allotted earlier. The assessee acquired the shares on the basis of
guidance from his father and friends. The purchase and sale of shares was
neither pre-planned nor under any arrangement with the company or any
party related to it. The allotment of shares by PAL was made after obtaining
prior approval of BSE as per SEBI Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements Regulation, 2009. We noted from the facts that as per the
financials provided in the assessment order, it can be seen that the company
had incurred a loss in FY 11-12 of Rs. 7 lakhs and has earned profit of 16
lakhs in FY 12-13. The fact that PAL was turned from loss making to profit
earning itself demonstrates the fact that there was potential in PAL due to
which the assessee purchased the shares. Further, the turnover, in the FY 54 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. 2013-14 increased by 10 times as compared to the preceding previous FY and
increase in the net profit after tax was almost around 4 times than that of the
net profit recorded in the year of purchase. Moreover, the prices of the
company were almost constant for a year. When the assessee thought that
the prices had reached its peak, he slowly sold all the shares in a time span of
3 months. To prove the genuineness of the transactions, the assessee
provided all the supporting evidences like, share application form, bank
statement highlighting the transactions, contract notes, broker's ledger,
demat statement Form 10DB, SEBI's final order, SAT Order, etc. 26. However, the AO made addition under section 68 of the Act and CIT(A)
confirmed the addition by ignoring all the facts and evidences and without
providing any proof of assessee's involvement in the manipulation of price or
volume of the shares of the company or pointing out any defect or deficiency
in the process of transactions or its eligibility to deduction u/s 10(38) of the
Act. We noted that the AO in his Assessment Order in para 7 and 8 has
exhaustively mentioned in detail the financials of PAL, preferential allotment
of shares, price of PAL, Exit providers, etc. Following paras have been ditto
/copied from SEBI ad-interim ex-parte order dated 08.05.2015. Although after
Investigation, SEBI in its final order exonerated the assessee and the alleged
exit providers but the AO failed to consider the SEBI final order in the
assessment order. It means that the AO and CIT(A) also relied on the order
of SEBI dated 08.05.2015 mainly for drawing inferences and deciding the
issue on the basis of conjunctures and surmises and not on evidences. 27. In view of the above, we noted that it is SEBI who monitors and regulates
the stock exchanges & stock market and when their investigation did not
reveal any price or volume manipulation by the assessee and these
transactions are in the normal course through proper & legal channels. Then
the allegations of the IT Department fall flat and denial of deduction u/s
10(38) of the Act is arbitrary and addition of sale proceeds of shares of PAL
u/s 68 is against the provisions of Act. The assessee in his reply dated
20.11.2017 submitted to the AO that the allegations mentioned in paras of
show cause notice are based entirely on SEBI ad-interim ex-parte order dated
08.05.2015 which was reversed after detailed investigation wherein SEBI has
exonerated the assessee of all the allegations without any qualification. A
copy of SEBI Final order dated 19.09.2017 was also enclosed with the APB.
But the AO has failed to refer to assessee's submissions and SEBI's final order
dated 19.09.2017 in the assessment order inspite of the fact that assessee's
submissions and SEBIs final order were already on its record thereby
contravening the principles of natural justice. 28. We also noted that as per provisions of section 68 of the Act, where any
sum is found credited in the books in any previous year and assessee offers
no explanation about the nature and source thereof or the explanation
offered is not satisfactory to the AO, the sum credited may be charged to tax
under Sec. 68 of the Act. The assessee is required to prove: (i) the identity of 55 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. the creditor (ii) Source of the credit and (iii) genuineness of the transaction to
the satisfaction of the AO. To prove the identity of the creditor, the nature of
transactions, source of payments and the genuineness of the transactions of
sale of shares of PAL, the assessee has submitted following documents/
evidences: - Demat account of the assessee showing sold shares debited / transferred to
broker. c) The sale consideration is received by assessee from Geojit, a registered
broker of SEBI/BSE, with who has been dealing with Geojit for more than 10
years as per contract note directly in the bank account after shares are
delivered from demat account and received by the assessee. Copy of demat
account and bank statements where sale proceeds are received are submitted
as discussed above. Geojit has also been examined and interrogated by the
Investigation Department during search proceedings. Geojit's source is BSE
settlement system. This explains identity of the creditor and source of money
paid by assessee for genuine transaction of sale of shares. d) Sale is done at prevailing price quoted on the BSE. (BSE published
quotations daily and rate list of the relevant dates can be produced if
required) e) The shares are sold by assessee's broker on BSE platform and not off
market to any buyer hence source is BSE's clearing system and broker. The
transactions on the BSE platform and settlement system who are responsible
for the transactions of the demat account and prevailing price on public
domain prove the genuineness of the transactions. f) SEBI's final order dt. 19.09.2017 relating to PAL is enclosed. SEBI after
detailed investigation into the transactions in the shares of these companies
held that the parties to the investigation including assessee and alleged exit
providers are having no nexus or connection with the company, their
directors, promoters etc. and there is no price or volume manipulation in
these scripts. This also explains the genuineness of the transactions and
discards the theory of manipulation or accommodation to take tax advantage
illegally. ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. 29. We have also noted the facts further that the assessee has received total
amount of Rs. 14,16,80,449/- on account of sale of shares of PAL during the
year, in the account with Axis Bank from Geojit, registered broker of BSE with
whom the assessee is dealing from last more than 10 years. The assessee has
been regular investor in shares & securities and his portfolio comprises of
various shares and the aggregate value of investments for 5 years have been
as under: - Copies of Balance Sheet of the assessee for the above mentioned years
showing the investments made in shares were submitted to the AO vide
submission dated 15.03.17 as well as before CIT(A) and even now before us.
This adds to the bonafide of the assessee's transactions. In view of the above
facts and circumstances of the case, we have to go through the expression of
"nature and source" and has to understand the requirement of identification
of the source and its genuineness. Sec. 68 of the Act places the burden of
proof on the tax payer, to explain the nature of source of any credit but not
the source of the source. Hence when an assessee gives evidences of identity
of the payer, source of the credit, evidences of the transactions to prove the
genuineness, the assessee is said to have discharged his initial burden. In
view of the above, we are of the view that the assessee has explained and
submitted evidences to prove identity, nature and source of the cash credit on
account of sale proceeds credited / received in the bank account of the
assessee and also furnished all evidences comprising contract notes, brokers,
banking details in support of the genuineness of the transactions. The AO has
not pointed out any deficiency in the documents or inherent weakness in the
explanation or doubted genuineness of the transactions for want of any
evidence. The AO did not produce any evidence whatsoever to prove the
allegation that unaccounted money changed hands between the assessee and
the broker or any other person including the alleged exit provider nor proved
that the assessee has taken any type of accommodation from any person or
so called exit providers to introduce unaccounted money into books by way of
LTCG. With the purchase and sale transactions of shares of PAL are proved
genuine by third parry evidences - bank, broker; DP-demat account, and in
the absence of any material to prove cash changing hands in the transaction,
the addition made by the AO under section 68 of the Act, by treating the sale
consideration as unexplained, sham, non-genuine is baseless. The addition
under section 68 of the Act made merely of the basis of suspicion,
presumptions and probability of preponderance without any direct evidence to
prove the transactions as non-genuine or sham or demonstrating appellant's 57 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. involvement in any kind of manipulation is illegal and cannot sustain. The
findings of investigation & modus operandi in other cases narrated by the AO
and also CIT(A) nowhere prove any connection with the assessee nor the
assessee's involvement or connection or collusion with the brokers, exit
providers, accommodation providers or companies or directions etc. For
making the addition, it is necessary to bring on record evidence to establish
ingenuity in transactions or any connection of the assessee or its transaction
with any of the alleged parties. The assessee has discharged his onus by
establishing the identity of the payer, source of the credit and genuineness of
the transactions. 30. We noted that the learned CIT Departmental Representative also relied on
the decision of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court, Nagpur Bench in the case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain vs. Pr. CIT (2018) 89 taxmann.com 196 (Bom),
wherein the decision on the impugned issue was discussed. Hon'ble High
Court has considered the facts of Sanjay Bimaichand Jain supra from where
we find that (i ) in that case , the broker company through which the shares
were sold did not respond to AO's letter regarding the names and address
and bank account of the person who purchased the shares sold by the
assessee (ii) Moreover, at the time of acquisition of shares of both the
companies by the assessee, the payments were made in cash (iii) The
address of both the companies were interestingly the same (iv) The
authorized signatory at both the companies were also the same person (v)
The purchase of shares of both the companies was done by that assessee
through broker, GSSL and the address of the said broker was incidentally the
address of the two companies. Based on these crucial facts, the Hon'ble
Bombay High Court rendered the decision in favour of the revenue. None of
these factors were present in the facts of the assessee before us. Hence it
could be safely concluded that the decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court
supra is factually distinguishable. 31. Now we will discuss the modus operandi, preponderance of probability
and human behavior. We noted that the AO as well as CIT(A) have rejected
all evidences filed by the assessee by referring to 'Modus Operandi" of
persons for earning long term capital gains which is exempt from Income tax
under section 10(38) of the Act. All these observations are general in nature
and are applied across the board to all including the assessee. Specific
evidences produced by the assessee are not controverted by the revenue
authorities. No evidence collected by the AO from third parties is confronted
to assessee. No opportunity of cross-examination of persons, on whose
statements the revenue relies to make the addition, it provided to the
assessee. The addition is made based on a general report from the
investigation wing. 32. The issue for consideration before us is whether in such cases, the legal
evidence produced by the assessee has to guide our decision in the matter or
the general observations based on statements, probabilities, human behavior 58 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. and discovery of the modus operandi adopted in earning alleged bogus LTCG
and STCG, that have surfaced during investigations, should guide the
authorities in arriving at a conclusion as to whether the claim is genuine or
not. An alleged scam might have taken place on LTCG etc. But it has to be
established in each case, by the parry alleging so, that this assessee in
question was part of this scam. The chain of events and the live link of the
assessee's action giving his involvement in the scam should be established.
The allegation implies that cash was paid by the assessee and in return the
assessee received LTCG, which is exempt from income tax, by way of cheque
through banking channels. This allegation that cash had changed hands has
to be proved with evidence, by the revenue. Evidence gathered by the
Director Investigation's office by way of statements recorded etc. has to also
be brought on recording each case, when such a statement, evidence etc. is
relied upon by the revenue to make any additions. Opportunity of cross
examination has to be provided to the assessee, if the AO relies on any
statements or third party as evidence to make an addition. If any material or
evidence is sought to be relied upon by the AO, he has to confront the
assessee with such material. The claim of the assessee cannot be rejected
based on mere conjectures unverified by evidence under the pretentious garb
of preponderance of human probabilities and theory of human behavior by
the department. 33. It is well settled that evidence collected from third parties cannot be used
against an assessee unless this evidence is put before him and he is given an
opportunity to controvert the evidence. In this case, the AO relies only on a
report as the basis for the addition. The evidence based on which the DDIT
report is prepared is not brought on record by the AO nor is it put before the
assessee. The submissions of the assessee that he is just an investor and as
he received some tips and he chose to invest based on these market tips and
had taken a calculated risk and had gained in the process and that he is not
party to the scam etc., has to be controverted by the revenue with evidence
when a person claims that he has done these transactions in a bona fide
manner, one cannot reject this submission based on surmises and
conjectures. As the report of investigation wing suggests, there are many
beneficiaries of LTCG. Each case has to be assessed based on principles of
legal import laid down by the Courts of law. 34. In our view, just the modus operandi, generalisation, preponderance of
human probabilities cannot be the only basis for rejecting the claim of the
assessee. Unless specific evidence is brought on record to controvert the
validity and correctness of the documentary evidences produced, the same
cannot be rejected by the assessee. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case
of Omar Salay Mohamed Sait v. CIT [1959] 37 ITR 151 (SC) had held that no
addition can be made on the basis of surmises, suspicion and conjectures. In
the case of CIT v. Daulat Ram Rawatmull [1973] 87 ITR 349 (SC) (SC) the
Hon'ble Supreme Court held that, the onus to prove that the apparent is not
real is on the party who claims it to be so. The burden of proving a 59 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. transaction to be bogus has to be strictly discharged by adducing legal
evidences, which would directly prove the fact of bogusness or establish
circumstance unerringly and reasonably raising interference to that effect.
The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Umacharan Shaw & Bros. v. CIT
(1959) [1959] 37 ITR 271 (SC) held that suspicion however strong, cannot
take the place of evidence. In this connection we refer to the general view on
the topic of conveyance of immovable properties. The rates/sale prices are at
variance with the circle rates fixed by the Registration authorities of the
Government in most cases and the general impression is that cash would
have changed hands. The courts have laid down that judicial notice of such
notorious facts cannot be taken based on generalisation. Courts of law are
bound to go by evidence. 35. But in the present case, we noted that the assessing officer has been
guided by the report of the investigation wing prepared with respect to bogus
capital gains transactions. The assessing officer has not brought out any part
of the investigation wing report in which the assessee has been investigated
and /or found to be a pan of any arrangement for the purpose of generating
bogus long term capital gains. Nothing has been brought on record to show
that the persons investigated, including entry operators or stock brokers,
have named that the assessee was in collusion with them. In absence of such
findings how is it possible to link their wrong doings with the assessee. In
fact, the investigation wing is a separate department which has not been
assigned assessment work and has been delegated the work of only making
Investigation. The Act has vested widest powers on this wing. It is the duty of
the investigation wing to conduct proper and detailed inquiry in any matter
where there is allegation of tax evasion and after making proper inquiry and
collecting proper evidences the matter would be sent to the assessment wing
to assess the income as per law. We find no such action executed by
investigation wing against the assessee. In absence of any findings
specifically against the assessee in the investigation wing report, the assessee
cannot be held to be guilty or linked to the wrong acts of the persons
investigated. In this case, the AO at best could have considered the
investigation report as a starting point of Investigation. The report only
Informed the AO that some persons may have misused the scrip: for the
purpose of collusive transactions. The AO was duty bound to make inquiry
from all concerned parties relating to the transactions and then to collect
evidences that the transaction entered into by the assessee was also a
collusive transaction. However, the AO has not brought on record any
evidence to prove that the transactions entered by the assessee which are
otherwise supported by proper third party documents are collusive
transactions. 36. The Hon'ble Supreme Court way back in the case of Lalchand Bhagat
Ambica Ram v. CIT [1959] 37 ITR 288 (SC) held that assessment could not
be based on background of suspicion and in absence of any evidence to
support the same. The Hon'ble Court held: ITA No. 124/JP/2020 37. The observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court are equally applicable to the
case of the assessee. The AO and CIT(A) both, having failed to bring on
record any material to prove that the transactions of the assessee were
collusive transactions could not have rejected the evidences submitted by the
assessee. In fact, in this case nothing has been found against the assessee
with aid of any direct evidences or material against the assessee despite the
matter being investigated by various wings of the Income Tax Department
and hence under these circumstances nothing can be implicated against the
assessee. In view of the above, the findings / allegations of the AO and
CIT(A) are baseless, without any evidence, contrary to the facts and
circumstances of the case and provisions of the Act. Hence, we delete the
addition made by the AO by setting aside the order of ld. CIT(A) based upon 61 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. such findings. This common issue as regards to addition under section 68 of
 surplus arising out of sale of shares of listed companies and consequent
 addition under section 69C on the presumption that commission at the rate of
 3% was paid is hereby deleted. Accordingly, this common and interconnected
 issue of the four assessee's appeals is allowed." 23. In the aforesaid decision, it has been held that it is SEBI who monitors and
regulates the stock exchanges & stock market and when their investigation did not
reveal any price or volume manipulation by the assessee and these transactions are
in the normal course through proper & legal channels. Then the allegations of the IT
Department fall flat and denial of deduction u/s 10(38) of the Act is arbitrary and
addition of sale proceeds of shares of PAL u/s 68 is against the provisions of Act. In
the case in hand, the ld. AO has referred to SEBI enquiry against M/s Sunrise Asian
Ltd. However, we note that the said enquiry was regarding failure to comply with
certain disclosure requirements and therefore, the subject matter of the enquiry has
no connection with the transaction of bogus long term capital gain and has no
bearing in judging the genuineness of the transaction undertaken by the assessee or
for that matter, the price and realization on sale of shares so undertaken by the
assessee through the stock exchange. Further, it has been held in the aforesaid
case that the findings of investigation & modus operandi in other cases narrated by
the AO and also CIT(A) nowhere prove any connection with the assessee nor the
assessee's involvement or connection or collusion with the brokers, exit providers,
accommodation providers or companies or directions etc and for making the
addition, it is necessary to bring on record evidence to establish ingenuity in
transactions or any connection of the assessee or its transaction with any of the
alleged parties. In the instant case, as we have discussed earlier, there is no finding
which proves assessee's connection, involvement or collusion with so called
accommodation entry providers. Further in the aforesaid case, the issue as to
whether the legal evidence produced by the assessee has to guide our decision in
the matter or the general observations based on statements, probabilities, human
behavior and discovery of the modus operandi adopted in earning alleged bogus
LTCG and STCG, that have surfaced during investigations, should guide the
authorities in arriving at a conclusion as to whether the claim is genuine or not has
been discussed at length. And referring to legal proposition laid down by the 62 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. Hon'ble Supreme Court that the burden of proving a transaction to be bogus has to
be strictly discharged by adducing legal evidence held that the modus operandi,
generalisation, preponderance of human probabilities cannot be the only basis for
rejecting the claim of the assessee unless specific evidence is brought on record to
controvert the validity and correctness of the documentary evidences produced, the
same cannot be rejected. We are in complete agreement with the said view and in
the instant case, we find that evidence produced by the assessee in support of his
claim of purchase and sale of shares on the stock exchange have not been refuted
by any adverse findings or material which could demonstrate involvement of the
assessee or collusion with so called accommodation entry providers to obtain bogus
LTCG as so alleged by the authorities below. 24. We also find that while analyzing sale of shares of similar scrip of M/s Sunrise
Asian Ltd and claim of exemption of long term capital gains u/s 10(38) , the Mumbai
Benches of the Tribunal in case of Anraj Hiralal Shah (HUF) vs ITO (supra) has
upheld the claim of the assessee's claim of exemption under section 10(38) of the
Act and the relevant findings of the Coordinate Bench contained at Para 8 read as
under:- 25. In light of above discussions and in the entirety of facts and circumstances of
the case and following the decisions of the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court and of
that of the Coordinate Benches in cases referred supra, we are of the considered
view that the assessee has discharged the necessary onus cast on him in terms of
claim of exemption of long term capital gains u/s 10(38) of the Act by establishing
the genuineness of transaction of purchase and sale of shares and satisfying the
requisite conditions specified therein and the gains so arising on sale of shares
therefore has been rightly claimed as exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act. Accordingly, in
the facts and circumstances of the case, we set-aside the order of the ld.
CIT(Appeals) and the claim of the assessee u/s 10(38) is allowed. The matter is
thus decided in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue. In the result, the
ground of appeal so taken by the assessee is allowed. 26. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. ITA No. 188/JP/2020, 185/JP/2020 &123/JP/2020 27. In respect of ground of appeal no. 1 relating to denial of claim of exemption
under section 10(38) in all these three appeals, both the parties fairly submitted that
the facts and circumstances of these cases are exactly identical as in ITA No.
124/JP/2020 and similar contentions raised therein may be considered. Therefore,
considering the admitted position that there are no changes in the facts and
circumstances, our findings and directions contained in ITA No. 124/JP/2020 shall
apply mutatis mutandis to these appeal matters and the ground of appeal of the
respective assessee is accordingly allowed. 28. Ground No. 2 in all three appeals is regarding the addition made by the AO on
account of notional commission u/s 69C of the Act which is consequential to the
issue of treatment of long term capital gain as bogus. Once, we have reversed the
finding of the AO on the issue of treatment of long term capital gain as bogus then,
the consequent addition made by the AO on notional commission is not sustainable. 64 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. Accordingly, the same is deleted and ground no. 2 so taken by the assessee in their
respective appeals is hereby allowed. 29. In ITA No. 123/JP/2020, Ground No. 3 is regarding the addition made by the
AO on account of disallowance of interest of Rs 13,77,391/-. 30. In this regard, the ld AR submitted that the appellant had interest bearing
funds of Rs. 1,61,19,649/- and interest free funds of Rs. 3,89,75,382 against which
the appellant had invested into income yielding avenues of Rs. 4,22,36,830/- and
had invested into non income yielding assets of
Rs. 1,28,58,201/-. This shows that the appellant has more income yielding assets as
compared to interest bearing funds and hence no allegation can be raised against
the appellant that he has diverted his interest bearing funds into non income yielding
avenues. It was submitted that during the course of assessment proceedings, the
appellant claimed that the interest bearing loans have been utilised as under: 31. It was submitted that the ld. AO however rejected the claim without any basis
and without establishing any nexus to show that interest bearing funds were utilised
for non income yielding assets and which has been confirmed by the ld CIT(A)
without appreciating the facts of the assessee in right perspective. 32. Per contra, the ld DR supported the findings of the lower authorities. It was
submitted that the AO disallowed the interest expenses amounting to
Rs. 13,77,391/- by holding that the appellant has made interest free advances. It is
also seen that the AO clearly mentioned that the appellant failed to establish nexus
between interest bearing funds and amount utilized in the partnership firm. In 65 ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. absence of such nexus, the benefit of interest earned from partnership firm cannot
be allowed to set off. Therefore, the disallowance made by the AO was rightly
upheld and the ground raised by the appellant be dismissed. 33. We have heard the rival contentions and purused the material available on
record. Firstly, it is noted that the assessee has interest free funds more than
interest bearing funds and in such cases of mixed funds, the Courts have held and
upheld the presumption that where any interest free advances have been given, the
same are given out of interest free funds. The same is however subject to caveat
where it is established that interest bearing funds have a direct nexus and have
been utilized in interest free advances. In the instant case, the Revenue has not
established any such direct nexus which establishes that interest bearing funds have
been utilized for the purposes of making interest free advances. Secondly, the AO
has held that assessee has not received any interest income from the partnership
firm which we found factually not correct as the assessee has received interest from
partnership firm of Rs 11,24,110/-. In light of the same, the disallowance of interest
amounting to Rs 13,77,391/- is hereby deleted and the ground of appeal so taken by
the assessee is allowed. In the result, all the appeals filed by the respective assessees are allowed.

 Order pronounced in the open Court on 18/11/2020. vkns'k dh izfrfyfivxzfs 'kr@Copy of the order forwarded to: (2) Smt. Ritu Agarwal,Bhadrak, Orissa. (3) Smt. Seema Agarwal, Jaipur. ITA No. 124/JP/2020 Ashok Agarwal Vs ACIT & 3 Ors. (4) Shri Ajay Agarwal, Jaipur. 2. izR;FkhZ@The Respondents- (1) The A.C.I.T.,Circle-1,Jaipur. (2) The I.T.O.,Ward 1(4),Jaipur. 3. vk;djvk;qDr@CIT 4. vk;djvk;qDr@CIT(A) 5. foHkkxh; izfrfuf/k] vk;djvihyh; vf/kdj.k] t;iqj@DR, ITAT, Jaipur 6. xkMZQkbZy@Guard File {ITA No.124, 188, 185 & 123/JP/2020}
 vkns'kkuqlkj@By order,

 lgk;diathdkj@Asst. Registrar