Dipak Misra, J. The centripodal issue that strikingly emerges, commanding the
 judicial conscience to ponder and cogitate with reasonable yard-stick
 of precision, for consideration how far a superior court should
 proceed to analyse the factual score in exercise of its inherent
 jurisdiction bestowed upon it under Section 482 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure or under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,
 to quash the criminal proceeding solely on the ground that the parties
 have entered into a settlement and, therefore, the continuance of the
 criminal proceeding would be an exercise in futility, or the
 substantial cause of justice warrants such quashment to make the
 parties free from unnecessary litigation with the assumed motto of not
 loading the system with unfruitful prosecution, of course with certain
 riders, one of which, as regards the cases pertaining to commercial
 litigations, appreciation of predominant nature of civil propensity
 involved in the lis or social impact in the backdrop of the facts of
 the case. The primary question that we have posed has a substantial
 supplementary issue; i.e. should the courts totally remain oblivious
 to the prism of fiscal purity and wholly brush aside the modus
 operandi maladroitly adopted, as alleged by the prosecution, on the
 part of industrial entrepreneurs or the borrowers on the foundation
 that money has been paid back to the public financial institutions.
 We think not, especially regard being had to the obtaining factual
 matrix in the case at hand. 2. Presently to the factual exposition. On the basis of a written
 complaint of chief vigilance officer, Bank of Baroda a case was
 registered against the respondents on 6.1.2006 and after completion of
 investigation a report was filed before the Special Court, CBI cases,
 Mumbai with a prayer to forward the chargesheet to the learned
 Magistrate who was competent to take cognizance of the offences as
 the involvement of R.C. Sharma, the concerned Bank Officer, a public
 servant, in the crime in question, could not be prima facie found
 during the investigation. As the facts would undrape, on 3.2.2006
 upon perusal of the chargesheet the learned Special Judge, CBI cases
 directed to place the chargesheet before the appropriate court and
 accordingly a fresh chargesheet was filed before the ACMM, 19th Court,
 Esplanade, Mumbai vide criminal case no. 82/CPW/2006 for commission of
 offences punishable under Section 120-B, Section 406 , 20 , 467 , 468 and 471 IPC against the accused persons. 3. On a perusal of the charge sheet, it is evincible that there are
 allegations to the effect that Vikram Doshi, A 1, Vineet Doshi, A 2,
 and Sanjay J. Shah, A 3, made number of applications to the Bank of
 Baroda for sanction of various credit facilities, stating that they
 wanted to induct the said bank as a new consortium member to replace
 the existing members, namely, the UTI Bank and the Federal Bank. They
 requested the said Bank to sanction 15% of the total Working Capital
 facility sanctioned by the consortium of Banks, so that, that much
 amount could be transferred to the UTI bank and Federal Bank to take
 over the existing liabilities with the said two banks. It was revealed
 during investigation that the account of the company, with the
 consortium of banks as well as the finance institutions, was highly
 irregular and in the said condition the accused persons approached the
 Bank for sanction of loan. In the application to the Bank, the accused
 persons concealed the fact relating to the dues outstanding against
 them. Thereafter, when asked for the outstanding position with the
 existing consortium members, the accused persons willfully and with
 the criminal intent to mislead the Bank of Baroda, furnished wrong
 statements about the outstanding position by giving considerably
 lesser amount as outstanding than the actual. 4. As further alleged, the amount of loan sought was sanctioned on
 24.01.2003 by one Mr. K.K. Aggarwal, General Manager and communicated
 to the branch. As per the terms and conditions of the said Term Loan,
 the primary security for the same was the first charge to be created
 on the fixed assets of the company ranking pari passu with the
 existing Term Lending Institutions. The primary charge for the cash
 credit and working capital demand loan was the hypothecation of
 current assets such as stocks, stocks in trade, raw materials and book
 debts, and, that apart, one of the important terms and conditions was
 that the CC, WCDL and Term Loan amounts were to be directly paid to
 the company’s account with the UTI Bank and Federal Bank so as to take
 over the liabilities as well as the securities mortgaged with the two
 banks. Despite the said situation, the Bank on 29.01.2003 intimated
 the sanction to ATCOM, the company in question. It is further
 demonstrable from the chargesheet that A-1 and A-2, with the intention
 to escape personal liabilities, made A-3 and one Mr. Chirag Gandhi
 directors in ATCOM and got all the loan documents including the Demand
 Promissory Note (DPN) signed by the said persons. The terms and
 conditions of the sanction was that the entire Working Capital of
 Rs.570.00 lakhs (Rs.114.00 lakhs + Rs.456.00 lakhs) and the Term Loan
 of Rs.360.00 lakhs were to be directly paid to the UTI Bank and
 Federal Bank. Consequently, the Term Loan was released and paid as per
 the sanction terms and conditions. As alleged, A-1 induced the Bank to
 release the sanctioned Working Capital Funds to the Current Account
 and from the said account money was dishonestly diverted to his own
 accounts with SBI and Dena Bank, to bring down the outstanding
 liabilities in those accounts. As per the Chargesheet, Rs.114.00 lakhs
 of Cash Credit (the Fund Based portion of Working Capital) and
 Rs.456.00 lakhs (the Demand Based portion of Working Capital) were
 released into the Current Account on 27.03.2003. Thus, the total funds
 released into the Current Account was Rs.560.00 lakhs out of which A-1
 dishonestly transferred Rs.352.00 lakhs to SBI and about Rs.200.00
 lakhs to Dena Bank, which amounted to diversion of concerned Bank’s
 funds dishonestly and caused wrongful loss to the said Bank. 5. As is evident from the chargesheet the transfer of funds of CC and DL
 to the current account was with a dishonest intention to further
 divert the funds from the current account, and for transfer of the
 said funds of CC and WCDL. A-1 used the cheque leaf available with
 him for the Current Account and substituted out the words “Current
 Account” and substituted them with “Cash Credit”. It has come out in
 the investigation that in order to further divert the funds from the
 Current Account, A-3 used to issue “Pay Yourself cheques” by obtaining
 Banker’s Cheque favouring their account with SBI and Dena Bank. It is
 also perceivable from the chargesheet that though the accused A-1 and
 A-3 knew that the said Working Capital was sanctioned only for the
 purpose of taking over the liabilities of UTI Bank and Federal Bank
 yet they dishonestly diverted the funds to SBI and Dena Bank. The
 sanctioned money, as alleged, was not used for the purpose it was
 availed of and the sanction terms and conditions were violated as a
 consequence of which the Bank could not get the charge in pari passu
 with the other consortium Banks. The said diversion of funds by A-1
 and A-3 deprived the Bank of its security and the entire loan became
 unsecured. 6. The investigation further revealed that A-1 got letter of credits
 (hereinafter referred as “LCs”) issued from SBI and Dena Bank in
 favour of fictitious companies propped by the accused and used the
 said LCs to siphon the funds from these Banks. The LCs beneficiary
 firms, favoring whom the A-2 and A-3 had requested the LCs to be
 issued, were companies existing only on paper without any commercial
 activity. The said fictitious companies got the LCs discounted by
 attaching their bogus bills and portion of these discount proceeds
 were used for personal benefits of A-1 and a certain portion was
 routed back to ATCOM. On the due dates, ATCOM did not discharge its
 liabilities with SBI and Dena Bank. In the chargesheet, the
 particulars of the names of fictitious companies have been given. The
 said list covers 10 companies. It has been further mentioned in the
 chargesheet that the Proprietors/Directors of these fictitious
 companies had issued false bills under their signatures and discounted
 these false bills backed by the LCs, with the discounting Banks, at
 the instance of one Kanakranjan Jain. Some of these
 Proprietors/Directors are the employees and domestic servants of said
 Kanakrajan Jain. 7. After so stating the chargesheet proceeds as follows: 8. During the pendency of the case before the trial court on 30th March
 2009 the informant, Bank of Baroda, had transferred its debts to a
 trust IARC – BOB-01-07 under the control of Kotak Mahindra Bank. The
 accused, Vikram Doshi, settled the disputes and paid Rs.42 lacs for
 settling the dispute. On that basis, Kotak Mahindra Bank issued a “no
 due certificate” to M/s Atcom Technology Limited stating that on
 receipt of Rs.42 lacs, there was no amount outstanding and payable by
 them in respect of facility advanced by Bank of Baroda. The said bank
 also confirmed that the guarantees issued by Vikram Doshi stood
 discharged. 9. After the receipt of such “No dues certificate” the respondent
 preferred a petition under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. bearing Criminal
 Application No. 2239 of 2009 before the High Court of Judicature at
 Bombay and the learned Single Judge vide order dated 24.2.2010 quashed
 the criminal proceedings pending before the learned Addl. Metropolitan
 Magistrate. The learned Single Judge referred to one of its earlier
 orders and came to hold as follows:- 10. To arrive at the same conclusion the High Court relied on the decision
 in Madan Mohan Abbot v. State of Punjab [1] and distinguished the
 pronouncement in A. Ravishanker Prasad (supra). 11. We have heard Ms. Pinky Anand, learned ASG and Mr. P.K. Dey, learned
 counsel for the Central Bureau of Investigation and Arunabh Chowdhury
 and Mr. Anupam Lal Das for the respondents. 12. In the backdrop of aforesaid facts the seminal question that arises is
 whether in the obtaining factual matrix the High Court is justified in
 quashing the criminal proceeding. Learned counsel for the appellants
 submits that the High Court has erroneously opined that the remaining
 offences are 406 and 420 of IPC whereas the chargesheet, also included
 other offences against the accused persons. It is further contended
 that the chargesheet was not filed against the public officer as the
 allegation against public officer could not be substantiated during
 the investigation and the High Court without appreciating the gravity
 of the other offences has quashed the proceeding which makes the order
 absolutely vulnerable in law. Learned counsel for the respondent
 would contend that when “No due certificate” was obtained from the
 bank and the matter had been settled the High Court has correctly
 quashed the proceeding and hence, it does not warrant any
 interference. 13. At this juncture, we are obligated to state that when the High Court
 decided, the issue was whether a proceeding could be quashed in
 exercise of inherent jurisdiction in respect of the non-compoundable
 offences and principle of law in that regard was not in a state of
 certainty. The said position has been made clear by this Court that
 High Court has the jurisdiction to quash a criminal proceeding under Section 482 of the Code in respect of non-compoundable offences
 barring certain nature of crimes. 14. To appreciate the complete picture in proper perspective we think it
 seemly to refer to the relevant decisions in the field. In Rumi Dhar
 v. State of W.B. [2] while dealing with an order declining to discharge
 the accused under Section 239 of the Code by the learned Special Judge
 which has been affirmed by the High Court, a two-Judge Bench referred
 to the decision in Central Bureau of Investigation v. Duncans Agro
 Industries Ltd. [3] and Nikhil Merchant v. C.B.I. [4] came to hold as
 follows:- 15. In Central Bureau of Investigation v. A. Ravishanker Prasad and
 Others [5], the Court was dealing with the fact situation wherein the
 accused persons had committed offences such as forgery, fabrication of
 documents and used the said documents as genuine. There was
 allegation that they had entered into conspiracy with the Bank
 officers for availing huge credit facilities. In course of the
 pendency of the criminal proceedings, the accused persons had settled
 the outstanding dues by paying a sum of rupees 157 crores and on that
 basis preferred an application under Section 482 of the Code for
 quashing of the criminal proceeding and the High Court quashed the
 proceedings on the basis of the settlement. Be it stated, the trial
 had progressed in the said case and 92 witnesses had already been
 examined. The question that arose before this Court was whether such
 a proceeding should have been quashed. The Court distinguished the
 decision in Duncans Agro Industries Ltd.‘s case and opined that the
 tenor of the language implied therein indicates that quashing of the
 complaint depends on the facts of each case. The Court also
 distinguished the decision in Nikhil Merchant’s case. 16. A three-Judge Bench in the case of Gian Singh v. State of Punjab and
 Another [6] while answering the reference whether the High Court has
 the jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code to quash a proceeding
 in respect of non-compoundable offences, after referring to number of
 authorities, ruled that Section 482 of the Code, as its very language
 suggests, saves the inherent power of the High Court which it has by
 virtue of it being a superior court to prevent abuse of the process of
 court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice. The words, “nothing
 in this Code” which means that the provision is an overriding
 provision and the said words leave no manner of doubt that none of the
 provisions of the Code limits or restricts the inherent power. The
 Bench proceeded to state that the guideline for exercise of such power
 is provided in Section 482 itself i.e. to prevent abuse of the process
 of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice and in
 different situations, the inherent power may be exercised in different
 ways to achieve its ultimate objective. Formation of opinion by the
 High Court before it exercises inherent power under Section 482 on
 either of the twin objectives, (i) to prevent abuse of the process of
 any court, or (ii) to secure the ends of justice, is a sine qua non.
 The Court further added that it is the judicial obligation of the High
 Court to undo a wrong in course of administration of justice or to
 [pic]prevent continuation of unnecessary judicial process and the
 maxim ex debito justitiae is inbuilt in such exercise for the whole
 idea is to do real, complete and substantial justice for which it
 exists. After so stating, the three-Judge Bench addressed to the issue
 pertaining to the quashing of a criminal proceeding on the ground of
 settlement between an offender and the victim and in this context, it
 ruled thus:- 17. Recently, in Narinder Singh & Ors. v. State of Punjab & Anr. [7], a two-
 Judge Bench placed reliance on Gian Singh’s case (supra) and Dimpy
 Gujral v. Union Territory through Administrator[8] and distinguished
 the decision in State of Rajasthan v. Sambhu Kevat[9], and came to
 hold that in the facts of the said case the proceedings under Section
 307 deserved to be quashed. The two-Judge Bench laid down certain
 guidelines by which the High Courts would be guided in giving adequate
 treatment to the settlement between the parties and exercising its
 power under Section 482 of the Code while accepting the settlement and
 quashing the proceedings or refusing to accept the settlement. Some
 of the guidelines which are relevant for the present purpose are
 reproduced below :- While exercising the power the High Court is to form an opinion
 on either of the aforesaid two objectives. (III) Such a power is not be exercised in those prosecutions
 which involve heinous and serious offences of mental depravity or
 offences like murder, rape, dacoity, etc. Such offences are not
 private in nature and have a serious impact on society.
 Similarly, for offences alleged to have been committed under
 special statute like the Prevention of Corruption Act or the
 offences committed by Public Servants while working in that
 capacity are not to be quashed merely on the basis of compromise
 between the victim and the offender. (IV) On the other, those criminal cases having overwhelmingly and
 pre-dominantly civil character, particularly those arising out of
 commercial transactions or arising out of matrimonial relationship
 or family disputes should be quashed when the parties have
 resolved their entire disputes among themselves. (V) While exercising its powers, the High Court is to examine as
 to whether the possibility of conviction is remote and bleak and
 continuation of criminal cases would put the accused to great
 oppression and prejudice and extreme injustice would be caused to
 him by not quashing the criminal cases.” 18. At this stage it is apt to notice a three-Judge Bench decision in CBI,
 ACB, Mumbai v. Narendra Lal Jain & Ors. [10] In the said case during
 the investigation pertaining to the culpability of the accused in the
 crime, the concerned bank had instituted suits for recovery of the
 amount claimed to be due from the respondents and said suits were
 disposed in terms of the consent decrees. On the basis of the said
 consent decrees an application for discharge was filed which was
 rejected by the trial court but eventually was allowed by the High
 Court. Be it stated, charges were framed under Section 120-B / 420 IPC
 by the learned trial Judge against the private parties. As far as
 bank officials are concerned, charges were framed under different
 provisions of the Prevention of Corruption of Act, 1988 . Being
 dissatisfied with the said order, the CBI had preferred an appeal by
 obtaining special leave and in that context the court observed that
 the accused respondent had been charged under Section 120-B / 420 IPC
 and the civil liability of the respondent to pay the amount had
 already been settled and further there was no grievance on the part of
 the bank. Taking note of the fact that offence under Section 420 of
 IPC is compoundable and Section 120-B is not compoundable, the Court
 eventually opined thus:- 19. Slightly more recently in Gopakumar B. Nair v. CBI and Anr. [11] the
 Court referred to the paragraph 61 of Gian Singh’s Case, distinguished
 the decision in Narendra Lal Jain (supra) regard being had to the fact
 that the accused persons were facing charges under Section 120-B r/w Section 13(2) r/w 13 (1) (d) of the 1988 Act and Section 420 / 471 of
 IPC and came to hold that substratum of the charges against the
 accused-appellant were not similar to those in Narendra Lal Jain (supra) wherein the accused was charged under Section 120-B read with Section 420 IPC only. After so stating the Court observed as follows:- 20. The present obtaining factual score has to be appreciated on the
 anvil of aforesaid authorities. On a studied scrutiny of the
 principles stated in Gain Singh (supra) it is limpid that the three-
 Judge Bench has ruled that proceeding in respect of heinous and
 serious offences and the offences under prevention of corruption Act
 and all other offences committed by public servants while working in
 that capacity are not to be quashed. That apart, the court has also
 emphasized on offences having a serious impact on society. It has
 been further laid down that criminal cases having overwhelmingly and
 predominantingly civil flavour stand on a different footing for the
 purposes of quashing, particularly the offences arising from
 commercial, financial, mercantile, civil partnership or such like
 transactions or the offences arising out of matrimony relating to
 dowry, etc. or the family disputes where the wrong is basically
 private or personal in nature. In Narendra Lal Jain (supra) the three-
 Judge Bench quashed the proceeding as the charges were famed under Section 120 / 420 IPC in respect of the private respondents. In
 Gopakumar B. Nair’s case the court distinguished the decision in Narendra Lal Jain (supra) and opined that the accused had also been
 charged for the commission of offence under Section 471 of IPC and on
 that basis declined to interfere with the order passed by the High
 Court which had refused to quash the criminal proceeding. 21. In the case at hand, as per the chargesheet the respondents had got
 LCs issued from the bank in favour of fictitious companies propped up
 by them and the fictitious beneficiary companies had got letters of
 credits discounted by attaching their bogus bills. The names of 10
 fictitious companies have been mentioned in the chargesheet. Thus,
 allegation of forgery is very much there. As is manifest from the
 impugned order, the learned Single Judge has not adverted to the same.
 It is not a simple case where an accused has borrowed money from the
 bank and diverted it somewhere else and, thereafter, paid the amount.
 It does not fresco a situation where there is dealing between a
 private financial institution and an accused, and after initiation of
 the criminal proceedings he pays the sum and gets the controversy
 settled. The expose’ of facts tells a different story. As submitted
 by the learned Counsel for CBI the manner in which the letters of
 credits were issued and the funds were siphoned has a foundation in
 criminal law. Learned counsel would submit that it does not depict a
 case which has overwhelmingly and predominatingly civil flavour. The
 intrinsic character is different. Emphasis is laid on the creation of
 fictitious companies. 22. In this context, we may usefully refer to a two-Judge Bench
 decision in Central Bureau of Investigation v. Jagjit Singh [12]
 wherein the court being moved by the CBI had overturned the order of
 the High Court quashing the criminal proceeding and in that backdrop
 had taken note of the fact that accused persons had dishonestly
 induced delivery of the property of the bank and had used forged
 documents as genuine. Proceeding further the Court opined as follows:- 23. We are in respectful agreement with the aforesaid view. Be it
 stated, that availing of money from a nationalized bank in the manner,
 as alleged by the investigating agency, vividly exposits fiscal
 impurity and, in a way, financial fraud. The modus operandi as
 narrated in the chargesheet cannot be put in the compartment of an
 individual or personal wrong. It is a social wrong and it has immense
 societal impact. It is an accepted principle of handling of finance
 that whenever there is manipulation and cleverly conceived
 contrivance to avail of these kind of benefits it cannot be regarded
 as a case having overwhelmingly and predominantingly of civil
 character. The ultimate victim is the collective. It creates a
 hazard in the financial interest of the society. The gravity of the
 offence creates a dent in the economic spine of the nation. The
 cleverness which has been skillfully contrived, if the allegations are
 true, has a serious consequence. A crime of this nature, in our view,
 would definitely fall in the category of offences which travel far
 ahead of personal or private wrong. It has the potentiality to usher
 in economic crisis. Its implications have its own seriousness, for it
 creates a concavity in the solemnity that is expected in financial
 transactions. It is not such a case where one can pay the amount and
 obtain a “no due certificate” and enjoy the benefit of quashing of the
 criminal proceeding on the hypostasis that nothing more remains to be
 done. The collective interest of which the Court is the guardian
 cannot be a silent or a mute spectator to allow the proceedings to be
 withdrawn, or for that matter yield to the ingenuous dexterity of the
 accused persons to invoke the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the
 Constitution or under Section 482 of the Code and quash the
 proceeding. It is not legally permissible. The Court is expected to
 be on guard to these kinds of adroit moves. The High Court, we humbly
 remind, should have dealt with the matter keeping in mind that in
 these kind of litigations the accused when perceives a tiny gleam of
 success, readily invokes the inherent jurisdiction for quashing of the
 criminal proceeding. The court’s principal duty, at that juncture,
 should be to scan the entire facts to find out the thrust of
 allegations and the crux of the settlement. It is the experience of
 the Judge comes to his aid and the said experience should be used with
 care, caution, circumspection and courageous prudence. As we find in
 the case at hand the learned Single Judge has not taken pains to
 scrutinize the entire conspectus of facts in proper perspective and
 quashed the criminal proceeding. The said quashment neither helps to
 secure the ends of justice nor does it prevent the abuse of the
 process of the Court nor can it be also said that as there is a
 settlement no evidence will come on record and there will be remote
 chance of conviction. Such a finding in our view would be difficult
 to record. Be that as it may, the fact remains that the social
 interest would be on peril and the prosecuting agency, in these
 circumstances, cannot be treated as an alien to the whole case. Ergo,
 we have no other option but to hold that the order of the High Court
 is wholly indefensible. 24. Ex consequenti, the appeal is allowed, and the order passed by the
 High Court is set aside and it is directed that the trial shall
 proceed in accordance with law. We may hasten to add that our
 observations in the present appeal are solely in the context of
 adjudicating the justifiability of order of quashing of the criminal
 proceeding and it would not have any bearing at the time of trial.
 And we so clarify. ………………………………J.
 [Dipak Misra]

 ………………………………J.
 [Vikramajit
 Sen]
 New Delhi; September 19, 2014. ----------------------- [1] (2008) 4 SCC 582
[2] (2009) 6 SCC 364
[3] (1996) 5 SCC 591
[4] (2008) 9 SCC 677
[5] (2009) 6 SCC 351
[6] (2012) 10 SCC 303
[7] 2014(4) SCALE 195
[8] AIR 2012 SCW 5333
[9] 2013(14) SCALE 235
[10] 2014 3 SCALE 137
[11] 2014 4 SCALE 659
[12] (2013) 10 SCC 686