Deepak Kumar Mandal @ Deepak Mandal, aged about 21 years, Son of
Kailash Kumar Mandal, Resident of Village Hat Karmatar, P.O. and P.S.
Karmatar, District- JamtaraJhakhand- 815352
 ... ... ... Petitioner
 Versus
The State of Jharkhand ... ... ... Opp. Party ------- CORAM:HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ARUN KUMAR RAI ------- 1. Apprehending his arrest in connection with Gonda P.S. Case No.
08 of 2024, instituted under Sections 419 , 420 , 468 , 471 and 34 of the Indian
Penal Code and U/s 66 (C), 66(D) of the I.T. Act, 2002 the petitioner has
moved to this Court for grant of privilege of anticipatory bail 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that petitioner is
student and having no concern with the allegation made in the F.I.R. and
even otherwise there is only allegation against this petitioner that he is
involved in cybercrime and this fact has been come from the mouth of co-
accused persons in their respective confessional statement. Learned
counsel also pointed out that such confessional statements qua the
petitioner has been made by co-accused persons on account of inimical
relation with this petitioner. 3. He also pointed submitted that charge sheet with regard to other
co-accused persons who have apprehended at spot, has already been
submitted. Upon the aforesaid premise, prayer for anticipatory bail has
been made. 4. Learned A.P.P. for the State made objection to the prayer by the
petitioner and submitted that considering the nature of offence custodial
interrogation of petitioner is required. 5. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. 6. From perusal of record, it transpires that on information police
 apprehended co-accused persons namely, Pawan Kumar Mandal and
 Mantu Kumar Mandal who are real brothers and from their possession
 large number of incriminating article including cash, 16 smart phones and
 18 sim cards of different companies has been got recovered. They
 confessed that this petitioner is the person at whose behest they took
 rented accommodation and started doing cybercrime. It has also come on
 record that these co-accused persons by sending fishing link to different
 persons used to commit fraud in the name of updating KYC of bank. In the
 F.I.R., it is alleged that one of mobile phone no. 9383302132 by which fraud
 has been committed has been handed over to this petitioner. 7. Considering the nature of offence, I do find some force in the
 submission of learned A.P.P. for the State that custodial interrogation is
 required to further unfold the present case. 8. Accordingly, this Court is not inclined to enlarge this petitioner
 on anticipatory bail, therefore, the present anticipatory bail being A.B.A.
 No. 3184 of 2024 is hereby rejected. (Arun Kumar Rai, J.)

Abhishek/-