1. By invoking inherent powers of this Court, the
 applicant Pallavi Patil a bank employee has preferred
 this quashing application, thereby she is seeking
 quashment of FIR being I-C.R.No.11210023210561 of
 2021 registered with Khatodara Police Station, Surat
 for the offence punishable under Sections 406 , 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 34 and 12(B) of the Indian Penal
 Code and consequential proceedings thereto. 2. This Court has heard learned Senior Counsel Mr. Jal
 Unwala for Gandhi Law Associate, Mr. Karan Vyas
 and Ms. C.M. Shah, learned APP for the respective
 parties. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined 3. Brief facts emerges from the record are that the
 second respondent Minakshi Vakharia and her
 husband were holding the shares of HDFC Limited. In
 the year of 2013, they were possessed in their
 names 2000 shares of the company but some how
 they could not get the certificate thereof physically
 on their home address at Surat. Upon inquiry, it
 revealed that by opening bogus demat account, the
 said shares were transferred in the name of prime
 accused Paresh Shah and with the aid of his brother
 accused Sanjay Shah, they sold off it and obtained
 Rs.15 lakhs and more amount. The FIR in relation to
 the said shares was being filed on 06.03.2021, inter
 alia alleging that the HDFC Limited, the depository
 company safal capital and employee of Axis Bank,
 have hatched the conspiracy to deceit the
 complainant by forging bogus documents, whereby
 one demat account was opened in the name of
 informant and after obtaining the opinion the
 signature verification and document verification from
 the Axis Bank, they got transferred 2000 shares in
 the demat account of the accused Paresh Shah and
 by encashing the said shares in the open market,
 they got financial benefits. 4. During the investigation of the case, it was revealed
 that the bogus demat account in the name of second Page 2 of 15 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 20:40:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined

 respondent and her husband was opened. The
 request was made by accused Paresh Shah for
 demilitarization of the 2000 shares but the signature
 did not match with the records and the request was
 rejected with a request to resubmit their demat
 request with attestation by bank officer along with
 the proof of identity. On 25.09.2013, the request
 again made with necessary documents like bank
 attestation of the signature of the holder, copy of the
 PAN Card and Voter I.D. of the holders of the shares.
 On receipt of such documents, the HDFC Bank had
 proceeded to register the request for demat of the
 shares and transferred it accordingly. The
 investigation further revealed that the accused
 Ramesh Shah and his brother Sanjay Shah in
 connivance with absconding accused Dharmesh
 Singh opened a bogus saving accounts with Axis
 Bank, Mumbai in the name of second respondent and
 her husband by producing a forged PAN Card and
 Voter I.D. The accused no.4 Pragna Bidiya, had
 processed the opening of the bank accounts and
 after field verification, she approved the application
 of opening of the bank account and the same was
 approved and confirmed by the applicant accused
 no.5 Pallavi Patil as she being a Senior Manager,
 Operational Head, signed and verified the interview-
 sheet. After opening of the account, the request for Page 3 of 15 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 20:40:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined

 attestation of documents and verification of the
 signatures being done by the accused Bharti Patel, a
 Branch Manager of Axis Bank. In nutshell, in order to
 execute the conspiracy to open the demat account
 and transfer the said shares of the complainant, the
 bogus demat account was opened for which the bank
 attestation of signature and identity proof being
 obtained from the Axis Bank by opening a bogus
 savings accounts in the name of second respondent
 and on the basis of said documents, the 2000 shares
 were being demat and thereafter, they had been
 transferred in the account of principal accused and in
 turn, they sold the said shares in the open market. 5. In the aforesaid facts and circumstances, the police
 found a sufficient material for commission of the
 offence of forgery, cheating, criminal breach of trust
 and criminal breach of trust by public servant against
 ten accused and out of ten, the chargesheet came to
 be filed against six accused, whereas rest of the four
 accused, being shown as absconding in the Column
 No.2 of the chargesheet. The applicant herein is
 arraigned as accused no.5 in the chargesheet. The
 criminal case no.22078 of 2022 being registered with
 the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Surat. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined 6. In the aforesaid background facts, the applicant
 accused no.5 Pallavi Patil has preferred present
 application for quashing of the criminal proceedings,
 inter alia stating that the proceedings are manifestly
 frivolous, vexatious and instituted with ulterior
 motive and there is no any evidence collected during
 the course of investigation that she is the maker of
 the forged document and having knowledge that the
 documents are forged and working at the managerial
 level, she cannot be held vicariously liable only
 because she is an employee of the bank. 7. Mr.Jal Unwala, learned Senior Counsel has submitted
 that the criminal proceedings qua the applicant is a
 sheer abuse of process of law as the subordinate
 staff of the applicant had accepted the alleged
 documents for opening of the account with the Axis
 Bank and the applicant being a higher officer had
 signed the interview-sheet. It was not her duty to
 scrutinize the documents or KYC of the account
 holder and verification of the customer documents
 was not her duty and therefore, signing the
 interview-sheet would never in any manner attract
 the criminal liability on the part of the applicant
 herein. Thus, therefore, while discharging the duties
 for and on behalf of the Axis Bank, she cannot
 vicariously liable for the alleged fraud committed by Page 5 of 15 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 20:40:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined

 the principal accused named in the chargesheet. 8. Mr.Jal Unwala, learned Senior Advocate drawing the
 attention of the order passed by this Court, has
 submitted that the questioned criminal proceedings
 has been quashed qua principal accused Paresh
 Shah, as the second respondent and the accused
 settled the dispute amicably and considering the
 consent of the complainant to quash the FIR, this
 Court has quashed the criminal proceedings against
 the principal accused, who had derived the benefits
 and they were the master mind of the entire fraud.
 Thus, therefore, considering the allegations made
 against the applicant herein, the employee of the
 bank in a supervisory capacity cannot be held
 responsible vicariously for alleged fraud. 9. In view of the aforesaid contentions, learned Senior
 Counsel would urge that the continuation of the
 criminal proceedings qua the applicant would nothing
 but a sheer abuse of process of the law and Court
 and therefore, to prevent the injustice to the
 innocent person, this is a fit case to exercise inherent
 powers. 10. On the other hand, Mr. Karan Vyas appearing for and
 on behalf of the second respondent original Page 6 of 15 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 20:40:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined

 complainant and learned APP Ms. C.M. Shah for the
 respondent - State, have jointly submitted that on
 the basis of sufficient material, found during the
 investigation for the commission of the offence
 allegedly committed by the accused, police has filed
 the chargesheet before the Court concerned. Thus,
 therefore, when prima facie offences have been
 made out on the basis of evidence in the form of
 chargesheet, no case is made out to exercise
 inherent powers. It was further submitted that the
 disputed question of facts raised herein with respect
 to false involvement as well as absence of mens rea
 and no evidence to link the accused applicant with
 the act of conspiracy allegedly conspired by the
 principal accused, cannot be examined at this stage
 as it is a matter of evidence. 11. Having heard the learned counsel for the respective
 parties and on perusal of the chargesheet case
 papers, the issue falls for my consideration, as to
 whether the case is made out to quash the
 questioned criminal proceedings in exercise of
 inherent powers? 12. Before examining the rival contentions, I may briefly
 refer the settled position of law with regard to
 powers of the High Court to quash the criminal Page 7 of 15 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 20:40:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined

 proceedings. 13. The scope and power of the High Court to quash the
 first information report is well settled. The power
 under Section 482 of the Code has to be exercised
 sparingly and cautiously to prevent the abuse of
 process of Court and to secure the ends of justice.
 The High Court should refrain from giving a prima-
 facie decision, unless there are compelling
 circumstances to do so. Taking the allegations, as
 they are, without adding or subtracting anything, if
 no offence is made out, only then, the High Court
 would be justified in quashing the proceedings in the
 exercise of its power under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. 14. The Apex Court in case of State of Haryana vs.
 Bhajan Lal reported in (1992) Supp 1 SCC 335
 has laid down the guidelines that must be adhered to
 while exercising inherent powers under Sections 482 of the Code to quash the criminal proceedings. The
 relevant paragraph reads thus: cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a
 police officer without an order of a Magistrate as
 contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or
 complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable
 on the basis of which no prudent person can ever
 reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground
 for proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in
 any of the provisions of the Code or the Act
 concerned (under which a criminal proceeding is
 instituted) to the institution and continuance of the
 proceedings and/or where there is a specific
 provision in the Code or the Act concerned, providing
 efficacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved
 party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly
 attended with mala fides and/or where the
 proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior Page 10 of 15 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 20:40:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined

 motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and
 with a view to spite him due to private and personal
 grudge." 15. In All Cargo Movers (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs.
 Dhanesh Jain (2007) 4 SCC 776, the Apex Court
 while examining the powers of the High Court to
 quash the criminal proceedings, the Apex Court held
 and observed that, the criminal proceedings should
 not be encouraged when it is found to be malafide or
 otherwise an abuse of process of court. 16. In R.K. Kalyani Vs. Janak Mehta , (2009) 1 SCC
 516, the Apex Court, has observed that, one of the
 paramount duties of the superior court is to see that
 the person, who is absolutely innocent, is not
 subjected to prosecution and humiliation, on the
 basis of false and wholly untenable complaint. 17. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the
 present case and having considered the contentions
 raised by the respective parties, this Court is of
 considered view that, the prosecution on the basis of
 aforesaid FIR, against the applicant - accused no. 5
 deserves to be quashed and set aside. The reasons
 for arriving such conclusion are that, Page 11 of 15 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 20:40:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined (i) the main ground on which the applicant is
 implicated is that, she did not properly scrutinize the
 documents and proof of address while opening the
 bank account with the Axix Bank. It is no doubt true
 that the bogus account by submitting a forge
 supporting documents was opened in the name of
 second respondent. The record indicates that, the
 accused - bank employee Pragya Bidiye was in charge
 to verify the documents, addresses etc. The field
 verification form filled up by the accused Pragya
 Bidiye would show that, she visited the house of the
 account holder and had verified the address of the
 customer. Thus, therefore, the primary duty to verify
 the documents along with the address was of the co-
 accused Pragya Bidiye. The applicant accused being
 an operational head of the accused Bidiye, had signed
 the interview sheet. Thus, therefore, being higher in
 rank, the applicant relying on the work of the field
 employee, processed and approved the request for
 opening of the bank account. While filling up the
 interview sheet, she supposed to fill up the necessary
 column of the interview sheet by asking necessary
 questions to the prospective customers. However, this
 negligence of not getting the information from the
 customer, cannot create criminal liability on her. The
 attestation of the signatures and proof of address
 were being provided to the accused by Bharti Patel - NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined

 Branch Manager of the Bank and said function would
 not in any manner under the domain of the applicant
 herein. (ii) It is not the case of the prosecution that, from the
 beginning of the opening of the bogus demat account,
 the applicant in connivance with the principal
 accused, had acted for the execution of the alleged
 conspiracy to deceive the second informant. (iii) During the course of investigation, nothing
 brought on record to suggest that, the applicant while
 filling up the interview sheet, was in any manner got
 the financial benefit from the co-accused. (iv) The applicant - accused had discharged her duty
 for and on behalf of the Axix Bank and did not act in
 her personal capacity and there is no evidence to the
 effect that, she derived the benefit by making default
 in filling of the interview sheet. Thus, she cannot be
 made vicariously liable only because she is employee
 of Axix Bank. (v) The criminal proceedings against the principal
 accused Paresh Shah has already been quashed with
 the consent of second respondent. The said Paresh
 Shah is the master mind of the entire scam and he Page 13 of 15 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 20:40:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined

 and his brother in connivance with the co-accused,
 opened the bogus demat account and to transfer the
 said shares, the authentication of the signature and
 the address as sought by the HDFC Bank, there was
 need to open the bank account with Axix Bank, and
 accordingly, after obtaining the attested documents,
 the shares were transferred and sold by them. In such
 circumstances, once the second respondent has
 settled the dispute with the principal accused and got
 the share price from them, the chances for successful
 prosecution qua the applicant is bleak and remote. 18. For the reasons recorded and considering the role
 attributable to present applicant herein and in
 support of the evidence collected during the course
 of investigation, I am of the clear opinion that, there
 is no case made out against the applicant warranting
 trial against her, as the allegations made against her
 in the chargesheet case papers, even if they are
 taken at their face and accepted in their entirety do
 not prima-facie constitute an offence of cheating,
 criminal breach of trust, forgery and criminal breach
 of trust by public servant. 19. In the result, the application is allowed. Rule is made
 absolute to aforesaid extent. The proceedings of
 Criminal Case No. 22078 of 2022 pending before the Page 14 of 15 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 20:40:09 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/8079/2022 ORDER DATED: 07/03/2024

 undefined

 Additional CJM, Surat is hereby quashed qua present
 applicant - accused no. 5 herein. Direct service
 permitted. 20. The observations made hereinabove are prima-facie
 in nature and confined to the adjudication of the
 present application. The investigation agency as well
 as the trial Court shall not get influence by the said
 observation during the investigation as well as at the
 course of trial. Direct service permitted. (ILESH J. VORA,J)
P.S. JOSHI/16/03 Page 15 of 15 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 20:40:09 IST 2024