1. The present applications are filed under Section 438 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' CrPC ') seeking grant of pre-
 arrest bail in FIR No. 368/2022 dated 08.12.2022 registered at
 Police Station Special Cell, Delhi for offences punishable under Sections 419 / 420 / 388 / 170 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
 (' IPC '). 2. The FIR in the present case was registered at the instance
 of the complainant namely, Dewan Singh Malik who alleged that
 on 10.10.2022, he received a WhatsApp video call from an
 unknown lady, who insisted for private video call and later
 recorded the video call. Thereafter, the complainant received
 several calls from different mobile numbers who introduced
 themselves as police officers/Youtube employees and extorted a
 total amount of ₹16 Lakhs on the pretext of removing the video
 from Youtube, Facebook, Instagram and by threatening him of
 false accusation in the murder case of the lady in the video and
 on the pretext of settling the matter with her family. 3. During investigation, on analysis of CDRs of the alleged Signature Not Verified numbers, it was found that the mobile numbers of the alleged Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:30.04.2024 BAIL APPLN. 177/2024 & other connected matters Page 2 of 10 12:35:34
 callers were located at Sikri, Bharatpur, Rajasthan at the time of
 the alleged incident and the alleged persons are part of organized
 group operating from there. Further, three accused persons
 namely, Shabbir, Sahjad and Rafeek were arrested on
 22.12.2022. 4. During interrogation, the said accused persons disclosed
 the names of the present applicants along with other accused
 persons. They stated that they used to commit such offences
 along with the present applicants. They further disclosed that
 SIM cards which were used by them for calling the victims and
 for opening of the Bank Accounts (used for receiving money)
 were arranged by their associates/applicants. 5. The investigation in the present case further reveals that
 the alleged mobile numbers are on fake IDs and were used in one
 common IMEI number - 86932905555333. During further
 analysis of the IMEI number, it was found that one of the mobile
 numbers was found to be in the name of the accused - Soukin. It
 was also found that the mobile number used by the accused -
 Soukin was linked with the bank account in which ₹4,00,000/-
 was transferred by the complainant. The investigation further
 reveals that the mobile number used by the accused - Talim
 Khan bearing IMEI No. 86182405909580 was used in contacting
 the victims and another mobile number with the same IMEI
 which was used for opening of the bank account in which a part
 of the cheated amount i.e. ₹2,00,000/- was deposited. And, the
 two mobile phone numbers issued in the name of the accused - which the SIMs used to call the victims were used. 6. The learned counsel for the applicants submits that the
 applicants have been falsely implicated based on the disclosure
 statements of the co-accused persons and there is nothing
 incriminating against the applicants. He submits that the
 applicants have already joined the investigation and provided
 necessary information available with them. 7. He submits that the applicants have no connection with the
 complainant and they are not a beneficiary of the alleged cheated
 amount. He submits that there is no evidence to establish any
 nexus whatsoever between the applicants and the offences as
 alleged in the FIR. He submits that the applicants are law-abiding
 citizen who has been wrongfully and maliciously dragged into
 criminal proceedings arising out of the FIR. 8. Per contra, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for
 the State opposed the grant of any relief to the applicants. He
 submits that the allegations against the applicants are serious in
 nature. He submits that the learned Additional Sessions Judge
 has rightly rejected the bail application of the applicants vide a
 detailed and reasoned order and there is no ground to interfere
 with the same. 9. He submits that the applicants have joined investigation in
 terms of the directions of this Court but they have not cooperated
 in the same. He states that the all the accused persons have been
 active member of the organized crime syndicate being run for
 carrying out an organized crime of sextortion. perused the record. 11. It is to be kept in mind that the investigation is currently at
 a nascent stage. The considerations governing the grant of pre-
 arrest bail are materially different than those to be considered
 while adjudicating application for grant of regular bail, as in the
 latter case, the accused is already under arrest and substantial
 investigation is carried out by the investigating agency. 12. It is trite law that the power to grant a pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of the CrPC is extraordinary in nature and is to be
 exercised sparingly. Thus, pre-arrest bail cannot be granted in a
 routine manner. The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of State of
 A.P. v. Bimal Krishna Kundu : (1997) 8 SCC 104, held as
 under: 9. Similar observations have been made by us in a
 recent judgment in State v. Anil Sharma [(1997) 7
 SCC 187 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 1039 : JT (1997) 7 SC
 651] : (SCC pp. 189-90, para 8)
 "The consideration which should weigh with
 the Court while dealing with a request for
 anticipatory bail need not be the same as for
 an application to release on bail after arrest." 12. We are strongly of the opinion that this is not a
 case for exercising the discretion under Section 438 in
 favour of granting anticipatory bail to the
 respondents. It is disquieting that implications of
 arming the respondents, when they are pitted against
 this sort of allegations involving well-orchestrated
 conspiracy, with a pre-arrest bail order, though
 subject to some conditions, have not been taken into
 account by the learned Single Judge. We have
 absolutely no doubt that if the respondents are
 equipped with such an order before they are
 interrogated by the police it would greatly harm the
 investigation and would impede the prospects of
 unearthing all the ramifications involved in the
 conspiracy. Public interest also would suffer as a
 consequence. Having apprised himself of the nature
 and seriousness of the criminal conspiracy and the
 adverse impact of it on "the career of millions of
 students", learned Single Judge should not have
 persuaded himself to exercise the discretion which
 Parliament had very thoughtfully conferred on the
 Sessions Judges and the High Courts through Section
 438 of the Code, by favouring the respondents with
 such a pre-arrest bail order." 13. It is settled law that the custodial interrogation is
 qualitatively more elicitation oriented than questioning a suspect
 who is well ensconced with a favourable order under Section 438 of the CrPC [State v. Anil Sharma : (1997) 7 SCC 187]. In the
 present case, it seems that the applicants have failed to cooperate
 with the investigation even after they were granted interim
 protection by this Court. Granting anticipatory bail to the
 applicant would undoubtedly impede further investigation. An
 order of bail cannot be granted in a routine manner so as to allow
 the applicant to use the same as a shield. 14. The accused persons in the present case have alleged to By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:30.04.2024 BAIL APPLN. 177/2024 & other connected matters Page 6 of 10 12:35:34
 have made a woman contact the victim/complainant through
 video calls and messaged and got his video clip. They then
 threatened to make the video viral on social media. Later, the
 victim was conveyed that the woman who undressed in the video
 clip has committed suicide. The accused persons posed
 themselves to be police officials and forged ID Card. During the
 analysis on National Cyber Reporting Portal, a total number of
 10 complaints have been found, in which innocent people have
 been cheated by the same accused persons through same modus
 operandi thereby indicating that the present case is not a one of
 instance. 15. The investigation reveals that the SIM cards of the
 applicants were used in more than 50 different devices/IMEI
 numbers within a span of two years. It cannot be a mere
 coincidence that the device which is used by the applicant
 namely, Talim with his own SIM card gets used with SIM card
 via which the sextortion calls were made. 16. It is the case of the prosecution that accused Sahjab, Rfeek
 and Shabbir had disclosed about the involvement of the
 applicants in the alleged offences. 17. Moreover, the investigation has disclosed that the
 implicated mobile numbers were registered under fictitious
 identities and were associated with a single IMEI number.
 Subsequent scrutiny of this IMEI number revealed its connection
 to a mobile number registered in the name of the accused,
 Soukin. It was further found that the mobile number, utilized by Signature Not Verified the accused Soukin, was linked to a bank account into which Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:30.04.2024 BAIL APPLN. 177/2024 & other connected matters Page 7 of 10 12:35:34 ₹4,00,000 was transferred by the complainant. The investigation
 also uncovered that another mobile number, used by the accused
 Talim Khan and associated with IMEI No. 86182405909580,
 was employed to communicate with the victims. Moreover, this
 number was also used to open a bank account wherein a portion
 of the fraudulently obtained funds amounting to ₹2,00,000 was
 deposited. Additionally, two mobile phone numbers registered in
 the name of the accused Timmi @Abbas's father were operated
 on the same handsets that were used for the SIM cards employed
 in contacting the victims. 18. The investigation has unearthed multiple complaints,
 revealing habitual engagement of the accused persons in such
 criminal practices. Given the pattern of conduct and the serious
 implications of the offences as alleged, there is a justified
 concern regarding the applicants' potential influence over the
 evidence and the possibility of committing similar offences if not
 detained. 19. Sextortion represents a profound violation of privacy and
 is a significant social menace. It involves the exploitation of
 obtained intimate images and videos to extort money or favours
 from victims, often leading to severe psychological trauma. This
 cyber-enabled crime not only undermines individual dignity but
 also poses serious challenges to law enforcement due to its
 clandestine and cross-jurisdictional nature. 20. The scale of operation, at this stage, seems to be
 humongous. Dismantling such a complex modus operandi, which Signature Not Verified is alleged to have been used by the applicants and the other Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:30.04.2024 BAIL APPLN. 177/2024 & other connected matters Page 8 of 10 12:35:34 accused persons, by its very nature, requires thorough
 investigation and custodial interrogation which ought not to be
 curtailed by passing an order under Section 438 of the CrPC. 21. Considering the status report filed by the State, it cannot be
 held, at this stage, that the investigation is being carried out with
 the intention to injure or humiliate the applicant. The nature and
 the gravity of the allegations are serious. Specific allegations
 have also been made that the applicants have been indulging into
 similar offences on earlier occasions. 22. The investigation conducted thus, so far does not indicate
 that the applicant is sought to be falsely implicated. The material
 presented by the prosecution establish a prima facie involvement
 of the applicants. The evidences, including digital records and
 communication, link the applicants to the alleged offence. 23. It is true that the disclosure statements of the co-accused
 persons is not admissible unless corroborated by supporting
 evidence however, no reason has been indicated as to why the
 co-accused persons arrested in the present case would
 unnecessarily try to implicate the present accused persons. The
 same requires investigation. 24. Considering the above, and the nature of the offence, no
 ground for grant of anticipatory bail to the applicants is made
 out. 25. The present application is accordingly dismissed. 26. It is clarified that any observations made in the present
 order are for the purpose of deciding the present bail application Signature Not Verified and should not influence the outcome of the Trial and also not be Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:30.04.2024 BAIL APPLN. 177/2024 & other connected matters Page 9 of 10 12:35:34 taken as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 APRIL 24, 2024
 KDK/UG Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARMINDER KAUR Signing Date:30.04.2024 BAIL APPLN. 177/2024 & other connected matters Page 10 of 10 12:35:34