The Ramamurthy Nagar Range Excise Inspector have
filed this charge sheet against the accused for the offences
punishable U/s.20(b), 20(ii)(A), 22 & 8(c) of NDPS Act, 1985 . 2. It is the case of prosecution that on 07.01.2022 at 5.00
p.m, the first informant received a credible information that
some unknown persons is selling ganja and
Methamphetamine at 1st "A" Main Road, near Srinidhi
Upachar Hotel, Bengaluru. Therefore, the first informant and
along with his staff and panchas reached to the spot and
secured the accused. Thereafter, the first informant resisted
CW-6 to come to the spot for the purpose of conducting
search and the body of the accused. Accordingly, CW-6 came
to the spot and upon search it was found that the accused
was in possession of 7.45 gms of Methamphetamine (Crystall
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 4 Meth) and ganja weighing 62 gms. The above said articles
were seized in presence of the panchas and as per the report
submitted by the first informant, this case has been
registered against the accused for the commission of offences
referred above. 3. This court being designated as a special court to try the
offences under NDPS Act , cognizance of the offences taken
and S.207 of Cr.P.C. has been complied with. 4. The accused is on bail and represented by his counsel. 5. On hearing the prosecution and defence, my learned
predecessor in office has framed charge against the accused
for offences punishable U/s.20(b), 20(ii)(A), 22 & 8(c) of NDPS Act , read over and explained to the accused, for which,
he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 6. The prosecution in support of its case has examined
witnesses as P.W.1 to 5 and got marked documents as Ex.P.1
to Ex.P.14 and M.O.1 and 2. After closing of prosecution side
evidence, accused was examined under S.313 of Cr.P.C., and
he has denied the incriminating circumstances appearing
against him in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses. The
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 5 case of the accused is one of the total denial that he has been
falsely implicated in this case. The accused did not choose to
lead any defence evidence. However, two documents are
marked as Ex.D.1 and Ex.D.2. 7. Heard the learned Public Prosecutor and learned counsel
for the accused. 8. Perused oral and documentary evidence on record. 9. Based on the materials, the following points are framed. POINTS 1.Whether the prosecution proves beyond
 all reasonable doubt that on 07.01.2022
 at 5.00 p.m, the accused was found in
 possession of 7.45 gms of
 Methamphetamine and 62 gms of ganja
 near Srinidhi Upachar Hotel, 1st "A" Main
 Road, Bhuvanagiri, OMBR Layout,
 Basavanagudi, Bengaluru and thereby
 the accused has committed the offence
 punishable U/s.20(b), 20(ii)(A), 22 & 8(c)
 of NDPS Act ? 2. What order ? 10. My findings on the above points are as under: informant of this case has deposed that on 07.01.2022 at
3.30 p.m, when she was present in her office, she received a
credible information stating that one person has come near
Srinidhi Upachar Hotel, 1st Main Road, Bhuvanagiri, OMBR
Layout, Banaswadi, Bengaluru for the purpose of selling
Methamphetamine (Crystal Meth) and ganja. Therefore, she
had entered the said information in the diary of the office.
Thereafter, she informed this fact to CW-6 and requested him
to lead the raiding party. Thereafter under leadership of CW-
6, herself and staff had secured two panchas near
Ayappaswamy Temple and informed them about the
information received by her. Thereafter, they reached the spot
and found the accused. Seeing their arrival, the accused
attempted to flee from the spot. The accused was secured.
They gave information to him regarding his right of search by
a Magistrate or a Gazetted Officer. The accused had
consented for a search by a Gazetted Officer. Thereafter, the
accused also agreed to be searched by CW-6 who is also a
Gazetted Officer. On search, the accused was found in
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 7 possession of 7.45 gms of Methamphetamine and 62 gms of
ganja. The same was sealed and seized in presence of the
panchas under Ex.P-6. Thereafter, she came to the office
along with the accused and seized articles and registered a
case against the accused under Ex.P-7. 12. PW-2 Sri.Vivek.G has deposed that on 07.01.2022 at
3.45 p.m, CW-1 had submitted a requisition to her and
requested to conduct search as per credible information
received by her. Accordingly, himself, CW-1 and staff reached
near Srinidhi Upachar Hotel, CW-1 secured the accused at
the spot. On interrogation the accused admitted that he is in
possession of the contraband. The accused was given
information about his right of search by Magistrate or a
Gazetted Officer. The accused agreed for search by a Gazetted
Officer. She told the accused that he himself is a Gazetted
Officer. The accused agreed to undergo search as himself is a
Gazetted Officer. On search it was found that the accused
was in possession of 7.45 gms of Methamphetamine and 62
gms of ganja. The articles were sealed and seized in presence
of the panchas. 13. PW-3 Sri.Hidayath Khaleel has deposed that on
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 8 31.01.2022, he received the record of this case for further
investigation from CW-1. On 02.02.2022 the seized articles
were sent to FSL through CW-7. On the same day he
recorded the statement of CW-2 to 5. On 29.09.2022 he
recorded the statement of CW-7. As the investigation of the
case was complete, he submitted final report before the court. 14. PW-4 Dr.Suma.S has deposed that on 03.02.2022, she
received two sealed articles from Excise Department,
Rammurthy Nagar Range with respect to Cr.No.39/21-22 for
Chemical Analysis. The seal and article was intact and tallied
with the specimen seal sent by the Investigating Officer. On
opening the Article No.1 she found dull white crystalline
substance packed with Zip locked plastic cover. Article No.2
was having dried stalks bearing brownish Green coloured
small leaves, fruiting and flowering tops and seeds having
characteristics smell. The samples were subjected to scientific
analysis and thereafter he opined that the Article No.1 is
responded positive for Methamphetamine. Methamphetamine
is a stimulant drug. Article No.2 responded positive for
cannabis which contains psychoactive constituents.
Thereafter, she submitted her report as per Ex.P-13. Spl.C. No.2353/2023 9 15. PW-5 Sri.Abhishek.M.R has deposed that on
07.01.2022, he has signed Ex.P-2 near Srinidhi Upachar
Hotel in connection with selling of ganja and other
contraband. On the said day at about 4 to 4-30 p.m, when
himself and PW-2 were present near Ayyappaswamy Temple,
the officials of Excise Department came and told that
unknown persons are selling ganja and therefore called
himself as PW-2 as witness. The officials had taken himself
on CW-2 near Srinidhi Upachar Hotel. The accused was
standing at the spot. Seeing the arrival of Excise officials, the
accused attempted to flee from the spot. The accused was
secured. Consent was taken for search. The accused was
having a white colored powder in right pocket of his pant.
Apart from it, the accused was having ganja packet. The said
articles were seized by the officials of Excise Department. 16. The accused has been sent for trial for the commission
of offences punishable U/s.20(b), 20(ii)(A), 22 & 8(c) of NDPS
Act . This court has framed charge against the accused for the
offences referred above. In case of this nature, first of all it is
responsibility of the prosecution to establish beyond all
reasonable doubt that the accused was found in possession
of the contraband as alleged by the prosecution. Needless to
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 10 say that the NDPS Act provides for rigorous punishment for
the violation of the provision. Therefore, the legislature has
inserted several mandatory provisions in the said act in order
to protect the innocent persons from malicious prosecution.
Therefore, the compliance of the mandatory provision is the
prime responsibility of the Investigating Officer. Any deviation
or failure to comply the mandatory provision will make the
story of the prosecution doubtful and thereby the accused
will get the benefit of doubt of the same. 17. It is the specific case of prosecution that on 07.01.2022
at 3.30 p.m, CW-1 Smt.Ummerubab received a credible
information that the accused herein was attempting to sell
the contraband near Srinidhi Upachar Hotel situated at
Banasawadi, Bengaluru. In view of the said information, she
along with her Higher Officer i.e., CW-6 and the staff had
been to the spot, secured the accused and recovered
Methamphetamine and ganja from the possession of the
accused. 18. In order to established the possession of contraband,
the prosecution has examined independent panch witness to
Ex.P-6 by name Sri.Abhishek.M.R as PW-5. During the
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 11 course of his examination in chief, PW-5 has deposed that on
07.01.2022, the Excise Department officials had recovered
Methamphetamine and ganja pocket from the possession of
the accused near Srinidhi Upachar Hotel under Ex.P-6. The
learned counsel for the accused cross-examined PW-5 at
length. During the course of cross examination of PW-5 has
admitted that the Excise Sub Inspector by name
Ramakrishna had invited himself and CW-2 for panchanama.
He has also admitted that on 07.01.2022 at 1-05 p.m, the
above said Ramakrishna had issued notice to him. However,
on perusal of Ex.P-1 and Ex.P-2, it is seen that the said
notice has not been issued by the Excise PSI by name
Ramakrishna. The said notice has been issued by PW-1
Smt.Ummerubab. At this stage itself, it is pertinent to note
that the accused has raised a specific defense that the
Investigating Agency has lifted the accused from his house for
the purpose of interrogating him in connection with
Cr.No.15/21-22. In this regard, learned counsel for the
accused has cross examined PW-1 at length. During the
course of cross examination, PW-1 has admitted that as per
Ex.D-1 Sri.Ramakrishna.D.N had registered a case in
Cr.No.15/21-22 against one Tejas. At this juncture, it is
relevant to note that as already discussed PW-5 during the
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 12 course of his cross examination has categorically admitted
that himself and CW-2 were invited as panchas by the Excise
Sub Inspector, Ramakrishna, the notice as per Ex.P-2 and
Ex.P-3 has been given to him by the said Ramakrishna. PW-2
Sri.Vivek.G, the Superintendent of Excise Department during
the course of his cross examination has categorically
admitted that on 07.01.2022, he participated in a raid
pertaining to Cr.No.15/21-22 and he has admitted that
Ex.D.1 is the document pertaining Cr.No.15/21-22. PW-2 has
also categorically admitted that the MO-1 and 2 has been
signed by the Sub Inspector of Range No.29 and he has also
admitted that CW-1 (PW-1) Smt.Ummerubab belongs to
Excise Sub Division No.10. PW-1 Smt.Ummerubab, during
the course of cross examination has denied the fact that she
is a member of raiding party with respect to Cr.No.15/21-22.
The admission available in the evidence of independent panch
witness i.e., PW-5 Sri.Abishek.M.R would probabalize the
defense of the accused that in fact the accused was secured
or taken to the police station for the purpose of interrogation
with respect to Cr.No.15/21-22. Apart from it, as already
discussed in the earlier part of this judgment as admitted by
PW-2 Sri.Vivek.G that on MO-1 and 2 the address of he
Range-29 and the Sub Inspector of Excise pertaining to
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 13 Range-29 has signed on the above said material object.
Therefore, a substantial doubt arises in the mind of the court
regarding the seizure of material objects from the possession
of the accused as alleged by the prosecution. For the reasons
stated supra the evidence of independent panch witness i.e.,
PW-5 Sri.Abishek.M.R does not inspire the confidence of the
court. Apart from all the above said facts PW-5 during the
course of cross examination has categorically admitted that
Ramakrishna, Excise of PSI has searched the accused and
informed him that the accused is in possession of the
contraband. He has also admitted that at the time of taking
signature to the notice the above said Ramakrishna told him
that the accused is in possession of the contraband. He has
also admitted that Ex.P-2 was not read over to them and he
does not know the contents of Ex.P-6. For all the reasons
stated above, I have no hesitation to come to the conclusion
that it will not be safe to rely on the evidence of PW-2 to base
conviction. 19. It is now well settled that because of rigorous
punishment provided for the violation of the provision of NDPS Act , the said act mandates certain procedure to be
followed strictly. Search has to be strictly in compliance of
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 14 Sec.50 of the NDPS Act. On careful perusal of the evidence of
PW-1, it is clear that PW-1 has not whispered anything
regarding the preparation of inventory at the time of seizure
of contraband from the possession of the accused. Apart from
it, she has not at all whispered anything regarding the
production of the inventory before learned Magistrate for
certification of the same. She has also not disposed anything
regarding the drawing of the samples in presence of the
Magistrate as contemplated U/s.52 (A) of the NDPS Act . PW.3
Sri.Hidayath Khaleel who has conducted investigation in the
present case and filed charge sheet has also not whispered
anything regarding the production of the seized articles before
the learned Magistrate for the purpose of certification of
inventory and also with respect to drawing of samples in
presence of Magistrate as contemplated U/s.52 (A) of the
NDPS Act . For the sake of convenience the relevant portion of Sec.52(A) is extracted below :- 20. On careful perusal of the above provision of law it
becomes clear that, if Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 17 Substances have been seized and forwarded to the officer
incharge of the police station or to the officer empowered
U/s.53, it is the responsibility of such an officer to prepare an
inventory and shall submit an application to the Magistrate
for the purpose of certifying the correctness of the inventory
so prepared and the photographs shall be certified of the
drugs shall be taken in presence of the Magistrate and same
has to be certified. Sec.52(a)(2)(c) would mandate that sample
has to be drawn in presence of Magistrate and he has to
certify the correctness of list of sample so drawn. On careful
perusal of the evidence of PW-1 to 3 it becomes clear that
there has been gross violation of Sec.52(A) of NDPS Act. At
this juncture, it is relevant to refer to the judgment of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in Yusuf V/s State reported in 2023 SCC
online SC 1328, wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court has clearly
observed that the mere presence of a Gazetted Officer at the
time of drawing of sampling process is insufficient to satisfy
the mandatory requirement of Sec.52(A) 2 of the NDPS Act. It
further makes clear that the presence of the Gazetted Officer
cannot be substituted to the drawing of the samples in
presence of the Magistrate. The relevant portion of the
observation of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the judgment refer
supra is as under :- 21. Thus on marshalling of the evidence adduced by the
prosecution and keeping in mind the mandate of law as
contemplated U/s.52 (A) of NDPS Act , it can be said that in
case of non compliance of the mandatory provision of Sec.52(A)(2) of the NDPS Act, the entire story of prosecution
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 21 regarding search and seizure of contraband from the
possession of the accused becomes doubtful. 22. The prosecution has examined PW-4 Dr.Suma.S, Senior
Scientific Officer, FSL, Bengaluru, who has conducted
chemical analysis and submitted her report as per Ex.P-13.
According to Ex.P-13 the Article No.1 has responded positive
for Methamphetamine and the Article No.2 has responded
positive for cannabis. On perusal of Ex.P-13 it is found that
the Article No.1 was weighing 3.31 gms before the
examination and the Article No.2 was weighing 31.21 gms
before the examination. Though the material witnesses i.e.,
PW-1 to 3 have not whispered anything regarding the
procedure followed U/s.52 (A) of NDPS Act , but on perusal of
the case papers it is found that the certificate of learned
Magistrate is available on record with respect to drawing of
samples in his presence and certificate of inventory has also
been produced. But here is a case wherein as already
discussed in the earlier part of this judgment the admission
available in the evidence of PW-5 and PW-3 substantial doubt
arises in the mind of the court regarding the genuinity of the
recovery made from the accused. When there is a material
available on record to show that some other Inspector has
 Spl.C. No.2353/2023 22 secured the panchas in respect of some other case and when
the Mos produced before the court also shows the recovery of
the material object in some other case, then it would not be
safe to rely on such doubtful evidence to base the conviction.
In criminal cases, it is responsibility of the prosecution to
establish the charges levelled against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt. If any reasonable doubt arise in the mind
of the court regarding the recovery of contraband from the
possession of the accused, then the benefit of doubt shall be
extended to the accused. 23. On overall verification of the evidence adduced by the
prosecution, it can be said that the prosecution has failed to
prove the charges levelled against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt. Hence, I am of the view that the accused
deserves to get the benefit of doubt. Therefore, I answer the
Point No.1 in the Negative. 24. POINT NO.2 :- In view of my finding to Point No.1, I
proceed to pass the following: