Heard counsel for the parties. This second bail application has been filed by the
applicant, who has been arrested and is in Jail in connection
with Crime No.5/2014 registered with S.T.F. Police Station
Bhopal for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of I.P.C. and also under Section 3
(D) 1 and 2 / 4 of the Madhya Pradesh Manyata Prapt
Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937 - commonly known as VYAPAM
examination scam cases. The role ascribed to the applicant, by the prosecution,
is that, he acted as a middleman to facilitate the original
candidate Radheyshyam to secure good marks in the
examination conducted by VYAPAM. The applicant was
approached on behalf of Radheyshyam by his brother Sunil
Yadav and Vilasram Yadav (maternal uncle of
Radheyshyam). On his request, Sanjay Yadav arranged for
impersonator - Amar Gupta - to appear for and on behalf of
Radheyshyam Yadav. It is noticed that all the persons, who interacted with
the applicant, have already been released on bail. Charge-
 sheet has also been filed against the applicant on 14.09.2014.
Custodial interrogation of the applicant is not necessary as of
now, which position is fairly accepted by the counsel for the
respondent-State across the Bar. The applicant through his
counsel undertakes that he shall extend full cooperation
during the further investigation, if required and also
punctually appear before the Trial Court during the trial to
ensure speedy disposal of the case and further abide by all
the conditions, as may be imposed by this Court. Taking over all view of the matter, in the interest of
justice, therefore, as investigation qua the applicant is
complete as of now in view of the filing of the charge-sheet
on 14.09.2014 and other accused, who interacted with the
applicant, are already on bail; and that custodial interrogation
of the applicant is not required as of now, the applicant is
ordered to be released on bail on following strict conditions:- The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.