Brief facts of the prosecution's case are that on 13.04.07
one Harish Singh got recorded DD no.4 copy of which is Ex.PW15/A in
PP Okhla regarding missing of his brother Rajesh @ Tuntun. This DD was
recorded at 9 a.m. He has stated in the said DD no.4 about missing of
his brother Rajesh @ Tuntun w.e.f. 8.4.07. On the same day in the night
at about 9 p.m again complainant Harish Singh @ Haresh visited the PS
and got recorded his statement Ex.PW1/A in which he has stated that
he is residing at E-87, Harkesh Nagar, New Delhi and his permanent
address is Village Karchi (Pariva) Post Sinhpur, District Baliya UP. He is
working as labourer in Orient Export Company. His younger brother
Rajesh Singh @ Tuntun came from village before one month and
started residing with him. He was working with Ahuja Radio, 215 Okhla
Ph.3. On 08.04.07 (Sunday) Rajesh was present in the house. Rajesh
used to go out for walk with Rajkumar @ Raju. On 08.04.07 in the
morning he alongwith Rajesh took breakfast. Thereafter he left Rajesh
in the room of Rajkumar @ Raju and went for his job. When he came

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 1 back from his work place in the evening Rajesh was not available at
the house. He asked Raju about Rajesh but he did not give any
satisfactory reply. Rajkumar @ Raju uttered that 'wah bachcha nahin
hai jo gum ho jayega, apne aap ghar aa jayega'. He made search for
him but he could not be traced. He also got recorded missing report in
PP in this respect. He suspects that Rajkumar @ Raju has hidden his
brother Rajesh at some unknown place. His brother may kindly be
searched. On this statement IO ASI Nizamuddin made endorsement
and got the case registered. The investigation was done and accused
Raj Kumar was arrested on 14.4.07. His disclosure statement was
recorded and he disclosed about committing the murder of Rajesh
with the help of his associates Sanjay Pratap and Adesh. On the
pointing out of accused Raj Kumar dead body of Rajesh was
recovered from H.No. E-86 Harkesh Nagar, Delhi. Post mortem was got
done. Accused Sanjay and Adesh were produced before Juvenile
court. After completion of the investigation challan u/s 302 / 34 IPC was
filed in the court. 2. This case being triable by the court of session and after
committal proceedings, it was committed by the Ld.MM and received
by the court of sessions on 25.07.07 and thereafter by Fast Track Court
on 22.10.09. 3. The accused Raj Kumar @ Raju was charged u/s 302 / 201 IPC on 31.08.07 by my Ld. Predecessor Sh VK Bansal, LD. ASJ to which
accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 4. The prosecution in support of its case in all has examined
as many as 20 witnesses. Thereafter the prosecution evidence was
closed. 5. The evidence against the accused was put to him in his

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 2 statement of accused recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C in which he has
pleaded his innocence and stated that he has been falsely implicated
in this case. 6. I have heard Sh Inder Kumar Ld. APP for the State as well
as Sh.SK Saxena Adv./Amicus Curiae for the accused and perused
the testimonies of the Pws and exhibited documents carefully. 7. In view of the submissions made by the Ld.counsel for the
accused persons as well as Ld.APP for the State I have also perused the
testimonies of Pws. Pw1 Harish Singh @ Haresh is the complainant and
brother of deceased Rajesh in this case and he has deposed that on
8.4.07 it was holiday being Sunday. AT about 9.30 p.m he went for his
duty leaving Rajesh at the room. In the evening when he returned he
found his room locked. He unlocked the room and found that no food
was cooked. He found that there was complete silence in the gallary.
Accused Raju was standing outside the door of his room. Somebody
from inside the room of Raju spoke 'Uska Bhai aa gaya'. Accused tried
to hit him with his hand but he saved and went to his room. On asking
Landlady told him that she had seen Rajesh upto 10 or 11 a.m. He
searched for his brother but could not find him. On Monday also his
brother did not return. On Tuesday he went to Ahuja Radio where his
brother was working and he was informed that Rajesh had not joined
his duty on Monday and Tuesday. After 3-4 days thereof while he was
passing through the gallary one Panditji told him that nobody would
tell him but he is telling that Raju had killed his brother and buried the
dead body. He made telephone to the police. Two police officials
came and he alongwith police officials went to the room of Raju
where on the floor the skin of buffalo was found. On enquiry Raju told
him that he shall made inquiries from Dr. Divesh and that he had no
altercation with his brother Rajesh. Dr.Divesh told him that Raju
bounced upon Dr. Divesh on which his brother Rajesh asked Raju as to

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 3 why he is giving beatings to Divesh on which Raju forcibly took away
Rajesh. He again went to the room of Raju alongwith police and Raju
told them 'Tera Bhai ab iss duniya mei nahi hai'. There was one tall boy
in the room and Raju told that he is master. Police recorded his
statement in the PP on 13.4.07 which is Ex.PW1/A. He further deposed
that on 14.4.07 at about 10 or 11 a.m Raju alongwith police official, he
and his brother took them to his room at E-86 Harkesh Nagar. The dead
body was found buried under the earth near the staircase. On that the
bricks were also found laden. The dead body was dug out with the
help of two labourers on the pointing out of accused. The pointing out
memo is Ex.PW1/B. He identified the dead body of his brother vide
statement Ex.PW1/C and Ex.PW1/D. The dead body was handed over
to him vide statement Ex.PW1/E. Police has not investigated the case
property. He had made a complaint to the Police Commissioner, copy
of which is Ex.PW1/F. 8. PW2 Ramesh Singh is also the brother of the deceased as
well as PW1 and he has deposed that his brother Harish made call to
him and enquired about Rajesh. Harish again made call that he has
learnt that Raju has killed Rajesh on which he came to Delhi on 13.4.07.
They made call at 100 number and police came there and made
enquiries. Raju made confession in their presence that he has
committed murder of Rajesh. Thereafter police made further enquiries
from him. ON 14.4.07 accused and one lady officer from AIIMS, his
brother Harish and Raju went to house of Raju i.e. E-86 Harkesh Nagar
and on pointing out of spot near staircase dead body was found
buried. He identified the dead body of his brother Rajesh vide
statement Ex.PW2/B. 9. PW3 HC Ram Chander is the FIR recorder and he has
stated that he recorded FIR no. 303/07 u/s 365 IPC. The copy of FIR is
Ex.PW3/A.

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 4 10. PW4 HC Rampal is the witness from crime team and he
proved the photographs clicked by him as Ex.PW4/A1 to A17 and its
negative as Ex.PW4/B1 to B15. He also prepared the video cassette of
the proceedings of taking out of the dead body. The video cassette is
Ex.PW4/C and CD is Ex.PW11/B. 11. PW5 SI Mahesh Kumar draftsman has deposed that he
prepared the scaled site plan which is Ex.PW5/A. 12. PW6 Sultan Ahmad has deposed that accused Raj Kumar
resides at H.NO. E86 Harkesh Nagar New Delh. Urmila bhabi of accused
also resided there in the second part. ON 14.4.07 from the house of
accused Raj Kumar one dead body was dug out at the pointing out of
accused Raj Kumar. Three pieces of wooden danda, salt, one blood
stained brick, two gunny bags, one pair of shoes were recovered and
sealed by the police and seized vide memo Ex.PW6/A. He identified
the brick Ex.P1, dumble Ex.P2, three wooden sticks Ex.P3, pair of shoes
Ex.P4, shirt Ex.P5, two jute bags Ex.P6. 13. PW7 Ved Prakash has deposed that on 14.4.07 SDM and
other police officials were present at the house of Raj Kumar at E-86
Harkesh Nagar and on the pointing out of accused Raj Kumar one
dead body was dug out from his house at a distance. Three wooden
dandas, one brick, gunny bags and other articles were recovered
alongwith the dead body. Police also taken earth control from under
the body. He identified the case property. 14. PW8 Dr.B.L.Chaudhary has deposed that he has
conducted the post mortem on the dead body and proved post
mortem report Ex.PW8/A.

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 5 15. PW9 Ct. Satish Kumar has deposed that he took the case
property from Malkhana and deposited the same in CFSL Kolkatta. He
took the same through RC no. 85/21. 16. PW10 Ct. Ashok has deposed that on 14.4.07 he took the
dead body to AIIMS Hospital Mortuary and deposited there and on
15.4.07 post mortem was conducted and after post mortem the dead
body was handed over to relatives. 17. PW11 Trilok Sharma is the Tehsildar cum Executive
Magistrate Kalkaji on 14.4.07 and he alongwith SDM MR. Dhingra
reached at the spot as per the information received from PS. Accused
was in the custody of police who pointed out a spot which was
underneath a staircase, a kind of store in a house no. E-86 Harkesh
Nagar and accused informed in his presence that dead body was
lying buried in that place which could be taken out if the spot is dug.
Two Labourers were arranged and spot was dug and at a depth of
about 1-1/2 feet a human dead body was noticed and taken out. IT
was found covered by salt kind of gunny bag parts. The dead body
was found half naked on the upper portion and was of male. One
single shoe recovered in that process was also seized besides three
dandas.One brick bearing blood stains was also seized besides a
wooden kind of heavy instrument normally used in physical exercise
from the site. One shirt (Check) was also recovered and all were seized
vide memo Ex.PW6/A. He identified the pointing out memo Ex.PW1/B.
He has further deposed that all these proceedings were recorded in
videography also. He identified the case property. He identified the
photographs. Sh Dhingra is no more alive and he can identify his
handwriting and signatures being familiar with his writing. He identified
death report Ex,PW11/A on which signatures of Mr.Dhingra is available.
He identified the signatures of Mr. Dhingra on ex.PW6/A and Ex.PW1/B.
HE identified the CD Ex.PW11/B. HE has further deposed that all these
proceedings and facts which he deposed in this case were entirely

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 6 under the supervision of SDM Sh Dhingra. Dr.Sanjeev Lalwani, Astt
Professor, AIIMS Deptt of Forensic Medicine was also present besides
police officials and other witnesses when these proceedings of
exhumation of body were carried out. 18. PW12 Mohd. Anis has been given up by the prosecution. 19. PW13 HC Satya Narain has made entry no.3972 regarding
depositing of 10 sealed parcel in the Malkhana. He also made entry
no. 3976 in register no.19. He further deposed that on 30.5.07 the
exhibits were sent to CFSL through Ct. Satish and on 25.12.07 the
exhibits and result was received through HC Hari Singh. He proved the
copy of register no. 19 as Ex.PW13/A, copy of RC Ex.PW13/B and copy
of receiving of of CFSL Ex.PW13/C. 20. PW14 Insp. Z.H. Khan has received the investigation on
20.5.07 and he has stated that exhibits were sent to FSL and scaled site
plan was prepared through SI Mahesh. Charge sheet was prepared
and he got filed the same through SHO. He proved the report of CFSL
Ex.PW14/A. 21. PW15 ASI Mohd. Nisamuddin has deposed that on 13.4.07
complainant Hari Singh(should be Harish) @ Haresh came to PS and
got recorded DD no.4 Ex.PW15/A regarding missing of his brother. He
further stated that complainant again visited PS at about 8.30 p.m and
recorded his statement Ex.PW1/A on which he made endorsement
Ex.PW15/A and got the FIR registered. He tried to trace the missing
person as well as accused Raj Kumar but of no avail. 22. PW16 Dr. Sanjeev Lalwani, Astt. Professor has deposed that
on 14.4.07, as requisition, he alongwith two junior associates reached at
the site i.e. Harkesh Nagar. The SDM and some police officials were
present there. The site was dig out for exhumation of body . Digging

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 7 took place in his presence. There was lying a material like tyres, bricks
etc. He has further deposed that after digging a dead body was
exhumed and seizure memo of the dead body was prepared which is
Ex.PW1/B. 23. PW17 Raj Kumar has deposed that he was taken to a
house in Harkesh Nagar by the police where fawra and kassi were
given to him and one Prem Chand and after digging a dead body of
one young man was taken out which was covered with salt. One shoe
was in the foot of dead body.The dead body was highly decomposed
He identified the photographs of the dead body. He could not tell the
date and house number. 24. PW18 Ct. Ram Kishan has deposed that he recorded DD
no.4 regarding missing of Rajesh got recorded by Hari Singh. The copy
of DD is Ex.PW18/A. 25. PW19 Insp. Manoj Kumar Sharma is the First IO of this case
and he has deposed that on 14.04.07 on receipt of secret information
by Insp. Prakash Chand he alongwith Ct. Sudhir reached near Kalkaji
Temple and on the pointing out of secret informer accused Raj Kumar
was apprehended and arrested vide memo Ex.PW19/A and his
personal search was conducted vide memo Ex.PW19/B. He was
interrogated and his disclosure statement Ex.PW19/C was recorded.
Accused led the police to his house at E-86 Harkesh Nagar and on his
pointing out dead body was recovered. During this proceedings, SDM
Sh CM Dhingra, Executive Magistrate Sh Trilok Sharma and Dr. Sanjeev
Lalwani were present and photographs were taken and video cassette
was prepared. He further deposed that three danda, one mudgar and
two jute big bags/bori and salt was also found in the ditch. The
pointing out memo is Ex.PW1/B and articles were seized vide memo
Ex.PW6/A. The brick was also taken into possession and dead body was
sent to mortuary. He arrested other two accused Sanjay Pratap and

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 8 Adesh vide memo Ex.PW19/D and F and recorded their disclosure
statements Ex.PW19/H and J. Both these accused are facing trial
before Juvenile Court. Video cassette was handed over to Insp.
Prakash Chand vide memo Ex.PW19/K. Post mortem was got
conducted and after post mortem one viol, one pullanda of clothes of
deceased and sample seals were handed over to IO vide memo
Ex.PW19/L. The viscera of deceased was seized vide memo Ex.PW19/M.
He further deposed that accused Sanjay Pratap pointed out the place
of incident vide memo Ex.PW19/N and accused Adesh pointed out
vide memo Ex.PW19/P. He got prepared the scaled site plan and
stated that videography and photography of the place of recovery of
dead body was conducted. the video cassette is Ex.PW19/P and later
on it was converted to CD which is Ex.PW19/P1. 26. PW20 Insp. Prakash Chand is the second IO and he has
deposed that complainant Harish made a complaint in the PS
regarding missing of his brother Rajesh from 8.4.07 and he casted
doubt on one Raju. HE further deposed that on 14.4.07 he received
secret information and they went to Kalkaji temple where secret
informer pointed out towards one Raj Kumar who was apprehended
and arrested and his personal search was conducted. He gave
disclosure statement Ex.PW19/C and in the disclosure statement
disclosed about exhumation of dead body in his house. He called SDM,
Executive Magistrate Trilok Sharma and Dr. lalwani, photographer and
videographer. Accused pointed out his store room where labourer
started digging and after digging one dead body was taken out. He
seized the articles lying in the pit vide memo Ex.PW6/A. He filled form
no. 25.35 Ex.PW11/A and dead body was sent to mortuary of AIIMS
through Ct.Ashok with application Ex.PW20/A to preserve the same. He
prepare the site plan Ex.PW20/B. HE seized the video cassette vide
memo Ex.PW19/K. He deposited the case property in the malkhana He
arrested accused Sanjay Partap (facing trial before juveniel court)
vide memo Ex.PW19/D and his personal search was conducted vide

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 9 memo Ex.PW19/F. He made disclosure statement Ex.PW19/H and he
also pointed the place of incident vide memo Ex.PW19/N. He
prepared the brief facts Ex.PW20/C. After post mortem the dead body
was handed over to the brother of deceased. The exhibits were taken
into possession vide memo ex.PW19/L and viscera was seized vide
memo Ex.PW19/M. He further deposed about arrest, personal search
and recording of disclosure statement of accused Adesh (juvenile). He
identified the photographs as well as video cassette and CD. He
identified other case property. 27. In the overall analysis of the testimonies of all the witnesses
it is revealed that in this case no one has seen the accused committing
the crime. There is no direct evidence in this case. So, this case
depends on circumstantial evidence. It is well settled law that
observed by the Apex court in Tanviben Pankaj Kumar Devtia Vs. State
of Gujarat, 1997(2) CC cases SC 98 that court has to be watchful and
avoid the danger of allowing the suspicion to make the place of legal
proof for some time unconsciously it may happen to be a short step
between moral certainty and legal proof -it has been indicated by this
court that there is a long mental distance between may be true and
must be true and the same divides conjectures from sure conclusions. Our Hon'ble High court of Delhi in Raj Mani Vs. State has held that
where the evidence of last seen together specially considering the
evidence of the PWS cannot be said to prove with reasonable
certainty that the circumstances of last seen together has been
established beyond a shadow of doubt by the prosecution, the state
of circumstances of last seen together being not free from suspicion.
No finding with regard to the proof of circumstances of last seen
together can be recorded. It is stated in Padala Veera Reddy Vs. State
of A.P. (SCC pp.710-11, Para 10) and in other catena of Judgments
that when a case rests upon circumstantial evidence, such evidence
must satisfy the following tests:- 28. In this case initially DD no.4 was recorded by complainant
Harish @ Haresh on 13.4.07 regarding missing of his brother Rajesh.
Thereafter again he went to PS and got recorded his statement
Ex.PW1/A. In the said statement Ex.PW1/A the complainant has casted
doubt on present accused Raju. In his statement Ex.PW1/A he has
stated that he left Rajesh at the room of Raju and went for his duty and
thereafter his brother did not turn up. On enquiry from Raj Kumar @
Raju he did not give any satisfactory reply and he suspects that Raju
has hidden his brother at some unknown place. Now coming to the
deposition made before the court by PW1 Harish Singh @ Haresh who
is complainant in this case he has stated that he was residing at E-87
Harkesh Nagar, New Delhi and Rajesh was his real brother. He was
working in Ahuja Radio and on 8.4.07 it was Sunday and his brother was
at home and he himself went for duty. In the evening when he
returned back he did not find his brother and he found that there was
complete silence in the gallary. On perusal of his cross examination it is
revealed that he has made improvements in his further deposition
made in the court. It has come in his statement though it has come
under improvement, that after 3-4 days PW1 was passing though the
gallary and one Panditji told him that nobody would tell him but he is
telling that Raju had killed his brother and buried the dead body and
Dr. Divesh told him that Raju bounced upon Dr. Divesh on which his
brother Rajesh asked Raju as to why he is giving beating to Divesh on
which Raju forcibly took away Rajesh. The land lady told him that she

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 11 had seen his brother upto 10 or 11 a.m. He has further stated that he
and police again went to the room of Raju and in his presence and in
the presence of Police accused Raju told them "tera bhai ab iss duniya
mei nahi hai". On perusal of the statement of PW1 It seems that he has
not stated all the above mentioned version in his statement Ex.PW1/A
and even on perusal of the statement Ex.PW1/A it is revealed that he
has not stated that version before the court that he left his brother
Rajesh at the room of Raj Kumar @ Raju. It seems that he could not
narrate the entire incident in his statement PW1/A at the time of its
recording because he has studied only upto 4/5th class and he has
stated that police recorded his statement on their own. IT seems that
police has not recorded his entire statement. However, it has been
specifically stated by him that his brother Rajesh had gone missing
w.e.f 8.4.07 and thereafter his dead body was got recovered from the
house of accused Raj Kumar @ Raju. He has further stated in cross
examination that he identified the dead body of his brother on the
basis of clothes found on the dead body and it is of his brother. Pant
and Shirt and shoes were found on the dead body. About 100 people
gathered at the spot when the dead body was taken out. He had no
quarrel with the accused before the incident on the issue of cleaning
of drain. In view of the close relationship and affection any person in
the position of the witness would naturally have a tendency to
exaggerate or add facts which may not have been stated at all. Not
that this is done consciously but even unconsciously the love and
affection for the deceased would create a psychological hatred
against the supposed murdered and, therefore, the court has to
examine such evidence with very great care and caution. Even if the
witnesses were speaking a part of the truth or perhaps the whole of it,
they would be guided by a spirit of revenge or nemesis against the
accused person and int his process certain facts which may not or
could not have been stated may be imagined to have been stated
unconsciously by the witness in order to see that the offender is
punished. This is human psychology and no one can help it. PW2

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 12 Ramesh Singh is also the brother of deceased Rajesh as well as PW1
and he came to Delhi when he received the information regarding
murder of his brother. He has clearly stated in his statement that
accused Raju was interrogated and he made confession in their
presence that he has committed the murder of Rajesh. Both the
PW1&2 have corroborated the version of each other that on 14.4.07
accused took police party to his house at E-86 Harkesh Nagar and on
the pointing out of Raju, from a spot near the staircase, dead body
was found buried and he identified the dead body of his brother. PW1
Harish (complainant), PW2 Ramesh, PW6 Sultan Ahmad, PW7 Ved
Prakash all have stated that dead body was dug out from the house
of accused Raj Kumar in their presence at the pointing out of accused.
So, all the Pws i.e. PW1,2,6,7 have corroborated the version of each
other in respect of exhumation of the dead body from inside the house
of accused Raj Kumar. Their testimonies in this respect has further been
strengthened by the testimony of PW11 Sh Trilok Sharma, the then
Executive Magistrate Kalkaji who reached at the house of accused
alongwith SDM Mr. Dhingra. Mr. Dhingra SDM could not be examined in
this case since expired. PW16 Dr. Sanjeev Lalwani, Astt. Professor
Forensic Medicine has also reached at the spot because team of
doctor was also requisitioned on that day and he also deposed about
exhumation of dead body. There is no reason to disbelieve the
testimony of PW11 Sh Trilok Sharma, being Executive Magistrate in this
respect. PW6 Sultan Ahmed who is an independent witness has stated
that E-86 Harkesh Nagar is the house of accused Raj Kumar and at the
pointing of accused one dead body was dug out. In cross
examination he has stated that the house of the accused was
100/150 sq yards. The deadbody was dug from the gallary and length
and breadth of gallary was 3x5 feet. PW7 Ved Prakash in cross
examination has stated that he know accused Raj Kumar since his
childhood. They have studied together. He has also stated that police
called neighbourer when accused was arrested and articles were
seized in his presence at the spot. Ld. defence counsel has not put any

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 13 single question to any of these witnesses in cross examination that
accused is not the owner of house no. E-86, Harkesh Nagar, Delhi. As
per video cassette Ex.PW19/P and CD Ex.PW19/P1 (video cassette
converted to CD) the dead body was exhumed from the house no. E-
86 of accused Raj Kumar after digging the place pointed out by
accused. Deceased was residing at House no. E-87 with his brother
PW1 Harish. The place of recovery of dead body was not in the
knowledge of police and it has been pointed out by accused himself
on the basis of his disclosure statement Ex.PW19/C and thereafter
police came to know about the exhumation of dead body. The dead
body was recovered from the house of accused and his disclosure
statement is to be taken into consideration being admissible in
evidence. Only after disclosure made by the accused, police came to
know about burring of dead body by the accused. It is not possible
that dead body had been buried by someone else in the house of
accused. No explanation has been given by the accused in his
statement recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC as to how the dead body has been
buried in his house. It is also not a easy job for anyone or the police to
bring a dead body and bury the same in the house of accused. So, the
plea of accused that he does not know the deceased is not tenable in
the eyes of law. Since the place from where the dead body was
recovered is belonging to accused, the prosecution has successfully
established the presence of accused at the spot and that he is the
owner of H.No. E-86, Harkesh Nagar, Delhi. 29. PW1 in his statement Ex.PW1/A has stated that he left his
brother at the house of accused Raj Kumar on 8.4.07 and then went for
his duty. In his deposition before the court he could not state so.
However, taking into consideration his statement Ex.PW1/A and taking
it as second set of evidence, he has stated that he left his brother at
the house of accused. So, lastly he left his brother at the house of
accused and in view of this it has been established by the prosecution
that deceased Rajesh was lastly left at the house of accused Raj

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 14 Kumar on 8.4.07 by his brother PW1. Thereafter deceased has not
returned back. PW1 has also proved one complaint Ex.PW1/F filed
before the Commissioner of Police on 15.04.07 by the residents of
Harkesh Nagar against accused Rajkumar @ Raju. This complaint has
been signed by 17 residents of Harkesh Nagar. It was received by the
office of Police Commissioner on 5.6.07. In the said complaint it has
been mentioned that on 8.4.07 Rajkumar had taken away Rajesh
while giving beatings. Since this complaint has been filed by 17
residents of Harkesh Nagar, it seems that present accused Raj Kumar is
a gunda element of the area. 30. The proceedings conducted at H.No. E-86 Harkesh Nagar,
Delhi at the time of exhumation of dead body has also been
photographed and videographed. The prosecution has examined PW4
HC Rampal who proved the photographs Ex.PW4/A1 to A15 and video
cassette Ex.PW4/C and CD Ex.PW11/B. I have also watched the said
CD on computer and it is revealed that entire proceedings has been
videographed and accused alongwith other police officials and public
persons are present in the CD. The Prosecution has examined PW17 Raj
Kumar Labourer who did the digging work and took out the dead
body and in cross examination he has stated that entire body was
under the soil/malwa. He denied the suggestion put to him that leg of
dead body was visible. By putting this suggestion admission has come
on record that dead body was dug out from the house of accused Raj
Kumar i.e. H.NO. E-86 Harkesh Nagar, Delhi. No suggestion has been
put to PW17 that he did not perform the digging work at the house of
accused and took out a dead body. I have also perused the cross
examination of each witness PW1,2,4,6,7,11,16 & 17 but their
testimonies could not be shattered by the Ld. defence counsel in cross
examination. So, prosecution has proved that digging work was done
by PW17 at the house of accused Raj Kumar and entire proceedings
were photographed and videographed. The prosecution has further
proved that the dead body was exhumed from the house of accused

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 15 Raj Kumar. Accused has not taken any step to lead defence evidence
that dead body was not recovered from his house. So, the prosecution
has also successfully established that dead body of Rajesh was
recovered after digging up a corpse from a grave in the house of
accused Raj Kumar@ Raju. 31. PW3 HC Ram Chand is the FIR recorder and he has stated
that he recorded the FIR Ex.PW3/A on the basis of rukka brought by Ct.
Ram Kishan and sent by ASI Nizamuddin. PW15 ASI Nizamuddin has
stated that he got recorded the FIR. So, copy of FIR Ex.PW3/A has
successfully been proved by the prosecution. PW15 ASI Nizamuddin
and PW18 Ct. Sanjeev both have corroborated regarding recording of
DD no.4 Ex.PW18/A by complainant . So, DD no.4 has been proved by
the prosecution. PW5 SI Mahesh is the formal witness who prepared the
scaled site plan Ex.PW5/A. PW19 IO Insp Manoj has stated that he got
the scaled site plan prepared. So, scaled site plan has been proved in
this case. PW13 HC Surya Narain is the MHCM who made entries
regarding depositing of case property in the malkana and proved the
entries Ex.PW13/A. He has also stated that case property was sent to
CFSL through Ct. Satish and PW9 Ct. Satish Kumar has corroborated his
version in this respect. PW14 Insp.ZH Khan has also deposed in this
respect. So, it has been proved on record that case property was
deposited in the malkhana and thereafter sent to CFSL for analysis.
PW14 has also proved the CFSL result Ex.PW14/A. I have also perused
the said result. As per the result of CFSL blood was detected on Ex.1 i.e.
brick, 2 i.e. dumble, 4 i.e.shoes, 5 i.e.Shirt, 6(a) i.e jute bag, 12(a) i.e.
trouser, 12(b) i.e. underwear & 12(c) i.e. socks. and blood could not be
detected on Ex.3(a) (b) and (c) i.e. one wooden stick each. It further
states that human blood was detected on Ex.1 bricks, Ex.2 dumble, Ex.4
shoes, Ex.5 shirt, Ex.6(a) jute bag, Ex.6(b) jute bag. However, human
blood could not be detected on Ex.12(a) (b) and © i.e. one trouser,
underwear and socks. Blood group of AB was detected on Ex.5 i.e. shirt
but blood group on other articles could not be established. In this case

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 16 the dead body was exhumed after six days of murder. So, it seems that
blood could not be found on some of the exhibits. It is stated in case
Law Motiram Gaman Pawar Vs. State of Maharashtra, JT 2002 (2) SC
637 that : Head showed extra vassion of blood under scalp area over left
fronto pareito temporal and right front of parietal region. Skull showed
depressed communutted fracture of left fronto parieto temporal bones
and communutted fracture of right fronto parieto temporal bones.
Meninges were torned underline communuted fracture on left fronto
parieto temporal region. Base of skull shows multiple fracture of anterior
and middle cranial fossa. Brain was liquifide. There was fracture of 3 to
10 ribs present on the lateral aspect on left side and extra vassion was
present around the fracture. He has opined that the cause of death in
this case was cranio cerebral injury caused by blunt force which is
sufficient to cause death in ordinary course of nature. All injuries are
ante-mortem in nature. As per the post mortem report there were

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 20 injuries on the scapular region and right chest and multiple fracture
has been found on bas and skull. From the spot Mudgar Ex.PW20/A4
and three wooden sticks were recovered. Mudgar is generally used to
do exercise or to separate the grains from hay. It seems that mudgar as
well as sticks blow were given on the head of deceased Rajesh due to
which he sustained fracture in his skull and thereafter he expired. So,
weapon of offence i.e. mudgar and sticks have been recovered and
proved by the prosecution. 35. The most important aspect of the present case or for that
matter of any criminal case is a motive. Undoubtedly, motive is an
important aspect of every criminal trial. Sometimes motive plays an
important role and becomes a compelling force to commit a crime
and, therefore, motive behind the crime is a relevant factor for which
evidence must be adduced. A motive is something which prompts a
person to form an opinion or intention to do certain illegal act or even
a legal act but with illegal means with a view of achieve that intention.
In a case where there is clear proof of motive for the commission of the
crime, it affords added support to the finding of the court that the
accused was guilty of the offence charged with, though at the same
time the absence of proof of motive does not render the evidence
bearing on the guilt of the accused nonetheless untrustworthy or
unreliable. In this case as per disclosure statement Ex.PW19/C of
accused Raj Kumar he has stated that deceased used to tease his
bhabi(sister in law) and use unparliamentary language against her. He
tried to make him understand but deceased showed no improvement
due to which he planned to murder him. The said statement made by
the accused is admissible in evidence since recovery of dead body as
well as other articles i.e.mudgar, three sticks etc were effected from
the house of accused Raj Kumar. Further PW7 Ved Prakash who know
accused since childhood and being neighbourer of accused in cross
examination has stated that on the document which he signed it was
mentioned that deceased was having some relations with the bhabi

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 21 (Urmila who was widow) of the accused and that is why deceased
was killed. So, by putting this question by the Ld. defence counsel,
motive to kill deceased has been brought on record by the defence
itself. In view of the evidence available on file, the prosecution has
successfully proved the motive to commit the murder of deceased
Rajesh. 36. In nutshell, considering the second set of evidence i.e.
statement of PW1 Ex.PW1/A, Harish brother of deceased has left his
brother Rajesh at the house of Raj Kumar @ Raju on 08.04.07 and
thereafter he went to his duty. Rajesh(Deceased) did not return back
thereafter. So, Last seen is present in this case. PW1 casted doubt on
accused Raj Kumar @ Raju and he was apprehended and as per his
disclosure statement Ex.PW19/C he pointed out his house no.E-86
Harkesh Nagar where he exhumed the dead body of Rajesh. All the
witnesses PW1,2,6 &7 have corroborated in this respect. Even their
testimonies has also been supported by PW11 Trilok Sharma (Executive
Magistrate) and PW17 Dr. Sanjeev Lalwani. Accused used to live at E-
86 while deceased used to live in H.NO. E-87 which are adjacent to
each other. PW1,2,6,7 & 11 have also corroborated about presence of
accused at the place of recovery of dead body. So, presence of
accused at the spot has been established by the prosecution. The
proceedings for exhumation of dead body has been covered through
videography. The accused is present in the videography. Accused has
not taken the defence that the place form where the dead body was
recovered was not under his ownership. So, the ownership of H.No.E-86
has been proved to be that of accused Raj Kumar by the prosecution.
The dead body was exhumed from this house. So, this is one of the
strongest circumstance to connect the accused with the present case
crime. By the testimony of PW7 as well as disclosure statement of
accused, the motive to commit murder has been established by the
prosecution that deceased had some relation with the bhahi of
accused. The weapon of offence has also been recovered from the

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 22 place from where the dead dead body was exhumed. Post mortem
report revealed that deceased had been beaten and he had given
blow on his head and ribs and he sustained fracture on head and ribs.
So, it seems that he was given blow with the recovered mudgar
(dumble) as well as sticks and weapon of offence has been proved by
the prosecution. As per CFSL result human blood was detected on
Ex.P2 Mudgar(dumble) but blood group could not be detected on
any article except on Ex.5 i.e. Shirt. In this case the murder was
committed on 08.04.07 and thereafter the body was buried. It was
exhumed on 14.04.07. It is crystal clear that the dead body was taken
out after about six days and it is clear from the evidence of PW8 Dr. BL
Chaudhary that skin was peeling at places and degloving of the skin
at both the hand and feet. So it seems that blood got putrified and
hence blood group could not be detected because as per seizure
memo Ex.PW6/A these articles were recovered during
excavation/digging. The alleged place where the dead body was
buried was not in the knowledge of the police and it came to the
knowledge of the police only after accused had made disclosure
statement. So, the prosecution has proved each and every chain of
circumstance in this case without any reasonable doubt. 37. Before a accused can be convicted, the fact of death
should be proved by such circumstance as render the commission of
the crime morally certain and leave no ground for reasonable doubt,
the circumstantial evidence should be so cogent and compelling as to
convince the court that upon no rational hypothesis other than murder
can the facts be accounted for. The murder in the present case is cruel
and revolting and had been perpetrated in a very shocking manner
because the deceased was given beating with mudgar (dumble) and
thereafter his body was exhumed. I find certain and explicit evidence
in this case. The strongest circumstance to connect the accused with
the murder of present case is that the dead body was recovered on his
pointing out from his house. Other Circumstances have also been

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 23 established by the prosecution successfully. 38. In view of my above discussions, I am of the view that the
prosecution has been able to complete the chain of circumstances in
this case by leading cogent and reliable evidence and prosecution
has left no stone unturned to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt
against accused Raj Kumar @ Raju. The prosecution has been able to
prove the charge u/s 302 / 201 IPC against the accused. I therefore,
hold accused Raj Kumar @ Raju guilty for the commission of offence
punishable u/s 302 / 201 IPC and convict him thereunder.
ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT
ON 20.04.2010. (SURESH CHAND RAJAN)
 ADDL.SESSIONS JUDGE
 Fast Track Court
 New Delhi and South East District
 NEW DELHI

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 24 IN THE COURT OF SH.SURESH CHAND RAJAN
 ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FAST TRACK COURT,
 (New Delhi & South East District)
 PATIALA HOUSE COURTS, NEW DELHI S.C.NO.95/09 FIR No.303/2007 PS-O.I.A
U/s 302/201/34 IPC State Vs. Raj Kumar @ Raju s/o Sh.Nand Kishore
 R/o H.No. E-86 Harkesh Nagar
 New Delhi

ORDER ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE

 Accused Raj Kumar has been held guilty for the commission of

offence punishable u/s 302 / 201 IPC and convicted thereunder vide

Judgment dated 20.04.2010. 2. I have heard the Ld. counsel Sh SK Saxena Adv. for the

convict/accused as well as accused/convict himself on the point of

sentence. During the course of arguments it has been submitted on

behalf of the convict that he is aged about 46 years. He has three

sons and one daughter. His daughter is of marriageable age and sons

are aged about 17years, 12 years and 8 years. His wife is doing labour

job. It has been submitted that the accused is suffering from diabetes

and other allied diseases. He belong to a neutral family. It has further

been submitted that this case does not fall in the category of rarest of

the rare cases. So, lenient view may be taken against the

accused/convict. State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 25 3. Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case

and the act done by the convict, I am of the view that he is not

entitled to any leniency. Undoubtedly brutality is involved in every

incidence of murder but that brutality by itself will not bring it within the

ambit of the rarest of the rare cases for the purpose of death penalty. Reference can be made to Subhash Ramkumar Bina @ Vakil Vs. State

of Maharashtra , AIR 2003 SC 269. In Bachan Singh Vs. State of Punjab ,

AIR 1980 SC 898 their Lordship of Supreme Court observed that the

death sentence should be awarded only in the 'rarest of rare' cases

where the alternative option is unquestionably forclosed. It was

observed that statutory mandate of sec.354 Cr.P.C enjoins a duty on

the court to give 'special reasons' as justification for award of capital

sentence. 4. In Machchi Singh Vs. State of Punjab, AIR 1983 SC 957 their

Lordship held that humanistic edifice is constructed on the foundation

of 'reverence for life' but deviation from the principal and 'killing the

killer' is justified only when self-preservation of society is in peril. 5. Taking into consideration the facts of the present case, I am of

the opinion that this case does not fall under the category of rarest of

the rare cases. So, convict Raj Kumar @ Raju is ordered to undergo

Imprisonment for Life and to pay fine of Rs.5000/- u/s 302 IPC and in

default of payment of fine to further undergo SI for two months. State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 26 6. Convict Raj Kumar @ Raju is further ordered to undergo RI for

three years and to pay fine of Rs.2000/- u/s 201 IPC and in default of

payment of fine to further undergo SI for one month. 7. The benefit of sec.428 Cr.P.C be given to the convict. Copy of

this order on the point of sentence and copy of Judgment be given to

the convict free of cost. It is ordered accordingly. File be consigned to

record room. Announced in the open Court
on 22.04.2010. (SURESH CHAND RAJAN)
 ADDL.SESSIONS JUDGE
 (Fast Track Court-New Delhi and South East District)
 NEW DELHI

State Vs.Rajkumar @ Raju FIR No.303/07 Page No. 27