Bail petitioner Ram Singh, who is behind bars since 5.9.2021,

 . has approached this Court in the instant proceedings filed under Section

 439 of Cr.PC, for grant of regular bail in connection with FIR No. 112 of

 2021 dated 5.9.2021, under Sections 376, 452 and 502 of IPC, registered at

 PS Karsog, District Mandi, H.P. 2. Pursuant to order dated 10.1.202, respondent state has filed

 the status report.Careful perusal of status report reveals that on 31.8.2021

 victim-prosecutrix (name withheld) lodged a complaint at Police Station

 Karsog, alleging herein that she had met the bail petitioner for the first time

 in Churag, who came to her and took her daughter in his lap. She alleged

 that the bail petitioner had asked for her telephone number, but when she

 refused, he extended threats that he will take her daughter away. She

 alleged that after some time, bail petitioner made video call to her and took

 screen shot and started blackmailing her. She alleged that bail petitioner

 started blackmailing her by saying that in case she does not make physical

 relations with him, he will upload her photographs on facebook. Victim- prosecutrix alleged that thereafter, bail petitioner sexually assaulted her

 against her wishes on 2-3 occasions. In the aforesaid background, FIR as

 detailed herein above came to be lodged against the bail petitioner on

 31.8.2021 and since 5.9.2021, he is behind the bars. 3. Since Challan stands filed in the competent court of law and

 . nothing remains to be recovered from him, petitioner has approached this

 Court in the instant proceedings for grant of bail. 4. Mr. Gaurav Sharma, learned Deputy Advocate General while

 fairly admitting the factum with regard to filing of the Challan in the

 competent court of law contends that though nothing remains to be

 recovered from the bail petitioner, but keeping in view the gravity of offence

 alleged to have been committed, he does not deserve any leniency and as

 such, prayer made on his behalf for grant of bail deserves to be rejected

 outrightly. 5. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and perused

 material available on this record, this Court finds that victim-prosecutrix

 had prior acquaintance with the bail petitioner and they had been talking

 and meeting each other frequently. Even if allegation of victim-prosecutrix

 made at the first instance is perused/examined, it nowhere suggests that

 on the first date of meeting, victim-prosecutrix was sexually assaulted

 against her wishes by the bail petitioner, rather bail petitioner after having

 obtained her mobile number made a video call and allegedly took some

 screen shot. Though victim-prosecutrix has nowhere stated that during

 video call, bail petitioner took her objectionable photographs, but even ::: Downloaded on - 31/01/2022 23:35:48 :::CIS 4 otherwise no objectionable photographs could be taken by the petitioner

 . during video call without the consent of the victim-prosecutrix . Allegedly,

 victim-prosecutrix was sexually assaulted against her wishes by the bail

 petitioner on the pretext that he would upload her obscene photos on the

 internet somewhere in July, 2021, but FIR came to be lodged on 31.8.2021. There is no explanation qua the delay in lodging the FIR. Leaving everything

 aside, this Court finds that nothing objectionable has been found in the

 mobile phone of the bail petitioner by the FSL. Similarly, report of medical

 officer, who had an occasion to examine the victim-prosecutrix at the first

 instance nowhere supports the case of the prosecution. This Court having

 carefully perused the material available on record finds it difficult to

 conclude that bail petitioner taking undue advantage of innocence of the

 victim-prosecutrix sexually assaulted her against her wishes, rather

 material available on record reveals that she was in constant touch of the

 bail petitioner and they both had been meeting each other frequently. Though case at hand is to be decided by the court below in the totality of

 evidence collected on record by the investigating agency, but having taken

 note of the aforesaid aspects of the matter, there appears to be no reason

 for this court to let the bail petitioner incarcerate in jail for an

 indefinite period, during trial, especially when he has already suffered for ::: Downloaded on - 31/01/2022 23:35:48 :::CIS 5 almost five months and nothing remains to be recovered from him. Hon'ble

 . Apex Court as well as this Court in catena of cases have repeatedly held

 that one is deemed to be innocent till the time guilt, if any, of his/her is not

 proved in accordance with law. In the case at hand also, guilt, if any, of the

 accused is yet to be proved in accordance with law, by leading cogent and

 convincing material on record. Apprehension expressed by the learned

 Additional Advocate General that in the event of petitioner's being enlarged

 on bail, he may flee from justice, can be best met by putting the bail

 petitioner to stringent conditions as has been fairly stated by the learned

 counsel for the petitioner. 6. Needless to say, object of the bail is to secure the attendance of

 the accused in the trial and the proper test to be applied in the solution of

 the question whether bail should be granted or refused is whether it is

 probable that the party will appear to take his trial. Otherwise, bail is not

 to be withheld as a punishment. Otherwise also, normal rule is of bail and

 not jail. Court has to keep in mind nature of accusations, nature of

 evidence in support thereof, severity of the punishment which conviction

 will entail, character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to

 the accused involved in that crime. 7. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Sanjay Chandra versus Central . Bureau of Investigation (2012)1 Supreme Court Cases 49; held as under:- 8. In Manoranjana Sinh Alias Gupta versus CBI 2017 (5) SCC

 218, The Hon'ble Apex Court has held as under:- 9. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis

 Chatterjee and Another (2010) 14 SCC 496, has laid down the following

 principles to be kept in mind, while deciding petition for bail: 10. Reliance is placed on judgment passed by the Hon'ble Apex

 Court in case titled Umarmia Alias Mamumia v. State of Gujarat ,

 (2017) 2 SCC 731, relevant para whereof has been reproduced herein

 below:- "11. This Court has consistently recognised the right of the accused
 for a speedy trial. Delay in criminal trial has been held to be in
 violation of the right guaranteed to an accused under Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India. (See: Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee v.
 Union of India , (1994) 6 SCC 731; Shaheen Welfare Assn. v. Union of
 India , (1996) 2 SCC 616) Accused, even in cases under TADA, have
 been released on bail on the ground that they have been in jail for a ::: Downloaded on - 31/01/2022 23:35:48 :::CIS 8 long period of time and there was no likelihood of the completion of the

 . trial at the earliest. (See: Paramjit Singh v. State (NCT of Delhi ), (1999)

 9 SCC 252 and Babba v. State of Maharashtra, (2005) 11 SCC 569). 11. Hon'ble Apex Court in Criminal Appeal No. 227/2018, Dataram Singh vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. , decided on 6.2.2018,

 has categorically held that a fundamental postulate of criminal

 jurisprudence is the presumption of innocence, meaning thereby that a

 person is believed to be innocent until found guilty. Hon'ble Apex Court

 further held that while considering prayer for grant of bail, it is important

 to ascertain whether the accused was participating in the investigations to

 the satisfaction of the investigating officer and was not absconding or not

 appearing when required by the investigating officer. Hon'ble Apex Court

 further held that if an accused is not hiding from the investigating officer or

 is hiding due to some genuine and expressed fear of being victimized, it

 would be a factor that a judge would need to consider in an appropriate

 case. The relevant paras of the aforesaid judgment are reproduced as

 under: 12. In view of the aforesaid discussion as well as law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court, petitioner has carved out a case for grant of bail,

 accordingly, the petition is allowed and the petitioner is ordered to be ::: Downloaded on - 31/01/2022 23:35:48 :::CIS 10 enlarged on bail in aforesaid FIR, subject to his furnishing personal bond in

 . the sum of Rs. 1,00,000/- with two local sureties in the like amount to the

 satisfaction of concerned Chief Judicial Magistrate/trial Court, with

 following conditions: 13. It is clarified that if the petitioner misuses the liberty or violates

 any of the conditions imposed upon him, the investigating agency shall be

 free to move this Court for cancellation of the bail. 14. Any observations made hereinabove shall not be construed to

 be a reflection on the merits of the case and shall remain confined to the

 disposal of this application alone. The petition stands accordingly disposed

 of. Copy dasti.