It is submitted on behalf of the petitioner that he is in custody for

 about four months. It is further submitted petitioner had no role to

 play in the alleged blackmail or abetment to suicide. He had been

 contacted by a family friend viz. Dipak Agarwal and informed that a

 sum of `2,00,000/- would be credited in his account for business

 purposes. Subsequently the amount was withdrawn. Accordingly, he

 prays for bail. 2. Learned Public Prosecutor opposes the prayer for bail and submits

 petitioner is a conspirator in a cyber blackmail racket. The victim

Signed By : ARUP
KUMAR DAS
High Court of
Calcutta
23 rd of April 2024
03:04:57 PM 2 who was in his early sixties was blackmailed through a morphed

 video. He received phone call purportedly in the name of one Arun

 Saxena claiming to be an IPS officer threatening that he would be

 implicated in a cyber crime case if he did not pay. Under compulsion

 victim paid on repeated occasions. A portion of the money has been

 recovered from the account of the petitioner. Unable to bear the

 pressure, victim committed suicide. Trial has commenced. 3. Learned Advocate for the de-facto complainant submits investigation

 was conducted pursuant to the direction given by a learned single

 Judge of this court in WPA 19551 of 2023. Investigation reveals a

 deep rooted conspiracy to blackmail the victim. As a result, he

 committed suicide. There are ample materials implicating the

 petitioner in the crime. 4. In rebuttal, learned Advocate for the petitioner contends

 investigation has revealed money being transferred to the accounts

 of a number of persons but they were not arrayed as accused. 5. We have considered the materials on record. Profile of the case

 discloses cyber blackmail. Victim had received a phone call from

 one Arun Saxena claiming to be an IPS officer. He showed a

 morphed video of the victim and threatened that he would be

 implicated in a cyber crime case if he did not pay. As a result of

 extortion victim transferred money to an account which does not

 belong to the petitioner. Investigation does not show that the mobile

 phone of the petitioner or the SIM cards standing in his name were

 utilised to make the extortion call. The material implicating the

 petitioner in the crime is to the effect that some portion of the money

 i.e. `2,00,000/- was siphoned through his account. Similar accounts

 had been utilised but the account holders had not been made

Signed By : ARUP
KUMAR DAS
High Court of
Calcutta
23 rd of April 2024
03:04:57 PM 3 accused. Other co-accused who were used to purchase the SIM

 cards to commit the crime are on bail. 6. Under such circumstances and in view of the extent of complicity of

 the petitioner in the crime, we are of the opinion further detention of

 the accused/petitioner is not necessary and he may be enlarged on

 bail however, subject to strict conditions. 7. Therefore, the accused/petitioner, namely Sumit Divakar, be

 released on bail upon furnishing a bond of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten

 thousand only), with two sureties of like amount each, one of whom

 must be local, to the satisfaction of the learned Additional Chief

 Judicial Magistrate, Chinsurah, Hooghly subject to condition that the

 said petitioner shall appear before the trial court on every date of

 hearing until further orders and shall not intimidate witnesses or

 tamper with evidence in any manner whatsoever and on further

 condition that the petitioner, while on bail, shall remain within the

 district of Hooghly and shall provide the address where he shall

 presently reside as well as his mobile number to the Investigating

 Agency as well as the court below and shall report to the Officer-in-

 charge, Chinsurah Police Station once in a week until further orders. 8. In the event he fails to appear before the trial court without justifiable

 cause, the trial court shall be at liberty to cancel his bail

 automatically without reference to this court. 9. The application for bail, thus, stands allowed.

 (Gaurang Kanth, J.) (Joymalya Bagchi, J.)

Signed By : ARUP
KUMAR DAS
High Court of
Calcutta
23 rd of April 2024
03:04:57 PM 4 Signed By : ARUP
KUMAR DAS
High Court of
Calcutta
23 rd of April 2024
03:04:57 PM