1. The instant petition has been filed under Section 483 of

Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNSS') for grant

of regular bail to the petitioner in case arising out of FIR mentioned

below :- 2. Brief facts relevant for the purpose of disposal of the

present petition are that the aforementioned FIR was registered on the

basis of a complaint submitted by the complainant-Gurujot Singh

alleging that on 25.07.2024, he received a call on his mobile phone and

the caller while disclosing that he was a representative of Fedex Courier

Company, disclosed to him that he had sent a parcel containing some

articles from Mumbai to Russia which had been caught by the Customs

 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 02-12-2025 04:20:08 ::: CRM-M-57125-2025 -2- Department and that contraband had been recovered from the same. The

complainant responded by telling him that no such parcel had been sent

by him. The caller by saying that it could be a case of leak of his Aadhar

Card details, told him that he was transferring his call to the Mumbai

Crime Branch. Then he was made to talk to some other person who

introduced himself as SI Ajay Bansal from Mumbai Crime Branch. The

said person took him to his video call, digitally arrested him and by

blackmailing him, got transferred an amount of Rs.8,48,925/- from the

bank account of the complainant to a particular bank account. Later on,

the complainant realized that a fraud had been committed with him and

he was duped of the aforementioned amount of money. 3. After registration of FIR, investigation proceedings were initiated

which revealed that the aforementioned amount from the bank account

of the complainant No.50100439243801 of HDFC Bank into account

No.20512935706 of State Bank of India branch by way of two

transactions and from the same, an amount of Rs.3,95,000/- was

transferred in the bank account operating in the name of the present

petitioner and it was withdrawn by way of a self-cheque as on

25.07.2024. The petitioner was accordingly nominated as an accused. It

was revealed that the petitioner was having friendly relations with co-

accused-Aamin Ali, Kishore and Vishal Dhaka and in connivance with

each other and with an intent to usurp money from the public persons by

way of cyber crime, a bank account was got opened by them in the name

of the co-accused-Aamin Ali which was used for transfer of an amount

of Rs.3,95,000/- from the bank account of the complainant by putting

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 02-12-2025 04:20:08 ::: CRM-M-57125-2025 -3- him under fear of implication in criminal proceedings. The petitioner

was arrested on 17.06.2025. Investigation now stands concluded. 4. It is argued by learned counsel for the petitioner that he has

been falsely implicated in this case. He was not named in the FIR. The

only allegation against him is that he had introduced the accused-

Kishore and Vishal with accused-Aamin Ali whose bank account was

used by accused-Kishore and Vishal to transfer some money received by

way of committing cyber fraud upon the complainant. He is not

beneficiary of the transaction and no recovery has been effected from

him. The subject offences are triable by Magistrate. The trial will take

considerable time to conclude. He has clean antecedents. No useful

purpose would be served by detaining him in custody. It is, therefore,

urged that he deserves to be released on bail. 5. Per contra, learned State Counsel has argued that keeping in

view the serious nature of the crime as committed by the petitioner, he

does not deserve to be extended benefit of bail. 6. This Court has heard the rival submissions made by learned

counsel for both the parties. 7. The petitioner is alleged to have hatched a conspiracy with

the co-accused and in pursuance of that conspiracy, the complainant was

kept under digital arrest and cyber fraud/crime was committed with him

by extending threat to him on the premise that some contraband had

been recovered from a parcel allegedly sent by him from Mumbai to

Russia and then he was made to transfer an amount of Rs.8,48,925/- by

way of blackmailing him in the bank account of one of the accomplices

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 02-12-2025 04:20:08 ::: CRM-M-57125-2025 -4- of the petitioner and the co-accused. The role as attributed to the

petitioner is that he had connived with the co-accused Aamin Ali, Vishal

Dhaka and Kishore to commit cyber crime and in pursuance of the same

accused-Aamin Ali had opened a bank account which was used for

receipt of part of the money extracted from the complainant. Though

there is sufficient prima facie evidence connecting the petitioner with

the subject crime, however, in the opinion of this Court, the pre trial

incarceration should not be a replica of post conviction sentencing. The

petitioner is in custody since 17.06.2025. He is not involved in any other

case. The well settled proposition of law is that bail is the rule and jail is

an exception. The personal liberty is a precious fundamental right and it

should be curtailed only when it becomes imperative according to the

peculiar facts and circumstances of the case. Continued detention of the

petitioner would not serve any useful purpose. It is equally well settled

that when an undertrial prisoner is detained in jail for an indefinite

period, Article 21 of the Constitution is violated. Reliance in this regard

can be had to the observations made by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sanjay Chandra v. CBI , 2011 SCC OnLine SC 1502. In view of the

above discussed facts and circumstances, this Court is of the considered

opinion that the further incarceration of the petitioner would be of no

justifiability and the petitioner has made out a case for grant of bail.

Accordingly, the petition is allowed and the petitioner is ordered to be

admitted to bail subject to his furnishing personal bonds as well as

surety bonds by two sureties in the like amount each to the satisfaction

of learned trial Court/CJM/Duty Magistrate concerned and further

 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 02-12-2025 04:20:08 ::: CRM-M-57125-2025 -5- subject to the condition that he will mention his personal identification

details of passport number, if any, his cell phone number, Aadhar Card

and his permanent residence as well as the present residential address, if

any. He shall not directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or

promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to

dissuade him/her from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any Police

Officer. 8. It is also clarified that the observations made hereinabove

are not an expression of opinion on the merits of the case nor the trial

Court shall advert to the comments made herein and that the prosecution

will be entitled to seek cancellation of bail, if the petitioner violates any

of the conditions as laid down upon him.