R.F. Nariman, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. We have heard Mr. Subhash Jha, learned counsel appearing for the

 appellant and Mr. Vikramjit Banerjee, learned ASG appearing on

 behalf of the respondent. 3. This case arises out of an FIR that was registered on 09.12.2009 as

 regards a MSME Receivable Finance Scheme operated by the

 Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI). It was found

 that since some vendors were complaining of delay in getting their Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by R Natarajan Date: 2020.09.11 16:01:22 IST payments, SIDBI, in consultation with Tata Motors Limited, advised
Reason: 4. A charge-sheet was then filed on 26.07.2011 in the Court of Special

 Judge, CBI cases in which it was alleged that the appellant had

 received an email on 25.05.2009 containing the RTGS details for

 the account with Federal Bank, Thripporur, which he then forwarded

 to Accused No.5 (Muthukumar) who is said to be the kingpin

 involved in this crime and is since absconding. Apparently, based on

 Muthukumar’s approval, the appellant then signed various cheques

 which were forwarded to other accounts. 5. By an order dated 27.06.2012 passed by the learned Special Judge,

 CBI (ACB), Pune, it was found that since no sanction was taken 2 under the Prevention of Corruption Act , offences under that Act

 cannot, therefore, be proceeded with against this accused and he

 was discharged to that extent. So far as sanction under Section 197 of Cr.P.C is concerned, the Special Judge came to the conclusion

 that there was no need for sanction in the facts of this case. Finding

 that there was a prima facie case made out against the appellant,

 the Special Judge refused to discharge the appellant from the

 offences under the IPC . 6. By the impugned judgment dated 11.07.2014, the High Court

 agreed with the learned Special Judge that there was no need for

 sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C. The High Court then considered

 an Order of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) dated

 22.12.2011 which went into the facts of the case in great detail and

 concurred with the Competent Authority that on merits no sanction

 ought to be accorded and no offence under the Penal Code was in

 fact made out. Though this report was heavily relied upon before the

 High Court, the High Court brushed it aside stating: xxx xxx xx 7. It is apparent on the basis of fact that they have
merged during the meeting that in this case the entire
crime has been committed by Shri Muthukumar, who is
still absconding and is yet to be brought to book by
CBI. Therefore, in view of the above agreeing with the
competent authority, prima facie charges do not seem
established against Shri Ashoo Tiwari and Shri Karade
and as such sanction for prosecution of Shri Ashoo
Tiwari and Shri Shasheel Karade, Manager, SIDBI is
not called for and the commission would advise
accordingly and RDA would suffice against Shri Ashoo
Tiwari, DGM and Shri Shasheel karade, Manager,
SIDBI for their procedural and supervisory lapses
which have already been examined earlier by the
Commission and minor pp had already been advised.” 5 A reading of this Report shows that, at the highest, the appellant may

 be negligent without any criminal culpability. In fact, the positive

 finding of the CVC that the appellant appears to be a victim of

 Muthukumar’s plot is of some importance. 7. A number of judgments have held that the standard of proof in a

 departmental proceeding, being based on preponderance of

 probability is somewhat lower than the standard of proof in a criminal

 proceeding where the case has to be proved beyond reasonable

 doubt. In P.S. Rajya vs. State of Bihar , (1996) 9 SCC 1, the question

 before the Court was posed as follows:- xxx xxx xxx 31. It is trite that the standard of proof required in criminal
 proceedings is higher than that required before the
 adjudicating authority and in case the accused is
 exonerated before the adjudicating authority whether his
 prosecution on the same set of facts can be allowed or not
 is the precise question which falls for determination in this
 case.”

After referring to various judgments, this Court then culled out the

ratio of those decisions in paragraph 38 as follows:- ……………….......................... J. (ROHINTON FALI NARIMAN)

 ……………….......................... J. (NAVIN SINHA)

 ……………….......................... J. (INDIRA BANERJEE)

 New Delhi; September 08, 2020. 10