H.L. DATTU, J. 1) Leave granted in all the Special Leave 

 Petitions. 2) These appeals are directed against the common 

 Judgment and Order of the learned Single Judge 

 of the High Court of Delhi, dated 23rd May 2011 

 in Bail Application No. 508/2011, Bail 

 Application No. 509/2011 & Crl. M.A. 653/2011, 

 Bail Application No. 510/2011, Bail Application 

 No. 511/2011 and Bail Application No. 512/2011, 

 by which the learned Single Judge refused to 

 grant bail to the accused-appellants. These 

 cases were argued together and submitted for 

 decision as one case. 3) The offence alleged against each of the 

 accused, as noticed by the Ld. Special Judge, 

 CBI, New Delhi, who rejected bail applications 

 of the appellants, vide his order dated 

 20.4.2011, is extracted for easy reference : served procedure of allocation of 
UAS Licences and spectrum was 
manipulated by the accused persons 
in order to benefit M/s Unitech 
Group Companies. The cutoff date 
of 25.09.2007 was decided by 
accused public servants of DoT 
primarily to allow consideration 
of Unitech group applications for 
UAS licences. The Unitech Group 
Companies were in business of 
realty and even the objects of 
companies were not changed to 
`telecom' and registered as 
required before applying. The 
companies were ineligible to get 
the licences till the grant of UAS 
licences. The Unitech Group was 
almost last within the applicants 
considered for allocation of UAS 
licences and as per existing 
policy of first-come-first-served, 
no licence could be issued in as 
many as 10 to 13 circles where 
sufficient spectrum was not 4 available. The Unitech companies 
 got benefit of spectrum in as many 
 as 10 circles over the other 
 eligible applicants. Accused 
 Sanjay Chandra, in conspiracy with 
 accused public servants, was aware 
 of the whole design of the 
 allocation of LOIs and on behalf 
 of the Unitech group companies was 
 ready with the drafts of Rs. 1658 
 crores as early as 10th October, 
 2007." Vinod Goenka (A5) in Crl. Appeal No. 2179 of 
2011 [arising out of SLP(Crl)No.5902 of 2011] : Gautam Doshi (A9), Surendra Pipara (A10) and 
Hari Nair (A 11) in Crl. Appeal Nos.2180,2182 & 
2181 of 2011 [arising out of SLP (Crl) Nos. 
6190,6315 & 6288 of 2011] : Ltd. (later known as M/s Tiger 
Trustees Pvt. Ltd. - TTPL), 
although the entire company was 
held by the Reliance ADA Group of 
companies through the funds 
raised from M/s Reliance Telecom 
Ltd. etc. 9. It was further alleged that M/s 
Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. (STPL) was, 
at the time of application dated 
02.03.2007, an associate of M/s 
Reliance ADA Group / M/s Reliance 
Communications Limited / M/s 
Reliance Telecom Limited, having 
existing UAS Licences in all 
telecom circles. Investigations 
have also disclosed that M/s Tiger 
Traders Pvt. Ltd., which held 
majority stake (more than 90%) in 
M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. (STPL), 
was also an associate company of 
Reliance ADA Group. Both the 8 companies has not business history 
and were activated solely for the 
purpose of applying for UAS 
Licences in 13 telecom circles, 
where M/s Reliance Telecom Ltd. 
did not have GSM spectrum and M/s 
Reliance Communications Ltd. had 
already applied for dual 
technology spectrum for these 
circles. Investigation has 
disclosed that the day to day 
affairs of M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. 
Ltd. and M/s Tiger Traders Pvt. 
Ltd. were managed by the said 
three accused persons either 
themselves or through other 
officers/consultants related to 
the Reliance ADA group. Commercial 
decisions of M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. 
Ltd. and M/s Tiger Traders Pvt. 
Ltd. were also taken by these 
accused persons of Reliance ADA 
group. Material inter-company 
transactions (bank transactions) 
of M/s Reliance Communications / 
M/s Reliance Telecommunications 
Ltd. and M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. (STPL) and M/s Tiger Traders 
Pvt. Ltd. were carried out by same 
group of persons as per the 
instructions of said accused 
Gautam Doshi and Hari Nair. 10. Investigations about the 
holding structure of M/s Tiger 
Traders Pvt. Ltd. has revealed 
that the aforesaid accused persons 
also structured two other 
companies i.e. M/s Zebra 
Consultancy Private Limited & M/s 
Parrot Consultants Private 9 Limited. Till April, 2007, by when 
M/s Swan Telecom Pvt. Ltd. applied 
for telecom licences, 50% shares 
of M/s Zebra Consultancy Private 
Limited & M/s Parrot Consultants 
Private Limited, were purchased by 
M/s Tiger Traders Pvt. Ltd. Similarly, 50% of equity shares of 
M/s Parrot Consultants Private 
Limited & M/s Tiger Traders 
Private Limited were purchased by 
M/s Zebra Consultancy Private 
Limited. Also, 50% of equity 
shares of M/s Zebra Consultancy 
Private Limited and M/s Tiger 
Traders Private Limited were 
purchased by M/s Parrot 
Consultants Private Limited. These 
3 companies were, therefore, cross 
holding each other in an inter-
locking structure w.e.f. March 
2006 till 4th April, 2007. 11. It is further alleged that 
accused Gautam Doshi, Surendra 
Pipara and Hari Nair instead of 
withdrawing the fraudulent 
applications preferred in the name 
of M/s Swan Telecom (P) Limited, 
which was not eligible at all, 
allowed the transfer of control of 
that company to the Dynamix Balwa 
Group and thus, enabled 
perpetuating and (sic.) 
illegality. It is alleged that 
TRAI in its recommendations dated 
28.08.2007 recommended the use of 
dual technology by UAS Licencees. 
Due to this reason M/s Reliance 
Communications Limited, holding 
company of M/s Reliance Telecom 1 Limited, became eligible to get 
GSM spectrum in telecom circles 
for which STPL had applied. Consequently, having management 
control of STPL was of no use for 
the applicant/accused persons and 
M/s Reliance Telecom Limited. Moreover, the transfer of 
management of STPL to DB Group and 
sale of equity held by it to M/s 
Delphi Investments (P) Limited, 
Mauritius, M/s Reliance Telecom 
Limited has earned a profit of 
around Rs. 10 crores which 
otherwise was not possible if they 
had withdrawn the applications. agreement with M/s Swan Telecom 
(P) Limited for sharing its 
telecom infrastructure. It is 
further alleged that the three 
accused persons facilitated the 
new management of M/s Swan Telecom 
(P) Limited to get UAS licences on 
the basis of applications filed by 
the former management. It is 
further alleged that M/s Swan 
Telecom (P) Limited on the date of 
application, that is, 02.03.2007 
was an associate company of 
Reliance ADA group, that is, M/s 
Reliance Communications Limited/ 
M/s Reliance Telecom Limited and 
therefore, ineligible for UAS 
licences. 12. Investigation has also 
disclosed pursuant to TRAI 
recommendations dated 28.08.2007 
when M/s Reliance Communications 1 Ltd. got the GSM spectrum under 
 the Dual Technology policy, 
 accused Gautam Doshi, Hari Nair 
 and Surendra Pipara transferred 
 the control of M/s Swan Telecom 
 Pvt. Ltd., and said structure of 
 holding companies, to accused 
 Shahid Balwa and Vinod Goenka. In 
 this manner they transferred a 
 company which was otherwise 
 ineligible for grant of UAS 
 license on the date of 
 application, to the said two 
 accused persons belonging to 
 Dynamix Balwa (DB) group and 
 thereby facilitated them to cheat 
 the DoT by getting issued UAS 
 Licences despite the ineligibility 
 on the date of application and 
 till 18.10.2007." 4) The Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi, rejected Bail 

 Applications filed by the appellants by his 

 order dated 20.04.2011. The appellants moved 

 the High Court by filing applications under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 

 (in short, "Cr. P.C."). The same came to be 

 rejected by the learned Single Judge by his 

 order dated 23.05.2011. Aggrieved by the same, 

 the appellants are before us in these appeals. 5) Shri. Ram Jethmalani, Shri. Mukul Rohatgi, Shri 

 Soli J. Sorabjee and Shri. Ashok H. Desai, 

 learned senior counsel appeared for the 

 appellants and Shri. Harin P. Raval, learned 

 Additional Solicitor General, appears for the 

 respondent-CBI. 6) Shri. Ram Jethmalani, learned senior counsel 

 appearing for the appellant Sanjay Chandra, 

 would urge that the impugned Judgment has not 

 appreciated the basic rule laid down by this 

 Court that grant of bail is the rule and its 

 denial is the exception. Shri. Jethmalani 

 submitted that if there is any apprehension of 

 the accused of absconding from trial or 

 tampering with the witnesses, then it is 

 justified for the Court to deny bail. The 

 learned senior counsel would submit that the 

 accused has cooperated with the investigation 

 throughout and that his behavior has been 

 exemplary. He would further submit that the 1 appellant was not arrested during the 

investigation, as there was no threat from him 

of tampering with the witnesses. He would 

submit that the personal liberty is at a very 

high pedestal in our Constitutional system, and 

the same cannot be meddled with in a causal 

manner. He would assail the impugned Judgment 

stating that the Ld. Judge did not apply his 

mind, and give adequate reasons before rejecting 

bail, as is required by the legal norms set down 

by this Court. Shri. Jethmalani further 

contends that it was only after the appellants 

appeared in the Court in pursuance of summons 

issued, they were made to apply for bail, and, 

thereafter, denied bail and sent to custody. The learned senior counsel states that the trial 

Judge does not have the power to send a person, 

who he has summoned in pursuance of Section 87 Cr.P.C to judicial custody. The only power that 

the trial Judge had, he would contend, was to 1 ask for a bond as provided for in Section 88 Cr.P.C. to ensure his appearance. Shri. 

Jethmalani submits that when a person appeared 

in pursuance of a bond, he was a free man, and 

such a free man cannot be committed to prison by 

making him to apply for bail and thereafter, 

denying him the same. Shri. Jethmalani further 

submits that if it was the intention of the 

Legislature to make a person, who appears in 

pursuance of summons to apply for bail, it would 

have been so legislated in Section 88 Cr.P.C. The learned senior counsel assailed the Judgment 

of the Delhi High Court in the `Court on its own 

motion v. CBI', 2004 (I) JCC 308, by which the 

High Court gave directions to Criminal Courts to 

call upon the accused who is summoned to appear 

to apply for bail, and then decide on the merits 

of the bail application. He would state that 

the High Court has ignored even the CBI Manual 

before issuing these directions, which provided 1 for bail to be granted to the accused, except in 

 the event of there being commission of heinous 

 crime. The learned senior counsel would also 

 argue that it was an error to have a "rolled up 

 charge", as recognized by the Griffiths' case (R 

 vs. Griffiths and Ors., (1966) 1 Q.B. 589). Shri.Jethmalani submitted that there is not even 

 a prima facie case against the accused and would 

 make references to the charge sheet and the 

 statement of several witnesses. He would 

 emphatically submit that none of the ingredients 

 of the offences charged with were stated in the 

 charge sheet. He would further contend that even 

 if, there is a prima facie case, the rule is 

 still bail, and not jail, as per the dicta of 

 this Court in several cases. 7) Shri. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel 

 appearing for the appellant Vinod Goenka, while 

 adopting the arguments of Shri. Jethmalani, 

 would further supplement by arguing that the Ld. 1 Trial Judge erred in making the persons, who 

appeared in pursuance of the summons, apply for 

bail and then denying the same, and ordering for 

remand in judicial custody. Shri. Rohatgi would 

further contend that the gravity of the offence 

charged with, is to be determined by the maximum 

sentence prescribed by the Statute and not by 

any other standard or measure. In other words, 

the learned senior counsel would submit that the 

alleged amount involved in the so-called Scam is 

not the determining factor of the gravity of the 

offence, but the maximum punishment prescribed 

for the offence. He would state that the only 

bar for bail pending trial in Section 437 is for 

those persons who are charged with offences 

punishable with life or death, and there is no 

such bar for those persons who were charged with 

offences with maximum punishment of seven 

years. Shri. Rohatgi also cited some case laws. 8) Shri. Ashok H. Desai, learned senior counsel 

 appearing for the appellants Hari Nair and 

 Surendra Pipara, adopted the principal arguments 

 of Shri.Jethmalani. In addition, Shri. Desai 

 would submit that a citizen of this country, who 

 is charged with a criminal offence, has the 

 right to be enlarged on bail. Unless there is a 

 clear necessity for deprivation of his liberty, 

 a person should not be remanded to judicial 

 custody. Shri. Desai would submit that the Court 

 should bear in mind that such custody is not 

 punitive in nature, but preventive, and must be 

 opted only when the charges are serious. Shri. 

 Desai would further submit that the power of the 

 High Court and this Court is not limited by the 

 operation of Section 437 . He would further 

 contend that Surendra Pipara deserves to be 

 released on bail in view of his serious health 

 conditions. 9) Shri. Soli J. Sorabjee, learned senior counsel 

 appearing for Gautam Doshi, adopted the 

 principal arguments of Shri. Jethmalani. Shri. 

 Sorabjee would assail the finding of the Learned 

 Judge of the High Court in the impugned Judgment 

 that the mere fact that the accused were not 

 arrested during the investigation was proof of 

 their influence in the society, and hence, there 

 was a reasonable apprehension that they would 

 tamper with the evidence if enlarged on bail. Shri. Sorabjee would submit that if this 

 reasoning is to be accepted, then bail is to be 

 denied in each and every criminal case that 

 comes before the Court. The learned senior 

 counsel also highlighted that the accused had no 

 criminal antecedents. 10) Shri. Haren P. Raval, the learned Additional 

 Solicitor General, in his reply, would submit 

 that the offences that are being charged, are of 

 the nature that the economic fabric of the 1 country is brought at stake. Further, the 

learned ASG would state that the quantum of 

punishment could not be the only determinative 

factor for the magnitude of an offence. He would 

state that one of the relevant considerations 

for the grant of bail is the interest of the 

society at large as opposed to the personal 

liberty of the accused, and that the Court must 

not lose sight of the former. He would submit 

that in the changing circumstances and scenario, 

it was in the interest of the society for the 

Court to decline bail to the appellants. Shri. 

Raval would further urge that consistency is the 

norm of this Court and that there was no reason 

or change in circumstance as to why this Court 

should take a different view from the order of 

20th June 2011 in Sharad Kumar Etc. v. Central 

Bureau of Investigation [in SLP (Crl) No. 4584-

4585 of 2011] rejecting bail to some of the co- accused in the same case. Shri. Raval would 2 further state that the investigation in these 

cases is monitored by this Court and the trial 

is proceeding on a day-to-day basis and that 

there is absolutely no delay on behalf of the 

prosecuting agency in completing the trial. Further, he would submit that the appellants, 

having cooperated with the investigation, is no 

ground for grant of bail, as they were expected 

to cooperate with the investigation as provided 

by the law. He would further submit that the 

test to enlarge an accused on bail is whether 

there is a reasonable apprehension of tampering 

with the evidence, and that there is an 

apprehension of threat to some of the witnesses. The learned ASG would further submit that there 

is more reason now for the accused not to be 

enlarged on bail, as they now have the knowledge 

of the identity of the witnesses, who are the 

employees of the accused, and there is an 

apprehension that the witnesses may be tampered 2 with. The learned ASG would state that Section 

437 of the Cr.P.C. uses the word "appears", and, 

therefore, that the argument of the learned 

senior counsel for the appellants that the power 

of the trial Judge with regard to a person 

summoned under Section 87 is controlled by Section 88 is incorrect. Shri. Raval also made 

references to the United Nations Convention on 

Corruption and the Report on the Reforms in the 

Criminal Justice System by Justice Malimath, 

which, we do not think, is necessary to go into. The learned ASG also relied on a few decisions 

of this Court, and the same will be dealt with 

in the course of the judgment. On a query from 

the Bench, the learned ASG would submit that in 

his opinion, bail should be denied in all cases 

of corruption which pose a threat to the 

economic fabric of the country, and that the 

balance should tilt in favour of the public 

interest. 11) In his reply, Shri. Jethmalani would submit 

 that as the presumption of innocence is the 

 privilege of every accused, there is also a 

 presumption that the appellants would not tamper 

 with the witnesses if they are enlarged on bail, 

 especially in the facts of the case, where the 

 appellants have cooperated with the 

 investigation. In recapitulating his 

 submissions, the learned senior counsel 

 contended that there are two principles for the 

 grant of bail - firstly, if there is no prima 

 facie case, and secondly, even if there is a 

 prima facie case, if there is no reasonable 

 apprehension of tampering with the witnesses or 

 evidence or absconding from the trial, the 

 accused are entitled to grant of bail pending 

 trial. He would submit that since both the 

 conditions are satisfied in this case, the 

 appellants should be granted bail. 12) Let us first deal with a minor issue canvassed 

 by Mr. Raval, learned ASG. It is submitted that 

 this Court has refused to entertain the Special 

 Leave Petition filed by one of the co-accused 

 [ Sharad Kumar Vs. CBI (supra)] and, therefore, 

 there is no reason or change in the circumstance 

 to take a different view in the case of the 

 appellants who are also charge- sheeted for the 

 same offence. We are not impressed by this 

 argument. In the aforesaid petition, the 

 petitioner was before this Court before framing 

 of charges by the Trial Court. Now the charges 

 are framed and the trial has commenced. We 

 cannot compare the earlier and the present 

 proceedings and conclude that there are no 

 changed circumstances and reject these 

 petitions. 13) The appellants are facing trial in respect of 

 the offences under Sections 420-B , 468 , 471 and 109 of Indian Penal Code and Section 13(2) read 2 with 13(i)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 

 1988 . Bail has been refused first by the 

 Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi and subsequently, 

 by the High Court. Both the courts have listed 

 the factors, on which they think, are relevant 

 for refusing the Bail applications filed by the 

 applicants as seriousness of the charge; the 

 nature of the evidence in support of the charge; the likely sentence to be imposed upon 

 conviction; the possibility of interference with 

 witnesses; the objection of the prosecuting 

 authorities; possibility of absconding from 

 justice. 14) In bail applications, generally, it has been 

 laid down from the earliest times that the 

 object of bail is to secure the appearance of 

 the accused person at his trial by reasonable 

 amount of bail. The object of bail is neither 

 punitive nor preventative. Deprivation of 

 liberty must be considered a punishment, unless 2 it can be required to ensure that an accused 

person will stand his trial when called upon. The courts owe more than verbal respect to the 

principle that punishment begins after 

conviction, and that every man is deemed to be 

innocent until duly tried and duly found guilty. From the earliest times, it was appreciated that 

detention in custody pending completion of trial 

could be a cause of great hardship. From time to 

time, necessity demands that some un-convicted 

persons should be held in custody pending trial 

to secure their attendance at the trial but in 

such cases, `necessity' is the operative test. In this country, it would be quite contrary to 

the concept of personal liberty enshrined in the 

Constitution that any person should be punished 

in respect of any matter, upon which, he has not 

been convicted or that in any circumstances, he 

should be deprived of his liberty upon only the 

belief that he will tamper with the witnesses if 2 left at liberty, save in the most extraordinary 

 circumstances. Apart from the question of 

 prevention being the object of a refusal of 

 bail, one must not lose sight of the fact that 

 any imprisonment before conviction has a 

 substantial punitive content and it would be 

 improper for any Court to refuse bail as a mark 

 of disapproval of former conduct whether the 

 accused has been convicted for it or not or to 

 refuse bail to an un-convicted person for the 

 purpose of giving him a taste of imprisonment as 

 a lesson. 15) In the instant case, as we have already noticed 

 that the "pointing finger of accusation" against 

 the appellants is `the seriousness of the 

 charge'. The offences alleged are economic 

 offences which has resulted in loss to the State 

 exchequer. Though, they contend that there is 

 possibility of the appellants tampering 

 witnesses, they have not placed any material in 2 support of the allegation. In our view, 

seriousness of the charge is, no doubt, one of 

the relevant considerations while considering 

bail applications but that is not the only test 

or the factor : The other factor that also 

requires to be taken note of is the punishment 

that could be imposed after trial and 

conviction, both under the Indian Penal Code and 

Prevention of Corruption Act. Otherwise, if the 

former is the only test, we would not be 

balancing the Constitutional Rights but rather 

"recalibration of the scales of justice." The 

provisions of Cr.P.C . confer discretionary 

jurisdiction on Criminal Courts to grant bail to 

accused pending trial or in appeal against 

convictions, since the jurisdiction is 

discretionary, it has to be exercised with great 

care and caution by balancing valuable right of 

liberty of an individual and the interest of the 

society in general. In our view, the reasoning 2 adopted by the learned District Judge, which is 

affirmed by the High Court, in our opinion, a 

denial of the whole basis of our system of law 

and normal rule of bail system. It transcends 

respect for the requirement that a man shall be 

considered innocent until he is found guilty. If such power is recognized, then it may lead to 

chaotic situation and would jeopardize the 

personal liberty of an individual. This Court, 

in Kalyan Chandra Sarkar Vs. Rajesh Ranjan- (2005) 2 SCC 42, observed that "under the 

criminal laws of this country, a person accused 

of offences which are non-bailable, is liable to 

be detained in custody during the pendency of 

trial unless he is enlarged on bail in 

accordance with law. Such detention cannot be 

questioned as being violative of Article 21 of 

the Constitution, since the same is authorized 

by law. But even persons accused of non- bailable offences are entitled to bail if the 2 Court concerned comes to the conclusion that the 

 prosecution has failed to establish a prima 

 facie case against him and/or if the Court is 

 satisfied by reasons to be recorded that in 

 spite of the existence of prima facie case, 

 there is need to release such accused on bail, 

 where fact situations require it to do so." 16) This Court, time and again, has stated that bail 

 is the rule and committal to jail an exception. It is also observed that refusal of bail is a 

 restriction on the personal liberty of the 

 individual guaranteed under Article 21 of the 

 Constitution. In the case of State of Rajasthan 

 v. Balchand , (1977) 4 SCC 308, this Court 

 opined: (17) In the case of Gudikanti Narasimhulu v. Public 

 Prosecutor , (1978) 1 SCC 240, V.R. Krishna Iyer, 

 J., sitting as Chamber Judge, enunciated the 

 principles of bail thus: Even so it is useful to notice the 
 tart terms of Lord Camden that 

 "the discretion of a Judge is the 
 law of tyrants: it is always 
 unknown, it is different in 
 different men; it is casual, and 
 depends upon constitution, temper 
 and passion. In the best, it is 
 oftentimes caprice; in the worst, 3 it is every vice, folly and passion 
to which human nature is 
liable...." Perhaps, this is an overly 
simplistic statement and we must 
remember the constitutional focus 
in Articles 21 and 19 before 
following diffuse observations and 
practices in the English system. 
Even in England there is a growing 
awareness that the working of the 
bail system requires a second look 
from the point of view of correct 
legal criteria and sound 
principles, as has been pointed out 
by Dr Bottomley. 6. Let us have a glance at the pros 
and cons and the true principle 
around which other relevant factors 
must revolve. When the case is 
finally disposed of and a person is 
sentenced to incarceration, things 
stand on a different footing. We 
are concerned with the penultimate 
stage and the principal rule to 
guide release on bail should be to 
secure the presence of the 
applicant who seeks to be 
liberated, to take judgment and 
serve sentence in the event of the 
Court punishing him with 
imprisonment. In this perspective, 
relevance of considerations is 
regulated by their nexus with the 
likely absence of the applicant for 
fear of a severe sentence, if such 
be plausible in the case. As Erle. 
J. indicated, when the crime 
charged (of which a conviction has 
been sustained) is of the highest 3 magnitude and the punishment of it 
assigned by law is of extreme 
severity, the Court may reasonably 
presume, some evidence warranting, 
that no amount of bail would secure 
the presence of the convict at the 
stage of judgment, should he be 
enlarged. Lord Campbell, C.J. 
concurred in this approach in that 
case and Coleridge J. set down the 
order of priorities as follows: 7. It is thus obvious that the 
nature of the charge is the vital 3 factor and the nature of the 
evidence also is pertinent. The 
punishment to which the party may 
be liable, if convicted or 
conviction is confirmed, also bears 
upon the issue. 8. Another relevant factor is as to 
whether the course of justice would 
be thwarted by him who seeks the 
benignant jurisdiction of the Court 
to be freed for the time being. 9. Thus the legal principles and 
practice validate the Court 
considering the likelihood of the 
applicant interfering with 
witnesses for the prosecution or 
otherwise polluting the process of 
justice. It is not only traditional 
but rational, in this context, to 
enquire into the antecedents of a 
man who is applying for bail to 
find whether he has a bad record - 
particularly a record which 
suggests that he is likely to 
commit serious offences while on 
bail. In regard to habituals, it is 
part of criminological history that 
a thoughtless bail order has 
enabled the bailee to exploit the 
opportunity to inflict further 
crimes on the members of society. 
Bail discretion, on the basis of 
evidence about the criminal record 
of a defendant is therefore not an 
exercise in irrelevance. 13. Viewed from this perspective, 
we gain a better insight into the 
rules of the game. When a person, 
charged with a grave offence, has 3 been acquitted at a stage, has the 
intermediate acquittal pertinence 
to a bail plea when the appeal 
before this Court pends? Yes, it 
has. The panic which might prompt 
the accused to jump the gauntlet of 
justice is less, having enjoyed the 
confidence of the Court's verdict 
once. Concurrent holdings of guilt 
have the opposite effect. Again, 
the ground for denial of 
provisional release becomes weaker 
when the fact stares us in the face 
that a fair finding -- if that be so -- of innocence has been recorded by 
one Court. It may not be 
conclusive, for the judgment of 
acquittal may be ex facie wrong, 
the likelihood of desperate 
reprisal, if enlarged, may be a 
deterrent and his own safety may be 
more in prison than in the vengeful 
village where feuds have provoked 
the violent offence. It depends. 
Antecedents of the man and socio-
geographical circumstances have a 
bearing only from this angle. Police exaggerations of prospective 
misconduct of the accused, if 
enlarged, must be soberly sized up 
lest danger of excesses and 
injustice creep subtly into the 
discretionary curial technique. Bad 
record and police prediction of 
criminal prospects to invalidate 
the bail plea are admissible in 
principle but shall not stampede 
the Court into a complacent 
refusal." (18) In Gurcharan Singh v. State (Delhi Admn.), 

 (1978) 1 SCC 118, this Court took the view: 19) In Babu Singh v. State of U.P. , (1978) 1 SCC 

 579, this Court opined: The last four words of Article 21 are the life of that human right. ... 16. Thus the legal principle and 
practice validate the Court 
considering the likelihood of the 
applicant interfering with 
witnesses for the prosecution or 
otherwise polluting the process of 
justice. It is not only 
traditional but rational, in this 
context, to enquire into the 
antecedents of a man who is 
applying for bail to find whether 
he has a bad record--particularly a 
record which suggests that he is 
likely to commit serious offences 
while on bail. In regard to 
habituals, it is part of 
criminological history that a 
thoughtless bail order has enabled 
the bailee to exploit the 
opportunity to inflict further 
crimes on the members of society. 
Bail discretion, on the basis of 
evidence about the criminal record 
of a defendant, is therefore not 
an exercise in irrelevance. 17. The significance and sweep of Article 21 make the deprivation of 
liberty a matter of grave concern 
and permissible only when the law 
authorising it is reasonable, 
even-handed and geared to the 
goals of community good and State 
necessity spelt out in Article 19. Indeed, the considerations I have 
set out as criteria are germane to 
the constitutional proposition I 
have deduced. Reasonableness 
postulates intelligent care and 
predicates that deprivation of 
freedom by refusal of bail is not 
for punitive purpose but for the 
bi-focal interests of justice--to 
the individual involved and 
society affected. 18. We must weigh the contrary 
factors to answer the test of 
reasonableness, subject to the 
need for securing the presence of 
the bail applicant. It makes sense 
to assume that a man on bail has a 
better chance to prepare or 
present his case than one remanded 
in custody. And if public justice 
is to be promoted, mechanical 
detention should be demoted. In 
the United States, which has a 
constitutional perspective close 
to ours, the function of bail is 
limited, "community roots" of the 
applicant are stressed and, after 
the Vera Foundation's Manhattan 
Bail Project, monetary suretyship 
is losing ground. The considerable 
public expense in keeping in 
custody where no danger of 4 disappearance or disturbance can 
arise, is not a negligible 
consideration. Equally important 
is the deplorable condition, 
verging on the inhuman, of our 
sub-jails, that the unrewarding 
cruelty and expensive custody of 
avoidable incarceration makes 
refusal of bail unreasonable and a 
policy favouring release justly 
sensible. 20. Viewed from this perspective, 
we gain a better insight into the 
rules of the game. When a person, 
charged with a grave offence, has 
been acquitted at a stage, has the 
intermediate acquittal pertinence 
to a bail plea when the appeal 
before this Court pends? Yes, it 
has. The panic which might prompt 
the accused to jump the gauntlet 
of justice is less, having enjoyed 
the confidence of the Court's 
verdict once. Concurrent holdings 
of guilt have the opposite effect. 
Again, the ground for denial of 
provisional release becomes weaker 
when the fact stares us in the 
face that a fair finding -- if that 
be so -- of innocence has been 
recorded by one Court. It may be 
conclusive, for the judgment of 
acquittal may be ex facie wrong, 
the likelihood of desperate 
reprisal, it enlarged, may be a 
deterrent and his own safety may 
be more in prison than in the 
vengeful village where feuds have 
provoked the violent offence. It 
depends. Antecedents of the man 4 and socio-geographical 
 circumstances have a bearing only 
 from this angle. Police 
 exaggerations of prospective 
 misconduct of the accused, if 
 enlarged, must be soberly sized up 
 lest danger of excesses and 
 injustice creep subtly into the 
 discretionary curial technique. 
 Bad record and police prediction 
 of criminal prospects to 
 invalidate the bail plea are 
 admissible in principle but shall 
 not stampede the Court into a 
 complacent refusal." 20) In Moti Ram v. State of M.P. , (1978) 4 SCC 47, 

 this Court, while discussing pre-trial 

 detention, held: 21) The concept and philosophy of bail was 

 discussed by this Court in Vaman Narain Ghiya 

 v. State of Rajasthan , (2009) 2 SCC 281, thus: denotes a security for appearance 
 of a prisoner for his release. Etymologically, the word is 
 derived from an old French verb 
 "bailer" which means to "give" or 
 "to deliver", although another 
 view is that its derivation is 
 from the Latin term "baiulare", 
 meaning "to bear a burden". Bail 
 is a conditional liberty. Stroud's 
 Judicial Dictionary (4th Edn., 
 1971) spells out certain other 
 details. It states: Bail may thus be regarded as a 
mechanism whereby the State 
devolutes upon the community the 
function of securing the presence 
of the prisoners, and at the same 
time involves participation of the 
community in administration of 
justice. 7. Personal liberty is fundamental 
and can be circumscribed only by 
some process sanctioned by law. Liberty of a citizen is 
undoubtedly important but this is 
to balance with the security of 
the community. A balance is 
required to be maintained between 
the personal liberty of the 
accused and the investigational 
right of the police. It must 
result in minimum interference 
with the personal liberty of the 
accused and the right of the 
police to investigate the case. It 
has to dovetail two conflicting 
demands, namely, on the one hand 
the requirements of the society 
for being shielded from the 
hazards of being exposed to the 
misadventures of a person alleged 4 to have committed a crime; and on 
 the other, the fundamental canon 
 of criminal jurisprudence viz. the 
 presumption of innocence of an 
 accused till he is found guilty. 
 Liberty exists in proportion to 
 wholesome restraint, the more 
 restraint on others to keep off 
 from us, the more liberty we have. 
 (See A.K. Gopalan v. State of 
 Madras ) 8. The law of bail, like any other 
 branch of law, has its own 
 philosophy, and occupies an 
 important place in the 
 administration of justice and the 
 concept of bail emerges from the 
 conflict between the police power 
 to restrict liberty of a man who 
 is alleged to have committed a 
 crime, and presumption of 
 innocence in favour of the alleged 
 criminal. An accused is not 
 detained in custody with the 
 object of punishing him on the 
 assumption of his guilt." 22) More recently, in the case of Siddharam 

 Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra , 

 (2011) 1 SCC 694, this Court observed that 

 "(j)ust as liberty is precious to an individual, 

 so is the society's interest in maintenance of 4 peace, law and order. Both are equally 

 important." This Court further observed : This Court has taken the view that when 

 there is a delay in the trial, bail should be 

 granted to the accused [See Babba v. State of 

 Maharashtra, (2005) 11 SCC 569, Vivek Kumar v. State of U.P., (2000) 9 SCC 443, Mahesh Kumar 

 Bhawsinghka v. State of Delhi, (2000) 9 SCC 

 383]. 23) The principles, which the Court must consider 

 while granting or declining bail, have been 

 culled out by this Court in the case of Prahlad 

 Singh Bhati v. NCT, Delhi , (2001) 4 SCC 280, 

 thus: instead of "the evidence" which 
means the court dealing with the 
grant of bail can only satisfy it 
(sic itself) as to whether there 
is a genuine case against the 
accused and that the prosecution 
will be able to produce prima 
facie evidence in support of the 
charge. It is not expected, at 
this stage, to have the evidence 
establishing the guilt of the 
accused beyond reasonable doubt." 24) In State of U.P. v. Amarmani Tripathi, (2005) 8 

 SCC 21, this Court held as under: 25) Coming back to the facts of the present case, 

 both the Courts have refused the request for 

 grant of bail on two grounds :- The primary 

 ground is that offence alleged against the 

 accused persons is very serious involving deep 

 rooted planning in which, huge financial loss is 

 caused to the State exchequer ; the secondary 

 ground is that the possibility of the accused 

 persons tempering with the witnesses. In the 

 present case, the charge is that of cheating and 

 dishonestly inducing delivery of property, 

 forgery for the purpose of cheating using as 

 genuine a forged document. The punishment of the 

 offence is punishment for a term which may extend 

 to seven years. It is, no doubt, true that the 

 nature of the charge may be relevant, but at the 5 same time, the punishment to which the party may 

be liable, if convicted, also bears upon the 

issue. Therefore, in determining whether to 

grant bail, both the seriousness of the charge 

and the severity of the punishment should be 

taken into consideration. The grant or refusal 

to grant bail lies within the discretion of the 

Court. The grant or denial is regulated, to a 

large extent, by the facts and circumstances of 

each particular case. But at the same time, 

right to bail is not to be denied merely because 

of the sentiments of the community against the 

accused. The primary purposes of bail in a 

criminal case are to relieve the accused of 

imprisonment, to relieve the State of the burden 

of keeping him, pending the trial, and at the 

same time, to keep the accused constructively in 

the custody of the Court, whether before or after 

conviction, to assure that he will submit to the 

jurisdiction of the Court and be in attendance 5 thereon whenever his presence is required. This 

 Court in Gurcharan Singh and Ors. Vs. State AIR 

 1978 SC 179 observed that two paramount 

 considerations, while considering petition for 

 grant of bail in non-bailable offence, apart from 

 the seriousness of the offence, are the 

 likelihood of the accused fleeing from justice 

 and his tampering with the prosecution witnesses. Both of them relate to ensure of the fair trial 

 of the case. Though, this aspect is dealt by the 

 High Court in its impugned order, in our view, 

 the same is not convincing. 26) When the undertrial prisoners are detained in 

 jail custody to an indefinite period, Article 21 of the Constitution is violated. Every person, 

 detained or arrested, is entitled to speedy 

 trial, the question is : whether the same is 

 possible in the present case. There are 

 seventeen accused persons. Statement of the 

 witnesses runs to several hundred pages and the 5 documents on which reliance is placed by the 

prosecution, is voluminous. The trial may take 

considerable time and it looks to us that the 

appellants, who are in jail, have to remain in 

jail longer than the period of detention, had 

they been convicted. It is not in the interest 

of justice that accused should be in jail for an 

indefinite period. No doubt, the offence alleged 

against the appellants is a serious one in terms 

of alleged huge loss to the State exchequer, 

that, by itself, should not deter us from 

enlarging the appellants on bail when there is no 

serious contention of the respondent that the 

accused, if released on bail, would interfere 

with the trial or tamper with evidence. We do 

not see any good reason to detain the accused in 

custody, that too, after the completion of the 

investigation and filing of the charge-sheet. This Court, in the case of State of Kerala Vs. 

Raneef (2011) 1 SCC 784, has stated :- 27) In `Bihar Fodder Scam', this Court, taking into 

 consideration the seriousness of the charges 

 alleged and the maximum sentence of imprisonment 

 that could be imposed including the fact that the 5 appellants were in jail for a period more than 

 six months as on the date of passing of the 

 order, was of the view that the further detention 

 of the appellants as pre-trial prisoners would 

 not serve any purpose. 28) We are conscious of the fact that the accused 

 are charged with economic offences of huge 

 magnitude. We are also conscious of the fact 

 that the offences alleged, if proved, may 

 jeopardize the economy of the country. At the 

 same time, we cannot lose sight of the fact that 

 the investigating agency has already completed 

 investigation and the charge sheet is already 

 filed before the Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi. Therefore, their presence in the custody may not 

 be necessary for further investigation. We are 

 of the view that the appellants are entitled to 

 the grant of bail pending trial on stringent 

 conditions in order to ally the apprehension 

 expressed by CBI. 29) In the view we have taken, it may not be 

 necessary to refer and discuss other issues 

 canvassed by the learned counsel for the parties 

 and the case laws relied on in support of their 

 respective contentions. We clarify that we have 

 not expressed any opinion regarding the other 

 legal issues canvassed by learned counsel for the 

 parties. 30) In the result, we order that the appellants be 

 released on bail on their executing a bond with 

 two solvent sureties, each in a sum of `5 

 lakhs to the satisfaction of the Special Judge, 

 CBI, New Delhi on the following conditions :- ..................J.
 [ G. S. SINGHVI ] 

 ..................J.
 [ H. L. DATTU ]

New Delhi,
November 23, 2011 5