1. This petition is filed by the petitioner under Article 226 of the Constitution of India seeking
issuance of writ of "continuous mandamus" for
monitoring the investigation of cases registered by the
respondents against Mr. Romesh Sharma, Mr. Dawood Ibraim
and Reliance Industries Ltd. for ensuring impartial,
effective and expeditious investigation and trial to
uphold the majesty of law. The petition is filed by
way of Public Interest Litigation. In the first para
of the petition, the petitioner has given his
credentials stating that he is the President of the
Janta Party since 1990. He is a member of the
Parliament from 1974 till date and was a Union Minister
for Commerce, Law & Justice during 1990-91. He held
the post of Chairman of the Commission on Labour
Standards and International Trade with the rank of a
Cabinet Minister during 1994-96. He was an Assistant
Economics Affairs Officer in the United Nations in
1963. He taught Economics at Harvard University, USA
for more than a decade from which famous university, he
had also received his Ph.D. after researching with two
Nobel laureates in Economics. He has also been a
Professor of Economics at the IIT, Delhi from 1971 till
1991. 2. According to the petitioner, the aforesaid
persons have committed various cognizable offences
including the hawala transaction, kidnapping, extortion
offences and under the Prevention of Corruption Act .
However, the Government agencies including the CBI as
well as the Revenue authorities have failed to perform
their statutory obligations and are in fact eager to
hush up the matter. He has nurtured these
apprehensions because of various circumstances narrated
in the petition. 3. It may be stated at the outset that in the
writ petition, the petitioner has alleged various
illegalities and criminal acts committed by these
persons and has also alleged that investigation into
these offences by the concerned authorities is not
proper. The respondents in the writ petition are the
Union of India, CBI, the Commissioner of Police, Delhi,
the Director, Enforcement Directorate, the Registrar of
Companies and Reliance Industries Ltd. The Reliance
Industries Limited (RIL), the respondent No. 6, was
added as a party at a later stage. The show cause
notice was issued to the respondents. The respondents
No. 2, 3, 4 and 6 have filed their replies. Various
other additional affidavits are also filed by different
respondents pursuant to directions issued by this court
from time to time reference to which would be made at
an appropriate stage. The orders passed in this writ
petition from time to time would reveal that the court
has been taking note of the progress made in some of
the cases registered and/or pending against the RIL and
others. It was, for this reason, to ascertain the
latest position in respect of some of these cases the
respondents were directed to file the additional
affidavits from time to time. 4. As already mentioned above, although number of 
grievances are made by the petitioner in the present
writ petition, when the matter was finally heard on
16th March, 2002 the Petitioner, who appeared in
person, handed over a note which related to five
alleged offences by the RIL the prosecution of which
the petitioner has sought to be monitored by this
court, and therefore, the submissions of the parties
were also confined to the alleged offences mentioned in
this note. A. Enforcement Directorate Cases: In or about 2000-2001, RIL finally repatriated the entire amount of ECB proceeds parked abroad, including interest accrued thereon, totaling 1,30,257 million U.S. dollars and 173.02 million pounds. So far they have not been penalised for this stupendous infraction of the law and the conditions of grant of permission to raise funds abroad. On 23.4.2001, the RBI opined that the "irregularities committed by the Company may not be construed as warranting any action under FERA or FEMA." In June 2001, the ED has asked RIL to inform the purpose for raising ECB abroad and its utilisation, Its reply, submitted on 7.8-2001 was under scrutiny in August 2001, at last count. The spectacular success of this investigation in bringing back all the aforesaid proceeds has been achieved only since the filing of the instant writ petition and due only to the monitoring of this Hon'ble Court. 2. In May 1985, letters of credit for the import of PTA worth about Rs. 180 crores, were backdated
 Investigation was started only in April 1996. The cases filed
 Five Banks are being prosecuted :(a) Banque Indo-Suez: Investigation completed; show cause notices were issued to the Bank, its

 
 
 against RIL had been adjourned at least 16 times.
 officials, RIL and Mr.V.T.Pai, General Manager Finance of RIL on13. 10.2000. (b) Standard Chartered Bank Draft Show Cause Notices dated 16.2.2001, to be issued to the Bank, its official, RIL and Mr.V.T.Pai, were sent back by the Special Director Enforcement on 30.4.2001, stating that "no useful purpose will be served by issuing of proposed show cause notice unless further evidence if forthcoming". Thereafter the Dy. Director Mumbai vide letter dated 1.6.2001 has re-submitted the proposal; and a show cause notice was finallyissued on 29.7.2001. (c) Case against State Bank has been dropped as the letter of credit was cancelled, unutilised-even though backdating per se is an office. (d) Societe General Bank:Draft show cause notice has been Bent to the Special Director Enforcement on 5.7.2001. (e) For Canara bank:Draft show cause notice has been sent to the Special Director Enforcement on 26.7.2001. Thereafter there has been no progress report. Thus in nearly 17 years even the notice to show cause stage has only been achieved in the last approximately two years, 1.
 
 under this Hon'ble Court's monitoring. 3. 1993 Export of Masur Dal in substitution ofP.O. Yarn
 12 RILemployees were arrested and released on bail. No progress was made thereafter.
 Summons have been issued to Mr.Mukund Pathak, Mr.Rajiv Pathak and Avinash Samant on 10.11.2000, thereafter on 30.11.2000, thereafter on 26-28.2.2001-till which time no one appeared. Finally on 8.4.2001, recording of Mukund Pathak'sevidence was started; and a proposal to launch prosecution against Rajiv Pathak for non-appearance was mooted; a directive to RIL was sent on 25.8.2000, calling for informations the reply thereto was scrutinised; a final report Was sent to the Special Director Enforcement, Mumbai on 5.7.2001 for consideration and issue of show cause notice. Thereafter there has been no progress report.Thus in nearly 10 years, the stage of issue of show cause notice has only been reached in the last approximately two years. B. FINANCIAL SCAMS BEING INVESTIGATED BY C.B.I. 1. Conspiracy of purchase of RIL shares of Rs.944 crores on private placement to UTI etc at inflated prices; and also acceptance of RIL duplicate shares already
 Mr.Y.P.Singh, an officer of the CBI produced a 40 page report and sought permission from the Finance Ministry to proceed further in the matter. He was transferred
 This Hon'ble Court commenced looking into the matter only on 24.8.2001, where after the CBI was directed to product the file re: the self contained note dated 24.9.1996 to which reference was made in the CBI's affidavit dated 16.5.2000 (This affidavit

 

 
 
 
 sold to others
 out of the CBI and the investigation was out on hold.
 adverted to the fact that the CBI had closed the file only on the direction of the Finance Ministry. The file was produced on 20.9.2001 in a sealed cover their Lordship, after perusal, observed that it did not appear to contain any direction for closure of the case. Hence it is submitted that this Hon'ble Court must monitor further investigation/follow up of Mr.Y.P.Singh's report. C. OTHERS. 1.Between April 1990 and October 1995, RIL was alleged to have altered 70.30 lakh share transfer deeds, rendering them defective and incapable of being acted upon for effecting transfer
 In 1996, 29 criminal cases were filed by the Registrar of Companies Maharashtra. Summons were issued on 13.7.1996 by the Addl. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Mumbai against Dhirubhai Ambani, his two sons and six others. No progress has been made thereafter.
 This Hon'ble Court has not yet looked into the matter and the same appears to have not progressed further. 5. The submission of the petitioner was that the
alleged commission of irregularities in the aforesaid
case was almost admitted even by the respondents in
their counter affidavits on the basis of which they had
investigated the matter and initiated proceedings.
However, the petitioner was at pains to point out that
the investigation and/or prosecution in all these cases
were going at snail's pace and in fact it was only
after the progress was monitored by this court and
orders were passed from time to time in this behalf,
that the respondents speeded up the investigation and
filing of charge-sheet in the court of law. Therefore,
his submission was that the court should continue to
monitor the progress of the cases. 6. On behalf of the CBI, Mr. K.N. Bhatt, learned
senior counsel had made the submissions. The CBI
investigation relates to the issue of purchase of
shares of RIL by the Unit Trust of India, and
therefore, would be dealt with at appropriate stage
when the said issue is being discussed. 7. Mr. Vikas Mehta, Advocate appeared for the
Enforcement Directorate and referring to the various
affidavits including the last affidavit filed on 9th
August, 2001 stressed about the progress being made in
the investigations relating to various cases on the
basis of which he submitted that since the Enforcement
Directorate was itself looking into the matter, no
directions need be given nor any monitoring was
required by the court. 8. Mr. Ashok H. Desai, learned senior counsel
appeared for the RIL. With vehemence he opposed the
present writ petition contending that it was a
politically motivated petition filed by the petitioner
who had leveled reckless and malicious allegations.
These allegations were not only aimed at the officials
of RIL and officers of some of the Government
Undertakings, infact the petitioner had not even spared
the PMO, Union Home Minister, former Chief Minister,
Delhi and other such highly placed persons who were not
even made parties in their personal capacity in the
writ petition. Referring to such allegations against
these high dignitaries in the writ petition. Mr. Desai
submitted that sheer motive of the petitioner was to
malign these persons and it was enough to expose the
motives behind such a petition which was in fact not a
petition in public interest. He also argued that as
per the petitioner's own showing in all five cases
pointed out by the petitioner either the charge-sheet
had been filed I the court or conscious decision taken
not to take particular action or show cause notices had
been issued. In such circumstances, according to the
learned senior counsel, it was not appropriate for this
court to give any directions at this stage as the court
was not to issue such directions when the matter was
pending investigation by the police or when the matter
was pending before the appropriate court after the
charge-sheet had been filed. To sum up, his submission
was as under: 9. In respect of aforesaid propositions, strong
reliance was placed on the following judgments: 2. Abhinandan Jha and Ors. v. Dinesh Mishra . 3. Director, Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. v. 'Niyamavedi ' represented by its Member K. Nandini, Adv. and Ors., 
 "...The Division Bench, therefore, should
have refrained from disclosing in its
order, material contained in these
diaries and statements, especially when
the investigation in the very case was in
progress. It should also have refrained
from making any comments on the manner in
which investigation was being conducted
by the CBI, looking to the fact that the
investigation was far from complete. Any
observations which may amount to
interference in the investigation,
should not be made. Ordinarily the Court
should refrain from interfering at a
premature stage of the investigation as
that may derail the investigation and
demoralize the investigation. Of late,
the tendency to interfere in the
investigation is on the increase and
courts should be wary of its possible
consequences. We say no more. However,
we clarify that certain directions given
to the Director or CBI in regard to the
investigation matters do not meet with
our approval and may be ignored. In
short the adverse comments against the
CBI were, to say the least, premature and
could have been avoided. Ignoring the
innuendoes the court was, however, right
in expressing a general view that the
investigation agency is expected to act
in an efficient and vigilant manner
without being pressurized and in
dismissing the appeal." 4. Vineet Narian and Ors. v. Union of India and Anr. . 5. Anukul Chandra Pradhan v. Union of India and Ors. . 6. Union of India and Ors. v. Sushil Kumar Modi and Ors. . d) His further submission was that even in a
case where no action was taken by the police, the
appropriate remedy of the complainant was to file a
complaint under Section 220 of Cr.P.C. before the
Magistrate having jurisdiction to take cognizance of
the offences and the complainant was not entitled to
approach the High Court by filing a writ petition
seeking a direction to conduct an investigation by the
CBI. In support of this submission, he relied upon the
judgment in the case of All India Institute of Medical
Sciences Employees' Union (Regd.) through its President
v. Union of India and Ors. . e) Further submission of Mr. Desai was that the
petitioner had based his petition on news items
appearing in various news items and this court should
not take cognizance of any such news item as per which
well established principle of law. In support of this
proposition, reliance was place on the judgment of the
Apex Court in the case of Samant N. Balakrishna etc.
v. George Fernandez and Ors. (Para 47). 10. He also relied upon the judgment of the
Supreme Court in the case of Laxmi Raj Shetty and Anr.
v. State of Tamil Nadu and particularly the following observations of the
court: f) Another preliminary submission of Mr. Desai
was that the writ petition itself was barred by
principles of res judicata. In the aid of this
contention, the learned senior counsel pressed into
service the order dated 5th October, 1999 passed by
this court in CWP No. 337/99 dismissing the said writ
petition which was also in the nature of Public
Interest Litigation and issue of purchase of shares by
the Unit Trust of India was involved in that case as
well. 11. Apart from the aforesaid objections taken to
the maintainability of the writ petition, the learned
senior counsel also referred to the progress in each
case on the basis of which it was argued that the writ
petition be given quietus without passing any further
directions thereon inasmuch as issues were seized of by
the competent authorities and were getting appropriate
attention at the levels of such authorities. 12. While we have extracted above the portions
from the aforesaid judgments as highlighted by learned
counsel, it would also be opportune to reproduce from
some of these judgments other relevant excerpts: 2. Vineet Narain and Ors. v. Union of India and Anr. . 3. Union of India and Ors. v. Sushil Kumar Modi and Ors. . 13. These are the principles laid down by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in various judgments dealing with
ambit and scope of the writ petitions filed in public
interest. We have to obviously deal with the present
writ petition keeping in view the aforesaid principles. 14. Keeping in view the aforesaid guide-lines in
mind as laid down by the Supreme Court, it is now stage
to examine the issues raised by the petitioner. I. RE: ECB Proceeds: 15. Admittedly the entire amount of ECB proceeds
including interest accrued thereon stand repatriated to
this country. As per the petitioner, the total amount
is 1302.57 million US dollars and 173.02 million
pounds. The grievance of the petitioner which now
remains is that no action has been taken so far as to
penalize the erring persons for stupendous infraction
of the provisions of the FERA. He referred to the
Minutes of Eights High Level Committee Meeting of
monitoring of offences for the financial year 1998-99
held on 17th February, 1999 wherein the proposal of RIL
for pre-payment of their outstanding ECBs by utilizing
ECB proceeds parked abroad was discussed. As per these
minutes it was admitted that the ECB proceeds were
being parked abroad and that request of RIL for
retention of these proceeds abroad had been rejected by
the Reserve Bank of India vide its letter dated 30th
November, 1998 as the company had not brought proceeds
of the said ECB into the country even after the expiry
of stipulated period of thirty days allowed to them by
the Reserve Bank of India from 30th November, 1998.
These minutes also disclose that the ECB had not been
utilized for the intended end-use, which was
pre-requisite for withholding tax exemption and
therefore the RIL would not be entitled for withholding
tax exemption under the Income Tax Act, 1961 . The
minutes also disclose that non-compliance of the
provisions of the extant ECB/RBI guide-lines could also
have implication in terms of FERA and the Reserve Bank
of India was asked to take appropriate action in this
regard. It was submitted that inspite of this the
Reserve Bank of India had opined on 23rd April, 2001
that the irregularities committed by the RIL may not be
construed as warranting any action under FERA or FEMA. 16. It may be mentioned that in the additional
affidavit dated 20th April. 2001 sworn by
Mr. V.K. Aggarwal, Assistant Director in the office of
Enforcement Directorate, this issue is dealt with by
stating as under: It is respectfully submitted that all
necessary steps are being taken by the
answering respondent to complete the
investigation and ensure that necessary
action in law is taken at the earliest
possible." 17. Thereafter, another additional affidavit dated
6th July, 2001 sworn by the same official was filed
updating the position in the following manner: 18. Yet another affidavit dated 9th August, 2001
was filed by Mr. P.K. Bharti, Assistant Director,
Enforcement Directorate which carriers the matter
further in the following manner: 19. The stand taken in these affidavits would show
that notwithstanding Reserve Bank of India's opinion
dated 23rd April, 2001 the matter is receiving adequate
attention at the hands of the Enforcement Directorate.
However, the last affidavit was dated 9th August, 2001
as per which the matter was under scrutiny. Therefore,
the only direction which can be given at this stage is
that the Enforcement Directorate should complete the
investigation without any further delay inasmuch as
sufficient time has already elapsed in the matter. The
enforcement Directorate is therefore to take final view
in the matter within a period of two months from the
date of receipt of copy of this order. II. RE: Import of Purified Terepthallc Acid
worth about Rs. 180 crores: 20. However, as far as alleged involvement of five
banks is concerned, as per the affidavit dated 9th 
August, 2001 of Mr. P.K. Bharti, Assistant Director, the
investigation had started way back in April, 1996 on
the basis of inquiry report received from the CBI
regarding ante-dating of letters of credit opened for
import of PTA during the last week of May, 1985 and the
matter is at show cause stage except in the case of
State Bank of India where the Directorate is of the
opinion that no further investigation is required as
the letter of credit has been calcelled unutilised.
The grievance of the petitioner is therefore justified
to the extent that the matter is not proceeding with
the pace it is expected in such a case. The alleged
irregularity is of May, 1985. The CBI gave report

almost 11 years thereafter, i.e., in April, 1996. It
is almost six years when the investigation started
thereafter and 17 years have passed since the
commission of alleged irregularity. Therefore,
abnormal delay has taken place and even as of today in
some cases only show cause notices had been issued and 
in some cases the matter is pending consideration for
issuance of show cause notices. Many times delayed
action may be fatal for so many reasons and it would
not be appropriate at this stage to spell out the same.
Suffice is to state that the matter requires immediate
decision and appropriate action for prosecuting the
erring officials if the Enforcement Directorate is
convinced about the involvement of some of the Banks so
far and their officials in the alleged offences. The
Enforcement Directorate is accordingly directed to
complete the process within two months from the date of
receipt of copy of this order. III. RE: 1993 Export of Masur Dal in
Substitution of P.O. Yarn: 21. Here again, admittedly the criminal cases are
pending in the competent court of law at Mumbai and the 
grievance of the petitioner now is against tardy
progress of the cases. Therefore, it would not be
appropriate to issue any directions in a pending matter

that too in a petition under Article 226 of the 
Constitution of India and further when the matter is
pending before the MM, Mumbai. IV. RE: Purchase of RIL shares of Rs. 944
crores by UTI: 22. The complaint of the petitioner is that there
was a conspiracy in purchase of RIL's shares of Rs. 944
crores by the Unit Trust of India as these shares were
purchased at inflated rates. 23. In its reply filed by the CBI, the position in
respect to the aforesaid purchase is given in the
following manner: 24. This court had summoned the file of CBI in
respect of self contained note dated 24th September,
1996 to which reference has been made by the CBI in the
aforesaid reply dated 16th May, 2000. It was directed
that file be produced in a sealed cover. On the next
date i.e. 20th September, 2001 the file was produced
before the court. The CBI was directed to submit the 
status report on the aspects highlighted in court's
order dated 24th August, 2001 regarding the self
contained note dated 24the May, 1996. A perusal thereof
thereof reveals that the matter was examined by the CBI
and in the process the report/views of the Chief
Vigilance Officer, Ministry of Finance, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Law, Justice and Company
Affairs, SEBI, Director, Department of Company Affairs
were also taken and ultimately the CBI opined that its
intervention was not considered necessary. 25. At this stage, it may also be mentioned that
Mr. Ashok H. Desai, learned senior counsel appearing for
the RIL submitted that CWP No. 337/99 which was also a
petition filed in public interest for enquiry into the
working of the Unit Trust of India was dismissed by
this court vide order dated 5th October, 1999 and he
relied upon the following observations made in the said
order: 26. Mr. Desai also referred to that portion of the
affidavit filed on behalf of RIL wherein the position
in respect of purchase of these shares of RIL to
financial institutions including the Unit Trust of
India has been explained. It was submitted that the
shares were allotted in accordance with the then
prevailing guide-lines issued by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (SEBI). The shares when sold
at the relevant time the prevailing rate was Rs. 385/-
per share. It was submitted that the value of those
shares, after the purchase, had doubled and the Unit
Trust of India had made huge profits in the process.
The share market being volatile and fluctuating, there
could not be any guarantee to the effect that the
prices of the share would remain firm or would always
have upward trend only. The lock-in period was as per
the SEBI norms. Therefore, at the time when the
purchase was made it was in normal course of business
and there was nothing wrong with the same. 27. Keeping in view the aforesaid aspects coupled
with the fact that the matter has been examined by the 
CBI as well as the Ministry of Finance and after such
detailed examination the authorities have decided to
close the matter, we don not deem it appropriate in the
facts and circumstances of the case to order any
further investigation. This is more so when a petition
raising similar question i.e. CWP No. 337/99 has also
been dismissed by this court earlier. V. RE: Alleged alteration of Rs. 70.30 lacs
share transfer deeds by RIL rendering
them defective: 28. As per the statement produced by the 
petitioner himself, these allegations are subject
matter of 29 criminal cases which are filed by the
Registrar of Companies, Maharashtra. The cases are
pending before the Additional Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate, Mumbai. Therefore, for the reasons stated
above, in respect of other such cases pending before
the court of Metropolitan Magistrate, Mumbai, it would
not be appropriate to pass any further directions in
this writ petition. 29. Before parting with, we may point out that the
learned senior counsel for the RIL had raised the
question of territorial jurisdiction of this court as
well on the ground that almost all the irregularities
were allegedly committed in Mumbai, most of the parties
were in Mumbai, investigations had taken place by the
authorities in Mumbai and even where the cases were
filed, the same were filed in Mumbai. There may be
substance in the plea raised by the learned senior
counsel. However, since this writ petition has been
pending in this court since 1999 and as the court had
taken cognizance of this writ petition and passed
various orders from time to time and the matter was
finally heard at length, it was appropriate to deal
with the writ petition on merits. It is clarified that
 merely because the writ petition is entertained, it is 
not to suggest that we have decided the question of
territorial jurisdiction of this court. 30. The writ petition stands disposed of without
any order as to costs.