SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. The present application under Section 439 read with Section
 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' Cr.P.C '), read with Section 31 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
 2012 (' POCSO Act '), has been filed on behalf of the applicant,
 seeking grant of regular bail in the case arising out of FIR bearing
 No. 0035/2023, dated 16.01.2023, Police Station Saket, Delhi
 registered under Sections 384 / 506 / 201 / 341 of the Indian Penal Code,
 1860 (' IPC '), currently pending in the Court of learned Additional
 Sessions Judge (SC-POCSO), South, Saket Court, New Delhi. 2. Brief facts of the case are that, when the complainant, who is
 the mother of the victim, had reached Court No. 605 in Saket Courts,
 Delhi, for attending some other Court matter, she had met one person
 who had disclosed his name as Suraj Bhatt i.e. the present applicant.
 He had started talking to the complainant and had told her that he was
 working as a munshi of a High Court Judge and he was also from
 Uttarakhand. He had allegedly assured her that he would help her in
 getting maximum punishment to the accused Firoj in their other
 criminal case pending in a Court in District Saket, but for that, he
 would need some videos of her minor daughter 'P', who was aged
 about 17 years. He had also assured her to get her maximum
 compensation from the Court. Thereafter, on 13.01.2023, when the
 complainant had gone for work, the applicant Suraj Bhatt had called
 her daughter i.e. the victim and had asked her to prepare her nude
 videos and send to him. Thereafter, the victim had sent him a video
 of herself as per his instructions. The applicant had however told the
 victim that this video was not sufficient, and two more videos of
 about 15-15 minutes be sent to him for showing them to the Judge
 Sahab in the High Court. Accordingly, the victim had again sent him
 two videos of herself. After some time, the complainant had come
 back home and had seen the videos and had instantly deleted the
 same. 3. The applicant/accused had again called the complainant and
 had told her that the said Judge Sahab was putting pressure on him as
 to why video had been received. He had again made a phone call to
 her at 8 pm and had asked for two other videos of five minutes each, Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3812/2023 Page 2 of 8 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:23.12.2023 15:39:46 however the complainant had asked the victim not to make any
 further video. The applicant had then told that the said videos would
 be shared between him and the Judge Sahab only. Thereafter, on the
 next day i.e. 14.01.2023, the applicant had made 32 videos and some
 photographs from said 03 videos, and upon being asked as to why he
 was doing so, the applicant had told the complainant that the said
 videos would be only shown to the Judge Sahab. The complainant
 had requested the applicant to delete the videos, however, he had
 denied to do the same. He had also started threatening that he would
 upload all the videos on social media if they did not pay Rs. 25,000/-
 to him. Thereafter, the complainant had narrated the entire incident to
 her advocate and a complaint regarding this was filed at Police
 Station Saket, on the basis of which the present FIR was registered. 4. During investigation, accused persons namely Harish Chander
 @ Suraj Bhatt i.e. applicant herein and co-accused Karan, were
 arrested. On 26.01.2023, during investigation, mobile phones of the
 accused persons were seized, and it was revealed that they had
 formatted their mobile phones to intentionally destroy the evidence.
 It was also revealed that co-accused Karan had called the
 complainant and had threatened her that a case could be registered
 against her as the videos were sent by the victim and he had also
 introduced himself as a Cyber-Crime Officer, and had told her that
 the videos had been received in his office. Further, during
 investigation, it transpired that the co-accused Karan was trying to
 put pressure on the complainant, so that she would give money to
 him and his father i.e. applicant herein. Co-Accused Karan had also Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3812/2023 Page 3 of 8 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:23.12.2023 15:39:46 disclosed that he had all the nude videos which were received from
 someone else. The complainant had requested him to delete the
 videos, and that she had already got a case registered in this regard.
 When the accused had come to know that a case has been registered
 against them, both the accused persons had formatted their mobile
 phones with intention to destroy evidence. Charge-sheet was filed in
 this case under Sections 384 / 506 / 201 / 341 of IPC. FSL Report was
 obtained, and was also filed in the Court. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant/accused argues that in this
 case, the videos in question have been sent by the mother of the
 victim herself, and that the accused is innocent, and has been falsely
 implicated in the present case. It is also argued that the mother of the
 victim had herself recorded the nude videos of her daughter on the
 assurance of the applicant to allegedly show them to the Judge,
 subsequent to which the complainant was assured that a
 compensation of Rs. 2,50,000/- would be awarded to her daughter. It
 is also argued that the complainant/mother had herself convinced her
 daughter, who is the victim, to make nude videos of herself, and to
 forward them to the accused herein, with the motive of earning easy
 money, under the garb of getting compensation. It is argued that
 getting money was the sole motive behind the entire incident. It is
 further argued by the learned counsel for the accused that it is
 unlikely that after few minutes of meeting an absolute stranger, i.e.
 the accused, the complainant had decided to record nude videos of
 her daughter and to forward them to him. It is argued that a case
 should be registered against the mother of the victim, for the said Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3812/2023 Page 4 of 8 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:23.12.2023 15:39:46 acts; and she should be arrested. It is also stated that there is a delay
 of 02 days in informing the police about the threats allegedly
 received from the applicant. It is stated that the complainant/mother
 of victim is a gold-digger, and had used her minor daughter to extort
 money. It is further stated that charge-sheet has already been filed in
 the present case, and the accused is not required for further
 investigation or custodial interrogation, and therefore, he be granted
 bail. 6. Learned APP appearing on behalf of the State, on the other
 hand, argues that the allegations in the present case are of serious
 nature, and that the accused has been threatening the family of the
 victim. It is further argued that the accused had allured and assured
 the victim and her mother that he would get them compensation for a
 case pending trial, and had misused the name of the High Court, and
 had thus brought disrepute to the judicial system. It is further argued
 that he had procured the nude videos of the victim, and had started
 blackmailing her and demanding money. It is also argued that the
 victim in her statement recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. had
 disclosed that the applicant had made her talk to 'Judge Sahab' on a
 conference call after which the applicant had asked the victim to
 prepare two nude videos of 15 minutes each and had also told her
 how to prepare such videos. It is, therefore, prayed that the present
 bail application be rejected. 7. This Court has heard arguments addressed by both the parties,
 and has gone through the material placed on record. 8. In the present case, this Court is of the opinion that a perusal of
 the statement of the victim, under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., reveals that
 the accused herein had introduced himself, to the complainant/mother
 and the victim, as a munshi of a Judge of the High Court of Delhi;
 and that he could get their work done i.e. get them compensation by
 asking the Judge with whom he was attached. Thereafter, he had
 insisted on procuring the nude videos of the victim, on the pretext of
 showing them to the Judge Sahab. victim in her statement recorded
 under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. The victim had also disclosed that the
 applicant had made her talk to 'Judge Sahab' on a conference call
 after which the applicant had asked the victim to prepare two nude
 videos of 15 minutes each and had also told her how to prepare such
 videos. Later on, he had started blackmailing the complainant and
 had demanded Rs. 25,000/-, for deleting the videos. He had also
 threatened them, that in case he will not be paid money, he will post
 the said videos on social media, and send these to High Court and
 Supreme Court. He had kept on continuously sending the videos and
 photographs to the family members of the victim, and had also
 threatened them with dire consequences. 9. A perusal of the FSL report reveals that though the mobile
 phone which was used for the commission of offence had been
 formatted, the phone had been sent for cyber forensic analysis
 and the Cyber Forensic Division of Forensic Science Laboratory,
 Delhi has given a finding that obscene images and video files
 were retrieved from the mobile phone in question belonging to
 the present accused. Thus, thanks to the advanced technology, Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3812/2023 Page 6 of 8 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:23.12.2023 15:39:46 that the investigation revealed the prima facie truth of statement
 of the victim. The detailed forensic report is not being reproduced or
 discussed in the present order, lest it affects the trial of the case, at a
 later stage. 10. Moreover, in the facts and circumstances of the case, it is
 unlikely that the mother of the victim would herself prepare the nude
 photographs of her daughter. Further, in light of the specific
 allegation that the accused herein had misrepresented to the victim
 that he was making her speak to a High Court Judge, and that he was
 working with a High Court Judge, who will ensure that compensation
 is granted in a pending case before a District Court when the videos
 will be sent to the Judge, are in themselves grave and serious
 allegations, which undoubtedly bring the judicial system into
 disrepute. It also reflects how unassuming or illiterate persons are
 allured in the name of the Judges for blackmailing and for
 commission of offences, as the present one. 11. This Court also notes that in case the present case was not
 registered or the truth was not brought out through police
 investigation and FSL report, the accused herein would have
 succeeded in giving an impression that the judicial system was
 indulging in such abhorring acts. The judicial system or the name
 of any judge or judicial officer used by unscrupulous persons brings
 disrepute to the system which cannot be allowed at any cost. This
 case and order would also serve as a reminder that general public
 should not believe unscrupulous persons and give them money,
 even if they are assured that they will get some work done from Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3812/2023 Page 7 of 8 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:23.12.2023 15:39:46 within the judicial system by such payment. Such persons and
 such acts are a threat to the judicial system which shake the faith
 of the community in the judicial system. The justice delivery
 system has to be stubbornly safeguarded from such acts and
 persons. 12. Considering the overall facts and circumstances of the case, the
 conduct of the accused, and the fact that charges are yet to be framed
 and the victim is yet to be examined, no ground for grant of bail is
 made out at this stage. 13. Accordingly, the present bail application is dismissed. 14. It is however clarified that the observations made hereinabove
 shall not be construed as expression of opinion of this Court on the
 merits of the case. 15. The judgment be uploaded on the website of this Court
 forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 DECEMBER 06, 2023/at Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3812/2023 Page 8 of 8 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:23.12.2023 15:39:46