1. By way of the present petition, the petitioner is seeking regular

bail in FIR No.75 dated 16.03.2025, under Sections 308(5), 351(3), 111(2) (a), 61(2) of BNS, registered at Police Station Naraingarh, District Ambala. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the allegation

against the present petitioner is that he sent a photo of shop of the

complainant and a video of house of complainant to the co-accused who

extended threat and extortion calls to the complainant and demanded Rs.1

crore. After the arrest of the present petitioner, his phone was taken into

police possession and as per report filed today before this Court, the

allegation is not supported by documentary evidence; present petitioner is in

custody since 06.03.2025 i.e more than nine months; having clear

antecedents and not involved in any criminal activity, therefore, prayer for

grant of regular bail to the petitioner is made. 3. On the other, learned State counsel, placed on record report of

CFSL and custody certificate of the present petitioner and opposed the

petition on the ground that he is a member of gang which is involved in

extortion. Present petitioner helped the co-accused by sending video of the

 1 of 2 ::: Downloaded on - 20-12-2025 14:44:45 ::: CRM-M-43235-2025 2 house as well as picture of shop of the complainant. Hence, prayed for

dismissal of the petition. 4. Heard. 5. Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the present

case; the allegation against the present petitioner is only to the extent that he

sent a video of the house and picture of shop of complainant to the

extortionist; present petitioner is in custody for the last more than nine

months; investigation qua him is already complete and challan has already

been presented; trial will take sufficient time to conclude; as per the custody

certificate he is not involved in any other criminal activity; perusal of reply

also shows that he is not involved in any criminal activity and stated to be a

first time offender; no fruitful purpose would be served by keeping him in

custody for any further period as concession of bail cannot be denied just as

measure of punishment as culpability of the accused will be decided at the

final stage by the trial Court after appreciating the evidences adduced by

both sides and it is trite principle of criminal jurisprudence that bail is rule,

jail is an exception, this Court deems it a fit case to grant the concession of

regular bail to the petitioner. 6. Therefore, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the

case, the instant petition is allowed. The petitioner is ordered to be released

on regular bail on his furnishing requisite bonds to the satisfaction of the

trial Court/Duty Magistrate/Chief Judicial Magistrate concerned.