This order will dispose of the aforesaid petitions as the same
arise out of common FIR. Prayer in the petitions is for grant of regular bail to the
petitioners who are accused in FIR No. 39 dated 29.4.2010, registered under Sections 148 , 149 , 332 , 353 , 186 , 436 , 511 , 341 IPC and Sections 3 / 4 of
Prevention of Damages to Public Property Act, 1984, at Police Station
Rajound, District Kaithal. Briefly, the facts of the case are that on 29.4.2010, the
complainant along with other police officials had gone to village Kithana
for conducting an enquiry into the death of one Kaptan son of Suresh. As
the people were frustrated due to the sad demise of Kaptan with the
presumption that the police was not taking action and were in the process of
creating law and order problem, the police party was present on Bus Adda
Kithana in order to maintain law and order situation. In the meantime, 40-50 persons came from Chahal Patti Gali,
armed with lathies, Jaili, and stated that road shall be blocked and then only
the administration will hear us. Some of them were identified and named in
 Criminal Misc. -M No. 32015 of 2011 (2)

the FIR, however, names of some of them cropped up during investigation.
All of them blocked the main Jind-Kaithal road in front of the mandir at
2.00 p.m. Kulbir alias Kallu son of Satbir, Rajmal son of Manga, Ajmer son
of Miya Singh, etc. started deflating the tyres of the jammed vehicles. The
complainant along with other police officials tried to pacify the said
persons, but they refused to do so. The road remained blocked for about three hours. Kulbir alias
Kallu son of Satbir, etc. who were leading the mob stated that the glasses of
the Government buses should be broken and the police post of Kithana be
put on fire. These persons started going to the police post of Kithana. They
had broken the glasses of Bus Nos. HR-56/2970, HR-56/4332 of Jind Depot
with bricks, dandas, lathies, etc. The said persons climbed on the roof of
police post Kithana and put parali (Paddy husk) there and put the same on
fire. They started throwing stones and bricks on the police personnel also.
Tear gas shells had to be used by the police party to disperse the crowd from
the spot. With the aforesaid allegations, the present case has been registered
against the present petitioners and their co-accused. Learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that the
petitioners have been falsely implicated in the present case. On coming to
know about the aforesaid case registered against them, they themselves
surrenderd before the court of Illaqa Magistrate on 6.4.2011. The petitioners
are law abiding citizens and have been languishing in judicial custody for
the last about six months. As trial is going to take some time, the petitioners
be released on bail. After hearing learned counsel for the petitioners and perusing
the paper-book, in my opinion, it is not a case for grant of regular bail to the
petitioners at this stage. The kind of incident in which the petitioners are
involved needs to be dealt with stern hands. It has become a routine for
some people to take law in their own hands for any small incident. They
come on road and damage public or private property. In case there is some
death in any hospital, besides damaging the same, many a times even
doctors and the staff are also beaten up. Taking note of various instances where there was large scale
destruction of public and private property in the name of agitation, bandhs,
 Criminal Misc. -M No. 32015 of 2011 (3)

and the like, Hon'ble the Supreme Court initiated suo motu proceedings.
Two committees were appointed. One headed by Retired Judge of Hon'ble
the Supreme Court and one headed by Mr. F. S. Nariman, a senior member
of the Bar. The report given by Justice K. T. Thomas, which form part of
judgment of Hon'ble the Supreme Court reported as Destruction of Public &
Private Properties In Re. vs State of AP. and others 2009 (5) SCC 212, and
the recommendations of Hon'ble the Supreme Court thereon are extracted
below:- (ii) The PDPP Act to contain provision to make the
 leaders of the organization, which calls the direct
 action, guilty of abetment of the offence. (iii) The PDPP Act to contain a provision for
 rebuttable presumption. (iv) Enable the police officers to arrange
 videography of the activities damaging public
 property. 6. The recommendations have been made on the basis of
 the following conclusions after taking into consideration the
 materials. In respect of (i) 7. "According to this Committee the prosecution should be
 required to prove, first that public property has been damaged
 in a direct action called by an organization and that the accused
 also participated in such direct action. From that stage the
 burden can be shifted to the accused to prove his innocence.
 Hence we are of the view that in situations where prosecution
 succeeds in proving that public property has been damaged in
 direct actions in which accused also participated, the court
 Criminal Misc. -M No. 32015 of 2011 (4)

should be given the power to draw a presumption that the
accused is guilty of destroying public property and that it is
open to the accused to rebut such presumption. The PDPP Act may be amended to contain provisions to that effect.
In respect of (ii) 8. Next we considered how far the leaders of the
organizations can also be caught and brought to trial, when
public property is damaged in the direct actions called at the
behest of such organizations. Destruction of public property
has become so rampant during such direct actions called by
organizations. In almost all such cases the top leaders of such
organisations who really instigate such direct actions will keep
themselves in the background and only the ordinary or common
members or grass root level followers of the organisation
would directly participate in such direct actions and they alone
would be vulnerable to prosecution proceedings. In many such
cases, the leaders would really be the main offenders being the
abettors of the crime. If they are not caught in the dragnet and
allowed to be immune from prosecution proceedings, such
direct actions would continue unabated, if not further escalated,
and will remain a constant or recurring affair.
Of course, it is normally difficult to prove abetment of the
offence with the help of direct evidence. This flaw can be
remedied to a great extent by making an additional provision in PDPP Act to the effect that specified categories of leaders of
the organization which make the call for direct actions resulting
in damage to public property, shall be deemed to be guilty of
abetment of the offence. At the same time, no innocent person,
in spite of his being a leader of the organization shall be made
to suffer for the actions done by others. This requires the
inclusion of a safeguard to protect such innocent leaders."
In respect of (iii) 9. "After considering various aspects to this question we
decided to recommend that prosecutions should be required to
 Criminal Misc. -M No. 32015 of 2011 (5)

prove (i) that those accused were the leaders or office bearers
of the organisation which called out the direct actions and (ii)
that public property has been damaged in or during or in the
aftermath of such direct actions. At that stage of trial it should
be open to the court to draw a presumption against such
persons who are arraigned in the case that they have abetted the
commission of offence. However, the accused in such case
shall not be liable to conviction if he proves that (i) he was in
no way connected with the action called by his political party
or that (ii) he has taken all reasonable measures to prevent
causing damage to public property in the direct action called by
his organisation." In respect of (iv) 10. "The Committee considered other means of adducing
evidence for averting unmerited acquittals in trials involving
offences under PDPP Act . We felt that one of the areas to be
tapped is evidence through videography in addition to
contemporaneous material that may be available through the
media, such as electronic media. With the amendments brought
in the Evidence Act , through Act 21 of 2000 permitting
evidence collected through electronic devices as admissible in
evidence, we wish to recommend the following: The Committee felt that offenders arrested for damaging public
property shall be subjected to a still more stringent provision
for securing bail. The discretion of the court in granting bail to
such persons should be restricted to cases where the court feels
that there are reasonable grounds to presume that he is not
guilty of the offence. This is in tune with Section 437 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and certain other modern
Criminal Law statutes. So we recommend that Section 5 may
be amended for carrying out the above restriction.
Thus we are of the view that discretion to reduce the minimum
sentence on condition of recording special reasons need not be
diluted. But, instead of "reasons" the court should record
"special reasons" to reduce the minimum sentence prescribed.
However, we felt that apart from the penalty of imprisonment
the court should be empowered to impose a fine which is
 Criminal Misc. -M No. 32015 of 2011 (7)

 equivalent to the market value of the property damaged on the
 day of the incident. In default of payment of fine, the offender
 shall undergo imprisonment for a further period which shall be
 sufficient enough to deter him from opting in favour of the
 alternative imprisonment." In addition to the aforesaid directions on the basis of the
committee headed by Justice K. T. Thomas, Hon'ble the Supreme Court had
also directed for assessment of damages on account of destruction of public/
private property and recovery thereof. It was further directed by Hon'ble the
Supreme Court that the recommendations of K. T. Thomas and F. S.
Nariman committees, which have been approved by Hon'ble the Supreme
Court shall immediately become operative as guidelines. The incident in question is quite serious. Besides blocking the
road, damaging the public property as well as the private property, the
agitators in the present case had even put the police station on fire. Considering the seriousness of allegations, in my opinion, the
petitioners do not deserve the concession of bail at this stage. Accordingly,
both the petitions are dismissed. ( Rajesh Bindal )
11.11.2011 Judge
vs