1. These proceedings in
contempt have been initiated at the instance of the petitioner Sri Bijoyananda Patnaik, who is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Messrs. Eastern Mercantile Corporation, Ltd. Opposite Party 1 is the Editor of an Oriya newspaper called 'Matrubhumi' and opposite party

2 is its printer and publisher. On 14-6-1952 the business premises of the petitioner were searched by an Inspector of the Special Police Establishment, Government of India, Delhi, under a warrant issued by the Additional District Magistrate, Cuttack, for the recovery of certain documents and letters exchanged between the petitioners and some overseas suppliers, in respect of a license issued by the Government of India for the import of bicycles intended for internal consumption within Orissa State. On 21-6-52 the petitioner moved this Court in Original Judicial Case No. 18 of 1952 praying for the issue of a rule on the Additional District Magistrate and the Inspector, Special Police Establishment, to show cause why the search should not be declared illegal and why the order of the Additional District Magistrate refusing to grant him copies of the warrant should not be set aside. On 27-10-52 the Court granted one of the prayers of the applicant and directed that he should be granted copies of certain documents which were, in the possession of the Additional District Magistrate. The other prayer of the petitioner, however, namely, for a declaration that the search was illegal was rejected on 2-12-1952 by a Bench of this Court. 2. It is alleged that the opposite parties published certain articles in the daily and weekly issues of the Matrubhumi while proceedings were pending in this Court, vilifying the petitioner. These publications, it is contended, constitute gross contempt of Court. Altogether there were four articles published in the Matrubhumi two in the daily issues dated 17-6-52 and 13-8-52 and two in the weekly issues dated 21-7-52 and 1-9-52. The present petition was presented in Court on 24-10-52 and 20-12-52; this Court issued a rule nisi to show cause why the opposite parties should not be committed for contempt. These proceedings would, therefore, appear to be an off-shoot of Original judicial Case No. 18 of 1952 which had been filed by the petitioner and the impugned articles were published when the initiation of these proceedings was either imminent or pending in this Court. 3. The first article dated 17-6-52 appeared under the caption, in bold headlines, "Extensive searches in the town of Cuttack -- Dangerous fraud and Conspiracy about to be unearthed -- Thief's house does not remain dark always". Among other matters the article says: The article then contains several similar allegations to the effect that fifty bales of yarn were obtained for dyeing purposes although there is no dyeing factory. It is further alleged that "permits for maida were obtained from the central Government but that there was no trace of maida". The article concludes, with the statement that "the Central C. I. D. will systematically investigate every matter and would prefer charges against some persons". It will appear from these extracts that the writer has given currency to a number of rumours that the petitioner had obtained Import licenses for several articles valued at several crores of rupees although his bouse was searched only for the purpose of recovering an import license connected with bicycles. The article also alleges that the petitioner bad made illegal profits to the extent of lakhs of rupees by selling these import licenses in the black market to several persons outside Orissa State. It is further categorically asserted that there is no office known as Eastern Mercantile Corporation, at Tulshipur. 4. The second article, dated 21-7-52 appeared in the weekly edition of the Matrubhumi and purported to be the re-production of a statement published in another Oriya paper called 'Subrati". The headline is: The editorial note is as follows: 5. The third article published in the same is entitled: That article reads as follows: This article was published after the petitioner had filed O. J. C. 18/1952, and, as may be noticed, these publications called for the immediate arrest of the petitioner and alleged in no uncertain terms that the petitioner had been guilty of swindling and cheating and that he should be punished for corrupt activities. 6. The next article is dated 13-7-1952 and is a vitriolic attack on both Sri Mahatab and the petitioner and says: Here, again is what appears to be a definite assertion of fact that documents have been seized and that these documents showed that Rs. 50,000/- had been received by Sri Bijoyanand Patnaik through, a shady transaction. 7. The last article was published in the weekly Issue of the Mathrubhumi dated 1-9-1952 and is entitled "Investigation throughout India". The article is as follows: The article concludes with the following words: "Immediately on receipt of the sanction of the Home Minister they will arrest these bribe-givers and will keep them in Preventive Detention till the Preventive Detention Act receives the assent of the President". 8. The petitioner complains that these articles were intentionally published with a view to dissuade him from pursuing his legal remedy in Court and that they have had the tendency to prejudice his case pending before the Court. It is further contended that whether they actually created any prejudice or not the aricles have a tendency to prejudice him and his case and as such, constitute contempt of Court. 9. On behalf of the opposite parties it is contended that the publications had no connection with the cause pending in O.J.C. No. 18 of 1952 and as such these proceedings in contempt are not maintainable. Among other contentions raised on behalf of the opposite parties, it is said that the cause before the Court was not one which involved the taking of evidence and there can be no contempt of Court as such. It is also pointed out that since the petitioner has already started proceedings in libel and defamation against the opposite parties and the cause is pending trial this proceeding is not maintainable. At the hearing a new ground was taken and that is based on Article 19 (1) (a) & (2) of the Constitution. 10. I shall take up the last point first, as it relates to the maintainability of the present proceeding and is based upon the right to freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19. Clauses 1 (a) and (2) of Article 19 as amended by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951 , read as follows: ...... .... .. ...... .... .. .. (2) Nothing in Sub-clause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of any 'existing law' or prevent the State from making any law. in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause in the interests of the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality, or in relation to contempt of Court, defamation or incitement to an offence". The expression 'existing law' has been defined in Article 366 as meaning any law, ordinance, order,

bye-law, rule or regulation passed or made before
the commencement of this Constitution by any legislature, authority or person having the power to make such law, ordinance, or bye-law, rule or regulation. The opening words of the article provide that the expression "existing law" shall have the same meaning assigned to it in the Constitution unless the context otherwise requires. The interpretation clause in the Constitution, there- ' fore, should be read subject to the context, and if the context of a particular Article requires a different interpretation, the interpretation clause must be subordinated to it. In other words the interpretation of the expression "existing law" is not the same in every Article or clause of the Constitution and would depend upon the context. 11. The law relating to contempt of subordinate Courts is to be found in the Contempt of Courts Act (Act 12 of 1926 as amended by Act 12 of 1937). Section 2 of that Act says that the High Courts shall have, and exercise the same jurisdiction, power, and authority in respect of Contempts of Courts subordinate to them as they have and exercise in respect of contempt of themselves. There are other provisions relating to contempt of Court committed in the view or presence of civil, criminal, or revenue Courts, and they are to be found in the Civil Procedure Code, and the Indian Penal Code . But so far as contempt of the High Court is concerned, Article 215 makes an express provision for punishing contempt of itself. That Article says: It would thus appear that whatever meaning is attributed to the expression "existing law" occurring in Article 365 , the High Court as a Court of record has the inherent power to punish persons guilty of contempt of itself. This power can be traced to the earliest times since the establishment of the Supreme Courts and their successors, the High Courts, in India. That such a power is inherent in a Court of Record has been recognised from the earliest times in England and the test whether a Court is a Court of record or not, would depend upon whether it has the power to imprison and fine, whether for contempt of itself or for any other substantive offence. Courts of record are such as have been expressly made so by statute or implication of a statute, that is, by having the statutory power to fine and imprison -- See Halsbury Second Edition, Vol. 8, p. 527. Holdsworth mentions certain instances of proceedings taken to punish a neglect of public duty in the year 1330 -- See Holdsworth's History of English Law. Vol. Ill page 312. coke cited a case of Edward Ill's reign in which a person was punished for a writing which amounted to Contempt of Court. A Court whose record is incontrovertible is a Court of record. Sir Barnes Peacock defined the status and powers of a Court of record in India in -- Surendranath v. Chief Justice & Judges of the High Court', 10 Cal 109 (A) and observed; Thus, the High Court's Jurisdiction to punish for contempt has been inherited from the old Supreme Court which was invested with all the powers and authority of the Court of the King's Bench. The Supreme Court was declared a Court of record by the Charter of George III in 1774. The High Courts were created Courts of record by the several Letters Patent issued by the King-in-Council. By the Government of India Act, 1935 , all the High Courts were constituted Courts of Record and Article 215 of the Constitution declared the Supreme Court of India and the High Courts to be Courts of record. By the very nature of our Constitution it is necessary, for the administration of justice and protection of individuals, that these Courts should be able to punish summarily for acts of contempt; because, in the words of Blackstone, this power is an "inseparable attendant upon every superior tribunal". 12. The history of the superior Courts established in this Country from the earliest times would show that this jurisdiction was inherited from the King's Bench and was of a special character. The Court's power to punish every kind of misdemeanour was recognised as it was the guardian and protector of public justice -- the 'custos mo-rum'. Ordinarily misdemeanour was punishable by indictment or information, but when it amounted to contempt of Court it was punishable 'brevi manu' by attachment or commitment to prison. The Constitution expressly reserves these powers in Article 215 when it lays down that every High Court shall be a Court of record. It also provides that it shall have power to punish for contempt. This has been done in order to put an end to any possible argument regarding the nature of the powers of a High Court in this respect. I would, accordingly, overrule the preliminary objection raised on behalf of the opposite parties and would hold that Article 19 of the Constitution does not curtail the right of the High Court to deal with contempt of Court. 13. It is necessary, however, closely to examine whether the impugned articles constitute a contempt of Court as it has been seriously urged that the writings had no relation to the subject-matter of the petition pending before this Court; and secondly, to consider whether this Court shall exercise its extraordinary power to punish the offenders summarily. On a plain reading of the publications no reasonable man can have any doubt that they constituted a gross abuse of the petitioner who has been charged with having swindled public moneys, cheated the Government, and has further been described as a leader among blackmarketeers. Anyone reading these articles cannot but have a feeling of revulsion against the object of these attacks. It is also apparent that the writer of these articles knew that the petitioner had sought relief in this Court and had complained that the search of his house was not only illegal but that it amounted also to an abuse of the powers vested in the Police. These articles certainly do not make any reflection upon the Court or upon any Judge but in order to constitute contempt of Court it is not necessary that the Court or an individual Judge should be attacked. The very policy of the law is not that the Judges should be protected from attacks, but that the public should be protected from such attacks, so that they may have free access to the Courts

for relief. The reason of the rule is that the mind of the public should not be prejudiced against the parties who resort to the Court for a remedy, before their cause is finally heard, for the effect of such attacks may be to deter persons from coming forward for protection for wrongs committed against them, or to cause them to discontinue or compromise, or to deter persons with good causes of action from coming to Court. To constitute a contempt, adverse comment an a party need not refer to the subject-matter of pending proceedings. It is sufficient if it is clear that the comment tends to prejudice the trial of the action -- 'Higgins v. Richards', (1912) 28 T. L. R. 202 (B). It must, however, amount to contempt of Court and not mere libel on the parties. If the publications do not amount to an interference with the course of justice the party attacked may be left to protect himself by a regular criminal complaint. The view has lately been expressed by Maugham J. in -- 'In re Sir Robert Thomas, (1930) 2 Ch 363 (C)', that a trial Judge approaches the question of contempt somewhat differently from an appellate Judge. When a case is pending trial, a publication may influence the parties and their witnesses from giving evidence, but where the proceeding is pending before an appellate Court the publication may amount to contempt only in the rarest possible cases. The test, in all these cases, however, is not whether the publication does interfere, but whether it tends to interfere, with the due course of justice. It is also well settled that the summary jurisdiction vested in the Court should be sparingly exercised and the Court, discountenances applications for punishment of contempt where it is slight. These, , as I have been able to gather from the decisions, are the broad principles of the law relating to contempt of parties. 14. Learned counsel, however, attempted to introduce a distinction in favour of the Press and claimed that a writing in a newspaper is privileged and that it should not be made the subject of contempt proceedings. I am not aware of any such extraordinary privilege that can be claimed for the Press. In -- Charming Arnold v. King Emperor ', AIR 1914 PC 116 (D), their Lordships of the Privy Council laid down, in the clearest possible terms that: On the other hand, it would appear that the responsibility attaching to the Press is greater than the responsibility of an individual, for the Press has a larger audience and enjoys a circulation far larger than the utterance of an individual. It is true that a free Press is vital to democracy and that the freedom of the Press includes the right to criticise, even the right to criticise severely. But freedom of the Press should not degenerate into a license to attack litigants and close the door of justice. Nor can it include any unrestricted liberty to damage the reputation of respectably persons. If a journalist does not take reasonable care to ascertain the accuracy of facts which he broadcasts, or if he tortures facts and vilifies an Individual, he exceeds the limit of fair comment and becomes accountable to the law. The trial of a cause should be restricted only to the courts and no cause shall be permitted to be tried by newspapers. 15. In support of his contention learned counsel for the opposite parties drew our attention

to an American case reported in --'Pennekamp v. Florida', (1946) 328 US 331 (E). That was a case in which a journal published a cartoon showing a man in the robes of a Judge labelled "The Law". He was handing a scroll inscribed "Case dismissed", to a burly fellow who seemed well-pleased, and across, on the other side of the Bench, an under-sized man acting in the public interest was exclaiming "But Judge". The supreme Court observed, that - This case, I must say, is no authority for the very wide proposition that public comment in a newspaper can never amount to contempt of Court. It may also be pointed out that the inherent Jurisdiction of a Court of record to punish for contempt which is recognised by British jurisprudence and which is applicable to this country, has been questioned in certain cases under the American system. The American law on the subject has been well summarised in an article in the Yale Law Journal, Vol. 48, page 60, by Robert Hermann. The writer says: Again, the rule applies to all publications before, during, and after trial, since the theory of contempt is that, apart from the particular suit, the resulting loss of prestige diminishes the general usefulness of the Courts and obstructs the proper conduct of their proceedings. Most of the conflict, however, centres round the publication of matter, which, regardless of whether it is false or scandalous, has a reasonable tendency to prejudice and obstruct the orderly administration of Justice. There does not appear to be any substantial difference in the American law relating to contempt so far as attacks on parties to litigation are concerned. It is not necessary that the mind of the Judge should be affected. Any step calculated to pervert the course of justice would come within the rule and this includes any writing which has the consequence of prejudicing the mind of the public against the person concerned or the parties in a cause. The stream of justice must be kept clear and pure, so that the parties may proceed with safety, both to themselves and their characters. As Maugham observed in 'In re: Sir Robert Thomas (C)', quoted: On going through the authorities placed before me I am satisfied that the opposite parties freely indulged in vilification of the petitioner knowing fully well that he had come to this Court for relief, and the tendency of these articles could only be to prejudice the public against the petitioner. It would, therefore, follow that they do constitute contempt of Court by all recognised canons applied in the reported cases. To call upon the Police or the Courts to arrest the petitioner and not to grant him bail; to impute to him baseness & treachery; and to hold him up to ridicule before the public for alleged cheating & swindling, can, by no canons of the freedom of the Press, be justified. It is not a case of merely exceeding the limits of fair comment; and this Court does not concern itself with the propriety or the character of the language employed by the writer. In this case the writings are clearly such that no man of good taste can view them without a feeling of perturbation, though it should be recognised that that, again, is a matter to be judged by the reading public and not by the Court. But this Court cannot shut its eye to the fact that the litigant before it is entitled to protection from attack so long as his case awaits decision; and the Court will not hesitate to prevent any interference with the course of justice. Considered as a whole the articles doubtless constitute gross contempt of Court and the rule must be made absolute. 16. The question, however, that remains to be considered is whether this Court should take any action against the opposite parties by way of committal or fine. I have given my anxious consideration to the propriety of exercising the summary power of this Court which is, more or less, of an arbitrary character. The newspapers, particularly the vernacular newspapers, enjoy a large latitude in the matter of comments on public men and their public activities and the language employed by them is not always apt or dignified and is sometimes derisively referred to as 'journalese'. It should not be subjected to minute scrutiny and meticulous examination by the Courts with the precision that is to be expected of a piece of legislative enactment. I am also aware of the fact that journalism in this country is not lucrative and that those who take to the profession of journalism do so with the highest motive and the purest impulse to serve a public cause. The newspaper "Mathrubhumi" is a new venture and professes to present the other side of the picture as most of the older, well-established journals belong more or less to one school of thought and run with the current. The natural tendency of a new journal is to attract a large number of subscribers by resorting to a little sensationalism in the presenting and editing of news. I am not, therefore, disposed to take a harsh view of the publications as it is not the purpose of this Court to discourage publications made in the public interest. It must also be remembered that there is not the least danger of any Judge of this Court being influenced by the scurrilous writings appearing in the vernacular papers. I am certain that these writings would have gone unnoticed but for the fact that the petitioner has brought them up before the Court. While, therefore, I am satisfied that the opposite parties are guilty of contempt in making hostile animadversions on a litigant at a time when his cause was pending, the mischief in the instant case so far as it affects the proceedings

in this Court, has been trifling. It is, therefore, not necessary to invoke the extraordinary powers of this Court and visit the opposite parties with severe punishment. It would be enough, in my opinion, -- and I hope my learned brother will agree -- if we adopt a course which will have the effect of restraining their conduct in the future. I would, accordingly, while holding the opposite parties technically guilty of contempt, express the earnest hope that the public press will not indulge in writings of this character, and would warn newspapermen that it may become the duty of this Court to act in a more severe manner than it will in the present case. In making this order we have gone to the extreme of moderation and if, upon a future occasion a proceeding of this kind is repeated, the full power of this Court to restrain and prevent such proceedings by adequate and commensurate punishment will be exercised with a stern hand. We have been informed that the petitioner has also started a regular criminal case for alleged defamation and that case is still pending. Having regard to all the circumstances I am inclined to adopt the course taken by Jessel, M. B. in 'In re: Clements (1877) 46 LJ Ch 375 (P)' in which he made the following observations: I think every word of this passage applies to the present case. I would, therefore, express my extreme displeasure at the conduct of the opposite parties and warn them that a repetition of such conduct in the future will be dealt with severely. I would, therefore, make the rule absolute but would inflict no punishment beyond making the above observations. The opposite parties will however, pay the costs of the petitioner. Hearing fee Rs. 100/- (Rupees one hundred only). Mohapatra, J. 17. I agree.