Represented by: Ms. Rajdipa Behura, Spl. PP
 with Ms. Garima Singh Yadav,
 Adv. with IO Mr. Anil Rawat. CORAM: 3. Both learned senior counsels for the petitioners and learned Spl. PP for
the CBI submit that the said prayer was allowed after a Committee under the
chairmanship of Justice R.M. Lodha (Retd. Chief Justice of India) was
constituted to sell up the properties of the company involved in the above
noted FIR so that amounts could be disbursed to the investors. When the
investors started filing claims against the Committee, various civil suits and
petitions, the Hon'ble Supreme Court allowed prayer 'a' as noted above and
directed that no other Court except the Hon'ble Supreme Court can entertain
an application in terms of prayer 'a' noted above. The present petition
relates to trial of the petitioners pursuant to the above noted FIR and the
remedies available under the Code of Criminal Procedure during the course
of trial are not affected by the order of Hon'ble Supreme Court dated 2 nd
May, 2016. 4. Learned Senior counsels for the petitioners as a brief background of
the case submit that the company M/s Pearls General Finance Ltd. (in short Bail Appln. No.1707/2016 Page 2 of 16 'M/s PGF') was incorporated as a public Company, limited by shares on 19 th
January, 1983 which was later changed to M/s Pearls Green Forests Ltd. (in
short 'M/s PGFL'). The present FIR relates to M/s Pearl Agrotech
Corporation Ltd. (in short 'M/s PACL') which was initially incorporated as
M/s Gurwant Agrotech Ltd. on 13th February, 1996 and changed to M/s
PACL on 2nd April, 1996. In 1998, a public interest litigation was filed
before the Hon'ble Supreme Court alleging non-compliance of relevant
provisions while initiating collective investment scheme by the company.
Vide order dated 7th October, 1998 the Hon'ble Supreme Court restrained the
company from alienating its assets. Finally a retired Judge was appointed to
go into the irregularities of the company who submitted a final report on 20 th
September, 2002 stating that there was no violation committed in the
collective investment schemes run by M/s PGFL and M/s PACL. The
interim order was thus vacated on 3rd March, 2003. The proceedings were
also initiated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (in short
'SEBI'). Notices issued by SEBI were challenged before the Hon'ble High
Court of Rajasthan which quashed the same against which SEBI approached
the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Though SEBI sought for an interim order from
the Hon'ble Supreme Court that M/s PACL be restrained from further
collecting amounts from the investors however no stay was granted. Finally
the matter was remanded back to SEBI to inquire into whether M/s PACL
was running collective investment schemes or not. On 22 nd August, 2014
SEBI held that M/s PACL was running collective investment schemes and
directions were issued to M/s PACL to pay to the investors. Appeal filed by
M/s PACL to the Appellate Tribunal was dismissed and finally on 2 nd
February, 2016 the Hon'ble Supreme Court appointed a Committee under Bail Appln. No.1707/2016 Page 3 of 16 the chairmanship of Justice R.M. Lodha, retired Chief Justice of India to sell
the assets and pay the investors. Directors of the Company were directed to
assist the Committee. It is thus prayed that since the petitioners are required
to assist the Committee constituted by the Hon'ble Supreme Court for sale of
assets and repayment to the investors, the participation of the petitioners is
essential for which they should be granted bail. 5. Learned Senior Counsels for the petitioners further contend that after
the above noted FIR was registered on 19th February, 2014, all bank accounts
of the company were frozen on 22nd February, 2014 and title documents
were seized on 15th March, 2014. Thus, all the hard discs, documents etc.
which are required for the purpose of trial are already in the custody of CBI
and the petitioners are not required to participate in any further investigation.
Despite the fact that charge sheet had been filed, the bail application filed by
the petitioners was rejected by learned Additional Sessions Judge vide order
dated 18th April, 2016. Even prior to registration of the FIR and the
petitioners being taken into custody, the petitioners were called to join the
investigation for nearly 100 times and every time the petitioners participated
in the investigation. After the police custody remand was over, no further
interrogation was done from the petitioners and hence they are no more
required for custodial interrogation. Since all the documents and necessary
material have been collected by the CBI, there are no chances of tempering
with the evidence. Moreover, the petitioners were only employees of M/s
PACL and had no financial control thereon. 6. It is contended that the only ground on which the CBI opposes the bail
application is the gravity of offence however Hon'ble Supreme Court in its
various decisions has held that gravity of offence is not the only Bail Appln. No.1707/2016 Page 4 of 16 circumstance to be considered while granting bail and has granted bail even
in cases involving alleged fraud of huge amounts. Reliance is placed on the
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reported as ( 2012) 1 SCC 40 Sanjay
Chandra Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation and 2017 SCC OnLine SC 96
Manoranjana Sinh @ Gupta Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation . In respect
of allegations of the CBI that the petitioners are likely to influence the
witnesses, reliance is placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
reported as (2005) 8 SCC 21 State of U.P. Vs. Amarmani Tripathi wherein it
has been held that bail cannot be refused on the ground that witnesses are
likely to be influenced unless there is credible material with the prosecuting
agency and the CBI has failed to produce any credible material to show that
the petitioners have influenced the witnesses. 7. Learned counsel for the CBI has taken me through the salient portions
of the charge sheet. It is contended that the petitioners are not only
employees of M/s PACL, they had participated in the major decisions and
signed the relevant documents. Even documents where major funds have
been diverted to commission agents or other sisters concerns have been
signed by the petitioners. During the custody itself, the petitioners have
successfully transferred the funds of M/s PACL through the company called
PIPL to Gold Coast, Australia by selling a hotel of the company. During the
course of investigation it has been revealed that funds of more than ₹3400
crores obtained from the investors of M/s PACL were diverted to 638 sister
concerns and around 5500 properties were purchased. Further though the
investments were taken on the pretext that 36% money would be invested in
the properties sold to the investors and 64% in development of the properties
ostensibly sold to the investors, sale deeds executed in favour of the Bail Appln. No.1707/2016 Page 5 of 16 investors were mostly forged and fabricated. Purported sale deeds were
executed of the lands which were not owned by M/s PACL and were
Government lands of which M/s PACL was not the owner. Reliance is
placed by learned counsel for the CBI on the decisions reported as (1987) 2
SCC 364 State of Gujarat Vs. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal & Anr.,
( 2013)7SCC439 Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Vs. Central Bureau of
Investigation , ( 2013) 7 SCC 466 Nimmagadda Prasad Vs. Central Bureau of
Investigation , ( 2013) 7 SCC 452 Central Bureau of Investigation Vs. V.
Vijay Sai Reddy , 2015(1) JCC 451(SC) Neeru Yadav Vs. State of U.P., 2015
(2) JCC 1127 (SC) Vinod Bhandari Vs. State of M.P., 2012(3) JCC 2183
Sunil Grover Vs. State , 234 ( 2016) DLT 392 Sunil Dahiya Vs. State (Govt.
of NCT of Delhi ) and 2004 CrlLJ 2318 Jasdeep Singh Bains Vs. The State of
Union Territory of Chandigarh . It is thus prayed that no bail be granted to
the petitioners. 8. Allegations against the petitioners who are the two directors of M/s
PACL Ltd. have been crystallized in the charge sheet. In the charge sheet,
instances have been given of ostensible sale of properties and sale deeds so
executed have been found to be forged and fabricated. For example,
property in Village Akbarpur purportedly sold to the investors was found to
be Wakf property (Kabristan), meant for tube well, land of gram samaj and
chak road. Property allegedly sold at Village Hathupura was found to be
land of gram sabha and forest land. Further in majority of cases though the
land was stated to be allotted to the investors however no sale deeds were
executed. Thus, there was no transfer of ownership though 34% of the
amount taken from the investors was for the purpose of transferring
properties in their names. Though there was no sale of the land as per the Bail Appln. No.1707/2016 Page 6 of 16 Transfer of Property Act however fake entries were made in the accounts
books. Though in the books of accounts amounts were being shown for
development of land however the money was actually rotated in the various
sisters concerns on the basis of forged invoices and in reality no land was
developed. 10 intermediary companies were created for transfer of land
from M/s PGFL to M/s PACL namely Silverline Associates Pvt. Ltd., Delhi,
Maurya Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., Delhi, Panghat Properties Pvt. Ltd., Delhi,
Lakhpati Properties Pvt. Ltd., Delhi, Sunbright Realtors Pvt. Ltd., Mohali,
Spacecity Real Estates Pvt. Ltd., Mohali, Amber Realtors Pvt. Ltd., Mohali,
Smiling Star Real Estate Pvt. Ltd., Mohali, Shine Star Properties Pvt. Ltd.,
Chandigarh and Valley-Vista Realtors Pvt. Ltd., Mohali. Funds so collected
from the customers were utilized for making repurchase of the land
purportedly allotted to the customers whereas in fact no actual transfer of
land took place to the customers. There was on paper transfer of land from
above noted 10 intermediary companies of M/s PACL through unregistered
power of attorneys, agreement to sell etc. with no stamp duty paid. Further
16 intermediary companies were created by M/s PACL for the purpose of
repayment to its investors namely M/s Muurugan Realtors Pvt. Ltd.
(formerly known as M/s Thamirabarani Farm & Agricultural Development
Pvt. Ltd.), M/s Madras Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (formerly known as M/s
Thamirabarani Farm& Development Pvt. Ltd.), Aspen Farm Developers Pvt.
Ltd., Ivy Farm Developers Pvt. Ltd., Bhumika Farm Developers Pvt. Ltd.,
Tulika Farm Developers Pvt. Ltd., Budhi Pallien Realtors Pvt. Ltd., Gramin
Environment & Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., Gramin Colonisers & Construction
Pvt. Ltd., Kundalini Buildways Pvt. Ltd., Shashti Buildcon Pvt. Ltd.,
Swarnika Skyhi Promoters Pvt. Ltd., Varishsena Farming Construction Pvt. Ltd., Yavakrida Promoters Pvt. Ltd. and Yadavi Farming Construction Pvt.
Ltd. On the strength of sham documents, money was rotated amongst these
companies. As per M/s PACL Circular No.62/2010 dated 16th July, 2010
expected value of land at the end of agreement of various plans was
mentioned. Thus, if a customer invested ₹10,000/- in the company, he
would be allotted 200 sq. yard plot and after 10 years the expected value of
the land was shown as ₹37100/- irrespective of the place of land which was
highly improbable. By creating a pyramid structure, number of agents were
recruited as commission agents and over 23 lakhs commission agents were
enrolled and over more than 1700 agents were at the top level and high
commissions were paid to those agents. Thus, to mobilize funds from very
large number of people, marketing technique wherein collection agents
called commission agents with incentives was promoted resulting in
targeting a large number of gullible customers. Investigation also revealed
that funds of M/s PACL were diverted to M/s Pearls Astralasia Pty Ltd.
which was incorporated in September, 2009 and money of the investors was
invested in real estate in Australia by forming joint ventures. 9. As per the status report filed by CBI, during the course of
investigation, role of Gurmeet Singh, petitioner No.1 who was the Executive
Director-Finance of M/s PACL since 1st February, 2009 was revealed as
under- 10. Further as per the status report filed by CBI role of Subrata
Bhattacharya, petitioner No.2 Executive Director of M/s PACL since 1 st
February, 2009 was found to be as under:- 11. On investigation 5500 properties worth more than ₹3400 crores have
been found out and even during custody, efforts were made to sell the
properties in Australia which was purchased from the money of the
investors. Investigation has also revealed that Gurmeet Singh diverted more
than ₹11000 crores in the name of fictitious land development on the basis of
forged invoices. Further investigation qua the money trail is continuing. 12. The main argument addressed by learned senior counsels for the
petitioners is that entire allegations of the CBI show that being an offence of
serious nature, bail should not be granted, whereas in Sanjay Chandra (supra) Supreme Court noted that the statement of the witnesses ran into
seven hundred pages and the other documentary evidence was also too
voluminous, so the trial may take considerable time and the appellant therein
would have to remain in jail longer than the period of detention had they
been convicted, thus it was not in the interest of justice that they should be in
jail for indefinite period. In Sanjay Chandra (supra) the Supreme Court was
not dealing with a case of large number of investors rather the allegations
were in respect of criminal conspiracy between the accused in the year 2009
to get UAS license for providing telecom services to a company otherwise
ineligible to get UAS license. 13. Even in Manoranjana Sinh @ Gupta (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme
Court had taken into consideration various ailments, the appellant therein
was facing and also the fact that disclosure in the latest status report of the
CBI revealed that further confinement of the appellant therein in judicial
custody was not an indispensable necessity for the unhindered investigation
that was in progress. 14. In the decision reported as (1978) 1 SCC 118 Gurcharan Singh Vs.
State (Delhi Admn.) the Hon'ble Supreme Court laid down the guidelines
and the overriding consideration for grant of bail as under:- Unless exceptional circumstances are brought to the notice of the
 Court which may defeat proper investigation and a fair trial, the
 Court will not decline to grant bail to a person who is not accused
 of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life. It is
 also clear that when an accused is brought before the Court of a
 Magistrate with the allegation against him of an offence
 punishable with death or imprisonment for life, he has ordinarily
 no option in the matter but to refuse bail subject, however, to the
 first proviso to Section 437(1) CrPC and in a case where the
 Magistrate entertains a reasonable belief on the materials that the
 accused has not been guilty of such an offence. This will, however,
 be an extraordinary occasion since there will be some materials at
 the stage of initial arrest, for the accusation or for strong
 suspicion of commission by the person of such an offence. 23. xx xx xx xx xx 24. Section 439(1) CrPC of the new Code, on the other hand,
 confers special powers on the High Court or the Court of Session
 in respect of bail. Unlike under Section 437(1) there is no ban
 imposed under Section 439(1) , CrPC against granting of bail by
 the High Court or the Court of Session to persons accused of an
 offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life. It is,
 however, legitimate to suppose that the High Court or the Court of
 Session will be approached by an accused only after he has failed
 before the Magistrate and after the investigation has progressed
 throwing light on the evidence and circumstances implicating the
 accused. Even so, the High Court or the Court of Session will have
 to exercise its judicial discretion in considering the question of
 granting of bail under Section 439(1) CrPC of the new Code. The
 overriding considerations in granting bail to which we adverted to
 earlier and which are common both in the case of Section 437(1)
 and Section 439(1) CrPC of the new Code are the nature and Bail Appln. No.1707/2016 Page 14 of 16 gravity of the circumstances in which the offence is committed; the
 position and the status of the accused with reference to the victim
 and the witnesses; the likelihood, of the accused fleeing from
 justice; of repeating the offence; of jeopardising his own life being
 faced with a grim prospect of possible conviction in the case; of
 tampering with witnesses; the history of the case as well as of its
 investigation and other relevant grounds which, in view of so many
 valuable factors, cannot be exhaustively set out." 15. The important fact to be noted in the present case is that in the FIR,
the investigation is being carried out where lakhs of investors have been
cheated, their money misappropriated and forged documents prepared. In
the decision reported as ( 2002) 2 SCC 210 Narinderjit Singh Sahni & Anr.
Vs. Union of India & Ors. the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that each
transaction of cheating and fraud with every individual investor is a separate
cause of action wherein separate FIR could have been registered. Thus,
though the CBI consolidated the case in relation to the offences committed
qua all investors in one FIR, it would have been within its jurisdiction to
have lodged separate FIRs on the complaint of each investor. Considering
from that angle, the magnitude and severity of the offence in the present case
is not only in relation to the quantum of money involved but also that
offences have been committed against lakhs of investors. 16. As noted above, the apprehension of the CBI that the petitioners are
likely to hinder the further investigation being carried out and temper with
the evidence is based on credible material as while in custody also efforts
have been made to dispose of the property of the company. 17. In similar circumstances in Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy (supra), wherein
money of large number of investors was involved and there was a reasonable Bail Appln. No.1707/2016 Page 15 of 16 apprehension of evidence being tampered with, the Supreme Court declined
to grant bail. 18. Considering the nature of serious allegations against the petitioners,
the magnitude and severity of the offence allged impacting lakhs of investors
and there being a genuine apprehension of causing obstruction in further
investigation and tampering with the evidence, this Court does not find it to
be a fit case for grant of bail to the petitioners. 19. Petition is accordingly dismissed. (MUKTA GUPTA)
 JUDGE
MARCH 06 2017
'v mittal' Bail Appln. No.1707/2016 Page 16 of 16