Heard counsel for the parties. The applicant has been named as accused in the
offence registered as Crime No.6/2014 with S.T.F. Police
Station, Bhopal - commonly known as VYAPAM scam
cases. The role ascribed to the applicant is that he acted as
middleman for Vasudeo Tyagi, who was to appear in the
examination of Constable in 2013. The applicant collected
sum of Rs.5.00 Lac from Vasudeo Tyagi - the candidate
and made it over to one Ramdulare Soni, who in turn made
further arrangement for impersonation of Vasudeo Tyagi
during the said examination. Besides this no other act of
commission or omission has been attributed to the
applicant. The applicant is not involved in any other
offence of the same type or otherwise. No such information
is forthcoming. The applicant was arrested on 1.4.2014 and
after completion of investigation against the applicant,
charge-sheet has already been filed against him on
9.6.2014. Besides, Vasudeo Tyagi-the candidate has
already been released on bail by this Court on 5.5.2014
 after considering the M.Cr.C. No.6209/2014. The racketeer
Ramdulare Soni has since been arrested on 24.6.2014. As regards the applicant, it is fairly accepted by the
Investigating Agency that as of now no further
investigation is required, unless in connection with some
incriminating material comes on record during the
investigation against Ramdulare Soni-the racketeer. The applicant is willing to cooperate in the
investigation and undertakes to appear before the
Investigating Officer as and when called upon to do so and
also make himself available before the Trial Court on the
scheduled dates. As there is no possibility of applicant
fleeing from the ends of justice nor there is possibility of
tampering with the evidence, which has already come on
record and forming part of the charge-sheet filed against
the applicant indicating complicity of the applicant, in the
interest of justice, the applicant deserves to be released on
bail on following conditions to be strictly observed by the
applicant:- (Rupees One Lac) with two solvent local
 sureties in the like amount to the
 satisfaction of the Trial Court for his
 regular appearance during the trial in
 connection with Crime No.06/2014 in
 Police Station S.T.F. Bhopal; (2) The applicant shall also comply with the
 conditions enumerated under Section
 437 (3) of Cr.P.C. meticulously; and
 (3) Additionally, the applicant will report to
 the nearest Police Station where he
 would reside in Tehsil Jaura, District -
 Morena (M.P.) once a week on every
 Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00
 noon unless required to attend the office
 of the Investigating Officer at Bhopal on
 that day. The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.