1. Mr. Saurabh Kumar Pandey, learned counsel
 for the applicant. 2. Mr. Himanshu Sain, learned Brief Holder for
 the State. 3. The present applicant 'Pankaj Kumar' is
 praying for regular bail in relation to First
 Information Report dated 31.07.2024 bearing FIR
 No. 22 of 2024 P.S. Cyber Crime Police Station
 Kumaon Zone, District Udham Singh Nagar, which
 was lodged against the unknown persons
 punishable under Sections 318(4), 61(2), 3(5) of BNS,
 2023, and Section 66 D Information Technology Act. 4. Brief facts of the case are that an FIR was
 registered on 31.07.2024 with the allegation that on
 09.07.2024 he received a telephonic communication
 on his mobile number from unidentified persons.
 The said callers impersonated officials of the
 Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) and
 further claimed that 17 criminal cases were
 registered against the complainant's mobile number
 with Mumbai Crime Branch. The call subsequently
 transitioned into a video call wherein an individual
 donning police attire and claiming to be one Hemraj
 Kohli, an officer of Tilaknagar Crime Branch,
 Mumbai, exhibited an identity card and purported
 copy of an FIR, and informed the complainant that
 his Aadhaar and mobile number were linked to a
 financial fraud amounting to Rs. 20 crores. The said
 person further transmitted screenshots of bank
 statements and ATM card details through Whatsapp
 and restrained the complainant from contacting any
 person or leaving his room, under the threat of
 arrest of local police officials. Coerced by fear and
 under misrepresentation, the complainant in
 compliance with the instructions of the accused
 transferred a sum of Rs. 45,00,000/- from his
 account to the HDFC Bank account to an HDFC
 Bank account provided by the accused.
 Subsequently, the accused deleted the receipt of the
 transaction and ceased all communication, thereby
 causing the complainant to realize that he had been
 2025:UHC:4198
subjected to a sophisticated digital fraud and
impersonation scam. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that
the applicant is innocent and has been falsely
implicated, which is evident from the fact that the
applicant is not named in the FIR. He further
submits that the charge sheet has already been filed
by the Investigating Officer on 15.01.2025 and there
is no chance of tampering with the evidence and
furthermore there is no need of custodial
interrogation of the present applicant and as such
the applicant deserves for bail. 6. On the other side, learned State counsel
seriously oppose the bail application by submitting
that the allegations as alleged in the FIR are very
serious in nature and after thorough investigation
and after collecting all the credible evidences the
charge sheet has been filed. 7. I also peruse the FIR and the allegation
alleged in the FIR, this court is of the view that the
offences are very serious in nature. 8. Accordingly, the bail application is rejected. (Rakesh Thapliyal, J.)
 20.05.2025
PR
 2025:UHC:4198