(iv) No blanket order of bail should be passed
 and the court which grants anticipatory bail
 must take care to specify the offence or the
 offences in respect of which alone the order will
 be effective. While granting relief under Section
 438(1) of the Code, appropriate conditions can
 be imposed under Section 438(2) so as to
 ensure an uninterrupted investigation. One
 such condition can even be that in the event of
 the police making out a case of a likely
 discovery under Section 27 of the Evidence Act,
 the person released on bail shall be liable to be
 taken in police custody for facilitating the
 recovery. Otherwise, such an order can become
 a charter of lawlessness and a weapon to stifle
 prompt investigation into offences which could 22 not possible be predicated when the order was
 passed. *** (ix) Though it is not necessary that the
 operation of an order passed under Section
 438(1) of the Code be limited in point of time
 but the court may, if there are reasons for doing
 so, limit the operation of the order to a short
 period until after the filing of FIR in respect of
 the matter covered by the order. The applicant
 may, in such cases, be directed to obtain an
 order of bail under Section 437 or 439 of the
 Code within a reasonable short period after the
 filing of the FIR." 43. It was also argued on behalf of the Govt of NCT
and the Union, that this court had expressed a
serious concern, time and again, that if accused or
applicants who seek anticipatory bail are equipped
with an unconditional order before they are
interrogated by the police it would greatly harm the
investigation and would impede the prospects of
unearthing all the ramifications involved in a
conspiracy. Public interest also would suffer as
consequence. Reference was invited to State of A.P. v.
Bimal Krishna Kundu29 in this context. Likewise,
attention of the court was invited to Muraleedharan v.
State of Kerala30 which held that

 "7......Custodial interrogation of such an
 accused is indispensably necessary for the
 investigating agency to unearth all the links
 involved in the criminal conspiracies committed
 by the person which ultimately led to the capital
 tragedy." It was highlighted that statements made during
 custodial interrogation are qualitatively more
 relevant to those made otherwise. Granting an
 unconditional order of anticipatory bail would 23 therefore thwart a complete and objective
 investigation. 44. Mr. Aman Lekhi, learned Additional Solicitor
General, urged that the general drift of reasoning in
Sibbia was not in favour of a generalized imposition
of conditions- either as to the period (in terms of
time, or in terms of a specific event, such as filing of
charge sheet) limiting the grant of anticipatory bail. It
was submitted that the text of Section 439(2) applied
per se to all forms of orders- including an order or
direction to release an applicant on bail (i.e. grant of
anticipatory bail), upon the court's satisfaction that it
is necessary to do so. Such order (of cancellation,
under Section 439(2) or direction to arrest) may made
be where the conditions made applicable at the time
of grant of relief, are violated or not complied with, or
where the larger interests of a fair investigation
necessitate it. Analysis and Conclusions

Re Question No 1: Whether the protection granted to
a person under Section 438 , CrPC should be limited
to a fixed period so as to enable the person to
surrender before the Trial Court and seek regular
bail. 45. The concept of bail, i.e. preserving the liberty of
citizen - even accused of committing offences, but
subject to conditions, dates back to antiquity. Justinian I in the collections of laws and
interpretations which prevailed in his times, Codex
Justinianus (or 'Code Jus') in Book 9 titled Title 3(2)
stipulated that "no accused person shall under any
circumstances, be confined in prison before he is
convicted". The second example of a norm of the
distant past is the Magna Carta which by clause 44
enacted that "people who live outside the forest need
not in future appear before the Royal Justices of the
forest in answer to the general summons unless they
are actually involved in proceedings or are sureties
for someone who has been seized for a forest 24 offence." Clear Parliamentary recognition of bail took
 shape in later enactments in the UK through the
 Habeas Corpus Act 1677 and the English Bill of
 Rights, 1689 which prescribed that "excessive bail
 ought not to be required, nor excessive fines
 imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments
 inflicted". 46. Bail ipso facto has not been defined under the
 Code. It is now widely recognized as a norm which
 includes the governing principles enabling the
 setting of accused person on liberty subject to
 safeguards, required to make sure that he is present
 whenever needed. The justification for bail (to one
 accused of commission or committing a crime is that
 it preserves a person who is under cloud of having
 transgressed law but not convicted for it, from the
 rigors of a detention." 15. The above judicial pronouncement clarifies that the Courts are duty- bound to adhere to the principles and to apply its mind as per the

 factual scenario and adjudicate the application for grant of

 anticipatory bail in consonance with the law laid down by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court. While considering anticipatory bail, it is also to be

 considered whether there is the requirement of custody of a person

 for collecting incriminating evidence in the matter or not. In the

 instant case, the applicant is apprehending his arrest in Crime No.

 49/2024 registered at the police station, Anti Corruption Bureau/

 Economic Offence Wing, Raipur, Chhattisgarh. 16. In the case, the FIR of Crime No. 09/2015 was registered by the

 ACB/EOW against Shivshankar Bhatt and 26 other accused persons

 which is widely known as NAN scam. On 05-12-2018, the ACB/EOW

 has filed the supplementary charge sheet against two accused 25 persons namely Alok Shukla and Anil Tuteja. On 05-12-2018, the

 accused Anil Tuteja filed his anticipatory bail application before this

 Court vide MCrC (A) No. 1679/2018 which was allowed on 29-04-

 2019. On 09-01-2019, the ED registered an ECIR in NAN scam and

 then the accused Alok Shukla filed his anticipatory bail application in

 Crime No. 09/2015 of ACB/EOW in which a supplementary charge

 sheet was filed against him and accused Alok Shukla was also

 granted anticipatory bail in Crime No. 09/2015 on 16-10-2019 on the

 ground of parity. The said bail order is passed by the constitutional

 authority against whom the alleged influence is exerted by the

 applicant. 17. In the ECIR registered by the ED against Alok Shukla and Anil Tuteja,

 they have filed their anticipatory bail application vide MCrC(A) No.

 469/2020 (Anil Tuteja) and MCrC(A) No. 484/2020 (Alok Shukla).

 These two anticipatory bail applications are allowed by a common

 order dated 14-08-2020. It is alleged that when these two bail

 applications were pending, the present applicant tried to manipulate

 the persons who were in the process of defending the bail

 application. From the WhatsApp chats, extracted from the mobile

 phone of the accused persons, it is clear that he was closely

 connected with the accused persons and regularly in touch with the

 progress of the case. At that time, he was the Advocate General of

 the State and he ought not to indulge in such process but he actively

 engaged himself in relevant chatting with the accused persons who

 are the highest officers of the State. There was relevant 26 communication between the accused persons and the present

 applicant with the status of the case. 18. When the anticipatory bail was granted on 14-08-2020, the ED has

 challenged it before the Hon'ble Supreme Court for cancellation of

 the bail in which ED has submitted these Chats gathered from the IT

 department which gives cause to register the present offence. The

 accused persons Anil Tuteja and Alok Shukla were the highest

 officers of the State since 2019 and from the digital evidence

 collected by the IT department under Section 132(1) of the Income

 Tax Act, they shared it to the ED and found that they were tried to

 manipulate the investigation of ED case as well as the trial of NAN

 case with the connivance of the Bureaucrats and constitutional

 authority. On the verification of the complaints and the WhatsApp

 chats it reveals that while the accused persons were in the highest

 post of the State, they gave undue advantage to the applicant and

 got him appointed as Advocate General and asked for favour for

 them in the case. Although the applicant himself did not appear in the

 proceeding of the bail application but being the head of the

 institution, he had overall control over the management of the

 Advocate General office. From a perusal of the WhatsApp chats

 available in the case diary, it appears that the applicant is actively

 and knowingly involved in the manipulation of the proceeding of the

 case. 19. Although the applicant is a former Advocate General of the State and

 a reputed and designated senior advocate, and there is no chance of 27 his absconding or evading his appearance before the ACB/EOW in

 interrogation and there would be a dent in his reputation but it is

 equally to be seen that being the head of the institution, he ought not

 to indulge in such activities which maline the pious institution and

 post in which he was there at the relevant time. He being the highest

 law officer of the State, has to protect and safeguard the interests of

 the State Government and, under his sacred duty to provide justice

 to the victims. The conduct of the applicant is not in accordance with

 the dignity of the august office of Advocate General while holding

 such a constitutional post. The act of the applicant appears to be the

 misuse of the powers by a public servant for personal benefit by a

 person holding the constitutional post having responsibility of public

 faith. The WhatsApp chats says all about his culpable state of affairs

 to advance undue advantage the accused persons in the case. 20. As per the submissions of the learned counsel for the applicant, the

 FIR is based on WhatsApp chats, which were allegedly of the year

 2019-20, and the FIR has been registered on 04-11-2024, that too

 only on apprehension that the offence might have been committed.

 The extracted copy and transcription of the conversation/chats are

 produced before this court, and I have perused the same. From the

 perusal of the material available in the case diary clearly reveals that

 the applicant was in constant touch with the accused persons while

 he was the Advocate General of the State of Chhattisgarh and have

 made WhatsApp chats. The material in the case diary also shows

 that the applicant has deep-rooted connections in the government

 department, which can hamper the course of the investigation if he is 28 granted anticipatory bail. This is a pre-arrest bail which has been

 provided in order to safeguard the liberty of an individual and to

 protect him from undue harassment by the investigating agency but

 in the Sibia case (supra), laid down the condition for grant of such

 relief to the person against whom the FIR has been registered, and

 he is entitled to relief if the condition enumerated in the judgments

 passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court are met. In the instant case, a

 prima facie case is made out that the conduct of the applicant has

 been solely driven with the motive to dupe the officers of the State to

 avail the benefits of disadvantageous relief. 21. In the case of P. Chidambaram vs. Directorate of Enforcement ,

 2019 (9) SCC 24, has considered the gravity of economic offences

 and held that :- more so, in cases of economic offences. Economic
 offences stand as a different class as they affect the
 economic fabric of the society. In Directorate of
 Enforcement v. Ashok Kumar Jain (1998) 2 SCC 105, it
 was held that in economic offences, the accused is
 not entitled to anticipatory bail. 79. The learned Solicitor General submitted that the
 "Scheduled offence" and "offence of money
 laundering" are independent of each other and PMLA
 being a special enactment applicable to the offence of
 money laundering is not a fit case for grant of
 anticipatory bail. The learned Solicitor General
 submitted that money laundering being an economic
 offence committed with much planning and deliberate
 design poses a serious threat to the nation's economy
 and financial integrity and in order to unearth the 29 laundering and trail of money, custodial interrogation
of the appellant is necessary. 80. Observing that economic offence is committed
with deliberate design with an eye on personal profit
regardless to the consequence to the community, in
State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal and
others (1987) 2 SCC 364, it was held as under:- 81. Observing that economic offences constitute a
class apart and need to be visited with different
approach in the matter of bail, in Y.S. Jagan Mohan
Reddy v. CBI (2013) 7 SCC 439, the Supreme Court
held as under:- 22. In the matter of CBI vs. Anil Sharma, 1997 (7) SCC 187, the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that success in an interrogation

 would be reduced if a person is enlarged on anticipatory bail. This

 court is privy to the fact that the interrogation of a person accused of

 an offence of such a nature is required to unearth the offence

 committed. 23. The case law cited by the learned counsel for the applicant has

 differences in the facts of the present case and consideration. The

 consideration in Dilawar Singh and Harilal cases (supra) is with

 respect to the delay in lodging the report and lack of satisfactory

 explanation, whereas in the present case, the ED has produced the

 relevant information before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a sealed

 envelope, and when the information is shared by the ED to the

 ACB/EOW, after its confidential inquiry, the FIR has been registered.

 The Nara Chandra Babu Naidu case (supra), the consideration

 would be that no arrest should be made without reasonable

 satisfaction as to the genuineness of the allegation. In the present

 case also, there is reasonable satisfaction and after confidential 31 inquiry of the allegations, the FIR has been registered and there is

 sufficient material available in the charge sheet against the applicant

 which shows his prima facie involvement in the commission of the

 offence. In the Vedula Venkatramana case (supra), the allegation

 was to bribing a judicial officer, whereas in the present case, the

 allegation is more serious that while discharging the duty as a public

 servant, being the Advocate General of the State, he tried to give

 advantage to the accused so that they may be benefited by

 anticipatory bail which does affect the faith of the people upon the

 pious institution. In Siddharth case (supra), the consideration was

 that despite the cooperation of the accused during the investigation,

 the non-bailable warrant was issued at the time of filing of the charge

 sheet. The requirement of custodial interrogation depends upon the

 facts of each case to collect evidence. Therefore, no benefit can be

 granted to the applicant by the judgment cited from his side. 24. In view of the above, this court is of the opinion that the steps taken

 by the applicant were part of a conspiracy to manipulate the system

 and the investigation in this regard would be impacted if he is granted

 anticipatory bail. Necessary interrogation is warranted to reveal all

 the aspects and attributes related to the said offence committed

 against the institution. This court is satisfied that a strong prima facie

 case is made out against the applicant and the said conduct is part of

 the conspiracy which can only be revealed if the investigating agency

 is given the due opportunity to apprehend the applicant and

 investigate the case without there being any chance to hamper the

 witnesses and the evidence. 25. Accordingly, the instant anticipatory bail application filed by the

 applicant is dismissed. 26. It is made clear that this court has not expressed any opinion on the

 merits of the case and restricted itself with regard to the question of

 whether anticipatory bail can be granted to the petitioner or not. Any

 observation made in this order shall not affect the merits of the case. Sd/- (Ravindra Kumar Agrawal)
 Judge
ved