3. The case of the prosecution in brief is that since 2020, the

complainant was friend with petitioner/accused No.3, who in 2021

forcibly introduced her to her brother, Durga Prasad. He pressured the

complainant to communicate with him and, when she refused,

blackmailed her with morphed photos. Out of fear, she was forced to

stay in contact with him. In August 2021, Durga Prasad came to the

complainant's home while she was alone, forcibly had sexual

intercourse with her without her consent, and secretly recorded it. He
 ::2:: 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that petitioner is

innocent and he was falsely implicated in the aforesaid crime. He

further submitted that the only allegation levelled against

petitioner/accused No.1 is that he developed the physical relationship

with the victim, has taken the photos of the victim and recorded the

conversation between him and the victim. He transferred the said

photos and videos to accused No.2's mobile and others. He further

submitted that the ingredients under Section 376(2)(n) of IPC are not

attracted against the petitioner and the punishment prescribed for the
 ::3:: 5. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor submitted that the

petitioner has committed grave offence and there are serious

allegations are levelled against the petitioner. He further submitted

that ingredients under Section 376 (2) (n) of IPC are attracted against

accused No.1. He further submitted that mere granting bail in favour

of accused No.2 by the learned XIII Additional District and Sessions

Judge, Ranga Reddy District at L.B.Nagar in favour of accused No.2

is not a ground for granting of bail in favour of petitioner/accused

No.1. He further submitted that the investigation is under progress

and at this stage if the petitioner is enlarged on bail, there is every

chance to interfere with the investigation and also influence the

witness. Hence, prayed to dismiss the petition. 1 2024 LawSuit (Kar) 827
 ::5:: 6. Having considered the rival submissions made by the

respective parties and after perusal of the material available on record,

it reveals that the petitioner has not only developed the physical

relationship with the victim, but also has taken the photos of the

victim and recorded the conversation between him and the victim. He

transferred the said photos and videos to accused No.2's mobile and

others. The record further reveals that the investigation is in progress

and charge sheet has not yet filed. The record also discloses that

accused No.2 was arrested and he was sent to judicial custody on

19.04.2025 and after lapse of a long period, the learned XIII

Additional District and Sessions Judge, Ranga Reddy District at

L.B.Nagar has granted bail in his favour. Whereas in the case on hand

accused No.1 was surrendered before the concerned Police on

04.06.2025. Even according to the learned Additional Public

Prosecutor, the investigation is under progress and charge sheet has

not been filed. Insofar as the other contention raised by the learned

counsel for the petitioner is concerned that the Court below dismissed

the bail application in respect of accused No.1 only basing on the

averments made in the counter affidavit by the prosecution and made

specific averment that custodial interrogation of the accused No.1 is
 ::6:: ::7::