% 14.05.2020
 The hearing has been conducted through video conferencing.
CRL.M.A.6376/2020 (early hearing) 1. By this application, petitioner seeks preponement of hearing of Bail Appln.
No.607/2020. 2. Considering the fact that the petitioner had filed Bail Appln.607/2020
seeking anticipatory bail, present application is allowed, preponing the hearing of
Bail Appln.607/2020. 3. Application is disposed of. 1. This is the second bail application filed by the petitioner seeking anticipatory
bail before this Court in case FIR No.449/2019 under Sections 354 / 354
(C) / 384 / 406 / 420 / 506 / 120B IPC registered at PS Vikas Puri, Delhi. 2. As per the petitioner when his first anticipatory bail being Bail Appln.
No.177/2020 came up before this Court, it got clubbed with that of the main
accused Krishan Kumar with the result the application of the petitioner was not
heard on merits and hence seriously prejudiced the petitioner. 3. It would be thus appropriate to note the order of this Court dated 4th
February, 2020 dismissing the petitioner's anticipatory bail along with that of the
two other co-accused namely Krishan Kumar and Ankur Rijhwani as under: 4. A perusal of the order dated 4th February, 2020 clearly notes the contention
of learned counsel for Ankur Rijhwani and Varun Rijhwani in para-5 and from
para-8 onwards this Court has dealt with the arguments raised on their behalf.
Merely because there is a change in the counsel, it cannot be a ground to re-hear
the application. 5. Learned counsel for the petitioner urges that complete facts were not brought
to the notice of the Court in the first instance and the petitioner has been fabricated
in this case. No message was sent from Ajit's phone by the petitioner or co-
accused Varun Rijhwani and the same was actually sent by the complainant
herself. 6. The above noted FIR was registered on the complaint of 'T', who alleged
that three years ago while she was going through the profile of her friend, that is,
the petitioner herein, she saw a picture of Krishan Jaat and she inquired who he
was. Ankur responded that he was one of the customers and was into TV and film BAIL APPLN.607/2020 Page 4 of 5 industry but he was not dealing with him for sometime. After two-three days she
received a friend request from Krishan Jaat who also sent his introduction.
Thereafter telephone numbers were exchanged and the complainant accepted the
friend request. In one of the video calls the said Krishan Jaat exposed himself and
started uttering indecent language, perplexed by which the complainant
disconnected the call but she was again contacted telephonically when Krishan Jaat
apologized and stated that he would not repeat this act. Accepting the apology the
two of them again entered into a conversation however, the conduct of Krishan
Jaat did not improve and he uttered cheap and filthy words. Krishan Jaat
convinced her that he would promote her in the film industry and TV industry. He
also pressurized her for this purpose and made her pose in front of him through
video chat. Later she came to know that the same was a trap for blackmailing her.
Out of fear when she was receiving blackmailing threats based on her photographs
and morphed videos, the complainant called up Ankur and wife of Varun and also
met them. 7. From the allegations further in the FIR it is apparent that the complainant
was made to part with her jewellery to Ankur and Varun who were also involved in
blackmailing her with Krishan Jaat. Even after taking money the petitioner refused
to delete the videos and demanded more payments. 8. Considering the allegations made in the FIR and the facts revealed during
the course of the investigation as also noted in the previous order rejecting the
anticipatory bail application of the petitioner, this Court finds no ground to grant
anticipatory bail to the petitioner. Bail application is dismissed. 9. Copy of the order be uploaded on the website of the Court. MUKTA GUPTA, J. MAY 14, 2020/'vn' BAIL APPLN.607/2020 Page 5 of 5