1. This criminal appeal arises out of an order of acquittal passed by the learned Sessions Judge. Andaman and Nicobar Islands at Port Blair granting benefit of doubt to the accused persons. The prosecution story is as follows: 1.10. The accused persons pleaded not guilty. Accordingly they were tried jointly. 2. The learned Sessions Judge recorded a definite finding that the currency notes were counterfeit but at the same time held that the prosecution had not been able to prove its case and he acquitted the accused persons giving them benefit of doubt. He entertained a doubt as to whether the notes, which were before him were the ones which had been seized from the possession of Ronald and Anil. The fact that the witnesses particularly the seizure witnesses turned hostile was also a disquieting factor. He thought that the investigating agency did not take its task seriously. The reasons which weighed with him in his own words are as follows: (i) "I also cannot spare the witnesses Mr. Thangaraj and Mr. Ramjan All as they went on denying all the prosecution suggestions though, out of them Thangaraj at least recognised his signatures and the respective papers produced by the prosecution and the fact that he made the signatures on the spot in front of the Guest House No. 2 at Haddo. I do not know whether these witnesses gave any false evidence before the Court or not, but at least It is presumed that though they identified their respective signatures on different papers which were subsequently proved as some seizure lists and also some papers wrappers, they have avoided to disclose their knowledge about the said signatures properly and if they did it. then the story would have been otherwise and the society as a whole could have been saved from gradual deterioration in respect of influx of circulation of fake currency notes as it is so reported nowadays." 3. Mr. Ray learned senior advocate appearing for the State-appellant made the following submissions: 4. Mr. Nag learned advocate appearing for the accused Anil made the following submissions: 5. Mr. Tulsilal appearing for the accused Ronald made the following submissions: (c) PW11 the Forensic Expert had admitted that he was not present at the time when the paper wrappers sent by the S.P., Andaman were opened by Mr. Saxena. On that basis he contended that there is really no evidence before this Court to show that the notes seized from the accused persons are actually before the Court. (d) He further contended that Head Constable S.R. Yadav, P.W.12 in his evidence stated that six sealed paper packets were received by him whereas Forensic Expert, Sri S.C. Gupta, PW11 stated that 8 Exhibits were received by him and above all the evidence of Inspector Yadav was that the recovery of currency notes were in 10 separate bundles. He questioned, "which witness is this Court going to believe?" (f) Finally, he submitted that the statement of Ramzan Ali recorded under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure was not put to the accused persons during their examination under Section 313 Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, the statement under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be relied upon for any purpose. Reliance for this proposition was placed on the case of Kaur Sain v. The State of Punjab , . 6. Mr. Parekh, learned advocate appearing for the accused Arun submitted that (a) no recovery of fake currency notes or torn pieces of fake currency notes was made from the septic tank. Therefore, any statement allegedly made by Arun under Section 27 of the Evidence Act is inadmissible. 6.1. He further submitted that any statement by Anil seeking to rope in Arun or any statement made by Ronald seeking to rope in Arun is unworthy of credit. In support of the submission he relied on Illustration (b) of Section 14 of the Evidence Act which provides as follows: 7. Mr. Ray in reply sought to distinguish the cases relied upon by the learned advocates appearing for the respondents accused persons and submitted that the same had no application to the facts of the case. He concluded by saying that the Judgment under appeal was clearly wrong and should be reversed and the accused persons should be punished in accordance with law. 8. Let us now examine and tabulate the evidence in support of the case of the prosecution. (A) The relevant portion of the information received from the accused persons while they were in custody, and recorded under Section 27 of the Evidence Act which led to recovery of the currency notes are as follows: (ii) Arun's statement being Exhibit 19 series can be reproduced as follows: (iii) Anil's statement being Exhibit 5 series can be reproduced as follows: (B) Inspector Yadav, PW15 has deposed as regards discovery of the fact consequent to information received from the accused persons as follows: (v) In cross examination on behalf of Arun, Yadav deposed inter alia as follows: (C) Police Constable Rajesh PW5 deposed with regard to the summoning of the accused persons on 26.11.1997 at the Police Station as follows: (D) Head Constable S.R. Yadav P.W.12 has deposed that on 26.11.1997 he received six packets containing currency notes pertaining to Crime No. 255 of 1997 which he stored in Malkhana after making necessary entries in the register and that the same were made over by him to Inspector Yadav on 4.3.1998 for transmitting the same to Calcutta. (E) Sweeper Laxman PW13 in his evidence with regard to opening of the septic tank situate at the ancestral house of the accused Arun has deposed inter alia as follows: (F) Sub-Inspector A. Salam. PW2 has deposed with regard to recovery of 4 fake currency notes from the person of Ronald in the presence of witnesses as follows: (ii) In cross examination Salam also deposed as follows: (G) Sub-Inspector Pillai, PW3 who accompanied Sub-Inspector A. Salam on 26.11.1997 when he proceeded to investigate into the matter consequent to the secret information has deposed inter alia as follows: (H) The seizure witness, Thangaraj, PW1 deposed inter alia as follows: (I) Ramzan All. the other seizure witness P.W14 deposed inter alia as follows: 8.1. Ramzan in his statement made on oath before the learned Magistrate under Section 164 of Code of Criminal Procedure stated as follows: (J) Forensic Expert. PW11 Sri S.C. Gupta deposed inter alia as follows: 9. Before we endeavour to evaluate the evidence on record, noted above, we deem it proper to ascertain at the very outset the evidentiary value of the statements made by the accused persons which were recorded under Section 27 of the Evidence Act which furnished information to the investigating agency for discovering certain facts of this case. Section 27 of the Evidence Act provides as follows: 9.2. Reference in this regard can also be made to a Division Bench judgment of this Court in the case of the Legal Remembrance v. Chema Nashya, reported in ILR 25 Cal 413 where the Division Bench laid down the law as regards the quantum of the information which is admissible under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. The opinion expressed by the Division Bench is as follows: 9.3. The ratio of the aforesaid two Judgments of two Division Benches applied to the case in hand would establish satisfactorily guilty knowledge of both Ronald and Anil. 10. We shall now consider the evidentiary value to be attached to the statement made on oath under Section 164 , Code of Criminal Procedure by the witness namely, PW14, Ramzan All, the relevant text whereof has been set out in sub-paragraph (I) of paragraph 8 above. 10.1. The cases cited by the learned counsel appearing for the accused persons with regard to the evidentiary value of a statement recorded under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure may be noticed first. Mr. Nag cited a judgment of the Privy Council in the case of Bhubani Sahe v. The King, for the proposition that a statement under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure can never be used as substantive evidence of the fact stated but it can be used to support or challenge the evidence given in Court by the person who made the statement. 10.2. It would appear that in the case before Their Lordships a confession of the co-accused was recorded under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure. He had subsequently turned to be the approver. However, in Court "his evidence was that he knew nothing about the murder, and he denied all the facts to which he had deposed before the committing Magistrate. He affirmed that his evidence before the committing Magistrate was the result of beating and tutoring by the police, and he denied that he had made any statement at all before a Magistrate under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure. Thereupon the Sessions Judge brought the evidence of the approver given before the committing Magistrate upon record under Section 288 , Code of Criminal Procedure, the effect being to make the evidence given before the committing Magistrate evidence in the case for all purposes. Both the learned Sessions Judge and the learned Judges of High Court in appeal, preferred the evidence given by the approver before the committing Magistrate to his evidence given in the Sessions Court." 10.4. Another case cited by Mr. Nag on this point was a Division Bench judgment in the case of Sanika Munda v. Emperor, reported in AIR 1935 Patna 19 for the proposition that a statement under Section 164 cannot be used as a substantive piece of evidence. What had happened in that case was that the witness Phulo who had given on an earlier occasion a statement under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure before the committing Magistrate went back on it before the Court and "said that her previous statement recorded under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure, was untrue, and had been induced by threats of assaults made by the police Sub-Inspector." 10.5. In the case of Ram-Laxman v. State of U.P. , reported in 1991 CrLJ 2790 "witnesses were declared hostile and cross examination by the prosecution. Only their statements made before the Magistrate under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure were put to them. They had stated they had given these statements on the asking of the police. It was not their voluntary statements." 10.6. On our own we can cite a judgment of the Privy Council in the case of Briz Bhushan Singh v. The King-Emperor , reported in 50 CWN 348. In that case the witnesses had made statements under Section 164 which were not supported by them when they cam to give evidence before the Court. Yet the trial Court and the High Court used those statements as substantive pieces of evidence and Their Lordships opined as follows: 10.7. From the Judgments cited at the bar as also the judgment cited by us it would appear that in all those cases the witnesses had gone back on their statement, recorded under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure. Yet in some of the cases those statements were used as a substantive piece of evidence which is clearly not permissible. 10.8. We. however, have before us a slightly different case. Ramzan Ali came to give evidence. He had earlier made a statement under Section 164 on oath before a Judicial Magistrate, he kept on saying "Hum Ko Yad Nehi" when the statement recorded under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure was, made over to him in the box. However, after reading the statement and the certificate given by the Judicial Magistrate at the foot of the statement recorded under Section 164 , Code of Criminal Procedure for 15 minutes he made this significant deposition: "It is fact that if the learned Magistrate has given any certificate under my recorded statement that the contents of the recorded statement were read over to me in Hindi and on being satisfied about the correctness of the contents I put ray signature thereunder, it is a true certificate." 10.9. He has not disowned his statement. Fuller part of his deposition in this regard has been noticed by us in sub-paragraph (I) of paragraph 8 above. Nor has he indicated that the statement was not voluntary. On the contrary he has said that it was made voluntarily by him before the Judicial Magistrate. He has also identified his signatures and he has affirmed the correctness of the certificate given by the learned Magistrate. It is in this perspective that we have to examine the evidentiary value of this statement. 10.11. Section 80 of the Evidence Act provides as follows: 10.12. A Special Bench of this Court in the case of P.P. Upadhaya v. The King-Emperor , reported in 33 CWN 1121 applying Section 80 of the Evidence Act to the evidence of a witness in an earlier proceeding to which the appellant before Their Lordships' was not a party, held that deposition taken in an earlier proceeding could be tendered in evidence without formal proof. The truth of such deposition is, however, a different matter. If such a document is tendered on the basis of Section 80 of the Evidence Act, without more, then one can say that contemporaneously with the incident or shortly thereafter such a statement was made by so and so. Applying the same to our present case even without looking into the deposition of Ramzan Ali Court was entitled to mark the statement of Ramzan Ali recorded under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure by a Judicial Magistrate as an exhibit and proceed on the basis that such a statement was in fact made. Whether the statement is correct is however a different matter and for that adequate proof could have been insisted upon. Thus was the view taken by Their Lordships' in the said Special Bench judgment as would appear from the relevant portion extracted hereinbelow: 10.13. Reference can now be made to Section 160 of the Evidence Act which provides as follows: 10.14. Construing Section 160 of the Evidence Act the Apex Court in the case of Kanti Prosad v. Purushottam, held that if the requisite condition laid down in Section 160 of the Evidence Act are satisfied from the record the lack of an express declaration that the facts were correctly recorded would not make the evidence inadmissible and the statement made or report prepared by the witness would be part of his oral evidence sanctioned by oath. We shall now read paragraphs 11, 12 and 18 of the aforesaid judgment: 10.15. We already have quoted above the relevant part of the deposition of Ramzan Ali which goes to show that he has deposed that the certificate appended by the learned Magistrate Is correct. The certificate is that the statements were made voluntarily by Ramzan and those statements according to him were true and correct. Therefore, entire statement made by him under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure was provided and cross examination was declined on behalf of each of the accused persons. Declining to cross examination a witness only goes to show that the accused persons believed that the correctness of what he deposed could not be disputed. If any authority is needed reference can be made to a Judgment of this Court in the case of A.E.G. Carapiet v. A.Y. Derderian, (Division Bench ) wherein relying on a judgment of the House of Lords in the case of Brown v. Dunn, it was held that "The law is clear on the subject. Wherever the opponent has declined to avoid himself of the opportunity to put his essential and material case in cross examination, it must follow that he believed that the testimony given could not be disputed at all." 10.16. Reference in this regard can also be made to the relevant portions of the judgment of the House of Lords which was extracted by the Division Bench in its judgment: 10.17. Lord Halsbury, the other member of the House of Lords, at page 76 of the same report said: 10.18. In fact Lord Halsbury described the situation as a "perfect outrage" at page 77 of the said report. After quoting the evidence the learned Lord said: 10.19. The same view is expressed in the 13th Edition of Odger On Pleading and Practice at page 261 and the 9th Edition of Phipson on Evidence at page 497-98." 10.20. We are however not oblivious of the fact that Section 160 of the Evidence Act refers to a writing made by the witness himself at the time of the transaction concerning which he is questioned. The statement of Ramzan in question may not be a piece of his writing in that sense. But we are firmly of the view that the result will not be materially different even if the statement is treated as an ordinary piece of documentary evidence. The original has been produced, therefore the requirement of Sections 61 and 62 of the Evidence Act has been complied with. Signature has been proved under Section 67 of the Evidence Act by the maker of the statement himself. What remained to be proved was the correctness of the contents of the statement. This was also proved by the maker thereof when he deposed that he voluntarily made that statement before the Judicial Magistrate and that the certificate given by the learned Magistrate was true. The certificate recited that the statement was voluntarily made by Ramzan and the statement according to him was true and correct. 20.21. Mr. Lal appreciating his difficulty submitted before us that the statement under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure was not put to the accused persons under Section 313 of Code of Criminal Procedure. Reliance has been placed on Judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Kaur Sain v. The State of Punjab , . We are not impressed by this submission. What is required to be put to the accused persons in a examination under Section 313 is a material fact intended to be used against him and not the piece of evidence by which it is proved. Reference in this regard can be made to the case of Hate Singh v. The State , which was followed in the case of Sharad Birdichand v. State of Maharashtra , . Even in the case cited by Mr. Lal it was held that the circumstances thought to be sufficient to sustain the conviction must have been put to the accused persons. In that case the alleged statement of the accused himself was sought to be relied upon as an unqualified admission for sustaining the conviction. Their Lordships held that the statement being a circumstances should have been put to the accused in his examination under Section 342 (old). 10.22. The statement under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure of the witness Ramzan Ali is only a piece of evidence to show that in his presence the initial seizure of 4 notes was made; thereafter in his presence statements under Section 27 of the Evidence Act were made by Anil and Ronald in his presence "Ronald stated to have received the currency from Arun and Arun stated to have received the same from Anil and in his presence further recovery was made, from the house of Ronald and Anil. These circumstances were put to Ronald by Q6 to 10, 26, 28 to 32 and to Anil by Q3 to 10. 10.23. At this stage we want to make it clear that the safeguard provided in law under Section 313 Code of Criminal Procedure is essentially aimed at protecting the innocent and can never be stretched to such an extent so that a guilty person finds an easy way out. It can never be used as a device to trip the unwary. We are fortified in our view by the opinion expressed by the Apex Court in the case of Tara Singh v. The State , wherein Their Lordships held that "The whole object of the Section (Section 342 of the 1893 Act) Is to afford the accused a fair and proper opportunity of explaining circumstances which appear against him". However, Their Lordships hastened to add "I do not suggest that every error or omission in this behalf would necessarily vitiate a trial because I am of opinion that errors of this type fail within the category of curable irregularities. Therefore, the question in each case depends upon the degree of the error and upon whether prejudice has been occasioned or is likely to have been occasioned." 10.24. Viewed from this angle one shall vainly look for an explanation in answer to any question put to the accused persons in examination under Section 313 Code of Criminal Procedure. They (Ronald and Anil) kept on denying every circumstances including recovery of currency notes from their possession which is a pointer to show that they were not minded to take benefit of the Section for obvious reasons. It was not suggested by the counsel that any prejudice was caused to any of the accused persons for omission to put the statement of Ramzan All recorded under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure in examination under Section 313 or for that matter for omission to put any other circumstance to them in their examination under Section 313 Code of Criminal Procedure. 11. We shall now have a look at the necessary ingredients for proving a charge under Sections 489B and/or 489C. The text of these two Sections have already been quoted above (see paragraph 1 above). Construing Section 489B of the Indian Penal Code a Division Bench of the Lahore Court in the case of Bikha Ram v. The King-Emperor, reported in AIR 1926 Lahore 72 opined that the object of Section 489B was to stop traffic in forged notes and therefore anyone knowingly purchasing and selling forged notes is guilty under Section 489B of the Indian Penal Code. To be precise Their Lordships held as follows: 11.1. In order to prove a charge under Section 489C of Indian Penal Code, as would appear from a bare reading of the section the necessary Ingredients appear to be as follows: Law as regards proof of knowledge: 11.4. In order to prove knowledge facts showing existence of knowledge are relevant under Section 14 of the Evidence Act. 11.5. Further in order to prove knowledge conduct of the accused may furnish unmistakable evidence which is illustrated by statutory illustration (e) to Section 8 of the Evidence Act which reads as follows: The facts that, either before or at the time of, or after the alleged crime, A provided evidence which would tend to give to the facts of the case an appearance favourable to himself, or that he destroyed or concealed evidence, or prevented the presence or procured the absence or persons who might have been witnesses, or suborned persons to give false evidence respecting it, are relevant." 11.6. From the aforesaid Illustration one can deduce "that the fact that the accused persons concealed the evidence are relevant" to show the conduct of the accused which is consistent only with his guilt. Law as regards proof of intention; 11.7. In the case of Public Prosecutor v. Rowthula, reported in AIR 1939 Mad. 96 it was held that unexplained possession of counterfeit notes is a sufficient ground for drawing the inference that the intention was to use them as genuine or that they may be used as genuine. The learned Judge opined as follows: 11.8. This judgment was followed by the Andhra Pradeh High Court in the case of Satya Narayan, . 11.9. A Division Bench of the Mysore High Court in the case of Ameerjan, reported in AIR 1951 Mysore 34 held that the fact that the accused kept the counterfeit notes concealed could lead to a presumption that he intended to use the same as genuine. The opinion expressed was as follows: 11.10. A converse case came up before the Judicial Commissioner. Tripura in the case of Hameed Alt v. State of Tripura, reported in AIR 1961 where the possessor tried to get rid of it and as a matter of fact did resort to that and it was held that they cannot be held guilty under Section 489B or Section 489C. The Judicial Commissioner held as follows: 11.11. It would thus appear that the view taken by various High Courts of the country is that possession of fake currency in huge quantity, kept concealed deliberately, is indicative of the fact that the possessor intended to use the same as genuine or that it may be used a genuine. Contrary intention, if any. has to be proved by the possessor himself. Reference in this regard can also be made to statutory illustration (a) appended to Section 106 of the Evidence Act. 12. Let us now summarise and evaluate the evidence which is there on the record: There is another off-quoted Judgment of the Privy Council in the case of Pulukuri Kottaya v. Emperor , reported in AIR 1947 Privy Council 67 wherein the Privy Council laid down the law as follows: (m) The four currency notes seized under Ext. 1 series from Ronald were discernible to be fake to the naked eye according to the evidence of PW2. Therefore, the ratio of the judgment in the case of Mamutti, became applicable and knowledge can be imputed on this ground also. (n) PW15 has deposed that genuine notes were kept separately by Anil in the same almirah which according to him he received on account of his salary. This is another pointer to show knowledge of Anil that the 370 notes were fake. We are thus fully convinced that both the accused Anil and Ronald had in their possession counterfeit currency notes knowing the same to be counterfeit. (o) The finding of the learned Sessions Judge that "the prosecution allegation of possession of currency notes on the part of the accused persons having knowledge of the same as fake currency notes and to use them was not properly proved" was wrong because he did not consider this material part of the evidence which were already on the record. (p) With regard to the intention on the part of the accused persons to use the fake notes as genuine or that it may be used as genuine we are of the view that the fact that the accused Anil and Ronald had very cautiously kept the fake notes concealed from the public view or at least from view of the insiders of the house is a circumstances which goes to show that they intended to use the same as genuine or that it might be used as genuine. It is here that the statutory illustration (a) appended to Section 106 of the Evidence Act. noticed above, may Justifiably be pressed into service. If the accused persons kept themselves possessed of fake currency notes knowing the same to be fake with any other intention It was for them to prove it. Because such other intention was only known to them, which they did not do. 13. Therefore, case of the prosecution against Ronald and Anil is fully proved. However, the same may not be true about Arun. There is evidence to show that he knew that the 74 currency notes were fake but he got rid of the same by tearing them and by destroying them and by flushing them In the pan of teacher latrine. If he is no longer in possession then the question of making use or intending to use or intending that it might be used cannot legitimately arise. Therefore, case against Arun does not stand under Section 489C of the Indian Penal Code. Relying on the statement under Section 164 , Code of Criminal Procedure, made by Ramzan Ali, which we already have shown to be admissible and fully proved, it can be said that the charge of trafficking in fake notes under Section 489B has been proved because he had given the sum of Rs. 5000/- to Ronald. There is evidence of PW15 in cross examination on behalf of Ronald that "Ronald took loan of Rs. 5000/- from M.P. Arun.........." (see paragraph 8B above). But it will not be prudent to rely on this part of the evidence of PW15 because this statement could not have been true to his knowledge. Simpliciter on the basis of the statement under Section 164 Code of Criminal Procedure we do not want to make a finding. 14. Let us now examine the validity of the reasons which weighed with the learned Sessions Judge in coming to a conclusion that there is no proof that the spurious notes before the Court were actually recovered from the accused C. Ronald and Anil Kumar. 14.1. The currency notes seized from the possession of C. Ronald and Anil Kumar amongst others were sent to the forensic laboratory and the PW11 has deposed that the currency notes were all spurious. The evidence given by PW11 has remained unshaken and there is no dispute as regards the correctness thereof. As a matter of fact, the learned Sessions Judge has unequivocally held that "on the basis of the evidence of PW11 this Court has got no hesitation to hold that those questioned documents or currency notes No. Ql to Q436 were not genuine and this witness found those of spurious in nature." 14.2. The learned Sessions Judge however entertained a doubt as to whether the question documents were the notes actually recovered from the accused persons. He has disclosed his mind in the following words: 14.6. This is the basis on which it was urged by learned counsel for Anil and Ronald that the notes examined by the forensic laboratory and produced before the Court as questioned documents may not be the same which were recovered from the possession of Anil and Ronald. It was further submitted by Mr. Nag that it was not required of the defence to give any suggestion to that effect. Mr. Tulsilal tried to rely upon the discrepancies here and there for the purpose of raising a doubt as to whether the notes exhibited before the Court were the same which were recovered from the accused Anil and Ronald. The submissions made by Mr. Nag have been recorded in paragraph 4 above and those made by Mr. Tulsilal have been recorded in paragraph 6 above. 14.7. This Court is firmly of the view that the doubt entertained by the learned Sessions Judge is ill-founded. This Court regards the finding of the learned Sessions Judge as wrong for the following reasons: (b) On the top of that there is intrinsic on the record which is inconsistent with any such theory. There are three several seizure lists containing serial number of the currency notes seized by the police. These seizure lists are Exhibit 1 series, Exhibit 2 series and Exhibit 3 series. It is nobody's case that the notes bearing the serial number which were seized, particulars whereof appear from the seizure lists themselves, were not the ones produced before the Court and examined by the PW11. (c) On 26.11.1997 four currency notes were seized from Ronald by PW2. His evidence was that all the four currency notes of Rs. 100 denomination contained the same serial number. The seizure list prepared by him was marked Ext. 1/1. the Ext 1/1 goes to show that the four currency notes contained one serial number as JPQ-204J24. PW2 in his evidence has stated he was mistaken in recording the serial number by reason of similarity between the English letter and the numerical appearing on the currency notes, Ext. 13 goes to show that the serial number which the said four notes contained was 1PQ 204124. (d) On 26.11.1997, 42 currency notes all bearing serial number 9NP-892890 of Rs. 100 denomination were seized from inside a black shoe, wrapped in a red handkerchief, lying on a rack in the house of Ronald. Seizure list prepared by PW15 was marked Ex. 2/2. The red handkerchief was also seized and wrapped in a paper which is Ext. 6 and 16 series. (e) On 26.11.1997, 370 currency notes of Rs. 100 denomination were recovered from an almirah kept in the bedroom of Anil. The particulars of the serial number appearing in the 370 notes were as follows: (f) 10 currency notes of Rs. 100 denomination were seized from C.A. Ranjit on 28.11.1997 vide Ext. 10/2; 3 currency notes of Rs. 100 denomination appearing to be fake had been received at the collection counter on 26.11.1997 of the Port Blair Municipal Council which were forwarded to the Police by Ext. 21; 1 currency note of Rs. 100 denomination was detected on 16.12.1997 at the cash counter of State Bank of India which was sent to the police vide Ext. 22 and 7 currency notes of Rs. 100 denomination were detected on 18.12.1997 at the counter of Syndicate Bank which were deposited with the police vide Ext. 11. (g) The investigating agency thus seized (4+42+370+10+3+l+7)=437 currency notes of Rs. 100 denomination. These 437 notes were sent to the Forensic Laboratory by Ext. 13. (h) It would appear from Ext. 13 that the Superintendent of Police. A&N Islands has treated the 4 currency notes recovered from Ronald as Ext. 1. The PW11 marked them Q1 to 4; further 42 currency notes recovered from Ronald were treated in Ext. 13 as Ext. II which were marked by PW11 as Q5 to 46; 370 currency notes recovered from Anil were treated as Ext. IV In Ext. 13 which have been marked by PW11 as Q47 to 218, 218/1 and Q219-415; the 10 currency notes recovered from Ranjit and treated as Ext. V in Ext 13 have been marked' by PW11 as Q416 to 425; the 3 currency notes sent by the Municipality were treated as Ext. VI in Ext. 13; the one currency note received from State Bank was treated as Ext. VII in Ext. 13 and the 7 currency notes recovered from Syndicate Bank were treated as Ext. VIII in Ext. 13 which have been marked by PW11 as Q414 to Q436, Q1 to 436 and Q218/1 make up the total of 4376 notes sent vide Ext. 13. (i) The particulars as regards the serial numbers of 437 notes sent by the S.P. appear in the second page of Ext. 13. These particulars compared with particulars of the notes seized from the accused persons reflected in the seizure lists being Exts. 1, 2 and 3 series leave no manner of doubt that all those notes were sent by Ext. 13 for forensic test. The notes recovered from Ronald and Anil have been marked by PW11 as Q1 to 415 and Q218/1 and the rest 21 notes were marked Q416 to 436 and they have been tendered in evidence as material Exhibit No. I to VII by PW11. (j) The learned Sessions Judge expressed doubt on the basis of follows: 14.9. The true position would appear from the deposition of PW11 that the notes marked Q418 to 436 were part of the notes recovered from Ranjit, State Bank, Syndicate Bank and the Municipality with which neither the accused persons nor the witnesses Ramzan or Thangaraj had anything to do. The notes recovered from the accused persons (Ronald and Anil) were marked Q1 to 415 and 0218/1. The learned Sessions Judge fell into a grievous error and misdirected himself. No part of Q418 to 436 was recovered from Ronald and Anil. The whole basis of the doubt entertained by the learned Sessions Judge has thus disappeared and proved wrong. (k) The PW11 in cross examination for Ronald deposed "It Is fact that besides the currency notes sent with the forwarding letter of the S,P. being Ext. 13, I cannot say about the truthfulness or falsity of other descriptions made in the said letter by the S.P." Therefore, the identity of the notes sent for examination is not even in dispute. The identity of the notes seized is to be found in the seizure lists being Ext. 1, 2 and 3 series. The particulars appearing in those seizure list tally with the particulars appearing In Ext. 13. It is thus evident that the notes seized were sent and they have been found to be spurious by PW11. His written opinion is Ext. 14. 15. The learned Sessions Judge has commented adversely stating that the Police Officers handled the matter carelessly because they did not make arrangement to link material exhibit 1 to exhibit 7 (the currency notes) with the material recovered from Ronald and Anil. 15.1. Again the learned Sessions Judge fell into an error in thinking that Material Exhibits I to VII were seized from the accused Ronald and Anil. Only the Material Exhibits I, II and III were recovered from Ronald and Anil which would be absolute clear from the deposition of PW11, relevant portions whereof are as follows: 16. The learned Sessions Judge also commented upon the efficiency of the Inspector Yadav, PW15. because he chose illiterate sweepers for the purpose of cleaning the septic tank. We wonder where are literate sweepers to be found who shall open a septic tank and shall fish out torn pieces of currency notes from human excreta for the investigating agency? The learned Sessions Judge has been uncharitable in passing the remarks against the investigating agency to say the least. 16.1. In any event faulty investigation is no ground for acquittal of the accused persons. Reference in the regard can be made to the Judgment in the case of State of U.P. v. Jagdeo and Ors. , wherein Their Lordships opined on this aspect as follows: 17. Lastly, the learned Sessions Judge has expressed his helplessness because Ramzan All and Thangaraj "avoided to disclose their knowledge about the said signatures properly and if they did it, then the story would have been otherwise and the society as a whole could have been saved from gradual deterioration in respect of influx of circulation of fake currency notes as it is so reported nowadays." 17.1. When he came to a finding that the witnesses namely Thangaraj and Ramzan All were deliberately avoiding to disclose their knowledge he should have at least taken into consideration that part of the evidence which these two hostile witnesses gave and which support the prosecution case. That was the law laid down by the Apex Court in the case of Ramesh Prasad Mishra, . 18. Let us now examine the submissions made by Mr. Nag appearing on behalf of Anil, which we have noted above. His submission with regard to admissibility of the statement of Ramzan recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has already been dealt with by us in paragraph 10 above. No further dilation is required. 18.1. His submission that the defence was not required to give suggestion that the notes produced before the Court were not the ones recovered from the accused is patently contrary to the Carpet's case (supra). Moreover, we already have shown, from material on record, in paragraphs 14 and 1 above, that the controversy with regard to the identity of the notes is without any merit whatsoever. 18.2. The omission on the part of the prosecution to produce the single page wrapper is merely a fraction of the evidence and shall be compared with the bulk of evidence at a later stage. Similarly his submissions recorded under sub-paragraphs (g) has amply been dealt with by us in paragraph 9 above. His submission (h) shall be considered at a later stage. 19. Let us now examine the submissions of Mr. Lal who appeared on behalf of Ronald. The discrepancies pointed out by him and recorded by us under sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 5 above are not such which go to the root of the matter. The law in this regard was laid down by the Apex Court in the case of Krishna Pillai v. State of Kerala , wherein Their Lordships opined as follows: 19.1. His submission recorded in sub-paragraphs (c) recorded in paragraph 5 above has been dealt with by us in paragraphs 14 and 15 above and no repetition is called for. Submission (f) has been dealt with in paragraph 10 above. 19.2. His submissions recorded In sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph 5 above are without any merit, as we shall presently demonstrate. 19.3. In cross examination on behalf of Anil, PW15 deposed that "The recovered currency notes in 10 separate bundles were all wrapped together in single paper wrapper." It would appear from seizure list being Ext. 3/2, prepared after seizure of 370 currency notes, that the said 370 currency notes were placed in 10 separate bundles. 19.4. With regard to the evidence of S.C. Gupta, PW11 that 8 exhibits were received by him one has to refer to Ext. 13, which will show that the 437 seized notes including torn pieces of notes, were shown separately in 8 exhibits. The doubt expressed as regards correctness of the whole evidence on the basis of deposition of PW12. "On 26.11.1997..........Inspector R.B. Yadav handed over to me six sealed paper packets containing some currency notes in relation to Crime No. 255/97 of CCS for keeping those in Malkhana", does not appear to be well founded. R.B. Yadav has stated that the notes recovered from Anil in 10 bundles were wrapped in a single paper. How were they packed while keeping then in sealed packets is a query which the counsel did not pursue in cross examination. And in the absence thereof there is no scope for any doubt. One can refer to the Carapiet 's case (supra)
 

19.5. His submission recorded by us in sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph 5 above is also not significant. Before PW12 came to give evidence PW11 had already been examined. He produced the original letter of the S.P., dated 20.2.1998 received by his office on 9.3.1998 which was marked Exhibit 13. Yet the point now sought to be raised was not pursued in cross examination when PW12 was in the box. This is squarely against the requirement of law laid down in Carapiet 's case (supra). 20. We need not advert to the submissions of Mr. Parekh because we already have indicated in paragraph 13 above that charge under Section 489C against Arun cannot stand and for that under Section 489B the evidence is rather slender. 21. With regard to the question as to the reversal of the finding of acquittal by the Appellate Court urged by Mr. Nag it can at once be pointed out that even in the Judgment in the case of Singara Singh v. State of Haryana, . Their Lordships held that "it is well settled that in an appeal against acquittal the High Court is entitled to reappreciate the entire evidence on record but having done so if it finds that the view taken by the trial Court is a possible reasonable view of the evidence on record it will not substitute its opinion for that of the trial Court. Only in cases where the High Court finds that the findings recorded by the trial Court are unreasonable or perverse or that the Court has committed a serious error of law. or where the trial Court had recorded its findings in ignorance of relevant material on record or by taking into consideration evidence which is not admissible, the High Court may be Justified in reversing the order of acquittal." 21.1. We have already demonstrated that the view taken by the learned Sessions Judge is not a possible view on the state of evidence. On the contrary, we have amply demonstrated above that the learned Sessions Judge excluded from consideration the evidence which was there. He fell into grievous error in appreciation of the evidence and misdirected himself; entertained a doubt for which there was no foundation and expressed his helplessness because the witnesses particularly the seizure witnesses turned hostile and refused to tell the Court the truth. Attempt on his part was lacking to marshall the evidence; to remove the grain from chaff; to take the help of that part of the evidence of the hostile witnesses which the case of the prosecution. He commented upon insincerity of the investigating agency but did not put to use the material which was before him. We feel no hesitation in holding that the learned Sessions Judge was wrong and therefore we have reappraised the evidence and come to the conclusion indicated above. 22. Last but not the least is the question of granting benefit of doubt which the learned Sessions Judge did. The principle for granting benefit of doubt was discussed in the case of Kishore v. State of Himachal Pradesh , wherein Their Lordships opined as follows: 22.1. The learned Sessions Judge in one sentence held that "the prosecution allegation of currency notes on the part of the accused persons having knowledge of the same as fake currency notes and to use them was not properly proved" without indicating as to why did he think that the knowledge of the accused persons that the notes were fake and the intention on their part to use them as genuine was not proved. He has not even tried to summarise the basic facts which were proved by legal evidence. There was no attempt on his part to Judge whether the proved facts were consistent with the innocence of the accused persons. Is the fact that Ronald kept spurious currency notes wrapped in a red handkerchief inside a shoe kept with other shoes on a rack in his house bearing the same serial number consistent with his innocence? Or for that matter is the fact that Anil kept concealed 370 fake currency notes in an almirah in his bedroom taking care to keep the genuine notes separately in the same almirah consistent with innocence. There are other pieces of evidence which we have discussed hereinabove and need not repeat. We are convinced that the proof adduced by the appellant is only consistent with the guilt of the respondents No. 1 1 and 2. This is why the absence of a single page wrapper does not appear to us to be material. 22.2. Lastly, we can remind ourselves of the view expressed in the case Finance Officer Jenison v. Daker, reported in 1972(1) All ER 997 that "The law should not be seen to sit by limply, while those who defy it go free, and those who seek Its protection lose hope." 22.3. It is on record that fake currency notes are in wide circulation in Andaman. As a matter of fact evidence has been led to show that the bank has complained, common people have complained which are Exts. 21. 22 and 11. Witnesses have been examined on that account namely PW7 and 9. Yet reluctance on the part of Court to act shall only result in loss of hope for those who seek its protection. 23. For the aforesaid reasons the appeal partly succeeds. The appeal as against the respondents No. 1 and 2 is allowed and the appeal against the respondent No. 3 is dismissed. The respondents No. 1 and 2 are both sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment of 7 years. However, the period for which they were in custody, during investigation and/or trial of the case shall be excluded from the substantive sentence of imprisonment. They are also sentenced to pay fine at the rate of Rs. 10.000/- each, in default of payment the defaulter/defaulters shall undergo further rigorous Imprisonment of six months. The Chief Judicial Magistrate. Andaman, at Port Blair, is directed to ensure the attendance of the convicted accused persons, to undergo the sentence imposed. A. Lala. J. (in concurrence)-First of all I should be thankful to Brother Justice G.C. Gupta for his effort to render justice even by way of verifying the fake notes personally upon being produced by the Registry recently. 25. However. in concurrence with such judgment I want to add few lines hereunder. Weakness of the evidence of the prosecution cannot be the sole ground of acquittal unless It Is so weak that other than giving benefit of doubt not other conclusion can be arrived at. If the weakness of the prosecution case is accepted as sole ground of passing an order of acquittal the rigour of the criminal justice will be shaken. As sometimes we become polite we become rude too depending upon the circumstances. Such rudeness is required for the purpose of streamlining the social conscience. Subject matter of use of fake currency notes is not an ordinary crime which could be taken up lightly. 26. Coming back to the evidence I say that law of evidence is to be seen keeping eyes open towards the principles laid down in A.E.G. Carapeit 's case . There are two phases of discussion as regards the analysis of evidence. First phase is that wherever the opponent has declined to avail himself of the opportunity to put his essential and material case in cross examination, it must follow that he believed that the testimony given could not be disputed at all. It is wrong to think that this is not merely a technical rule of evidence. It is a rule of essential Justice. The second phase is that it serves to prevent surprise at trial and miscarriage of Justice, because it gives notice to the other side of the actual case that is going to be made when the turn of the party on whose behalf the cross examination is being made comes to give and lead evidence by producing witnesses. In the criminal justice system there is hardly any scope of lead the evidence by the accused. Court may call upon witness. But utmost necessity on the part of the accused would be to put his essential and material case in cross examination. The learned counsels, appearing on behalf of the accused, merely relied upon the weakness of the prosecution's evidence. The learned Sessions Judge also thought it fit to consider the case in that way and arrived at a perverse finding. 27. This case Is falling under Sections 489B and 489C of the Indian Penal Code. The essential Ingredients of the proof of such sections are as follows: (Section 489B) 2. That the accused sold to or bought or received from some person or trafficked in or used as genuine such note; 3. That when he did so he knew or had reason to believe the same to be forged or counterfeit; (Section 489C) 4. That the accused was in possession of it; 5. That at the time of its possession he knew it to be forged or had reason to believe it to be so; 6. That he intended to use it as genuine or that it might be used as genuine; 28. There is no doubt and dispute that either all the ingredients or many of the ingredients seem to be proved as against the accused persons viz. Mr. C. Ronald and Mr. R. Anil Kumar. There is no need to discuss afresh at the time of concurrence. But so far the case of Mr. M.P. Arun is concerned, as there is no proof of recovery of torn fake currency notes from his custody and no scientific examination was held as regards torn pieces of currency notes on the part of the prosecution admittedly, there is no foundation of the case against him. Therefore, his case cannot be equated with the fact of mere discrepancy on the part of the prosecution. As such the order of acquittal passed by the trial Court seems to be a possible reasonable view of the evidence on record. Thus, interference by the High Court is not justifiable following the principles laid down in ( Shingara Singh v. State of Haryana and Anr. with another matter). Thereby the order of acquittal, which has been passed by the learned Sessions Judge, should not be interfered with. But the cases of others should be guided by the laid down principles in ( State of H.P. v. Lekh Raj and Anr. ). Discrepancy has to be distinguished from contradiction. Whereas contradiction in the statement of the witness is fatal for the case, minor discrepancy or variance in evidence will not make the prosecution's case doubtful. In order to ascertain as to whether the discrepancy pointed out was minor or not or the same amounted to contradiction, regard is required to be had to the circumstances of the case by keeping in view the social status of the witnesses and environment in which such witness was making the statement. Supreme Court further held in ( Narayan Chetanram Chaudhary and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra ) that only the omissions which amount to contradiction in material particulars can be used to discredit the testimony of the witness. The omission in the police statement by itself would not necessarily render the testimony of witness unreliable. When the version given by the witness in the Court is different in material particulars from that disclosed in his earlier statements, the case of the prosecution becomes doubtful and not otherwise. Minor contradictions are bound to appear in the statements of truthful witnesses as memory sometimes plays false and the sense of observation differs from person to person. Even if there is contradiction of statement of a witness on any material point, that is no ground to reject the whole of the testimony of such witness. 29. Since this Court found that the learned Sessions Judge had given credit to the minor discrepancies equating with the contradictions in such serious matter of using fake notes in spite of making observations about social impact, we have no manner of doubt in arriving at a conclusion that the order of acquittal as against Mr. C. Ronald and Mr. R. Anil Kumar has to be declared as perverse accordingly so declared and manner of punishment as indicated by Brother Justice Gupta minus the period of having been in jail prior to grant of bail is appropriate.