DINESH KUMAR SHARMA,J : 1478/2023 of Sh. Manish Sisodia. The bail application of Manish
 Sisodia was dismissed by the learned Special Judge vide order dated
 28.04.2023. 2. The bail applications filed by petitioner Benoy Babu was dismissed by
 the learned Special Judge, PC Act , CBI-09 vide order dated
 16.02.2023. 3. Briefly the facts as stated by Enforcement Directorate are as under: Abhishek Boinpally to Sh. Vijay Nair as Sh. Abhishek
 Boinpally has investment and interest in M/s Andra Prabha
 Publications Pvt Ltd and M/s India Ahead News. j. Therefore, it is clearly revealed that Sh. Vijay Nair hatched
 a conspiracy with Sh. Dinesh Arora, Sh. Abhishek
 Boinpally, Sh. Arun R Pillai, Sh. Sameer Mahandru, Sh
 Mootha Gautam. Sh Kuldeep Singh, DC and Sh Narender
 Singh, AC and in pursuance of the same by using his
 position in the ruling party at Delhi took advance money of BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 8 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 Rs 20-30 crores from Sh. Abhishek Boinpally through Sh.
 Dinesh Arora and in lieu of the same influenced the officers
 of M/s Pernod Ricard India Pvt Ltd as well as the officers of
 Excise Department of GNCT of Delhi to get the
 distributorship of M/s Pernod Ricard India Pvt Ltd and L1
 license for M/s Indo Spirits for which the same was not
 entitled. 11. Since the Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. 1988 are
 scheduled offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering
 Act (PMLA), 2002, the Directorate of Enforcement has initiated
 an investigation in the matter by recording an ECIR No.
 ECIR/HIU-II/14/2022 on 22.08.2022. The investigation under
 PMLA is being conducted by the Directorate for tracing out
 Proceeds of Crime generated and laundered due to the alleged
 irregularities in the formulation and implementation of the
 Excise policy 2021-22. Further, ED has filed a Prosecution
 Complaint dated 26.11.2022 arraying Sameer Mahandru and
 others as accused before the Hon'ble Special Court (PMLA).
 The Ld. Court has taken cognizance of the same vide its order
 dated 20.12.2022. Thereafter, 1st Supplementary Prosecution
 Complaint dated 06.01.2023 has been filed against Sh.
 Abhishek Boinpally and others before the Hon'ble PMLA
 Court. During the investigation, several searches have been
 conducted, statements have been recorded. ED has
 provisionally attached properties to the tune of Rs. 76.54 BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 9 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 crores vide PAO No. 02/2023 dated 24.01.2023. The
 investigation done by ED has revealed as under: d. Due to the policy framework, where one manufacturer could
 only choose one wholesaler gave the manufacturers' a very
 critical position to decide the profits of the wholesale
 businesses. Though the manufacturers seemingly were
 supposed to take this crucial decision on their own as per their
 choice, but, this investigation has revealed that Pernod Ricard
 (one of the Accused), one of the biggest manufacturers in the
 country, also a subject of the ongoing investigation, was in fact
 directed by and conspired with Sh Vijay Nair to give their
 wholesale distribution business to the accused M/s Indo Spirits
 (L1 wholesaler), which is a part of the Super Cartel including
 Sh. Abhishek Boinpally. e. Sh Vijay Nair, who has orchestrated this entire scam is not an
 ordinary worker of the AAP but a close associate of Sh Arvind
 Kejriwal, the CM of Delhi and was closely interacting with the
 Dy CM for the Excise policy related matters. Sh Vijay Nair, as
 per his statement under section 50 of PMLA, 2002 functions
 from the camp office of Sh Arvind Kejriwal, CM, Delhi.
 Further, Sh Vijay Nair, since 2020, has been residing in the
 Govt bungalow allotted to a Cabinet Minister of Delhi Govt, Sh
 Kailash Gehlot, part of GoM of Excise Policy 2021-22. Sh
 Vijay Nair, does not have any other residence in Delhi. Irony
 being, Sh Gehlot lives at another private residence in BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 11 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 Najafgarh. f. Sh Vijay Nair had arranged meeting of the owner/controller of
 Indo Spirits Sh Sameer Mahandru, with Sh Arvind Kejriwal,
 CM, Delhi and when that didn't materialise, he arranged a
 video call through facetime on his phone for Sh Sameer and Sh
 Arvind Kejriwal, where Sh Arvind said to Sh Sameer that, Vijay
 is his boy and that Sh Sameer should trust him and carry on
 with him. These facts are relevant to mention so as to establish
 the abatement of his actions in relation to the Excise Policy
 scam, by the political leaders of the AAP. g. Sh Vijay Nair, is Incharge of Media and Communication for the
 AAP, had no role in the Delhi Govt. in fact acted as a
 broker/liaison/middlemen on behalf of the top leaders of the
 AAP for getting bribes/kickbacks from various stakeholders in
 the Delhi Liquor business in exchange of favourable outcomes
 (policy changes) in the Excise Policy of 2021-22, which was
 being drafted at that time. He even threatened the stakeholders
 who were not agreeing to his demands that he changes
 suitable/desired by them may not go through entirely if they do
 not concede to his demands. h. Sh Vijay Nair, in connivance with Sh Dinesh Arora and through
 him with Sh Amit Arora, has also arm twisted a wholesaler to
 surrender the L1 license and then coerced the manufacturers
 surrendered through that license to choose the wholesalers of
 his choice and favour to direct the profit margins to his co-
 conspirators, so that there was complete control on the BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 12 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 kickbacks to be extracted. i. Sh Vijay Nair, on behalf of leaders of AAP has received
 kickbacks to the tune of Rs. 100 Cr from a group, for
 convenience, we may call it the South Group (as termed in the
 statements of various persons recorded during the
 investigation), whose prominent persons are Sh Magunta
 Srinivasulu Reddy, Sh Raghav Magunta, Sh Sarath Reddy and
 Ms K Kavitha. The South Group was represented by Sh
 Abhishek Boinpally, Sh Arun Pillai and Sh Buchi Babu. Sh
 Abhishek Boinpalli facilitated the transfer of Rs. 100 Cr
 kickback in connivance and conspiracy with Sh Vijay Nair and
 his associate Sh Dinesh Arora. j. Investigation of the trail of this kickback so far has revealed
 that part of these funds were used in the election campaign of
 the AAP for Goa Assembly elections 2022. Cash payments to
 the tune of Rs. 70 lacs were made to the volunteers who were
 part of the survey teams. Sh Vijay Nair himself has told certain
 persons involved in the campaign related work to receive the
 payments in cash. Advertisment/hoarding related work were
 directed to raise only part of the claims in the bill and receive
 the remaining in cash. These part cash payments were managed
 through Hawala Channels. Teams led by Sh Vijay Nair have
 directed certain firms to even issue bogus invoices.
 k. These kickbacks were paid in advance to the AAP leaders
 through Vijay Nair by the South Group as a part of agreement
 between the South Group and the AAP leaders. Against the BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 13 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 kickbacks paid, the south group secured uninhibited access,
 undue favours, attained stakes in established wholesale
 businesses and multiple retail zones (over and above what was
 allowed in the policy). In one of the ways to recover/recoup the
 kickbacks given by the South Group, partners of the South
 group were given 65% stakes in Indo Spirits in collusion with
 the accused Sh Sameer Mahandru. The South group controlled
 these stakes in Indo Spirits, through false representation,
 concealment of true ownership and proxies i.e. Sh Arun Pillai
 and Sh Prem Rahul. This partnership formation was directed by
 Sh Vijay Nair on the assurance of giving the wholesale business
 of Pernod Ricard to Indo Spirits. l. The gravity and depth of this criminal conspiracy is such that to
 grant L1 wholesale license to Indo Spirits despite various
 complaints highlighting Sameer's and Indospirit Marketing Pvt
 Ltd's role in cartelisation, when Sameer submitted a fresh
 application in a different name of Indo Spirits, the Dy CM,
 Delhi, Sh Manish Sisodia himself directed the Excise
 Commissioner to grant the license on priority. m. Pernod Ricard, is one of the accused in the instant case, which
 through Sh Benoy Babu and others, in conspiracy with the
 super cartel and Sh Vijay Nair gave their wholesale business to
 Indo Spirits. The Excise Policy 2021-22 required the
 manufacturers to register their brands at the Lowest EDP net of
 all discount/commission/rebate of any nature whatsoever,
 however, Pernod Ricard by way of conspiracy has got their BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 14 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 price fixed without deducting the discounts/rebates they offer
 thus getting a much higher price fixed for their brands and thus
 earning a huge additional profit which was ineligible to them
 and should have been passed to the consumers as lower MRP.
 If the manufacturer had registered the brands at actually lowest
 EDP, the capacity of the manufacturers to give out credit notes
 would have been limited. However, Pernod Ricard paid Rs.
 131.9 Crores credit notes to the retailers via the wholesalers,
 where the benefit of discounts was shifted to the retailers
 instead of the actual consumer at large. n. That, in order to create a device for continuous payment of
 kickbacks to Sh Vijay Nair, an unheard of margin of 12% was
 provided to the private wholesalers (L1s) contrary to the
 recommendations of the Expert Committee headed by Sh Ravi
 Dhawan, IAS and then Excise Commissioner which as detailed
 below, suggested for a single Govt entity as Wholesaler for
 Delhi. On this account, the Govt lost the revenue of 12% Rs.
 581 cr. that would have accrued to it in case the Expert
 Committee recommendations were accepted by the Govt, which
 in the subject policy was assigned to the Pvt. Players, only to
 fill the personal coffers of the leaders of AAP. This loss to the
 Govt exchequer actually got illegally diverted into ostentatious
 profits to the wholesalers including the accused M/s Indo
 Spirits, which was used to recoup the kickbacks paid in advance
 by the South group. o. The South Group directly and indirectly controlled 9 retail BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 15 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 zones, which included 5 retail zones of Sh Sarath Reddy
 (accused no). In some cases the control was via financing of the
 EMD (Earnest Money Deposit) for the L7 tender process.
 ostensible investments, relatives/dummies/proxies. Apart from
 the direct profits accruing from the wholesale business of Indo
 Spirits, modus operandi for recovering the kickback paid in
 advance by the South group, monies in the form of outstanding
 from the ostensible sales from the wholesale of Indo Spirit to
 Retail of the South group with an understanding that the
 outstanding was not to be recovered and the amount will be
 shown as recoverable in the books of account. Sh Sarath
 Reddy's controlled entities owed over Rs. 60 Cr (approx.) to
 Indo Spirits, which is shown as outstanding but was not meant
 to be recovered as part of the conspiracy. p. The retail business was lucrative and the turnover was huge on
 daily basis. Further, the retail sales were in cash and not credit
 based, meaning thereby the generation of funds/recovery of the
 purchase cost was immediate. Thus, there was no valid reason
 for not repaying the outstanding towards the wholesaler either
 on the same day or soonest after. q. Another novel method of recovery of the kickbacks was through
 passing of Credit Notes. Ordinarily the credit notes are passed
 to the person who had direct nexus with or has sold the goods,
 however, in this business, the manufacturers were giving credit
 notes to the retailers with whom they had no direct transactions
 with. Further, there was no apparent reason to give credit notes BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 16 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 to businesses which are minting money with MRP being 3 times
 of the cost and having profit margin of 185% approx. The fact
 that the credit notes were an eyewash to transfer money
 illegally to pay kickbacks is evident from the fact that the
 ostensible reason of volume based credit notes was bogus and
 credit notes have been passed in an inconsistent manner
 considering the sale volume. For example, Pernod Ricard has
 not given any credit notes to M/s Adharv Enterprises (not a
 favoured L7) against the volume of 19,080 cases purchased in
 the months of Dec, 2021 Jan, 22 and Feb 22. However, Pernod
 Ricard has given Rs. 61.01 lakhs as credit notes to M/s
 Organomix Ecosystems Pvt. Ltd. (which is part of the South
 Group cartel) who has purchased 17,644 cases during the said
 3 months." B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER 4. Mr. Mohit Mathur and Mr.Dayan Krishnan, learned senior advocates
 with Mr.Vivek Jain, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the
 Applicant Mr.Manish Sisodia has advanced lengthy arguments
 assailing the order of learned Special Judge and emphasizing that in
 fact there is no material on record to even have an inference that
 Applicant Manish Sisodia has committed an offence under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (hereafter after referred to
 as "PMLA"). Learned senior counsels have submitted that the
 allegation of demand of bribe by the Applicant Manish Sisodia from
 Amit Arora is completely baseless and unsubstantiated. It has been
 submitted that there are major and material discrepancies regarding the BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 17 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 alleged meeting between the Applicant Manish Sisodia and Amit
 Arora. The discrepancy in the statement of Dinesh Arora in respect of
 the amount has also been highlighted. It has been submitted that even
 Dinesh Arora in his statement stated that money was received through
 Mr.Vijay Nair and not from Manish Sisodia. It has been submitted that
 in any case the insertion of the NOC clause was required since the
 operations of IGI Airport are under the purview of the Delhi
 International Airport Ltd. and not the Delhi Government. It has been
 submitted that in this regard there is also a discrepancy in the statement
 of Amit Arora recorded on 07.09.2022 and 06.04.2023. 5. It has further been submitted that the case as set up by the ED does not
 disclose any offence under Section 3 of the PMLA against the
 Applicant herein. It has been submitted that the offence of money
 laundering under Section 3 PMLA is totally independent in terms of
 actus reus and mens rea from the Scheduled Offence. Learned senior
 counsels have submitted that there is no material on record to show that
 the Applicant directly or indirectly attempted to indulge, or knowingly
 assisted or knowingly was a party to a process of activity connected
 with the proceeds of crime. In this regard, reliance has also been
 placed upon Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary vs. Union of India 2022 SCC
 OnLine SC 929. It has been submitted that ED cannot resort to action
 against any person for money laundering on an assumption that the
 property recovered by them must be proceeds of crime and that a
 scheduled offence has been committed. Learned senior counsels
 submitted that the offence of money laundering is an independent
 offence and only involvement in concealment, possession, acquisition, BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 18 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 or use of proceeds of a crime connected with the proceeds of crime
 would constitute the offence of money laundering. Learned senior
 counsels have submitted that the investigation done by the ED is also in
 violation of the judgment of this court in Prakash Industries Ltd. v.
 Union of India & Anr. , 2023 SCC OnLine Del 336. It has been
 submitted that in this case it was inter alia held that the PMLA
 empowers the ED to investigate Section 3 offense only and its power to
 investigate and enquire stands confined to the offense of money
 laundering as defined in the Section. It has also been submitted that
 even for the offence under Section 120B IPC there must be material to
 show that the Applicant was involved in the conspiracy to deal in the
 alleged proceeds of crime. Learned senior counsels have submitted
 that the allegations made by the ED are absolutely vague and there are
 no reasonable grounds to believe that the Applicant would be found
 guilty of the offence of money laundering. 6. Learned senior counsels have submitted that at this stage the reliance
 on the statement under Section 50 PMLA cannot be placed in absence
 of any material corroboration. It has been submitted that though the
 statement recorded under Section 50 PMLA are admissible in nature
 but in the present case the statements given to the ED are hearsay
 evidence and suffers from material contradictions. Learned senior
 counsels have submitted that in the absence of corroboration with
 material evidence, an accused cannot even be held guilty solely based
 on the statement under Section 50 PMLA even at the conclusion of
 trial. Reliance has been placed upon A. Tajudeen v. Union of India ,
 (2015) 4 SCC 435. Learned senior counsels have submitted that as BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 19 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 there is no material on record to corroborate the statement record under
 Section 50 PMLA, there is no possibility of holding the Applicant
 guilty and therefore the Applicant is entitled to be admitted to bail. Learned senior counsels have placed reliance upon Anil Vasantrao
 Deshmukh vs. State of Maharashtra , 2022 SCC OnLine Bom 3150
 wherein the statements under Section 50 PMLA were disregarded on
 account of lacking the element of certainty as to the source, time and
 place. In this case, the doubt was also raised as to the evidentiary value
 of the statement of approver. Learned senior counsels have submitted
 that even this court in Chandra Prakash Khandelwal v. Directorate of
 Enforcement , 2023 SCC OnLine Del 1094 inter alia held that the
 evidentiary value of statement under Section 50 PMLA could be
 weighed at the end of the trial. It has been submitted that therefore, the
 court should not place undue reliance on the statement under Section
 50 PMLA as the same is to be tested at the stage of trial. Learned
 senior counsels have submitted that accepting the statement under
 Section 50 PMLA at this stage would amount to accepting the version
 of ED as the gospel truth. 7. Learned senior counsels have submitted that the statements of various
 public servants namely C.Arvind Kumar, Rahul Singh, Sanjay Goel
 and Arva Gopi Krishna are self-serving statements without any
 corroboration. It has been submitted that the ED has relied primarily
 on the statement of the abovesaid and other public servants to
 substantiate the allegations that the Applicant formulated the Excise
 Policy contrary to expert opinion/mala fide as well as other allegations
 such as the grant of license to M/s Indo-Spirit. It has been submitted BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 20 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 that these statements were recorded in 2022-23 whereas the events in
 question took place in 2021 and the same are contradictory to the
 official record. Learned senior counsels have submitted that it has to be
 taken into account that why these public servants did not make any
 statement or flagged the issue at the relevant time. It has also been
 submitted that the Government of NCT of Delhi does not enjoy any
 control over the public servants and these public servants are wholly
 within the control of the Hon'ble LG, who is the complainant in the
 present case. It has been submitted that as these officers were
 admittedly involved in the drafting and framing of this policy and the
 fact that they are now distancing themselves from the same need to be
 treated with grave suspicion. Learned senior counsels have submitted
 that even the roles of these public officials are quite doubtful. 8. Learned senior counsels during the course of submissions invited the
 attention of the court to the improvement/contradiction made in the
 statement of C.Arvind recorded on 07.12.2022 and 13.03.2023. The
 attention has also been invited to the contradictions in the statement of
 C.Arvind given to different agencies i.e. CBI and Directorate of
 Enforcement. Learned senior counsels have submitted that in view of
 the contradiction in the statements of C.Arvind, his statement is liable
 to be rejected out rightly. 9. Learned senior counsels have submitted that the statements of approver
 and co-accused under Section 50 of PMLA are not corroborated in
 material particulars with independent material and therefore, cannot be
 used to deny the bail. It has been submitted that the confessional
 statements of co-accused persons cannot be relied upon against other BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 21 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 accused persons in the absence of corroboration as to the material
 particulars. Reference has been made to Surinder Kumar Khanna v.
 Directorate of Revenue Intelligence , (2018)8SCC 271 wherein the
 Apex Court after discussing its earlier judgments in Kashmira Singh
 v.State of M.P, AIR 1952 SC 159 and Haricharan Kurmi v. State of
 Bihar, AIR 1964 SC 1184 inter alia held that in the absence of any
 substantive evidence, it would be inappropriate to base the conviction
 of the appellant purely on the statements of co-accused. 10. Learned senior counsels have submitted that ED has heavily relied
 upon the statement of the approver Dinesh Arora to show that he was
 involved in the transfer of kickbacks in cash from the "South Group" to
 the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). It has been submitted that even as per the
 statement of Dinesh Arora no wrongdoing can be attributed to the
 Applicant. Attention has also been invited to the contradiction in the
 statement of Dinesh Arora, in the statement dated 01.10.2022 and the
 statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C., a day prior. Learned
 senior counsels have submitted that transfer of address at the behest of
 Amit Arora was approved by Rahul Singh, the then excise
 commissioner and the Applicant only approved the same in a routine
 way. 11. It has been submitted that even Dinesh Arora nowhere stated that
 Applicant Manish Sisodia was involved in or was aware of any of the
 alleged "kickbacks" or meetings relating to the same. Learned senior
 counsel have submitted that only on 06.04.2023, for the first time, Mr.
 Dinesh Arora stated that Applicant Manish Sisodia had directed him to
 meet Mr. Vijay Nair in relation to work of the Excise Policy. It has BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 22 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 been submitted that the statements made by Dinesh Arora at various
 stages suffers from material contradictions. Learned senior counsels
 have submitted that similarly the statements of Arun Pillai and G.
 Butchi Babu are equally unreliable and are hearsay insofar as they
 relate to the role of the Applicant Manish Sisodia. It has been
 submitted that the statements of these witnesses cannot be read against
 the Applicant Manish Sisodia. It has further been submitted that as per
 the knowledge of the Applicant Arun Pillai has already retracted his
 statement. In any case, there are no material to support the statement
 made by Arun Pillai. 12. Similarly, it has been submitted that Mr. Butchi Babu has made a
 vague remark that there was a political understanding between the
 Applicant, the CM of Delhi and Ms. K. Kavitha. Learned senior
 counsels have further submitted that the allegation relating to the merits
 of the framing of the excise policy are also baseless and in any case
 beyond the jurisdiction of the ED as it relates to the predicate offence.
 It has been submitted that the only relevant aspect to be investigated by
 the ED is the role of the applicant (if any) in any process or activity
 dealing with the alleged kickbacks being the proceeds of crime. It has
 further been submitted that the excise policy of the Government of
 NCT of Delhi is the collective responsibility of the Cabinet and the
 same was implemented after the same was drafted by Excise
 Department and approved by the planning, finance, and law department
 and was also duly approved by the Hon‟ble LG of NCT of Delhi. 13. It has further been submitted that the inputs from various Departments
 were taken and a collective decision was taken on the basis of the BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 23 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 material on record. It has also been submitted that the few
 modifications recommended by Hon‟ble LG were also duly accepted.
 Learned senior counsels have further submitted that the excise policy
 was framed in a transparent manner and it went through several
 independent checks and balances. It has been submitted that the ED has
 only selectively highlighted certain aspects of the policy-making
 process, while omitting key portions of the same. It has been submitted
 that the excise policy was duly examined by the Group of Ministers
 and thereafter the excise department submitted a draft cabinet note
 prepared in terms of the GoM Report to the finance department. 14. The draft cabinet note was circulated for approval from the Planning,
 Finance and Law Departments. The recommendations were received
 from all the above three departments and thereafter it was duly
 approved by the Cabinet on 16.04.2021. The policy was placed before
 Hon‟ble LG for his suggestions under proviso to Article 239 A.A.(4)
 though this was not a requirement under law since Excise was a
 transferred subject. It has been submitted that Hon‟ble LG after
 detailed examination returned the file with certain suggestions on
 19.05.2021 including suggestions on the „related party‟ which was duly
 incorporated. It has been submitted that thereafter after thorough
 scrutiny by several departments the Excise Policy was notified on
 17.11.2021. 15. Learned senior counsels have further submitted that the wrongdoing
 has been attributed against the applicant but the role of the Planning,
 Law and Finance departments as well as Hon‟ble LG has not been
 examined by the ED. Learned senior counsels have further submitted BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 24 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 that the allegation of the ED that the new policy was framed to derive
 benefits which were not available under the Old Policy is without any
 basis. It has been submitted that the government was kept outside the
 business of liquor being in tune of contemporary economic standards of
 disinvestment. It has further been submitted that in fact in the new
 policy margin was kept at 12%. It has also been submitted that there
 were also valid policy considerations supporting the increase of profit
 margin from 5% to 12%. 16. Learned senior counsels have submitted that the license fee for the
 wholesalers was increased from Rs.5 lakhs to Rs.5 crores and further
 recovery of the charges incurred for local transport separately was done
 away with. It has further been submitted that wholesalers were required
 to maintain testing laboratories to adhere to the global best standards of
 testing. It has been submitted that Zone-Wise Auctions & Limitation
 of Number of Manufacturers were also policy decisions taken on
 rational and well-thought-out reasons like equitable distribution etc. 17. Learned senior counsels have submitted that in fact policy has been
 challenged by persons allegedly in conspiracy to frame the policy,
 reference has been made to the WP(C) 11319/2021 titled as Khao Gali
 Restaurants Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner, Excise, GNCTD and others and WP(C) 10189/2022 titled as Buddy (T-1D) Retail Pvt. Ltd. vs.
 GNCTD &Anr. It has been submitted that the fact that the alleged
 conspirators themselves challenged the policy completely belies the
 case of the ED. Learned senior counsels have further submitted that
 ED has made mountain out of the mole regarding alleged inconsistency
 between the draft dated 15.03.2021 and 18.03.2021. Learned senior BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 25 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 counsels have submitted that the Applicant though denied the
 authenticity and veracity of the said documents alleged to have been
 recovered from the computer system in the office and conference room.
 It has also been submitted that the same were seized without following
 the procedure for the seizure of an electronic document. It has further
 been submitted that even in the alleged document dated 15.03.2021, no
 cap of 5% of profit margin has been imposed. It has been submitted
 that in fact Clause 6 shows that 5% is only the minimum percentage
 with a further stipulation that there will be no cap on the distributor
 margin. It has been submitted that therefore even as per the document
 dated 15.03.2021 distributors could have made a profit of 12%. It has
 further been submitted that in fact, the alleged document dated
 19.03.2021 limits the profit margin to 12% only. 18. It has also been submitted that the allegation of ED that the policy was
 found in the phones of certain persons of the „South Group‟ is also
 vague and in any case, it does not show any involvement of the
 Applicant.Learned senior counsels have submitted that the basic
 understanding of the ED of the old policy is erroneous. It has also been
 submitted that even the Ravi Dhawan Committee report had observed
 that the Old Policy had huge incentives to cheat and indulge in the
 selling of Non- Duty paid Liquor. It has also been submitted that in the
 old policy the wholesaler, manufacturer and retailer were the same
 entity therefore it led to Brand Pushing. It has also been submitted that
 in the new policy the illegal activity of cartelization, sale of non-duty
 paid liquor and huge profit margins were plugged by firstly, delinking
 wholesalers, manufactures and retailers and secondly by capping the BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 26 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 profit margins at 12%. It has been submitted that rather in the new
 policy, the process was streamlined. 19. Learned senior counsels have further submitted that in any case, it was
 not obligatory to accept the Ravi Dhawan Committee report though
 certain recommendations of the committee report were duly accepted.
 It has been submitted that merely because the expert committee report
 was not accepted wrongdoing cannot be attributed to the Applicant.
 Learned senior counsels have submitted that opinions of the two former
 CJIs and former Attorney General were in fact obtained by retailers
 who were enjoying licenses under the old policies and wanted to retain
 their businesses where profit margin could go up to 70%. It has been
 submitted that in any case these opinions cannot be held binding upon
 the government. 20. Learned senior counsels have submitted that framing of the excise
 policy 2021-22 was transparent and was duly vetted by several
 departments viz. Finance, Planning and Law under the authority of
 Hon'ble LG of NCT of Delhi. It has been submitted that the changes in
 the policy were purely on the basis of valid policy considerations.
 Learned senior counsels have further submitted that the allegations of
 the ED that Vijay Nair is the "Representative of the Applicant" is not
 supported by any material except the statement record under Section 50
 of PMLA. Learned senior counsels have further submitted that the
 statement in this regard of approver Dinesh Arora and co-accused
 Mr.Arun Pillai and Mr.Butchi Babu are vague and does not carry any
 weight. 21. It has been submitted that there is no material on record to show that
 Applicant Manish Sisodia was involved in or had any knowledge of
 any alleged kickback being paid through any person. Learned senior
 counsels have further submitted that allegation relating to grant of
 license to M/s Indo Spirits is based solely on self-serving and
 unreliable statements under section 50 of PMLA. It has been submitted
 that this allegation stems out of the statement under Section 50 of
 PMLA of Mr. C. Arvind, Mr. Arava Gopi Krishnan and the then Asst.
 Commissioner, Excise and Mr. Dinesh Arora. Learned senior counsels
 have further submitted that even if their statements are taken into
 consideration there is no material on record to show that the Applicant
 Manish Sisodia asked any of these persons to do anything in violation
 of any rule of law. 22. It has been submitted that in fact bureaucrats had made these
 statements to defuse their own role in the allegation. It has further been
 submitted that the allegation that Applicant was involved in the
 decision of Pernod Recard to choose M/s Indo Spirits as their
 distributor is based on speculative statement under 50 of PMLA. It has
 been submitted that this assertion of ED is only based on an
 interpretation by Manoj Rai of message sent by Vijay Nair to co-
 accused Mr. Benoy Babu. Learned senior counsels have submitted that
 the allegations against Manish Sisodia that the e-mails were planted
 have no connection with the offence under PMLA. 23. It has further been submitted that in fact the excise policy 2021-22 led
 to an increase in the revenue which is apparent on the record. Learned
 senior counsels have submitted that the allegations of proceeds of BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 28 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 crime of Rs.622 crores as alleged by the ED is baseless, erroneous and
 futile and are not supported by any evidentiary document to show that
 any such transaction has ever taken place and no recovery of alleged
 amount has been made. It has been submitted that the amount alleged
 to be given by Amit Arora is denied by Dinesh Arora. Moreover, the
 mode of the transaction was also contradicted by Amit Arora on his
 own statements making him them completely sham statements. 24. It has further been submitted that the alleged kickbacks of 100 Crores
 from the so-called "South Group" was never proved and no recovery
 has been effected. It has further been submitted that the existence of
 'South Group' is merely a cooked story of the ED. It has further been
 submitted that the allegations of bribe given to Sh. Aman Dhall through
 excess Credit Notes is merely an allegation made on hearsay evidence
 without any substantial proof. 25. It has further been submitted that allegations in relation to the
 execution of an alleged MOU between the Applicant and associates of
 Amit Arora is baseless. It has been submitted that the MOU is
 unsigned, without any signature of Vivek Tyagi. It has been submitted
 that the said MOU relates to the earlier policy and the said alleged
 understanding remained implemented and has no connection or link
 with the Applicant. Learned senior counsels have further submitted that
 in this regard there are material contradictions in the statement of Amit
 Arora dated 27.03.2023. 26. Learned senior counsels have further submitted that the Applicant
 fulfills the triple test. The allegations of the ED regarding frequent
 change of phone and destruction is baseless. It has been submitted that BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 29 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 there is nothing on record that the phones in question contain some
 material piece of evidence. It has been submitted that the Applicant
 being in a high position could not have left his own mobile phone lying
 around and must destroy them when he ceases to use them. Learned
 senior counsel further submitted that allegation of the ED regarding the
 destruction of the cabinet file dated 28.01.2021 is also based on the
 statement of certain public servants and is not supported by any
 independent evidence. 27. It has further been submitted that as per the record, the Applicant had
 directed the then excise commissioner on 02.02.2021 to bring the
 summary of the public opinions and the committee report before the
 cabinet. It has further been submitted that suddenly the then excise
 commissioner Mr.Rahul Singh was transferred by Hon'ble LG on
 03.02.2021 and Expert Committee was presented by the next excise
 commissioner Mr.Sanjay Goel on 05.02.2021. 28. It has further been submitted in the remand application preferred by the
 ED or in its reply there is no allegation that the Applicant may
 influence the witnesses. It has been submitted that the witnesses in this
 case against the Applicant are primarily the civil servants over whom
 the Applicant exercises no control especially now since he has resigned
 from his official post. It has further been submitted the Applicant is
 not a flight risk in view of the position held by him. 29. Learned senior counsels have submitted that voice recording of one
 Mahender Chaudhary placed by the ED has no concern with the
 Applicant. It has further been submitted that the trial may take a long
 time and there would have no purpose by keeping the applicant in BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 30 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 custody. Reliance has been placed upon Sanjay Agarwal v. Directorate
 of Enforcement , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1748, Ramchand
 Karunakaran v. ED, Order dt. 23.09.2022 in Crl. A. No. 1650 of 2022,
 Sajay U Desai v. SFIO, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1507, Jainam Rathod
 v. State of Haryana, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1522, Raman Bhuraria v.
 Directorate of Enforcement, 2023 SCC OnLine Del 657 and CBI v.
 Kuldeep Singh & Ors, Order dt. 28.02.2023. 30. Learned senior counsels have submitted this court is required to
 examine the allegations against the Applicant on the scale of broad
 probabilities. It has been submitted that the ED has not placed any
 convincing material on record to show that the Applicant had any
 knowledge of the conspiracy to commit acts specifically punishable
 under Section 3 of PMLA. And therefore mens rea is hopelessly absent
 in this case. It has further been submitted that there is no material on
 the record to show that the Applicant has been involved in the alleged
 money paid at any point of time. In addition to this the bail has also
 been sought on the ground the medical condition of the wife of the
 Applicant is serious as she suffers from an incurable neuro-
 degenerative disorder namely Multiple Sclerosis. 31. Learned senior counsels have submitted that the settled position of law
 is that at the stage of bail, the court is expected to consider the question
 from the angle as to whether the Applicant was possessed of the
 requisite mens rea. Learned senior counsels have submitted that the
 court is not required to record a positive finding that the accused had
 not committed an offence under the PMLA. Learned senior counsels
 have submitted that in Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary (supra) it was inter BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 31 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 alia held that the court ought to maintain a delicate balance between a
 judgment of acquittal and conviction and an order granting bail much
 before the commencement of trial. The duty of the Court at this stage is
 not to weigh the evidence meticulously but to arrive at a finding on the
 basis of broad probabilities. Learned senior counsels have submitted
 that despite the twin conditions, it cannot be said that the conditions
 provided under Section 45 of PMLA impose absolute restraint on the
 ground of bail. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT/ED 32. Mr.S.V.Raju, learned ASG and Mr.Zoheb Hossain, learned special
 counsel for the ED have submitted that the petitioner Manish Sisodia is
 one of the key conspirators in formulating, conceptualizing and
 implementing the various processes and activities in dealing with the
 proceeds of crime including creating an entire eco-system for
 generating, concealing, projecting as untainted, possessing and using
 the proceeds of crime. It has been submitted that the entire excise
 policy as finalised was itself a tool to project the proceeds of crime as
 untainted. Mr.Hossain has submitted that 6% out of 12% which was
 purportedly shown as wholesaler's profit was meant to be recoup as the
 advance kickbacks paid. Learned ASG submitted that the plea that the
 petitioner was not in possession of POC and therefore Section 3 of
 PMLA is not attributed is fallacious as the expression 'possession'
 includes constructive possession. It has been submitted that the person
 although may not be in actual possession but if exercises dominion or
 control over a thing either directly or through another person or
 persons, it amounts to „Possession‟. Reliance has been placed upon BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 32 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 Mohan Lal v. State of Rajasthan , 2015 (6) SCC 222. Learned counsel
 has submitted that role of petitioner clearly emerges in the formulation
 and implementation of the excise policy in a manner, which would
 allow astronomical illegal gains to various private entities involved in
 the liquor cartel which was done in return of kickbacks received by
 various AAP leaders. 33. Learned ASG submitted that Manish Sisodia was not only the head of
 the Group of Ministers but he was also the excise minister and played a
 key role in modifying the terms of the liquor policy in a manner which
 would benefit the cartel members. It has been submitted that deviation
 from expert committee report was made to enable and create an eco-
 system, which would benefit the cartel members in lieu of the receipt of
 kickbacks by AAP leaders. It has been submitted that instead of
 individual runs private vends with the lottery system, the applicant
 preferred the auction of retail vends as per limited entity model. It has
 been submitted that the model preferred by the petitioner permitted one
 entity to have two zones, which would in effect, give them control over
 27 shops in each zone. It has been submitted that this itself led to the
 cartelization as well as a concentration of retail vends in the hand of
 few entities. 34. Learned ASG further submitted that the wholesale business which
 involves procurement of liquor from manufacturer were given to
 private players and the margin was also increased to 12%. It has been
 submitted that had the wholesale business remained with the
 government as suggested by the expert committee, the 12% margin
 amounting to 581 Crores would have come to the kitty of the BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 33 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 government. Learned ASG submitted that the statement of Sanjay Goel
 dated 11.4.2023 and statement of C Arvind dated 13.03.2023 clearly
 indicates that there was no discussion in the GoM regarding the
 increase of margin from 5% to 12%. It has further been submitted that
 even the petitioner in his statement dated 07.03.2023 was unable to
 provide any rational explanation for increasing the profit margin from
 5% to 12%. 35. Mr.S.V.Raju, learned ASG also invited the attention of the court to the
 statement of Mr. Arava Gopi Krishna in his statement dated 13.04.2023
 wherein he has stated that neither the petitioner nor any other member
 of the GoM had asked the Excise Department about the calculation
 behind the 5% margin being allowed to the wholesaler when the license
 fee was 5 lakhs. Similarly, reference has been made to statement of
 Sh. Sanjay Goel, the then Excise Commissioner dated 17.02.2023. 36. Mr.S.V. Raju, learned ASG submitted that in fact the increase of profit
 margin to 12% was done with a malafide intention of granting huge
 benefits to private wholesaler in collusion with south group. It has
 been submitted that the file recovered from the computer system
 installed in the office of Manish Sisodia which was last modified on
 15.3.2021 at 11:27 AM contained a minimum profit margin of 5% in
 favour of L1 license holder whereas in the document last modified on
 19.03.2021, the profit margin was increased to 12%. It has been
 submitted that between 15.03.2021 and 19.03.2021, there was no
 meeting of GOM. 37. Learned ASG submitted that in fact this profit margin was increased in
 collusion with the South Group, to grant significant benefits for BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 34 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 wholesalers. It has further been submitted that the
 members/representatives of the South Group were staying at Oberoi
 Hotel in New Delhi from 14.03.2021 to 17.03.2021. It has further been
 submitted that certain parts of the GOM report were found in the phone
 belonging to co-accused Butchi Babu (representative of South group)
 on 20.03.2021 even before the same was submitted to the Cabinet. 38. Learned ASG has also referred to the chat dated 06.03.2021 and
 20.03.2021 recovered from the phone of Butchi Babu which refers to
 the assertion that the south group was actively interfering in the
 formulation of the policy. Learned ASG has further submitted that
 statement of Mr.Zakir Khan dated 28.03.2023, statement of Kartikeya
 Azad dated 24.03.2023, statement of Vanshika dated 21.03.2023,
 Statement of C.Arvind dated 21.03.2023 and statement of Alok dated
 14.03.2023 affirms that Mr.Manish Sisodia procured the emails in
 support of the new excise policy. 39. Learned ASG has further submitted that Mr.Vijay Nair who was
 representing Aam Aadmi Party's side in the entire liquor scam and was
 managing the conspiracy of kickbacks, undue favours, arm twisting etc.
 received Rs. 100 Cr from the south group as an advance Kickback on
 behalf of AAP and in exchange facilitated them in getting stakes in
 different wholesale businesses such as Indo Spirits and then directed
 big manufacturer to them to help them recover the advance kickbacks
 paid, apart from other undue favour awarded to the South Group.
 Learned ASG submitted that Vijay Nair acquired this PoC of Rs. 100
 Cr as kickbacks on behalf of the top leaders of the AAP and then used
 the part of this PoC in the Goa election campaign of the AAP through BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 35 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 multiple persons and entities. It has further been submitted that all of
 this was done on behalf of Mr. Manish Sisodia. 40. Mr.S.V.Raju, learned ASG has further submitted that the petitioner
 Manish Sisodia provided undue favours to Indo Spirits, which was
 designed as a vehicle for the recoupment of kickbacks to the South
 Group. It has been submitted that Mr. Manish Sisodia expedited the
 process of issuing the L1 license for Indospirits. In this regard, the
 reference has been made to the statement of Arava Gopi Krishna, the
 then Excise Commissioner dated 26.12.2022. The reference has also
 been made to the statement of Narinder Singh, Assistant Commissioner
 (IMFL), Delhi Excise in his statement dated 01.11.2022. 41. Learned ASG submitted that Dinesh Arora in his statement dated
 01.10.2022 has revealed that the meeting took place at ITC Kohinoor
 for discussion on how to transfer Kickbacks, wherein Sh Vijay Nair,
 asked Dinesh Arora to coordinate with Sh. Abhishek Boinapally to get
 some funds, Approx Rs. 20-30 Cr from Hyderabad to Delhi. Mr.Zoheb
 Hossain has invited the attention of the court to the call detail records
 of Dinesh Arora in this regard. It has been submitted that infact profit
 margin was increased to 12% as out of 12%, 6% profit was earmarked
 as kickback which was to be given back to the AAP. In this regard
 reference has been made to the statement of Dinesh Arora dated
 1.10.2022. 42. Learned ASG submitted that the kickbacks received from the south
 group were used in Goa Elections by AAP and in this regard the
 reference has been made to statements of Islam Qazi, Aaron Schubert
 De Souza and Manaswani Prabhune. Mr.Zoheb Hossain has further BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 36 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 submitted that it is also necessary to look at the conduct of the
 petitioner Manish Sisodia regarding the destruction of evidence to
 derail the investigation. It has been submitted that the petitioner
 changed his phone on 22.07.2022 on the day when Media covered the
 complaint made by Hon‟ble LG to CBI. It has been submitted that the
 petitioner Manish Sisodia did not provide any detail of the phone which
 he used before 22.07.2022. It has further been submitted that the
 petitioner destroyed the old draft cabinet note so that no evidence is left
 behind. In this regard, reference has been made to the statement of
 Pravesh Ranjan Jha, Additional Secretary, General Administration
 Department, Delhi Government. Reference has also been made to the
 statement of Mahender Chaudhary for derailing the investigation.
 Learned ASG submitted that thus the petitioner is not entitled to be
 admitted to bail. D. FINDING AND ANALYSIS: 43. The offence of money laundering has been defined in section 3 of the
 PMLA, which reads as under: 44. The 'proceeds of crime' has been defined under Section 2 (u) of PMLA,
 which reads as under: 45. Regarding „proceeds of crime‟ and the scope and ambit of Section 3 of
 PMLA has been laid down in Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary (supra). In Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary (supra) it has been held as under: 265. To put it differently, the section as it stood prior to 2019 had
 itself incorporated the expression "including", which is indicative
 of reference made to the different process or activity connected
 with the proceeds of crime. Thus, the principal provision (as also
 the Explanation) predicates that if a person is found to be directly
 or indirectly involved in any process or activity connected with the
 proceeds of crime must be held guilty of offence of money-
 laundering. If the interpretation set forth by the petitioners was to
 be accepted, it would follow that it is only upon projecting or
 claiming the property in question as untainted property, the
 offence would be complete. This would undermine the efficacy of
 the legislative intent behind Section 3 of the Act and also will be
 in disregard of the view expressed by the FATF in connection with
 the occurrence of the word "and" preceding the expression
 "projecting or claiming" therein. This Court in Pratap Singh v.
 State of Jharkhand , enunciated that the international treaties,
 covenants and conventions although may not be a part of
 municipal law, the same be referred to and followed by the Courts
 having regard to the fact that India is a party to the said treaties.
 This Court went on to observe that the Constitution of India and
 other ongoing statutes have been read consistently with the rules
 of international law. It is also observed that the Constitution of
 India and the enactments made by Parliament must necessarily be
 understood in the context of the present-day scenario and having
 regard to the international treaties and convention as our BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 39 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 constitution takes note of the institutions of the world community
 which had been created. In Apparel Export Promotion Council v.
 A.K. Chopra , the Court observed that domestic Courts are under
 an obligation to give due regard to the international conventions
 and norms for construing the domestic laws, more so, when there
 is no inconsistency between them and there is a void in domestic
 law. This view has been restated in Githa Hariharan, as also in
 People's Union for Civil Liberties, and National Legal Services
 Authority v. Union of India . 273. On a bare reading of Section 3 , we find no difficulty in
 encapsulating the true ambit, given the various arguments
 advanced. Thus, in the conspectus of things it must follow that the
 interpretation put forth by the respondent will further the
 purposes and objectives behind the 2002 Act and also adequately
 address the recommendations and doubts of the international
 body whilst keeping in mind the constitutional limits. It would,
 therefore, be just to sustain the argument that the amendment by
 way of the Explanation has been brought about already only to
 clarify the already present words "any" and "including" which
 manifests the true meaning of the definition and clarifies the mist
 around its true nature." 46. Section 45 of PMLA provides that notwithstanding anything contained
 in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, no person accused of an
 offence under this Act shall be released on bail or on his own bond
 unless--(i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to
 oppose the application for such release; and (ii) where the Public
 Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence
 and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. It is also
 pertinent to mention here that Section 45 (ii) is an addition to the
 limitation under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 or any other law BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 40 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 for the time being in force on granting of bail. It is settled proposition
 Section 45 PMLA do not impose an absolute restraint on the grant of
 bail and the court at this stage is to prima facie consider whether
 applying the standard of broad probabilities the material against the
 applicant would result in conviction. It is also a settled proposition that
 at this stage the Court is only required to examine the matter to find out
 whether the accused was possessed of the requisite mens rea. It is also
 no longer res integra that the court is not required to record a positive
 finding that the accused had not committed the offence under the Act.
 It is also a settled proposition that the court at this stage is not required
 to weigh the evidence meticulously. The court is only required to
 arrive at a finding on the basis of broad probabilities. It is also a settled
 proposition that the court is not required to hold a mini trial at this
 stage and is required to examine the case on the basis of broad
 probabilities. It is also to be kept in mind that while exercising the
 jurisdiction under Section 45 of PMLA, the court is required to take
 into consideration the limitations prescribed under Section 439 Cr.P.C. 47. In regard to the limitation under Section 439 Cr.P.C. in Kalyan
 Chandra Sarkar vs Rajesh Ranjhan (2004) 7 SCC 528 it has been
 held as under: 48. Before proceeding further, it is also necessary to remind the scope of
 jurisdiction to be exercised while granting bail in the economic offence.
 The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v.
 CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 439 528 held as under: 49. Similarly The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case Nimmagadda
 Prasad v. CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 466 25. Economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be
 visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. The
 economic offence having deep-rooted conspiracies and
 involving huge loss of public funds needs to be viewed seriously
 and considered as a grave offence affecting the economy of the
 country as a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the
 financial health of the country. 50. The bare reading of Section 3 of PMLA would make it clear if a person
 is involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of
 crime, including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and
 projecting or claiming it as untainted property shall be guilty offence of
 money laundering. Therefore, it is not necessary to attribute section 3 of the PMLA that the alleged person must have acquired or in
 possession of the proceeds of the crime. If a person has actually been
 involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of
 crime, it would be sufficient to prosecute him under Section 3 of
 PMLA. The argument that the proceeds of crime have not been
 received or the proceeds of crime has not been recovered and therefore section 3 of the PMLA will not come into operation is totally fallacious
 and is liable to be rejected. It is necessary to keep in mind that such
 crimes are committed in a deep conspiracy and under the dark cover.
 An act may not be an offence at all if it is done in relation to any
 process or activity not connected with the proceeds of crime, but if
 such a act is done in relation to any process or activity connected with
 the proceeds of crime it will certainly be an offence under Section 3 of BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 43 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 PMLA. The scope and ingredients of offence of money laundering
 under Section 3 of PMLA has been defined in Vijay Madanlal
 Chaudhary (supra). 51. The present case is very peculiar in nature and may not have any
 parallel factual matrix. In brief, the initial allegation in the predicate
 offence was that the conspiracy was hatched between the political head
 and certain persons which included an individual allegedly representing
 the government with the manufacturer, liquor wholesaler and retailer.
 The conspiracy allegedly was hatched to introduce a new excise policy
 to benefit certain individuals who had given advance kickbacks to the
 AAP. Allegedly the prominent players if we put names to the faces are
 Mr.Manish Sisodia, the then Deputy Chief Minister and Excise
 Minister, Mr.Vijay Nair, purportedly Media Incharge of AAP, Sameer
 Mahendru. Mr.Amit Arora, Mr.Dinesh Arora, Mr.Abhishek
 Boinapally, Mr.Sharad Reddy, Mr.Butchi Babu, Mr.Binoy Babu
 (liquor traders) and others. 52. This court is conscious of the fact that the investigation relating to the
 conspiracy to frame the excise policy allegedly with malafide intention
 and alleged misuse of official position was the subject matter of the
 CBI in which the charge-sheet has already been filed by the CBI.
 However, the facts are so inter-linked that the same cannot be
 appreciated in isolation. In view of the fact that allegedly the basic
 intention behind framing the new excise policy was to recoup the
 advance kickbacks and to further gain undue advantage from the excise
 policy, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) also initiated the inquiry. 53. Presently, this court is considering the bail application of the abovesaid
 accused persons namely Mr.Manish Sisodia, who was arrested for the
 offence under Section 3 of the PMLA. The allegations against the
 petitioner Manish Sisodia is he being the Deputy Chief Minister and
 Excise Minister formulated the excise policy in such a manner that
 undue advantage goes to the manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer so as
 to recoup the advance kickbacks and to further gain undue advantage
 from the profit so earned by virtue of the provision in the new excise
 policy. The allegation against the petitioner Manish Sisodia is also that
 he received illegal gratification from Amit Arora for putting an NOC
 clause for granting benefits to Amit Arora. The allegation against
 Manish Sisodia is also that M/s Indospirit was created as a special
 purpose vehicle to generate the proceeds of crime. 54. The plea raised by the defence is the ED has no material other than an
 inconsistent and unreliable statement of either co-accused or the public
 servants. The defence has raised a plea that in absence of any
 independent corroboration or material on record to substantiate such
 statements under Section 50 PMLA, the court on the basis of
 probability should record a finding that accused persons are not guilty
 of such offence. The defence, during the course of their arguments,
 have repeatedly stated that the ED has cooked up the case merely on
 the basis of whims and fancies and there are contradictions in the
 testimonies of the witnesses. The defence has assailed the testimony of
 approver Dinesh Arora and has submitted that Dinesh Arora has made
 the statement under the influence of ED and to protect himself. It is
 also the case of the defence that the public servants who are under the BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 45 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 direct control of Hon'ble LG, who is the complainant in the present
 case, have made their statements only to save their skin. 55. This court is fully conscious of the fact that personal liberty is a
 sacrosanct right and pre-trial detention cannot be taken as a punitive
 measure. However, the court has to strike a balance between the
 interest of an individual and the interest of the society at large. This
 court is also conscious of the fact that though the statements recorded
 under Section 50 PMLA are admissible in evidence but their
 evidentiary value has to be weighed at the time of trial. It is pertinent
 to mention here that Mr.Mohit Mathur and Mr.Dayan Krishnan,
 learned senior counsels for Mr.Manish Sisodia have argued that the ED
 is only basing its case only on the statements of the witnesses recorded
 under Section 50 of PMLA. 56. The present case arises out of an alleged conspiracy wherein the
 government framed an excise policy with a malafide intention to
 recoup the kickbacks received in advance from certain individuals and
 to further generate the ill money from the liquor trade. There are
 witnesses and witnesses on record to show that certain outsiders were
 actively participating from the stage of drafting and formulation of the
 policy. The reference to the statements of the witnesses have been
 made during the course of recording the submission of the learned
 defence counsels and learned counsel for ED. The statements of the
 witnesses clearly indicates that some extraneous factors were working
 since the time of conceptualization, formulation and drafting of the
 excise policy. The allegation regarding generating of the emails in BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 46 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 support of the excise policy also raises the red flag that everything was
 not being done in a transparent and bonafide manner. 57. Learned senior counsels have invited the attention of this court towards
 the contradictions in the testimony of the witnesses. However, this
 court is fully conscious of the fact that at the stage of bail, the court
 cannot appreciate the evidence meticulously. This court at this stage,
 would restrain itself to make any comment further on this as the trial is
 yet to take place. The option before this court is either to go into the
 meticulous examinations of the witnesses as being argued by the
 learned defence counsels or to take into account the statements
 recorded under Section 50 of PMLA by the ED. It is correct that the
 case of ED is based on the statements under Section 50 PMLA cannot
 be taken as gospel truth but at the same, the court has to take into
 account the probabilities and the legislative intent behind enacting
 Section 50 PMLA. The statements under Section 50 PMLA are not
 akin to Section 161 Cr.P.C. The bare perusal of Section 50 makes it
 clear that these are deemed to be judicial proceedings. There are
 consequences for making a false statement or not complying to the
 summons under Section 50 of PMLA as provided under Section 63 of
 the PMLA. 58. This court at this stage cannot go into the probative value of the
 witnesses nor can it meticulously examine those facts. The involvement
 of the third parties in the formulating and drafting of the policy
 certainly points at mens rea. The jurisdiction of bail is a discretionary
 jurisdiction. But this discretion has to be exercised on the settled
 principles in a judicial manner. The court has to bring in its judicial BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 47 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 experience to arrive at a conclusion, which should be rational and
 logical. It is pertinent to mention that the accused and
 complainant/prosecution are entitled to know the reasons on the basis
 of which their bail application has been decided, but at the same time
 such reason should not be detailed in such a manner that it may
 prejudice the trial. 59. The facts of the present case, as stated above, are unique in nature. Here are the serious allegations where it has been alleged that deputy
 Chief Minister/Excise Minister framed the excise policy at the instance
 of some outsiders, who were going to be beneficiaries of the same. The
 functioning of the government is such that generally it is done in a
 discrete manner. The outside public has no means to have any access
 while policies are framed. The policies are framed under the
 supervision of the political heads by the senior bureaucrats. The senior
 bureaucrats in the present case are saying that no discussion took place
 on the material points like the increase of margin from 5% to 12%. It
 has also come on the record that in the draft dated 15.03.2021, the
 profit margin was 5% and in the draft dated 19.03.2021, the profit
 margin was increased from 5% to 12% and no deliberation had taken
 place between 15.03.2021 and 19.03.2021. It has also come on the
 record that even before this report was submitted to the cabinet, the
 same was in possession of the liquor traders. In such a case, it is not
 only difficult but seems to be impossible to get any direct evidence.
 The proceeds of crime are hardly transferred through legal means.
 Though in the present case, in one instance, the money has moved from
 Indo spirit to Mr. Abhishek Boinpally through two intermediaries. The BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 48 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 plea taken by Abhishek Boinpally that he had lent around 5.45 crores to
 Mr.Gautam Murtha without any loan agreement or without any interest
 is not plausible. 60. In the present case allegedly the excise policy was framed as a special
 purpose vehicle to generate the proceeds of crime and with the same
 motive, M/s Indo spirit was also constituted for regular generation of
 proceeds of crime. There may not be any recovery of the proceeds of
 crime. However, if the excise policy has been framed for the purpose
 of generation of proceeds of crime or M/s Indo Spirits has been
 constituted in a manner to continuously generate the proceeds of crime
 then all the stakeholders who instrumental in framing, drafting and
 formulating of excise policy are covered under Section 3 of PMLA as
 their acts and conducts amount to involvement in any process of
 activity connected with the proceeds of crime. 61. The bail application of Applicant Manish Sisodia was rejected by the
 Learned Special Judge vide a detailed order dated 28.04.2023. While
 rejecting the said bail application the learned trial court observed that
 considering the evidence placed on record it can clearly be inferred that
 the applicant herein was connected with the generation of proceeds of
 crime of around 100 Crores in the form of kickbacks which were paid
 by the "South lobby" to the co-accused Vijay Nair, through the co-
 accused Abhishek Boinpally, who had been participating in the above
 said meetings held with different conspirators and stakeholders in
 liquor business. He ensured undue pecuniary benefits to the
 conspirators and members of the cartel which was permitted to be
 formed by manipulation of some provisions of the excise policy and by BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 49 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 insertion of some favorable clauses therein for the benefit of
 conspirators. 62. Learned trial court inter alia held that the evidence clearly suggests that
 tweaking and manipulation of the excise policy by the applicant and
 owing to the cartel which was permitted to be formed and by limiting
 the participation of wholesalers, lead to creation of the POC. M/s
 Indospirits also earned huge profits to the tune of Rs.192 crores and
 this again was a result of the applicant ensuring the grant of L1 License
 and dealership of M/s Pernod Ricard to M/s Indospirits. Learned trial
 court held that it is safe to say that mens res to commit the offence of
 money laundering on the part of the Applicant can be inferred from the
 evidence placed on record. 63. In regard to the scheduled offences are concerned learned trial court
 inter alia held that the scheduled offences case of CBI was registered
 for the offence U/S 120B r/w 477A IPC and Section 7 of the PC Act
 and substantive offences thereof and chargesheets in the said case have
 been filed for offences u/S 120-B r/w 201 & 420 IPC and Sections 7 , 7A , 8 and 12 of the PC Act and also the substantive offences thereof.
 The above offences under the PC Act are the scheduled offences under
 the PMLA and even the offence of criminal conspiracy made
 punishable by Section 120B IPC is found independently included in
 schedule of the PMLA and is, thus, a scheduled offence. 64. Learned Special Judge rejected the contention of learned counsel for
 applicant that there is no direct or satisfactory evidence on record to
 show the existence of any such criminal conspiracy or involvement of
 the accused therein. Learned Special Judge observed that direct BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 50 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 evidence in such conspiracy is possible only in rare cases because of
 the fact that such conspiracies are hatched behind closed doors.
 Therefore, evidence in such cases can only be inferred from the facts
 and circumstances of that particular case. 65. Learned Special Judge inter alia held that though it is true that bail
 cannot be denied to the Applicant merely because of the fact that this
 case falls in the category of economic offences but it has to be seen that
 the offence alleged against the Applicant is a serious economic offence
 of money laundering wherein he worked not in his individual capacity
 but in the capacity of a public servant holding the charge of an Excise
 Ministry as well as being the Dy. Chief Minister of the GNCTD.
 Moreover, Huge POC in crores are alleged to have been generated
 through different activities covered under section 3 PMLA and a major
 portion of the liquor trade in Delhi was permitted to be compromised
 by way of permitting formulation of cartels in the said trade. 66. Learned trial court further inter alia held that the maximum term of
 imprisonment being seven years is not a ground to enlarge the
 Applicant on bail as this factor is required to be considered in totality
 with the other factors while deciding the grant or refusal of bail. In the
 present case, the seriousness or gravity of the offence and its nature or
 category, the capacity of applicant in which it has been committed, the
 manner of its commission and also certain other factors like impact of
 the offence as well as the possible impact of release of applicant on
 society etc. are the factors which go against the applicant and force this
 court to decide against his release on bail. 67. Learned court further observed that it had dismissed the bail
 application of the Applicant in the scheduled offences case of CBI vide
 its order dated 31.03.2023 wherein the court was of prima facie view
 that the possibility of destruction of or tampering with the evidence by
 him could not be ruled out, in view of the specific allegations levelled
 against him of such destruction or tampering by way of not producing
 his three out of four mobile phones before the IO as the same were
 expected to contain some vital piece of evidence regarding commission
 of the alleged offences and his involvement therein. Learned trial court
 observed that similar apprehensions have also been expressed in the
 present case on behalf of the ED and it has been submitted that during
 the one-year period of liquor scam, the applicant had used fourteen
 mobile phones having different IMEI numbers and four different SIM
 numbers in these mobile phones. 68. Learned trial Court took into consideration the statements made by
 responsible officers of the excise department which show that the file
 of cabinet note got prepared by the then Excise Commissioner Sh.
 Rahul Singh and sent for consideration of the GoM, along with the
 feedback given by public and the opinions given by some legal
 luminaries against total privatization of the liquor sector or business
 and for going with the earlier model of policy, was never returned back
 to the said office and the same had gone missing, which has also been
 alleged to be an attempt on part of the applicant to conceal or destroy
 an important piece of evidence. 69. Learned Trial Court further has relied on the evidence which shows
 that some part of the kickbacks or bribe amount received from South BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 52 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 lobby was spent or utilized in connection with election campaign of the
 AAP in Goa and some cash payments through hawala channels are
 alleged to have been sent to Goa for bearing the said expenses and even
 some fake invoices are alleged to have been created as a cover up for
 the cash amounts transferred through hawala channels. 70. Learned Special Judge inter alia held that it is now well-settled that
 though the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Vijay Madanlal
 Chaudhary (supra) held that conditions under section 45 PMLA are to
 be construed reasonably and not arbitrarily for deciding the question of
 bail, but different standards and yardsticks are to be applied for
 appreciation of evidence at the stages of bail, charge and final
 appreciation for deciding the guilt or acquittal of the accused and
 evidence is not required to be scrutinized or appreciated meticulously,
 but findings are required to be arrived in broader probabilities. Learned
 trial court also opined that the alleged medical illness of wife of the
 applicant is also not a ground to enlarge him on bail in this case. 71. The allegations are that deliberate loopholes were left to facilitate
 illegal and criminal activities. It is also pertinent to mention here that
 investigation has revealed that 65% stake was given to South Group in
 Indo-Spirits to make it a mechanism for continuous generation and
 channelisation of Proceeds of Crime. In furtherance of the conspiracy,
 the investigation also revealed that Pernod Ricard by way of conspiracy
 got EDP (Ex-distillery price) fixed without deducting the
 discount/rebates they offer and thus got the price fixed at much higher
 price for their brands and earned huge additional profit which was
 ineligible to them and should have been passed to the consumers as BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 53 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 lower MRP. The investigation has also revealed that if the PRI had
 registered the brands at actual lowest EDP, the capacity of the
 manufacturer to give out credit notes would have been limited. Pernod
 Ricard issued credit notes of 131.9 crore to retailers which actually
 should have been passed to the consumers. 72. If we sum up the case of the Directorate of Enforcement, allegations
 and the material on record indicate that profit margin was increased
 from 5% to 12% without having any discussion taken place in the GoM
 as indicated by the statement of Sanjay Goel, (the then Excise
 Commissioner) dated 17.02.2023, statement of C.Arvind, DANICS
 (the then Secretary to Manish Sisodia) dated 13.03.2023, statement of
 Arava Gopi Krishna (the then Excise Commissioner) dated 13.04.2023.
 The ED has also alleged that even the petitioner Manish Sisodia in his
 statement dated 07.03.2023 could not give any plausible reason for
 increase of the margin from 5% to 12%. 73. The allegations are also that the draft GoM report was handed over by
 the petitioner Manish Sisodia to C.Arvind at C.M‟s House on
 18.03.2021 wherein the margin was increased from 5% to 12% as
 compared to the earlier document dated 15.03.2021. 74. The ED has also referred to the statement of Butchi Babu dated
 23.02.2023 showing interference of the South Group in framing of the
 excise policy. The allegations are also that e-mails were got planted by
 petitioner Manish Sisodia to show that there was public support to the
 recommendation of GoM. The ED has also submitted that there was
 role of the petitioner in conspiracy to allow illegal benefits in lieu of
 kickbacks of Rs.100 Crores and this regard they have relied upon the BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 54 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 statement of Dinesh Arora dated 01.10.2023, statement of Arun Pillai
 dated 11.11.2022, statements of Butchi Babu dated 23.02.2023,
 28.02.2023 and statement of Arun Pillai dated 16.02.2023. 75. It has also been submitted that co-accused Vijay Nair was representing
 Manish Sisodia. In this regard reference has been made to the statement
 of Arun Pillai dated 06.03.2022, statement of Butchi Babu dated
 23.02.2023, statement of Dinesh Arora dated 06.04.2023, statements of
 Manoj Rai dated 03.12.2022 and 31.12.2022 and statement of Amit
 Arora dated 07.09.2022. 76. It has also been alleged that the petitioner Manish Sisodia got M/s Indo
 Spirit formed as a special purpose vehicle for recoupment of the
 kickbacks. In this regard reliance has been placed upon the statement
 of Narinder Singh dated 01.11.2022, statement of Dinesh Arora dated
 01.10.2022, statement of C.Arvind dated 23.12.2023, statement of
 Arava Gopi Krishna, dated 26.12.2022, statement of Manoj Rai dated
 31.12.2022, statement of Sameer Mahandru dated 12.11.2022,
 statement of Butchi Babu dated 23.02.2023 and statement of Arun
 Pillai dated 20.11.2022. It has also been alleged that part of POC was
 also used in the Goa elections. 77. The ED has also submitted that the draft note which did not suit the
 agenda of the petitioner and the co-accused was got changed as
 reflected from the statement of Rahul Singh (the then Excise
 Commissioner) dated 15.02.2023, statement of Sanjay Goel, (the then
 Excise Commissioner) dated 17.02.2023, statement of C.Arvind dated
 21.03.2023, statement of Praveen Kumar Gupta, Additional Chief
 Secretary, GAD & AR dated 02.05.2023 and Pravesh Ranjan Jha, BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 55 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23 Additional Secretary, General Administration Department dated
 01.05.2023. The ED has also alleged that he petitioner had also
 destructed the evidence to derail the investigation. Thus, the gravity of
 the allegations against the petitioner are very serious in nature and in
 view of the peculiar facts, this matter has to be visited with a different
 approach as a deep rooted conspiracy involving huge loss of public
 funds has been alleged. 78. This court has also gone through the order of the learned Special Judge
 dated 28.04.2023 and do not find infirmity or illegality in the said
 order. Learned Special Judge has passed a reasoned order on the basis
 of material available on record. This court has also rejected the bail
 application of the accused i.e. Bail Application No.1097/2023 titled as Manish Sisodia vs. CBI vide order dated 30.05.2023. This court inter
 alia was of the view that in view of the high political positions held by
 the accused and his position in the party in power in Delhi possibility
 of influence the witnesses cannot be ruled. The twin conditions under
 Section 45 of PMLA are in addition to the triple test. This Court is of
 the considered view that the petitioner has not only been able to pass
 the twin conditions as provided under Section 45 of PMLA, but he has
 also not been able to cross the triple test. I consider, in view of the
 discussion made hereinabove, the petitioner is not entitled to bail. 79. The petition is accordingly dismissed. DINESH KUMAR SHARMA, J
 JULY 03, 2023
 rb BAIL APPLN. 1478/2023 Page 56 of 56 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:03.07.2023 16:19:23