1. Brief facts of the instant case as per the complaint on the
basis of which the present FIR was registered are that on 19.04.2011 at
around 03:10 AM, when complainant Avdesh Kumar, who worked as a
driver at Buddy's Broaster at 217A, OIA-III, was returning from his duty,
when he reached near Govindpuri Metro Station, near metro pillar
no.168, 03 boys came on a motorcycle and asked him as to where they
can find "parathas" , the complainant replied "at Govindpuri red light". AKSHAY SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 2. The complainant had stated that the motorcycle was Bajaj
Pulsar, Silver Colour having 120 as last digits of the registration no. the
complainant also stated that he can also identify the accused persons. On
the basis of the abovesaid facts, the present FIR was registered and the
investigation was undertaken. Medical examination of the complainant
was conducted and the site plan was prepared. Thereafter, on 20.04.2011,
information was received vide DD no.43A, PS Lajpat Nagar that 02
accused persons namely, Rajesh @ Matka and Satish Kumar have been
arrested and the stolen mobile phone of the present case FIR has been
recovered from them. Thereafter, both the accused persons were arrested,

 Digitally
 signed by
 AKSHAY
 AKSHAY SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 3. On 26.04.2018, during the course of proceedings, the
death verification report of accused Rajesh @ Matka was filed and
proceedings against accused Rajesh @ Matka were abated.
Therefore, the present judgment is being passed qua accused Satish
Kumar only. CHARGE 4. After hearing arguments on the point of charge, charge u/s
392 / 411 / 34 Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred as IPC ) was
framed against the accused persons, to which they pleaded not guilty and
claimed a trial. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE 5. Prosecution in support of its case examined the following
witnesses: Digitally
 signed by
 AKSHAY
 AKSHAY SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 5.6. PW SI Bijender, was examined as PW6, his examination in
chief is herein reproduced as under: 5.7. PW Sh. Rajesh Goel was examined as PW7, his examination
in chief is herein reproduced as under: 5.8. PW Retd. SI Rishi Om Bhardwaj, was examined as PW8, his
examination in chief is herein reproduced as under: 5.9. PW Retd. SI Bangali Babu was examined as PW9, his
examination in chief is herein reproduced as under: 5.10. PW Sh. Rajender Singh, was examined as PW10, his
examination in chief is herein reproduced as under: AKSHAY SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 5.12. PW Inspector Sanjeev Kumar, was examined as PW12, his
examination in chief is herein reproduced as under: STATEMENT OF THE ACCUSED 6. After examination of all the material prosecution witnesses,
prosecution evidence was closed and statement of the accused Satish was
recorded. In the statement recorded u/s 281 r/w Section 313 CrPC,
accused Satish stated that he has not done anything and he was only
accompanying co-accused persons. He had gone to eat parathas with the
co-accused persons and the co-accused persons have only committed the
offences, rather he was stopping the co-accused persons. Accused Satish
also stated that he wants to apologize and he will not commit the mistake
again. Accused preferred to not lead any defence evidence. FINAL ARGUMENTS 7. Despite several opportunities, final arguments were not led
on behalf of accused Satish and therefore, the right to lead final
arguments was closed on 25.03.2025 considering the age of the matter
and the opportunities granted. 8. Ld. APP for the state had contended that the testimony of the
prosecution witnesses corroborate in material particulars and the accused
is liable to be convicted. DISCUSSION OF LAW, EVIDENCE AND DECISION
THEREON: 9. The basic principle of criminal law is that prosecution is
required to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt by leading cogent
evidence. Weakness of the defence cannot be taken by the prosecution
and the prosecution is required to stand on its own legs, this burden of
proof is based on the principle that hundred guilty may go unpunished
but one innocent must not be wrongfully convicted. 10. In the present case, there are 02 fold allegations/ charges
framed against the accused, firstly, is that the accused committed robbery
of the mobile phone make Nokia & the purse of the complainant on
19.04.2011 at around 03:15 AM, while the complainant was returning to
his home after completion of his duty. Secondly, is the allegation of
retention of this robbed mobile phone, which was recovered from the
accused, when he was apprehended at the police picket by the police
officials of PS Lajpat Nagar. Charges u/s 392 / 34 IPC and Section 411 / 34 IPC have been framed against the accused and for establishing these
charges, the prosecution examined a total of 12 prosecution witnesses. AKSHAY SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: Attention is drawn to the presumption u/s 114 of the Indian Evidence Act,
which provides that it may be presumed that a person found in possession
of stolen goods soon after the commission of theft, is either a thief or has
retained the goods knowing them to be stolen. Considering the time of
robbery and the time of recovery, both being on the same day, the
presumption u/s114 Indian Evidence Act can certainly be raised against
the accused. AKSHAY SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: Digitally
 signed by
 AKSHAY
 AKSHAY SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: As such, his conviction under Section 411 IPC is set
 aside." 24. Further the Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad in 'Gopi Jaiswal vs State Of U.P .' (Criminal appeal Digitally signed by AKSHAY SHARMA AKSHAY Date: 25. In light of the law discussed in the above-mentioned
respected judgments, since this court has already arrived at a conclusion
that offence u/s 392 / 34 IPC is duly proved beyond reasonable doubt
against accused Satish, therefore, this court does not deem fit to convict
the accused Satish for offence u/s 411 IPC as the real thief/ robber
cannot be considered a receiver/ retainer of stolen property. Hence, no
discussion regarding the aspect of recovery of stolen mobile phone from
accused Satish is herein made. Digitally
 signed by
 AKSHAY
 AKSHAY SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: 26. In light of the above discussion, this court holds that the
prosecution has been able to establish its case beyond reasonable doubt
and accused Satish convicted for offence u/s 392 IPC r/w Section 34 IPC. Pronounced in the open court on 22.04.2025.
Judgment contains total 19 pages, each signed by the undersigned.