The Petitioner/Complainant has projected the instant Criminal Revision
Petition as against the order dated 8/10/2012 in Cr.M.P.No.3628 of 2012 passed
by the Learned Judicial Magistrate No.I, Dindigul. 2. The Learned Judicial Magistrate No.I, Dindigul, while passing the
order in Crl.M.P.No.3628 of 2012 on 8/10/2012 has inter alia observed that in
regard to the disputed property, it comes to be known that the investigation is
pending and till date, the Investigating Officer has not seized the disputed
property's key and in the circumstance, the Petitioner's objection filed under Section 457 (2) of Cr.P.C., is not maintainable and also he opined that in as
much as the key of the disputed property has not been handed over to the Court,
the relief sought for by the Petitioner cannot be granted and consequently,
dismissed the petition. 3. According to the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner, the Learned
Judicial Magistrate No.I, Dindigul has passed the impugned order of dismissal in
Cr.M.P.No.3628 of 2012 dated 8/10/2012 against Law, weight of evidence and
probabilities of the case. 4. The Learned Counsel for the Revision Petitioner urges before this
Court that the Learned Judicial Magistrates are empowered to monitor the
investigation and they are also to issue appropriate instructions to the
Investigating Officer and in the instant case, the trial Court has not directed
the Respondent Police to seize the property viz., 'Key'. 5. Advancing his arguments, it is the submission of the Learned Counsel
for the Petitioner that the 'key' of the Petitioner shop is an important
incriminating article in the present case and the said key has been removed
stealthily by the Accused of the present crime and that is the reason why First
Information Report has been registered in respect of the offence under Sections
406 and 420 of IPC. 6. Expatiating his submissions, the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner
contends that the Respondent/Accused has breached the trust in regard to the
entrustment of key and ultimately, it has become the case property that too by
adopting the character of incriminating article and in such a situation, it is
mandatory on the part of the Respondent/Police to seize the said key for
proceeding with the investigation. 7. The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner projects an argument that in as
much as the First Information Report has been registered and also the averment
in regard to the entrustment of key has also found a place therein, it is always
open to the Petitioner/Defacto Complainant to work out his remedy for return of
the key to him as per Section 457 of the Criminal Procedure Code. 8. That apart, the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner vehemently contends
that the shop is not to be opened for a continuous period of two months and the
Petitioner has suffered a lot and also the medicines available are inside which
may get expired by this time. 9. The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner cites the decision of the
Honourable Supreme Court in T.C.THANGARAJ Vs. V.ENGAMMAL AND OTHERS {(2012) 1
SUPREME COURT CASES (Cri) 568}, wherein at special page 569, it has held as
follows:- 10. Also, the Learned Counsel places reliance on the decision of the
Honourable Supreme Court in CENTRE FOR PUBLIC INTEREST LITIGATION AND OTHERS Vs.
UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS {(2011) 1 SUPREME COURT CASES (Cri) 463}, at special
page 475, in paragraph Nos.17 to 19, it is observed and laid down as follows:- 11. He draws the attention of this Court to the decision of the
Honourable Supreme Court in SAKIRI VASU Vs. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH AND OTHERS {(2008) 1 SUPREME COURT CASES (Cri) 440, wherein at special page No.441, it is
held that

	" Section 156 (3) of the Criminal Procedure Code is wide enough to include
all such powers in a Magistrate which are necessary for ensuring a proper
investigation." 12. It cannot be gain said that the power of the Learned Judicial
Magistrate to monitor the investigation of Police is very much implied as per Section 156 (3) of the Criminal Procedure Code. 13. Apart from the above, the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits
that the Petitioner/Defacto Complainant is a tenant of the shop which belongs to
Ardhanari and he runs 'Sun Medical Shop and General Provision Stores' and in
order to develop his business, he borrowed a sum of Rs.10 lakhs from one
Pandiyan as 'Hand-Loan' in the year 2009 and he has been regularly paying the
interest for certain period and subsequently, because of the loss in business,
he could not pay the dues. Thereafter, the said Pandiyan has come to his shop
and demanded Rs.20 lakhs for the principal sum of Rs.10 lakhs coupled with
interest and the Petitioner has not been in a position to pay the demanded
amount. Further, the said Pandian forced the Petitioner to execute a document
in regard to the 'Transfer of Tenancy' in his favour and the same has been
executed in the presence of Notary on 31/8/2012 (by means of an unregistered
document) and that the Petitioner is to pay profit as well as the monthly rent
etc., and that he has been permitted to run the shop and also he has been
entrusted with the key. 14. The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner brings it to the notice of
this Court that the Petitioner purchased Pharmaceutical items for Rs.7 lakhs and
they are kept in his shop and while this being so, on 10/9/2012, all of a
sudden, Pandian has come to his shop and has taken the key, despite the
objection made by him and that he demanded the return of key to him, but the
said Pandian informed that Rs.22 lakhs in toto has to be paid back and unless
the Petitioner pays the amount, he will not be given the key. Under these
circumstances, the petitioner has filed a complaint before the Town Police,
Dindigul and that First Information Report has been registered in Crime No.555
of 2012 under Sections 406 and 420 of IPC. 15. The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits that the claim made by
Pandian is a clear violation of the relevant provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act, 2007 and in as much as the
Petitioner's shop key is in the custody of Pandian, the Petitioner filed
Cr.M.P.No.3628 of 2012 for recovery of the key from the accused Pandian and to
handover the same to him and also sough proper protection for his shop articles
besides sending the relief of restraining Pandian and his man and Agent from
any way interfering

with his conduct for running the Pharmacy business. 16. At this stage, the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits that
the Respondent Police is not prepared to seize the key of the Petitioner's shop
from the Accused Pandian and because of the necessity, the Criminal
Miscellaneous Petition No.3628 of 2012 has been filed under Section 457 of
Cr.P.C. Added further, Section 102 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, defines
the power of a Police Officer to seize the property specially where the
allegation of commission of offence is alleged. 17. According to the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner, as per Section
102 of the Criminal Procedure Code, a Police Officer may seize any property
which may be alleged or suspected to have been stolen or which may be found
under the circumstances, which create suspicion or commission of any offence.
In the present case on hand, the property in issue is the 'Key' and that the
same has not been seized by the Police and as such, Crl.M.P.No.3628 of 2012
(filed by the Petitioner) is to be allowed to promote substantial cause of
justice. 18. Per contra, it is the contention of the Learned Government Advocate
(Criminal Side) that 'Key' is not a weapon that is used in the crime alleged and
also that key is not used for any offence and the Respondent Police is not
empowered to seize the key and since the dispute in issue is one of civil in
nature, it is for the Petitioner to seek appropriate remedy before the competent
forum in accordance with law. 19. Also, it is the contention of the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner
that the trial Court has only observed that 'till date, the Investigation
Officer has not seized the key from the Respondent/Accused' and further,
observed that the said key has not been handed over to the Court and in fact,
the trial Court is empowered to monitor the investigation conducted by the
Police. Moreover, the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner also referred to the
contents of First Information Report, wherein the Revision Petitioner has
figured as complainant. Based on the complaint lodged by the Revision
Petitioner, a case has been registered by the Respondent Police under Sections
406 , 420 IPC in Crime No.555 of 2012 against V.Pandian/Accused. It is not in
dispute that the Police investigation is pending. 20. It is the emphatic submission of the Learned Counsel for the
Petitioner that the trial Court while passing orders in Crl.M.P.No.3628 of 2012
has answered the second limb of Section 457 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Code
that the subject property 'key' has not been seized by the Police, etc., and not
answered the first limb of Section 457 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Code that
"whenever seizure of property by any Police Officer, is not referred to a
Magistrate under the provisions of this Court and such property is not produced
before a Criminal Court during an enquiry or trial, the Magistrate may make such
order as he thinks fit respecting the disposal of such property". Therefore,
the order passed by the trial Court in Crl.M.P.No.3628 of 2012 dated 8/10/2012
is not valid in the eye of law. 21. At this stage, this Court aptly extracts the ingredients of Section
457 of the Criminal Procedure Code which runs as follows:- 22. Likewise, this Court also usefully refers to Section 102 (1) of the
Criminal Procedure Code, which enjoins thus:- Provided that where the property seized under sub-section (1) is subject
to speedy and natural decay and if the person entitled to the possession of such
property is unknown or absent and the value of such property is less than five
hundred rupees, it may forthwith be sold by auction under the orders of the
Superintendent of Police and the provisions of Sections 457 and 458 shall, as

nearly as may be practicable, apply to the net proceeds of such sale." 23. It is to be noted that the proceedings of investigation are not
within the realm of either enquiry or trial and as such, the Court is not
competent to pass orders either under Section 451 of the Criminal Procedure
Code or under Section 457 of the Criminal Procedure Code, during the
investigation stage, as per decision STATE OF KARNATAKA Vs. K. KRISHNA GOWDA {2006 Crl.L.J - 259, wherein at special page 261. 24. In fact, the plea of the Petitioner is to redeem/recover the key from
Pandian in respect of the shop 'Sun Medicals and Generals' and as such
Crl.M.P.No.3628 of 2012 filed by the Petitioner before the trial Court can be
ordered since there is no impediment in the eye of Law in this regard. 25. In this connection, this Court points out that the Magistrate under Section 451 of Cr.P.C., can pass an order only after physical or symbolical
production of seized material before the Court and that too only after hearing
of both parties. Also, as per Section 102 of Criminal Procedure Code, a Police
officer has no authority or power to seize the property when it is neither
suspected to be stolen or which may be found under the circumstances creating
suspicion of commission of any offence unless discovery of property leads
to suspicion of an offence having been committed. Unless the property
so seized is not incriminating or if the property is not involved or
incriminating any offence nor any offence is disclosed after the
seizure of the property, it

is not open to the Police officer to seize and keep the property to himself or
when it is produced before the Magistrate, it shall be released at once in
favour of the person from whom it is seized, as per decision S.SATHYANARAYANA
Vs. STATE OF KARNATAKA {2003 CR.L.J 1983 (1988, 1989)}. 26. This Court worth recalls the decision THE SUPERINTENDENT OF CUSTOMS
AND CENTRAL EXCISE, NAGERCOIL VS. R.SUNDAR (1993 Cri.L.J - 956), wherein it is
held as follows:- 27. It is to be noted that the term 'seizure' means seizure by Police on
own accord as per decision M.V.RAMANKUTTY Vs. STATE (AIR 1970 KERALA 191).
Also, the term 'such property' in Section 451 of Cr.P.C., means property seized.
Other property cannot be dealt with as per decision of BHAGWATI AND VENKATARAMA
AYYAR (AIR 1954 SC - 415). Further more, 'enquiry' starts only at the seizure
of an article. 28. As a matter of fact, the Learned Magistrate can act under Section 457 of the Criminal Procedure Code only when the seizure of property is reported to
him. 29. In short, Section 457 of the Criminal procedure Code speaks of
procedure by Police upon seizure of property. Indeed, Section 452 of the
Criminal Procedure Code deals with property regarding which an offence is
committed. But Section 457 of Cr.P.C., deals with property where commission of
offence is not necessary. 30. There is no quarrel in regard to the well settled principle of law
that it is the duty of the Investigation Officer not to bolster up the
prosecution case, but to bring out the rule unvarnished truth. 31. Be that as it may, as far as the present case is concerned, even
though on behalf of the Petitioner, a strenuous endeavour has been made before
this Court to show that a Police Officer has power to seize certain property,
yet in the instant case, the investigation is pending and that the key of the
shop has not been seized by Investigation Officer and also the same has not been
handed over to the Court. When a property viz., 'key' in issue has not been
seized by the Police nor recovered from the accused Pandiyan, nor produced
before the Court, the trial Court cannot direct the Respondent/Police to redeem
the key/recover/seize the key from the accused Pandian etc. 32. In the upshot of qualitative and quantitative discussions as stated
supra and also based on the facts and circumstances of the present case which
float on the surface, this Court opines that the Petitioner/Complainant in the
complaint has stated that if he is provided with an opportunity to open his shop
and to continue his business within the stipulated time, he will repay the loan
amount received from Pandian and other creditors. Even though the Respondent
Police has registered the case in Crime No.555 of 2012 on 17/9/2012, based on
the complaint of the Revision Petitioner against Pandian, the money transaction
between them appears to be a civil transaction and also on the side of the
Petitioner, a plea of exorbitant interest being charged has been taken as per Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act, 2007 , as opined by
this Court. Looking at from any angle, the relief prayed for by the Petitioner
in Crl.M.P.No.3628 of 2012 on the file of the trial Court to the effect that
'Key' will have to be redeemed/recovered from Pandian etc., is not acceded to by
this Court, in as much as the proceedings of the investigation are not within
the purview of enquiry or the trial as per Criminal Procedure Code . Further,
this Court does not find any impropriety or illegality in the order passed by
the trial Court in Crl.M.P.No.3628 of 2012 dated 8/10/2012 and the order of
dismissal passed by the trial Court in short, does not suffer from any material
irregularity or patent illegality in the eye of Law and consequently, this
Criminal Revision Petition fails. 33. In the result, the Criminal Revision Petition is dismissed. In view
of the fact that the investigation is pending in Crime No.555 of 2012 on the
file of the Respondent Police and also because of the fact that the money
dispute between the Petitioner and Pandian is civil in nature, this Court grants
liberty to the Petitioner/Complainant to bring a Civil Suit before the competent
Civil Court and seek appropriate remedy if so advised, in accordance with law
and in the manner known to law. mvs. To 1. The Judicial Magistrate No.I,
 Dindigul District 2. The Sub-Inspector of Police
 Dindigul Town West Police Station
 Dindigul District.			