For Petitioner(s) : Shri Sunil Otwani, Advocate assisted by Shri
 Shobhit Koshta and Shri Shashank Mishra,
 Advocates
For Respondent/ED : Dr. Saurabh Kumar Pandey, Advocate

 (Hon'ble Shri Justice Arvind Kumar Verma)

 C A V Order

 The applicant is seeking release on regular bail under section 483

of the Bhartiya Nagrik Surksha Sanhita, 2023 read with Section 45 of the 2 PMLA 2002 in connection with ECIR No. RPZO/04/2024 dated

11.04.2024 registered by the Directorate of Enforcement, Raipur (ED),

for the offences under Sections 03 and 04 of the PMLA, 2002.

FACTUAL ASPECTS OF THE CASE 2. The applicant was working as an employee of the Bhilai Steel

Plant since the year 1995. He has been on Sabbatical leave from

01.04.2020 to 31.03.2023. The Income Tax Department carried out a

search and seizure operation on several premises in the State of

Chhattisgarh. Subsequent to the aforesaid raids, the IT Department

recorded statement of various persons alleged to be part of the liquor

syndicate including the applicant. 3. The applicant was arrested on 01.07.2024 by the ED for the

alleged offence punishable under Sections 3 & 4 of the PMLA, 2002 in

relation to the ECIR 04. This ECIR 04 is identical to the investigation

carried out by it previously in relation to another ECIR bearing ECIR No.

ECIR/RPZO/11/2022. The applicant was arrested in relation to ECIR 11

and has undergone 10 months of custody. The proceedings in relation to

ECIR 11 were ultimately quashed by the Apex Court with a finding that

there were no proceeds of Crime therein. Immediately thereafter the ED

registered ECIR04 to investigate the case which was quashed by the

Apex Court. Despite having in custody for 14 days, the applicant was

remanded by the learned Special Judge to a further custody of 8 days

and subsequently remanded to judicial custody. The applicant preferred 3 application before the Special Judge (PMLA) ASJ-04, Raipur seeking

regular bail which was dismissed vide order dated 8.10.2024. 4. Apart from the instant case, following cases are pending against
the applicant. 1. FIR No. 04/2024 registered by the ACB, Raipur under Sections
420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B IPC read with Section 7 & 12 of the PC Act.
The applicant was arrested and charge sheeted and the matter is
pending trial before the court of Special Judge (PC Act), Raipur. 2. ECIR/RPZO/11/2022 for the alleged ofence under Sections 3 & 4 of the PMLA. Prosecution complaint has been filed by the ED in this
ECIR on 04.07.2023 however, the Apex Court vide order dated
08.04.2024 in WP (Crl.) 153/2023 has quashed the prosecution
complaint with a finding that there was no scheduled offence and no
proceeds of crime in relation to the said case. 5. The Chhattisgarh State Police registered an FIR bearing No. 04./2024 on 17.01.2024 at EOW/ACB, Raipur under Sections

420 , 467 , 471 and 120-B IPC and 7 & 12 of the PC aCt, 1988 against Mr.

Anil Tuteja (Retired IAS), the then Joint Secretary in the State of CG Mr .

Anwar Dhebar, Mr. Arun Tripath (ITS) then Special Secretary,

Government of Commerce and Industry Department and MD, CG State

Marketing Corporation Ltd. Mr Vikas Agrawal @ Subbu, Mr. Sanjay

Diwan and others for collecting commissions and supplying

unaccounted liquor to government liquor shops resulting in approximate

loss of Rs. 2161 crores to the Government. 6. The FIR for the predicate offence registered by ACB/EOW, Raipur

CG under Sections 120-B , 420 , 467 and 471 IPC and 7 & 12 of the PC 4 Act which are scheduled offences included in para 1 & 8 of Part-A of the

Schedule to PMLA 2002 as defined under Section 2(1)(y) of the Act.

Accordingly, enquiries were initiated under the PMLA against the

persons who are suspected after recording the facts of scheduled

offence and initiating money laundering investigation in file No.

ECIR/RPZO/04/2024 on 11.04.2024 by the officials of Directorate of

Enforcement, Raipur. 7. The ED has filed three prosecution complaints dated 19.06.2024,

30.08.2024 and 5.10.2024 in this case. One PAO 02/2024 dated

02.05.2024 was issued whereby properties to the tune of Rs. 205 crores

approximately have been attached and subsequently the same has

been confirmed by the learned adjudicating authority vide order dated

7.10.2024 in OC NO. 2318/2024. SUBMISSION ON BEHALF OF THE APPLICANT 8. Contention of Shri Otwani, learned counsel for the applicant is that

the prosecution agency/respondent-ED has already filed prosecution

complaint (second PC) against the present applicant on 30.08.2024 and

the investigation against the applicant is complete therefore no fruitful

purpose would be served to keep the applicant in custody during the trial

which is yet to be commenced. He further contended that the

prosecution agency has filed three charge sheets against the applicant

ie. 19.06.2024, 27.09.2024 and 5.10.2024 and there are 35 witnesses in

all and the said ECIR is against nine accused persons spanning into

over 21,000 pages. It is further contended that 3-4 charge sheets are yet 5 to be filed in the scheduled offence which would evidently prolong the

proceeding under the PMLA being contingent on the proceeding in the

scheduled offence resulting in trial. He further submits that the

imprisonment before conviction is also punitive amounting to violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 9. Further contention of the counsel for the applicant is that the ED is

relying upon the same alleged material that was collected illegally during

the course of investigation carried out in relation to the first and second

ECIR. He contended that the applicant cannot be prejudiced and his

legal rights can't be violated because of the illegal actions of the ED in

the first ECIR. The ED cannot derive benefit out of its own illegal actions

and arrest the applicant for the second time for the same alleged offence

under Section ¾ of the PMLA. It is contended tht the applicant had

already undergone ED custody for the maximum permissible period of

14 days om terms of Section 167 Cr.P.C. for the offence under Section

3 of the PMLA. It has been further contended that that the applicant has

already been examined by the ED even in relation to the second ECIR

and again there was absolutely no necessity of custodial interrogation of

the applicant. He has relied upon the judgment of the Apex Court in

Vijay Madanlal Choudhary Vs. Union of Inda 2022 SCC OnLine

SC929; Arvind Kejriwal Vs. Directorate Enforcement 2024 SCC

OnLine SC1703. 10. He contended that it is the case of the ED that ECIR 11 still exists

and since the investigation in ECIR 11 and ECIR 04 is identical, the ED 6 cannot prolong the custody of the applicant. The investigating agencies

are acting in tandem with each other to elongate the pre-trial

incarceration of the applicant. He contended that the respondent/ED has

alleged that it is a big scam with vide implication in the society but in the

light of the judgment of the Apex Court in Jalaluddin Khan Vs. Union

of India 2024 INSC 604, wherein it has been held that role of each

accused has to be seen while as an independent. There is no

substantial admissible evidence brought on record by the respondent

which would establish that the applicant was involved in the activity of

manufacturing duplicate holograms, illegal commission from the liquor

suppliers for unaccounted official sale of liquor or sale off the record

unaccounted illicit country liquor. Apart from the narratives, there is no

evidence to substantiate the same. 11. Contention of learned counsel for the applicant is that the

applicant had remained in judicial custody for 9 months 22 days in ECIR

11/2022 registered without any predicate offence. He submits that

considering the prolonged incarceration of the applicant in relation to the

investigation being conducted by different investigating agency for the

same alleged offence and having suffered over 9 months of custody in

relation to ECIR 11 which is the same investigation as in the instant

case, the applicant may be granted bail. He further submits that the

applicant cannot be put in jail without trial as bail is the rule and jail is

exception even in cases pertaining to the PMLA. He has placed his

reliance in the matter of Ramkripal Meena Vs. Directorate of 7 Enforcement, SLP (Crl.) No.3205/2024, wherein the Apex Court has

held that : 12. He submits that time and again it has been reiterated by the Apex

Court that the right to speedy trial is a facet of the Fundamental right to

life of an accused under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The Apex

Court in the matter of Manish Sisodia Vs. CBI and ED (2023) SCC

OnLine SC1393 has held that : 49 In P. Chidambaram v. Central Bureau of
Investigation , (2020) 13 SCC 337, the appellant
therein was granted bail after being kept in
custody for around 62 days. This Court referred to Section 19 of the
PML Act, for the in-built safeguards to be adhered
to by the authorized officers to ensure fairness,
objectivity and accountability. Vijay Madanlal
Choudhary (supra), also held that Section 436A of
the Code can apply to offences under the PML
Act , as it effectuates the right to speedy trial, a
facet of the right to life, except for a valid ground
such as where the trial is delayed at the instance
of the accused himself. In our opinion, Section 436A should not be
construed as a mandate that an accused should
not be granted bail under the PML Act till he has
suffered incarceration for the specified period.
This Court, in Arnab Manoranjan Goswami v. State of Maharashtra and Others (2021) 2 SCC
427, held that while ensuring proper enforcement 9 of criminal law on one hand, the court must be
 conscious that liberty across human eras is as
 tenacious as tenacious can be. 29. Detention or jail before being pronounced
 guilty of an offence should not become
 punishment without trial. If the trial gets protracted
 despite assurances of the prosecution, and it is
 clear that case will not be decided within a
 foreseeable time, the prayer for bail may be
 meritorious. While the prosecution may pertain to
 an economic offence, yet it may not be proper to
 equate these cases with those punishable with
 death, imprisonment for life, ten years or more
 like offences under the Narcotic Drugs and
 Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 , murder,
 cases of rape, dacoity, kidnapping for ransom,
 mass violence, etc. Neither is this a case where
 100/1000s of depositors have been defrauded. The allegations have to be established and
 proven. The right to bail in cases of delay,
 coupled with incarceration for a long period,
 depending on the nature of the allegations,
 should be read into Section 439 of the Code and Section 45 of the PML Act. The reason is that the
 constitutional mandate is the higher law, and it is
 the basic right of the person charged of an
 offence and not convicted, that he be ensured
 and given a speedy trial. When the trial is not
 proceeding for reasons not attributable to the
 accused, the court, unless there are good
 reasons, may well be guided to exercise the
 power to grant bail. This would be truer where the
 trial would take years." 13. Further he has relied upon the decisions of Satender Kumar Antil

Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation (2002) 10 SCC 561; Surinder

Singh Alias Shingara Singh Vs. State of Punjab (2005)7 SCC387

and Kashmira Singh Vs. State of Punjab (1977) 4 SCC 291. In the 10 matter of Manish Sisodia Vs. ED and CBI (supra), it has been held

that : The Court held that the constitutional mandate is
 the higher law, and it is the basic right of the
 person charged of an offence and not convicted
 that he be ensured and given a speedy trial. It
 further observed that when the trial is not
 proceeding for reasons not attributable to the
 accused, the court, unless there are good
 reasons, would be guided to exercise the power
 to grant bail. The Court specifically observed that
 this would be true where the trial would take
 years. It could thus clearly be seen that this
 Court, in the first round of litigation between the
 parties, has specifically observed that in case of
 delay coupled with incarceration for a long period
 and depending on the nature of the allegations,
 the right to bail will have to be read into Section
 45 of PMLA. XXXX XXXX XXXX 39. A Division Bench of this Court in the case of
Ramkripal Meena v. Directorate of Enforcement5
was considering an application of the petitioner
therein who was SLP(Crl.) No. 3205 of 2024
dated 30.07.2024 to receive a bribe of rupees five
crore and from whom, an amount of
Rs.46,00,000/- was already recovered. In the said
case, the petitioner was arrested on 26th January
2022 in connection with FIR No. 402/2021
registered against him for the offences punishable
under Sections 406 , 420 , 120B of IPC and Section 4 / 6 of the Rajasthan Public Examination
(Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 1992. He was
released on bail by this Court vide order dated
18th January 2023. Thereafter, the petitioner was
arrested by the ED on 21st June 2023. The Court
observed thus: 44. The learned Special Judge and the learned
Single Judge of the High Court have considered 12 the applications on merits as well as on the
 grounds of delay and denial of right to speedy
 trial. We see no error in the judgments and orders
 of the learned Special Judge as well as the High
 Court in considering the merits of the matter. In
 view of the observations made by this Court in the
 first order, they were entitled to consider the
 same. However, the question that arises is as to
 whether the trial court and the High Court have
 correctly considered the observations made by
 this Court with regard to right to speedy trial and
 prolonged period of incarceration. The courts
 below have rejected the claim of the appellant
 applying the triple test as contemplated under Section 45 of the PMLA. In our view, this is in
 ignorance of the observations made by this Court
 in paragraph 28 of the first order wherein this
 Court specifically observed that right to bail in
 cases of delay coupled with incarceration for a
 long period should be read into Section 439 Cr.P.C. and Section 45 of the PMLA. 14. Further it has been reiterated that in cases where the fundamental

right to speedy trial of the accused is violated, the State or any other

prosecuting agency should not oppose the plea for bail on the ground

that the crime committed is serious. Article 21 of the Constitution applies

irrespective of the nature of the crime. He has referred to the judgment

of Gulam Nabi shaikh Vs. State of Maharastra, 2024 SCC OnLine

SC1693, wherein it has been observed that : 15. He contended that Section 436-A Cr.P.C. should not be construed

as a mandate that an accused should not be granted bail under the

PMLA till he has suffered incarceration for the specified period of half of

the maximum period of imprisonment. The detention or jail before being

pronounced the guilty of an offence should not become punishment

without trial. As has been held by the Apex Court in the case of Manish

Sisodia 1, (2023) SCC OnLine 1393. the right to bail in cases of delay

coupled with incarceration for a long period should be read into Section

439 cr.P.C. and Section 45 of the PMLA. The reason is that the

constitutional mandate is the higher law and it is the basic right of the

person charged of an offence and not convicted, he be given a speedy

trial. When the trial is not proceeding for reasons not attributable to the

accused, the court unless there are good reasons may well be guided to

exercise the power to grant bail. 16. Further Contention of the learned counsel for the applicant is that

the bail application of the accused/applicant cannot be rejected on the

ground of severity of the offence or due to the bar contained in Section

45 of the PMLA in cases where there is a violation of the right of the

accused to speedy trial coupled with long period of pre-trial incarceration

as has been held in the case of Manish Sisodia 3 (2024) SCC OnLine

SC920. If the trial gets protracted and it is clear that the case will not be

decided within a foreseeable time, the accused person is entitled for

bail. In several cases, the Apex Court has granted bail to the accused 14 persons solely on the ground of delay in trial coupled with long pre-trial

incarceration despite the alleged gravity of the offences and restrictions

contained in special statutes on grant of bail. In has referred to the

decisions of the Apex Court in the matter of Vijay Nair Vs. ED, SLP

(Crl.) Dy.No. 22137 of 2024, wherein it has been held as under: 17. Similarly, in the matter of Neeraj Singhal Vs. ED, SLP (Crl.) No.

8439 of 2024, it has been held that : 18. In the matter of Kalvakunta Kavitha Vs. ED SLP (Crl.) No. 10778

of 2024, it has been held as under: 19. In the matter of Prem Prakash Vs. ED , SLP (Crl.) No. 5416 of

2024, it has been held as under: 20. Further in the matter of Manish Sisodia 3 (2024) SCC OnLine

SC920, it has been held as under: 21. In the matter of Jainam Rathod Vs. State of Haryana 2022

OnLine SC 1506, it has been observed as under: 22. In the case of Sujay U Desai Vs. SFIO, 2022 SCC OnLine

SC1507, it has been held as under: 23. He submits that it is well settled that the object of bail is neither

punitive nor preventive. The primary purpose of bail in a criminal case is

to ensure that the accused will submit to the jurisdiction of the court and

be in attendance whenever his presence is required. Deprivation of

liberty must be considered punishment unless it can be required to

ensure that an accused person will stand trial when called upon.

Punishment can only begin after conviction and necessity is the

operative test. He has referred to the judgment in the matter of Gudikanti Narasimhulu Vs. Public Prosecutor, High Court of

Andhra Pradesh (1978) 1 SCC 240 it has been held as under: 24. It has been contended by the learned counsel for the applicant

that even if the allegation is one of the grave economic offence, it is not

a rule that bail should be denied in every case. Ultimately, the

consideration has to be made on a case to case basis, on the facts. The

primary object is to secure the presence of the accused to stand trial. He

has referred to the case of P. Chidambaram Vs. ED (2020) 13 SCC 19 791, wherein it has been held as under: 25. Shri Otwani, learned counsel for the applicant is that there is no

evidence that the applicant is guilty of money laundering. The crux of the

allegation against the applicant is that he played a role of facilitating and

helping in running the illegal liquor syndicate and no substantive

evidence is there against the applicant. The only evidence/material

against the applicant is the statements recorded under Section 50 by the

ED. The investigation against the applicant in the said ECIR filed by the

respondent ED on 30.08.2024 is over and the custody of the applicant

is no longer required for the purpose of investigation. The applicant has

cooperated with the investigation. 26. Further contention of the learned counsel for the applicant is that

the applicant cannot be arrested twice for the same offence under the

PMLA and it can be affected only when an accused is considered to be

guilty of the offence under Section 3 of the PM:A and guilt can only be

established on admissible material. The applicant was already arrested

in the same case and had undergone the ED custody of 14 days and

the ED is relying upon the same material which was collected during the

course of investigation carried out in the first ECIR. 27. It is contended by learned counsel for the applicant that the

applicant has no role to pay in the allege liquor scam and he is not guilty

of the offence of money laundering. The applicant is an employee of

Bhilai Steel Plant and he is never a part of the alleged liquor scam. He is

neither involved in the collection of cash amount from any of the shop 21 nor collected any kind of hologram. The allegation that the applicant

arranged unaccounted bottles to the distilleries with the company and in

the name of his nephew and wife, he has no knowledge about the same.

He submits that on 3.10.2023, the truck containing 800 boxes of illegal

liquor was caught by the police which was supplied by the M/s.

Chhattisgarh Distillery to Bastar with duplicate holograms on bottles and

was handed over to the Excise Commissioner. These duplicate

holograms were already used by M/s. Welcome Distillery. This clearly

shows that the distillers are in habit of supplying unaccounted liquor in

connivance with low level excise officers for financial gain and have

concocted a complete false story to implicate other individuals and save

themselves. 28. It is submitted that as per ED, it is alleged that liquor scam is of

Rs. 2161 crores. As per EOW the liquor scam is of Rs. 1660 crores. As

per the STF, the liquor same is of Rs. 3200 crores. All this established

that the investigation is being conducted by different agencies and

calculating different numbers which is baseless. Further the alleged

chats being relied upon is of February 2020 and the allegations are

made for the period between April 2019-February 2023. it is contended

that the allegation of the ED that the collection of bribe by sale of Part-B

liquor is on the basis of assumptions and have tried to implicate the

officer by using chats and by recording false statements by threatening

the persons with arrest. There is no seizure of illegal liquor or holograms

and bottles and the Ape Court has opined that prima facie there are no 22 proceeds of crime in the instant case. It is submitted that according to

the statement of erstwhile Secretary of the Excise Department, no loss

has been caused to the State Exchequer and the liquor trade had taken

place as per law. There was no recovery of any unaccounted money,

incriminating material, illegal liquor bottles or counterfeit holograms from

the applicant or any other persons to implicate the applicant. 29. He contended that there is no admissible material in support of the

bogus allegations of the ED and the statements being relied upon by the

ED are coerced and completely inadmissible in law. However, it is

settled law that the same cannot be considered at the stage of bail in as

much as no opportunity to cross-examine is given to the applicant at

such stage. He has referred to the decision of Paras Mal Lodha Vs. ED

(2017) SCC OnLine Del 8676, wherein it has been observed as under: 30. In yet another decision Chandra Prakash Khandelwal Vs. ED

(2023) SCC OnLine Del 1094, it has been held as under: 31. He contended that there is absolutely no material to corroborate

the false statements of these individuals who have been arraigned as

co-accused persons in the instant case. It is well settled law that the

statement of co-accused person is extremely weak piece of evidence

and cannot be treated as substantive evidence as against the other co-

accused persons. Therefore all the statements under Section 50 of the

PMLA sought to be relied upon by the ED to substantiate its allegations

against the applicant are inadmissible and does not form the basis for

denial of bail. He has relied upon the judgment of Haricharan Kurmi

Vs. State of Bihar, AIR 1964 SC 1184, wherein it has been held that: In Bhuboni Sahu v. King (1) the Privy Council has
expressed the same view. Sir. John Beaumont
who spoke for the Board observed that a
confession of a co-accused is obviously evidence
of a very weak type. It does not indeed come
within the definition of "evidence" contained in s. 3 of the Evidence Act. It is not required to be given
on oath, nor in the presence of the accused, and it
cannot be tested by cross-examination. It is a
much weaker type of evidence than the evidence
of an approver, which is not subject to any of those
infirmities. Section 30 , however, provides that the
Court may take the confession into consideration
and thereby, no doubt, makes it evidence on which
the court may act; but the section does not say
that the confession is to amount to proof. Clearly
there must be other evidence. The confession is
only one element in the consideration of all the
facts proved in the case, it can be put into the
scale and weighed with the other evidence." It
would be noticed that as a result of the provisions
contained in s. 30 , the confession has no doubt to
be regarded as amounting to evidence in a
general way, because whatever is considered by
the court is evidence; circumstances which are 26 considered by the court as well as probabilities do
amount to evidence in that generic sense. Thus,
though confession may be regarded as evidence
in that generic sense because of the provisions of s. 30 , the fact remains that it is not evidence as
defined by s. 3 of the Act. The result, therefore, is
that in dealing with a case against an accused
person, the court cannot start with the confession
of a co-accused person; it must (1) (1911) I.L.R.
38 Cal. 559 at p. 588. (2) (1913) I.L.R. 54 Mad. 75 at p. 77. (3) (1949) 76 I.A. 147 at p. 155. begin with other evidence adduced by the
prosecution and after it has formed its opinion with
regard to the quality and effect of the said
evidence, then it is permissible to turn to the
confession in order to receive assurance to the
conclusion of guilt which the judicial mind is about
to reach on the said other evidence. That, briefly
stated, is the effect of the provisions contained in s. 30 . The same view has been expressed by this
Court in Kashmira Singh v. State of Madhya
Pradesh (1) where the decision of the Privy Council
in Bhuboni Sahu's(2) case has been cited with
approval. 16. Considering the evidence from this point of
view, we must first decide whether the evidence
other than the confessional statements of the co-
accused persons, particularly Ram Surat, on
whose confession the High Court has substantially
relied, is satisfactory and tends to prove the
prosecution case. It is only if the said evidence is
satisfactory and is treated as sufficient by us to
hold the charge proved against the two appellants,
that an occasion may arise to seek for an
assurance for our conclusion from the said
confession. Thus considered, there can be no
doubt that the evidence about the discovery of
blood stains on which the prosecution relies is
entirely insufficient to justify the prosecution 27 charge against both the appellants. In our opinion,
 it is impossible to accede to the argument urged
 before us by Mr. Singh that the said evidence can
 be said to prove the prosecution case. In fact, the
 judgment of the High Court shows that it made a
 finding against the appellants substantially
 because it thought that the confessions of the co-
 accused persons could be first considered and the
 rest of the evidence could be treated as
 corroborating the said confessions. We are,
 therefore, satisfied that the High Court was not
 right in confirming the conviction of the two
 appellants under S. 396 ,of the Indian Penal
 Code." 32. In the matter of Sanjay Jain Vs. ED. 2024 SCC OnLine SC 656,

it has been held that : 33. He contended that the none of them had admitted to the fictitious

liquor scam in their statement under Section 131 (1A) It Act before the IT

Department which is as much a judicial proceeding as the statement

recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA. Nothing has been mentioned

about the payment of commission or Part A, B or C liquor before the IT

department by any individual as alleged by the respondent. The distillers

who have given false statements before the respondent had denied

making any payment of bribe or of the existence of the imaginary liquor

syndicate. 34. Next contention of the counsel for the applicant is that the

investigation conducted by the ED is mala fide and fictitious. The right to

fair trial and investigation is a facet of the right to life and liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. This right can be taken away by

procedure established by law which must be just, fair and reasonable.

He has referred to Babubhai Vs. State of Gujarat and Others (2010)

12 SCC 254 and Gangadhar Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (2020) 9

SCC 202. 35. It is settled law that investigating agencies must be insulated from

extraneous influence even of the controlling executive" while conducting

their investigation. He had referred to the decision of Vineet Narain Vs.

Union of India (1998) 1 SC 226. It has been observed by the Apex

Court that "being a premier investigating agency, charged with the

onerous responsibility of curbing the debilitating economic offence of

money laundering in our country, every action of the ED in the course of

such exercise is expected to be transparent,above board an conforming

to pristine standards of fair paly in action. ED, mantled with far reaching

powers under the stringent Act of 2002, is not expected to be vindictive

in its conduct and must be seen to be acting with utmost probity and with

the highest degree of dispassion and fairness." 36. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the manner in

which the investigation has been carried out by the respondent/Agency

is malafide and against the basic notions of fair investigation. It has

proceeded in a selective and pick and choose manner in its investigation 29 which clearly shows the targeted nature of the investigation conducted

by it. He further contended that none of the district Excise Officers have

been made accused in the instant case. Various other stakeholders are

being protected by the different agencies with the aim and hope of

extracting false statements. He submits that the allegation of multi crore

syndicate that has caused huge loss to the State exchequer has been

made by the ED but despite change in government, neither any change

has been brought in the existing liquor policy nor any license of any

hologram manufacturer/distiller/cash collection agency have been

cancelled and no action has been taken under Section 8 of the PC Act

against these individuals by any investigating agency. He submits that

the liquor trade has been continuing as usual in the State of

Chhattisgarh despite the passage of nearly 10 months since the new

government came into power. This shows that either the new

government is also complicit and part of the alleged liquor syndicate or

the entire set of allegations made by the ED are fictitious and imaginary

and therefore the pick and choose manner of investigation entitles the

applicant to bail. 37. He contended that the there is no material on record to suggest

that the applicant does not satisfy the triple test as there is no allegation

that he would either tamper with any evidence or influence any witness if

granted bail. Mere apprehension of the investigating agency without any

substantial basis for the same cannot be a ground for denying bail to the

applicant. In the matter of P. Chidambaram Vs. Central Bureau of 30 Investigation (2020) 13 SCC 337, wherein it has been observed as

under: 38. He submits that even otherwise, any apprehension regarding the

applicant being a flight risk or tampering with evidence or influencing

witnesses can be taken care of by imposing suitable conditions on the

applicant while granting bail. He has further referred to the judgment of

Bibhav Kumar Vs. State of NCT of Delhi in SLP (Crl.) No. 9817 of

2024, it has been held that : 39. He submits that the ground of arrest and the reason to believe do

not meet the threshold of Section 19 PMLA and are grossly insufficient

and there can be no necessity of arrest in the in the instant case. It is

trite law that the provisions of Section 19 are mandatory and the

compliance of the said provisions is a solemn function of the arresting

authority which brooks no exception. He further submits that since all the 32 material is illegal and nullity in law and the prosecution complaint filed by

the respondent/ED in relation to ECIR 11 has been quashed, no reasons

to believe that the applicant is guilty of the offence under Sections 3 read

with 4 of the PMLA can be reached at the by respondent. He submits

that the entire basis on which the custody of the applicant was sought by

the ED in ECIR 04 and the allegations made in the application seeking

remand, grounds of arrest and the reasons to believe was the same as

that in the ECIR 11/prosecution complaint. He submits that the

respondent/ED is cognizant of the fact that if the applicant was made an

accused in the main prosecution complaint without his arrest, he could

not be taken into custody in terms of the law laid down by the Apex

Court in Tarsem lal Vs. Enforcement Directorate, 2024 SCC OnLine

SC 971, which clearly shows the wanton and malafide abuse of powers

by the ED. 40. Lastly, he submits that the applicant has been questioned on

various occasions by the ED in the second ECIR while he was in

custody of the ACB and it has been alleged that the applicant was

evasive during the course of such interrogation and therefore the same

cannot be a ground for arrest in terms of settled law. He has referred to

the matter of Pankaj Bansal Vs. Union of India and Others , 2023 Scc

OnLine SC1244. Mere arrest in a scheduled offence cannot be a ground

for arrest under Section 19 of the PMLA. The ingredients of the offences

under the alleged FIRs and PMLA are completely distinct and separate

and thus the ED cannot rely upon the same to substantiate its case. It 33 has been held in catena of decisions that refusal to make self

incriminating statements cannot be equated to give evasive replies and

does not amount to non-cooperation. He submits that the second ECIR

is based solely on the CG FIR. As per settled law, no case under the

PMLA can continue without an underlying scheduled offence. He

therefore prays that the applicant may be granted regular bail in

ECIR/RPZO/04/2024 dated 11.04.2024 registered by the Enforcement

Directorate under Sections 3 & 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering

Act, 2002. SUBMISSION ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT/ED 41. Contention of Shri Pandey, learned counsel for the respondent/Ed

is that the CG State police registered FIR bearing No. 04/2024 dated

17.01.2024 in EOW/ACB, Raipur under Sections 420 , 467 , 471 and 120-

B IPC and 7 & 12 of the PC Act, 1988 against Anit Tuteja (Retired IAS)

the then Joint Secretary in CG State, Anwar Dhebar, Arunpati Tripathi

(ITS) the then Special Secretary, Government of Commerce and

Industry Department and MD, CG State Marketing Corporation Ltd.,

Vikas Agrawal @ Subbu, Sanjay Diwan and others for collecting

commissions and supplying unaccounted liquor to government liquor

shops in an approximate loss of Rs. 2161 crores to the Government. As

per the FIR, (a) the manufacturer of country liquor in the State of Chhattisgarh

namely CG Distilleries Ltd., M/s. Bhatia Wine Merchant Private Ltd. and

Welcome Distilleries Pvt. Limited are licensed to supply country liquor in 34 the State. (b) that accused Anwar Dhebar took advantage of his political influence

and family relations with another accused Anil Tuteja and in association

with one Arun Pati Tripathi, the Managing Director of CSMCL lead to

increase the rate of liquor production and supply and in return, gained

illegal commission amounting to lacs of rupees from the distillery

owners. This mechanism is called Part -A. (c) Similarly a new system which run parallel to the existing system of

selling country liquor through government shops was created without

any records from distillery operators which involved constructing

duplicate holograms and selling them separately through government

liquor shops. The illegal sales of these duplicate holograms resulted in

earning worth crores of rupees. Various persons were implicated in this

scheme including distillery owners, bottle supplying agencies, duplicate

hologram supplier agencies, agencies involved in the collection of

money from these type of illicit sale which took place during the years

2019 to 2022. (d) During the tenure of one Niranjan Das, Secretary who collected

bribes from foreign liquor manufacturers FL-10A license was

implemented which was granted to three favoured firms of Anwar

Dhebar. The license FL-10A was granted to Sanjay Mishra and Manish

Mishra of M/s.Nexgen Power Engitech Pvt. Ltd. Atul Kumar Singh and

Mukesh Manchanda of M/s. Om Sai Beverage pvt. Ltd., Ashish Sourabh

Kedia of M/s. Dishita Ventures Pvt. Ltd. These license holders were 35 granted tender for the supply of foreign liquor through a conspiracy. All

the three license holding firms procured liquor from foreign liquor

manufacturing companies and made it available to the government

making a profit of 10%. Out of this profit, 60% was given to the

syndicate and the remaining 40% was received by the license holders. (e) the liquor syndicate of Anil Tuteja, Arun Pati Tripathi and Anwar

Dhebar was working under the aegis of retired Indian Administrative

officer Vivek Dhand. He was also a beneficiary of the scam. (f) The syndicate received commission from the distillery owners by

increasing parallel manufacturing and supplying duplicate liquor through

the FL-10A license and between February 2019 to June 2022,

approximately Rs. 2161 crores has been made in the illegal earnings. 42. The excise policy in the State of Chhattisgarh was amended in the

year 2017 The excise policy in the State of Chhattisgarh was amended

in the year 2017 and CSMCL in February, 2017, was thus created with

the responsibility to exclusively retail liquor in the State of Chhattisgarh

through its stores. The CSMCL was established with the vision to

provide genuine liquor, to stop sale of illegal Liquor, to provide liquor on

MRP. It established its own stores to retail the liquor/beer/wine/country

liquor after procuring liquor from manufacturers directly and IMFL from

another State PSU CSBCL. 43. It has also been revealed that with the advent of new policy in the

State, CSMCL was incorporated and it established its own stores to

retain the liquor/beer/wine/country liquor after procuring country liquor 36 directly from manufacturers and IMFL was procured from suppliers and

stored in warehouses of another Stte Public Sector Undertaking,

Chhattsigarh State Beverage Corporation Limited (CSBCL). The shops

were supposed to be run by outsourced staff and cash collected was to

be done by private vendors/Bank representatives. 44. Liquor was divided into two categories namely Country liquor and

Indian Manufactured Foreign Liquor (IMFL). Country Liquor was

produced in the State of Chhattisgarh through three distilleries : The CSMCL became the tool in the hands of the syndicate which

was used by it to enforce a parallel excise department. The syndicate

comprises of senior bureaucrats of State, politicians and officials of

excise department. In February 2019, Arun Pati Tripathi (ITS Offier) was

chosen by the syndicate to lead the CSMCL and later on he was made

the Managing Director of the organization at the behest of accused

Anwar Dhebar. 45. It is submitted that the as part of the conspiracy, Arun Pati Tripathi

was assigned with the task to maximize the bribe commission collected

on liquor procured by M/s.CSMCL and to make necessary arrangement

for sale of non-duty paid liquor in the CSMCL run shops. Arun Pati

Tripathi was supported by Anwar Dhebar and Senior IAS Officer in this

operation. In furtherance of his plans, Anwar Dhebar gave the task of 37 cash collecting to Vikas Agrawal @ Subbu and the logistics were set to

be the responsibility of the present applicant - Arvind Singh. 46. In the investigation, it has been established that it has come that

massive corruption has taken place in the Excise Department since

2019 to 2023 in multiple ways. The total extortion amount is around Rs.

2000 crores. This amount is nothing but rightful amount which should

have gone to the State Exchequer and have been taxed and yielded

revenue for Central and State government. Thus this is the proceeds of

crime which ED is investigating and trying to establish money trial and

trace the assets created out of these proceeds of crime. 47. He further contended that during course of investigation, digital

evidence has been gathered from multiple sources primarily being the

Income Tax Authorities. It is submitted that the IT authorities had first

conducted a search in the matter in the year February 2020 and

collected multiple mobile devices and digital records. These records

have been shared with the Directorate and have been discussed in

detail in the main prosecution complaint. However, in order to bring out

the role played by the accused, some of the important facts which shows

the direct role fo the accused in the predicate offence and earning out of

the same. 48. Shri Pandey, counsel for the respondent has contended that from

the investigation conducted by the police during the predicate offence,

the applicant was part of the liquor syndicate. It has also been revealed 38 that the applicant was an integral part of the syndicate running the illegal

liquor business. He contended that the income tax authorities laid hand

on the mobile phone of co-accused Anwar Dhebar, who is the main

accused in the case and during analysis, it was gathered that he was in

touch with the present applicant. Some of the incriminating chats are

taken into record which shows the role of the applicant and when

confronted he ha acknowledged that the chats belong to him and the co-

accused Anwar Dhebar. From the chats, it is seen that the details of

produce including Part-B of the three country liquor manufacturers in

Chhattisgarh. He submits that the applicant along with one Vikas

Agrawal had earned Rs. 40 crores from Part-B liquor sale. He was the

key player in the syndicate and convenor of meeting of the distillers and

Anwar Dhebar about introduction of Part- A commission. The applicant

was supported by his nephew Amit Singh in this whole operation and

their main role included logistics related to sale of Part-B liquor. The

applicant and his nephew were also responsible for the transportation of

Part-B liquor supply of duplicate hologram, supply of empty bottles for

Part-B liquor. It is further contended by the counsel for the respondent

that the applicant in association with his nephew had also considerable

amount of proceeds of crime which is relatable aspects including

transportation of Part-B liquor and supply of un invoiced empty bottles

from Part-B sale. He further contended that the applicant and his

nephew used to control the logistics of liquor business by way of his

immediate relatives. He further contended that the applicant was also 39 involved in collection of Part-B sale proceeds. He submits that the

applicant along with his nephew set up two fronts ie. the entities M/s.

ADIP Empire and M/s. ADIP Agrotech Pvt. Ltd. for laundering and

earning proceeds of crime. 49. He submits that the multiple instances of use of cash on the part

of the applicant has been noticed, whether it be the use of cash for

purchase of land or availing bank entries. The entities were used by the

applicant to obtain invoices over and above the market value and some

times even bogus bills were used. He submits that it is clear from the old

farm owner who claimed much less earnings in their past ownership of

the firm. He submits that the applicant had also helped in commission of

the offence of money laundering by arranging bank entries and loans in

the bank account of M/s. Top Security and Facility Management against

cash. He had played a key role in getting the bank entry worth 60 crore

to Anwar Dhebar against cash. 50. Next contention of the counsel for the respondent is that the

applicant was in possession of the Proceeds of crime and an amount of

about Rs. 20 crores has been acquired by him out of the sale proceeds

of Part-B liquor which has been utilized by him in acquiring properties in

their name and in the name of their family member. The ash payments

over and above the consideration amount was made to purchase these

properties. Vide PAO No. 04/2024 dated 02.05.2024, the properties

worth Rs. 13 crores was purchased by the applicant in the name of his

wife and her companies/firms which have been attached. It is contended 40 that the accused/applicant had layered his POC with the business

income of his entities, M/s. ADIP Empire and M/s. ADIP Agrotech Pvt.

Ltd. and utilized in the purchase of immovable properties. He submits

that the investigation had also revealed that M/s. ADIP Agrotech Pvt. Ltd.

was also incorporated in the name of the family members of the

applicant and was utilized to purchase the assets by using the services

of his associates namely Nagendra Singh, who provided bank entry

against cash and which was ultimately utilized in purchase of assets

That M/s. ADIP Agrotech Pvt. Ltd. received around Rs. 2.39 crores from

Nagendra Singh and his family member and these funds were ultimately

utilized in purchase of assets in the name of company. 51. Shri Pandey contended that the applicant had adopted the

concept of over invoicing the services and obtained direct commission

fro the distillers. He had set up firms like M/s. Jagdamba Enterprises

and collected commission from distillers in the name of transportation of

liquor. The payment so collected was utilized by the family of the

applicant and the commission received in the bank accounts of M/s.

Jagdamba Enterprises was also transferred to the members of the

syndicate and for purchase of properties. 52. It is contended that during investigation, it has been revealed that

the applicant leveraged his influence to enter the business of supplying

bottles to the liquor syndicate and to facilitate this, he established a firm

named M/s. ADIP empire under the name of his wife. This firm was

involved in supplying bottles to M/s. Welcome Distilleries Ltd. The firm 41 was also involved in the transportation however later switched its profile

to trading of bottles. The investigation has thus revealed that the actual

supply of bottles was carried out by M/s. Anurag Traders while M/s. ADIP

Empire merely raised invoices for the transactions. 53. He submits that the investigation has also revealed that the bills

raised before the distillers were highly over invoiced to the tune of 20%

to accommodate the Part-B liquor. As a result, M/s. Adip Empire played

a role in committing the criminal activity related to the scheduled offence

by serving as the intermediary for over invoicing which allowed for extra

supply of bottles and additionally profited from the margin included in the

invoices it raised. This margin related to the scheduled offence as

proceeds of crime under the explanation provided in Section 2(1)(u) of

the PMLA, 2002. Thus, the profit made by M/s. ADIP empire was merely

acting as an intermediary by issuing invoices for bottles that were

actually supplied by M/s. Anurag Traders to M/s. Welcome Distilleries

Ltd. and out of Rs. 13.34 crores received in the bank account

maintaining with the HDFC Bank amount totaling to Rs. 6,04 crores was

transferred by M/s. ADIP Empire to its another bank account maintained

with Canara Bank, Risali, Bhilai. 54. Shri Pandey next contended that the investigation conducted by

the police during the predicate offence has revealed that the applicant

was part of the liquor syndicate. It was also revealed that his whatsapp

chat with accused Anwar Dhebar reveals that he was have strong

association with him. The applicant along with Vikas Agrawal had earned 42 Rs. 40 crores approximately from Part-B liquor sale for providing

logistics which is evidence from the fact that Sumit Malloo adjusted his

old dues with Vikas Agrawal by selling his property to the applicant. This

property was registered in the name of the wife of the applicant. 55. He contended that the applicant was the key player in the

syndicate. He was also the convenor of meeting of distillers and Anwar

Dehbar in the introduction of Part-A commission. He submits that the

applicant was well supported by his nephew in the logistic supplying

operation. The applicant and his nephew had earned considerable

amount of proceeds of crime related to predicate offence as well. He

submits that during investigation it has also been revealed that the

relatives of the applicant were involved in collection of Part-B sale

proceeds. The role of the applicant as a key player can also be

deciphered from the fact that his nephew Abhishek Singh was also one

of the directors in FL-10A licensee company. 56. It is contended that the applicant had also set up companies to

earn commission and transportation related to Part-B. The fund trial

investigation has also revealed funds from M/s. Jagdamba Enterprises

for purchase of assets related to the wife of the applicant. The applicant

has also helped in commission of the offence of money laundering by

arranging bank entries and loans in the bank account of M/s. Top

Security and Facility Management against cash. The applicant has also

played a key role in getting bank entry worth Rs. 60 crores to accused

Anwar Dhebar. He has also arranged bank entry of Rs. 2 crores against 43 cash in the bank account of his wife for investing in the share market. In

this manner, the proceeds of crime has been used by the applicant and

profit made by the wife of the applicant has been freezed. 57. the reply to the contention of the applicant that the applicant has

already been arrested by the same agency for the same offence on

same facts and therefore the second arrest of the applicant is illegal in

terms of law, to which it has been contended by Shri Pandey, learned

counsel for the respondent that he was arrested in the first ECIR

RPZO11/2022 on 14.06.2023 and got bail on 02.04.2024 though the

Apex Court had advised to grant only interim bail. Relevant part of the

order of the Supreme Court in WP No. 153/2023 is reproduced below: 58. In the IA filed in WP No. 153/2023, the relief for quashing of

ECIR/RPZO/11/2022 was prayed for by the other co-accused Anil Tuteja

however, the said relief was not granted to him. In some other

connected petitions also the prayer for quashing the ECIR even though 44 it was made in the petition as well as vehemently pressed by the

petitioner before this Court, no such order was accepted by this Court.

The investigation had already taken place under the ECIR which can be

used in recording a subsequent ECIR and therefore there was no relief

granted with regard to quashing of the ECIR. 10. At this stage, the learned ASG stated that,
 based on another First Information Report, which,
 according to him, involves a scheduled offence,
 criminal proceedings under the PMLA are likely to
 be initiated against the petitioners. It is not
 necessary for us to go into the issue of the legality
 and validity of the proceedings that are likely to be
 initiated at this stage. Therefore, all the contentions
 in that regard are left open to be decided in
 appropriate proceedings. 59. It is submitted that the ECIR/11/2022 recorded on 18.11.2022 on

the basis of Income Tax Complaint filed before the Tiss Hazari Court,

Delhi while ECIR/04/2024 was recorded on the basis of FIR No. 04/2024

dated 17.01.2024 registered by EOW/ACB, Raipur, Chhattisgarh Police

under Sections 420 , 46 , 7 , 468 , 471 and 120-B IPC and 7 & 12 of the PC

Act , Sections 120-B , 420 , 467 and 471 of IPC and 7 & 12 of the PC Act which are the schedule offences included in para 1 & 8 of the schedule

to PMLA 2002 as defined under Section 2(1)(y) of the Act. It is further

submitted the present investigation is based on the new ECIR bearing

No. ECIR/RPZO/04/2024 which is recorded on 11.04.2024 on the basis

of FIR registered by the CG State Police at EOW/ACB, Raipur. The

applicant was arrested by the ED on 01.07.2024 and the Special Court

PMLA, Raipur vide orders dated 02.07.2024 and 06.07.2024 had

granted ED custody of the accused till 11.07.2024 and subsequently has

been remanded to judicial custody. Further It is submitted that the

present arrest was made only after recording of reasons to believe in 46 writing. The arrest of the applicant was performed completely in

accordance with the provisions of sub section 1 , 2 and 3 of Section 19 of

the PMLA, 2002. All the safeguards as provided under the law have

been duly complied with. 60. The next submission of the applicant that the investigation

agencies have been acting in Tandem with each other to elongate the

pre-trial incarceration of the applicant, to this it has been contended by

the counsel for the respondent that the arrest of the applicant is

completely based on his role in PMLA case and in accordance with the

provisions of Sub- Section 1 , 2 and 3of Section 19 of PMLA 2002. 61. It is submitted that the ED has filed a supplementary prosecution

complaint on 30.08.2024 in respect of applicant and other accused.

The special Court has taken cognizance of the same on 5,.10.2024

therefore it is submitted that any reference to old ECIR may not be

considered while deciding bail in the instant case. Further if the applicant

was apprehended by other investigating agencies and remained in their

custody/judicial remand that cannot be attributed to the ED. 62. Next contention of the applicant that the applicant has suffering

long period of pre-trial custody and the trial has not yet commenced and

is not likely to conclude, to this it has been submitted by learned counsel

for the respondent that the Special Court (PMLA) has already taken

cognizance of the PC filed by the department on 5.10.2024 and issued

summons to the applicant to appear in the court on 23.11.2024 which 47 shows that the trial is going to commence very soon. Further the trial

proceedings will take time cannot be a ground to grant bail. In this

regard reliance has been placed in the decision of the Apex Court in the

matter of Gurwinder Singh Vs. State of Punjab & Another in

SPECIAL LEAVE PETITION (CRIMINAL) No.10047 of 2023, it has

been held as under: 63. It is submitted that the Special Court after going through the

prosecution complaint dated 30.08.2024 has stated that the offence

prima facie exists and the accused in involved in money laundering

activity on the basis of facts and appreciated the gravity and nature of

offence committed by the applicant as well as evidences gathered

against him in the investigation. The Apex Court in the case of Gautam

Kundu Vs. Directorate of Enforcement ,(2015) 16 SC 1, The relevant

para from the above mentioned judgment is produced as under : 64. It is relevant to submit that the application has to be looked into

from the prism of the twin conditions laid down in the statute itself under Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002. These twin conditions are in addition to

what limitations has already been described for grant of bail in Cr.PC ,

1973. That even stands substantiated by the ruling of Hon'ble Ape Court

in the matter of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary Vs. Union of India SLP

(Crl.) No. 4634 of 2014, which is reproduced as under: 65. Further in the matter of Sajjan Kumar Vs. Directorate of

Enforcement, MANU/DE/2155/2022 , it has been held that "in matter of

regular bail, the Court must consider aspects, including but not limited

to, the larger interest of the State or public-another factor relevant would

be the gravity of alleged offence and /or nature of allegations levelled- 51 Economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be visited with a

different approach, given their severity and magnitude." 66. It is contended that the investigation against the applicant is

complete and the prosecution complaint in the ECIR 11 has already

stood filed thus there is no necessity for the continued incarceration of

the applicant in reply to this contention of the applicant, Shri Pandey

submits that the ECIR/11/2022 was recorded on 18.11.2022 on the basis

of Income Tax complaint filed before the Tiss Hazari Court Delhi while

ECIR/04/2024 was recorded on the basis of FIR No. 04/2024 dated

17.01.2024 registered by EOW/ACB Raipur, Chhattisgarh Police under Sections 420 , 46 , 7 , 468 , 471 and 120-B IPC and 7 & 12 of the PC Act , Sections 120-B , 420 , 467 and 471 of IPC and 7 & 12 of the PC Act which

are the schedule offences included in para 1 & 8 of the schedule to

PMLA 2002 as defined under Section 2(1)(y) of the Act. It is submitted

that the present investigation is based on the new ECIR bearing No.

ECIR/RPZO/04/2024 which is recorded on 11.04.20-24 on the basis of

the FIR registered by the Chhattisgarh State Police at EOW/ACB,

Raipur. It is submitted that the economic offences fall in the category of

the offences which travel far ahead of personal or private wrongs having

the potential to usher in economic crisis. In the matter of Alok Agrawal

Vs. Directorate of Enforcement bearing M.Cr.C. No. 6533 of 2019,

decided on 03.01.2021, it has been discussed about the seriousness of

the offences of money laundering and their impact on the economy of

the country. In the said judgment it has been categorically stated that 52 allegations in the Enforcement Case Information Report/Prosecution

Complaint is a matter of final outcome of the trial, but the burden of proof

under Section 24 of the PMLA 2002 with regard to the said money is not

proceeds of crime is always on the accused person. Relevant para is

produced herein: ....9. Taking into consideration the entire
 circumstances of the case, judicial pronouncement of
 Supreme Court in Rohit (supra) gravity of offence
 and further considering the fact that the applicant is a
 Government Servant (Incharge Executive Engineer,
 Water Resources Department) and the manner in
 which the public money is alleged to have been
 laundered by the applicant, I am not inclined to
 release him on bail...." 65. Shri Pandey, learned counsel for the respondent submits that

the applicant was arrested in the old ECIR/RPZO/11/2022 wherein

prosecution complaint has already been quashed by the Supreme

Court therefore that period cannot be counted as ED custody while

deciding the instant bail application. The applicant was arrested in a

separate case this time on 01.07.2024 in ECIR/RPZO/04/2024

which is based on different set of scheduled offence. 66. It is submitted that if the applicant is released on bail, he

may tamper the evidence and influence the witnesses which many

not only hamper the investigation but also result in further layering

and concealment of proceeds of crime therefore the bail application

filed by the applicant may be dismissed. It is submitted that the

applicant had played a very crucial role in the liquor scam. He along

with Vikas Agrawal had earned approximately Rs. 40 crores from 54 Part B liquor sale and the applicant was the key player in the

syndicate eho convenes the meeting of distillers and accused

Anwar Dhebar. The Special Court (PMLA), Raipur vide its order

dated 5.10.2024 has taken cognizance of the above said

prosecution complaint which shows that there is prima facie case of

money laundering against the applicant. The present applicant was

involved in the scam which involves money laundering of proceeds

of crime of more than Rs. 2,000 crores approximately. As such the

accused is involved in a grave and heinous financial crime and the

present application is liable to be rejected. It has been held by the

Orissa High Court in the matter of Mohd. Arif Vs. ED , BLAPL No.

2607 of 2020, describing the impact of the offence of money

laundering has called money laundering as an act of financial

terrorism not only posing a serious threat to the financial system of

the country but also to the integrity and sovereignty of a nation and

reiterated the view of the Supreme Court of denial of Bail in cases

of economic offences. The relevant observation of the Court is as

under: The International Monetary Fund estimates that
 laundered money generates about $590 billion to
 $1.5 trillion per year, which constitutes approximately
 two to five percent of the world's gross domestic
 product. The Supreme Court of India has 55 consistently held that economic offences are sui
 geneis in nature as they stifle the delicate economic
 fabric of a society. These offences permeate to
 human consciousness posing numerous questions
 on the very integrity of the business world. The
 offences, such as this, are committed with a
 deliberate design with an eye on personal profit and
 often shown to be given scant regard for a sordid
 residuum left behind to be borne by the unfortunate
 "starry eyed" petty investors. The perpetrators of
 such deviant "schemes,"including the petitioner
 herein, who promise utopia to their unsuspecting
 investors seem to have entered in a proverbial
 "Faustian bargain" and are grossly unmindful of
 untold miseries of the faceless multitudes who are
 left high and dry and consigned to the flames of
 suffering." 67. The economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be

visited with different approach therefore in the mater of Y.S.Jagn

Mohan Reddy Vs. CBI (2013) 7 SCC 439, the Apex Court has held

as under: 68. In yet another decision of the Apex Court ie. State of Gujarat Vs.

Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal & Others, (1987) 2 SCC 364, it has been

specifically held that : 69. Contention of Shri Pandey, learned counsel for the

respondent is that the applicant being an influential person close to

the then ruling dispensation in the State of Chhattisgarh he may

influence the witnesses and if released on bail there is a high

likelihood that the petitioner would seek to frustrate the proceedings

under the Act. The Apex Court in the matter of Neeru Yadav Vs.

State of U.P. ; (2016) 15 SCC 422, Hon'ble the Apex Court has held

as under :- [See Chaman Lal v. State of U.P. ; (2004) 7 SCC
 525] 57 70. In reply to the contention to the contention of the counsel for the

applicant that the departmental enquiry report conducted by the

Commercial Tax (Excise) Department observed no wrongdoing in the

liquor trade in the State of Chhattisgarh, it has been argued by the

learned counsel for the respondent that this vitiates the procedure of

law,. The department which is under the scrutiny, where senior officer

like Excise Secretary and excise Minister were being summoned for

their role in the scam, has conducted its own in house enquiry and

claimed that there was no wrongdoing in the Excise Department. The

findings of the investigation of the directorate, evidences collected and

facts presented were not paid heed to and everyone involved was given

a clean chit. It is a sham report and does not have any bearing on the

subject case. 71. The contention of the counsel for the applicant that the investigation

conducted by the Ed is completely malafide, to this, learned counsel for

the respondent submits that the investigation by the Directorate is being

carried out in an impartial manner and are free from any prejudice. Iti s a

settled position of aw particularly in criminal matters that if an action is

justified and based on material then malafide is of no consequence. In

the present case, the arrest of the applicant is based on material in

possession of the IO and not based on any extraneous grounds or mala

fides. With regard to pick and choose contention of the applicant it is

submitted that the investigation in liquor case is still going on and it is

not correct to say that none of the district Excise Officers have been 58 made accused. Regarding the previous excise police and old practice is

being continued, to this, it is submitted that the period of enquiry in the

case is from April 2019 to June 2022 prior to the formation of new

government. 72. Next contention of the learned counsel for the applicant is that the

applicant satisfied the triple test for grant of bail. To this, it has been

stated by learned counsel for the respondent that vide prosecution

complaint dated 30.08.2024, cognizance has been taken by the Special

Court dated 5.10.2024 and had demonstrated the complete modus

operandi adopted by the applicant for commission of the offence of

money laundering and investigation against the applicant is complete

but the investigation with respect to the identification of remaining

proceeds of crime and the persons involved therein is still going on.

However, the delay in trial is no ground for claiming bail. The applicant

has to satisfy the rigors provided in Section 45 of the PMLA prior to grant

of bail. It is likely that if granted bail, the applicant would further launder

or alienate the proceeds of crime which would frustrate the further

proceedings. It is reiterated that satisfaction of triple test is not sufficient

for persons arrested under PMLA,2002 and that the twin conditions

imposed by Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002 have to be satisfied. 73. Next contention is that the averments made by the counsel for the

applicant that the grounds of arrest and the reasons to believe do not

meet the threshold of Section 19 of the PMLA an are grossly insufficient 59 and there an be no necessity of arrest in the case is strongly denied by

the learned counsel for the respondent and it is submitted that role of the

applicant in the offence of money laundering is clearly established. The

applicant was found to have committed the criminal activities related to

the scheduled offence and thereby generating and possessing the

proceeds of crime as defined under Section 2 (i)(u) of PMLA, 2002. The

IO had reasons to believe on the basis of matter in his possession that

the applicant was involved in money laundering activity and had

acquired proceeds of crime in relation to liquor scam and the

investigating officer deemed his arrest necessary on multiple counts

which includes: 74. Lastly, it is submitted by Shri Pandey, learned counsel for the

respondent that the arrest of the applicant was performed completely in

accordance with the provisions of Sub- Section 1 , 2 and 3 of Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002 and all the safeguards as provided under the law

have been complied with. Thus, in view of the above detailed reply made

on behalf of the respondent, the applicant in the present matter may not 60 be granted bail. Shri Pandey contended that the fund trial investigation

has been done and it has been established that the initial background of

the applicant was that of a low level employee with a salary of Rs.

30,000/- per month at the time of leaving the company in the year 2019-

20 and after joining the syndicate, he earned commission of more than

Rs. 20 crores. The ED has unearthed and attached 33 illegal properties

worth Rs. 13,00,59,236/- in different entities registered in the name of

his family members vide PAO dated 02.05.2024. Further it has been

contended that M/s. ADIP Empire was having ledger account in the

name of Deepak Duary (associated with Part-B collection) and funds

have also been transacted with the present applicant and his family

members ie. Amit Singh and Abhishek Singh. 75. Lastly, it has been contended that the applicant is actually involved

in all the activities connected with the offence of money laundering ie.

use or acquisition possession, concealment and projecting or claiming

as untainted property as defined under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002 and

therefore the applicant is guilty of the offence of money laundering under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002 and punishable under Section 4 of the

PMLA. CONSIDERATION OF THE APPLICATION FOR BAIL 76. Heard learned counsel for the parties at length and perused the

records as well as the documents annexed with utmost circumspection. 61 77. In the present case, the applicant was involved in the criminal acts

of the syndicate and is in possession of the proceeds of crime and that

he received commission from the liquor suppliers. The applicant was

the key player in the syndicate and convenor of meeting of the distillers

and Anwar Dhebar about introduction of Part- A commission. However,

no recovery of unaccounted money has been made in this regard. From

the details of the whatsapp chats annexed with the charge sheet prima

facie shows the involvement of the applicant in the present case has

been established as massive corruption had taken place in the Excise

Department by way of extorting amount of Rs. 2000 crores

approximately and causing huge loss to the State Exchequer which

otherwise would have yielded revenue for Central and State

government. 78. After careful analysis of the material available on record which

goes to show that there is prima facie involvement of the applicant in

the crime in question and the charge sheet has been filed. Since, the

allegations against the applicant are serious in nature and there was

material to infer his involvement in serious crimes. However,the Apex

Court has held that the power of ED to arrest must be based on

objective and fair consideration of material against a person. Under the

PMLA, ED officers can arrest a person if they have reasons to believe

based on the material in their possession that the individual is guilty. It

has been held by the Apex Court that PMLA allowed arrests on the

subjective opinion of ED officer, the court said an officer's "reasons to 62 believe" that a person was guilty an deserved arrest should not be

based on mere suspicion. "Suspicion requires a lower degree of

satisfaction and does not amount to belief. Belief is beyond speculation

or doubt.... Existence and validity of the 'reasons to believe' goes to the

root of the power to arrest. The subjective opinion of the arresting

officer must be founded and based upon fair and objective

consideration of the material, as available with them on the date of

arrest. 79. Before adverting to the facts of the case, it is expedient for this

Court to extract Section 45 of the PML Act, 2002, which reads as

under:- [(1-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), or
 any other provision of this Act, no police officer
 shall investigate into an offence under this Act
 unless specifically authorized, by the Central
 Government by a general or special order, and,
 subject to such conditions as may be prescribed.]

 (2) The limitation on granting of bail specified in [*
 * *]

 sub-section (1) is in addition to the limitations
 under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of
 1974) or any other law for the time being in force
 on granting of bail." 80. Considering the judgment rendered by Hon'ble Division Bench of

Madras High Court in N.Umashankar Vs. The Assistant Director,

Directorate of Enforcement , reported in MANU/SCOR/25324/2022,

wherein Hon'ble Division Bench of Madras High Court has examined Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002 and has held at paragraph 18 as under:- 81. Against the said judgment passed by Madras High Court, the

applicant preferred SLP No. 620/2022 before the Apex Court, which has

been dismissed on 25.02.2022 which reads as under: 82. The Apex Court in the matter of Directorate of Enforcement Vs.

Aditya Tripathi (Criminal Appeal No. 1401/2023) decided on

12.05.2023 has held as under:- [(1-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), or
any other provision of this Act, no police officer
shall investigate into an offence under this Act
unless specifically authorised, by the Central
Government by a general or special order, and,
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed.]
(2) The limitation on granting of bail specified in [* 67 * *] sub-section (1) is in addition to the limitations
under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of
1974) or any other law for the time being in force
on granting of bail." By the impugned judgment(s)
and order(s) and while granting bail, the High
Court has not considered the rigour of Section 45 of the PML Act, 2002he Supreme Court on July
12 held that the power to arrest under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA)
cannot be exercised on the "whims and fancies" 84. The Apex Court has held that the power to arrest under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cannot be exercised on

the "whims and fancies" of Directorate of Enforcement (ED) officers.

The court wondered if the ED even had a consistent, uniform and "one-

rule-for-all" policy on when they should arrest people. It said the ED's 69 power to arrest must be based on objective and fair consideration of

material against the accused. 85. It is prima facie clear that on the one hand, it is claimed that the

matter is of a huge economic loss to the State Exchequer and the

offence is of highly serious nature and on the other hand, the distillers

who are allegedly supplying illegal liquor causing huge financial loss to

the State exchequer, have not been made accused despite the fact that

their names have been mentioned in the complaint made by the ED as

member of the syndicate. Prima facie it appears that the prosecution

has adopted an inconsistent stance being both hot and cold in its

approach and has acted in a pick and choose manner in investigation.

CONCLUSION 86. After going through the records and the rivals submissions on

behalf of the parties, it has been revealed that in the investigation

conducted by the police during the predicate office, the applicant was

part of the liquor syndicate and was involved in money laundering and

proceeds of crime along with other co-accused therefore, even if it is

presumed that no predicate offence has been levelled against him,

therefore, the applicant is entitled to get bail under PMLA, 2002, is not

acceptable and deserves to be rejected and also considering the

material placed on record, which prima facie shows involvement of the

applicant in the crime in question, therefore, considering entirety of the

matter, this Court is of the opinion that the applicant is unable to satisfy 70 twin conditions for grant of bail under Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002, as

 such, it is not a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant for the reasons

 mentioned hereinabove. 35. Accordingly, the prayer for bail made by the applicant under

 Section 483 of the Bhartiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 ('BNSS')

 read with Section 45 of the PMLA, for the alleged offence punishable

 under Sections 3 & 4 of the PMLA, 2002 is hereby rejected. Sd/- (Arvind Kumar Verma)
 Judge Digitally signed by SUGUNA SUGUNA DUBEY
DUBEY Date: 2025.02.10
 13:08:50 +0530