1. In all these batch of appeals, [numbering 25 appeals] common questions of law and facts are involved, hence they are all taken up together for disposal, as per law. The questions that arise for consideration in these appeals are as follows:-- 2. For the purpose of easier understanding of the case, it is appropriate to extract the entire Notification No. 64/88-Cus. dated 1.3.88 hereinbelow:-- 3. Provided that in the case of import of spare parts, no approval as specified in paragraph 1 will be required subject to the conditions that-- TABLE 1. All such hospitals as may be certified by the said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, to be run or substantially aided by such charitable organisation as may be moved from time to time, by the said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. 2. All such hospitals which may be certified by the said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in each case, to be run for providing medical, surgical or diagnostic treatment not only without any distinction of caste, creed, race, religion or language but also-- 3. Any such hospital in respect of which the said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, may, having regard to the type of medical, surgical or diagnostic treatment available there, or the geographical situation thereof, or the class of patients for whom the medical, surgical or diagnostic treatment is being provided, certify either generally or in each case, that the hospital, even though it makes a charge for the said treatment, nevertheless run on non-profit basis and is deserving of exemption from the payment of duty on the said hospital equipment under this notification: 4. Any such hospital which is in the process of being established and in respect of which the said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is of opinion-- Explanation--For the purposes of this notification, the expression "Hospital" includes any Institution, Center, Trust, Society, Association, Laboratory, Clinic and Maternity Home which enders medical, surgical or diagnostic treatment. Notification No. 64/88-Cus, dated 1.3.1998 3. For further understanding of the facts of the case, it is appropriate to bring out the facts of each of the appeals and the gist of the defence taken by the appellants and the orders passed by the respective authorities. (I)
 

Appeal No. C/1440/98 
 
LADY AMPHTHIL NURSES INSTITUTION & 
 
THE SOUTH INDIAN NURSING 
 
ASSOCIATION v. CC (Airport)
 

The appellants claimed to be a non-profit making medical institution covering by Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956 and established in the year 1921. They stated that under the Memorandum of Association of the appellant company any profits earned by the hospital operation should be ploughed back for further improvement and services and members are not eligible for any dividend. It is stated that it is a hospital funded by corporate bodies as a social service to the community and the institution is therefore exempted from Income Tax. They stated that at the relevant time, the hospital had 27 beds and also provided outdoor patient treatment to a sizeable number of persons. The appellants stated that they wish to avail benefit of Notification in question and hence approached the Director General of Health Service (DGHS), Ministry of Health, Govt. of India for issuance of a certificate as required under the above-said Notification. After complying with all the formalities prescribed therein, they were permitted to import 12 consignments between August 1990 and November 1992 and the goods were permitted to be cleared free of duty on provisional assessment basis on execution of a bond. Upon production of the necessary certificates, the PD assessments were finalised and the bonds executed by the appellants were discharged. Two other imports made by them were assessed to NIL duty and permitted to be cleared without payment of duty. They submitted the certificates to the Customs department under a cover of a letter dated 11.9.92 and acknowledged by the department on 17.10.92. The provisional assessment was completed by the end of 1992. It is their case that Superintendent of the Government (RSRM) lying in hospital, Madras, who was the Designated Supervisory Authority in terms of the Notification had visited the hospital and after verification of the records had issued a certificate regarding the correctness of the free patients treated. They stated that officers of the department conducted an inquiry on 28.5.98. During such inspection, the appellant's representative pointed out that they had been complying with the conditions stipulated in the Notification namely to provide free treatment to the indoor patients and outdoor patients as contemplated in the relevant Notification. They submitted the registers maintained by the hospital for the period 1991-1994, which disclose the number of persons treated on payment of charges and those treated free. They claimed to have been running two units one at Chemmancherry Kuppam and the other at Raj Nagar, Chennai. However, the old files were destroyed following the transfer of hospital and therefore, the data for the years 1995,1996 and 1997 were not available. The department investigating officers recorded the statement of one Sri V. Muthusamy, General Manager (Admn.) on 10.8.98. On 3.9.98, the medical equipments imported by the appellants were seized by the investigating officers under Section 110 of the Customs Act under the reasonable belief that the goods were liable for confiscation under Section 111 of the Customs Act. 2. The Commissioner of Customs (Airport) on the basis of investigation and recording of statements issued show cause notice dated 4/8.9.1998 bearing No. S8/321/98-ACC alleged that the appellants have not complied with the terms of the Notification in question. The show cause notice admitted about the provisional duty bonds being cancelled after the production of exemption certificates by the appellants. It referred to the investigation and verification of the registers and records in respect of out patients and noted that the registers were incomplete for the years 1991-94 and the particulars found from the registers were tabulated and the details given in the show cause notice. It was alleged that from January 1991 to June 1991 common registers were maintained for both paying out-patients and freely treated out-patients. It is alleged that neither the addresses of the patients treated freely nor the particulars of lab test/examination conducted on the individual patients freely were maintained. It further alleged that details of out-patients (payment category) treated were made available for a period of six months only from January to June 1991 and therefore, it alleged that in the absence of relevant records and bills and incomplete details available in the registers provided for verification the percentage of the free treatment given to the out-patients could not be ascertained and the genuineness of the figures as shown in the tabulated column could not be confirmed. It also alleged that there was no records to show that there was reservation of 10% of beds in terms of the Notification in question and also no register/records/vouchers were made available for verification with regard to free treatment given to indoor patients. It was alleged that no notice board/publicity has been given for such free treatment. The computerised statistics made available for the years 1990-1994 were shown in tabulated columns in the show-cause notice. On that basis it alleged that the hospital was able to give only the total number of inpatients treated and not the names and other details. With regard to inpatients treated free the particulars were given in the tabulated column shown in the show cause notice. However, it alleged the basic documents such as admission registers, discharge registers, admission slip and discharge memo issued to the individual patients etc. were not made available for verification to prove the authenticity of the statistics furnished by the hospital, hence it was alleged that statistics furnished by the hospital could not be relied upon. After narrating certain more facts ultimately, it was alleged that hospital fraudulently obtained CDEC from the DGHS to avail duty exemption and as they had not fulfilled the conditions of Notification in question, the proviso under Section 111(o) of the Customs Act gets attracted and hence they were called upon to explain as to why penal action under Section 112(a) of the Customs Act should not be initiated against them besides, confiscation of imported goods for the value of Rs. 1,40,61,310 should not be done and the benefit of the Notification in question to deny and Customs duty of Rs. 56,24,524 should not be demanded under proviso to Section 28(1) of the Customs Act, 1962. 3. By their reply dated 4.10.98, the appellants pleaded the same facts as narrated above that their institution is in existence from 1921 and that they are non-profit earning medical institution governed by the Companies Act, 1956 . The main substance of their plea in the reply to the show cause notice is that on production of such certificate from the DGHS, the bond came to be cancelled. This action took place between October 1991 and July 1992. Thus, the goods were passed out of Customs control on assessment free of duty between August 1990 and November 1992 and as there was no provisional assessment, the demands were all barred by time and they pleaded that even the proviso to Section 28(1) could not be invoked, as even maximum period of five years under the proviso had expired, as the show-cause notice had issued on 8.9.98. Even relying on the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Mediwell Hospital Health Care Put. Ltd. as reported in 1997 (89) ELT 425, they contended that the initiation of action by the Customs authorities is without jurisdiction and in terms of the Notification and judgment of the Apex Court decision, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, who have been delegated the powers to initiate action. They contended that the Ministry had not initiated any action and there is no complaint against them that they are violating the conditions of Notification either from the Ministry of Health or from DGHS. Therefore, they stated that no material fact that was relevant for assessment of the goods at the time of importation or for finalisation of the provisional assessment had been suppressed, much less wilfully suppressed from the department at that time. Further they stated that certain conditions attached to the Schedule to Notification allegedly had not been complied with, subsequent to the importation and passing of goods out of Customs control, does not result in any suppression of any valid or necessary information required for the purpose of assessment which can lead to invocation of the proviso to Section 28(1) of the Customs Act and hence they pleaded that extended time limit was not available to the Customs authorities for recovery of the demands or for initiating penal action in the matter. They denied the allegation that they had not treated the indigent persons in terms of the Notification and contended that the entire service given to outpatients was free and it is more than 40% as stipulated in the Notification. They filed affidavits of Dr. N. Manickavel and Dr. Fabiola Usha Kumari, who were in-charge of the units during the period 1991. They stated that they treated more than 200 to 320 patients free per month and it satisfy the terms of the Notification. They contended that confiscation of the goods cannot be done as there was no violation of the conditions of the Notification. They further pleaded that the equipment had been in use for about seven years and they have become old in design/model and the consignment value is not more than Rs. 27,04,000 as against valued at Rs. 1,40,61,310 and they challenged the valuation arrived at by the department. They relied on the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court rendered in the case of Hindustan Steels Ltd. v. State of Orissa as reported in 1978 ELT 159(SC), wherein it was laid down that there cannot be imposition of penalty and they stated that there is no deliberate contumacious or dishonest conduct or action deliberately in defiance of law; as their organisation is a non-profit making one and is genuinely interested in and actively engaged in helping the poor. Hence, they prayed for dropping the proceedings. 5. The Commissioner in the impugned order did not agree with their contentions that there was no violation of the terms of the said Notification and that there was no case for confiscation and imposition of penalty. He has proceeded on the basis of the statements of Sri V. Muthuswamy, General Manager (Admn.) of the hospital, who in his statements dated 10.8.98 has inter-alia admitted that he has not seen any register as required to substantiate the fulfilment of the conditions of the Notification and that he had joined the institution in 1995 and that he had not maintained any such records. On the basis of his statement, the Commissioner concluded the allegation that the appellants had not maintained records for the years 1991-1994, not having been produced and maintained incomplete, therefore, it was not possible to work out the percentage of the out-patients treated free. He noted that even during the period January to June 1991 only a common register had been maintained for outpatients treated free and patients charged and no other details were found. Similarly, as per the computerized statistics made available for the years 1990-94 as noted in the show-cause notice excepting for the year 1990 in all the other years 1991-1994, the percentage of inpatients treated free was less than 10%. There was no details available regarding free treatment of inpatients, therefore, he did not accept the affidavits of two Doctors which had been produced in the case. The Commissioner further observed in the order impugned as under: In the Miscellaneous Order the arguments of the senior counsel had been clearly recorded. His argument was that the Custom House has no cause of action and has no jurisdiction to issue the impugned order, if investigation carried out by the Government, with the aid of Customs official, had revealed to the Government that these conditions were probably not fulfilled, the correct procedure under law would have been to make the competent authorities in the Ministry of Health aware of the investigation. His argument was that it was for the Competent Authority to commence action in the matter vis-a-vis the certifications concerned already issued by them. Learned DR pointed out that the initiation of action was in terms of the High Court of Delhi's direction in the PIL petition and under the aegis of the ROSHA Committee was constituted by the Government only after the direction received from the High Court. 3. The Revenue in response to the Miscellaneous order have made the following submissions: 4. The above cited objections were taken on record and the matter was heard in great detail. On behalf of the appellants learned Senior Counsel Sri C.A. Sundaram addressed the arguments assisted by all the other learned Counsels on record namely S/Sri Thomas Vellapally, N.K.R. Nair, Venkateswara Rao, K.R. Natarajan, S.S. Radhakrishnan and Ms. C.J. Shyamala. The Revenue's case was represented by Sri V. Vaithiyalingam, learned Senior Standing Counsel assisted by Sri S. Sudarsan, learned DR. 5. Sri Thomas Vellapally, learned Counsel appeared for M/s. Little Flower Hospital contended that the certificate issued by the DGHS was still in force and the same had not been revoked in their case. They have also not referred the matter to the Customs authorities for investigation and that recovery of duty on the violation of the Notification. Therefore, the Customs authorities directly initiating the proceedings was ab initio void. He also referred to the text of the Notification, which clearly exempts the equipment, apparatus etc. which was approved by the DGHS as essential for use in any hospital and so long as this was condition was satisfied, then the authorities have no bar to recall the certificate and for recovery of duty. He contended that all other conditions were not mandatory or substantive conditions even the conditions of granting the benefit of 40% is not a subjective condition and there was no time limit fixed nor it was laid down as to from which percentage 40% was to be taken. Therefore, the condition itself was unenforceable, so long as the appellant had reserved their services for poor people, then they are deemed to have satisfied. It is his contention that they have done services to poor indigent persons in terms of the Notification. He submits that the demands were all barred by time and in this regard the Karnataka High Court has already given its finding on the question of jurisdiction in the case of Yellamma Dasappa v. CC as . He also pointed out that the Tribunal also has already given a finding on the same issue holding that larger period cannot be invoked to demand duties for the period even beyond five years as held in the case of Dewan Chand Satyapal Agarwal Imaging Research Centre v. CC as reported in 2000 (39) RLT 1084 (CEGAT). He contends that penalty proceedings are also bad as there was no intention to evade duty and no such intention has been brought out and mens rea for evading duty has been done. So long as the certificate has been accepted to be genuine and the benefit being available, the question of imposition of penalty on supposed, presumptuous and imaginary charge of evasion of duty is not sustainable. 6. Sri K.R. Natarajan, learned advocate appeared for the case M/s. Sumana Cardiac Care Unit pointed out that assessments are still provisional and hence the question of initiating the proceedings under Section 28(2) was not maintainable. He points out that DGHS in their case had withdrawn the certificate solely on the ground that their unit is a diagnostic centre only. They had not challenged the appeal on any other grounds. Therefore, invocation of larger period without any ingredients of provisions of Section 28 by Customs authorities was not sustainable and the demands were time barred. 7. Heard learned consultant Sri N.K.R. Nair appearing for the case of PVS Memorial Hospital pointed out that in their case also the assessments were initially provisional and they were finalised during the year 1994. Therefore, the demands were all time barred and the department has not brought out any ingredients for invocation of larger period. There was no evidence on the Revenue side to invoke penalty proceedings. He submits that the demands were not only time barred but also the Customs authorities did not have jurisdiction to initiate proceedings. He contended that the Notification cannot be recalled merely because there was some certain percentage of benefit given to indigent persons. There is no time limit prescribed or percentage of patients to be treated and it was not a substantive clause for recalling the benefit granted and hence prayed for setting aside the order. 8. Shri S.S. Radhakrishnan, learned advocate appeared for the case of Medical Trust Hospital and pointed out that in his case also penalty proceedings cannot be initiated without bringing out the ingredients of Section 112(a) of the customs Act. Learned Counsel pointed out that penalty of Rs. 18.00.000 cannot be imposed in their case as there was no duty liability. He submitted that unless duty is computed, no penalty can be imposed as held by the Hon'ble Apex Count in the case of HMM Ltd. as . He submits that ratio of this judgment which is rendered under the Central Excise Act would apply to the provisions of Section 112(a) of the Customs Act, as they are pari materia sections. He submitted that all the conditions of the Notification had been fulfilled before the issue of certificate. They had given the free treatment beyond 40% during the years 1989,1990 and 1991 and the certificate has been issued only after inspection. 9. Shri Venkateswara Rao, learned advocate appeared for the case of M/s. Nagarjuna Hospital P. Ltd. contended that in their case also only penalty has been imposed and no demand has been confirmed with regard to the import made on 12.9.92 and the show- cause notice was issued on 1.11.99. The DGHS certificate has been cancelled on 13.12.99 and it cannot have retrospective effect as they had completely satisfied the terms of the Notification during the period. He contended that the show-cause notice was also issued much before the issue of cancelled certificate and as such the show-cause notice itself is bad in law. He further submitted that penalties cannot be imposed in the absence of any duty computation, which is bad in law. He also referred to the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court rendered in the case of HMM Ltd. as . 10. All the above mentioned advocates also adopted the same arguments as argued by learned Sr. advocate Sri C.A. Sundaram appeared for M/s. Lady Amphthil Nurses Institution. 11. Senior advocate Sri C.A. Sundaram extensively argued the matter and was at pains to explain that the Tribunal has passed the Miscellaneous order on his preliminary objection that the Customs authorities do not have jurisdiction to initiate the proceedings and the Tribunal had called for report of the Commissioner and he has filed the same. He pointed out that the report is not conclusive and does not answer the Tribunal's query. He pointed out that in their case or any other cases heard as a batch, there was no inquiry conducted and there was also no direction from the DGHS or Ministry of Health to the Customs authorities informing them about the violation of the Notification and calling upon the Customs authorities to initiate recovery proceedings. He, therefore, contends that the Notification being self-contained and the Government had in their wisdom pointed out the Ministry of Health to monitor the Notification and the DGHS was to give certificate as Competent Authority. Therefore, the entire Notification was to be supervised only by Ministry of Health and in case if there was any violation, they can ensure its applicability through the department and for violation of Notification for recovery of duty purpose, the matter has to be referred to them after due investigation to the Customs authorities, who were initiating the proceedings under Section 28 of the Act. Ingredients of Section 28 can be invoked by the department only when there was evidence of fraud, mis-statement and suppression for which the Ministry of Health is the authority to discover facts supportive of this allegation and not the Customs authorities. The Customs authorities do not have any jurisdiction under the Notification to initiate proceedings even under Section 28 of the Act. He pointed out that in their case bonds had been cancelled and the show-cause notice has been issued on 8,9.2000, after the demands have been finalised on 5.1.1994, therefore, the show-cause notice itself was beyond five years and it was not sustainable. He pointed out that the appellants were registered under sub-provisions of Section 25 of the Companies Act and to be treated as charitable organisation. The entire work was carried out on non-profit basis. There was no direction in the Notification to the hospital authorities to retain the records for years together. Even the monitoring authority cannot look into the records beyond specific period and after the audit of accounts the records are destroyed. It was not expected of the hospital should retain the records after a long period of time and the Customs authorities cannot presume that no such treatment was given in terms of the Notification. He pointed out that the jurisdictional fact for exemption under Notification is the existence of valid certificate at the time of clearance of goods or cancellation of bond and not the question of fact of 40% free treatment to be given to the indigent persons. He also placed the same arguments as other counsels that jurisdiction was with the Ministry of Health and the Customs authorities cannot proceed to revoke the certificate as the certificate has not been issued by them. He pointed out from the Notification that pre-installation and post-installation conditions were to be scrutinized only by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and they have to be the monitoring authority and not the Customs authorities with regard to all the conditions of Notification. He pointed out the contemporaneous records show that Ministry of Health checked the records. He pointed out that ROSHA committee was also constituted by the Ministry of Health to check the fulfilment of the conditions of Notification and it was not the Customs authorities, who had taken up the matter for consideration. 12. On a specific query from the Bench as to whether the Health Ministry can revoke the certification and issue show-cause notice for recovery of duty, as the counsel was submitting that the Customs authorities have no jurisdiction to initiate proceedings. On this query, the learned senior advocate contended that the Department of Revenue has the power to issue Notification under Section 25 of the Customs Act. They had empowered the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare to issue a certificate and also to verify/check/monitor the details of the Notification. Therefore, it is his contention that on investigation carried out by the officers of Customs and prima-facie, if they find any violation, then they have to call upon the nodule agency to whom the task is assigned i.e. Ministry of Health to investigate further on the information supplied by the Customs authorities and file their report or in the alternative to cancel their certificate issued to them and only thereafter the authority under the Customs Act on the basis of such report and cancellation of certificate can initiate, the proceedings by issue of notice. He pointed out that such procedure has now been followed after the ROSHA committee was constituted. In all the present matters no such procedure was followed and, therefore, the Customs authorities have directly taken up themselves to proceed to investigate and initiate recovery proceedings against the time barred claim and to impose penalty and confiscate the goods, which were also not available in some cases, in lieu of imposition of fine, which is not at all in terms of law as laid down by several judgments of Tribunal and Hon'ble Supreme Court. In this connection, he relied upon the decision of Tribunal rendered in the cases of Devan Chand Satyapal Agarawal Imaging Research Centre v. CC as reported in 2000 (39) RLT 1084, wherein it was held that Section 28 has to be satisfied for the purpose of invoking the demands and if the same has not been satisfied, then the demands are barred by time. He also relied upon the judgment of Karnataka High Court rendered in the case of Medical Relief Society of South Kanara v. UOI as , wherein the High Court has held in this very issue that the demands are not maintainable by invoking the larger period. He submits that this judgments clearly covers the present issue in all fours, besides the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court rendered in the case of HMM Ltd. (supra), wherein very categorically the Hon'ble Apex Court laid down that no penalty proceedings can be initiated without demands having been confirmed. 13. Pointing out to the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court rendered in the case of Medical Hospital & Health Care Pvt. Ltd. v. UOI (supra), the senior counsel submitted that the facts therein were that the appellants had sought for issue of certificate from the Ministry of Health i.e. nodule agency, which has been denied to them, therefore, they have filed a Writ petition before the High Court of Punjab & Haryana and not succeedings there, they have proceeded to Hon'ble Supreme Court. Therefore, before the Hon'ble Apex Court the issue was only with regard to non-grant of the certificate for the purpose of importing the medical equipment. The Apex Court therefore, had laid down that Ministry of Health can ensure its compliance if the terms of the Notification are not observed by the Hospital authorities. Therefore, senior counsel pointed out that the facts of the case itself clearly indicated that it was the Ministry of Health who should ensure its compliance. Even if this is taken as ratio, the Customs authorities cannot initiate proceedings for recovery of duty or for imposition of penalty by issuing show-cause notice and it is the Ministry of Health, who should first intimate the process of investigation and file their report to the Customs authorities, who should proceed under Section 28 of the Act. He pointed out that the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of UOI v. Sampat Raj Dugar as has clearly held in para 21 of the order that there has to be a responsible limit for initiating the proceedings. He pointed out that any exemption under the Notification is for a period of time and the post-importation conditions cannot be said to be indefinite in any event. He pointed out that the Notification did not contain any post-importation conditions and all the conditions were pre-importation. The post-importation conditions, if at all it existed then it was with regard to the certificates to be produced for debonding purpose only, but there is no directive in the Notification to initiate proceedings for recovery of duty on failure in giving lesser percentage of free treatment to indigent persons. He pointed out that there was a clear distinction between the licensing authorities and Customs authorities and the matter had been discussed by the Calcutta High Court in the case of Ellenberric Steels Ltd. v. Regional Dev . Commr. for Iron & Steel as and in the case of Overseas Cycle Co. v. CC as . He also referred to the judgment of Tribunal in the case of Arvind Mills Ltd. (Ankur Textiles) v. CCE as , wherein in para 9 it had been laid down that the Notification has to be strictly interpreted and words cannot be incorporated or added for the purpose of reading the Notification. He also relied on the judgment rendered in the case of Gujarat Co-op. Oil Seed Grower Fedn. Ltd. v. CCE as besides relying on the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Hemraj Govardhandas v. UOI as reported in 1978(2) ELT 350. He further relied on the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan (Pvt.) Ltd. v. The Excise Commissioner UP and Ors. as . 14. Sri V. Vaithiyalingam, Senior Standing Counsel argued for the Revenue pointed out that in all the cases there is a clear violation of the terms of the Notification, inasmuch as that clause pertaining to extending free service to 40% of indigent persons has not been extended by the appellants. This is a grave violation of the Notification and the Customs authorities have clear jurisdiction to invoke the provision of the Customs Act for enforcing the demands. He pointed out to Section 111(o) of the Customs Act, which clearly lays down that "any goods exempted subject to any conditions from duty or any prohibition in respect of import thereof under this Act or any other law for the time being in force, in respect of which the conditions is not observed unless the non-observance of the condition was sanctioned by the proper officer". He submitted that so longer as the exempted goods had violated the terms of the Notification, the duty was recoverable, Customs authorities are the authorities who should proceed to recover the amounts in terms of Section 28 of the Act. He submitted that the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Mediwell Hospital Health Care (P) Ltd. (supra) have clearly laid down that Ministry of Health can ensure the compliance of the Notification. Therefore, it was not necessary for the Ministry of Health to have proceeded to initiate the proceedings themselves. So long as there was evidence on record with regard to violation, then the Customs authorities can issue show-cause notice for recovery of the amounts. He submitted that it was not necessary to lay down in the Notification as to which authority should enforce the Notification. He pointed out that all the judgments relied upon by the appellants are clearly distinguishable. 15. Learned DR Sri S. Sudarsan also supported the arguments of the Central Govt. Senior Standing Counsel. He pointed out that Section 111(o) is an independent of Section 28 and proceedings for recovery of duty can be initiated under this proviso also. He pointed out that for the purpose of redemption fine market value was required to have been taken into consideration. On a specific query as to whether market value on the date of import has to be taken or from the date of violation, the learned DR pointed out that there was no specific proviso regarding this aspect in the matter. On a further query as to whether before imposing fine and penalty, the valuation of the machines had been done or not, he pointed out that in each of the case no such finding has been recorded except the noting of value at the time of import has been recorded. He pointed out that for violation of Section 125(2) , there has to be an imposition of mandatory fine on an option of redemption granted by the officer. He pointed out that the value has to be in terms of the date of importation only for the purpose of computing the fine in terms of Section 125 of the Act. He pointed out that provision of Section 28 is applicable only when short levy is noticed and for the purpose of violation of Notification only Section 111(o) is applicable and in such circumstances, the duty as well as penalty and fine can be imposed. He pointed out that each of the terms laid down under the Notification is a substantive one. He pointed out that fine and penalty can be imposed, even when the goods were not available and even when no duty has been confirmed. 16. In counter, Sri Thomas Vellapally learned advocate relied on the judgment rendered in the case of Gem Electro Mechanical Put. Ltd. v. CC as , wherein it had been laid down that only the authority who can issue the certificate can recall the same for the purpose of initiation of the proceedings. 17. We have carefully considered these submissions made by both sides and have perused the respective orders passed by the respective Commissioner's in these cases. We have drawn the questions that are required to be considered in these appeals. (1) As to whether the contemplated action for recovery of duty for violation of the Notification is required to be initiated by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare in terms of the Notification or by the Commissioner of Customs? (2) As to whether the action initiated in all the appeals by the Commissioner of Customs is beyond his jurisdiction of the Notification? (a) The first two questions which have been drawn for determination can be taken up together for answering the same. The Notification No. 64/88-Cus dated 1.3.88 is a special exemption notification which has been issued for granting exemption to all equipments, apparatus and appliances including spare parts and accessories thereof but excluding consumable items and they are referred to in the Notification as "Hospital Equipments" on two conditions which are indicated in para 2 of the Notification. The Central Government under Section 25 of the Customs Act have carved out the jurisdiction to monitor the Notification in each of the cases by the Government of India in the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare or by the Directorate General of Health Services to the Govt. of India. As can be seen from the first para of the Notification, there is a clear direction in the Notification to these authorities to approve either generally or in each case with regard to the hospital equipment being essential for use in the respective hospital. The certificate has to be issued by these authorities for the purpose of grant of exemption of the whole of duty of customs leviable thereon under the First Schedule to the Customs Traffic Act, 1975 and (2), the whole of the additional duty leviable thereon under Section 3 of the said Customs Traffic Act. (b) The Notification in para 2 lays down that the authorities named in para 1 while approving the import of hospital equipment are required to take into consideration the factors laid down therein i.e. (i) that they are required to approve that the hospital equipment which is under import as claimed is not manufactured in India; and (ii) that the bill of entry in respect of which the exemption is claimed is necessary for running or maintenance of the hospital. (c) The 3rd paragraph of the notification lays down the criteria of the Notification for granting approval in respect of spare parts. (d) On a plain reading of the first three paragraphs of the Notification it is explicitly and crystal clear that the delegation of powers has been made to the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of India or to the DGHS, Govt. of India in respect of any hospital specified in the table to the Notification. (e) Now it is to be seen as to whether the certification which has been done by the authorities named in the Notification is absolute and whether the Customs authorities can revoke the said certificates suo motu without any reference to the said Ministry and initiate proceedings. As has been noted, it is the first three paragraphs of the Notification, which lay down the criteria for exempting the import of hospital equiptments and issue of certificate by the noted Ministry, while granting the certificates, certain norms had been laid down to the noted Ministry for the purpose of approval and grant of certificate. Such a delegated power has been performed by the respective Ministry and after due and thorough examination and having satisfied itself have issued the certificate to the appellants hereinabove and on such issue of certificate the import has been regularised and in all the appeals except to the one mentioned hereinbelow wherein the Bills of Entry which had kept provisional were also finalised and no fault was taken up by the Customs authorities with regard to the authenticity or otherwise of the certificate issued by the noted Ministry. Even in these proceedings, there is no challenge to the correctness or otherwise of the issue of the certificates granted to the respective appellants. (f) A perusal of the show-cause notice clearly indicates that the cause for initiating the proceedings is the delivery of judgment by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Mediwell Hospital & Health Care Put. Ltd. (supra). We are required to examine this particular judgment and see as to whether any direction was given to the Customs authorities to start initiation of proceedings in respect of all the importers in the country irrespective of time as laid down under Section 28 of the Act and whether any such direction was given after the scrutiny of the terms of the Notification. As can be seen from a perusal of the show-cause notices that the Commissioner of Customs have initiated proceedings on the plea that the Apex Court has given a direction to the Customs authorities to re-open the matter, investigate and examine the conditions laid down in the table to the Notification were satisfied and if they had not been satisfied then they would issue show-cause notice, even after lapse of more than a decade and confirm the demands or in the alternative confiscate the goods and impose penalty. (g) On a plain reading of the notification, it is clear that the conditions laid down in the Table to Notification were required to be examined by the noted Ministry in the Notification before the issue of certificate and after the certificate has been issued the terms laid down in the Table do not come to ply either as they are not post-condition Notification for the purpose of monitoring its term by the Ministry noted in the Notification. We shall examine the same and come to a precise conclusion as to whether the terms in the table to the Notification were post-importation for the purpose of issue of certificate or whether they were to be monitored by the said Ministry, even after the import for indefinite period and to initiate proceedings either themselves or through the Customs authorities? (i) As we have seen the terms of the Notification, the exemption is to the hospital equipment on being certified by the Ministry noted in the Notification. Para 1 clearly indicates that "the import of which is approved either generally or in each by the Government of India in the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare or by the Directorate General of Health Services to the Govt. of India, as essential for use in any hospital specified in the table below" Therefore, the conditions given in the table were to be examined before approval is granted in the form of issue of certificate. On examination of the terms of the table, it is seen that the noted Ministry while certifying shall examine as to whether the said hospitals are to be run or substantially aided by such charitable organisation as may be moved from time to time by the said Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. (ii) The 2rd para to the Table indicates that all such hospitals which may be certified by the said Ministry, in each case, to be run for providing medical, surgical or diagnostic treatment not only without any distinction of caste, creed, race religion or language but also-- (1) free, on an average to at least 40 percent of all their outdoor patients; (2) free to all indoor patients belonging to families with an income of less than Rupees five hundred per month, and at least 10% of all the hospital beds reserved for such patients; and (3) at reasonable charges, either on the basis of the income of the patients concerned or otherwise to patients other than those specified in Clauses (1) and (2). Therefore, on a reading of the above two paragraphs of the Table, it is clear that these clauses are to by examined before the certification is done. They cannot be said to be post-importation conditions as there is no such indication of monitoring these conditions by the ministry noted above or by any other authorities and they are only required to verify and certify that such a provision has been made. There is no indication as to the period for which the benefit of at least 40% of free service is to be given to outdoor patients. The term "at least" does not indicate that it is "shall" and it only refers to a minimum guideline and not a mandatory and substantive condition of "shall". There is no indication as to from what period of time the percentage has to be chosen i.e. from which period 40% of the patients are to be worked out and for what length of time the condition is required to be fulfilled. Is it endlessly till the equipments become obsolete or for a specific period of time. It is also not indicated to who shall monitor this provision of the Notification and whether such a monitoring is to be done by the Health Ministry or any other authority. In the absence of any such clear indications in the Notification and on a clear reading of the first para of the table it only leads to a conclusion that it is only Ministry of Health & Family Welfare or DGHS who could verify these conditions. The Notification directs these authorities to issue certificate i.e. while examining the features of the hospital, it has to be seen as to whether the hospital is to be run or substantially aided by Charitable organisation. So long as the Ministry is satisfied that it is running or substantially aided by Charitable organisation and that there is a proviso for providing help to persons without any distinction of caste, creed, race, religion or language and that there is a minimum free service of at least 40% of outdoor patients and that 10% for hospital beds reserved for such patients, whose income is less than Rs. 500 per month, then they can be granted the certificate. There is no indication that unless para 1 and 2 of the Table to the notification have satisfied the benefit is to be granted; that the hospital has to be a composite of medical, surgical or diagnostic treatment and also it should have both the facilities for treatment of indoor and outdoor patients. A diagnostic treatment hospital may not have indoor treatment facility and it can only provide 40% of treatment to outdoor patients on free service. (h) The terms of the Table in the Notification cannot be said to be in clear terms for its application and enforcement for post-importation period. They can be at best said to be salient features to be considered before certification. There is no clear cut direction to the hospital authorities for maintaining of any registers and getting it verified or for reporting to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare about the service granted free of cost to the extent for any period of time. I) Therefore, it can be reasonably presumed that these terms which were laid down as the guidelines to the Ministry of Health for certification purpose. There is no indication of free of service to indoor or outdoor patients to be made in a particular period and ratio of 40% drawn from a total quantum of service rendered to the patients. There should have been clear terms in the Notification to draw the percentage from the total number of patients treated for a particular period of time either for indoor or outdoor patients. Therefore, in a Notification where terms are very vague, ambiguous and not in clear terms and on such reading it gives an indication that the terms were to be scrutinized only by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare before grant of certificate, then it has to be read strictly in that way only i.e. the terms laid down in para 2 of the Table were only guidelines before issue of certificate and there was no condition laying down to its implementation, scrutiny and for cancellation of certificates for non-performing of those conditions. Therefore, the terms laid down in para 2 of the Table cannot be considered as a post-importation condition to be scrutinized by the Customs authorities and to carry out investigation thereon and find the same to be inadequate to revoke the certificates by issue of show-cause notice that too after much lapse of time and to hold that larger period can be invoked to confirm the demands. Further it cannot be a ground to hold violation of Notification and for ordering confiscation and in the absence of machinery being made available them to impose high fines and penalties. (j) Further we notice that reading of Para 4 also leads to the same conclusion. Para 4 lays down the condition under which a certificate can be issued even before an hospital has been established. The proviso to Para 4 lays down the condition where importer can seek clearance giving an undertaking to produce certificate from the said Ministry. Proviso (b, c and d) deal with the said condition of seeking clearance on executing an undertaking in writing to the Assistant Commissioner at the time of clearance of such hospital equipments undertaking to produce a certificate from the Ministry of Health or DGHS, Government of India. The Assistant Commissioner is empowered on being satisfied and on sufficient cause being shown, to allow clearance of equipments without charging duty on execution of undertaking produced. Proviso (d) lays down the execution of bond in such a form and for such sum as may be specified by the Assistant Commissioner binding himself to pay the amount of equal to duty leviable on the said hospital equipment-- (i) if such hospital starts functioning within the period specified therefore, as is not proved to the satisfaction of the Assistant Commissioner to have been installed in such hospital, or (ii) if such hospital does not start functioning within the period specified there for. Therefore, on a reading of the proviso to para 4, it is very clear that the bond and undertaking has to be executed only on the above two conditions. The Commissioner in most of the present cases has already cancelled the bonds and undertaking on the equipments having been installed and certificates having been produced to the satisfaction of the Assistant Commissioner. Therefore, recovery proceedings could have been initiated only on violation of proviso to para 4 of the Table to the Notification. In the present case, only in two of the appeals such an action has been taken but even in those cases there has been cancellation of certificates issued by DGHS and in one case the cancellation has taken place subsequent to the issue of show-cause notice in the case of Sumana Cardiac Care Unit in Appeal No. C-156/98, wherein provisional assessment is still pending and in that case , the matter has been challenged before the High Court. Therefore, at this stage finalisation cannot be said to be proper and Appeal No. C/156/98 is required to be remanded for de novo consideration. (k) It was argued by the Revenue that the Commissioner has powers to initiate proceedings on finding any of the terms of the notification not having been complied and the investigation initiated by them without any reference of the Ministry of Health or DGHS is proper. (l) We have considered this plea and we are not in a position to accept this, proposition. The Revenue contended that the Hon'ble Apex Court itself had given such a direction in the case of Mediwell Hospital & Health Care (supra). We notice from the said judgment that the facts were that, the appellants therein had sought for grant of necessary certificate form the DGHS, Ministry of Health for importing certain Hospital equipments without payment of duty in terms of the said Notification. The same had been refused, therefore, they have filed a writ petition before the High Court of Punjab & Haryana, which was dismissed and hence they have filed an appeal before the Supreme Court. Before the Apex Court, the Revenue took up the contention that the appellant is running diagnostic centre and not a hospital and as such exemption Notification will not cover the case of the appellants. They also argued about the discriminatory treatment to another appellant. Therefore, the Hon'ble Apex Court was considering these two pleas and held that the appellants cannot be denied the certificate for importing the equipment. In the conclusion vide paras 12 & 13, the Hon'ble Apex Court while accepting the plea of the appellant that they are entitled to get the certificate from the respondent to enable them to import the equipment without payment of duty, made an observation as under:-- On the above reading of the paragraphs, the Hon'ble Apex Court was only expressing its concern on the enforcement of the Notification and in the penultimate portion of para 12, as can be seen, the Hon'ble Apex Court has clearly stated therein thatthe objective must be achieved at any cost, and the very authority who have granted such certificate of exemption would ensure that the obligation imposed on the persons availing of exemption would ensure that the obligation imposed on the persons availing of the exemption notification are being duly carried out and on being satisfied that the said obligations have not been discharged they can enforce realisation of the customs duty from them. (Emphasis added by us.). Even if this is considered as a ratio and to be enforceable, even then the Hon'ble Apex Court has clearly laid down that it is the very authority who granted such certificate of exemption would ensure that the obligation imposed on the persons availing of exemption notification are being duly carried out". In the present case, the Ministry of Health has not conducted any investigations neither there was a direction for the appellants to maintain records and produce before the same to satisfy the post-importation conditions and they have neither initiated any proceedings to ensure that the obligations imposed on the importers availing of exemption Notification were duly carried out. Therefore, it cannot be said the Customs authorities had the power under the judgment of Hon'ble Apex court cited above to initiate proceedings on their own to start recovery proceedings. Such a reading of the Apex Court judgment done by the Customs authorities is not in keeping with the terms of the Notification as analysed earlier or with the ratio of the judgment laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the Mediwell Hospital & Health Care case. Our view is fortified by the Karnataka High Court in the case of Yellamma Dasappa as reported in 2000 (120) ELT 67 (Kar). In para 9 of the said judgment the High Court has noted as follows: (m) Therefore, the above ruling of the Karnataka High Court would also clinch the issue in favour of the appellants and the ratio of which is required to be followed in the present case. In the result, the above questions are answered in favour of the appellants that the Customs authorities have no jurisdiction to initiate recovery proceedings by conducting enquiry which has also not resulted in any productive results of showing violation of the terms of the Notification in each of the respective cases for the reasons already analysed. Hence, the proceedings are bad in law in light of the findings rendered on the two judgments cited above. 19. ISSUE NO. III 
 (3) As to whether the appellants who are the importing hospitals (charitable) have committed violation of Notification No. 64/88-Cus. dated 1.3.88? As has already been analysed, the Notification does not stipulate the appellants to maintain any records and to extend the benefit in a particular manner of free treatment from a total quantum of patients treated by them indoor or outdoor. The Notification itself used the word "at least" and which is not used the word "shall", therefore, even if there is any few lapse, it cannot be held that there was a substantive violation of the terms of the Notification. The appellants have explained that the records have been checked and they had in fact given the free treatment to indigent persons more than the required quantity. In the case of Lady Amphthil Nurses Instn. & the South Indian Nursing Assocn., which is a 100% charitable organisation and registered under Section 25 of the Companies Act. They had indicated that Customs authorities were asking for old records which had been destroyed following the transfer of hospital and therefore, the data was not available. Therefore, it is clear that the customs authorities cannot draw the conclusion that there was violation in the terms of the Notification, calling for recovery proceedings and this is the case in all the appeals. Therefore, we are of the considered opinion that in the absence of any clear cut terms in the Notification itself for maintaining any registers and granting the benefit of 40% and 10% of a particular quantum of patients, it cannot be held that there is a violation of the terms of the Notification. The Notification should have laid down the total from which the 40% and 10% was to be taken. In the absence of such criteria laid down and on our finding that it is not a post-importation condition, the benefit of doubt has to be granted to the appellants and we have to hold that there is no violation of the terms of the Notification except in the case of M/s. Sumana Cardiac Care Unit in Appeal No. C/156/98, whose case was still under provisional assessment and whose matter is required to be remanded for de novo consideration. 20. ISSUE NO. IV
 (4) As to whether the demands raised by the Commissioner of Customs are barred by time in terms of the proviso to Section 28 of the Customs Act, 1962? We notice that in large in number of cases, the Commissioners themselves have taken a view that the demands are beyond the period of time as laid down under Section 28 of the Act and have dropped the proceedings but have imposed fine and penalty. In order to confirm the demands under proviso to Section 28 , the concerned authority ought to have withdrawn the certificate on the allegation of fraud, collusion and suppression of facts in obtaining the certificates. They ought to have informed the customs department about the cancellation of certificate and the ground for initiation of recovery proceedings and such a procedure has not been adopted. There is no cancellation of the certificates issued and, therefore, so long as there is no allegation of fraud, collusion in obtaining the necessary certificates for importation and clearance of the equipments on duty exemption, it cannot be held that the department had grounds for invoking the larger period for recovery of the sums. The Tribunal has also considered the aspect pertaining to demands being barred by time under the very Notification in the case of Dewan Chand Satyapal Agarwal Imaging Reserch Ccentre v. CC as reported in 2000 (39) RLT 1084 (CEGAT), wherein it has been held that the demands are not enforceable under this Notification as held in para 9 to 12, which are re-produced hereinbelow: In that view of the matter, the demands are not enforceable as being barred by time in some of the cases as seen that recovery proceedings have been initiated much beyond five years as noted. Therefore, we hold that the demands are barred by time. 21. ISSUE NO. V
 (5) As to whether confiscation and grant of redemption on imposition of fine and penalty is justified in the facts and circumstances of each case? In the cases, where confiscation and penalty imposed, we notice that the equipments were not available and it is now well laid down that when the imported goods are not available for confiscation, such confiscation is bad in law and the order requires to be set aside. This is the view expressed by the Larger Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Mazagon Dock Ltd. v. C.C. as . It has been clearly laid down in the said judgment after analysing the Section 125 that section pre-supposes the existence of the goods. It is only when the goods [are] available, then they can be confiscated and an option may be given to the owner to pay a fine instead of confiscation. Para 12 of the said judgment is reproduced herein below: The section pre-supposes the existence of the goods. It is only the goods are available that they can be confiscated, and an option may be given to the owner to pay a fine instead of confiscation. Section 125 cannot come into operation in the absence of the improperly imported goods. The proper course of action in such cases, would have been to invoke the bond executed by the appellants (guaranteeing re-export of the bags as per the condition contained in the Notification No. 97/79-Cus. dated 2.5.79) and in the event of non-payment of the bond amount file a civil suit for recovery thereof, against the importers. The above view was again reiterated in the case of CC v. Trimurti Enterprises as . Therefore, the order of confiscation of equipments which were not in existence and imposition of fine in these cases which are bad in law and the same is required to be set aside. It is also well laid down that fine cannot be imposed in each cases, unless it is shown that there is an intention to evade duty in the case of Jain Exports Put. Ltd. as , wherein the Apex Court held that while determining the question of quantum of redemption fine, it is essential to consider the facts and circumstances of the case relevant to the bona fide conduct of the importer in importing the goods and therefore, held that refusal of the Tribunal to take into account the extenuating circumstances leading to the import of disputed goods for the purposes of determining the quantum of redemption fine is incorrect. In this regard, the Apex Court relied upon the earlier judgment rendered in the case of Navin Chandra & Co. v. UOI as and that of B. Vijay Kumar v. UOI as . We, therefore, set aside the imposition of fine. As regards the imposition of penalty, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Akbar Badruddin Jiwani v. CC as have clearly held that quantum of penalty and fine in lieu of confiscation are extremely harsh, excessive and unreasonable, bearing in mind the bona fides of the appellant as specifically found by the Appellate Tribunal. This observation was in the context of the finding that penalty cannot be imposed without a finding on bona fide belief has recorded. The Apex Court relied on the earlier judgments rendered in the said judgment and it is proper to extract the findings given in paragraphs 58 and 59 of the said judgment herein below: In the case of Gujarat Imaging & Research Institute v. CCE as , the Bench comprisingy of Sri G.P. Agarwal, then Member (J) and my learned Brother Sri Lajja Ram, decided this very issue on this very Notification No. 64/88-Cus and held that exemption is available to diagnostic treatment centre with no indoor patient treatment facilities. The Bench further held that non-fulfilment of the post-importation condition for free treatment of 40% of the outdoor patients is not material when there was a nominal shortfall and no span of period is provided in the Notification. It has been further held that deficiency can be made good in subsequent periods and hence duty is not demandable and denial of exemption is not sustainable, besides imposition of penalty and fine has been held to be not justified. Paras 9,10 and 11 of the said judgment is reproduced herein below: We are required to follow the judgments of the co-ordinate Bench in terms of judicial discipline as held by my Learned Brother on behalf of the Larger Bench in the case of Dinkar Khindria v. CC as and in that case reference to Larger Bench on a debatable point was not approved and it has been held in categorical terms that judicial propriety require that a co-ordinate Bench should not sit over judgment on the order recorded by another Bench. In view of the above citations, more particularly the judgment rendered by my Learned Brother in the case of Gujarat Imaging & Reserach Institute v. CCE, (supra), therefore, the imposition of fine and penalty in the present appeals are required to be set aside and we order accordingly. 22. In the result-- (i) Appeal No. C/156/98 of M/S. Sumana Cardiac Care unit is remanded as the provisional assessment is still admittedly pending and the matter is being agitated before the High Court. On re-adjudication, our findings on aspects are required to be taken into consideration for further proceedings in the matter by the authorities concerned. The appellants shall be entitled to raise further grounds in their appeal; (ii) Appeals No. C/230-231/99-Little Flower Hospital & Sri Abraham J. Kavedan, are allowed, as the Bill of Entry has been filed on 3.6.91 and the same had been finalised, hence for the reasons stated, the appeals are required to be allowed by setting aside the imposition of fine and penalty against the Hospital and its Director. Ordered accordingly; (iii) In Appeal No. C/1440/98- Lady Amphthil Nurses Instn. & The South Indian Nursing Assocn. the import has been done in the year 1991 and hence for the reasons stated, the appeal is allowed by setting aside the imposition of duty in respect of Bill of Entry Nos. 23359 & 23360 dated 6.7.91, as the provisional assessment had been finalised on 5.12.94. The fine and penalty imposed are also set aside for the reasons recorded in the order; (iv) In Appeal No. C/1305/98- M/s CDR Diagnostic Clinic, Bills of Entry Nos. 37061 dt. 8.10.90 and 14032 dt. 22.4.91 were assessed finally and hence the fine and penalty imposed in this appeal also are set aside for the reasons recorded in the order; (v) In Appeals No. C/395 & 396/98- PVS Memorial Hospital Ltd. & Dr. P.K. Rajiv. Medical Director. Bill of Entry No. 3488 dt. 15.4.93 had been finalised on production of the certificate issued by the DGHS and bond and bank guarantee had been cancelled and released and therefore, for the reasons staled above, the duty amount Rs. 3,96,660 imposed under Section 28(1) of the Customs Act is set aside and the penalty of Rs. 4,00,000 on the hospital and Rs. 1,00,000 on Sri P.K Rajiv, Medical Director is also set aside. (vi) In Appeal No. C/294/2000 of Nagarjuna Hospital P. Ltd., Bells of Entry No. 44553 and 44555 dated 12.11.92 had been finalised, therefore, for the reasons recorded above, the order for confiscation of equipments, which were not available, is set aside including the penalty of Rs. 10,00,000 imposed in the matter. (vii) In Appeals No. C/531-538/98 and C/1241-1249/98- Medical Trust Hospital, also Bills of Entry No. 2326 dt. 6.9.93 and 2437 dt. 15.9.93 had been finalised by cancellation of bonds. Therefore, for the reasons stated, penalty of Rs. 25,000 imposed vide impugned order No. SIB/1/98 dt. 26.3.98, on each of the Directors namely Dr. P.A. Varghese, Dr. Louis Pulikkal and Sri. P.V. Antony is set aside by allowing the appeals. The order impugned No. l/98-Cus-(Pt.I). dt. 31.3.98 also pertains to nine Bills of Entry viz 373 dt. 24.11.88; 212 dt. 14.2.90; 186 dt. 14.2.91; 58 dt. 7.1.92; 158 dt. 20.1.92; 258 dt. 27.3.92; 142 dt. 22.4.92; 164 dt. 24.2.92 and 57 dt. 5.6.92. All the above bills of entry have been finalised and bonds had been cancelled, therefore, the said proceedings are bad in law and hence penalty of Rs. 18,00,000 imposed on Medical Trust Hospital and Rs. 1,00,000 each on the three Directors namely Dr. P.A. Varghese, Dr. Louis Pulikkal and Sri P.V. Antony are set aside by allowing the appeals for the reasons already recorded. All the appeals are disposed on the above terms 
 

(Pronounced in the open court on 23.1.2001.)
 

ORDER
 

Lajja Ram, Member (T) 23. I have carefully gone through the order proposed by learned Member (J), and for the reasons discussed below, it is not possible to agree with the same. 24. The main issue for consideration and decision in these group of appeals relating to alleged violations of the conditions as laid down in the Customs Exemption Notification No. 64/88-Cus dated 1.3.1988 (hereinafter referred to as Notification No. 64/88-Cus) is as under: 25. Notification No. 64/88-Cus was issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of Section 25 of the Act. Under Sub-section (1) of Section 25 , if the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, it may by notification in the official gazette exempt generally either absolutely or subject to such conditions (to be fulfilled before or after clearance) as may be specified in the notification, goods of any specified description, from the whole or any part of duty of customs leviable thereon. Under Section 2(15) "duty" means a duty of customs leviable under the Act. Under Section 28 of the Act, the notice for payment of duties was required to be issued by the proper officer. The determination of the amount of duty due was also to be done by the proper officer. As defined in Section 2(34) of the Act, "proper officer" in relation to any functions to be performed under the Act means the officer of customs who is assigned those functions by the Board (Central Board of Excise & Customs), or the Commissioner of Customs. The classes of officers of customs are mentioned in Section 3 of the Act. 'Board' is defined in Section 2(6) of the Act as the Central Board of Excise & Customs constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963). Under Section 122 of the Act, in every case under Chapter XIV in which anything is liable to confiscation or any person is liable to a penalty, such confiscation or penalty are to be adjudged by different grade of Customs Officers, depending upon their jurisdiction and the value of the goods liable to confiscation. Under Section 124 of the Act, show cause notice was required to be issued before confiscating any goods and before imposing any penalty, and a reasonable opportunity of making a representation and of being heard, were required to be given. There are a number of other related provisions for determination of duty not paid, imposition of penalties and for ordering confiscation of goods etc. The whole scheme is towards ensuring fair decision in the matter of levy and collection of customs duties and towards enforcing various restrictions, prohibitions etc. in the matter of imports and exports to and from the country. Under Notification No. 64/88-Cus. the role of the Ministry Health or the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) was to accord approval of the import, prior to the import of the hospital equipment and their assessment and clearance by the Customs authorities, with exemption or without exemption. Such pre-import approval could be for specific imports either generally or in each case of the equipment, apparatus and appliances as essential for use in any particular hospital specified in the Table given in that notification (hereinafter referred to as the 'Hospital Equipment'). In para 2, it was provided that in approving the import of any hospital equipment, regard was to be had to the factors specified in that para. According to the Table given in that notification, the certification of the specified hospitals before the import of the hospital equipment was also to be done by the Ministry of Health, for making them eligible for exemption as provided in that notification. As is seen from the notification, the role of the Ministry of Health and of the DGHS was prior to the import. On actual import, the benefit of exemption was to be considered by the proper officers of the Customs according to the functions assigned to each of them by the Board or the Commissioner of Customs. The Ministry of Health had no role to play in the assessment, exemption, payment, confiscation, penalty etc.
 

It is seen from the wordings of the exemption notification that the exemption as provided therein was conditional. There were pre-importation conditions and there were post-importation conditions. The Ministry of Health/DGHS had a role in so far as pre-importation conditions were concerned. They had no role in the assessment or the demand of customs duties, seizure of the goods, proposing penalty etc, when the post-importation conditions had been found to be violated. At the imports, the purpose of the approval granted by the Ministry of Health/DGHS was fulfilled, and any continuation or cancellation of the approval will have no bearing on the assessments made on the basis of such pre-import- approval. In such a situation, continuation or cancellation of the certificate issued by the Ministry of Health/DGHS, could not be a defence to plead that the non-fulfilment of the post-importation conditions could not be a subject-matter of proceedings against the importers. 26. Whether the post-importation conditions had been fulfilled or not has to be decided after following the principles of natural justice. The decisions taken by the different grade of customs officers are appealable to the authorities as specified in the Act. No agency howsoever high can interfere in the administration of justice; and the matters are required to be adjudged by the competent authorities having jurisdiction over the subject- matter and the persons concerned with the compliance of the legal provisions, including post-importation conditions, (subject to which the benefit of exemption/concessional rate of duty had been extended at the point of assessment by the proper officer). The Ministry of Health/DGHS had no jurisdiction under the Customs to administer justice. Their orders are not appealable to the authorities designated under the Customs Act . The appellate authorities under the Act including this Tribunal had no jurisdiction to decide the matter dealt with by the authorities other than those specified in the Act. It will lead to anomalous situation and break down of justice if a view taken by the Ministry of Health/DGHS on matters relating to the customs duties and compliance of the customs laws, could not be subjected to any scrutiny by the statutory authorities constituted under the Act. It will leave the importers without statutory remedies if a view is taken by the Ministry of Health/DGHS adverse to them. Such an interpretation had to be rejected straightaway. 27. The learned Member (J) has taken a view that when there was no challenge to the correctness or otherwise of the issue of the certificate by the Ministry of Health/DGHS, the Customs authorities could not proceed against the importers for violation of the conditions prescribed in the notification. A view has been taken that such conditions as prescribed in the Notification were not post-importation conditions. I consider that the various conditions as prescribed in the notification in respect of which the present dispute had arisen were definitely post-importation conditions. The certification was required for assessing the imported goods at the time of import. No such certification could cover a situation obtaining after the goods had been cleared but the conditions subject to which the exemption was granted at the stage of assessment, were not fulfilled after the clearance. It will not be a correct reading of the notification that the Ministry of Health/DGHS could pass any judgment prior to importation as to whether the importers are fulfilling or not fulfilling the conditions after the hospital will be becoming operational in future and will be then rendering or not rendering the services as stipulated in the said Notification. The services to be rendered after the hospital was operational at a future date could not be said anything but post-importation conditions. The Revenue sacrifice involved in the exemption notification could not be knocked off by reading down the notification in such a way that after the certification prior to import, the importers were free to violate the conditions subject to which the Revenue had been sacrificed. 28. In para (i) at page 74 of the proposed order, the notification has been termed as vague, ambiguous and not clear in terms. The very same notification No. 64/88-Cus had come up for consideration before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mediwell Hospital and Healthcare Put. Ltd. v. UOI (SC) and no ambiguity and vagueness in that notification had been noticed by the Apex Court. The Supreme Court observed that the very notification granting exemption, must be construed to cast continuing obligation on the part of all those who have obtained the certificate from the appropriate authority. Paras 12 & 13 from that judgment had been extracted in para 18(i) of the proposed order. It is clear from the reading of the judgment of the Apex Court that if the obligations cast on the importers had not been discharged, then the realisation of the customs duties from them could be legally enforced. Whether the obligations cast had been discharged or not, could be decided only after the imports when the hospital becomes operational or the hospital equipment is put to use. Further, the customs duty could be realised only in terms of the relevant provisions of the Act by the proper officers under that Act. The Ministry of Health/DGHS had no role to play towards the realisation of customs duties. 29. I consider that the jurisdiction of the customs authorities to enforce the law when the conditions of exemption are violated had been unambiguously settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in their judgment rendered in the case of Shashank Sea Foods Pvt Ltd. v. UOI . In the matter before the Apex Court, the issue for consideration was whether the customs authorities had right or authority to go into questions relating to the utilization of the raw materials that had been imported by the appellants in that case under advance licences granted to them under the Duty Exemption Scheme. The relevant exemption notification had been issued as in the present case, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 25(1) of the Act, and one of the conditions thereof was that the raw materials exempted there under would not "be sold loaned, transferred or disposed of in any other manner". The Apex Court did not agree with the contention raised that it was only the licensing authority which could investigate alleged cases of domestic sale of exempt material and that jurisdiction of the customs authorities to do so was ousted. Paras 8, 9, 10 & 11 from that judgment are extracted below: 9. Section 111(o) states that when goods are exempted from Customs duty subject to a condition and the condition is not observed, the goods are liable to confiscation. The case of the respondents is that the goods imported by the appellants, which availed of the said exemption subject to the condition that they would not be sold, loaned, transferred or disposed of in any other manner, had been disposed of by the appellants. The Customs authorities, therefore, clearly had the power to take action under the provisions of Section 111(o) . 10. We do not find in the provisions of the Import and Export Policy or the Hand Book of Procedure issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Government of India, anything that even remotely suggests that the aforesaid power of the Customs authorities had been taken away or abridged or that an investigation into such alleged breach could be conducted only by the licensing authority. That the licensing authority is empowered [to] conduct such an investigation does not by itself preclude the Customs authorities from doing so. 11. The communication of the Central Board of Excise and Customs, dated 13th May, 1969 refers to the breach of the condition of a licence and suggests that it may not be possible to take action under Section 111(o) in respect thereof. It is true that the terms of the said Exemption Notification were made part of the appellant's licences and, in that sense, a breach of the terms of the said Exemption Notification is also a breach of the terms of the license, entitling the licensing authority to investigate. But the breach is not only of the terms of the license; it is also a breach of the condition in the Exemption Notification upon which the appellants obtained exemption from payment of Customs duty and, therefore, the terms of Section 111(o) enable the Customs authorities to investigate. 30. A reference had been made to the Karnataka High Court decision in the case of Yellamma Dasappa v. Commissioner of Customs, Bangalore to take a view that the customs authorities had no powers to initiate proceedings on their own to start recovery proceedings even when the conditions as prescribed in the exemption notification and subject to which the exemption had been availed of at the time of clearance from the customs, had been violated. I consider that such a view does not flow from the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court. In para 1, the High Court had noted that the appellant after import was using the equipment in terms of the Notification No. 64/88-Cus. The matter related to the seizure of the medical equipment, and in the facts and circumstances of the case the High Court ruled that without withdrawing or cancelling the certificate, already issued, the seizure in that case could not stand. In that case there was no notice issued for violation, nor the customs duty had been demanded for violation of the exemption notification. At no stage, the Hon'ble High Court had ruled that the authority for issuing the notice for violation of the conditions of the customs duty exemption notification was not with the officers of the Customs Department but with that of the Ministry of Health/DGHS. In the case of UOI v. Kirloskar Pnumatic Co. , the Hon'ble Supreme Court had held that the Customs authorities could not be directed by the High Court to act contrary to the Act as the Customs authorities were the creatures of the Customs Act and could not act contrary to the provisions of the Act. In these circumstances, it could not be said that the High Court had ruled that the jurisdiction for serving the notice for payment of customs duties under the provisions of the Customs Act did not rest with the Customs authorities. 31. In the light of the above position, the Customs authorities have jurisdiction to initiate recovery proceedings for violation of the terms of the Notification No. 64/88-Cus and the Customs authorities alone have the jurisdiction to determine the amount of duty due under Section 28 of the Act and to adjudge confiscation and penalties under Chapter XIV of the said Act. 32. As regards the limitation, it is clear from the express language of Notification No. 64/88-Cus. that at the time of import a certificate as prescribed was to be produced to the Customs authorities. It was only at the time when it was found that the conditions subject to which the exemption had been claimed, were not fulfilled that the cause of action for demanding duty arose. Thus to take a view that in such a case the period of limitation will be counted from the date of filing of the bill of entry/clearance etc. could not be correct. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mediwell Hospital and Health Care Pvt. Ltd. Supra, had held that "the very notification granting exemption must be construed to cast continuing obligation on the part of all those who have obtained the certificate from the appropriate authority In case such an obligation is not fulfilled, the limitation would be counted from the date of infringement. 33. The view taken by the Tribunal in the case of Dewan Chand Satyapal Agarwal Imaging Research Centre v. CC. New Delhi 2000 (39) RLT 1084 (CEGAT), could not be said to reflect the correct position of law. At the point of import, no duty was collectable but became so leviable when the conditions were not fulfilled. In such a situation, the ground for raising demand could not be the date when the proper officer had made an order originally for the clearance of the goods. The Tribunal while noting the Supreme Court decision in the case of Mediwell Hospital and Health Care Put. Ltd. supra had not followed the said judgment when the Apex Court had held that the obligation cast on the importers was "a continuing obligation". In a case of continuing obligation, how a prior fixed date of clearance could font) the basis of limitation. Thus, this judgment is contrary to the law laid down by the Apex Court and thus could not have the force of law. In this connection, reference may be made to the Tribunal's decision in the case of Mays Press Put. Ltd v. CC, Allahabad . Para 4 from that decision is extracted below: 34. As regards confiscation, the matter is covered by the Supreme Court decision in the case of Weston Components Ltd. v. CC, New Delhi 2000 (88) ECR 544 (SC). The order is extracted below: Mention may also be made to the Supreme Court decision in the case of Jeevraj v. Collector of Customs 1997 (22) RLT 449 (SC), wherein the Supreme Court had held that no time limit was prescribed in Section 124 of the Act for issue of show cause notice. Para 1 from that order is extracted below: 35. The main consideration that appears to weigh with the learned Member (J) to propose the order as above is that the action for recovery of customs duty for violation of the conditions of Notification No. 64/88-Cus dated 1.3.1988 was required to be initiated by the Ministry of Health. I have analyzed the matter in depth and have concluded that the notice for payment of customs duties where any duty has not been levied is required to be served and the amount of duty due has to be determined by the proper officers of the Customs who had been assigned those functions under the Act [refer definition of Proper Officer, in Section 2(34) of the Act]. 36. On limitation also, I have recorded that it was on the date when the obligation cast on the importers (subject to which he had claimed the benefit of exemption at the point of import) was infringed that it was to be taken that the duty had not been levied. 37. Other conclusion in the order proposed flow from these considerations. 38. The view taken in the order proposed by learned Member (J) on both these issues will have serious repercussions on the administration of a host of other exemption notifications wherein exemption was subject to fulfilment of post-importation conditions. There are a number of exemption notifications on the Central Excise side also where for fulfilment of various conditions as prescribed in the said notifications, some role had been given to other authorities of the Government, authorities other than the Central Excise authorities. This may relate to the production capacity of the unit, small scale registration certificates, distribution of excisable goods for various public purposes etc. Various end-use based exemptions are also there both in the Customs Tariff as well as in the Central Excise Tariff. The view proposed by the learned Member (J) may have a bearing on such exemption notifications also. 39. I, therefore, consider that this matter be placed before the Larger Bench to be constituted by the Hon'ble President for full consideration of the issues involved in these group of appeals. 40. Thus, while not agreeing with the views of the learned Member (J), I propose that the matter be referred to the Hon'ble President for constituting a Larger Bench to decide the various issues involved in these group of appeals. Lajja Ram (T) and S.L. Peeran (J), Members 41. In view of the difference of opinion between the Member (J) and Member (T), the following questions be referred to the Third Member-- Whether the views taken by the learned Member (J) in the order proposed by him be confirmed; OR
 

The matter be referred to the Larger Bench, as proposed by the Member (T).