(Per Hon'ble Dr. Justice Shameem Akther)

 Smt. Qamar, the petitioner, has filed this Habeas Corpus

petition on behalf of her son, Mohammed Aslam @ Ashu, S/o. Late

Salam, aged 22 years, the detenu, challenging the detention order,

dated 11.12.2020, passed by the Commissioner of Police,

Rachakonda Commissionerate, the respondent No.2, and the

subsequent confirmation order in G.O.Rt.No.389, General

Administration (Spl. (Law & Order)) Department, Government of

Telangana, dated 18.02.2021, passed by the Principal Secretary to

Government, General Administration (Spl. (Law & Order))

Department, Government of Telangana, the respondent No.1,

whereby, the detenu was detained under Section 3(2) of the

Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers,

Dacoits, Drug-Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders,

Land-Grabbers, Spurious Seed offenders, Insecticide Offenders,

Fertilizer Offenders, Food Adulteration Offenders, Fake Document

offenders, Scheduled Commodities Offenders, Forest Offenders,

Gaming Offenders, Sexual Offenders, Explosive Substances

Offenders, Arms Offenders, Cyber Crime Offenders & White Collar

or Financial Offenders Act, 1986 (for short "P.D. Act"). 2. We have heard the submissions of Smt. G.Jaya Reddy,

learned counsel for the petitioner, Sri T.Srikanth Reddy, learned
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 2 W.P.No.6562 of 2021 Government Pleader for Home appearing on behalf of Additional

Advocate General for the respondents and perused the record. 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner has vehemently

contended that the impugned detention order is illegal, arbitrary,

unconstitutional, improper, against the principles of natural justice

and has been passed in a mechanical manner and without

application of mind. The detenu is falsely implicated in the three

criminal cases relied upon by the detaining authority for

preventively detaining him. Admittedly, in all the three cases relied

upon by the detaining authority, the detenu was granted bail by the

Courts concerned. But, the detenu was again sent to judicial

remand by invoking the draconian preventive detention laws.

Further, the grounds on which the impugned detention order is

passed are vague, stale and remote. All the three cases relied

upon by the detaining authority for preventively detaining the

detenu are at threshold and the guilt of the detenu is not yet been

proved. Hence, the conclusion reached by the detaining authority

that the detenu is a habitual offender, is without any basis. By no

stretch of imagination, the acts alleged against the detenu in the

grounds of detention could affect public tranquility. Further, there

must be close proximity between the criminal actions of the detenu

and the detention order. The subjective satisfaction reached by the

detaining authority in passing the impugned detention order is

tainted. Further, the cases alleged against the detenu do not add

up to "disturbing the public order". They are confined within the

ambit and scope of the word "law and order". Since the offences

alleged, as grave as they may be, are under the Penal Code and
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 3 W.P.No.6562 of 2021 special law, the detenu can certainly be tried and convicted under

the Penal Code and special law. Thus, there was no need for the

detaining authority to invoke the draconian preventive detention

laws. Hence, the impugned detention order tantamounts to

colourable exercise of power. The detaining authority has to be

extremely careful while passing the detention order, since the

detention ipso facto adversely affects the fundamental right of

personal liberty enjoyed by the people under Article 21 of the

Constitution of India. Thus, the impugned detention order and the

consequential confirmation order are legally unsustainable and

ultimately, prayed to set aside the same and allow the writ petition

as prayed for. 4. On the other hand, the learned Government Pleader for Home

representing the respondents would contend that the detenu is a

'sexual offender'. He has been habitually involving in stalking of

women, induce them to do nude whatsapp calls, capture their

photos and later threaten them to fulfill his sexual lust and also

extort money under the pretext of posting them in social media and

thereby insulting the modesty of college going girls and even

married women and thus creating large scale fear and panic among

the general public, especially college going girls and married

women, and acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of

public order, apart from disturbing peace, tranquility in the society.

The series of crimes allegedly committed by the detenu were

sufficient to affect the even tempo of the society and create a

feeling of insecurity in the minds of the people at large, especially

college going girls and married women. All the mandatory
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 4 W.P.No.6562 of 2021 provisions and the safeguards envisaged under the Constitution of

India were strictly followed while passing the impugned detention

order and hence, the impugned detention order does not suffer

from illegality or impropriety. The offences committed in the cases

relied upon for preventively detaining the detenu are heinous in

nature. Further, those three offences were committed by him in

quick succession. With a view to prevent the detenu from further

indulging in such shameful and illegal activities in the interest of the

society, the impugned detention order was passed. Further, the

Advisory Board, in its review meeting, upon hearing the detenu and

the concerned investigating officials and upon considering the entire

material placed before it, rendered its opinion that there is

sufficient cause for detention of the detenu. Subsequently, the

Government confirmed the impugned detention order, vide

G.O.Rt.No.389, General Administration (Spl. (Law & Order)),

Government of Telangana, Dated 18.02.2021. Further, in all the

three cases relied upon by the detaining authority for detaining the

detenu, the detenu got bail from the Courts concerned. Therefore,

since there is an imminent possibility of the detenu committing

similar shameful and inhuman offences which are prejudicial to the

maintenance of public order, the impugned detention order was

passed. The detaining authority was legally justified in passing the

impugned detention order and ultimately, prayed to dismiss the

writ petition. 5. In view of the submissions made by both sides, the point that

arises for determination in this Writ Petition is: 6. POINT: The material on record reveals that by relying on

three criminal cases registered against the detenu, i.e., Crime

No.762/2020 of Meerpet Police Station, Crime No.228/2020 of

Kandukur Police Station and Crime No.913/2020 of Uppal Police

Station, the respondent No.2-Commissioner of Police, Rachakonda

Commissionerate, passed the detention order, dated 11.12.2020.

According to the respondent No.2, the detenu is a 'sexual offender'.

He has been habitually committing shameful and inhuman offences

of Extortion, Assault or use of criminal force to women with intent

to disrobe, Cheating, Voyeurism, Stalking, Criminal intimidation,

against the college going girls and married women and thereby

creating large scale fear and panic among the general public in the

locality concerned, especially college going girls and married

women, and acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of

public order apart from disturbing peace and tranquility in the

society. In all the three cases relied upon by the detaining

authority, the detenu got bail from the Courts concerned. In order

to prevent the detenu from further indulging in such shameful and

illegal activities, the impugned detention order, dated 11.12.2020,

was passed, which was confirmed by the Government by order,

dated 18.02.2021. ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 6 W.P.No.6562 of 2021 7. The material placed on record also reveals that the detenu-

Mohammed Aslam @ Ashu, S/o. Late Salam, who is a 'sexual

offender', has been habitually indulging in shameful activities, i.e.,

stalking of women, induce them to do nude whatsapp calls, capture

their photos and later threaten them to fulfill his sexual lust and

also extort money under the pretext of posting them in social

media and thereby insulting the modesty of college going girls and

even married women. His illegal activities are detrimental to the

maintenance of public order and created panic among the general

public in the locality concerned. The detaining authority relied on

three cases for preventively detaining the detenu. We shall

present them in a tabular column the date of occurrence, the date

of registration of FIR, the offences complained of and their nature,

such as bailable/non-bailable or cognizable/non-cognizable. Date of
 Date of
 Crime No. Occurrence registration Offences Nature
 of FIR Sections 384 , 354B & 420 of IPC and Sections 384 , Section 67A of
 354B, 417, 420 Income Tax Act : He discontinued his B.Tech first year in Sri Datta Engineering

College, Sheriguda, Ibrahimpatnam, in the year 2016, and joined in

the same college as dance master in the year 2019. He used to

move close with the girl students on the pretext of teaching dance
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 7 W.P.No.6562 of 2021 to them and makes friendship with them. Later, he procures their

phone numbers and starts talking with them. He traps girl students

into his close companion with his glib talks, takes their photos

intimately while they are learning dancing without their knowledge

and later, threatens them with dire consequences to fulfill his

sexual desires. He also does not hesitate to extort money from

them on the same pretext. He procures his classmates through

Facebook and induces them to share their pics and to chat in

Whatsapp video call and takes their pics in screenshots. He also

forces them to do nude video calls and in due course, he takes

screen shots, stores them in his phone and later, threatens them

that he would post them in social media if they do not participate in

sexual intercourse with him and also extort money from them. 9. In the first crime, i.e., Crime No.762/2020, it is alleged that

the detenu came into close contact with the complainant therein,

who is a married women. She was working as a lecturer in the

same college where the detenu was working as dance master. The

detenu developed friendship with her and started calling her

through whatsapp video calls. With his glib talks, the detenu

induced her to make nude whatsapp calls. One day, while the

detenu and the complainant were in nude whatsapp call, the detenu

captured screenshots of the complainant without her knowledge

and stored them in his mobile phone. Later, he showed the said

screenshots to the complainant and asked her to meet him once.

Before lockdown, he even went to the house of the complainant and

participated in sexual intercourse with her in the absence of her

husband, by promising to delete the screenshots from his mobile
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 8 W.P.No.6562 of 2021 phone. In September, 2020, he again sent the same screenshots

to the complainant. When the complainant questioned him as to

why he did not delete the screenshots as promised, he replied that

those screenshots were restored and that he lost his mobile phone

and the person who found his mobile phone is demanding Rs.3

lakhs for not posting those screenshots in social media and asked

her to arrange money. Believing the detenu, the complainant

transferred Rs.10,000/- through Phonepe to his account. When the

complainant suggested the detenu to lodge a complaint with the

police, the detenu stated that if they go to police station, their

image would be tarnished. After realizing that the detenu is

wantonly extorting money from her, she narrated the whole

episode to her husband and lodged a complaint with the police

concerned. 10. In the second crime, i.e., Crime No.228/2020, the

complainant is a graduate, aged 21 years. She stated in the subject

complaint that she completed her B.Tech., in the year 2020. When

she was studying B.Tech., first year, she came into contact with the

detenu in the college and started a friendly relationship at the

beginning. Later, the detenu collected her nude pictures and

started harassing and blackmailing her to love him for three years.

When she rejected his proposal, he intensified his torture and

threatened her that he would post her nude pictures in social media

if she does not love him. 11. In the third crime, i.e., Crime No.913/2020, the complainant

stated that she is 22 years old and she is batchmate of the detenu.

The detenu failed in academics and was removed from the college. ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 9 W.P.No.6562 of 2021 For the past three months, the detenu started harassing her by

sending messages through his mobile phone and forcing her to

send her pictures and also acting as he likes her. 12. The alleged shameful and inhuman activities of the detenu

would certainly traumatize the victims, their family members and

women, and would certainly cause a feeling of insecurity to their

modesty. The aforementioned horrendous acts of the detenu

shows his extreme perversity and proclivity, which would create a

feeling of extreme fear and anxiety among the victim women and

the people in the locality concerned and such activities, affecting

the society at large, are certainly prejudicial to the maintenance of

public order. Further, the material placed on record reveals that

the detenu was released on bail in all the three cases relied upon by

the detenu. Under these circumstances, the contention of the

respondents that there is imminent possibility of the detenu

committing similar offences which would be detrimental to public

order unless he is prevented from doing so by an appropriate of

detention order, cannot be brushed aside. 13. Here, it is apt to state that a women or a girl, in the tradition

bound society of India, would be extremely reluctant to lodge a

report with the police with regard to an incident, which is likely to

reflect on her chastity. She would be conscious of the danger of

being hated or being looked down by the society, including her own

family members, relatives, friends and neighbors. She would face

the risk of losing the love and respect of her own husband and her

matrimonial home and happiness being shattered. If she is

unmarried, she would apprehend that it would be difficult to secure
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 10 W.P.No.6562 of 2021 an alliance with a suitable match from a respectable family. In

view of these factors, the victims of sexual abuse and their relatives

are not too keen to bring the culprit/s to book. Sexual violence

against women, apart from being a dehumanizing act, is an

unlawful intrusion into the right to privacy and sanctity of a female.

It is a serious blow to her supreme honour and offends her self-

esteem and dignity. It degrades and humiliates the victim and

leaves behind a traumatic experience. The Courts are, therefore,

expected to deal with cases of sexual abuse against women with

utmost sensitivity. Such cases need to be dealt with sternly and

severely. Sexual abuse not only violates the victim's privacy and

personal integrity, but inevitably causes serious psychological as

well as physical harm. A murderer destroys the physical body of

the victim, but a sexual assaulter degrades the very soul of a

helpless female. The Courts, therefore, shoulder a great

responsibility while trying an accused on charges of sexual abuse.

Sexual abuse against women needs to be dealt with sternly and

severely. To show mercy in such heinous crimes would be a

travesty of justice and the plea for leniency would be wholly

misplaced. 14. Further, it is apt to state that preventive detention is different

from punitive detention. While punitive detention could be enforced

under ordinary criminal law, the law of preventive detention can be

enforced against habitual offenders to prevent them from

committing future similar offences, which are detrimental to the

public interest, disturbing the even tempo of life and causing

damage to peace and tranquility in the society. The legal
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 11 W.P.No.6562 of 2021 parameters for testing the validity of 'preventive detention'

fundamentally vary from that of 'punitive detention'. Also, 'Public

order' is distinct from 'law and order'. While individual offences

without affecting public at large could be considered as violating

'law and order', the offences that affect larger public and disturbs

the even tempo of public life fall under the category of disturbance

to public order and only in the latter category of cases, the law of

preventive detention shall be enforced. 15. In the case of Madhu Limaye Vs. Sub-Divisional

Magistrate1 . The Hon'ble Apex Court held as follows: 16. In the case of Commissioner of Police & Others Vs.

C.Anita (Smt. )2, the Hon'ble Apex Court examined the issue of

"public order" and "law and order" and observed as follows: 17. As per the clause (v) of Section 2 of the P.D.Act, a "Sexual

Offender" means a person who commits or abets the commission of

offences in contravention of any of the provisions under the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (Central Act 32

of 2012) or the offences punishable under sections 354, 354-A,

354-B, 354-C, 354-D, 376, 376-A, 376-B, 376-D, 377 or 509 of the Indian Penal Code , 1860; 18. In the instant case, having regard to the modus operandi of

the detenu and the three crimes registered against him in quick

succession, the respondent No.2, in our considered view, has

rightly held that detenu is a 'sexual offender' under clause (v) of Section 2 of Act 1 of 1986, and recorded his satisfaction that the

activities of the detenu are prejudicial to the maintenance of public

order, and that ordinary law may not be an effective deterrent to

prevent the detenu from indulging in further prejudicial activities.

The material relied upon and circumstances show that the

subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority is not tainted or

illegal on any account. Under these circumstances, the detaining
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 13 W.P.No.6562 of 2021 authority is justified in passing the impugned detention order. We

do not see any merit in this Writ Petition and as such, it is liable to

be dismissed. 19. Accordingly, the Writ Petition is dismissed. There shall be no

order as to costs. Miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, in this Writ Petition,

shall stand closed. ____________________
 A. RAJASHEKER REDDY, J

 ____________________
 Dr. SHAMEEM AKTHER, J

12th July, 2021
Bvv