BRIEF FACTS 1. The case of the prosecution is that on 17.02.2014 at about 7:00
PM Near Bhajanpura Red Light, Towards Wazirabad, Delhi, the accused
Rahul in connivance with co-accused Faizal (declared as proclaimed
offender vide order dated 10.02.2017) used criminal force on the person
of complainant Haji Mohd. Dilshad by diverting his attention while
snatching mobile of complainant make Samsung Note-2 having SIM
Number 9350099840 from his hand. On the basis of these facts, the
present FIR was registered. Investigation was taken up by ASI Shiv
Shankar (1st IO) and HC Jeevan Singh (2nd IO). Accused Rahul and
accused Mohd. Faizal were arrested in FIR No. 286/14, PS Harsh Vihar
wherein they disclosed about their involvement in the present matter.
Accordingly, the chargesheet was filed against both the accused persons. PROCEEDINGS BEFORE COURT 2. After carrying out the investigation, the present charge sheet
was filed on 04.07.2014. After taking cognizance, accused was
summoned. After compliance of section 207 Cr. P.C, charge u/s 356 / 379 Digitally signed by KANIKA AGARWAL KANIKA
 AGARWAL Date: 3. In order to prove its case, the prosecution had examined the
following witnesses. 4. PW-1 Mohd. Dilshad deposed that on 17.02.2014, I was going
to Okhla from his house on his car bearing No. DL 7C 1786 in evening
time. When he reached near Bhajanpura Main road, there was traffic jam
and the vehicles were moving slowly, at that time one person came from
the back side of his car and hit his hand on his car. After that, he put
down the mirror of his car and watched towards another side and the one
person came from other side and had also hit on his car from his hand, in
the meantime he again saw another person who had snatched his mobile
phone from his hand. After that, both persons ran away from there. After
that, he made call to the police. After some time, police officials came at
the spot. After that, police officials enquired him about the incident. After
that, he narrated all the facts to the police officials. After that police
officials had recorded his statement which is Ex.PWI/A. Police officials
also prepared the site plan at his instance which is Ex.PWI/B. Police
officials took him to PS and recorded his statement. After some days,
police officials called him for going to Tihar Jail. After that, he went to
Tihar Jail along with police officials for TIP of the accused but where
accused denied to have participate in the TIP proceedings. Accused Rahul
was correctly identified in the court by the witness. Digitally signed
 by KANIKA
 AGARWAL
 KANIKA Date: 5. PW-2 ASI Jagdish deposed that on 17.02.2014, on receiving
an emergency call, he alongwith ASI Shiv Shankar went to spot i.e.
before Red Light Bhajanpura but they did not meet complainant there and
they came back at PS where they met complainant Mohd. Dilshad and IO
recorded his statement. Thereafter, he alongwith IO and complainant
went to the spot where IO prepared site plan at the instance of
 Digitally
 signed by
 KANIKA
 KANIKA AGARWAL
 AGARWAL Date: 6. PW-3 ASI Budh Prakash deposed that on 11.03.2014, he
alongwith ASI Dev Raj and Ct. Shashi Bhushan were checking vehicles
at Wazirabad Road in front of Aman Motors. At about 11.00 p.m., they
saw that two young persons were coming from Wazirabad side without
helmet. They stopped them and ask to produce the documents of
motorcycle but they could not produce the same. He did not remember
the registration of said motorcycle, however, its make is Hero Honda CD
Delux, black color. Thereafter, upon inquiry from police control room,
the said motorcycle was found to be stolen from PS Farsh Bazar. Upon
interrogation, the person who was riding the motorcycle disclosed his
name as Rahul and the pillion rider told his name as Faisal. Upon
personal search of accused Faisal, one buttondar knife was recovered
from his possession. Thereafter, IO prepared the sketch of buttondar knife
and same was seized and sealed in a pullanda. The seal was handed over
to Ct. Shashi Bhushan after use. IO prepared their and got the FIR
registered. IO recorded his statement. Accused Rahul was correctly
identified by the witness. Both accused Rahul and Faizal were arrested
 Digitally
 signed by
 KANIKA
 KANIKA AGARWAL
 AGARWAL Date: 7. PW-4 Retired ASI Shiv Shankar deposed that on 17.02.2014,
he received a call No. 28A regarding the incident. He alongwith Ct.
Jagdish went to the spot where complainant not met to them. They
 Digitally
 signed by
 KANIKA
 KANIKA AGARWAL

FIR No.190/2014 State Vs. Mohd. Faizal & Ors. PS: Gokulpuri Page no. 6 of 15 AGARWAL Date: 8. PW-5 SI Jivan deposed that on 17.02.2014, he prepared the
site plan at instance of complainant which is already Ex. PW 1/B. The
accused Rahul and Faizal were arrested by ASI Dev Raj in case no.
286/14. During the investigation of the said case, both accused disclosed
that they snatched a mobile from a person was sitting in his car near
Bhajanpura red light. Thereafter ASI Dev Raj informed him about their
disclosure. Thereafter he investigated them on 12.03.2014 and recorded
their disclosure statement which are Ex.PW5/A and Ex.PW5/B. He also
prepared the pointing out memo at the instance of both the accused
persons by taking them at the spot. Thereafter, he formally arrested them
and also personally searched them. Thereafter, he also recorded the
statement of witnesses during the investigation. The accused were sent to
the JC and on 13.03.2014, he applied in the court for TIP of accused
persons which was allowed and conducted on 14.03.2014 at Tihar Jail in
presence of complainant and accused persons were correctly identified by
the complainant. Accused was correctly identified by the witness and
after the completion of investigation, he filed the chargesheet. In his cross-examination by Ld. defence counsel, the witness Digitally signed by KANIKA AGARWAL KANIKA
 AGARWAL Date: 9. After closing of evidence, statement of accused u/s 313 Cr.PC
was recorded on 18.03.2024 and in which he claimed innocence and
stated that he was falsely implicated. The accused opted not to lead any
defence evidence. FINAL ARGUMENTS 10. I have heard the final arguments and meticulously perused the
record. LEGAL ANALYSIS & DECISIONS 11. In essence, the case of the prosecution is that on 17.02.2014, at
about 7:00 PM, the complainant, Haji Mohammad Dilshad, was travelling Digitally signed by KANIKA AGARWAL KANIKA
FIR No.190/2014 State Vs. Mohd. Faizal & Ors. PS: Gokulpuri Page no. 8 of 15 AGARWAL Date: 12. In backdrop of these facts, following issues are required to be
adjudicated: 13. At this juncture, it is beneficial herein to refer to the legal
provisions involved. Sections 356 and 378 of IPC are as follows: 14. From reading of Section 356 IPC, it is clear that offence under Section 356 IPC is complete when in order to commit theft of any
property which is being carried by the complainant, assault or criminal
force is used by the accused. Section 350 & 351 of IPC deals which
definition of criminal force and assault. Criminal force is defined as used
of force against a person against his consent for the purpose of
committing an offence or intending by use of force to cause injury. Section 379 defines theft as dishonest moving of a movable property out
of the possession of a person without her consent. 15. The prosecution has examined total five witnesses.
PW1/Mohd. Dilshad is the complainant and also the victim of the offence
in question. PW2/ASI Jagdish had assisted IO Jeevan in the investigation.
PW3/ASI Budh Prakash had arrested accused Rahul and Faizal in FIR
 Digitally
 signed by
 KANIKA
 KANIKA AGARWAL
 AGARWAL Date: 16. In the present case, PW-1 is not only the eye witness but also
the victim of the incident. The testimony of the complainant/PW-1 has
remained consistent with his statement given to the police. The
complainant is the star witness to the present case who has clearly and
completely deposed in detail regarding the facts of the alleged incident.
Further, the complainant has given complete details of the incident which
took place on 17.02.2014 whereby the accused Rahul had snatched his
mobile phone from his hand. His testimony has remained consistent and
is worthy of credit throughout her examination and cross-examination.
Complainant/PW1 has identified Rahul as one of the perpetrator of the
offence in question and has categorically deposed that accused Rahul had
snatched his mobile phone on the date of incident. 17. It has been emphatically argued by Ld. counsel for accused
that no public person were joined in the investigation and apart from
complainant, all witnesses are police officials. Further, it was argued by
Ld. counsel for accused that complainant did not disclose anything either
in his complainant or in his testimony about the physical appearance or
approximate age of the co-accused involved in the offence. It is further
argued that IO has not filed any CCTV footage of the incident which
makes the case doubtful. Further, it was very strongly argued that IO had Digitally signed by KANIKA FIR No.190/2014 State Vs. Mohd. Faizal & Ors. PS: Gokulpuri Page no. 11 of 15 KANIKA AGARWAL

 AGARWAL Date: 18. In so far as submission of Ld. Counsel for accused qua non-
joining of public person in the investigation proceedings is concerned, it
has been reiterated time and again by the Hon'ble Apex Court that though
the presence of public witness strengthen the credibility of a case,
however at the same time the absence of public witness does not
invalidate the case of the prosecution. 19. In this context, it is relevant to refer to the observation of
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in " Baldev Singh Vs. State of Haryana ".
[(2015) 17 SCC 554], which are reproduced below: - 20. Upon careful perusal of the testimonies rendered in the present
 Digitally
 signed by
 KANIKA
 KANIKA AGARWAL
 AGARWAL Date: 21. Next, it was argued that photograph of the accused was
already shown by the IO concerned to the complainant and therefore his
identification by the complainant before the court is of no significance.
Evidently, accused did not raise this objection during the time of
complainant's evidence. Further, the accused neither in his statement
recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC nor in the form of examining any witness, has
brought before the court any probable & reliable evidence which could
create suspicion in the story of the prosecution. In so far as submissions
of absence of CCTV footage is concerned, the court is of the opinion
when the complainant being the victim and eye-witness has without any
material contradictions and omissions revealed all the crucial facts
pertaining to the offence in question, then absence of any electronic
evidence in the form of CCTV cannot shake the case of the prosecution.
Further, as the accused Rahul has been clearly identified by the
complainant during the trial, therefore the version of the complainant
cannot be doubted merely because he failed to provide any description of
co-accused physical appearance. Accused Rahul has been clearly
identified by complainant and since the co-accused Faizal remained
untraceable, therefore his indeitification could not be explained before the
court. Further, non-recovery of case property would not per-se impeach
 Digitally
 signed by
 KANIKA
 KANIKA AGARWAL

FIR No.190/2014 State Vs. Mohd. Faizal & Ors. PS: Gokulpuri Page no. 13 of 15 AGARWAL Date: 22. Formal witnesses namely PW2 ASI Jagdish, PW3 ASI Budh
Prakash, PW4 ASI Shiv Shankar and PW5 SI Jivan have also consistently
deposed and there are no material contradictions in their testimony. 23. In light of the aforesaid discussion, it can be culled out that the
testimonies of the witnesses specially that of complainant had remained
unimpeached on record and thus proved. 24. In the present case, the unblemished testimony of
complainant/PW-1 has established that the accused had deceitfully
snatched the mobile phone from his hand. The said testimony/version of
the complainant has been proved on record. It has been established that
by snatching the phone from the hand of the complainant, the accused had
used criminal force by causing a jerk to the hands of the complainant and
thus committed offence u/s 356 IPC. Further, as the accused had taken the
mobile phone out of possession of complainant against his will, it is
apparent that intention of accused was dishonest, thus, offence u/s 379 IPC also stands completed . 25. Considering the totality of the circumstance, the court is of the
view that there does not exist any reason to disbelieve the case of the
prosecution. The prosecution has successfully established that on
17.02.2014, accused Rahul had used criminal force upon the complainant
in order to commit offence of theft and he had dishonestly took away the
 Digitally
 signed by
 KANIKA
 KANIKA AGARWAL
 AGARWAL Date: