1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA
 Cr.MP(M) No. 871 of 2020. . The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Anoop Chitkara, Judge.
Whether approved for reporting?1 No.
For the petitioner : r Mr. Manoj Pathak, Advocate. For the respondent : Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Addl. A.G. with Mr. Rajat

 Chauhan, Law Officer, for the respondent/State.
 COURT PROCEEDINGS CONVENED THROUGH VIDEO CONFERENCE

Anoop Chitkara, Judge. Apprehending his imminent arrest on being arraigned as an accused

in FIR number 62 of 2020, registered under Section 18 of the Narcotic Drugs and

Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (after now called " NDPS Act "), in Police
Station Theog, District Shimla, HP, disclosing non-bailable offences, for allegedly

cultivating some opium plants allegedly in his agricultural fields situated in
Village Jadeog, P.O. Sandhu, Tehsil Theog, District Shimla, Himachal Pradesh, the
petitioner has come up under section 438 CrPC, seeking anticipatory bail. 2. I have heard counsel for the petitioner. Issue notice. Mr. Nand Lal
Thakur, learned Additional Advocate General waives service of notice on behalf
of the respondent. While issuing notices to the State, the Court has requested
Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Additional Advocate General to have telephonic
instructions in the matter from the concerned Police Station, and to procure 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? status report immediately, either through WhatsApp/ e-mail and forward the
same to this Court on e-mail id [email protected] and also send the scanned
copy or PDF copy of the status report to the learned Counsel for the petitioner

 . on his WhatsApp number. 3. The petitioner had earlier moved an application for anticipatory bail

before the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Shimla-I but the same was
withdrawn from the Court. FACTS 4. Allegedly on 11.5.2020 police officials received a secret information
regarding opium cultivation by the petitioner in his agricultural fields situated
in Village Jadeog, Tehsil Theog, Distt. Shimla, HP. On reaching the fields, the

police party took photographs, conducted measurement and recovered some

plants of opium. Subsequently, the Police party also complied with the
procedural requirements under the NDPS Act and the CrPC .
PREVIOUS CRIMINAL HISTORY 5. As per the learned counsel for the petitioner, the petitioner has no
criminal history. SUBMISSIONS: 6. The petitioner has made the following contentions in his bail petition,
which is supported by an affidavit: 7. Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Learned Additional Advocate General for the

 . State contends that offence is serious and in case this Court grants protection
then such relief must be with stringent conditions. ANALYSIS AND REASONING: 8. Section 2 (vii-a) of the NDPS Act defines commercial quantity as the
quantity greater than the quantity specified in the schedule, and S. 2 (xxiii-a),

defines a small quantity as the quantity lesser than the quantity specified in the
schedule of NDPS Act . The remaining quantity falls in an undefined category,
which is now generally called as intermediate quantity. All Sections in the NDPS

Act , which specify an offense, also mention that minimum and maximum
sentence, depending upon the quantity of the substance. Commercial quantity
mandates minimum sentence of ten years of imprisonment and a minimum fine

of Rupees One hundred thousand, and bail is subject to the riders mandated in S. 37 of NDPS Act. 9. The following aspects are relevant to decide the present bail petition: Resultantly, the present case has to be treated like any other case of
 grant of bail in a penal offence. b) Keeping in view the current Covid-19 pandemic, this Court
 is inclined to afford last opportunity to the Petitioner to mend his
 ways, making it very clear that in case, the petitioner repeats the
 offence, then this bail shall automatically stand cancelled and it
 shall also be a factor for future bail applications by the petitioner. (c) The petitioner is a permanent resident of address
 mentioned in the memo of parties; therefore, his presence can
 always be secured. . 10. At this stage, I believe that the custodial interrogation of the
petitioner is not going to serve any purpose. Such a conclusion is possible after

appreciating the response of the State and after perusing the status report. 11. Given the reasons above, in the event of arrest of the petitioner, he
shall be released on bail, in connection with the FIR mentioned above, on his

furnishing personal bond in the sum of Rs. 50,000/- (rupees fifty thousand) with
one surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the arresting officer. 12. This Court is granting the interim protection subject to the conditions

mentioned in this order. The petitioner undertakes to comply with all the

directions of this order. The furnishing of bail bonds by the petitioner shall deem
to acceptance of all such conditions: . (f) There shall be a presumption of proper service to the petitioner
 about the date of hearing in the trial Court, even if such service takes

 place through phone/mobile/SMS/ WhatsApp/E-Mail or any other
 similar medium, by the trial Court, or by the Prosecution. In case the
 petitioner does not appear before the trial Court on such date of

 hearing, then the trial Court may issue bailable warrants, and if the
 petitioner still fails to put in appearance, then the trial Court may
 issue Non-Bailable warrants to procure the presence of the

 petitioner, and send the petitioner to the Judicial custody for the

 period for which the trial Court may deem fit and proper, without
 being unduly harsh towards him. (g) The petitioner shall attend the trial on each date, unless

 exempted. (h) In case of Non-appearance on the intimated date, then

 irrespective of the contents of the bail bonds, the petitioner

 undertakes to pay all the expenditure (only the principal amount
 without interest), that the State might incur to produce him before

 such Court, provided such amount exceeds the amount recoverable
 after forfeiture of the bail bonds, subject to the provisions of Sections
 446 & 446-A of CrPC. The failure of the petitioner to reimburse the
 State shall entitle the trial Court to order transfer of money from the
 bank account(s) of the petitioner. However, this recovery is subject to
 the condition that the expenditure incurred must be only to trace the
 petitioner and relates to the exercise undertaken solely to nab the
 petitioner in that FIR, and during that voyage, the Police had not
 gone for any other purpose/function what so ever. (i) The petitioner shall abstain from all criminal activities, if he does
 so, then in the fresh FIR, the Court shall take into account that even
 earlier the Court had cautioned the accused not to repeat the

 . offence. (j) During the pendency of the trial, if the petitioner commits any

 offence under NDPS Act , even if it involves small quantity or if he
 commits any offence where the sentence prescribed is seven years or
 more, then the State may move appropriate application for its

 cancellation. (k) The petitioner shall surrender all firearms along with
 ammunitions, if any, and the arms license to the concerned authority

 within 60 days from today. (l) The petitioner shall inform the SHO about the place of residence
 during trial. The petitioner shall intimate about the change of
 residential address, within two weeks from such change, to the police

 station, and after filing of the Police report also to the trial Court. (m) In case of violation of any of the conditions as stipulated in this

 order, the State/Public Prosecutor may file an application for

 cancellation of bail of the petitioner, and even the trial Court shall be
 competent to cancel the bail. 13. In case the petitioner finds the bail condition(s) as violating fundamental
or other rights, including any human rights, or faces any other difficulty due to
any condition, then for modification of such term(s), the petitioner may file a
reasoned application before this Court, and after taking cognizance, before the
Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be. 14. The Investigating Officer accepting the bail bonds, shall explain all
conditions of this bail order to the petitioner, in vernacular. 15. The petitioner undertakes to comply with all directions given in this
order, and the furnishing of bail bonds by the petitioner is acceptance of all such
conditions. . 16. The Arresting Officer shall ascertain the identity of the bail-petitioner, his
family members, through AADHAR Card. The petitioner shall give details of

AADHAR Card, phone number(s), WhatsApp number, e-mail, etc., Pan Card and
Passport if available, on the reverse page of the personal bonds. The petitioner
shall also furnish details of personal bank account(s). 17. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the rights of the
Police or the investigating agency, from further investigation. 18. The present bail order is only for the FIR mentioned above. It shall not be

a blanket order of bail in all other cases, if any, registered against the petitioner. 19. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion
on the merits of the case, nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 20. The Police Officer attesting the personal bonds shall not insist upon the

certified copy of this order, and shall download the same from the website of
this Court, which shall be sufficient for the purposes of the bonds. 21. The accused need not remain present in this Court on the next date and

any subsequent dates, unless specifically directed. 22. The Court Master shall handover an authenticated copy of this order to

the Counsel for the Petitioner, and to the Learned Advocate General, if they ask
for the same. 23. List on Jun 12, 2020. (Anoop Chitkara),
 Judge. June 10 , 2020 (PK) ::: Downloaded on - 10/06/2020 20:22:57 :::HCHP