- 1. Facts in brief as unfolded from the charge-sheet are as
under:- Kapoor, Superintendent (since dead); Purshottam Lal, UDC;
Harbhajan Yadav, UDC ("A2") all public servants working in Regional
Passport Office ( in short RPO), New Delhi had entered into a criminal
conspiracy with private persons namely Anil Dhawan ("A8"), Naieem
Safi (A9) and others to cheat the RPO, New Delhi for obtaining
various passports in the form of additional passport booklets by using
similar personal particulars with different photographs and signatures
of the passport holders. (ii) It was alleged that in pursuance of the said criminal
conspiracy, various passports in the form of additional passport
booklets had been issued in the name of various persons, namely, Mr.
Rajender Kumar Kapoor, Mr. Kamal Sharma, Ms. Rekha Khanna, Ms.
Reena and Sunil Kumar Jolly. In the present case, multiple passport
booklets were issued in the name of Rajender Kumar Kapoor s/o
Mehar Chand Kapoor r/o A-87/C, Gali No. 4, Krishna Nagar, Sarojini
Nagar, New Delhi-110029. (iii) It was alleged that accused Vir Singh (A11) had applied
for a passport in the fictitious name of Rajender Kumar Kapoor in the
year 2000. Accordingly, the said application was processed in the file
No. B-41056 dated November 2, 2000. (iv) It was alleged that verification of identity, antecedents,
characters and residence of the applicant was done by ASI Umrao
Singh, (Special Branch), Delhi (A7). It was alleged that he had
submitted a false verification report without verifying the identity,
antecedents, character and address of the applicant. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (v) It was alleged that on the basis of his false report, the
passport bearing No. B-5081375 was issued on December 20, 2000
to Vir Singh (A11) in the name of Rajender Kumar Kapoor. (vi) It was alleged that during investigation, it was revealed
that no person by the name of Rajender Kumar Kapoor had ever
resided at the given address, thus he had been proved to be a
fictitious person. Though Vir Singh (A11) could not be traced out, but it
was revealed that he had gone abroad on the strengthen of said
passport. (vii) It was alleged that Harish Kumar Malhotra (A10) had
facilitated A11 in obtaining passport in the fictitious name as he had
forged the signature of two persons, namely, Raj Kumar Saini and
Yogender Singh on the witness identification slip in the presence of
ASI Umrao Singh. It was alleged the handwriting expert in his report
categorical stated that A10 had forged the signature of the above said
two persons. It was further alleged that A10 had also obtained the said
passport. (viii) It was further alleged that on the basis of said original
passport, multiple applications were made in the office of RPO, New
Delhi on August 22, 2003, December 04, 2003, February 03, 2004,
February 27, 2004, March 26, 2004 and April 20, 2004 for the
issuance of additional passport booklets with the personal particulars
and address of Rajender Kumar Kapoor, but with different
photographs and signatures on each occasion. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (ix) It was alleged that the above-said applications were
processed in the RPO, New Delhi by accused Harbhajan Yadav,
counter clerk (A2) and on the basis of said applications, 6 additional
passports were issued. The detail of the said passport booklets and
passport files numbers is given as under: booklet bearing No. E-6330265 was granted and signed by P.K.
Kapoor, Supdt. RPO, New Delhi, who had already died. In other
remaining five files, additional passport booklet was granted and
signed by accused Bibianus Toppo (A1). (xi) It was alleged that the identity of the persons, who
travelled on the basis of last 4 additional passport booklets (E-
7710034, E-7988266, E8582894 and E-8584870) could not be
established during investigation. (xii) It was alleged that accused Sushma Bajaj, Asstt. (A4) CBI No. 07/12 Page 8 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. and Ram Chander, LDC (A3) were posted in HIT section of RPO, New
Delhi. It was alleged that there was a facility in their computer to check
the photograph and signature of earlier passport holders and in case
any dissimilarity, it was the duty of officials working in the HIT section
to point out the same. (xiii) It was alleged that in the present case, accused
Sushma Bajaj (A4) had given the HIT clearance in passport file No. T-
10278/03 whereas in four passport files (T-1569/04, T-3162/04, T-
5039/04 and T-6676/04) HIT clearance was given by accused Ram
Chander (A3). It was alleged that both the accused persons had given
the HIT clearances without checking the particulars of the applicants,
accordingly, the additional passport booklets were issued in the name
of fictitious person. 2. It was alleged that during investigation, all the applications
for additional passport booklets were sent to handwriting expert and it
was revealed that all the passport applications were filled-up by
accused Anil Dhawan (A8). During investigation, it was also revealed
that accused Anil Dhawan (A8) had received all the additional
passport booklets except passport booklet bearing No. E-6330265
dated August 25, 2003, which was collected by his associate Naieem
Safi (A9). It was alleged that though the passports were not issued in
the name of A8 and A9; nor they had any authority letter from the
passport holders, but despite that they collected the same from the
RPO, New Delhi by putting their signature in the name of applicant in
the delivery register. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (i) It was alleged that G.D. Joshi (A5) and R.S. Rawat (A6)
were working in the RPO, New Delhi and their duty was to deliver the
prepared additional passport booklets to the passport holders or their
authorised representatives. (ii) It was alleged that G.D. Joshi (A5) had delivered the
three additional passport booklets ( E-7104766, E-7710034 and E-
7988266) to co-accused Anil Dhawan (A8) and he also delivered one
additional passport booklet bearing No. E-6330265 to Naieem Safi
(A9). Similarly, accused R.S. Rawat (A6) delivered 2 additional
passport booklets (E-8582894 and E-8584870) to Anil Dhawan (A8). (iii) It was alleged that though the said passports were not
issued in the name of said accused persons and their photographs
were not also affixed on the additional passport booklets and even
they were not authorised by the passport holders, but despite that A5
& A6 had delivered the said additional passport booklets to them. (iv) It was alleged that during investigation, it was revealed
that Rajwinder Singh (A12), Malkit Singh (A13) had obtained the
additional passport booklets bearing No. E-6330265 and E-7104766
as their photographs were affixed on the application form as well as
additional passport booklets and it was revealed that the said
passports were used by these accused persons for visiting abroad. (v) It was alleged that the accused persons namely A1 to A7
entered into a criminal conspiracy with private persons, object of
which was to get issued passport and additional passport booklets CBI No. 07/12 Page 10 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. fraudulently from RPO, New Delhi. It was alleged that the passport
officials abused their official position and in conspiracy with accused
Anil Dhawan (A8) and Naieem Safi (A9), Harish Kumar Malhotra
(A10), Vir Singh (A11), Rajwinder Singh (A12) and Malkit Singh (A13)
consequently they did not ask the applicants to produce their previous
passport booklets for observation and cancellation and each time the
original passport booklet bearing No. B-5081375 was shown to have
been cancelled, which was not permissible as the same passport
could not be used for the issuance of multiple additional passport
booklets. 3. After completing investigation, challan was filed against
accused persons for the offence punishable under Section 120B IPC
read with Section 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 474 IPC and Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act, 1988 and 12 (1) (b) of Passport
Act, 1967 and substantive offences thereto. 4. Necessary sanction also obtained under Section 19 of
PC Act in respect of A1 to A6. Sanction under Section 15 of Passport
Act, 1967 was obtained in respect of all the accused persons.
However, no sanction was obtained under Section 19 of PC Act qua
accused Umrao Singh (A7) as he had already been retired from the
service. No charge-sheet was filed against accused P.K. Kapoor as he
had already expired on September 11, 2004. 5. Vide order dated September 17, 2009, proceeding qua
accused Umrao Singh (A7) were abated on account of his death. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 6. Vide order dated August 07, 2010, accused Vir Singh
(A11), Malkit Singh (A13) were declared proclaimed offender. 7. Vide order dated March 19, 2011, it was ordered to frame
charge as under: 8. Accordingly, on May 07, 2011, charges were framed
against all the accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty and
claimed trial. 9. In order to bring home the guilt of accused persons,
prosecution has examined as many as 35 witnesses. For the purpose
of discussion and convenience, all the witnesses have been classified
in the following categories:- of mind. (a) That at the relevant time, no facility was provided in the
computer of PIAs to check the photograph, signature and old
references of the applicants. Nor the previous passport file used to be
sent to PIA for perusal and inspection. Accordingly, PIA had no facility
to detect the fraud. Only in the year 2006, facility of checking of the
photograph, signature and old references had been provided in the
computer of PIAs. (b) That during the period 2000-04, Ministry of External
Affairs had simplified the procedure of issuance of additional passport
booklet by issuing numerous circulars and further directed the PIAs
that additional passport booklet should be issued on the same day or
preferably within 3 to 5 days. (c) That the accused had issued the additional passport
booklets believing his subordinate staff and the fact that there was no
adverse report in any of the files from any of the sections of RPO,
New Delhi. (d) That at the relevant time, accused was also looking after
the miscellaneous service work, consequently, he had to deal with
about 300 files in a day, thus it was not possible for the accused to go
through each and every file minutely. At the time of dealing with the
files in question, accused relied upon his subordinate staff and the fact CBI No. 07/12 Page 19 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. that there was no adverse report from the HIT section. (e) That whenever accused remained on leave and not
available in the office, similar procedure was adopted by other PIAs,
namely, S.P. Kothari, Ms. Asia, Y.K. Kaushal and U.S. Lingwal, but no
action had been taken against them for passing similar orders; rather
they have been cited as prosecution witnesses in different cases. (ii) Accused Harbhajan Yadav took the plea that he
recommended on the files as per the procedure prevalent in the RPO,
New Delhi and no facility was provided to him to check the
genuineness of the documents produced by the applicant and further
submitted that he used to work as per the instructions of his seniors
and further stated that he had not obtained any monetary benefits
from any one of the applicants in any manner. (iii) Accused Ram Chander took the plea that the entry in
the HIT section was free to all general public and employees of RPO,
New Delhi, thus it was quite possible that at the time of opening the
computer, somebody might have noted down his password from the
movement of his fingers and later on misused the same and this is
corroborated from the fact that HIT had been shown to be cleared by
him despite that on that day he was on leave. He further submitted
that he had not shared his password with anybody, nor authorised any
person to give HIT clearances. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (iv) Accused Sushma Bajaj (A4) took the plea that as per
prosecution version, she had given HIT clearance in one file which
pertained prior to December, 2003 and further submitted that at that
time, no facility was provided in her computer to check the photograph
and signature of the passport holder and number of additional
passport booklets earlier issued to the applicants. (v) Accused G.D. Joshi took the plea that he had done only
registration of the applications in the concerned files and he had not
delivered any passport to anyone and further submitted that he has
been falsely implicated in this case. (vi) Accused Anil Dhawan took the plea that he had never
worked with G.S. Walia and he had no concern with him and further
submitted that he had been made a scapegoat in this case by the CBI
to save G.S. Walia from whose possession, numerous incriminating
materials such as passport, blank documents, visa, blank letterheads
of different companies/firms were recovered. He further submitted that
he was called at the office of CBI by G.S. Walia on the pretext that he
had some urgent work but when he reached there, CBI implicated him
falsely in this case at the behest of G.S. Walia. (vii) Accused Naieem Safi took the plea that he has no role
in the present case and he has been falsely implicated in this case. (viii) Accused Harish Kumar Malhotra took the plea that he CBI No. 07/12 Page 21 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. has been falsely implicated in this case and submitted that his name is
not mentioned in the FIR and further took the plea that CBI had taken
his signatures under pressure on blank papers. (ix) Accused Rajwinder Singh took the plea that neither he
had applied for nor authorised any person to apply or receive or use
any additional passport on his behalf. He further submitted that he had
a valid passport from Jallandher RPO since 1994. Photograph shown
in one of the passports is a morphed photograph and the same does
not belong to him. 12. In order to prove his innocence Bibianus Toppo (A1)
examined the following witnesses: 13. I have heard rival submissions made by counsel for
the parties, perused the record including written submissions filed
on behalf of A1 carefully and gave my thoughtful consideration to
their contentions. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Common Contentions on behalf of A1 to A5:- 14. Learned counsel appearing for the accused persons
who were working in RPO, New Delhi at the time of commission of
alleged offence vigorously contended that since the passport is not a
valuable document, accused persons cannot be held guilty for the
offence punishable under Section 13 (2) of PC Act. (i) Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor appearing for CBI
refuted the said contentions by sagaciously arguing that since
passport confers a valuable right over a person, passport is a valuable
thing. 15. To deal with the said contention, I deem it appropriate to
refer to some of the provisions of Passport Act to ascertain the
importance of passport. 'Passport' is defined in Section 2 (b) and
'travel document' is defined under Section 2 (e) of Passport Act and
same are read as under:- (emphasis supplied) (ii) From the combined reading of Section 2(b) , 2(e) and 3 of the Passport Act, it becomes crystal clear that no person can depart
from the territory of India unless he holds a valid passport or travel
document issued by the Passport Authority. In other words, passport
creates a legal right in favour of a person to depart from the territory of
India. Besides that, passport is also a valid document to prove the
nationality of a person. It is also a valid document for the identity of a
person. 16. Though there is a reference of "valuable thing" in Section 13 (1) (d) , yet "valuable thing" is not defined in PC Act . (i) Question arises whether passport can be considered as CBI No. 07/12 Page 24 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (iv) As evident from the provisions of Passport Act that
passport authorizes a person to travel beyond the territory of India,
thus, passport creates a legal right in favour of its holder to visit
abroad subject to fulfillment of other requirements such as visa etc.
but no person can depart beyond the territory of India unless he holds
a valid passport or travel document. Thus, to my mind, passport is a
valuable security. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (v) It can also be said that the "valuable security" is one of
the species of "valuable things". All "valuable securities" may be
"valuable things" but may not be vice-versa. However, in view of the
provisions of Passport Act , it can be safely culled out that passport is a
"valuable thing". 17. Learned counsel appearing for A1 to A5 vehemently
contended that accused persons had acted in good faith while
discharging their duties, thus if they had committed any mistake in
discharging their official duties, they cannot be held liable for the penal
offences. (i) On the contrary, learned Public Prosecutor refuted the
said contentions by arguing that since accused persons had not taken
due care deliberately while performing their duties, thus the plea of
good faith is not available to them. 18. 'Good Faith' is defined under Section 52 of IPC, which
reads as under:- (i) Thus, before taking the plea of good faith, the person who
takes such plea has to show by producing relevant material/evidence
on record that he had taken due care and attention. The question
whether the above accused persons had taken any such care and
attention at the time of dealing with the files in question shall be CBI No. 07/12 Page 26 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. discussed while discussing their role. 19. Learned counsel appearing for the above said accused
persons astutely argued that no reliance can be placed on the
certificate Ex.PW20/B issued under Section 65B of Indian Evidence
Act as PW20 Ajai Gautam was not a competent person to issue the
said certificate. It was further argued that the said certificate was not
in accordance with law. But the said contentions are refuted by
learned Public Prosecutor by arguing that PW20 was not only
competent person to issue the certificate but certificate was issued in
accordance with law. (i) PW20 Sh. Ajai Gautam in his examination-in-chief
deposed that he is an officer of National Informative Centre (NIC) and
he was on deputation to RPO, New Delhi and his duty was to maintain
computers installed in the office of RPO and to render operational
support to RPO officials. He further deposed that the documents
Ex.PW4/L, Ex. PW10/A, PW9/A to PW9/E were generated by him at
the instructions of Superintendent Administration, RPO and he also
issued certificate under Section 65 B of Evidence Act certifying that he
had generated the said documents and the same were true and actual
reproduction of the data maintained at RPO, New Delhi as electronic
record in the ordinary course of business and same was not tempered
with. He further certified that the computer from which the prints out
were taken, was properly working. He also clarified that the
computers/terminals through which the concerned officials worked
during the relevant period were also properly working. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (ii) Since, PW20 Sh. Ajai Gautam was deputed at the office
of RPO from NIC and his duty was to maintain computers and to
provide necessary technical support to RPO officials, thus PW20 Mr.
Ajai Gautam was a competent person for the maintenance of
computers/servers installed at the office of RPO. It means that he was
one of the competent persons to certify that the data was actual
reproduction of the electronic record and same was not tempered with
and the system from which the above data fed and the documents
were generated were working properly. There is nothing on record
which may suggest that the dump terminals or the computers from
which the officials of RPO used to feed information as mentioned in
the aforesaid documents were not working properly or that the server
was not working properly at the relevant time. In these circumstances,
there is no reason to disbelieve the testimony of PW20 Mr. Ajai
Gautam, who is an independent person. Thus, to my mind the above
documents are admissible in evidence and I do not find any infirmity or
illegality in the certificate issued under Section 65B of Indian Evidence
Act. 20. Learned counsel appearing for the above accused
persons assailed the prosecution case by vehemently arguing that
there is no evidence to prove the guilt of accused persons for the
offence punishable under Section 13 (2) of PC Act. It was further
argued that accused persons have been charged for the offence
under Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act, but to prove the charges,
prosecution is duty bound to prove dishonest intention, which is an
essential ingredient of Section 13(1)(d) of P.C Act. However, it was
urged that during trial prosecution failed to adduce any evidence to CBI No. 07/12 Page 28 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. prove that accused persons had any dishonest intent when they dealt
with the files in question. (i) Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor appearing for the
CBI countered said contentions and sagaciously argued that though
dishonest intention is one of the essential ingredients to prove the guilt
of accused persons for the offences under Section 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii),
but dishonest intention is not required to prove the guilt of the accused
persons for the offence under Section 13(1)(d)(iii) of PC Act. 21. From the submissions advanced by counsel for the
parties, short but interesting question emerges whether 'criminal
intent' or 'dishonest intention' is pre-requisite ingredient for the offence
punishable under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act
or not? (i) Section 13(1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act is in
following three parts:- (i) by corrupt or illegal means,
 obtains for himself or for any other person any
 valuable thing or pecuniary advantage; or (ii) by abusing his position as a
 public servant, obtains for himself or for any
 other person any valuable thing or pecuniary
 advantage; or (iii) while holding office as a public
 servant, obtains for any person any valuable CBI No. 07/12 Page 29 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. thing or pecuniary advantage without any public
 interest; (emphasis supplied) (ii) Bare perusal of clause (i) and (ii), makes it clear that
dishonest intention is an essential ingredient as held by the Apex
Court in C. K. Jaffer Sharief v/s. State, 2012 (11) SCALE 71 and S.
K. Kale v/s. State of Maharashtra, AIR 1977 SC 822. But there is
nothing in the said judgements, which may show that mens-rea is also
an essential ingredient for the offence under clause (iii) of Section 13
(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. This issue was raised
before the High Court of Delhi in Runu Ghosh v/s. CBI decided by
the High Court of Delhi in Criminal Appeal No. 482 of 2002 on
December 21, 2011. The relevant portions of the judgement are
reproduced as under:- disproportionate to his known sources of income
 is guilty of criminal misconduct. Here, the
 sources of income may or may not be connected
 with the public servants duties; the emphasis is
 on inability to satisfactorily account, or that the
 wealth or assets held are disproportionate to the
 servants known sources of income. If the
 ingredients of the provision are satisfied, it is not
 necessary to prove mens rea. Section 13 (1) (e) enacts that a public servant is guilty of criminal
 misconduct: The ingredients which the prosecution has to
 prove in relation to this offence, (which is in pari
 materia with Section 5 (1) (e) of the 1947 Act,
 were spelt out in M. Krishna Reddy v State
 Deputy Superintendent of Police 1992 (4) SCC
 45 as follows: .............. .............. .............. 24.The distinction between a strict construction
 and a more free one has disappeared in modern
 times and now mostly the question is what is
 true construction of the statute? A passage in
 Craies on Statute Law, 7th Edn. reads to the
 following effect: 1988 Act, despite being aware of the pre-existing
 law, as well as the decisions of the Court- the
 conclusion which this Court draws is that mens
 rea is inessential to convict an accused for the
 offence under Section 13 (1) (d) (iii) . It would be
 sufficient if the prosecution proves that the public
 servant "obtains" by his act, pecuniary
 advantage or valuable thing, to another, without
 public interest. The inclusion of public interest, in
 the opinion of the Court, tips the scale in favour
 of a construction which does not require proof of
 mens rea. There can be many acts of a public
 servant, which result in pecuniary advantage, or
 obtaining of a valuable thing to someone else;
 typically these may relate to payment of royalty,
 grant of license or concessions, issuance of
 permits, authorizations, etc. Yet, such grants,
 concessions, or other forms of advantages to
 third parties would not criminalize the public
 servants actions, so long as they have an
 element of public interest. They (acts of the
 public servant) are outlawed, and become
 punishable, if they are "without public interest". 74. Having now settled the true interpretation of
 whether the offence under Section 13 (1) (d) (iii) requires proof of mens rea, it would now be vital
 to settle what really the prosecution would have
 to establish to say that the public servants
 actions or decisions, which result in a third party
 obtaining a pecuniary advantage or valuable
 thing, without public interest. The expression
 "public interest" is known to law; at the same
 time its meaning is not rigid, and takes colour
 from the particular statute or policy (Ref. Srinivasa Co-operative House Building Society v
 Madam Gurumurthy Sastry 1994 (4) SCC 675). It might be useful to consider the following
 formulation of what is public interest, in relation
 to actions by public officials or agencies or
 instrumentalities of state, in every sphere of
 government functioning, given in Shrilekha
 Vidyarthi (Kumari) v. State of U.P. , (1991) 1 SCC
 212: courts' judgment were directions issued to
 investigate into action of public servants. The court held that: ............ ............ ............ ............. ............. ............. ............. ............. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 77. The court, as a consequence has to
 determine the objective criteria by which acts (of
 public servants) without public interest, are to be
 judged, if mens rea (to obtain pecuniary
 advantage or valuable thing to another) is not a
 necessary ingredient. This exercise is essential
 because in the absence of mens rea (which has
 been ruled out) the court has to say what "acts"
 resulting in someone obtaining pecuniary
 advantage or valuable thing are "without public
 interest". Obviously the mere fact that a third
 party obtains pecuniary advantage, or a valuable
 thing, is insufficient; a supplier of equipment to
 public servants or offices, a travel agent who
 makes bookings for a public agency, a
 businessman or corporate group granted
 licenses or clearances, by departments or
 agencies of the Government, would all stand to
 benefit. Many of these decisions are in fact, and
 all are, expected to be in public interest. Therefore, the kind of behaviour which amounts
 to an "act" resulting in someone "obtaining
 pecuniary advantage" or "valuable thing" 78. In a previous part of this judgment, what
 constitutes "public interest" and the trust
 element, which informs every decision of a
 public servant or agency, was discussed and
 emphasized. The State in its myriad functions
 enters into contracts, of various kinds, involves
 itself in regulation, awards or grants largesse,
 and holds property. Each action of the State
 must further the social or economic goals sought
 to be achieved by the policy. Therefore, when a
 public servants decision exhibits complete and
 manifest disregard to public interest with the
 corresponding result of a third party obtaining
 pecuniary advantage or valuable thing, he is
 fastened with responsibility for "criminal
 misconduct" under Section 13 (1) (d) (iii) . There
 is nothing reprehensible in this interpretation,
 because the "act" being "without public interest" 79. What then is the behaviour or act which
 attracts such opprobrium as to result in criminal
 responsibility? It is not every act which results in
 loss of public interest, or that is contrary to public
 interest, that is a prosecutable offence. There
 can be no doubt that all acts prejudicial to public
 interest, can be the subject matter of judicial
 review. In those cases, courts consider whether
 the decision maker transgressed the zone of
 reasonableness, or breached the law, in his
 action. However, it is only those acts done with
 complete and manifest disregard to the norms,
 and manifestly injurious to public interest, which
 were avoidable, but for the public servants
 overlooking or disregarding precautions and not
 heeding the safeguards he or she was expected
 to, and which result in pecuniary advantage to
 another that are prosecutable under Section
 13(1) (d) (iii) . In other words, if the public servant
 is able to show that he followed all the
 safeguards, and exercised all reasonable
 precautions having regard to the circumstances,
 despite which there was loss of public interest,
 he would not be guilty of the offence. The
 provision aims at ensuring efficiency, and
 responsible behaviour, as much as it seeks to
 outlaw irresponsibility in public servants CBI No. 07/12 Page 38 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. functioning which would otherwise go
 unpunished. The blameworthiness for a
 completely indefensible act of a public servant, is
 to be of such degree that it is something that no
 reasonable man would have done, if he were
 placed in that position, having regard to all the
 circumstances. It is not merely a case of making
 a wrong choice; the decision should be one such
 as no one would have taken. (emphasis supplied) (iii) From the above judgement, it becomes crystal clear
that mens-rea is not required for the offence under Section 13(1) (d) (iii) of the Prevention of Corruption Act . Prosecution is required only to
prove that public servant while holding the office obtains for any
person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public
interest. Circulars issued from time to time:- (Riva G. Das)
 Deputy Secretary (PV-I)

 All PIAs in India & Abroad (i) The said circular was modified by issuing another circular CBI No. 07/12 Page 40 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. dated November 25, 1997 (Ex. PW25/A) wherein it was directed that
instead of cancelling the original passport having valid visa, to put a
stamp across the first three pages of the used booklet. The relevant
portion of said circular reads as under:- 4. This will be implemented with effect from
 December 15, 1997, in Missions abroad and with
 effect from December 1, 1997, in Passport
 Offices. In case of a subsequent passport
 booklet, details of the original passport as well as
 the previous additional booklet may be given. 6. Kindly confirm receipt. (ii) Vide circular dated March 6, 2002 (Ex. PW25/DB) the
condition of fresh police verification qua additional passport booklet CBI No. 07/12 Page 41 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. and miscellaneous services was dispensed with. The relevant para
are para 3 and 4, which read as under:- (iii) Vide circular dated May 26, 2003, charges for Tatkal
services was dispensed with and it was directed to provide
miscellaneous services within maximum 3-5 days without charging
any additional fee. The relevant portion of the circular reads as under:- (iv) Vide circular dated April 29, 2004 (Ex. PW25/DD) all
PIAs were authorised to issue additional passport booklets
irrespective of the fact whether they had issued original passport or
not subject to the clearance of Index/PAC/ check within 3-5 days
preferably on same day without charging additional fee. The relevant
portion is reproduced as under:- (vi) From the combined reading of all the circulars, it
becomes abundantly clear that the procedure for issuance of
additional passport booklet was liberalised from 1997 to 2004. The
stress of Ministry of External Affairs was to minimize the hardship of
public at the time of getting additional passport booklet and
miscellaneous services. However, simultaneously ample precaution
was also taken to ensure that the said procedure be not misused by
any unscrupulous person by directing that the additional passport
booklets shall be issued subject to clearance of Index/PAC/HIT and in
case of any doubt, officials of Passport office shall take the help of
PISON to ascertain the details of original passport issued by other
PIA. Simultaneously at the time of dealing with the request for
additional passport booklet, officials were also required to take the
photocopy of previous passport also. (vii) Further, from the circulars dated June 24, 1997 and CBI No. 07/12 Page 45 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. November 25, 1997, it also becomes crystal clear that at the time of
obtaining the additional passport booklet, officials of RPO are also
required to affix a stamp of 'cancellation and returned' on the
original/previous additional passport booklet, if any. Simultaneously,
they are also required to affix a stamp on the new additional passport
booklet as described in circular dated November 25, 1997. 23. Now coming to Rule 2 (iii) of the Passports Rules, 1980
wherein the circumstances under which additional passport can be
issued is described. Rule reads as under:- passport booklet are going to be exhausted and passport issuing
authority has ample power to ask for further additional
information/documents/certificate as may be considered necessary for
issuance of such additional passport booklet. Contentions relating to sanction under Section 19 of PC
Act:- 24. Learned counsel appearing for the accused persons
vehemently argued that the sanction accorded under Section 19 of PC
Act is defective as sanctioning authority had not applied its mind
before according the sanction and the authority had acted in a
mechanical manner just by signing on the draft sanction placed before
it. It was further argued that sanctioning authority had not considered
relevant material at the time of according the sanction. In addition to
the above, counsel appearing for A1 also contended that the sanction
was not accorded by competent person qua A1 and further argued
that there is no evidence to show that the relevant material was ever
placed before the competent authority, thus it was urged that no
reliance can be placed on the testimony of PW18 when he deposed
that he had taken the approval of competent authority qua A1. In
support of his contention reliance is placed on the judgements Inspector of Police, Visakhapatnam v Surya Sankaram Karri 2006
Cri. L J 4598 and Mohd. Iqbal Ahmed v. State of Andhra Pradesh
AIR 1979 SC 677. 25. Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor countered the said
contentions by arguing that there is no defect in the sanction and if CBI No. 07/12 Page 47 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. there is any defect, same is not fatal to the prosecution case in view of Section 19 (3) of PC Act. It was further argued that though PW18 was
cross-examined in depth, yet no effort was made to call for the file in
which the approval qua A1 had been taken by the PW18. 26. In this regard the testimony of PW18 Sh. R.
Swaminathan is relevant. (i) PW18 Sh. R. Swaminathan in his examination-in-chief
categorically deposed that he also received investigation report and
the statement of prosecution witnesses along with the request letter
for seeking sanction and further deposed that he had gone through
the said report and statement of prosecution witnesses and after
satisfying himself, he accorded the sanction under Section 19 of the
Prevention of Corruption Act as well as under Section 15 of Passport
Act. (ii) In his examination-in-chief, he further deposed that he
was competent to remove all RPO officials i.e. A2 to A6 from the
service, but he was not competent to remove A1. He further clarified
that qua A1, Additional Secretary Administration and CPV was
competent to remove him from service and due to said reason, he had
taken his approval, thereafter sanction was accorded and sanction
order under Section 19 of PC Act was issued, which is exhibited as
Ex.PW18/A. (iii) Perusal of the sanction order Ex. PW18/A makes it clear
that sanction order was issued with the approval of competent CBI No. 07/12 Page 48 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. authority i.e. Additional Secretary (Administration and CPV), which
corroborates the testimony of PW18 that necessary approval was also
taken qua A1 from the competent authority. (iv) Though PW18 was thoroughly cross-examined, yet no
question was put to him that he had not taken any approval qua A1
from the competent authority. On the contrary a suggestion was put to
the witness that he was not competent to sign the sanction order after
taking the approval from the Additional Secretary, which was certainly
denied by the witness. But the said suggestion indicates that the
factum of taking approval from competent authority was not disputed.
Moreover, PW18 in his testimony categorically deposed that since he
was not competent to remove A1 from his office, he had taken the
approval of Additional Secretary, who was competent to remove A1,
and thereafter, he signed the sanction order. In these circumstances
there is no reason to disbelieve PW18. No doubt, counsel for A1 had
given a suggestion that approval of competent authority was not
obtained, but the said suggestion was categorically denied, thus the
said suggestion has no evidentiary value. (v) In case Mohd. Iqbal Ahmed Vs State of Andhra
Pradesh , 1979 SCC (Crl.) 926, Apex Court held that an order or valid
sanction can be proved by the Sanctioning Authority in two ways
either:- the facts were placed before the Sanctioning
 Authority and the satisfaction arrived at, by it. (vi) In the instant case, not only PW18 deposed on oath that
necessary approval was taken from the competent authority qua A1
but it is also recited in sanction order Ex.PW18/A, thus there is no
reason to disbelieve the deposition of PW18. (vii) During the cross-examination of PW18, an attempt was
made to cause a dent in his testimony on the grounds that the
investigating agency had not placed entire material before him at the
time of seeking sanction; that he had not applied his mind and that he
had accorded sanction on the basis of draft sanction placed before
him. But all these suggestions were categorically denied. Even during
the cross-examination of PW18, no question was put to him to the
effect that no material was put up before the competent authority i.e.
Additional Secretary at the time of taking approval qua A1. Thus, I do
not find any substance in the contention of A1 that no material was
placed before the competent authority at the time of taking approval
qua A1. (viii) It is pertinent to state that during cross-examination of
PW18, no attempt was made by the defence counsel to call for the file
in order to prove their plea that no material was placed before the
sanctioning authority at the time of seeking sanction against the
accused persons or that sanction was granted on the draft sanction
produced by the CBI or without application of mind. (ix) Apex Court in case title State of Maharasthra Vs CBI No. 07/12 Page 50 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Mahesh G. Jain, criminal appeal No. 2345 of 2009 decided on May
28, 2013 summed up the Principles and guidelines which are required
to be followed to decide the question which inundates the trial Court,
challenging the sanction order. Hon'ble Apex Court after appreciating
earlier precedents on the subject had culled out the guiding Principles
in Para 13 of the judgements, which are reproduced as under: but simultaneously an order of sanction should
 not be construed in a pedantic manner and there
 should not be a hyper technical approach to test
 its validity. (x) In Bhagwan Jathya Bhoir Vs State of Maharashtra ,
1992 Crl. L. J. 1144 (Bombay), it was held by High Court of Bombay
that procedure adopted by the investigating agency in forwarding a
draft sanction order to the sanctioning authority after summarising all
evidence and requesting him to examine the record and to accord
sanction, if satisfied, is not improper. Same view was taken by High
Court of Madras in K. Nachimuthu Vs State 1994 Crl. L. J. 2760. (xi) In view of the ongoing discussion, I do not find any
merit in the contentions raised by counsel for the accused persons
that sufficient material was not placed before the sanctioning authority
or the sanction was accorded on the basis of draft sanction or that
sanction accorded under Section 19 of PC Act is defective. 27. Now coming to the judgements cited by counsel for
the accused persons i.e Mohd. Iqbal Ahmed v/s. Andhra Pradesh
AIR 1979 SC 677, State of Goa Vs Babu Thomas 2005 Crl. L. J.
4379 and State, Insp. of Police of Vishakhapatnam v/s. Surya
Sankramkari, 2006 Crl. L.J. 4598. I have perused all the said
judgements carefully. On perusal of judgements, I am of the view that
same are not helpful to the accused in any manner as the facts
involved in said cases were different from the facts of the case in
hand. In the said cases, there was nothing on record to show that
approval of competent authority was taken before granting the CBI No. 07/12 Page 52 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. sanction whereas in the instant case there is not only oral but
documentary evidence on record to prove the fact that approval of
competent authority i.e. Additional Secretary Administration and CPV
was taken qua A1 before according the sanction. Thus, to my mind
there is no infirmity or illegality in the sanction accorded by PW18. 28. Though I do not find any defect in the sanction accorded
under Section 19 of PC Act, yet to my mind, there is no merit in the
contention of learned public prosecutor that the defect if any, is
curable under sub-section (3) of 19 PC Act . Relevant portion of sub- section 3 of 19 of PC Act read as under: (emphasis supplied) (i) Bare perusal of Section 19 (3) (a) of PC Act makes it clear
that it relates to the appellate/revisional court and not to the trial Court.
The finding of Special Court cannot be reversed mere on the ground
that there was any error, omission or irregularity in the sanction unless
such omission, irregularity, in the opinion of that Court
(Appellate/Revisional Court) a failure of justice has in fact been
caused. Thus, the contention raised by learned Public Prosecutor is CBI No. 07/12 Page 53 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. without any substance. Contentions relating to conspiracy:- 29. Learned counsel appearing for accused persons who
were working in RPO, New Delhi vehemently argued that there is no
iota of evidence on record to prove that accused persons had acted in
furtherance of any criminal conspiracy. It was argued that though
prosecution has examined as many as 35 witnesses, yet none of them
had uttered even a single word about the alleged conspiracy. It was
further argued that mere fact that the accused persons had dealt with
the files in question while discharging their official duties is not
sufficient to prove that they were members of any conspiracy. It was
further contended that even no sanction had been obtained under
Section 197 Cr. P. C qua penal offences, thus A1 to A5 being public
servants can not be convicted for the penal offences. (i) Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor appearing for CBI
contended that though there is no direct evidence on record to prove
conspiracy among the accused persons, but the circumstances
establish that above said accused persons were in conspiracy with
other accused persons and due to that reason they had not taken due
care while dealing with the files in question. It was further contended
that no separate sanction under Section 197 Cr. P. C is required. 30. In this regard paras no. 49 to 52 of State of Madhya
Pradesh v/s. Sheetla Sahai (2009) 8SCC 617 are relevant,
accordingly same are reproduced as under:- State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Its ingredients are:- In Kehar Singh and Ors. v/s. State (Delhi Administration)
 MANU/SC/0241/1988; 1988 (3) SCC 609 at 731. this
 Court has quoted the following passage from Russell on
 Crimes (12th Edn. Vol.1); The gist of the offence of conspiracy then lies,
 not in doing the act, or effecting the purpose for
 which the conspiracy is formed, nor in
 attempting to do them, nor in inciting others to
 do them, but in the forming of the scheme or
 agreement between the parties. Agreement is
 essential. Mere knowledge, or even discussion,
 of the plan is not, per se enough. In State (NCT) of Delhi vs. Navjot Sandhu @ Afsan Guru
 MANU/SC/0465/2005 ; (2005) 11 SCC 600, this Court
 stated the law, thus: conspiracy, the Court must take care to see that
 the acts or conduct of the parties must be
 conscious and clear enough to infer their
 concurrence as to the common design and its
 execution. We may also notice that in Ram Narayan Popli vs. CBI
 MANU/SC/0017/2003 : (2003) 3 SCC 641, it was held:- Ex. Facie, there is no material to show that a conspiracy
 had been hatched by the respondents." (i) From the above, it becomes crystal clear that the CBI No. 07/12 Page 57 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. conspiracy can also be proved by the surrounding circumstances and
conduct of the accused persons but the incriminating circumstances
must form a chain of events from which conclusion about the guilt of
accused persons can be drawn. 31. Now coming to the facts of the case at hand. (i) Though in order to prove the guilt of accused persons,
prosecution has examined as many as 35 witnesses, yet none of them
has deposed even a single word about the alleged conspiracy among
the accused persons. No doubt, it is difficult to find out a direct
evidence to prove the conspiracy as generally conspiracy is hatched
in secrecy and conspiracy can also be proved by circumstantial
evidence. But the onus is upon the prosecution to prove such
circumstances against the accused persons. But in the instant case,
CBI has even failed to produce any such circumstantial evidence to
prove conspiracy among the accused persons. Mere fact that A1 to A6
were working in the same office and they had dealt with the files in
question is not sufficient to draw a conclusion that they had hatched
any conspiracy either with the applicants or with the remaining
accused persons. Being the officials posted at RPO, they were
otherwise duty bound to deal with the files in question. 32. It is admitted case of CBI that first time, application was
moved for obtaining the additional passport booklet on August 22,
2003 whereas the last application was moved on April 20, 2004. In
order to prove conspiracy, CBI is bound to establish that there was a
meeting of mind among the accused persons prior to August 22, 2003. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. But during trial, CBI failed to produce any such evidence. Even there
is nothing on record, which may show that the RPO officials i.e. A1 to
A6 used to meet with other accused persons. Surprisingly, during
investigation, CBI even did not try to establish the modus-operandi of
the accused persons. Though CBI traced out two accused persons
namely Rajwinder Singh and Malkit Singh in whose favour fictitious
additional passport booklets were issued. But astonishingly the
investigating officer did not deem it appropriate to interrogate them to
ascertain the modus-operandi of the accused persons. Though PW35
deposed that he interrogated the accused Anil Dhawan to find out how
beneficiaries used to contact him for getting additional passport
booklets in fictitious name, but he deposed that Anil Dhawan denied
all the charges. Even during investigation, disclosure statement of
accused persons was not recorded to ascertain their modus-operandi.
Had investigating officer recorded the disclosure statement of accused
persons, prosecution may able to show some conspiracy among the
accused persons, but investigating officer did not deem it appropriate
to record such disclosure statements. 33. As already stated that to prove conspiracy, prosecution
has to prove the meeting of mind among the accused persons, but
during trial, CBI failed to produce any such evidence. Mere fact that
A1 to A6 were posted in the same office and they dealt with the files in
question while discharging their officials duties is ipso-facto not
sufficient to prove that they had acted in furtherance of any
conspiracy. In the absence of any cogent evidence on record, I am of
the considered opinion that CBI has failed to prove the charges of
conspiracy. Thus, accused persons cannot be held liable for the acts CBI No. 07/12 Page 59 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. of each other, however, accused persons shall be liable for their
individual acts. 34. Further, it is admitted case of the CBI that accused
persons had abused their official position while dealing with request
letters/applications for issuance of additional passport booklets, thus
in other words it is admitted case of CBI that there was reasonable
relations between the acts of the accused persons and their official
duties. Thus, to my mind sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C was also
required for the penal offences qua public servants. In this regard,
reliance is placed on: State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Contentions raised on behalf of accused Anil Dhawan (A8):- 35. Shri Harsh Mohan learned Public Prosecutor for CBI
raised the following contentions:- 7104766, E-7710034, E-7988266, E-8582894 and E-8584870 by
signing in the respective passport files and passport delivery register.
Q8, Q10, Q11, Q14 and Q15 are the writings of accused Anil Dhawan
in passport delivery register, which proves that the said additional
passport booklets were received by accused Anil Dhawan. Similarly,
Q39, Q55 Q71, Q87 and Q102 are the writings of Anil Dhawan in the
respective passport files wherein he acknowledged the receipt of
above booklets, which further establishes that the delivery of the said CBI No. 07/12 Page 61 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. booklets were taken by accused Anil Dhawan. During investigation,
specimen writings of accused Anil Dhawan (A8) was also taken and
the same are marked as S16 to S35. (iv) That handwriting expert PW24 Dr. B.A. Vaid in his report
Ex.PW24/F proved that accused Anil Dhawan is the author of Q8 to
Q11, Q14, Q15, Q39, Q55 Q71, Q87 and Q102. This shows that he
had taken the delivery of the said passport. Similarly, from the report
Ex.PW24/F, it is also established that accused Anil Dhawan is the
author of Q20, Q21, Q23 to Q63, Q65, Q82, Q84 to Q113. This further
establishes that accused Anil Dhawan had not only filled up the forms
but he had also signed in the name of Rajender Kumar Kapoor. (v) That A8 besides the charges of conspiracy is also liable
for the offences punishable under Section 419 / 420 / 468 / 471 IPC and
under Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act. 36. Mr. Lalit Yadav, Advocate, counsel appearing for the
accused Anil Dhawan (A8) countered the said contentions as under: PW23 that he had recorded the statement of PW23. (ii) That it is admitted case of prosecution that a raid was
conducted at the premises of PW23 and numerous incriminating
articles were recovered from his premises including various passports,
blank documents and blank letterheads of different companies but
instead of impleading PW23 as an accused, investigating officer in
collusion with PW23 exonerated him and falsely implicated accused
Anil Dhawan (A8). (iii) That prosecution has set up a case against accused Anil
Dhawan (A8) that he was an employee of PW23, but during trial
prosecution failed to produce any documentary evidence to prove this
fact. It was further argued that PW35 in his cross-examination
deposed that he had not taken any documentary evidence to establish
the fact that accused Anil Dhawan (A8) was an employee of PW23
G.S. Walia. It was further argued that in fact no attempt was made by
the investigating officer to collect any documentary evidence to show
that A8 was an employee of PW23 and he did so to implicate him
falsely at the behest of PW23 G.S. Walia. (iv) That though prosecution has placed strong reliance on
the deposition of PW23 wherein he identified certain questioned
writings as the writing of accused Anil Dhawan (A8), but no reliance
can be placed on the said piece of evidence as PW23 is not an expert
to identify the writings of any person. (v) That no reliance can be placed on the alleged admitted CBI No. 07/12 Page 63 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. writing i.e. marked as A1 to A23 because there is no evidence on
record that the said writings belonged to accused Anil Dhawan (A8). (vi) That during investigation, investigating officer had not
taken any specimen writings of PW5 and PW23 deliberately and
intentionally to favour them. Had their writings been taken by the
investigating officer, it would also have been matched with some
questioned writings. 37. In support of his contentions, learned defence counsel
placed reliance on the following citations:- (i) PW23 G.S. Walia in his examination-in-chief deposed
that he was running a company M/s Kanu Travel Care Pvt. Ltd. since
1991, in which he was one of the directors and further testified that
accused Anil Dhawan (A8) was his employee. He further deposed that
in the year 2002, he had started a partnership firm in the name and
style of M/s Jas Air and in the said firm also, accused Anil Dhawan
(A8) was working and his job was to provide assistance to clients in CBI No. 07/12 Page 65 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. getting visa and issuance of passport. He further deposed that
accused Anil Dhawan (A8) was also used to deliver tickets to clients;
used to collect payments from clients; used to go to embassy and
passport office for getting visa and passport for clients (ii) PW5 Mr. Pradeep Kumar Chawla deposed that he was
one of the directors in M/s Kanu Travels Care Pvt. Ltd. and the said
company was closed in 2002 and further testified that in the said
company there were two employees; one of them was Anil Dhawan. In
other words, PW5 corroborated the testimony of PW23. (iii) Though A8 had cross-examined PW23 Mr. G. S. Walia
at length, yet during his cross-examination, no dispute was raised to
the extent that he was not working with PW23 Mr. G. S. Walia. In
other words, the testimony of PW23 to the extent that he was working
initially in M/s Kanu Travels Care Pvt. Ltd. and thereafter, in M/s Jas
Air remained unrebutted. (iv) Though in his statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.
P. C, A8 denied all the incriminating evidence led by prosecution and
took the plea that he was not working with PW23 Mr. G. S. Walia, but
in his statement, he failed to explain where he was working at the
relevant time, if not working with PW23. Though on the one hand, he
took the plea that he was not working with Mr. G. S. Walia, but on the
other hand he stated that he was called at the office of CBI by Mr. G.
S. Walia by making call to him on the pretext that he had some urgent
work. If he had no relation with Mr. G. S. Walia, question of calling him
at the office of CBI by Mr. G. S. Walia does not arise. This falsifies the CBI No. 07/12 Page 66 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. plea of accused Anil Dhawan that he had no concern or relation with
Mr. G. S. Walia. Rather, it corroborates the testimony of PW5 and
PW23 that accused Anil Dhawan was an employee of PW23. (v) Even during trial, A8 failed to adduce any evidence
contrary to the testimony of PW5 and PW23 to disprove the fact that
he was not working with them. He also failed to produce any evidence
to show that he was working somewhere else at the relevant time and
not in the company of PW23 as deposed by him. (vi) In the absence of any contrary evidence on record, I do
not find any reason to disbelieve the testimony of PW5 and PW23 to
the extent that initially accused Anil Dhawan was working in M/s Kanu
Travels Care Pvt. Ltd till 2002 and when it was closed, he started
working in the partnership firm named M/s Jas Air, in which PW23 was
one of the partners. 39. Second question crops up for adjudication whether the
recovered 'Day Book' belonged to M/s Jas Air or not? In this regard,
the testimony of PW23 Mr. G. S. Walia and PW35 A.K. Tripathi are
relevant. (i) PW23 in his examination-in-chief deposed that the Day
Book of his firm M/s Jas Air was seized by the CBI in one of the
passport cases. He further deposed that requisite pages in this case
of the said Day book are marked as Ex.PW23/J. However, during
deposition original Day Book was shown to the witness from CC No.
08/12. After seeing the said documents and Day Book, PW23 testified CBI No. 07/12 Page 67 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. that the Day Book was written by him as well as by his employee i.e.
accused Anil Dhawan and further testified that the pages Ex.PW23/J
are in the handwriting of accused Anil Dhawan. (ii) No doubt, in his cross-examination, PW23 deposed that
the said Day Book does not bear any official stamp or mark of M/s Jas
Air to show that the Day Book pertained to the said firm. But the said
lapse is insufficient to discard the testimony of PW23, who is one of
the partners in the said firm. Since, PW23 admitted that the Day book
belonged to his firm and there is no contrary evidence to this, thus this
Court has no reason to disbelieve his testimony to that extent. (iii) PW35 in his cross-examination deposed that when he
interrogated accused Anil Dhawan, he was already in custody in some
other case and further testified that when accused Anil Dhawan was
interrogated, he was alone. He further categorically deposed that
nothing was recovered from accused Anil Dhawan in his presence.
This shows that the said Day Book was not recovered by PW35 during
investigation. Though PW33 also remained associated with the
investigation of the case, but he remained silent about the said Day
Book. (iv) In these circumstances, CBI failed to establish when
and how the said Day Book was seized. 40. Third question emerges from the submissions raised by
counsel for the parties whether PW5 and PW23 are competent
persons to identify the handwriting of A8 or not? State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (i) As already held that A8 was an employee in the
firm/company of PW5 and PW23, thus they have an opportunity to see
A8 to write and sign. From the testimony of PW5 and PW23, it also
becomes perspicuous that A8 had worked with them for a
considerable long time i.e. during 1991 to 2002 when he was working
in M/s Kanu Travels Care Pvt. Ltd. and thereafter, A8 started working
in the partnership firm named M/s Jas Air of PW23. Thus, the
testimony of PW5 and PW23 where they identified certain writings of
A8 becomes relevant under Section 47 of Indian Evidence which
reads as under:- When the Court has to form an opinion as to the
 person by whom any document was written or signed,
 the opinion of any person acquainted with the
 handwriting of the person by whom it is supposed to be
 written or signed that it was or was not written or
 signed by that person, is a relevant fact. Explanation - A person is said to be acquainted with
 the handwriting of another person when he has seen
 that person write, or when he has received documents
 purporting to be written by that person in answer to
 documents written by himself or under authority and
 addressed to that person, or when, in the ordinary
 course of business, documents purporting to be written
 by that person have been habitually submitted to him. (emphasis supplied) (ii) In view of Section 47 of Indian Evidence Act, I do not find
any substance in the contention raised by learned defence counsel
that since PW5 and PW23 are not experts, they cannot identify the
writings of A8. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 41. Now coming to the next issue how many questioned
writings have been identified by PW23 during trial? (i) PW23 in his examination-in-chief identified certain
following questioned writings as the writing of accused Anil Dhawan
(A8):- Passport Application Registration Forms and Application Forms for
Miscellaneous Services on Indian Passport. Since, PW23 identified
the said writings as the writings of accused Anil Dhawan, it means that
the said forms were filled up by accused Anil Dhawan. (iii) Though prosecution has set up a case that accused Anil
Dhawan had not only filled up the said forms but he also signed in all
the forms in the name of applicant i.e. Rajender Kumar Kapoor and
the said signatures are marked as Q20, Q26, Q28, Q36, Q37, Q43,
Q45 to Q52, Q53, Q59, Q61 to Q68, Q69, Q75, Q77 to Q84, Q85,
Q91, Q93 to Q99, Q100, Q106, Q108 to Q113. But PW23 expressed
his inability to identity the same and he furnished a plausible
explanation for the same by deposing that since he had not seen
accused Anil Dhawan to sign in the name of any other person, he
cannot say whether the said signatures were signed by accused Anil
Dhawan or not. (iv) Though PW5 in his examination-in-chief identified CBI No. 07/12 Page 71 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. certain questioned signatures which are marked Q20, Q23, Q26, Q28
to Q33, Q34 to Q37, Q40, Q43, Q45 to Q52 and in his cross-
examination initially he deposed that he had seen accused Anil
Dhawan to sign in the name of other persons on the visa application
form, but when a question was asked, whether he raised any
objection when he saw accused Anil Dhawan to sign in the name of
other person on the Visa Application Form or was it a routine function
of Anil Dhawan being an employee of his company, witness avoided
the first part of the question and qua second part, deposed that it was
not the duty of Anil Dhawan to sign in the name of other persons. He
further clarified that he had not made any complaint to any authority
but swiftly added that Mr. G. S. Walia must be aware about this fact as
Mr. G. S. Walia was acted as Director of the company. He further
deposed that he did not know the name of clients on whose visa
application form, accused Anil Dhawan had signed in their name and
swiftly added that he was not involved in day to day functioning of the
company. When a question was asked whether he can identify the
handwriting of a person who signed in the name of other person, he
deposed that he cannot identify the handwriting of such person. When
a specific question was asked whether he can identify that accused
Anil Dhawan had signed in the name of another person. He deposed
that during investigation, CBI had shown various Passport Application
forms to him in the CBI office, which he identified and further clarified
that since signature portion was also the part of said forms, he also
identified the same. From the careful reading of the statement of PW5,
it becomes clear that though he was in a position to identify the
handwriting of accused Anil Dhawan as he was in his employment, but
he was not sure whether the signature appearing on the forms were CBI No. 07/12 Page 72 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. also signed by accused Anil Dhawan or not. (v) From the testimony of PW5 and PW23 it becomes crystal
clear that they identified the handwriting of accused Anil Dhawan on
the said form but their testimony is not sufficient to establish that
accused Anil Dhawan had signed on the said forms in the name of
applicant i.e. Rajender Kumar Kapoor 42. Now coming to the specimen writings marked as S16 to
S35. (i) CBI has set up a case that the specimen writings were
taken in the presence of two independent witnesses namely Mr. S. K.
Soni and Mr. R. P. Attri, who graced the witness box as PW29 and
PW30 respectively. In their examination-in-chief they corroborated the
prosecution version that the above specimen writings were taken in
their presence which are marked collectively Ex. PW24/D. Though the
witnesses were cross-examined at length, yet nothing could be
extracted during their cross-examination which may help the accused
to raise any kind of dispute over the said specimen writings. Further
PW35 also deposed that the specimen writings Ex. PW24/D of
accused Anil Dhawan were taken during investigation in the presence
of independent witnesses. Thus, it is established beyond reasonable
doubts that the specimen writings Ex. PW24/D of accused Anil
Dhawan was taken by the CBI during investigation. 43. Now coming to the so-called admitted writings marked
as A1 to A23: PW23/J are in the handwritings of accused Anil Dhawan and further
deposed that the Day Book of the firm was usually maintained by him
and accused Anil Dhawan. Perusal of the Ex. PW23/J revels that it
contain the writings Mark A1 to A17. (ii) Though, PW23 deposed that the passport application
form of Ms. Kanu Priya Gombar Ex. PW23/K is in the handwritings of
accused Anil Dhawan. Similarly, PW23 further deposed that
Immigration Application Form of Ms. Padmini Malpani Ex. PW23/L is in
the handwriting of accused Anil Dhawan. Perusal of the said forms
reveals that the handwritings have been marked A18 to A23. (iii) Though CBI claimed that the alleged writings marked A1
to A23 are the admitted writings of accused Anil Dhawan but this
handwriting is never admitted by the accused Anil Dhawan during the
trial. Even there is no evidence to suggest that accused had admitted
the alleged handwritings at any point of time even during investigation.
Thus, the said writings can not be treated as admitted handwriting of
accused Anil Dhawan. However, since PW23 identified the said
handwritings as the writings of accused Anil Dhawan, his testimony is
relevant in terms of Section 47 of Indian Evidence Act. (iv) Though, the testimony of PW23 is relevant to prove the CBI No. 07/12 Page 74 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. handwritings Marked A1 to A23. But before placing any reliance on
his testimony qua these writings, prosecution has to establish how the
said documents were seized by the CBI in this case. PW23 in his
deposition deposed that a raid had been conducted at his premises
wherein several documents including the Day Book had been seized
by the CBI. During trial, prosecution has examined two CBI officials
CBI i.e. PW33 DSP R.K. Aggarwal and PW35 Inspector A. K. Tripathi.
However, both the witnesses remained silent qua the alleged Day
Book and the documents relating to Priya Gomber and Padmini
Malpani. PW33 Mr. R. K. Aggarwal did not utter even a single word
either about the said raid or about the alleged Day Book and the
documents relating to Priya Gomber and Padmini Malpani. Similarly,
PW35 A. K. Tripathi did not utter even a single word in his
examination-in-chief either about the Day Book or the documents
relating to above two ladies. On the contrary, in his cross-examination,
he deposed that he had no knowledge, if any, raid had been
conducted at the premises of Mr. G. S. Walia. He further deposed that
nothing was recovered from accused Anil Dhawan in his presence. He
further deposed that the document Ex. PW23/J to Ex. PW23/L were
not sent to GQED Shimla for opinion. In other words, during trial, CBI
failed to establish how and when the alleged Day Book and the
documents relating to Ms. Priya Gomber and Padmini Malpani were
seized. In these circumstances, I am of the opinion that no reliance
can be placed on the said documents. 44. Now coming to the Handwriting Expert Report: in support of the report are separately Ex. PW24/G. (ii) As per the report Ex.PW24/F, the author of Q21, Q24,
Q25, Q27, 38, Q41, Q42, Q44, Q54, Q57, Q58, Q60, Q70, Q73, Q74,
Q76, Q86, Q89, Q90, Q92, Q101, Q104, Q105, Q107 and S16 to S35
is one and the same person. As already stated that S16 to S35 is the
specimen writings and signature of accused Anil Dhawan, it means
that accused Anil Dhawan is the author of the above said writings. As
already stated that the above said writings are on the Passport
Application Registration Forms and Application Forms for
Miscellaneous Services on Indian Passport in all six files of additional
passport booklets. In other words, prosecution has succeeded to
establish that accused Anil Dhawan is the person who had filled up the
said forms when a request was made for issuance of additional
passport booklet from time to time. (iii) Q20, Q23, Q26, Q28 to Q37, Q40, Q43, Q45 to Q53,
Q55, Q56, Q59, Q61 to Q63, Q65 to Q70, Q72, Q75, Q77 to Q82,
Q84, Q85, Q87, Q88, Q91, Q93 to Q100, Q102, Q103, Q106, Q108 to
Q113 are the signature of the applicants in the name of Mr. Rajender
Kumar Kapoor on the forms, request letters and supporting
documents in all the additional passport booklet files. (iv) As per the report Ex. PW24/F, the said questioned
signatures tallied with the specimen writings of accused Anil Dhawan
which establishes that accused Anil Dhawan is the author of said
signatures. In other words at the time of filling up the applications in
the name of Mr. Rajender Kumar Kapoor with different photographs CBI No. 07/12 Page 76 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. accused Anil Dhawan also signed in the name of Mr. Rajender Kumar
Kapoor. (v) As per the prosecution version at the time of taking the
delivery of passport, accused Anil Dhawan impersonated himself as
Rajender Kumar Kapoor and made entry in passport delivery register
by mentioning the name of passport holders; additional passport
booklet numbers and signing in the name of applicant. The said
handwritings are marked as Q8, Q10, Q11, Q14 and Q15. The
relevant pages of passport delivery register on which the said writings
are written Ex. PW35/F to Ex. PW35/H respectively. The said
questioned writings tallied with the specimen writings of accused Anil
Dhawan, which establishes that it was accused Anil Dhawan who took
the delivery of said passports from the office of RPO despite the fact
that neither the passports were in his name nor he was authorised by
the passports holders to collect the same. As per the report of GEQD
Ex. PW24/F accused Anil Dhawan had collected the additional
passport booklets bearing No. E7104766, E7710034, E7988266,
E8582834 and E8584970. 45. PW24 is an independent person and is working as Dy.
Government Examiner of Questioned Documents, CFSL Shimla. He is
not only an independent witness but also well experienced person as
he deposed that he had more than 32 years experience in the field of
documents examination and he had examined thousands of
documents independently and deposed before various courts
throughout the country. He further deposed that the said questioned
documents were also examined independently by Mr. N. C. Sood, CBI No. 07/12 Page 77 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Government Examiner of Questions Documents. Thus, it becomes
clear that the questioned writings were not only examined by an
independent and experienced examiner but simultaneously, same
were also examined by another equivalent competent examiner.
PW24 had recorded the reasons in detail in Ex.PW24/G to arrive at
the above conclusion. Thus, it can safely be culled out that the
conclusions arrived at by PW24 are based on detailed reasons as
mentioned in Ex.PW24/G. Though PW24 was cross-examined by A8
but nothing has been come out in his cross-examination, which may
cast any dent either in his deposition or in his report. (i) No doubt, an attempt has been made to cause a dent in
the report of PW24 by putting a question that handwriting science is
not a perfect science. But this suggestion was denied by PW24 by
deposing that handwriting identification is a perfect science and a
definite opinion can be given provided suitable and sufficient data are
available and he clarified that in the instant case, sufficient and
suitable data were provided. (ii) Another futile attempt was made to create a doubt over
his report by stating that CBI has failed to produce Mr. N. C. Sood in
the witness box despite the fact that he is still alive. No doubt, PW24
deposed that Mr. N. C. Sood is still available. But prosecution was not
required to bring him in the witness box when PW24 proved the report
and defence failed to bring anything on record, which may cast any
doubt over his report. Moreover, it is settled law that Court has to see
the quality and not quantity of evidence. Thus, mere fact that Mr. N.C.
Sood was not examined by prosecution is not sufficient to discard the CBI No. 07/12 Page 78 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. testimony of PW24, which is otherwise trustworthy and admissible.
Moreover, if accused thinks that the deposition of Mr. N.C. Sood would
help him to prove his innocence, he could have easily called him as a
defence witness, but he also failed to examine him. Thus, to my mind,
non-examination of Mr. N.C. Sood is not fatal to the prosecution in any
manner. 46. Learned counsel vigorously argued that no reliance can
be placed on the report of PW24 Dr. B.A.Vaid as investigating officer
PW35 had not taken permission from the Court before taking the
specimen handwritings of accused Anil Dhawan and in support of his
contention, he strongly relied upon Sapan Haldar & another v/s. State (supra). 47. Perusal of the judgment Sapan Haldar & another v/s. State (supra) makes it clear that the fact in issue before the Hon'ble
Court was Section 4 & 5 of Identification of Prisoners Act, 1920 and Section 311A Code of Criminal Procedure. After considering the
relevant case law, Hon`ble Court arrived at following conclusion:- Thus, an investigating officer, during investigation,
 cannot obtain a handwriting sample or a signature
 sample from a person accused of having committed an
 offence. (ii).Prior to June 23, 2006, when Act No. 25 of 2005 was
 notified, inter-alia, inserting Section 311A in the Code of
 Criminal Procedure , 1973, even a Magistrate could not
 direct a person accused to give specimen signatures of CBI No. 07/12 Page 79 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. handwriting samples. In cases where Magistrates have
 directed so, the evidence was held to be inadmissible as
 per the decision of the Supreme Court in Ram Babu
 Mishra's case (supra). According to Section 73 of the
 Indian Evidence Act, 1872, only the Court concerned can
 direct a person appearing before it to submit samples of
 his handwriting and or signatures for purposes of
 comparison. (emphasis supplied) 48. However in the instant case, neither the Section 2 (a) , 4 & 5 of identification of Prisoners Act nor Section 311A Cr. P.C are fact
in issue before this Court. Indisputably, in the instant case,
investigating officer had not taken the specimen handwritings of
accused persons after obtaining permission either from the Court
concerned or from the Court of Metropolitan Magistrate. Rather,
specimen handwritings were taken during the investigation. It is
pertinent to state that in the judgment Sapan Haldar & another v/s. State (supra), there is nothing which may suggest that investigating
officer has no right or jurisdiction to take specimen handwritings of the
suspect during investigation for the purpose of finding truth, which is
ultimate object of any investigation. (i) Though learned counsel appearing for A8 also placed
reliance on the certain other judgements including Fakhruddin v/s. State of M.P (supra); Ram Chandra v/s. State of UP (supra);
Ishwari Pal Mista v/s. Mohd. Isa (supra); Shashi Kumar Banerjee
v/s. Subhodh Kumar Banerjee (supra), yet I do not deem it
appropriate to discuss all the judgements separately because all the
said judgements have been considered by the Apex Court in Murari
Lal v/s. State of MP, AIR 1980 SC 531. In the said judgment Apex CBI No. 07/12 Page 80 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Court had discussed the entire case law relating to Handwriting Expert
Evidence, thus relevant portions of the judgment are reproduced as
under:- P-9 was that of the appellant. He submitted that the
 evidence of P. W. 8 who claimed to be familiar with the
 handwriting of the appellant was wholly unacceptable,
 that it was not permissible in law to act upon the
 uncorroborated opinion-evidence of the expert P. W. 15
 and that the High Court fell into a serious error in
 attempting to compare the writing in Ex. P-9 with the
 admitted writing of the appellant. 4.We will first consider the argument, a Stale argument
 often heard, particularly in criminal courts, that the
 opinion-evidence of a handwriting expert should not be
 acted upon without substantial corroboration. We shall
 presently point out how the argument cannot be justified
 on principle or precedent. We begin with the observation
 that the expert is no accomplice. There is no justification
 for condemning his opinion evidence to the same class of
 evidence as that of an accomplice and insist upon
 corroboration. True, it has occasionally been said on very
 high authority that it would be hazardous to base a
 conviction solely on the opinion of a handwriting expert.
 But, the hazard in accepting the opinion of any expert, CBI No. 07/12 Page 81 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. handwriting expert or any other kind of expert, is not
 because experts, in general, are unreliable witnesses -
 the equality of credibility or incredibility being one which
 an expert shares with all other witness -, but because all
 human judgment is fallible and an expert may go wrong
 because of some defect of observation, some error of
 premises or honest mistake of conclusion. The more
 developed and the more perfect a science, the less the
 chance of an incorrect opinion and the converse if the
 science is less developed and imperfect. The science of
 identification of finger-prints has attained near perfection
 and the risk of an incorrect opinion is practically non-
 existent. On the other hand, the science of identification
 of handwriting is not nearly so perfect and the risk is,
 therefore, higher. But that is a far cry from doubting the
 opinion of a handwriting expert as an invariable rule and
 insisting upon substantial corroboration in every case,
 howsoever the opinion may be backed by the soundest of
 reasons. It is hardly fair to an expert to view his opinion
 with an initial suspicion and to treat him as an inferior sort
 of witness. His opinion has to be tested by the
 acceptability of the reasons given by him. An expert
 deposes and not decides. His duty 'is to furnish the judge
 with the necessary scientific criteria for testing the
 accuracy of his conclusion, so as to enable the judge to
 form his own independent judgment by the application of
 these criteria to the facts proved in evidence'. (Vide Lord
 President Cooper in Decie v. Edinburgh Magistrate, 1953
 SC 34 quoted by Professor Cross in his Evidence). 5.From the earliest times, courts have received the
 opinion of experts. As long ago as 1553 it was said in
 Buckley v. Rice Thomas, (1554) 1 Plowden 118: 6.Expert testimony is made relevant by S. 45 of the
 Evidence Act and where the Court has to form an opinion
 upon a point as to identity of handwriting, the opinion of a
 person 'specially skilled' 'in questions as to identity of
 handwriting' is expressly made a relevant fact. There is
 nothing in the Evidence Act , as for example like
 Illustration (b) to Section 114 which entitles the Court to
 presume that an accomplice is unworthy of credit, unless CBI No. 07/12 Page 82 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. he is corroborated in material particulars, which justifies
 the court in assuming that a handwriting expert's opinion
 is unworthy of credit unless corroborated. The Evidence
 Act itself ( S. 3 ) tells us that 'a fact is said to be proved
 when, after considering the matters before it, the Court
 either believes it to exist or considers its existence so
 probable that a prudent man ought, under the
 circumstances of the particular case, to act upon the
 supposition that it exists'. It is necessary to occasionally
 remind ourselves of this interpretation clause in the Evidence Act lest we act on artificial standard of proof not
 warranted by the provisions of the Act. Further, under S.
 114 of the Evidence Act, the Court may presume the
 existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have
 happened, regard being had to the common course of
 natural events, human conduct, and public and private
 business, in their relation to facts of the particular case. It
 is also to be noticed that S. 46 of the Evidence Act makes
 facts, not otherwise relevant, relevant if they support or
 are inconsistent with the opinion of experts, when such
 opinions are relevant. So, corroboration may not
 invariably be insisted upon before acting on the opinion of
 a handwriting expert and there need to no initial
 suspicion. But, on the facts of a particular case, a court
 may require corroboration of a varying degree. There can
 be no hard and fast rule, but nothing will justify the
 rejection of the opinion of an expert supported by
 unchallenged reasons on the sole ground that it is not
 corroborated. The approach of a court while dealing with
 the opinion of a handwriting expert should be to proceed
 cautiously, probe the reasons for the opinion, consider all
 other relevant evidence and decide finally to accept or
 reject it. 7.Apart from principle, let us examine if precedents justify
 invariable insistence on corroboration. We have referred
 to Phipson on Evidence, Cross on Evidence, Roscoe on
 Criminal Evidence, Archibald on Criminal Pleadings,
 Evidence and Practice and Halsbury's Laws, England but
 we were unable to find a single sentence hinting at such
 a rule. We may now refer to some of the decisions of this
 Court. In Ram Chandra v. U. P. State , AIR 1957 SC 381,
 Jagannadha Das, J. observed; "It may be that normally it
 is not safe to treat expert evidence as to handwriting as
 sufficient basis for conviction" (emphasis ours). 'May' and
 'normally' make our point about the absence of an
 inflexible rule. In Ishwari Prasad Misra v. Mohammad Isa ,
 (1963) 3 SCR 722, Gajendragadkar, J. observed; 8.In Shashi Kumar v. Subodh Kumar , AIR 1964 SC 529,
 Wanchoo, J., after noticing various features of the opinion
 of the expert said: So, there was acceptable direct testimony which was
 destructive of the expert's opinion; there were other
 features also which made the expert's opinion unreliable.
 The observations regarding corroboration must be read in
 that context and it is worthy of note that even so the
 expression used was 'it is usual' and not 'it is necessary'. 9.In Fakhruddin v. State of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 1967
 SC 1326 : 1967 Cri LJ 1197, Hidayatullah, J. said: These observations lend no support to any requirement
 as to corroboration of expert testimony. On the other
 hand, the facts show that the Court ultimately did act
 upon the uncorroborated testimony of the expert though
 the judges took the precaution of comparing the writing
 themselves. 10.Finally, we come to Magan Bihari Lal v. State of
 Punjab , AIR 1977 SC 1091 upon which Sri R. C. Kohli,
 learned counsel, placed great reliance. It was said by this
 Court: The above extracted passage, undoubtedly, contains
 some sweeping general observations. But we do not
 think that the observations were meant to be
 observations of general application or as laying down any
 legal principle. It was plainly intended to be a rule of
 caution and not a rule of law as is clear from the
 statement 'it has almost become as rule of law'. 'Almost',
 we presume, means 'not quite'. It was said by the Court
 there was a 'profusion of precedential authority' which
 insisted upon corroboration and reference was made to Ram Chandra v. State of U. P. , Ishwari Prasad v.
 Mohammed Isa , Shashi Kumar v. Subodh Kumar and Fakhruddin v. State of M. P. We have already discussed
 these cases and observed that none of them supports the
 proposition that corroboration must invariably be sought
 before opinion evidence can be accepted. There appears
 to be some mistake in the last sentence of the above
 extracted passage because we are unable to find in Fakhruddin v. State of Madhya Pradesh any statement
 such as the one attributed. In fact , in that case , the
 learned Judges acted upon the sole testimony of the
 expert after satisfying themselves about the correctness
 of the opinion by comparing the writings themselves. We
 do think that the observations in Magan Bihari Lal v. State
 of Punjab must be understood as referring to the facts of
 the particular case. 11.We are firmly of the opinion that there is no rule of law,
 nor any rule of prudence which has crystallised into a rule
 of law, that opinion evidence of a handwriting expert must
 never be acted upon, unless substantially corroborated.
 But, having due regard to the imperfect nature of the
 science of identification of handwriting, the approach, as
 we indicated earlier, should be one of caution. Reasons
 for the opinion must be carefully probed and examined.
 All other relevant evidence must be considered. In
 appropriate cases, corroboration may be sought. In cases
 where the reasons for the opinion are convincing and
 there is no reliable evidence throwing a doubt. the
 uncorroborated testimony of a handwriting expert may be CBI No. 07/12 Page 86 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. accepted. There cannot be any inflexible rule on a matter
 which, in the ultimate analysis, is no more than a
 question of testimonial weight. We have said so much
 because this is an argument frequently met with in
 subordinate courts and sentences torn out of context
 from the judgments of this Court are often flaunted. 12.The argument that the Court should not venture to
 compare writings itself, as it would thereby assume to
 itself the role of an expert is entirely without force. Section 73 of the Evidence Act expressly enables the
 Court to compare disputed writings with admitted or
 proved writings to ascertain whether a writing is that of
 the person by whom it purports to have been written. If it
 is hazardous to do so, as sometimes said, we are afraid it
 is one of the hazards to which judge and litigant must
 expose themselves whenever it becomes necessary.
 There may be cases where both sides call experts and
 the voices of science are heard. There may be cases
 where neither side calls an expert, being ill able to afford
 him. In all such cases, it becomes the plain duty of the
 Court to compare the writings and come to its own
 conclusion. The duty cannot be avoided by recourse to
 the statement that the court is no expert. Where there are
 expert opinions, they will aid the Court. Where there is
 none, the Court will have to seek guidance from some
 authoritative textbook and the Court's own experience
 and knowledge. But discharge it must, its plain duty, with
 or without expert, with or without other evidence. We may
 mention that Shashi Kumar v. Subodh Kumar and Fakhruddin v. State of Madhya Pradesh were cases
 where the Court itself compared the writings. 13.Reverting to the facts of the case before us, Sri Kohli
 had not a word of criticism to offer against the reasons
 given by the expert P. W. 15, for his opinion. We have
 perused the reasons given by the expert as well as his
 cross-examination. Nothing has been elicited to throw the
 least doubt on the correctness of the opinion. Both the
 Sessions Court and the High Court compared the
 disputed writing at page 6 in Ex. P-9 with the admitted
 writings and found, in conjunction with the opinion of the
 expert, that the author was the same person. We are
 unable to find any ground for disagreeing with the
 findings. (emphasis supplied) (ii) The above view was approved by the Apex Court in CBI No. 07/12 Page 87 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Alamgir v/s. State (NCT) Delhi in Criminal Appeal No. 202 of 2001
decided on 12.11.2002. (iii) Though counsel appearing for Anil Dhawan also cited
certain other judgments relating to handwritings but in view of the law
laid down in Murari Lal v/s. State of MP (supra), I am of the view that
no fruitful purpose would be achieved to discuss the said judgements. (iv) From the evidence adduced by prosecution, following
facts can safely be culled out:- to collect payment; to help clients in getting passports and
 visa; to make entries in the Day book. (c) That PW23 had identified certain writings i.e.
 Q21, Q24, Q25, Q27, Q38, Q41, Q42, Q44, Q54, Q57,
 Q58, Q60, Q70, Q73, Q74, Q76, Q86, Q89, Q90, Q92,
 Q101, Q104, Q105 and Q107 appearing on the passport
 application registration forms and forms for
 miscellaneous services on Indian passport submitted
 before the RPO from time to time and deposed that the
 said questioned writings are in the handwriting of
 accused Anil Dhawan. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (d) That the handwriting expert proved the fact that
 not only Anil Dhawan is the author of above questioned
 writings, but he is also the author of other questioned
 writings i.e. signatures, which are marked as Q20,
 Q23, Q26, Q28 to Q37, Q40, Q43, Q45 to Q53, Q55,
 Q56, Q59, Q61 to Q63, Q65 to Q69, Q71, Q72, Q75 to
 Q82, Q84, Q85, Q87, Q88, Q91, Q93 to Q100, Q102,
 Q103, Q106, Q108 to Q113 as the above said
 questioned writings tallied with the specimen writings
 marked as S16 to S35. (e) That it is also established from the report Ex.
 PW24/F that A8 is the author of Q8, Q10, Q11, Q14, Q15,
 Q29, Q55, Q71, Q87 and Q102, which proves that
 accused Anil Dhawan had also collected the last five
 additional passport booklet by signing in the name of
 Rajender Kumar Kapoor. 49. Thus, from the above, it becomes clear that not only
PW23 proved the fact that accused Anil Dhawan had filled up the
passport application registration forms as well as application forms for
miscellaneous services on Indian Passport in all six passport files,
which were submitted before the office of RPO for obtaining additional
passport booklets in the name of Mr. Rajender Kumar Kapoor from
time to time with different photographs, but PW24 Dr. B.A.Vaid also
corroborated the testimony of PW23 and also proved that A8 had
signed in all the files in the name of applicants. Further, during trial, no
reliable evidence, which may throw any doubt over the conclusion CBI No. 07/12 Page 89 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. arrived at by PW24 has been produced by the accused. Further,
PW24 in his deposition categorically stated that in the instant case
sufficient data were provided for comparison. Thus, in the absence of
any contrary evidence on record, this Court has no reason to
disbelieve the report of PW24 which is not only corroborated by PW23
but also supported by another independent Handwriting Expert Mr.
N.C. Sood. 50. Since, it has been established that the passport
application registration forms and applications for miscellaneous
services on Indian Passport in all additional passport booklet files,
which were submitted before the RPO for obtaining additional
passport booklets from time to time, were not only filled up by accused
Anil Dhawan, but he also signed the same in the name of applicants.
Thus, in terms of Section 106 of Indian Evidence Act, burden is shifted
upon the accused Anil Dhawan to explain under which circumstances
he had filled up the said forms/applications and signed in the name of
applicants. But during trial, he failed to discharge the said burden. In
the absence of any contrary evidence on record, this Court has no
hesitation to draw a conclusion that accused Anil Dhawan had not
only filled up the said forms/applications knowingly well that the
persons whose photographs are affixed on the said forms/applications
were not Mr. Rajender Kumar Kapoor in whose name the said
forms/applications had been filled up, but he also signed in the name
of applicants in all the files, thus accused Anil Dhawan is liable for the
offence punishable under Section 420 IPC as he dishonestly induced
the office of RPO to believe that the persons whose photographs are
affixed on the said forms/applications were Rajender Kumar Kapoor CBI No. 07/12 Page 90 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. and induced RPO to issue additional passport booklets as prayed in
said forms/applications. 51. As already discussed that accused Anil Dhawan had
signed in the name of Rajender Kumar Kapoor at the time of applying
for additional passport booklets in all the files, thus he had committed
forgery as defined under Section 463 IPC. As he did so with an
intention to support his claim that the said forms were signed by the
applicant Rajender Kumar Kapoor with an intention to commit fraud
with RPO, New Delhi by signing additional passport in the name of
Rajender Kumar Kapoor, thus accused Anil Dhawan is also liable for
the offence punishable under Section 468 IPC. 52. Since, accused Anil Dhawan had also used the said
forms in order to obtain additional passport booklets in the name of
Rajender Kumar Kapoor, he is also liable for the offence punishable
under Section 471 IPC. 53. Since, it has been established that accused Anil Dhawan
also collected five additional passport booklets by signing in the name
of Rajender Kumar Kapoor, it means that he represented himself as
Rajender Kumar Kapoor at the time of obtaining additional passport
booklets, thus, he is also liable for the offence punishable under Section 419 IPC. 54. Since, accused Anil Dhawan had filled up the passport
application registration forms and forms for miscellaneous services in
the name of Rajender Kumar Kapoor with different photographs and CBI No. 07/12 Page 91 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. he also signed on the said forms. Furthermore, he failed to furnish any
reasonable explanation under which circumstances, he had filled up
the said forms/applications in the name of same person with different
photographs and signed the said forms in the name of applicants, thus
his above acts are sufficient to draw a conclusion that he had
furnished false information qua applicants knowingly or having
reasons to believe that the persons whose photographs are affixed on
the said forms/applications were not Rajender Kumar Kapoor, thus he
facilitated the said persons in obtaining the passport from RPO by
furnishing false information, thus accused Anil Dhawan is also liable
for the offence punishable under Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act. Contentions on behalf of accused Naim Safi (A9):- 55. Sh. Harsh Mohan, learned counsel for CBI contended
that the role of accused Naieem Safi (A9) was that he had collected
one additional passport booklet bearing No. E-6330265 from RPO
despite the fact that neither he was applicant nor authorised by the
applicant to collect the passport. It was further submitted that at time
of taking the delivery of passport, he also made an entry in passport
delivery register which is marked as mark Q4 and similarly he also
acknowledged the receipt of passport in the file at mark Q22. It was
argued that since Q22 tallied with the specimen writing of accused, it
shows that he was in conspiracy with the accused Anil Dhawan &
others. 56. Mr. Lalit Yadav, Advocate, learned counsel appearing for
A9 refuted the said contentions by arguing sagaciously that there is no CBI No. 07/12 Page 92 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. cogent admissible evidence on record to prove the fact that A9 had
collected the above said additional passport booklet from RPO office.
It was urged that no witness had deposed that either he had delivered
the said passport to the accused or he had seen the accused while
collecting the passport. It was further contended that even GEQD
report Ex.PW24/F is silent qua Q4, this further shows that there is no
evidence on record that the alleged passport was collected by
accused Naieem Safi. (i) It was argued that no doubt, Q22 tallied with the alleged
specimen writing of the accused, but this is not sufficient to impose the
criminal liability as there is nothing on record to show that Q4 and Q22
were written by the one and the same person. Findings qua accused Naieem Safi (A9): 57. CBI has set up a case against A9 that he had taken the
delivery of additional passport booklet bearing No. E6330265. As per
CBI version, at the time of taking the delivery of said additional
passport booklet, A9 had represented himself as Rajender Kumar
Kapoor and made an entry in the passport delivery register, wherein
he mentioned the name of applicant; number of additional passport
booklet and he also signed in the name of applicant. Relevant page of
said delivery register is Ex. PW35/E. The said entry is marked as Q4.
As per CBI version, A9 also acknowledged the receipt of said passport
on the application form for miscellaneous services (Ex. PW5/A1) and
the said writing is marked as Q22. It was argued that since A9 is the
author of Q4 and Q22, he was not only the member of the said CBI No. 07/12 Page 93 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. conspiracy but he had also committed forgery in pursuance of the
conspiracy. (i) In order to prove its case prosecution has placed reliance
on the GEQD report Ex. PW24/F but the said report is silent qua Q4.
In other words, there is no evidence whatsoever that A9 was the
author of Q4. Thus, there is no admissible evidence on record to
establish the fact that either A9 had made the entry in Ex. PW35/E or
he had taken the delivery of said passport booklets. (ii) No doubt, as per the GEQD report Ex. PW24/F, Q22
matched with the specimen writings marked S1 to S15. But the
question arises whether this is sufficient to prove the guilt of accused
beyond the reasonable doubts. No doubt, as per Ex. PW24/F, author
of Q22 is A9. But, it is pertinent to mention here that Q22 was not
identified by any of the witnesses examined by the prosecution during
trial. In other words the entire prosecution case is based on the report
Ex. PW24/F. (iii) Admittedly, it was alleged by the CBI that A9 is the
author of Q4 and Q22. Though both the questioned writings were
examined by GEQD, Shimla and report was submitted, but even there
is no finding therein that Q4 and Q22 were written by one and the
same person. Since, there is no report qua Q4, it can safely be culled
out that the author of Q4 and Q22 is not the one and the same person. (iv) As per prosecution version, Q22 was compared with
specimen writings marked S1 to S35 ( Ex. PW24/C). However, perusal CBI No. 07/12 Page 94 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. of the said specimen writings reveals that these are four different set
of writings of accused Naieem Safi (A9). S1 to S4 relates to one set;
S5 to S8 relates to second set of writings, S9 to S12 related to third
set of writings and S13 to S15 relates to fourth set of writings.
However, in the reasons Ex. PW24/G, it is not specified which set of
specimen writings qua Q22 was examined and findings was given. (v) In view of the peculiar facts and circumstances of the
case, I am of the considered opinion that it would not be safe to record
conviction on the basis of sole finding qua Q22. (vi) Prosecution failed to produce any other cogent
evidence on record to prove the fact that accused Naieem Safi had
either visited the office of RPO on that day or he had received the
additional passport booklet from RPO office either by representing
himself as Rajender Kumar Kapoor or signed in the passport delivery
register in the name of applicant. Similarly, there is no evidence on
record to prove the fact that he had furnished any false information to
RPO to issue the said additional passport booklets. In these
circumstances, I am of the considered opinion that accused Naieem
Safi (A9) is entitled for the benefit of doubts. Accordingly, I hereby
acquit him from all the charges. Contentions on behalf of accused G.D.Joshi (A5):- 58. Sh. Harsh Mohan, learned Public Prosecutor for CBI
submitted that the role of accused G.D. Joshi (A5) and R.S. Rawat
(A6) (since deceased) was that they had supplied/delivered the CBI No. 07/12 Page 95 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. additional passport booklets to A8 and A9 without any authority.
However, prosecution fairly conceded that there is no specific cogent
evidence against either of them, but swiftly added that there is
evidence on record to establish that the official who used to register
the applications for additional passport booklets, also used to deliver
the said additional passport booklets to the applicants in post lunch
session and this fact is established from the statement of PW20. It
was argued that since, G.D. Joshi had dealt with the application in
respect of additional passport booklets bearing No. E-6330265, E-
7104766, E-7710034, E-7988266, it can safely be presumed that he
had delivered the said booklets to A8 & A9 unauthorisedly. It was
further contended that the said fact is also corroborated from the
computer process sheet Ex.PW10/A and Ex.PW9/A to Ex.PW9/C. 59. On the converse, Sh. Mrityunjay Singh, Advocate,
counsel appearing for A5 refuted the said contentions by sagaciously
arguing that there is no iota of admissible evidence to bring home the
guilt of accused beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts. It was
contended that prosecution case is based on the assumption and
presumption. It was astutely argued that prosecution has set up a
case against A5 that since A5 had registered the application form qua
above additional passport booklets on August 22, 2003, December 04,
2003 February 03, 2004, and February 27, 2004, he must have
delivered the same and this fact is also corroborated from the
computer process sheets as submitted by the learned Public
Prosecutor. But it was astutely argued that no reliance can be placed
on the version of prosecution as it is admitted case of the prosecution
that the passport booklets were not delivered on the said dates. It was CBI No. 07/12 Page 96 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. further contended that PW7 and PW25 in their cross-examination
categorically deposed that no specific official was deputed to deliver
the passport booklets. They further testified that passport could be
delivered by any official of RPO, New Delhi. (i) It was further perspicaciously contended that as per the
duty roaster Ex.PW10/A, the application was registered on August 22,
2003 whereas booklet was delivered to the applicant on August 25,
2003; similarly, as per Ex.PW9/A, application was registered on
December 04, 2003 whereas passport booklet was delivered on
December 09, 2003; similarly, as per Ex.PW9/B, application was
registered on February 03, 2004 whereas passport booklet was
delivered on February 05, 2004. Similarly, as per Ex.PW9/C,
application was registered on February 27, 2004 whereas passport
was delivered on March 04, 2004. Thus, no reliance can be placed on
the submission of learned Public Prosecutor that the official who used
to register the application in pre lunch session, also used to deliver
passport booklets in post lunch session. Findings qua accused G.D.Joshi (A5):- 60. CBI has set up a case against A5 that he had delivered
four additional passport booklets to A8 and A9 whereas two additional
passport booklets were delivered by his co-accused Mr. R. S. Rawat
(A6) (since deceased). (i) In order to prove the culpability of A5, prosecution has
placed reliance on the deposition of PW25 who deposed that the CBI No. 07/12 Page 97 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. official who used to register the application for additional passport
booklet, also used to deliver the said passport booklets to the
applicant in post lunch session and also relied upon the computer
Process sheet Ex. PW9/A to Ex. PW9/C and Mark PW10/A. (ii) Perusal of the Process sheet Mark PW10/A reveals that
A5 had registered the application qua additional passport booklet
bearing No. E-6330265 on August 22, 2003. From Ex. PW9/A to Ex.
PW9/C it reveals that A5 had registered the application in respect of
additional passport booklet bearing no. E7104766, E7710034 and
E7988266 on December 4, 2003, February 3, 2004 and February 27,
2004. The said process sheets are silent qua the date when the
delivery was made of the said additional passport booklets. However,
it is clear from the said sheets that the said additional passport
booklets were ready on August 25, 2003, December 9, 2003, February
5, 2004 and March 4, 2004. Thus, it becomes clear that the said
additional passport booklets could not have been delivered on the day
in post lunch session when A5 had registered the applications in
respect of above additional passport booklets. Even there is no
evidence on record to show that A5 was on duty when the passport
booklets were allegedly delivered to A8 and A9. (iii) In this regard, the testimony of PW7 Raj Singh and
PW25 S. P. Kothari are relevant. In their cross-examination they
candidly admitted that there was no designated post in the office of
RPO at the relevant time to deliver the additional passport booklets
and further testified that there is nothing in file which may show that in
the present matter additional passport booklets were delivered either CBI No. 07/12 Page 98 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. by accused G.D.Joshi (A5) or R.S.Rawat (A6). (iv) In view of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that CBI has failed to produce any cogent
admissible evidence on record to establish the fact that A5 had
delivered the additional passport booklet either to A8 or A9, thus, I
hereby acquit the accused G.D.Joshi (A5) from all the charges. Contentions on behalf of accused Ram Chander (A3):- 61. Learned counsel appearing for A3 contended that since
there is a delay of 10 months in registration of FIR, a reasonable
doubt arises over the prosecution case. It was further contended that
though there is a delay of 10 months in registration of FIR and the FIR
is in detail, yet the name of A3 is not mentioned therein, which proves
his innocence. (i) It was further contended that there is a material
contradiction between the testimony of PW20 and PW25 on the point
of facilities provided in HIT Section. Moreover, there is no evidence
on record that the accused had issued the HIT clearance in the files in
question. It was further argued that no reliance can be placed on the
documents filed by the prosecution as there was every possibility that
some one had misused P number and password of A3. Further, it was
argued that in terms of Section 224 Cr. P.C charges should have been
dropped by the prosecution. (ii) It was sagaciously argued that as per prosecution CBI No. 07/12 Page 99 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. version, accused Ram Chander had given HIT clearances in passport
No. T-5039/04 in respect of additional passport booklet No. E-
8582894 on 29.03.2004 whereas accused Ram Chander was on
leave from 29.03.2004 to 02.04.2004 and this fact is proved by PW25
in his cross examination. It was urged that from this, it becomes clear
that someone had misused his P-number and password and there is
every possibility that the same person had also given the HIT
clearances in other files without the knowledge or consent of accused
Ram Chander. In support of his contention, counsel placed reliance on
the judgment K.M. Sujith v. State of Kerala, CRL A. No. 1707 of
2005 decided by High Court of Kerala on October 21, 2009. (iii) It was further argued that from the testimony of PW20
and PW25, it can safely be culled out that there was possibility that
the password of A3 could be stolen by someone and misused by
unscrupulous person. It was submitted that in these circumstances, it
cannot be said that prosecution has proved its case beyond
reasonable doubt. 62. Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor refuted the said
contentions by arguing that there is no delay in registration of FIR and
mere fact that the name of accused is not mentioned in the FIR is not
sufficient to exonerate him. It was further contended that there are
overwhelming evidence on record to establish beyond reasonable
doubts that accused was not only posted in HIT Section at the
relevant time but he also dealt with the files in question and he had
given HIT clearance without pointing out the dissimilarity in the CBI No. 07/12 Page 100 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. photograph and signature of the applicant as well as without pointing
out that additional passport booklets had been issued in the name of
applicant earlier. It was further contended that during trial, accused
failed to lead any evidence to prove the fact that his P number and
password was misused by anyone and further submitted that Section
224 Cr. P.C is not applicable in the facts and circumstances of the
case. (i) It was further contended that no reliance can be placed on
the testimony of PW25 wherein he deposed that A3 was on earned
leave w.e.f. 29.03.2004 to 02.04.2004 as he was working in the same
office and there is every possibility that he had been won over by the
accused. (ii) It was further contended that since as per Ex.PW9/D,
entry was made from the P-number of accused Ram Chander,
presumption is that he had made the entry and this further shows that
he was present in the office, thus no reliance can be placed on the
deposition of PW25. Findings qua accused Ram Chander( A3):- State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (i) Perusal of the FIR reveals that the same was registered
on receipt of the information. There is nothing on record which may
show that the information was received prior to February 1, 2005.
Mere fact that the received information was related to the offence
committed in past is not sufficient that there was any delay in
registration of the FIR. Similarly mere fact that the name of A3 is not
mentioned in the FIR is ipso-fact not sufficient to exonerate the
accused from the charges. 64. Now coming to the Section 224 Cr.P.C, which reads as
under:- as the case may be with the consent of the Court may withdraw the
remaining charges. Since in the present case, accused has not been
held guilty, the question of withdrawal of the charges does not arise.
Moreover, as per Section 224 Cr.P.C, it is prerogative of complainant
or the prosecution to withdraw the charges and accused can not claim
as a matter of right to drop the charges. Thus, to my mind in the facts
and circumstances of the case, Section 224 Cr.P.C is not applicable. 65. A3 in his statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C
took the plea that during his posting in the office of RPO, New Delhi
his seat was located in the main hall where entry of public persons
was free, thus it was quite possible that at the time of opening the
computer, somebody might have noted down his P number and
password from the movement of his fingers and later on misused the
same. It was submitted that when HIT was shown to have been
cleared in one file, he was on leave. He further submitted that he had
not given his password to anybody nor authorised anyone to give HIT
clearance on his behalf. It was further submitted that he was on leave
during the period March 29, 2004 to April 2, 2004 despite that it was
shown as that he had given HIT clearance in one file on March 29,
2004. (i) From the above, it becomes abundantly clear that
accused had taken the plea that in the present case HIT clearance
might have been given by some unknown unscrupulous person by
misusing his password and P number. Secondly, he took the plea that
though he was on leave on March 29, 2004, yet it has been shown
that HIT clearance was given by him in one file, thus it is quite CBI No. 07/12 Page 103 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. possible that in other files also HIT clearance be given by the same
person. (ii) In order to establish that A3 had given the HIT clearance
in the files, prosecution has placed reliance on the process sheet Ex.
PW9/B to PW9/E. As per Ex. PW9/D, A3 had given the HIT clearance
in respect of additional passport booklets bearing No. E8582894 on
March 29, 2004. PW25 Mr. S. K. Kothari in his cross examination
admitted that accused Ram Chander had obtained the record of
attendance register after making an application before him and further
admitted that he had supplied the said record to A3 and same is Ex.
PW25/DA. Perusal of Ex. PW25/DA reveals that it is the attendance
register. PW25 further admitted that as per the attendance register
Ex. PW25/DA, A3 was on earned leave from March 29, 2004 to April
2, 2004 and he further clarified that since he was on leave, he was not
in a position to give HIT clearance during the said period. (iii) During trial CBI failed to produce any other evidence
whatsoever to establish that on March 29, 2004, A3 was in the office
or he had given the HIT clearance as mentioned in Ex. PW9/D. Even
there is no evidence on record that he was called in the office to give
HIT clearance or he proceeded on leave from the office itself after
doing some work. In these circumstances, I am of the considered
opinion that A3 has demolished the prosecution case in respect of
additional passport booklet bearing No. E-8582894 that he had given
the HIT clearance in the said file. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (iv) As per Ex.PW9/B, A3 had given the HIT clearance in
respect of additional passport booklets bearing No. E7710034 on
February 4, 2004; as per Ex. PW9/C, A3 had given the HIT clearance
in respect of Passport bearing No. E7988266 on March 3, 2004 and
as per Ex. PW9/E, A3 had given the HIT clearance in respect of
additional passport bearing No. E-8584870 on April 21, 2004. There
is nothing on record to show that A3 was on leave on these days.
Thus, from the Ex. PW9/B, PW9/C and PW9/C, it becomes clear that
A3 had given the HIT clearance in respect of all the aforesaid
additional passport booklets. 66. Now coming to the contentions regarding mis-use of
password. (i) It is undisputed fact that HIT clearance was used to be
given through computers by the officials posted in HIT Section. It is
also undisputed fact that the officials posted in RPO can access the
file by using their allotted P number and password. Password always
remains in the personal knowledge of an individual employee.
Needless to say that it is the duty of an employee not to share his
password with anyone. Moreover, in the instant case A3 had not
taken any plea that he had shared his password with anyone but if he
had shared his password with anyone or same was misused by
anyone, onus is shifted upon him in terms of Section 106 of Evidence
Act to explain under which circumstances, he had shared his
password or under which circumstances his password was misused.
But he failed to discharge the said burden. In the absence of any such
evidence on record, I do not find any substance in the plea that CBI No. 07/12 Page 105 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. someone had misused his password. (ii) PW20 Ajai Gautam is a star witness of the prosecution
case, he in his examination-in-chief deposed that HIT checking
without photograph was started in the year 2000 whereas HIT
checking with photograph and signature was stated in August 2002
but only in one PC. He further clarified that since April 2004 HIT
checking with photograph and signature was started in all the
computers. Thus, from the testimony of PW20, it becomes clear that
the facility of checking of photographs and signature in HIT section
was provided in all the computers in April 2004. (iii) As per Ex. PW9/B to Ex. PW9/E, A3 had given the HIT
clearance on February 4, 2004 to April 21, 2004. In other words when
he had dealt with the files except at the last occasion, no facility was
provided in all the computers installed at HIT section to check the
photographs and signatures of the applicant and compare the same
with the photograph and signatures of original passport holder. No
doubt, PW20 also deposed that in August 2002 the said facility was
provided at one PC in the HIT section but there is nothing on record
which may show that such PC was alloted to A3. In these
circumstances, prosecution has failed to establish that there was a
facility in the computer of A3 to compare the photograph and
signatures of applicant with the photograph and signature of original
passport holder. (iv) No doubt, there was no facility in the system of A3 to
compare the signatures and photographs of the applicant with the CBI No. 07/12 Page 106 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. original passport holder, but he was in a position to see whether any
additional passport had been issued in the name of applicant or not.
Similarly, he was also in a position to see the other particulars of
original passport holders. (v) In the instant case, A3 had given the HIT clearance first
time on February 4, 2004 in the file of additional passport booklet
bearing no. E7710034. However, prior to that two additional passport
booklets bearing no. E6330265 and E7104766 had already been
issued in the name of applicant Rajender Kumar Kapoor on August
25, 2003 and December 9, 2003. Thus, at the time of giving the HIT
clearance on February 4, 2004, A3 was in a position to see that two
additional passport booklets had already been issued in the name of
same applicant. Since applicant was seeking additional passport
booklet on the pretext that it was his first additional passport booklet,
thus it was the duty of A3 to point out the same. But he failed to do
so. Similarly, at the time of giving HIT clearance subsequently in other
files on March 3, 2004 and April 21, 2004, it was his duty to point out
and highlight the number of additional passport booklets, which had
already been issued in the name of same applicant. But he failed to do
so. This proves that he had given HIT clearance without checking the
particulars of applicant. By giving HIT clearance without checking the
record, A3 had facilitated the applicant in getting additional passport
booklet in fictitious name which is not in the public interest. Thus, A3 is
liable for the offence punishable under Section 13(2) read with 13(1) (d)(iii) of PC Act . State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (vi) However, I am of the view that there is no scintilla of
evidence to prove the guilt of A3 for the offence punishable under Section 12(1)(b) of Passport Act 1967, accordingly, accused Ram
Chander (A3) stands acquitted thereunder. Contentions on behalf of Sushma Bajaj (A4):- 67. Learned Public Prosecutor appearing for CBI
sagaciously contended that A4 was working as Assistant in RPO and
at the relevant time, she was posted in HIT section. It was argued that
she had given HIT clearances in one file in respect of additional
passport bearing No. E-6330265. As per Mark PW10/A, she had given
HIT clearance on August 25, 2003. It was argued that A4 had given
cleared HIT without pointing out about the issuance of earlier passport
in the same name. It was further contended that in HIT section, there
was a facility in the computer of A4 to check the photograph and
signature of the passport holder and in case of any dissimilarity, it was
her duty to point out the same. It was urged that since A4 was in
conspiracy with the applicant and other accused persons, she did not
raise any such objection despite the fact that the photograph of the
applicant was totally different from the photograph of the original
passport holder. Similarly, there was substantial difference in the
signature of applicant as well as the passport holder. 68. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for A4 refuted the
said contentions by arguing that the P-number, password of A4 was
misused by some unscrupulous official and in this regard, she had CBI No. 07/12 Page 108 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. made several complaints to her seniors, but no action was taken on
her complaint. It was further contended that there is no iota of
admissible evidence that the facility of checking photograph and
signature was available in the computer of A4. (i) It was argued that as per the testimony of PW20 the
facility of checking the signature and photograph was provided in the
computers of HIT section w.e.f. April, 2004. It was argued that since in
the instant case, HIT clearance was given in August, 2003, thus it is
admitted case of the CBI that at that time no such facility was
available in the HIT section, thus it cannot be said that A4 had given
the HIT clearance deliberately or in furtherance of any conspiracy. (ii) It was further argued that an employee namely
Charanjeet Sharma had misused her P-number and password and in
this regard a complaint was made by the accused to his senior officer
and association, but no action was taken against him. However, he
was arrested in another matter relating to passport scam and is facing
trial. Findings qua Sushma Bajaj (A4):- 69. As per Mark PW10/A, A4 had given the HIT clearance in
respect of first additional passport bearing No. E-6330265 on August
25, 2003. 70. Now question arises as to whether there is any evidence
on record to show that the facility of checking of photograph and CBI No. 07/12 Page 109 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. signature was available in the computer of A4 at that time or not? 71. In this regard, the testimony of PW20 Ajai Gautam is
quite relevant. Ajai Gautam was deputed in RPO, New Delhi from NIC
and he was responsible for maintenance of computers installed in
RPO, New Delhi. In his examination-in-chief, he deposed that HIT
checking system without photograph was started in the RPO since
2000 and HIT checking system with photograph and signature was
started in the RPO, New Delhi in August, 2002, but only in one PC.
But there is no evidence on record that any such PC was provided to
A4. It means that prosecution has failed to establish that A4 had any
facility to check photographs and signature while clearing HIT in
respect of file in question. 72. It is admitted case of CBI that A4 had cleared HIT in
respect of first additional passport booklet bearing No.E6330265 on
August 25, 2003. In view of the testimony of PW20, it becomes clear
that there was no facility in the computer system of A4 at that time to
check photographs and signatures of the applicant. In these
circumstances, I am of the opinion that prosecution has failed to
establish that A4 had any facility to compare photograph and signature
of the applicant with the photograph and signature of the original
passport holder. 73. Since it is admitted case of prosecution that the other
particulars of the applicant were similar to the particulars of the
original passport such as name, fathers name and address. Since, it
was first additional passport booklet, there was no record in the CBI No. 07/12 Page 110 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. computer to show that any other additional passport booklet had been
issued in the name of applicant. In these circumstances, if A4 had
given the HIT clearance, it cannot be said that she had not raised any
objection deliberately as argued by learned Public Prosecutor. 74. During trial, CBI has failed to produce any other cogent
evidence to prove the culpability of A4. Similarly, there is no iota of
evidence to prove the guilt of A4 for the offence punishable under Section 12(1)(b) of Passport Act, 1967. 75. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt
of A4 beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts, thus I hereby
acquit Sushma Bajaj (A4) from all the charges. Contentions qua Harbhajan Yadav (A2):- 76. Learned counsel appearing for A2 contended that at the
relevant time, A2 was posted as counter clerk and he made a
recommendation in all the files to issue additional passport booklet in
good faith while discharging his official duties. It was further argued
that whenever the applicants moved an application for issuance of
additional passport, applicants had placed the copy of previous
passport along with the original passport and same was checked by
A2 and found that the photograph affixed on the application form was
of the same person whose photograph was affixed on the passport,
thus it cannot be said that A2 had committed any offence when he CBI No. 07/12 Page 111 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. made a recommendation to issue additional passport in favour of the
applicant. It was further contended that no instrument was provided to
the counter clerk to check the genuineness of the enclosures
produced by the applicant. It was further contended that as per the
practice and rules, A2 affixed all stamps at the relevant spaces
provided at the forms, thus it cannot be said that he had committed
any offence. (i) It was contended that in fact the applicants had cheated
the counter clerk by submitting the forged documents before him.
Since, no instrument was provided to him detect the fake document,
counter clerk failed to catch the said forgery at the initial level. (ii) Though there may be a fault on the part of counter clerk
while dealing with the files in question, but lapses on the part of
counter clerk are not sufficient to prove the criminality on his part as
there is no evidence of any dishonest intention against A2. 77. Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor appearing for CBI
refuted the said contentions by arguing that A2 had made the
recommendation for issuance of additional passport booklet without
going through the files as he was in conspiracy with the applicants. It
was submitted that the same passport was used for obtaining six
additional passports subsequently, which is not permissible. It was
submitted that the original passport could be used at the time of
obtaining first additional passport booklet, thereafter, applicant was
supposed to produce additional passport booklet at the time of
obtaining second additional passport booklet and similarly he was CBI No. 07/12 Page 112 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. supposed to produce second additional passport at the time of
obtaining third additional passport booklet and so on. But in the instant
case, A2 made the recommendation on the basis of same passport.
This shows that he had acted so being the member of conspiracy. Findings qua Harbhajan Yadav (A2) and Bibianus Toppo (A1):- 78. It is undisputed fact that A2 was posted as counter clerk
whereas A1 was Passport Issuing Authority being Superintendent at
the relevant time. It is also undisputed fact that all the six files relating
to additional passport booklets were dealt with by A2 being the
counter clerk. It is also undisputed fact that in all the files except file
no. P10278 (relating to additional passport booklet bearing No.
E6330265) applications for additional passport booklets had been
dealt with by A1 being the Passport Issuing Authority. (i) During their examination recorded under Section 313 Cr.
P.C, they took the plea that since no facility was provided to them to
check the photograph and signature and old references of the
applicants, they were not in a position to verity the same. They further
took the plea that since previous passport files of the applicant was
not used to be sent to them, they were not in a position to compare
the photographs of the applicants with the original passport holders.
A2 also took the plea that since no instrument was provided to him to
verify the genuineness of the documents produced by the applicant,
he was not in a position to ascertain whether the submitted documents
were genuine or fake. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 79. On perusal of all six files of additional passport booklets,
it becomes clear that at the time of applying for additional passport
booklets, applicants had submitted a request letter stating that they
required additional passport booklets as the pages of previous
passport had been full and further stated that they needed additional
passport booklets on tatkal basis as they had to visit abroad urgently
in connection with their business meetings. The said request letters
are separately exhibited as Ex. PW4/F, PW4/D, PW4/H, PW4/K,
PW3/A and PW4/B. Thus, it becomes abundantly clear that at the
time of applying for additional passport booklets, applicants took the
plea that since the pages of previous passport had been full and since
they had to visit abroad urgently in connection with business
meetings, they required additional passport booklets on tatkal basis. (i) It is also undisputed fact that at the time of applying for
additional passport booklets, applicants had placed photostate copy of
previous passport bearing No. B-5081375, which was allegedly issued
in favour of Veer Singh in the fictitious name of Rajender Kumar
Kapoor. (ii) Perusal of the additional passport booklet files further
reveals that on all occasions, applicants placed the photostate copy of
the same passport but with different photograph. The detail of request
letters, reason for seeking additional passport booklets and the pages
of previous passport enclosed in support of request letters is being
depicted in tabular form as under:- However, at the last occasion, applicant had placed only five pages
i.e. page number 1 to 3 and 36 & 37 of the previous passport. (iv) Perusal of the files of additional passport booklets
further reveals that except in first file i.e file bearing No. T-10278
(relating to additional passport bearing No. E- 6330265) in all the files,
there is a stamp on the first page i.e. photocopy of passport booklet
which enclosed along with application and the said stamp reads as
under:- (v) The photocopy of the said relevant pages are Ex.
PW5/B8, PW24/B, PW24/B4, PW24/B12 and PW24/B13. 80. Before proceeding further, I deem it appropriate to refer
the circular dated June 24, 1997 (Ex. PW25/B) issued by Ministry of
External Affairs (CPV Division). According to the said circular, the
practice of attaching and sealing the old passport with the additional
passport booklet was discontinued with immediate effect and it was
directed that instead of attaching and sealing the old passport with the
new additional passport booklet, old passport shall be cancelled and
returned to the passport holder and suitable endorsement regarding CBI No. 07/12 Page 116 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. old passport shall be made in the new additional passport booklet.
Thus as per the said circular, with effect from June 24, 1997, old
passport booklet was not required to be attached with the new
additional passport booklet. Rather, RPO official was supposed to
cancel and returned the old passport to the passport holder. However,
they shall make necessary endorsement regarding the old passport in
the new additional passport booklet. 81. Vide circular dated November 25, 1997 (Ex. PW25/A),
some modification was made in the said circular by deciding that
instead of cancelling original passport having valid visa a stamp i.e.
'Extended by issue a fresh booklet' shall be affixed across the first
three pages of the old passport. Similarly, in the additional passport
booklet, following observations shall be made :- 82. From the combined reading of both the circulars, it
becomes clear that where there is no valid visa in the previous
passport, RPO shall cancel the old passport and returned the same to
the applicant by putting the stamp and made necessary endorsement
in the additional passport booklet. However, if there is any valid visa in
the old passport, same shall not be cancelled. But a stamp i.e.
"Extended by issue of a fresh booklet" shall be affixed on first three
pages of the previous passport. Similarly, an endorsement as stated
above shall be made in the additional passport booklet. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 83. From all the files of additional passport booklets, it
becomes clear that the applicants sought additional passport booklet
on the ground that pages of previous passport had been full and they
had to visit abroad urgently in connection with their business. Thus, it
appears that the applicants were having valid visa when they applying
for additional passport booklets. If it was so, RPO officials were
supposed to make endorsement on the additional passport booklet in
terms of circular dated November 25, 1997. If the previous passport
did not have any valid visa, in that situation RPO officials were
supposed to cancel previous passport in terms of circular dated June
24, 1997. (i) Since in the instant case RPO officials affixed stamp of
"Extended by issue of a fresh booklet" in the last
five files, it shows that the applicants were having valid visa at the time
of applying for additional passport booklets otherwise there were no
reason for the RPO officials to affix the said stamp. Rather, they would
put the stamp of 'Cancelled and returned' on the previous passport. 84. Perusal of the additional passport booklet files reveals
that at first occasion, the applicant had placed three pages containing
the visa stamp i.e. page no. 5, 7 and 15 but the said visa had already
been expired. At the second occasion, applicant had annexed the
copy of page no. 5 & 7 but again the said visa had already been
expired. At third occasion, applicant had placed the copy of only one
page of visa i.e. page no. 5 but it had already been expired and at
fourth occasion, applicant had annexed the copy of page no. 5 & 7
containing the visa stamp but the same had already been expired. At CBI No. 07/12 Page 118 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. fifth occasion, applicant had annexed the copy of page no. 5
containing the visa stamp but it had already been expired. At sixth
occasion, applicant had not been placed the copy of any page
containing the visa stamp. (i) Since, applicant had sought additional passport booklets
on the ground that pages of previous passport had been full. Thus, it
was the paramount duty of A2 being the counter clerk and A1 being he
Passport Issuing Authority to ensure whether there was any substance
in their claim. The said fact could be easily verified by them after
seeing the original passport to satisfy themselves whether pages of
previous passport had been full or not. To my mind, no scientific
instrument was required to verify the same as it could be ascertained
with naked eye. Even no expertise was required to ascertain the
same. 85. Since in terms of circulars issued by Ministry of External
Affairs as stated above, it was the duty of RPO officials to affix stamp
on the previous passport as and when any person applies for
additional passport booklets. Since, in the instant case, the seal i.e.
'Extended by issue of a fresh booklet' is appearing on the pages of
previous passport booklet annexed with the application/request letters
submitted by the applicants in last five files, it shows that when the
applicants applied for additional passport booklets, there should be a
valid visa in the previous passport. 86. Since the applicants had not furnished any document in
support of their claim that the pages of previous passport had been full CBI No. 07/12 Page 119 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. and there was a valid visa in the previous passport, it was the duty of
A1 and A2 to ask the applicants to furnish the documents in support of
their claim but they failed to do so. Since, there is nothing on record to
show that the pages of previous pages had been full and there was a
valid visa in previous passport, thus onus is shifted upon A1 and A2 in
terms of Section 106 of Indian Evidence Act to explain on what basis
they satisfied themselves that the pages of previous passport had
been full and there was a valid visa in the previous passport. But
during trial they failed to produce any such evidence. Further to my
mind, no scientific instrument or special training was required to
ascertain the above two facts. 87. Since, the applicants had annexed the photostate copy
of previous passport containing the seal 'Extended by a issue of
fresh booklet' in the last five files and the said files were dealt with by
A1 being the Passport Issuing Authority and A2 being counter clerk,
the said seal was more than sufficient to come to the conclusion or to
raise suspicion that on the basis of said previous passport applicant
had already been obtained additional passport booklet, thus applicant
could not use such previous passport in obtaining the fresh additional
passport booklet. But neither A2 being the counter clerk nor A1 being
the Passport Issuing Authority raised any such objection. It is pertinent
to state that to raise such objection neither any scientific instrument
nor any special training was required. This could be detected with
naked eye by a person of having ordinary intelligence. 88. From the above, it can safely be culled out that either A2
had not gone through the applications or not opened the files to CBI No. 07/12 Page 120 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. scrutinize the documents or he made the recommendations either at
the instance of applicants with ulterior motive or he acted gross
negligently by violating the guidelines issued by the Ministry of
External Affairs from time to time. Similarly, though being the Passport
Issuing Authority, it was the paramount duty of A1 to go through the
files before putting his signature. But it appears that either he
deliberately not opened the file and acted in conclusion with A2 and
applicants or he acted gross negligently by violating the rules and
regulations of Passport Act and directions issued by the Ministry of
External Affairs from time to time. Had A1 or A2 checked the original
Passport bearing No. B5081375, they would come to know
immediately that the pages of previous passport had not been full and
the applicants had no valid visa in the previous passport. Similarly,
had they been opened the files or had seen the documents, they
would come to know immediately that on the basis of said documents,
applicants had already obtained the additional passport booklet. It is
pertinent to state that to detect the said fraud neither any special
training nor any scientific instrument was required. 89. It is pertinent to state that the application in all the files
were filled up by accused Anil Dhawan. It is seldom to believe that the
above said lapses had occurred inadvertently or accidentally only in
the files in which the application forms were filled up by accused Anil
Dhawan. Further, it is also pertinent to state that both the above
accused persons also faced or facing trial in numerous cases such as
CC No. 56/08, CC No. 74/08, CC No. 11/12, CC No. 5/12, CC No.
76/08, CC No. 24/09, CC No. 9/12, CC No. 6/12, CC No. 8/12, CC No.
10/12, CC No.25/09 wherein A2 being the counter clerk made CBI No. 07/12 Page 121 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. recommendation for insurance of additional passport booklet on the
ground that pages of previous passport booklet had been full and A1
being the Passport Issuing Authority issued additional passport
booklet. But surprisingly, in all the said cases, the application forms
were filled up by accused Anil Dhawan. Again, it is seldom to believe
that A2 made the recommendation for issuance of additional passport
booklet only in cases where applications are filled up by accused Anil
Dhawan and A1 passed the grant order and issued additional passport
booklets only in those matters where the applications were filled up
by accused Anil Dhawan. Their said conduct is relevant under Section
15 of Indian Evidence Act. As already stated that since that in terms of Section 106 Indian Evidence Act, the onus was upon them to explain
under which circumstances they satisfied themselves that the pages
of previous passport had been full and the applicant had valid visa and
how the stamp i.e. 'Extended by issue of a fresh booklet' had
appeared on the photostate copy of previous passport enclosed with
the application, but they failed to discharge the said onus during trial. 90. As already stated that though the applicants had not
submitted all pages of previous passport at the time of applying for
additional passport booklets but despite that neither A2 nor A1
deemed it appropriate to ask the applicants to furnish the photostate
copy of all the pages of previous passport to satisfy themselves
whether all pages of passport had been full as alleged by the
applicants in their respective application. 91. I have gone through the entire Passport Act , Rules and
circulars placed before this Court. But this Court failed to come CBI No. 07/12 Page 122 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. across any provision/rule/administrative instructions which may
prevent the passport officials including counter clerk and PIA from
taking photocopy of entire previous passport. On the contrary, proviso
to Rule 5 of Passport Rules 1980 empowers the Passport Issuing
Authority to ask the applicant to furnish additional information,
document or certificate which may be considered necessary for the
disposal of application. Moreover, in the circular Ex. PW25/B, it was
prescribed that old passport shall be returned to the applicant after
retaining its photocopy. In other words, the officials while dealing with
the above applications were supposed to retain the photocopy of
previous passport before returning the same to the applicants. 92. Since, applicants had not furnished the photostate copy
of entire previous passport at the time of seeking additional passport
booklets, thus there was no material on record to satisfy the counter
clerk and PIA that the pages of previous passport had been full. But
despite that A2 processed the files without raising any objection, even
A1 also did not deem it appropriate to raise any objection, thus in
terms of Section 106 of Evidence Act, onus is shifted upon them to
show on what basis they satisfied themselves that the pages of
previous passports had been full. No doubt, the initial burden was on
the prosecution, but in the instant case prosecution had discharged
the initial burden by proving the request letters which applicants had
enclosed alongwith the application forms. Since, the circumstances or
facts which impelled the PIA to believe the version of applicants are in
their special knowledge, thus in terms of Section 106 of Indian
Evidence Act, burden is shifted upon them to show on what basis they
arrived at the conclusion that pages of previous passports had been CBI No. 07/12 Page 123 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. full as alleged by the applicants. But during trial, they failed to adduce
any such evidence on record. 93. No doubt, in his defence, A1 proved the letter dated
November 10, 2015 wherein Ministry of External Affairs furnished
certain information to the accused under Right to Information Act including that before the issuance of Passport Manual 2010, it was a
prevalent practice to obtain the copy of first two pages and last two
pages of old passport in re-issue cases. Now the said practice had
already been incorporated in the Passport Manual, 2010. On the basis
of the said letter, it was argued that mere fact that A1 had not insisted
for producing the entire pages of previous passport is not sufficient to
impose any criminal liability either on A1 or A2. But to my mind the
said plea is not helpful to the accused persons in any manner because
here the question is not whether the applicants had submitted front
two pages and last two pages of the previous passport but the moot
point is whether there was any material on record to show that the
pages of previous passport had been full as mentioned in the request
letter or whether the pages of previous passport booklets had almost
exhausted as mentioned in Passport Rules. Admittedly, as stated
above, there is no such evidence on record. As already discussed that
in all the files applicants had enclosed the photostate copy of same
passport but with different photographs and in the last five files,
photocopy of previous passport bearing the stamp i.e. 'Extended by
the issue of fresh booklet'. The said stamp was more than sufficient
for A2 and A1 to hold that on the basis of said photostate copy,
applicants had already obtained the additional passport booklet.
Since, the said stamp indicates that the applicants had already CBI No. 07/12 Page 124 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. obtained additional passport booklet, it was the paramount duty of
counter clerk and PIA to make further inquiry but it appears that A2
preferred to process the file without raising any such query. Similarly,
A1 also preferred to sign without going through the files. Had PIA
made inquiry from the applicant or from the counter clerk to ascertain
how the stamp had been appeared on the photocopy of the passport,
PIA would have come to know easily that the applicants were trying to
play fraud with the RPO, but PIA did not raise any such objection.
Rather, he preferred to put his signature and issued the additional
passport booklets in favour of the applicants. Similarly, counter clerk
had not raised any objection. (i) No doubt, A1 took the plea that he believed on the note of
counter clerk (A2) wherein he recommended to issue additional
passport booklet in favour of the applicants. Admittedly, counter clerk
had made the said recommendation in favour of the applicants. But
question arises; was not it the duty of PIA to satisfy himself by going
through the file? It is pertinent to state that the passport files relating to
issuance of additional passports booklets were not voluminous.
Rather, the files contained only four documents namely cash receipt;
passport application registration form; application form for
miscellaneous services; request letter along with the pages of
photocopy of previous passport. Thus, it cannot be said that PIA was
not in a position to go through the files being voluminous. It was a
matter of just few seconds to see whether there was any material on
record to corroborate the version of applicant or not. Moreover, A2 in
his noting did not certify that the pages of previous passport had been
full as mentioned by the applicants in their request letters. But it CBI No. 07/12 Page 125 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. appears that A1 did not deem it appropriate either to open the file or
original passport before issuance of additional passport booklets in
favour of the applicants. 94. It is manifested from the request letters that at the time of
seeking additional passport booklets, applicants took the plea that
they required additional passport booklets urgently as they had to go
to abroad and entire pages of previous passports had already been
full. It means that the applicants had valid visa and they required the
additional passport booklets on urgent basis as all pages of previous
passport had already been full. Thus, in terms of circular dated
November 25, 1997, it was the duty of passport Issuing Authority to
make the following endorsement on the additional passport:- booklets. Had the previous passport in original been seen or copy
thereof be taken on record, passport issuing authority would have
come to know immediately that the plea taken by the applicants for
issuance of additional passport booklets was false. But the passport
issuing authority did not deem it appropriate to do so and even it did
not deem it appropriate to comply with the instructions issued by
Ministry of External Affairs in its circular dated November 25, 1997. 95. During the course of arguments, counsel appearing for
A1 and A2 also took the plea that they had acted in good faith.
Counsel appearing for A1 further took the plea that since A1 had acted
in good faith on the recommendation of counter clerk, he cannot be
held liable for his act. But question arises whether in the present facts
and circumstances plea of good faith is available to the accused or
not? 96. As already held that before taking the plea of good faith,
the person who takes such plea has to show by producing relevant
material/evidence on record that he had taken due care and attention.
But from the above discussion, it becomes clear that neither A2 nor A1
had not taken any such care and attention, thus to my mind, the plea
of good faith is not available to them. (i) It is pertinent to state that being the PIA, it was his
responsibility to ensure that no unscrupulous person could get
passport on the basis of false documents. Simultaneously, it was also
his duty to keep a check on his subordinates. Had there been
photocopy of entire previous passport showing that the pages of CBI No. 07/12 Page 127 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. previous passport had been full and proper endorsement had been
made on the issued additional passport booklet in terms of circular
dated November 25, 1997, in that situation A1 would have a valid
defence of good faith as defined under Section 52 of IPC. But
unfortunately, it is not so. In these circumstances, I am of the
considered opinion that there is no substance in the plea of A1 that he
had acted in good faith on the recommendation of A2. 97. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I do not find any
substance in the contention raised by counsel for A1 and A2 that since
neither any instrument was provided to them nor any training was
imparted to them to check the authenticity/genuineness of the
documents and to compare the photograph and signature of the
applicants; nor the previous passport file used to be sent to them for
the purpose of comparison because in the instant case no such
training/instrument was required to detect the fraud. It could be easily
detected in ordinary course. 98. Learned counsel appearing for A1 vehemently
contended that since A1 was over burdened, there may be possibility
that the above lapses had taken place due to oversightness, thus
there was no wilful wrongful act on the part of A1. But to my mind, the
said contention is devoid of any merit. Work load can not be a ground
to justify a wilful wrongful act. As already held that neither A2, nor A1
made any effort to satisfy themselves whether there is any material on
record to substantiate the version of applicants as there is no material
on record to show that all pages of previous passport/booklet had
been full as mentioned by the applicants in their request letters. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Similarly, no effort was made by them to raise query how the seal of
'Extended by issue of a fresh booklet.' had been appearing on the
photocopy of the pages of previous passport. (i) To my mind, the judgement Sudhdeo Jha Utpel v/s.
State of Bihar, AIR 1957 Supreme Court 466 is also not helpful to A1
as the facts of the said case were totally different from the facts of
case at hand. The said case relates to the offence punishable under Section 420 / 193 / 120B IPC whereas the main allegations against A1
for the offence punishable under Section 13(1) (d) of PC Act. The
ingredients of Section 420 IPC and 13(1) (d) of PC Act are totally
different. Moreover, in the said matter there were sufficient material on
record to support the claim of appellant that the company used to pay
road tax to the tune of ` 40,000/- and there were several branches of
the company, thus it was not feasible for the appellant being the
General Manager to know whether any particular vehicle was of road
worthy or road tax qua any particular vehicle had been paid or not.
On the contrary, in the instant matter A1 was acting as Passport
Issuing Authority, thus it was his responsibility to satisfy himself prior to
issuing the passport/additional passport booklets whether the
documents submitted by the applicants supports their claim or not. (ii) Now coming to the judgement title Rajiv Kumar Goyal
@ Raj Kumar Goyal Vs State through CBI in Criminal Appeal No.
265 of 2008 decided on August 08, 2014 by the High Court of
Delhi. No doubt, in the said judgment , the workload was considered
as one of the grounds at the time of acquitting the accused who was
public servant. But it was not the sole ground to acquit the accused. I CBI No. 07/12 Page 129 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. have perused the said judgement carefully. To my mind, the said
judgement is not helpful to the accused in any manner as the facts
involved therein were totally different from the facts of the case at
hand. In the said matter, the accused was acquitted on multiple
grounds including that CBI failed to establish whether the documents
from the files were already missing when the appellant had passed the
claims in favour of fictitious persons or the documents were removed
later on and the same is clear from para 28 which reads as under : not realize that Vinod and Sanjay were the same person whereas in
the instant case, the facts are totally different. In the present case, the
fraud could be detected by A1 by just mere opening the file and
applying its mind. Thus, to my mind, the said judgment is not helpful to
the accused in any manner. (iv) In order to claim parity, counsel for A1 strongly placed
reliance on the judgements State of Madhya Pradesh v/s. Sheetla
Sahai and others, (2009) 8 SCC, 617 and L. Chandraiah v/s. State
of Andhra Pradesh, 2004 SC 252. But to my mind, the said
judgements are not applicable in the facts and circumstances of the
present case. In both the matters, investigating officer adopted the
policy of pick and choose while impleading the accused persons
whereas in the present case, no such pick and choose policy had
been adopted. Mere fact that the investigating agency did not charge-
sheet PIA in other matters, who allegedly played similar role that of A1
is not sufficient for this Court to hold that in the present matter
investigating officer had adopted the policy of pick and choose.
Indisputably, those other matters are not before this Court and this
Court is not supposed to give any finding in those matters on the basis
of evidence led by prosecution in the present matter. If in those
matters, investigating officer had adopted pick and choose policy,
appropriate action can be taken against the erring investigating officer.
But mere fact that in the said matters, investigating agency did not
deem it appropriate to file the charge-sheet against PIA, it is not
sufficient to exonerate A1 in the present matter. Needless to say that
the fate of A1 can be decided only on the basis of evidence available
on record in the present matter and not on the basis of charge-sheets CBI No. 07/12 Page 131 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. filed by investigating agency in other alleged similar matters. However,
it is pertinent to mention here that in the instant case, though first
additional passport booklets was issued by Mr. P. K. Kapoor, yet no
charge-sheet had been filed against him. But charge-sheet was not
filed against him due to any discrimination; rather charge-sheet could
not be filed against him as he had died prior to filing of the charge-
sheet, thus it can not be said that any discrimination had been made
by the investigating officer among the PIAs in the present matter. (v) Similarly, the observations of the Hon`ble Court made in
case Chandraiah vs. State of A.P (supra) that since prosecution
failed to prove the guilt of accused for the offence punishable under Section 467 / 471 & 409 IPC, he cannot be held guilty under Prevention
of Corruption Act is not helpful to the accused in any manner. Perusal
of the judgement reveals that in the said matter the accused who was
a public servant was charge-sheeted for the offence punishable under Section 409 / 467 / 471 IPC and Section 5(1)(c)(d) read with Section 5(2) of PC Act, 1947. Section 5(1)(c) and 5(1)(d) reads as under:- State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 99. It was held in the said judgment that since prosecution
failed to prove dishonest intention which was an essential ingredient to
prove the guilt of accused for the offence punishable under Section
409 / 467 and 471 IPC, thus accused cannot be held guilty under Prevention of Corruption Act . However, as already discussed that no
dishonest intention is required to prove the guilt of accused for the
offence under Section 13 (1) (d) (iii) of PC Act, thus the said judgment
is not helpful to the accused in this case. 100. From the aforesaid discussion, following facts are
established beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts:- (a) That accused Harbhajan (A2) was
 working as counter clerk at the relevant time
 whereas Bibianus Toppo (A1) was working as
 Passport Issuing Authority being
 Superintendent. (b) That the counter clerk, A2 had dealt
 with all six files relating to additional passport
 booklets wherein different persons requested
 for additional passport booklet in the name and
 personal particulars of Rajender Kumar
 Kapoor. (c) That in all the said files the applicants
 had sought the additional passport booklets on
 the pretext that the pages of previous passport CBI No. 07/12 Page 133 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. had already been full and they required
 additional passport booklet on Tatkal basis to
 visit abroad urgently in connection with
 business meetings etc. (d) That alongwith the application and
 request letter the applicants had also enclosed
 the photocopy of few pages of previous
 passport. issue of a fresh booklet' had been appearing
 on the last five files of additional passport
 booklets. (g) That there was no material in the file
 to show that the pages of previous passport
 had already been full as alleged by the
 applicants at the time of seeking additional
 passport booklet. Despite that no effort was
 made either by A2 or A1 to make any enquiry
 from the applicants. (h) That appearing of stamp i.e. CBI No. 07/12 Page 134 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 'Extended by issue of a fresh booklet' in the
 last five files shows that applicants had already
 obtained additional passport booklet on the
 basis of said passport, but despite that A2 had
 not raised any query from the applicants. (i) That appearing of the above said seal
 in the last five files also indicates that there
 was valid visa in the previous passport, thus in
 terms of circular Ex. PW25/A, RPO officials
 were bound to make endorsement on the new
 additional passport booklet. But no such
 endorsement was made on the new additional
 passport booklet. (j) That despite the above inherent
 defects in the applications, A2 being the
 counter clerk made recommendation in favour
 of the applicants for issuance of additional
 passport booklet. (k) That though the appearing of the seal
 was more than sufficient to raise query from
 the applicants or counter clerk to ascertain
 how the said seal could be appeared on the
 photostate copy of previous passport but A1
 failed to raise any such query which shows
 that he had cleared the file without going CBI No. 07/12 Page 135 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. through the file. (l) That even A1 also failed to ensure that
 the detail of visa be mentioned in the new
 additional passport booklet in terms of circular
 Ex. PW25/A. (m) That no scientific instrument or
 training was required to detect the said
 inherent defects as the same could easily be
 ascertained with naked eyes by a person of
 ordinary intelligence but despite that A1 and
 A2 preferred to ignore the said inherent
 defects without any reasonable ground. 101. Now coming to the additional contentions raised by
counsel appearing for A1 that the acts of A1 are not governed by the
judgement of Runu Ghosh v/s. CBI (supra), as before holding the
accused guilty, Court has to look into the circumstances in which A1
had worked. It was argued that since no facility was provided to PIA to
detect the fraud and there were frequent instructions from Ministry of
External Affairs in the form of various circulars to issue additional
passport booklets on the same day or preferably within 3-5 days and
A1 was over worked at the relevant time and the witnesses particularly
PW7 and PW25 admitted in their cross-examination that the files put
up before A1 were complete in all respects, thus it cannot be said that
there was any fault on the part of A1. It was further argued that in
other matters other PIAs acted in the similar fashion but no action was CBI No. 07/12 Page 136 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. taken against them, rather they have been cited as prosecution
witnesses. (i) As already discussed that no training or scientific
instrument was required to detect the fraud, thus the first circumstance
is not sufficient to give any benefit to the accused. Similarly, though
there were instructions from the Ministry of External Affairs in the form
of various circulars as discussed above, but these circulars never
permitted the Passport Issuing Authority to act in violation of the Rules
and Regulations of Passport Act and Passport Rules. By way of said
circulars procedure was simplified to minimize the time in issuance of
additional passports. However, it was also directed to take precaution
to avoid any kind of fraud by directing the PIAs to consult PISON as
and when there is any doubt. Thus, the second reason is also not
helpful to the accused in any manner. As already discussed that the
over work cannot be a ground to justify a wilful wrongful act or to act in
the gross violation of rules and regulations. Sofar the fact that in other
matters the other PIAs who acted similar manner were not charge-
sheeted by the CBI is not a ground to acquit the accused in the
present case as this Court is not supposed to give finding on the basis
of charge-sheet filed by the CBI in other cases. Rather, the Court is
bound to give finding on the basis of evidence adduced in the instant
case. 102. Now coming to the next question whether the RPO
officials including PIA acted in public interest or not? (i) If it is established that they acted in public interest, they CBI No. 07/12 Page 137 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. cannot be held liable for their acts, otherwise they shall be liable for
their acts. (ii) No doubt, issuance of additional passport booklets to the
previous passport holders is in the public interest but issuance of
additional passport booklets in the name of fictitious persons cannot
be in public interest. Rather, it would be totally against the public
interest as it may also cause threat to the security of the nation
because such fictitious documents can be used by anti-social
elements. As already discussed that while dealing with the files in
question, A1 to A3 not only failed to take reasonable precaution but
they also breached the settled norms and instructions at the time of
issuing additional booklets, thus their acts were not in the public
interest when they facilitated in issuance of additional passport booklet
in fictitious name by clearing files. (iii) Admittedly, there is no cogent evidence on record to
bring home the guilt of A1 to A3 for the offences described in clause (i)
and (ii) of Section 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. But it
can safely be culled out that the adduced evidence are sufficient to
hold that A1 to A3 while holding public office obtained a valuable thing
i.e. passport in favour of the fictitious persons, which was not in the
public interest, thus they are liable for the offence punishable under Section 13 (2) read with Clause-(iii) of Section 13 (1)(d) of PC Act. (iv) However, I am of the considered opinion that the
adduced evidence are not sufficient to bring home the guilt of A1 to A3
for the offence punishable under Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act, CBI No. 07/12 Page 138 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 1967, accordingly, I hereby acquit them thereunder. (v) Though a separate charge for the offence punishable
under Section 467 IPC has also been framed against A1, but during
trial, CBI failed to adduce any admissible evidence to prove the said
charge. Mere fact that A1 signed on the additional passport booklets
being the PIA is not sufficient in any manner to hold that he had
committed any forgery as defined under Section 463 & 464 IPC.
Accordingly, I hereby acquit A1 from the charge of Section 467 IPC. Contention relating to accused Harish Kumar Malhotra (A10) :- 103. Learned Public Prosecutor submits that accused
Harish Kumar Malhotra was known to ASI Umrao Singh (since
deceased) and he also knew accused Vir Singh (since PO). It was
contended that from the testimony of PW16 and PW17, it is
established that when accused Vir Singh needed a passport, he
contacted with PW16, who referred him to PW17, who sent him to the
present accused. From the testimony of PW1, it becomes clear that
accused Harish Kumar Malhotra used to accompany ASI Umrao Singh
at the time of verification of addresses of the applicants, thus it was
argued that from the testimony of PW1, PW16 and PW17, it can be
established that accused Harish Kumar Malhotra was known to ASI
Umrao Singh and Vir Singh, who obtained a passport in fictitious
name of Rajender Kumar Kapoor. (i) It was argued that the application of accused Vir Singh
was assigned to ASI Umrao Singh for the purpose of verification and CBI No. 07/12 Page 139 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. as per record, ASI Umrao Singh had verified the antecedents of
alleged Vir Singh @ Rajender Kumar Kapoor and on the verification
slip, he had obtained the signature of two persons, namely, Raj Kumar
Saini and Yogender Singh. During investigation, both the said persons
were found fictitious as no such person was found residing at the
addresses mentioned in the said slip. (ii) It was further contended that during investigation, IO had
taken the specimen signature of Harish Kumar Malhotra and sent the
same alongwith the verification slip. From the GEQD report, it
becomes clear that accused Harish Kumar Malhotra had forged the
signature of Raj Kumar Saini and Yogender Singh. As per GEQD
report Mark PW34/C, accused Harish Kumar Malhotra is the author of
questioned writings mark Q46, Q47, Q61 to Q63. Similarly, he is also
the author of Q66, Q67 which shows that he also filled up the personal
particular form of Vir Singh @ Rajender Kumar Kapoor. (iii) It was further contended that the photograph of Vir Singh
on the personal particular form Ex.PW19/A was identified by PW19
Smt. Kumari Kaur. His photograph was also identified by PW16.
Accordingly, it was argued that it has been established that accused
Harish Kumar Malhotra had filled up the form of Vir Singh in the name
of Rajender Kumar Kapoor and thereafter, he also forged the
signature of witnesses on the verification slip in collusion with Umrao
Singh and Vir Singh. It was further submitted that the mere fact GEQD
report could not be exhibited during trial is not sufficient to discard the
prosecution case. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 104. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the accused
countered the said contentions by arguing that as per the statement of
PW11, passport was dispatched and not delivered to the accused
Harish Kumar. Further, there is no evidence whatsoever to show that
accused had collected the passport of Vir Singh issued in the name of
Rajender Kumar Kapoor, thus CBI failed to prove the charge under Section 419 IPC. (i) It was argued that the only allegation against the accused
is that he had forged the signature of Raj Kumar Saini and Yogender
Pal on the verification slip, but during trial, CBI failed to prove the
GEQD report in this regard in accordance with law. Findings qua accused Harish Kumar Malhotra (A10) :- 105. Perusal of the charge-sheet reveals that the allegations
against A10 are that Umrao Singh, ASI, Special Crime Branch (since
deceased) had conducted the police verification of accused Vir Singh,
who applied for a passport in the name of Rajender Kumar Kapoor. As
per charge-sheet, the verification was conducted by Umrao Singh, ASI
in the presence of Harish Kumar Malhotra (A10), who signed the
witness identification slip in the name of Rajender Kumar Saini and
Yogender Singh. On the basis of said witness identification slip,
Umrao Singh, ASI had submitted a report in favour of accused Vir
Singh and on the basis of his false report, passport bearing No. B-
5081375 was issued to the accused Vir Singh in fictitious name
Rajender Kumar Kapoor. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 106. In order to prove the said allegations, investigating
officer had taken the specimen writing of A10 and sent the same
alongwith the questioned writings to GEQD for comparison. The
GEQD report is marked PW34/C reveals that S-119 to S-183 were the
specimen writing of A10, but surprisingly investigating officer did not
deem it appropriate to file the same alongwith the charge-sheet. Even,
there is no reference of any such specimen writings in the list of
documents. Even during his testimony, investigating officer has not
uttered even a single word about the so-called alleged specimen
writings of A10. 107. As per mark PW34/C, the alleged writing was examined
by Dr. B.A. Vaid, Dy. GEQD and Mr. N.C. Sood, GEQD. Though Dr.
B.A. Vaid graced the witness box as PW24, but he had not uttered
even a single word about the said report. 108. Before placing reliance on the GEQD report, it is the
paramount duty of investigating agency to prove the specimen writings
or the admitted writing, if any. Since, in the instant case, CBI failed to
prove the so-called specimen writings, thus no reliance can be placed
even on the GEQD report mark PW34/C. (i) There is no other evidence on record to bring home the
guilt of A10. 109. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that CBI miserably failed to bring home the guilt of
Harish Kumar Malhotra (A10), thus I hereby acquit him from all the CBI No. 07/12 Page 142 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. charges. Contentions relating to Rajwinder Singh (A12):- 110. Learned Public Prosecutor appearing for CBI
contended that accused Rajwinder Singh is the person on whose
behalf the application was moved at the time of obtaining first
additional passport booklet bearing No. E-6330265. It was argued that
on the application form, the photograph of Rajwinder Singh is affixed
and his photograph is also affixed on the photostate copy of the
passport which was allegedly submitted alongwith the application. It
was alleged that since accused Rajwinder Singh had obtained the
additional passport booklet in the fictitious name of Rajender Kumar
Kapoor, it shows that he was a member of the conspiracy alongwith
the other accused persons and he also committed cheating by
inducing the passport officials to issue passport in his favour in
fictitious name. (i) It was argued that as per Ex.PW27/A, accused Rajwinder
was deported from Abu Dabi on emergency certificate. As his date of
birth was found different on the emergency certificate from the
application form, a show cause notice was also issued to him by RPO
Jallandhar, but he did not furnish any reply. It was argued that since
he was deported on emergency certificate, it was not possible for him
to get a new passport from RPO Jallandhar without fulfilling the
requirements of law, accordingly, he decided to obtain passport in a
fictitious name in the name of Rajender Kumar Kapoor. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 111. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for A12 refuted
the said contentions by vehemently arguing that even during
investigation, no effort was made by CBI to seek an explanation from
the accused and this fact is clear from the deposition PW35 who
categorical deposed that he filed the chargesheet without interrogating
accused Rajwinder. It was argued that this shows that no opportunity
was given to the accused to explain his version. (i) It was further contended that prosecution case is that the
accused had obtained a fictitious passport from RPO New Delhi, but
no reliance can be placed on the said version because it is admitted
case of CBI that accused had a valid passport from RPO Jallandhar. It
was contended that since accused had a valid passport from
Jallandhar, there was no occasion for A12 to get a passport in fictitious
name. (ii) It was further contended that though CBI alleged that the
photo of accused was affixed on the application moved at the time of
obtaining first additional passport booklet bearing No. E-6330265, but
there is no evidence on record to show that the photograph affixed in
the said file belongs to accused Rajwinder. It was further contended
that similarly there is no evidence on record to show that how the
accused Rajwinder got the said passport as PW35 admitted in his
cross examination that even accused Anil Dhawan denied any
relationship with the accused Rajwinder. It was further contended that
this shows that there was no conspiracy whatsoever between
Rajwinder and other accused. It was further contended that there is no
evidence to show that accused Rajwinder used the alleged fictitious CBI No. 07/12 Page 144 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. passport as no such passport had been recovered from the accused. (iii) It was further contended that the photograph affixed on
the alleged application in the passport file is not the photograph of
accused and no evidence has been adduced by the CBI to establish
that the said photographs belongs to the accused. It was further
contended that said photographs are morphed photograph. Findings qua accused Rajwinder Singh (A12):- 112. Perusal of letter Ex.PW27/A makes it clear that A12
had applied for a passport at RPO, Jallandhar, but at that time, he had
not disclosed the fact that he had passport bearing No. W-982847
dated August 19, 1985 and he had been deported from Abu Dhabi and
came to India on emergency certificate. Since, the defect was found in
his date of birth mentioned on emergency certificate and application
form, a show-cause notice was given to him, but A12 failed to furnish
any explanation despite sending reminder. The said letter is duly
proved by PW27 Pawan Kumar Sharma, Assistant, RPO (Jallandhar).
Though witness was cross-examined in depth, yet nothing could be
extracted during his cross-examination, which may help A12. 113. From the deposition of PW27 and Ex.PW27/A, it
becomes clear that though accused had a passport in the year 1985
and he was deported on emergency certificate from Abu Dhabi, but he
had not mentioned this fact at the time of applying for fresh passport
before RPO (Jallandhar) in the year 2000. Accordingly, a show-cause
notice was given to him to which he failed to furnish any explanation. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. In other words, it was not possible for A12 to get a passport unless he
satisfied the queries raised by the RPO (Jallandhar). In view of the
above, I do not find any substance in the contention of learned
defence counsel that accused had no occasion to obtain the passport
in fictitious name as he was already having a valid passport from RPO
(Jallandhar). (i) It is a matter of record that at time of applying for
additional passport booklet bearing No. E-6330265, the photograph of
A12 was pasted on the passport application registration form
(Ex.PW5/A) and application form for miscellaneous services
(Ex.PW5/A1). His photograph is also found affixed on the photocopy
of passport bearing No. B-5081375 (Ex.PW5/A4). Though a plea has
been taken by learned defence counsel that the said photographs are
morphed photographs and same did not belong to the accused, but
during trial, no such evidence has been placed on record. The
question of producing negatives of the said photographs by the CBI
does not arise because the said photographs were used in the
issuance of additional passport booklets and there was no occasion
for the CBI to produce the negatives of the photographs. 114. Since, the photographs of A12 have been used in the
application form for obtaining the above said passport booklet, thus in
terms of Section 106 of Indian Evidence Act, onus is shifted upon him
to explain under which circumstances, the said photographs have
been reached in the hands of applicants, if he had not obtained the
said passport. Moreover, the contentions of morphed photograph is
otherwise untenable because the said passport could not be used by CBI No. 07/12 Page 146 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. any other person except A12 because the passport was issued in
fictitious name, but with photograph of A12. As already stated that
since A12 had already been deported from Abu Dhabi on emergency
certificate and a show-cause notice had been issued by RPO
Jallandhar, thus it was not possible for him to get a passport from
RPO without satisfying the queries raised by RPO (Jallandhar). In
other words, A12 had a motive to get passport by illegal means. 115. No doubt, PW35 in his cross-examination deposed that
he had not interrogated A12 before filing the charge-sheet and further
admitted that charge-sheet was filed without any interrogation.
Admittedly, this is a default on the part of investigating officer because
it was his duty to seek explanation of accused before filing the charge-
sheet against him, but he failed to do so. Though PW35 deposed that
he interrogated accused Anil Dhawan in this regard, but he denied his
relationship with A12. Mere fact that there was a default on the part of
investigating officer is not sufficient to exonerate the accused as even
during trial, accused failed to furnish any explanation or circumstances
to explain how his photographs have been used in the present case.
In these circumstances, I am of the considered opinion that it was A12
who was ultimate beneficiary of the said passport. Mere fact that the
additional passport booklet could not be recovered is not sufficient to
exonerate the accused because there are conclusive evidence on
record that the said passport was issued on the said application. 116. As already discussed that the said form was filled up
and signed by accused Anil Dhawan. This proves the connection
between A8 and A12. This shows that A12 must have approached A8 CBI No. 07/12 Page 147 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. for the alleged passport, accordingly, A8 had filled up the form in the
name of Rajender Kumar Kapoor and affixed the photograph of A12
on the application form and thereafter, submitted the application in
RPO, Delhi. This proves the conspiracy between A8 and A12, thus
A12 is liable for the offence punishable under Section 120B IPC.
Since, he furnished the said photographs in order to get passport in
fictitious name, he is also liable for the offence punishable under Section 12(1)(b) of Passport Act, 1967. (i) Though a separate charge for the offence punishable
under Section 467 / 471 IPC has also been framed against A12, but
during trial, no evidence has been adduced by the CBI to prove the
fact that he had committed any forgery, thus I am of the view that CBI
has failed to prove the guilt of accused for the offence punishable
under Section 467 IPC. Though in the charge-sheet, it is alleged that
accused had used the said passport by travelling abroad, but during
trial, CBI failed to produce any such evidence on record, thus I am of
the view CBI has also failed to prove the guilt of accused for the
offence punishable under Section 471 IPC. 117. In view of aforesaid discussion, I am of the considered
opinion that CBI has succeeded to prove the guilt of accused
Rajwinder Singh for the offence punishable under Section 120B IPC
and under Section 12(1)(b) of Passport Act, 1967. However, CBI failed
to bring home the guilt of accused for the offence punishable under Section 467 / 471 IPC, thus I hereby acquit him thereunder. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. CONCLUSION:- 118. Pondering over the ongoing discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that:- (i) Prosecution has succeeded to bring
 home the guilt of accused Anil Dhawan (A8)
 and Rajwinder Singh (A12) for the offence
 punishable under Section 120B IPC beyond of
 shadow of all reasonable doubts, accordingly, I
 hereby hold them guilty thereunder. beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts,
 accordingly, I hereby hold him guilty
 thereunder. (iii) Prosecution has also succeeded
 to bring home the guilt of accused Bibianus
 Toppo (A1), Harbhajan Yadav (A2) and Ram
 Chander (A3) for the offence punishable
 under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) (iii) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts, CBI No. 07/12 Page 149 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. to bring home the guilt of accused Rajwinder
 Singh (A12) for the offence punishable under Section 12(1)(b) of the Passport Act, 1967
 beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts,
 accordingly, I hereby hold him guilty
 thereunder. 119. However, prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt
of accused Sushma Bajaj (A4), G.D. Joshi (A5), Naieem Safi (A9),
and Harish Kumar Malhotra (A10) beyond the shadow of all
reasonable doubts, accordingly, I hereby acquit them from all the
charges. Announced in the open Court (PAWAN KUMAR JAIN)
 th
on this 19 February, 2016 Special Judge-01, CBI, North West
 Rohini Courts, Delhi/sv CBI No. 07/12 Page 150 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. IN THE COURT OF SH. PAWAN KUMAR JAIN,
 SPECIAL JUDGE, CBI-01, NORTH-WEST DISTRICT,
 ROHINI COURTS COMPLEX, DELHI

IN THE MATTER OF: ID No. : 02404R0009672008

 FIR No. : RC-2(A)/2005/SCU-V/CBI/SCR-II,
 New Delhi

 U/Sec: 120B r/w 419/420/467/468/471/474 IPC 13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of PC Act 1988
 12(1) (b) of Passport Act 1967 and
 substantive offences thereto

 Police Station: CBI/SCU-V/SCR-II/New Delhi

STATE
THROUGH
CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION,
NEW DELHI

 VERSUS CBI No. 07/12 Page 151 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 1. Bibianus Toppo
 S/o Late Joseph Toppo,
 R/o 14 G, Sector 4,
 DIZ Area, Raja Bazar,
 Gole Market, New Delhi-01. 2. Harbhajan Yadav
 S/o Late Sultan Singh Yadav,
 R/o H. No. 949/1, Gali No. 4,
 Ashok Vihar, Gurgaon,
 Haryana. 3. Ram Chander
 S/o Sh. Maman Ram,
 R/o J-624, Sardar Colony,
 Sector 16, Rohini, Delhi-85 ...........Convict No. 3 4. Anil Dhawan
 S/o Late Madan Lal Dhawan,
 R/o 254, DDA Flats, 1st Floor,
 New Ranjit Nagar,
 New Delhi-8. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 5. Rajwinder Singh
 S/o Darshan Singh
 R/o Surkh Pur, PS Kotwali,
 Distt. Kapurthala
 Punjab. Appearance :Sh. N.P. Srivastava, learned Sr. Public
 Prosecutor for CBI
 Sh. R. Ramachandran, Advocate, counsel for
 Bibianus Toppo (C1)
 Sh. Sukhwinder Singh, Advocate, counsel for
 Harbhajan Yadav (C2) and Ram Chander (C3)
 Sh. Lalit Yadav, Advocate, counsel for Anil
 Dhawan (C4)
 Sh. Arun Bansal, Advocate, counsel for
 Rajwinder Singh (C5)

ORDER ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE :- State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 2 Convict Rajwinder Singh (C5) is also held guilty for the
offence punishable under Section 120B IPC and under Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act, 1967 . 3. Learned counsels appearing for the convicts
request for a lenient view on the grounds that they are law
abiding citizens and they are sole bread earners of their
respective families. They are also suffering from agony of trial for
the last more than seven years. (i) Besides that counsel appearing for convict Ram
Chander submits that convict is a 55 years old man and there is
no probability of repeating similar offence by him. (ii) Similarly, counsel appearing for convict Harbhajan
Yadav requests for a lenient view on the ground that convict
Harbhajan Yadav is not involved in any other case except
passport scam cases and further states that during last 7 years,
convict has not been found indulged in any other criminal matter,
which shows that convict has reformed himself. (iii) Learned counsel appearing for convict Bibianus
Toppo submits that there is no evidence on record that convict
had taken any illegal gratification or any monetary benefit. It is
further submitted that convict is aged about 66 years and
suffering from various ailments. Convict has only one son, but he CBI No. 07/12 Page 154 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. is still unemployed, thus convict is the sole bread earner of his
family. (iv) Counsel appearing for convict Anil Dhawan also
requests for a lenient view on the ground that convict has been
appearing regularly in the Court and there is nothing on record which
may suggest that he had committed any other offence after filing the
charge-sheets in passport scam cases. It is further submitted that
both the kidneys of father of the convict Anil Dhawan had already
been failed, thus he is on regular dialysis for the last three years.
It is further submitted that convict is sole bread earner of his
family comprising of his old parents and two small school going
kids besides his wife. (v) Learned counsel appearing for convict Rajwinder
Singh (C5) submits that convict remained in custody for about
seven days during trial, thus requests that a lenient view be taken
and he be sentenced for the period already undergone. It is
further submitted that convict is a heart patient having two school
going kids, one marriageable age daughter and 80 years old
mother and all are dependent upon him. It is further submitted
that in fact accused is a victim of the conspiracy of other accused
persons. It is further submitted that accused has no criminal
antecedents. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 4. Per contra, counsel appearing for CBI refuted the
said contentions by vehemently arguing that the convicts are
involved in numerous passport scam cases and due to their acts,
passports in the form of additional passport booklets had been
issued in favour of fictitious persons. It is further argued that
since passport is an important document to prove identity and
nationality, thus such passports could be misused by anti-national
elements. It is further submitted that the convicts had also been
convicted in other matters such as CC No. 74/2008, CC No.
56/08, CC No. 11/12, CC No. 5/12, CC No. 76/08 and CC No.
24/09, accordingly, prayer is made for maximum punishment. 5. I have heard rival submissions made by counsel for
both the parties, perused the record carefully and gave my
thoughtful consideration to their contentions. 6. In view of the aggravating and mitigating factors as
highlighted by counsel for both the parties and the fact that
prosecution failed to establish the charges of conspiracy with the
public servants, I am of the considered opinion that it is not a fit
case to impose maximum sentence as prayed by learned Public
Prosecutor for CBI. Simultaneously, in view of the aggravating
factors as pointed out by the counsel for CBI, I am also of the
opinion that it is also not a fit case to take extreme lenient view
as prayed by counsel for the convicts. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 7. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I hereby
sentence the convict no. 1 to 3 i.e. Bibianus Toppo (C1),
Harbhajan Yadav (C2) and Ram Chander (C3) rigorous
imprisonment for a period of one year and a fine of ` 10,000/-
each in default further simple imprisonment for a period of six
months for the offence punishable under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1) (d) (iii) of Prevention of Corruption Act. 8. I also sentence convict no.4 Anil Dhawan rigorous
imprisonment for a period of three years and a fine of
` 20,000/- in default further simple imprisonment for a period of
nine months for the offence punishable under Section 420 IPC. (i) I also sentence convict no.4 Anil Dhawan rigorous
imprisonment for a period of two years and a fine of ` 10,000/- in
default further simple imprisonment for a period of six months for
the offence punishable under Section 419 IPC. (ii) I also sentence convict no.4 Anil Dhawan
rigorous imprisonment for a period of three years and a fine of
` 20,000/- in default further simple imprisonment for a period of
nine months for the offence punishable under Section 468 IPC. (iii) I also sentence convict no.4 Anil Dhawan
rigorous imprisonment for a period of two years and a fine of
` 10,000/- in default further simple imprisonment for a period of CBI No. 07/12 Page 157 of 159 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. three months for the offence punishable under Section 471 IPC. (iv) I also sentence convict no.4 Anil Dhawan
rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year and a fine of
` 5,000/- in default further simple imprisonment for a period of
three months for the offence punishable under Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act, 1967. (v) I also sentence convict no.4 Anil Dhawan
rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year and a fine of
` 5,000/- in default further simple imprisonment for a period of
six months for the offence punishable under Section 120 B IPC. 9. I also sentence convict No. 5 Rajwinder Singh
rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year and a fine of
` 5,000/- in default further simple imprisonment for a period of
six months for the offence punishable under Section 120B IPC. (i) I also sentence convict no. 5 Rajwinder Singh
rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year and a fine of
` 5,000/- in default further simple imprisonment for a period of
three months for the offence punishable under Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act, 1967. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 10. Benefit of Section 428 Cr. P.C, if any, be given to
the convicts. All sentences shall run concurrently. 11. Copy of judgment along with order on the point of
sentence be given to the convicts/their counsels free of cost. 12. File be consigned to record room. Announced in the open Court (PAWAN KUMAR JAIN)
 rd
on this 23 February, 2016 Special Judge-01, CBI, North West
 Rohini Courts, Delhi/sm CBI No. 07/12 Page 159 of 159