BRIEF STATEMENT OF REASONS FOR THE DECISION: 2. After registration of the FIR, the Investigating Officer
 (hereinafter, "IO") undertook investigation and on culmination of
 the same, the chargesheet against the accused persons was filed.
 The Ld. Predecessor of this court took the cognizance against the
 accused persons and summons were issued to the accused
 persons. On their appearance, a copy of the chargesheet was
 supplied to the accused persons in terms of section 207 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter, " CrPC "). On
 finding a prima facie case against the accused persons, charge
 under Sections 147 / 149 / 186 / 332 / 353 / 394 / 427 of IPC was framed
 against the accused on 24.07.2015. The accused persons pleaded
 not guilty and claimed trial. 3. Here it is pertinent to mention that accused no.4, 9, 16 and 20 had
 expired during the pendency of trial and proceedings qua them
 were abated accordingly. Therefore, case was proceeded qua
 remaining accused persons only. Abhinav by Abhinav
 Ahlawat

 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 4 of 62 Ahlawat Date: 2024.06.25
 17:42:22 +0530
 PROSECUTION EVIDENCE 4. During the trial, prosecution led the following oral and
 documentary evidence against the accused to prove its case
 beyond reasonable doubt:- At that time, no person of assailant was present there and he saw
 that Honda Accord Car of his relative was also damaged by those
 assailants. He found many police persons were present at his
 residence. One Police Zypsy also came at his residence and they
 took photograph of his house. Police had seized the pelted stones
 available from his residence, residence of his nephew Vinod and
 the said damaged car. Police brought the same in the Police
 Station. He could not say as to who were assailants of rioting at
 his residence and who had caused damage to the car. As PW1 did
 not support the case of prosecution on certain facts, the Ld. APP
 was granted permission to put him questions in the nature of
 cross-examination, wherein he stated that at the hospital, he had
 no information of attacking at his house by the villagers of his
 village. He stated that accused persons are the persons who are
 resident of his village. He stated that police took the photographs Digitally signed by Abhinav Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 7 of 62 Ahlawat Date: 6. PW2 Ct. Rajesh Kumar deposed that on 18.12.2012, after his uty,
 he reached his Village where he saw that police were gathered at
 the house of his brother Vinod Kumar. When he came near to the
 spot, he saw that a lot of bricks and stones laying inside and
 outside the house of Vinod Kumar and he saw that Honda
 Accord car parked before the house of Shri Ram Das was also in
 damaged condition. In the meanwhile, some police personnel
 from Zypsy came at the spot and they took the photographs of the
 spot. SI Praveen Kumar who was already present had seized
 stones and bricks which were laying at the spot. They also seized
 damaged car. Nothing more happened except the above
 mentioned fact. As PW2 did not support the case of prosecution
 on certain facts, the Ld. APP was granted permission to put him
 questions in the nature of cross-examination, wherein he stated
 that he had no knowledge about the fact that on 18.12.2012 at
 about 07:15 PM, one incident of knife blowing to his cousin
 brother Deepu by Lalit and his associates. Incident of pelting
 stones and bricks upon the houses of his brother Vinod and
 Deepu never took place in his presence. He had no knowledge of
 the above mentioned incident. He stated that he was present in
 his Village at about 09:45 PM but no incident of attacking by
 above mentioned persons upon police party was happened. In his
 presence, no police person was sent in RTRM Hospital who
 sustained injury. 7. PW3 HC Sat Narayan deposed that on 18.12.2012, he was on
 QRT duty at QRT vehicle bearing no.DL-3CZ-9307 from 06:00 Digitally signed by Abhinav Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 8 of 62 Ahlawat Date: 8. PW4 HC Om Prakash deposed that on 08.12.2012 he was on duty
 at QRT van. At about 06:10 pm he alongwith HC Satyanarayan,
 Ct. Chandram and the private driver of the QRT gypsy namely
 Sonu took weapons and WT set from the malkhana in the QRT
 Van and reached Surhera Mor for checking. The last digits of the
 gypsy was 9307 again said the registration number of the gypsy
 was DL 3C Z 9307. At about 07:30 PM, he received information
 with regard to the quarrel at village J.P. Kalan. On the
 instructions of the senior officers, he reached near Shiv Mandir,
 JP Kalan. The information was regarding the quarrel and with
 regard to stabbing with knife of one Deepu. When they reached
 there, crowd has already gathered in front of State Bank. On
 inquiry they came to know that injured Deepu had been taken to
 the Hospital in a PCR. Thereafter, on the instructions of the
 senior officers, he alongwith HC Satyanarayan and Ct. Chand
 Ram with the QRT Driver reached the Hospital. There was huge
 crowd gathered in the hospital. He tried to make the crowd
 understand and to control the situation. At about 09:30 PM, he
 received a call from the senior officers that there is quarrel, stone
 pelting and gun fire at village J.P. Kalan. Thereafter, he
 alongwith his staff reached Shiv Mandir, opposite SBI, JP Kalan.
 There he saw 40-50 persons gathered in front of the Bank and
 were pelting stones at the house of Deepu. He de-boarded his car
 and tried to make them understand not to commit such kind of
 acts. Out of that crowd one accused Shiv Kumar @ Bablu said to
 him that "Tum police wale yahan se chale jao, hum apne aap
 dekh lege". He again tried to make them understand and accused
 persons said that "police walo ko hi dekh lete hai". Out of that
 crowd 15-20 accused persons started pelting stones on him
 started beating him with the help of a dunda. Accused Shiv Digitally signed by Abhinav FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 11 of 62 Abhinav Ahlawat
 Ahlawat Date: 9. PW5 Vinod Kumar deposed that on 18.12.2012, at about 07:15
 PM, his cousin brother namely Deepu was stabbed with a knife
 by someone. Police reached the spot and took him to the hospital.
 At about 9:15 PM some persons pelted stones at his house and
 house of his uncle(chacha). Thereafter heI made a call on 100
 from his mobile no. 9213966840. After about half an hour police
 reached at the spot. Thereafter he came out of his house and saw
 that there were many stones lying outside his house and in the
 street and one car which was parked outside the house of his
 uncle was also in damaged condition. Crime team reached the
 spot. Photograph of the spot were taken. IO seized the pelted
 stones in a plastic sack vide seizure memo Ex.PW5/A and the
 damaged car was also seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW5/B. He Digitally signed by Abhinav FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 13 of 62 Abhinav Ahlawat
 Date: 10. PW6 Mitender Kumar deposed regarding the use of Tata Indicom
 phone having sim no. 9266660102 by his relative Om Prakash. 11. PW7 Mahesh Yadav deposed regarding release of bearing
 registration no.DL-4CNC-1676 on superdari vide superdarinama
 Ex.PW7/A. He also identified the said vehicle through
 photographs as Ex.PW7/B (colly). 12. PW8 HC Lokendra Singh deposed that on 18.12.2012, he
 alongwith SI Parveen Kumar went to J.P. Kalan Village after
 receiving DD no.47A. After reaching, he saw there were lots of
 stones lying in the gali of SBI Bank. There were local police
 force and other police force. The people were gathered there. He
 remained present there on the instruction of SI Parveen Kumar as
 he had received a call that Ct. Om Prakash had been admitted in
 RTRM hospital who was injured. SI Praveen Kumar left the said
 place for the RTRM hospital. At about 11:30pm, SI Parveen
 came back and prepared rukka on the basis of statement of a
 person but he did not remember his or her name and got the FIR
 registered through him. In the meantime, mobile crime team
 arrived at the said place. He reached at the place of occurrence at
 about 01:20 am. SI Parveen Kumar recorded the statement of
 crime team, police persons. The stones were collected in two
 plactic katta and same were seized. The said Kattas were sealed Digitally signed FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 14 of 62 by Abhinav
 Abhinav Ahlawat
 Ahlawat Date: 13. PW9 Dr. LR Richhele proved X-ray report as Ex.PW9/A. As per
 his report there were no bony injuries seen in the X-ray films
 regarding skull, right wrist with hand and left arm of the injured. 14. PW10 Dr. Bikash Sinha proved MLC No. 5529/12 dated
 18.12.2012 of Om Prakash Ex.PW10/A. The nature of injuries
 were later on observed as simple blunt. In the cross-examination,
 she stated that injured Om Prakash was in proper conscious
 condition when he was brought the hospital. No blood sample of
 the said injured was taken by her during his medical examination.
 She had not seized the uniform of the injured Om Prakash as he
 did not seem to be seriously injured. Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 15 of 62 Ahlawat Date: Thereafter, they along with both the accused persons went in
 search of the other co-accused persons but none was found.
 Thereafter, he along with both the accused persons and the IO
 reached at village Jaffarpur Kalan at about 05:00 pm where both
 the accused persons took them to the spot of incident in a street a
 little ahead of SBI Bank where the accused persons pointed out at
 the spot of incident and showed them the spot of incident. The
 pointing out memo of the spot of incident was prepared by the IO
 Ex.PW11/G. Thereafter, the accused Pradeep @ Johny led them
 while walking ahead of them to one field having mustered crop
 in the road going towards village Surhera and got one mobile
 phone recovered make Spice D-5555 having a Tata Indicom sim
 and disclosed that the said phone was snatched by him from Ct.
 Om Prakash on 18.12.2012. Thereafter, the IO put the said
 mobile phone in a transparent polythene and the said polythene
 kept in pullanda made of white cloth which the seal of PK. The
 seal after used was handed over to him the said pullanda was then Digitally signed
 by Abhinav
 Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 16 of 62 Date: 5639-41/HAR/DWD dated 29.03.2019 vide which the old record
 of PS J.P Kalan till 31.12.2015 was destroyed including the Arms
 and ammunition register of the relevant period Ex.PW15/A
 (colly). 20. PW16 Inspector Praveen Kumar deposed that on 18.12.2012 at
 about 09:30 pm, he received the information regarding some Digitally signed FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 20 of 62 by Abhinav
 Abhinav Ahlawat
 Date: 21. PW17 ACP Ranjeet Dhaka deposed that the present incident was
 happened on 18.12.2012 and IO SI Praveen verbally requested
 for sanction u/S 195 Cr. P. C and accordingly, he gave sanction
 u/S 195 Cr. P. C. for prosecution of accused persons Ex.PW17/A.
 At that time, he was working as a SHO PS J. P. Kalan. In the
 cross-examination, he stated that he gave sanction on 25.07.2013.
 He did not remember whether he had given sanction in any other
 case being SHO. 22. On account of admission of accused u/s 294 Cr.P.C, remaining in
 the prosecution list were dropped and the formal proof of the
 documents sought to be proved by them was dispensed with. No
 other PW was left to be examined; hence, PE was closed. 23. Thereafter, before the start of defence evidence in order to allow
 the accused persons to personally explain the incriminating
 circumstances appearing in evidence against them, the statement
 of the accused persons were recorded on 01.12.2023 without oath
 under section 281 r/w 313 CrPC , wherein they have stated that
 they were innocent and had falsely been implicated in the present
 case. They further stated that they did not want to lead defence
 evidence. FINAL ARGUMENTS 24. I have heard the Ld. APP for the State and Ld. Counsel for the
 accused persons at length. I have also given my thoughtful
 consideration to the material appearing on record. FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 25 of 62 Abhinav Ahlawat
 Date: 25. It is argued by the Ld. APP for the State that all the ingredients of
 the offence are fulfilled in the present case. He has argued that
 prosecution witnesses have categorically deposed about the
 commission of offence and there is no ground to disbelieve their
 testimony. He further contends that the documentary evidence
 has proved the offence beyond reasonable doubt. As such, it is
 prayed that the accused persons be punished for the said
 offences. 26. Per contra, the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons has argued
 that the State has failed to establish its case beyond reasonable
 doubt. The Ld. Counsel further argued that the entire case of the
 prosecution is false and fabricated and the same is evident from
 the material inconsistencies and contradictions borne out from
 the material on record. It is the specific defence as stated by the
 counsel that all the accused persons are falsely implicated being
 resident of the same village and there is no evidence on record to
 show that the acts as alleged against them were committed by
 them. It is argued that the prosecution has failed to discharge the
 burden cast upon it. As such, it is prayed that the accused persons
 be acquitted for the said offence. 27. It is a paramount tenet of criminal law that every accused is
 presumed to be innocent and cannot be convicted unless the
 prosecution is able to discharge the initial onus rested upon it
 beyond all reasonable doubts. Thus, the prosecution is under a
 bounden duty to prove all these points on the aforesaid standard
 to drive home the guilt of accused. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE & FINDINGS Digitally signed by Abhinav Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 26 of 62 Ahlawat Date: 28. The allegations levelled against accused persons are segregated
 into two parts: 29. Let us deal with the first set of allegations against the accused

 persons regarding the offence punishable under section
 147 / 149 / 427 / 394 IPC. Before delving into the merits of case, it is
 apposite to delineate the ingredients of the offences for which the
 accused has been tried. The essence of an offence under section 141 IPC which defines
the unlawful assembly is the combination of five or more
persons, united in the purpose of committing a criminal offence,
and the consensus of purpose is itself an offence distinct from the
criminal offence which these persons agree and intend to commit.
The law does not declare the mere assemblage of men, however
large, illegal. What it requires is that in order to be illegal it must
be inspired by an illegal object as specified in section 141 of the
Indian Penal Code, 1860. Furthermore, use of force or violence
by unlawful assembly or by any of its member in prosecution of Digitally signed by Abhinav Abhinav Ahlawat
FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 28 of 62 Ahlawat Date: 30. The main argument of the Ld. counsel for accused persons is that

 the accused persons have been falsely implicated in the present
 case by wrongly invoking the provision of unlawful assembly as
 there is nothing on record to show that accused persons were
 even present at the spot. 31. It is the case of the prosecution that PW4 complainant Ct.
 Omprakash on 18.12.12 at about 9:20 P.M after receiving a PCR
 call regarding pelting of stones and firing in village Jaffarpur
 Kalan Delhi went there along with other staff, where he saw that
 a mob of 50-60 persons having wooden sticks and stones, who
 were pelting stones towards the house of Deepu S/o Ramdass
 who was also attacked by knife by one Lalit who is neighbour of
 Deep and having old enmity with him. Thereafter, when he tried
 to stop the mob and asked them to disperse, then one Shiv Kumar
 @ Babloo alongwith mob attacked him and gave beatings to him
 with wooden sticks and bricks. They had also snatched one
 wireless set and mobile phone from him. As per the case of
 complainant the above incident was also witnessed by some other
 villagers and that he somehow managed to escape from the mob
 and then he was rushed to RTRM Hospital, Delhi by his fellow
 police staff. 32. Now what is to be seen is whether the said unlawful assembly

 was actuated by any common object. For applicability of section
 149 IPC, there need not be prior meeting of mind. It is enough
 that each has the same object in view. The elements of section Digitally signed by Abhinav Abhinav Ahlawat Date: FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 29 of 62 Ahlawat 2024.06.25
 17:46:15
 +0530
 149 are (i) commission of an offence by any member of an
 unlawful assembly; (ii) commission of the offence in prosecution of the common
 object of the unlawful assembly; (iii) the offence must have been such as the members of the
 unlawful assembly knew to be likely to be committed in
 prosecution of the common object. It is the contention of all the accused persons is that they
 were not even part of the unlawful assembly and all of them have
 contended that they were not even present at the spot. 33. As per the prosecution evidence, PW3 and PW4 went to the spot
 at about 9:30 pm after receiving the wireless message regarding
 the quarrel, firing and pelting of stones in village jaffarpur. Both
 PW3 and PW4 along with Ct. Chand Ram (witness not
 examined, being dropped from PW list) along with driver Sonu
 (who is not examined in prosecution evidence) reached in-front
 of the Bank where stones were being pelted at the house of
 Deepu. PW1 is the father of Deepu and PW5 is the owner of the
 other house on which the stones were pelted. Both PW1 and PW5
 failed to identify the accused persons involved in the incident of
 pelting of stones and further acts. 34. Further none of the prosecution witnesses that is PW2, PW6,
 PW7, PW8, PW11, PW12, PW13, IO PW16 were able to identify
 any of the accused persons during their testimony as they were
 not present when the alleged incident happened and arrived at the
 spot afterwards. Interestingly, PW2 Ct. Rajesh who himself is the
 police official stated that he did not see any such incident
 happening when he came to the spot after finishing his duty of
 the day. Even the complainant PW4 could only identify accused Digitally signed by Abhinav Abhinav Ahlawat Date: Ahlawat 2024.06.25
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 30 of 62 17:46:33
 +0530
 Shiv Kumar, Manoj and Jhony and stated in his cross
 examination that he was not able to identify the other accused as
 the matter pertained to the year 2012. The point which needs to be taken note of the fact is that
 complainant/PW4 had mentioned the name of all 25 accused
 persons by name in his complaint/statement Ex. PW4/A.
 Furthermore, PW4 admitted in his cross examination that
 accused Shiv Kumar and 2-3 accused persons were known to him
 as he had seen them at the police station during his posting at the
 police station and that there were other cases also pending against
 these accused persons. 35. Furthermore, PW1 Ramdass at who's residence the incident of
 stone pelting had happened, stated in his testimony that when
 after the incident of stabbing on the stomach of his son, he had
 called police 100 number from his mobile phone and PCR came
 at the spot and he, along with his son, went to RTRM hospital,
 where treatment was given to his son and that after sometime, at
 about 12 midnight, when he returned at his house, he came to
 know about the incident of stone pelting had happened at his and
 the residence of his nephew Vinod and that he could not say as to
 who were the assailants of stone pelting and as to who had
 caused damage to the car, as he was not present there. Interestingly, complainant/PW4 in his cross examination
 stated that PW1 Ramdas only came to his rescue when he was
 being attacked by the mob of the stone pelters. These two
 contradictory versions in the testimony of two prosecution
 witnesses goes to the root of credibility of the prosecution case
 and brings shadow of doubt over the entire prosecution version. Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 31 of 62 Date: 36. At this stage, it is relevant to mention the case of Ranjit singh Vs.
 State of Madhya Pradesh , AIR 2011 SC 255, wherein it was
 stated that,
 "In a case involving an unlawful assembly with a large
 number of persons, there is no rule of law that states that
 there cannot be any conviction on the testimony of sole
 eyewitness unless that the court is of the view that
 testimony of such eye witness is not reliable. The rule of
 requirement of more than one witness applies only in a
 case where a witness deposes in a general and vague
 manner or in the case of a riot." 37. In the instant case, only injured PW4 and PW3 have stated about
 the incident of 40-50 persons being gathered in front of a Bank
 and pelting stones at the house of Deepu and there is no other
 witness of the said incident, therefore, it becomes all the more
 important to scrutinise the testimony of both PW4 and PW3
 minutely. It is a settled law that a group attack on the victim is not a
 decisive factor to infer common object of the unlawful assembly.
 Common object has to be ascertained from the membership, the
 weapons used and the nature of the injuries as well as other
 surrounding circumstances. Prosecution must prove that the
 accused was not only a member of unlawful assembly but also
 shared the common object of the said assembly at all the crucial
 stages. Common object has to be inferred from various factors
 like the weapons with which the members were armed, their
 movements, the acts of violence committed by them and from the
 results thereof. In the instant case, the members of the unlawful assembly
 are neither stated to be armed with any kinds of deadly weapons
 and the only version which has come from both PW3 and PW4 is
 that 40-50 persons had gathered and they were pelting stones at Digitally signed by Abhinav Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 32 of 62 Date: 38. It would be profitable to mention the case of Baladin and Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh AIR 1956 SC 181, wherein the Supreme
 Court observed as under: Furthermore, while an overt act may not be necessary, mere
 presence does not make the person a member of the unlawful
 assembly and there should be something more to show that the
 accused shared a common object with the other members of the
 unlawful assembly or there was a community of common object.
 Also, as held in Rajendra Shantaram Todankar v. State of
 Maharashtra & Ors. AIR 2003 SUPREME COURT 1110, 2003
 (2) SCC 257, that,
 "where the localities to which the accused persons, the
 deceased and the witnesses belonged were adjoining
 each other, it was held that the presence of the accused
 persons at the place of incidence was natural." 39. Therefore, as settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that the Courts
 must guard against the possibility of convicting mere passive
 onlookers who did not share the common object of the unlawful Digitally signed by Abhinav Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 33 of 62 Date: 40. In the present case, injured/complainant PW4 have only named
 accused Shiv Kumar, Manoj and Jhony to have used force and
 violence against him while being member of the unlawful
 assembly and he was unable to identify other members of
 unlawful assembly as the incident was old despite naming other
 accused person by name in his statement. Similarly, PW3 in his
 testimony stated that he recognized all accused persons by face
 and not by name, however, when Ld. APP sought permission to
 cross examine PW3 he identified accused Manoj and Pradeep
 @Jhoney to be the person who snatched the wireless set and
 mobile phone of PW4. PW3 categorically stated that he could not
 tell who gave danda blow to PW4 and who were pelting stones
 upon PW4. Interestingly, PW3 in his cross examination stated that he
 did not try to call from his mobile phone for calling the
 reinforcement. Now, it becomes disbelieving as why the police
 official who is accompanying the other police official who is
 under attack by accused persons not take action to intervene or to
 take steps to immediately call for help and reinforcements. Also,
 said PW3 did not sustain any injury in the said act whereas as per
 the case of prosecution the group of 40-50 persons had stated that Digitally signed
 by Abhinav
 Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 34 of 62 Date: 41. Furthermore, there is no material or evidence which was procured
 during the investigation to show as to what was the main
 objective with which the five or more persons had gathered there
 and what would have been the reason of pelting of stones and
 causing damage to the vehicle. Nothing is no record to point as to
 what was the common purpose of the persons gathered there. The
 initial complaint and information to the police regarding stabbing
 incident, where after the present incident of stone pelting
 happened, however, there is no material which connects as to
 whether both the incidents were connected with each other and as
 to why the incident of stone pelting happened. In the absence of any such incriminating material the
 assembly of persons, be it 40 to 50 persons, or the present
 charge-sheeted accused person cannot be termed as unlawful
 assembly. 42. Furthermore, as per prosecution version the accused persons had
 robbed the mobile phone and wireless set from the injured PW4
 who stated that when he tried to inform about the incident
 through wireless set accused Manoj snatched his wireless set and
 when he tried calling through his mobile phone, accused Jhoney
 snatched his mobile phone. Also, PW3 who was accompanying
 PW3 stated that accused Manoj and Pradeep @ Jhoney snatched
 wireless set and mobile phone of PW4. 43. During the investigation, IO PW16 received the bill of the
 snatched mobile phone from the complainant and also took the
 certified copies of the arms and ammunition register of PS J P
 Kalan which is Ex. PW16/B. Digitally signed
 by Abhinav
 Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 35 of 62 Ahlawat Date: 44. Before dealing with the aspect of recovery of article after the
 recording of disclosure statement of the accused, it is important
 to lay down the law governing the same. Section 27 of Evidence
 Act, read as under,
 "27. How much of information received from accused may be proved.--
 Provided that, when any fact is deposed to as discovered in consequence of
 information received from a person accused of any offence, in the custody
 of a police officer, so much of such information, whether it amounts to a
 confession or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be
 proved." 45. This section is founded on the principle that if the confession of
 the accused is supported by the discovery of a fact, the
 confession may be presumed to be true, and not to have been
 extracted. It comes into operation only: 46. The broad ground for not admitting confessions made to a police
 officer under inducement, threat or promise is the danger of Digitally signed
 by Abhinav
 Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 36 of 62 Date: (ii) commonality of the recovered object and its availability in
 the market; (iii) nature of the object and its relevance to the crime; (iv) ease of transferability of the object; (v) the testimony and trustworthiness of the attesting witness
 before the Court and/or other like factors, are weighty
 considerations that aid in gauging the intrinsic evidentiary
 value and credibility of the recovery. FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 37 of 62 Abhinav Ahlawat
 Ahlawat Date: 47. Further, in the latest case of Ramanad @ Nandlal Bharti vs. State
 of Bihar, Criminal Appeal No. 64-65 of 2022, three judge Bench
 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under in para 53,

 "If it is say of the investigating officer that the accused
 appellant while in custody on his own free will and volition
 made a statement that he would lead to the place where he
 had hidden the weapon of offence along with his blood
 stained clothes then the first thing that the investigating
 officer should have done was to call for two independent
 witnesses at the police station itself. Once the two
 independent witnesses arrive at the police station thereafter
 in their presence the accused should be asked to make an
 appropriate statement as he may desire in regard to pointing
 out the place where he is said to have hidden the weapon of
 offence. When the accused while in custody makes such statement
 before the two independent witnesses (panch witnesses) the
 exact statement or rather the exact words uttered by the
 accused should be incorporated in the first part of the
 panchnama that the investigating officer may draw in
 accordance with law. This first part of the panchnama for the
 purpose of Section 27 of the Evidence Act is always drawn at
 the police station in the presence of the independent
 witnesses so as to lend credence that a particular statement
 was made by the accused expressing his willingness on his
 own free will and volition to point out the place where the
 weapon of offence or any other article used in the
 commission of the offence had been hidden. Once the first part of the panchnama is completed thereafter
 the police party along with the accused and the two
 independent witnesses (panch witnesses) would proceed to
 the particular place as may be led by the accused. If from that
 particular place anything like the weapon of offence or blood
 stained clothes or any other article is discovered then that
 part of the entire process would form the second part of the
 panchnama. This is how the law expects the investigating officer to draw
 the discovery panchnama as contemplated under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. If we read the entire oral evidence of
 the investigating officer then it is clear that the same is
 deficient in all the aforesaid relevant aspects of the matter. 48. Let us see if the disclosure statement of the accused Manoj @
 Kaira and Pradeep Kumar @ Joney was recorded as per the
 aforesaid guidelines as laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Digitally signed
 by Abhinav
 Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 38 of 62 Ahlawat Date: Note:- The term Police Station will include all places such as Police
 Lines and Police Posts where Register No. II is maintained. Perusal of the above rule clearly suggests that the police officials
are mandated to record their time of arrival and departure on duty
at or from the police station. In the instant case, this provision has
not been complied by the concerned police witnesses as no such
record is no record. Also, the relevant entries regarding the
arrival and departure of the police officials have not been proved
on record. It has been held in Rattan Lal Vs. State 1987 (2)
Crimes 29 the Hon'ble Delhi High Court held that; In the instant case, it should be noted that the prosecution has not
filed on record any document showing departure of the police
officials for taking the accused persons for recovery proceedings. Abhinav Ahlawat
FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 40 of 62 Ahlawat Date: FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 41 of 62 Abhinav Ahlawat
 Ahlawat Date: 49. Furthermore, IO PW16 stated in his cross-examination that there
 was no specific number on the QRT wireless set as mentioned on
 the record Ex.PW16B which could have tallied with recovered
 wireless set. As per the certified copy Ex.PW16/B mentioning
 the allotment of QRT wireless set to PW4 Ct. Om Prakash there
 is no specific details of QRT wireless set (be it model number or
 colour or other ID marks) whereas as per the seizure memo
 Ex.PW12/B the wireless set which was recovered was Motorola
 ATS 2500. Therefore, there is no way to show whether the
 recovered wireless set was the same device which was being
 allotted to PW4 Ct. Om Prakash which was allegedly snatched by
 accused Manoj @ Kaira. Similarly, the mobile phone Spice D 5555 as allegedly
 recovered from accused Pradeep @ Joney bearing IMEI
 no.910040840194455 (both CDMA and GSM enabled) as per the
 case of prosecution belonging to PW4 Ct. Om Prakash. During
 investigation, IO seized the purchase receipt Ex.PW4/D as
 handed over by complainant PW4. Perusal of the said receipt
 reveals that the same is a cash receipt and it does not contain any
 detail apart from the description as stated as SP 5555. There is no
 detail mentioned on the said cash receipt of the product for which Digitally signed
 by Abhinav

 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 42 of 62 Abhinav Ahlawat
 Date: 50. When both the recovered articles do not match with the article to
 have been allegedly robbed from the complainant, then a
 reasonable doubt arises as to whether they are the same article or
 not and prosecution evidence is deficient in this regard. In light
 of the above stated legal position, the documentary evidence
 adduced by prosecution which suffers from serious infirmities
 and thereby adds up to the pile of contradictions emerging in the
 prosecution case, thereby leading to the irresistible conclusion
 that the recovery of the alleged snatched articles is not
 established and both the accused Pradeep and Manoj are entitled
 to benefit of doubt. 51. Furthermore, when the presence of accused person being member
 of unlawful assembly having a common object is not established
 as discussed in the preceding paragraphs, nothing specifically can
 be imputed upon the accused persons to have caused damage to
 the car being damaged as there is not an iota of evidence in the
 form of eye witness or otherwise who saw any person damaging
 the car bearing number DL-4CNC-1676. Thereby the prosecution
 had miserably failed to prove the allegations of offence
 punishable under Sections 147 / 149 / 427 / 394 IPC. 52. The second set of allegations against the accused persons revolves
 around commission of offences u/s 186 / 332 / 353 IPC wherein all
 the accused persons are charged for causing hurt to public servant Digitally signed by Abhinav FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 43 of 62 Abhinav Ahlawat
 Date: 53. The import of the above sections is to punish persons who create
 obstruction in the discharge of duties of public servants. While Section 186 IPC envisages merely voluntary obstruction, section
 353 IPC lays down an additional condition that such obstruction
 must be caused by assaulting or using criminal force against the
 public servant. In fact, the distinction between these two
 provisions has been clearly borne out in Durgacharan Naik &
 Ors. Vs. State of Orissa AIR 1966 SC 1775 by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the following words:- 54. First and foremost, it is the submission of the Ld. defence counsel
 that the cognizance in the present case has been wrongly taken as
 the sanction from the concerned public servant was not obtained
 and that the person who had moved the complaint was not
 competent to give the said complaint as per the provision of the
 Crpc. At the outset, the relevant portion of Section 195 of Cr.
 P.C. is reproduced herein-under for reference: Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 45 of 62 Date: 55. Now, it is a general condition to initiate prosecution u/s 186 IPC
 to see that the complaint is filed under Section 195 Cr. P. C. by
 the concerned public servant or his supervisor officer to whom he
 is subordinate. It is also not possible to bypass the requirement of
 Section 195 Cr. P. C. At this stage it is worthwhile to highlight
 the recent case of Santokh Singh Chawla v. State (NCT of
 Delhi ), 2023 SCC OnLine Del 4773, where in Hon'ble Delhi
 High Court held that, 33. Thus, in view of the above, the law can be summarized to
 the effect that there must be a complaint by the public
 servant whose lawful order has not been complied with. The
 complaint must be in writing. The provisions of Section 195
 Cr. P.C. are mandatory. Non-compliance of it would vitiate
 the prosecution and all other consequential orders. The Court
 cannot assume the cognizance of the case without such
 complaint. In the absence of such a complaint, the trial and
 conviction will be void ab initio being without jurisdiction." 56. Also, as held in case of Gurucharan Singh Arora v. The State ,
 (2002) 96 DLT 181, relevant observations of which read as
 under: 6. Section 2(d) of Cr. P.C. defines the complaint to mean any
 allegation made orally or in writing to a magistrate, with a
 view to his taking action under this Code, that some person,
 whether known or unknown, has committed an offence, but Abhinav Digitally signed by Abhinav Ahlawat Page 46 of 62 Date: 7. In this case, there was nothing in the complaint quoted
 above to indicate that the complaint was made to the
 Magistrate for taking action under Section 186 IPC. Mere
 consent of the SHO for prosecution of the accused cannot be
 construed as the complaint. Further, there is nothing on
 record to indicate that the cognizance was taken by the
 Magistrate on the basis of the complaint under Section 195
 Cr. P.C. Therefore, the charge under Section 186 IPC
 against the petitioner is not sustainable. It is needless to
 observe that in all such cases, the complaint should be filed
 by the concerned public servant with a prayer to take action
 against the accused and whenever such complaint under
 Section 195 Cr. P.C. is filed along with charge-sheet under
 Section 173 Cr. P.C., the Courts while taking cognizance,
 should also take note of such complaint, to avoid any
 technical objection at a later stage..." 57. In the instant case, the complaint under section 195 Cr.PC was
 made by the then SHO PS J P Kalan as addressed to the Court.
 The relevant paragraph is reproduced as under: 58. Cognizance was taken in the present case once the chargesheet
 along with the complaint under section 195 Cr.PC was moved by
 the public servant before the Court. Therefore, there is due
 compliance of the provision of section 195 Cr.PC as the
 complaint containing the allegations against the accused persons
 along with the material was brought on record before the Court at
 the time of filing of the chargesheet. Therefore, there is no merit
 in the submission of the Ld. Counsel for accused persons that
 cognizance was wrongly taken in the present case. 59. Moving further, in the instant case, the Court is posed with
 following questions for determination to adjudge the veracity of
 prosecution case: - Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 48 of 62 Date: (c.i) for the purpose of Section 186 IPC , whether the
 complaint was filed before this court u/S 195 Cr.P.C? (c.ii) for the purpose of Section 353 IPC, whether the
 accused had assaulted or used any criminal force to the
 said person during the execution of his duties? 60. There must be some act or physical means used to constitute

 voluntary obstruction as it has been held in number of judgments
 there must be an overt act which could justify conviction under Section 186 IPC. In the present case it is the version of the
 complainant PW4 HC Om Prakash and PW3 HC Sat Narayan
 who alongwith Ct. Chand Ram (not examined by the
 prosecution) that when they received information to reach village
 J. P. Kalan regarding the incident of firing and stone pelting and
 they in their quick response QRT van reached at the village at
 09:30 pm and when they reached there near Shiv Mandir
 Opposite SBI Bank, there were some persons who were pelting
 stones at the house of Deepu. Complainant however, stated that
 when he de-boarded his car and tried to pacify them, then out of
 that crowd one accused Shiv Kumar @ Bablu said to him that
 "Tum police wale yahan se chale jao, hum apne aap dekh lege ".
 He again tried to make them understand and accused persons said
 that "police walo ko hi dekh lete hai ". It is the version of the
 complainant there were 15-20 accused persons out of the said
 crowd started pelting stones on him started beating him with the
 help of a danda. Here, it is clear that PW3 alongwith PW4 who Digitally signed by Abhinav FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 49 of 62 Abhinav Ahlawat
 Date: 61. Now the question is whether prosecution by way of examining
 PW4 and PW3 are able to establish their presence at the spot
 alongwith accused persons and whether accused persons
 committed any obstruction in discharge of their public duty and
 whether accused persons voluntarily caused hurt or assaulted
 them. All the accused persons have not led any defence evidence,
 however, during the recording of statement u/S 313 Cr. P. C. all
 of them stated that they were not present there at the time of
 alleged incident. Although the Court is aware of the fact that the
 statement made by the accused persons without oath during
 recording their statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. is not
 proof. At this juncture, this court seeks to rely on the
 following observations of the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay
 in the case of State of Maharashtra Vs. Alister Anthony Pareira 2007 SCC OnLine Bom 1489 (and further affirmed by Hon'ble
 Apex Court in appeal) as regards the use of statement made by
 accused without oath during the stage of Section 313 Cr.P.C:- 62. Needless to mention that it is the primary duty of prosecution
 before the onus can be shifted upon the accused. The
 photographs of the scene of crime Ex.P8 (colly) showcases the
 stones scattered in or around the spot and one Honda Accord car
 being damaged. Perusal of testimony of PW1 Ram Dass, the only
 private public witness, reveals that he was neither present at the
 spot at the time of incident in question of stone pelting nor he
 witnessed anything and he arrived after the incident and thereby
 he did not identify any accused person. Although PW1 was cross
 examined by Ld. APP but nothing substantial came out of his
 testimony neither he is the complainant. None of the private
 witnesses examined by the prosecution were able to identify any
 of the accused persons or stated to have witness stone-pelting by
 the accused persons, thereby they have not been able to establish
 the presence of not only the accused persons but also of the
 police officials that is PW3 and PW4. 63. As offence under section 186/332/353/ IPC is essentially against

 the public servant, therefore, the crucial testimony to be
 examined is of both PW3 and complainant PW4 only. Perusal of
 their testimonies reveals certain inconsistencies which makes the
 prosecution case unworthy and unbelievable. These are as
 follows: PW4/A whereafter the rukka Ex. PW16/A was recorded. Digitally signed
 by Abhinav
 Abhinav Ahlawat
 FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 51 of 62 Date: However, no such DD entry record has been brought on record
during the prosecution evidence to substantiate the said fact. 63.2 Secondly, as per statement of PW4, he sustained injuries
when accused Shiv Kumar hit him and thereafter, he became
unconscious. However, during his cross-examination he
explained that he was wearing his uniform and that he was
wearing the same at the time of medical examination as well. But
what comes out from the examination of other witnesses i.e. IO
PW16 Inspector Praveen Kumar and PW10 Dr. Bikash Sinha
who stated that the said blood-stained uniform of PW4 was not
seized by the doctor at the time of medical examination but the
same was seized by PW16. Abhinav Ahlawat Date: Ahlawat 2024.06.25
FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 52 of 62 17:49:38
 +0530
 Interestingly, PW4 stated that he became unconscious
whereas treating doctor PW10 stated that PW4 was very much
conscious and no blood sustained uniform was seized by him.
Further PW8 HC Lokender stated in his cross-examination that
he had not seen any blood stains at the spot while his stay for
about seven hours. It is unexplained as to why the blood stained
uniform, if any, was not seized by the treating doctor as injured
was taken to the hospital and as to why the IO seized the same
before the medical examination and never took any efforts to
obtain the blood sample from the said seized uniform.
Furthermore, apart from the uniform there is no other unique ID
mark or name plate seized to establish as to whether the same
uniform was belonging to PW4 or not. 63.3 Thirdly, the uniform of the injured Ex.P9 seized by the IO
bearing his seal and as per the PW16 he never deposited his seal
in the malkhana. Here, it if profitable to mention the case as
decided by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Safiullah v. State ,
(1993) 49 DLT 193, had observed: Therefore, the possibility of tampering with the case property
cannot be ruled out. Moreover, it is not even the case of the
prosecution that the seal was not within the reach of the IO and
thus, there was no scope of tampering of case property. Thereby Digitally signed by Abhinav FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 53 of 62 Abhinav Ahlawat Date: Ahlawat 2024.06.25
 17:49:46
 +0530
 the circumstances under which the seal was obtained and used is
under a shadow of doubt. Thus, in light of the aforesaid
discussion, the possibility of misuse of seal and tampering of
case property cannot be ruled out. 63.4 Fourthly, the medical opinion regarding the nature of
weapon used for causing injury to the complainant would have
helped in explaining how the injuries were sustained by the
complainant. Even the examination of the blood-soaked uniform
of complainant would have helped in establishing the fact
whether the blood on uniform with blood on danda or any stone
were of the complainant or not. Failure to produce the expert
opinion in such a case affects the creditworthiness of the
prosecution case. However, no such evidences were placed on
record by the prosecution for the reasons best known to them. At
this stage it is worthwhile to mention the case as held by Hon'ble
Supreme Court, in Mohinder Singh v.State [(1950) SCR 821],
wherein it was held that:- There should not be any prevarication in the version of such a
 witness. The witness should be in a position to withstand the
 cross-examination of any length and howsoever strenuous it
 may be and under no circumstance should give room for any
 doubt as to every one of other supporting material such as the
 recoveries made, the weapons used, the manner of offence
 committed, the scientific evidence and the expert opinion. The
 said version should consistently match with the version of every
 other witness. It can even be stated that it should be akin to the
 test applied in the case of circumstantial evidence where there
 should not be any missing link in the chain of circumstances to
 hold the accused guilty of the offence alleged against him. Only if the version of such a witness qualifies the above test as
 well as all other such similar tests to be applied, can it be held
 that such a witness can be called as a "sterling witness" whose
 version can be accepted by the court without any corroboration
 and based on which the guilty can be punished. To be more
 precise, the version of the said witness on the core spectrum of
 the crime should remain intact while all other attendant
 materials, namely, oral, documentary and material objects
 should match the said version in material particulars in order to
 enable the court trying the offence to rely on the core version to Digitally signed by Abhinav Abhinav Ahlawat
FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 55 of 62 Ahlawat
 Date: Even the CCTV footage of SBI Bank was not collected which
could have lend credence to the version of prosecution that mob
of 40-50 people had gathered at the house of PW1 Ram Dass. Abhinav Ahlawat FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 56 of 62 Date: In B.N. Mutto & Another v. Dr. T.K. Nandi (1979) 1 SCC 361,
the Court observed thus: Abhinav Ahlawat
FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 59 of 62 Date: CONCLUSION: The inescapable conclusion is that the accused persons are
 entitled to benefit of doubt. 86. Resultantly, since the prosecution has failed in proving its case
 beyond reasonable doubts against the accused, accused Manoj
 Kumar @ Kaira, Shri Krishan @ Hariyal, Sanjay, Brahm Prakash
 @ Bhone, Narender Kumar, Mukesh @ Monu, Pradeep Kumar
 @ Jhoney, Dharampal, Amit Kumar, Dharam Singh, Rishi Pal, Digitally signed by Abhinav FIR No. 133/2012, PS Jafarpur Kalan State vs. Manoj Kumar @ Kaira Page 61 of 62 Abhinav Ahlawat
 Date: