DINESH KUMAR SHARMA,J : 906/2023 of Abhishek Boinpally titled as " Abhishek Boinpally
 vs Directorate of Enforcement ". The bail applications filed by
 petitioner Abhishek Boinpally was dismissed by the learned
 Special Judge, PC Act , CBI-09 vide order dated 16.02.2023. 2. Briefly the facts as stated by Enforcement Directorate are as
 under: Thereafter, 1st Supplementary Prosecution Complaint
 dated 06.01.2023 has been filed against Sh. Abhishek
 Boinpally and others before the Hon'ble PMLA Court.
 During the investigation, several searches have been
 conducted, statements have been recorded. ED has
 provisionally attached properties to the tune of Rs. 76.54
 crores vide PAO No. 02/2023 dated 24.01.2023. The
 investigation done by ED has revealed as under: f. Sh Vijay Nair had arranged meeting of the
 owner/controller of Indo Spirits Sh Sameer Mahandru,
 with Sh Arvind Kejriwal, CM, Delhi and when that didn't Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 9 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 materialise, he arranged a video call through facetime
 on his phone for Sh Sameer and Sh Arvind Kejriwal,
 where Sh Arvind said to Sh Sameer that, Vijay is his boy
 and that Sh Sameer should trust him and carry on with
 him. These facts are relevant to mention so as to
 establish the abatement of his actions in relation to the
 Excise Policy scam, by the political leaders of the AAP. g. Sh Vijay Nair, is Incharge of Media and Communication
 for the AAP, had no role in the Delhi Govt. in fact acted
 as a broker/liaison/middlemen on behalf of the top
 leaders of the AAP for getting bribes/kickbacks from
 various stakeholders in the Delhi Liquor business in
 exchange of favourable outcomes (policy changes) in the
 Excise Policy of 2021-22, which was being drafted at
 that time. He even threatened the stakeholders who were
 not agreeing to his demands that he changes
 suitable/desired by them may not go through entirely if
 they do not concede to his demands. h. Sh Vijay Nair, in connivance with Sh Dinesh Arora and
 through him with Sh Amit Arora, has also arm twisted a
 wholesaler to surrender the L1 license and then coerced
 the manufacturers surrendered through that license to
 choose the wholesalers of his choice and favour to direct
 the profit margins to his co-conspirators, so that there
 was complete control on the kickbacks to be extracted.
 i. Sh Vijay Nair, on behalf of leaders of AAP has received
 kickbacks to the tune of Rs. 100 Cr from a group, for
 convenience, we may call it the South Group (as termed
 in the statements of various persons recorded during the
 investigation), whose prominent persons are Sh Magunta
 Srinivasulu Reddy, Sh Raghav Magunta, Sh Sarath
 Reddy and Ms K Kavitha. The South Group was
 represented by Sh Abhishek Boinpally, Sh Arun Pillai
 and Sh Buchi Babu. Sh Abhishek Boinpalli facilitated the
 transfer of Rs. 100 Cr kickback in connivance and
 conspiracy with Sh Vijay Nair and his associate Sh Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 10 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 Dinesh Arora. j. Investigation of the trail of this kickback so far has
 revealed that part of these funds were used in the election
 campaign of the AAP for Goa Assembly elections 2022.
 Cash payments to the tune of Rs. 70 lacs were made to
 the volunteers who were part of the survey teams. Sh
 Vijay Nair himself has told certain persons involved in
 the campaign related work to receive the payments in
 cash. Advertisment/hoarding related work were directed
 to raise only part of the claims in the bill and receive the
 remaining in cash. These part cash payments were
 managed through Hawala Channels. Teams led by Sh
 Vijay Nair have directed certain firms to even issue
 bogus invoices. k. These kickbacks were paid in advance to the AAP leaders
 through Vijay Nair by the South Group as a part of
 agreement between the South Group and the AAP
 leaders. Against the kickbacks paid, the south group
 secured uninhibited access, undue favours, attained
 stakes in established wholesale businesses and multiple
 retail zones (over and above what was allowed in the
 policy). In one of the ways to recover/recoup the
 kickbacks given by the South Group, partners of the
 South group were given 65% stakes in Indo Spirits in
 collusion with the accused Sh Sameer Mahandru. The
 South group controlled these stakes in Indo Spirits,
 through false representation, concealment of true
 ownership and proxies i.e. Sh Arun Pillai and Sh Prem
 Rahul. This partnership formation was directed by Sh
 Vijay Nair on the assurance of giving the wholesale
 business of Pernod Ricard to Indo Spirits. l. The gravity and depth of this criminal conspiracy is such
 that to grant L1 wholesale license to Indo Spirits despite
 various complaints highlighting Sameer's and Indospirit
 Marketing Pvt Ltd's role in cartelisation, when Sameer
 submitted a fresh application in a different name of Indo Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 11 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 Spirits, the Dy CM, Delhi, Sh Manish Sisodia himself
 directed the Excise Commissioner to grant the license on
 priority. m. Pernod Ricard, is one of the accused in the instant case,
 which through Sh Benoy Babu and others, in conspiracy
 with the super cartel and Sh Vijay Nair gave their
 wholesale business to Indo Spirits. The Excise Policy
 2021-22 required the manufacturers to register their
 brands at the Lowest EDP net of all
 discount/commission/rebate of any nature whatsoever,
 however, Pernod Ricard by way of conspiracy has got
 their price fixed without deducting the discounts/rebates
 they offer thus getting a much higher price fixed for their
 brands and thus earning a huge additional profit which
 was ineligible to them and should have been passed to
 the consumers as lower MRP. If the manufacturer had
 registered the brands at actually lowest EDP, the
 capacity of the manufacturers to give out credit notes
 would have been limited. However, Pernod Ricard paid
 Rs. 131.9 Crores credit notes to the retailers via the
 wholesalers, where the benefit of discounts was shifted to
 the retailers instead of the actual consumer at large.
 n. That, in order to create a device for continuous payment
 of kickbacks to Sh Vijay Nair, an unheard of margin of
 12% was provided to the private wholesalers (L1s)
 contrary to the recommendations of the Expert
 Committee headed by Sh Ravi Dhawan, IAS and then
 Excise Commissioner which as detailed below, suggested
 for a single Govt entity as Wholesaler for Delhi. On this
 account, the Govt lost the revenue of 12% Rs. 581 cr.
 that would have accrued to it in case the Expert
 Committee recommendations were accepted by the Govt,
 which in the subject policy was assigned to the Pvt.
 Players, only to fill the personal coffers of the leaders of
 AAP. This loss to the Govt exchequer actually got
 illegally diverted into ostentatious profits to the
 wholesalers including the accused M/s Indo Spirits, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 12 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 which was used to recoup the kickbacks paid in advance
 by the South group. o. The South Group directly and indirectly controlled 9
 retail zones, which included 5 retail zones of Sh Sarath
 Reddy (accused no). In some cases the control was via
 financing of the EMD (Earnest Money Deposit) for the
 L7 tender process. ostensible investments,
 relatives/dummies/proxies. Apart from the direct profits
 accruing from the wholesale business of Indo Spirits,
 modus operandi for recovering the kickback paid in
 advance by the South group, monies in the form of
 outstanding from the ostensible sales from the wholesale
 of Indo Spirit to Retail of the South group with an
 understanding that the outstanding was not to be
 recovered and the amount will be shown as recoverable
 in the books of account. Sh Sarath Reddy's controlled
 entities owed over Rs. 60 Cr (approx.) to Indo Spirits,
 which is shown as outstanding but was not meant to be
 recovered as part of the conspiracy. p. The retail business was lucrative and the turnover was
 huge on daily basis. Further, the retail sales were in cash
 and not credit based, meaning thereby the generation of
 funds/recovery of the purchase cost was immediate.
 Thus, there was no valid reason for not repaying the
 outstanding towards the wholesaler either on the same
 day or soonest after. q. Another novel method of recovery of the kickbacks was
 through passing of Credit Notes. Ordinarily the credit
 notes are passed to the person who had direct nexus with
 or has sold the goods, however, in this business, the
 manufacturers were giving credit notes to the retailers
 with whom they had no direct transactions with. Further,
 there was no apparent reason to give credit notes to
 businesses which are minting money with MRP being 3
 times of the cost and having profit margin of 185%
 approx. The fact that the credit notes were an eyewash to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 13 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 transfer money illegally to pay kickbacks is evident from
 the fact that the ostensible reason of volume based credit
 notes was bogus and credit notes have been passed in an
 inconsistent manner considering the sale volume. For
 example, Pernod Ricard has not given any credit notes to
 M/s Adharv Enterprises (not a favoured L7) against the
 volume of 19,080 cases purchased in the months of Dec,
 2021 Jan, 22 and Feb 22. However, Pernod Ricard has
 given Rs. 61.01 lakhs as credit notes to M/s Organomix
 Ecosystems Pvt. Ltd. (which is part of the South Group
 cartel) who has purchased 17,644 cases during the said 3
 months." 3. The role of the Petitioner has been discussed in detail in the
 complaint filed by ED and is not been discussed here for the
 sake of brevity. B. Submissions on behalf of the Petitioner 4. Sh. Vikram Chaudhary, learned senior advocate along with Sh. Sumer Singh Boparai submitted that there is no proof of
 identification of proceeds of crime. It has been submitted that
 the allegations against petitioner are solely based on section 50
 statement of Dinesh Arora and Arun Pillai and 3 calls between
 Mr. Dinesh Arora and Mr. Lupin (cousin of petitioner). It has
 been submitted that Arun Pillai has already retracted his
 statement by filing an application on 09.03.2023. It has also
 been submitted that the reliance on the statement of Dinesh
 Arora is also against the law, in view of illustration-B of Section 114 of Indian Evidence Act which provides that the
 approvers testimony cannot be relied upon unless corroborated
 in material particulars. It has further been submitted that Mr. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 14 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 Dinesh Arora has not provided any evidence like transaction
 slips/notes/diary/entries etc. to corroborate his statement. 5. Learned senior counsel further submitted that reliance on 3
 calls made between Dinesh Arora and Lupin in the absence of
 transcripts to alleged transfer of Rs. 30 crores is misplaced. It
 has been submitted that Lupin has denied meeting Dinesh
 Arora or even talking to him. 6. Learned senior counsel submitted that even as per the statement
 of Dinesh Arora upon receiving these calls he used to note
 down the number on a piece of paper and hand over the same to
 one Rajesh or Sudhir. However, no such paper has been
 recovered. It has been submitted that there is no evidence to
 show any Hawala transaction and not even a single Hawala
 operator has been examined or identified by ED. 7. Learned senior counsel further submitted that in one of
 statement Dinesh Arora identifies one Rajesh Sharma an
 alleged accomplice of Vijay Nair who used to assist in Hawala
 operations. However, after the CDR of one Rajesh Joshi was
 shown, Dinesh Arora conveniently stated that Rajesh Joshi was
 actually accomplice and he had mistakenly named Rajesh
 Sharma. It has been submitted that therefore the statement of
 Dinesh Arora lacks credibility. It is further been submitted that
 similar allegations of transferring money from Dinesh Arora to
 Vijay Nair were leveled against one Rajesh Joshi on the basis
 of similar statements. The trial court rejected such oral
 statements and granted bail to Rajesh Joshi as there was no Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 15 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 independent and cogent evidence against him on record.
 Learned senior counsel further submitted that petitioner
 Abhishek Boinpally and Mr. Gautam Mootha had an existing
 business relationship and were family friends. It has been
 submitted that Mr. Gautam Mootha and his companies had
 been receiving advances of big loans which they used to return
 time to time. It has been submitted that the loan/investment of
 Rs. 6.53 crores was advanced by the petitioner to Mr. Gautam
 Mootha between November 2020 to November 2021 and thus
 the period of loan/investment proceeds are alleged to be the
 generation of POC. It has further been submitted that the
 payment of Rs. 3.85 Crores made by Mr. Gautam Mootha to
 the petitioner is the partial repayment of loan/investment. The
 source from which the repayment was made by Mr. Gautam
 Mootha is irrelevant as far as the petitioner is concerned. It has
 been submitted in the absence of any knowledge the use of Rs.
 3.85 crores to purchase shares of Zeus Networking private
 limited cannot be called projecting tainted money as untainted. 8. Learned senior counsel submitted that allegation of the ED
 regarding investment in ZNPL is also totally misconceived. It
 has been submitted that the CDG Broadcasting was the holding
 company of ZNPL. Petitioner desired to invest and purchase
 ZNPL and payments for purchasing ZNPL were made to CDG
 Broadcasting to the tune of Rs. 10 lacs and 60 lacs on
 06.03.2021 and 17.03.2021. It has been submitted that after
 approval to appoint the petitioner as director of ZNPL was Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 16 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 taken on 07.07.2021 by CDG Broadcasting, the petitioner made
 further payments of Rs. 50 lacs and 75 lacs on 25.08.2021 and
 04.10.2021 to CDG. It has been submitted that the petitioner
 was made a director of ZNPL on 06.10.2021 which is much
 prior to the implementation of the Excise Policy for generation
 of the alleged POC. Learned senior counsel submitted that
 thereafter a final payment of Rs. 3.78 Crores approximately
 was made by the petitioner on 11.02.2022 to CDG and its
 promoter Pankaj Arora to purchase the shares of ZNPL.
 Therefore, the purchase of shares of ZNPL etc. and connected
 transactions had been initiated much prior to the alleged to the
 POC and have no link or nexus. In respect of the allegations
 regarding Andhra Prabha Publication Private limited and India
 Ahead News private limited, learned senior counsel submitted
 that petitioner is neither a share holder, director in KMP or
 investor in IANPL or APPL. Learned senior counsel submitted
 that petitioner has no connections with the transactions made
 between the Indo Spirits and the aforesaid companies. Learned
 senior counsel submitted that even the learned trial court while
 granting the bail to the petitioner in the predicate offence inter-
 alia held that whether the petitioner was a beneficiary or had
 control over the companies that is IANPL and APPL benefiting
 from the alleged transfer is a matter of trial. Learned counsel
 submitted that in fact Mr. Arun Pillai in his statement under
 Section 50 PMLA and Mr. Gautam Mootha in the
 representation made to CBI have categorically stated that the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 17 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 payment of Rs. 1.7 crores by Indo Spirits was for a campaign to
 be run by IANPL and APPL. Learned senior counsel submits
 that despite these statements ED attributed the payment to the
 petitioner without any basis 9. Learned senior counsel submitted that the allegation that the
 said payment of Rs. 1.7 Crore was made to secure the interest
 of the petitioner in the logo/IPR of IANPL and APPL is
 blatantly false. It was submitted that the petitioner had already
 purchased the logo of India ahead by making of Rs. 1.30 crore
 to APPL vide invoice bearing no. AP/21-22/03821A raised on
 31.07.2021. Learned senior counsel submits that the allegation
 of conspiracy or the petitioner being a key player in the same is
 the matter of investigation/trial in the predicate offence and has
 no concerned with the PMLA case. It was submitted that the
 petitioner started managing the operation of the brands in Delhi
 on behalf of Sarath Reddy only in March after 2 out of 5 zones
 were surrendered by Mr. Sarath Reddy. Learned senior counsel
 submitted that the petitioner was only involved in the
 operations of the above said vends and drew no
 salary/monetary benefits. 10. Learned senior counsel submitted that the petitioner joined the
 operation of the firms after the two vends were shut, which is
 evident from the statement of Mrs. E. Chandan Reddy (Wife of
 Sarath Reddy) and Mr. Sarath Reddy. The Statement of
 Tanmay Vashisth (employees of Pernod Ricard) shows that the
 petitioner was involved in dealing with the operational issues of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 18 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 the vends only. In regard to the threats to withdraw complaints
 against Indo Spirits Group for cartelization, learned senior
 counsel submitted that the allegation is solely based on the
 statement of Jagbir Sidhu (DIAGEO) and Aman Dhall
 (BRINDCO) and no independent investigation has been carried
 out into the same by ED and reliance is placed on the oral
 statement. It has further been submitted stated that neither Mr.
 Dhall nor Mr. Sidhu had lodged any complaint that they were
 being threatened by the petitioner. 11. Learned senior counsel further submitted that there is no
 destruction of evidence on part of the petitioner. It was
 submitted that the changing of phone is a matter of regular
 business practice and the petitioner has fully cooperated with
 the investigation as and when he was called. It has been
 submitted that the petitioner has already been admitted to bail
 by the learned Special Judge in the predicate offence and he is a
 man of clean and clear antecedents having no past history of
 any criminal case. It has been submitted that allegations are just
 based upon the inferences drawn by the IO of its own notions/
 beliefs and prejudices. 12. Learned senior counsel further submitted that trial is not even
 likely to be commenced as in both the predicate offence and in
 the PMLA case the investigation are yet underway and the trial
 may take long time. It has also been submitted that the twin
 conditions would not be a part to the grant of bail to the
 petitioner as there is a clear violation of Article 21 of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 19 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 constitution. It has further been submitted that the petitioner has
 a family comprising of his old and ailing mother, his wife and a
 9 year old minor son and he is the only responsible member in
 his family. 13. Sh. Vikram Chaudhary, learned senior counsel in support of his
 contentions has relied upon Satyender Kumar Antil vs Central
 Bureau of Investigation (supra) to buttress his point that non-
 compliance with Section 19 of PMLA would render the arrest
 and subsequent proceedings to be illegal and titling the
 petitioner to bail on a similar analogy. 14. Learned senior counsel has also relied uponUnion of India vs
 Dhami Sharasi (1995) 4 SCC 190 to emphasis his point that
 even twin conditions as postulated under Section 45(1) PMLA
 may not have any application if due process of law or
 procedure is not followed. C. Submissions on the behalf of Respondent/ED 15. Sh. Zoheb Hossain, learned special counsel for ED submitted
 that the petitioner Abhishek Boinpally is a key person involved
 in the conspiracy of and giving bribe/kickbacks to the tune of
 Rs. 100 crore by the South Group to Sh. Vijay Nair and he
 facilitated the payment of Rs. 100 core kickback to Sh. Vijay
 Nair. It has been submitted that the petitioner organised
 payment of this amount from the South Group through Dinesh
 Arora. 16. Sh. Zoheb Hossain submitted that Dinesh Arora in his
 statement dated 01.10.2022 stated that in a meeting that took Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 20 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 place in June 2021 in ITC Kohinoor Hyderabad, Sh. Vijay Nair
 had told him to coordinate with the petitioner Abhishek
 Boinpally for bringing funds to the tune of Rs. 20-30 crores
 from Hyderabad to Delhi. 17. Sh. Zoheb Hossain submitted that this meeting has been
 confirmed by the hotel records which has duly been placed on
 the records. It has further been submitted that against this
 advance kickback it was also understood that once the recovery
 of the kickback is done, then the 6% collected will be divided
 between Sh. Vijay Nair and Sh. Abhishek Boinpally as this
 arrangement was not only for one year but also for the
 remaining of the five year terms of AAP in Delhi Government.
 Sh. Zoheb Hossain submitted that Dinesh Arora in his
 statement has revealed that petitioner Abhishek Boinpally used
 to give him a note with number and phone number for the
 Hawala transaction on call and thereafter Dinesh Arora used to
 give the same to other persons (Rajesh Joshi and Sudhir) to
 pick up the cash. Reliance has also been placed upon the
 telephone calls between Dinesh Arora and Rajesh Joshi as well
 as Mr.Lupin. Sh. Zoheb Hossain submitted that Lupin was
 introduced to Dinesh Arora by petitioner Abhishek Boinpally
 only. 18. Sh. Zoheb Hossain submitted that Abhishek Boinpally was
 working for Super Cartel alongwith his associate Sh. Arun
 Pillai and Butchi Babu and was representing the interest of the
 South Group in the Delhi Liquor business. Petitioner Abhishek Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 21 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 Boinpally attended a meeting in May 2021 at Gauri Apartment,
 New Delhi alongwith his associates. The meeting was
 organised by Vijay Nair to introduce them to liquor business in
 Delhi for them to understand market and also to find potential
 partnerships. 19. Sh. Zoheb Hossain submitted that it has come on the record that
 petitioner Abhishek Boinpally has constantly been in touch
 with the other players of the conspiracy that is Butchi Babu,
 Magunta Srinivas Reddy, Sameer Mahandru, Benoy Babu,
 Manoj Rai and Rajesh Mishra. It has been submitted that the
 South Group owned and controlled 9 out of 12 zones directly or
 indirectly and petitioner was working to manage the working
 operations of 5 out of these 9 retail zones owned and controlled
 by Sh. Sarath Reddy through Trident Chemphar Limited,
 Avantika Contractors and Organomix Eco Systems. It has been
 submitted that the Indo Spirit was a special purpose vehicle
 created to recoup the advance bribe of Rs. 100 crore given by
 south group and therefore Indo Spirits was made the wholesaler
 of one of the biggest manufacturer that is Pernod Ricard. 20. Sh. Zoheb Hossain submitted that the retail zones of Sarath
 Reddy were used for recoupment of the advance kickback
 given by South Group and one of the method to recoup the
 kickbacks was by way giving excess credit notes (i.e. the credit
 notes which have not been backed by the manufacturer) of Rs.
 4.35 crore from Indo Spirits to the 5 retail zones of Sarath
 Reddy exclusively (no other retail zones were given excess Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 22 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 credit notes). It has been submitted that further huge
 outstanding of Rs. 60 crores of the 5 zones of Sarath Reddy was
 pending for payment by these 5 zones to Indo Spirits. It has
 been submitted that these amount of Rs. 4.35 crores and Rs. 60
 crores are the proceeds of crime. It has been submitted that the
 recoupment of kickbacks is also money laundering. 21. Sh. Zoheb Hossain further submitted that the designated
 wholesaler Indo Spirits was not able to get L1 license from
 Delhi Excise Policy as there were some complaints against
 Indo Spirits group for cartelization and other violations. In this
 regard a writ petition was filed in the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 in the name of Varun Chaudhary highlighting the violation by
 Indo Spirits Group (Indo Spirit Marketing private limited)
 making the Government of NCT a respondent. Sh. Zoheb
 Hossain submitted that in fact the petitioner threatened Sh.
 Jagbir Sadhu of DIAGEO to withdraw the complaint otherwise
 it could adversely affect the business between DIAGEO and
 Brindco i.e. another wholesaler. This fact has been confirmed
 by Sh. Jagbir Sidhu in his statement dated 01.11.2022 as well
 by Aman Dhall in his statement dated 29.10.2022. 22. Sh. Zoheb Hossain further submitted that Abhishek Boinpally
 has not only assisted in generation of proceeds of crime but is
 also a beneficiary of the proceeds of crimes generated from
 Indo Spirit. It has been submitted that out of total profit of Rs.
 192.8 crore made by Indo Spirits POC of amount of Rs. 3.85
 crore has been received in the account of Abhishek Boinpally Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 23 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 through multiple layers. Sh. Zoheb Hossain further submitted
 that petitioner has not been cooperative during the investigation
 and remained abrasive and has also destroyed /changed/used
 his mobile phone for 5 times in around a year which itself
 shows that the accused has deliberately deleted/ destroyed
 evidences stored in these devices. 23. Sh. Zoheb Hossain submitted that the petitioner has tried to
 mislead the investigation by constantly changing his
 statements. D. Finding and Analysis: 24. The offence of money laundering has been defined in section 3 of the PMLA, which reads as under: 25. The 'proceeds of crime' has been defined under Section 2 (u) of
 PMLA, which reads as under: 2. In this regard the proceeds of crime and the scope and ambit of Section Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 24 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 3 of PMLA has been well laid down in Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary
 (supra) wherein it has been held as under: 265. To put it differently, the section as it stood prior to
 2019 had itself incorporated the expression "including",
 which is indicative of reference made to the different
 process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime.
 Thus, the principal provision (as also the Explanation)
 predicates that if a person is found to be directly or
 indirectly involved in any process or activity connected
 with the proceeds of crime must be held guilty of offence
 of money-laundering. If the interpretation set forth by the
 petitioners was to be accepted, it would follow that it is
 only upon projecting or claiming the property in question
 as untainted property, the offence would be complete.
 This would undermine the efficacy of the legislative intent
 behind Section 3 of the Act and also will be in disregard
 of the view expressed by the FATF in connection with the
 occurrence of the word "and" preceding the expression
 "projecting or claiming" therein. This Court in Pratap
 Singh v. State of Jharkhand , enunciated that the
 international treaties, covenants and conventions
 although may not be a part of municipal law, the same be
 referred to and followed by the Courts having regard to
 the fact that India is a party to the said treaties. This
 Court went on to observe that the Constitution of India
 and other ongoing statutes have been read consistently
 with the rules of international law. It is also observed
 that the Constitution of India and the enactments made by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 26 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 Parliament must necessarily be understood in the context
 of the present-day scenario and having regard to the
 international treaties and convention as our constitution
 takes note of the institutions of the world community
 which had been created. In Apparel Export Promotion
 Council v. A.K. Chopra , the Court observed that
 domestic Courts are under an obligation to give due
 regard to the international conventions and norms for
 construing the domestic laws, more so, when there is no
 inconsistency between them and there is a void in
 domestic law. This view has been restated in Githa
 Hariharan as a, as also in People's Union for Civil
 Liberties 82, and National Legal Services Authority v.
 Union of India . 266. In the Core Recommendations of the FATF referred
 to above , the same clearly mention that the word "and" in Section 3 of the 2002 Act would not be fully in line with
 the Vienna and Palermo Conventions. This doubt has
 been ably responded and elucidated by India to the
 international body by referring to the jurisprudence as
 evolved in India to interpret the word "and" as "or" in
 the context of the legislative intent - to reckon any (every)
 process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime
 constituting offence of money-laundering. To buttress the
 stand taken by India before the FATF, reliance has been
 justly placed on reported decisions of this Court amongst
 other Sanjay Dutt, which had occasion to deal with the
 expression "arms and ammunition" occurring in Section
 5 of the TADA Act. The Court noted that if it is to be read
 conjunctively because of word "and", the object of
 prohibiting unauthorised possession of the forbidden
 arms and ammunition would be easily frustrated by the
 simple device of one person carrying the forbidden arms
 and his accomplice carrying its ammunition so that
 neither is covered under Section 5 when any one of them
 carrying more would be so liable. The principle
 underlying this analysis by the Constitution Bench must Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 27 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 apply proprio vigore to the interpretation of Section 3 of
 the 2002 Act. To the same end, this Court in the case of
 Ishwar Singh Bindra v. The State of U.P.165, Joint
 Director of Mines Safety and Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam
 Ltd. v. Essar Power Ltd. , interpreted the word "and" in
 the concerned legislation (s) as word "or" to give full
 effect to the legislative intent. 273. On a bare reading of Section 3 , we find no difficulty
 in encapsulating the true ambit, given the various
 arguments advanced. Thus, in the conspectus of things It
 must follow that the interpretation put forth by the
 respondent will further the purposes and objectives
 behind the 2002 Act and also adequately address the
 recommendations and doubts of the international body
 whilst keeping in mind the constitutional limits. it would,
 therefore, be just to sustain the argument that the
 amendment of way or the explanation has been brought
 about already present words, only to clarity the any" and
 including" which manifests the true meaning of the
 definition and clarities the mist around its true nature." 26. Section 45 of PMLA provides that notwithstanding anything
 contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, no person
 accused of an offence under this Act shall be released on bail or
 on his own bond unless--(i) the Public Prosecutor has been
 given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release;
 and (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the application,
 the court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for
 believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not
 likely to commit any offence while on bail. It is also pertinent
 to mention here that Section 45 provides that the twin
 conditions are in addition to the limitation provided under the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 28 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 or any other law for the time
 being in force on grant of bail. 27. It is settled proposition Section 45 PMLA do not impose an
 absolute restraint on the grant of bail and the court at this stage
 is to prima facie consider whether applying the standard of
 broad probabilities the material against the applicant would
 result in conviction. It is also a settled proposition that at this
 stage the Court is only required to examine the matter to find
 out whether the accused was possessed of the requisite mens
 rea. It is also no longer res integra that the court is not required
 to record a positive finding that the accused had not committed
 the offence under the Act. It is also a settled proposition that the
 court at this stage is not required to weigh the evidence
 meticulously. The court is only required to arrive at a finding
 on the basis of broad probabilities. It is also a settled
 proposition that the court is not required to hold a mini trial at
 this stage and is required to examine the case on the basis of
 broad probabilities. It is also to be kept in mind that while
 exercising the jurisdiction under Section 45 of PMLA, the court
 is required to take into consideration the limitations prescribed
 under Section 439 Cr.P.C. 28. In regard to the limitation under Section 439 Cr.P.C. in Kalyan
 Chandra Sarkar vs Rajesh Ranjhan (2004) 7 SCC 528 it has
 been held as under: 29. Before proceeding further, it is also necessary to be reminded
 the scope of jurisdiction to be exercised while granting bail in
 the economic offence. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case
 of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v. CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 439 528
 held as under: 30. In Nimmagadda Prasad v. CBI , (2013) 7 SCC 466, it was
 inter alia held as under: 31. The bare reading of Section 3 of PMLA would make it clear if
 a person is involved in any process or activity connected with
 the proceeds of crime, including its concealment, possession,
 acquisition or use and projecting or claiming it as untainted
 property shall be guilty of offence of money laundering.
 Therefore, it is not necessary to attribute section 3 of the PMLA
 that the alleged person must have acquired or in possession of
 the proceeds of the crime. If a person has actually been
 involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds
 of crime, it would be sufficient to prosecute him under Section
 3 of PMLA. The argument that the proceeds of crime have not
 been received or the proceeds of crime has not been recovered
 and therefore section 3 of the PMLA will not come into Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 31 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 operation is totally fallacious and is liable to be rejected. It is
 necessary to keep in mind that such crimes are committed in a
 deep conspiracy and under the dark cover. An act may not be
 an offence at all if it is done in relation to any process or
 activity not connected with the proceeds of crime, but if such
 an act is done in relation to any process or activity connected
 with the proceeds of crime it will certainly be an offence under Section 3 of PMLA. 32. The present case is very peculiar in nature and may not have
 any parallel factual matrix. In brief, the allegations in the
 predicate offence is that the conspiracy was hatched between
 the political head and certain persons which included an
 individual allegedly representing the government with the
 manufacturer, liquor wholesaler and retailer. The conspiracy
 allegedly was hatched to introduce a new excise policy to
 benefit certain individuals who had given advance kickbacks to
 the AAP. The prominent players if we put names to the faces
 are Mr.Manish Sisodia, the then Deputy Chief Minister and
 Excise Minister, Mr.Vijay Nair purportedly Media Incharge of
 AAP, Sameer Mahendru. Mr.Amit Arora, Mr.Dinesh Arora,
 Mr.Abhishek Boinapally, Mr.Sharad Reddy, Mr.Butchi Babu,
 Mr.Binoy Babu and others. This court is conscious of the fact
 that the investigation relating to the conspiracy to frame the
 excise policy allegedly with malafide intention and alleged
 misuse of official position was the subject matter of the CBI in
 which the charge-sheet has already been filed by the CBI. However, in view of the fact that allegedly the basic intention
 behind framing the new excise policy was to recoup the
 advance kickbacks and to further gain undue advantage from
 the excise policy, the facts are so inter-connected that the same
 have to be read in totality. 33. Presently, this court is considering the bail application of the
 abovesaid accused person Sh. Abhishek Boinapally who was
 arrested for the offence under Section 3 of the PMLA. For the
 purpose of clarity Mr. Abhishek Boinapally, was the member of
 the South Group and he was representing Mr.Sarad Reddy.The
 allegation against Sh.Abhishek Boinapally is he was
 representing the south group and was part of the conspiracy in
 framing of the new excise policy which was detrimental to the
 interest of the general public and was framed with an intention
 to grant undue advantage to certain individuals with a view to
 recoup the kickback and to gain further undue advantage. He
 was also allegedly involved in the process or activity connected
 to the proceeds of crime. 34. The plea raised by the defence is the ED has no material other
 than an inconsistent and unreliable statement of either co-
 accused or the public servants. The defence has raised a plea
 that in absence of any independent corroboration or material on
 record to substantiate such statements under Section 50 PMLA,
 the court on the basis of probability should record a finding that
 accused persons are not guilty of such offence. The defence,
 during the course of their arguments, have repeatedly stated Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 33 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 that the ED has cooked up the case merely on the basis of
 whims and fancies and there are contradictions in the
 testimonies of the witnesses. The defence has assailed the
 testimony of approver Dinesh Arora and has submitted that
 Dinesh Arora has made the statement under the influence of ED
 and to protect himself. It is also the case of the defence that the
 public servants who are under the direct control of Hon'ble LG,
 who is the complainant in the present case, have made their
 statements only to save their skin. 35. This court is fully conscious of the fact that personal liberty is a
 sacrosanct right and pre-trial detention cannot be taken as a
 punitive measure. However such right has to be balanced with
 the right of the society at large. This court is also conscious of
 the fact that though the statements recorded under Section 50
 PMLA are admissible in evidence but their evidentiary value
 has to be weighed at the time of trial. 36. The present case arises out of an alleged conspiracy wherein the
 government framed an excise policy with a malafide intention
 to recoup the kickbacks received in advance from certain
 individuals and to further generate the ill money from the liquor
 trade. There are witnesses and witnesses on record to show that
 certain outsiders were actively participating from the stage of
 drafting and formulation of the policy. The reference to the
 statements of the witnesses have been made during the course
 of recording the submission of the learned defence counsels and
 learned counsel for ED. The statements of the witnesses clearly Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 34 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 indicate that some extraneous factors were working since the
 time of conceptualization, formulation and drafting of the
 excise policy. The allegation regarding generating of the emails
 in support of the excise policy also raises the red flag that
 everything was being done in a transparent and bonafide
 manner. 37. This court at this stage, would restrain itself to make any
 comment further on this as the trial is yet to take place. The
 option before this court is either to go into the meticulous
 examinations of the witnesses as being argued by the learned
 defence counsels or to take into account the statements
 recorded under Section 50 of PMLA by the ED. It is correct
 that the case of ED is based on the statements under Section 50
 PMLA cannot be taken as gospel truth but at the same, the
 court has to take into account the probabilities and the
 legislative intent behind enacting Section 50 PMLA. The bare
 perusal of Section 50 makes it clear that these are deemed to be
 judicial proceedings. There are consequences for making a false
 statement or not complying to the summons under Section 50
 of PMLA as provided under Section 63 of the PMLA. Thus,
 statements under Section 50 PMLA cannot be brushed aside.
 This court at this stage cannot go into the probative value of the
 witnesses nor can it meticulously examine those facts. 38. The involvement of the third parties in the formulating and
 drafting of the policy certainly points at mens rea. The
 jurisdiction of bail is a discretionary jurisdiction. But this Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 35 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 discretion has to be exercised on the settled principles in a
 judicial manner. The court has to bring in its judicial
 experience to arrive at a conclusion, which should be rational
 and logical. It is pertinent to mention that the accused and
 complainant/prosecution are entitled to know the reasons on the
 basis of which their bail application has been decided, but at the
 same time such reason should not be detailed in such a manner
 that it may prejudice the trial. 39. The issue to be examined is whether the petitioner has been
 able to fulfill the twin conditions as laid down under Section 45
 of the PMLA. It is pertinent to mention here that the petitioner
 himself in his statement dated 17.09.2022 has admitted that he
 was going to run the retail zones for Sharad Chander Reddy.
 The petitioner has also stated that he had met Vijay Nair
 through Arun Pillai in or around July 2021. The petitioner has
 also further stated that he was running 3 retail zones of Sri
 Avantika, Organomixx and Trident. The petitioner in his
 statement dated 08.11.2022 has also admitted to have attended
 a meeting in May 2021 at Gauri Apartments alongwith Vijay
 Nair, Arun Pillai and Butchi Babu. It has been stated that the
 meeting was coordinated by Arun Pillai. In the statement, the
 petitioner has also admitted that he also attended the meeting at
 ITC Kohinoor alongwith Arun Pillai and Butchi Babu where
 discussion held regarding forming a partnership in retail zones. 40. Perusal of the statement dated 08.11.2022 would indicate that
 the petitioner was interacting with all the other accused persons Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 36 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 and was thus part of the conspiracy. In the statement dated
 22.11.2022 the petitioner stated that he had lent Mr. Gautam
 Mootha a sum of Rs. 5.45 crore during the period 24.08.2021 to
 24.11.2021. The petitioner stated that he had not made any loan
 agreement and it was personal understanding between us. The
 petitioner has also stated that Mr. Gautam Mootha returned him
 a sum of Rs. 3.85 crore through RTGS on or around
 10.02.2022. The petitioner also stated that he did not charge
 any interest from Gautam Mootha. The plea taken by the
 petitioner that the transfer of the money of 3.85 crore by
 Gautam Mootha on 10.02.2022 was the return of the loan
 advanced to him does not appeal to the reason that a sum of Rs.
 5.45 crore could be lent without any loan agreement and
 without any interest. Therefore, the contention of the ED that
 this was in fact proceed of crime seems to be more plausible. 41. It is also pertinent to refer to the statement of Dinesh Arora
 dated 01.10.2022 wherein he has stated that the plan of transfer
 of money through Hawala channel was made in hotel ITC
 Kohinoor, Hyderabad where Vijay Nair asked him to
 coordinate with petitioner Abhishek Boinpally and facilitate the
 transfer of bribe money from Hyderabad to Delhi. Dinesh
 Arora also stated in his statement under Section 50 PMLA that
 the petitioner Abhishek Boinpally and his cousin Lupin used to
 call him and give the details of the person (alongwith the
 currency number) from the money is to be collected in Delhi
 which he used to forward to Rajesh and Sudhir. Dinesh Arora Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 37 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 had also stated that Abhishek Boinpally represented Sarath
 Reddy, K Kavita and M.S.R (South Group) and met Vijay Nair
 many times. It also came in the statement under Section 50
 PMLA of Dinesh Arora that South Group gave Rs. 100 crores
 to Vijay Nair for AAP as advance bribe. 42. It is pertinent to mention here that in reply to question number
 2 in the statement under Section 50 of PMLA dated 01.10.2022,
 Dinesh Arora had stated that during the conversation's
 petitioner expressed his anger by saying that even after giving
 advance 90-100 crore to Vijay Nair (for AAP /government)
 their shops are not opening on time. It also came in the
 testimony of Dinesh Arora dated 03.10.2022 that meeting was
 called by Vijay Nair in February 2022 at Habitat Centre for
 discussing and solving the problems faced by South Group in
 Delhi / Retail trade which was attended by Vijay Nair, Dinesh
 Arora, Arun Pillai, Arjun Pandey, petitioner Abhishek
 Boinpally and Chandan Reddy. It is also relevant to mention
 here that Mohit Gupta in his statement dated 14.12.2022 had
 stated who was regional sales manager in Pernod Ricard stated
 that he used to interact with petitioner for the operation issue
 for three zones run by the petitioner. Similarly Tanmay Vashith
 another senior officer of Pernod Ricard stated that he used to
 interact with the petitioner and seek his help for resolving
 issued and streamlining things within the zones. 43. It is also relevant to mention here that Jagbir Singh Sidhu who
 was Director, Corporate Relation, Diageo India in his statement Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 38 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 under Section 50 PMLA recorded on 01.11.2022 has stated that
 he had met petitioner in July 2021 alongwith Sameer Mahandru
 and they both had come to seek Diageo's distributorship in
 Delhi. Sh. Sidhu stated that next time when he met the
 petitioner in November 2021 as Sameer had called him to
 discusss an anonymous complaint that had been made to the
 Excise Department and a writ petition that had been filed in the
 Supreme Court by someone. Sh. Sidhu stated that petitioner
 told him that he has found out that the same complaint has been
 made by Sh. Amandeep Dhall who was Diageo's distributor. It
 was further stated that later on petitioner came to Le Meridien
 Gurgaon, and showed him certain documents which had the
 CDR of Aman Dhall location and IP address from the mails to
 the Excise Department had originated and stated that all the
 analysis shows that Aman Dhall is behind the complaint against
 Indo Spirits. Sh. Sidhu stated that the petitioner threatened him
 that since his group/cartel had 9-10 zones i.e., almost 30% of
 Delhi retail business and would have dire consequences for
 Diageo's business. Sh. Sidhu stated that upon this he called
 Amandeep and Virenderpal Singh and enquiring the same and
 they both denied the allegations at that time. Sh. Sidhu stated
 that he advised him that in case he had done so then he should
 withdraw the writ petition otherwise it could adversely affect
 the business between Diageo and Brindco. 44. ED has also placed reliance upon certain whatsapp chats
 between petitioner and Mohit Gupta of Pernord Ricard. In Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 39 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 respect of the flow of the money, ED has placed on the record
 that Rs. 4 Crore 25 lacs was transferred from the Indo Spirit to
 Arun Ramchandran Pillai on 09.09.2022. Arun Pillai
 transferred Rs. 4 crore 75 lacs on 10.02.2022 to Gautam
 Mootha and on the same day Gautam Mootha transferred a sum
 of Rs. 3 crore 85 lacs to the petitioner. ED has also placed on
 record the records of Oberoi Hotel and ITC Kohinoor to
 substantiate the plea that the meetings had taken placed
 amongst the accused persons in which the petitioner had also
 attended. 45. Sh. Gautam Mootha also in his statement under Section 50
 PMLA on 29.12.2022 stated that he had approached the
 petitioner for investment in the English news channel, "India
 Ahead" in the year 2020 and the petitioner had agreed to do
 investment in October 2020. Sh. Gautam Mootha stated that, as
 some dispute has arisen he received money from the petitioner
 in his personal account. Sh. Gautam Mootha in his statement
 had also stated about the transaction regarding ZNPL and CDG
 broadcasting private limited. The case as set up by the ED is
 that the retail zones of Sarath Reddy were used for recoupment
 of advanced kickbacks given by South Group and one of the
 methods to recoup the kickback was by way of giving excess
 credit notes (i.e. the credit notes which have not been backed by
 manufacturer) of Rs. 4.35 crores from Indo Spirits to the 5
 retail zones of Sarath Reddy exclusively. 46. It is also the case of the ED that huge outstanding amount of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 40 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 Rs. 60 crores of the 5 zones of Sarath Reddy was pending for
 payment by these 5 zones to Indo Spirits and therefore this
 amount of Rs. 4.35 crore and Rs. 60 crore are nothing but POC.
 It is that case of the ED that the recoupment of kickbacks are
 also money laundering. 47. The ED's case is that the petitioner knew it fully well that these
 retail zones were being used as part of the conspiracy to recoup
 the kickbacks and ensure that these retail zones run smoothly
 and are capable of being used as vehicles for recouping the
 proceedings of crime. 48. In view of the law which has been discussed above, it is settled
 position that the statement recorded under Section 50 of PMLA
 is admissible evidence though the evidentiary value of the same
 is to be seen after the trial. However, at this stage, the court
 cannot ignore the statements under Section 50 PMLA which the
 statue provides to have been recorded as part of the judicial
 proceedings. In such cases of conspiracy, the present case is of
 peculiar nature where Excise policy was formed with ill-
 objective of illegal earning money through illegal means. 49. The petitioner as per the statement under Section 50 PMLA
 which have been discussed above is apparently an important
 player of such conspiracy and has also acted in the money
 laundering. The flow of money from Indo Spirits to his account
 on 10.02.2022 indicate his complicity in the money laundering.
 Thus it cannot be said at this stage that there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that petitioner is not guilty of such Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 41 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 offence. 50. Learned Special Judge inter alia held that he was one of the
 representatives of the south group in the cartelisation and he
 played an active role in payment of kickbacks amount as well
 as its recoupment. He met the co-accused Vijay Nair and others
 as a representative of the South lobby in connection with excise
 policy formulation and it was he through whom at least Rs. 20-
 30 crores out of the kickback amount of Rs. 100 crores are
 alleged to have been transmitted or transferred to Delhi from
 South and delivered to the co-accused Vijay Nair and his team,
 as per details provided by this accused and through the
 approver Sh. Dinesh Arora. Specific statements of approver Sh.
 Dinesh Arora and Sh. Arun Chandaran Pillai are there to this
 effect. The statement of approver further shows that Abhishek
 Boinpally contacted this accused and his cousin Sh. Lupin on
 few occasions in connection with payment delivery of the
 above amount of kickbacks and this is even stated to be
 corroborated by the call detail records of few persons. He was
 also the person who was handling the operations of five retail
 zones owned by co-accused P. Sarath Chandra Reddy through
 his above retail entities and there is sufficient oral and
 documentary evidence corroborating this fact in the form of
 statements of some witnesses and accused and also the
 Whatsapp chats between different persons. 51. Learned trial court has also inter alia held that he has assisted
 in recoupment of the kickback amount as evident from the fact Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 42 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 that an amount of Rs. 3.85 crores out of the recouped kickbacks
 was transferred in his bank account from the account of Sh.
 Gautham Mootha and this transfer is found to have genesis in
 the amount of Rs. 33 crores which was transferred to the
 account of Sh. Arun Ramchandaran Pillai by Sameer
 Mahandru, out of the profits earned by Indo Spirit. This
 accused is even found connected with two other transfers for
 the amounts of Rs. 1 crore and 70 lakhs in accounts of M/S
 Andhra Prabha Publications and M/S India Ahead news
 respectively, which entities are alleged to be associated with
 him and even these amounts are stated to have been transferred
 towards recoupment of the kickbacks. Further, besides
 attending the above two meetings held in connection with
 formulation of the excise policy in May-June, 2021 in Gauri
 Apartments, Near Claridges Hotel and in hotel ITC Kohinoor at
 Hyderabad, he even attended the meeting held in
 February/April, 2022 in hotel Oberoi Maidens, Delhi to sort out
 the recoupment issue and to expedite the recoupment process,
 at the instance or along with his bosses in South. 52. Learned Trial Court has meticulously examined the case on
 merits and has reached to a finding which is duly supported by
 sound reasons. I do not find any illegality in the order of
 learned Trial Court. 53. As discussed above, the accused person in the present case
 acting in furtherance of the conspiracy circumvented the policy
 and got framed the policy in such a manner to continuously Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 43 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47 generate and channel illegal funds. The allegations are that
 deliberate loopholes were left to facilitate illegal and criminal
 activities. It is also pertinent to mention here that investigation
 has revealed that 65% stake was given to South Group in Indo-
 Spirits to make it a mechanism for continuous generation and
 channelisation of Proceeds of Crime. 54. In view of the discussion, taking into account the seriousness
 and gravity of the allegations and credible material on record,
 the bail application alongwith pending application stands
 dismissed. DINESH KUMAR SHARMA, J
 JULY 3, 2023/AR Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA BAIL APPLN. 906/2023 Page 44 of 44 Signing Date:03.07.2023 17:16:47