GIRISH KATHPALIA, J.: Ultimately, on 09.07.2025 final arguments on merits were concluded. 4. During arguments, learned senior counsel for the accused/applicant
 took me through previous record and contended that there is no mens rea,
 insofar as when the accused/applicant started the business in crypto
 currency, there was nothing in law to prohibit the same and it is only later on
 that the government suddenly derecognized crypto currency, because of
 which the accused/applicant fell in financial problems; and despite that, the
 accused/applicant settled claims of almost all investors, which shows his
 bona fide and entitles him the relief of regular bail. It was argued that the

 Bail Application 3788/2022 Page 5 of 13 pages Digitally signed by GIRISH GIRISH KATHPALIA KATHPALIA
 Date: 2025.07.14 14:47:09 +05'30' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:14.07.2025 15:57:08 accused/applicant is not a flight risk and never misused the liberty of interim
 bail granted by the predecessor benches. Learned senior counsel for accused/
 applicant submitted that the accused/applicant genuinely intends to clear all
 claims of all the investors. 5. On the other hand, learned prosecutor strongly opposed the bail
 application, contending that the accused/applicant has deep pockets and if
 granted bail, he would influence the witnesses and tamper with the evidence.
 Learned prosecutor also argued that mediation proceedings were exploited
 by the accused/applicant as a tool to stay on interim bail endlessly, without
 any serious intentions to resolve claims of the defrauded investors. Learned
 prosecutor also took me through record in support of his contentions that the
 accused/applicant is certainly a flight risk and if granted bail, would flee the
 country. As regards the settlements in question, learned prosecutor placed
 on record statements of 38 victims alleging that they had not received any
 amount or the complete amount invested by them. 6. Learned counsel for complainant de facto while assisting the learned
 prosecutor took me through record to show that even subsequent to the
 derecognition of crypto currency, the accused/applicant continued to accept
 investments in the same, and that, according to learned counsel for
 complainant de facto, reflects dishonest intention on the part of the
 accused/applicant. Learned counsel for complainant de facto also pointed
 out that the accused/applicant is involved in 13 more cases of similar nature. 7. To begin with, my decision to switch over from the said piecemeal
 settlement proceedings to adjudication of this bail application on merits is
 fortified by plethora of judicial pronouncements to the effect that the bail
 courts are not forum for recovery of money; and that the economic offences
 constitute a class apart, so need to be visited with a different approach in
 matters of bail. 7.1 In the case of Apruva Kirti Mehta vs State of Maharashtra, 2025
 SCC OnLine SC 336, the Supreme Court held thus: "8. That apart, the direction for payment was in the teeth of a plethora of
 decisions of this Court. We can profitably refer to a few of them, viz. Ramesh Kumar vs. State (NCT of Delhi ); St. George Dsouza vs. State
 (NCT of Delhi ) and Dilip Singh vs. State of M.P. & Anr. Having regard to
 the principles of law laid down in the said decisions, inter alia, to the
 effect that the courts, exercising jurisdiction to grant bail/pre-arrest bail,
 are not expected to act as recovery agents for realization of dues of the
 complainant from the accused, the High Court should have independently
 applied its mind and arrived at a conclusion as to whether a case for
 grant of bail, on settled parameters, had been made out or not
 irrespective of whatever statement was made on behalf of the appellant
 before the Sessions Judge." 7.2 While elaborately examining the legality of the conditions that can be
 imposed for granting bail, the Supreme Court in the case of Ramesh Kumar
 vs State of NCT of Delhi , 2023 SCC OnLine SC 766, held thus: (emphasis supplied)

 7.3 In the case of Bimla Tiwari vs State of Bihar , 2023 SCC OnLine SC
 51, the Supreme Court held thus: 7.4 Recently, even this bench in the case of Mohit Singh Raghav vs
 Government of NCT at New Delhi {Bail Application No. 662/2024, decided
 on 05.05.2025}, reiterated that the bail court is not a forum for recovery of
 money. It is in view of above legal position that when this bail application
 came up before me for the first time on 17.04.2025 that both sides were
 directed to address on merits instead of getting the matter endlessly
 adjourned in the name of settling the monetary claims of the defrauded
 investors. 8. As regards the settlement of claims before the predecessor benches
 across the period of more than two years, contention of learned senior
 counsel for accused/applicant that the same reflects bona fide of the
 accused/applicant has been examined by me. 8.1 It appears from record that in the name of settlement of claims of the
 victims, the accused/applicant executed settlement agreements with some of
 them before the Mediation Centre, but did not fully comply with the same.
 As mentioned above, out of 61, as many as 38 defrauded investors (from
 various States across the country) have given their signed statements or
 electronic messages to the IO that they either did not receive any money or
 received only a small part thereof. Settlements and concluded the mediations without ensuring that the money
 was actually returned to the victims. I find substance in the argument of
 learned prosecutor that the accused/applicant used the mediation process as a
 tool to create artefact of bona fide, which led to his interim bail and
 thereafter he continued to ensure that the settlement process goes endlessly
 and he evergreens the interim protection. 9. Then comes the next argument of bona fide that when the
 accused/applicant started business of crypto currency there was no illegality
 therein, so no dishonest intention can be attributed to him. In the judgment
 dated 26.10.2021 of the coordinate bench {Bail Application No.3500/2021},
 this argument was examined, but discarded thus: (bold emphasis is as in the quoted extract)
 After the above extracted portion, in the judgment dated 26.10.2021 the
 learned coordinate bench of this court enlisted as many as 15 investors with
 further details from whom money was collected by the accused/applicant
 even after the RBI circular dated 06.04.2018. This act of the
 accused/applicant collecting money even after derecognition of crypto
 currency in itself shows mala fide. 10. Next comes the question as to whether the accused/applicant is a flight
 risk. Merely because the accused/applicant did not flee the clutches of law
 despite being released on interim bail, the issue of flight risk cannot be
 decided in his favour. For, as mentioned above, the accused/applicant was
 evergreening his liberty by making piecemeal mediation settlements with the
 victims, without paying them their due amounts and the matter was being
 adjourned across past more than two years, as he was successfully conveying
 impression of his bona fide. On the issue of flight risk, as reflected from
 chargesheet, during investigations, efforts were made to locate the
 accused/applicant and interrogate him, but it came out that he had fled to
 Dubai, so in order to secure his presence, Lookout Circular was issued
 against him, and on 30.12.2020 he was apprehended at the airport and

 Bail Application 3788/2022 Page 11 of 13 pages
 GIRISH Digitally signed by GIRISH
 KATHPALIA Signature Not Verified KATHPALIA Date: 2025.07.14 14:45:30 +05'30' Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:14.07.2025 15:57:08 arrested. The deep pockets of the accused/applicant, coupled with the nature
 and expanse of offence in the present case and 13 more cases with
 consequential possibility of long incarceration lends credence to the
 apprehension of prosecution that the accused/applicant is a flight risk. 11. As held in catena of judicial pronouncements by the Supreme Court
 and all High Courts, economic offences constitute a class apart and need to
 be visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. For, economic
 offences, unlike most conventional bodily offences, are committed with
 elaborate planning and expertise. Especially, dealing in crypto currency has
 profound implications on economy of our country by way of dissolution of
 recognised money into the dark unknown and untraceable money. The
 allegations against the accused/applicant in this multi-victim scam are quite
 serious, more so in the light of his antecedents of involvement in as many as
 13 more cases of similar nature, list whereof is on record and not challenged
 by the accused/applicant. The accused/applicant prima facie seems to have
 duped 61 investors after painting a rosy picture of getting them returns of
 20% to 30% on their investments in crypto currency, which process he
 continued against the gullible persons even after derecognition of crypto
 currency. And there can be revelation of more such defrauded persons, as the
 ongoing investigation is unfolding, having reached the number of defrauded
 investors from 48 to 61. 12. To summarise, there are multiple factors that convince this court to
 deny bail to the accused/applicant, and the same are: complexity and

 Bail Application 3788/2022 Page 12 of 13 pages
 GIRISH Digitally signed by GIRISH
 KATHPALIA Signature Not Verified KATHPALIA Date: 2025.07.14 14:45:17 +05'30' Digitally Signed By:NEETU N NAIR Signing Date:14.07.2025 15:57:08 expanse of the economic crime alleged against the accused/applicant;
 continuance of collection of investments in the business of crypto currency
 by the accused/applicant from credulous investors, swayed by the mirage of
 20% to 30% profit assured by the accused/applicant, despite derecognition
 of crypto currency; blatant misuse of the mediation system by the
 accused/applicant by alluring execution of mediation settlements and not
 complying with the same despite adjournments across more than two years
 before the predecessor benches; the accused being a serious flight risk;
 continuance of investigation, unfolding more and more victims of the fraud;
 and the antecedents of the accused/applicant. 13. Therefore, this Bail Application is dismissed. The pending application
 stands disposed of 14. However, nothing observed herein shall be read by the learned trial
 court while final deciding the trial. 15. The accused/applicant, who is on interim bail granted by the
 predecessor bench, shall surrender before the IO or the trial court forthwith.