Heard Sri Gopal Swarup Chaturvedi, Senior Advocate, assisted by Sri Anuj Srivastava, learned counsels for the applicant, Sri I.K. Chaturvedi, Senior Advocate, assisted by Sri C.P. Tiwari learned counsel appearing for the informant and Sri Manish Goyal, Additional Advocate General, assisted by Sri A.K. Sand learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the material placed on record. This anticipatory bail application (under section 438 Cr.P.C.) has been moved seeking bail in Case Crime No. 234 of 2020, under Section(s) 387/306/120-B I.P.C , and Section 7 & 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, Police Station Kabrai, District Mahoba, during the pendency of investigation. Applicant a senior I.P.S. officer, at the relevant time was posted as Superintendent of Police, Mahoba. As per prosecution case, F.I.R was lodged on 11 September 2020, alleging that applicant misusing his position as a police officer in connivance with co-police officers was extorting and pressurizing the deceased to pay Rs. 6 Lakh per month. It is further alleged that deceased declined to pay the amount, after paying several installments, stating that he has shut his business. It is further alleged that applicant not only continued to pressurize the deceased for the money, but also threatened him of dire consequences by lodging false cases against him. It is further alleged that applicant threatened that deceased would be murdered and the murder would be given the colour of suicide. The deceased was tortured and tormented mentally, consequently, he uploaded a video on social media alleging that at any time deceased may be eliminated by the applicant. He further stated that he would be calling press conference to submit proof against the applicant with regard to illegal extortion and pressure mounted on him. On the fear of being exposed by the deceased after the video went viral, the body of the deceased was recovered, from his vehicle showing gunshot injury on the neck. In the backdrop of the allegations, learned counsel appearing for the applicant submits that after preliminary inquiry conducted on the direction of the State Government, it transpired that investigation is to be carried out for offence under section 306 IPC. It is urged that ingredients of the offence under section 306 IPC is not made out against the applicant; deceased shot himself by using his own weapon; applicant is not in a position to escape investigation; applicant is entitled to bail. Learned counsel appearing for the State, in rebuttal, submits that applicant is already facing criminal case being Crime Case No. 234 of 2020, under sections 387/306/120-B/ IPC and section 7 & 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988; in the said case applicant has been declared an absconder. In the instant case applicant is absconding; coercive measures have been initiated under section 82 of Cr.P.C; a F.I.R has been lodged under section 174-A IPC being Case Crime No. 0331 of 2020, police station Kabrai, District Mahoba. It is further urged that government has announced reward of Rs. 50,000/- vide communication dated 16.12.2020, inviting information about the applicant from the public. It is urged that applicant is a senior civil servant and his conduct in not participating in the investigation or the departmental inquiry does not augur well, either with the department, or in the administration of justice. It will not be in public interest at this stage to grant anticipatory bail to the applicant; it is a case of custodial interrogation. Applicant, a protector of law has become law unto himself. It is further submitted that charge sheet has been filed against the other accused police personnel and the investigation is kept open against others, including, the applicant. It is further informed that anticipatory bail application of the applicant (No. 8533 of 2020) in the other crime case has been rejected by this Court vide order dated 03.12.2020. Hon'ble Supreme Court in Lavesh Vs. State (NCT of DELHI ) (2012) (8) SCC 730 has clearly mandated the courts not to grant anticipatory bail when the accused is absconding or declared proclaimed offender. The relevant extract is reproduced as under:- I have considered the rival submissions and perused the rejection order passed on 03.12.2020 and the material placed on record with the assistance of learned counsel for the parties I am of the opinion that it is not a fit case for bail. Without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case and considering the submission advanced, I find no good ground for grant of bail to the applicant. Accordingly, the bail application is rejected. Order Date :- 16.12.2020/Vikram