Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title:  Discussion on the situation arising out of alleged money-laundering involving Aircel-Maxis in the wake of recent joint raids by Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax Department. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): Yesterday, I had given a notice of adjournment motion relating to Aircel-Maxis Scam. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: Do you want to say something about discussion under Rule 193? … (Interruptions) SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB : That was rejected as per your wisdom. Yesterday, when the AIADMK Members were agitating, to raise the issue in this House, at that time, the Minister of State in the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs stood up and responded by saying, `you give adequate notice for consideration. The Government is prepared to respond to the issue you want to raise.’  Immediately, I gave  notice in the Notice Office. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: We have started discussion under  Rule 193. After two hours, we would start that. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB :  Investigating Agencies have been investigating the irregularities into according clearance to Aircel-Maxis deal in 2006 by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board since long back. Recently, the Enforcement Directorate and Investigation Wing of the Income-Tax Department have jointly conducted raids to unearth the wealth generated through the unfair means in the Aircel-Maxis Scam. However, all the investigating agencies have been doing preliminary enquiries only since the scam surfaced. No investigating agency has filed charged sheet in the case so far despite the fact that the scam is monitored by the Supreme Court of India since 2011. … (Interruptions) 12.37 hours 

(At this stage, Shri K.C. Venugopal and some other hon. Members came and  stood  on the floor near the Table.) 

  

… (Interruptions) Madam, the Supreme Court is monitoring Aircel-Maxis scam as part of the 2G scam since 2011. CBI’s earlier stand was that the then Telecom Minister had arm-twisted Aircel promoter, … (Interruptions)* to sell the Malaysian company, Maxis. But in April, 2012, it was exposed that that FIPB clearance to Maxis was a total violation by the then Finance Minister in 2006 March. The deal was worth more than Rs.4000 crore, and as FIPB Chairman, the then Finance Minister had only power to approve deals worth Rs.600 crore. He ought to get CCEA clearance and he did not take up the matter to the CCEA. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: Shri Mahtab, if you  want to change the seat, you can come near and speak. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB :  To put across my view, I have to shift my seat. This is the predicament that has dawned on us. This is the saddest part that is happening in this House. … (Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT, MINISTER OF HOUSING AND URBAN POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND MINISTER OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI M. VENKAIAH NAIDU): We had discussed Ayodhya 100 times; we discussed Gujarat umpteen number of times while it was sub-judice.. … (Interruptions) SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB : Madam, in 2014 CBI filed charge-sheet against Maran and family and it mentioned all the FIPB violations happened from … (Interruptions)*… side as FM in 2006.CBI said in its charge-sheet – these are all public documents - said the probe on FIPB violations committed by … (Interruptions)* was under probe and soon file supplementary charge- sheet. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: Shri Mahtab, `name’ will not go on record.  He is not the Member of this House. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB : In October, 2012 the esteemed Supreme Court had asked to apprise the probe status of … (Interruptions) * violation and … (Interruptions)… * was summoned and interrogated by CBI on December 6, 2014 in Delhi. … (Interruptions) But somehow, the Joint Director of CBI Shri Ashok Tewari, IPS, who summoned … (Interruptions)… * and recorded his statement was shunted out from CBI within two months to his parent cadre Himachal Pradesh and he is now heading the State Road Transport Corporation. … (Interruptions) Madam, I have certain questions to ask to the Government to explain. … (Interruptions) I would like to know whether the Singapore-based firm, which is headed by the then … (Interruptions)*  had acquired majority shares of a big resort in Sri Lanka, known as Lanka Fortune Residencies. … (Interruptions) I would like to ask whether this company owns the prestigious resorts ‘The Waterfront’, ‘Weligama Bay Resort’ and Emerald Bay Hotel. … (Interruptions) I would like to know whether this Singapore-based firm routed money via Dubai to acquire three farms and vineyards in South Africa identified as Rowey Farm Grabouw, Cape Orchards and Vineyards Private Limited and Zandlvliet Enterprises, a wine and stud farm in Ashton. … (Interruptions) I want to know whether the Dubai-based Desert Dunes Properties Limited has also investment in the Singapore-based company Advantage. … (Interruptions) I would also like to know whether the Advantage company’s Singapore subsidiary had entered into joint ventures with the Philippines-based companies to obtain a franchise team of International Premier Tennis League (Aisa). … (Interruptions) I want to know whether the company named Advantage had also had financial transactions with another real estate company in Singapore known as Real Beyond Pvt. Ltd. having three subsidiaries in Malaysia and whether the investigation has unearthed that these transactions led to 16 land purchases in Thailand. … (Interruptions) I would like to know whether that company of Singapore has also entered into joint ventures with Gravitas Investments, Match Point International Tennis Events to buy a franchise Tennis team called ‘Manila Mavericks’ and whether the investigators unearthed that this deal was worth 12 million US dollars and the money was paid in 10 instalments. … (Interruptions) 12.42 hours 

(At this stage, Shri K.C. Venugopal and some other hon. Members 

went back to their seats.) 

… (Interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष : मैंने एक बात क्लियर की है कि प्रेसिडेन्ट एड्रैस पर डिस्कशन होना है और इसके लिए केवल दो घंटे का समय दिया गया है। इसे कम्पलीट करने के बाद प्रेसिडेन्ट एड्रैस पर डिस्कशन लिया जायेगा। …( व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष : आपका क्या पाइंट ऑफ आर्डर है, रूल नम्बर बोलिये। यह किस रूल के तहत है? …( व्यवधान) श्री मल्लिकार्जुन खड़गे ( गुलबर्गा ) : मैडम ने मुझे बोलने की परमीशन दी है, आप कह रहे हैं कि बैठिये, मैं क्यों बैठूं।...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष : खड़गे जी, यह किस रूल के तहत है, आप उन्हें बैठने के लिए कहिये। ऐसा नहीं होता कि खड़े भी हो जाएं, आप हल्ला भी करो और फिर आप बोलो। श्री मल्लिकार्जुन खड़गे : मैडम, कल तो दोनों तरफ से एआईडीएमके के लोगों ने घेरा हुआ था, उस वक्त ऐसा ही चला। माननीय अध्यक्ष : कभी आप घेरो, कभी दूसरे घेरें, यह चलता है। श्री मल्लिकार्जुन खड़गे : मैं आपसे बहुत नम्रता से पूछ रहा हूं कि हमारे साथ ऐसा अन्याय क्यों हो रहा है। रूल 186, जो प्रो.सौगत राय जी ने आपके सामने रखा है, उसी तरह से 186 और उसके बाद रूल 353 हैं, इन दोनों रूल्स के मुताबिक किसी व्यक्ति का नाम नहीं ले सकते हैं, ...(व्यवधान) जो व्यक्ति इस सदन का सदस्य नहीं है। He is not a Member of this House, against him this discussion is going on and his name is referred to here very often. Secondly, this matter is pending in the court. So, as per law we cannot discuss this matter here. When we have made all these rules and the Government is violating all the rules, this is not proper. This cannot be done. We cannot discuss it here as per rules. … (Interruptions) SHRI M. VENKAIAH NAIDU : Madam Speaker, I was requesting that other Members should sit down so that Khargeji can place his point before the House. … (Interruptions) ‘That is also his misunderstanding. I was saying, other Members should sit down so that Kharge ji can make his point.  Secondly, regarding Rule 186 or Rule 353, I have only some 16 or 17 years experience in this Parliament.  Ayodhya was discussed at least 50 times. आप बैठ जाइए। ...(व्यवधान) अधैर्य मत हो जाओ। ...(व्यवधान) कितनी बार हमने गुजरात के बारे में चर्चा किया। ...(व्यवधान) एड्जुडिकेशन में है। ...(व्यवधान) अयोध्या के बारे में चर्चा किया। ...(व्यवधान) एड्जुडिकेशन में है। ...(व्यवधान) बहुत मामले कोर्ट में हैं। ...(व्यवधान) वे सब इश्यु हम लोग डिस्कस करते रहते हैं। ...(व्यवधान) यह मामला कोर्ट में है ही नहीं। ...(व्यवधान) यह मामला केवल ट्रिब्युनल के सामने है। ...(व्यवधान) इसलिए मेरे हिसाब कोई पॉइंट ऑफ ऑर्डर है ही नहीं। ...(व्यवधान) HON. SPEAKER: On the same point of order, I have already given the decision.  So, I think, it is not necessary to give it again and again.  There will be no point of order because discussion has started. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: Yes, Bhartruhari Mahtab ji.  Bhartruhari Mahtab ji, I request all of you, do not take anybody’s name who is not the Member in this House, please. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB : I will adhere to that, Madam.… (Interruptions)  The investment in real estates, engaging in other business activities is not only confined to London, Dubai, South Africa but also extends to Philippines, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, and one more name will be revealed, British Virgin Island which I think some Members are more conversant with, Switzerland, United States, Greece and Spain.… (Interruptions) The information is, ED and Investigation Wing of Income Tax Department have raided that company.  The investigation team has got the details.  This happened.  You are saying, it is a match fixing. … (Interruptions) I will come to that issue.… (Interruptions) I will come to that match fixing issue.… (Interruptions) 12.47 hours 

(At this stage, Shri K.C. Venugopal and some other hon. Members 

came and stood  on the floor near the Table.) 

HON. SPEAKER: Mahtab ji, address the Chair. … (Interruptions) SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB : The investigation team has got all the details.  But, I would ask the Government, why no FIR has been lodged. … (Interruptions) I have some more questions to ask to this Government.  Why CBI and ED are not filing charge-sheet on the culprits who have done such type of money laundering involving more than 14 countries including British Virgin Islands.  … (Interruptions) Are Congress and BJP bargaining with each other?  That is the match fixing that we are asking… (Interruptions)  Are Congress and BJP doing a match fixing here?  What type of understanding is being done?  The country wants to know, we all want to know that what type of understanding is there.… (Interruptions) What advantage this company is getting?  … (Interruptions) Madam, in how many cases, FIPB clearance has been given by the Government of which the Finance Minister is the Chairman?  What is the professional competence of this company which has received this type of clearance?  We would like to understand it from this Government.  … (Interruptions)  Up till now, how many such clearances have been given?  … (Interruptions) Has there been any public servant or his near relative involved in this company who is either in the management or in the Board of Directors?  Is he there in the company?  Let the Government speak up before the House today.… (Interruptions) These are my points.  I would expect that the Minister will respond favourably, correctly to this issue.… (Interruptions) SHRI T.G. VENKATESH BABU ( CHENNAI NORTH ): Madam Speaker, I thank you very much for allowing me to put forth the views on this mega scam and how inaction and delay is causing huge havoc in bringing to book the culprits involved in this scam. (Interruptions) Madam Speaker, for the sake of clarity, I think, mentioning the DMK ministers name is not un-parliamentary.… (Interruptions)  Their names find a place in all the records of the CBI, the Supreme Court and everywhere. More so, there were two DMK ministers in-charge of this portfolio.  So, for the sake of clarity, you may permit the names of DMK ministers to go on record. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: According to our rules, we will not allow it. … (Interruptions) SHRI T.G. VENKATESH BABU : This NDA Government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi came to power on the plank of ‘bringing back black money'. During the election campaign, a lot was talked about black money and ending corruption, and bringing to book the corrupt.… (Interruptions) The whole country witnessed people's anger over the 2G spectrum scam, the resultant loot of the country and loss to the exchequer. But now, we are pained to see the slow progress in the cases in respect of 2G and also Aircel-Maxis deal, non-cooperation of officials concerned, the arm-twisting and other tactics being followed, to deny Justice.… (Interruptions) Madam Speaker, the Aircel-Maxis controversy has its deep roots in the infamous 2G spectrum scam.… (Interruptions) When this case was on, which was monitored by the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court asked the CBI to investigate the then Telecom Minister, belonging to DMK Party. At this point in time, the former DMK Minister had to resign from the Union Cabinet in April 2011.… (Interruptions) The Supreme Court is monitoring the Aircel-Maxis scam as part of 2G scam from 2011. Before coming to this, let us see, for a moment about 2G scam.… (Interruptions) Whenever we think of any scandal in India, the one that comes to our mind immediately - the biggest one in Indian history - is the 2G scam, which is called as the “mother of all scandals".  This scam caused Indian exchequer a loss to the tune of Rs. 1.76 lakh crore.… (Interruptions) The names associated with this scam are the former DMK Ministers in the UPA Cabinet … *and there is a need to probe the role and involvement of the then Finance Minister, at that time and thereafter, till 2014. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: Expunge all these things. Not a single name will go on record. … (Interruptions) SHRI T.G. VENKATESH BABU : To recapitulate the 2G case details, I would say that it started prior to 2008, when DMK Minister was in charge of the Telecom Portfolio in the UPA dispensation.… (Interruptions) Madam, in 2008, … * was the Telecom Minister. For allocating 2G spectrum, the former DMK Minister invited applications from the eligible companies.… (Interruptions) The original date fixed for submitting the applications was sometime in September-October that year in 2008. But arbitrarily he changed it to January 2008, to favour only a few known companies, from whom he could derive undue favours and benefits. The then Telecom Minister … * changed the criteria fixed for this - from ‘auction’ to ‘first-come-first-serve’ basis. … (Interruptions) This was questioned by all the authorities concerned at that time, from the Revenue Secretary to the Law Minister, to the Finance Minister and to the Prime Minister.… (Interruptions) Seeing the sudden change in criteria and also the change in the date of inviting applications, etc., the then Law Minister objected and wrote to the Prime Minister.… (Interruptions)  He said that the issue should be discussed in the GoM (Group of Ministers) Meeting, since it is being done in violation of the prevalent norms and rules. … (Interruptions) The then Prime Minister wrote to the Telecom Minister.  He, within hours, shot back a reply to the Prime Minister in which he said that it is the prerogative of his Ministry to do so. The TRAI Chairman objected to this.  Initially, the then Finance Minister seems shocked and objected to this.… (Interruptions)      The meeting of the Telecom Commission was supposed to be held on the 9th January 2008, to discuss this issue of violation and the resultant loss to the Government exchequer. … (Interruptions) The then Revenue Secretary objected because he felt and expressed an apprehension that as per the valuation at that time, it would cause huge loss to the exchequer.  But, …*  the then DMK Minister in the UPA Cabinet was stubborn in doing the mischief. Realising that the Commission may go against his wishes, he, that is, … * postponed the meeting to 14th and 15th of January, 2008.  In the meanwhile, the DMK Minister-in-charge, fixed the date for finalizing the deal as 9th January, 2008.  He opened the ‘window’ for only one hour to enable his favourite to submit the application and closed it immediately.  It was also reported that the applicant was made to sit in his Office to enable him to submit the relevant documents immediately.  Here is where, the violation and foul-play took place.  The then Finance Minister, after the initial objection and hesitation, finally agreed to this.  This is where we doubt the intentions of the then Finance Minister.  … (Interruptions) Thereafter, the money earned in this scam found several routes in many parts of the world, resulting in money being laundered all over. We saw that in routing of Rs.200 and odd crore to Kalaignar TV owned by the daughter of DMK Chief.  A case is on in this respect also, which is also delayed. Madam, coming to Aircel Maxis issue, here I will definitely need to mention the name of the Minister.  Please permit me to mention it. HON. SPEAKER: It will be expunged.  Do not mention any name. SHRI T.G. VENKATESH BABU : Aircel is a telecom company owned by one, … *. Maxis is a Malaysian company owned by … *.  In 2006, Maxis acquired Aircel by buying 74 per cent stakes. … * of Aircel complained to the CBI in April 2011 saying that … * had arm twisted him to sell his stakes to Maxis. In October 2011, CBI filed an FIR against … * for having received Rs.549 crore for favouring Aircel in various deals that were owned by Maxis.  The amount was routed through a company owned by … * brothers. It is a known fact that … * controls the Sun TV network. The moneys then were laundered through various dubious and fake companies in several countries of the world. I would like to give only a few details which will show how the money-laundering took place. In June 2007, Enam Securities made the valuation of Sun TV between Rs.3,500 crore and Rs.4,000 crore, which is a gross over-valuation because at the same time, the value of Tata Sky, even after rolling out DTH services was only Rs.2,500 crore.  How could this happen. Madam? … (Interruptions) … * the DMK Minister had cleared various deals and licenses for Maxis, thereby enabling the Maxis’s sister company, ‘Astro’, to invest Rs.630 crore in Sun TV, to buy 20 per cent of its stakes.  This had put the share price of Sun TV at Rs.69.57 while the brother of the Minister, bought the remaining 80 per cent stake at Rs.10 per share. The FIR also clearly mentioned how the family members of …*,  the DMK Minister had counselled or coerced … * into selling his stake of Aircel to Maxis. The DMK Minister at that time never gave spectrum allocation to … * despite repeated applications.  He did not want to give appointment for meeting … * too. 13.00 hours 

          He was forced to sell stakes to Maxis and very soon thereafter, Astro invested the money in Sun TV.  This is how valuation of Sun TV was pushed upwards. One major violation, which is pertinent to note, is that Maxis declared to Malaysian Stock Exchange that it had acquired 99.7 per cent shares in Aircel.  This is violation of the Indian law which permits only to a maximum of 74 per cent foreign investment in the telecom sector. It was shown to the Indian authorities that it is acquiring only 74 per cent shares but in Malaysian Stock Exchange, it was shown as 99.7 per cent. How could this happen?  Who allowed this to take place?  It is a gross violation of the laws of the land. Madam, in May, 2014, the CBI told the Supreme Court, which is monitoring the probe that there was a difference of opinion between the CBI Director and the Investigating Officers over filing the charge-sheet against Maran, the DMK Minister at that point of time.  … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: Mr. Ventakesh, I have one suggestion. Every now and then, you are taking name. I have already instructed them to expunge.  Why are you taking the name?  You say him as ex-Minister. … (Interruptions) SHRI T.G. VENKATESH BABU : There were two Ministers at that point of time and both of them were from DMK Party.  So, I cannot say as to which I am referring.  So, I have to make it clear that this is the Minister who was involved in it. … (Interruptions) One of the petitioners told the court that the CBI was sitting on the decision for six months.  The court then asked the Enforcement Directorate to continue with the investigation which he was not allowed to earlier by the vested interests in the establishment. The Attorney-General had asked the CBI to go ahead and file a charge-sheet against the DMK Minister and his brother.  The AG said that there was enough clinching evidence to proceed against the DMK Minister and his brother. Why were these things happening and who were behind all this?  Who was shielding all these persons?  Everyone in the corridors of power knew this and everybody kept quiet.  People believe that this continues to happen in the present Government.  Going by the way the cases are being delayed, the Government is duty bound to clear the doubt and hasten the disposal of the cases.  In the present case, the CBI in the charge-sheet named as accused former Telecom Minister … …* his brother… * and also four firms Sun TV, Maxis, South Asian Entertainment and Astro, as accused. They have been charge-sheeted for the offences punishable under Section 120B of IPC, which is a criminal conspiracy and also under relevant provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act . The CBI inquired … * who is the wife of DMK Minister’s brother i.e. … * 

 that she was holding 82 per cent share in the accused firm Sun Direct TV but as per the documents, each and every decision was taken by her husband that is … *  This was told to the court by the CBI. The cases are still going on.  Due to various reasons, they are being delayed. Why should the cases not be fast-tracked? Madam, the House needs to record the role of former Finance Minister in the Aircel-Maxis deal. In 2006, the then Finance Minister cleared the taking over of Aircel-Maxis by dubious ways in violation of several mandatory provisions of the law.  It is by now known to every one that the FIPB approval given by the then Finance Minister to the deal was a violation not just of an oversight, not just of an error and nor a mistake.  This is also under investigation by the CBI which is also being monitored by the court. It was mired in controversy. How had the former Finance Minister given FIPB approval to the Aircel-Maxis deal in 2006? As per the extant norms, normally, the Finance Minister is competent to give approval of proposals worth up to Rs.600 crore but the former Finance Minister gave approval worth 800 million US dollars, approximately worth Rs.3,500 crore, which is nearly six times more than the normal limit for approval.… (Interruptions) One cannot think that …*  being a very well read person, would not have given approval, without going into “other aspects”. What were the other considerations? … (Interruptions) Again, for approvals beyond Rs.600, the matter should have rightly been referred to the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs. He did not take it to the CCEA. He himself decided it and gave the approval. Why and how did he do that? … (Interruptions) 13.06 hours 

(At this stage, Shri Mallikarjun Kharge and some other 

hon. Members left the House.) 

 13.06 ½ hours 

(At this stage, Shri P. Karunakaran and some other 

hon. Members left the House.) 

          Another major point needs to be considered by the House. Here is that point. HON. SPEAKER: Please conclude. SHRI T.G. VENKATESH BABU : This is an important point. Madam, 30 per cent holding of Saudi Telecom in Maxis was hushed up during the approval stage in FIPB. The then Finance Minister did not take notice of this because had he taken notice of this, it would have required clearance from IB and the Home Ministry. Hence, he did not take cognizance of this violation and allowed it to go on. All these things were happening right under the former Finance Minister’s nose and with his full knowledge. In August, 2014, the CBI’s charge-sheet mentioned the FIPB violations committed by the former Finance Minister in 2006. The CBI said that this is also under probe. In October last year, the SC asked the CBI to appraise the ‘probe status’ on the former Finance Minister’s violations. Earlier, the former Finance Minister was also summoned and interrogated by the CBI. The irony here is that the CBI officer, who summoned …* and recorded his statement, was shunted out from CBI within two months. Madam, I want this to go on record that the CBI officer, who summoned …* and recorded his statement, was shunted out within two months. The company, Advantage Strategic Consultancy, owned by the family of former Finance Minister, was caught for having a money trail with Aircel promoters. In December, 2015, ED and IT conducted raids at the company, Advantage Strategic, in Chennai, that is, at the company of the son of the former Finance Minister. The 2G trial court also issued Letter Rogatary to Singapore to trace money laundering in Aircel-Maxis deal. The raids of ED and IT unearthed investments and purchase of properties in 14 countries. Most of these transactions were made after the Aircel-Maxis deal, and during the period when the former Finance Minister was a Cabinet Minister. At that point of time the purchases were made. This is nothing but black money and case of money laundering. This is a big evidence of illegal assets worth thousands of crores. Why the CBI and ED are not acting? Who is protecting the corrupt former Finance Minister and his son? The Prime Minister should order CBI and ED to have impartial, transparent inquiry; confiscate their illegal assets and prosecute them immediately without any further delay because all the evidences are on board. At present court cases are being inordinately delayed. The officials are not cooperating; and they are being arm-twisted. ‘Justice delayed is justice denied’. We want early justice in all these cases. The way the cases are being handled presently gives an impression in the minds of the common man that this NDA Government is an extension of UPA-II or UPA-III. The Government and the Prime Minister must belie and contradict this view. Karti Chidambaram is not a separate individual. He is a member of the Congress Party and an Office-Bearer of Congress. So, there is no point in saying that his name should not be mentioned. The DMK Chief came out of the Alliance saying ‘Kooda Natpu Kedil Mudiyum’, the meaning is ‘unnecessary alliance will result in disaster’. The DMK fought the last election alone. But what happened to the ‘Kooda Natpu’ now? He joined the alliance once again. Madam, in this scenario, a detailed investigation into the shady deals of Aircel-Maxis and the huge disproportionate assets owned by Karti Chidambaram, the former Finance Minister’s son has to be order by the Government without any further loss of time since it has definite links with the 2G Scam. With this, I conclude, Madam. HON. SPEAKER: The House stands adjourned to meet again at 2:15 p.m. 

 13.11 hours 

The Lok Sabha then adjourned till Fifteen Minutes past Fourteen of the Clock. 14.16 hours 

 

The Lok Sabha re-assembled at Sixteen Minutes 

past Fourteen of the Clock. (Hon. Speaker in the Chair) 

HON. SPEAKER: Dr. Kirit Somaiya. THE MINISTER OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT, MINISTER OF HOUSING AND URBAN POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND MINISTER OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI M. VENKAIAH NAIDU): Madam, before Dr. Kirit Somaiya makes his submission, I would like to bring on record of the House that earlier also on umpteen number of occasions, when the Presidential Address was discussed by the House, in-between, discussion under Rule 193 has been taken up. I have an example of 10th Lok Sabha and subsequently also. It happened on January 21, 1985 also. There are a number of other examples also. Secondly, with regard to issues that are there for adjudication,  in this very House and in the other House also, umpteen number of times, I would submit that they have also been discussed. Ayodhya issue, which is a disputable issue and is before the court, has been discussed. Gujarat riots have also been discussed umpteen number of times. So, it is not that a new precedent is being set up. Lastly, I would urge upon all the Members not to make any slogans against the Speaker, questioning the wisdom of the Speaker or the ruling of the Speaker. This is my humble request to all the parties. We have to keep the dignity of the House and the dignity of the Chair also. PROF. SAUGATA ROY ( DUM DUM ): The dignity of the Speaker is the highest and it should be kept, but … (Interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष :  सौगत जी आपको किसी ने कुछ नहीं कहा है। … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: There is nothing personal. It is okay. HON. SPEAKER : Dr. Kirit Somaiya. डॉ. किरीट सोमैया ( मुम्बई उत्तर पूर्व ) : माननीय अध्यक्ष जी, जिस विषय पर चर्चा चल रही है, पूरा देश देख रहा है कि किस प्रकार से कौन से देश से कितनी कंपनियां खोली जाती हैं। मैं प्रारंभ में ही कुछ आंकड़े देना चाहता हूं। मैंने थोड़ा अध्ययन करने का प्रयत्न किया तो इस विषय में कंपनीज़ और ग्रुप में 28 देशों के नाम आए हैं। If we go into the details of number of companies, till now I could go up to 436 companies. मुझे तो लगा कि दोबारा पीएचडी करनी चाहिए। मैंने पहली पीएचडी मुम्बई यूनिवर्सिटी से की, वहां मेरे गुरु मुम्बई यूनिवर्सिटी के हैड आफ कामर्स देवलंकर थे। अब की बार अगर मुझे पीएचडी करनी होगी तो कार्तिक चिदंबरम को अपना गुरु पसंद करना पड़ेगा। प्रो. सौगत राय ( दमदम ) : मैडम, क्या नाम लेना चाहिए।...(व्यवधान) DR. KIRIT SOMAIYA : Saugata Royji, if I blame, then I cannot take name. मैंने कार्तिक चिदम्बरम या किसी के ऊपर आरोप नहीं लगाया है। अभी तो आगे आप डिटेल में सुनते जाना। अभी तो यह शुरुआत है।...(व्यवधान) मैं आपको भी गुरु बनाने को तैयार हूं।...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष जी, मैं एक पत्र से शुरुआत करूंगा जो मुझे आया था।“Dear Dr. Somaiya ji, this is with reference to your letter dated so and so about so and so company. I am enclosing herewith the detailed response received from the Ministry.”  यह जो पत्र है, I received this letter from स्वास्थ्य एवं परिवार कल्याण मंत्री, भारत सरकार और इस पत्र के साथ एक डिटेल रिपोर्ट है, उसमें से दो चार ऑबजर्वेशंस मैं पढ़ूंगा। ...(व्यवधान) मेघवाल जी, मैं आपका ध्यान चाहूंगा।I am quoting the Report, which has been sent to me by the Health Minister. It is a report of NRHM - Health Ministry, which says that  : “… Huge sums of money have been reported to be embezzled and siphoned off from the Government treasury …”. It has been found that against 37,458 trips by Ambulances in the month of September, the company charged bills for 55,326 trips. एम्बुलेंस पैसेंजर को लाना, ले-जाना, और आगे उन्होंने बताया है, इनको तो अवार्ड देना चाहिए कि-Another example of bogus / scandalous billing is that an ambulance shown as having carried 243 patients in a single day.  इस एम्बुलेंस से 243 पेशेंट्स को उनके गांव से, उनके घर से अस्पताल ले गये। यह पत्र जो मुझे आया है, उसकी तिथि 14 जनवरी 2013 है और सौगत राय जी के मन में कोई शंका न रहे कि यह जे.पी.नड्डा ने भेजा है। ...(व्यवधान) मंत्री थे और अभी मैं नाम बोलूंगा क्योंकि आपने पूछा है और नाम है- ...* और इस कंपनी के मालिक का, डायरेक्टर का नाम ... * है।...(व्यवधान) यह एक उदाहरण है कि इसमें अनेक इस प्रकार के है और यह रिपोर्ट जो ... *  ने भेजी है, वह राजस्थान सरकार से प्राप्त की है और उसके पश्चात् इस कंपनी के ऊपर सीबीआई ने अभी कम्पलेंट्स फाइल की। मुझे दुख इस बात का होता है कि आप 28 देशों में घूमते हो, कुल मिलाकर 437 कंपनीज के द्वारा घोटाले करते हो लेकिन गांव का जो गरीब व्यक्ति है, जिन माता-भगिनी के लिए एम्बुलेंस सर्विस सेवा शुरु की, उसमें भी इस प्रकार से घोटाले। जो गरीब व्यक्ति है, 7 साल का बेटा है, रास्ते पर एक्सीडेंट होता है, उसको उस समय पर 108 एम्बुलेंस नहीं मिली। क्योंकि कार्ति चिदम्बरम की कंपनी सिर्फ पेपर पर ही एम्बुलेंस दिखाती थी। ऐसा सिर्फ एक ही राज्य में नहीं हुआ, बल्कि राजस्थान, हिमाचल प्रदेश, केरल आदि कितने ही राज्यों में इस प्रकार से हुए। सिर्फ यही नहीं, और भी रिपोर्टें हैं। The arrival time of the ambulance on site is shown before the time of receiving a phone call. ये डिजिटल इंडिया नरेन्द्र मोदी नहीं कर सकता। यह डिजिटल इंडिया उस समय की सरकार ही कर सकती है। व्यक्ति बीमार हुआ, एक्सीडेंट हुआ, इंसीडेंट हुआ, फोन कॉल आया और उसके पहले ही एम्बुलेंस पहुंच गयी। आप देखें कि ट्रिप नम्बर 85078, dated 3rd September, 2011 and call time 0226 AM  यानी रात को। And ambulance arrival time is 0220 AM. Another trip no. is 89659, dated 5th September, 2011 call time is 1241 PM यानी दोपहर को 1241 बजे और एम्बुलेंस पहुंची 1120 बजे। अध्यक्ष महोदया, अब जाकर सीबीआई ने इसके खिलाफ कार्रवाई शुरू की, सीबीआई ने इंवेस्टीगेशन शुरू किया और सीबीआई ने ही, हमारे अरूण जेटली या जयंत सिन्हा जी ने नहीं, सीबीआई ने जो एफआईआर फाइल की, उसमें सीबीआई ने जिन लोगों के नाम लिखे हैं, उसे भी मैं आपको पढ़कर सुनाऊँगा। सीबीआई ने लिखा है- सचिन पायलट, कार्ति चिदम्बरम, रवि कृष्णा, मैं रवि कृष्णा का परिचय दे दूँ, तो ये उस समय के मंत्री श्री वायलार रवि के सुपुत्र हैं, श्वेता मंगल, ये राजस्थान कांग्रेस के नेता की लड़की हैं। Now, Mahtab Ji, I am coming to the point of why I have started like this. इस कंपनी में जो डायरेक्टर हैं, उसके नाम तो मैंने पढ़कर सुनाये। अब मैं शेयर होल्डर्स के नाम पढ़कर सुनाता हूँ। आपने स्टार्टिंग में जिन कम्पनियों के नाम लिये थे...(व्यवधान) इसमें जो इंवेस्टर है, जो शेयर होल्डर है, उनमें से एक का नाम है Global Impact Private Limited; Ackman’s Fund, it is the same one that you have read during your speech;  आपने जो इतने सारे इंवेस्टर्स के नाम गिनाये थे, उनमें Global Medical Response, Ackman Capital Market, Ackman Fund.  यह कम्पनी चिकित्सा हेल्थ केयर की मालिक है। अभी कुछ दिन पहले इनफोर्समेंट डायरेक्टोरेट ने रेड डाली हैं, जिसके ऊपर हम अभी 193 के तहत चर्चा कर रहे हैं वे कम्पनियाँ, जिन पर इंवेस्टीगेशन हुई, जिनके नाम एफआईआर में फाइल हुए, वे कम्पनियाँ इस चिकित्सा हेल्थ केयर की मालिक है। मैं आगे कहना चाहूंगा, वास्तव में श्री जयंत सिन्हा जी आप लोग एक भ्रम में हैं, इनको लग रहा है कि "स्टार्ट अप " हमने किया, वास्तव में "स्टार्ट अप इंडिया कैम्पेन " तो कार्ति चिदम्बरम ने किया है। Karti Chidambaram is a global personality having investment/business in more than two dozen companies.  यदि आप उन कम्पनियों के नाम पढ़ेगें,  मैं सही उच्चारण नहीं कर पा रहा हूं। कैसे-कैसे नाम हैं। एक नाम है, वेंडूवलिएट एंटरप्राइजेज। ...(व्यवधान) दूसरा नाम है वेलिंगामा, तीसरा नाम है अरडेवा। एक नाम है स्टेइंग एंड एसोसिएट। एक नाम है ग्रेविटास इनवेस्टमेंट लिमिटेड।...(व्यवधान) कौन-कौन से देशों में यह महाशय गए- लंडन, दुबई, साउथ अफ्रीका, फिलीपाइन्स, थाइलैंड, सिंगापुर, मलेशिया, श्रीलंका और ब्रिटिश वर्जिन आइलैण्ड।...(व्यवधान) मोरिशस, फ्रांस, मनीला, यूएसए, स्विटजरलैण्ड, ग्रीस, स्पेन, साउथ अफ्रीका, समरसेट।...(व्यवधान) टाइप ऑफ बिजनेस देखिए। इसलिए मैंने कहा कि आप ख्वाहमख्वाह भाव खाते हैं कि स्टार्ट अप इंडिया आपने शुरू किया। मेक इन इंडिया और ग्लोबल इंडिया तो इन्होंने किया है। इनका नेचर ऑफ बिजनेस देखिए।You are unnecessarily blaming a person from Tamil Nadu. You should feel proud for him. He is having with two dozen various types of business enterprises. एक्बूलेंस से लेकर एयर एम्बूलेंस तक यानि रिर्सोट हायर करना, रेस्टोरेंट, होटल्स, इनवेस्टमेंट कंपनी, वाटर फन। मैंने तो आज तक कभी दारू नहीं पी है, इनकी वाइन फर्म भी है, उसमें लिखा है कि वह वर्ल्ड फेमस है। चकाचक है।...(व्यवधान) वहां वाइन फार्म के साथ स्टड फार्म भी है यादव जी, आपका काम वह है, घोड़े का फार्म।...(व्यवधान) प्रॉपर्टीज, रियल एस्टेट डेवलपमेंट और साथ में, सॉरी सुप्रिया बहन, सीसीडी बनाया है। कैफे कॉफी डे भी है। हम कॉफी पीने भी जा सकते हैं। इवेंट मैनेजमेंट कंपनी, इंटरटेनमेंट कंपनी, टेलीकॉम बिजनेस।...(व्यवधान) फिर टेनिस लीग एक्वायर करना। SHRIMATI SUPRIYA SULE ( BARAMATI ): You do not owe me anything. You do not have to be sorry. I have nothing to these things. Actually, all rules of Parliament are broken today. It is a shame for democracy. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: You continue. DR. KIRIT SOMAIYA : I also know. अध्यक्ष महोदया, मुझे भी रूल पता है, तभी मैंने आपसे प्रार्थना की थी कि मैं प्रश्न के ऊपर उप-प्रश्न पूछना चाहता हूं। सुबह में यहां पर महाराष्ट्र के मुख्यमंत्री को मिसकोट किसने किया?  Who misquoted my Maharashtra Chief Minister today morning? That person is trying to teach me a lesson. जो अभी बोल रहे हैं कि सब रूल्स वायलेट किए जाते हैं, मॉर्निंग में क्वेश्चन ऑवर में प्रश्न पूछते समय महाराष्ट्र के मुख्यमंत्री देवेन्द्र फडनविस जी को मिसकोट किया गया और वह हमें कहते हैं। माननीय अध्यक्ष : ठीक है, हो गया। डॉ. किरीट सोमैया : माननीय अध्यक्ष महोदया, अब मैं एयरसेल-मैक्सिस के ऊपर वापस आता हूं।...(व्यवधान) उन्होंने मुझसे इस प्रकार का सवाल क्यों किया? क्या यह बात करने का तरीका है?...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष : सुप्रिया जी, आप कुछ मत बोलिए। आप बैठिए। …( व्यवधान) HON. SPEAKER: Dr. Kirit Somaiyaji, you address the Chair. आप किसी का नाम मत लीजिए। डॉ. किरीट सोमैया : अध्यक्ष महोदया, अब मैं एयरसेल-मैक्सिस के ऊपर वापस आता हूं। जैसा महताब जी ने कहा, एफआईपीबी के रूल्स, गाइडलाइंस...(व्यवधान) मैं माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से कहूंगा कि एफआईपीबी की गाइडलाइन क्या है? क्या 600 करोड़ रुपये की सीलिंग है? क्या 600 करोड़ रुपये की सीलिंग के ऊपर टुकड़े-टुकड़े में कांट्रैक्ट दिया जा सकता है? उस समय के जो मंत्री जी थे, उन्होंने अपने संबंधी व्यक्ति को एक्मोडेट करने के लिए एफआईपीबी की गाइडलाइंस का वायलेशन किया। आज जब कोर्ट से लेकर बाकी जगहों पर इस विषय पर चर्चा हो रही है तो संसद यह जानकारी चाहती है कि क्या 2006 से 2014 तक एफआईपीबी की गाइडलाइंस क्या थीं? … whether there was a ceiling of Rs.600 crore, whether there was any provision …इसे बाईपास करने के लिए भले ही 305 करोड़ रुपए का सौदा हो, उसे 600 करोड़ रुपए का सौदा करके मंजूरी देना और  उसके बाद फिर 305 करोड़ कर दिया जाए, इसमें कोर्ट का सवाल नहीं आता है। हम जानना चाहते हैं कि उस समय के मंत्री जी और उनके परिवार से सम्बन्धित लोगों का इंटरेस्ट जिस ट्रांजेक्शन में था, क्या उन्होंने प्रधान मंत्री जी को, संसद को, राष्ट्रपति जी को यह बात बताई थी? अगर उनका यह इंटरेस्ट था, तो क्या उन्होंने यह बात कोर्ट के सामने बताई? अध्यक्ष जी, मैं एक और बात बताना चाहता हूं कि एयरसेल-मेक्सीस डील के कारण जिस प्रकार 2006 से 2014 तक, मेरे साथी और सहयोगी वेंकेटेश जी 2जी टेलीकॉम की बात बता रहे थे, now everybody knows what is 2G telecom. यह तो अखबारों में भी आ गई, सुप्रीम कोर्ट में भी गई है और सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने भी कहा है और सी.ए.जी. ने भी कहा,… how layers were created. यानी यह बेनिफिशरी है और यह दूसरा बेनिफिशरी है, सरकार इसे बेनिफिट देती है और वह सरकार के व्यक्ति को फोर लेयर करके बेनिफिट दे रहा है। Layers of companies, front companies, shell companies were created. क्या संसद को इस पर चर्चा नहीं करनी चाहिए?...(व्यवधान) क्या यह जो देश का पैसा है, 2006 से 2014 तक का है।इस प्रकार से the issue is not of Aircel-Maxis only. एयरसेल-मेक्सीस तक हम पहुंच पाए, इश्यू  यह नहीं है कि चिकित्सा के नाम पर, एम्बुलैंस के नाम पर गरीब मरीजों को लूटना नहीं है। इश्यू यह है कि इस प्रकार के घोटाले जिन्होंने किए हैं, वह मॉडस ऑपरेंडी भी हम समझें और मॉडस ऑपरेंडी समझकर हमने उस समय पर, इस प्रकार के जो अन्य घोटाले हुए होंगे, उनका पर्दाफाश करना चाहिए तथा वह पैसा रिकवर करना चाहिए। मैं चाहूंगा कि वित्त मंत्री जी और वैंकेया जी आपको मंत्रिमंडल में इस विषय पर चर्चा करनी चाहिए। उस समय हजारों करोड़ रुपया इस प्रकार से शैल्फ कम्पनीज और लेयर बनाकर बाहर भेज दिया गया है। The Cabinet must take a decision and the Cabinet must take the Parliament into confidence on this.जिन्होंने भी इस प्रकार के चाहे वह 2जी हो, कोलजी हो, सी.डब्ल्यू.जी. हो या जीजाजी हो, जिन्होंने भी किया हो...(व्यवधान) इसमें तो किसी को आपत्ति नहीं होनी चाहिए। इसलिए जिन्होंने इस प्रकार से लेयर आफ कम्पनीज बनाकर, 
 

किसी ने जमीन हड़प ली हो, कोई टेलीफोन का लाइसेंस हड़प गया हो, किसी ने अन्य जगह पर बैंक अकाउंट खोलकर घोटाला किया होगा, तो इस प्रकार के घोटालों की स्पेशल जांच करनी चाहिए। एयरसेल-मेक्सीस डील और शैल कम्पनीज में जो-जो भी शामिल है, उसकी समयबद्ध जांच करके संसद और जनता को सरकार विश्वास में ले, यही मेरी प्रार्थना है। इतना ही कहकर मैं अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। SHRI SUDIP BANDYOPADHYAY ( KOLKATA UTTAR ): Madam, I rise to speak on the issue of Aircel-Maxis deal. First of all I am certainly glad that you allowed all those Members who submitted notices for privilege motion, and would say that it was a very good example that you have set today. I am very much happy to say that to point fingers on different issues at the Chair is not what we can extend our support to. Madam, a point of order was raised by Prof. Saugata Roy from our party. It appears to us that he wanted to mean it very articulately.  I was thinking which issue is more important.  Venkaiah Naiduji from the very beginning was in a mood to see that the House runs smoothly.  You did your best so that the House runs smoothly.  When the Opposition Benches are not present, then players like Kirit Somaiyaji play better, but Bhartruhari Mehtab has to face much more difficulties.  But I would say that we wanted that the discussion on the President’s Address be taken up and we want to hear from the Prime Minister because our elections are going to take very shortly.  We will have to go back very soon.  The election notification will come out tomorrow or the day after. We are one of the major Opposition parties having 34 Members of Parliament with us.  We have also to make our submissions, our ideas, and our views separately and we will make it.  According to our observations, keeping Opposition out from the floor of the House on the issue of debate, if the President’s Address had been completed first and then other issues had been taken up, it would have been better.  Venkaiahji has given some precedent.  Bhartruhari Mehtabji was telling me that the issue of Universities was taken up while the President’s Address was to be discussedtaken.  But that was much more important.  This is an issue which was published in a particular newspaper and hon. Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha also uttered some comments that by projection of a particular newspaper, no issue should be ventilated in the House of Rajya Sabha.  We are not actually concerned about the whole issue.  We want to make more study as to what are the merits over there, what are the demerits over there.  But we think it was not the proper time to take it up when the House was running very smoothly and nicely.  मैं किरिट जी को कहना चाहता हूं कि आपने कहा कि डिजिटल इंडिया नहीं हुआ। मैं बताना चाहता हूं कि बजट पर मेरी पार्टी के सदस्य बोलेंगे, मैं उस समय नहीं रहूंगा। यह सूटेड-बूटेड गवर्नमेंट ने जरूर बेअरफुटिड गवर्नमेंट की तरह आगे बढ़ना शुरू कर दिया है। So, I think we are not going to speak on this issue in detail and we have also decided to walk out of our own as Trinamool Congress Party.  … (Interruptions) 14.42 hours 

(At this stage, Shri Sudip Bandopadhyay and some other 

hon. Members left the House.) 

  

HON. SPEAKER: This will not go on record.  It is nothing like that. … (Interruptions)…* 
 

THE MINISTER OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT, MINISTER OF HOUSING AND URBAN POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND MINISTER OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI M. VENKAIAH NAIDU): Please don’t insult regional parties.  Every issue is being discussed in this House.… (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: So many topics are there.  For some party, it may be important, for some party it may not be. … (Interruptions) SHRI M. VENKAIAH NAIDU : Madam, when we have a crusade against corruption, Trinamool Congress Party led by Mamtaji is trying to avoid debate on corruption. It is very surprising. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB : It involves black money and money laundering and this has very little to do with politics.… (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: But they don’t want to debate. … (Interruptions) SHRI M. VENKAIAH NAIDU : Every State is important for this country.  Tamil Nadu is also important.  There are regional parties also.  We have to understand that.  Simply because one party says that we should go according to their dictation ऐसा नहीं चलेगा। हाउस में सभी को अधिकार है, हर एक पार्टी की अपनी प्राथमिकताएं हैं। उन्होंने सोचा corruption and money laundering is more important.  That is why they raised it and others are supporting it.  We should not cast aspersion at others. DR. RAVINDRA BABU ( AMALAPURAM ): Hon. Speaker Madam, I am from Telugu Desam Party.  The scams which we are talking about are nothing but scum- scandals, corruption and greed in India has led to siphoning of lot of money.  The official estimate is Rs 20 lakh crore.  This is the amount which we collect every year as direct and indirect taxes.  This much money is being embezzled every year to outside countries.  Whether it is a scam or scandal or corruption or whatever, who is paying heavy price? Barring from the party lines, barring from the caste lines, corruption has no party, no caste, nothing. Who is suffering a lot because of corruption? It is the poor people. People have sent us here with a lot of hope. I will discuss about poverty; I will discuss about unemployment; I will discuss about diseases; I will discuss about literacy; I will discuss about infant mortality rate; I will discuss about the mortality rate of mothers; but it is unfortunate that in this august House every year, in every regime, we are spending a lot of time on corruption, scams and all. People have got fed up with this. Nobody has interest in knowing about these scams. Whenever we go to our constituencies, people ask, ‘What have you brought us?’ सर, कोई ज़ॉब वगैरह मिला है क्या, हमारे खाने के लिए क्या कुछ प्रबंध किया है, हैल्थ के लिए टुबरकुलोसिस खत्म करने के लिए क्या आपने कोई दवाई बनाई है, क्या यह आपने कुछ डिस्कस किया। हम हमेशा यह बोलते हैं 3जी है, आईजी है, डीजी है, यह पता नहीं, यह क्या हो रहा है, देश में किसी कॉमनमैन को पता ही नहीं चल रहा है कि यह क्या हो रहा है। यह देश के लिए रीयल इश्युज कब डिस्कस करेंगे। In this august House when are we going to spare time for the real issues of the country? That is the day when we really get freedom when we do not discuss about scams. It is high time the economic offences are punished in an exemplary way. There are institutions which deal with economic offences. Whenever an economic offence is proved we leave them with a penalty and imprisonment. I propose that it may be too harsh a measure but let there be one death penalty on one economic offender. This will have a ripple effect. There will be no scandals in future. I feel personally and so I suggest that let us also propose that there should be some harsh measure to stop these economic offences. The Supreme Court has already said that it is corruption which is making this country weak and poor in the midst of other countries. In poverty, we figure low in the list of all countries; but in corruptibility, we always figure high in the list. As our Pradhan Mantri Modi sahib always says, it is high time we should inculcate character; we should have a national character, and we should not encourage any corruption of any sort. Those should be ex-communicated and sent out of the country. If they stay in the country, they should be hanged to death. Thank you, Madam. Jai Telugu Desam. SHRI ANANDRAO ADSUL ( AMRAVATI ): Respected Madam Speaker, I rise to speak on today’s burning issue, that is Aircel-Maxis scam. ‘Power is for money and money is for power’ is the principle of the Congress Party. They suppose that fraud, misappropriation, and scams are their birthright. In the tenures of UPA-I and UPA-II, several scams had taken place. The 2G spectrum scam involved Rs. 1,76,000 crore; the coal block scam involved Rs. 1.86 lakh crore; the Commonwealth Games scam involved Rs. 80,000 crore; and there were many other scams. All those scams were inland and within the country. Now, today’s invention in the Aircel-Maxis scam has come to light because the son of the former Finance Minister misused the power his father. He has built a huge empire for himself in different parts of the world, making investments in real estate and engaging in other activities, in 14 countries, that is, London, Dubai, South Africa, Philippines, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, British Virgin Islands, France, USA, Switzerland, Spain; altogether 14 countries. All these things are supported by the documents recovered during the joint raids of the Information Director and Investigation Wing of the Income Tax in the Aircel-Maxis scam.  All these investments, transactions, acquisition of the companies, properties abroad were executed by the advantage that came through after the Aircel-Maxis deal in 2006.  Indian IT has despatched all these documents to the Supreme Court. I urge upon the hon. Finance Minister, if in real sense he wants to bring back the black money from abroad, he should concentrate on the former Congress Ministers and Leaders.  You will definitely get a huge amount.  Secondly, I would request the Minister to lodge the FIR against all those culprits involved in this Aircel-Maxis scam at the earliest. Thank you very much. SHRI A.P. JITHENDER REDDY ( MAHABUBNAGAR ): Thank you Madam.  Out of 140 countries India has been ranked 93rd and 70th in 2012 and 2013 respectively in the anti-money laundering, AML Basel Index 2013.  It is estimated that a total of 343 billion dollars have been laundered out of India during the period 2002 up to 2011.  Earlier, in 1985 it was estimated that the extent of black money in India was 19 to 21 per cent of the then GDP.  Going by the same account it must be well over Rs. 18 lakh crore Budget which our Finance Minister presented this year. Madam, this tainted money or undisclosed income is invested in shell companies floated in Dubai, Singapore and Mauritius.  Further, they are re-diverted towards investments in overseas territories like British, Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands where the tax laws are also stringent.  Over the years the money is ploughed back into investment in India.  Madam, this technology transfer of money across the continent is enabled within a short span of time.  However, to trace and retrieve such money the legal process and also diplomatic efforts to link territories in the countries mentioned take ages. So, whatever has been said regarding so many scams and much was discussed on this money, I really feel that our Government which is going ahead on this and I am anxious to hear our Finance Minister’s reply on this, it has already been said that the money has been parked outside the country.  That money has to be brought back into the country.  Already, as Modi Ji’s was canvassing before the elections that it is Rs.15 lakh per person.  I do not go that way but I say that that money should come back to the country and with that money our country should flourish and even the poor men should get rich. Thank you, Madam. SHRI MEKAPATI RAJA MOHAN REDDY ( NELLORE ):  Thank you, Madam, Speaker.  After seeing yesterday’s Press Reports and after hearing the hon. Members who spoke now on the subject, I feel it is a very serious matter.  It is just like ‘Kanche chenu mesindi’, the fencing which has to protect the crop has swallowed the crop.  It is a very serious thing.  The matter has to be investigated into and the facts have to come out.  People of the country should know the culprits and stringent action has to be taken against them. श्री प्रेम सिंह चन्दूमाजरा ( आनंदपुर साहिब ) : महोदया, पिछले दिनों पूर्व वित्त मंत्री के पुत्र के कारोबार पर रेड होकर जो तथ्य सामने आए हैं, वह आश्चर्यजनक तो है नहीं, क्योंकि यह देश ही नहीं दुनिया जानती है कि कांग्रेस के जब भी यहाँ नेता आए और देश को कैसे लूटा, कैसे-कैसे स्कैम हुए, एक स्कैम नहीं, स्कैम पर स्कैम, कहीं कोल स्कैम आ गया, कहीं जहाजों का स्कैम आ गया, कहीं कॉमनवेल्थ का स्कैम आ गया। देश शर्मसार जरूर हुआ है, देश शर्मसार इसलिए है, जैसे कहते हैं कि दूध की रखवाली के लिए हमने बिल्ली को बिठा रखा है और किसी ने सोचा तक नहीं। जैसे जब खेत को बाड ही खाने लगे तो खेत कैसे बच सकता है। मैं समझता हूँ कि कोई एक देश नहीं, दो देश नहीं, कम से कम एक दर्जन से ज्यादा देशों में हमारे देश का धन लूटकर चला गया है। हम समझते थे कि देश के लोग काम भी बहुत करते हैं, यहाँ की मिट्टी भी बहुत फर्टाइल है, यहाँ की जलवायु भी अच्छी है, इस सबके बावजूद देश गरीब क्यों हो रहा है? आज जब बात सामने आई है तो हमें सच्चाई का पता चला है। मैं आपके माध्यम से माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से यह जरूर निवेदन करूँगा कि जब इलेक्शन आया था, ठीक है मोदी साहब का अपना अक्ष भी बहुत अच्छा था, मोदी साहब को एक डेवलपमेंट ओरिएन्टिड के तौर पर लोगों ने देखा, बीजेपी और उसके सहयोगी दलों के अच्छे कामों को देखा, इसलिए उन पर विश्वास किया। देश के काफी ज्यादा लोगों ने यह मानकर वोट दिया कि देश का जो धन लूटकर विदेशों में रखा हुआ है, अगर उसे कोई वापस ला सकता है तो मोदी साहब ही उस धन को वापस ला सकते हैं। आज मैं माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से कहना चाहता हूँ कि जितनी भी सख्ती से सख्ती इन लोगों पर की जाए, क्योंकि वाजपेयी साहब के समय में भी मैंने इस हाउस में एक बार कहा था कि कांग्रेस पार्टी का जो करेक्टर है, कांग्रेस पार्टी की जो सोच है, उसको समझने की जरूरत है। सांप की जैसी सोच होती है, वैसी सोच इनकी है। जब तक इसके सिरे को पूरी तरह खत्म नहीं किया जाएगा, उतनी देर ये देश के लोगों को कहीं धर्म के नाम पर लड़ाएंगे, कहीं इलाके के नाम पर लड़ाएंगे। आज समय है, इस समय अगर इनको अच्छी तरह से आड़े हाथों लिया जाए और जो धन लूटकर बाहर लेकर गए हैं, उसे वापस लाया जाए तो मैं समझता हूँ कि देश से कभी एनडीए की सरकार जा ही नहीं सकती और कभी देश में दोबारा कांग्रेस आ नहीं सकती। इस पर हमें सख्ती से काम लेना होगा, यही मेरी अपील है। श्री दुष्यंत चौटाला ( हिसार ) : महोदया, आपने मुझे समय दिया, इसके लिए मैं आपको धन्यवाद देता हूँ। आज रूल 193 के अन्दर जो डिसकशन है, एक बड़ा अहम् विषय है, निरन्तर कांग्रेस के दस सालों के शासन में हमने अनेकों घोटाले देखे हैं। माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी भी निरन्तर कहते आए हैं कि सख्त से सख्त कार्रवाई होगी। आज हमारे कांग्रेस के कई साथी बोल रहे थे कि यह जो एयरसेल-मैक्सिस का मामला है, यह सब-ज्यूडिस है। आज रेड हुई है और यह अंडर इन्वेस्टिगेशन है। मैं सरकार से आग्रह करूँगा कि तुरन्त प्रभाव से इसके अन्दर कड़ी से कड़ी कार्रवाई हो, क्योंकि सब-ज्यूडिस अभी आया नहीं है, इन्वेस्टिगेशन है, सरकार के विचाराधीन है और सरकार को इस पर कदम उठाना है। हमारे यहाँ एक कहावत है कि हमारे यहाँ देर है अंधेर नहीं। पर जिस तरह से इस सरकार के शासन का दो साल का समय निकला है, मुझे लगता है कि हमारे यहाँ देर है और धीरे-धीरे अंधेर भी होती जा रही है। जो लोग कहते थे कि हम काला धन वापस लाएंगे, अब आज जितना समय निकल गया है, सरकार का लगभग आधा समय निकल चुका है, मैं यही आग्रह करूँगा कि हमारे देश की जनता इंतजार कर रही है कि जो घोटालेबाज थे, जिन्होंने इस देश को लूटने का काम किया, आज उनका पैसा वापस लाया जाए। अगर इस स्कैम के अन्दर कहीं भी लापरवाही या अनडय़ू एडवांटेज किसी को दी गई है तो यह हमारा कर्तव्य बनता है कि कड़ी से कड़ी कार्रवाई कराकर देश के नागरिकों को हम इंसाफ दें। बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। श्री निशिकान्त दुबे ( गोड्डा ) : महोदया, आपने मुझे मौका दिया, इसके लिए आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। यदि एनडीए की सरकार बनी तो इसमें इन सारे स्कैम का बहुत बड़ा योगदान है और इस कारण से हमारी सरकार के ऊपर और हमारे ऊपर सबसे ज्यादा रिस्पांसबिलिटी है कि यह जो स्कैम है, इसको किस तरह से फाइनल कंक्लूजन तक ले जाएं और जो अपराधी हैं, वे कैसे सलाखों के पीछे जाएं। 15.00hours 

यह जो पूरा प्रश्न चल रहा है और  पिछले दो-तीन दिनों से पार्लियामैंट हंगामे में है, उसके पीछे दो तीन कारण हैं। एक सीएजी की रिपोर्ट आती है और सीएजी अपनी रिपोर्ट में कहता है कि मिनिस्ट्री ऑफ फाइनैन्स 25 जनवरी, 2006 से इस चीज़ से वाकिफ़ था कि वह एफ.आई.पी.बी. क्लियरैन्स देने की स्थिति में नहीं है। 3514 करोड़ रुपये का क्लियरैन्स चाहिए था और मंत्री केवल 600 करोड़ रुपये का क्लियरैन्स देने की स्थिति में थे। उन्होंने बिना कैबिनेट कमेटी ऑन इकोनॉमिक अफेयर्स में गए हुए इसको अप्रूवल दे दिया, इसको कैबिनेट ले जाने की आवश्यकता उन्होंने महसूस नहीं की। सवाल यह है कि यह देश कानून से चलेगा या यह देश व्यक्ति से चलेगा। आप किसी व्यक्ति का चेहरा दिखा दीजिए और कानून बदल जाएगा, ऐसा नहीं होगा। सबसे पहले मेरा सवाल यह है कि क्या यह सरकार इस चीज़ से वाकिफ़ है कि उस वक्त के तत्कालीन वित्त मंत्री ने अपनी सीमा से ज्यादा जाकर बिना कैबिनेट को कॉनफिडैन्स में लिए हुए यह अप्रूवल दिया? दूसरा सवाल यह है कि जो सीबीआई ने चार्जशीट फाइल की है 29 अगस्त, 2014 को, उसमें उसने 742 करोड़ रुपये तत्कालीन जो उस वक्त के टैलीकॉम मंत्री थे और उनके फैमिली के ऊपर उन्होंने एलीगेशन लगाया। यह केस कैसे डैवलप हुआ या हंगामा कैसे चल रहा है, मैं इसकी तह में जा रहा हूँ। सीबीआई ने अपनी चार्जशीट में लिखा कि  M/s Global Communication Services Holding Limited, Mauritius had sought a FIBP approval for 800 million USD for which the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs was competent to grant approval. However, the approval was granted by the then Finance Minister. Further investigation is being carried out in the circumstances of said FIBP approval granted by the then Finance Minister.       जब सीबीआई ने 29 अगस्त, 2014 को खुद ही माना कि वह कंपीटैन्ट नहीं थे तो पिछले दो साल से सीबीआई क्या कर रही है यह सबसे बड़ा सवाल है। तीसरा सवाल यह है कि रेड क्यों हुई? कई लोगों को लगता है कि यह प्राइवेट आदमियों पर रेड हो गई और प्राइवेट आदमियों का डिसकशन पार्लियामैंट क्यों कर रहा है। बार-बार मैं देख रहा हूँ कि हमारे मित्र इस तरह की बातें कर रहे हैं। लेकिन मैं आपको बताऊँ कि हाई कोर्ट में 2016 में एक एप्लीकेशन मूव किया है एडवांटेज स्ट्रैटेजिक कंसल्टिंग प्राइवेट लिमिटेड ने। यह किसका है, यह माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ही बताएँगे और उसमें उन्होंने कहा है कि यह जो 2जी का स्कैम हुआ है, यह जो एयरसैल मैक्सिस को दिया गया, उसने एयरसैल टैलिवैन्चर लिमिटेड ने 26 लाख रुपये  एडवांटेज स्ट्रैटेजिक कंसल्टिंग प्राइवेट लिमिटेड को दिये। यह 26 लाख रुपये का जो मालिक है, वह तत्कालीन वित्त मंत्री जी का बेटा है या कहीं न कहीं, कभी न कभी उस कंपनी में डायरैक्टर था, और उसी के माध्यम से यह सारा इनवैस्टिगेशन चल रहा है। उसके ऊपर सरकार क्या कार्रवाई कर रही है? इसके अलावा सीबीआई टीम मलेशिया गई थी। 22 मार्च को सीबीआई टीम की वहाँ मलेशिया के अटार्नी जनरल से मुलाकात हुई 22 मई, 2013 को। 22 मई, 2013 से यह तीसरा साल है 2016 तक, सीबीआई को कौन सी जानकारी मलेशिया से हासिल हुई, यह भी बताना चाहिए। इसके बाद हम लोग एक मैम्बर ऑफ पार्लियामैंट के नाते, जो एफ.आई.पी.बी. अप्रूवल हुआ है, उसका कुछ नोट हमारे पास है, तो हम लोग मैम्बर ऑफ पार्लियामैंट के नाते चिट्ठी लिखते हैं। कई लोग कहते हैं कि किसी वैस्टेड इंटरस्ट से लिखते हैं, किसी कार्पोरेट के चक्कर में लिखते हैं, लेकिन चिट्ठी लिखी जाती है। उस वक्त जो चिट्ठी लिखी गई, उसमें से एफ.आई.पी.बी. ने कहा कि we may send an interim reply to the MP under intimation to PMO that this issue has already been brought to the notice of FIBP and FIBP is considering the issue in the course of consideration of the application.  जब एम.पी. ने इस चीज़ को रेज़ किया तो क्या ऐसा कारण था कि उसके बाद भी वित्त मंत्री जी ने यह नहीं किया। इसके बाद तीसरा जो मेरा सवाल है कि टैलीकाम का जो एक सर्कुलर है, टैलीकाम डिपार्टमैंट एफ.आई.पी.बी. यदि होगा तो जो कंसर्न्ड डिपार्टमैंट एफ.आई.पी.बी. अप्रूवल लेती है, उस डिपार्टमैंट से पूछा जाता है। The Department of Telecom in their revised comments in 2007 have conveyed the comment that they support the views NSCS that telecom is a sensitive sector and foreign ownership needs to be subjected to high-end scrutiny and also that for assisting scrutiny waiting before FIBP approval. एयरसेल मैक्सिस में मलेशिया में उसने कहा कि 74 प्रतिशत के बदले 99 प्रतिशत हो गया। क्या ऐसी परिस्थिति थी कि इसके मना करने बाद भी, टेलीकॉम डिपार्टमेंट के मना करने के बाद भी यह अप्रुवल चला गया। इसके बाद आरबीआई अप्रुवल भी एफआइपीबी में चाहिए। आरबीआई ने अपने लेटर में कहा है कि 

 “Given the nature and magnitude of irregularities, we are of the view that there is a need to have a thorough investigation to assess the complexity of the transaction and to establish the structural foreign holding in the company.” 

  

          मेरा यह कहना है कि इस तरह के इतने सारे वायलेशन के बाद, उसी तरह से जो वर्ष 2003 का कैबिनेट नोट था, जिसके आधार पर टू-जी का स्कैम हुआ, जो कि फर्स्ट कम फर्स्ट सर्विस बेस के आधार पर एक कारण बताया गया, ट्राई का एक रिकमैंडेशन है, जब टेलीकॉम का वायलेशन हो रहा है, जब मैम्बर ऑफ पार्लियमेंट के चिट्ठी का कुछ नहीं हो रहा है, सीबीआई, सीएजी और आरबीआई कह रहे हैं, उसके बाद जब अप्रुवल हुआ, तो क्या ऐसा कारण है कि अभी तक सरकार अपराधियों को सलाखों के पीछे नहीं ले जा रही है। सरकार को इस देश को बताना चाहिए कि कब तक वे सलाखों के पीछे होंगे? ब्लैक मनी बड़ा इश्यू है, पॉलिटिशियंस और ब्यूरोक्रैट्स के माध्यम से सारे ब्लैक मनी बाहर गये हैं, वह कब तब इस देश में आयेगा? इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। जयहिंद, जय भारत। श्री राजेश रंजन ( मधेपुरा ) :  अध्यक्ष महोदया, यह चर्चा लगातार, आजादी के वक्त से ही भ्रष्टाचार, यह न सोने देती है, न जीने देती है और न मरने देती है।...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष :  आप इसके खिलाफ लड़ें, मरें नहीं। …( व्यवधान) श्री राजेश रंजन :  अन्ना हजारे जी जिन्दा हैं, पता नहीं है कि भविष्य में भी कोई अन्ना हजारे बनेंगे। अन्ना हजारे जी के आंदोलन के बाद मंत्रिमंडल की तरफ से एक प्रश्न के जवाब में यह आया था कि 9.8 प्रतिशत और भ्रष्टाचार बढ़ा है, यह घटा नहीं है। इतने बड़े आंदोलन के बाद भी यह बढ़ा है। देश के सभी लोग भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ हैं। कालाधन की बात हमारे मित्र करते हैं। देश में चार संस्थायें हैं, दूध के कौन धुले हुए हैं? जयप्रकाश, रामकृष्ण परमहंस, कबीर और नानक तो बचे नहीं है। ...* माननीय अध्यक्ष : कृपया आप किसी का नाम नहीं लें। आप अपनी बात करें। ...(व्यवधान) श्री राजेश रंजन :  अध्यक्ष महोदया, नाम सभी ले रहे थे, इसलिए मैंने भी नाम ले लिया। मैं किसी का नाम नहीं लूंगा।...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष :  उनका रेलेवन्स नहीं है। ...(व्यवधान) श्री राजेश रंजन :  अध्यक्ष महोदया, ऐसे बाबा आ गये हैं कि अब तो विवेकानंद और जयप्रकाश जी, वी.पी.सिंह, नेहरू, या अटल बिहार वाजपेयी, नरेन्द्र मोदी और मनमोहन सिंह जी ...(व्यवधान) ऐसे लोग नहीं होंगे, इसलिए मैं नाम ले रहा हूं। ...(व्यवधान) क्या अच्छे में भी नाम नहीं लेना है।...(व्यवधान) अब विवेकानंद जैसे लोग नहीं आयेंगे। ...(व्यवधान) मैंने कहा कि ऐसे लोग नहीं होंगे। ...(व्यवधान) विवेकानंद जैसे लोग अब नहीं आयेंगे। मैंने यह कहा है।...(व्यवधान) मेरा स्पष्ट कहना है कि हम जितने लोग यहां हैं, यदि भ्रष्टाचार के मामले में हम लोग काफी गंभीर हैं, क्योंकि यदि यह देश दुनिया में सबसे ज्यादा किसी चीज से प्रताड़ित है और यदि देश की अर्थव्यवस्था कमजोर है तो उसका सबसे बड़ा कारण भ्रष्टाचार है। हम इस मामले में पाकिस्तान से भी नीचे की स्थिति में हैं। मेरा दो-तीन सब्मिशंस है। हम यह नहीं कहते हैं कि स्कैम के खिलाफ चर्चा न हो, लेकिन हिन्दुस्तान में सिर्फ बात पर चर्चा होकर रह जाती है और बात कभी खत्म नहीं होती है। आदरणीय, आपकी सरकार इस देश में चुन कर बनी है और दिल्ली में अरविन्द केजरीवाल की भी सरकार बनी है। इस सरकार को बने दो साल हो गये हैं, भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ ही सरकार में आये हैं, तो आपको भ्रष्टचार को जड़ से मिटाने के लिए कोई नहीं रोकता है। यदि नरेन्द्र मोदी जी में पूरी ताकत है तो आप हिन्दुस्तान में बेइमानी व्यवस्था को खत्म करिए। यह मेरा पहला आग्रह है 

          मेरा दूसरा आग्रह है कि यदि भ्रष्टाचार को जड़ से मिटाना चाहते हैं तो एक ऐसा कानून लाइए जो 302 से बड़ा मुकदमा, भ्रष्टाचार एक साथ लाखों आदमी को मारता है, इसलिए इस दुनिया में उसको हैंग करने का प्रावधान हो, भ्रष्टाचारियों को हैंग करने का प्रावधान होना चाहिए। हम लोग जितने लोग यहां बैठे हैं, हमाम में सब लोग नंगे।...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष :   आप अपनी तीसरी बात बोलिए। ...(व्यवधान) श्री राजेश रंजन :  अध्यक्ष महोदया, हमाम में सब लोग नंगे हैं। जनता कहती है कि व्यवस्था को चलाने वाले सबसे ज्यादा पॉलिटिशियंस हैं।क्या हिन्दुस्तान की सियासत में बैठा कोई पॉलिटिशियन ऐसा है जो चार करोड़ से सौ करोड़ रुपये में चुनाव नहीं लड़ता हो, जो दो सौ करोड़ रुपये खर्च नहीं करता हो?...(व्यवधान) कुछ पॉलिटिशियन्स को छोड़ दिया जाए।...(व्यवधान) कौन सा पॉलिटिशियन ऐसा है जिसके पास आकूत पैसा नहीं है।...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष :  यह गलत है। …( व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष :  आपकी बात हो गई है। आप बैठिए। …( व्यवधान) श्री राजेश रंजन ( मधेपुरा ) :यदि काला धन सबसे पहले निकाला जाए तो हिन्दुस्तान के ब्यूरोक्रैट, हिन्दुस्तान के...* जिसने समाज के गरीबों का खून लूटा है।...(व्यवधान) इसलिए पॉलिटिशियन्स के खिलाफ सबसे बड़ी जंग होनी चाहिए।...(व्यवधान) पॉलिटिशियन सारी व्यवस्थाओं का जड़ है, चाहे ओड़िसा जाइए।...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष :  आप बैठ जाइए। आपकी बात हो गई है। …( व्यवधान) श्री राजेश रंजन : ओड़िसा में 90 प्रतिशत लोगों का राशन कार्ड बना है।...(व्यवधान) बहुत बड़ी लड़ाई है।...(व्यवधान) HON. SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record. … (Interruptions)…* माननीय अध्यक्ष :  राजेश जी, आप बैठिए। …( व्यवधान) श्री एम. वैंकैय्या नायडू :  भावना में आकर पूरी दुनिया, पूरे देश और सारे पॉलिटिशियन्स को बोलना अच्छा नहीं है। यह रिकार्ड में नहीं जाना चाहिए।...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष :  मैंने कहा है। …( व्यवधान) HON. SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record. … (Interruptions)… * 
 

 

श्री भगवंत मान ( संगरूर ): अध्यक्ष महोदया, भ्रष्टाचार पर बहस चल रही है।...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष :  भ्रष्टाचार नहीं, केवल पर्टिकुलर बात पर बहस चल रही है। …( व्यवधान) श्री भगवंत मान : नियम 193 के अंतर्गत टेलीकॉम कम्पनियों के घोटाले पर बहस चल रही है। यह पहली बहस नहीं है। इससे पहले भी ऐसे मामलों पर बहस हो चुकी है। अगर सिर्फ चर्चा करके जिम्मेदारी खत्म हो जाएगी तो मेरे ख्याल से ऐसे नहीं होगा। इसके लिए नीयत चाहिए। कमी नीयत की है। इससे पहले वाली सरकारों ने किया है या आजकल सरकार के पास शक्ति है, तो पहले वाले स्कैम को बाहर लेकर आएं। वैसे कांग्रेस की नीति बन चुकी है कि खुद ही बहस शुरू करवाते हैं और अपना बोलकर निकल जाते हैं।...(व्यवधान) वे चले गए हैं। यहां बैंच खाली पड़े हैं। वे बाद में कहते हैं कि हमें नहीं पता था कि बीजेपी वाले इतना अच्छा बोलेंगे आदि। यह उनका स्टाइल है। जब चिड़िया खेत चुग जाती है तब वे बाद में पछताते हैं। मैं एक ऐसी पार्टी से बिलांग करता हूं जो अन्ना आंदोलन से निकली है। मेरी पार्टी करप्शन विरोधी आंदोलन से निकली है। अगर ऐसी डिबेट आती है तो मेरा अपनी पार्टी की तरफ से बोलना जरूरी है। भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ हमारी पार्टी की ज़ीरो प्रतिशत टॉलरैंस है। दिल्ली में भी सरकार है। जिन लोगों ने यह किया है, उनके खिलाफ उच्चस्तरीय जांच हो। जो देश की टैक्सपेयर मनी, लोगों के पैसे को लूट रहे हैं, चाहे किसी भी तरह से लूट रहे हैं, टू जी, थ्री जी, कौन से स्कैम हैं, लोगों को आजकल स्कैम के नाम भी डिजिटल मिल रहे हैं कि पता ही नहीं चल रहा कि स्कैम है या कोई नई मिसाइल  बनाई है टू-जी, थ्री-जी। मैं चाहता हूं कि इसकी उच्च स्तरीय जांच होनी चाहिए ताकि जिनकी मनी इसमें बर्बाद हुई है, उन्हें इंसाफ मिले। ऐसे लोगों को सख्त से सख्त सजा मिले ताकि आगे से कोई व्यक्ति ऐसी करप्शन करने की हिम्मत नहीं कर सके। यह मेरा आपके माध्यम से आग्रह है। THE MINISTER OF FINANCE, MINISTER OF CORPORATE AFFAIRS AND MINISTER OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING (SHRI ARUN JAITLEY): Madam, Speaker, I am extremely grateful to Shir Bhartruhari Mahtab and all other colleagues who have participated in this debate on this very important issue. Shri T.G. Venkatesh Babu has also made a very elaborate presentation.  Let me at the very outset clarify and categorically state that as far as this Government is concerned, it is completely and absolutely committed to absolute probity and in any scandal or scam, any person who is found connected or concerned, no one will be spared. We have no holy cows to protect and the Government is going to the root of each one of these cases which has been mentioned. The hon. Members who initiated the discussion very rightly said that it all started with the infamous 2G case. The extension of the case was, it led to Aircel-Maxis issue, which has now further led to a third category of cases. Some Members in the passing made an observation as to whether any investigating agency under the present Government is going slow in these matters. This is absolutely incorrect. As far as the 2G cases are concerned, in all those cases where CBI has come to a prima facie opinion that an offence has been committed, charge-sheets have been filed and the trials are going on. The Supreme Court is monitoring those trials. The Supreme Court had appointed an independent prosecutor who conducts those trials. The law will take its own course. I am sure the guilty will have to face justice sooner or later. The second set of cases about which a comment has been made is the Aircel-Maxis case. Whatever was the stand of the earlier Government, we have not been influenced by that stand at all. The investigative agencies have absolutely freedom to professionally record the entire evidence, and if they come to an opinion that some people are prima facie guilty, the investigative agencies are free to take action. It is pursuant to this policy that as far as the CBI is concerned, investigating the Aircel-Maxis case, it has already filed a charge sheet in the court. So, the question is not FIR – the charge sheets have already been filed and the case will now proceed to trial. As far as the Enforcement Directorate is concerned, it also has powers under Money Laundering Act because if these are proceeds of crime, then, PMLA is attracted. On 8th of January, 2016, a charge sheet or a complaint has been filed in the court by the Enforcement Directorate also. On 27th of February, just about five days ago, the court had already taken cognisance of that charge sheet. Therefore, notices have gone to various accused persons who will now be   tried in the Aircel-Maxis case and they will have to face trial. Eventually, it is for court now to decide. Therefore both in 2G and Aircel-Maxis, CBI and in this case the Enforcement Directorate have taken all action which they could have taken as far as law is concerned. In the course of investigating these cases, different agencies of the Government obtained some other information also and that relates to the further extension of this investigation. Now, pursuant to this, against several companies, more particularly in Chennai, a series of raids were conducted jointly by the Investigating Department of the Income-Tax and by the Enforcement Directorate. These raids were followed up by raids  against other companies also against whom some materials were available so as to cross-verify those information. I must straightaway at this stage place a particular limitation on myself, and that limitation is on account of two factors. There is a provision in the Income Tax Act as also in the Prevention of Money Laundering Act under which I cannot make public the details of the investigation. It is secondly based upon another very important principle that if investigations are at a very crucial stage and the third set of cases has reached a very critical stage, then disclosure of that investigation material publicly may actually prejudice the investigation. I may end up giving the line of investigation and, therefore, give an opportunity to the targets of investigation also to make the evidence itself disappear. I am, therefore, both in law and as a matter of propriety, constrained from placing the details of those investigations. But I can tell this House that as a result of those searches and a series of raids which have been conducted by the Enforcement Directorate and by the Investigative Wing of the Income Tax Department, a lot of incriminating materials have been seized, details of assets held by certain entities in India and abroad have also been obtained. Pursuant to that entire information, witnesses are being recorded, those documents are being analyzed, and Letter Rogatories have been sent by the Enforcement Directorate to several countries. As far as the Income Tax Department is concerned, it writes letters under the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement. That is the procedure they follow. So, all those procedures are being followed. As far as cases are concerned, some Members wanted to know whether FIRs have been registered. For both the Enforcement Directorate and the Income Tax Department, under their respective Acts, there is no provision of registering an FIR. The Investigative Wing of the Income Tax Department investigates the case, a prosecution notice is issued, a complaint is issued and then assessment proceedings take place simultaneously. So far as the Enforcement Directorate is concerned, if a case is finally made out under Foreign Exchange Management Act , it will hold adjudication proceedings and if a case is made out under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act for which a case has already been registered, the procedure is that an Enforcement Case Information Report is registered. That is the counterpart of the FIR, which is registered for a PMLA case. Those cases in the third category have also been registered by the Enforcement Directorate and once, on the basis of this entire incriminating material, the entire investigation is concluded, all I can say is that whatever action has to be taken under different provisions of law, once a violation is detected, these investigations will be taken to their logical conclusion and all facts, including facts in relation to certain entities which have been named, - I am not consciously using those names because these matters are under investigation – all matters would be investigated fully and logically, if there is a prima facie case is made out, then all actions would be taken under each of these three Acts. The three Acts involved in this case are the Income Tax Act, the Foreign Exchange Management Act and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Therefore, action, as per law, will be taken. Nobody,  – and I underline the word ‘nobody’, however important he is, - would be spared if he is found to be prima facie guilty. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): Madam Speaker, I had asked two or three specific questions. In how many cases the FIPB clearances have been given? That answer has not come. What is the professional competence of this company which was provided the clearance when the limitation to the Finance Minister was there which he transgressed? These are not matters of investigation. There are matters of information that can be shared. SHRI ARUN JAITLEY : Madam, I would like to inform the hon. Member that as far as the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) is concerned, the FIPB meets regularly. It meets under the Chairmanship of the Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs. These days, for example, a lot of Foreign Direct Investment is coming, many proposals are through the automatic route, some are through the FIPB route and so, these days, the FIPB meets, at times, even twice a month. The recommendations from the FIPB come up to the Finance Minister for approval and the Finance Minister grants approval. So, every month literally I have to grant approvals for a very large number of cases for which recommendations come from the Foreign Investment Promotion Board. If you ask me how many approvals have been given, I can certainly, in the last 10, 15, 20 years, give you the number; it would run into thousands.  The issue is not whether FIPB has given a clearance; the issues are whether the FIPB rightly gave a clearance and if in the process of grant of that clearance, any entity has taken any pecuniary benefit.  Therefore, as I said earlier, these are matters of a very serious investigation.  Investigation is at a very critical stage in these cases.  Therefore there are a large number of companies, both domestic and international, which are involved in this investigation.  Assets which are domestic and international acquired by them are under investigation.  It would not be prudent for me to even give detailed disclosures as far as those investigations are concerned.  Once the investigations are concluded and the matters are filed in court, then it will certainly become public. HON. SPEAKER: Thank you.