CORAM : HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SUBHASH CHAND ------ 1. Heard learned senior counsel for the petitioner, learned counsel for

 the State and learned counsel for the Opposite Party No.2. 2. The present criminal revision has been preferred against the order

 dated 17th February, 2023 passed by the learned Additional

 Sessions Judge-III, Godda in Sessions Trial No.76 of 2021,

 whereby and whereunder the discharge petition filed on behalf of

 the petitioners under Section 227 Cr.P.C. has been rejected. 3. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the

 F.I.R. of this case was lodged under Section 306 of the I.P.C.

 against the petitioner - Harendra Prasad Yadav. The charge-sheet

 was filed under the said section and the trial court had rejected

 the discharge application of the petitioner without appreciating the

 evidence collected by the I.O. in proper way. From suicide note

 which is annexed with F.I.R., it appears that there is nothing

 against the petitioner to show that he had abetted the deceased

 to commit suicide. The Whatsapp chat of the deceased also does -2- not show that the petitioner had blackmailed her or the deceased

 was distressed with the conduct of the petitioner before

 committing suicide. It is further submitted that so far as Whatsapp

 chats are concerned, the same are not admissible without the

 certificate under Section 65-B of the Evidence Act. The charge-

 sheet has been filed and no certificate to that effect has been

 filed on behalf of the prosecution. As such the Whatsapp chat

 cannot be read in evidence for framing charge. 4. Learned A.P.P. and learned counsel for the O.P. No.2 vehemently

 opposed the contentions made by the learned senior counsel for

 the petitioner and contended that the suicide note which is made

 part of the F.I.R, in that suicide note, it is mentioned that all the

 details are in the mobile phone and rest ask from Sahana. It

 shows that the deceased had disclosed the cause of committing

 suicide in the mobile phone and she also told to her friend Sahana

 why she committed suicide. From the very Whatsapp chat, it is

 found that even after marriage of the deceased with Shashi

 Bhushan Sidharth, the petitioner was still having love affairs with

 the deceased and he was in continuous contact of her on

 Whatsapp chat. Though on asking by the deceased, he stated in

 Whatsapp chat that he had deleted all her photographs and he

 had not recorded the video and he has no intention to blackmail

 her. But from the very Whatsapp chat, it is also found that the

 victim was aggrieved from the conduct of the petitioner and that's

 why she committed suicide. Moreover, Sahana was also examined -3- by the I.O. during investigation and her testimony was also

 considered by the learned trial court while rejecting the application

 for discharge. As such, the impugned order bears no infirmity and

 same needs no interference by this Court. 5. From perusal of F.I.R., it is found that the father of the deceased

 Om Prakash lodged the F.I.R. with these allegations that his

 daughter was married with Shashi Bhushan Sidharth in the year

 2017 and after two years of marriage the difference between

 them arose and she came back to her parental house. It is further

 alleged that thereafter talk started between the deceased and her

 husband but she does not want to go to Bokaro. It is also alleged

 that the deceased started talking to someone and said that she

 was talking with her friend Sahana. After few weeks, the

 informant's son-in-law sent information that he wanted to take

 back his wife, but the deceased did not want to live in Bokaro. It

 is further alleged that since 4 to 5 days, the daughter of the

 informant was talking on mobile phone whole night with her friend

 Sahana and she used to chat with Harendra whose number was

 saved as Ambika BHU and at that time, she used to keep quiet all

 the time. It is further alleged that the informant took her daughter

 to Dr. Ashok Kumar in Godda on 17th May, 2021 and thereafter, in

 the evening, she went to her room after taking tea. It is also

 alleged that when her brother Gaurav went to open the door, the

 door was locked from inside and when the lock was broken, she

 was found hanging from a fan with dupatta. It is also alleged that -4- a diary was also recovered from the place of occurrence. It is

 further alleged that the petitioner used to blackmail the daughter

 of the informant whose number was saved as Ambika BHU. 6. From perusal of the F.I.R., it is found that the daughter of the

 informant, namely, Mili Anand was married but she had love affairs

 with the petitioner and even after marriage, the petitioner whose

 number was saved in the deceased mobile phone as Ambika BHU

 was in contact with her through Whatsapp chat. From perusal of

 the suicide note which is made part of the F.I.R., it is found that

 the deceased was happy with her brother, father, Bhabhi and also

 with her husband Sidhartha. In the said suicide note she had

 addressed to her husband Sidhartha which reads as under : 7. From above quoted note, it appears that she was happy with the

 conduct of her husband but she was feeling guilty on account of

 her own act and she committed suicide. It is pertinent here to

 quote the last line of suicide note : 8. It shows the reason of commission of suicide. The deceased had

 disclosed that all the details are in mobile phone and the same has

 been also disclosed to her friend Sahana. The chat of mobile

 phone of the deceased and the accused Ambika BHU are at page -5- 43 to 52 which are the annexure of this petition. This chat shows

 that the deceased was having love affairs with the accused -

 Ambika BHU. It is relevant here to quote the Whatsapp chats of

 the deceased and Ambika BHU which are as under : A counter affidavit has also be filed on behalf of the Opposite

 Party No.2 - Om Prakash, wherein at paragraph 6, it is stated that

 the audio call recording between the deceased and her friend

 Sahan crystal clears that the petitioner was blackmailing the

 deceased for the photograph and video recording which was with

 the petitioner. The petitioner had also been taking money from the -7- deceased which is evident from the money transaction record

 between the petitioner and the deceased. 11. So far as the Whatsapp chats are concerned, though the

 charge-sheet has been filed in this case and certificate under Section 65-B of the Evidence Act has not been produced but the

 same is not fatal to the prosecution case. It may be produced at

 the time of evidence. 12. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of State by Karnataka

 Lokayukta Police Station, Bengaluru vs M. R. Hiremath reported in AIR 2019 SC 2377 at paragraph 16 has held as

 under : 13. Therefore from the materials available on record, it is found

 that there is sufficient material in the suicide note, wherein the

 cause of death is disclosed by the deceased in her mobile chat

 and the deceased also stated to know the cause of death from her

 friend Sahana. From the mobile chats and conduct of the

 petitioner, it is apparent that he wanted to fulfill his sexual desire

 from the deceased with whom he was having love affairs, even

 after solemnization of marriage, and after marriage the deceased

 was happy with her husband thereby she was feeling guilty for her -8- conduct to be in contact and in love affairs of the petitioner. In

 paragraph 6 of the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the

 Opposite Party No.2 - Om Prakash, it is stated that the police has

 also seized the audio call recording between the deceased and her

 friend Sahana from which it is clear that the petitioner was

 blackmailing the deceased for the photographs and the video

 recording which was with the petitioner. As such there was

 sufficient materials collected by the I.O. to frame charge against

 the petitioner and the learned trial court has rightly rejected the

 discharge application of the petitioner. It is pertinent to mention

 here that while framing the charge, the court is not required to

 make the minute screening of the evidence and the marshalling of

 the evidence at this stage is not permissible. What is required to

 see whether there is sufficient ground to proceed against the

 accused? 14. The Hon'ble Apex court in the case of Palwinder Singh vs.

 Balwinder Singh & Ors. reported in (2008) 14 SCC 504 at

 paragraph 13 has held as under : 15. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of CBI v. Mukesh

 Pravinchandra Shroff reported in (2009) 16 SCC 429 at

 paragraph 2 has held as under : 16. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Vikram Johar vs State

 of Uttar Pradesh reported in AIR 2019 SC 2109 at paragraph

 19 has held as under : 17. In view of the aforesaid discussions and the settled legal

 proposition of law as laid by the Hon'ble Apex Court, the

 impugned order dated 17th February, 2023 passed by the learned - 10 - Additional Sessions Judge-III, Godda bears no infirmity and the

 same is, hereby, affirmed. 18. The present criminal revision is bereft of merits and is

 accordingly dismissed. 19. Let a copy of this order be communicated to the court

 concerned through 'FAX'. (Subhash Chand, J.)
Rohit/AFR