1. Currency is the back-bone of any economy and helps

 people in their day to day transaction, whether commercial or

 household and its use is indispensable. General acceptability and SC No.43/11 Page No.1 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others faith of public in it are basic pre-requisite of its existence.

 Presence of forged or counterfeit currency in any economy can

 shackle smooth functioning of the economy. In extreme case it

 can also result in loss of people's faith in the currency and thus in

 the economic system. Penetration of counterfeit currency notes

 can affect basic frame of economic activities and lead the

 economy to doldrums. 2. In order to make better provisions for the protection of cur- rency and bank notes against forgery, sections 489A to 489D of

 the Penal Code were coined by the Currency Notes Forgery Act,

 1899. Prior to that offences relating to paper currency were dealt

 with under general provisions, such as sections 467 , 471 and 472 of the Penal Code. At times it was difficult to secure a conviction

 under other sections. These provisions are, therefore, intended to

 fill in the gap which those sections left in the general law, in their

 applicability to paper currency. Section 489-A of the Penal Code,

 coins an offence of counterfeiting currency notes or bank notes. Section 489-C of the Penal Code carries criminality as regards SC No.43/11 Page No.2 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others forged currency notes a step further by punishing their posses-

 sion, when it is accompanied by an intention to use them as gen-

 uine, while provisions of section 489-B are intended to stop cir-

 culation of forged notes by punishing those who deal in them,

 knowing or having reason to believe them to be forged. Next, the

 transaction reprobated are sale, purchase, receipt and trafficking

 such notes. Provisions of section 489-D of the Penal Code are

 widely worded and clearly covers a case where a person is found

 in possession of machinery, instruments or material for the pur-

 pose of being used for counterfeiting currency notes, even though

 the machinery, instruments or material so found were not all the

 articles required for the purpose of counterfeiting. Section 489-D of the Penal Code does not penalized the making and selling of

 a machinery, instruments or material, which may be used for

 forgery or counterfeiting, but only penalises it when the accused

 make or sells it knowing or having reason it believe that it is in-

 tended to be so used. SC No.43/11 Page No.3 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others 3. Could the prosecution establish above ingredients in the

 present controversy? For an answer, facts gain importance. The

 facts disclosed in the charge sheet under Section 173 Cr.P.C. in

 detail are that the staff of PS Special Cell, Delhi Police received

 an information from Central Intelligence Agency about the fake

 Indian currency notes. The specific information was about one

 Naresh Jain having his shop in Sadar Bazar, Delhi who is dealing

 in fake currency notes and he would be coming outside Mehra

 Sons, NDSE-I, New Delhi at about 5.00 p.m. to give a delivery

 of fake currency notes in a Honda City Car bearing registration

 no.DL2CM-8478. The said information was reduced into writing

 and discussed with senior officers. A team was constituted for

 taking necessary action. The said team comprising of SI Arvind

 Kumar, SI Chandrika Prasad, HC Raj Kumar, HC Yudhvir Singh,

 Ct. Mohan, Ct. Devi Dayal, Ct. Sanjay and Ct. Dev Dutt led by

 Insp. Govind Sharma left the office of special cell in two private

 cars and one two wheeler at 4.00 p.m. and reached at the red light

 under the flyover of NDSE on Ring Road at 4.20 p.m. Five or SC No.43/11 Page No.4 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others seven passerby were requested to join the raiding party after

 disclosing the information but none joined the raiding party.

 Insp. Govind Sharma briefed the team and the team took their re-

 spective positions at about 4.45 p.m. outside of Mehra Sons,

 NDSE-I, New Delhi. At about 5.10 p.m. the above car came

 from the side of Andrew Ganj and the driver parked the same op-

 posite the Mehra Sons, NDSE-I after entering into the the service

 lane from Ring Road. The person driving the car then started

 waiting for some one after coming out of the car and stood at the

 right side of the car. After about 20 minutes when nobody came,

 he opened his car and was about to sit and back his car, he was

 apprehended with the help of accompanied staff. His identity was

 revealed as Naresh Jain S/o late Sh. Dev Raj Jain. On cursory

 search, one wad of currency notes of Rs.1000/- denomination

 was recovered from his left side pant pocket. The recovered cur-

 rency notes were checked and were found to be counterfeited

 ones. The series of fake currency notes were found to be

 6CC-976201 to 976300 (total ninety seven notes and notes hav- SC No.43/11 Page No.5 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others ing serial no.06,08 & 72 were found missing from the wad)

 alongwith three notes of the serial no. 6CC-980801 to 980803.

 On checking the dash board of his Honda City Car, three more

 wads of currency notes of Rs.1000/- were recovered. The

 currency notes were seized. Thereafter, rukka was prepared by SI

 Arvind Kumar and a case was registered. During the course of

 investigation, accused person Naresh Jain had made disclousre

 statement that he has taken all those currency notes from Harjesh

 Narain and Lucky in Calcutta. After completion of investigation,

 police filed the charge sheet in the court against the accused

 Naresh Jain. Thereafter, accused Harjesh Narain and Sudhir

 Kumar @ Lucky were also apprehended in the present case. They

 were called through production warrants from Calcutta Jail.

 Subsequently supplementary charge sheet was filed mentioning

 the names of five more witnesses, namely, SI V.N. Jha, HC

 Kuldeep Singh, SI B.C. Majumdar, HC Rakesh Tomar, SI Umesh

 Barthwal. SC No.43/11 Page No.6 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others 4. After being heard, vide order dated 27.1.2006, accused

 Naresh Jain was charged for the offence punishable under Section 489-B and 489-C read with Section 120-B IPC. Accused

 Harjesh Narain and Sudhir Kumar were charged for the offence

 punishable under Section 120-B IPC. Accused persons did not

 plead guilty and claimed trial. 5. In order to substantiate the charge, the prosecution has

 relied upon as many as fourteen witnesses, namely, Satpal Gupta,

 Raj Kumar, Manoj Goel, Chaman Lal, Ankit Dhir, Ravi Sharma,

 ASI Krishan Pal, ASI Paramjit, SI Arvind Kumar, SI Chandrika

 Prasad, HC Raj Kumar, HC Rakesh Tomer, Sh. M.P. Dhande, and

 SI Umesh Barthwal. Subsequently supplementary charge sheet

 was also filed mentioning the names of five more witnesses

 namely, SI V.N. Jha, HC Kuldeep Singh, SI B.C. Majumdar, HC

 Rakesh Tomar, SI Umesh Barthwal. In fact, the prosecution had

 examined seventeen witnesses in all. 6. The prosecution evidence consists of two set of evidence. First set of evidence consists of oral testimonies of Chaman Lal, SC No.43/11 Page No.7 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others
 Satpal Gupta, Ravi Sharma, Raj Kumar, Manoj Goel and Ankit

 Dhir examined as PW1, PW2, PW3, PW4, PW5 and PW17 by

 the prosecution. The second set of evidence consists of evidence

 of police officials who had chained the investigation. They are

 ASI Kishan Pal, ASI Paramjeet, SI B.C. Majumdar and Umesh

 Barthwal examined as PW6, PW7, PW12 and PW16. The

 remaining witnesses are police officials who were members of

 the raiding party. 7. PW 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 17 are the witnesses to the fact that

 acused Naresh Jain had given them fake currency notes to them

 in their business transactions. They had come to their own in the

 office of special cell Delhi Police after coming to know the arrest

 of accused Naresh jain in this case. While remaining witnesses

 are the witnesses of recovery or scientific officers who had

 examined the currency notes or the formal witnesses. 8. PW6 ASI Kishan Pal was the duty officer in police station

 PS Special Cell Lodhi Colony. He has scribed the FIR at about

 7.30 p.m. on 3.1.2005 on the basis of rukka sent by SI Arvind SC No.43/11 Page No.8 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others
 Kumar. He has proved the copy of the same as Ex.PW6/A. PW7

 was Incharge Malkhana PS Special Cell Lodhi Colony. He

 deposed that on 3.1.2005 while being incharge Malkhana of PS

 Special Cell, he was given four sealed wad (bundles) of currency

 notes sealed with the help of thread from one side and seal of AK

 was affixed on them. One Honda City Car bearing No.DL2CM

 8478 and the personal search articles of accused Naresh Jain

 were deposited by Inspector Umesh Barthwal, which he had

 entered at serial no.543 in Register No.19. He further deposed

 that on 6/7/8-01.2005, while posting as Incharge of Malkhana, he

 was given one wad of Rs.100 denomination and twenty four

 currency notes of Rs.100 denomination plus five currency notes

 of Rs.1000/- denomination on respective dates by Inspector

 Umesh Barthwal, which he had entered at serial no.548, 549, 550

 respectively. He further deposed that on 8.2.2005 property

 recovered and entered at serial no.548, 549 and 550 were sent

 through HC Rakesh Kumar to Govt. Press Nasik. PW9 HC

 Rakesh Tomar had deposited the eight sealed parcels of Indian SC No.43/11 Page No.9 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others
 fake currency notes in the Govt. Press Nasik on 10.2.2005.

 Thereafter, after obtaining opinion from the Govt. Press Nasik,

 they had returned to Delhi on 18.2.2005. 9. PW12 B.C. Majumdar had deposed that on 1.1.2005 IO SI

 Mukesh Singh had handed over the case file of FIR No. 5/05

 under Section 120-B / 489A / 489-C IPC PS New Market, Calcutta

 for further investigation. Alongwith file, four accused persons,

 Harjesh Narain, Mohd. Sarfaraz, Sudhir Kumar @ Lucky @

 Deepak and Sanjeev Vermay were also handed over to him. He

 interrogated those accused persons. Accused Harjesh Narain and

 accused Sudhir Kumar disclosed that they had delivered fake

 currency notes to one Naresh Jain. PW15 M.P. Dhande has

 examined and checked the counterfeit currency notes being

 Deputy Manager, Currency Note Press, Nasik Road,

 Maharashtra, which was sent to him by the Special Cell Delhi

 Police. All the above said currency notes were found fake and

 counterfeit currency notes. He has proved his detailed report as SC No.43/11 Page No.10 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others Ex.PW15/A bearing his signatures at points A, B & C

 respectively. 10. PW13 and PW14 had witnessed the arrest of the accused

 Harjesh Narain and Sudhir Kumar. PW13 deposed that on

 9.3.2005, Inspector Lalit Mohan has handed over the case file to

 him because SI Umesh Barthwal was busy in some other official

 work. Accused Harjesh Narain and Sudhir Kumar were produced

 in the court on production warrants. He interrogated the accused

 persons and formally arrested them with the permission of the

 court. PW14 had witnessed the arrest of the accused Harjesh

 Narain and Sudhir Kumar. 11. PW8, PW10 and PW11 are the members of raiding party. They all deposed that on 3.1.2005 while receiving an information

 from the Central Intelligence Agency about the circulation of

 fake currency notes and involvement of Naresh Jain, who owned

 a shop at Sadar Bazar and about his visit in front of Mehra Sons,

 NDSE part I for delivering the fake currency notes. Being police

 personal of Special Cell Delhi Police, they formed a raiding party SC No.43/11 Page No.11 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others under the leadership of inspector Govind Sharma. They all

 deposed that raiding party consisted of SI Chandrika Prasad, SI

 Arvind, HC Raj Kumar, HC Yudhbir, Ct. Mohan, Ct. Devi Dayal,

 Ct. Dev Dutt and Constable Sanjay. They left the office at about

 4.00 p.m. in two private vehicles and one motorcycle and reached

 near the spot at about 4.20 p.m. There, four/five passerby were

 asked to join the raiding party but they refused to join. They took

 over the position near the spot as directed by the IO. At about

 5.10 p.m. the said Honda City car came from the side of Andrew

 Ganj and stopped in front of Mehra Sons Jewellers, driver of the

 vehicle came out and kept on standing near the car and waited for

 about 20 minutes. Thereafter, he again started boarding the car.

 They rushed and over powered him. SI Arvind searched him and

 one bundle of currency notes of Rs.1000/- denomination was

 recovered from the left pocket of his trouser. Apparently, it was

 found to be fake and upon being counted the bundle was found of

 97 currency notes. Series of those currency notes was noted

 down. Three more notes of other series were also in the bundle SC No.43/11 Page No.12 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others but all 100 notes were fake. Dashboard of the vehicle was also

 checked which was found three more bundles of the same

 currency notes. They all deposed that investigating officer pre-

 pared the detailed rukka Ex.PW8/A. FIR was got registered. SI

 Umesh Barthwal took over the investigation. Site plan was

 prepared at the instance of SI Arvind, SI Arvind and SI Umesh

 Barthwal had interrogated the accused. He has also inspected the

 arrest. Witness had also identified the fake currency notes. 12. PW16 was the investigating officer. According to the

 prosecution, he had come at the spot after registration of the case.

 He reached outside Mehra Sons where at about 7.15 p.m. SI

 Arvind had handed over the carbon copy of the rukka, seizure

 memo of four wad of fake Indian currency notes mark R1 to R4.

 SI Arvind apprised him about the facts of recovery. He had also

 handed over the accused Naresh Jain and his car to him. He

 prepared the site plan Ex.PW16/B. He interrogated Naresh Jain

 and after interrogation prepared his arrest memo Ex.PW8/C and

 personal search memo Ex.PW8/D. He also seized the car of SC No.43/11 Page No.13 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others accused Naresh Jain vide seizure memo Ex.PW8/G. He deposed

 that accused Naresh Jain was produced in the court and his PC

 remand was received. On 6.1.2005, accused was again

 interrogated and his supplementary disclosure statement

 Ex.PW8/F was recorded. Pursuant to the disclosure statement on

 6.1.2005 Satpal Gupta came to the office of Special Cell and he

 handed over him one wad of 100 Indian currency notes in the

 denomination of Rs.1000/- each and stated that these notes were

 given by his tenant Naresh Jain as security amount. 100 notes of

 fake Indian currency notes were converted into a parcel with the

 help of a thread and marked SG and sealed with the seal of UB.

 The details of the currency notes were recorded in the seizure

 memo which is Ex.PW4/B. The rent agreement was also taken

 into possession through seizure memo Ex.PW2/C. On 7.1.2005,

 Sh. Raj Kumar came to the office of Special Cell and handed

 over him 24 notes in the denomination of Rs.1000/- each and

 stated that these notes were given to him by accused Naresh Jain. He had also seized the same as Ex.PW1/A. 25 currency notes SC No.43/11 Page No.14 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others were given mark RK1 and sealed with the seal of UB. On

 8.1.2005, Raj Kumar again came to the office of Special Cell and

 handed over to him 25 notes in the denomination of Rs.1000/-

 each and stated that these are other notes given to him by accused

 Naresh Jain. The details of the currency notes were recorded in

 the seizure memo Ex.PW1/B. 25 currency notes were given mark

 RK2 and sealed with the seal of UB. On the same day, Ankit Dhir

 came to the office of special cell and handed over him five notes

 in the denomination of Rs.1000/- each and stated that these notes

 were given to him by the accused Naresh Jain. He recorded the

 details of the currency notes in the seizure memo Ex.PW8/H. He

 deposed that these currency notes were sent to currency notes

 Press Nasik through HC Rakesh Tomar for expert opinion.

 Statement of incharge Malkhana ASI Paramjeet was recorded on

 18.2.2005. HC Rakesh Tomar returned to the police station after

 depositing the case property and his statement was also recorded.

 Result from the currency notes was also collected from the Nasik

 Press. He deposed that on 9.3.2005 accused Harjesh Narain and SC No.43/11 Page No.15 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others
 Sudhir Kumar were also produced before the concerned court on

 being called through production warrants. SI V.N. Jha arrested

 both the accused persons in this case and handed over the tile to

 him. He had also identified the currency notes. 13. In order to afford an opportunity to explain the

 circumstances appearing in evidence, all the accused persons

 were examined under Section 313 Cr.P.C. Accused Claimed

 innocence and false implication. Accused Naresh Jain had stated

 that he has not committed any offence. On 03.01.2005, he was

 called by SI Umesh Barthwal at his office at Lodhi Colony

 Special Cell to join the investigation in some case. He was made

 to sit in the police station on the same night without any cause.

 When he asked the reason for his detention, he was misbehaved

 and was not allowed to take to his relatives. When he told that he

 will report the matter to the senior officers for his illegal

 detention, Mr.Barthwal became very aggressive and ultimately

 implicated him in this false case. Nothing was recovered from

 him. He had also examined one witness in defence, namely, SC No.43/11 Page No.16 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others Dalbir as DW1 who deposed that he was driver to Naresh Jain

 since the year 2005. On 2.5.2005, he was asked to go to the

 Special Cell by Sh. Naresh Jain. He took the vehicle to the office

 of Special Cell at Lodhi Colony. He reached at about 11.00 or

 11.15 a.m.. Keys of the car was taken by the police officials. He

 was asked to go from there and was not allowed to take Naresh

 Jain upto 9.30 p.m. 14. On behalf of the state, Sh. Rajiv Mohan, ld. Special PP had

 argued stating that from the testimony of PW1, PW2 and PW5

 the prosecution has established his case against the accused

 Naresh Jain for the offence punishable under Section 489-B that

 fake currency notes were circulated by the accused Naresh Jain in

 the market and PW1, PW2, PW3, PW4, PW5 and PW17 had

 produced counterfeit currency notes given by the accused Naresh

 Jain to them. He further submitted that PW8, PW10 and PW11

 deposed about the apprehension of accused Naresh Jain who was

 apprehended alongwith fake currency notes in a Honda City Car

 on 3.1.2005 at about 5.10 p.m. from NDSE Part-I. He submitted SC No.43/11 Page No.17 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others that prosecution has proved its case against accused Naresh Jain

 and other two accused persons, who had disclosed before the

 Calcutta Police that they had delivered the fake currency notes to

 the accused Naresh Jain. 15. On the other hand, ld. Counsel for the accused persons

 Sh.Subhash Bhuttan had rebutted the arguments stating that

 prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused per-

 sons. He had drawn the attention of the court towards the order

 passed by Hon'ble Mr. Justice Pradeep Nandrajog while granting

 bail to the accused Naresh Jain. He further submits that there are

 so many infirmity in the entire investigation which pin point the

 fact that actually the fake currency notes were planted upon the

 accused Naresh Jain. He submitted that as per the prosecution

 case, a secret information has been received from the Central

 Intelligence Agency which corresponds to the Central Intelli-

 gence Agency of America and this fact was also mentioned in the

 order passed by Hon'ble Mr. Justice Pradeep Nandrajog, which

 fact has not been disputed during the entire course of trial till the SC No.43/11 Page No.18 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others filing of the written arguments. Even PW16 when asked by the

 defence counsel has stated that he cannot tell the name of the

 officers of Central Intelligence Agency. He has submitted that

 Central Intelligence Agency of America by no stretch of imagina-

 tion can give such trivial information to the local police station of

 Delhi. He further argued that all the police officials as well as

 entire proceedings, it was stated that secret information was in

 relation to the accused Naresh Jain who would visit outside

 Mehra Sons Jewellers at NDSE Part-I while the spot depicting in

 the site plan Ex.PW16/B shows that it was NDSE Part-II and this

 fact even has been admitted by PW16 that site plan correspond to

 NDSE Part-II in the written arguments signed by him. He further

 submitted that virtually there is no evidence on judicial record

 connecting accused Harjesh Narain as well as Sudhir Kumar for

 the offence punishable under Section 120-B IPC. He submitted

 that accused persons deserves to be acquitted because of their

 false implication. SC No.43/11 Page No.19 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others 16. I have heard the arguments, perused the record and analyze

 the evidence. Here accused Naresh Jain has been charged for the

 offence punishable under Section 120-B / 489-B / 489-C IPC while

 the accused Harjesh Narain and Sudhir Kumar were charged for

 the offence punishable under Section 120-B IPC. Four accused

 persons namely, Harjesh Narain, Mohd. Sarfaraz, Sudhir @

 Deepak and Sanjeev Verma were arrested on 1.1.2005 in a case

 FIR No.5/05 PS New Market, Calcutta wherein fake currency

 notes were recovered, there accused Harjesh Narain and Deepak

 had disclosed that they had delivered the consignment of fake

 currency notes to the accused Naresh Jain. On 3.1.2005, Special

 Cell, Delhi Police had received specific tip at about 3.00 p.m.

 from the Central Intelligence Agency about the circulation of

 the fake currency notes as well as involvement of accused Naresh

 Jain who would have to visit at NDSE Part-I near Mehra Sons in

 his Honda City Car bearing No. No.DL2CM8478 at about 5.00

 p.m. Raiding party was formed and reached at Mehra Sons

 NDSE Part I. At about 5.10 p.m. one Honda City Car bearing SC No.43/11 Page No.20 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others No.DL2CM8478 came from the side of Andrew Ganj to Ring

 Road and driver parked the car and got down and after waiting

 when nobody turned up, he was to sit in the car back. He was

 apprehended and from his pocket one wad of counterfeit

 currency note of Rs.1000/- denomination found to be counterfeit

 currency note was recovered. Their further case is that three more

 wads of counterfeit currency note of Rs.1000/- denomination

 were recovered from the dashboard of the car. Their further case

 is that the accused was taken on police remand. Several persons

 had come in the office of Special Cell stating that they were

 given counterfeit currency notes by the accused Naresh Jain.

 Subsequently accused Harjesh Narain and Sudhir Kumar were

 also arrested in this case and they were also charged for the

 offence punishable under Section 120-B of IPC as conspiracy has

 been hatched for circulating the counterfeit currency notes. 17. Expert witness PW15 who had come from Nasik Press, had

 deposed that when checked carefully by him the parcel contain-

 ing notes of Rs.1000/- denomination sent by the Delhi Police, he SC No.43/11 Page No.21 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others found the same as counterfeit currency notes. He proved his

 detailed report as Ex.PW15/A. 18. Now, the prosecution has to prove that the above said

 counterfeit notes were found from the accused Naresh Jain at the

 said date, time and place. A very serious question has been arisen

 herein at the time of hearing the bail application of Naresh Jain

 whether Central Intelligence Agency which corresponds to

 Central Intelligence Agency of America had given the said trivial

 and specific information in regard to the transportation of small

 quantity of fake currency notes and to be delivered at the specific

 point. This contention has not been changed till the written

 arguments are filed. In the written arguments submitted by Shri

 Rajiv Mohan, ld. Special PP, it is stated that Central Intelligence

 Agency does not correspond to Central Intelligence Agency of

 America rather than correspond to Intelligence Bureau or RAW.

 This arguments submitted to this court by the ld. Special PP for

 the State is just opposite to the whole judicial record where the

 word 'Central Intelligence Agency' has been mentioned. Informa- SC No.43/11 Page No.22 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others
 tion has been reduced in writing and statement of each and every

 witness has been recorded to this effect that special cell had

 received specific input from the Central Intelligence Agency.

 Even all the witnesses, namely, PW8, PW10 & PW11 had

 deposed categorically the fact about receiving the input from the

 Central Intelligence Agency. Even PW10 Insp. Arvind Kumar has

 been asked about the name of Central Intelligence Agency

 officials, which the witnesses denied to have disclosed. There-

 fore, the written arguments submitted by the prosecution is just

 opposite to the stand taken on judicial record. 19. Further the prosecution case is that accused Naresh Jain

 has been apprehended while coming on his Honda City Car bear-

 ing No.DL2CM8478 from Andrew Ganj side on 3.1.2005 and

 stopped the vehicle outside Mehra Sons NDSE Part-I in pur-

 suance to the specific tip received from Central Intelligence

 Agency about supply of fake currency notes outside Mehra Sons

 NDSE Part-I. Prosecution further relied upon the document i.e.

 the site plan Ex.PW16/B prepared at the site showing the place of SC No.43/11 Page No.23 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others apprehension and arrest of the accused Naresh Jain at NDSE

 Part-I. This court has taken the judicial notice of the fact that

 actually if one moves from the Andrew Ganj side towards the

 AIIMS, then it is not NDSE Part-I rather than it is NDSE Part-II.

 All the witnesses of the prosecution i.e. PW8, PW10 and PW11

 had deposed the fact that actually it is NDSE Part-I where the ac-

 cused was apprehended while coming from the side of Andrew

 Ganj. None of the witnesses had stated that it is NDSE Part-II.

 Ld. Counsel for the accused had drawn attention towards the

 cross examination of prosecution witnesses i.e. PW11 and PW16

 who had deposed differently in regard to the location. PW1 de-

 posed about the various facts regarding the spot which corre-

 spond to NDSE Part-I while PW16 deposed contrary. 20. During the course of arguments, Sh.Rajiv Mohan, ld. Special PP tried to down play this fact by stating that IO was con-

 fused in the NDSE Part-I or Part-II, as such, he had prepared the

 site plan mentioning the word NDSE Part-I in Latin word while

 the site plan actually belongs to NDSE Part-II where the accused SC No.43/11 Page No.24 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others was actually apprehended and arrested. This court failed to com-

 prehend the above said position/somersault taken by the ld. Spe-

 cial PP. during the course of filing of written arguments. The al-

 leged specific input was about NDSE Part-I, then no question

 arises as to how the whole police team had reached to NDSE

 Part-II while accused has to come at NDSE Part-I for delivering

 the counterfeit currency notes outside the Mehra Sons. DD No.15

 dated 30.1.2005 has not been proved by the prosecution nor it has

 been placed on judicial record. However, in order to make clarity,

 this court had summoned the daily rojnamcha register containing

 the information received to Inspector Arvind Kumar and reduced

 in writing in the Rojnamcha of the PS Special Cell. Photo copy

 of the DD entry No. 15 has been placed on record after photo

 copying from the original register and exhibited as mark A. Lan-

 guage of the DD Entry No.15 dated 3.1.2005 is reproduced here-

 in for the sake of convenience. 21. If we go through carefully the above said information re- duced in writing at serial no.15 in the daily rojnamcha of Police

 Station Special Cell dated 3.1.2005, then it revealed the clear pic-

 ture. This information has been received from Central Intelli-

 gence Agency which fact has been unrebutted till the filing of the

 written arguments. Further, the information is in regard to Naresh

 Jain who would be coming outside Mehra Sons, NDSE Part-I,

 New Delhi at about 5.00 p.m. for delivering of fake currency

 notes in his Honda City Car bearing No.DL2CM8478. The infor-

 mation is in regard to the NDSE Part-I and the statement of every

 witness has been recorded to this effect that accused Naresh Jain

 would have been coming in his Honda City Car at NDSE Part-I

 outside Mehra Sons Jewellers. This court had taken notice of the

 fact that Mehra Sons Jewellers are both in NDSE Part-I as well as SC No.43/11 Page No.26 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others NDSE Part-II. Site plan Ex.PW16/B admittedly corresponds to

 the NDSE Part-II, which fact has been admitted by Sh.Rajiv

 Mohan, ld. Special PP who had signed the written arguments.

 Written arguments has also been signed by Inspector Umesh

 Barthwal, Investigating officer of the present case. If this is the

 position/ somersault taken by the ld. Prosecutor regarding the site

 plan Ex.PW16/B, then the question arises, then how the police

 force had reached to NDSE, Part-II for apprehending the accused

 while specific input was in regard to coming of accused Naresh

 Jain at NDSE Part-I outside Mehra Sons Jewellers. If the police

 team had not ascertained the specific tip/ information which they

 had possessed, then the story put forth by the prosecution cannot

 be believed. In case like this where the accused has been charged

 for possessing the contrabands/ prohibited articles, the place of

 arrest assumes importance. It is the heart of the case and the pros-

 ecution is bound to prove this material fact for charging anybody

 that the accused was found in possession of contrabands/ prohib-

 ited articles at particular date, time and place. Otherwise, the SC No.43/11 Page No.27 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others
 place of arrest is not so significant like the case of assault, rape,

 murder etc. where the incident has been happened somewhere

 else. Here the prosecution has failed to prove this vital fact. 22. Moreover, information received to SI Arvind Kumar was in

 respect of the fact that accused Naresh Jain would be coming out-

 side the Mehra Sons Jewellers, NDSE Part-I and was not in re-

 spect of the fact that the accused Naresh Jain would have come

 from Andrew Ganj side. One cannot obvious of the fact that if a

 person had come from the Andrew Ganj side, then the person

 standing at NDSE Part-I cannot see him because of over bridge

 between the divider separating the NDSE Part-I and NDSE Part-

 II. If the Honda City Car had taken U-turn and had come to

 NDSE Part-I as deposed by the witnesses, then witnesses would

 have deposed the fact that the accused had come from AIIMS

 side and not from the Andrew Ganj side which are of opposite

 direction. Therefore, if we accept the version of the prosecution

 as mentioned in the written arguments then it appears that all the

 witnesses had deposed falsely that the accused had come at SC No.43/11 Page No.28 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others NDSE Part-I and there they have apprehended. PW11 deposed so

 many facts about the location of NDSE Part-I. If the witnesses

 deposed correctly, then the site plan prepared is forged document

 and IO Inspector Umesh Barthwal did not go to the spot and met

 the police team there alongwith accused. It appears that nothing

 like this has happened. Accused has been implicated in this case

 because of the fact that earlier Calcutta Police had arrested

 Harjesh Narain and Sudhir Kumar in a criminal case having FIR

 No. 5/05 under Section 120-B / 489A / 489-C IPC PS New Market,

 Calcutta besides the two other accused and there Harjesh Narain

 and Sudhir Kumar, the co-accused herein had made disclosure

 statement before the Calcutta Police about delivering of fake cur-

 rency notes to Naresh Jain, a resident of Delhi having a shop at

 Sadar Bazar and the Delhi police had arrested him and made him

 the accused in this case and shown the recovery. Otherwise, the

 whole of the police story regarding the arrest of the accused

 Naresh Jain has been failed. SC No.43/11 Page No.29 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others 23. From the above discussions, it appears that all the police

 officials i.e. PW8, PW10 and PW11 deposed contrary to the writ-

 ten submissions/ stand taken by the Special Public Prosecutor Sh.

 Rajiv Mehra that the site plan was correctly prepared and corre-

 spond to the site which actually is not correct according to the

 specific input which correspond to NDSE Part-I. According to

 the Inspector Umesh Barthwal PW16 he met the Inspector

 Arvind Kumar and his team at NDSE Part-II according to the site

 plan while that is not the situation as depicted in the judicial

 record. It appears that whole of the police force had concocted

 the above said story regarding the apprehension of the accused

 with the currency notes in his Honda City Car. In that circum-

 stances, the defence is much probable that accused Naresh Jain

 has been called from his house and was implicated in this case

 because his name has been surfaced in the disclosure statement

 made by the co-accused Harjesh Narain and Sudhir Kumar in the

 case FIR No.5/05 under Section 120-B / 489A / 489-C IPC PS New

 Market, Calcutta. Therefore, the prosecution has failed to prove SC No.43/11 Page No.30 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others its case against the accused Naresh Jain u/s 489-C IPC. 24. Further, the prosecution has charged the accused Naresh

 Jain for the offence punishable under Section 120-B / 34 IPC as

 well as 489-B as fake currency notes have been circulated by him

 as deposed by the PW1, PW2, PW3, PW5, PW6 and PW17. The

 testimony of the above said witnesses are not above board. Ac-

 cording to the police, these persons had come themselves in the

 police station, Special Cell and produced the fake currency notes

 stating that these currency notes have been given by the accused

 Naresh Jain. Instead of making them as accused, the police had

 let off these accused persons and created the evidence against the

 accused Naresh Jain. One of the witness had produced Rs.One

 lac stating that Naresh Jain had given the said notes to him as ad-

 vance of the tenanted premises. Admittedly in the rent agreement

 Ex.PW2/A, PW2 Satya Pal had received the payment of Rs.

 1,30,000/- as security of the tenanted property bearing No.GD6,

 situated at Pitam Pura, Delhi on 21.12.2004 while the tenancy

 become effective from 25.12.2004. Disclosure statement made SC No.43/11 Page No.31 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others by the co-accused persons before the Delhi Police is that the

 counterfeit currency notes had been delivered to Naresh Jain on

 29.12.2004. Meaning thereby that the witness PW2 had deposed

 falsely and the prosecution or the police had created the evidence

 against the accused Naresh Jain that he had delivered the amount

 to PW2 Satpal from the delivery of counterfeit currency notes by

 the co-accused persons. When the accused Naresh Jain has not

 been apprehended from the spot, then whole of the story regard-

 ing the other fact cannot be relied that PW1, PW2, PW3, PW5

 and PW17 were given the fake/ counterfeit currency notes by ac-

 cused Naresh Jain. 25. In view of the above discussions, I am of the view that

 prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused

 Naresh Jain for the offence of possessing of fake/ counterfeit cur-

 rency notes of Rs. Four lacs in the denomination of Rs.1000/-.

 Further the evidence of PW1, PW2, PW3, PW5, PW6 and PW17

 also does not inspire confidence because admittedly these peo-

 ples had come forward in the police station after arrest of the ac- SC No.43/11 Page No.32 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others cused Naresh Jain that he had given these notes to him and they

 have kept them because when the arrest is itself under cloud.

 There is no evidence at all against the accused Harjesh Narain as

 well as accused Sudhir Kumar for hatching the conspiracy along-

 with Naresh Jain in circulating the fake/ counterfeit currency

 notes. Therefore, accused Naresh Jain has been acquitted from

 the charge under Section 489-B / 489-C / 120-B IPC. Accused Har-

 jesh Narain and Sudhir Kumar have been acquitted from the

 charge under Section 120-B of IPC. Their bail bond and surety

 bond stand cancelled and discharged. A copy of this order is sent

 to Commissioner of Police with a direction to take action against

 the police team for creating false evidence against the accused

 Naresh Jain and report to this court about the action taken within

 one month of receipt of this order. File is consigned to record

 room. DD register is perused. Copy of the DD no.15 has been
taken from the register and marked A by this court. Vide separate judgment announced in open court, accused
Naresh Jain is acquitted from the charge under Section 489-B / 489- C/120-B IPC . Accused Harjesh Narain and Sudhir Kumar are acquitted
from the charge under Section 120-B of IPC. Their bail bond and surety
bond stand cancelled and discharged. A copy of this order is Sent to
Commissioner of Police for taking action against the erring police
officials and report to this court within one month. File is consigned to
record room. Ahlmad is directed to open the Misc. file in this regard. (Atul Kumar Garg)
 ASJ-3 (Central)/19.05.2014 SC No.43/11 Page No.34 State Vs. Naresh Jain & others