Heard learned counsels for the parties. 2. Since all these appeals arise out of a common

 judgment they are being disposed of by this common order. 3. These appeals are directed against the judgment

 and order of conviction and sentence dated 11.09.2020 (Sentence

 passed on 22.09.2020) passed by Sri Amit Shekhar, learned

 Additional Sessions Judge-VI, Hazaribagh in S.T. No. 141 of 2016,

 whereby and whereunder, the appellants Vikash Tiwary and

 Santosh Kumar Pandey in Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 597 of 2020

 have been convicted for the offences punishable u/s 120B, 302,

 341, 353 read with Section 34 of the IPC, u/s 25(IA)/26/35 and 27

 (2) of the Arms Act and Sections 3 / 4 / 5 of the Explosives

 Substances Act and have been sentenced to imprisonment for life

 along with a fine of Rs. 40,000/ each for the offence u/s 120B, 302

 read with Section 34 of the IPC and in default in payment of fine

 they were to undergo S.I. for 03 years; R.I. for 02 years along with

 a fine of Rs. 6000/- for the offence u/s 353 / 34 of the IPC and in

 default in payment of fine to undergo S.I. for nine months; S.I. for

 one month along with a fine of Rs. 200/- for the offence u/s 341 of -2- the IPC and in default in payment of fine to undergo S.I. for three

days; R.I. for eight years along with a fine of Rs. 20,000/- for the

offence u/s 25(IA) of the Arms Act and in default in payment of fine

to undergo S.I. for two years; R.I. for six years along with a fine of

Rs. 15,000/-for the offence u/s 26 / 35 of the Arms Act and in

default in payment of fine to undergo S.I. for 1½ years; R.I. for 10

years along with a fine of Rs. 25,000/- for the offence u/s 27(2) of

the Arms Act and in default in payment of fine to undergo S.I. for

2½ years; R.I. for 10 years along with a fine of Rs. 20,000/- for the

offence u/s 3 of the Explosives Substance Act and in default in

payment of fine to undergo S.I. for two years; R.I. for six years

along with a fine of Rs. 15,000/- each for the offences u/s 4 and 5

of the Explosives Substance Act and in default in payment of fine

to undergo S.I. for 1½ years. The appellant Vishal Singh in Criminal Appeal (DB)

No. 579 of 2020 and the appellant no. 1 in Criminal Appeal (DB)

No. 599 of 2020 have been convicted for the offences u/s 120B,

302 read with Section 34 of the IPC, 353/34, 354/34, 341/34 of

the IPC and have been sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life

along with a fine of Rs. 30,000/- for the offences u/s 120B, 302

read with Section 34 of the IPC and in default in payment of fine to

undergo S.I. for 2½ years; R.I. for two years along with a fine of Rs.

6,000/- for the offence u/s 353 / 34 of the IPC and in default in

payment of fine to undergo S.I. for 9 months; S.I. for one month -3- along with a fine of Rs. 200/- for the offence u/s 341 of the IPC

and in default in payment of fine to undergo S.I. for three days. The appellant no. 2 in Criminal Appeal (DB) No.

599 of 2020 has been convicted for the offence u/s 120B / 302 of

the IPC and has been sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life

along with a fine of Rs. 30,000/- and in default in payment of fine

to undergo S.I. for 2½ years. All the sentences awarded to the respective

appellants were directed to run concurrently. 4. The prosecution case arises out of the fardbeyan of

Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police Birendra Prasad Singh recorded

on 02.06.2015 at 11:00 A.M., in which, it has been stated that on

the same day at 7:00 A.M. in four government vehicles, armed

escorts and fifteen Policemen in plain dress had come to the Civil

Court premises, Hazaribagh from Jai Prakash Narayan Central Jail

for production of the accused. On that day dreaded criminal Sushil

Srivastava who had several criminal cases against him in Bihar

and Jharkhand was also brought for production. It has been stated

that at 10:00 A.M. Sushil Srivastava was being taken to the Court

of Additional District & Sessions Judge-II in S.T. Case No. 362/11

and S.T. Case No. 164/10 in handcuffs and after completing the

necessary formalities when Sushil Srivastava reached the

Gulmohar Tree situated near the G.R. Office, 10-15 persons known

to Sushil Srivastava started touching his feet. At that point of time

two persons came and after paying their reverence and shaking -4- hands with Sushil Srivastava started walking with him when all of

a sudden, a person come down from a Bolero vehicle which was

situated nearby bearing registration No. JH-12B-1694 and by

taking cover behind the Bolero vehicle started making

indiscriminate firing with an AK-47 rifle at Sushil Srivastava and

his two companions. One of the persons accompanying the

accused who was firing had thrown a hand grenade to create

terror. Sushil Srivastava as well as his accomplices suffered

gunshot injuries. The informant had directed the Police personnel

present to take up their positions and start firing at the assailants

and when firing started the assailants fled away by scaling over the

boundary wall in course of which one AK-47 rifle fell down on the

ground. All the miscreants managed to flee away on motorcycles.

Sushil Srivastava and his two accomplices were taken to Sadar

Hospital, Hazaribagh where Kamal and Gayas Khan died while

Sushil Srivastava was referred to Ranchi for better treatment but

he also died. In compliance to the orders of the superior authority

the Bolero vehicle was searched and posters were found in which it

was written that the murder of Kishore Pandey has been avenged

and mention was made of the name of Vikas Tiwary with "to be

continued...." written at the bottom. A live grenade was found from

inside the Bolero and from the place of occurrence 29 empty

cartridges, four pellets and a black purse were recovered in which

the photo copy of driving license and voters' card of Sahnawaz

Alam were found. A pin and lever of a used grenade and an AK-47 -5- rifle near the closed gate of the Court premises as well as two

magazines were recovered. The articles were seized and the seizure

lists were prepared. Based on the aforesaid allegations Sadar P.S. Case

No. 610/2015 was instituted u/s 341 , 323 , 326 , 353 , 307 , 302 , 120B / 34 of the IPC and Sections 25 (1-A), 25(1-AA), 26/27/35 of

the Arms Act and Sections 3/4/5 of the Explosives Substance Act.

On completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted and

after cognizance was taken the case was committed to the Court of

Sessions where it was registered as S.T. Case No. 141/2016.

Charge was framed against the accused u/s 120B , 341 / 120B , 353 / 120B , 307 / 120B , 302 / 120B of the IPC, Section 25(1A) / 35 , 26 / 35 , 27(3) of the Arms Act, Sections 3/4/5 of the Explosives

Substance Act which were read over and explained to them in

Hindi to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 5. The prosecution has examined as many as forty-

two witnesses in support of its case. 6. P.W.1 (Sabbir Hussain) was posted as a Sub- Inspector of Police in Sadar P.S. Hazaribagh and on 02.06.2015

while he was on patrolling duty he had received an information

from the Officer-in-Charge, Sadar P.S. to come to Civil Court,

Hazaribagh. On reaching the Court premises he came to know that

Sushil Srivastava and his two accomplices Gayas Khan and Kamal

Khan have been shot at by the members of the Vikas Tiwary gang

and that they have been sent for treatment to Sadar Hospital, -6- Hazaribagh. The arms, ammunitions and other articles were seized

in his presence and he had signed upon the seizure list. Later on,

he came to know that Gayas Khan and Kamal Khan has died at

Sadar Hospital, Hazaribagh while Sushil Srivastava died on the

way to RIMS, Ranchi. He has proved his signature on the seizure

lists which have been marked as Exhibits-1 and 1/1. He has

stated that he does not know the accused of the case. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he had

remained at the place of occurrence for about 1-1½ hours. None of

the persons present was agreeable to sign on the seizure list. He

had heard that the entire episode was orchestrated by the Vikas

Tiwary gang. 7. P.W.2 (Rahul Kumar Singh) was posted on security

duty in the Court premises at Hazaribagh on 02.06.2015 and the

incident had occurred at 10:30 A.M. near the Hibiscus plant and

the Indian Gooseberry tree situated in the front building. All the

Police personnel after production of Sushil Srivastava in the Court

of Additional Sessions Judge-II were coming down the stairs. A

Bolero was parked near the Gooseberry tree bearing registration

No. JH-12B-1694. He has stated that 2-3 persons came out of the

Bolero vehicle and blasted a grenade in front of the stairs after

which they started firing with AK-47 rifles. The bullet struck Sushil

Srivastava and his two accomplices. He immediately rushed

towards the motorcycle stand where he took shelter. All the three

accused persons after firing started fleeing away. He had fired at -7- them with his Insas rifle. All the three assailants fled away after

scaling the wall and by leaving an AK-47 rifle near the wall. He and

the others had loaded Sushil Srivastava on a vehicle and had taken

him to Sadar Hospital, Hazaribagh from where he was referred to

Ranchi. He had later on come to know that the murders were

committed at the behest of some Tiwary. He has failed to identify

accused Vikas Tiwary, Santosh Pandey and Rahul Deo Pandey who

were produced through video conferencing. In cross-examination, he has deposed that Sushil

Srivastava was an interstate criminal and 45 security personnel

were deputed for his security out of whom 18 were armed with

modern weapons like Insas rifles. Apart from him Dharmendra

Kumar Singh and Rajmuni Ram had also fired. He cannot say as to

whether any other Police personnel had fired or not. No seizure list

was prepared in his presence. When Sushil Srivastava was getting

down from the stairs there were 15 persons in front of him and 02

had come from behind and left after paying their reverence to

Sushil Srivastava. He does not know as to whether Aman

Srivastava and Avik Srivastava, the two sons of Sushil Srivastava

were present or not. His statement was recorded by Birendra

Prasad Singh. When the video conferencing for identification was

held, he could not identify because the pictures were hazy.

Subsequently, when the technical glitches were removed, he could

identify the accused who was in a red shirt who had disclosed his

name as Rahul Deo Pandey. He had disclosed to the S.P. and -8- Officer-in-Charge Birendra Prasad that the person who was fleeing

away was tall and thinly built. He saw the person who was firing

from an AK-47 rifle. He had identified the accused wearing red

shirt as the person who was firing from the backside. There can be

some confusion as the accused he has identified was seen by him

from his back. 8. P.W.3 (Devendra Paswan) has stated that on

02.06.2015 at the time of the incident after production in the

Court of Additional Sessions Judge-II he was going towards the

hazat. Some persons known to Sushil Srivastava were paying their

reverence to him. All of a sudden from the northern side firing

started, at which, he and the rest of his colleagues took up

position. He suffered a firearm injury on his right leg. He made

counter firing and thereafter he became unconscious. He had later

on come to know that Sushil Srivastava and his two accomplices,

Kamal Khan and Gayas Khan had succumbed to the injuries

suffered by them. Due to the presence of so many people he could

not identify any of the accused and he had also become

unconscious due to the firearm injury suffered by him. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he does

not have any knowledge about what occurred after he became

unconscious. 9. P.W.4 (Dharmendra Kumar Singh) was posted at

Police line, Hazaribagh. The incident is of 02.06.2015 at 10:30

A.M. in the Hazaribagh Court premises near a Gulmohar tree. He -9- has stated that Sushil Srivastava was returning after his

production before the Additional Sessions Judge-II and when he

came down stairs some persons had shaken hands with him and

offered their greetings. The security personnel were making efforts

to remove these persons when all of a sudden firing started from

AK-47 rifles and bullets struck Sushil Srivastava and his two

acquaintances Kamal Khan and Gayas Khan. A counter firing was

resorted to by the Police after which the accused persons started

fleeing away. The accused persons were tall and thinly built who

were wearing black T-shirt and trousers with their faces covered

with a black cloth. In course of fleeing away one AK-47 rifle fell

down near the wall. The accused persons had managed to make

good their escape. While Sushil Srivastava was referred to RIMS,

Ranchi the other two injured persons were referred to Sadar

Hospital, Hazaribagh. Later on, he came to know that all three

have died. The Police authorities had thereafter scanned the place

of occurrence and prepared a seizure list. He has identified Vikas

Tiwary who was produced through video conferencing while he has

failed to identify Santosh Pandey and Rahul Deo Pandey. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he had

seen Vikas Tiwary when he was apprehended and he had also seen

his photograph in the newspaper. He had seen the accused Vikas

Tiwary after two years from the time he had seen the photograph of

the accused in the newspaper. In course of investigation only the

S.P. had put questions and none else. He had not disclosed to the -10- S.P. that the accused was tall, thinly built and having dark

complexion. He knew the accused by name since last 4-5 years. He

had not disclosed about the name of the accused to any other

person other than the S.P. He had not disclosed the name of the

accused to even Birendra Kumar Singh. When after production of

Sushil Srivastava they had come down the stairs within 2-3

minutes there was darkness all around. The smoke which had

engulfed the area cleared after thirty minutes. There was mayhem

all around. The Police personnel who were present had taken up

positions. All twenty Police personnel who had taken up position

had fired. He does not remember as to who had followed the

accused. He had seen only one person fleeing. He had seen from

the back Vikas Tiwary fleeing away. He had identified the son of

Sushil Srivastava who was having a water bottle in his hand. He

does not know his name. 10. P.W.5 (Rajmuni Ram) was one of the members of

the Special Force deputed for the security of the prison van. Sushil

Srivastava was taken in a prison van to the Court and after his

production all came down where a crowd had gathered to pay

reverence to Sushil Srivastava. He and the other security personnel

were trying to disperse the crowd when a blast occurred and the

area was consumed with smoke. From the side of the Bolero

vehicle firing was being made upon Sushil Srivastava and four

persons got injured. When the accused was trying to flee away

taking advantage of the commotion he had fired upon the accused. -11- Sushil Srivastava, Kamal Khan, Gayas Khan and Hawaldar

Devendra Paswan become injured due to the firing and Sushil

Srivastava, Kamal Khan and Gayas Khan died. The Police had fired

thirteen rounds while the accused persons had fired 29-30 rounds.

He has failed to identify Vikas Tiwary, Santosh Pandey and Rahul

Deo Pandey when they were produced through video conferencing. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he does

not know as to whether the 20-25 persons who had come to meet

Sushil Srivastava were his accomplices or not. He had recovered 6-

7 empty cartridges of AK-47 rifle. 11. P.W.6 (Ashok Tiwari) was posted in Sadar P.S.,

Hazaribagh and on 02.06.2015 the Officer-in-Charge had called

him on his mobile at 10:45 A.M. and asked him to come to the

Court premises as firing was going on. When he reached the Court,

he came to know that Sushil Srivastava and his two accomplices

Kamal Khan and Gayas Khan have been murdered. The murders

were committed by the Vikas Tiwary gang. He has proved his

signature on the two-seizure lists prepared by Ajit Kumar which

have been marked as Exhibits- 1/2 and 1/3. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he had

not made any station diary entry before leaving the Police Station.

By the time he had reached the place of occurrence the incident

had already taken place. He was present at the place of occurrence

from 11:00 A.M. to 12:30 P.M. and during this period a staff -12- collected blood-stained earth and kept it in two polyethenes. He

had also recovered 2-3 empty cartridges. 12. P.W.7 (Ajay Kumar Singh) was on duty in the Court

on 02.06.2015. Birendra Prasad Singh was his villager. After the

formality with respect to the production of Sushil Srivastava in

Court was completed, he was taken near the Gulmohar tree where

his well wishers had come to meet him. He and other security

personnel were trying to disperse the crowd when from a Bolero

vehicle 8-10 persons came out and started firing as a result of

which Gayas Khan and Kamal Khan died while being taken to the

Hospital and Sushil Srivastava died at Sadar Hospital. A person,

who was tall, thinly built and having dark complexion was fleeing

away and in course of the same a magazine and AK-47 rifle fell

down. About 29-30 rounds of firing was made. Later on, he came

to know that the murders were executed by the Vikas Tiwary gang.

He has identified Vikas Tiwary who was produced through video

conferencing. In cross-examination, he has deposed that while

reading the newspaper he came to know that Sushil Srivastava has

been murdered by the members of the Vikas Tiwary gang. On

03.06.2015 the photo of Vikas Tiwary was published in the

newspaper. He had come to know that Police has arrested Vikas

Tiwary from Delhi. On 03.08.2015 the news of Vikas Tiwary being

brought to Hazaribagh and his photographs were published in the

newspaper Khabar Mantra. Vikas Tiwary was kept in the Police -13- Station and several persons including him had seen him. Sitaram

Mishra, Mohit Prasad Singh, Vijay Kumar, Anuj Kumar, Uday

Shankar Paswan, Rajeev Ranjan and Rajendra Prasad Mehta had

seen Vikas Tiwary in the Police Station. After 02.06.2015, he never

used to come regularly to the Court since he was suspended. His

statement was never recorded by the Police. It is true that he had

identified Vikas Tiwary only on the basis of having seen his photo

in the newspaper. 13. P.W.8 (Sanoj Kumar) was posted as In-charge of

Padma O.P. and on 02.06.2015 he had received an information

that in the Court Hazat Sushil Srivastava, Gayas Khan and Ayub

Khan were murdered by the rival Pandey gang members, Vikas

Tiwary and others. He and the then Officer-in-Charge of Barhi P.S.

Akil Ahmad were entrusted to arrest Santosh Pandey. He and his

team had left for Paliganj and in village Jalpura he had arrested

Santosh Pandey on 08.06.2015 from the house of his sister. In

course of arrest a search was conducted and from the possession

of Santosh Pandey three mobiles with SIMS were recovered. He has

proved the seizure list which has been marked as Exhibit-2. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he did

not have any arrest warrant for Santosh Pandey. After arrest the

statement of Santosh Pandey was neither recorded by him nor by

the Officer-in-Charge, Barhi P.S. 14. P.W.9 (Dharmendra Kumar) was posted at Sadar

P.S. and attached with Panther Mobile Unit. He had come to know -14- that Sushil Srivastava has been shot and he was taken to Sadar

Hospital. On 05.06.2015 he was called to the State Bus Stand,

Hazaribagh by the Officer-in-Charge, Sadar P.S., D.N. Azad. A

search was made of accused Vishal Kumar and from his

possession two white colour mobiles were recovered. A seizure list

was prepared which has been proved and marked as Exhibit-3. A

second seizure list was prepared on 05.07.2015 regarding seizure

of a mobile and an Apache motorcycle bearing registration no.

JH02Q-6868 and the copy of the same was given to accused Dilip

Sao. He has proved the seizure list which has been marked as

Exhibit-4. In cross-examination, he has deposed that despite

the presence of several persons it was the Police personnel who

had signed as witnesses. 15. P.W.10 (Ramswarop Dangi) was posted at Sadar

P.S. in the Panther Squad. He has proved his signature in the

seizure list which has been marked as Exhibit-4/1. On 05.07.2015

in the night he was on duty when the Officer-in-Charge had called

him to the old Bus stand. In his presence a search was conducted

of accused Dilip Sao and a mobile as well as an Apache motorcycle

were seized. In cross-examination, he has deposed that when

the phone call had come, he was on patrolling duty in the Matwari

to Pagmal road. The accused was searched after he had reached

the Bus stand. 16. P.W.11 (Sitaram Mishra) was deputed as a Security

Guard for Sushil Srivastava on 02.06.2015. He has stated that

after production he was returning with Sushil Srivastava and had

reached near the Gulmohar tree. Near the Gulmohar tree a vehicle

was standing. Some persons were paying reverence to Sushil

Srivastava. He and the other security personnel were dispersing

the crowd which had gathered to greet Sushil Srivastava when

some persons taking shelter behind a Bolero car started firing at

Sushil Srivastava. He and the others took up position and started

firing at which the accused persons started fleeing away towards

the northern side. There were about 8-10 persons who were

involved. The accused who was firing with an AK-47 rifle was tall,

thinly built and of dark complexion and though he managed to

scale the wall but his AK-47 rifle fell off near the wall. From the

place of occurrence 29-30 empty cartridges and 13 live cartridges

of AK-47 and a grenade from the vehicle were recovered. He had

fired 13 rounds. He had later on come to know that Sushil

Srivastava and his two accomplices have died. He has identified

Vikas Tiwary who was produced through video conferencing as well

as three accused persons who were physically produced in Court. In cross-examination, he has deposed that A.S.I.

Birendra Kumar Singh was near Sushil Srivastava and he is the

main witness in the case. When on 02.06.2015 a grenade had

blasted there was utter chaos all around. He had thrown himself

on the ground. He had remained at the place of occurrence for -16- thirty minutes. He had not fired but the other Police personnel did

fire. During his stay at the place of occurrence, Rajmuni Ram,

Rahul Kumar, Ravinandan Goshwami and Mohit Prasad were

present with him. In the meantime, the S.P., Dy. S.P. and Inspector

had arrived. During this half an hour period the rifles of the

Jawans were not seized. On 03.06.2015, the name of Vikas Tiwary

had come in the newspaper and his photograph was also

published. On 03.08.2015, the photograph of Vikas Tiwary was

published in Sanmarg. It was also mentioned in the newspaper

that it was a shooter from U.P. named Raj who had fired upon

Sushil Srivastava. 17. P.W.12 (Ajit Kumar) has stated that he was posted

at Sadar P.S., Hazaribagh and on 02.06.2015 a telephone call

came from the Officer-in-Charge, Dayanand Azad asking him to

immediately come to the Court premises. He had come to know

that Sushil Srivastava has been fired upon by Vikas Tiwary. He

has stated that empty cartridges, improvised hand grenade, poster,

lever and pin of hand-grenade, one AK-47 rifle, two magazines in

which one of the magazines had thirteen live ammunitions, a silver

colour Bolero etc. were seized. He had recorded the fardbeyan of

Birendra Prasad Singh. He has proved the handwriting and

signature of Dayanand Azad on the endorsement in the fardbeyan

which has been marked as Exhibit-5. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he had

not made any station diary entry before leaving the Police Station. -17- He did not find any injured person when he had reached the place

of occurrence as all by that time were taken to the Hospital. 18. P.W.13 (Virendra Prasad Mehta) was posted in

Police Line, Hazaribagh and on 02.06.2015 he was deputed in the

security of the Hazat. When after production Sushil Srivastava was

being taken to the Hazat and as soon as they reached near the

Gulmohar tree indiscriminate firing started from the Bolero vehicle.

There was mayhem and chaos and he and some other Police

personnel took up position and started firing. In course of

treatment, Sushil Srivastava, Kamal Khan and Gayas Khan died.

He claims to recognize the accused. He has identified Vikas Tiwary

who was produced through video conferencing and had also

identified three of the accused who were physically present. In cross-examination, he has deposed that on the

date of occurrence Sushil Srivastava was handcuffed by Gandhauri

Prasad. Gandhauri Prasad at the time of the incident had left the

rope and fled away. When the S.P. asked him as to how many

rounds he had fired, he had replied that he had not fired due to the

prevailing chaos. It is a fact that on 03.06.2015 he had read the

newspaper Prabhat Khabar and had seen the photograph with

name of Vikas Tiwary printed on it. On 04.06.2015 also the

photograph of Vikas Tiwary was printed in Prabhat Khabar and on

02.08.1995 as well as on 03.08.1995 the photograph of Vikas

Tiwary was published in Dainik Bhaskar and Khabar Mantra -18- respectively. He has identified Vikas Tiwary due to his photograph

having been published in the newspaper. 19. P.W.14 (Uday Shankar Paswan) was posted on

02.06.2015 in the Civil Court, Hazaribagh for the purposes of

security of the prisoners. On the said date, he had taken Sushil

Srivastava for production before the Court of Additional Sessions

Judge-II and thereafter to another Court. After production as soon

as they reached near the Banyan tree several persons started

meeting Sushil Srivastava and touching his feet. From behind the

Bolero vehicle bearing registration no. JH12B-1694 firing started

upon Sushil Srivastava. Apart from Sushil Srivastava one Gayas

and another person also received bullet injuries. One person died

at the spot while the rest two persons died on way to the Hospital.

A grenade was thrown which created a pandemonium. He and the

other Police personnel took up position and was prevented from

resorting to firing on the fear that some innocent might get hurt.

Vikas Tiwary was fleeing away with his arms and in course of

which his AK-47 rifle fell down inside the boundary wall. Vikas

Tiwary had scaled a wall and fled away on a motorcycle.

Immediately the higher Police officials had assembled and seizure

of various articles were made. He has identified Vikas Tiwary,

Rahul Deo Pandey and Santosh Pandey through video

conferencing. In cross-examination, he has deposed that

seventeen Jawans armed with Insas rifles were deputed for the -19- security of Sushil Srivastava. All the Jawans had formed a ring

around Sushil Srivastava so that no one can come near him. In the

meantime, 15-20 persons from the gang of Sushil Srivastava had

started shaking his hand and touching his feet when a loud

explosion occurred and the area was covered in darkness. This

created a chaos and all the Jawans in order to save themselves ran

helter-skelter. The handcuff with a rope on Sushil Srivastava was

in the hands of Gandhauri Prasad who fled away and he does not

know where Gandhauri Prasad went. The accused had fled away

prior to the arrival of the top Police officials. It is a fact that on

02.06.2015 all the seventeen Jawans were called to the Police

Station by the S.P. and all their arms were seized and all seventeen

were suspended and their statements were also recorded. The

evidence is being given on the basis of the said statement. On

03.06.2015 the incident of 02.06.2015 was published in Daily

Newspaper Prabhat Khabar where the photograph of Vikas Tiwary

was printed. The photographs of Vikas Tiwary were published on

04.06.2015, 02.08.2015 and 03.08.2015 as well. He has come to

know about Vikas Tiwary from the photographs which were

published. He does not know Vikas Tiwary by name but knows him

by his face. He had disclosed to the S.P. that Vikas Tiwary was

fleeing away while firing and this fact was not shared with anyone.

It is a fact that he had not disclosed before the S.P. of recognizing

Rahul Deo Pandey and Santosh Pandey. -20- 20. P.W.15 (Mohit Prasad Singh) has stated that on

02.06.2015 he was on duty in the Sessions Court, Hazat. When he

had come down from the stairs and had come near the Gulmohar

tree 2-4 persons came to meet Sushil Srivastava and in the

meantime a bomb was thrown and firing started. In course of

indiscriminate firing Md. Kamal and Md. Gayas died at the place of

occurrence itself and Sushil Srivastava died on the way to the

Hospital at Ranchi. The accused persons were fleeing away while

firing and in course of getting away they had left behind an AK-47

rifle. He has identified Vikas Tiwary, Rahul Deo Pandey and

Santosh Pandey who were produced through video conferencing. In cross-examination, he has deposed that due to

the bomb blast there was total chaos and all the persons present

fled helter-skelter. In the meantime, Gandhauri Prasad who had

the handcuff and rope of Sushil Srivastava had also fled away.

Birendra Prasad Singh who was close to Sushil Srivastava also hid

himself somewhere. It is a fact that 1-2 accused persons had

scaled the wall and fled away and nobody followed them. The S.P.

had interrogated all the twenty-two Jawans who had seen the

occurrence and had also given it in writing. On the next day of the

occurrence all their weapons were seized and all the twenty-two

Jawans were suspended. The report of the incident was published

in Prabhat Khabar on 03.06.2015 and he had also seen the

photograph of Vikas Tiwary printed on it. On 04.06.2015 and

02.08.2015 he had seen the photo of Vikas Tiwary which was -21- published in the newspaper. The photo of Vikas Tiwary which was

seen by him in the newspaper was etched in his memory and that

was the reason he had been able to identify Vikas Tiwary in the

video conferencing. 21. P.W.16 (Rajeev Ranjan) was posted at Police Centre,

Hazaribagh and on 02.06.2015 he was deputed for duty in the

Court. After the formalities regarding production of Sushil

Srivastava was complete, they had reached near the Gulmohar tree

when some persons started shaking hands with Sushil Srivastava

and also touched his feet and they were being persuaded not to do

so. In the meantime, 08-10 accused armed with AK-47 rifle and

pistols came out from the Bolero vehicle and started firing at

Sushil Srivastava and Kamal Khan as well as Gayas Khan who

were standing besides Sushil Srivastava. A bomb was also

exploded by the accused persons. There was chaos all around. He

had seen a thinly built dark complexioned man fleeing away while

firing. In course of scaling the wall the AK-47 rifle of the accused

fell down. Gayas Khan and Kamal Khan died at the spot while

Sushil Srivastava died on the way to the Hospital. He had later on

come to know that Vikas Tiwary and his gang were responsible for

the firing. He has identified Vikas Tiwary, Rahul Deo Pandey and

Santosh Pandey who were produced through video conferencing. In cross-examination, he has deposed that Sushil

Srivastava is a notorious criminal and for his safety seventeen

Jawans were deputed. All the Jawans were armed with Insas rifles. -22- He cannot say as to on which part of the body of Sushil Srivastava

bullets had struck. On 03.06.2015, the incident was reported in

Prabhat Khabar and the photograph of Vikas Tiwary was published

which he had seen. Subsequently the photographs of Vikas Tiwary

were also published on various newspapers. It is not true that at

the time of the incident Rahul Deo Pandey was in jail. 22. P.W.17 (Vijay Kumar) was posted in the Police Line

and on 02.06.2015 he was on duty in the Prison Van. As soon as

they reached near the Gulmohar tree after completing the

formalities relating to production of Sushil Srivastava in the Court

some known persons of Sushil Srivastava started shaking his hand

and touching his feet. He dispersed these persons when all of a

sudden 08-10 persons came out of a Bolero vehicle bearing

registration no. JH12B-1694 and after blasting a bomb started

firing at Sushil Srivastava. The bullet struck Sushil Srivastava and

his two accomplices; one Gayas Khan and another. Since a chaos

ensued firing could not be made upon the accused. One Police

personal had suffered a firearm injury. He had chased an accused

but he managed to flee away. Both the injured accomplices of

Sushil Srivastava died at the spot while Sushil Srivastava died on

way to the hospital. Later on, he came to know that Vikas Tiwary

and his gang were involved in the shootout. He has identified Vikas

Tiwary, Rahul Deo Pandey and Santosh Pandey who were

produced through video conferencing. -23- In cross-examination, he has deposed that

seventeen Police personnel including him were deputed for the

security of notorious criminal Sushil Srivastava. The security

personnel had made a ring around Sushil Srivastava to prevent

anyone from meeting him. He and the other Police personnel

deputed to provide security to Sushil Srivastava were called to the

Police Station by the S.P. and all were suspended apart from

seizing their arms. The incident was published in Prabhat Khabar

on 03.06.2015 where the photo of Vikas Tiwary was also

published. On 04.06.2015 and 02.08.2015 once again the

photograph of Vikas Tiwary were published. He had thereafter

come to know that Vikas Tiwary has been arrested and he has

been kept in Sadar P.S., Hazaribagh. 23. P.W.18 (Anuj Kumar Sharma) was posted in the

Police Line and on 02.06.2015 he was deputed in the escort party

for the production of Sushil Srivastava. When after production of

Sushil Srivastava they had reached near the Gulmohar tree 08-10

persons came out of a Bolero vehicle bearing registration no.

JH12B-1694 and started making indiscriminate firing injuring

Gayasuddin, Md. Kamal Khan and Sushil Srivastava. A hand

grenade was also thrown which led to a pandemonium. All the

three injured died near the Gulmohar tree. The accused thereafter

taking advantage of the chaos fled away by scaling a wall and in

course of escape an AK-47 rifle fell down. He had later on come to

know that the firing was done by Vikas Tiwary, Santosh Pandey -24- and the other gang members. He has identified Vikas Tiwary,

Santosh Pandey and Rahul Deo Pandey who were produced

through video conferencing. In cross-examination, he has deposed that the

security personnel entrusted with the duty of protecting Sushil

Srivastava had Insas rifles in their possession. The handcuff and

the rope tied around the waist of Sushil Srivastava was in the

hands of Gandhauri Prasad. His statement was recorded after one

month of the occurrence. The incident of 02.06.2015 was

published in Prabhat Khabar along with the photos of Vikas Tiwary

which he had seen. Subsequently also on 04.06.2015 the

photograph of Vikas Tiwary was published which he had seen as

well. 24. P.W.19 (Dr. Gopal Das) was posted as a Medical

Officer at Sadar Hospital, Hazaribagh and on 02.06.2015 post-

mortem examination of Md. Kamal was conducted by a Medical

Board comprising of himself, Dr. Vijay Shankar and Dr. S.R.

Dangi. He has proved his signature in the postmortem report

which has been marked as Exhibit-6. On the same day autopsy was conducted on the

dead body of Gayas Khan @ Md. Nasib by the same Medical Board.

He has proved his signature on the postmortem report which has

been marked as Exhibit-7. -25- In cross-examination, he has deposed that the

postmortem report has been prepared by Dr. Vijay Shankar who

was heading the Medical Board. 25. P.W.20 (Dr. Vijay Shankar) was posted at Sadar

Hospital, Hazaribagh and on 02.06.2015 he and the other

members of the Medical Board had conducted autopsy on the dead

body of Kamal and had found the following: On exploration blood found in thoracic and
 abdominal cavity, heart was pale with chambers
 empty, lungs pale, intestine and osmium found
 ruptured at many places, liver pale, spleen mildly
 congested, kidney pale, stomach showing undigested
 rise dark and water. The cause of death was opined to be due to shock

and haemorrhage resulting from gunshot injury. The postmortem

report has been proved and marked as Exhibit-6/1. The signature

of Dr. Vijay Shankar and Dr. S.R. Dangi have been proved and

marked as Exhibits -6/2 and 6/3 respectively. On the same day the Medical Board had conducted

autopsy on the dead body of Gayas Khan @ Md. Wasif and had

found the following: 1/2" muscle coming out of the wound, margins
 averted-Exit wound (c) 2" x 1" reddish in colour
 with margins inverted just below left axilla-entry
 wound (d) 4" x 2" muscle protruding from margins
 over the occipital area-Exit wound. On exploration of the abdomen intestine found
 ruptured in many places. In the thoracic cavity heart
 was found pale and punctured in region in left
 ventricle. Both chamber of the heart empty, liver found
 ruptured at lower part spleen ruptured, kidneys pale
 fracture of the tenth rib on left side. Lungs lacerated on
 the left side. Stomach contained undigested food on
 exploration of the scalp wound there was damage to
 the occipital wound and laceration of brain tissue,
 meninges. The cause of death was opined to be due to

haemorrhage and shock resulting from gunshot injury. The

postmortem report has been proved and marked as Exhibit-7/1.

His signature and the signature of Dr. S.R. Dangi on the

postmortem report have been proved and marked as Exhibit-7/3

and 7/2 respectively. 26. P.W.21 (Dr. S.R. Dangi) was posted at Sadar

Hospital, Hazaribagh and on 02.06.2015 a Medical Board

comprising of him, Dr. Gopal Das and Dr. Vijay Shankar had

conducted autopsy on the dead bodies of Md. Kamal and Gayas

Khan and they had prepared the postmortem report in which all

three have put their signature. -27- 27. P.W.22 (Birendra Prasad Singh) is the informant

who has stated that on 02.06.2015 at 10:45 A.M. he was on duty

as the In-charge of Court Hazat and along with him were sixteen

Jawans who were taking Sushil Srivastava to the Court of

Additional Sessions Judge-II for production. As soon as they

reached near the Gulmohar tree firing started on Sushil

Srivastava. One or two persons from behind a Bolero vehicle

started firing with an AK-47 rifles and in course of firing the bullets

struck Sushil Srivastava, Kamal Khan and another person. On his

orders Police made counter firing. A bomb was also exploded by the

accused persons which led to a pandemonium. He immediately

informed his higher authorities after which the S.P., Dy. S.P. and

others arrived at the spot. The injured were rushed to Sadar

Hospital in a government vehicle and Kamal Khan and Sabir

Hussain died during treatment while Sushil Srivastava was

referred to RIMS, Ranchi where he succumbed to his gunshot

injuries. A seizure was made of the Bolero vehicle, a bag, thirteen

live cartridges and an empty cartridge. His fardbeyan was recorded

by Ajit Kumar. He has proved his signature on the fardbeyan

which has been marked as Exhibit 5/1. The accused who had

made the firing managed to escape by scaling a wall. On reading

the newspaper they could come to know that the incident was

executed by the gang of Vikas Tiwary. In cross-examination, he has deposed that at the

time of recording his fardbeyan the S.P. and the Dy. S.P. were also -28- present. The articles which were seized from the vehicle was done

in his presence. He has stated that Gandhauri Prasad had fled

away from the place of occurrence. 28. P.W.23 (Sanjay Kumar Rana) was posted at

Jharkhand Police Academy as head of CLI and BDST. He has

produced the bomb disposal report in Court pursuant to the

direction of S.P. Hazaribagh and the Court. The live grenade was

defused and the residue was sent to FSL for examination. He has

proved the carbon copy of the report which has been marked as

Exhibit-8. In cross-examination, he has deposed that the

grenade was an improvised device. 29. P.W.24 (Avik Kumar @ Avik Srivastava) has stated

that the occurrence had taken place on 02.06.2015 at 10:30 A.M.

in the Court premises. He along with his elder brother Aman

Srivastava had come to meet their father, Sushil Srivastava. His

father had said about meeting them in leisure after attending the

Court. After some time, his father came out of the Court and as he

came downstairs, he had seen some persons standing near a

Bolero vehicle which was parked besides the tree. The persons who

were standing were Vikas Tiwary, Santosh Pandey, Vikas Sao,

Deepak Dhobi, Dilip Sao, Sunil Dhobi, Vishal Singh and a few

others. As soon as his father came down Vikas Tiwary took out a

firearm and started making indiscriminate firing. Vikas Tiwary had

also exploded a bomb. There was smoke all around and by the time -29- the accused persons by throwing away the firearm were fleeing his

father had already sustained gunshot injuries. He had brought his

father to Sadar Hospital, Hazaribagh from where he was referred to

RIMS, Ranchi and on the way he died. He has identified Santosh

Pandey and Vikas Tiwary who were produced through video

conferencing. In cross-examination, he has deposed that it is true

that his father was lodged in Central Jail, Hazaribagh for eighteen

years. He used to meet his father in Court from his childhood.

Several years back on 26.07.2008 an attack was made upon his

mother and his father had disclosed that it was orchestrated by

Bhola Pandey. He is aware of the fact that when his father was

lodged in Birsa Munda Jail one Bhoma Singh was murdered for

which his father was convicted. He had seen the photographs of

the accused in the newspaper. He does not remember as to

whether after the incident the photo of the accused was published

in the newspaper or not. It is a fact that he had not seen Vikas

Tiwary prior to the incident. His father had never disclosed to him

about the age and physical features of Vikas Tiwary. He does not

know the accomplices of his father. There were 15-18 Police

personnel looking after the security of his father. He was standing

at a distance of 20-30 feet from the place where the occurrence

had taken place. When he had taken his father to the Hospital, he

and his brother's cloths were smeared in blood. He had not given

any oral or written information about the incident to the Police -30- personnel who had reached the place of occurrence. He does not

know as to whether any case was lodged on 02.06.2015 or not. No

case was lodged by him on 02.06.2015 or by the accomplices of his

father. After 02.06.2015 he had come to Hazaribagh on 02.09.2015

and during this period he had not instituted a case either at

Ranchi or at Hazaribagh. He has stated that on 03.09.2015 he had

come to Hazaribagh with his brother and on that day, he had filed

a case at Hazaribagh. He had filed a written report in the Police

Station. He is giving evidence in the case which he had lodged on

03.09.2015. He does not remember whether he had filed a case at

Ranchi or not. On 02.06.2015 his brother Aman Srivastava had

given a written report in Sadar P.S., Ranchi. He does not remember

whether his brother had lodged a case at Sadar P.S., Ranchi on

02.06.2015 against Vikas Tiwary, Kameshwar Pandey, Bablu

Pandey and Sanjeev Neogi with respect to the incident which

occurred at Hazaribagh. After a written report was given on

03.09.2015 the Police had enquired from him on 09.09.2015. He is

not in touch with his brother for 2½ years. He does not know the

place where his brother resides or the work he does. He does not

know the source of income of his family. On the date of occurrence,

he had not disclosed the incident to his family members. In the

written report dated 03.09.2015 he had mentioned about the

presence of Vikas Tiwary, Santosh Pandey, Vikas Sao, Deepak

Dhobi, Dilip Sao, Sunil Dhobi and Vishal Singh near the vehicle.

He had also mentioned that as soon as his father came down the -31- stairs on the signal of Vikas Tiwary the others had surrounded

him. He had seen Vikas Tiwary firing with an AK-47 rifle and he

had also exploded a bomb. Vikas Tiwary and the other members of

his gang scaled the wall and fled away. He cannot describe the age

and physical features of Deepak Dhobi and Sunil Dhobi and

though both were standing but he is not sure as to whether they

were involved in the firing or not. Out of Santosh Pandey, Vikas

Sao, Dilip Sao and Vishal Singh, Santosh Pandey was firing. He

has deposed that Vikas Tiwary was firing with a pistol from his

right hand. He had not seen as to whether the 6-7 persons who

were standing with Vikas Tiwary were having AK-47 rifles or not.

His statement was recorded by the Police on 09.09.2013 and on

03.09.2013. It is true that there was enmity between his father and

Vikas Tiwary. 30. P.W.25 (Deepak Kumar Rao) has stated that on

02.08.2015 at 10:30 A.M. he was standing near the Gulmohar tree

in the Court premises along with his acquaintances Sahadat

Ansari and Ajay Prakash Singh. At the said place Vikas Tiwary

along with his accomplices Santosh Pandey, Dilip Sao, Vikas Sao,

Vishal Singh, Deepak Dhobi and Sunil Dhobi were present. After

sometime they had heard the sound of firing and explosion of a

bomb. He had seen Vikas Tiwary along with his accomplices firing

with an AK-47 rifle on 3-4 persons. When the Police took action

Vikas Tiwary, Vishal Singh, Dilip Sao, Santosh Pandey, Deepak

Dhobi, Sunil Dhobi, Sonu Tiwary, Basant Karmali and Bablu -32- Thakur fled away after throwing the AK-47 rifle. He had later on

seen Kamal Khan and Gayas Khan lying dead and Sushil

Srivastava was taken on an ambulance to the hospital. He had

seen Vishal Singh, Dilip Sao, Santosh Pandey, Deepak Dhobi,

Sunil Dhobi, Bablu Thakur, Ashish Mehra @ Nepali, Basant

Karmali, Sonu Tiwary and Vikas Sao roaming around with Vikas

Tiwary on several occasions at Patratu. He has identified Santosh

Pandey as one of the persons involved in the shoot out who was

produced through video conferencing but he had not identified

Rahul Deo Pandey. He has also identified Vikas Tiwary who was

present through video conferencing. In cross-examination, he has deposed that in one

case he had gone to Jail along with his sister named Juli and her

mother-in-law Amberi Begum. When he had reached the place of

occurrence the incident had already occurred by then. On

02.06.2015 out of 50-100 persons from Patratu in the Court he

had identified 5-7 persons and amongst them were Vikas Tiwary,

Santosh Pandey, Dilip Sao, Vishal Singh, Deepak Dhobi, Sunil

Dhobi, Bablu Thakur and Vikas Sao. He does not have any

closeness with these persons nor does he have any enmity with

them. He had seen these persons from a distance of 25-30 feet.

When the firing started, he fled towards the GR Office and in

course of which he had seen Vikas Tiwary along with his 3-4

accomplices firing. The Police had reached the place of occurrence

before him. When he had reached two persons were already lying -33- dead. He does not remember as to whether in his statement before

the Police he had stated about Santosh Pandey and Vikas Sao

loitering with Vikas Tiwary on the date of occurrence. After

perusing the diary, he says that the two names are not mentioned.

He does not remember as to whether he had stated before the

Police that Vikas Tiwary with his accomplices were firing upon 3-4

persons indiscriminately from an AK-47 rifles. On perusing para

18 of the case diary, he has deposed that the same has not been

mentioned. He had not stated before the Police that when Police

took action Vikas Tiwary, Vishal Singh, Dilip Sao, Santosh Pandey,

Deepak Dhobi, Sunil Dhobi, Sonu Tiwary, Basant Karmali and

Bablu Thakur fled away from a gate by leaving an AK-47 rifle. He

was not taken to the Test Identification Parade to identify Vikas

Tiwary. He has stated that due to the chaotic situation he could

not give attendance in the Court. 31. P.W.26 (Satyendra Singh) was posted at FSL,

Ranchi as a Ballistic Expert. The Investigating Officer had sent a

sealed packet through Memo No. 325 dated 13.06.2016 and it

contained the following: 1. One sealed cloth bound packet
 bearing P.S. Sadar Case No. 610/2015
 dated 02.06.15 etc contained one 7.62
 calibre AK-47 regular rifle bearing no. M20019 with foldable iron but and without
 magazine and sling. A paper slip bearing
 P.S. Sadar Case No. 610/2015 dated
 02.06.15 signature of CJM dated 03.06.15
 and witnesses etc was pasted on it. It was
 marked as A by the I.O. and was also
 marked as A in the laboratory. 2. One sealed cloth bound packet
 bearing P.S. Sadar Case No. 610/2015
 dated 02.06.15 etc. marked B by the I.O. contained one plastic dubba having a paper
 slip bearing P.S. Case No. 610/2015 dated
 02.06.15 signature of CJM dated 24.05.16
 etc. contained 13 live round of 7.62 calibre
 AK-47 rifle cartridges, these were marked
 as B1 to B13 in the laboratory. 3. One sealed cloth bound packet
 bearing P.S. Sadar Case No. 610/2015
 dated 02.06.15 etc. marked C by the I.O. contained two empty iron magazines of AK- 47 rifles, these were marked as C1 and C2
 in the laboratory. Test Cartridge fired 4. Two live rounds of 7.62 MM calibre
 cartridges marked B1 and B2 noted in item
 2 fired from AK-47 rifle bearing no. M20019
 noted in item 1 as test cartridges and test
 firing shells were marked as TCS1(A) and
 TCS2 (A) and test fired bullets were marked
 as TC and TCB2(A) in the laboratory. The result of the analysis and its conclusion are

depicted as follows: (i) The Ext. marked C1 and C2 are two iron
 magazines of 7.62 mm calibre AK-47 rifle. These
 can be used to accommodate 7.62 mm calibre
 cartridges to fire 7.62 mm calibre AK-47 rifle. -35- He has proved the report which has been marked

as Exhibit-9. In cross-examination, he has deposed that the

firearm was sent for examination after one year of the incident. As

per his report one bullet out of four pellets were not fired from the

seized AK-47 rifle. It was fired from another AK-47 rifle. 32. P.W.27 (Sumanta) had joined as a Scientific

Assistant in SFSL, Ranchi and had assisted Dr. H.K. Sinha, the

then Assistant Director, SFSL in the working of Biology and

Serology examination of the exhibits produced. He has proved both

the reports prepared in his laboratory at SFSL, Ranchi which have

been marked as Exhibit-10 and 10/1. The result of the biological

examination was that blood was detected all over in the Exhibits

marked 1, 2 and 3. Blood could not be detected in the Exhibit

marked-4. 33. P.W.28 (Sayed Bashir Ahmad) is an Assistant

Director in SFSL, Ranchi and he is an expert in explosives and

Physics. He has proved the report regarding examination of the

lever and pin which has been marked as Exhibit-11. He has also

proved the report with respect to the testing of aluminium coloured

powder and which has been marked as Exhibit-11/1. 34. P.W.29 (Dr. Sanjay Kumar) was posted as Assistant

Professor, Department of Forensic Medicine, RIMS, Ranchi and on

03.06.2015 he along with the other members of the Medical Board

namely, Dr. Sourav Banarjee, Tutor, Department of Pathology, Dr. -36- Rishi Tuhin Guria, Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine

and Dr. Sanatan Bhagat, Professor, Department of Surgery had

conducted autopsy on the dead body of Sushil Srivastava and had

found the following: The projectile passed through soft tissue,
 pelvic bone and passed out by making an
 exit wound of 2 cm x 1 cm on upper and
 lateral part of left thigh. VII. Wound of entrance of .5 cm x .5 cm was
 situated on lateral part of right knee. The
 projectile passed through soft tissue and
 bone passed out of body by making an exit
 wound of 5 cm x 3 cm on antero-medial
 part of right knee. VIII. Wound of entrance of .5 cm x .5 cm was
 situated on back of right leg. The projectile
 after passing only through subcutaneous
 tissue passed out by making an exit
 wound of 1 cm x .5 cm on right leg at
 middle part. (C) In the bead and cranial cavity brain was found
pale otherwise normal. (D) In the chest cavity, injuries were as mentioned
before. Additionally, there was significant blood and
blood clot in the chest cavity otherwise normal. No
abnormality was detected in heart and blood vessels.
(E) In the abdominal cavity, injuries as mentioned
before. Additionally, there was significant blood and
blood clot in abdominal cavity. Stomach contained
pasty food matter about 100 grams. Both small and
large intestine contained digested food matter and
gas. Liver was normal. Injuries in the other organs
were as mentioned before. -38- All the injuries mentioned in number I to VIII were

ante mortem in nature caused by firearm. Death was due to

firearm injuries and its complications. He has proved the

prostmortem report which has been marked as Exhibit-12. He has

proved the signature and seal of Dr. Sourav Banerjee, Dr. Rishi

Tuhin Guria and Dr. Sanatan Bhagat upon the postmortem report

which have been marked as Exhibits- 12/1, 12/2 and 12/3

respectively. In cross-examination, he has deposed that no

bullet/pellet/wad was found/recovered from the dead body. He

cannot say as to what weapon was used but the injuries are

suggestive of usages of rifle of high velocity. 35. P.W.30 (Dr Saurabh Banerjee) was posted as a

Tutor in the Pathology Department, RIMS, Ranchi and on

03.06.2015 he had participated along with other Board Members

in conducting autopsy on the dead body of Sushil Srivastava. 36. P.W.31 (Dr. Rishi Tuhin Guria) was posted as an

Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, RIMS, Ranchi and on

03.06.2015 he also had participated along with the other Board

Members in conducting autopsy on the dead body of Sushil

Srivastava. 37. P.W.32 (Virendra Thakur) on the order of the Court

has produced the seized articles in connection with Sadar P.S.

Case No. 610/15. He has proved the letters of the Officer-in-

Charge, Sadar P.S. which has been marked as Exhibit-13. He has -39- proved the letter showing receipt of the sealed box sent by the

Forensic Science Laboratory which has been marked as Exbibit-

13/1. The sealed boxes were opened and from the first box an AK-

47 rifle sealed in a cloth was found which was marked as Exhibit-

A. The second was a plastic jar in which two magazines and

thirteen rounds of AK-47 cartridges were found. The third was a

sealed plastic box which was marked SFSL No. 687/17 and Exhibit

Nos. B/32 and B/13. The fourth sealed plastic box marked "D"

bears the name of two witnesses. Four sealed packets contained

earth marked 1 to 4 and 4 plastic dubbas marked 5 to 8 and it was

noted that exbibit marked-8 was consumed during explosive

examination. The small sealed box was opened from which four

white colour sealed envelope bearing SFSL No. 797/15, Exhibit

Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 have been mentioned. In the other plastic boxes

27 fired shells of 7.62 mm (AK-47) have been mentioned. All the

said exhibit materials were mentioned at Serial Nos. XIV, XV and

XVI of the malkhana register which were marked as Exhibits- XIV,

XIV/1 and XIV/2. The seal of AK-47 rifle was opened and marked

as material Exhibit-I. Two magazines were marked as material

Exhibits-II and II/1. The test fired shells were marked as material

Exhibits- III, III/1, III/2 and III/3. Similarly, five cartridges have

been marked as material Exhibits-IV to IV/10. A piece of iron "L"

shape and a long rope and a clip have been marked as material

Exhibits- V and V/1. The soil and darkened sand particles have

been marked as material Exhibits- VI to VI/3. Three missing fire -40- cartridges and one empty shell have been marked as Exhibits- VII

to VII/2. The two empty shells have been marked as material

Exhibits- VIII to VIII/1. The 27 empty shells of AK-47 rifle at the

bottom of which 7.62 was mentioned have been marked as

material Exhibits- IX to IX/26. The piece of the paper on which

SFSL No. 797/15 has been mentioned has been marked as

Exhibit-II. In cross-examination, he has deposed that no

malkhana number was mentioned on Exhibit-13. In the sealed

cloth of AK-47 rifle there is no signature of any Officer or witness

nor it bears any malkhana number. 38. P.W.33 (Nathuni Prasad Yadav) was posted at

Sadar P.S., Hazaribagh and he had made part investigation of

Sadar P.S. Case No. 610/15. Pursuant to the direction of his

superiors he had submitted charge-sheet against Vikas Tiwary.

The investigation is pending against Vikas Sao, Bablu Thakur, Raj

Singh, Pradeep Paswan and the accomplices of Raj Singh. He had

prepared the inquest report of Md. Kamal and Gayas Khan. He has

proved both the inquest reports which have been marked as

Exhibits- 16 and 16/1. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he had

taken over the investigation on 15.09.2015 and during the

investigation for 3½ months he had not arrested any accused nor

had he recorded the statements of any witnesses. It is true that he -41- had seen the photo of Vikas Tiwary in the newspaper after the

incident. 39. P.W.34 (Kanhu Tudu) was on Hazat duty on

02.06.2015 and on that day he had taken Sushil Srivastava to the

Court of Additional Sessions Judge-II for production and as soon

as he came down from the stairs 8-10 persons came out from a

Bolero vehicle and started shaking hands with Sushil Srivastava.

At that point of time indiscriminate firing started from behind the

Bolero vehicle. Due to the firing Sushil Srivastava and his two

accomplices become injured and they were taken to Sadar Hospital

where they died. The accused persons had exploded a bomb and

had fled away. His statement was recorded by the Police. He had

identified Vikas Tiwary in the Test Identification Parade. He has

identified Vikas Tiwary who was produced through video

conferencing. He has identified an accused in the dock who was

firing on the date of occurrence but he does not know his name. 40. In cross-examination, he has deposed that the

white T-shirt clad accused whom he had identified in the dock was

firing at Sushil Srivastava. Due to the explosion of the bomb

several Police personnel and members of the public suffered

injuries. The rifles of all the Jawans were seized by the S.P. and all

the Jawans had given their written report of the incident. All the

Jawans were suspended by the S.P. It is true that the S.P. had put

pressure that only on giving evidence in Court and identifying the

accused their suspension will be revoked. 41. P.W.35 (Sanjay Sao) did not support the case of the

prosecution and was declared hostile by the prosecution. 42. P.W.36 (Vijay Sao) has also not supported the case

of the prosecution and has been declared hostile by the

prosecution. 43. P.W.37 (Gopi Sao) has also been declared hostile by

the prosecution. 44. P.W.38 (Sushma Baraik) was posted as an

Executive Magistrate, Ranchi and on 02.06.2015 she was directed

to report to Medica Hospital for preparation of an inquest report.

She had thereafter prepared the inquest report of Sushil

Srivastava. She has proved the inquest report which has been

marked as Exhibit-17. In cross-examination, she has deposed that the

dead body of Sushil Srivastava was identified by his two sons. 45. P.W.39 (Dinesh Kumar) was posted as Judicial

Magistrate 1st Class in Civil Court, Hazaribagh and he has stated

that on 09.09.2015 on the orders of the Chief Judicial Magistrate,

Hazaribagh he had conducted the Test Identification Parade of

Vikas Tiwary and he was identified by Ajay Kumar Singh, Sitaram

Mishra, Moti Prasad Singh, Kanhu Tudu, Rajeev Ranjan, Dablu

Sharma, Avik Kumar, Birendra Prasad Mehta, Uday Shankar

Paswan, Anuj Kumar Sharma and Vijay Kumar while he was not

identified by Birendra Prasad Singh. He has proved the Test -43- Identification Charts which have been marked as Exhibit- 18 to

18/11. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he does

not remember as to whether on 02.06.2015 the photo of Vikas

Tiwary was published in the newspaper or not. He had seen the

suspect immediately before the TIP was conducted. 46. P.W.40 (Dayanand Azad) was posted as Officer-in-

Charge of Sadar P.S. and on 02.06.2015 at 10:30 A.M. he had

received an information that the prisoners who have been

produced from jail are being shot at. He immediately rushed to the

Court along with superior officers and on reaching the place of

occurrence he had sent the injured Sushil Srivastava, Gayas Khan

and Kamal to Sadar Hospital, Hazaribagh by means of government

and private vehicles. He had thereafter gone towards the place

from where the miscreants had escaped. When he returned back to

the Court premises the fardbeyan of Birendra Prasad Singh was

produced before him after which he took over the investigation of

the case. The Sub-Inspector of Police, Ajit Kumar had produced

two seizure lists before him of the seized materials including an

AK-47 rifle, empty cartridges, Bolero vehicle etc. He had thereafter

inspected the place of occurrence which is on the western side of

the Hazaribagh Court campus in front of the District Mediation

Centre near an unmetalled road. Besides this road on the southern

side a Gulmohar tree is situated. About 20 meters from the place of

occurrence there are two trees of Awla and Karunj and between -44- these trees the Bolero vehicle was parked from where the firing was

made and a grenade was also exploded. In the wall of the

Mediation Centre 4-5 marks of firing made by the accused persons

were found. About 50 feet from the Court complex there is a

boundary wall with an iron gate and this was the wall which was

scaled by the accused persons while fleeing away. The AK-47 rifle

was recovered from this place. He had prepared a sketch map of

the place of occurrence and on returning to the Police Station had

instituted a formal FIR. He had thereafter recorded the statements

of Devendra Paswan, Dharmendra Kumar Singh, Rahul Kumar

Singh, Rajmuni Ram, Ajay Prakash Singh, Deepak Kumar Rao,

Sahadat Ansari, Sabir Hussain, Ashok Tiwary, Sallaudin Ansari,

Mansur Ansari, Munna Singh, Bittu Singh and Ashok Tiwary. For

defusing the seized improvised hand grenade an application was

sent to In-charge, B.D.D.S, Police Training Centre, Hazaribagh. In

order to obtain the C.D.R and C.A.F. of mobile numbers

9525543291, 9431549877, 7352888295, 8873699883 and

9006533226 he had sent an application to the Technical Cell of

S.P. He had thereafter recorded the fardbeyan of Aman Srivastava

given to Sriram Sharma on 02.06.2015 at Sadar P.S., Ranchi. He

had arrested Vishal Kumar Singh and Shambhu Nath Tiwary and

from the possession of Vishal Kumar Singh two mobiles were

recovered which were seized and a seizure list was prepared. He

has proved the seizure list which has been marked as Exhibit-3/1.

On 08.06.2015 on the orders of S.P. Hazaribagh he had gone to -45- Patna and arrested Santosh Pandey and from his possession three

mobiles were recovered and a seizure list was prepared which has

already been marked as Exhibit-2. He had recorded the

confessional statement of Santosh Pandey in which he had

accepted his involvement in the incident. The confessional

statement of Santosh Pandey has also been proved and marked as

Exhibit-19. He has stated that a spy had disclosed that Rahul Deo

Pandey is also involved as he has close acquaintance with Vikas

Tiwary as when Sushil Srivastava was being taken for production

Rahul Deo Pandey had informed Vikas Tiwary and after the

murder was committed Vikash Tiwary had informed Rahul Deo

Pandey about the same. On perusal of the call details of the mobile

of Vikas Tiwary bearing no. 7085127548 it is established that after

the incident Vikas Tiwary had first and foremost called Rahul Deo

Pandey in the mobile no. 7352960781 at 10:53 A.M. and the call

duration was of 39 seconds. After the order of Police remand Rahul

Deo Pandey was brought to the Police Station from the Jail where

his confessional statement was recorded and he had admitted his

role as a conspirator. He had arrested Dilip Sao and had recorded

his confessional statement. The said confessional statement has

been proved and marked as Exhibit-2. He had sent blood-stained

earth, blood, pellet, empty cartridges and the explosive powder

from inside the bombs samples to the FSL, Ranchi. On receiving an

information that the main accused Vikas Tiwary is staying in Delhi

he had gone to Delhi along with Sub-Inspector, Akil Ahmed. On -46- reaching Delhi, he came to know that Vikas Tiwary has been

arrested by the Special Cell of Delhi Police and that he has been

taken to Patiala House Court. He had submitted an application to

the Court and after getting the permission of the Court Vikas

Tiwary was interrogated for twenty minutes and he had accepted

his involvement in the conduct of murders. He had arrested Vikas

Tiwary and the Court had granted transit remand for two days. He

has stated that Vikas Tiwary was brought to Hazaribagh and he

was given on Police remand after which in course of inquiry he had

recorded the confessional statement of Vikas Tiwary. He has

proved the confessional statement of Vikas Tiwary which has been

marked as Exhibit-21. The forwarding report of Vikas Tiwary has

been proved and marked as Exhibit-22. He had thereafter

submitted charge-sheet against Vishal Kumar Singh, Santosh

Pandey, Rahul Deo Pandey, Dilip Sao and Shambhu Nath Tiwary

u/s 341, 326, 323, 307, 302, 120B/34 IPC , Sections 25 (1-A)/25(1-

AA)/26/27/35 of the Arms Act and Section 3/4/5 of the

Explosives Substance Act. He had immediately started a

supplementary investigation and in course of the same he had

recorded the statements of Avik Kumar, Aman Srivastava, Upendra

Kumar Singh, Sabana Khatoon, Sahin Pravin, Sanjay Sao, Gopi

Sao, Vijay Sao, Dablu Sharma, Rajesh Kumar Singh, Sitaram

Mishra, Mohi Prasad Singh, Ajay Kumar Singh, Vijay Kumar, Anuj

Kumar Sharma, Kanhu Tudu, Uday Shankar Paswan, Rajeev

Ranjan and Birendra Prasad Mehta. He had submitted an -47- application to the Court for analysis of the seized AK-47 rifle by the

Sergeant Major and also submitted an application to the Chief

Judicial Magistrate, Hazaribagh for holding a Test Identification

Parade of Vikas Tiwary and Dilip Sao. A Test Identification Parade

was held and 11 persons had identified Vikas Tiwary. Thereafter he

had obtained the postmortem report of Gayasuddin Khan and Md.

Kamal. On account of his transfer to Barkata Thana he had

handed over the charge of investigation to the Officer-in-Charge,

Jitendra Singh who in turn had given the charge of the

investigation to Sub-Inspector, Nathuni Prasad Yadav. He has

proved the application given to the CJM, Hazaribagh for holding

the Test Identification Parade of Vikas Tiwary and Dilip Sao which

has been marked as Exhibit-3. In cross-examination, he has deposed that it is true

that he reached the Civil Court Hazaribagh after the incident had

occurred. When he had reached the place of occurrence at that

point of time the Dy. S.P., Inspector and other Police Personnel and

staffs of the Civil Court, Lawyers and several independent

witnesses were present. It is a fact that after he had reached the

place of occurrence none of the persons present had disclosed the

name of the assailants who had fled away. A rumour was floating

around that the murders were executed by the gang members of

Vikas Tiwary. He had received the fardbeyan on 12:15 P.M. along

with the seizure list. It is a fact that from the Bolero vehicle some

posters were recovered in which it was written that the murder of -48- Kishore Pandey has been avenged with the name of Vikas Tiwary in

the poster with a further sentence "to be continued....". This was

the basis for making Vikas Tiwary an accused. He had not made

any investigation with respect to the recovery of posters nor he had

done the photography of the Bolero vehicle. He had not taken the

finger print of the AK-47 rifle nor had he taken the finger print of

Vikas Tiwary. During investigation he had not recorded the

statement of Gandhauri Prasad. It is true that in the FIR it has

been mentioned that two persons had participated in the incident

"one was firing with an AK-47 rifle while the other had thrown a

grenade". It is also true that after the incident the photograph of

Vikas Tiwary was frequently published in the newspapers. He had

personally arrested Vikas Tiwary from Delhi and he had identified

him. Vikas Tiwary is not very tall and has a healthy figure and was

not thinly built. In the fardbeyan there is no name of any

independent witness but the same contains the name of only Police

personnel. From 02.06.2015 to 02.09.2015 he had not received

any written report from the family members of Sushil Srivastava.

The son of Sushil Srivastava namely, Aman Srivastava upon the

death of Sushil Srivastava had recorded a fardbeyan at Medica

Hospital, Ranchi which has been mentioned in the case diary. On a

perusal of the fardbeyan it appears that Aman Srivastava had gone

to meet his father at Hazaribagh Civil Court but no information in

that regard was given to him till 02.09.2015. The fardbeyan of

Aman Srivastava does not mention Vikas Tiwary as the person who -49- was shooting with an AK-47 rifle and he had merely stated about

the firing which had taken place. The fardbeyn of Aman Srivastava

does not also name Shambhu Nath Tiwary, Santosh Pandey, Rahul

Deo Pandey, Dilip Sao and Vishal Singh. It also does not mention

that the brother of Aman Srivastava namely, Avik Srivastava was

also with him on the date of occurrence. During investigation he

had taken into consideration the fardbeyan of Aman Srivastava. He

had not been able to find out the registered owner and the driver of

the Bolero vehicle. In course of investigation, he had come to know

that a shooter by the name of Raj Singh was also involved in the

shoot out along with the other accused persons. The two mobiles

mentioned at para 83 of the case diary were not seized by him. 47. P.W. 41 (Jitendra Singh) has stated that the

incident is of 02.06.2015 when Sushil Srivastava and two other

persons were murdered at Civil Court premises, Hazaribagh. The

first Investigating Officer had submitted charge-sheet against

Vishal Kumar Singh, Santosh Pandey, Rahul Deo Pandey, Dilip

Sao and Shambhu Nath Tiwary while the second Investigating

Officer had submitted charge-sheet against Vikas Tiwary. He had

taken over the investigation from Nathuni Prasad Yadav. On

08.03.2016 he had received an information that Vishal Sao was in

prison at Tenughat Jail and such information was found to be

true. He has stated that on 10.03.2016 he had received a secret

information that shooter Raj Singh who was involved in the episode

was in Sultanpur (U.P.) Jail and when he reached Sultanpur the -50- Jail Superintendent had disclosed that for administrative reasons

Raj Singh has been shifted to Bareilly Jail. He had submitted an

application before the CJM, Hazaribagh for remand of the accused

Raj Singh. He had obtained the test report of the seized AK-47 rifle,

magazine, 13 live cartridges, pin, lever of the grenade which have

already been marked as exhibits. He had obtained the sanction for

prosecution from the District Magistrate-cum-Deputy

Commissioner, Hazaribagh which has been proved and marked as

Exhibit-25. He had recorded the statement of Vikas Sao in

Hazaribagh Jail in which he had disclosed about his friendship

with Vikas Tiwary. He had submitted charge-sheet against Vikas

Sao. In cross-examination, he has deposed that in

course of investigation he had recorded the statement of Vikas Sao. 48. P.W.42 (Daud Herenj) has appeared before the

Court to state about the Bolero vehicle which was seized by the

Police. The Bolero vehicle has been kept in the Police Station

premises and its condition has become awful. He has produced the

report of the Officer-in-Charge regarding the condition of the

Bolero vehicle which has been marked as Exhibit-26 and two

photographs of the vehicle marked as X and X/1 for identification. 49. The statements of the accused were recorded u/s

313 Cr.P.C., in which, they have denied their complicity in the

commission of the murders. -51- 50. The defence has examined eight witnesses in

support of its case. 51. D.W.1 (Sushila Devi) has stated that on 02.06.2015

at 6:00 A.M. she had come to Civil Court, Hazaribagh to meet her

husband Swatantra Raj Gupta who was in jail. She was sitting on

a platform near the Gulmohar tree waiting for her husband when

at 10:00 A.M. she heard the sound of firing. The firing was going

on at a distance of 5-10 meters from where she was sitting. The

person who was firing was tall and thinly built whom she could

recognize. The three accused persons who were produced through

video conferencing were not the persons who were firing. A bomb

was also exploded after which there was a pandemonium.

Everyone including the Police personnel had fled away. In cross-examination, she has deposed that she

does not know in which case her husband was in custody. On the

date of occurrence, she had come in a train from Haliapur, Uttar

Pradesh. 52. D.W.2 (Santosh Pandey) has stated that he stays at

Patratu with his family and he runs a grocery shop. His father is a

Railway employee. He has no connection with Bhola Pandey,

Kishore Pandey and Vikas Tiwary. He does not know Vikas Sao,

Bablu Thakur, Suman Singh, Dilip Sao, Vishal Singh, Deepak

Dhobi, Pradeep Paswan, Sunil Dhobi and Shambhu Tiwary. It is a

fact that on 02.06.2015 he was not present in Civil Court,

Hazaribagh. On 24.05.2015 he was in his village at Pandey Rati in -52- Patna District along with his family on account of the marriage of

his niece. The marriage was solemnized on 02.06.2015 and he and

his family members were present at Pandey Rati. After the bedai

had taken place at 8:00 A.M. on 02.06.2015 he and his family

members had gone to his cousin sister's place at Jalpura and he

had stayed for 5-6 days when Police had arrested him and he was

brought to Hazaribagh. He has stated that he does not know either

Sushil Srivastava or Deepak Kumar Rao. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he does

not have any documentary evidence to prove that on 02.06.2015

he was at Pandey Rati. 53. D.W.3 (Yogendra Pd. Pandey) is the father of

Santosh Pandey who has stated that on 24.05.2015 he and his

family members had gone to Pandey Rati to attend the marriage

ceremony of his granddaughter Rupa Kumari which was

solemnized on 01.06.2015. During marriage on 01.06.2015 his son

Santosh Pandey was with him. After the bedai ceremony of his

granddaughter she was taken to village Jalpura where they stayed

for five days. On 07.06.2015 while they were sleeping Police had

come and had taken away his son Santosh Pandey. His son

Santosh Pandey runs a General Store at Patratu. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he

cannot produce any documentary evidence to prove that on

02.06.2015 his son Santosh Pandey was at Pandey Rati. -53- 54. D.W.4 (Om Prakash Rana) has stated that he works

as an Advocate Clerk (Munshi) in Civil Court, Hazaribagh. It was

morning Court on 02.06.2015 and he had come to Civil Court,

Hazaribagh along with his father. On that day an incident of firing

had taken place which he had witnessed. The person who was

firing was tall and thinly built. Due to the firing, there was a chaos

and everyone fled away. He has stated that Rahul Deo Pandey and

Santosh Pandey who were produced through video conferencing

were not the persons who were either firing or were fleeing away.

He has failed to identify Vikas Tiwary who was produced through

video conferencing. He has also not identified Vishal Singh in the

dock. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he does

not have an Advocate Clerk license. 55. D.W.5 (Sujit Kumar Singh) has stated that he

works in Haryana Transport Company of India as a Manager and

the business is owned by Vishal Singh. On 02.06.2015 at 9:30

A.M. Vishal Singh had come to the office as usual and stayed till

4:00 P.M. He had shown the accounts for the period 01.05.2015 to

31.05.2015 to Vishal Singh who had signed on them. He has

produced the bills which have been marked as Exhibit- C to C/16

with objection. He has produced the second set of bills from

01.03.2015 to 31.03.2015 bearing the signature of Vishal Singh

which have been marked as Exhibits- D to D/15 with objection. -54- In cross-examination, he has deposed that he is

working with Vishal Singh for the last ten years. There is no

attendance register in the firm in which he works. 56. D.W.6 (Vishal Singh) has stated that he stays at

Ratan Heights, Morabadi along with his family. In Ranchi he has a

business of transport as well as a Motorcycle Showroom. On

02.06.2015 he was in his office at Haryana Transport Company of

India from 9:00-9:30 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. On the same day he had

signed on 33 bills furnished by his employee Sujit Kumar Singh.

He has proved the bills which have been marked as Exhibits- E to

E/32. He has also proved four pages of the ledger which has been

marked as Exhibits- F to F/3. He does not know Bhola Pandey,

Kishore Pandey and Vikas Tiwary of Patratu. He does not know

Sushil Srivastava. In cross-examination, he has deposed that in his

transport company office there is no attendance register. 57. D.W.7 (Dilip Sao) has stated that on 02.06.2015 he

was at Patratu along with his family. He does not know Bhola

Pandey, Kishore Pandey, Vikas Tiwary, Santosh Pandey and Vishal

Singh. He also does not know Sushil Srivastava. In cross-examination, he has deposed that he had

not disclosed before the Police that he is involved in the business of

vegetables. 58. D.W.8 (Pradip Kumar Das) has stated that on the

strength of a letter issued by the Superintendent, Jayaprakash -55- Narayan Central Jail, Hazaribagh he has produced the register in

connection with S.T. No. 141/2016. He has proved the letters

which have been marked as Exhibits- G, H and I. The register

indicates that Rahul Deo Pandey was remanded to the Jail on

01.05.2015 in connection with Chauparan P.S. Case No. 68/2005

and on 02.06.2015 he was in jail. The gate register shows that on

02.06.2015 Rahul Deo Pandey had not gone outside the Jail. The

relevant page of the gate register has been proved and marked as

Exhibit- J. 59. It has been submitted by Mr. Surendra Singh,

learned Senior Counsel for the appellants Vikas Tiwary and

Santosh Pandey in Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 597 of 2020 and the

appellant no. 2 Rahul Deo Pandey in Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 599

of 2020 that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses are vague,

inconsistent, incoherent and is primarily based on assumption

regarding the participation of the appellants in the ghastly murders

which had taken place inside the campus of a revered institution.

The discrepancy and contradictions in the evidence of the

witnesses can be fathomed from the fact that some say that the

assailants were 2-3 in numbers while the others speak of 8-10

assailants but the manner of occurrence suggests that a grenade

was hurled and firing was made from AK-47 rifle which would

conclusively prove that the increase in the number of assailants as

stated by some of the witnesses are an exaggerated version. The

prosecution has tried to build its edifice on a conspiracy theory -56- hatched by the accused persons and the appellant Rahul Deo

Pandey has also been brought within the purview of conspiracy

though admittedly he was lodged in Jayaprakash Narayan Central

Jail in connection with a case. The conspiracy theory so far as the

appellant Rahul Deo Pandey is concerned, stems from a purported

call details of mobiles owned by Vikas Tiwary and Rahul Deo

Pandey and a conversation between them which lasted for 39

seconds and which took place immediately after the mayhem was

caused in the Civil Court premises, Hazaribagh. It has been

submitted that there is no legal evidence on record to suggest that

Vikas Tiwary and Rahul Deo Pandey ever owned mobile phones or

that they spoken to each other over the said mobile phone. There is

no witness who has stated about these appellants having mobile

phones in their possession and the most astonishing thing is that

no mobiles were seized from their possession. Even the CDR has

not been proved by the prosecution. This would lead to an adverse

inference being drawn against the prosecution. Reference in such

context has been made to the case of "Tomaso Bruno & Another

Versus State of Uttar Pradesh", reported in (2015) 7 SCC 178. Mr.

Singh, learned Senior Counsel has while referring to the evidence

of P.W.40, the first Investigating Officer has submitted that it was

P.W.40 who was informed by a spy regarding the alleged

conspiracy between Vikas Tiwary and Rahul Deo Pandey but

absence of the spy as a witness in the trial would submerge the

evidence of P.W.40 and would bring it within the realm of hearsay -57- evidence. Moreover, since it is a statement made during the course

of investigation it will be hit by Section 162 Cr.P.C. None of the

evidence produced by the prosecution establishes meeting of minds

of these two appellants and, therefore, the charge of conspiracy

becomes unsustainable. Some of the witnesses have mentioned about the

involvement of 8-10 assailants in the occurrence which is falsified

by the prompt lodging of the fardbeyan wherein the informant who

has been examined as P.W.22 has described the assailant as tall

and thinly built and the second miscreant had exploded a bomb

after which both made good their escape by scaling the wall. The

evidence of P.W.22 is also supported by P.W.2 who has stated that

only 2-3 assailants were involved in the occurrence. The

promptness in lodging an FIR being the first version of an incident

is construed to be the truthful version obliterating a well thought

out version. Reference has been made to the case of " Jai Prakash

Singh versus State of Bihar and Another ", reported in (2012) 4 SCC 379. The evidence of P.W.2 and P.W.22 who have given a

contradictory version to the other witnesses regarding the number

of assailants' presents has not been challenged by the prosecution

and their evidence is binding on the prosecution. According to the

learned Senior Counsel the judgment in " Virendra versus State of

Madhya Pradesh " reported in AIR 2022 SC 3373 is a pointer to the

said fact. He has further submitted that the evidence of the

ballistic expert who has been examined as P.W.26 validates the -58- evidence of P.W.2 and P.W.22 that not more than two rifles have

been used in perpetrating the assault. When the direct evidence is

not supported by expert evidence it is difficult to convict the

accused based on such evidence and reliance has been placed in

the case of " Ram Narain versus The State of Punjab " reported in AIR

1975 SC 1727. Mr. Surendra Singh, learned Senior Counsel has

submitted that the evidence of P.W.7, P.W.11, P.W.13, P.W.14,

P.W.15, P.W.16, P.W.17, P.W.18 and P.W.34 are liable to be

discarded on account of the fact that though they were available

for questioning on 02.06.2015 their statements were not recorded

by the Investigating Officer and ultimately their statements were

recorded on 05.09.2015 and 06.09.2015 which has a time gap of

more than three months from the date of occurrence and no

plausible explanation has been furnished by the prosecution with

respect to such inordinate delay. All these witnesses were

suspended, their arms were seized and their written statements

were taken but all those statements have been suppressed by the

prosecution for reasons best known to them. The delay in

recording of statement of material witnesses will be fatal to the

prosecution case and reliance has been placed in the case of

" Ramesh and Another versus State of Karnataka " reported in (2024)

9 SCC 169. With respect to the identification of the appellant

Vikas Tiwary by the Police witnesses are concerned, there has been

consistent evidence that the photograph of Vikas Tiwary was -59- published in the newspaper a day after the incident and on

subsequent dates as well and viewed in such backdrop the

identification in the Test Identification Parade as well as in the

dock becomes a farcical exercise. Reference has been made to the

case of "Seeni Nainar Mohammed and Others versus State, Rep. by

Deputy Superintendent of Police" reported in AIR 2017 SC 3035 and

"Ravi @ Ravichandran versus State Rep. by Inspector of Police" reported in AIR 2019 SC 1457 and "Ajmer Singh and Others versus

State of Punjab" reported in AIR 1977 SC 1078. It has been submitted that none of the pamphlets

supposedly seized from inside the Bolero vehicle were exhibited

and no reliance can be placed on the same. So far as the

confessional statements are concerned, they are inadmissible in

evidence and are hit by Section 25 of the Evidence Act and such

assertion is cemented by the judgment rendered in the case of

" Rahul versus State (NCT of Delhi )" reported in (2023) 1 SCC 83.

The case of the prosecution being unconvincing in absence of any

clinching material in its support all these appellants according to

Mr. Singh, learned Senior Counsel deserves to be acquitted from

the charges levelled against them. 60. Mr. Anoop Prakash Awasthi, learned counsel

representing the appellant Vishal Singh @ Vishal Kumar Singh has

adopted the lead argument advanced by Mr. Surendra Singh,

learned Senior Counsel and has supplemented it by submitting

that the appellant is not named in the First Information Report and

rightly so as the appellant on the date of occurrence was in his

office at Ranchi which is borne out from the various bills which

have been exhibited by the defence. The plea of alibi has not at all

been appreciated by the learned trial court. It has been submitted

that no Test Identification Parade was never conducted with

respect to Vishal Kumar Singh and the prosecution has instead -62- relied upon the dock identification after an inordinate delay of

more than three years. Such identification cannot form the basis

for conviction. Reliance has been placed in the case of " Kanan and

Others versus State of Kerala " reported in AIR 1979 SC 1127. Mr.

Awasthi has also referred to the case of "Jaspal Singh alias Pali

versus State of Punjab " reported in AIR 1997 SC 332. It has been submitted that the charge of conspiracy

is wholly unfounded and not supported by any credible evidence.

The confessional statement of Vikas Tiwary, Santosh Pandey and

Dilip Sao have been relied upon by the prosecution to bring home

the charge u/s 120B of the IPC and absence of any discovery

makes such confession inadmissible in evidence. None of the three

Investigating Officers being P.W.33, P.W.40 and P.W.41 have

deposed of having collected any material which would point to the

deliberation, planning or agreement on the part of the appellant to

commit such offence. Some of the witnesses though have stated

about the alleged presence of the appellant at the place of

occurrence but mere presence ipso facto does not establish

participation in a conspiracy. Mere suspicion however grave cannot

take the place of proof. Mr. Awasthi has submitted that admittedly

no witness has attributed any overt act against the appellants of

either taking part in firing or in exploding a bomb. As held in " R.

Venkatkrishnan versus Central Bureau of Investigation " reported in

(2009) 11 SCC 737, the prosecution must demonstrate not only -63- existence of unlawful agreement but also the active participation of

the accused therein. The prosecution according to Mr. Awasthi has

heavily relied upon the testimonies of the Police personnel and the

solitary injured witness P.W.3 but P.W.3 has stated that on

account of suffering a firearm injury he had become unconscious

and could not identify the assailants. The evidences of the Police

witnesses are not credible in view of their apparent contradictions

and do not speak of the appellant Vishal Kumar Singh as a

participant in the shootout. The involvement of Vishal Kumar

Singh in the offence alleged is further eroded by the fact that the

learned trial court had not found him guilty either under the Arms

Act or under the Explosive Substance Act . This would further

suggest that purely on the basis of suspicion not backed up by any

cogent material the appellant has been convicted. Mr. Awasthi has

submitted that in absence of any conclusive circumstances' as

demonstrated by him the appellant Vishal Singh @ Vishal Kumar

Singh deserves to be acquitted from the charges levelled against

him. 61. Mr. A.K. Kashyap, learned Senior Counsel

representing the appellant no. 1 Dilip Sao in Criminal Appeal (DB)

No. 599 of 2020 has also adopted the submissions of Mr. Surendra

Singh, learned Senior Counsel but has put forward some

additional grounds particularly with reference to the appellant

Dilip Sao. It has been submitted that the appellant Dilip Sao

has not been named in the First Information Report and was also

not put on Test Identification Parade to ascertain as to whether he

was seen at the place of occurrence or not. No recovery has been

effected consequent to the confessional statement of Dilip Sao and,

therefore, such confessional statement has no evidentiary value as

per Section 25 of the Evidence Act. The alleged recovery of a bike

and mobile were neither produced nor proved as material exhibits.

P.W.2, P.W.3, P.W.4, P.W.7, P.W.22 and P.W.34 have not claimed

to identify any accused who were on representation. P.W.25 as per

his evidence does not appear to be an eyewitness. So far as P.W.11,

P.W.13, P.W.14, P.W.15, P.W.16, P.W.17 and P.W.18 are

concerned, they have claimed to have identified the accused

persons in the dock for the first time after more than 2½ years

from the date of the occurrence and such identification in absence

of any corroboration becomes fallible. It has been submitted that

Aman Srivastava the son of the deceased Sushil Srivastava had

given his fardbeyan on 02.06.2025 at Sadar P.S., Ranchi but the

prosecution has suppressed the said fardbeyan though as per the

evidence of P.W.40 it would be apparent that the said fardbeyan

does not contain the name of any person involved in the incident.

It also does not mention that Avik Srivastava was present at the

place of occurrence. The appellant in his evidence as D.W.7 has

categorically denied his presence at the place of occurrence. Mr.

Kashyap, learned Senior Counsel has stressed much upon the fact -65- that the appellant Dilip Sao has been convicted u/s 302 of the IPC

with the aid of Section 120B of the IPC but there is no evidence on

record to prove the conspiracy supposedly hatched by the

appellant in concert with the other co-accused persons. In support

of his various contentions, learned Senior Counsel has referred to

the cases of " Harbeer Singh versus Sheeshpal and Ors. " reported in

AIR 2016 SC 4958, "Ganesh Bhavan Patel and Another versus State

of Maharashtra" reported in ( 1978) 4 SCC 371, "Maruti Rama Naik

versus State of Maharashtra " reported in (2003) 10 SCC 670. " Jagjit

Singh Alias Jagga versus State of Punjab " reported in ( 2005) 3 SCC

689, "Mohanlal Gangaram Gehani versus State of Maharashtra " 62. Mr. B.M. Tripathi, learned Senior Counsel

appearing on behalf of the victim Avik Srivastava has submitted

that the Court premises was made the battle ground for settling

personal scores. The incident which had taken place in broad

daylight in the citadel of justice by using sophisticated and

advanced weapons like AK-47 rifle and hand grenade was an

attempt to debilitate the institution itself and such brazen act has

to be dealt with strongly. Such act has had a cascading effect on

the litigants and witnesses intending to depose freely and without

fear. The evidence of the witnesses in the backdrop of such a -66- horrible crime should be viewed with a ring of faith and

trustworthiness. It has been submitted that since indiscriminate

firing took place from sophisticated firearms it would be but

natural that the persons present took shelter in order to avoid

being hit by any rogue bullets and in such circumstances, there is

bound to be some variance in the ocular evidence. P.W.2 has given

the minutes details of the incident and he has identified only Rahul

Deo Pandey whom he had seen from before and if the Police

witnesses were influenced the name of all the accused persons

P.W.2 would have stated of identifying all. The evidence is natural

and without any concoction. P.W.4 has identified only Vikas Tiwary

whom he had seen running from behind. P.W.11, P.W.13, P.W.14,

P.W.16, P.W.17 and P.W.18 have identified four accused persons

while P.W.24 has identified Vikas Tiwary and Santosh Pandey.

P.W.7 on the other hand has identified Vikas Tiwary only. Mr.

Tripathi, learned Senior Counsel has submitted that the defence

cannot gain any advantage by putting stress on the photograph of

Vikas Tiwary being published in the newspaper as neither any

newspaper was produced in Court nor its contents exhibited. An

incident of such magnitude was bound to have prominently

featured in the newspapers and that by itself would not degenerate

the case of the prosecution into oblivion by discarding the evidence

of such eye-witnesses. So far as Santosh Pandey and Rahul Deo

Pandey are concerned, they have been identified by several Police -67- personnel and their photographs were also not published in the

newspaper. An alien procedure not akin to criminal jurisprudence

was adopted deliberately in order to create a doubt. Moreover,

when the things which are not before the Court it is well settled

that the Court should not take cognizance of the same. Mr.

Tripathi, learned Senior Counsel for the victim has copiously

referred to the evidence of P.W.24 the son of Sushil Srivastava who

according to him has given a vivid description of the incident and

has identified Vikas Tiwary, Santosh Pandey, Vikas Sao, Deepak

Dhobi, Dilip Sao, Sunil Dhobi, Vishal Singh and others who had

orchestrated the murderous attempt upon his father. He has also

stated about the usages of bombs and AK-47 rifle as well as pistols

by the accused persons. The evidence of P.W.24 in consonance

with the evidence of the prosecution witnesses regarding the

manner of occurrence and such evidence does inspire confidence

and is wholly reliable and trustworthy. Countering the

submissions advanced by the learned counsels for the appellants

that P.W.24 is related to the deceased hence interested witness

submission has been advanced that merely being related to the

deceased would not make such evidence doubtful, more so when

he was present at the place of occurrence and nothing has been

unearthed from his evidence which would show his evidence as

vindictive or exaggerated and designed to frame the appellants.

Reference has been made to the case of " Shio Shankar Dubey and

Others versus State of Bihar " reported in (2019) 6 SCC 501. In reply -68- to the submissions advanced by the learned counsels for the

appellants that the fardbeyan of Aman Srivastava does not disclose

the name of Avik Srivastava as being present and also does not

name Vikas Tiwary as the assailant Mr. Tripathi, learned Senior

Counsel has submitted that the presence of P.W.24 has been

corroborated by P.W.4, P.W.29 and P.W.38. A First Information

Report is not an encyclopaedia having the minutes of details and

absence of the name of P.W.24 cannot be perceived to be the gospel

truth particularly in view of the presence of P.W.24 having been

noted by the witnesses who were present at the place of

occurrence. Mr. Tripathi has also copiously referred to the evidence

of P.W.25 whose evidence is of a sterling character and which the

defence has failed to contradict or demolish. The application u/s

317 Cr.P.C. itself proves the presence of P.W.25 in the Court

premises. The fact that Rahul Deo Pandey was not identified by

P.W.25 puts his evidence on a higher pedestal regarding its

truthfulness and credibility. In support of his various contentions

Mr. Tripathi has relied upon the case of " Mukesh and Another

versus State (NCT of Delhi) and Others " reported in (2017) 6 SCC 1,

"Sidhartha Vashisht alias Manu Sharma versus State (NCT of Delhi )" 63. Learned Spl. P.P. / A.P.P in the respective cases

have adopted the arguments advanced by Mr. B.M. Tripathi,

learned Senior Counsel for the informant. 64. We have heard the learned counsels for the

respective sides and have also perused the Trial Court Records. 65. Sushil Srivastava, an interstate criminal was lodged

in Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan Central Jail, Hazaribagh

serving out his sentence in a case of murder and he was a man of

antecedents. On the fateful day of 02.06.2015 he was to be

produced before two Courts in Hazaribagh and after the formalities

of production was completed he came downstairs, guarded by

several Police personnel specially deputed for his security and in

course of exchanging greetings with his followers and accomplices

an indiscriminate firing started specially targeting Sushil

Srivastava and an improvised grenade was also exploded causing

confusion and chaos and taking advantage of such pandemonium

the accused persons made good their escape by scaling a wall in

course of which an AK-47 rifle fell down which was subsequently

seized. The scenario which emerged thereafter revealed that two of

the accomplices of Sushil Srivastava namely, Gayas Khan and

Kamal Khan died and while Sushil Srivastava was referred to

RIMS, Ranchi from Sadar Hospital, Hazaribagh he also -70- succumbed to his injuries subsequently. The body of Sushil

Srivastava was found riddled with bullets which itself suggests that

he was the main target of the assailants and the death of his

accomplices appear to be collateral damages. The narration of

events by the eyewitnesses speak of a meticulous planning to

eliminate Sushil Srivastava and the Civil Court premises of

Hazaribagh was chosen as a soft spot for executing such devious

intention. The act of the assailants to execute their plan in the

citadel of justice is outrageous and insane and speaks of a demonic

mindset as if the judicial institution is their fiefdom meant for

settling personal scores. Admittedly, though the incident had occurred

leading to the death of three persons but it is to be discerned by

dissecting the evidence on record as to whether the appellants were

the assailants and/or the conspirators to the murders so

committed. 66. The witnesses of the prosecution can be divided

into Police witnesses and non-police witnesses. We have

deliberately referred to P.W.24 and P.W.25 as non-police witnesses

and not independent witnesses since the defense has tried to

create a doubt over their status of being independent witnesses

since P.W.24 is the son of the deceased while P.W.25 was an

associate of the deceased. 67. The Police witnesses who claimed themselves to be

the eyewitnesses have given different versions with respect to the -71- number of assailants who took part in the incident in various

capacities. P.W.1 had arrived at the place of occurrence on account

of an information received from the Officer-in-Charge, Sadar P.S.

but by that time the incident had already taken place. P.W.1 is,

therefore, a hearsay witness. P.W.2 was posted on security duty

within the Civil Court premises and he has stated about seeing 2-3

persons coming out from a Bolero vehicle and spraying Sushil

Srivastava and his two associates with bullets from AK-47 rifles.

P.W.3 in course of firing had sustained a bullet injury and he had

become unconscious. P.W.3 has been candid enough to admit that

he had not identified the assailants and he is unaware about what

happened after he became unconscious. The tenor of evidence of

P.W.4 speaks of a few assailants may be 2 or 3 who had covered

their faces with black cloths and he in his cross-examination has

deposed that he had seen only one person fleeing away. P.W.5 was

one of the members of the Special Force deputed for security of the

prison van. He was present at the place when the incident had

taken place but he has failed to identify any of the accused

persons. P.W.6 had reached the place of occurrence after the

incident had already taken place. P.W.7, P.W.11, P.W.16, P.W.17,

P.W.18 and P.W.34 have stated about the presence of 8-10 persons

who had made a concerted assault with firearms upon Sushil

Srivastava and had also exploded a bomb. The informant who was

examined as P.W.22 and who is also an eyewitness has stated

about 1-2 persons taking part in the firing. The version of the -72- above noted witnesses can be summarized to mean that P.W.2 and

P.W.22 have stated about the presence of 2-3 persons and the

evidence of P.W.4 can be construed to mean a limited number of

assailants while P.W.7, P.W.11, P.W.16, P.W.17, P.W.18 and

P.W.34 have stated about the presence of 8-10 assailants. The

presence of 8-10 assailants taking part in the mayhem seems to

be, in the surrounding circumstances of the case, a highly

exaggerated version. We say this because none of the aforesaid

witnesses have stated about all the 8-10 persons scaling the wall

and making good their escape. It has been consistently stated that

an assailant with an AK-47 rifle fled away by jumping the wall and

in course of such act his AK-47 rifle fell down which was later on

seized. It is not the case of the prosecution that these witnesses

immediately on commencement of the incident had fled away from

the place of occurrence; rather all had taken shelter and / or

position to counter the offensive and it is indeed surprising that

none had stated about how the rest of the participants in the firing

barring the assailants who scaled the wall managed to flee away.

The other aspect of the matter is that when a conspiracy has been

hatched as would appear from the evidence of the witnesses to

eliminate Sushil Srivastava and even if we accept that 8-10

persons were involved and were present at the place of occurrence

it was but natural that they would have been around in order to

execute their devious plan. This scenario was never depicted by the

circumstances and when we have a glance to the ballistic report -73- (Exhibit-9) prepared by P.W.26 it is evident that two AK-47 rifles

were used apart from a hand grenade being thrown. These facts

cement the assertion of P.W.2 that 2-3 persons were involved in

the firing. P.W.22 who is the informant in his evidence has

mentioned about the presence of 1-2 persons. In the fardbeyan of

P.W.22 he has mentioned about one assailant being armed with an

AK-47 rifle while another had thrown a hand grenade. The

promptness of lodging an FIR reflects the true version of the events

which had unfolded and the fardbeyan of P.W.22 making

accusations against two assailants only leads credence to such

assertion. In such context, we may refer to the case of " Jai Prakash

Singh versus State of Bihar and Another ", reported in (2012) 4 SCC

379, wherein it has been held as follows: 68. Mr. Surendra Singh, learned Senior Counsel for the

appellants has submitted that the non-consideration of the

evidence of P.W.2 and P.W.22 by the learned trial court and since

these witnesses favored the accused with respect to the number of

assailants present at the place of occurrence such evidence should

have acted in favour of the appellants. This view has been rendered

in the case of " Virendra versus State of Madhya Pradesh " reported

in AIR 2022 SC 3373, wherein it has been held as follows: It is reiterated in Javed Masood v. State of
 Rajasthan , (2010) 3 SCC 538 : (AIR 2010 SC 979): Reliance was made on the recovery from the
 appellant. The fact remains that there was sufficient
 evidence to conclude that only one shot was fired
 which could be seen even from the evidence of PW15.
 While assessing the evidence produced by the
 defence, courts discarded them without appreciating
 the fact that it has to be seen only on the degree of
 probability." 69. In the backdrop of the aforesaid reasonings we

come to a conclusion that only 2-3 persons were involved in the

murderous assault on Sushil Srivastava as deposed by P.W.2 and

P.W.22 and P.W.7, P.W.11, P.W.16, P.W.17, P.W.18 and P.W.34

seems to have developed their version in that respect in order to

bring all the accused persons within the precincts of suspicion. 70. The evidence of the Police witnesses notably P.W.7,

P.W.11, P.W.13, P.W.14, P.W.15, P.W.16, P.W.17, P.W.18 and

P.W.34 and the sloppy manner in which the investigation has been

carried out is an enigma in itself. The incident had taken place on -76- 02.06.2015 and the promptness in lodging the First Information

Report on the same day itself dissipated with the passage of time

and the subsequent lackadaisical conduct of the Police raises more

questions then answers. These witnesses were available for

recording their statements but despite the same their statements

were recorded on 05.09.2015 and 06.09.2015 for an incident

which had occurred on 02.06.2015. These witnesses were on duty

to provide security of Sushil Srivastava. All these witnesses have

claimed to have identified Vikas Tiwary but the manner of

identification has completely exposed the languid and insouciant

investigation of the Police totally oblivious to the sobriety of the

offence. On a dissection of the evidence of P.W.11, P.W.13, P.W.14,

P.W.15, P.W.16, P.W.17, P.W.18 and P.W.34 the common thread

which runs through is of their awareness about the involvement of

the appellant Vikas Tiwary as the principal offender and the main

adversary of Sushil Srivastava from the newspaper reports which

were published on the next day of the mayhem along with

photographs of Vikas Tiwary which was followed up on subsequent

dates also. These witnesses have been candid enough to state so

and some of them have unflinchingly stated about the pressure

created upon them by the Superintendent of Police, Hazaribagh by

suspending them, seizing their arms and issuing threat of not

revoking the suspension till the accused persons are identified. In

the backdrop of such manner of identification, we may emphasis -77- on a few judgments which would give muscle to such finding of

ours. 71. In the case of "Seeni Nainar Mohammed v. State

Represented by Deputy Superintendent of police" reported in (2017)

13 SCC 685, it has been held as follows: 72. In the case of " Ravi Alias Ravichandran v. State

State Represented by Inspector of police" reported in (2007) 15 SCC

372, it has been held as under: 73. Though it is true that no newspaper containing

such article of the incident or the photographs of Vikas Tiwary

published in the same have been exhibited but that by itself would

not diminish or evanesce the evidence of the witnesses referred to

above viewed in the consistent and corroborative nature of such

evidence with respect to the identification of the appellant through

the photographs which were published in the newspapers. The

circumstances narrated above would, therefore, invalidate the

identification of the appellant Vikas Tiwary so far as P.W.7, P.W.11,

P.W.13, P.W.14, P.W.15, P.W.16, P.W.17, P.W.18 and P.W.34 are

concerned. 74. P.W.24 and P.W.25 have been projected by the

prosecution as witnesses of sterling quality. P.W.24 Avik Srivastava

is the son of the deceased Sushil Srivastava who has stated that on

the fateful day he had come to meet his father along with his -79- brother Aman Srivastava. He has stated about the presence of all

the appellants and a few others standing near a Bolero vehicle. The

presence of the appellants neither created any suspicion in the

mind of P.W.24 nor did P.W.24 took evasive action to shield his

father which seems to be an unnatural conduct on the part of

P.W.24 considering his cross-examination in which he has

admitted about the existence of an enmity between his father and

the appellant Vikas Tiwary. The evidence of P.W.24 is perforated

with contradictions and incongruities as though in his

examination-in-chief he has claimed to have identified Vikas

Tiwary standing besides a Bolero vehicle with the other appellants

but in his cross-examination, he has accepted the fact that he had

not seen Vikas Tiwary prior to the incident and his father had also

not disclosed to him about the age and physical features of Vikas

Tiwary. The unnatural conduct of P.W.24 which we have dealt with

earlier is further fortified by the fact that despite the incident

having taken place on 02.06.2015 no case was lodged by him

immediately or by any of the accomplices of his father. He had

instituted a case on 03.09.2015 at Hazaribagh and during the

intervening period no case was instituted either at Hazaribagh or

at Ranchi. The written report submitted by P.W.24 on 02.09.2015

also appears to have been suppressed by the prosecution. His

statement was recorded by the Police on 03.09.2015. The

institution of the case by P.W.24 after such an inordinate and

unexplainable delay and giving a detailed description of the events -80- is clearly an afterthought and gravitates the evidence of P.W.24

towards the domain of exaggeration and falsity. The evidence of

P.W.24 has also been sought to be challenged on the ground that

P.W.24 is the son of the deceased and an interested witness.

Countering such submission Mr. B.M. Tripathi, learned Senior

Counsel for the informant has relied upon the case of " Shio

Shankar Dubey and Ors. v. State of Bihar " reported in (2019) 6 SCC

501, in which, it has been held as follows: postulates that the person concerned must have
 some direct interest in seeing that the accused
 person is somehow or the other convicted either
 because he had some animus with the accused
 or for some other reason. Such is not the case
 here.' 16. In Dalip Singh v. State of Punjab [Dalip Singh v. State of Punjab, (1953) 2 SCC 36 : AIR 1953
 SC 364 : 1953 Cri LJ 1465] it has been laid
 down as under: (AIR p. 366, para 26)
 '26. A witness is normally to be considered
 independent unless he or she springs from
 sources which are likely to be tainted and that
 usually means unless the witness has cause,
 such as enmity against the accused, to wish to
 implicate him falsely. Ordinarily a close relative
 would be the last to screen the real culprit and
 falsely implicate an innocent person. It is true,
 when feelings run high and there is personal
 cause for enmity, that there is a tendency to
 drag in an innocent person against whom a
 witness has a grudge along with the guilty, but
 foundation must be laid for such a criticism and
 the mere fact of relationship far from being a
 foundation is often a sure guarantee of truth.
 However, we are not attempting any sweeping
 generalisation. Each case must be judged on its
 own facts. Our observations are only made to
 combat what is so often put forward in cases
 before us as a general rule of prudence. There is
 no such general rule. Each case must be limited
 to and be governed by its own facts.'" State of Maharashtra" reported in (2019) 15 SCC 470, it has been

held as follows: 78. Similarly in the case of " Ajmer Singh and Ors. v.

State of Punjab " reported in (1977) 1 SCC 659, it has been held as

under: 79. The aforesaid pronouncements highlight that

improvements and exaggerations from the earlier statement of a

witness which makes such evidence unreliable and untrustworthy.

The evidence of P.W.25 falls within the four corners of these

judgments on account of the inherent nature of improvement made

which has been admitted by P.W.25 in his cross-examination. -85- 80. P.W.4 (Dharmendra Kumar Singh) who is also a

Police personal has claimed to have identified Vikas Tiwary

through Video Conferencing but this witness has also stated about

seeing Vikas Tiwary when he was apprehended and he had also

seen him through photographs published in the newspapers. He

had seen the appellant Vikas Tiwary fleeing away and he had

identified him from the back. Since we have already discarded the

evidence of P.W.7, P.W.11, P.W.13, P.W.14, P.W.15, P.W.16,

P.W.17, P.W.18 and P.W.34 on the issue of identification of the

appellant Vikas Tiwary and the evidence of P.W. 4 being similar

and relatable to these witnesses such testimony cannot be an

apparatus to convict the appellant Vikas Tiwary. Moreover, as we

have come to a conclusive finding that only 2-3 persons were

involved in the murderous assault upon Sushil Srivastava, the

accusations against the accused persons as made by P.W.24 and

P.W.25 further undermines the case of the prosecution. 81. It appears from the evidence of the Investigating

Officer who has been examined as P.W.40 that Aman Srivastava

another son of Sushil Srivastava had recorded a fardbeyan at

Medica Hospital but the same does not mention any of the

appellants being present at the place of occurrence and it also does

not mention the presence of Avik Srivastava (P.W.24) which further

nullifies the evidence of P.W.24. 82. The appellant Vikas Tiwary is said to have

confessed and the said confessional statement has been exhibited -86- but there has been no incriminating material which have surfaced

on such confession and the same being hit by Section 25 Evidence

Act such confessional statement becomes inadmissible in evidence.

Reference in support of the same is placed upon the case of " Rahul

v. State (NCT of Delhi) Ministry of Home Affairs and Anr. " reported in

(2023) 1 SCC 83, wherein it has been held as follows: 83. The detailed circumstances mentioned by us in the

above-mentioned paragraphs clearly points to the absence of any

culpability on the part of the appellant Vikas Tiwary of being

involved in the gruesome and distressing murder of Sushil

Srivastava. -87- 84. So far as the appellant no. 2 Santosh Pandey in

Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 597 of 2020 is concerned, P.W.2, P.W.4

and P.W.5 have failed to identify him. P.W.14 has identified this

appellant but, in his cross-examination, he has deposed of not

disclosing before the Superintendent of Police of his recognizing the

appellant. P.W.16 and P.W.17 have identified the appellant but

have not disclosed even an iota of participation of the appellant in

the shoot out which makes such evidence redundant; more so

when they were suspended along with several other Police

personnel deputed for security of Sushil Srivastava with a threat as

per P.W.34 to identify the accused persons in order to get the

suspensions revoked. P.W.18 has stated about coming to know of

the incident of firing and his identification of the appellant in the

touchstone of such evidence dispels the veracity and truthfulness

of his evidence. So far as P.W.24 and P.W.25 are concerned, we

have already discussed and discarded such evidence while dealing

with the appeal of Vikas Tiwary. The confessional statement of the

appellant was recorded by the Investigating Officer examined as

P.W.40. It is the case of the prosecution based on the evidence of

P.W.8 that after the arrest of the appellant three mobiles were

seized from his possession but it has not been ascertained as to in

how and what manner the seizure of mobiles criminates the

appellant. There appears to be no justifiable and cogent material

inviting an order of conviction. -88- 85. The appellant Vishal Singh in Criminal Appeal (DB)

No. 579 of 2020 seems to have been suspected to be a part of the

gang which had conspired and executed with precision such

devious plan in eliminating Sushil Srivastava. A plea of alibi has

been taken by the appellant and Mr. Anoop Prakash Awasthi,

learned counsel has placed reliance on certain bills which

demonstrates that the appellant was present at Ranchi when the

incident had taken place but such plea appears to suffer from an

inherent weakness as mere bills which can be manufactured and

fabricated cannot and should not form the spine of such plea. The

plea of alibi as raised by the learned counsel for the appellant is,

therefore, negated. The appellant Vishal Singh seems not to have

been put on Test Identification Parade and his identification in the

Dock is after a delay of three years. The identification for the first

time in Court has its innate weakness and, in this context, we may

refer to the case of " Kanan and Ors. v. State of Kerala " reported in

(1979) 3 SCC 319, wherein it has been held as follows: 86. In the case of " Jaspal Singh @ Pali v. State of

Punjab " reported in (1997) 1 SCC 510, it has been held as under: 87. Mr. B.M. Tripathi, learned Senior Counsel for the

informant has placed reliance in the case of " Sidhartha Vashisht

@ Manu Sharma v. State (NCT of Delhi )" reported in (2010) 6 SCC 1,

wherein it has been held as follows: 88. As held in "Sidhartha Vashisht @ Manu Sharma" However, such identification has to be considered in the facts and

circumstances of the case and evidently when the entire

mechanism of identification is designed to ensure the participation

of the appellant which is palpable from the evidence of the

witnesses such evidence creates a grave doubt over the case of the

prosecution. Even though several of the witnesses claimed

themselves to be the eye-witnesses but the degree of inconsistency

in every sphere of their evidence brings even the identification of

the appellants through Video Conferencing within the realm of

doubt. 89. The case of the appellant no. 1 Dilip Sao in

Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 599 of 2020 predominantly falls within -92- the category of the case of the appellant Vishal Singh. As per P.W.9

and P.W.10 a mobile and a motorcycle were recovered from the

possession of the appellant but neither they were produced before

the Court nor an ascertainment has been made by the prosecution

regarding the nexus of such recovery with the alleged incident. The

other features of the case of this appellant are almost similar to the

case of Vishal Singh and none of the circumstances can designate

the appellant as having participated in the shootout. 90. So far as the appellant no. 2 Rahul Deo Pandey in

Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 599 of 2020 is concerned, he was lodged

in Jai Prakash Narayan Central Jail, Hazaribagh in connection

with a case when the incident had occurred. Despite the same in

order to denude the appellant of his innocence the prosecution

through its witnesses have tried to instill an accusation against

him of participating in the incident. P.W.14, P.W.16, P.W.17 and

P.W.18 have identified the appellant though Video Conferencing

but no specific role of the appellant has been assigned by them.

P.W.2 goes to the extent of having seen him from the back but at

the same time he has admitted to some doubt regarding such

identification. P.W.4 and P.W.5 have failed to identify the appellant

and P.W.18 has though identified him but he has stated about

coming to know about the incident which further denigrates his

evidence so far as identification of the appellant is concerned. The

other aspect of the case is of a spy who had disclosed that the

present appellant had confided over mobile to Vikas Tiwary -93- regarding Sushil Srivastava being taken for production in Court

and after the murder was committed it was Vikas Tiwary who had

in turn informed the appellant about the murder. Neither any

witnesses have stated about the appellant Rahul Deo Pandey and

Vikas Tiwary having phones in their possession nor any mobiles

were seized or the CDR has been proved by the prosecution. The

effect of withholding of such vital piece of evidence has been

considered in the case of "Tomaso Bruno & Another Versus State of

Uttar Pradesh", reported in (2015) 7 SCC 178 and the relevant

reads thus: 91. This brings us to the angle of conspiracy as all the

appellants have been convicted u/s 302 of the IPC with the aid of Section 120B of the IPC as the prosecution has sought to bring all

the appellants within the field of collusion, connivance and deceit

as it is the case of the prosecution that a plan was hatched and

executed in eliminating Sushil Srivastava. In " Mukesh v. State (NCT

of Delhi )" reported in (2017) 6 SCC 1, it has been held as follows: The agreement amongst the conspirators can be
 inferred by necessary implication. In most of the
 cases, the conspiracies are proved by the
 circumstantial evidence, as the conspiracy is
 seldom an open affair. The existence of conspiracy
 and its objects are usually deduced from the
 circumstances of the case and the conduct of the
 accused involved in the conspiracy. While
 appreciating the evidence of the conspiracy, it is
 incumbent on the court to keep in mind the well-
 known rule governing circumstantial evidence viz.
 each and every incriminating circumstance must
 be clearly established by reliable evidence and the
 circumstances proved must form a chain of events
 from which the only irresistible conclusion about
 the guilt of the accused can be safely drawn, and
 no other hypothesis against the guilt is possible.
 Criminal conspiracy is an independent offence in
 the Penal Code. The unlawful agreement is sine
 qua non for constituting offence under the Penal
 Code and not an accomplishment. Conspiracy
 consists of the scheme or adjustment between two
 or more persons which may be express or implied
 or partly express and partly implied. Mere
 knowledge, even discussion, of the plan would not
 per se constitute conspiracy. The offence of
 conspiracy shall continue till the termination of
 agreement." 287. After referring to a catena of judicial
pronouncements and authorities, a three-Judge Bench of
this Court in State v. Nalini [State v. Nalini, (1999) 5 SCC
253 : 1999 SCC (Cri) 691] summarised the principles
relating to criminal conspiracy as under : (SCC pp. 515-
18, para 583)
"583. Some of the broad principles governing the law of
conspiracy may be summarised though, as the name
implies, a summary cannot be exhaustive of the
principles. 1. Under Section 120-A IPC offence of criminal
 conspiracy is committed when two or more -96- persons agree to do or cause to be done an illegal
act or legal act by illegal means. When it is a legal
act by illegal means overt act is necessary. Offence of criminal conspiracy is an exception to
the general law where intent alone does not
constitute crime. It is intention to commit crime and
joining hands with persons having the same
intention. Not only the intention but there has to be
agreement to carry out the object of the intention,
which is an offence. The question for consideration
in a case is did all the accused had the intention
and did they agree that the crime be committed. It
would not be enough for the offence of conspiracy
when some of the accused merely entertained a
wish, howsoever horrendous it may be, that
offence be committed. 2. Acts subsequent to the achieving of the object of
conspiracy may tend to prove that a particular
accused was party to the conspiracy. Once the
object of conspiracy has been achieved, any
subsequent act, which may be unlawful, would
not make the accused a part of the conspiracy like
giving shelter to an absconder. 3. Conspiracy is hatched in private or in secrecy. It
is rarely possible to establish a conspiracy by
direct evidence. Usually, both the existence of the
conspiracy and its objects have to be inferred from
the circumstances and the conduct of the accused. 4. Conspirators may for example, be enrolled in a
chain -- A enrolling B, B enrolling C, and so on;
and all will be members of a single conspiracy if
they so intend and agree, even though each
member knows only the person who enrolled him
and the person whom he enrols. There may be a
kind of umbrella-spoke enrolment, where a single
person at the centre does the enrolling and all the
other members are unknown to each other, though
they know that there are to be other members. These are theories and in practice it may be
difficult to tell which conspiracy in a particular
case falls into which category. It may, however,
even overlap. But then there has to be present
mutual interest. Persons may be members of single
conspiracy even though each is ignorant of the
identity of many others who may have diverse role
to play. It is not a part of the crime of conspiracy
that all the conspirators need to agree to play the
same or an active role. 5. When two or more persons agree to commit a
crime of conspiracy, then regardless of making or
considering any plans for its commission, and
despite the fact that no step is taken by any such -97- person to carry out their common purpose, a crime
is committed by each and every one who joins in
the agreement. There has thus to be two
conspirators and there may be more than that. To
prove the charge of conspiracy it is not necessary
that intended crime was committed or not. If
committed it may further help prosecution to prove
the charge of conspiracy. 6. It is not necessary that all conspirators should
agree to the common purpose at the same time. They may join with other conspirators at any time
before the consummation of the intended objective,
and all are equally responsible. What part each
conspirator is to play may not be known to
everyone or the fact as to when a conspirator
joined the conspiracy and when he left. 7. A charge of conspiracy may prejudice the
accused because it forces them into a joint trial
and the court may consider the entire mass of
evidence against every accused. Prosecution has
to produce evidence not only to show that each of
the accused has knowledge of the object of
conspiracy but also of the agreement. In the
charge of conspiracy the court has to guard itself
against the danger of unfairness to the accused.
Introduction of evidence against some may result
in the conviction of all, which is to be avoided. By
means of evidence in conspiracy, which is
otherwise inadmissible in the trial of any other
substantive offence prosecution tries to implicate
the accused not only in the conspiracy itself but
also in the substantive crime of the alleged
conspirators. There is always difficulty in tracing
the precise contribution of each member of the
conspiracy but then there has to be cogent and
convincing evidence against each one of the
accused charged with the offence of conspiracy.
As observed [United States v. Falcone, 109 F 2d
579 (2d Cir 1940)] by Judge Learned Hand that
"this distinction is important today when many
prosecutors seek to sweep within the dragnet of
conspiracy all those who have been associated in
any degree whatever with the main offenders". 8. As stated above it is the unlawful agreement
and not its accomplishment, which is the gist or
essence of the crime of conspiracy. Offence of
criminal conspiracy is complete even though there
is no agreement as to the means by which the
purpose is to be accomplished. It is the unlawful
agreement which is the gravamen of the crime of
conspiracy. The unlawful agreement which
amounts to a conspiracy need not be formal or -98- express, but may be inherent in and inferred from
 the circumstances, especially declarations, acts
 and conduct of the conspirators. The agreement
 need not be entered into by all the parties to it at
 the same time, but may be reached by successive
 actions evidencing their joining of the conspiracy. 9. It has been said that a criminal conspiracy is a
 partnership in crime, and that there is in each
 conspiracy a joint or mutual agency for the
 prosecution of a common plan. Thus, if two or more
 persons enter into a conspiracy, any act done by
 any of them pursuant to the agreement is, in
 contemplation of law, the act of each of them and
 they are jointly responsible therefor. This means
 that everything said, written or done by any of the
 conspirators in execution or furtherance of the
 common purpose is deemed to have been said,
 done or written by each of them. And this joint
 responsibility extends not only to what is done by
 any of the conspirators pursuant to the original
 agreement but also to collateral acts incident to
 and growing out of the original purpose. A
 conspirator is not responsible, however, for acts
 done by a co-conspirator after termination of the
 conspiracy. The joinder of a conspiracy by a new
 member does not create a new conspiracy nor
 does it change the status of the other conspirators,
 and the mere fact that conspirators individually or
 in groups perform different tasks to a common end
 does not split up a conspiracy into several
 different conspiracies. 10. A man may join a conspiracy by word or by
 deed. However, criminal responsibility for a
 conspiracy requires more than a merely passive
 attitude towards an existing conspiracy. One who
 commits an overt act with knowledge of the
 conspiracy is guilty. And one who tacitly consents
 to the object of a conspiracy and goes along with
 other conspirators, actually standing by while the
 others put the conspiracy into effect, is guilty
 though he intends to take no active part in the
 crime." 288. The rationale of conspiracy is that the required
objective manifestation of disposition of criminality is
provided by the act of agreement. Conspiracy is a
clandestine activity. Persons generally do not form
illegal covenants openly. In the interest of security, a
person may carry out his part of a conspiracy without
even being informed of the identity of his co- conspirators. An agreement of this kind can rarely be
shown by direct proof; it must be inferred from the -99- circumstantial evidence of cooperation between the
 accused. What people do is, of course, evidence of what
 lies in their minds. To convict a person of conspiracy, the
 prosecution must show that he agreed with others that
 they would together accomplish the unlawful object of
 the conspiracy. (See Firozuddin Basheeruddin v. State of
 Kerala [Firozuddin Basheeruddin v. State of Kerala,
 (2001) 7 SCC 596 : 2001 SCC (Cri) 1341] .)" Condition precedent, therefore, for holding the
 accused persons guilty of a charge of criminal
 conspiracy must, therefore, be considered on the anvil of
 a fact which must be established by the prosecution viz.
 meeting point of two or more persons for doing or
 causing to be done an illegal act or an act by illegal
 means. 74. The courts, however, while drawing an inference
 from the materials brought on record to arrive at a
 finding as to whether the charges of the criminal
 conspiracy have been proved or not, must always bear
 in mind that a conspiracy is hatched in secrecy and it is,
 thus, difficult, if not impossible, to obtain direct evidence
 to establish the same. The manner and circumstances in
 which the offences have been committed and the level of
 involvement of the accused persons therein are relevant
 factors. For the said purpose, it is necessary to prove
 that the propounders had expressly agreed to or caused -100- to be done the illegal act but it may also be proved
 otherwise by adduction of circumstantial evidence
 and/or by necessary implication. (See Mohd. Usman
 Mohammad Hussain Maniyar v. State of Maharashtra [(1981) 2 SCC 443 : 1981 SCC (Cri) 477] .) 81. A conspiracy may further be a general one and a
 separate one. A smaller conspiracy may be a part of a
 larger conspiracy. It may develop in successive stages.
 ( Nirmal Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab [(2009) 1 SCC
 441 : (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) 523 : (2008) 14 Scale 639] )
 New techniques may be invented and new means may
 be devised for advancement of common plan. For the
 said purpose, conduct of the parties would also be
 relevant." 93. The theory of conspiracy as propounded by the

prosecution seems to be devoid of its basic tenets. In fact, after the

incident had taken place, the investigation seems to have taken out

a leaf from the articles in the newspapers showing the culpability

of the appellant Vikas Tiwary in the murder of Sushil Srivastava

and accordingly proceeded on such lines. The entire case of the

prosecution though have tried to instill a conspiracy theory but

neither from the conduct of the accused persons nor from any

material collected during investigation meeting of minds of the

appellants to execute such dastardly act has surfaced. The solitary

feature of a conspiracy having been hatched seems to be the

telephonic conversation between the appellant Vikas Tiwary and

the appellant Rahul Deo Pandey after Sushil Srivastava had left

the Jail for the Court for production and after his murder was

committed but once again these are vague assertions as neither

any mobile was seized nor the CDR exhibited. The theory of

conspiracy is built up on the purported enmity existing between

Sushil Srivastava and Vikas Tiwary. None of the features assorted -101- by the prosecution demonstrates that a conspiracy was indeed

hatched by the appellants and the murder of Sushil Srivastava was

the ultimate outcome of such conspiracy. The prosecution has remained silent about the

involvement of another person namely, Raj Singh who was a

shooter and according to P.W.11 his name had appeared in the

newspapers also. P.W.40 who is one of Investigating Officers has

stated about coming to know regarding the involvement of Raj in

the shoot out which has surfaced in course of investigation.

Another of the Investigating Officer who has been examined as

P.W.41 had explored such angle to a certain extent by visiting

Sultanpur to seek the remand of Raj as he was in jail but since Raj

was shifted to another prison in Bareli such effort seems to have

petered out. This would further characterize the manner in which

the investigation was carried out as despite receiving information

about Raj being one of the shooters and despite having located him

the Police had acted in an utter nonchalant and indifferent manner

decimating the lead it had got and closing the chapter on one of

the prime suspects. 94. Thus, on the basis of the discussions and

reasonings enunciated above, we hereby set aside the judgment

and order of conviction and sentence dated 11.09.2020 (Sentence

passed on 22.09.2020) passed by Sri Amit Shekhar, learned

Additional Sessions Judge-VI, Hazaribagh in S.T. No. 141 of 2016. 95. All these appeals are allowed. 96. Since the appellants are in custody they are
 directed to be released immediately and forthwith if not wanted in
 any other case. 97. Pending I.As., if any, stands closed. (Rongon Mukhopadhyay, J.)

 (Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J.)

High Court of Jharkhand at Ranchi
Dated, the 18th day of February, 2026. A. Sanga /- Uploaded on 18.02.2026 -103-