P. Sathasivam, J. 1) Narmada Bai-the petitioner herein, mother of Tulsiram 

Prajapati-the deceased, who, according to her, was killed on 

27/28.12.2006 in a fake encounter by respondent Nos. 6 to 

19, who are the officials of Gujarat and Rajasthan Police, 

somewhere on the road going from Ambalimal to Sarhad 

Chhapri, has filed the above writ petition under Article 32 of 

the Constitution of India praying for issuance of a writ of 

mandamus or in the nature thereof or any other writ, order or 

direction directing the Central Bureau of Investigation (in 1 short `the CBI') to register a First Information Report (in short 

`FIR') and investigate into the fake encounter killing of her son 

and submit its report to this Court. In the same petition, she 

also prayed for compensation for the killing of her son in a 

fake encounter thereby causing gross violation of Articles 21 and 22 of the Constitution. 2) Case of the Writ Petitioner:- Thereafter, on 18.05.2006, the deceased also addressed a 

letter to the Chairman, National Human Rights Commission 

(in short `NHRC') alleging that there was conspiracy among the 

police officials of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, etc. to do 

away with him in a fake encounter by cooking up a false story 

of running away from custody. In the said letter, the deceased 

specifically requested that his security be ensured whenever 3 he is taken on remand. In the same letter, he also mentioned 

that the Gujarat Crime Branch and Anti Terrorist Squad (in 

short `ATS') were very notorious for staging fake encounters. The NHRC acknowledged the receipt of the said letter and 

forwarded a copy to the Superintendent of Police, Udaipur, 

Rajasthan vide letter dated 22.06.2006. (c) Thus from March 2006, the deceased had been 

expressing serious apprehensions and threat to his life at the 

hands of the police. The deceased had reasons to believe that 

Mr. Dinesh Kumar, Superintendent of Police, respondent No.8, 

had taken a huge sum of money from the Marble traders and 

dealers in Rajasthan with the assurance that he would do 

away with him in a fake encounter. Before he being 

interrogated by Ms. Geeta Johri, an officer investigating the 

matter of fake encounter killing of Sohrabuddin and his wife 

Kausarbi, in the night intervening 27/28 December, 2006, 

Tulsiram Prajapati was done away in a fake encounter by 

respondent Nos. 6-19. (d) Quoting from certain newspaper reports, more 

particularly, the Times of India dated 29.12.2006, the 4 petitioner has alleged that her son was being escorted by 

Udaipur (Rajasthan) Police from Ahmedabad to Udaipur in a 

train. When the train was passing through Himatnagar- Shymlaji Stretch, the deceased sought permission to go to the 

toilet. The policemen escorted him to the toilet where two of 

his accomplices disguised as passengers attacked the 

policemen by throwing chilli powder in their eyes. When the 

policemen called for the other members of the escort party, the 

goons fired at them and jumped off the moving train. In 

response, the police opened fire but the accused fled in the 

cover of darkness after shooting back at the police. (e) Pursuant to such alleged fleeing of Tulsiram Prajapati 

from police custody, Mr. Dinesh Kumar, SP, Udaipur called 

Mr. Vipul Agarwal, SP Banaskantha and informed him of the 

same. Thereafter, local police of Banaskantha headed by Mr. 

Vipul Agarwal under direct supervision of Mr. D.G. Vanzara, 

Range DIG, swung into action and registered an FIR being 

Crime Register No. 115 of 2006 at Ambaji Police Station, 

Banaskantha, on 28.12.2006 at 8.00 hrs. claiming that 

Tulsiram Prajapati had been killed in an encounter. (f) It is further alleged that when patrolling was carried out, 

three persons tried to stop one Matador van but the vehicle 

did not stop there. It has also been alleged that a police jeep 

of Mr. A.A. Pandya, SI was coming behind the Matador and the 

said three persons tried to stop it. On stopping the police jeep, 

Mr. Narayansinh Fatehsinh Chauhan, ASI recognized one of 

the three persons in the light of jeep as the absconding 

Tulsiram Prajapati. On seeing that, the deceased took out a 

weapon kept in the nylon belt on his waist and fired which hit 

the left side of the mudguard of the police jeep and ran away 

in the darkness. While running, they fired at the police party 

in which one bullet hit at the left shoulder of Shri A.A. Pandya, 

SI. It is alleged that in self-defence Shri A.A. Pandya fired two 

rounds from his service revolver and Mr. Narayansinh 

Fatehsinh Chauhan and Mr. Yuddharamsinh Nathusinh 

Rajput, Rajasthan police constables also fired from their 

weapons. On account of the firing by the police party, bullets 

hit Tulsiram Prajapati and he fell down on road side and the 

other two persons ran away and could not be traced. Thereafter, he was taken to Ambaji Cottage Hospital where he 

was declared dead by the doctor on duty. (g) It is the further case of the petitioner that the deceased 

being a key eye witness to the murder of Sohrabuddin and his 

wife Kausarbi, the team of Mr. D.G. Vanzara and others 

planned to do away with him to avoid his interrogation by Ms. 

Geeta Johri, Inspector General of Police. The aforesaid facts 

create a strong suspicion on the conduct of respondent Nos. 6 

to 19 and the petitioner has every reason to believe that her 

son- Tulsiram Prajapati has been killed by them in a fake 

encounter. She also alleged that the respondents/accused 

officers enjoy powerful position in their respective State Police 

and are trying to obstruct further inquiry into the fake 

encounter killing of her son, who was a material witness in the 

case of fake encounter of Sohrabuddin and his wife Kausarbi. Hence, the petitioner has preferred this petition before this 

Court praying for direction to CBI to register an FIR and 

investigate the case. 3) Stand of the State of Gujarat - respondent No.1 (a) Shri I.M. Desai, Deputy Inspector General of Police, CID 

(Crime), Gujarat State filed an affidavit wherein it was stated 

that the present petition under Article 32 of the Constitution is 

not maintainable as the case registered in respect of death of 

the petitioner's son in police firing on 28.12.2006 was under up for which a criminal case was registered at Bhopalpura 

Police Station in C.R.No. 131 of 2006 under Sections 341 , 323 , 506 and 34 IPC. (c) As regards the complaint made to the NHRC, investigation 

carried out so far revealed that no such conspiracy amongst 

the police officers of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh 

and Rajasthan has come on record. The deceased also never 

showed any apprehension to the petitioner about danger to his 

life from marble dealers or police officers of Udaipur. The 

petitioner's claim about Tulsiram Prajapati's apprehension to 

his life is at the most hearsay and based on extraneous 

considerations. (d) The claim that the deceased-Tulsiram Prajapati was highly 

inconvenient witness for respondent Nos. 6-19 is without 

substance as respondent No. 10 - Mr. V.L. Solanki, an inquiry 

officer, has stated in respect of alleged killing of Sohrabuddin 

that during preliminary enquiry there was no link between 

Tulsiram Prajapati and the death of Sohrabuddin and his wife 

Kausarbi in an encounter. The same view has been expressed 

by Ms. Geeta Johri, IGP under whose direct supervision the 

case relating to Sohrabuddin was investigated. The `third 

person' allegedly present at the time of abduction of 10 Sohrabuddin and Kausarbi was Kalimuddin and not Tulsiram 

Prajapati. (e) In the subsequent affidavit dated 19.08.2010, 

Dashrathbhai R. Patel, Under Secretary, Government of 

Gujarat, Home Department has stated that the State CID 

(Crime) has filed a charge-sheet which is the subject-matter of 

present writ petition. It is the consistent stand of the State 

that the encounter killing of Tulsiram Prajapati (subject- matter of Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 115 of 2007) has nothing to 

do with the killing of Sohrabuddin and Kausarbi (which was 

the subject-matter decided by this Court in Writ Petition (Crl.) 

No. 6 of 2007). by/at the behest of political party controlling the CBI. (b) The investigation in a criminal case normally takes place 

in accordance with the procedure prescribed under the Code 

of Criminal Procedure (in short `the Cr.P.C .') and by the 

normal investigating agency prescribed. The Constitutional 

Court can direct deviation from such statutorily prescribed 11 method of investigation and direct an outside agency like the 

CBI to step in and investigate an offence only in extraordinary 

circumstances and in rarest of rare cases. The petitioner has 

not led factual foundation of facts to hold that the present 

case is one of the rarest of rare cases which requires deviation 

from the statutorily prescribed mode of investigation. (c) On perusal of both the investigations and charge-sheet 

which are filed in both the offences, it is seen that there is no 

credible evidence to support the view that Tulsiram Prajapati 

was that `third person' and the evidence which the CBI is 

relying on is clearly fabricated being based on the unreliable 

statements of witnesses. On the other hand all available 

evidence points to the fact that the `third person' could only be 

Kalimuddin @ Naimuddin who is under the protection of the 

Andhra Pradesh Police. The CBI is seeking to take over 

Tulsiram Prajapati's encounter case only to fabricate the 

evidence and to destroy the charge-sheet filed by the Gujrat 

Police in Tulsiram Prajapati's case. The status report filed by 

the CBI in Sohrabuddin's case that Tulsiram Prajapati was the 

`third person' which is a blatant lie. Though there is no link 12 between the two and yet the CBI is attempting to fabricate a 

link that does not exist. Inasmuch as the CBI which has lost 

all its credibility as an independent agency and is being used 

by political party in power in the Central Government, in the 

absence of any extraordinary circumstances having been 

shown by the petitioner in the petition no direction need be 

issued for handing over the investigation to the CBI and 

prayed for dismissal of the writ petition. Special Crime Branch, Mumbai, as per the directions of this 

Court in its order dated 12.01.2010, vide Writ Petition (Crl.) 

No. 6 of 2007 revealed that the alleged fake encounter of 

Tulsiram Prajapati on 28.12.2006 was done in order to 

eliminate him as he was the key witness in the criminal 

conspiracy of the abduction and killing of Sohrabuddin and 

Kausarbi by the powerful and the influential accused persons. The investigation further revealed that the deceased knew that 

his death was imminent at the hands of Gujarat Police in 13 connivance with the Rajasthan Police as he was the prime 

witness to the said case. (b) The investigation also revealed that Tulsiram Prajapati 

was brought to Ahmedabad on 28.11.2006 and 12.12.2006 in 

connection with the case No. 1124 of 2004 in JM Court No. 

13, Ahmedabad, along with co-accused Md. Azam and around 

50 police commandos were accompanied for the escort party, 

whereas on 25.11.2006, Tulsiram Prajapati was brought alone 

on police escort by Rajasthan Police from Udaipur Jail when 

less than five police men accompanied him. After the orders of 

this Court for the investigation by this agency, it emerged that 

police officials of ATS, Ahmedabad were involved in the 

abduction and killing of Sohrabuddin and his wife Kausarbi. (c) The murder of Tulsiram Prajapati took place on 

28.12.2006, case was registered on 28.12.2006 and Gujarat 

CID commenced investigation on 22.03.2007. However, even 

after a lapse of 3 years, no action was taken against any of the 

accused. As directed by this Court, only on the investigation 

of Tulsiram Prajapati's case, the "larger conspiracy" would be 

established and the mandate and tasks assigned by this Court 14 to the CBI would be accomplished both in letter and spirit 

towards the goal of a fair trial, upholding the rule of law. If 

Tulsiram Prajapati's fake encounter case is not transferred to 

the CBI for investigation, it may lead to issue-estoppel or res 

judicata against prosecution. Stand of the other respondents 6) As far as the officials of the Gujarat State Police are 

concerned, they reiterated the stand taken by the State. Mr. 

Dinesh Kumar, S.P. Udaipur, Rajasthan-respondent No.8 has 

filed a separate counter affidavit denying all the allegations 

made by the petitioner and taking the same stand as that of 

the State of Gujarat and ultimately prayed for dismissal of the 

writ petition. 7) In the light of the above pleadings, we heard Mr. Huzefa 

A. Ahmadi, learned counsel for the writ petitioner, Mr. Ranjit 

Kumar, learned senior counsel for the State of Gujarat 

(respondent No.1), Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned senior 

counsel for Amit Shah (respondent No.2), Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi, 

learned senior counsel for the CBI, Mr. Deepak Prakash, 

learned counsel for respondent No.8, Mr. Jaideep Gupta, 15 learned senior counsel for respondent No.6, Gp. Capt. Karan 

Singh Bhati, learned counsel for respondent Nos. 12, 13 and 

14 and Mr. H.P. Rawal, learned ASG for the Union of India. 8) The main grievance of the petitioner is that her deceased 

son - Tulsiram Prajapati being a key witness to the murder of 

Sohrabuddin and his wife Kausarbi, the team of Mr. D.G. 

Vanzara, DIG and other officers of the State Police planned to 

do away him to avoid the interrogation by Ms. Geeta Johri, 

IGP. The petitioner had also strong suspicion on the conduct 

of respondent Nos. 6-19 and has every reason to believe that 

her son had been killed by them in a fake encounter. It is also 

the apprehension of the petitioner that since the 

respondents/accused police officers enjoy powerful position in 

their respective States and they are trying to obstruct further 

inquiry in the matter, prayed for entrusting the investigation 

to a specialized independent agency like the CBI. 9) Mr. Ranjit Kumar, learned senior counsel for the State of 

Gujarat and Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned senior counsel for 

Mr. Amit Shah, respondent No.2, who, at the relevant time 

was the Home Minister of the State, vehemently objected the 16 claim of the petitioner and by placing several materials 

submitted that inasmuch as after proper investigation the 

State Police has filed the charge-sheet, there is no need for 

further investigation by the CBI at this stage. They further 

submitted that any such direction at this stage would delay 

the entire prosecution. Key Issues: Analysis as to issue (a): (Emphasis supplied)

It is clear that in an appropriate case, particularly, when the 

Court feels that the investigation by the State police 

authorities is not in the proper direction as the high police 

officials are involved, in order to do complete justice, it is 

always open to the Court to hand over the investigation to an 

independent and specialized agency like the CBI. 12) In the light of the above principles, now let us consider 

the second issue (b) viz., whether the investigation relating to 

the encounter killing of Tulsiram Prajapati should be 

transferred to the CBI in spite of the fact that the charge-sheet 

has been submitted in the Court by the State Police. 13) It is the specific stand of the writ petitioner that while 

considering the grievance of Rubabbuddin Sheikh about the 

death of his brother Sohrabuddin in a fake encounter, the 

present petitioner, mother of Tulsiram Prajapati also filed Writ 

Petition (Crl.) No. 115 of 2007 and, the same was tagged along 

with Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 6 of 2007 which was filed by 

brother of Sohrabuddin. The cause title of the case vide Rubabbuddin Sheikh vs. State of Gujarat & Ors. (2010) 2 

SCC 200 shows that Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 115 of 2007 was 

heard along with Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 6 of 2007. Though at 

the end of the judgment, this Court directed that Writ Petition 

(Crl.) No. 115 of 2007 be listed after eight weeks before an 

appropriate Bench. As pointed out by the learned counsel for 

the petitioner and the CBI , the said judgment records that 

there is strong suspicion that the `third person' picked up with 20 Sohrabuddin was Tulsiram Prajapati. It was also observed 

that call records of Tulsiram Prajapati were not properly 

analyzed and there was no justification for the then 

investigation officer, Ms. Geeta Johri to have walked out of the 

investigation pertaining to Tulsiram Prajapati. In para 65, the 

following observations are relevant: (Emphasis supplied)

Apart from the above conclusion, after analyzing several 

Action Taken Reports filed by the State and various 

circumstances and in view of the involvement of the high 

police officials of the State in the crime therein, this Court 

directed the CBI to investigate all the aspects of the case 

relating to the killing of Sohrabuddin and his wife Kausarbi 

including the possibility of a "larger conspiracy'" They are: accused of Sohrabuddin in Hamid Lala's case and was taken 22 into custody only on 29.11.2005. Obviously, he had been 

absconding till then. In other words, he had been absconding 

for nearly a year before he was arrested. After his arrest, he 

was lodged in Central Jail, Udaipur. While in custody, he and 

two of his jail-mates addressed a letter dated 11.05.2006 to 

the Collector, Udaipur informing him about the attack carried 

out on them in the jail premises and they were badly injured. He did not even express a suspicion about any one who 

planned the attack on him. He named seven persons who had 

actually participated in the attack. In the said letter, he did 

not allege or even suspect that this dangerous assault in jail 

had anything to do with the Sohrabuddin-Kausarbi fake 

encounter case or that he was being eliminated because he 

was a witness of the murder of either Sohrabuddin or his wife. ii) On 18.05.2006, Tulsiram Prajapati addressed another 

letter to the Chairman, NHRC, New Delhi. In this letter again, 

he did not allege that he was an eye witness and that is why 

he was afraid of being eliminated. He, however, did admit that 

he is an accused in serious cases in the State of Maharashtra, 

Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. What he alleged 23 was that there was a conspiracy among the police officers of 

these States to knock him out. Even the NHRC did not draw 

any inference. Ultimately, Tulsiram Prajapati was killed at 

about 8.00 a.m. on 28.12.2006. The scene of offence was 

within the jurisdiction of Ambaji Police Station in District 

Banaskantha of Gujarat. An FIR of this incident was 

registered on the same day within 15 minutes. iii) Till his death, no evidence had emerged that he had 

accompanied Sohrabuddin about 13 months back i.e. on 

25.11.2005 to Gujarat where the encounter took place on the 

outskirts of Ahmedabad. iv) The order of this Court in Rubabbuddin Sheikh (supra) 

has been made under unfortunate circumstances without 

hearing anybody except the State of Gujarat. It is the Union of 

India and Amicus who is a law officer of the Union of India 

that wanted the investigation into the Sohrabuddin's case be 

transferred to the CBI which had been fully investigated by the 

State police and resulted in a charge-sheet as far back as on 

16.07.2007. The main ground on which faults were found was 

that the investigation was the alleged failure to identify the 24 Andhra Pradesh Police officers and others who participated in 

the abduction of the couple from Hyderabad to Gujarat leading 

eventually to their being killed. v) Apart from the 13 accused who had originally been 

charge-sheeted by the Gujarat Police as a result of their 

investigation, the CBI, on 23.07.2010, added the then Home 

Minister of Gujarat as accused No.16 and involved him in the 

Sohrabuddin's murder case. vi) The CBI submitted two reports- Status Report No.1 on 

30.07.2010 and a week thereafter, they filed the charge-sheet. In pursuance of the charge-sheet, accused No.16-Amit Shah 

was arrested on 25.07.2010 and released on bail by the High 

Court of Gujarat on 29.10.2010. The order releasing him on 

bail is subject matter of challenge in SLP (Crl.) No. 9003 of 

2010. The Status Report No.1, filed by the CBI before the 

Bench on 30.07.2010 informed the Court that Tulsiram 

Prajapati was abducted along with Sohrabuddin and Kausarbi 

and he was handed over to the Rajasthan Police. There is no 

explanation as to why he was not killed along with Kausarbi or 

Sohrabuddin. After all, both were arch criminals jointly 25 involved in several murderous activities all over the country. When he was spared for 13 months and then disposed of 

during this time he had every opportunity to disclose that he 

was an eye witness of the Sohrabuddin's murder case. 16) By placing all the above details and further materials 

both the senior counsel submitted: This is a dishonest finding based upon some fabricated 

circumstances which are capable of being easily demolished. v) The order dated 12.01.2010 in Rubabbuddin Sheikh (supra) is contrary to binding authorities and no credence or 

value can in law be assigned to the two Status reports. The 

very anxiety on the other side that this should be handed over 

to the CBI creates a serious apprehension about the 

impartiality and independence of this agency. Analysis as to issue (b): Even before the said Bench, such move was strongly resisted 

by the State through their senior counsel Mr. Mukul Rohtagi. 18) Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing 

for the respondent No. 2 in the present writ petition 

vehemently submitted that the entire discussion and the 

ultimate conclusion in Rubabbuddin Sheikh 's case is 

unacceptable and no reliance needs to be placed on it. He also 

submitted that respondent No. 2 and other police officials were 

not heard by the said Bench before ordering fresh 

investigation by the CBI. It is true that in the said writ 

petition, on behalf of the respondents, the Bench heard only 

the counsel for the State of Gujarat, however, it is not the case 

of any one that the State was not given adequate opportunity 

before the said Bench. As said earlier, in fact, the State was 

represented by Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, reputed senior counsel and 

he put forth all relevant materials highlighting the stand of the 

State. Inasmuch as all the police officials of the State of 

Gujarat including the respondent No. 2 in the present writ 

petition were part of the State in Rubabuddin Sheikh 's case, 29 we are of the view that it cannot be said that the same is not 

applicable to the case on hand. The following conclusion in Rubabbuddin Sheikh 's case are relevant: After arriving at such conclusion, the Bench directed the CBI 

to investigate all aspects of the case relating to the killing of 

Sohrabuddin and his wife Kausarbi including the alleged 

possibility of a "larger conspiracy". 19) It is clear that the above judgment records that there was 

a strong suspicion that the `third person' picked up with 

Sohrabuddin was Tulsiram Prajapati. It was also observed 

that the call records of Tulsiram were not properly analyzed 

and there was no justification for the then Investigation Officer - Ms. Geeta Johri to have walked out of the investigation 

pertaining to Tulsiram Prajapati. The Court had also directed 32 the CBI to unearth "larger conspiracy" regarding the 

Sohrabuddin's murder. In such circumstances, we are of the 

view that those observations and directions cannot lightly be 

taken note of and it is the duty of the CBI to go into all the 

details as directed by this Court. 20) Countering the stand of the petitioner, CBI and Union of 

India, the State and other respondents projected the case 

relating to Navrangpura which took place on 08.12.2004. The 

scene of offence was the office premises of a firm called 

Popular Builders owned by two Patel brothers - Raman Patel 

and Dashrath Patel. Some unknown persons entered into the 

premises and they did not kill anyone but they fired shots 

which damaged the computer installed in the office. An 

employee of the firm, who was sitting on the ground floor, 

where the incident took place, lodged an FIR with the 

Navrangpura Police Station on 08.12.2004 in the city of 

Ahmedabad. The FIR did not name any one of the assailant, 

however, it was then discovered that the FIR was substantially 

a false one and the suspects were known and yet had not been 

named. As a result of fresh discovery made during the course 33 of investigation, it was Patel Brothers who were ultimately 

charge-sheeted for filing a false case. The second case is 

Hamid Lala murder case in which one Hamid Lala, a protector 

of marble dealers of Rajasthan against criminal extortion by 

Sohrabuddin gang was shot dead at a place within the 

jurisdiction of Ambaji Police Station, Udaipur in the State of 

Rajasthan. This incident took place on 31.12.2004. It is a 

fact that Sohrabuddin after committing Hamid Lala's murder 

absconded and was not available to the Rajasthan Police. Later, it came to the knowledge of the investigating authorities 

that he had been hiding in a village of Madhya Pradesh. In the 

Hamid Lala murder case, Sohrabuddin's co-accused were 

Tulsiram Prajapati, Sylvester and one Azamkhan. It was 

further pointed out that one Kalimuddin @ Naimuddin another 

notorious criminal wanted in many serious cases was residing 

in the State of Andhra Pradesh along with his sister Saleema 

Begum. They were acting as informers of the Andhra Pradesh 

Police and they were under their protection. Saleema Begum 

was residing in Government Railway Quarters. It was 

Kalimuddin, who seems to have approached by somebody who 34 invited Sohrabuddin and his wife Kausarbi from their hide out 

in Madhya Pradesh to Hyderabad. This happened in the 

middle of November, 2005. It was further highlighted that on 

or about 22.11.2005, Sohrabuddin and his wife Kausarbi left 

by a luxury bus for Sangli in Maharashtra. Two tickets for the 

bus journey were purchased by one Sri Hari. The bus was 

pursued by police vehicle, two of them were in Tata Sumo 

vehicles belonging to the Andhra Pradesh Police. They were 

driven by two drivers in the employment of police being 

ordinary policemen. The Andhra Pradesh police officers who 

sat in these two vehicles have not been identified despite 

investigation both by the Gujarat Police as well as later by the 

CBI. Sohrabuddin was done to death in an encounter with the 

police in the early morning of 26.11.2005. In the eventual 

charge-sheet filed by the Gujarat Police on 16.07.2007 against 

13 persons it was reported that the encounter was a fake one. It is the definite case of the respondent No. 2 that the 

preliminary enquiry was first registered on 27.06.2006. In the 

charge-sheet filed on 16.07.2007, the Gujarat Police found no 

evidence of any kind to implicate the respondent No. 2-Amit 35 Shah. 21) Mr. Ranjit Kumar and Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned 

senior counsel pointed out that the Gujarat Police while 

investigating Sohrabuddin's murder case had conducted a 

good part of investigation in the State of Andhra Pradesh. The 

Andhra Pradesh Police, however, was determined to yield no 

clue whatsoever about the role of the State police in the 

murder. Ms. Geeta Johri, the head of the Gujarat 

Investigating Chief had interrogated the potential witnesses 

but she drew a blank. She was not provided with more 

materials such as Vehicle Entry Register for further 

investigation. The Gujarat police headed by Ms. Johri had 

come to the conclusion that it was possible that the couple 

was accompanied by a `third person' and in all probability that 

person was Kalimuddin, who had succeeded in getting the 

couple from Madhya Pradesh to Hyderabad and he handed 

over the couple to the murdering team which certainly 

included the Andhra Pradesh officers. 22) According to the learned senior counsel, from all the 

details particularly, the charge-sheet filed by the Gujarat 36 Police which included even senior police officers as accused, 

there is no need for further investigation by the CBI. Even 

otherwise, according to them, the conduct of the CBI does not 

inspire any confidence in this case. It has become party to a 

political conspiracy and acting as subordinate police force of 

the Central Government in sensitive cases having political 

implications. 23) If we analyze the allegations of the State and other 

respondents with reference to the materials placed with the 

stand taken by the CBI, it would be difficult to accept it in its 

entirety. It is the definite case of the CBI that the abduction of 

Sohrabuddin and Kausarbi and their subsequent murders as 

well as the murder of Tulsiram Prajapati are one series of acts, 

so connected together as to form the same transaction under Section 220 of the Cr.P.C. As rightly pointed out by the CBI, if 

two parts of the same transaction are investigated and 

prosecuted by different agencies, it may cause failure of justice 

not only in one case but in other trial as well. It is further 

seen that there is substantial material already on record which 

makes it probable that the prime motive of elimination of 37 Tulsiram Prajapati was that he was a witness to abduction of 

Sohrabuddin and Kausarbi. Both oral and documentary 

evidence raise strong suspicion that the encounter was fake 

and stage managed as predicted by Tulsiram Prajapati prior to 

his death in a number of communications. We have already 

adverted to his complaint to the District Collector, Udaipur, 

Rajasthan and representation to the NHRC, New Delhi. In 

both the representations Tulsiram Prajapati highlighted about 

the danger to his life. In fact, the NHRC forwarded his 

representation to the Director General of Police, Gujarat for 

necessary action. 24) It is relevant to point out the letter of Shri V.L. Solanki 

dated 18.12.2006 seeking permission to interrogate Tulsiram 

Prajapati and Sylvester lodged in Udaipur Jail. With regard to 

the letter, Ms. Geeta Johri, Head of SIT, is alleged to have 

recorded that even she may be given permission to accompany 

the I.O. for interrogation. It was pointed out by the CBI that 

the letter of Shri V.L. Solanki containing the signature of Ms. 

Geeta Johri was not found in the official file. In its place, it 

was pointed out that a fabricated note dated 05.01.2007 along 38 with a noting of Shri G.C.Raigar dated 06.01/08.01.2007 was 

found in the file in which it was recorded as under: If we compare the note and the above record of statement, it 

shows that each one is self contradictory, more particularly, 

the note seeks to interrogate the dead man. It also cannot be 

ruled out that the stand taken by the CBI that as soon as the 

State police learnt about the direction of investigation by Ms. 

Geeta Johri, immediate pre-emptive steps have been taken to 

eliminate Tulsiram Prajapati. The CBI has pointed out that 

the critical document is the note dated 22.05.2007 in the 

handwriting of Ms. Geeta Johri which records as under: It was pointed out that the words "State Government 

supporting" are sought to be struck off and are substituted by 

"certain agencies including" in place of "State Government 39 supporting". This was pointed out as a direct evidence of 

systematic effort of the State Government attempting to 

tamper with the witnesses and evidences. The CBI has also 

pointed out that Ms.Geeta Johri in her note dated 22.05.2007 

recorded that

 "...the Government may please therefore be moved to 

 handover the case to the CBI for the purpose of meting out 

 justice to the petitioners and maintaining the image of 

 Gujarat Police..." It is relevant to point out that the FIR recorded by the Gujarat 

Police in Sohrabuddin's case claimed it to be an encounter 

death and it was only on the intervention and issuance of rule 

nisi by this Court and filing of eight Action Taken Reports, the 

SIT informed this Court that it was a fake encounter and 

identified the police officials. 25) Apart from the above vital information, it is useful to 

refer that even after the transfer of Sohrabuddin's case to the 

CBI on 12.01.2010, the Gujarat Police did not move till May, 

2010. The first arrest in the Tulsiram Prajapti was made in 

May, 2010. Further, when the CBI laid charge-sheet on 

23.07.2010 in Sohrabuddin's case, the State promptly 40 concluded its investigation and filed charge-sheet in Tulsiram 

Prajapati's case on 30.07.2010. It was also pointed out that 

this was done only because after repeated requests the 

Gujarat Police handed over the copies of notes, diaries in 

Tulsiram Prajapati's case to the CBI in the month of May, 

2010. 26) Another important aspect is that on earlier occasions, 

Tulsiram Prajapti was produced before the Court in 

Ahmedabad through video conferencing and he was removed 

from jail on 27.12.2006 and produced before a Court, when 

ultimately, on 28.12.2006 i.e. the next day, he was killed. 27) According to the CBI, the investigation has revealed that 

Tulsiram Prajapati was the `third person' accompanying 

Sohrabuddin and Kausarbi on the fateful night of their 

abduction and subsequent murders in the year 2005. The 

investigation further revealed that after the abduction of 

Sohrabuddin and Kausarbi, police personnel of Rajasthan had 

taken away Tulsiram Prajapati from Valsad on 23.11.2005. However, it was pointed out by the CBI that he was shown to 41 have been arrested on 29.11.2005 at Bhilwara by the 

Rajasthan Police. 28) Nayamuddin Shaikh, in his statement dated 19.02.2010, 

before the CBI has mentioned that they had gone to see off his 

brother Sohrabuddin, Kausarbi and Tulsiram Prajapati from 

Indore bus stand for Hyderabad and that Sohrabuddin had 

told him that they would be staying with Kalimuddin in 

Hyderabad. The above statement of Nayamuddin Shaikh is 

corroborated by the statement of Rubabuddin Shaikh dated 

18.02.2010 wherein he had stated that Nayamuddin told him 

that from Indore, Tulsiram Prajapati, friend of Sohrabuddin 

had also joined them for going to Hyderabad. Rubabuddin 

had further stated that when Tulsiram Prajapati was brought 

from Udaipur to Ujjain for court hearing, Tulsiram Prajapati 

had told him that he along with Sohrabuddin and Kausarbi 

had gone to Hyderabad and had stayed with Kalimuddin in 

Hyderabad. 29) The statement of Azam Khan dated 26.03.2010 indicates 

the manner in which the abduction of Sohrabuddin and 

Kausarbi was planned and executed. Azam Khan, in his 42 statement had stated that he and Tulsiram Prajapati were 

lodged in Udaipur prison at which time Tulsiram Prajapati told 

him that on information given by Tulsiram Prajapati, 

Sohrabuddin, Kausarbi and Tulsiram were abducted from 

Hyderabad. Among the entire statement of Azam Khan, the 

relevant part is that Tulsiram Prajapati helped in tracking 

down Sohrabuddin. 30) Learned senior counsel for the CBI, Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi has 

pointed out that since the CBI had primarily conducted the 

investigation in the case of encounter of Sohrabuddin and the 

murder of Kausarbi, it has so far not launched a full fledged 

investigation into the circumstances in which Tulsiram 

Prajapati was killed. According to him, certain facts have 

come to the notice of the CBI only as part of "larger 

conspiracy" with regard to which investigation was ordered by 

this Court and it was pointed out that full-fledged 

investigation by the CBI alone reveal further facts and lead to 

more direct evidence. Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi is right in claiming that 

the investigation in every criminal case is conducted on the 

basis of suspicion and reason to believe and to apply the 43 standard of proof beyond doubt at a stage when a full fledged 

investigation is yet to be launched. 31) It is not in dispute that it is the age-old maxim that 

justice must not only be done but must be seen to be done. The fact that in the case of murder of an associate of Tulsiram 

Prajapati, Senior police officials and a senior politician were 

accused which may shake the confidence of public in 

investigation conducted by the State Police. If the majesty of 

rule of law is to be upheld and if it is to be ensured that the 

guilty are punished in accordance with law notwithstanding 

their status and authority which they might have enjoyed, it is 

desirable to entrust the investigation to the CBI. 32) As stated earlier, it is the specific claim of the State of 

Gujarat that they have conducted a fair and impartial 

investigation into the killing of Tulsiram Prajapati, however, 

analysis of the materials which we have already discussed 

show several lacuna on the part of the investigation by the 

State Government. It is relevant to point out that much before 

the incident dated 28.12.2006 which happened in village 

Chappri in Banaskantha District of the State of Gujarat in 44 which Tulsiram Prajapati was allegedly shot in an encounter 

while he had opened fire on the police party, who was on the 

look out for him to apprehend him, after he had allegedly 

escaped from a running train while being taken back to 

Rajasthan from Gujarat where he was stated to be produced in 

a court proceeding, Tulsiram Prajapati lodged two complaints 

in written, one to the Collector, Udaipur and another 

addressed to the Chairman, NHRC, New Delhi expressing the 

apprehension that he is likely and going to be killed by 

Gujarat and Rajasthan police. In fact, on 28.12.2006, 

Tulsiram Prajapati has been killed in the fake encounter which 

has now being admitted to be a fake counter after a gap of 3 = 

years. 33) In Md. Anis vs. Union of India and Ors. 1994 Supp (1) 

SCC 145, it has been observed by this Court that: 34) In another decision of this Court in R.S. Sodhi vs. State 

of U.P. & Ors. 1994 Supp (1) SCC 143, the following 

conclusion is relevant: 35) In both these decisions, this Court refrained from 

expressing any opinion on the allegations made by either side 

but thought it wise to have the incident investigated by an 

independent agency like the CBI so that it may bear 

credibility. This Court felt that no matter how faithfully and 

honestly the local police may carry out the investigation, the 46 same will lack credibility as allegations were directed against 

them. This Court, therefore, thought it both desirable and 

advisable and in the interest of justice to entrust the 

investigation to the CBI so that it may complete the 

investigation at an early date. It was clearly stated that in so 

ordering no reflection either on the local police of the State 

Government was intended. This Court merely acted in public 

interest. 36) The above decisions and the principles stated therein have 

been referred to and followed by this Court in Rubbabuddin 

Sheikh (supra) wherealso it was held that considering the fact 

that the allegations have been leveled against higher level 

police officers, despite the investigation made by the police 

authorities of the State of Gujarat, ordered investigation by the 

CBI. Without entering into the allegations leveled by either of 

the parties, we are of the view that it would be prudent and 

advisable to transfer the investigation to an independent 

agency. It is trite law that accused persons do not have a say 

in the matter of appointment of an investigation agency. The 

accused persons cannot choose as to which investigation 47 agency must investigate the alleged offence committed by 

them. 37) In view of our discussions and submission of learned 

counsel on either side and keeping in mind the earlier 

directions given by this Court, although, charge-sheet has 

been filed by the State of Gujarat after a gap of 3 = years after 

the incident, that too after pronouncement of judgment in Rubbabudin 's case and considering the nature of crime that 

has been allegedly committed not by any third party but by 

the police personnel of the State of Gujarat, we are satisfied 

that the investigation conducted and concluded in the present 

case by the State police cannot be accepted. In view of various 

circumstances highlighted and in the light of the involvement 

of police officials of the State of Gujarat and police officers of 

two other States, i.e. Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan, it would 

not be desirable to allow the Gujarat State Police to continue 

with the investigation, accordingly, to meet the ends of justice 

and in the public interest, we feel that the CBI should be 

directed to take the investigation. Submission of Report by the CBI to this Court and 

subsequent monitoring. 38) The other question relates to submission of a report by 

the CBI to this Court and further monitoring in the case. Though in Rubabbudin Sheikh 's case (supra), this Court 

directed the CBI that after investigation submits a report to 

this Court and thereafter, further necessary orders will be 

passed in accordance with the said report, in view of the 

principles laid down in series of decisions by this Court, we 

are not persuaded to accept the course relating to submission 

of report to this court and monitoring thereafter. a) In Vineet Narain (supra), this Court held as under: b) In Sushil Kumar Modi (supra), this Court observed that 

the monitoring process in the High Court in respect of the 

particular matter had come to an end with the filing of the 

charge-sheet in the Special Court and the matter relating to 

execution of the warrant issued by the Special Court against 

Shri Laloo Prasad Yadav was a matter only within the 49 competence of the Special Court so that there was no occasion 

for the High Court to be involved in any manner with the 

execution of the warrant. By relying on decision in Vineet 

Narain 's case (supra), this Court reiterated that once a 

charge-sheet is filed in the competent court after completion of 

the investigation, the process of monitoring by this Court for 

the purpose of making the CBI and other investigating 

agencies concerned perform their function of investigating into 

the offences concerned comes to an end; and thereafter it is 

only the court in which the charge-sheet is filed which is to 

deal with all matters relating to the trial of the accused, 

including matters falling within the scope of Section 173(8) of 

the Code. c) In M.C. Mehta (Taj Corridor Scam) vs. Union of India 

and Others, (2007) 1 SCC 110, this Court again reiterated the 

same principle. The following conclusion is relevant: After saying so, this Court concluded: The above decisions make it clear that though this Court is 

competent to entrust the investigation to any independent 

agency, once the investigating agency complete their function 

of investigating into the offences, it is the Court in which the 

charge-sheet is filed which is to deal with all matters relating 

to the trial of the accused including matters falling within the 

scope of Section 173(8) of the Code. Thus, generally, this 

Court may not require further monitoring of the 

case/investigation. However, we make it clear that if any of 

the parties including the CBI require any further direction, 

they are free to approach this Court by way of an application. Conclusion: .................................................J. 

 (P. SATHASIVAM) 

 

 

 ...............................................J. 

 (DR. B.S. CHAUHAN) 

NEW DELHI; APRIL 08, 2011.