Shri L.K.Joshi, Vice Chairman (A)

The Applicant is assailing the memorandum number 27/2006 under Rule 14 of CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, enclosing four Articles of Charge, issued on 19.05.2006 to him. Challenge is also made to the advice of the Central Vigilance Commission dated 27.07.2005, advising the second Respondent to proceed against the Applicant for regular departmental action for major penalty (Annex A-1, colly.). 2.	The facts as gleaned from record would show that the Applicant is an officer of the 1992 batch of Indian Revenue Service (IRS) of Customs and Central Excise Service. During the relevant period, the Applicant was an Assistant Commissioner and then promoted as Joint Commissioner on 25.09.2002. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Mumbai initiated some investigations against five companies namely M/s R.S. & Company, M/s Stitch & Style, M/s Himgiri Overseas, M/s Deepshikha Overseas and M/s Saharanpur Handicraft, New Delhi for fraudulent exports and making fraudulent claims of drawbacks. On the basis of these investigations, the DRI issued show cause notice dated 3.12.1999 under Section 124 of the Customs Act, 1962 and under Rule 16 of the Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback Rules, 1995 for imposing penalty under Sections 114 (i) , 114 (ii) and 117 of the Customs Act, 1962. It was, inter alia, alleged that the Applicant had entered into a conspiracy with one Rajesh Bhasin for carrying out fraudulent exports by wrongly declaring the old and used clothes as readymade garments under claim of drawback. The Applicant was also placed under suspension on 7.03.2000, which was revoked in March, 2001. The Applicant replied to the show cause notice and made his written submission on 15.10.2001. The representation of the Applicant did not find favour with the Respondents and a fine of Rs. two lakhs was imposed on him vide order 19.08.2003. The Applicant 

challenged this order before the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Tribunal (CESTAT), which stayed the penalty by its order dated 29.10.2003 and allowed the appeal by its order 21.11.2005, quashing the order imposing penalty on the Applicant. The Respondents did not challenge this order before any higher forum. On 19.05.2006, the impugned memorandum was served on the Applicant. The Applicant submitted his reply dated 1.09.2006. The Respondents did not take any action for one-and-a-half years. The Enquiry Officer and the Presenting Officer were appointed only on 4.03.2008, six months after filing of the instant OA. 3.	The action of the Respondents in initiating the departmental proceedings against the Applicant has been challenged on several grounds. First, the charges against the Applicant are the same as in the enquiry under the Customs Act, 1962 . The CESTAT quashed the penalty imposed by the Respondents. The finding of CESTAT has remained unchallenged and has become final. Third, the statement of witnesses, cited in the list of relied upon documents, have been recorded behind the back of the Applicant without affording him an opportunity to cross examine them. Cognizance of these statements cannot be taken without their appearing in the disciplinary enquiry and giving the Applicant an opportunity to cross examine them. -The only witnesses listed in the list of witnesses are those who had recorded the statements of persons during the enquiry under the Customs Act . The charge is founded solely on those statements. These witnesses can only state that they had recorded the statements, of which the copies have been placed as relied upon documents. It is contended that the charge cannot be proved 

without examining the witnesses and giving the Applicant opportunity to examine them and by only considering their previous depositions. Fourth, the charges against the Applicant relate to the acts done in 1998 and the memorandum of charge has been served on the Applicant after an inordinate delay of eight years in May, 2006. No explanation for the delay has been given by the Respondents. The delay has caused serious prejudice to the Applicant. 4.	The learned counsel for the Applicant has taken us through the show cause notice, order under the Customs Act and the order of the CESTAT. The statements of the Applicant and other persons quoted in the show cause notice of 3.12.1999 are favourable to the Applicant and do not prove the charge against him, which basically is that he is the benami owner of the five firms, mentioned in paragraph 2 above. Paragraph 114 of the show cause notice is reproduced below: 5.	Cognizance of the Applicants statement has been taken in the order of punishment dated 19.08.2003 thus : Castao Fernandes Vs. State (CBI, Bombay) 1996 ( 82) ELT 433 (SC)

Assistant Collector Vs. Ramdev Tobacco Co. 1991 (51) ELT 631 (SC)

Vasudeva Bank Vs. GOI 1990 (48) ELT 214 (Mad)

CC, New Delhi Vs. MI Khan & Others A/488-90/2000-NB (DB)

Shri J.P. Singh, noticee, further submitted that it was wrong to say that he was close to Shri Rajesh Bhasin as he interacted with the latter only with regard to the usual problems in the system of computerization, other admn. issues, public grievances; that he introduced Shri Rajesh Bhasin to the A.C. Export Shri Ojha as he was no longer A.C. Export and he introduced all persons who approached him for export related problems and Sh. Bhasin was one of them; that frequency of calls cannot decide close relationship; that the statement that Shri Rajesh Bhasin used to discuss with him about the subject export is wrong and is specifically denied; that the attempt of Shri Rajesh Bhasin to implicate him by stating that the firms belonged to him has been discarded by investigation itself; that he had no knowledge about the firms or the modus operandi planned by Shri Rajesh Bhasin; that as soon as he came to know about the fraud from Bombay, he personally rushed to the Bank and got the remaining disbursement of drawback amount of Rs.3,54,63,360/- stopped; that in any case, statement of a co-noticee cannot be relied upon against him unless the same was independently corroborated; that he was not aware of the fact that the said firms belonged to Shri Bhasin; that frequency of calls cannot decide close relationship and such conclusion could be on presumption and conjecture; that he denied that he ever received a call from Rajesh Bhasin in r/o any of the present consignments either prior to or after the fraud was detected; that as AC drawback, he fulfilled all his allegations and discharged his duties after due scrutiny and application of mind; that he denied the allegation of his collusion and abetment as he had no knowledge of the names of the companies of Shri Rajesh Bhasin, their activities, their modus-operandi or any other aspects of their business; that in view of the above submissions it is prayed that SCN may be withdrawn and desired to be heard in person.

The learned counsel has strenuously urged that the Commissioner of Customs, who passed the order imposing a fine of Rs. two lakh on the Applicant under the Customs Act , has repeatedly noted that Rajesh Bhasin failed to establish that the five firms referred to in paragraph 2 above belonged to the Applicant. 5.	The CESTAT in its order dated 29.10.2003, staying the operation of the order dated 19.08.2003, observed thus : 6.	The order of CESTAT has not been challenged by the Respondents anywhere and it has thus become final. 7.	It has also been urged by the learned counsel for the Applicant that he (the Applicant) has been denied the protection available to him under Section 155 of the Customs Act. The Section is extracted below : 8.	Pointed reference has been made by the learned counsel for the Applicant to the list of documents and the list of witnesses appended to the memorandum of charge. The list of documents includes statements made by Satish Gupta, Zaki Anwar, Lovkesh Sharma, Joseph Kuok, S.N. Ojha, Rakesh Swarup Tandon and Rajesh Bhasin recorded by various authorities, behind the Applicants back. None of them is included in the list of witnesses. It is forcefully contended that it will be total violation of the principles of natural justice to take on record the statement of witnesses without giving the Applicant an opportunity to confront and cross-examine them. The argument is that the charge against the Applicant will succeed or fail solely on the testimony of the persons whose statements, recorded by different officers of the Applicants department, during the course of enquiry under the Customs Act , have been listed in the list of relied upon documents. It would be in total violation of the principles of natural justice not to give the Applicant an opportunity to examine and cross examine them on various aspects of their statements. 9.	The incident, for which the charges have been framed occurred in the year 1998. While the show cause notice was issued under the Customs Act in 1999, disciplinary proceedings were not initiated. Even as the Applicant was placed under suspension on 7.03.2000, which lasted till March 2001, there was no contemplation of disciplinary enquiry. The CBI also initiated enquiries, which were dropped. The incident was in the knowledge of the Respondents. Still no action was taken to proceed against the Applicant departmentally. It is only when the Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) was to meet to consider the promotion of the Applicant and his peers, the charge-sheet was brought out of the closet and served to him. The learned counsel for the Applicant would contend that the Respondents have failed to explain the inordinate delay in issuing the memorandum of charge and it would clearly reveal the designs of some interested person to stall the Applicants promotion. 10.	Mr. Ashwini Bhardwaj, learned counsel for the Applicant has cited the judicial precedents of Sher Bahadur Vs. Union of India and others , ( 2002) 7 SCC 142, P.V. Mahadevan Vs. M.D., T.N. Housing Board , (2005) 6 SCC 636, State of A.P. Vs. N. Radhakrishnan, (1998) 4 SCC 154, Bharat Singh Vs. Union of India and others, OA Number 2510 of 2006, decided on 12.09.2007, Union of India and others Vs. Naman Singh Shekhawat, JT 2008 ( 4) SC 150, Union of India and others Vs. R.D.Gupta , Sunil Gulati and others Vs. R.K.Vohra and 2006  TIOL  438-HC-DEL-COFEPOSA in support of various contentions. 11.	The Respondents have, per contra, contested the claim of the Applicant. The learned counsel for the Respondents has raised the contention that the OA is misconceived, as no cause of action has arisen for the Applicant by the service of the memorandum of charge. It is stated that examining of correctness of charges, particularly at the stage of framing of charges is beyond the scope of judicial review. Reliance has been placed on Union of India and others Vs. Upendra Singh , (1994) 3 SCC 357; Union of India and another Vs. Kunisetty Satyanarayana , (2006) 12 SCC 28; Municipal Corporation of Delhi and Another Vs. R.V. Bansal , (2006) 130 DLT 235 (Delhi High Court); Dy. Inspector General of Police Vs. K.S. Swaminathan , (1996) 11 SCC 498; State of Punjab Vs. Ajit Singh, (1997) 11 SCC 368; Shri Dal Singh Vs. Union of India and others , OA number 340/2008; and Secretary to Government, Prohibition and Excise Department Vs. L. Srinivasan , (1996) 3 SCC 157. 12.	As to the argument on behalf of the Applicant that the statements of certain persons in the enquiry under the Customs Act have been relied upon in departmental enquiry in the list of documents without including them in the list of witnesses, the learned counsel for the Respondents has argued that under Section 108 of the Customs Act, 1962, the proceedings of enquiry under that Act are deemed to be judicial proceedings and it is not necessary to call the persons whose statements have been recorded under Section 108 of the aforesaid Act as witnesses in departmental proceedings. Section 108 of the Customs Act, 1962 is extracted below : (2) A summons to produce documents or other things may be for the production of certain specified documents or things or for the production of all documents or things of a certain description in the possession or under the control of the person summoned. (3) All persons so summoned shall be bound to attend either in person or by an authorized agent, as such officer may direct; and all persons so summoned shall be bound to state the truth upon any subject respecting which they are examined or make statements and produce such documents and other things as may be required. Provided that the exemption under section 132 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, shall be applicable to any requisition for attendance under this section. (4) Every such inquiry as aforesaid shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of section 193 and section 228 of the Indian Penal Code. 13.	It has also been submitted on behalf of the Respondents that the CBI had registered a case vide RC No.DAI/A 1999-0025 dated 14.09.2001 but on completion of the enquiry, did not recommend any action. Paragraph 14 of the counter reply in this regard is reproduced below : 14. That apart from the DRI, the Directorate General of Vigilance, Customs & Central Excise and the CBI also conducted investigation of the case. The CBI registered a case against the Applicant vide RC No.DAI/A1999-0025 dated 14.09.2001 and on completion of the investigation, the CBI had not recommended any action and stated that the department to take appropriate action against Shri J.P. Singh in terms of DRIs findings. The matter was referred to CVC who after going through records of the case, vide their OM No.99/CEX/059 dated 26.07.2005 recommended RDA for major penalty against the Applicant and other officers. The Competent Authority, thereafter, ordered for holding an inquiry against the Applicant under Rule 14 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 vide Memorandum of Charges dated 19.05.2006. 

The argument of the learned counsel is that the delay in serving the charge sheet has occurred because the enquiry by the DRI took time and the order of punishment passed by the Commissioner of Customs was challenged before the CESTAT, which was decided only in 2005. It was only after this, the memorandum of charge was issued to the Applicant. It is the argument of the learned counsel defending the Respondents that the delay in issuing the memorandum of charge has been explained. He would, therefore, contend that the memorandum of charge cannot be contested on the grounds of delay. Reliance has been placed on Bal Krishan Vs. Food Corporation of India , 2002 (4) SCT 1020 (Punjab and Haryana HC); Jagbir Singh Vs. Food Corporation of India & Ors., 2002 (4) SCT 943 (Punjab & Haryana High Court); and B.D. Luthra (Mr.) Vs. Chairman & Managing Director, Punjab National Bank , 2004 V AD (Delhi) 229. 12.	Yet another submission on behalf of the Respondents is that the Applicant should plead before the Enquiry Officer, how the delay in issuing the memorandum of charge has caused prejudice and it would be that authority who would take a view on this. Reliance has been placed on the Government of Andhra Pradesh and Ors. Vs. V. Appala Swamy , 2007 (1) SCALE 1. 13.	We have given our anxious consideration to the arguments of the parties counsel and have minutely perused the record placed before us with their assistance. 14.	We have noted the arguments of the counsel for both sides in so far as the merits of the charges are concerned. However, it is clear that considering the charges on merits is beyond the scope of judicial review, as held by the Honourable Supreme Court in several cases including the cases cited by the learned counsel for the Respondents, which have been adverted to in the preceding paragraph 11. We are steering clear of the merits of the case and shall only consider the delay in initiating the departmental proceedings. 15. 	The Honourable Supreme Court has considered the issue about the delay in issuing the chargesheet after considerable delay in a catena of cases. In State of Madhya Padesh Vs. Bani Singh and Another , (1991) 16 ATC 514, while considering the order of the Tribunal quashing the chargesheet because of delay of 12 years in issuing the chargesheet, the Honourable Supreme Court held thus: 16.	We have also considered the judicial precedents cited by the learned counsel for the Respondents. In Municipal Corporation of Delhi and Another Vs. R.V. Bansal , 130 (2006) DLT 235 (DB), the Honourable Delhi High Court noted that: In L. Srinivasan case (cited supra) the charges related to the offences of embezzlement and fabrication of false records etc. The Honourable Supreme Court, therefore, observed that enquiry in such cases was bound to take time and had to be conducted secretly. The order of the Tamil Nadu Administrative Tribunal quashing the charge sheet on grounds of delay was set aside. In V. Appala Swamy (cited supra), the facts are that Appala Swmay, respondent before the Honourable Supreme Court was served several charges of misconduct on or about 18.07.1990. A departmental enquiry was initiated. The enquiry officer submitted his report on 8.01.1992. However, before any action could be taken on the basis of the report, the respondent retired on 30.06.1992. A notice was served on the Applicant why part of his provisional pension should not be withheld. The respondent, V. Appala Swmay filed his reply on 20.11.1997. Meanwhile, an Original Application was filed by him before the Andhra Pradesh Administrative Tribunal, which directed the State, by its order dated 17.04.2003, to conclude the departmental proceedings within three months. The respondent (V.Appala Swamy) approached the High Court against the order of the Andhra Pradesh State Administrative Tribunal. The High Court directed the State Government to pay to the Applicant full pension from the date of his retirement with 12 per cent interest. The issue before the Honourable Supreme Court, as observed in paragraph 8 of judgment, was whether the High Court was justified in giving the above directions only on ground of [delay in] concluding the departmental proceedings. It is in this context that the Honourable Supreme Court observed in paragraph 12 of the judgment that prejudice caused to the Applicant by delay in concluding the departmental proceedings has to be pleaded by the employee before the inquiry officer. It is not about delay in serving the charge sheet. This judicial precedent would, therefore, not apply to the case in hand. In Bal Krishna case (cited supra), the Honourable Punjab & Haryana High Court held, following State of AP Vs. N.Radhakrishnan (cited supra) that each case of delay has to be examined on facts and circumstances of each case and delay by itself cannot be a ground for quashing the proceedings. In Jagbir Singh (cited supra), the Honourable Punjab and Haryana High Court held thus in paragraph 7 and 8 : 17.	In the instant OA, the detailed show cause notice was issued on 3.12.1999, after investigation by DRI in 1998. CBI also conducted investigations but found nothing incriminatory against the Applicant. The Applicant was also placed under suspension in the year 2000. During this period, all the records of the case and the witnesses were available. The Respondents have failed to explain why disciplinary proceedings could not be initiated at this time especially considering the fact that the DRI was able to issue a detailed charge sheet. Also, investigations by the CBI also would have yielded some material on the basis of which departmental enquiry could have been initiated, if the Respondents so desired. The case under the Customs Act, 1962 culminated in punishment in August, 2003. Even then the Respondents have not moved, although such advice was rendered by the CBI. There was no need for the Respondents to wait for the decision in appeal before CESTAT, in which, in any case, the order of punishment was set aside. We do not think that the Respondents have been able to explain the delay in issuing the charge sheet. 18.	It is also observed that the case against the Applicant is founded largely on statements of various persons whose statements in previous enquiries, recorded in the absence of the Applicant, have been listed as relied upon documents. The list of documents by which the Articles of Charge are proposed to be proved, as appended at page 45 of the paper book is reproduced below: 19.	In Kuldeep Singh (cited supra) Honourable Supreme Court has held as follows: 20.	It is clear, therefore, that the witnesses have to be examined in the presence of the Applicant, who would be given an opportunity for cross examining them. We cannot accept the argument of the learned counsel for the Respondents that a statement recorded under Section 108 of Customs Act, 1962 could be produced in the enquiry without examining the witnesses. 21.	The case against the Applicant under the Customs Act, 1962 was based on circumstantial evidence and on the statements of witnesses recorded at different times. It is because of the tenuous nature of proof against him, the Applicant succeeded before the CESTAT. Memory does not have a very long shelf life. Witnesses cannot be expected to remember details of events which are nearly a decade old. Their statements were recorded in 1999. It is certain that they cannot recall the events with any certitude after a passage of so many years. It seems to us, therefore, that it would be seriously prejudicial to the cause of the Applicant to tread on such slippery ground, after a lapse of nearly ten years now. The Respondents have further caused a delay of one-and-half-years in appointing the enquiry officer and the Presenting Officer. Prejudice is writ large in this case against the interests of the Applicant and justice. 22.	In the above circumstances, the OA is allowed. The Memorandum dated 19.05.2006 declaring the intention of the appointing authority to hold disciplinary enquiry against the Applicant under Rule 14 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 (Annex A-1) is quashed and set aside. There will be no orders as to costs.