Dr. B.S. Chauhan, J: 2. Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that: D. Additionally, he has been charged for abetting and facilitating
 acts that were preparatory in nature, for the terrorist acts, by
 acquiring and distributing AK-56 rifles in the city of Bombay and its
 suburbs, their magazines, ammunition and also hand grenades to co-
 accused Sanjay Dutt (A-117) and Salim Kurla (Juvenile) at the instance
 of Anis Ibrahim Kaskar, an Absconding Accused (hereinafter referred to
 as ‘AA’), brother of notorious smuggler Dawood Ibrahim, and Abu Salim
 for committing the terrorist acts punishable under Section 3(3) TADA.
 E. The appellant (A-41) was also charged with, being in the
 unauthorised possession of one AK 56 rifle, 635 rounds of ammunition,
 10 magazines of AK 56 rifle, and 25 hand grenades as the same were
 recovered in the notified area at his instance, and thus he has been
 charged under Section 5 TADA. F. The appellant was further charged under Section 6 TADA, Sections 3 & 7 read with Section 25(1-A), (1-B)(a) of the Arms Act , Section 4(b) of the Act 1908 and Section 9-B(1)(b) of the Act 1884,
 for unauthorisedly being in possession of the aforesaid arms with the
 intention to aid terrorist acts. G. The prosecution has examined a large number of witnesses and
 produced a large number of documents to prove its case, and upon
 conclusion of the trial, the Designated Court acquitted the appellant
 of the umbrella charge of conspiracy i.e. charge No. 1. However, he
 was convicted for the second charge i.e. smaller conspiracy under Section 3(3) TADA and was awarded a sentence of 8 years RI alongwith a
 fine of Rs.1,00,000/-, and in default of payment of fine, to suffer
 further RI for a period of three years; under Section 5 TADA, he was
 sentenced to suffer RI for 10 years alongwith a fine of Rs.50,000/-,
 and in default of payment of fine, to suffer further RI for a period of
 one year; under Section 6 TADA, he was sentenced to suffer RI for 10
 years and a fine of Rs.1,00,000/-, and in default of payment of fine,
 to suffer further RI for a period of 3 years; under Section 4(b) of
 the Act 1908, he was sentenced to suffer RI for four years alongwith a
 fine of Rs.25,000/- and in default of payment of fine, to suffer
 further RI for a period of 6 months, under Section 9-B (1)(b) of the
 Act 1884, he was sentenced to suffer RI for one year alongwith a fine
 of Rs. 2,000/- and in default of payment of fine, to suffer further RI
 for two months. All the sentences were directed to run concurrently. However,
 under Sections 3 and 7 read with Section 25 (1-A)(1-B)(a) of the Arms
 Act , the appellant was convicted, but no separate sentence was awarded. Hence, this appeal. 3. Shri Shree Prakash Sinha, learned counsel for the appellant has
 submitted that the confessional statement of the appellant as well as
 those of the co-accused were recorded by the police forcibly, without
 meeting the requirements of Section 15 TADA and Rule 15 of the rules
 framed thereunder. Thus, the same cannot be relied upon. The
 recoveries purported to have been made were also planted by the
 investigating agency and cannot be relied upon. The Designated Court
 erred in convicting the appellant. Thus, the appeal deserves to be
 allowed. 4. Shri Mukul Gupta, learned Senior counsel appearing for the
 respondent, has opposed the appeal contending that the confessional
 statement of the appellant as well as those of the co-accused, were
 recorded in strict adherence to statutory requirements i.e. Section 15 TADA and Rule 15 of the rules framed thereunder. The appellant and co-
 accused have made their confessional statements voluntarily and the
 conviction of the appellant can be maintained on the sole basis of the
 confessional statement of the appellant himself. Moreover, a large
 number of co-accused have named him and have assigned to him overt
 acts. The recoveries have also been made strictly in accordance with
 the requirements of Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872
 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘ Evidence Act ’) and there is no reason
 to disbelieve the same, as the same were made at the instance of the
 appellant i.e. on the basis of his disclosure statement made
 voluntarily. Thus, the appeal lacks merit and is liable to be
 dismissed. 5. We have considered the rival submissions made by learned
 counsel for the parties and perused the record. 6. Evidence against the appellant (A-41): 7. Confessional Statement of Baba Musa Chauhan (A-41): Salim drove ahead of him in a blue coloured Maruti, after handing over
 the keys of the van to the appellant (A-41). Appellant (A-41) reached
 close to the Magnum office in the van. Salim and Samir Ahmed Hingora (A- 53) then sat in the van driven by the appellant (A-41), and all those
 three persons reached the house of co-accused Sanjay Dutt (A-117).
 Sanjay Dutt (A-117) embraced Salim and Samir Ahmed Hingora (A-53).
 Salim introduced Sanjay Dutt (A-117) to the appellant (A-41). Sanjay
 Dutt cleared the passage leading to the garage, shifting the vehicles
 parked therein to the other side. The van which the appellant (A-41)
 had driven was taken to the garage in reverse gear. Salim opened the
 cavity of the car which was under its back seats with the aid of a
 ‘panna’, and from within, removed 9 AK 56 rifles one by one, and then
 opened the inside lining of the front door of the car and removed from
 there 80 hand grenades without pins, then he removed 1500/2000 bullets
 from the back door. These bullets were packed in brown coloured paper,
 in packets of 25-30 bullets, which were held together by rubber bands.
 The hand grenades were also packed in brown coloured paper. There were
 56 magazines in the lining of the back door of the car. Sanjay Dutt (A- 117) asked Salim why the hand grenades had been brought there, as it
 might create a problem in case the same blew up. Salim explained to
 Sanjay Dutt (A-117) that as the hand grenades did not have pins
 nothing would happen. Salim made a list of all the articles and asked
 the appellant (A-41) to keep 3 rifles, 9 magazines, 450 bullets and 20
 hand grenades in Sanjay Dutt’s Fiat car (A-117) . The appellant (A-41)
 kept the said arms and ammunition as directed by Salim in the dickey of
 Sanjay Dutt’s car (A-117), locked the dickey and put the key in his
 pocket. Samir Ahmed Hingora (A-53) kept 20 hand grenades in his car
 after packing the same into a bag and the appellant (A-41) kept 3
 rifles, 16 magazines, 25 hand grenades and 750 bullets and came out
 with Samir Ahmed Hingora (A-53). The appellant (A-41) left with the
 remaining arms and ammunition kept in a bag, which he laid under his
 bed. Next day, the appellant (A-41) loaded all the bullets in the
 magazines of the rifles. He could not contact Salim to take away the
 said arms as no one picked up Salim’s telephone. Subsequently, the
 appellant (A-41) was told by Salim’s wife that Salim had gone out of
 India and that she would talk to him after 2-3 days. The appellant (A- 41) told her that Salim had kept some computer parts with him (A-41)
 and that the same were to be returned to him at the earliest. A-41
 went to the house of Salim and told his wife that he wanted to return
 the said goods at the earliest. On the same night, A-41 received a
 telephone call from Dubai from Salim informing him that he was coming
 back to Bombay within 1-2 days, and that after coming back he would
 collect all the goods. However, Salim did not return from Dubai. So
 the appellant (A-41) called up his brother-in-law in Dubai and asked
 him to talk to Salim, and request him to collect his goods, who
 subsequently informed the appellant (A-41) that Salim was likely to
 come to Bombay within a day or two and that he would contact him.
 Immediately thereafter, riots took place in Bombay. On 16.1.1993 the appellant (A-41) received a telephone call
 from Salim, who asked him to talk to Anis Ibrahim Kaskar (AA). A-41
 contacted Anis Ibrahim, who told the appellant (A-41) to give two
 guitars and six ‘tars’ (cord) to Salim Kurla and also, to give him some
 ‘Kadis’ and on being told that the ‘Kadis’ had already been attached
 to the broom (Jaadu), Anis Ibrahim asked the appellant to give only 6
 ‘tars’. The appellant (A-41) told Anis Ibrahim Kaskar that he did not
 know Salim Kurla. Then Anis Ibrahim Kaskar told him that Salim Kurla
 knew the appellant (A-41), and that he would come to the Andheri Post
 Office in the front of his house. Thus, on his instructions, the
 appellant (A-41) handed over two rifles and 6 loaded magazines to Salim
 Kurla. Salim Kurla had told the appellant that these arms were to be
 given to some one in Beharam Pada. After 2-3 days, Salim returned to
 Bombay and came to the appellant (A-41) with his brother Kalam. The
 appellant (A-41) told him that he had 1 rifle, 25 hand grenades, the
 remaining bullets and 10 magazines etc. The appellant (A-41) asked
 Salim to take these remaining articles from him. However, he promised
 to take them back in the evening, but then did not come for two days. During this period, the appellant (A-41) learnt from the
 newspapers that Salim had been arrested by the police while trying to
 extort money from a Gujarati person. Salim himself came to see the
 appellant (A-41), and told him (A-41) that Salim Kurla could disclose
 the name of the appellant (A-41) to the police, and hence, he advised
 the appellant (A-41) not to disclose Salim’s name. The appellant (A- 41) became frightened, as he was in the possession of arms. Thus, he
 immediately shifted the arms to Iqbal Tunda and informed Salim to keep
 the remaining goods with someone without disclosing his (A-41) name.
 Salim came to see the appellant (A-41), and he had with him 30 loaded
 magazines which were wrapped in a plastic/polythene bag and then kept
 in a cloth bag. He left these magazines with the appellant (A-41) and
 said that he would send Ayub to collect this ammunition from him.
 Accordingly, the next night at 9-9.30 p.m. Ayub came with arms
 including one AK 56 rifle. He kept the magazine and bag in one place.
 Though, he returned a part of the arms and ammunition, some material
 still remained with the appellant (A-41), which was kept in another
 place. He returned 30 loaded magazines to Salim and Ayub which they
 kept inside the dickey of their scooter and left. Salim Kurla was arrested after the Bombay blast and upon his
 disclosure, the appellant (A-41) was arrested on 28.3.1993. Later on,
 his father obtained the bag which he had kept with Iqbal Tunda through
 Hazi Ismail, and the same was produced before the police. He (A-41)
 further stated that he was not interested in using any arms or keeping
 the same with him, rather he had been forced to keep the same by the
 other co-accused, on the pretext that the weapons and ammunition would
 be collected from him within 2-3 days. The appellant (A-41) made a retraction statement on 21.12.1993. 8. The Confessional Statement of Samir Ahmed Hingora (A- 53): The next day, he (A-53) went to his office and met Salim and
 the appellant (A-41) and then reached the house of Sanjay Dutt (A-117).
 Sanjay Dutt asked his driver Mohd. to remove all the vehicles from the
 garage, and the appellant (A-41) then parked his Maruti van there and
 asked for a spanner and screw driver. Sanjay Dutt (A-117) asked Mohd.
 to bring the tool kit from his car and give it to the appellant (A-41).
 Salim wrapped three AK 56 rifles and some magazines in a bed sheet as
 per the request of Sanjay Dutt (A-117), and Salim also gave Sanjay
 Dutt 20-25 hand grenades which were put in a black coloured bag along
 with other ammunition. 9. Confessional statement of Sanjay Dutt (A-117): 10. Confessional statement of Manzoor Ahmed Sayyed Ahmed
 (A-89): 11. Deposition of Pandharinath Hanumanth Shinde (PW.218) : 12. Deposition of Laxman Loku Karkare (PW.45) - He was a panch
 witness in the recovery made on 1.4.1993. When he reached the police
 station and had agreed to become a panch witness, there were some
 constables and one more person, who had disclosed that his name was
 Ibrahim Musa Chauhan @ Baba Chauhan (A-41). He had given the address
 of his residence. The appellant (A-41) had disclosed to the police in
 his presence, that he had AK 56 rifles, magazines, grenades and
 cartridges which he had been concealed, and that he would show them
 the place of concealment and also produce the weapons. The panchanama
 was signed by this witness. They reached the place as was explained to
 them by the appellant (A-41) by police jeep, which was near Andheri Bus
 Terminus. Subsequently, they found themselves in front of a chawl owned
 by the appellant (A-41). Then the appellant took them to a lane which
 was being used as a dumping ground for waste material, and removed a
 bag from underneath a heap of waste. He removed an AK 56 rifle, 635
 cartridges and 25 hand grenades, and handed over the same to P.I. Pawar
 who examined all the articles. The seizure panchanama was prepared by
 P.I. Pawar. In his cross-examination he deposed that he did not remember
 that there was a street light at a distance of 20 feet on the northern
 side of the open space used as a dustbin. The space was full of waste
 material when he had gone alongwith the police party and the accused.
 There were no left over eatables dumped at the place and it was thus,
 not smelling. P.I. Pawar alongwith the accused had entered the open
 space. The open space being used as a dustbin was 4 ft. x 4 ft. The
 accused brought a bag out to the lane from the dustbin. The bag was not
 in the hands of P.I. Pawar. The accused (A-41) had removed the bag
 from the dustbin in their presence. He was standing in the lane
 watching the accused removing the bag from the dustbin. 13. Deposition of Hari Pawar (PW.596) - He is the Police officer
 who made the recovery at the instance of the appellant (A-41), in
 the presence of Panch witnesses. He has corroborated the version of
 recovery as stated by PW.45. 14. Deposition of Prem Kishan Jain (PW.189)- He had recorded the
 confessional statement of the appellant. He deposed that the appellant
 (A-41) had been brought from police custody and sent back to police
 custody. The witness explained that he was fully aware of the
 requirement of recording a confession and that he had complied with all
 the said requirements while recording the confession of the appellant. 15. In State of Himachal Pradesh v. Jeet Singh , (1999) 4 SCC 370
 this court dealt with the issue of recovery from the public place and
 held: 16. Similarly, in State of Maharashtra v. Bharat Fakira Dhiwar (2002) 1 SCC 622, this Court held: 17. In view of the above, it cannot be accepted that a recovery made
 from an open space or a public place which was accessible to everyone,
 should not be taken into consideration for any reason. The reasoning
 behind it, is that, it will be the accused alone who will be having
 knowledge of the place, where a thing is hidden. The other persons who
 had access to the place would not be aware of the fact that an accused,
 after the commission of an offence, had concealed contraband material
 beneath the earth, or in the garbage. 18. In Durga Prasad Gupta v. State of Rajasthan thr. CBI (2003) 12
 SCC 257, this Court explained the meaning of possession as: 19. In Sanjay Dutt v. State thr. CBI, Bombay (II), (1994) 5 SCC 410
 this Court considered the statutory provisions of Section 5 TADA and in
 this regard held: The question now is about the nature of this statutory
 presumption. xxxxxxx 27. There is no controversy about the facts necessary to
 constitute the first two ingredients. For proving the non-
 existence of facts constituting the third ingredient of the
 offence, the accused would be entitled to rebut the above
 statutory presumption and prove that his unauthorised
 possession of any such arms and ammunition etc. was wholly
 unrelated to any terrorist or disruptive activity and the same
 was neither used nor available in that area for any such use
 and its availability in a “notified area” was innocuous.
 Whatever be the extent of burden on the accused to prove the
 non-existence of the third ingredient, as a matter of law he
 has such a right which flows from the basic right of the
 accused in every prosecution to prove the non-existence of a
 fact essential to constitute an ingredient of the offence for
 which he is being tried. If the accused succeeds in proving non-
 existence of the facts necessary to constitute the third
 ingredient alone after his unauthorised possession of any such
 arms and ammunition etc. in a notified area is proved by the
 prosecution, then he cannot be convicted under Section 5 of the
 TADA Act and would be dealt with and punished under the general
 law. It is obviously to meet situations of this kind that Section 12 was incorporated in the TADA Act .” 20. Therefore, the only requirements under the statutory provisions
 are, that (1) a person must be in possession of some contraband
 material; (2) the person must have knowledge of his possession i.e.
 conscious possession; (3) it should be in the notified area. Once
 possession is established, the burden is on the accused to show that he
 was not in conscious possession. 21. After considering the entire evidence on record, the learned
 Designated Court came to the conclusion that the appellant (A-41) was
 aware that the arms and ammunition which were handled by him were to be
 used during riots against Hindus. The father of the appellant (A-41),
 had collected a bag of contraband kept with Iqbal Tunda through Haji
 Ismail, and handed over the same to the police. The Designated Court
 held that the confessions of the co-accused established the role played
 by the appellant (A-41) in supplying weapons to A-117. The confession
 of A-117 does not reveal the name of the appellant (A-41), but the same
 is obvious as A-117 did not know the appellant prior to the said
 meeting. Thus, it is clear that the fourth person referred to in the
 confession of A-117 is none other than the appellant (A-41). The Court
 held that a consideration of the entire evidence leads to the
 inescapable conclusion that the appellant (A-41) was in unauthorised
 possession of AK-56 rifles, magazines, ammunition and hand granades,
 and that he had distributed a part of the material to A-117, kept the
 hand grenades with himself, and had handed over an AK-56 rifle to
 Salim Kurla (dead). All the said acts were committed by him at the
 behest of Salim (AA) and Anees Ibrahim, and thus he has committed an
 offence punishable under Sections 3(3) and 5 TADA. Being in the
 unauthorised possession of weapons in a notified area, and having
 failed to rebut the presumption i.e. that the same were being for the
 purpose of the commission of a terrorist act, he is liable to be
 convicted under Section 5 TADA. However, considering that no nexus was established between the
 material possessed and distributed by the appellant (A-41), and the
 material smuggled into the country by the main conspirators, and there
 being absolutely no other material on record to reveal the nexus
 between the appellant (A-41) and any other co-accused involved in the
 said conspiracy, it was held that he could not be held guilty for the
 offence of conspiracy i.e. for the first charge. The acts committed by
 the appellant (A-41) do not reveal that the same were being done for
 the purpose of furthering the object of the conspiracy. 22. We have considered the entire evidence on record and come to the
 following conclusions: 23. The Designated Court convicted the appellant (A-41) on the basis
 of the evidence as has been hereinabove stated. We find no cogent
 reason to interfere with the decision of the Designated Court. The
 appeal is hereby, accordingly dismissed. 24. These appeals have been preferred against the judgments and
 orders dated 24.11.2006 and 5.6.2007 passed by a Special Judge of the
 Designated Court under the TADA for Bombay Blast, Greater Bombay, in
 Bombay Blast Case No. 1/1993 by which the appellant has been convicted
 under Section 3(3) TADA and sentenced for 10 years rigorous
 imprisonment and a fine of Rs.50,000/- and in default of payment of
 fine to further suffer rigorous imprisonment of one year. He has
 further been convicted for the offence under Section 5 TADA and
 sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs.2,00,000/-
 and in default of payment of fine to suffer further rigorous
 imprisonment for 3-1/2 years. Both the sentences were directed to run concurrently. 25. Facts and circumstances giving rise to these appeals are that: B. After conclusion of the trial, the learned Designated Court
 under TADA convicted and sentenced the appellant as referred to
 hereinabove. Hence, these appeals. 26. Shri Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf
 of the appellant, has submitted that the appellant had not been found
 guilty of first charge i.e. larger conspiracy and the allegations
 against him had been regarding keeping possession of handgrenades,
 detonators and storing the suitcases which had been recovered on his
 discovery statement. The recovery memo of the alleged articles had not
 been signed by the appellant and even the story of handing over the two
 bags to the appellant is false for the reason that it has been alleged
 that Amzad Ali Aziz Meharbaksh had given four bags which were returned
 to Yakub Memon (A-1) as Amzad Ali Aziz Meharbaksh had been discharged
 by this Court. Thus, the evidence of Mohd. Hanit Usman Shaikh (PW.282)
 in this regard cannot be relied upon. More so, the prosecution could
 not produce all 105 handgrenades, alleged to have been recovered from
 the possession of the appellant as there had been shortage of 20
 handgrenades. More so, no explanation had been made by the prosecution
 as how the key-maker was present on the scene and who had brought him.
 More so, the panch witness could not be relied upon because his brother
 is an employee in arms department in police and thus, he could not
 termed to be an independent witness. The alleged recovery of articles
 42 and 43 had not properly been sealed, therefore, there was a
 possibility of tampering with the contents of the suitcases. Thus, the
 learned Designated Court erred in convicting and sentencing the
 appellant. Thus, the appeal deserves to be allowed. 27. Per contra, Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing
 on behalf of the State, has submitted that there is sufficient material
 on record that in the presence of Yakub Memon (A-1), Amzad Ali Aziz
 Meharbaksh had told the appellant (A-67) that goods belonging to Yakub
 Memon (A-1) were to be shifted to some other place and, subsequently,
 Yakub Memon (A-1) asked appellant (A-67) as to whether the bags had
 been delivered to him by Amzad Ali Aziz Meharbaksh. The tickets for the
 co-accused were arranged by Yakub Memon (A-1) through the appellant by
 sending money and passports to him through Rafiq Madi (A-46). It was
 Yakub Memon (A-1) who sent three bags to Rafiq Madi (A-46) through
 appellant (A-67). Yakub Memon (A-1) had instructed on telephone to the
 appellant for sending the bags to Al-Husseini Building i.e., residence
 of Yakub Memon (A-1) and his family. The recovery has been made in
 accordance with law and there is sufficient material against the
 appellant to convict him for the aforesaid offences, hence, no
 interference is required. 28. We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned
 counsel for the parties and perused the records. 29. Evidence against the appellant: at the instance of Yakub Abdul Razak Memon (A-1). On 14-15 February,
 he saw the appellant (A-67) taking away 3 suit-cases in his Maruti Van
 from nearby garage below the building of Tiger Memon (AA). Thus, it came in evidence through the confessional statements
 of A-67 and A-46 that four suitcases were kept in the jeep, which was
 parked in the residential premises of Amjad Abdul Aziz Meherbux (A-68),
 (discharged accused) by Abdul Gani Ismail Turk (A-11) and Anwar Theba
 (AA) at the instance of Yakub Abdul Razak Memon (A-1). Subsequently,
 the appellant (A-67) took away the four suit cases and kept them in his
 office, at the instance of Yakub Abdul Razak Memon (A-1). Later, Rafiq
 Madi Musa Biyariwala (A-46) brought three more suit cases and kept them
 at the office of the appellant (A-67). Out of the total seven suit
 cases, appellant (A-67) delivered five suit cases to Yakub Abdul Razak
 Memon (A-1) at Al Husseini building. Thus, two suit cases remained in
 his possession. It has further been disclosed by the appellant that due
 to the involvement of Yakub Abdul Razak Memon (A-1) in the case, he
 kept the said suit cases at the residence of Mohd. Hanit Usman Shaikh
 (PW.282). After the arrest of the appellant, he made a disclosure
 under Section 27 of Evidence Act (Exh. 108 dt. 26.3.1993) and led Anil
 Prabhakar (PW-506) and Suresh Satam (PW-37) to the residence of Mohd.
 Hanit Usman Shaikh (PW-282) from where the following articles were
 recovered and taken into possession vide Panchnama Ext. 109. The
 suitcases contained arms and ammunition in large quantities. 32. Deposition of Mohd. Hanit Usman Shaikh (PW-282): The witness had been attending the office of the appellant (A-67) in
 connection with taking the persons abroad. He has also revealed that
 the two suitcases recovered had been shown to him and he kept their
 description in mind. Though, the said witness had not been turned
 hostile but, he was permitted to ask some questions in the nature of
 cross-examination regarding the happening at the Mahim Police Station
 in the month of February/March 1993. On the basis of the above, it has
 been submitted by Mr. Mukul Rohtagi that the evidence given by
 Mohammed Hanif Usman Shaikh (PW-282) does not inspire confidence and
 cannot be relied upon. 33. Deposition of Premkrishan Dayakrishan Jain (PW.189): While on 18.4.1993, he was again produced by the police, having the
 custody of the appellant handcuffed and it was on the direction of the
 witness, the handcuffs were removed and his statement was recorded. 34. Deposition of K.L. Bishnoi (PW-193): 35. Deposition of S.J. Satam, Panch witness (PW-37): 36. Deposition of Waman Kulkarni (PW-662): 37. Deposition of Woman Dotlkar (PW-420): 38. The confession of the appellant (A-67) further reveals that he
 had asked Aziz Meherbux (A-68) about contents of bags given by Yakub
 Abdul Razak Memon (A-1) and then A-68 had informed him that same were
 weapons etc. for purposes of taking revenge of losses suffered by
 Muslims during the riots. 39. Since the appellant (A-67) being in possession of contraband
 material in an unauthorised manner within notified area and the said
 material being capable of attracting provisions of Section 5 TADA, it
 will make the appellant (A-67) liable for commission of offence under Section 5 TADA. However, considering the purpose for which the
 appellant (A-67) had taken control of said material, i.e. for hiding
 the same with his friend, it cannot be said that he had committed the
 said act for either aiding Yakub Abdul Razak Memon (A-1) or abetting
 any of the acts of Yakub Abdul Razak Memon (A-1). Thus, though the
 appellant (A-67) by committing such act had contravened provisions of
 Arms Act and Explosive Act, still his intent behind committing said act
 being not for helping any terrorist, thus, he cannot be held guilty for
 commission of any offence under Section 6 TADA. 40. The word ‘Possession’ has been explained under TADA by this
 Court in Durga Prasad Gupta (supra). 41. In Kalpnath Rai v. State (Thr. CBI), (1997) 8 SCC 732, this
 Court held that in order to meet the essential ingredients of offence
 under Section 3 TADA mens rea must be proved, and it is for this reason
 that the companies and corporations etc. cannot be prosecuted for the
 offence under the provisions of TADA. It was further held that the
 confession of an accused can be used against co-accused only in the
 same manner and subject to the same condition as stipulated in Section
 30 of the Evidence Act, i.e. the accused tried in the same case but for
 different offences. 42. Shri Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel appearing for the
 appellant has submitted that two panch witnesses were there, whereas
 one has been examined, i.e. Suresh Satam (PW.37). His evidence cannot
 be relied upon for the reason that he was the brother of a Police
 Constable and thus, cannot be termed as an independent witness.
 Factually, it is true that the panch witness Suresh Satam (PW.37)
 himself has admitted that his brother was employee of the police
 department of Maharashtra. Further, merely having such a relationship
 does not make him disqualified to be a panch witness, nor his evidence
 required to be ignored. In Kalpnath Rai (supra), this Court has held
 that the evidence of police officials can be held to be worthy of
 acceptance even if no independent witness has been examined. In such a
 fact-situation, a duty is cast on the court to adopt greater care while
 scrutinising the evidence of the police official. If the evidence of
 the police official is found acceptable it would be an erroneous
 proposition that the court must reject the prosecution version solely
 on the ground that no independent witness was examined. (See also: 43. It has been pointed out by Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned
 senior counsel appearing for the appellant, that the bags were
 recovered, though the key was not available and, therefore, it is not
 the case where the key of the suit cases had been given to the
 appellant (A-67) and in such a fact-situation, the appellant may not be
 aware of the contents of the bags as he had not seen its contents. The
 locksmith was called and he made key and gave it to the police.
 Subsequent to the opening of the bags, neither the key was kept in safe
 custody nor was it exhibited or preserved. The locksmith has not been
 examined. The recovery of bags itself becomes doubtful for the reason
 that even if the statements of the panch witness Suresh Satam (PW.37)
 and Anil Prabhakar (PW.506) are taken into consideration, the recovery
 was made on 26.3.1993 at 10.00 p.m., though they had started at 5.00
 p.m. from a nearby place. Therefore, prosecution has not explained as
 under what circumstances the police party took five hours to travel
 such a short distance. 44. The confession of the appellant (A-67) revealed that in the
 second week of February, he met Yakub Memon(A-1) in office of Amzad Ali
 Meharbax (A-68) and A-1 asked the appellant (A-67) to book tickets to
 Dubai for him. Thereafter, Amzad Ali Meharbaksh (A-68) gave the the
 appellant (A-67) four bags of Yakub (A-1) and after some time Rafiq
 Madi (A-46) came with money for the tickets. After 10-12 days Rafiq
 Madi (A-46) came with 3 bags of Yakub to be kept with the appellant (A- 67). Upon inquiry from A-68, the appellant (A-67) found out, that the
 bags contained weapons for taking revenge of the sufferings of
 Muslims. On 10th March, the appellant (A-67) had taken 5 bags and kept
 the same in the garage of A-1 at Al-Husseini Building. After bomb
 blasts, he kept the remaining two bags with Mohd. Hanit (PW-282) from
 where they were recovered at his instance. Confession of Mohd. Rafiq
 Musa Biyariwala (A-46) revealed that on two occasions Yakub Memon (A-1)
 had given Rs. 50,000/- and Rs. 62000-63000/- to A-46 for giving it to
 the appellant (A-67), and accordingly A-46 delivered the same to the
 appellant (A-67) and saw the appellant (A-67) driving away from Al-
 Husseini Building in red Maruti car with 3 suitcases. Further, Asit
 Devji (PW-341) and Waman Dotlkar (PW-420) corroborated the incident of
 booking tickets by M/s Altaf Enterprises i.e. firm of the appellant (A- 67). However, the Court held that the said instance of booking tickets
 by the appellant (A-67) cannot lead to the conclusion that he had
 knowledge of purpose for which travellers were going abroad and thus,
 the appellant (A-67) was held not guilty of first limb of second charge
 under Section 3(3) TADA. The recovery of two suitcases containing handgrenades,
 detonators and wires was effected by Anil Mahabole (PW-506) in presence
 of Suresh (PW-37), panch witness, on 26.03.1993 from the house of Mohd.
 Hanif (PW 282) and the same was corroborated by PW-282. The appellant (A-67) had been told by Amzad (A-68) that these
 bags contained weapons to be used for taking revenge for Muslims, but
 still continued to keep the same. The appellant (A-67) was in
 possession of bags after he shifted them to Hanif (PW 282) as he
 assumed full control of said bags without any instruction of Yakub (A- 1). It is evident from the record hereinabove, that in the second
 week of February 1993, the appellant met Yakub Memon (A-1) in the
 office of Amzad Abdul Aziz Meherbux (A-68) and A-1 asked the appellant
 to book tickets for Dubai for him. Thereafter, A-68 gave the appellant
 4 packets to Yakub Memon (A-1) and after some time, Rafiq Madi (A-46)
 came with 3 packets of Yakub Memon (A-1) to be kept with the appellant
 (A-67). On being asked Amzad Abdul Aziz Meherbux (A-68) revealed that
 the packets contained weapons which had been brought to be used for
 taking revenge of sufferings of Muslims. The appellant (A-67) had
 taken 5 bags on 10.3.1993 and kept the same in the garage of Yakub
 Memon (A-1) at the Al-Husseini Building. The Bombay blast took place
 on 12.3.1993, and it was after that the appellant has kept the 2
 remaining bags with Md. Hanit Usman Shaikh (PW.282) from where they had
 been recovered by the police on a voluntary disclosure of the appellant
 and at his instance. The prosecution’s case stood corroborated by the
 confessional statement of Rafiq Madi (A-46), who had also disclosed
 that he had received a sum of Rs.50,000/- and Rs.62,000/- respectively,
 from Yakub Memon (A-1) to be handed over to the appellant (A-67) and
 accordingly, the said amount had been delivered to the appellant by
 him. He had also deposed that he had seen the appellant (A-67) taking
 away the 3 suit cases in red Maruti Car to Al-Husseini Building. The other evidences of Asit Devji (PW.341) and Waman Dotlkar
 (PW.420) have fully proved the booking of tickets by M/s. Altaf
 Enterprises i.e., the Firm of appellant (A-67). Undoubtedly, the
 evidence on record in respect of booking does not lead to draw an
 inference, that while booking the tickets he had any knowledge of any
 conspiracy regarding the Bombay blasts and in view thereof, he had
 rightly been acquitted of the charges of the first limb of the second
 charge under Section 3(3) TADA. However, the recovery of 2 suit cases
 containing the arms and ammunition i.e., handgrenades, detonators and
 wires etc. was effected by Anil Mahabole (PW.506), on the disclosure of
 the appellant in the presence of Suresh Satam (PW.37) and on 26.3.1993
 from the house of Mohd. Hanit (PW-282). The recovery of 2 suit cases
 containing the arms and ammunition i.e., handgrenades, detonators and
 wires etc. stood fully proved by the conjoint reading of the
 depositions of Anil Mahabole (PW.506), Mohd. Hanit (PW.282) and Suresh
 Satam (PW.37). 45. We do not find any cogent reason to interfere with the order
 passed by the Designated Court. The appeals lack merit and are
 accordingly dismissed. 46. This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order
 dated 22.5.2007 passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court
 under the TADA for the Bombay Blast, Greater Bombay in Bombay Blast
 Case No.1/93, by which the appellant has been found guilty and has
 been convicted under Section 3(3) TADA on two counts and has been
 awarded a punishment of 6 years alongwith a fine of Rs.15,000/- on
 each count, and in default of payment of fine to suffer further R.I.
 for 3 months. However, the punishments have been directed to run
 concurrently. 47. Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that : 48. Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel for the appellant, has
 conceded to the fact that the appellant had in fact gone to Dubai,
 without knowing the purpose of such visit, merely upon being asked by
 the other co-accused to do so, and that he came to know only once when
 he was in Dubai that he had to travel to Pakistan for receiving
 training in the handling of arms and ammunition. Even in Pakistan, he
 was unable to take training properly as he was suffering from various
 ailments due to which, he was even got abused several times. Learned
 counsel has admitted appellant’s visit to Dubai, but has also
 submitted that even after returning to Bombay, he did not participate
 in any overt acts or conspiratorial meetings. Hence, no charge could
 be proved against him for attending any such meetings either in India,
 Dubai, or Pakistan. Therefore, it has been submitted by Ms. Farhana Shah, that
 appellant has been exploited by powerful criminals and smugglers, and
 that he had voluntarily gone to Dubai only in search of a job but,
 from there he was forced to travel to Pakistan for training. However,
 owing to the fact that he could not receive training, after returning
 to India he did not attend any meeting. Thus, he cannot be convicted
 for the offence punishable under the provisions of TADA. 49. On the other hand, Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel
 appearing for the CBI, has vehemently opposed the appeal contending
 that though undoubtedly, he might not have been involved in any overt
 act, his involvement in the aforesaid criminal conspiracy cannot be
 ruled out, hence, the provisions of Section 3(3) TADA would
 automatically be attracted in light of the facts of the case. Thus,
 the appeal lacks merit and is liable to be dismissed. 50. We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned
 counsel for the parties and perused the records. 51. Evidence against the appellant (A-95) : 52. Confessional Statement of Mohd. Sayeed Mohmed Issaq (A- 95): 53. Confessional statement of Hanif Mohmed Usman Shaikh (A- 92): 54. Confessional statement of Usman Man Khan Shaikh (A-115): 55. Depositions of Dilip Suryanashi (PW-225) and Mohandas (PW-230)
 Immigration Officer at the Sahar International Airport, has proved
 that the appellant left Bombay on 22.1.1993 for Dubai, and he returned
 on 16.2.1993 from Dubai. 56. After the incident dated 12.3.1993, the appellant left alongwith
 several other persons under a fictitious name, and stayed at Baroda at
 a hotel. This has been proved by Amrutkumar Shah (PW-362), the owner
 of the said hotel. He has stated that as per the entry in the hotel
 register, Room No.204 had been taken by one Farooq Mohd. Shaikh on
 22.5.1993, and that one Mohammed Bhai had also stayed with the said
 person. 57. Bhagat Singh (PW-382), the receptionist of the hotel has also
 proved the same stating that he had allotted Room No. 204 to Farooq
 Shaikh and Mohd. Shaikh. 58. Mr. Achyut Bhalchandra Deshpande (PW-657), police inspector,
 deposed that he had written a letter to the Deputy Commissioner of
 Police, Zone-III, Greater Bombay on 22.6.1993, to record his
 confessional statement. He has admitted in his cross-examination that
 he did not maintain any diary etc. wherein any such particulars have
 been recorded. He has also admitted that the name of the accused and
 the date in the body of said letter, are not in his hand-writing. 59. Surendra Kumar Sondh (PW-188), DCP Zone IV Bombay, recorded the
 confession of the appellant (A-95) on 13.7.1993 and 18.7.1993. He has
 stated that he was aware of the provisions of Section 15 TADA. He has
 also admitted that it was improper to continue the custody of the
 appellant (A-95) during the period that is given for reconsideration,
 with the same police officer who had produced the said accused before
 him on 13.7.1993. 60. After appreciating the entire evidence on record, the learned
 Special Judge found, that the confession of the appellant (A-95)
 clearly revealed that he had travelled to Dubai at the behest of Salim
 Kurla (A-65), and that thereafter, he had gone to Islamabad, Pakistan
 and attended a training camp, where he had acquired training in the
 operation of arms and ammunition, and that thereafter, he had returned
 to Bombay via Dubai. The same has been corroborated by the confessions
 of the other co-accused. The Court has held that considering that the place of training
 was a foreign country; the fact that the nature of training acquired
 was to operate machine guns, AK-56 rifles, hand grenades, RDX, to
 undertake the preparation of bombs, and to operate rocket launchers
 etc.; the meetings attended after the said training; the purpose of
 the training and the oath of secrecy taken by the appellant (A-95); as
 well as all other relevant factors, it becomes abundantly clear that
 all the above activities were directed towards the commission of acts
 of violence against the people of Bombay, and since the same were not
 directed against any particular person, they could only be for the
 purpose of the commission of terrorist acts. Hence, the appellant (A- 95) had been trained for the commission of terrorist acts. 61. It is evident from the evidence on record and the findings
 recorded by the learned Designated Court, that the appellant (A-95)
 had gone to Dubai at the behest of Salim Kurla (A-65) and, thereafter,
 to Islamabad in Pakistan for attending the training camps and acquired
 training in handling the arms and ammunition and thereafter, returned
 to India via Dubai. There is evidence on record that the appellant (A- 95) came to know only after reaching Dubai that he had to go with
 other four co-accused to Pakistan for taking training as they had to
 take a revenge for suffering of Muslims, and he was under a coercion
 that he alongwith others could be arrested by the police of Dubai and,
 therefore, he had to go to Pakistan for training. Even after coming
 back, there is no evidence to show that the appellant (A-95) had
 committed any offence and participated in any other act on the fateful
 day. Further, as the appellant had obtained training for the
 commission of the terrorist acts, he cannot be acquitted of the
 charges under Section 3(3) TADA. The submissions made on behalf of the appellant that he has
 served about half of the sentence and it may be reduced as undergone,
 is not acceptable, in view of the fact that it is mandatory
 requirement under Section 3(3) TADA to award the punishment to 5
 years. 62. We do not see any force in the appeal, it lacks merit and,
 accordingly, dismissed. CRIMINAL APPEAL NOs.617-618 OF 2008

 Ayub Ibrahim Qureshi
 …Appellant

 Versus

 State of Maharashtra Thr. CBI (STF) … Respondent 63. These appeals have been preferred against the judgment and
 order dated 18.9.2006 and 19.7.2007, passed by a Special Judge of the
 Designated Court under the TADA in the Bombay Blast Case No.1 of 1993
 by which the appellant has been found guilty under Sections 3(3) and 5 TADA and Sections 3 and 7 read with Section 25 (1-A) & (1-B) (a) of the Arms Act , and has been awarded a punishment to undergo 5 years RI
 alongwith a fine of Rs.12,500/-, and in default of payment of fine, he
 was ordered to suffer further RI for a period of 3 months under Section
 3(3) , alongwith a similar punishment as was awarded under Section 5 TADA. For conviction under Sections 3 and 7 , read with Section 25 (1-A)
 (1-B)(a) of the Arms Act , no separate punishment has been awarded.
 However, all the sentences awarded were directed to run concurrently. Hence, these appeals. 64. Fact and circumstances giving rise to these appeals are that : 65. Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel appearing for the appellant,
 has submitted that his possession of one revolver and 52 cartridges
 lasted only a period of 2-3 days. The same had been handed over to him
 by Ashraf Shaikh Ali Barmare (A-49), and were later recovered from an
 open public place, and not from the house of the appellant (A-123).
 The incident of the blast had occurred on 12.3.1993, and the said
 recovery was made on 8.4.1993, and hence, the same cannot be connected
 with the Bombay blast. The material so recovered was in view of the
 disclosure statement made by the appellant (A-123), and was never
 produced in court despite an order passed by the Designated Court to
 this effect. Subsequently, the said contraband were produced, but no
 explanation was furnished by the prosecution for 20 cartridges that
 were missing. 66. Mr. Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the CBI,
 has vehemently opposed the appeal contending that his possession was
 conscious possession, and that the appellant (A-123) was fully aware of
 the contents of the bag which was handed over to him by Ashraf Shaikh
 Ali Barmare (A-49) and contained one revolver and 52 cartridges and was
 also aware that it was illegal for him to be in possession of such arms
 and ammunition. The same is punishable under the provisions of TADA.
 Therefore, the appellant (A-123) has rightly been convicted on the
 basis of his possession and the present appeal is, therefore, liable to
 be dismissed. 67 We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned
 counsel for the parties and perused the records. 68. Evidence against the appellant (A-123) : 69. Confessional statement of Ashraf Shaikh Ali Barmare (A- 49): 70. Deposition of Chandrakant Vaidya (PW-40): 71. Deposition of Ratansingh Kalu (PW-600): 72. Deposition of Shri Vishnu Shinde (PW.615): 73. Deposition of Waman Kulkarni (PW.662): 74. Deposition of Krishanlal Bishnoi (PW-193): 75. After considering the entire evidence on record, the Designated
 Court held that contraband articles which had been recovered from Ayub
 Ibrahim Qureshi (A-123), were received from Ashraf Shaikh Ali Barmare
 (A-49) and the appellant (A-123) concealed the same by digging up the
 earth in close vicinity of railway station. The appellant (A-123) has
 accepted the said articles from Ashraf Shaikh Ali Barmare (A-49),
 knowing the nature of the arms and ammunition. The appellant (A-123)
 did not make any attempt to rebut the knowledge about the nature of the
 arms and ammunition. Therefore, the conclusion has been drawn that the
 appellant (A-123) was in possession of the contraband material
 unauthorisedly within notified area of Bombay and, thus, committed the
 offence under Section 5 TADA. Further, the appellant (A-123) committed
 perpetratory act for commission of terrorist acts and, hence, was held
 guilty under Section 3(3) TADA. However, considering the quantum of
 rounds and pistol possessed by the appellant and the duration for which
 it was held, he was not found guilty under Section 6 TADA. 76. We have reappreciated the evidence on record and considered the
 arguments advanced by Ms. Farhana Shah. We do not see any cogent reason
 to take a view different from that of the learned Designated Court.
 The involvement of appellant (A-123) in the offences for which the
 charges have been found proved against him by the Designated Court,
 stood fully established. Appellant had been given the contraband
 material by A-49, and he (A-123) was fully aware of the nature of the
 weapon and cartridges. The relevant Panchnama, i.e., the statement
 in the memorandum Panchnama, the oral evidence of Chandrakant Vaidya,
 panch witness (PW-40) and evidence of Ratansingh Kalu (PW-600) connect
 the appellant (A-123) in concealing the weapon and ammunition. As the provisions of Sections 5 and 3(3) TADA provide for a
 minimum sentence of 5 years, this Court cannot award a punishment
 lesser than what is prescribed under the statute. We do not see any
 reason to interfere with the impugned judgment and order and appeals
 lack merit and are, accordingly dismissed. 77. This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order
 dated 30.5.2007 passed by a Special Judge of the Designated Court
 under the TADA in Bombay Blast Case No.1 of 1993 by which the
 appellant (A-47) was found guilty for offence punishable under Section
 3(3) TADA and sentenced to suffer RI for 6 years and ordered to pay a
 fine of Rs.25,000/- and in default of payment of fine ordered to suffer
 further RI for a period of 6 months under Section 5 TADA, and sentenced
 to suffer RI for 6 years and ordered to pay a fine of Rs.25,000/- and
 in default of payment of fine ordered to suffer further RI for a period
 of six months; and under Sections 3 and 7 read with Section 25 (1-A) (1-
 B)(a) of Arms Act , but no separate sentence awarded on said count. All the sentences awarded to the appellant (A-47) were ordered
 to run concurrently. Hence, this appeal. 78. Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that : 79. Mr. Mushtaq Ahmad, learned counsel for the appellant has
 submitted that the appellant is an auto-rickshaw driver and a simple
 recovery being made at the behest of the appellant cannot be enough to
 implicate him. It was further urged that the recovery was made from a
 public place and therefore, loses its significance. Timings and
 procedure of recovery are doubtful as signatures of the appellant were
 not taken on the panchnama. Thus, the appeal should be allowed. 80. Mr. Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel for the State has
 vehemently opposed the appeal submitting that the recovery effected on
 the basis of the disclosure statement of the appellant has been
 corroborated by several witnesses. Thus, no fault could be found with
 the impugned judgment. Therefore, the appeal is liable to be
 dismissed. 81. We have considered the rival submissions made by learned
 counsel for the parties and perused the record. 82. The evidence against the appellant (A-47) is the recovery of
 weapons made at his instance. On 2.4.1993 at the instance of appellant,
 Eknath Jadhav (PW.606) in the presence of Samir (PW.34) Panch Witness
 prepared the memorandum Panchnama Exh.93. In pursuance of the same, the
 accused led the Panchas and the Police to the terrace of Raziya Manzil
 near Radhe Shyam Theatre. Samir (PW.34) in his examination-in-chief
 stated that bags contained one rifle and six swords, and the blue
 coloured rexine bag contained 980 cartridges and 32 rifle magazines
 which were taken out. 83. The police seized the said articles and seizure panchnama
 (Ext.94) was prepared by Jadhav (PW.606) upon obtaining the signatures
 of the panch witnesses. The said articles were sent to FSL for expert
 opinion and a positive FSL Report was received by the Police. 84. The recovery of arms and ammunition from the appellant (A-47)
 in a notified area of Greater Bombay has been established by Ekanth
 Jadhav (PW.606) and Samir (PW.34). The recovery was made at his
 instance vide Memorandum Panchnama (Ex.No.93) and Seizure Panchnama
 (Ex.No.94). Since the recovery has been made in a notified area of
 Greater Bombay, the statutory presumption arose that the arms were
 acquired by the appellant for the purpose of committing terrorist acts.
 It is for the accused to discharge the presumption. 85. There is nothing on record to show that Samir (PW.34) and
 Jadhav (PW.606) would depose falsely against the appellant (A-47) as
 they had faced the long cross-examination but nothing could surface to
 make their evidence unworthy of reliance for the matter deposed by
 them. It was stated by Jadhav (PW.606) in his cross examination
 that he had not obtained the signatures of the accused on Ex.93, i.e.
 Panchnama. The depositions made by Samir (PW.34) and Jadhav (PW.606)
 corroborated the evidence of each other and again their evidence stand
 corroborated by the recovery of Panchnama. Samir (PW.34) is an
 independent and natural witness and merely because he appeared for the
 prosecution, or he hails from the Worli area, it cannot be presumed
 that he had been deposing falsely at the behest of the
 police/prosecution. The information divulged by appellant (A-47) i.e.,
 the one recorded in Panchnama Ex.93 revealed that the appellant had
 full knowledge regarding contraband material being at a place stated by
 him. The fact that it had been recovered on the basis of disclosure
 statement of the appellant (A-47) and he has led the police team to
 that place proves the recovery. It stands further proved that the AK-
 56 rifle sent for FSL was an assault rifle in working condition, and
 the bullets recovered were live bullets. The submission made at the
 behest of the appellant (A-47) that alleged recovery was from open
 place and therefore, was not worth credence and the evidence on record
 failed to establish consensus position by the appellant (A-47) of
 contraband material, does not hold any merit. More so, merely
 producing the copy of the passport to show that appellant (A-47) was
 not resident of the Razia building does not show that the appellant (A- 47) had no concern with the premises in Razia building. The recovery
 has been made from the terrace of the premises in Razia buildings and
 the contraband material had been found hidden beneath the waste
 material placed therein. There cannot be any dispute regarding the
 timings, as the first Panchnama has been prepared early in the morning
 at 5 a.m. and then recovery was made later from the place pointed out
 by the appellant (A-47) himself. Therefore, there cannot be any fault
 with the timings etc. for the reason that the first Panchnama was
 prepared at 5 to 5.30 a.m. and the second one was at about 7.00 a.m. to
 7.30 a.m. as disclosed by Jadhav (PW.606) in his cross-examination.
 Thus, it shows that there was recovery of one AK-56 rifle, 980
 cartridges of AK-56 rifle, 32 magazines of the same. Entries of the
 same had been made in the Panchnama giving full details, as to how
 those articles were found wrapped in gunny bags, rexene etc. and how
 they were subsequently wrapped after the recovery. Samir (PW.34), the
 panch witness who identified the recovered articles in the court,
 pointing out that the said contraband had been recovered at the behest
 of the appellant (A-47). Letter ‘B’ had been written on the butt of
 the AK-56 rifle which was also found on the said rifle when examined in
 the court. In his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. before the court, the
 appellant (A-47) denied all the allegations made by the prosecution
 and stated that he had been falsely roped in. Further, he had not
 made any disclosure statement nor any recovery had been made at his
 behest. The Police was searching one Botomiya and arrested the
 appellant (A-47) though his name is Bhoronliya. 86. The Designated Court after considering the entire evidence on
 record came to the conclusion that evidence of Samir (PW.34) and Jadhav
 (PW.606) can be relied upon. The contraband material had been
 recovered from Razia buildings at the behest of the appellant (A-47)
 and the recovery was rightly made and Panchnama in this regard was
 worth reliance. There is neither rule of law nor legal precedent that
 the signatures of the accused (A-47) is required to be obtained upon
 the Memorandum Panchnama or the Discovery Panchnama. There is no force
 in this submission made at the behest of the appellant (A-47). Though,
 the contraband articles had been recovered from open space but the
 articles had been concealed under the waste material, so it loses the
 significance of being recovered from the open space on the terrace.
 The recovery stood established by cogent evidence. 87. The submission made by Mr. Mushtaq Ahmad, learned counsel
 appearing on behalf of the appellant that the recovery was made from a
 public place and therefore, could not be relied upon and cannot be
 accepted, as it is the accused alone on whose disclosure statement the
 recovery was made and it is he alone, who is aware of the place he has
 hidden the same. It cannot be presumed that the other persons having
 access to the place would be aware that some accused after the
 commission of an offence has concealed the contraband material beneath
 the earth or in the garbage. 88. In State of Himachal Pradesh v. Jeet Singh (supra), this Court
 held: 89. Similarly, in Gurjinder Singh v. State of Punjab , AIR 2011 SC
 972, this Court held that if a weapon was hidden by digging the earth
 and could be recovered only be removing the earth, it is not desirable
 to entertain the argument that recovery had been made from a public
 place which could have been easily accessible to anyone. The Court
 further held : 90. In State Govt. of NCT of Delhi v. Sunil & Anr. , (2001) 1 SCC
 652, this Court held: 91. In view of the above, merely because the contraband was
 recovered from a public place, i.e. a place accessible to the public at
 large, the same does not mean that the recovery is to be discarded. In
 case, the articles had been hidden by digging up the earth, covering
 the same up with garbage or other material, the public may not have
 taken note of it. The same remained in the specific knowledge of the
 accused, i.e. where and also the manner in which the said articles were
 hidden. Moreover, the recovery cannot be discarded for want of
 signature of the accused on the recovery memo. 92. In view of above, none of the arguments advanced on behalf of
 the appellant is tenable. We do not see any force in the appeal. It
 lacks merit and is, accordingly, dismissed. 93. This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order
 dated 30.5.2007, passed by a Special Judge of the Designated Court
 under the TADA for the Bombay Blast Case No.1/93, Greater Bombay, by
 which the appellant has been convicted under Section 3(3) TADA and
 has been sentenced to suffer RI for six years, alongwith a fine of Rs.
 25,000/-, and in default of payment of fine to further undergo six
 months RI; and under Section 5 TADA, the same sentence has been
 awarded. He has further been convicted under the Arms Act , but no
 separate sentence has been awarded for the same. Both the sentences
 have been ordered to run concurrently. 94. Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that : B. Further, for possessing the said arms, the appellant has also
 been charged under Section 6 TADA, and under the provisions of Sections 3 and 7 read with Section 25 (1-A) (1-B) (a) of the Arms
 Act . C. The appellant has been acquitted of the first charge, but has
 been convicted under Section 3(3) and Section 5 TADA, and also under
 the Arms Act , as has been mentioned above. Hence, this appeal. 95. Shri Mushtaq Ahmad, learned counsel appearing for the appellant,
 has submitted that the conviction of the appellant under the
 provisions of Sections 3(3) and 5 TADA is not sustainable, as the
 confessional statement of the appellant, as well as those of the co-
 accused, are inadmissible in view of the same not being voluntary, and
 having been made under coercion while in police custody. The
 confessional statement had also been retracted just after the filing
 of the charge sheet. It has further been submitted that the panch
 witnesses could not be relied upon as they were stock witnesses.
 Therefore, the conviction is liable to be set aside, and the appeal
 deserves to be allowed. 96. Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the State
 has vehemently opposed the appeal, submitting that the confession of
 the appellant as well as those of the co-accused, which have been
 relied upon, were made voluntarily. He has further submitted that the
 retraction is not worth consideration, and that the panch witnesses
 were not stock witnesses, and that therefore, their testimony deserves
 to be allowed. Thus, the appeal lacks merit and is liable to be
 dismissed. 97. We have considered rival submissions made by learned counsel for
 the parties and perused the record. 98. Evidence against the appellant (A-91): 99. Confessional statement of the appellant (A-91) : Eijaz had told the appellant (A-91) that the bag contained 3 stun-
 guns, and that the appellant (A-91) had to keep the same concealed in
 his house. The appellant (A-91) had taken the said bag, containing
 the 3 stun-guns and 9 empty magazines, to his house and kept the same
 in a Godrej almirah. He had falsely informed his family members that
 the bag contained some cutlery items that belonged to his employer,
 and had directed that none of them must open it. After eight-ten
 days, the appellant (A-91) had shifted the stun-guns from one bag to
 another and had kept the same in his mother-in-law’s house, and had
 told her falsely that the bag contained certain items that belonged to
 his friend, and that she must not open the same. It had been at his
 instance, that the police had made recoveries of the said arms from
 the house of his mother-in-law. The above version of events has been corroborated by Eijaz
 Pathan (A-137-dead) in his confession recorded on 21st and 22nd
 February 2003 by Pramod Mudbhachal, Dy.SP, CBI, STF in all material
 respects. A-91 retracted the confessional statement dated 29.4.1993 on
 23.12.1993. 100. Suresh Narathe (PW-522), a Sub-Inspector of Police had prepared
 the disclosure Panchnama Ext. 265 in the presence of Ashok Kumar
 Harivillas Pandey (PW-59), panch witness, on 9.4.1993, and in
 pursuance of the said disclosure Panchnama, 3 AK-56 rifles and 9 empty
 black coloured magazines had been recovered vide seizure Panchnama
 Ext. 281. The seized articles had been sent to FSL for opinion, vide
 Ext. 1805 and a positive FSL Report (Ext.1806) had thereafter, been
 received. 101. Viijay Dagdu Kadam (PW-344) – a Sub-Inspector of Police, who had
 arrested A-91 has stated that on 28.4.1993, the appellant (A-91) had
 expressed his willingness to make a confession voluntarily, and thus,
 he had written a letter on the very same day to Shri Lokhande, DCP,
 for the purpose of recording his confession. He has proved the letter
 marked as Ext. X-211, and the contents of the said letter have been
 found to be true and correct, and the same also bear his signature. He
 had sent the recovered materials for FSL for examination, vide letter
 dated 20.4.1993 (Ext. 1805). He has further deposed that on 10.5.1993,
 he had received an FSL report regarding the articles that had been
 sent by him, and has stated that the said report was positive. 102. Hirasingh K. Thapa (PW-278), watchman of the Navjeevan Society
 where the appellant (A-91) resided, has corroborated the confession
 of (A-91) in respect of the visit of Munna (A-24) and Eijaz Pathan (A- 137) to the said society on the day that the said weapons had been
 given to the appellant (A-91). Hirasingh K. Thapa (PW.278) has
 identified Munna (A-24) in the T.I. Parade (Ext. 1490) held by Vithal
 Sonawane (PW-465). 103. Moiddin Kabir (PW-58) and Ashok Kumar Harivillas Pandey (PW-59)
 were panch witnesses. Ashok Kumar Harivillas Pandey (PW-59) had
 worked as a watchman at Saldhana Apartments in Chembur for a long
 time. He has deposed that he had been called to be a panch witness.
 He has proved the disclosure panchnama, as well as the recovery
 panchnama, and it was in his presence that the appellant (A-91) had
 made a disclosure as regards the 3 AK-56 rifles and 9 empty magazines.
 Their recovery had been made at his behest from the residence of his
 mother-in-law. Moiddin Kabir (PW-58) has also corroborated the
 version of events provided by Ashok Kumar Harivillas Pandey (PW-59). 104. This charge against the appellant has been held to be proved,
 and the Designated Court has come to the conclusion that Eijaz Pathan
 (A-137) having received the contraband material within notified area,
 gave the same to the appellant (A-91), who has agreed to keep the said
 material with him. It was held that Eijaz Pathan (A-137) having kept
 the bag of contraband at the house of the appellant (A-91), thereafter
 the further act of the appellant (A -91) in shifting the same to the
 house of his mother-in-law clearly shows that he had dominium and
 control over the same. The accused falsely told his family members and
 later on to his mother-in-law that the bags contained goods of his
 friend and the same may not be opened. Hence, the appellant (A-91)
 being in unauthorised possession of contraband in notified area of
 Bombay was guilty under Section 5 TADA. Similarly, the appellant (A- 91) would also be guilty for commission of offences under Section 3(3) TADA and under Sections 3 and 7 read with Section 25 (l-A)(l-B)(a) Arms
 Act . More so, recovery was made at his behest and on his disclosure
 statement. 105. It has been held that considering the manner in which, and the
 reason because of which the appellant (A-91) had agreed to keep the
 said contraband at his house, and the fact that the same had not been
 for the purpose of aiding a terrorist, appellant (A-91) was not held
 guilty for the offence under Section 6 TADA. 106. Furthermore, considering the fact that the said acts had been
 committed by the appellant (A-91) at the behest of Eijaz Pathan (A- 137), and that the same cannot be said to have been done for the
 purpose of furthering the object of a criminal conspiracy i.e. first
 charge, or even a smaller facet of the same, and there being no
 evidence available to establish the nexus of the appellant (A-91) with
 such a conspiracy, he was not held guilty of conspiracy i.e. of the
 first charge. 107. In view of the aforesaid evidence, it becomes clear that the
 appellant (A-91) had kept in his possession unauthorisedly weapons at
 the behest of Eijaz Pathan (A-137-dead). The appellant told his mother-
 in-law and other family members that the goods belonged to his friend,
 and nobody should open the same. The recovery of the same at his
 behest stood proved. The prosecution successfully proved its case and
 to that extent he has been convicted by the Designated Court. We find
 no cogent reason to interfere with the judgment of the learned
 Designated Court. The appeal lacks merit, and is accordingly
 dismissed. 108. This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order
 dated 21.5.2007 passed by a Special Judge of the Designated Court
 under the TADA in the Bombay Blast case No. 1/93, Greater Bombay by
 which the appellant (A-101) has been found guilty under Section 3(3) TADA, and on this count, the appellant has been sentenced to suffer RI
 for 6 years and also ordered to pay a fine of Rs.25,000/-, and in
 default of payment of fine to further suffer RI for 6 months. 109. Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that : B. After his trial, the appellant (A-101) has been acquitted of the
 first charge, but has been convicted under Section 3(3) TADA and has
 been sentenced as referred to hereinabove. Hence, this appeal. 110. Mrs. Anagha S. Desai, learned counsel appearing for the
 appellant (A-101) has submitted that there is nothing on record to
 show that the appellant (A-101) had any knowledge regarding the
 smuggling of arms and ammunition. At most, he may be guilty under the
 provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act or of a violation of
 the Customs Act , or of FERA, but he certainly cannot be convicted
 under the provisions of TADA. Therefore, the appeal deserves to be
 allowed. 111. Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the
 State, has submitted that the Hawaldar Mali, has been specifically
 named by the co-accused Uttam Shantaram Potdar (A-30), thereby
 revealing the fact that he had been the one counting the silver bricks
 in the truck when the same had been intercepted at Gondghar Phata.
 Thus, the appeal lacks merit, and is liable to be dismissed. 112. We have considered rival submissions made by the learned counsel
 for the parties and perused the records. 113. Evidence against the appellant : 114. Confessional statement of Uttam Shantaram Potdar (A-30): 115. Dinesh Gopal Nakti (PW-95) and Krishnakant Nathu Ram Birade (PW- 96) were labourers with Uttam Potdar (A-30), who had been the landing
 agent in the relevant incident. They have deposed that on 9.1.1993,
 they had gone alongwith 12 other labourers to Dighi Jetty, for the
 said landing. They have further deposed as regards how the goods were
 smuggled and transported, but they have not named the appellant (A- 101) specifically, as being a member of the intercepting police team. 116. Dilip Biku Pansare (PW-97) was a mechanic in the State Transport
 Corporation, but had also been assisting Uttam Potdar (A-30) in his
 smuggling activities and it was he who had been driving the vehicle
 carrying the smuggled articles on 9.1.1993 from Dighi Jetty to Bombay.
 Two trucks carrying smuggled goods had been intercepted by the police
 party at Gondghar Phata. The vehicles had been stopped and checked.
 On their asking, the police had been told that the smuggled goods were
 silver and that there were also some boxes that contained glassware.
 He has further provided details with respect to how the police party
 had behaved, but did not name the appellant specifically. 117. Yeshwant Kadam (PW-109) and Vinod Chavan (PW-590) are the
 witnesses to the recovery of Rs.15,000/- from the appellant (A-101).
 In his examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C., the appellant (A-101)
 has submitted that Vinod Chavan (PW-590) had not made any such
 recovery, rather, on 21.4.1993 the appellant’s wife had gone to the
 Shrivardhan Police Station and had given a sum of Rs.15,000/- that had
 been brought by her by pledging her ornaments with the Mahad
 Cooperative Urban Bank to avoid harassment, as the same had been
 demanded by the Police. The Police has shown the said amount to be
 the amount recovered from the appellant (A-101), by drawing up a false
 panchnama Exh.563, to this effect. 118. The Designated Court has dealt with all the aforesaid
 issues, and after appreciating the entire evidence on record so far as
 the appellant (A-101) is concerned, the Designated Court has held that
 Uttam Potdar (A-30) has revealed the involvement of the appellant (A- 101) in the relevant episode. His confessional statement to this
 effect stands corroborated by the material in the confessions of
 Jaywant Keshav Gurav (A-82), Mohd. Sultan Sayyed (A-90), Salim Kutta
 (A-134) and Mechanic Chacha (A-136), which establishes the presence of
 the police party of the Shrivardhan Police Station at Gondghar Phata,
 and further the transportation of contraband goods being permitted in
 return for the receipt of bribe. Thus, the court has reached the
 conclusion that the appellant (A-101) was in fact involved in the
 commission of the offence under Section 3(3) TADA, though he was not
 found guilty of the general charge of conspiracy, as has been
 mentioned in the first general charge. 119. The present case is a clear case where a police party had
 intercepted and checked trucks carrying the smuggled goods/articles
 i.e. arms, ammunition and contraband, and has, after negotiating for
 half an hour, with such party, permitted them to proceed further after
 receiving the decided bribe amount i.e. silver bricks in lieu of cash
 which was to be paid later on. We are unable to agree with the submissions of Ms. Desai, with
 reference to the retracted confessions not being admissible in view of
 the law laid down by this court in Aloke Nath Dutta & Ors. v. State of
 West Bengal , (2007) 12 SCC 230. For the foregoing reasons, the appeal lacks merit, and is
 accordingly dismissed. 120. This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and
 order dated 31.5.2007, passed by a Special Judge of the Designated
 Court under the TADA in the Bombay Blast Case No.1 of 1993, convicting
 the appellant under Sections 3(3) , 5 and 6 TADA and under Sections 3 and 7 read with Section 25 (1-A)(1-B)(a) of the Arms Act . 121. Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that : 122. Shri Mushtaq Ahmad, learned counsel appearing for the appellant,
 has submitted that the appellant has been convicted by the learned
 Special Judge merely on the basis of surmises and conjectures and
 there is no evidence on the basis of which, the said conviction can
 be sustained. Chandrakant Atmaram Vaidya (PW-40), who has been relied
 upon for conviction had been a stock panch witness, and had been
 easily available to the police. The recovery had been made from an
 open area, to which a large number of persons had access. Therefore,
 the recovery and the panchnama in respect thereof, including the
 disclosure statement that has allegedly been made by the appellant
 cannot be relied upon. The appellant has been handicapped since his
 childhood, and thus, his right hand is impaired. Furthermore, he has
 already served more than 5 years in jail. Thus, the appeal deserves
 to be allowed. 123. Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the
 respondent, has submitted that the recovery had been made on the basis
 of the disclosure statement of the appellant, and had been made
 strictly in accordance with the requirements of Section 27 of the
 Evidence Act, and therefore, has rightly been relied upon. No fault
 can be found with the impugned judgment and order. The appeal lacks
 merit and is therefore, liable to be dismissed. 124. We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned
 counsel for the parties and perused the record. 125. Evidence against the appellant (A-107): 126. Confessional statement of Nasim Ashraf Shaikh Ali Barmare (A-49)
 : 127. Chandrakant Atmaram Vaidya (PW-40), a panch witness, has
 deposed that on 8.4.1993, he had gone to the Mahim Police Station,
 upon being called there through a police havaldar. Here, P.I. Rathod
 had told him that the person who was sitting there, was actually an
 accused in the Worli Blast case, and wanted to make a disclosure
 statement voluntarily. Upon being asked by the witness, the accused
 had told him his name, which was Asif Yusuf Shaikh (A-107), and he
 further told him that he could aid in the recovery of certain bombs
 that had been hidden by him. The police officer had recorded the
 statement of the accused and had prepared the memorandum panchnama,
 which had then been signed by the panch witnesses. On the basis of
 the disclosure statement of the appellant (A-107), the police party
 had taken him and the panch witnesses in a van, and the said van had
 been stopped at a place upon a request made by the appellant (A-107).
 It was a heap, in which there lay broken tiles. The appellant (A-107)
 had removed the other things and the tiles, and had taken out a
 plastic bag which had contained 4 hand-grenades. The police inspector
 had prepared a panchnama, which had been read over to the panch
 witnesses and had been duly signed by them. The four labels, that had
 been duly signed by the police inspector, had then been affixed to
 these bombs. All of them had then returned to the Mahim Police
 Station. This witness has admitted in his cross-examination, that he
 had also been the panch witness in another enquiry that had been made
 on 8.4.1993, wherein Ayub Ibrahim Qureshi (A-49) had made a disclosure
 statement, on the basis of which a recovery had been was made from a
 nearby area (Exh.127-128). It has further been explained by him, that
 the place from which the recovery had been made, was an open area and
 that a large number of persons had access to it. The witness has
 further stated that after the recovery in the first case was over, the
 police havaldar had come and taken him back to become the panch
 witness for another case, as during those late hours, no other panch
 witness had been available. 128. Ratansingh Kalu Rathod (PW-600), a police Inspector
 corroborated the evidence of Chandrakant Vaidya (PW-40), and has
 narrated how the disclosure statement had been recorded, how the
 memorandum panchnama had been prepared and also how, the said
 recoveries had been made. He has pointed out that at the place of
 recovery, the accused had removed items from the heaps, and that after
 digging, had taken a bag containing four hand-grenades. He has also
 given full details as regards how the two recoveries had been made in
 a close proximity of time, and from nearby places. 129. In his statement made under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973, the appellant (A-107) has pleaded false implication
 in the said case, and has stated that the said recoveries had not been
 made at his instance, as he had never been in possession of any hand-
 grenades. 130. On the issue of recovery, this Court in State of H.P. v. Jeet
 Singh (supra), held : 131 In State of Maharashtra v. Bharat Fakira Dhiwar , (supra),
 this court dealt with the issue. 132. Thus, in view of the above, the submission made by Mr. Mushtaq
 Ahmed, stating that as the recovery had been made from an open place
 to which all persons had access, cannot be relied upon and is not
 worth acceptance. 133. Undoubtedly, the appellant’s disclosure statement had been made
 before the police, as well as the panch witness. The fact that he did
 not disclose the place where the contraband had been hidden remains
 entirely insignificant, for the reason that he had led the police
 party to the said place, and that the said recovery had been made at
 his behest. The open space from where the recovery had been made
 though was accessible to anybody, it must be remembered that the
 contraband had been hidden, and that it was only after digging was
 done at the place shown by the appellant, that such recovery was made.
 Hence, it would have been impossible for a normal person having access
 to the said place, to know where the contraband goods were hidden. 134. Nasim Ashraf Shaikh Ali Barmare (A-49) in his confessional
 statement, has disclosed that he had handed over the remaining hand-
 grenades to the appellant. As the said contraband could not have been
 used other than for the aforementioned terrorist activities, the
 submission advanced on behalf of the appellant, stating that it was
 not proved that the contraband so hidden were to be used for terrorist
 activities, cannot be accepted. In light of the facts and
 circumstances of the case, it cannot be believed that the appellant
 had not been aware of the contents of the contraband, even though the
 same had been wrapped in carbon paper. Furthermore, had the appellant not been aware of the contents of
 the contraband, there would have been no occasion for him to hide the
 same away after digging up the earth, and further to yet again, cover
 up the said material with earth and heaps of items. Thus, we are of
 the view that the appellant had been fully aware of the contents
 thereof. 135. In view of the above, we concur with the conclusion that has
 been reached by the learned Special Judge. Thus, the present appeal
 lacks merit, and is accordingly dismissed. 136. This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order
 dated 14.6.2007 passed by a Special Judge of the Designated Court
 under the TADA in Bombay Blast Case No.1 of 1993, by which the
 appellant has been convicted under Section 3(3) TADA, and a punishment
 of five years rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 25,000/-, and
 in default of payment of fine to suffer further R.I. for 6 months was
 imposed. 137. Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that : B. After conclusion of the trial, the learned Special Judge
 convicted A-96 as referred to hereinabove. Hence, this appeal. 138. Mr. Zafar Sadique, learned counsel for the appellant has
 submitted that it was her brother who was a close associate of Tiger
 Memon, and after the death of her brother she was given some money for
 household expenses by Tiger Memon, and she did not work for him or had
 any knowledge of her involvement in terrorist activities. Thus, the
 appeal deserves to be allowed. 139. Mr. Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel for the State vehemently
 opposed this appeal by stating that her confession itself reveals that
 she knew that Tiger Memon was a smuggler. Moreover, the fact that
 conspiratorial meetings were held in her house demonstrates her
 knowledge of the conspiracy, and being a party to the same she should
 have also been convicted of the larger conspiracy. Thus, the appeal is
 liable to be dismissed. 140. We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned
 counsel for the parties and perused the records. 141. Evidence against the appellant: 142. Confessional statement of the appellant Mubina @ Baya Moosa
 Bhiwandiwala (A-96): 10), an associate of Tiger Memon (AA) on 11.3.1993 at 11.00 p.m. from
 her residence. Samir Ahmed Hingora (A-53), owner of Magnum Videos,
 sent a sum of Rs.50,000/- to her for household expenses twice. On
 9.3.1993, a meeting was held at her residence at 8.00 o’clock in the
 evening which was attended by Tiger Memon (AA) and his associates.
 Tiger Memon (AA) was directing his men in the bedroom of the house for
 a period of approximately half an hour and she and her family had been
 sitting outside. Usman (PW-2), Javed, Bashir and Nashir alongwith 10-
 15 other boys came at her residence. She opened the door. They asked
 for Tiger Memon (AA) and she replied that he was inside. Tiger Memon
 (AA) spoke to them, in the bedroom. Appellant was asked to prepare 15-
 20 cups of tea. After preparing the tea, she knocked the door of the
 hall; one boy came and took the tea inside. Tiger Memon (AA) and
 those persons were discussing about the plan. They left at about
 12.30 in the night. On the next day on 10.3.1993 at about 9.00 or
 9.30 at night, those boys came again to her residence at the instance
 of Tiger Memon and the appellant (A-96) asked them to wait. Then,
 Tiger Memon (AA) came and discussed the plan with those boys. Then
 all of them left her house at about 12.00 o’clock at night. The
 police arrested the appellant after 4-5 days of bomb blasts. 143. Confessional statement of Asgar Yusuf Mukadam (A-10): 144. Confessional statement of Abdul Gani Ismail Turk (A-11): 145. Confessional statement of Parvez Nazir Ahmed Shaikh, (A- 12): 146. Confessional statement of Nasir Abdul Kadar Kewal @ Nasir Dhakla
 (A-64): 147. Confessional statement of Niyaz Mohmed @ Aslam Iqbal Ahmed
 Shaikh (A-98): 148. Confessional statement of Zakir Hussein Noor Mohammed Shaikh (A- 32): 149. After appreciating the entire evidence on record, the Designated
 Court came to the conclusion as under: Considering matters in entirety in the said confession it is
 clear that Tiger Memon was also residing in the nearby
 vicinity. In the said contingencies Tiger Memon holding
 meeting of such a number of persons at the house of Mubina
 itself raises a grave doubt about the purpose for which the
 said meeting was held by him at the said house instead of
 his own house. Apart from the same, careful consideration of
 the material in the confession in terms reveal close
 association developed in between Tiger Memon and A-96. The
 other material pertaining to keeping tickets of Tiger Memon
 at her house, Tiger Memon paying money for the expenses
 himself increasing the said amount upon the say of father of
 A-96 are the circumstances curiously throwing the light
 upon the relationship in between them. Even the material in
 the confession reveals that Tiger, Memon had a talk with his
 friend after taking him to the bed room in the said house.
 All the said circumstances are self-eloquent. 53) Furthermore the recital in the confession that after
 the Tea was taken “the said person were discussing about
 their plan” is a recital clearly revealing knowledge of A-96
 of the meeting being regarding the plan. Since in cases of
 conspiracy direct evidence would never be available the said
 self-eloquent recital is sufficient to infer about A-96
 having full knowledge about the purpose for which the said
 meeting was held by Tiger Memon. Needless to add neither the
 confession reveals the reason because of which A-96 had
 allowed. Tiger Memon to take the meeting in her house.
 Furthermore even a trial, no explanation has been given by A-
 96 regarding the said respect. Thus considering the said
 act committed by A-96 conclusion is inevitable about herself
 knowing full well the purpose of the said meeting had
 allowed Tiger Memon to hold the same at her house and that
 too in spite of his house being not far away from the said
 place. Thus, the same clearly denotes of A-96 having aided
 and abetted and assisted a Tiger Memon for having a meeting
 for chalking out final plans of conspiracy hatch. Thus all
 the said material is sufficient for holding her guilty for
 commission of offences under Sec. 3(3) of TADA. 54) In the aforesaid context the defense submission that
 A-96 was not alone residing in the said flat or that her
 father and other members of her family were also residing at
 the said Flat and as such she cannot be said to be
 responsible for granting the permission to Tiger Memon for
 holding meeting in the said flat as the same might have
 been given by somebody else i.e. her father etc. also does
 not stand to the reason. Such conclusion is apparent as the
 material in her confession does not support such a theory
 and on the contrary the meeting held under nose on the
 relevant day clearly signifies the same being held with her
 concurrence. Needless to add that material in the
 confession also denotes of affairs of the said House being
 managed by her after the death of her brother. 55) Since the matters in the confession of A-96 or at
 least the fact of meeting held in her flat being
 corroborated material in the confession of accused referred
 during the discussion made earlier, the said aspect will not
 need any reiteration. Having regard to the same the matters
 in her confession which is disclosing her involvement, i.e.
 the admission in commission of the offence u/s.3(3)of TADA
 will be required to be taken into consideration and thus
 will be required to be acted upon. As a result of the same,
 she will be required to be held guilty for commission of the
 said, offence. 56) However, even accepting the said material in her
 confession and even the conclusion arrive about her guilt
 still it will be necessary to say that the said material
 cannot be said to be sufficient for holding her guilty for
 commission of offence of an conspiracy for which he is
 charge with at a trial. The same is obvious that there
 exists no evidence of herself having committed any act prior
 to this meeting and even after the said meeting denoting
 that she was the Member of the conspiracy. The same is
 obvious as there is clearly paucity of evidence to establish
 A-96 having committed any other act furthering the object of
 such conspiracy. Hence she cannot be held liable for being
 party to the conspiracy, as even the evidence pertaining to
 the said meeting reveals that she has not participated in
 the same and merely sent Tea and allowed Tiger Memon to hold
 meeting at her residence. ?57) Thus, taking into consideration the extent and/or
 severity of act committed by A-96 and the other relevant
 factors and having regard to the basic principle behind
 awarding punishment being to eradicate the element of
 criminality and not to punish individual human being
 entertaining same, herself being woman accused, herself
 having faced a long drawn prosecution, role played by her
 cannot be said to be of a severe nature, the probable reason
 because of which she had committed the relevant acts,
 herself being not the sole person who had assisted Tiger
 Memon in the relevant episode and even from said angle, act
 committed by her clearly appearing to be on much lower
 pedestal than such a role of facilitation, assistance played
 by other co-accused in the case, a minimum sentence
 prescribed under the law i.e. a sentence of R.I. for 5 years
 and a fine amount of Rs.25,000/- with suitable addition of
 RI in default of payment of fine for commission of offence
 u/S.3(3) of TADA, ordered for A-96 would serve the ends of
 justice.”
 (Emphasis
 supplied)

 150 There is no evidence on record to show that the appellant (A- 96) is the actual owner of the flat where the meeting took place. The
 appellant (A-96) was simply present in the next room when the meeting
 was held and she was asked to serve tea. Further, it was her brother
 who was well acquainted with Tiger Memon (AA) and after his death
 Tiger Memon(AA) simply gave some money to her family for household
 expenses and that money was not for her own personal/individual
 expenditure. Moreover, while serving them tea she might have overheard
 something about a plan that was being formulated by the co-accused,
 but not being a party to the meeting she could not have possibly known
 or understood the plan. According to the prosecution case, she had
 been given air tickets by Tiger Memon (AA) to keep and one of the
 tickets had been taken by him in the early morning hours of the day of
 the blasts i.e. 12.3.1993. There is nothing on record to show that the
 appellant (A-96) knew that the blasts were going to take place on that
 day, or that she had acquired any knowledge that Tiger Memon (AA)
 would be absconding from India. Moreover, she was not a participant in
 any overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy. 151. Due to the foregoing reasons, the appellant (A-96) is held to be
 entitled for benefit of doubt. Thus, we allow the appeal and acquit
 her for the charge under Section 3(3) TADA. The conviction and
 sentence awarded by the Designated Court are set aside. The appellant is on bail. Her bail bonds stand
 discharged. 152. This appeal has been preferred against the judgments and orders
 dated 23.11.2006 and 5.6.2007, passed by a Special Judge of the
 Designated Court under the TADA in the Bombay Blast Case No. 1/1993. 153. Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that : 154. The appellant has been convicted under Section 5 TADA and has
 been awarded a punishment of 5 years alongwith a fine of Rs.1,00,000/-
 , and in default of payment of fine, to further undergo 3 years RI,
 and also under Section 201 IPC has been awarded a punishment of 5
 years, alongwith a fine of Rs.50,000/-, and in default of payment of
 fine to suffer further RI for one year. However, both the sentences
 have been directed to run concurrently. Hence, this appeal. 155. Shri Shree Prakash Sinha, learned counsel appearing for
 the appellant, has submitted that the conviction of the appellant
 which is based on the confession of the appellant, is not sustainable
 for the reason that the confession itself has revealed, that the
 appellant had refused to record any confession at the initial stages
 of recording his confession. The same is evident from the confessional
 statement itself, and Shri Sanjay Pandey, DCP (PW-429), in light of
 this, ought not to have recorded his confessional statement at all.
 The recoveries made at the behest of the appellant cannot be relied
 upon, as the same do not connect the appellant with the same in any
 manner. Furthermore, the recovery has not been made in accordance with
 law, for the simple reason that the disclosure statement of the
 appellant, which was recorded under Section 27 of Evidence Act was
 made simultaneously. The same is shown to have been made at the time,
 when the appellant had been present before the learned Designated
 Court, held at the Mahim Police Station itself. While considering his
 application for remand, no satisfactory explanation could be furnished
 by the prosecution as regards how remand proceedings, and the
 recording of the disclosure statement of the appellant could take
 place together. The evidence suffers from material contradictions, and
 thus, ought to have been rejected. Therefore, the appeal deserves to
 be allowed. 156. Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the
 State, has vehemently opposed the appeal contending that all
 proceedings had been conducted strictly in accordance with law.
 Undoubtedly, the confessional statement suggests, that appellant had
 refused to make a confessional statement. However, upon a cogent
 reading of the said statement, the impression created by the learned
 counsel for the appellant stands completely dispelled. The conviction
 of the appellant is based upon a correct appreciation of the evidence
 available. Thus, the appeal lacks merit and is liable to be dismissed. 157. We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned
 counsel for the parties, and perused the record. 158. Evidence against the appellant (A-50): 159. Confession of Noor Mohammed Haji Mohammed Khan (A-50): He (A-50) had again visited the site on 16th/17th March, 1993 at
 Kashimira alongwith Rashid Khan, – a businessman who dealt in
 chemicals, and had taken out the packet. Rashid Khan, after examining
 the contents of the packet thereof, had told him that the same was
 explosive material. Rashid Khan had taken the packet with him, and had
 subsequently informed him that the same most certainly contained
 material for making bombs. By this time, certain material had been
 seized in Mumbra and due publicity had been given to the same in the
 newspapers. It had been revealed that the material belonged to Yeda
 Yakub. The appellant (A-50) had then asked Rashid Khan to help him to
 destroy the material. Rashid Khan had told him that he knew one
 Munna, who could help them to destroy the same. The appellant (A-50)
 had then decided to spend a sum of Rs.5 lakhs, for the purpose of
 destroying the material as he had apprehensions regarding the incident
 of recovery of the same material in Mumbra. They had met Munna at the
 Lion Pencil Resort at Nangla. Munna had been assigned the job of
 distribution of the material, and the appellant was informed in the
 evening, that the said work had been completed. The appellant had gone
 to Bombay and had given a Toyota Corolla car to Rashid Khan, in lieu
 of payment of a sum of Rs. 3 lacs, and the remaining amount had been
 paid by Mohammad. After 3-4 days, he had gone to the site with Shakeel, and the
 watchman had told him that some of the material had been left behind.
 He had then put the remaining material in a jeep, had gone with
 Shakeel, and Shakeel had then thrown the same along Kashimira
 Highway, from a bridge at a distance of about 6 Kms. from Kashimira.
 As some of the said material had fallen down outside of the water
 channel, the appellant had gone down with the jeep, and had thrown the
 sacks containing left over material into water and had then driven
 back to Bombay. It was on 8th April that Munna had telephoned the appellant (A- 50) demanding the balance amount of Rs.2 lacs that had been promised
 to him stating that, otherwise he (A-50) would face dire
 consequences. The appellant had then informed Mohammad, who had
 subsequently informed the police, and they had thus gotten Munna
 arrested. After some interrogation, the appellant (A-50) had also been
 arrested. He (A-50) has further stated that he had not known that the
 material was actually RDX. Once he had become aware of the same, he
 had thrown the same into the water, apprehending his arrest by the
 police. The remaining material had been thrown off the bridge along
 the Kashimira Highway. He (A-50) had himself taken the police to the
 said place and had gotten the material recovered from there. The appellant (A-50) had also made retraction of his confession
 on 14th/16th May, 1993, at a belated stage. 160. Confessional statement of Shakeel Shahabuddin Shaikh (A- 59): 161. Confessional statement of Munna @ Mohammad Ali @ Manoj Kumar
 Bhanwar Lal (A-24): In the 3rd week of March, 1993 while he had been staying in
 Marol, Noor Khan (A-50) and Mohammad Jindran had come to meet him and
 had said that some packets of RDX were lying in the godown and that
 the same had to be destroyed. Rashid had told him that for removing
 the said packets, he had taken a sum of Rs.5 lakhs. Rashid had taken
 him the next day to the Ghodbunder hotel and there he had met Noor
 Khan (A-50) and Mohammad Jindran, who had already reached there. They
 had arranged for a dumper from the Sarpanch of the village Anand
 Dighe. The material had then been loaded therein, and had been thrown
 into the sea. He had thrown about 55 packets of RDX into Nagla
 Bandar. Rashid had given him a sum of Rs.10,000/-. He had
 subsequently reached the Dawat hotel, to receive a sum of Rs.20,000/-
 from Noor Khan. However, he had been arrested by the police here. 162. Deposition of Fazal Akbar Khan (PW-468): 163. Deposition of Upendra G. Patel (PW-33): 164. Deposition of Wilson John Britto (PW-274): 165. Deposition of Prakash Dhanaji Khanvilkar (PW.513): 166. Deposition of Ajit Pratap Singh (PW.291): Rashid had stayed in the said room alongwith his friends, and he had
 served them lunch. While serving them, he had heard Rashid telling the
 others that the goods which had been kept in the godown of the
 appellant (A-50), were to be thrown at the earliest into the Nagla
 creek, by taking the same in the vehicle of Anya Patil, as an
 investigation by the police was in progress. Rashid had noticed the
 presence of the witness, and had immediately asked him to leave the
 room and to close the door. In court, the witness expressed his
 inability to identify any of these friends, who had been present on
 that day in the hotel, except Rashid and Munna (A-24) as the
 deposition had taken place after a period of five years. 167. Deposition of Dattatray Maruti Wayal (PW.521): 168. Deposition of Kailas Baburao Dawkhar (PW.518): 169. The evidence referred to hereinabove, regarding the ownership
 and possession of the godown, the dumping of the contraband in the
 said godown, and the removal and final disposal of the same by
 throwing it into the Nagla creek, stands fully corroborated by the
 evidence of the aforesaid witnesses. The said contraband had been
 destroyed in two installments; one at the Nagla creek, and another at
 the bridge on the Kaman river. The evidence of the witnesses
 corroborates the case of the prosecution in entirety. Thus, the case
 stands proved. 170. We do not find any force in the submissions made by Mr. Sinha,
 learned counsel appearing for the appellant, to the effect that as the
 recovery memo did not contain signature of the appellant, the same
 cannot be relied upon, even though, to fortify such submission, he has
 placed very heavy reliance upon the judgment of this Court in Jackaran
 Singh v. State of Punjab , AIR 1995 SC 2345, wherein it has been held
 that the absence of signatures or thumb impressions of the accused
 upon their disclosure statements, may render the said statements
 unreliable, particularly, in a case where the panch witness has not
 been examined at a trial, to testify the authenticity of the same.
 The judgment relied upon by Shri Sinha is easily distinguishable, as
 in the said case none of the panch witnesses had been examined, while
 in the instant case, the panch witness has been examined. 171. In State of Rajasthan v. Teja Ram & Ors. , AIR 1999 SC 1776, this
 Court while dealing with the issue held: 172. After appreciating the evidence on record, the learned
 Designated Court came to the conclusion that the appellant had been in
 the unauthorised possession of 58 bags of RDX material within the
 notified area, and that he had indulged, alongwith the other co-
 accused conspirators, in the disposal of the said RDX material by
 dumping the same into the Nagla creek and the Kaman river. However,
 the Designated Court has further held, that no nexus could be
 established between the appellant (A-50) and Tiger Memon (AA).
 Additionally, the Designated Court has stated that there was also no
 nexus found between the offences committed in pursuance of the
 conspiracy as was hatched by Tiger Memon (AA), and the acts of the
 appellant (A-50). 173. This conclusion stands fortified from the confessional statement
 of the appellant, as well as from the statements of the other
 witnesses. The appellant was most certainly had close association with
 Mohammad Jindran (AA), Rashid and with a few other accused persons.
 The appellant had spent about Rs.5 lakhs for the disposal of the said
 material. Rashid, a very close associate of Tiger Memon (AA) had also
 been involved in the process of such disposal. The remnants of the
 RDX were taken from his godown, and thrown into the Kaman river. Being
 in possession of the said material for a limited time period, renders
 him guilty for commission of the offence under Section 5 TADA. He is
 also guilty under Section 201 IPC, as even though he may not have been
 directly involved in the disposal of the contraband, the same was
 disposed of upon his instructions, and for this, he had paid a huge
 amount. The said material had been brought into India at the Shekhadi
 landing by Tiger Memon (AA), and had been stored in his godown at
 Kashimira. Therefore, we see no reason to interfere with the order
 passed by the learned Special judge, and the appeal is accordingly,
 dismissed. 174. This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order of
 conviction and sentence dated 6.6.2007 passed by a Special Judge of
 the Designated Court under the TADA in Bombay Blast Case No. 1 of
 1993, by which the appellant had been convicted under Section 3(3) of
 Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987
 (hereinafter referred to as ‘TADA’) and awarded sentence of 5 years
 R.I. and fine of Rs.5 lakhs with suitable additional sentence of
 rigorous imprisonment in default of payment of fine. 175. Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that : 176. Shri Mukul Rohatgi, Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
 appellant, has submitted that the appellant stood convicted under Section 3(3) TADA for facilitation by providing financial assistance
 to the co-accused Tiger Memon (AA) in various activities. There is no
 evidence on record that the appellant had any knowledge that Tiger
 Memon had been indulging in terrorist activities. The Bombay blast
 took place on 12.3.1993 and a case under TADA had been registered
 against Tiger Memon and others only after the said incident. The
 appellant never came to know, nor had any material been placed before
 the Special Court in the instant case to show that Tiger Memon or any
 other co-accused in this case indulged in terrorist activities. Even
 in case the illegal banking business and dealing with money of
 smugglers and other type of criminals is admitted, the question does
 arise as to whether in such a fact-situation, the appellant could have
 been charged/convicted under Section 3(3) TADA. There is nothing in
 the confessional statement of the appellant that he had any knowledge
 that Tiger Memon indulged in any terrorist activity. It is evident
 from the record that the appellant was involved in acts subsequent to
 the date of commission of the blasts i.e. 12.3.93. 177. Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel arguing for the
 CBI has vehemently opposed the appeal and has submitted that the
 appellant (A-97) had been rendering financial assistance to Tiger
 Memon (AA), who was the kingpin of the entire episode which lead to
 not only the death of numerous innocent people, but also caused the
 destruction of moveable and immoveable property. The evidence on
 record makes it abundantly clear that the appellant (A-97) had been
 handling the financial accounts of Tiger Memon (AA). This amounts to
 financial assistance as per Section 3(3) TADA. Therefore, he abetted
 the terrorist activities undertaken by Tiger Memon (AA). Thus, the
 appeal deserves to be rejected. 178. We have considered rival submissions made by the learned counsel
 for the parties and perused the records. 179. Evidence against the appellant: 180. Confession of the appellant Mulchand Sampatraj Shah @ Chokshi (A- 97): 181. Confessional statement of Raju Kodi (A-26): 182. Confessional statement of Abdul Gani Ismail Turk(A-11): 183. Confessional statement of Mohmed Rafiq Musa Mianwala @ Rafiq
 Madi (A-46): 184. Confessional statement of Asgar Yusuf Mukadam (A-10): 185. The confession made by the appellant (A-97) stood corroborated
 by the confessional statements of accused Asgar Yusuf Mukadam (A-10),
 Raju Laxmichand Jain @ Raju Kodi (A-26) and Mohmad Rafiq Miyariwala (A- 46) to the extent that the appellant was doing the hawala business,
 and had been receiving the money of various persons including Tiger
 Memon (AA). 186. Legal provisions involved in the case are : I. Section 3(3) TADA reads as under: ?“(3) Whoever conspires or attempts to commit, or advocates,
 abets, advises or incites or knowingly facilitates the
 commission of, a terrorist act or any act preparatory to a
 terrorist act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
 which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to
 imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine.”
 (Emphasis added)

 II. Section 2(1)(a)(iii) TADA defines the abetment which involved: 187. All these statutes also provide that raising funds for terrorist
 organisations is illegal and such activities are punishable. However,
 the general principle is that a person so involved must be found
 rendering financial assistance to the accused of terrorist/disruptive
 activities, or could be reasonably suspected in indulging in such
 activities. Hawala business is done only on the basis of commission
 by exchanging money among persons and receiving commission. The
 appellant (A-97) had been working as a carrier or agent, between the
 persons indulging in money transactions in India or abroad, without
 having any knowledge whatsoever, that Tiger Memon or his associates or
 any other co-accused were indulging in terrorist activities. In the
 instant case, there is nothing on record to show that the appellant (A -97) indulged in such activities though he might be involved in other
 illegal activities. 188. The learned Designated Court recorded the finding as under: 189. In Kalpnath Rai v. State (supra), this Court held: 190. Similarly in Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab , (1994) 3 SCC 569,
 this Court held: Section 3 of Special Courts Act, 1984 135. Challenging the validity of Section 3 of Act of 1984, it
 has been contended that the power vested under Section 3(1) on
 the Central Government to declare by notification any area as
 “terrorist affected area”, and constitute such area into a
 single judicial zone or into as many judicial zones as it may
 deem fit, is not only vague but also without any guidance. 136. The prerequisite conditions which are sine qua non for
 declaring any area as “terrorists affected area” by the Central
 Government by virtue of the authority conferred on it under Section 3(1) of the Act of 1984 are: 137. Unless all the above three conditions are fully satisfied,
 the Central Government cannot invoke the power under Section
 3(1) to declare any area as “terrorist affected area”. In other
 words, in the absence of any of the conditions, Section 3(1) cannot be invoked. Therefore, the contention that Section 3(1) suffers from vagueness and lacks guidance is unmerited.” 191. In view of the above, the law requires that an accused under
 TADA must abate knowingly the commission of terrorist act and/or he
 must be rendering financial assistance to such an accused, or could be
 reasonably suspected of being such accused. Therefore, the question
 does arise as to whether the appellant had any reason to believe that
 Tiger Memon and his associates were accused of any terrorist act, or
 could be reasonably suspected to be such accused. 192 Immediately after the arrest of appellant (A-97), he apprehended
 that he would be forced to make a confession. Therefore, a large
 number of letters had been sent to Mr. V.B. Lokhande, DCP, which he
 had received prior to recording of the confessional statement. This is
 evident from the letter dated 16.5.1993 written by the counsel of the
 appellant requesting V.B. Lokhande not to record his confessional
 statement because the appellant did not want to make any such
 statement. 193. In the cross-examination of Shri V.B. Lokhande, DCP (PW-183)
 admitted that he had received letters and telegraphs particularly in
 reply to question nos. 123, 124. Further, while replying to question
 no. 125 he stated that he had not made any attempt to ask the
 appellant before recording his confessional statement whether he (A- 97) wanted to make a confessional statement. 194. It is further submitted that confessional statement had been
 obtained by coercion i.e. beating the appellant. There is ample
 evidence on record that he had a large number of injuries upon his
 body at the relevant time. He made a complaint in writing to the
 court, and the court issued certain directions for his treatment and
 asked for the report. The confessional statement was recorded on
 18.5.1993. He was produced for the first time before the court on
 25.5.1993 when the complaint was lodged, and the injury report was
 given. The report gave the details of various injuries on his
 buttocks, wrist and lower leg. 195. In this respect, the court passed certain orders which read as
 under: ……Further police custody of the accused would have definitely
 help the investigating agency but, the investigation agency
 having assaulted to third degree method, it will not be safe to
 remand the accused to their custody instead the investigating
 agency can interrogate the accused in jail.. ….The accused is remanded to judicial custody till 22.6.1993.” 196. In this respect, a large number of documents had been placed on
 record to show that complete information regarding the torture had
 been placed before the court by the counsel. From the relevant part of
 the letter dated 20.5.1993 written by Shri Pervez M. Rustomkhan,
 Advocate, to Mr. Pharande, Inspector of Police (Worli), Crawford
 Market, Bombay, it is clear that not only had the appellant been
 beaten but his family members had also been beaten and harassed. Even
 his brother Ramesh Kumar, a handicapped man, had not been spared.
 These incidents took place on 12.4.1993, 14.4.1993, 15.4.1993,
 16.4.1993, 17.4.1993, 21.4.1993, 22.4.1993, 5.5.1993 and 8.5.1993. It
 was also mentioned in that letter that the appellant had falsely been
 implicated in the case and had been tortured and forced to sign some
 writings under duress and pressure from the police authorities which
 may be used against him. 197. In Sahib Singh v. State of Haryana , (1997) 7 SCC 231, this Court
 held that `Confession’ means: Conviction on “confession” is based on the maxim “habemus
 optimum testem, confitentem reum” which means that confession of
 an accused is the best evidence against him. The rationale
 behind this rule is that an ordinary, normal and sane person
 would not make a statement which would incriminate him unless
 urged by the promptings of truth and conscience. 52. The confessional statement does not admit even substantially
 the basic facts of the prosecution story, inasmuch as in the
 confessional statement, no role is assigned to the appellant
 while in the prosecution story an active role has been assigned
 to him by showing that he too was armed with a gun and had gone
 to the spot and participated in the commission of the crime by
 firing his gun specially at the injured witness. The
 confessional statement is not truthful and is part of the
 hallucination with which the prosecution and its witnesses were
 suffering. It is accordingly discarded and cannot be acted
 upon.” 198. The only question is, whether the provisions of Section 21(2) provides that in a prosecution for an offence under sub-section (3) of Section 3 , if it is proved that the accused rendered any financial
 assistance to a person accused of, or reasonably suspected of, an
 offence under that section, the Designated Court shall presume unless
 the contrary is proved, that such person has committed the offence
 under that sub-section. Thus, the provision of Section 21(2) can be
 resorted to, only in case it is proved by the prosecution that the
 accused rendered any financial assistance to a person who has already
 been facing the charge of terrorist or disruptive activities or he had
 reasons to suspect that the person to whom financial help has been
 rendered was indulging in such activities. Thus, there is a burden on
 the prosecution first to prove the aforesaid condition. In case, it
 is successfully proved that the person who render financial assistance
 to a person accused of terrorist/disruptive activities or suspect to
 be indulging in such activities, only then the presumption can be
 drawn. In such a situation, it is not possible for us to accept the
 submission of Mr. Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for
 the respondent, that even if a person has rendered financial
 assistance prior to or during a part proceeding, to the parties
 indulged in such activities, the provision of Section 21(2) would be
 attracted. On a literal interpretation of the provision such a
 construction is not permissible. There is nothing on record to show
 that during the time the appellant facilitated the financial
 transaction of Tiger Memon in the fake account named `HATHI’ and that
 he had reason to suspect that Tiger Memon or his associates were
 indulging in disruptive activities, or had been accused in such
 activities. The appellant may be guilty of running and indulging in
 fraudulent banking activities, or may be violating of provisions of
 other statutes but cannot be held guilty of the offences under Section
 3(3) TADA. 199. In the instant case, there is nothing on record to show that any
 person could imagine what Tiger Memon (AA) was planning. In fact it
 was only after 12.3.1993, the date of Bombay blast, that the
 provisions of TADA could be attracted as far as Tiger Memon (AA) is
 concerned. Thus, he (A-97) cannot be held to be guilty under the said
 provisions. There is nothing on record on the basis of which an
 inference can be drawn, that the appellant (A-97) could reasonably
 suspect indulgence of Tiger Memon (AA) in terrorist or disruptive
 activities. 200. Section 2(1)(a)(iii) TADA provides that abet, with its
 variations and cognate expressions, includes rendering of any
 assistance whether financial of otherwise, to terrorists or
 disruptionists. 201. The learned Designated Court after appreciating all the
 evidence on record came to the conclusion that the phrase `financial
 assistance’ should not be given a restricted meaning, to include only
 assistance given by the concerned accused from his own money. The
 learned court went on to state that even allowing a terrorist to
 circulate his money should come within the ambit of that phrase,
 through an illegal account as maintained for Tiger Memon (AA) by
 Sampatraj (A-97). 202. In the case at hand, as it cannot be held even by stretch of
 imagination that Tiger Memon (AA) and his associates had been accused
 of such activities prior to 12.3.1993, or could reasonably be
 suspected of being indulged in such activities, the provisions of TADA
 are not attracted so far as the appellant is concerned. Therefore, we
 cannot agree with the order passed by the learned Designated Court so
 far as the appellant (A-97) is concerned. The appeal is therefore,
 allowed. The conviction and sentence awarded by the Designated Court
 are set aside. The appellant is on bail. His bail bonds stand
 discharged. 203. This appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgment and
 order dated 29.5.2007, passed by a Special Judge of the Designated
 Court under the TADA for Bombay Blasts, Greater Bombay, in the Bombay
 Blast Case No. 1/1993. The appellant has been charged under various
 heads, including for the general charge of conspiracy. The appellant
 has been convicted under Section 5 TADA, and has been awarded a
 sentence of 5 years rigorous imprisonment alongwith a fine of
 Rs.25,000/-, and in default of payment of fine, to suffer further R.I.
 for six months, and also under Sections 3 and 7 r/w Section 25 (1-A)(1-
 B)(a) of the Arms Act . However, no separate sentence has been awarded
 separately for this offence. 204 Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that : B. After conclusion of the trial, the learned Special Judge
 convicted the appellant and sentenced him as referred to hereinabove. Hence, this appeal. 205. Shri Mushtaq Ahmad, learned counsel appearing for the appellant
 has submitted that the appellant had been dragged in trial only being
 relative of Fazal, though he was not involved in the offence. The arms
 and ammunition alleged to have been recovered from his possession
 might have been that of Fazal sister’s husband. He was sold the
 weapons by Firoz @ Akram Amani Malik (A-39), and he was not aware of
 the fact that it was one of arms which had been smuggled into the
 country to commit terrorist acts. Thus, the appeal deserves to be
 allowed. 206. Per contra, Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing
 for the State has submitted that he was found in conscious possession
 of the arms and ammunition in the notified area and therefore, the
 learned Designated Court has rightly convicted the appellant under the
 provisions of TADA. The appeal lacks merit and is liable to be
 dismissed. 207. We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned
 counsel for the parties and perused the records. 208. Evidence against the appellant (A-122): 209. Confessional Statement of Firoz @ Akram Amani Malik (A- 39) : 210. Deposition of Rohitkumar Ramsaran Chourisa (PW-39): 211. Deposition of Prakash Dhanaji Khanvilkar, Police Inspector, (PW- 513): 212. Deposition of Vishnu Ravalu Shinde (PW-615): 213. In view of the above, it is evident that a pistol had been sold
 by Firoz (A-39) to the appellant (A-122), and that it had been the
 accused (A-39), who had taught the appellant how to use the
 cartridges. It is also evident that the recovery had been effected
 from Mahim Creek, on the basis of the disclosure statement made by the
 appellant, as has been deposed by the panch witness (PW-39). 214. The learned Designated Court, after appreciation of the
 evidence, has held that though the appellant had been in possession of
 arms and ammunition in an unauthorized manner, the same does not in
 any way, show the complicity of the accused in the conspiracy relating
 to the blast of 12.3.1993. 215. We find no cogent reason to interfere with the findings of the
 learned Designated Court. The appeal lacks merit and is accordingly,
 dismissed. 216. Before parting with the case, we will clarify that if the
 accused-appellant(s) whose appeals have been dismissed and are on
 bail, their bail bonds stand cancelled and they are directed to
 surrender within four weeks from today, failing which the learned
 Designated Court, TADA shall take them into custody and send them to
 jail to serve out the remaining part of their sentences. |1. |555 of 2012 |Ibrahim Musa Chauhan @ |8 years RI |Dismissed |
| | |Baba Chauhan(A-41) |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs. 1 lakh; | |
| | | |10 years RI | |
| | | |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.50,000/-;1| |
| | | |0 years RI | |
| | | |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.1 lakh; 4| |
| | | |years RI with| |
| | | |fine of | |
| | | |Rs.25,000/-; | |
| | | |and one year | |
| | | |RI with fine | |
| | | |of Rs.2,000/-| |
|2. |1129-1130 of |Altaf Ali Sayed ((A-67)|10 years RI |Dismissed |
| |2007 | |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.50,000/-; | |
| | | |and 10 years | |
| | | |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.2 lakhs | |
|3. |402 of 2008 |Mohammed Sayeed |6 years RI |Dismissed |
| | |Mohammed Isaaq(A-95) |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.15,000/- | |
|4. |617-618 of |Ayub Ibrahim |5 years RI |Dismissed |
| |2008 |Qureshi(A-123) |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.12,500/-; | |
| | | |and 5 years | |
| | | |RI with fine | |
| | | |of | |
| | | |Rs.12,500/- | |
|5. |1631 of 2007 |Mohd. Yunus Gulam |6 years RI |Dismissed |
| | |Rasool Botomiya(A-47) |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.25,000/-; | |
| | | |and 6 years | |
| | | |RI with fine | |
| | | |of | |
| | | |Rs.25,000/- | |
| | | | | |
| | | | | |
|6. |1419 of 2007 |Mohamed Dawood Mohamed |6 years RI |Dismissed |
| | |Yusuf Khan (A-91) |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.25,000/-; | |
| | | |and 6 years | |
| | | |RI with fine | |
| | | |of | |
| | | |Rs.25,000/- | |
|7. |1226 of 2007 |Ramesh Dattatray Mali |6 years RI |Dismissed |
| | |(A-101) |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.25,000/- | |
|8. |1422 of 2007 |Shaikh Asif Yusuf |5 years RI |Dismissed |
| | |(A-107) |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.25,000/-; | |
| | | |8 years RI | |
| | | |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.50,000/-; | |
| | | |and 8 years | |
| | | |RI with fine | |
| | | |of | |
| | | |Rs.50,000/- | |
|9. |1180 of 2007 |Mubina @ Baya Moosa |5 years RI |Allowed |
| | |Bhiwandiwala (A-96) |with fine of |Conviction |
| | | |Rs.25,000/- |and |
| | | | |sentence |
| | | | |awarded by |
| | | | |the |
| | | | |Designated |
| | | | |Court are |
| | | | |set aside. |
|10. |1225 of 2007 |Noor Mohammed Haji |5 years RI |Dismissed |
| | |Mohammed Khan |with fine of | |
| | |(A-50) |Rs. 1 lakh; | |
| | | |and 5 years | |
| | | |RI with fine | |
| | | |of | |
| | | |Rs.50,000/- | |
|11. |919 of 2008 |Mulchand Sampatraj Shah|5 years RI |Allowed |
| | |(A-97) |with fine of |Conviction |
| | | |Rs.5 lakhs |and |
| | | | |sentence |
| | | | |awarded by |
| | | | |the |
| | | | |Designated |
| | | | |Court are |
| | | | |set aside. |
|12. |1393 of 2007 |Ehsan Mohammad Tufel |5 years RI |Dismissed |
| | |Qureshi(A-122) |with fine of | |
| | | |Rs.25,000/- | |

 All these appeals filed by the accused have been dismissed
 except Criminal Appeal Nos. 1180 of 2007 (Mubina @ Baby Moosa
 Bhiwandiwala (A-96) and Criminal Appeal No. 919 of 2008 (Mulchand
 Sampatraj Shah (A-97). The appeals filed by A-96 and A-97 are
 allowed. Their conviction and sentence awarded by the Designated Court
 are set aside and their bail bonds stand discharged. -----------------------