Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: Introduction of the Whistle Blowers Protection (Amendment) Bill, 2015. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Now, we shall take up Item No. 14 – Shri Jitendera Singh. THE MINISTER OF STATE OF THE MINISTRY OF DEVELOPMENT OF NORTH EASTERN REGION, MINISTER OF STATE IN THE PRIME MINISTER’S OFFICE, MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF PERSONNEL, PUBLIC GRIEVANCES AND PENSIONS, MINISTER OF STATE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF ATOMIC ENERGY AND MINISTER OF STATE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF SPACE (DR. JITENDRA SINGH): I beg to move: Sir, history is witness to it that there have always been informers, who used to reveal the inside information to others.  Even Ancient Greeks talked about whistle blowing centuries before.  Lykourgos, the Athenian orator, in his speech against Leokratis said: The Whistle Blowers Protection Act 2011 sought to establish a mechanism to receive complaints relating to disclosure on any allegation of corruption and wilful misuse of power against a public servant only. What the present Bill moved by hon. Minister Dr. Jitendra Singh does is to take out almost 11 items out of the purview of the Whistle Blowers Protection Act , all in the name of national security. Major cases of corruption in defence sector were exposed by whistle blowers. Scams relating to Scorpene submarine, Tatra truck, Augusta Westland helicopter all have been exposed by whistle blowers. It has been seen that corruption takes place mainly in defence deals. Is the Government worried that there is something wrong with the Rafale deal now and that is why they are quickly putting a lid on any disclosure? This is what I am worried about. The basic idea that we should have a clean and transparent administration, and that the people who expose corruption at official levels should be protected by the Government is being given up. If you do not do it in the case of defence sector, then where do you protect the whistle blowers is the question I pose to Dr. Jitendra Singh. Basically this law is bad in word as well as in practice. I will mention the comments made by some people. “However, in the garb of protection it tends to limit that and the purpose for which the law is being introduced stands defeated. The solution for the apprehension would be to build a mechanism in the Act which protects or keeps classified any disclosure that could be against national interest”. The Government could have done that. Instead it is saying that all this is out of the purview of the Bill. One has to realise that the Act has come into place to disclose acts related to corruption and misuse of power which are against the national interest. Now corruption is also against the national interest. How many clauses have been introduced in the Bill to so-called protect national interests? Eleven items have been taken out of the Bill. Information and disclosure affecting sovereignty and integrity of India, information which is forbidden to be published, information which will cause a breach of privilege, information relating to commercial confidence - that is transactions between companies, trade secrets or intellectual property - information which is available to a person in his fiduciary capacity, information received in confidence from a foreign government, etc., are totally excluded from the Whistle Blowers Protection Act . What remains, Dr. Singh? Do you want to do away with the Whistle Blowers Protection Act ? Do you want to do away with the Right to Information Act ? What else? You wanted to do away with the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation Act by introducing amendment after amendment. What is the hurry in introducing these amendments? I would like to understand that. Sir, the democracies of the West which are supposed to be models of democracy are also afraid of whistleblowers. We all know of Julian Assange who started the Wikileaks. I have been told by some journalist friends that all cables including the cables between the Indian Embassy, US Embassy in India and State Department etc., were leaked by Assange. Assange had to go through severe prosecution.  He had to take shelter in a hotel near the Moscow airport.  Even the American Government was after him.  Then, we have the case of Snowden.  For more than one year, the man who exposed corruption in high places in the US Defence Department was held up in Ecuador Embassy in London. Why? He exposed certain dealings in American Defence establishment.  We do not want to go into that. We are a free society.  That is why I request that we should not press for passing this Bill on the last day.  In any case, it will not be passed by the other House.  Please withdraw it and prove that you are committed to transparency in Government transaction.  In the name of national interest, do not take away the right of the whistle blowers who want to expose corruption in high places.  Please do not put their lives at risk. With these words, I oppose the Bill.  I wish I had given many amendments, and then I would have taken vote on every amendment. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): Hon. Deputy Speaker Sir, it has always become my predicament that I have to speak after Prof. Saugata Roy has spoken.  He covers most of the points that I am supposed to speak. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Then you should take very little time. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB: The first question is: why is it that the Whistle Blowers Protection Bill always comes on the last day of the session?  The Minister had explained that in 2011 also and the Bill was rushed through. I would like to quote from the Statement of Objects and Reasons. It says: “While the While Blowers Protection Bill 2011 was taken up for consideration and passing in Parliament, the amendments agreed with a view to strengthening the safeguards against disclosures which may prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of the country, security of the State etc. and to remove certain drafting errors and errors in cross-references of clauses were formulated.”  The Minster of course while introducing the Bill has also explained this.  I was expecting my friend Shri Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury would explain what had actually happened during that time because this is found in the Objects and Reasons.  I was expecting the previous Members of the Congress Party to explain what had actually happened.  Had it actually happened that it was agreed upon but it could not be acted upon?  But there was no answer.  I think some more Members will be speaking on this aspect and they can explain that. I would just like to remind this House that repeatedly from our side I have been asking during the previous Lok Sabha also that there is a need to have the Whistle Blowers Protection Act .  There is no doubt that the Right to Information Act was formulated in 2005 and I had the benefit of attending a number of Workshops outside this country representing this Parliament in Commonwealth sponsored programmes on how to make our Right to Information Act more effective.  Although the Right to Information Act came into existence, there is still a need to enhance the Right to Protection Act.  Today when we compare our Right to Information Act with the Act of other countries like Canada, Australia or New Zealand, I would say our Act is still deficient.  But through Right to Information Act , the Whistle Blower mechanism has come into force. A large number of people have lost their lives.  It is said that over 30 whistle blowers have been killed since 2010 and this is within four years time.  More than 30 whistle blowers fighting against corruption have been killed between 2010 and 2014 according to statistics provided by NCPRI.  In 2004, the Supreme Court had directed that a mechanism to protect the whistle blowers should be put in place.  That is how the initiation had started.  When this Bill was in public domain during last two three days, some legal experts gave the opinion that this is a dilution of the current law as has been propounded by Prof. Saugata Roy and also by some other friends. Others also say that the Government is trying to protect issues of national importance. Here, what is national importance needs to be defined.  Who is going to determine that an issue concerns national importance or does not concern national importance? While dealing with RTI, we also have to deal with the SEBI Act . Protection of investment and protection of companies and their secrecy also needs to be looked into. However, in the garb of protection, is there a tendency to limit the Act? That is the major question being discussed in the public domain. It has to be realised that this Act has come into place and the basic structure of this Act is to disclose acts related to corruption and misuse of power which are against the national interest. So, until and unless the definition of ‘national interest’ and who that body or that person would be who would define national interest is clear how can one say that an issue is of national interest or it goes against national interest. There can be no two opinions on the need to commend or even reward whistleblowers who expose scams in public offices. They are essential elements to any vibrant democracy. This Government would be the last I would say to protect the persons who are indulging in corruption.  But here I would say before we talk of commending or rewarding them let us at least ensure their physical safety. Who is a whistleblower and why is there a need to protect a whistleblower? Why does he need protection and from whom? That is the basic question. It is usually an employee who has been in a position to uncover a financial or any other form of corruption or crime which entitles the employee for specific protection under the law arising out of various issues and organisational violations in the workplace such as misuse of funds. Whistleblower protection in our country has been abysmally poor. Basically such a legislation is required to protect any person whether an employee or otherwise who seeks to expose any form of corruption, fraud or other violations in the workplace. I am of the opinion that the existing laws in India are inadequate, outdated, and require to be overhauled.  Therefore, I would request the Government to please go into the essence of this Bill and also take measures to see that the whistleblowers are protected; and wherever corruption takes place that also comes to light. That is where the whistleblowers protection gains importance. Many countries have enacted laws for whistleblowers’ protection, as has been said just now. The Parliament of the Republic of Malta, on July 16, 2013, provided for identity change of the whistleblowers in exceptional cases. In the United States, whistleblowers’ protection is offered through constitutional provisions as well as through other statutes. In the United Kingdom, two key pieces of legislation for whistleblowers’ protection are the Public Interest Disclosure Act, 1998 and the Employment Rights Act, 1996. The UK whistleblowers law providing protection to employees reporting on their employers underwent a change due to the June, 2013 Amendment. In India, in our country, the issue of protection for whistleblowers caught the attention of the nation when Satyendranath Dubey, an employee of NHAI was killed during Shri Vajpayee’s tenure as Prime Minister when he reported about corruption in the construction of highways. Two years later, an Indian Oil Corporation officer Shanmugham Manjunath was murdered for sealing a petrol pump that was selling adulterated fuel. In May, 2012, S.P. Mahantesh was murdered for reporting irregularities in land allotment by societies. In April, 2004, the Supreme Court pressed the Government into issuing an office order, ‘The Public Interest Disclosure (Protection of Informers) Resolution, 2014’, designating the Central Vigilance Commission as the nodal agency to handle any complaints of corruption. I would say, Sir, with a need for greater foreign direct investment today the entry of trans-nationals and multi-nationals to the country, a need for greater accountability and investor protection has arisen and the outcome is to strengthen the guidelines on corporate governance and promote a code for corporate governance to be adopted and followed by Indian companies; whether in private sector, public sector, banks or financial institutions, and later needs to be adopted by SEBI through the Listing Agreements. Sir, I am of the opinion that there is a need to give protection to the whistle blowers.  The amendment that is being moved today by the Government defining national interest is the major issue.  While defining the national interest lest us not dilute the basic structure of the intention as to how we are going to protect the whistle blowers.  Thank you. DR. RAVINDRA BABU ( AMALAPURAM ): Thank you very much, Sir, for giving me this opportunity.  After the introduction of historic RTI Act I thought the scope of whistle blowers would have reduced very drastically down but Right to Information Act imposes a lot of restrictions like what is the information which can be leaked or shared whereas in the whistle blowers anything regarding corruption can be shared excepting those dealing with the sovereignty and security of the country.  So, whistle blowers while discharging their duty of exposing corruption at higher places are also risking their lives.  We have got a number of live examples.  Two-three people were killed.  How to protect their lives or their families?  Whenever they indulge in exposing of corruption at higher places, naturally the people would be very influential and they may take vengeful revenge on these whistle blowers.  So, they need to be protected. In such a situation officers working and exposing a lot of corrupt practices at higher places in risky organizations, for example Directorate of revenue Intelligence, CBI or Enforcement Directorate, which deal with highly influential people, not only need to be protected but there has to be a system of reward.  Whenever any whistle blower blows a whistle which leads to the recovery of wealth or recovery of vital information – either proportionate to the  wealth recovered or information divulged – some mechanism should be introduced so that the reward system will not only protect them at least protect their families in future in case they are eliminated by the rival gangs. At the same time, there is a need to observe a lot of caution.  There are pseudo whistle blowers.  To settle their personal scores, political vendetta, political vengeance, many people blackmail others by exposing their so-called misdeeds.  This leads to a lot of blackmailing and corruption.  This has come to our notice in so many Papers and at so many places.  Of late, we have seen people using hidden video cameras or recording audio conversations and then blackmailing and settling their scores.  I do not know whether we call them as pseudo whistle blowers.  We need to put deterrence on those pseudo whistle blowers also so that the honest man who is discharging his duty…. प्रो. सौगत राय :क्या व्हिसल ब्लोअर ब्लैकमेलर होते हैं? DR. RAVINDRA BABU : In the name of exposing certain people they say that if you do this I will definitely expose your other personal data.  For example, if you are drinking in a bar and seen dancing with a girl, they will expose that.  These people then become cold feet.  Therefore, those type of deterrence need to be in-built.  While protecting the whistle blowers, we have to deter the pseudo whistle blowers.   A lot of blackmail cases have come to our notice.  Celebrities like cine stars, cricketers, bureaucrats, big politicians are all subjected to blackmailing. There are so many press reports.  So many press people also try to do it.  So in this type of situation, the whistle blowers are definitely need to be protected.  There should also be a reward system.  But at the same time, we should also protect those innocent people who are discharging their duties honestly by not subjecting them to harassment by the pseudo whistle blowers. DR. K. KAMARAJ ( KALLAKURICHI ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I stand here to participate in the discussion on the Whistle Blowers Protection (Amendment) Bill, 2015. The aim of the Whistle Blowers Protection Act is to provide a comprehensive mechanism to investigate alleged corruption, misuse of power, criminal offences by public servants and also to protect and secure the identity of the people who expose corruption or wrong-doing in the Government bodies or in the Government projects. The Act was intended to provide protection to the persons making disclosures of willful misuse of power or discretion by any public servant from harassment. This Act also provides for ensuring punishment for false and frivolous complaints. The original Bill passed by the Parliament does not have certain provisions which were found to be necessary from the point of view of security of the country.  Hence, there was a need for the present amendments and I appreciate the intention of the Government in this regard. The Government states that the passage of this Bill, at this stage, was necessitated in order to incorporate necessary safeguards against disclosures that may prejudicially affect the sovereignty, integrity and security of the country, among others. Here I would like to point out a few things for the consideration of the hon. Minister. In our country, we have seen that persons making complaints against corruption or wrong-doing in the Government are victimized.  There have been many instances of threats, harassment or even murder of many whistle blowers in India.  This needs to be put an end to and they are to be protected, if the Government really wants to uncover corruption in the Government set up.  So, the civil society in India felt that there has to be sufficient safeguards to protect them and to prevent victimization and harassment. The objectives of the Act in providing such safeguards are laudable and if the Act is implemented in right earnest, everyone would be happy and we could see a corruption-free India in the days to come. The people would not be able to measure the effectiveness of the Act, unless the Government comes forward to implement efficiently the provisions of this Act so that the whistle blowers are not harassed, intimidated and murdered. Last but not least, some amendments to the Act, by way of this Bill, are intended to correct the drafting errors that crept in while drafting this Bill.  During the last week, a very important Constitutional (Amendment) Bill had to go to the other House twice due to such errors.  The Government cannot afford to allow such obvious or patent errors to creep in and I would urge the Government to take care of this aspect in future. With these words, I appreciate the efforts of the Government in protecting the whistle blowers from harassment and I also thank you for the opportunity given to me to participate in this Bill. SHRI RAHUL SHEWALE ( MUMBAI SOUTH CENTRAL ): Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, for allowing me to speak on the very important Bill, that is, The Whistle Blowers Protection (Amendment) Bill, 2015. The Government has not implemented this law which aims to create a statutory mechanism for whistle blowing about corruption, abuse or misuse of power or authority or discretion to cause undue loss to the public exchequer or undue gain to a third party or any offence recognized under any law. While debating the Bill in the Rajya Sabha in February 2014, the UPA Government had promised to introduce tighter restrictions on whistle blowing if it relates to matters of national security.   But UPA Government failed to achieve the objective of the Bill.  The NDA Government has now proposed to make amendments which will ensure that the law will continue to remain stillborn as it has for a year now. I fully support this Bill but I would like to submit my views for the attention of the august House as well as the Government to the proposed amendments. Section 4(1) is to be amended to place unreasonable restrictions on whistle blowing:  The substantive provision that permits whistle blowing about wrongdoing in a public authority is diluted in the way that unless the whistle blower is able to prove that the person obtained his evidence of wrongdoing under the RTI Act , he or she can be punished for attaching such records to his whistleblower complaint.  No officer or RTI user will come forward to blow the whistle on wrongdoing unless he obtains the information after the concerned Information Commission orders its disclosure in public interest under Section 8(2) of the RTI Act. In some States like Madhya Pradesh, this process could take a few decades due to the huge pendency of appeals and complaints before the State Information Commission.  Even before other Information Commissions, there is no certainty that such information will be disclosed under Section 8(2) of the RTI Act.  As the proposed amendments do not contain any other mechanism for inquiring into complaints belonging to this category, it appears that the Government is willing to throw them all into the dustbin.  This is a blatant negation of the twin principles of rule of law and accountable governance that underpin our constitutional democracy. Section 5 is to be amended to prevent the Competent Authority from inquiring into whistle blower complaints relating to matters specified in the newly proposed Section 4(1) . Once a Competent Authority such as the Central Vigilance Commission receives a whistle blower complaint from any person relating to any category mentioned in the new Section 4(1) , it is required to refer the matter to a designated authority in the concerned public authority to obtain a clearance to inquire into the matter.  If the designated authority certifies that such matter falls under any category in the new Section 4(1) , the CVC will not inquire further into that matter and such certificate will be the final decision in that case.  Further, the proposed amendment does not stipulate a time limit within which clearance should be given by the designated authority. So, such whistle blower complaints may simply gather dust if the designated officers want to stall the inquiry process endlessly. For example, the Prime Minister is the competent authority to launch an inquiry into a whistle blower complaint against his or her Ministers.  Similarly, the Chief Ministers in the States are the competent authorities to inquire into whistle blower complaints against their Ministers.  If the new amendments are approved by Parliament, then the PM and the CMs will have to seek clearance from the designated authority of the Department or organisation before inquiring into whistle blower complaints relating to matters falling under the new Section 4(1) . So, even an Under Secretary grade officer, if appointed as the designated authority, can in theory, prevent the PM or the CM from ordering an inquiry into a whistle blower complaint if he or she certifies that the matter relates to national security.  This is the ridiculous implication of the amendment that the Government has proposed to the Whistle Blowers Protection Act . I would like to draw the attention of the House to other major lapses in the proposed amendments. Last year, the Government provided for a mechanism for inquiring into whistle blower complaints internally  through the  mechanism of the Chief Vigilance Officers.  This system is not provided for in the Whistle Blowers Protection (Amendment) Bill. So, with the repeal of the Whistle Blower Policy Resolution, that internal mechanism will be lost. Honourable Supreme Court of India also recognised whistle blowing to the media as a legitimate exercise if all other available options provide to be unless or uninterested.  The proposed amendments do not legitimise whistle blowing to the media.  In fact, journalists will continue to be prosecuted under Official Secrets Act for blowing the whistle on wrong doing with no protection under the Whistle Blowers Protection Act . In November, 2014, hon. Supreme Court recognised anonymous whistle blowing.  The proposed amendments do not permit anonymous whistle blowing.  The original provision requiring the whistle blower to disclose his or her identity to the competent authority remains.  The only saving grace is that the whistle blower’s identity will not be revealed to anybody without his or her written consent. I would like to suggest some minor amendments. Under Section 2 , the words “armed forces of the Union” are to be omitted – no substantial dilution of the original Act.  But in the original Act, the Special Protection Group which guards the present and past incumbents of the office of the Prime Minister and their families was excluded from the Act for the purpose of whistle blowing about any wrongdoing.  The amendment makes no change in this insulation of the SPG.  If the SPG witnesses a PM or  his or her family member accepting a bribe or committing any offence or abusing or misusing power or discretion, they will have to follow a revised version of Gandhiji’s three monkeys – hear not, speak not and forget that you saw anything wrong. In Section 3 , the name of the old law – Companies Act, 1956 is to be replaced by its successor – Companies Act, 2013 – no dilution of the original Act. In Section 3 (ii) (d) , the word ‘complaint’ in the original Act is to be replaced with the word ‘disclosure ‘ – no dilution of the original Act. In Section 14 , the language of this provision in the original Act is being tightened to ensure that the competent authority issues specific orders to stop any corrupt practice while inquiring into a whistleblower’s complaint. In Section 18 (2) , the language of this in the original Act is being tightened to differentiate it from Section 14 (1) which relates to punishing the Head of the Department for conniving or consenting to the corrupt practice. Section 14 (2) is for punishing other officers in the Department for conniving with or consenting to corrupt practices about which a whistleblower’s complaint has been found to be true. … (Interruptions) This is the last point. In Section 20 ,  the language is being tightened to apply only to such orders of penalty as may be imposed by the competent authorities under Section 16 . In the original Act, the provision included a reference to Sections 14 and 16 , under which the competent authorities had no power to impose any penalty. In Section 31 , a minor correction relating to the syntax is being made. I am sure that the Government will consider all my views. Thank you. DR. A. SAMPATH ( ATTINGAL ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, thank you. 16.47 hrs                          (Hon. Speaker in the Chair) 

          Thank you Madam Speaker. I am one of the most luckiest Members because I got opportunity to address both the Deputy-Speaker and the Speaker. The Whistleblowers Protection (Amendment) Bill, 2015 has come before the House in the same route as the other Bills have come, that is without going to the Standing Committee. So, I pity this. I am also a Member in one of the Standing Committees. Madam Speaker, I know you are in a hurry. HON. SPEAKER: No. 

DR. A. SAMPATH : Then I am happy, very happy. … (Interruptions) The Government is in a hurry to blow the whistle. During the past 12 months, 44 Bills out of 51 Bills, have been passed by this House without any consultation, without taking any evidence, and without any discussion in the Standing Committees. Under you, Madam Speaker, we have 16 Standing Committees.  The other House also has Standing Committees. Of course, we can say that we have more number of Committees. We cannot accuse somebody if somebody expresses any apprehension saying, ‘What is the use of Parliamentary Standing Committees?’ They ask such questions. What is the use of Parliamentary Standing Committees? The Standing Committees should be fully utilized. The Statement of Objects and Reasons in 2 (a) states: “to ensure that the said Act incorporates necessary provisions aimed at strengthening the safeguards against disclosures which may prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of the country, security of the State, etc.” 

          I was a witness to an incident at the age of three. My father was arrested at midnight on the Christmas eve in the year 1965. Those who came to arrest him, told him that he was a threat to the national integrity and  national sovereignty. So, you are under preventive detention. I am the child of that man. Yesterday Comrade Karunakaran cited that example of Comrade A.K. Gopalan who was the Leader of  the Opposition of this House. … (Interruptions) He was his father-in-law also. We are proud of that. The sole intention of the Government in bringing forward this Bill is to water down the rights of the whistleblowers. Madam, some of the hon. Members who have spoken on this Bill have cited  certain “unfortunate” incidents that happened in Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and in some other places also where witnesses had been attacked. Some of them were killed. No law is there to protect them. We are in a nation where speedy justice will be provided to persons who are owning the Rolls Royce cars much faster than an ambulance reaches the spot of an accident. Today, there is a news item that has appeared in an English Newspaper under the caption “A woman’s cry goes unheard in Parliament.” I am not citing the name of the newspaper. Everybody knows of it. We all read newspapers. Charity should begin at home. If the Government is interested in protecting the whistle blowers,  is it  able to protect even a single woman, a contract employee who is working under this roof, in the Parliament? It is the Government’s duty. HON. SPEAKER: No. You do not know what actions are taken. DR. A. SAMPATH : I do not know. I may be ignorant  I am not accusing anybody. But, anyway, the Government is bound  to issue a Press Release on what happened. If the Press Statement, Press Release, Press news item that has appeared in one of the largest circulated dailies in this nation is something true – I am not saying that the whole episode is true – it is unfortunate. It is not good for the reputation of Parliament. In the so-called   protection of whistle blowers, I cite an example of what happened. A Public Interest Litigation being heard in the Supreme Court involving the head of the country’s premier investigation agency has put the spotlight on protection to whistle blowers. Certain defence matters, certain matters of national interest, intelligence matters. etc. are there. In our nation, in the Defence Sector, now even FDI is allowed. In the intelligence mechanism also, some of the intelligence agencies of foreign nations are cooperating with us. Private enterprises are also a part and parcel of our defence deals. So, nobody will   be willing to spill the beans. We are closing the windows. We are closing the doors. It is said: “You can come, knock at the door but we will be sleeping just like Rip Van Winkle; we will not wake up.” If the Government has any intention to strengthen the whistle blowers’ right, offer protection, it should do one thing. Who is going to protect them? We all know the said plight of a PSO who gave evidence in a criminal case. I am not mentioning anybody’s name because everybody knows what happened. That is the sad plight of that policeman. What happened during his last days? He was also a human being. He had a family. He should also have been provided the same protection that the law provides. If it is going to continue in this nation, with all due respect, my humble submission to the Government is this. We may be forced to enact new laws for the top brass, bureaucrats, affluent people, five-star cultured people, the crony capitalists. There will be two types of law. In the High Court also there are certain benches. Just like the Green Tribunal, there are certain Benches like that. They want to get speedy justice. So, we can have certain types of differentiations like this also. I would like to make another point. During this Session itself, there have been attacks on dalits. In a marriage procession, if a dalit groom is sitting on a white horse, then he will be attacked. Who is going to give evidence against the culprits, against the accused? Nobody will come forward to do that. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: You continue. I will listen to you. DR. A. SAMPATH : I am speaking about the caste discrimination, not any political discrimination.It is happening in this nation. In this nation, caste discrimination is there; sexual discrimination is there; regional discrimination is there; and economic discrimination is also there. If somebody is coming forward to give evidence or to report something which has to be reported or if somebody is coming to give some information which has to be given, he is duty bound as per the Directive Principles of State Policy and the Fundamental Duties of a citizen. We have gone through that. If somebody is coming forward, it is true that he is going to either commit suicide or to become a martyr. This is happening. The Government is not at all able to protect the whistle blowers. You were also a Member at that time. I remember, while I was sitting there; you were sitting here. At that time, we remember your smiling face. During that time, the Standing Committee gave certain recommendations on the clauses of the Whistle Blowers Bill. At that time, the present Opposition Members sitting towards my right, were sitting there. They were not in a position to accept the recommendations of the Standing Committee, whose chairperson was their own Party Member. As you were a Member at that time, together, we fought for the inclusion of those clauses also. Unfortunately, that did not happen. That was a water down enactment. It had its own inherent weaknesses. Now, it was weak; now it  is becoming weaker, more  feeble. It will not be a strong enactment. It will be like a whistle without any air. Without any air, if you are whistling, what is the use of it? SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): It is like a whistle without any brittle inside. HON. SPEAKER: Please conclude. We have three more Members to speak. DR. A. SAMPATH : As the Government has decided, we are sitting for extra three days extra to discuss all these things. My humble suggestion is this. With trust in you I bona fide believe that this Government will be able to send this Amendment Bill for further elaborate discussion to the concerned Standing Committee. Let us honour the concerned Standing Committee first. Let us fulfil that parliamentary procedure; then, we come here and discussion. Taking up a Bill is like taking something straight from the woven and putting it on the dining table. If the Government things  so, it is quite unfortunate. I am not accusing anybody. I am not pointing my figures at the Government. If I point the figures at them, I very well  know that three other figures are pointed at me. HON. SPEAKER:  It is a very good understanding. DR. A. SAMPATH : We are taught about self-criticism in my Party. My leaders teach us about self-criticism also. Not only to criticize others but also criticize self. Our nation is in an era where the corruption breeds where the greed has become the creed. Here, if the whistle blowers are not protected, then  what will happen to their lives, their liberty, their property and  their freedom? We can understand. No institution should be spared. If there is an urgent necessity or something like that, the most important functions of our intelligence services or something regarding our defence, our national security, that I can understand. But the higher Judiciary should not be left outside the purview of this Bill. 17.00 hrs 

It should also be brought under the purview of this Bill. Anyway, the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court are also human beings, just like the Magistrates and other judges at lower courts. Why are we putting all those judges outside the purview of this Bill? Let us put everybody under the purview of this Bill because, as per the Constitution, everybody is equal before the law and everybody is under the law. HON. SPEAKER: Please conclude now. DR. A. SAMPATH : I am concluding. Madam, before concluding, I would like to make an appeal to the Government through you. Let the conscience of the Government work, at least, for some time because every moment is precious and let us jointly decide to send this Bill to the Standing Committee. There is nothing to be ashamed of. Our hon. Minister Shri Sadananda Gowda is sitting here. He has piloted a Bill on Railway Safety here in this House. After the discussion, it was decided unanimously by this House - and the Minister also wholeheartedly agreed – that it can be sent to the Standing Committee. Then, the hon. Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Shri Venkaiah Naidu also told this House that the Government is also willing to send it to the Standing Committee. So, why can we not send this Bill to the Standing Committee for a proper scrutiny? That is my humble submission. Thank you. SHRIMATI KAVITHA KALVAKUNTLA ( NIZAMABAD ): Madam Speaker, I thank you for the opportunity given to me to speak on this Bill. This Whistle Blowers Protection (Amendment) Bill, 2015 is supposed to consummate the unfinished business of the 2011 Bill and also the 2014 Bill. But as the name suggests, this is to protect the whistle blowers. लेकिन कभी-कभी ऐसा होता है कि नाम में राम होता है, लेकिन असली में कुछ और होता है। नाम सीता होता है और बर्ताव गीता जैसा होता है। इसी तरह से इस बिल का नाम भी व्हिस्ल प्रोटेक्शन बिल है, लेकिन आप बिल में देखेंगे there are eight chapters, but only one chapter speaks about the protection of whistle blowers and that too not at all complete. To protect the whistle blowers, first we need to understand what kind of victimization they go through and this Bill does not even define victimization. जो अभी आईटी मिनिस्टर हैं, उन्होंने 15वीं लोक सभा के अपने लास्ट के राज्यसभा भा­ाण में कहा था-this Bill has to define victimization. Victimization should be defined in a broader sense. अपने ही दल के लोगों ने जब बोला है, इतने सीनियर मिनिस्टर ने जब बोला है और जितेन्द्र सिंह जी जो यह बिल लेकर आ रहे हैं,I am very sorry you have not taken your own people into confidence. This is what the entire nation would feel today. When the UPA Government brought the Bill in 2011, they ignored the Law Commission Report and also the Report of the Administrative Reforms Committee, particularly about the anonymity of the whistle blowers which is the most core issue of whistle blowers. Then, coming to victimization, this is usually done by the officials and nobody talks about penalizing these officials. Everybody talks as to how we can protect certain departments and how we can give more strength to the Government to hide certain facts, but nobody speaks about curtailing or cutting down the voice of the whistle blowers and nobody speaks about how we can help them out. I would like to suggest that penalizing the officials who victimize the whistle blowers should also be a part of this Bill.जैसे लैण्ड एक्वीजिशन बिल में आपने किसान का अधिकार छीन लिया था कि वह कोर्ट में नहीं जा सकता है if you take away his land. Similarly, in this Bill also, if a whistle blower is not happy with the action taken by the Vigilance Commissioner, he has no right to go to the High Court and I believe that this has to be incorporated in this Bill. Not only that; अगर कोई व्हिस्ल ब्लो करता है, कोई करप्शन का इश्यू उठाता है, the burden of proof is on the whistle blower today. I believe that the Vigilance Commissioner should be more proactive and he should suo motu take up the issue and pursue the matter. अपने सत्ता पक्ष को तो मालूम है, राम राज्य से और रामायण से इनको काफी लगाव भी है। मैडम, विभी­ाण भी अपने ज़माने के व्हिसल ब्लोअर थे। उन्होंने पूरे लंका राज के सीक्रेट्स श्री राम जी को बताए थे, तब जा कर राम राज्य की स्थापना हुई थी। मैडम, उस ज़माने में विभी­ाण को बाद में गद्दी भी मिल गई। लेकिन आज के ज़माने के जो व्हिसल ब्लोअर होते हैं, उनको तो हमेशा मौत ही मिलती है।  We have seen, it is a very sad state of affairs.  Almost 30 whistle blowers were killed which is very unfortunate.  इतने सारे व्हिसल ब्लोअर्स की मौत के बाद भी आज तक there is no logical conclusion on any of these cases.  So, I would kindly request the hon. Minister to consider adding this clause.  What would happen after an attack happens on the whistle blower?  How do we track these cases?  Can we have fast track courts? Particularly there are two-three issues.  This Bill’s jurisdiction only covers the Government sector.  गवर्मेंट सैक्टर में भी क्लासिफाइड कर के कवर करते हैं, काफी सारी चीज़ें हटाते हैं। This Bill says, if corruption is brought to the notice after seven years, no charges can happen.  How is this possible? आज भी हम इस सदन में बैठ कर जवाहर लाल नेहरू जी के बारे में बोलते हैं, अटल जी के बारे में बोलते हैं, उनको हम आज की पॉलिटिक्स में घसीट कर लाते हैं, लेकिन कभी कोई व्हिसल ब्लोअर बात करता है और सात साल के बाद भी बता सकता है तो I believe he should be given a chance.  That clause should be incorporated. पर्टिक्युलरली जब ह्युमन राईट्स का वॉयलेशन होता है, तो इस एक्ट में कोई भी जगह नहीं होती है। Another important issue is this. This Government particular says that the Armed Forces and the intelligence services will be kept away from the ambit of this Bill. I do not understand why.  There could be some sensitive information, sensitive issues.  But, apart from that, the issues like promotions, the issues like procurement to stores, all of them have to be made public. मोदी जी ने गुड गवर्नेंस का प्रॉमिस किया था। Transparent Government is good Government.  He should kindly understand this. Particularly this Bill only talks about Government sector.  This Bill does not talk about any private companies, any big companies which deal with the Government in terms of providing utilities. दिल्ली की सरकार में आप देख लीजिए मैडम।  Reliance is a big company – I do not want to take the name – which provides power to the Delhi people.  But, when CAG goes and asks for the report, they simply reject it.  How do we take care of these issues? क्योंकि ये बड़ी कंपनियां हैं, जो हमारे लिए पॉवर देती हैं, वॉटर देती हैं, इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर और बड़ी-बड़ी चीजें बनाती हैं। If we let them loose, how do we control these companies?  It is a serious issue and the Government has to seriously think about this. Above all, the spirit of good Governance is only transparent governance.  So, I hope and believe that this Government will seriously come forward and protect our RTI activists.  Thank you so much. KUMARI SUSHMITA DEV : Madam, I always get an opportunity at the end.  आपने कहा है कि मेरी तैयारी बहुत अच्छी है, परंतु समय इतना कम मिलता है कि मुझे अपनी बात छोटी करनी पड़ती है। I will keep myself very brief. मैडम, जेटली जी ने अपनी बजट स्पीच में कहा था कि पिछले एक साल में  क्रप्शन वर्ड का कहीं इस्तेमाल नहीं हुआ है, इतने लोगों ने इस सदन में भा­ाण रखा है। मैडम, आप सुनते हैं, इधर भी सुनते हैं, अंदर टेलिविजन में भी सुनते हैं कि पिछले 10 महीनों में आपने यह कितनी बार सुना कि फलां बिल को स्टैण्डिंग कमेटी में भेज दीजिए, स्टैण्डिग कमेटी में भेज दीजीए, स्टैण्डिंग कमेटी में भेज दीजिए। अब सवाल यह उठता है कि यह जो हम बोल रहे हैं, वह क्यों बाल रहे हैं, क्योंकि बाहर जो मीडिया कवरेज करती है they tell us that the Congress is pursuing or the Opposition is pursuing obstructionist policy paralysis tactics inside the Government.  But we are not, Madam Speaker. Today, Dr. Singh has brought a very crucial Bill.  It was a part of the major six major legislations that the UPA Government wanted to bring as far as anti-graft laws were concerned.  This was one of them.  It is a history which Saugata ji said, which Mahtab ji said.  This Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 26th of August, 2010.  It was passed by the Lok Sabha on 27th of December, 2011.  Subsequently, the Bill was passed by both the Houses in February, 2014.  There seems to be a little bit of confusion here which the Government has said, which Mahtab ji also asked for an explanation.  It seems that the impression has gone that the Government had agreed that since elections were close by, the Session was ending, कि यह अमेंडमेंट आप प्रेस मत करिए, नेक्स्ट सैशन में हम इसको लाएंगे। I think that is what Dr. Singh will say eventually.  But, Madam, I would like to ask a simple question आज जो अमेंडमेंट, जो बिल इस सदन में आया है, can this Government or the hon. Minister clarify one thing in his speech? Have you or have you not gone beyond those amendments that were proposed? A new Clause 4(1)(a) has come.  In this Clause, the amendments that have been brought go beyond the amendments that were discussed in 2013. पहले सॉवरेन इंट्रेस्ट पर था, नेशनल इंट्रेस्ट पर था, कैबिनेट की मीटिंग्स पर था, पर जो अभी अमेंडमेंट्स लाए गए हैं, that goes beyond that. सोनिया जी ने 6 मई को सदन में कहा था, “What is the fate of the Bill? It received Presidential assent in May, 2004.  Why has it not been given effect to?”  As a reaction to that, the Cabinet cleared it and brought it before this House.  We thank the Government.  But the sad part is something else.  Why are we asking for referring it to the Standing Committee?  I will not repeat any of the points that Kavithaji and Trinamool Congress has already stated.  The fact is that today the Right to Information Act is the strongest weapon in the hands of a common man.  What is the right that it gives you?  It gives you the right to access information.  But this Act is giving you the right to disclose information. मुझे पता है मंत्री जी यही कहेंगे, जो नया सेक्शन 4(1)(a) आया है, उन्होंने राइट टू इन्फार्मेशन एक्ट का सैक्शन 8 उठाकर इस एक्ट में डाल दिया है और सदन में यही कहेंगे कि यह राइट टू इन्फार्मेशन एक्ट आपने पास किया था तो सैक्शन 8 जब हम आरटीआई से इस एक्ट में ले आए हैं, तो आप इसके विरोध में क्यों बोल रहे हो, वह यही बोलेंगे। But please understand that राइट टू इन्फार्मेशन में जो एग्जेंप्शंस हैं, that are saying that an officer need not disclose this information to the person who is seeking the information in the greater interest of the nation.  But this Act, that we are debating today the Whistle Blowers Protection Act , it is about someone finding or getting hold of information not within the system.  It may well be a leak.  We are well aware of the Pentagon Papers.  We are well aware of the Spycatcher case. This Act covers those cases.  मंत्री जी से मैं स्पेसिफिकली यह जवाब मांगूगी कि आप आरटीआई एक्ट का सैशन 8 (1) तो इस अमेंडमेंट में ले आए हैं, पर आपने सैक्शन 8 (2) को क्यों छोड़ दिया। सैक्शन 8 (2) में है, I may just read one line and end my speech. It says: