Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned AGA for the State and perused the record. It is alleged in the prosecution case that the victim came in the contact with one Abhinav & Abhisekh Gupta through Instagram and he has obtained a nude video of the victim by enticing her and began to blackmail her by threatening to make the video viral. Abhinav @ Abhishek called her on 04.05.2024 and took her to Shri Kadam Hotel near the Nageshwer Temple where his friend Pranjal was employed who managed a room for them and then Abhinav @ Abhisekh Gupta made physical relations with the victim in spite of her denial and also threatened her not to tell anyone else or if she does not follow his direction, then he would kill her brother. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is innocent. The applicant has no criminal antecedents. The alleged offence has been committed by the co-accused Abhinav @ Abhishek and not by the present applicant. As per the admitted case of the prosecution, role assigned to the applicant is of booking a room in a hotel where the offence was committed upon the victim by the co-accused and of escorting the victim. While giving statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C., she has admitted that she and Abhinav @ Abhishek went in a hotel room. Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. is on record. The applicant is languishing in jail since 28.06.2024 without having any criminal antecedents. It is further submitted that there is no possibility of the applicant of fleeing away after being released from jail or tampering with the witnesses. In case the applicant is enlarged on bail, he shall not misuse the liberty of bail. Learned A.G.A. as well as learned counsel for the complainant has opposed the bail application submitting that the victim is aged about 15 years, 9 months and six days. Learned counsel for the complainant further submits that the entire conspiracy was headed by the present applicant. Perused the record. Perusal of the statement of the victim recorded under Section 161 and 164 Cr.P.C., prima facie, shows that role assigned to the applicant is of booking room and escorting the victim. It is not disputed between the parties that the statement of the victim has not been recorded yet before the Special Judge, although, one month time as provided under Section 35 of POCSO Act has lapsed. On due consideration to the statement of the victim recorded under Section 161 and 164 Cr.P.C. as well as considering the fact that the statement of the victim has not been recorded yet in consonance with the provision of Section 35 of POCSO Act; case of the applicant is distinguishable from co-accused Abhinav @ Abhishek, so also the judgment of the Supreme Court passed in the case of " Javed Gulam Nabi Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1693", coupled with the fact that the applicant is languishing in jail since 28.06.2024 without having any criminal history and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, I find it to be a fit case for enlarging the applicant on bail. Accordingly, the bail application is allowed. Let the applicant involved in Case Crime No. 34/2024, under Sections 3 / 4 read with Section 16 / 17 of POCSO Act, Police Station - Collector Ganj, District - Kanpur Nagar, be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions which are being imposed in the interest of justice:- Order Date :- 22.10.2024
 
RC