This petition is filed in the following background: 2. It is contended on behalf of the petitioner that there is

no factual basis, in the petitioner being named as one of the

accused. Though the petitioner is an executive of the company

Q-Net at its place of business in Malaysia, and the petitioner

being a resident of Malaysia, there are no allegations against the

petitioner of having committed any criminal acts and the entire 8 exercise of an investigation has not only resulted in the

petitioner being drawn into proceedings with which he is totally

unconnected but it has other serious repercussions against a

legal business of a multi national business entity. The Q-Net

and its licensees are claimed to be a legitimate business group

operating their business all over the world similar to other

direct marketing conglomerates such as M/s Amway, M/s

Oriflame, M/s Hindustan Unilever, etc., which business is

basically marketing of products directly from the manufacturer

to the consumer thus drastically reducing the price, which

would otherwise be much higher on account of distributors,

wholesale agents, sub-agents, retailing outlets, being involved.

Apart from advertising and other indirect expenses boosting up

the price of the same product, manifold vis-a-vis conventional

marketing. That this is an accepted business model the world

over and cannot be termed as fraudulent. It is further contended that Q-Net, a multi level

marketing enterprise operates in India through Vihan Direct

Selling (India) Private Limited. In a multi-level marketing

model, the company operates through Independent

Representatives (IRs). These IRs sell products on behalf of the

company, through the direct selling method, viz., without

middlemen or the requirement of a retail outlet. It is pointed

out that the main allegation in the complaint is that certain IRs

had made the complainant part with money for which she had

not received any goods or services. However, the police have

charge sheeted the petitioner, a resident of Malaysia, on the

allegation that he is a Managing Consultant of Q-Net India

apart from one Vijay Eswaran, also a resident of Malaysia,

claimed to be a Promoter of Q-Net. It is asserted that the complaint does not make out a

criminal case against the petitioner but could at best be a

consumer dispute, as against any persons who may have 10 received money from the complainant. However, the police in

seeking to taint the legitimate business of Q-Net as fraudulent

on the grievance of the complaint is not justified and has

resulted in grave prejudice to the petitioner and his company. Accordingly, the learned counsel for the petitioner would

contend that the allegations against the petitioner in the charge

sheet are imaginary and without basis and seeks that the

proceedings be quashed. 3. On the other hand, the learned Government Pleader

would seriously oppose the petition and in line with the

Statement of Objections filed, would claim that the so-called

business of the petitioner's company is nothing but what is

termed as a "pyramid business", and that the modus-operandi is

that each of its customers is called an Independent

Representative ( IR) who makes an initial investment and in

turn introduces two other customers who are also are required

to invest and would in turn act as IRs and they in turn introduce 11 two more customers each, and all the sale transactions that take

place by the chain, that can grow endlessly, would fetch a share

of the price to each IR, under whom the pyramid base grows. It is contended that Q-Net is a company based abroad and

has not obtained any licence or authority to conduct its business

in India but are inducing customers to part with huge amounts

of money through so called agents in India, such as M/s Vihaan

Direct Selling (India) Pvt. Ltd., without reciprocal provision of

goods or services and are thus committing fraud. Further, it is contended that according to the business

plan of the petitioner's company, a person can become an

independent representative of the company, only if he is

sponsored by another independent representative. The

incentives to which a newly enrolled independent representative

is entitled to is based on the number of independent

representative business associates he sponsors. The income

which the independent representative gets therefore depends on 12 an event or contingency relative to or applicable to the enrolled

new representatives into the scheme. The scheme is formulated

as an inducement for enrolment of new members to earn higher

incentives with a view to make quick or easy money. The

petitioner's company promises payment of incentives to the

sponsorer on the business turned out by the newly sponsored

and enrolled representatives which constitute an event or

contingency relative to the enrolment of such members. The

petitioner's company not only craved for quick and easy money

from its distributors, but also provided alternative inducements

to its members to earn quick or easy money. The activities of

the petitioner's company squarely covers the ingredients of

Section 2(c) of the PCMCS Act, i.e., (a) making quick or easy

money depending on an event or contingency relative or

applicable to the enrolment into the scheme and thus attracts the

definition of "Money Circulation Scheme" as provided in section 2(c) of the "Prize Chits of Money Circulation Scheme 13 (Banning) Act, 1978" apart from offences under Information

Technology Act and the Indian Penal Code . The learned Government Pleader has placed reliance on

portions of an Order of the Bombay High Court which is said to

have rejected an anticipatory bail petition filed by one Suresh

Timri, who is also an accused in the present case. The observations of the Bombay High Court in so far as

the multi level marketing business is concerned are as follows : The learned Government Pleader has also placed reliance

on Paragraph 22 of the Order, as well, which reads thus : Hence it is contended that the complainant in the present

case on hand had also been taken to a Conference at Dubai, and

that therefore the top executives of the company were involved

in defrauding gullible persons such as the complainant and it is

hence contended that the activities of the petitioner and his

company squarely fall within the ambit of Section 2 (c) and 3

to 6 of the PCMCS Act and the case is squarely covered by the

decision of the Supreme court in Kurianchan Chacko v. State of

Kerala, (2008) 8 SCC 708. Hence the learned Government Pleader seeks dismissal

of the petition. 4. On a consideration of the material produced and the

rival contentions, it is seen that it is neither the case of the de

facto complainant nor the police that the petitioner had

committed any overt act in inducing the complainant from

parting with any money or that he had influenced her in doing

so, but the petitioner appears to be included in the Charge sheet

only on account of the fact that he is said to be a Managing

consultant of M/s Q-Net India. It is not indicated that M/s Q-

Net has a presence in India other than through M/s Vihaan

Direct Selling (India) Private Limited. It is not shown that the

petitioner is associated with the latter. This circumstance alone

would render the proceedings initiated against the petitioner bad

in law. He is shown to be a resident of Malaysia in the Charge

sheet, that is yet another factor that would dilute the case

against the petitioner. Secondly, the complaint is only as regards the

complainant being disillusioned about the business and not

having received any benefit for money she may have parted 18 with. This could at best be a civil dispute or at the worst a

cause of cheating by the person or persons who have received

the same. It is nobody's case that the petitioner has received

any money. Thirdly, the petitioner is sought to be prosecuted as an

officer of the main company M/s Q-Net, which is said to be

engaged in multi-level marketing or direct marketing. The

police appear to proceed on the basis that the activities of a

multi-level marketing company is illegal and arbitrary. There is

a suspicion created about the business in some circles while

there are others who vouch for it as a sound business model.

The doubts and strong words employed by the Bombay High

court in denigrating the business itself, is a case in point. As contended by the counsel for the petitioner and as

seen from abundant material produced before this court it is

evident that 'Direct Selling' has emerged as a global industry. A

report prepared by the Federation of Indian Chambers of 19 Commerce and Industry discloses that direct selling and multi-

level marketing in India is estimated to be to the tune of several

hundred crores of rupees. And that it has emerged as an

independent industry. It is also expressed therein that direct

selling and multi-level marketing are forms of economic

activity that could play a very important role in a country like

India, as it envisages low transactional cost mechanisms for

sale of consumer products without the need for large marketing

infrastructure. In consideration of the fact that direct selling and

multilevel marketing are important industry verticals, the

Government of India has issued an Advisory to the State

Governments and Union Territories, which contain 'Model

Framework for Guidelines on Direct Selling'. The model

guidelines clearly indicate that multi-layered network of

subscribers to a scheme formed by a direct selling company,

which consists of subscribers enrolling one or more further

subscribers in order to receive any benefit, directly or 20 indirectly, where the benefit is, as a result of sale of goods or

services for such subscribers, is not illegal. Material of unimpeachable character pertaining to the

activities of QNet have been produced before court. A perusal

of the material and the charge sheet averments prima facie

indicate that the activities of QNet and Vihan i.e., the multilevel

marketing companies, do not constitute offences under the Prize

Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 .

the activities of the company do not fall within the definition of

'Money Circulation Scheme' under Section 2(c) of the Act, nor

does it fall within the definition of 'Prize chit' under Section

2(e) of the Act. When the activities of these companies do not

constitute either Money Circulation Scheme or Prize Chit, the

offences under Sections 4 and 5 of the Act, do not even

remotely apply to such activities and consequently charging the

accused for such offences is unsustainable. The reports of FICCI also specify that the absence of a

clear legislation and regulatory framework for multilevel

marketing companies, have led to severe problems for such

companies operating in the country. The present case clearly

demonstrates that fact. Legislation such as the Prize Chits and

Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 , which do not

even remotely apply to the activities of multilevel marketing

companies, are applied by the investigating authorities leading

to disastrous results. Further, a prima facie perusal of the FIR and the charge

sheet reveals that the ingredients of the offences under Sections

417, 419 and 420 are not made out. The allegation pertains to

payment of certain monies in anticipation of certain services

and in the event of a deficiency of service, the appropriate

course of action would be to initiate proceedings under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and not initiate criminal

prosecution under the provisions of the IPC . The advisory

issued by the Central Government in terms of the Model 22 Framework Guidelines on Direct Selling also recognizes this

fact and specifies that the entire activity of direct sellers and

direct selling entities should be guided by the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . The Hon'ble Supreme court of India has repeatedly

observed that criminal law should not be set in motion to settle

civil disputes by giving such disputes a colour of criminality.

In Sagar Suri vs. UP [(2000) 2 SCC 636] and Hiralal Bhagwati

vs. CBI [(2003) 5 SCC 257, the Supreme court has observed

that matters essentially of a civil nature should not be given a

cloak of criminal offences and criminal proceedings should not

be used as short cut for other remedies available in law. the

court has further observed that in such instances, the

jurisdiction under Section 482 ought to be exercised to quash

such criminal proceedings. The instant case is a typical case where criminal

legislation which are not even remotely applicable to the

circumstances of the case have been invoked to substantiate the 23 charges. The dispute, if at all, is between a consumer and a

direct seller and ought to be adjudicated under the provisions of

the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . As a consequence, the FIR

and the charge sheet are unsustainable and deserve to be

quashed. Accordingly, the petition is allowed and the proceedings

in case No.C.C.23238/2016 on the file of the I ACMM,

Bangalore, stands quashed in so far as the petitioner is

concerned. Sd/- JUDGE

KS*