Heard counsel for the parties. The applicant has been arrested in connection with Crime
No.16/2014 registered with S.T.F. Police Station Bhopal -
commonly known as VYAPAM examination scam cases - for
the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of I.P.C., and under Section 3 (D) 1 and 2 / 4 of the
Madhya Pradesh Manyata Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. The role ascribed to the applicant by the prosecution is
that of a beneficiary. The applicant's father got in touch with
Banti Dhakad @ Shiv Kumar, who, in turn, contacted Vikas
Pal, who impersonated the applicant during the examination.
The applicant has been arrested as back as on 30.8.2014.
Charge sheet has also been filed against the applicant on
1.11.2014. The said Banti Dhakad, who acted as middleman
and the impersonator - Vikas Pal are already in custody. Considering the fact that the charge sheet is already filed
against the applicant on 1.11.2014 and the middleman as well
as the impersonator as also the applicant's father have been
arrested, coupled with the fact that the custodial interrogation
of the applicant is no more required as is, fairly, stated across
 the Bar by the counsel for the respondent/State and the
assurance given by the applicant through counsel to extend full
cooperation to the Investigating Officer for further
investigation, if any and also to punctually appear before the
trial Court for early disposal of the trial, in the interest of
justice, and taking overall view of the matter, the application is
allowed and the applicant is ordered to be released on bail on
the following terms :- Shivpuri, once a week on every Sunday
 between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon unless
 required to attend the office of the
 Investigating Officer at Bhopal on that day;
 and
 (4) The applicant will deposit his passport, if
 available, with the Investigating Agency,
 else file affidavit in this Court declaring that
 the applicant does not have any passport of
 any country. This compliance will be
 condition precedent for release on bail. The bail application stands disposed of accordingly.
 Cc as per rules.