Joint Stock Bank Ltd. v. Macmillan, [1918] AC 777; Tai	Hing
Cotton Ltd. v. Liu Chong Bank, [1985] 2 All England Reports
947; Greenwood v. Martins Bank Ltd., [1933] AC 51 = [1932]
All England Reports 318; and New Marine Coal Co. (Bengal)
Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India, [1964] 2 SCR 859, referred to. &
 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 1777 of
1973. From the Judgment and Decree dated 25.6.1973 of	 the
Karnataka High Court in Regular First Appeal No. 56 of 1968.
 K.N. Bhatt, V.K. Verma and Ms Madhu Moolchandani for the
Appellants. S.S. Javali and B .R. Agarwala for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by 1142 KHALID, J. This is an appeal by certificate. against the
Judgment dated 25th June, 1972, passed by a Division Bench
of the Karnataka High Court. The 1st defendant Bank is	 the
appellant. Original Suit No. 72 of 1962 was filed in the Court of
Civil Judge. Mangalore, by the Canara	 Sales	Corporation,
Ltd. through its Managing Director, V.S. Kudva. He	died
during	the pendency of the suit and the suit was continued
by the succeeding Managing Director of the Corporation.	 The
suit was against two defendants: the appellant-Bank was	 the
first defendant and the second defendant was one Y.V,	Bhat
who was the Chief Accounts Officer of the plaintiff,	till
1961. He died during the pendency of the appeal before	 the
High Court and his legal representatives were	 brought on
record.	 When the suit was filed, the	 appellant-Bank	 was
called	the Canara Bank Ltd. After the	 nationalisation of
banks it became the Canara Bank which is the appellant
before us. The	 suit was instituted	for recovery of a sum of
Rs.3,26,047.92.	 with the following allegations: The plain-
tiff is a private Limited Company with its head office at
Mangalore. It had a current account with the appellant-Bank
in its Mangalore Bunder branch. The Managing Director of the
company	 and the General Manager of a sister concern of	 the
company	 had been authorised to operate the said current
account of the plaintiff with the Bank. The second defendant
was attending to the maintenance of accounts of the plain-
tiff and was also in charge and custody of the cheque books
issued	by the Bank to the plaintiff. In March, 1961,	 the
second defendant was absent from duty for some time. During
that period one A. Shenoy, who was the Assistant of	 the
second	defendant was directed to bring the accounts	upto
date. During this process, he noticed certain irregularities
in the account and brought this to the notice of the plain-
tiff. On verification, it was found that cheques purporting
to bear the signature of Shri V.S. Kudva were encashed
though	they did not bear his signature. In other words	 the
signatures were forged. On 25-3-196 1, a complaint was	made
by the	 plaintiff with the Superintendent of	Police.	 The
plaintiff appointed a	 firm of Chartered Accountants to
conduct	 special audit of the company's accounts, for	 the
years 1957:58 to 1960-61. This special audit disclosed	that
the second defendant	had withdrawn, in all, a sum of
Rs.3,26,047.92	under 42 cheques. The suit was filed	 for
recovery of the amount on the plea that the amounts as	 per
the forged cheques were not utilized for the purpose of	 the
plaintiff, that they were not authorised ones,	 that there
was no	 acquiescence or ratification open or tacit on	 the
part of the plaintiff, that the plaintiff was unaware of the 1143 fraud till the new accountant discovered it.
 The	 appellant-Bank resisted the suit on the following
grounds in their written statement: The	 second defendant pleaded that the cheques were	 not
forged	ones and the amounts recovered by the cheques	were
utilized for the purpose of the plaintiff. The	 Trial Court negatived the contentions of the first
defendant Bank and passed a decree for the sum claimed, with
interest at 6% from the date of the suit till	recovery of
the amount. In appeal before the Division Bench, the judg-
ment of the Trial Court was confirmed. The High Court certified that the case involved substan-
tial questions	 of law of general public importance	 and
granted certificate to file the appeal. It is thus that this
appeal has come before us. Venkataramiah, J.	as he then was, who spoke for	 the
Bench,	has in	 his detailed Judgment	considered all	 the
aspects of the case both on facts and on law and agreed with
the Trial Court that the suit had to be decreed, repelling
the contentions raised by the first defendant.	 The courts
have concurrently found that the cheques were	 forged	 and
that the second defendant was responsible for it. We do	 not
propose to consider the question of facts in this Judgment.
 The learned counsel for the appellant, Shri Bhat argued
the case at length and took us through various	authorities,
bearing	 on the question, most of which fell for considera-
tion at the hands of the High Court also. In	the instant case. 42 cheques with forged signature
were presented on various dates between the year 1957	 and
1961. During the said period the appellant Bank used to send
to the plaintiff-respondent 1144 pass sheets containing the debit and credit entries in	 the
current	 account of the plaintiff with the Bank every month
and at the end of every half year ending 30th June and	31st
December, a letter used to be sent asking the respondent to
confirm that the balance in his account with the Bank was as
mentioned in the letter. Till March. 1961 the correctness of
the entries in the pass sheets and half yearly statements
was not questioned by the plaintiff. The accounts of	 the
plaintiff company were being audited as required by	 the Companies Act by Chartered Accountants. The Bank contended
that if there was mis-appropriation of an amount of nearly
Rs.3 lacs by forged cheques by the second defendant	this
would have been detected by the Chartered Accountants	 and
would have come to the notice of the plaintiff company.	 The
several	 entries in the books of account maintained by	 the
plaintiff company show that all the amounts covered by	 the
cheques	 in dispute had been credited in the	 books.	 The
Managing Director of the plaintiff-company himself admitted
that he had received the periodical statements and that he
did not at any time intimate the Bank about the incorrect-
ness either in the pass sheets or in the letters. The inac-
tion on the part of the plaintiff-company and its Managing
Director in not informing the Bank of the irregularities in
the account and deliberately withholding such	 information
from the Bank, according to the Bank.	 constituted negli-
gence.	disentitling the plaintiff from claiming any amount
from the Bank in respect of forged cheques. Alternatively it
was contended	that the principle of estoppel operated
against	 the plaintiff	 from claiming the amount, on	 the
ground of adoption or acquiescence. The case of the appellant can be summarised as follows: Then he referred us to the Transfer of Property	Act . Trusts Act , Law of Agency. etc.. to contend that a person is
said to have noticed of a fact when but for wilful absten-
tion from an enquiry. he would have known it and that in
equity a man who ought to have known a fact should be treat-
ed as if he actually does know it. He then developed his submission as follows: ners. On a certain day. the clerk made out a	 cheque	 for
pound 2 and asked one of the partners to sign it, which the
partner	 did. The next day the clerk did not turn up.	 The
partners became suspicious and went to the bank. when	they
discovered that the cheque for pound. 2 was distorted by
using the space on either side of the figure	'2' by	 the
clerk by insertion of additional figures 1 & 0 and thus he
pocketed pound. 120. The question before the House of Lords
was whether the plaintiffs had been so negligent with regard
to the	 cheque that their action against the	bank should
fail. The Trial Judge found that the plaintiffs were	 not
guilty	of negligence in the mode of signing the cheque	 and
decreed the suit. The Court of Appeal upheld this decision.
The House of Lords reversed the judgment. We may usefully
quote the following passages from the Judgment. Lord Finlay
observed: The learned Lord Chancellor further observed: According to the learned Lord	 Chancellor, leaving blank
spaces	on either side of the figure	'2' in	 the cheque
amounted to a clear breach of duty which the customer	owed
to the banker. The learned Lord Chancellor said: The principles so settled by the House of Lords	 was
pressed	 into service before this Court in the	above case.
This Court held that the principle settled by the House of
Lords could not help the bank. The accepted principle	that
if the	 signatures on the cheque is genuine,	there is a
mandate	 by the customer to the bank to pay was	 reiterated.
It was also held that if an unauthorised person got hold of
such a	 cheque and encashed it, the bank might have had a
good defence hut, however, if the signatures on the cheque
or at least one of the signatures are or is not genuine ,'
there is no mandate on the bank to pay and the question of
any negligence on the part of the customer, such as leaving
the cheque book carelessly so that a	 third	party could
easily	get hold of it would afford no defence to the bank.
This Court distinguished Macmillan's case, observing that if
any of the signatures was forged the question of negligence
of the customer in between the signature and the presenta-
tion of the cheque never arose. The	suit was, however,
dismissed on another point and that of jurisdiction.
 That takes us to the question as to whether there is a
duty on the part of the customer to examine the pass	book
and inner part of cheques and to communicate to the banker
within	a reasonable time of the debits which he does	 not
admit. The	 kindered question connected with this is whether a
customer is estopped from disputing the debits shown in	 the
pass book when the pass book is returned without any comment
and whether such a conduct would constitute a	"stated	 and
settled account." To answer this it is necessary to examine
the question whether the customer owes a duty to the bank to
inform	it about the correctness or mis-statements in	 the
entries in the pass book within a reasonable time and wheth-
er failure to do so would amount to such negligence as to
non-suit him in a suit for recovery of the amount paid on a
forged	cheque. When does negligence constitute	 estoppel ?
For negligence to constitute an estoppel it is necessary to
imply the existence of some duty which the patty against
whom estoppel is alleged owes to the other party. There is a
duty of sorts on the part of the customer to inform the bank
of the irregularities when he comes to know of it. But by
mere negligence One cannot presume that there has been a
breach	of duty by the customer to the bank. The customer
should	not by his conduct facilitate payment .of money on
forged	cheques. In the absence of such circumstances,	mere
negligence will not prevent a customer from	successfully
suing the bank for recovery of the amount. A case of acquiescence also cannot be flourished against
the plaintiff. In order to sustain a plea of acquiescence,
it is	necessary to prove that the party against whom	 the
said plea is raised, had remained silent about	 the matter
regarding which the plea of acquiescence is raised,	even
after knowing the truth of the matter. As indicated above,
the plaintiff	did not, during the relevant period,	when
these 42 cheques were encashed, know	anything about	 the
sinister design of the second defendant. If the bank	 had
proved	to the satisfaction of the Court that the plaintiff
had with full knowledge acknowledged the correctness of	 the
accounts for the relevant period, a case of	acquiescence
against	 the plaintiff would be available to the bank.	That
is not the case here. In this judgment under appeal, the High Court has elabo-
rately considered the law obtaining in the United States of
America on this aspect. We need not exercise ourselves	with
the American Law since the American Law is different	from
the law that we follow. On the questions involved in	this
appeal,	 it is the .law that obtains in England which	 had
been followed by this Court and High Courts in the country.
The authorities in England have more or less	consistently
held that there is no duty on the part of the	customer to
intimate the banker about any error that may be seen in	 the
pass book and that he will be entitled to claim any amount
paid on a forged cheque though there may be some negligence
or in-action on his part in not being careful to 1151 discover the errors in the pass book or other documents. In
the instant ease, there is no evidence to show that anyone
other than the second defendant knew that the forged cheques
had been encashed. After the matter was discovered, immedi-
ate action was taken. Therefore, in the absence of	 any
evidence of the plaintiff's	involvement, the plaintiff
cannot	be nonsuited on the ground of negligence or in-ac-
tion. Venkatramiah, J when he rendered the Judgment, under
appeal, laid down the law correctly, with the aid of author-
ities then available and on his own reasons. Now we are in a
more advantageous position. We have an authority, more or
less identical on facts, rendered by the Privy	 Council in
the decision in Tai Hing Cotton Ltd. v. Liu	Chong Bank,
[1985] 2 All England Reports 947. The facts of this case are similar to the case on hand;
if anything, more to the disadvantage to the bank in terms
of money involved than the instant case. The appellant
before	the Privy Council was a company, a textile manufac-
turer carrying on business in Hong Kong. The company was a
customer of the three respondent banks and maintained	with
each of them a current account. The banks were authorised to
pay cheques on behalf of the company if signed by its Manag-
ing Director or two authorised signatories. The banks agreed
to send the appellant periodic statements which were deemed
to be confirmed unless the customer notified the bank of any
error therein by a specified time. Between 1972 and 1978 the
accounts clerk employed by the company forged the signature
of the	 Managing Director on 300 cheques purported to be
drawn by the company for a total sum of $HK.5.5 million. The
banks paid the cheques on presentation by the clerk	 and
debited the company's current account accordingly. The clerk
was able to manipulate the accounts without any	 obstruction
or discovery because he was in almost sole control of	 the
receipts and payments made through the accounts. As in	this
case, the fraud was uncovered in May, 1978, when a newly
appointed accountant commenced reconciling the bank state-
ments with the company's books. This was an exercise which
had not been followed previously. The new accountant found
at once that something was seriously wrong. He reported	 the
matter	to the Managing Director. The errant accountant	 was
interrogated and he admitted the frauds. The company	took
action	against the banks, the accountant and his wife.	 The
Trial Judge basing his decision on the fundamental premise
that a forged cheque is no mandate to pay held that unless
the bank established affirmatively that they were entitled
to debit the customers current account with the amounts of
the forged cheques, the customer was entitled to the relief 1152 of the loss arising from the bank's payment on	 the forged
cheques. A case was put forward before the Trial Judge	that
the Company was vicariously liable for the fraud played by
its accountant. This was negatived and was not pursued.	 The
Trial Judge also rejected the submission of the banks	that
their terms of business which was contractual	 called	 the
banking contract, should be construed as ousting the common
law rule. The defence included one of estoppel raised by
each of the banks. The plea of estoppel was put forward in
two ways; first, that the company was estopped by its negli-
gence in the management of its bank accounts from asserting
that the accounts had been wrongly debited, and second, that
the company was estopped by a representation to be implied
from the course of conduct that the periodic bank statements
were correct. The Trial Judge rejected the plea of estoppel
by negligence but held: On	this finding the Judge gave the company Judgment
against one bank, but dismissed its claims against the other
two banks. The company appealed and	the defeated banks
cross-appealed. The Court of appeal differed from the Trial
Judge on the general question. The Court of appeal evolved a
theory	that the banker/customer relationship is such as to
give rise to a general duty of care in the operation of	 its
banking account and on this basis held that the company	 was
in breach of the duty which they held, it owed to the banks
and must bear the loss. According to the Court of appeal
this duty arose in tort as well as in contract. There	 was
difference of	opinion among the Judges as to	whether	 the
in-action on the part of the customer in not objecting 1153 to the statement sent by the bank within the time specified
would constitute conclusive evidence of the correctness of
the debits recorded therein or whether the banking contracts
could be construed as including a term requiring the monthly
statements to be treated after a period of time as conclu-
sive evidence of the state of the account. But all of	them
were agreed that estoppel operated against the	 company by
its own negligence from challenging the correctness of	 the
banks statements. The banks thus succeeded in the Court of
appeal. The defeated company moved the Judicial Committee of
the Privy Council by filing appeals. This was how the matter
reached the Privy Council. The Privy Council had to decide the case in the light of
the law settled by the House of Lords in the	 Macmillan's
case and in Greenwood v. Martins Bank Ltd.; [1933] AC 51 =
1932 All England Reports 3 18. The Privy Council posed	 two
questions before it, first, whether English law recognises
any duty of care owed by the customer to his bank in	 the
operation of a current account beyond, first,	 a duty to
refrain from drawing a cheque in such a manner as may facil-
itate fraud or forgery and, second, a duty to	 inform	 the
bank of any forgery of cheque purportedly drawn on	 the
account as soon as he, the customer, becomes aware of it.
 The respondent banks while recognising the existence of
both the duties indicated above contended that the law	 had
evolved	 in England after 19 18 and 1933 in recognising an
altogether wider duty of care. This duty, according to them,
required the customer to take reasonable precautions in	 the
management of his business with the bank to prevent forged
cheques being presented to it for payment. Additionally, it
was contended. that even if this wider duty did not exist.
at any rate the customer owed a duty to take such steps to
check the periodic bank statements sent to him as a reasona-
ble person in	 his pOsition would take to enable him to
notify	the bank of any debit items in the account which he
had not authorised, When it is accepted that the bank	sent
periodic statements to the customer, the bank contended that
the duty and responsibility to look into such statements and
to notify to the bank were necessary incidents of the	con-
tractual relationship between the customer and the bank. The
source	of this obligation according to the banks is to be
found both in the contract law as an implied term of	 the
banking	 contract and in the tort law as a civil obligation
arising from the relationship of banker and customer.
Then the Privy Council proceeded to consider the weightier
sub- missions advanced by the bank (1) a wider duty on the	part
of the customer to act with diligence which must be implied
into the contract and alternatively that such a duty arises
in tort from the relationship between banker and customer.
The Privy Council parted company with the observation by the
Court of Appeal here and repelled the plea that it	 was
necessary to imply into a contract between a banker and	 the
customer a wider duty and that it was not a necessary inci-
dent of banker-customer relationship	 that the customer
should owe his banker a wider duty of care. This duty is in
the form of an undertaking by the customer	to exercise
reasonable care in executing his written orders so as not to
mis-lead the bank or to facilitate forgery. The Privy Coun-
cil accepted that an obligation should be read into	 the
contract as the nature of this contract implicity requires.
In other words 'the term sought to be implied must be	 one
without which the whole 'transaction would become futile and
inefficacious.'	 After referring to some earlier decisions,
the Privy Council rejected the implied term 'submission' and
set out the limits of the care of the customer and	 the
functions of the banks in the following words: The	 limits of the duty and the confines of	 contractual
obligation cannot be expressed better. On the question of tort also the bank could not satisfy
the Privy Council as is seen from the following observation: Their Lordships of the Privy Council sumed up the	Law,
as followers: This is how this Court understood how a plea of estoppel
based on negligence can be successfully put forward. We have
seen that there is no duty for a customer to inform the bank
of fraud committed on him. of which he was unaware. Nor	 can
in-action for	a reasonably long time	in not	 discovering
fraud or irregularity be made a defence to defeat a customer
in an action for loss. Thus the contentions put for- ward by the bank cannot be accepted to defeat the plaintiff.
The various submissions made by the counsel for the	bank
based on constructive notice in the general law and on other
branches of law cannot be extended to relationship between a
bank and its customers. On	a careful analysis of the questions of law, we	hold
that the judgment of the High Court and that of the Trial
Judge have to be upheld. We do so. We	accordingly dismiss
the appeal with costs of the 1st respondent.