Exemption allowed, subject to all just exceptions.
 The application stands disposed of. 1. This is an application seeking grant of anticipatory bail in FIR No.
 422/2022 dated 22.06.2022, under Sections 376(D) / 328 / 120-B IPC read with Sections 6 / 17 / 21 POCSO Act, registered at Police Station-Moti Nagar. 2. As per the FIR, the prosecutrix alleged sexual abuse by Vishal & Puneet.
 It is stated that the prosecutrix was a Class 12 student and was a friend of the
 applicant. On 16.05.2022, the applicant wanted to take her to Pacific Mall
 and on the way he said that he had some work. The applicant and his friend
 Puneet took the prosecutrix to M-Block, DLF Flat, Moti Nagar wherein a
 person, named, Deepak opened the door. The applicant and Puneet started
 having hukka and the applicant told the prosecutrix to go to another room as Signature Not Verified BAIL
Digitally Signed APPLN. 3310/2022 byAMIT Page 1 of 8 ARORA
Signing Date:23.11.2022
18:33:09
 she was allergic to fumes of the hukka. Subsequently, two persons Vishal and
 Joy arrived at the scene and offered a drink to the prosecutrix. After
 consuming the cold drink, the prosecutrix started feeling heavy and unwell
 and hence laid down. Thereafter Deepak got Aloo Puri for her. After
 consuming a bit of Aloo Puri, she felt nauseous. Subsequently, Joy and
 Vishal came to the prosecutrix's room and it is stated that they committed
 sexual assault on the prosecutrix. After the two people left, the prosecutrix
 called the applicant who came after 2/3 minutes and told him that she was
 feeling unwell. The applicant took her to a doctor in a private clinic and
 informed her mother and the mother also arrived. Thereafter the prosecutrix
 was referred to a lady doctor. Since the applicant was taking her Class 12 th
 examination and her father had recently expired, she did not register an FIR
 till her class 12th papers were over. After 10.06.2022, the prosecutrix had
 been calling the applicant but could not connect with him. She contacted
 Puneet and thereafter registered the FIR. 3. Mr Hariharan, learned senior counsel in support of the application has
 stated that there are no allegations of Section 376-D IPC against the
 applicant. As far as abetment is concerned, he states that abetment can only
 be against Joy who held the feet of the prosecutrix when she was allegedly
 sexually assaulted. He further states that as per status report, the applicant has
 joined investigation and there is no need for any custodial interrogation
 especially in view of the fact that no role has been assigned to him by the
 prosecutrix. He further states that a bare perusal of the FIR shows that the
 prosecutrix did not divulge that she was sexually assaulted by Joy and Vishal
 and in fact he was the one who helped the prosecutrix by taking her to the
 doctor. As and when he got to know about the incident, he was so upset and
 depressed that he even attempted suicide. 4. Mr Hariharan further states that a bare perusal of the aforesaid facts
 clearly show that no prima facie case has been made out against the applicant. He has also drawn my attention to a letter dated 31.08.2022 addressed to the
 learned Sessions Judge wherein she states that she does not think that the
 applicant is guilty of any offence and does not want any action against the
 applicant. 5. Per contra, Ms Rao, learned ASC has stated that it is a case where the
 applicants have approached the Courts with unclean hands. She states that the
 applicants have stated before the learned Sessions Court that they were
 present at the flat but "after sometime" they went out. She states that the
 same was totally contradicted by the CCTV footage which shows that the
 applicant was present throughout at the said flat. 6. She has also filed a status report. In the status report it has been
 mentioned as under: (ii) The prosecutrix has stated that she wanted to report the
 matter to the Police, but the applicant was not available and after
 repeated efforts, she was able to contact Puneet. Subsequently, both of
 them refused to give her any details of the co-accused, named, Vishal,
 Karan @ Joy. Even prosecutrix had disclosed about the sexual assault to
 both the applicants immediately after the incident, but they did not
 report the matter to the Police. (iii) From the CCTV footage obtained from DLF, it was revealed
 that the applicant, Puneet and the prosecutrix came to DLF at 2:30 PM.
 The co-accused Karan @ Joy and Vishal came to DLF at around 3:58 Signature Not Verified BAIL
Digitally Signed APPLN. 3310/2022 byAMIT Page 3 of 8 ARORA
Signing Date:23.11.2022
18:33:09
 PM. (iv) As per CDR report, Vishal and Karan @ Joy left from DLF,
 Moti Nagar at 5 PM and Ankit, Puneet and prosecutrix left for DLF,
 Moti Nagar at 5:19 PM. (v) The applicant had invested an amount of Rs. 1.5 crores in
 IPL match through Satta through Vishal and Karan @ Joy and lost the
 amount in betting. He wanted to invest another amount of Rs. 50 lakhs. 7. On 12.07.2022, Court granted interim protection to the accused persons,
 during which they joined investigation, however, on 23.07.2022, the
 anticipatory bail was dismissed and thereafter, the applicant has not joined
 investigation. NBWs and the proceeding under Section 82 have been
 initiated. The applicant has applied for cancellation of Section 82 and NBW
 proceedings which is pending before the learned Sessions Court. 8. I have heard Mr. Hariharan, learned senior counsel for the applicant and
 Ms. Nandita Rao, learned ASC for the State. 9. In the present case, the FIR is under Section 376(D) / 328 IPC and Section 6 / 17 of the POCSO Act. Section 17 of the POCSO Act is
 punishment for abetment and reads as under:- 10. Section 16 of the POCSO Act defines abetment of an offence and reads
 as under:- 11. In the present case, the applicant was a known friend of the
 prosecutrix. The main accused persons, Karan @ Joy and Vishal were not
 friends of the applicant, but were person to whom he had lost huge sums
 of money in Satta. It is difficult to understand why the applicant would go Signature Not Verified BAIL
Digitally Signed APPLN. 3310/2022 byAMIT Page 5 of 8 ARORA
Signing Date:23.11.2022
18:33:09
 with his friend to the house of Vishal and Karan @ Joy and wait for them
 for over an hour and a half without them being present. There is no
 satisfactory explanation for the same. 12. The applicant was sitting in the room next to the one where the
 prosecutrix was lying down. The applicant could not be ignorant of the
 fact that Vishal and Karan @ Joy went to the room where the prosecutrix
 was lying. The incident took place in the adjacent room and the applicant
 would have heard the prosecutrix. This is clear from the fact that the
 prosecutrix called out for the applicant and he came after 2 - 3 minutes. It
 is difficult to understand what prevented the applicant to not interfere
 during the incident. 13. When the prosecutrix told the applicant that she was feeling unwell,
 the applicant took her to the Doctor which was almost an hour away. The
 applicant did not report the matter to the Police, even after the applicant
 was informed of the incident of sexual assault. The said fact is also stated
 in the status report. 14. All these circumstances, prima facie lead to an inference that the
 applicant was facilitating acts of sexual assault on the prosecutrix. The fact
 that the prosecutrix has not made any allegations against the applicant or
 had written a letter to the learned Sessions Judge, is not of much relevance
 as the prosecutrix was a minor, being less than 18 years old and had
 recently lost her father. 15. The order dated 23.07.2022 passed by ASJ-01, West, Special Court
 under the POCSO act, THC, Delhi is correct in holding that non reporting
 of an offence of sexual assault of a minor is an offence under the POCSO
 act. 16. I am of the view that in a case containing such serious allegations, this
 court should exercise restrain in exercising its jurisdiction in granting
 protection against arrest. 17. The Supreme Court in Sumitha Pradeep v. Arun Kumar C.K. , 2022
 SCC OnLine SC 1529while dealing with the matter of anticipatory bail in
 POCSO cases, in which chargesheet was filed opined: Emphasis supplied 18. For the aforesaid reasons, I do not find any merit in the application
 and the same is dismissed. 19. The status report submitted is taken on record. JASMEET SINGH, J
 NOVEMBER 10, 2022
 sr/ms
 Click here to check corrigendum, if any Signature Not Verified BAIL
Digitally Signed APPLN. 3310/2022 byAMIT Page 8 of 8 ARORA
Signing Date:23.11.2022
18:33:09