Heard counsel for the parties. The applicants have been arrested in connection with
Crime No.279/2013 registered with Police Station Damoh
Kotwali, District - Damoh - commonly known as
VYAPAM Examination Scam cases - for the offence
punishable under Sections 418 , 419 , 420 , 468 and 120-B of IPC; and Section 3(Gha) 1 , 2 / 4 of the M.P. Manyata
Prapt Pariksha Adhiniyam, 1937. According to the prosecution Dipak Jatav was to
appear in the examination conducted by VYAPAM in
2013. The father of said Dipak Jatav - Bhagirath Jatav
(Applicant in M.Cr.C. No.7771/2015) contacted one
Diwan Jatav (Applicant in M.Cr.C. No.7861/2015), who in 2 turn, arranged for impersonator Laxminarayan (Applicant
in M.Cr.C. No.7596/2015) to appear for and on behalf of
Dipak Jatav in the said examination. Dipak Jatav has already been released on anticipatory
bail. The applicants after their arrest cooperated with the
investigation, as a result the charge sheet has been filed on
30.4.2015. It is, fairly, stated by the learned counsel for the State,
on instructions, that custodial interrogation of the
applicants is no more required. Charge-sheet has also been
filed against the applicants on 30.4.2015. Further, the
investigation against the applicants is complete in all
respects as of now and, therefore, the presence of
applicants is no more required. Further, the applicants are
not involved in any other crime of similar type. Besides,
the applicants through counsel undertakes to appear before
the Investigating Officer as and when called for further
investigation including against them as also to punctually
appear before the trial Court to ensure early disposal of the
criminal case pending against them and to abide all the
conditions as may be imposed by this Court. In the interest of justice, taking overall view of the
matter, we deem it appropriate to grant bail to the
applicants on following strict conditions:- Kailaras, Post Kulholi, District Mureina,
 (M.P.); Police Station - Noorabad, Tehsil
 and District - Morena (M.P.); and Police
 Station - Sabalgarh, District Morena,
 (M. P.) respectively once a week on
 every Sunday between 10:00 a.m. to
 12:00 noon unless required to attend the
 office of the Investigating Officer at
 Bhopal on that day; and 4 (4) The applicants will deposit their passport,
 if available, with the Investigating
 Agency, else file affidavit in this Court
 declaring that the applicant does not have
 any passport of any country. This
 compliance will be condition precedent
 for release on bail. The bail applications stand disposed of accordingly.
 Certified copy as per rules.