Heard counsel for the parties. This application is filed under Section 438 of Cr.P.C.
for grant of anticipatory bail on behalf of applicant on the
assertion that the applicant has been named as accused in
Crime No.737/2013 registered with Police Station Civil
Lines, Rewa (M.P.) - commonly known as VYAPAM
examination scam cases - for the offence punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 109 , 120-B of IPC and Section 3 / 4 of the M.P. Manyata Prapt Pariksha
Adhiniyam, 1937. The counsel for the applicant except mentioning that
this is first anticipatory bail application filed by the
applicant is unable to articulate any ground, for which
reason the applicant should be granted anticipatory bail.
On the other hand, the involvement of the applicant in the
commission of the alleged offence - as impersonator, has
been disclosed by the beneficiary for whom the applicant (2) had appeared in the examination conducted by VYAPAM. It is not the case of the applicant that the beneficiary
has falsely implicated the applicant. In any case, that
would be a matter for inquiry by the Investigating Officer.
The question of granting anticipatory bail in a matter of
this nature being a serious offence, which, if found guilty,
may end up with a punishment of life sentence and the
complexity of investigation, we are not inclined to grant
anticipatory bail to the applicant. Needless to observe, that if the applicant appears
before the Investigating Officer and the Investigating
Officer finds that the explanation offered by the applicant
is plausible, there is no reason why the Investigating
Officer would proceed against the applicant even though
he is not involved in the commission of the alleged
offence. But, if he is found involved, the Investigating
Officer may be justified in not only arresting the applicant
but also insisting for custodial interrogation. The efficacy of custodial interrogation has been
expounded by the Supreme Court in the case of CBI Vs.
Anil Sharma, AIR 1997 SC 3806. In paragraph 6 of the
said decision, the Apex Court has observed thus :- In the circumstances, we dismiss this anticipatory
 bail application.